{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__spurzheim___examination_of_objections.pdf","mytitle":"Examination Of Objections","mylang":"de"}
EXAMINATION
OF THE
OB JECTXQNS^
MADE IN BRITAIN AGAINST THE DOCTRINES
OF
GALL AND SPURZHEIM.
BY
J. G. SPURZHEIM, M.D.
ARTICLE OF THE
FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW,
BY
RICH. CHENEVIX, Esft. F.R.S. &c.
WITH NOTES BY
J. G. SPURZHEIM, M.D.
Of the Universities of Vienna and Paris, and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians in London.
' Opinionam commentft delot dies nature judicia confirmat.'—Cucro.
FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
WITH IMPKOVEMKNTS BY DR. 1PURZHXIH.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY MARSH, CAPEN fr. LYON.
1833.
i
THENEWYORK
PUBLIC LIBRARY
165866
ASTOR.LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
1900.
Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1833,
BY MARSH, CAPEN & Lroir,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
BOSTON :
James B. Dow, Printer,
ashington-fit.
INTRODUCTION.
Discussions, properly conducted, are of great
utility. For that reason, I am always ready to
examine every objection against our doctrines.
But I am sorry to observe, that scientific pur
suits are so often degraded by selfish passions
and the spirit of party ; that literary publica
tions are employed for the purposes of calumny
and. detraction ; that invectives are used instead
of arguments ; and that, by praising friends
and blaming rivals, the progress of the arts and
sciences, and the improvement of men, are
mightily retarded.
Such behavior I will never imitate ; nay, the
illiberal and uncandid manner in which some
British Reviews have taken up our investiga
tions, has hitherto prevented me from attempting
justification. As, however, many persons have
no inclination, and a greater number no time
for comparing the original works with the reports
of the critics ; and as in science the majority of
readers believe, without examining for thcm
2
selves, I cannot entirely avoid controversy. We
have never published a separate answer to sin
gle pamphlets, but merely considered the objec
tions in our lectures or in our works, when
treating of the respective objects. Our maxim
is, never to fight with darkness, but to endeavor
to bring light.
I am now to submit to the public some obser
vations on the objections of our principal antag
onists in Great Britain, confining myself to the
points in question, and depending on the moral
sense, the judgment and observation, of my
readers. In short and concise expressions I
will state the real object of our inquiries, and
the true import of our propositions, and then
compare the interpretations of the chief Reviews,
especially of the literary gospel of Edinburgh.
At the same time I will mention an antagonist,
who was at first anonymous, but did not long
conceal himself; who then appeared as an au
thor on the structure of the brain, and at last as
a historian of the anatomy of that organ.
The Edinburgh Reviewer speaks (No. 49. p.
229.) of ' a conscientious discharge of duty on
this occasion ; ' it therefore is right to name him
accordingly. The author of the Treatise on the
Brain, in a pamphlet, asserts, that the anatomy
of the brain is imperfectly known, even to the
distinguished teachers of the medical art in
Edinburgh ; that the persons I have addressed,
never perhaps have completed their studies in
this department, (p. 4. ) that 1 have shown the
corpus dentatum to spectators, most of whom
had never seen it before, and not one of whom
had rendered himself familiar with its appear
ance by dissection,' p. 73.* Hence, if there
be only one person in Edinburgh who can judge
of the appearances of brown and white, he
deserves the name of anatomist par excellence.
As in his Treatise on the Brain he states (Pref.
ix.) that he has scrupulously avoided the intro
* As the reader may wish to know who my auditors were, I will
raention the names of some gentlemen. At the first demonstration
were present, Dr. John Thomson, Prof. Regius of Military Surgery ;
Dr. Barclay, Lecturer on Anatomy and Surgery; Dr. Duncan, junior,
Prof- of Medical Jurisprudence ; Drs. Emery and Irvin, of the Military
Staff. At the second, were Dr. Rutherford, Prof- of Botany ; Dr. Home,
Prof- of Materia Medica; Dr. Thomas Brown, Prof- of Moral Philoso
phy ; Prof. Jamieson ; Drs. Farquharson, Dewar, Sanders, Anderson,
and a great number of professional gentlemen. At the Physical Society
I gave the demonstration in presence of Dr. Monro, junior, Prof- of
Anatomy and Surgery ; Drs. Rutherford, Barclay, and Sanders ; Mr.
Bryce, President of the College of Surgeons ; Mr. George Bell, and a
numerous audience of medical gentlemen. Since that time, I have
often repeated these demonstrations in private parties, and always to
the satisfaction of the spectators. It is worthy of notice, that the essen
tial point alluded to, was, whether there is brown matter in the corpus
dentatum ? This had been denied by the Edinburgh Review, p. 264.
6
duction of any physiological matter ; and as in
the pamphlet he maintains, that the anatomy of
the brain, in a physiological point of view, is for
tunately not of essential consequence in the
practice of medicine, (p. 3.) I will style him a
mechanical dissector. Another name which he
merits, is that of historian, because he has com
piled facts, excellent indeed,—concerning the
history of the anatomy of the brain.
The profession of a critical reviewer is ac
knowledged to be very extensive; his infallibility
is understood : hence, without any previous
study, he can decide all questions on anatomy,
physiology, pathology, philosophy, the arts, acd,
in short, on all the branches of knowledge ; nay,
he can criticise books without reading them.
He is never at a loss, and arrogates at least the
the appearance of talents. If his own authority
is not sufficient to impose on the public, a sacred
band of literary oligarchs answer for his correct
ness, and, for that reason, he assumes the
mighty we of sovereignty.
Every one will perceive, that our adversaries
are very witty men. They deal extensively in
the ridiculous ; and when they have leisure to
become serious, they speak of the motives and
dangerous consequences ofour inquiries ; but their
generous minds need not be apprehensive, since
they declare our doctrines ' incredible and dis
graceful nonsense, absurd theories, trash, and
despicable trumpery.' If that is the case,
while, as they admit, we make proselytes, they
have, indeed, very little confidence in the dis
cernment of their countrymen. Why do they
not rather listen to our constant declaration, that
one fact, well observed, is more decisive to us
than a thousand opinions, and all the metaphys
ical reasoning of the schools ; and that facts
alone can expel such intruders as our doctrines ?
These observations will be divided into three
Chapters. The first will contain Anatomical,
the second Physiological, and the third Philo
sophical considerations.
2*
OBSERVATIONS, &c.
CHAPTER I.
ANATOMY.—SECTION i.
We have examined the anatomy of the nervous system
in general, and of the brain in particular, in strict re»
lation to physiology and pathology. This we have re
peated in our demonstrations and in our works. When
we delivered the Memoir on our Anatomical Inquiries
to the French Institute in 1808, we mentioned in a
letter to that learned Society, that we present ' Une De
scription du Systeme Nerveux, mains d'apres sa structure
physique, et sesformes mecaniques que d'apres des Vues
Philosophiques et Physiologiques que des homines habitues
a des considerations superieures ne refuseront point d'ac-
cueillir." The same idea is expressed in my work on
Physiognomy, p. 13. and in the article CERVEAU for
the Dictionnaire [des Sciences Medicales. vol. iv. Paris,
1813, § 1. and 2. In our works we have positively stated,
that physiological and pathological facts have induced us to
examine the structure of the brain.
The conscientious critic, however, instead of examining
our views, and of judging accordingly, thought it his duty
only to abuse our propositions, (or, in their polite phraseol
12
ogy, to cut them down,) and to declare that " in this
department we have displayed more quackery than in any
other ; and that our bad faith is here the more unpardon
able, that it was so much more likely to escape detection,'
p. 254. The anatomist par excellence, has scrupulously
avoided the introduction of any physiological matter. He
confines himself to descriptions of mere mechanical forms,
measurements, and shades of color of individual and iso
lated parts.*
* There are, however, many discoveries of that kind in his book,
which ought not to be overlooked. He, for instance, has discovered,
that the dura mater must be excluded from the membranes of the brain ;
because ' it seems more natural to regard it as forming a part of the
sides or walls of the cranium,' p. 150. while other anatomists speak
of two lamellffi of the dura mater ; one of which belongs to the internal
sides of the skull, and the other to the brain.
Another great discovery of the mechanical dissector is the number of
cul-de-sacs in the encephalon. A small one is mentioned, p. 84. shaped
like a point of a writing pen ; another, in p. 98. about a sixth of an inch
deep ; a third, in p. 99. of a conical shape ; a fourth, p. 104. ; and two
more, p. 112. A deep triangular pit is mentioned, p. 180.
Other anatomists speak merely of two sorts of substance in the brain,
of a grey or cineritious, and of a white. The mechanical dissector has
first described a variety of colors, such as a brown, a wood-brown nearly
the same as a nut-brown, a dark-brown, a greyish-brown, a reddish-
brown, a wine-yellow; a white, an orange-white, a yellow-white, a
reddish-white, and a bright white.
Important discoveries with respect to the supposed cerebral nerves
will be mentioned afterwards. Here I will only notice his discoveries
concerning the brain. He imagines, that, in the natural ' situation of
parts, the anterior commissure is seldom more than a tenth of an inch
in length,' while it is continued to the middle lobes ; and ' he imagines
also, that it is placed anterior to the pillars of the fornix, and seems to
unite them together,' p, 100. while it is quite detached from them. He
13
Willis, Vieussens, Haller, Vicq d'Azyr, Prochaska,
Soemmerring, Reil, Bichat, Cuvier, Portal, Sabatier,
and all living anatomists of distinction, examine conjointly
the structure and functions of the parts, and even intersperse
pathological remarks. Every practical man of the profes
sion will agree with Mr. Lawrence, (Two Introductory
Lectures, p. 116.) when he speaks of separating anatomy
and physiology from one another ; and says, ' What would
you think of a person who should describe to you a watch
or a steam-engine in this way? who would exhibit to you
all the parts, and show their position, without any explana
tion of their uses ; without any reference to that nice
adjustment and mutual action, which render the one subser
vient to the important purpose of marking the division of
time, and enable us by the other to execute the most stu
pendous movements of human labor, and to produce the
most striking results of human ingenuity ? As I cannot for
my own part discern, what purpose of utility, much less
what end of interest or amusement, could be answered by
a merely anatomical detail ; and as the separation of the
science of organization from that of life, seems to us most
has discovered, that the appearances which may be seen without actual
dissection, or with very little dissection, or by removing the cerebellum,
may be called external, p. 95.
An important discovery consists in the invention and application of
new names. By this discovery, every thing appears new in the des
cription, at least so far as the names are concerned ; and that you may
not suspect that you are reading about things which you knew before,
the old synonymes are suppressed. This is particularly the case with
the description ofthe ventricles, p. 104. Indeed, such discoveries as the
preceding cannot fail to amuse the man of mechanical genius.
14
violent and unnatural, I shall not disjoin anatomy and
physiology.'
Our ingenious mechanician affords novel information,
when he tells his readers, that anatomical knowledge of
the brain, in a physiological point of view, is fortunately
not of essential consequence in the practice of medicine ;
and that skilful and eminent practitioners are satisfied, and
justly so, with a general view of this organ, p. 3. ; and that
anatomy of the brain may be studied less with a view to
refined physiological research, than to the practice of physic,
p. 183. All other physicians, however, of sound judgment,
at all times have admitted as a principle, that pathology is
to be founded on physiology, and that without understand
ing the functions in the state of health, it is impossible to
judge of their derangements. Who believes, that in the
practice of medicine it is of no importance to know the
anatomy and physiology of the heart, of the lungs, liver,
stomach, &c ? Are the structure and functions of the five
senses not of equal importance ? And will those of the
brain and its parts be deemed less worthy of considera
tion ? Shall the most delicate or most complex organiza
tion be declared useless ? If, on the contrary, the brain
alone explains the various instincts of animals, and all the
modified manifestations of the human mind ; if it alone
accounts for the innateness of genius ; if it is certain, that
each species of manifestation of the mind has its appropri
ate part in the brain ; if all manifestations of the mind, in
the state of health and disease, find their explanation only in
the cerebral organization ; if the influence of the affections
and passions on the bodily constitution is indubitable, and
15
vice versa ; how is it then possible, that a lecturer on the
institutions of medicine can separate the structure and func
tions of the organization ? can maintain, that a skilful phy
sician does not need accurate knowledge of anatomy and
physiology ? is justly indifferent with respect to the struc
ture and functions of the brain, as well as to the con
nexions of its parts with each other, and with the whole
body?
Such notions will not, I trust, induce those of the medi
cal profession to neglect the most interesting study of all,
viz. that of man. Indeed, the examination of the nervous
system is not only important, because all functions of the
body, such as digestion, circulation, respiration, nutrition,
secretion, and excretion, depend on it, but also because the
fire senses, all inclinations and sentiments, all moral and
intellectual faculties, and all the characteristics of humanity,
are evinced by means of the nervous system alone. Thus,
the medical profession is not only interested in studying the
human mind with respect to bodily health, and particularly
with respect to insanity ; but it is their province to improve
the knowledge of the mental powers, since these can be
discovered only by the study of the brain and its parts.
No profession is better prepared than that of the physician
by accessory knowledge, and by the study of nature in
general ; nor is any one so frequently and so seriously
admonished to revise opinions, and to forsake hypothetical
reasoning, in order to follow the simple method of experi
ence. No philosopher is more intimately convinced, that
all our knowledge ought to be reduced to a rational mode
ofjudging from experiment and observation ; while a spec
16
ulative philosopher thinks, that ' the labors of metaphysi
cians can only be rewarded by attentive and patient reflec
tion on the subjects of their own consciousness.'—(Dvgald
Stewart's Elements of the. Philosophy of the Human Mind.
5th edit. p. 8.) According to such a precept, every one
has a right to take hitnself as a standard for the rest of
mankind : A Caraib metaphysician may find, that destruc
tion is the first moral principle.
The physician, besides, is placed in circumstances the
most conducive to a profound and certain knowledge of
man. No one has such opportunities of observing men at
all times, and in all situations. He alone is present during
the night and the day, to witness the most intimate concerns,
and the most secret events of domestic life. Good and bad
men, when sick, with difficulty conceal from him their true
sentiments. Who desires not the friendship of the man,
whom he trusts with his own life, or with that of his wife
and of his children ? To such a man, as knowing all that
belongs to our nature, we unfold the most secret thoughts,
and we acknowledge our frailties and our errors, in order
that he may judge truly concerning our situations. There
is consequently no man more called upon, no man more
necessitated to study mankind , than the physician. I leave it
now to the reader, and to those who practise the healing art,
to decide, whether a person contributes to the celebrity of
his profession by inculcating such doctrines ?
Thus, only according to a philosophy, which states that
every one may take his own consciousness as the measure
ment of that of all men, are our British antagonists excusa
ble—according to such a philosophy alone, is it unnecessary
17
for them to study the spirit of our inquiries. As they can
not raise their minds above mechanical forms and shades of
color ; as they do not even feel the necessity of considering
the' parts of the nervous system in connexion ; as they even
invent artificial divisions ; how could their judgment of our
investigations be sound, equitable, and just ?
SECTION II.
In our anatomical views, which are always connected
with physiology, pathology, and philosophy, the first point
to be considered is, that there is no common origin of the
nerves ; that all descriptions ofthe spinal cord as a prolon
gation of the brain are incorrect; that no nerve, and no
cerebral part, owes its origin to any other ; but that all of
them, on account of their mutual influence, are in commu
nication. (Vide Memoir to the French Institute, sect. 1. ;
Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicahs, Art. CERVEAU, §
3. No. 1, 2, 3 and 4. ; Physiognomical System, p. 13
-18.)
Such considerations have entirely escaped the conscien
tious Reviewer and mechanical Dissector.
SECTION III.
The second point to be considered is, that the general
form and arrangement of the nervous system are modified
in different beings. In the superior animals, it is divided
into the nerves of the abdomen and thorax, the spinal cord,
the supposed cerebral nerves, and the cerebellum and brain.
3
18
The spinal cord is composed of a series of swellings
between two undulatory lines. These swellings are propor
tionate to the nerves, which go off.
The conscientious Reviewer is satisfied with stating, that
our descriptions of the spinal cord ' abound in conjectures ,
and assumptions, and inaccuracies,' p. 267. The mechan
ical Dissector has not attended to comparative anatomy,
and does not mention any thing of that kind. The Histo
rian is in unison with the Reviewer, and merely declares,
that our statements are unfounded, p. 179. Comparative
anatomy, however, shows great modifications in the general
form and arrangement of the nervous system, as in the
caterpillar, lobster, frog, fish, bird, or quadruped. At the
Physical Society, and in Dr. Barclay's lecture-room, I have
shown to my auditors the swellings of the spinal cord of a
calf. As our statements are not attacked in detail, I do not
repeat what is mentioned in our works.
SECTION IT.
The next points to be examined concern the medulla
oblongata, and the supposed cerebral nerves. The me
dulla oblongata does not belong to the spinal cord, and the
supposed cerebral nerves have different origins from what
anatomists generally believe.
The literary gospel does not embrace these points ; I
have only to consider the respective discoveries of the me
chanical Dissector. He believes, that the medulla oblon
gata, though situate in the head, belongs to the spine ; he
calls it the cranial portion of the spinal cord, and fixes its
termination to the lower edge of the pons Varolii, p. 175.
19
In our views, a great portion of the medulla oblongata
belongs to the greatest number of the supposed cerebral
nerves ; the rest to the cerebellum and brain. In my sec
ond demonstration in Edinburgh, before a numerous and
respectable audience, the mechanical Dissector repeatedly
protested against my stating, that the medulla oblongata is
not interrupted, but continued to the cerebellum and brain,
or rather that both, by means of the medulla oblongata,
are in communication with the nervous mass of the rest of
the body. The gentlemen who were present will recollect,
that I twice asked the Dissector, whether he could show
the interruption of the pyramids, since he protested against
their continuation ? Now, as a historian, four months
later, he tells us, that the idea of that very commu
nication of the pyramids with the crura cerebri has been
known a century and a half. The man of duty either was
or was not acquainted with the fact. In the first case, why
did he protest against it ? and why did he not state it in his
book, professedly written on the brain ? There he termi
nates ihe brain at the upper edge of the pons, ascribes the
mass of the pons to the cerebellum, and the medulla oblon
gata to the spinal cord. In the second case, he has
learned it since, though he might have found in our works
the same authors quoted, whom he, as historian, now
appeals to, to prove that the idea is not original. More of
this tergiversation afterwards.
This discoverer calls the abductor, trigeminal, facial, and
auditory nerves, cerebellar, p. 202. and places their origins
in the peduncles of the cerebellum, p. 207—210. viz. in
the lateral portion of the annular protuberance, p. 112.
20
Comparative, as well as human anatomy, however, shows
the contrary. These nerves exist in fishes and birds,
though these animals have no annular protuberance, and in
the greater number of quadrupeds these nerves go off
behind the pons ; how then can they originate from the
pons ? Even in the human brain, we can trace the fifth
pair through the pons to the corpora restiformia of the
medulla oblongata. I have done it in presence of many in
Edinburgh, as well as in other places.
He has further discovered that the facial and acoustic
nerves originate from the same spot, p. 209, 210. while
they go off at quite different places, the facial nerve at the
external edge of the corpus olivare, and the auditory nerve
behind the medulla oblongata in the fourth ventricle. He
has also discovered, that the optic nerve arises from the
anterior corner of the commissure of the tractus optici, p.
205. viz. ' from the part situate before the pituitary gland
and infundibulum,' p. 83. while even in the infancy of
anatomy, the optic nerve has been traced farther back.
Comparative and morbid anatomy amply elucidate this
point. In many fishes, the optic nerves are placed only
over each other without adhesion ; and in quadrupeds and
man, when one of the optic nerves is injured and diminished
in size, the diminution is not only visible as far as their
union or partial decussation, but passes across to the oppo
site side, backward, and proceeds to the anterior pair of
the corpora quadrigemina.
By comparative views we have proved, that the optic
thalami in birds and quadrupeds have been confounded,
and the same name given to quite different parts of the
21
brain ; and that the optic thalami in quadrupeds do not be
long to the optic nerves, but to the brain proper.
SECTION v.
The fourth consideration is with respect to the com
munication of the cerebellum and brain with the rest of the
nervous system.
The conscientious Reviewer, and Anatomistpar excellence,
had nothing to say in this respect ; but the Historian, ' after
a painful research ' of four months, (p. 3.) has contrived to
find matter for opposition. He maintains, ' that it is impos
sible to trace any fibres, either from the corpus restiforme
or from any other part of the medulla oblongata, into the
corpus dentatum,' p. 3.
The Historian is wrong in ascribing to us the discovery
of the communication between the cerebellum and the cor
pus restiforme. During his ' painful research,' he might
have found the history of this communication, as well as
that of the brain with the medulla oblongata. This very
name oblongata, is only explained by the medulla of the
brain and cerebellum having been considered as continued
to the spine. A great number of anatomists speak of pro
longations, or crura, or processus cerebelli ad medullum ob-
longatam, and distinguish them from the crura or processus or
pedunculi cerebelli ad pontem. We consider this ancient view
of communication as correct; the ancients only erred in
imagining that one part gave origin to another. In fact, the
connexion between one bundle of the corpus restiforme and
the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum, is easily shown in
3*
22
scraping off the auditory nerve from the external surface of
the corpus restiforme, and following the direction of the
bundles. I have shown it in Dr. Barclay's lecture-room,
and I am ready to do so to every one who procures a fresh
brain.
The communication of the brain with the rest of the
nervous system, requires more full exposition. Here the
Dissector appears in his proper light and colors. He
himself calls the attention of the public to the second de
monstration. I therefore must be excused for speaking of
it. When I demonstrated the decussation of the pyramids,
he began the controversy with the question, Whether we
maintain to have first discovered the decussation ? As His
torian, he tells us, that he thought it his duty, in justice to
preceding anatomists, to make their claims known to my
audience, p. 74. My answer was, that our works show the
contrary, and that we have given the history of the de
cussation. I then remarked, that before us, many anato
mists have spoken of a decussation of the nerves, because
injuries affecting the brain are often propagated on the op
posite side of the body ; that, however, there are other ob
servations on record, where injuries of the brain are visible
on the same'side with the injury ; that we have first discov
ered, that only a part of the brain is in communication with
the opposite side of the nervous system, and the other part
with the nerves of the same side. He was obliged to allow
that this distinction is new.
I beg leave to make a few observations on this occasion.
The man of duty, when he wrote professedly on the brain,
did not mention a single author who had spoken of the
23
decussation. He himself speaks of ' two or three ridges,
which would hardly have been worthy of particular notice,
were it not for absurd theories with which they have often been
connected in physiological writings,' p. 177. On the other
hand, in our works, the names of all the authors, whom he,
as historian, quotes, are given, and many more. He speaks
of Mistichelli as the first, while in our Memoir we have
stated, that the decussation has been described by the most
ancient anatomists, such as Aretaeus and Cassius ; that af
terwards it had been neglected ; but that pathological facts
called again the attention of Fabricius de Hilden to it in the
year 1581. We have quoted Mistichelli, in 1709, Petit,
Lieutand, Santorini, Winslow, Soemmerring, and Portal.
Has now the man of duty, as historian, a right to accuse us
' ofneglect and ignorance against every preceding inquirer,'
p. 2. while he, on this occasion, as author, does not quote
one, and we have quoted them all, and a greater number than
he as historian ?' Is it not rather our duty to mention the
preceding authors when we write a book, than when we
give outlines of a demonstration, and in an oral com
munication ?
This is not yet the whole. The Historian says, p. 69.
' The structure in question (decussation of the pyramids)
has been taken notice of, ever since its discovery, in ele
mentary works of the highest reputation, and such as ana
tomists still daily consult ; and it has been particularly men
tioned in'the best and most generally known treatises on the
brain, so that there is as little room for maintaining that it
has been overlooked by modern anatomists, as that the
24
description of the corpora pyramidalia themselves has been
forgotten.'
Does the man of duty not accuse himself by this passage ?
Let us admit the case to be as he says ; I then reply, that
he had no reason to put his question. If the dccussation is
so generally known, no one could be mistaken. In that
case, he could have asked me with the same propriety,
whether we maintain to be the first who have described
the pyramidal bundles, since, according to his own words,
' the decussation is as little overlooked as the description of
the pyramids ?'
But the reader would be mistaken, did he think the decus
sation as generally known as the Historian alleges. To
prove that this anatomical point was not sufficiently under
stood, nor completely ascertained by the modern anatomists,
I shall examine a few works of those authors whom the
Historian has quoted. Vicq d'Azyr, for instance, did not
know the true decussation, nor did he represent it. He
speaks of such a thing, and points out a place where he
looked for it ; but there it does not exist. This is evident
from comparing his own passages with nature. In explain
ing the 22d plate, he says, ' Lorsqu'on ecarte le sillon 12,
15, entre les corps pyramidaux, on apercoit de petits cor
dons blanchatres et medullaires qui se portent d'un cote &.
1'autre comme autant de petites commissures dont la direc
tion varie.' In explaining the 23d plate, he marks the same
place by b. b. b. b. and says, that these are transverse fibres.
Plate 17. fig. 1. 57, and 58, he says of the pyramidal bundles,
' Elles sont separees de la portuberance annulaire par un
petit enforcement 82, 82, et entre ces corps se trouve une
25
fente ou division longitudinale 59, 59, au fond de laquelle
on voit, lorsqu'on écarte les bords, plusieurs cordons blancs
qui se dirigent d'un coté à l'autre en maniere de commis
sures, les uns transversalement, les autres obliquement.'
Dumas and Boyer maintain that palsy of the opposite
side in injuries of the head is not at all explained by the
anatomy, because the decussation of the medulla oblon-
gata can by no means be proved, ' qu'il n'est rien moins que
prouvé par 1' anatomic.'
Sabatier quotes the passage of Francois Pourfour du
Petit ; but he adds, that ' le pretendu entrecroisement
des fibres de la moelle allongée n'est rien moins que cer
tain.'
Chaussier, who with Vicq d'Azyr, belongs to the few
quoted by the Dissector, also quotes the passage of du
Petit, and spe aks of Santorini and his plates. ' Mais, dit
il, en examinant les objets de plus près, en suivant atten
tivement les progrès de la préparation, les changements que
produit l'écartment, le tiraillement des parties, il nous a
paru que ces pretendus faisceaux des fibres transversales ou
obliques sont uniquement le resultat de la traction que l'on
exerce sur le tissu de la partie, qui avant de se déchirer,
s'allonge et prend l'apparence fibreuse,' p. 142.
How could the impartial Historian overlook such pas
sages in books he quotes ? and if he did not overlook them,
how can he say, that the decussation was generally known ?
I can affirm, that at the universities and colleges where we
have demonstrated the brain in Germany, Denmark, Hol
land, France, Great Britain, and Ireland, the decussation
was not shown to the pupils before the publication of our
26
works. The French commissioners felt the truth, and al
lowed that we had recalled the attention of physiologists to
the decussation of the pyramids, though they deny us the
merit of having discovered it. They ought to have said ,
that we had not discovered it the first. We can assert,
that we were not taught it in the school, nor had we learned
it from books. Pathological facts alone called our atten
tion to it. Without pathological considerations it must ap
pear indifferent. For that very reason, the mechanical
Dissector speaks ofit as scarcely worthy of particular notice.
He himself, also, may still become acquainted with some
modifications which the decussation presents. The descrip
tion of two or three ridges is very incomplete. We think
that our mode of demonstrating it is preferable to that of
Santorini, who employed a long and peculiar maceration,
while, by our mode of proceeding, we can show it in every
fresh brain.
SECTION vr.
The fifth point which may be discussed, is our method
of dissecting the brain. The common way consists in
slicing it, whether to begin from above, as . most commonly
is done, or from below, or from the sides ; or in cutting off
small portions, and showing their mechanical appearances.
Every one who has attended anatomical lectures, or will
look at anatomical works, is aware that I speak truth. The
descriptions given by the mechanical Dissector himself, and
the macerated pieces which he showed in the second de
monstration, prove the same statement.
37
We consider the parts in connexion with, and in rela
tion to one another : we observe what is general or con
stant, and we are as much convinced of the modifications
ofevery part of each brain, as of those ofevery other part of
the body. We always begin the dissection at the medulla
oblongata, and examine the successive additions and distri
butions towards the convolutions. We seldom cut, but
mostly scrape ; because the substance, on account of its
delicacy, when cut, does not show its structure. The con
scientious Reviewer had suggested, that our proceeding [is
limited to the use of the handle of the scalpel alone. The
Historian adds, ' the blade of the scalpel, and the points of
our fingers ;' but he calls this proceeding rude, p. 26. It
seems he had forgotten what he wrote on the previous page
17. There he has said, ' Every anatomist, who has enjoyed
frequent opportunities of examining the recent brain, must
have observed, that there are particular portions of the white
subsiance, which tear much more readily in one particular
direction that in any other ; and that the surfaces of the
lacerated parts in the former case, but never in the latter,
put on an appearance similar to that exhibited by a piece
of muscle, or of any other fibrous nature, when torn in the
direction of the fibres.' May I not suppose, that this hero
of the scalpel tears and lacerates with his fingers ; and that,
if he had used them more dexterously, he would have made
fewer mistakes. I sometimes make use of my fingers, to
obviate an objection which has been made in Germany,
France, and even in Edinburgh, viz. that we artificially
form the appearances in the brain by the handle of the scal
pel, or that we play a trick on the spectators. The con-
28
scientious Reviewer himself maintains, that we must know
the incorrectness of our assertions, and show to our less
knowing pupils the fibrous structure of the white matter in
some portion of the brain, where, in consequence of the
two kinds of matter, the white is disposed in threads through
the brown, p. 256.
For the demonstration of many parts, we prefer fresh
brains. The structure of others may be better seen, when
they are previously macerated in diluted acids or alcohol.
Our works attest, that we have employed various means,
especially in examining the structure of the convolutions.
Several adversaries in Germany, particularly Prof. Ack-
ermann at Heidelberg, objected against the preparation of
the brain by maceration. They maintained, that this ap
pearance is not natural, but the result of a chemical process.
An example may be mentioned with glass, which is a uni
form mass. In the southern countries, in Paris, for in
stance, windows exposed to the sun and moon split into
innumerable scales ; this appearance is not natural, but the
result of a chemical process. To obviate that objection,
we prefer proving our statements on fresh brains. At the
same time, we have always answered, that the white sub
stance of the brain must have naturally a fibrous disposition,
because the appearance is the same under all the very
various circumstances, whether, for instance, examined fresh
or coagulated.
It is, however, conceivable, that in towns, as in Edin
burgh and Halle, where we cannot procure a number of
fresh brains, the dissector may prefer to keep the parts in
spirits. Even in towns where there is a great facility of
29
procuring fresh brains, we get some which are entirely unfit
lor demonstration. If we unfortunately meet such a one,
shall we draw the inference, that in no fresh brain whatever
the structure can be seen ? Indeed, in the dissecting rooms
at Halle and Edinburgh we may be induced to say with
Reil, that our method in dissecting fresh brains is not suffi
cient, and that the cerebral mass is too pulpy and too deli
quescent, (zu breyigt und zerfliessbar) for being examined
in connexion. The conscientious Reviewer, p. 236, quotes
this passage of Reil ; and the only meaning is, that Reil at
Halle found the brains too soft, and thought it necessary to
prepare them by maceration. The Historian must know
very little of the German language, on account of his erro
neous interpretation of this passage, p. 188. If ignorance
of the language be not the cause, he has invented a story
worthy of a conscientious Reviewer. I shall afterwards
give the history as it happened between Reil and us. In
answer to Reil, I here only state, that in London, Dublin,
Paris, and Vienna, we can easily procure brains, the parts
of which are firm enough to be examined in connexion,
without any previous coagulation.
The proceeding of Vieussens has only in common with
ours, that, in examining the parts of the brain, he scraped :
In the rest he was guided by quite other principles ; began
with the convolutions, and cut them off round the hemis
pheres, to shew the centrum ovale, which, to this day, is
demonstrated and called by his name. He first considered
all medullary fibres to originate from the cortical substance
of the convolutions, and to be concentrated in the midst of
the hemispheres ; he then examined the corpus callosum,
30
the fornix, plexus choroides, nates, and testes. In the first
thirteen plates he represents only cuts from above downward.
At the end he examines the cerebellum and medulla oblon-
gata, so that he represents the connexion between crura and
the medulla oblongata in his last plate. Proceeding from
above downward, he speaks of his usual method, (institutum
servando sectionis ordinem).*
The Historian accuses us of having learned our pro
ceeding from other books : Why has he not learned to
consider the cerebral parts in connexion ? why has he con
tinued to slice and cut the brain like cheese ? None of
our predecessors has proceeded in the way we do ; hence
it was impossible to learn our method from them. I have
no objection that the brain should be examined in various
ways ; but one method may be preferable to another, and
we think ours the best to show the connexion of the parts,
and we think it indispensable for those who examine the
brain with physiological and pathological views.
SECTION VII.
A sixth consideration concerns the two sorts of substances,
ofwhich the nervous system is composed ; one greyish and
soft, and of unknown organization, the other white, and of
fibrous structure. Both are together, and proportionate to
each other.
The Historian quotes Vieussens, Haller, Mayer, Reil,
Portal, and Cuvier to prove, that the fibrous structure ofthe
brain was known. The reader would be mistaken if he
* Nevrol. univ. p. 87.
31
thought, that in our works we have not quoted authors of
that kind. We have mentioned the same and others, such
as Loewenhock, Stenon, Prochaska, Soemmerring, Sabatier,
and others. In a passage of our memoir, p. 248, we say,
' Bonnet ne trouve dans le cerveau que des fibres dont chac-
une auroit sa fonction particuliere.' We have never thought
of being the first who maintain that the brain is fibrous,
though we know also that the most erroneous opinions have
been entertained with respect to its structure. Our prin
cipal ideas are the successive additions, and the aggregation
of various parts ; the two great sets of fibres, and the un
folding ofthe convolutions, as I propose to detail in the
sequel.
I have already mentioned, that we do not limit our pro
ceeding to the handle of the scalpel, as the conscientious
Reviewer, p. 256, and Dissector, p. 150, insinuated.
When the Dissector wrote his book, the fibrous appearance
could never be displayed by dividing the cerebral mass with
a sharp scalpel, p. 126.; as Historian, however, he proves,
that many authors, who have only sliced the brain, were
acquainted with its fibrous structure. As Author, he speaks
of nervous cords, p. 128. ; nervous threads, p. 132. ; ner
vous fibriles, p. 123. ; nervous fibres as fine as hairs, p. 137. ;
nervous fibres traversing, p. 128. ; innumerable fine fibres
diverging, p 138. ; and what is more, ' when a portion of
brown nervous matter, which forms a covering to the con
volutions, is exposed to the action of alcohol, or acids, or
boiling oil, and is then torn asunder, it exhibits a fibrous
appearance,' p. 127. —As Historian he equally states, that
' the apparent fibrousness of the white substance, both in
32
the recent state, and after coagulation with boiling oil, alco
hol, acids, Sic. has been long known, and no opinion has
been more prevalent than that this substance is really
fibrous,' p. 16.
Now, after that language as Author and Historian, what
shall I think of such a man, who, in my second demonstra
tion, before a numerous and respectable audience, came
forward and protested against my using the name of fibres,
and diverging fibres ? who asked me, like a school-boy,
what I call diverging 1 and who, when I requested him to
give a name to what he saw, called it 'Jibrous appearance.'
According to our ideas and observations, there is a
brown and white matter in the medulla oblongata ; and the
white goes out of the grey. The Historian replies, p. 34,
' that the origin ofall or even of any of the fibres from the grey-
substance of the medulla oblongata, is a mere assumption.'—
No such matter or grey substance has been pointed out as
attached to the fasciculi, or intermixed with them, p. 35.
He doubts, whether the corpora pyramidalia increase during
their ascent, p. 76. and, therefore, in his book on the brain,
has chosen the name of oblong bundles ; but he calls upon
us, according to our own hypothesis, to point out the grey
matter which affords the reinforcing fibres, p. 76.
How shall I prove the existence of brown matter to him,
who, in presence of two hundred spectators, declared he
saw no brown substance, while all beside declared they did ?
I know that there are persons who cannot distinguish one color
from another, brown or red, for instance, from green ; but
the mechanical dissector having found in the brain so many
shades of brown cannot be excused by that natural defect.
33
The only explanation in his favor may be, that nervous
affections are often intermittent. Hence it may be, that
just on that day his sight was disturbed, and could not dis
tinguish either fibres or colors. But what astonishes me is,
that his affection continues so long, and that he cannot yet see
brown matter in the medulla oblongata, and in the pons.
As he cannot see it, he adheres more to the literary gospel,
which, p. 265, denies the brown matter in the pons, than to
his recent quotations in his historical treatise. If he himself
has no confidence in Santorini, why does he represent to
his readers that writer as an excellent author ? ' (which by
the by I believe him to be).' The Historian, however,
quotes, p. 66. the passage of Santorini, relative to the de-
cussation, where Santorini states, that he employed a long
maceration ; ' for in this way, the fibres being very much
washed, and the intervening cortical or cineritious matter
in great part dissolved, and the filaments of the membranes
becoming loose, they are each of them more clearly seen ;'
and yet, ten pages latter, he states, that there is no grey sub
stance to afford the reinforcing fibres. In speaking of the
pons, we shall find that the Historian, with respect to
Vieussens, commits the same error of which he is here
guilty against Santorini. Why does he consider his readers
endowed with so little power of comparison ?
SECTION VIII.
In our views, the cerebellum offers the following consid
erations : It is a particular apparatus, in connexion with,
but independent of, the rest of the nervous system as to its
existence and functions. In reptiles and fishes it is single
4*
34
and smooth, in birds single and lamellated, in quadrupeds
lamellated and augmented by lateral parts. Animals with a
single cerebellum have no pons ; in quadrupeds the pons is
always proportionate to the lateral parts ; the cerebellum is
in communication with the medulla oblongata by a fasciculus
of the corpora restiformia ; at the spot of this communica
tion there is greyish matter, the whole of which is called by
anatomists the corpus dentatum, orserratum, orrhomboideum,
or nucleus, or zig-zag : The brown matter of the cerebel
lum is proportionate to the white : Finally, the cerebellum
is smaller in young animals and in children than in adults,
and most commonly smaller in females than in males.
By the conscientious Reviewer, Dissector, and Historian,
only some mechanical appearances are spoken of. The
Historian reproaches me for not having shown, in the sec
ond demonstration, the set of fibres which bring the cere
bellum, especially the corpus dentatum, into communication
with the medulla oblongata, nor that set of fibres which we
were accustomed to call converging. It is true I did not
do so in the second demonstration, but I have done it in
other towns as well as in Edinburgh, to a great number of
professional gentlemen ; and I offer to show the fact to any
one who shall procure a fresh brain. For the second demon
stration, I trust, I was sufficiently patient with such mecha
nical dissectors, who tried my temper for nearly five hours
in beginning their attacks with a moral question, and quib
bling about mere words, such as continuation, fibres, diverg
ing direction, the existence or non-existence of brown mat
ter, and other mechanical definitions ; about expressions
which they had partly used in their own works, and which
they now maintain to have been known 150 years ago.
Supposing that I had not shown every thing in one demon
stration, it is easily understood, that this must be the case,
as it is quite impossible to proceed through the range of
demonstration in one brain, particularly if it is turned about
and frequently exposed to two hundred spectators. Did I
not offer to the mechanical Dissector to repeat the demon
stration whenever he might feel inclined, and opportunity
occurred? Why has he then rather avoided my presence
than contrived to promote mutual information ? Why, like
the rest of the opposition, does he not make himself ac
quainted with the real meaning of our investigations ? Why
does he turn away his eyes from the facts which I submit to
the examination of my auditors ?
In our works we speak, with all other anatomists, of
greyish substance in the interior of the cerebellum, called
corpus dentatum. As this appearance is generally known,
I was amazed to read in the literary gospel, p. 269, ' Be
it known to the reader, that the corpus dentatum, which
they have described and represented in their engravings as
a great ganglion for the reinforcement of the diverging fibres
of the cerebellum, does not contain one particle of brown
matter.' The mechanical Dissector makes use of the name
nucleus, which hitherto was used as synonymous with cor
pus dentatum, but he means by that expression the nucleus
of the nucleus.
The Historian had many words to say about the corpus
dentatum, and he complains, that I did not listen to his
observations. It may be, that my answers were sometimes
different from what they would have been, had his manners
and language accorded with the usual rules ofdecorum and
politeness. Our idea is, that the bundle which comes from
the corpus restiforme, meets greyish substance, which is in
proportion to the cerebellum. The form in which the brown
matter appears, is secondary in our views. The corpus
dentatum is modified as to size and form in every man. It
also presents a modified configuration in each brain accord
ing to a vertical, oblique, horizontal, lateral or mesial sec
tion. In the plates of our large work, we have given five dif
ferent representations of five sections in different directions.
We maintain, that the appearances are different, on account
both ofthe sections in different directions and offive different
brains. How then could the Historian compare his figure
of the corpus dentatum with one of ours, while both cere-
bella were different in size and form, and the corpora den-
tata are not cut in the same direction ? The cerebellum of
our plate was larger, that of his figure smaller : we have cut
more towards the mesial line, he more externally. In
addition to which, the interior of the corpus dentatum in
our plate xii. and in its diminished copy in my book on
Physiognomy, plate iii. fig. 2. contains more white matter
than he has represented in the copy which he has taken
from our plate. Is this whole proceeding consistent with
candor ?
SECTION IX.
The next point to be considered is the pons or annular
protuberance. Besides the transverse fibres belonging to the
lateral parts of the cerebellum, it contains brown matter and
longitudinal threads, viz. the continuation of the pyramidal,
oval, and a part of the restiform bodies and new additions.
87
,
The conscientious Reviewer states, p. 265, ' These
infallible anatomists have also described the annular pro
tuberance as another large ganglion, .containing much
brown matter. This too is incorrect ; it is composed chiefly,
if nor entirely, of white substance.' The mechanical Dis
sector says, p. 140, 'The nervous matter of this protu
berance is chiefly, if not entirely, of the white kind ; the
quantity of the brown, I believe, will be found exceedingly
small.' The Historian affirms, p. 77, that ' the annular
protuberance, instead of containing a large quantity of grey
matter, seems scarcely to contain any of this matter at
all.'
. It is easy to shew the brown color to every one who has
eyes to see. Many anatomists speak of cineritious sub
stance in the pons. Wherever I have demonstrated the
brain, and in Edinburgh also, every other spectator has
distinguished two colors, a brown and a white, in the pons ;
the Anatomist par excellence alone cannot see it. Does
he not believe in its existence to be consistent with the lit
erary gospel ? But how will he reconcile such a state of
his vision with his confidence in Vieussens ? As Historian
he says, p. 14, ' That Morgagni justly styled Raymond
Vieussens, " Monspeliensis Academics decus et lumen,'" and
he himself, p. 82, calls Vieussens an ' able anatomist ;' but
Vieussens has seen and described cineritious substance in
the pons. I can only account for his inability to find brown
substance in the pons, by his macerating small portions of
brain in alcohol or acids. In that way the brown color
may disappear. He therefore will do well to examine a
fresh brain. If he then cannot see it, he must find his con
solation in other persons who cannot distinguish colors.
The Historian complains, p. 63, that I hesitated to define
the boundaries of the corpora pyramidalia. The spectators
will recollect that I have answered twice, that we call pyra
mids what all anatomists call so ; that we disapprove of this
mechanical name, but make use of it to be understood ;
that the essential point in our views is the connexion of the
cerebral parts with the rest of the nervous system, viz. that
in each hemisphere only a part is connected with the oppo
site side. The spectators will recollect also, that when the
Dissector repeated his demand, I repeated the former ideas,
made them a longitudinal incision through the pons, and
went round to show that mass, in the figure which the His
torian has copied from our plate, f, bounded by n-0, which
he describes, p. 210, as the line of separation between the
posterior set of the diverging fibres and the anterior set, /,
or those proceeding from the corpus pyramidale. The me
chanical Dissector was not yet satisfied, but desired me
again to mark the boundaries of the pyramids. To procure
quiet, I marked them on the bit which was cut transversely,
at the lower edge of the pons. The Historian says, p. 64,
that I marked ' from the forepart of the medulla oblongata
to the fourth ventricle :' I do not believe' it, since I went
round among the spectators, and did not shew the mass
from the anterior surface to the fourth ventricle, but only
backward to the marked line n-o ; and since I spoke dis
tinctly of a posterior set of fibres which do not decussate.
Why did the mechanical Dissector not correct me at the
moment, as he was so anxious to oppose ? In short, the
39
description which T gave in the second demonstration, and
what I have shewn to the spectators, and all our works,
and all other demonstrations which I have given in Edin
burgh, and even what he has copied, p. 210, from our de
scription, prove that we are better acquainted with the struc
ture of this part.
The Historian, after a painful research, proves, that the
connexion of the medulla oblongata with the crura cerebri
was known to many anatomists before us. Have we ever
maintained the contrary ? In the description of this part,
in the memoir to the French Institute, we say, p. 1 34,
' Pour bien voir ce passage, connu de la plupart des ana
tomists, on fait une incision,' &e : we believe only to have
given a better description, especially with respect to the
longitudinal threads, and to have first shewn the new addi
tions, which the Historian does not yet admit, because he
says, p. 84, ' Supposing it to be true, ivhich is far Jrom
being proved, that the longitudinal filaments in the annular
protuberance are largest towards the upper part, where they
are connected with the crura cerebri, it is in no degree more
accurate to describe them as extending from the pyramidal
bodies, and receiving an increase of fibres as they proceed,
than it would be to say that they descend from the crura
cerebri, and that pirt of them are prolonged to the corpora
pyramidalia, while part of them are lost in the protuberance.'
At all events, however, this physical appearance, which we
have first described and represented, has some interest for a
mere mechanical Dissector. Besides, as it is preferable to
describe the fifth pair of nerves and others from the medulla
oblongata, rather to the tongue and organs of mastication,
40
than from these apparatus to the medulla oblongata ; and as
in the lower animals nerves exist without brain, and in many
quadrupeds a large spinal cord and small brains, we think
we can describe the cerebral parts, added to the nervous
mass, more properly as beginning with the medulla oblon
gata. But in the year 1815, when the Dissector wrote
professedly on the brain, he did not know this passage of
the pyramids though the pons ; or if he knew it, why did he
terminate the brain proper at the upper edge of the pons,
ascribe the mass of the pons to the cerebellum, and the
medulla oblongata to the spinal cord ?
SECTION x.
One of the most important points in our anatomical in
quiries concerns the two orders of fibres, viz. diverging and
converging, or uniting.
The conscientious Reviewer very modestly decided on
this point, stating, p. 261, ' Such is the grand system of
the diverging and converging fibres of the brain, of which
Drs. Gall and Spurzheim are the sole inventors and pro
prietors ; a discovery truly, which, at some future time,
may throw light on the most obscure operations of the
microcosm. In the meanwhile it is our painful duty to re
mark, that the system is a complete fiction from beginning to
end. The incorrectness, too, of these gentlemen, on this
occasion, admits of no explanation or apology on the score of
ignorance : their unceasing professions of the time and la
bor they have bestowed on the dissection of the brain,
entirely preclude this excuse ; we must ascribe their inac
curacies solely to intention. It is a wilful misrepresentation
41
in them, therefore, to affirm, that in portions of the brain,
which are composed purely of white nervous matter, (this
phraseology is an invention of the Reviewer,) either diverg
ing or converging fibres can be shown by the method they
have described. . They have represented such fibres, it is
true, in various plates of the folio engravings ; but we -can
confidently affirm, that no such appearance as they have
thought proper to represent between them, is capable of
being demonstrated in the human brain by the manipula
tions which our authors all along profess to practise.' (Hey,
ho ! is it so ? )
The mechanical Dissector has not ascribed the 'two
orders of fibres. The Historian, however, is very anxious
to prove, that there our ideas are not original. But we
positively maintain, that they are not found in the works of
any anatomist before us, and that, as the conscientious Re
viewer says, we are the sole proprietors. All that has been
observed by our predecessors is, that the external part of
the crura are connected with diverging fibres, which since
Vieussens have. been described as descending to and com
municating' with the medulla oblongata. Even Reil (to
whom the learned Historian will not do the injustice to
insinuate, that Drs. Gall and Spurzheim have borrowed
from him their views without acknowledgement, p. 99.)
deserves to be mentioned here, only with respect to his
essay published in Gren's Journal for 1795. The descrip
tion he gives, quoted by the Historian himself, p. 98, is
applicable only to the same parts which Vieussens had
shown, and which Monro and Vicq d'Azyr had attempted
to represent. The passage does not leave the least doubt.
5
42
It is, ' Each crus, being embraced by the optic nerve, spreads
out like an unfolded fan, almost horizontally, below the
great cavity of the brain, towards the inferior and lateral
parts, and towards the extremities of the brain.*' There
is no mention made of the two orders of fibres diverging
and converging, none of the two sets of the diverging fibres,
not even of the diverging bundles in ihe great cavities- of
the brain. After having spoken of the convolutions, I will
show, whether Reil, on whom the Historian bestows so
much praise, can be considered as entitled to original claims
in the two essays inserted in his Archives of Physiology for .
1809 and 1812. At all events, the literary gospel, and
Anatomist par excellence, when he wrote his book, were
not acquainted with that structure. Even now the Histori
an denies evident 'appearances in the crura and their lateral
distributions. He says, p. 103, ' The crura cerebri, ac
cording to Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, contain throughout
their whole length a great quantity of grey substance, by
which they are continually reinforced with new fibres ;
whereas the quantity of this substance mingled with them
is just perceptible, and no more, and the reinforcement of
fibres from it is a mere averment, for which there is no
foundation. Nor are there better grounds for the statement,
that they receive a still greater increase just where they are
embraced by the optic nerve; neither their greatest increase
* Jeder Schenkel breitet sich alsdann, nachdem ihn der Sehnerve um-
fasst hat, als ein entfalteter Faeciier fast wagerecht under der grossen
Hirnhoehle gegen die unteren Flaechen, Seitentheile und gegendieEx-
tremitaeten des grossen Gehirns aus. Gren's Journal, I. p. 162.
43
of all, nor the means by which, according to their own
principles, it must be accomplished, are. susceptible of' de
monstration.'
The mechanical Dissector will excuse me ; I never said
he could do it, I only say, that I can demonstrate all these
statements to be facts to any one who shall procure a fresh
brain.
The Historian prefers, p. 105, a singular accusation, in
stating, ' Their description excludes the posterior lobe of
the brain-proper altogether from any connexion with the
crura, which is an error of unaccountable magnitude ; in so
far as the mass of fibres which radiate from the crura into
this lobe, is fully as great as that extending into the other
parts of the hemispheres, ifnot greater.' It seems the His
torian, in writing this, had forgotten the passage, p. 62 ,
where he says, ' The second set are distributed on the con
volutions of the posterior lobe, and on those which are situ
ated along the whole upper margin of each hemisphere
towards the median plane ; and their description occupies
the paragraphs of the Appendix, from 30—33.' Page 7,
he tells his readers, that he has inserted verbatim the Ap
pendix, that ' it will enable them to perceive, whether or not
he has, on all occasions, correctly interpreted the meaning
of the descriptions which are the object of his criticism.'
I copy these paragraphs verbatim from the Appendix. §
30. 11 nous reste a. parler de la formation du lobe posterieur
et des circonvolutions situees au bord superieur de chaque
h misphere, vers la ligne mediane du cerveau. § 31. Le
faisceau qui sort des corps olivaires et quelques autres fais-
ceaux posterieurs montent, comme les faisceaux des pyra-
44
mides, entre les fibres transversales de la commissure du
cervelet. Dans ce trajet, ils acquierenet un renforcement
qui est bien moins considerable que celui des pyramides, et
ils forment la partie posterieure et interieure des grands
faisceaux fibreux (des cuisses) du cerveau.' (Thus, we
are arrived at the crura.J ' Ici ils acquierent leur plus
grand accroisement par la masse épaisse de substance grise
qui s'y trouve, et qui avec les filets nerveux qu'elle produit,
form un ganglion assez dur. applati au milieu et inégal en
haut et posterieurement. § 32. Ce ganglion a jusqu' à
present, été connu sous le nom de couches optiques ; mais
une couche nerveuse du nerf visuel est seulement attachée
à la surface posterieure externe de ce ganglion. D'abord
ce ganglion n'est nullement en raison directe avec le nerf
optique, mais il l'est avec les convolutions qui sortent de ce
ganglion. Ensuite en examinant l'intérieur de ce ganglion,
on trouve une grande quantité de filets nerveux très fins qui
tous vont en montant, et dans une toute autre direction que
le nerf optique. Ils se réunissent à leur sortie, au bord su
perieur du ganglion, en faisceaux divergens. Les anteri
eurs de ces faisceaux traversent un grand amas du substance
grise, et prennant un nouvel accroirement de cet amas, de
sorte qu'ils suffident pour former les circonvolutions poster
ieures, et toutes celles qui sont situées au bord supérieur
de chaque hemisphère vers la ligne médiane du cer
veau.'
Now, if the posterior internal part of the crura enters
into the optic thalami, and these form the posterior lobe, I
ask every intelligent reader, 'whether our description ex
cludes the posterior lobe of the brain-proper altogether from
45
any connexion with the crura ? ' or whether the interpreta
tion of the Historian is ' an error of unaccountable magni
tude ? '
I can conceive, that an anonymous Reviewer, endowed
with his proper modification of consciousness, states what
seems suitable to his purpose ; but it passes my conception,
that the Historian could write, p. 109, 'These gentlemen
have passed over in silence the numerous delicate filaments
of white substance, which shoot out from the anterior radia
tions of the crura into the inner bulbous part of the corpora
striata, and are there entirely lost ; an omission which is the
more remarkable, as these fibres present another instance
of a distribution quite irreconcileable with their system of
continued reinforcement.' '
I only answer, that in our plates v. vi. and xiii. are rep
resented the numerous delicate filaments of white substance,
which (to use the Historian's expressions,) ' shoot out from
the anterior radiations of the crura into the inner, as well as
outer, bulbous part of the corpora striata.' The outer part
is marked L, the inner 1, and the large fibrous bundles be
tween them are marked S.
Another singular accusation may be read in the pamphlet,
p. Ill, It is said, that in the second demonstration I have
not allowed to my spectators ' a moment's time for close
examination.' I depend on the veracity of the spectators,
whom I purposely requested to leave one bench empty,
that I might show every preparation as near as possible.
In fact, I dare say I took more trouble in showing the pre
parations than is commonly the case in anatomical demon
strations, and that, though repeatedly and captiously inter
5*
46
rupted, T continued, for near five hours, to go round and
between the benches.
This accusation affords me the opportunity of amusing
the reader with an anecdote, which will show the zeal of
our antagonists in promoting anatomical knowledge. A
girl with chronic hydrocephalus and a considerable exten
sion of the head, had died in the clinical ward in the Infirm
ary of Edinburgh. A friend of mine was so kind as to
inform me that the dissection was to be made at half past
twelve o'clock, the 28th of December, 1816. As this is
one of the cardinal points of our anatomical inquiries, and
one that has been the most determinately opposed by the
Edinburgh Review, I placed myself, as might be supposed,
among the spectators.
Without informing the spectators what was to be done, the
dissectors set to work. They employed more than suffi
cient time to take off the scull-cap ; but the spectators, ex
cusing the anxiety of the operators not to spoil their impor
tant work, remained quiet. The scull-cap, when taken off,
was handed round :—Meanwhile the dura mater was re
moved, and every spectator, I suppose, expected to see
the appearances exhibited, OR AT LEAST TO HEAR THEM
MENTIONED ; but no such thing. The dissectors in the
area surrounded the body, put their heads together, 'so that
no one could see what was going on. except themselves.
The pupils expressed their disapprobation by hisses. This
induced the great dissector to promise that the particulars
should be made known. The water was taken out of the
ventricles, the cavities were laid open, and the cerebral
parts divided into pieces, which at least ought to have been
47
handed round. In vain the spectators repeatedly hissed.
The dissectors in the area continued to keep close together
round the hydrocephalus, and proceeded silently with the
dissection. A gentleman in the area moved sidewards, to
give me at least a distant view. But he who accuses me of
not having given to my spectators a moment's time for ex
amination, placed himself in the opening just before me.
The spectators of 'my second demonstration, however, will
recollect, that all his cavilling could not induce me to neg
lect him in any thing. Though the particular appearances
were kept out of view, yet by chance I perceived that the
brain had not been absorbed, but that the convolutions were
shallow and greatly distended. So much for the boasted
agency of absorbing vessels !
1 have witnessed many morbid demonstrations in various
countries, but in no university or college did I ever see a
public dissection made with less advantage and less instruc
tion to the pupils. The child was kept in the hospital for
many months, and the clinical Professor expressed his de
sire, that the pupils should derive every possible information
from it. To him I give my particular thanks for his kind
intention in affording me this opportunity. I regret the
more his indisposition, which prevented him from being
present at the dissection. I am convinced that he would
have gratified me with the inspection of this hydrocephalic
head. I consider it in general but justice to state, that nei
ther the professor, nor any of the other gentlemen eminent
in medicine, had any share in preventing this case from re
ceiving its proper publicity. Who was capable of doing
so, 1 have the conscientious Reviewer and mechanical Dis
sector to determine.
46
The Historian also avers, p. 117, that his figure of the
corpus olivare is after nature, and ours imaginary. He
cannot have dissected the corpus olivare very often, because
he has not yet learned that it varies, like the corpus denta-
tum, in size and form,-in different individuals, and that the
form appears different according to the section. His is
horizontal, and ours vertical ; hence the appearances must
be different.
There is still a singular accusation : I am happy that
there were so many present who will recollect what hap
pened. Pages 28 and 112, the Historian states, that I
denied assertions contained in our works. This, however,
I have never done. The first passage of my book was
read, when the Dissector intimated, that we maintain, that
all the fibres of the crura originate from the medulla oblon-
gata. He then read,. p. 36—37, 'I shall now examine
the organization of the brain. Immediately before their
entrance into the pons Varolii, the pyramids are slightly con
tracted, but as soon as they enter this mass, they are divided
into many bundles, which spring out of the large mass of grey
substance contained in the pons Varolii. These longitudinal
bundles are covered by a thick layer cf transverse cords,
which comes from the cerebellum, and which I shall describe
hereafter. Some longitudinal bundles are disposed in lay
ers, and others are interwoven with transverse cords. They
ascend, and are successively enlarged, so as to form at
their exit forward and outward, at least two-thirds of the
crura cerebri. Thus, the anterior and external bundles of
the crura cerebri are the continuation and- gradual comple
tion of the primitive pyramidal bundles.'
49
Immediately after the second demonstration, I caused an
anatomical prospectus to be printed to prevent all cavilling
suggestions. There, p. 7. I mentioned this peculiar opin
ion, and ask, ' Was he anxious to defend the Edinburgh
Review, because, at the same time, he insisted on another
suggestion, which he could have learned only from page
258 of the Edinburgh Review, where it seemed suitable
to state, that all the diverging fibres take. their origin, it
seems, in the brown matter of the medulla oblongata ? '
When the passage of my book was read, I publicly de
clared, that I still maintain the same assertions with respect
to the successive reinforcement. Thus, I denied not what
was in the book, but only his suggestion, that all the diverg
ing fibres of the brain take their origin in the brown mat
ter of the medulla oblongata.
The next passage was read, when' I examined the
structure of the external part of the corpus striatum, and
when the Dissector protested against the name fibre ; when
he maintained, that the brown matter is firmer than the
white, and that the former may give to the latter its fibrous
appearance. Then he read pages 20, 21, of my book,
where I speak ofthe fibrous structure of the white substance.
He insisted upon the idea of ihe Edinburgh Reviewer, p.
256, ' We suspect that when our authors are desirous of
demonstrating to their less knowing pupils, that the white
matter is fibrous, they exhibit some portion of the brain,
where, in consequence of the alternations of the two kinds
of matter, the white is disposed in threads through the
brown. Our readers will perceive, however; that this is
quite a different species of fibrousness from that of either
50
kind of matter taken by itself.' We maintain, that the
white is fibrous whether it is intermixed with brown or not.
But how could the Historian relate, p. 112, that ' I denied
to have ever affirmed, that the white substance, apart from
the grey, exhibited a fibrous structure.' Is not the whole
order of our converging fibres entirely white ? A great
number of auditors, not only in Edinburgh, but wherever I
have demonstrated the brain, will recollect, that I have
shown the fibrous structure of the corpus callosum. It
seems the Dissector is accustomed to contradict, and under
whatever form he appears, likes to follow his natural incli
nation.
I leave to those who have seen the demonstration of the
brain, to judge whether or not the following remarks of the
Historian are correct. Page 134, he says, ' that under the
denomination of diverging and converging fibres, we have
described and represen ted as demonstrable, and even gone
so far as to delineate in our engravings, paitj which have no
existence in this organ ; and that we have maintained con
nexions to subsist betwixt all these parts for which there is
no foundation in nature, and which they are under the ne
cessity of denying when called upon to display in their pub
lic dissections.' I, however, have more than once, even in
Edinburgh, been told, that in nature the appearance of
diverging and converging fibres is more distinctly seen than
in our plates. As the Anatomist par excellence in many
respects differs from other anatomists and physiologists, I
may suppose that his eyes are of a peculiar conformation.
51
SECTION XI.
The last point of our anatomical considerations concerns
the structure of the convolutions. We were the first to
teach, that they can be unfolded or distended into two lay
ers or fibres.
The literary gospel states, p. 262, ' We affirm it as the
result of many experiments, made under every variety of
circumstances, that there is no foundation whatever for the
supposition, (for supposition at best it is,) that the convolu
tions consist of two layers contiguous only in the middle.'
The mechanical Dissector passes over in silence this ana
tomical point. The Historian, though he has great confi
dence in the correctness of Reil, and though he has trans
lated a passage from Reil's archives, stating" that the medul
lary laminae in the middle of the convolutions cohere the
most weakly (die Markplattchen in der Mitte der Windun-
gen hangen am schwaechsten zusammen) maintains, how
ever, throughout his pamphlet, that the convolutions cannot
be unfolded into two layers.
The most curious is the weight he lays on our not being
able to demonstrate the existence of a fine nevrilema be
tween the two layers. This remark particularly character
ises a mechanical Dissector. We maintain, that the con
volutions can be more easily separated in the middle line,
and unfolded into two layers ; he, from mere fondness of
contradiction, does not reflect, that the non-existence of the
fine nevrilema is in our favor, because the separation will
52
be still more easy. I will give a few details that the reader
may the better understand this point.
When we submitted our memoir to the French Institute,
the commissioners related, that we consider each convolu
tion ' comme une espece de petite bourse ou de canal,' &c.
We replied, that this is not our meaning, but that we admit
* une adherence de contiguite entretenue peut-etre par du
tissu cellulaire, mais non une adherence de continuite par
confusion de substance ; une adherence dans le sens d'ag-
glutination (Anklebung) mais non dans le sens de concre
tion (Verwachsung).' Memoire, p. 200.
I never speak of this fine nevrilema, and have not done
so in any demonstration in Edinburgh ; its existence is
quite a secondary consideration, the possibility of separating
the convolutions into two layers is the leading point. How
then could the pamphleteer represent it as the most impor
tant matter, and repeat five times, that, if we can unfold
the convolutions, we cannot show the very fine cellular tis
sue ? The mechanical Dissector may amuse himself with
its discovery and demonstration ; our great pathological
point is ascertained, viz. the unfolding of the brain in large
hydrocephalic heads.
As nothing is more easily demonstrated in every brain,
than the separation of each convolution into two layers,
I will not lose time in detailing unmeaning and secondary
protestations. I only mention, that the Historian confounds
the bottom with the top of the convolutions. It seems, how
ever, very natural to understand what part of the convolu
tions we call bottom ; because we begin the demonstration
63
of the brain with the medulla oblongata, and consider the
successive reinforcement from below upwards. Now it
seems natural, that we come first to the bottom of the con
volutions, then to their top. It should be the more diffi
cult to misunderstand our meaning, that we always in our
demonstrations (and I have done so in Edinburgh) repeat,
that the bottom of the convolutions corresponds to the ceil
ing of the ventricles, particularly to that spot where the
diverging and converging fibres cross each other.
The structure of the convolutions is intimately connect
ed with the appearance of large hydrocephalic heads.
The cerebral mass is not absorbed, but distended by the
water contained in the ventricles. The principal changes
take place in the corpus callosum, its appendices, and the
convolutions of both hemispheres. The corpus callosum is
entire and lifted towards the top of the head, the falx is
elongated, the convolutions sometimes quite distended like
a thin membrane of cerebral substance, from within white
with horizontal fibres, and covered on the external surface
with cineritious substance. The distension, however, is not
mechanical, but also vital and susceptible of modifications,
on account of the continual decoihposition and new compo
sition which takes place in the organization in general. At
all events, the brain is never annihilated while the mind
continues to manifest itself.
The literary gospel states, p. 262, that our conjectures
about hydrocephalus internus are quite of a piece with our
other discoveries ; hence, trash, a complete fiction from
beginning to end, trumpery, quackery. The objections of
the conscientious man have the appearance of reasoning ; I
6
will therefore answer them as I have done in my Anatomi
cal Prospectus .
1 . ' Pressing against the convolutions, we presume,
would equally succeed, if the brain were made of putty, or
tallow, or soft wax.' The Historian speaks the same lan
guage.
Jlns. This is by no means the case : a convolution can
be extended only to the double of its vertical depth, and
during that proceeding it shows an internal groove.
2. 'It is not conceivable, that the secreting vessels should
pour out the serous fluid with a force sufficient to account
for the distending power in this case.'
Ans. This view is too mechanical ; has been invented
by the conscientious Reviewer, and is now supported by
the Historian, p. 1 58. I say in my Prospectus, ' Two
things must be considered,—a vital process, and an exten
sion by pressure.' The skull, dura mater, and falx, cannot
be extended by mechanical force alone, any more than the
orbit by a carcinomatous eyeball. This happens by a con
tinual change of matter, during which, according to a gen
eral law of nature, the parts which contain, in their new
composition, are deposited according to the circumference
of the contents. Moreover, the hydrocephalic heads are
not formed suddenly, and a slight successive pressure would
separate parts which a sudden pressure would destroy.
Finally, in the distension of any part by dropsy, &c. such
as of the eye or skin, we can never account for it by the
force with which the secreting vessels pour out the serous
fluid. It is the more astonishing that the Reviewer has
imagined such a power, and the Historian continues to
55
speak of it, while the third remark refutes their inept sup
positions.
3. ' It is the very height of improbability, that any such
distending power as is here maintained' (suggested by the
Reviewer) ' should not produce insensibility, or even death
in the individual, the instant it began to operate.' The
Historian, p. 158, expresses the same idea, 'that no indi
vidual could survive the operation of such a pressure on this
organ beyond a few minutes.'
Ans. The invention of such a distending power of the
secreting vessels shows the mechanical tendency of this
changeable person.
4. ' It is quite incompatible with the physical properties
of the cerebral matter, so far as they are yet known to us,
to imagine, that the parts immediately forming the sides of
the ventricles can admit of a degree of extension such as
this theory' supposes, without great and obvious lacera
tion.'
Ans. Because it was not known, we looked for an ex
planation. An extension of the brain takes place, the ven
tricles are enlarged by the accumulation of water, the con
volutions disappear proportionately, the vertical fibres of the
convolutions become horizontal, the internal surface remains
white, and the external brown. These are facts to be seen
in every hydrocephalic head ; but nothing can explain
them better than the gradual separation of the convolutions
from within into two layers.
5. ' If there be merely a stretching and unfolding of parts
in large hydrocephali, as much cerebral matter, surely,
ought to be found distributed through the sides of extended
56
as of the unextended cavities, though somewhat differently
disposed ; and yet, we believe, there never was an instance
of a large hydrocephalus, in which, upon attentive exami
nation, a greater or less deficiency of cerebral matter was
not exceedingly obvious.'
Ans. So he may say, who has never opened a hydro-
cephalic head, or, at least, not with the attention which
the Reviewer recommends. We have opened such heads,
and rely on it, that accurate anatomists in future will find
as much cerebral mass in the extended as is commonly
found in the unextended state. It rather appears to me
extraordinary, that the parts which undergo the changes
are sufficient to form the envelope which contains the
water.
6. ' With respect to the argument deduced from the ob
servation, that persons with hydrocephalus often retain their
intellectual faculties, is so manifest a petitio principii, as not
to require pointing out.'
Ans. This is certainly no proof for him, who is not aware
of the importance of the brain, who considers its physiology
as useless to the medical profession ; or for a Reviewer
who thinks, that his limbs are fit for voluntary motion with
out a spinal cord. After his assertion, that ' numerous une
quivocal instances are on record, and are even occurring
every day, in which large portions of the brain, nay, almost
the whole, if not actually the whole of this organ, have been
completely destroyed by the progress of this very affection;
as he holds this to be a fact just as certain as that there are
many persons now alive whose legs have been removed by
the knife ofthe surgeon,' it ought not to be difficult for him
57
to show every day such facts to accurate anatomists. If he
can ascertain only one fact, that a hydrocephalic head has
continued to manifest the operations of the mind, while the
whole brain was completely destroyed and absorbed, I will
abandon my investigations into the structure and functions
of that organ, and will be satisfied with ignorance. But as
long as such a fact is not shewn, I continue to maintain, that
the mind cannot manifest its powers without brain, any
more than a limb which has been removed by the knife
of the surgeon can exercise voluntary motion.
The Reviewer then concludes his sapient remarks on
hydrocephalus, ' We have only to add, that we have always
been accustomed to consider the changes produced on the
cerebral mass in every degree of hydrocephalus, as the
effect of an increased and peculiarly regulated absorption ;
and that -we never dreamt of any other agent being concern
ed in the process, or ever heard of any other explanation of
the phenomena being suggested by persons whose opinions
have the least weight in physiological matters.'
Ans. This is dogmatism in all its glory. In the same
manner the whole of modern chemistry might be spurned
at, because formerly phlogiston was considered as suffi
cient to explain the phenomena; and all persons, whose
opinions had the least weight in chemistry, were satisfied
with this explanation.
We have hitherto seen, that in general the Historian
had very little regard for the literary gospel. Not once
has he quoted it ; on the contrary, he has always proved
by quotations from excellent anatomists, that the propo
sitions which the conscientious man denies in the most
6*
58
positive, and not always in the most polite expressions, have
been known for centuries. With respect to the existence
of brain in hydrocephalic heads, the Historian places the
critical Reviewer in a singular situation, and stops him short,
by proving that the brain exists, and that Vesalius, Tulpius,
Petit, and Morgagni have known it to exist. I now call
the attention of the reader to my book on Physiognomy,
which it was the duty of the conscientious man to review,
instead of asserting what suited his purpose. In this very
book he will find the same authors quoted whom the His
torian mentions. I even flatter myself, that I have given
the history of hydrocephalic heads more complete than the
Historian himself. Therefore his conscientiousness forsook
him, when he neglected my quotations. The Reviewer and
Historian may settle the dispute ; we meanwhile continue to
maintain our first proposition, that in large hydrocephalic
heads the brain always exists.
The Historian speaks of three sorts of large hydroce
phalic heads ; first, p. 149, of those, as we have describ
ed, where the brain begins to increase in its external
dimensions, and the convolutions become shorter and
shorter, and at last disappear. ' In other instances,' says
he, p. 151, ' if the patient does not sink before such exten
sive changes are accomplished, even the thin remaining
layer of white and brown substance forming the vault and
sides of the ventricles, gradually disappears, and with this,
at last, portions more or less extensive of the parts of the
brain situated towards the basis.' We deny any existence
of this sort. The thin layer or membrane of the brain
never entirely disappears. Morgagni, long ago, has proved
69
how it comes that superficial and inaccurate dissectors have
formed such an erroneous opinion ; and the Historian might
have rectified his error, if he had paid due attention to the
details related by Morgagni. (Epist. xii. de vuln. capitis.)
Of the third sort, the Pamphleteer speaks as follows :
' Sometimes it would appear that the brain may be very
greatly enlarged in consequence of effusion into the ven
tricles, and yet the convolutions not be at all affected. Such
a case occurred to Reil ; and he mentions expressly that
the extension was confined entirely to the ventricles, and
that all the convolutions were solid, and not split up,
(gespalten).'
We have seen such cases, and maintain, that the convo
lutions never appear split up, and cannot appear so on
account of the tissue formed by the diverging and converg
ing fibres at the bottom of the convolutions. The convo
lutions, wherever, and with whatever depth or height they
appear, are solid ; they only become shallower by degrees ;
and the vertical fibres are extended into a horizontal po
sition. The hydrocephalic head of which Cuvier speaks in
the report on our Memoir, we had shown to him in Paris ;
the convolutions were thinned, and partly effaced, but, as
far as they existed, preserved their internal solidity, as is the
case in every other brain.
Thus we admit only one sort of large hydrocephalic
heads. The brain is always present. The cavities are
distended, the convolutions more or less disappear, and
proportionately become shallower ; their vertical fibres
become horizontal, and sometimes these parts lose their
convoluted form, though the substance of the brain suffers
no diminution.
60
SECTION XII.
The most grave accusation, and which, if true, were in
deed formidable, remains to be repelled. At the end the
Historian positively states, p. 187, that Reil has been de
frauded ; and in p. 99, that Reil has the sole merit of hav
ing revived the investigation of the fibrous structure of the
brain in modern times ; that he is the original discoverer
of our ideas, and that we have borrowed them from his
writings.
How will the conscientious Reviewer here extricate him-
seli ? Why did he deny such things as we maintain in our
works, since his Historian asserts that Reil has discovered
them, and refers to his Archives of Physiology for the year
1809 and 1812? The Dissector himself, in writing his
book on the brain, forgot these essays of Reil. But why
have we not acknowledged that we owe our anatomical in
formation of the brain to the writings of Reil ? The reason
is simple ; viz. because it is not the case. The proof of
this assertion is equally simple : I have only to state the
history of our investigations.
While at Vienna, we spoke of the great leading points
of our anatomical demonstrations; viz. of the aggregation
of various cerebral parts, and their connexion with the med
ulla oblongata ; ofthe proportion between the grey and white
substance ; of the diverging and converging fibres ; and of
unfolding the convolutions.
In the year 1805, the 6th of March, we left Vienna for
Berlin, where we repeated our anatomical demonstrations
n presence of the medical Professors, and numerous audi
61
tors. Outlines of our anatomical and physiological propo
sitions were published, during that spring, by Prof. Bishoff.
From Berlin we went to Potsdam, then to Leipzig, where
Dr. Knoblaach published an account of our doctrines on
the brain. Then the usual demonstrations and lectures
were delivered in Dresden, and Mr. Bloede published out
lines of our anatomical and physiological views. From
Dresden we went to Halle, where Prof. Reil and Loder, and
numerous gentlemen of the profession, honored us with their
presence at the public lectures and demonstrations. With
Loder we repeated several times the anatomical demonstra
tions, and once we dissected with Reil a brain quietly in his
own room. He was so much pleased with our demonstra
tions, that he gave to Dr. Gall some drawings with which
he was formerly occupied, de structura nervorum et cere-
belli. Thus, I beg to observe, that in the summer of 1805
we demonstrated to Reil the same leading points in the
anatomy of the brain, which we still maintain. We then
continued to lecture and to demonstrate the brain, that very
same year, in Weimar, Jena, Geottingen, Brownschweig,
Hamburgh, Kiel, and Copenhagen.
In the year 1806, anatomical demonstrations were made
in Bremen, Munster in Westphalia, Amsterdam, Leyden,
Frankfort upon the Maine, Manheim, Stuttgard and Friburg
in Brisgaw. In the year 1807, we went to Marburgh,
Wiirtzburgh, Munich, (where we had the pleasure of con
versing with Soemmerring,) Augsburgh, Ulm, Zurich, Bern,
Bale ; and in the autumn of the same year to Paris, where
we dissected the brain, first in presence of Cuvier, Four-
croy, Geoffroi de St. Hilaire, Dumeril, Dr. Demangeon,
62
and others, and successively in many learned societies.
Meanwhile numerous publications had appeared in Ger
many. Dr. Demangeon, who had attended the lectures
in Hamburgh, published in Paris, 1806, his Physiologic
Intellectuelle, and mentioned our anatomical views.
In March, 1808, we delivered our Memoir to the French
Institute. The commissioners declare, at the beginning of
their report, that they have hesitated a moment, whether
they should examine our paper ; because there is a rule,
' de ne point emettre avis sur les ouvrages dejd soumis au
grand tribunal du public par la voie de 1'impression, et 1'on
pouvoit croire que la doctrine anatomique de Mr. Gall a
regu, par 1'enseignement oral que ce professeur en a fait
dans les principales villes de 1'Europe, et par les nombreux
extraits que ses disciples en ont repandus, une publicite a
peu-pres equivalente a celle d'une impression authentique.'
They, however, add, that Gall had not given his sanction
to any one of the publications, and that this circumstance
was one of the motives which induced them to examine our
memoir.
After this, Reil published, in his archives, views essen
tially the same as ours, of the aggregation of cerebral parts,
of diverging and converging fibres, and of the possibility of
separating the convolutions in the middle line. He does
not state, that he was the first who has conceived such gener
al ideas ; nor does he mention us as the inventors. He does
not, and could not say, that we have learned them from
him ; he merely describes and represents them in engrav
ings. As we had been in almost every remarkable town,
and at all the universities in Germany, our countrymen
63
knew how to estimate the proceeding of Reil ; and it is only
the great publicity of our demonstrations, that can excuse
Reil for no't mentioning them.
It is true, Reil has chosen other names : he calls our ap
paratus of formation Hirnschenkel system, and our apparatus
of union Balken system ; our diverging bundles are his Stab-
kranz. We speak simply of fibres, he of various convexi
ties, obtuse and acute angles of the fibres, of laminae, fossa;,
and radii of the white substance ; of wings, mountains,
lobules, teeth, of a comb, and of similar mechanical
denominations. These minute descriptions of mechanical
form?, and such names, may appear interesting to a me
chanical Dissector, who is attentive to every little cul-de-
sac, and declares the anatomy of the brain unnecessary to
physiological and pathological views. We, on the contrary,
think that there would be no end of such mechanical de
tails in comparative anatomy. If, for instance, in the gra
dation of animals, every new additional part in the cerebel
lum is to be named, who will learn all the names ? and of
what use will such a study be 1 We therefore point out
the structure of each part, well aware, however, that each
part is modified in the individuals of different species, nay,
in the different individuals of the same species.
This short account is sufficient to prove, that there is no
occasion whatever for us to apologize in the least, with res
pect to the publications of Reil. A few years ago the His
torian might have been easily pardoned for his ignorance of
historical details ; but in the present situation, what his mer
its are, let others decide.
The learned Historian insinuates, that Reil and Gall had
64
agreed, that the former was to examine the cerebellum, and
the latter the brain-proper. But I affirm, that nothing of
that kind happened, nor could happen, because oar general
views of the brain were discovered before we met Reil at
Halle, in the year 1805. Reil, with such brains as he op
erated on, did not succeed by our method, and therefore
thought it insufficient, and preferred maceration in alcohol
or acids. His words are : ' The brain is too pulpy and too
deliquescent to be examined in connexion without prepara
tion.' He then made frequent use of laceration with the fin
gers, or of scraping. Thus, the essential difference between
Reil's proceeding and ours is, that he prepares the brain
artificially, while we prefer a good brain in its fresh state.
With this narration I beg the reader to compare the follow
ing passage of the candid Historian, where he says, p. 188,
' Reil's expectations of assistance from Dr. Gall were alto
gether disappointed, so much so, that he seems not to have
considered that person's investigations as worthy of atten
tion ; but pronouncing his method inadequate, extended his
own inquiries to the department thus fruitlessly assigned to
another.' This Historian and Critic is told by Reil, that
he had tried our method and did not succeed, and hence
concludes, that we have defrauded him. A finely contrived
story ! ! !
The Pamphleteer, p. 9, finds it ' amusing to hear the
committee of the French Institute occasionally named as
supporters of our anatomical doctrines.' Cuvier, however,
was too well acquainted with the German and European
literature, to accuse us of plagiarism. He allowed that our
method of dissecting the brain is preferable to that com
65
raonly used in the schools ; that we are the first who have
shewn the swellings in the spinal cord of a calf; the propor
tion between the brown and white substance in the brain ;
the true origin of the optic and other nerves ; the certainty
of the decussation ; the successive reinforcement through
the pons, crura, optic thalami, and corpora striata ; the two
sorts of fibres in the brain, and the generality of the com
missures. As the Report is printed, even translated and
inserted in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for
January, 1809, the reader, in perusing the Report, may
satisfy himself. I also ask the Historian, why he has
omitted to tell his readers, that Cuvier, in the Annual Re
port at the end of 1808, published, that our Memoir was
by far the most important which had occupied the attention
of the class ?
SECTION XIII.
Before I finish with the Historian, I have still to reply to
his remarks on our Plates. He relates, p. 2, that he has
compared our descriptions and engravings strictly with na
ture; and according to p. 165, he has found, that in our
plate iv. which represents the basis of the brain in a female,
the medulla oblongata points directly backwards, instead of
downwards ; and the anterior surface of the annular protu
berance downwards, instead of forwards ; and the anterior
lobes are too broad, the surface neither concave nor
sloping enough, the middle lobes too wide and not
pointed enough, and the forms of the convolutions not nat
ural.
JLns. Who has ever shown or seen a brain, in which,
7
06
when taken out of the skull, deprived of dura mater, and
placed on its upper surface, the parts of the basis remained
in the same position as in the skull ? Do not the parts sink
more or less, according to the firmness of the brain ? I beg
the reader to compare with our plate that of Vicq d'Azyr,
and see which is the better. I say, the basis represented
by Vicq d'Azyr, looks like a soft, collapsed, and flat and
deliquescent mass. Indeed, no philosophical mind will,
and no mechanical Dissector ought to cavil, about minute
changes in relative situation of the cerebral parts, when
taken out of the head ; since these, like all other bodies,
must follow the laws of gravity. I also maintain, that a
Dissector who adopts one general measurement, and one
general form for all brains and their parts ; who does not
know that each lobe in every person, as to size and form,
is modified, while each, even the minutest part of the brain,
as well as of ears and noses, offers modifications, cannot have
compared many brains. The important consideration, that
each part is modified, is general, and applicable to the parts
of every system. It has been well detailed by Dr. Barclay
with respect to the blood vessels, in the preface of his Des
cription of the Arteries, and will be admitted with respect
to the nervous system, by all those who compare the parts
in different individuals. The anterior lobes, as they are
represented in our plate iv. may be larger than those of the
accurate Historian, but they are too small for those men to
whom the medical school of Edinburgh is indebted for
its first celebrity. I also assert, that the females of Ed
inburgh, who are known for their talents, have the anterior
lobes of their brains larger than those which we have
copied.
67
The remarks of the Historian on our fifth plate can be
made only by on3 who is accustomed to cut the brain me
chanically, and who does not consider the parts in connexion,
but thinks that all brains, and each part in every brain, are
quite the same, without the least modification : I repeat,
that we have represented nature, and do affirm, that the
general structure of the brain, and its parts, will be found as
our plates indicate ; but that the modifications of each part
are infinite. Such a configuration, however, as the Historian
has given of the pons, in his plate i. fig. 2. can only be seen
in a putrid brain ; or if he gives it as the exact appearance
of this part in a fresh brain, he must never have seen the
real structure.
As each part in each brain is modified, how can the Dis
sector maintain, that in plate vi. our representations are not
natural ? The corpus dentatum, and the arborescent ap
pearance of the cerebellum, seem to him exceedingly incor
rect. The former is represented in five different brains
and sections, and the latter is shown in seven different
brains, partly in the same, partly in different sections ; and
in each the appearance is modified, for no other reason but
because it was so in nature. It was, indeed, more difficult
to copy nature exactly, than to make the appearance always
the same. I rely on the decision of every anatomist who
has had opportunity of comparing brains.
In the viiith, ixth, xth, xith, and xiith plates, the repre
sentations of the skull are particularly blamed, and declared
fictitious or imaginary, so that they never could have been
drawn from nature. In reply, I propose to the Dissector to
open the head of a young man, of a very old person, and of
68
a third, who had long been maniacal, and he may then tell
us, whether there is one and the same appearance in the
bone. Those who will examine my collection, may con
vince themselves, that still greater varieties occur in nature
than we have represented in our plates.
In plate viii. he finds fault with the outline of the cranium,
particularly towards the forepart of the basis ; he has never
seen an occipital bone of such a form and of such dimen
sions ; such arrangements of lobes and lobules were never
observed ; the cerebellum is even called a case of monstros
ity. Such assertions may be made by a Dissector who
never has examined the differences of heads ; who thinks,
that children of seven years have the full growth of their
brains, (the contrary of which, however, any maker of hats
might have told him), and that the brains of women and
men in general do not show any constant difference. We
maintain, that the anterior lobes, their bassilar convolutions,
and the cerebella, vary as well as the other parts, and for
that reason we have copied them different in size and form,
as they occurred.
Plate xvii. is said to be in contradiction to plate xii. The
Dissector cannot easily conceive how they may be recon
ciled. The answer is, that each brain was different, and in
the former the bundles were larger, in the latter smaller,
and in the latter the bundles are traced to a greater extent
towards the convolutions.
In short, he who has not yet observed, that the arrange
ments, size, and form of the different parts of the brain, pre
sent various modifications, instead of speaking of unnatural
forms, fictitious appearances, too large or too small, too
69
wide or too narrow, too thick or too thin, too perpendicular
or too horizontal, or similar representations, ought to learn
to distinguish the generalities from the particularities, and
that one brain is no more the standard of all brains, than the
feelings and dispositions of one man are the standard of the
whole race.
The conscientious Reviewer complained, p. 154, that he
was heartily tired of the mass of nonsense he had been obli
ged to wade through in my work. I only depend on the
constant laws of nature. What has happened, will happen,
and every one has the right to observe and to examine for
himself. In anatomy, the eyes deserve more confidence
than the ears, demonstration than fancy.
I cannot finish this chapter without calling the attention
of the reader to a comparison of the statement of the critical
Reviewer, the mechanical Dissector, and Historian. To
the latter I am under great obligation ; and I give him my
public thanks for having entirely refuted the conscientious
Reviewer, by proving that our anatomical views of the ner
vous system are not new, and, by detecting the ignorance of
that empiric in criticism, has taught him, that not our asser
tions, but his, are ' mere nonsense, amazing absurdities, nay
trumpery, and wilful mistatements.' The Historian also
gives a lesson to the mechanical Dissector, and shows him
how improper it is for any one not to quote preceding au
thors, when he writes professedly on a subject. Supported
by the Historian, my labor has become easy. According
to him, the teachers and practitioners in medicine of Edin
burgh do not know any thing about the anatomy of the brain,
and not one has eyes to see, or even to distinguish brown
7*
70
from white ; yet he has not ventured to affirm this of all the
medical men of Europe ; and as it is proved above that we
have not borrowed any thing from Reil, we may continue
to speak of our discoveries in the anatomy of the nervous
system.
There is another great literary tribunal which has con
descended to speak of our doctrines. These quarterly
judges, however, do not display great anatomical knowledge.
They confine themselves to mere general expressions, and
are perfectly willing to give us praise in this respect ; to
allow us every merit for our method of dissecting the brain ;
for having shown that the nerves of the body have their ori
gin in the respective parts of it, and not in the brain ; and
for having stated the morbid phenomena of hydrocephalus
much more clearly than has been attempted heretofore.
How merciful ! Indeed I am obliged to their kind judg
ment. But as the chief judges of these inferior courts
are at variance, we appeal to the great tribunal of the
public.
CHAPTER II.
PHYSIOLOGY.
After several indirect attacks in the preceding numbers,
the literary Oracle of Edinburgh, No. xlix. p. 227, spoke
from his tripod , that ' the whole of our doctrines is a piece
of thorough quackery from beginning to end.' The Quar
terly Reviewer (No. xxv. p. 159.) had so little power of
71
discrimination, that he confounded my person with all my
countrymen, and accounted for my conduct by my being a
German and not an Englishman. I know, however, that he
does not possess the characteristic qualities of an English
man ; and the incongruous thoughts of the Edinburgh Re
viewer shew, that he does not belong to the most thinking
people of whom he speaks, No. 49. p. 228. Hence, the
reviewers themselves serve as proofs, that one individual
ought not to be confounded with the whole of his nation.
SECTION i.
The object of our physiological investigations is the con
nexion of the manifestations of the mind with the organiza
tion. In this respect we maintain, that in this life the mind
cannot manifest any power without the instrumentality of
brain ; and that each sort of manifestations depends on a
peculiar part of the brain.
The literary tribunal of Edinburgh does not yet agree
with the proposition, that the brain is necessary to the man
ifestations of the mind. In No. 48, the xth article aspires
to prove the contrary. This article looks exceedingly
learned, but all the cases, copied from various authors, may
be reduced to two classes. The greater number of the
facts mentioned prove that the brain may be injured on one
side, while the manifestations of the mind continue. This,
however, is easily explained, by the cerebral parts being
double as well as the eyes, ears, and other senses. Was
the Reviewer unacquainted with this circumstance ?
Some cases are mentioned, where the whole brain was
destroyed, while the mind continued to manifest its powers.
72
Dr. Quin's, and especially Sir Everard Home's authority is
relied on, p. 447. This gentleman saw a ' female child,
born hydrocephalic, the head being very large. She lived
nearly five months ; during this period nearly 128 ounces of
fluid were drawn off from the head, at six successive tap
pings. She was not disordered by the operations, and, not
withstanding the progress of the disease, continued healthy
and strong until within twelve days of her death, when she
fell into a wasting. On opening the head, two quarts of a
clear pellucid fluid were found within the cranium. The
dura mater was complete, the edges of the falx and tentori-
um in contact with the fluid. The spinal cord was seen at
the large hole of the occipital bone, and a little medullary
bulb behind the orbits, but that was all that could be found
for brain.'
There are many cases related in writings, where it is said
that there was only water in the cranium, and no brain at
all. Sir Everard Home, whose short essay gave to the
Reviewer the occasion of writing a long article, seems to
have been endowed with the second sight, relatively to hy
drocephalic heads. It was a great omission, certainly, in
the Reviewer, not to copy from Sir Everard's paper, that
singular case, which never could occur, described as fol
lows : (Philosophical Transactions for the year 1814.
Part II. p. 473.J ' In a boy the enlargement of the head
was perceived at three months, and increased for three
years, and then appeared to be stationary ; and the child
till that period was sensible. The upper part of the skull,
from that time, began to ossify ; and in three years more
there was only an irregular space of the os frontis remaining
73
open. The child continued sensible till three years old,
and then became gradually less so ; did not know what he
did ; heard sounds, but could not see. At six years old he
died. The child was three feet three inches high ; the
skull twenty-seven inches round ; the water contained in
the two lateral and third ventricles, was six ale pints and a
half in quantity. The cerebrum formed a thin case of
medullary substance, surrounding this cavity. The cere
bellum was entire.' In a note Sir Everard adds, ' The
lining of the lateral ventricles was tough ; the septum luc.i-
dum elongated, so that the corpus callosum was raised
up close to the skull ; thefalv of the dura mater being en
tirely obliterated. The water in the third ventricle had
split thefornix and septum lucidum into two, and the thin
membranes in the lucidum had holes in them, making a com
munication betu'een the third and lateral ventricles. The
substance of the brain surrounding these cavities, as well as
the pia mater covering it, had no convolutions ; there was
a continued smooth surface. On the right side, upon which
the child was usually laid, there were no remains of medul
lary or cortical substance, and there the pia mater and dura
mater adhered together ; there was no remaining brain be
tween the third ventricle and sella tunica. On the left side
of the left hemisphere the medullary and cortical substance
was only half an inch thick. The corpora striata and thalami
nervorum opticorum were small and tough ; the union be
tween the thalami was elongated into a broad flat ligament.
The two commissures and iter ad infundibulum had the
natural appearance. The olfactory nerves were tough
and small ; the optic nerves had no medullary pulp ; the
74
other nerves going out of the skull had undergone no
change.'
Why has this infallible Reviewer written so many essays
against miracles? Was it this case which induced him to
exclaim, p. 448, ' This essay we have little hesitation in
pronouncing to be one of the most creditable papers which
Sir Everard Home has produced. The object of it is quite
philosophical, and it is respectably executed.' I beg, how
ever, leave to remark, that such things as are here stated
by Sir Everard, are in absolute contradiction to nature and
to reason. Who could see that the two commissures and
the her ad infundibulum had the natural appearance, while
there was no remaining brain between the third ventricle
and sella turcica, that the pia mater, viz. the blood-vessels
of the brain, existed on the right side, while on that side
there were no remains of medullary or cortical substance ;
that the corpus callosum was lifted up, the fornix and sep
tum lucidum split into two, and therefore the communica
tion between the third and lateral ventricles established ;
that six pints and a half of water were contained in the two
lateral and third ventricles ; that the cerebrum formed a
thin case of medullary substance surrounding this cavity j
that the substance of the brain surrounding those cavities,
as well as the pia mater covering it, had no convolutions ;
that there was a continued smooth surface; that the lining
of the ventricles was tough ; while at the same time there
were no remains of medullary or cortical substance on the
right side ; that the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the
commissures existed without brain on the right side ? He
who believes in such assertions, places credit in them in the
75
direct ratio of their impossibility ; because the existence of
lateral ventricles, a thin case of brain, brain half an inch
thick, and no brain, are employed to designate the same ob
servation.
If the Edinburgh Reviewer can praise a paper which
contains such things, I am proud that our works merited
none of his approbation. At all events, ' Judex damna-
tur cum nocens absolvitur.' To support my judgment, I
say, that the article gives a very imperfect idea of Sir Ever-
ard's paper. Every reader of the article thinks, that the
original essay contains the adduced facts, while Sir Everard
has not quoted a single author, as if he were the first who
had begun to make observations of that kind. It is true,
no other can make such observations as the above ; but
many authors were attentive to the results of injuries of the
brain. The Reviewer himself states, p. 449, that ' the
greater number of the cases in the paper before us, are so
far valuable, only as they serve to confirm what had already
perhaps been sufficiently made out by the authors we have
just named,' (the Reviewer, not Sir Everard Home ;) viz.
' That there is no sort of uniformity either in the kind or
the degree of the symptoms which accompany the diseases
of the brain.' Afterwards, when I speak of our means of
discovering the functions of the brain, I will say more of
the method employed by Sir Everard Home. Here it is
sufficient to have shown, that the Edinburgh Reviewer de
serves the application of the law established by himself.
With respect to the non-existence of brain in hydroce-
phalic heads, Morgagni already has severely blamed his pre
decessors, especially Duverney. He declares, that in cases
76
perfectly similar, he has always found the brain distended
into a thin membrane ; and he relates, that the same has
been observed before him by Tulpius, Vesalius, and several
other anatomists. He has also shown, how anatomists, by
mere inadvertency, imagine, that the water is contained
between brain and skull. The subject is treated at
considerable length in my work on Physiognomy, p. 147—
158.
In addition to the preceding remarks, it may be said, that
the literary gospel of Edinburgh does not only believe in
the manifestations of the mind without brain, but also in the
possibility of exercising voluntary motion of the lower ex
tremities without spinal cord. This curious article, in fact,
refers to the case of ' a young man who had his cord com
pletely cut across, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra, by a
musket ball, and yet did not suffer the slightest loss of vol
untary motion in the lower part of the body.' If critical
reviewers believe in such things, which are in contradiction
to the observations of all ages and nations, they may, with
the same propriety, believe in the stories of giants, of people
without teeth, or without neck, in the existence of nations
who have lost their tails, and others who still preserve this
honorable mark of affinity with the brutes. And we may
apply to them their own words : ' If they succeed in con
vincing a single individual of common parts and observation
that this assertion is truth, they will find little difficulty, we
apprehend, in persuading mankind in general, that they hear
by their eyes, and see by their ears.' No. 49. p. 247.
We think nature is constant in its laws, and never makes an
exception. If the spinal cord is necessary to voluntary
77
motion, this latter will never occur without the spinal cord.
The time will explode, I trust, such marvellous notions, ac
cording to which the manifestations of the mind can appear
without brain, and voluntary motion without spinal cord,
and able philosophers will explain the large hydrocephalic
heads according to sound principles of anatomy and phys
iology.
Thus we maintain, that there is not one fact well ascer
tained, that the mind has shown its powers, while the brain,
or rather both brains, were annihilated. As to the second
part of our proposition, viz. that each species of manifesta
tion of the mind depends on an appropriate part of the
brain, I will not quibble long about indirect observations
and inductions, but proceed immediately to direct facts and
experiments. ' '*
SECTION II.
We endeavor to ascertain the nature of the functions of
the cerebral parts, by the influence which the size of the
organs has on the phenomena of the mind. I beg to re
mark, that we do not pretend to distinguish by the size of
the organs with what degree of energy the mental powers
appear. To do this, we must consider, besides the size of
the organs, their internal constitution, their exercise, and
the mutual influence of the powers. This distinction is kept
in view throughout all my work on Physiognomy. In the
second edition, which the Reviewer quotes, p. 190, 191,
I have detailed our opinion concerning the absolute size of
the brain, and conclude, ' It is not, however, possible, even
in individuals of the same kind, to measure their faculties
78
according to the absolute size of their brain. Hence it is
necessary to look for other means of determining the degree
of the faculties of the mind.' Pages 215 and 216 I have
said, ' In order to judge exactly of our proceeding, it must
be considered, that we do not endeavor to determine every
degree of activity of any cerebral part, but only the nature
of its functions, and to this end its size is sufficient.' ' I
admit even the possibility, that in the same individual, the
internal constitution of the different parts of the brain may
vary, in the same way as the optic nerve may be more irri
table than the auditory or olfactory.' The critic might also
have read, p. 526, ' I have often repeated, that in speak
ing of the actions of men, it is not sufficient to consider the
size of the organs of the respective faculties, but that the
internal constitution of the cerebral parts, the exercise of
their faculties, and their mutual influence, contribute also to
their different degrees of activity.' Notwithstanding, the
conscientious Reviewer tells his readers, that ' Gall and
Spurzheim, in affirming that the vigor of intellect is always
proportioned to the size of the head, seem to have been de
sirous of trying how far their effrontery might be carried.'
No. 49. p. 247.
The learned critic goes so far as to assert, p. 245, ' that
there is not the slightest approach to a uniform connexion
between the vigor of intellect, or the strength or peculiarity
of inclinations in man, and the size of the brain ; that intel
lect of every degree and of every kind, and inclination of
every variety, is found combined with brains of all sizes.
Page 246, he repeats, ' We deny, that there is any constant
correspondence, or any connexion whatever, between the
79
dimensions of a man's head and his intellect and inclinations,
either in kind or degree.'
When I first read the preceding passages, I was giving
lectures in Dublin. My auditors at that time will recollect,
that, in showing to them a cast, and the picture of a gen
tleman, I publicly declared, that ' If the conscientious per
son who had written the article on our doctrines in he
Edinburgh Review, has such a configuration of head asthe
cast or the picture, I would give up my farther investiga
tions into the functions of the brain.' Since that time I
have repeated everywhere the same declaration ; and I am
convinced that no one, whose head offers such a configu
ration as that above referred to, could have acted as the
Reviewer, without subsequent repentance.
Our numerous observations concerning the influence of
the size of the brain on the manifestations of the mind,
induce us to maintain, that a too small brain is unfit for the
operations of the mind ; and that the greater number of
idiots from birth have too small brains, and a few of them
too large heads, that is, heads distended by water collected
in the interior of the brain. We, however, do not say, that
all idiots have small heads. Idiotism, in fact, may be ob
served in heads of every size.
The learned Reviewer replies, p. 246, ' We affirm it
to be, that idiots in general have uncommonly large heads.'
T should like to know where he has made his observations.
On the Continent it is as we state ; and I found the same
in England, Ireland, and Scotland. Even in Edinburgh
nature makes no exception. In the poor-house near the
west church I saw four idiots ; none had a large head,
80
but one had an uncommonly small head. A silly boy with
a very small head, is met in the streets of Edinburgh, to
the sport of other children. On the other hand, I found
several hydrocephalic individuals, who are not idiots. One
of them, the most remarkable, lives in Musselburgh. The
head of this person, who is 23 years of age, is 39 inches in
circumference ; but the manifestations of the mind are not
suppressed.
Secondly, We maintain, that men of great or universal
talents never have small brains ; but we do not assert, that
large heads are always accompanied with great genius. The
explanation of these different propositions is understood,
because the size of the brain is a necessary, but not the
only condition, to the manifestations of the mind. The in
ternal constitution is as important as its size.
Lastly, We maintain, that in the same individual one
part of the brain, being much larger than the others, shows
its superior influence on the manifestations of the respective
power, in the same way as, in the same person, one mus
cle, being much larger than the others, shows greater
strength of voluntary motion.
These different assertions can be decided by experience
alone.
SECTION m.
The question arises, whether it is possible to distinguish
the size of the brain and its parts by the exterior of the
head. We affirm that it is so, as far as it is necessary to
our purposes.
The Edinburgh Reviewer imagines, that the head must
81
be opened to examine the size of the brain and its parts.
If, however, that were the case, only a small number of
observations could be made ; but as in living persons the
size of the brain can be distinguished, observations of
this kind may be easily multiplied. It is, however, un
derstood, that the dimensions of the brain are smaller than
those of the head ; but as there is no empty space be
tween brain and skull, great external differences of size
and form in the head, correspond to analogous internal
differences in the brain. It is to be observed, that we draw
no inference from small insignificant differences of dimen
sion. This explains also, why the teguments and the two
tables of the skull, not being exactly parallel, do not prevent
our observations in young and adult persons: our inquiries,
however, are uncertain in old age ; the brain then often
diminishes in size, while the external form and size of the
head remain the same as they were before. The objection,
that the two tables are not parallel, is often repeated, but
can be made only by those who have never seen the exter
nal marks which we consider as indications of larger cere
bral parts.
The conscientious Reviewer states, p. 252, ' The dif
ference of the different regions of the brain, whether it
be confined to one dimension, or extend to all, is very
inconsiderable, seldom, we believe, amounting to half an
inch, and never, we are confident, exceeding one inch
over an extent of six inches, and often it is so small as just
to be preceptible and no more.'
From this statement I draw the inference, that this learn
ed critic has not compared many heads. Any contractor
8*
82
who furnishes hats to the army could have given him bet
ter information. I can assert, that I have skulls in my
collection, some of which, in certain dimensions, are the
double of others. It is true, there are cases where the dif
ference is scarcely perceptible, but these heads are not the
subject of decisive observations.
The conscientious Reviewer was not satisfied with dis
playing such unusual knowledge, but continued, p. 242,
' It is not true, that there are ever such eminences on the
surface of the brain, accompanied with projections of the
cranium, as Gall and Spurzheim have affirmed ;' and p.
253, ' We venture to affirm, that such prominences on the
head as Gall and Spurzheim have described, indicating
certain eminences of the brain within, and uniformly accom
panying some peculiarity of intellect or inclinations in the
individual, never have been observed ; and that all they
have been so good as to write on this subject, is a mere
fiction. Were it worth our while, we could even under
take to show, without much difficulty, that this piece of
invention is inconsistent with itself, in various circumstances,
and that it presumes a degree of blindness and ignorance in
those to whom it is addressed, which it was really very
cruel in Drs Gall and Spurzheim to suppose.'
I reply only, that in Edinburgh as well as in other places,
in my public lectures, I have shown such prominences of
which we speak, on real skulls which I have in my collec
tion. And with regard to the acuteness of the Reviewer in
such observations, he will not accuse me of ever placing
much reliance on him.
SECTION IV.
Experience alone can decide concerning the accuracy or
inaccuracy of our observations and inductions. In my
work on Physiognomy I have declared, that ' we never ad
mit exceptions; that, when an exception occurs, it proves
that the truth has not yet been discovered, p. 258 ;—that I
neve'r advance any thing that cannot be observed by every
other person ; that I do not listen to any objection founded
upon reasoning alone ; and that one fact, well observed, is
to me more decisive than a thousand metaphysical opin
ions,' p. 270.
The Quarterly Review, however, thought it suitable to
tell its readers, ' Of course, one instance is very properly
considered just as satisfactory an evidence that the conclu
sion is conformable to fact, as a hundred would be,' No.
25. p. 169. ' Even admitting this system of Drs Gall and
Spurzheim to be even so plausible as an hypothesis, it can
not possibly derive any sort of evidence from experience.
For the same reason, it is equally impossible to contradict
it from experience,' p. 171. ' Even allowing, that the ar
guments of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, instead of being
sheer nonsense, had been ever so ingenious and acute, still
they could not throw the slightest probability upon the doc
trine which they wish to establish, because that doctrine is
matter offact, and matter of fact never can be proved by
reasoning a priori. Whether every protuberance upon the
head be, or be not the sign of some particular character of
the mind, is clearly a question offact ; let it therefore be
oroved to be a fact, as all other facts are proved : in such a
84
case, the explanation which Drs Gall and Spurzheim pro
pose, would at least have a fair claim to be heard,' p. 177.
This is another clear specimen that Reviewers can criticise
books without reading them ! From p. 262 to 271, in my
book, our proceeding is quite differently described. I
will copy only one sentence, p. 264. ' It is known that, in
general, physical truths improve in proportion as observa
tions are repeated. We continue, therefore, to multiply
our observations, and as, in respect to several organs, the
number of these observations is immense, we consider the
respective organs as established. With regard to them, we
must insist on our opinion, so long as from experience we
are not convinced of the contrary. Several organs, how
ever, are still only probable, and others merely conjectural,
requiring a greater number of observations, in order to be
determined with the same degree of certainty, as those
which are supported by the most satisfactory proofs.'
The conscientious examiner of Edinburgh, with respect
to our proceeding, made ' some effort, and briefly observed,
that not one of our assertions is true, and that not one step
of our reasoning is correct,' p. 252. ' Can it be possible,'
asks the philosopher, ' that the great Drs Gall and Spurz
heim have not observed, in the course of their multifarious
inquiries into nature, that phenomena may coincide, without
being related to each other as cause and effect ? Were it
established, that all great mathematicians had black eyes,
and all poets blue ones, would any sensible man, from this
alone, think of ascribing the mathematical talent, in the one
case, or the poetical genius in the other, to the color of
the iris ?' p. 247.
85
Had this learned Reviewer also studied Chap. I. of
Part III. of my book, he would have seen, that we are aware
ofthe difference between coincidence and the relation ofcause
and effect to each other, and never lose sight of it ; that we
prove our assertions in the same way as any physical truth.
If, however, an observer could shew, that only mathematicians
have black eyes, and only poets blue ones ; that every one
who has black eyes and no one but those, have mathematical
talents ; or that every one with blue eyes, and only those, are
born poets : ifhe could repeat his observations in various coun
tries ; ifhe could compare the same talents through a series of
animals, without finding an exception ; if he could support his
observationsby other means which I have detailed in my book,
he might establish a physiognomical sign, and challenge his
opponents to shew the contrary. So we do. If, for in
stance, we speak of a sign of self-esteem, let us see that a
man, the most prominent feature of whose character is corn-
posed of self-conceit, does not exhibit |he sign on his head,
and we give up all our observations with respect to this
peculiar organ. In the same manner, and by no other
means, each organ is to be refuted by one single exception
well ascertained.
It cannot be useless to call the attention of the reader
to that method which the literary gospel of Edinburgh, No.
48. Art. x. p. 448, recommends, as follows : ' Sir Everard
Home's Essay not only possesses a proper method of inves
tigation, but sets an example of it, and is entirely free from
the nonsense which is so commonly and so copiously put
forth in writings upon similar subjects.' Which is then the
proper method of investigating the functions of the brain ?
86
This the reader does not acquire from the critical Review,
b ut he may learn it from the original paper, inserted in the
Philosophical Transactions for the year 1814, Part II.
Sir Everard Home tells us, ' The various attempts which
have been made to procure accurate information respecting
the functions that belong to individual portions of the human
brain, having been attended with very little success, it has
occurred to me, that were anatomical surgeons to collect in
one view all the appearances they had met with in cases of
injury to that organ, and the effects that such injuries pro
duced upon its functions, a body of evidence might be form
ed that would materially advance this highly important
investigation.' He then informs us, that he has brought
together certain observations, ' stating them as so many ex
periments upon the brain, with the conclusions which tend
to elucidate this particular injury.'
Every one will be anxious to know these observations.
We read, ' that in ^he torpid state, commonly attendant
upon any violent shake being given to the brain, the senses
are so much impaired, that little information can be gained
respecting the effects produced upon the internal organs ;
that a coup de soleil is sometimes accompanied by delirium,
loss of speech, and the power of swallowing ; that blood
extravasated in the lateral and third ventricles was attended
by repeated fits of vomiting and coma ; that coagulable
lymph spread over the union of the optic nerves, the pineal
gland, and tuberculum annulare, was followed by permanent
contraction of the muscles between the occiput and vertebras
of the neck, dilatation of the pupils, and a great degree of
deafness ; that the formation of pus under the dura mater
87
covering the right hemisphere, was accompanied by delirium,
succeeded by coma; that a tumor in the substance of the
posterior lobe of the brain was attended with derangement
of the functions of the stomach and bowels, and with double
vision ; and that a deep wound into the right anterior lobe
of the brain, attended with inflammation and suppuration,
produced no sensation whatever, the senses remaining entire,
and the person not knowing that the head was injured. In
a case, also, in which the tuberculum annulare had become so
hard as with difficulty to be cut with a knife, a considerable
quantity ofearthy particles having been intermixed with the
medullary substance of the crura and other parts of the cere
bellum, and the cerebrum, and upper part of the cerebel
lum being unusually soft, the effects were, that the boy had
been an idiot from birth, never walked, spoke and under
stood what was said, often went three days without food,
and so on.'
Sir Everard Home speaks in a manner as if no one be
fore him had made similar observations. His kind Review
er, however, shews by his numerous quotations, that Sir
Everard is mistaken. Indeed, every one who is but half
acquainted with the history of the healthy and diseased
state of the brain, knows, that many authors have related
similar facts. Nay, we learn from them also, that similar
injuries ofthe brain have often been observed without any
perceptible derangement of the mind, or any apparent dis
ease of automatic life.
Hence this mode of proceeding is quite un6t for dis
covering the functions of the brain, and any hope from
such a source is in vain. I support my opinion by the
fruitless attempt of a great number of authors, and by the
successfulness of Sir Everard Home himself. It is true,
he speaks of a body of evidence which might be formed,
and of conclusions which tend to elucidate this particular
inquiry, but he has not drawn even one inference. In the
various pathological affections of the brain, he has observed
headache, giddiness, faintness, loss of memory, want of
sleep, delirium, mania, depression ofspirits, melancholy, apo
plexy, idiotism, hissing noise in the ears, deafness, blindness,
loss of speech, irregular pulse, stupor, and mouth drawn to
one side, numbness of the arms and legs, spasms in the lower
extremities, stumbling in walking, pain between the shoulders,
nausea, retching, slow action of purgative medicines, vomit
ing, convulsions, &c. Is Sir Everard Home, perha
inclined to draw the inference, that the brain is the organ
of these symptoms, or of the states which are opposite to
them ? This is, I think, sufficient to shew an intelligent
reader, that in this way we never shall be able to determine
the peculiar functions of the cerebral parts; that the Edin
burgh Review, for praising such a paper, deserves no
more credit with respect to the physiology than to the ana
tomy of the brain, and that these critics, as they believe in the
existence of cases which are in contradiction to nature and
reasoning, have still a great deal to learn before they can
become competent judges.
SECTION v.
As to the individual organs of the manifestations of the
mind, the literary gospel states only, ' To enter on a par
ticular refutation ofthem, would be to insult the understand
89
ings of our readers. Indeed, we will flatter the authors
so far as to say, that their observations are ofa nature to set
criticism entirely at defiance. They are a collection of
mere absurdities, without truth, connexion, or consistency ; an
incoherent rhapsody, which nothing could have induced any
man to have presented to the public, under a pretence of
instructing them, but absolute insanity, gross ignorance, and
the most matchless assurance.'
Such arms, however, will not repel stubborn facts. Our
antagonists, it seems, find it more easy to blame than to
study, or to deny than to observe. They have not even con
sidered the meaning ofthe expressions by which we designate
the various powers of the mind. The Quarterly Review,
for instance, states that the name Inhabitiveness, which I give
to the instinct of animals, to live in water or on dry land, in
higher or lower regions, and so on ; to that instinct, which
determines a young duck, as soon as it is hatched, to run
towards the water, and the ptarmaghan to dwell at the tops
of the mountains, &c. means ' a love of dwelling in elevated
situations.' He explains Secretiveness by the love of steal
ing. The natural history of the two species ofrats, the black
and the brown, he found very ridiculous ; and he thought it
sufficient to exclaim, ' Credat Judaeus Appella !' to change
the cerebral organization of these two species of rats.
I, however, must continue to say. that the difference
of the brains of both species is easily distinguished. My
auditors will recollect to have seen it. Thus, I repeat, to
incontestable facts alone I shall pay further attention.
The only reasonable difficulty started against the pos
sibility of distinguishing the organs at the lower part of the
9
90
forehead, and behind the orbits, originates from the frontal
sinus, and from the circumstance, that the brain, situate
behind the orbits, and between both hemispheres, does not
reach the surface of the skull. As, however, I have stated
this difficulty, and given our explanation, the Reviewer ought
to have copied our answer, instead of saying, ' How could
these gentlemen think so poorly of the eyesight of their
readers, as to imagine, that, by the aid of their beautiful
engravings, they could fail to discover, that some of the
prominences in the skull which they describe, are said to
be caused by elevations and portions of the brain, which are
not even in contact with the skull of these parts ?' p. 253.
I always show to my auditors the difference between the
external bony crest, often erroneously called frontal sinus,
and the elevation, which we consider as a greater develop
ment of the organ of locality. They will also recollect my
demonstrating, that children, and young and adult persons,
have no holes between the two tables of the skull at the
forehead, and that the real frontal sinus occur only in old
persons, or after chronic insanity, in general, when the
brain is diminished in size. I will copy only one passage
from my book, in opposition to that of the Edinburgh Re
view. ' The cerebral parts, situated behind the orbits,
require some exercise on the part of the physiognomist, in
order to be exactly determined. Their development is
discoverable from the position and configuration of the eyes,
and from the circumference of the orbits. It is, therefore,
necessary to examine, whether the eye-ball is prominent
or hidden in the orbit, or whether it is placed inward or
outward. According to the position of the eye-ball we may
91
judge, whether the part of the brain which is situate
against a corresponding part of the orbit, is more or less
developed.
' It may be questioned, whether all organs reach the sur
face, so as to enable us to determine the organs of all facul
ties of the mind by the size and shape of the head ? There
are, indeed, many convolutions in the middle line of the
brain between the two hemispheres ; and there are also
some others at the basis of the brain, and between the ante
rior and middle lobes, which, therefore, do not reach the
surface of the skull ; but it seems to me that a great part at
least of every organ lies at the surface, and that if one part
of any organ be well developed, the whole participates of
this development. The whole cerebellum does not touch
the skull, yet it is possible to determine the size of the cer
ebellum, according to that part of it which reaches the sur
face. Accordingly, the cerebral parts, which are, as above
noticed, situate in the middle line between the two hemis
pheres, seem to be proportionate to the superincumbent
organs ; at least I have always observed a proportion in the
vertical direction, between these cerebral parts. In this
way, it appears to be possible to determine all the organs,
though the whole of their fibres do not terminate at the
surface,' p. 237, 238.
There remains still an idea to be corrected. In point
ing out the functions of the cerebral parts, and in ascertain
ing, that the size of the organs has some influence on the
innate dispositions of the mind, we establish, in a certain
degree, a physiognomical doctrine. This has been most
erroneously represented by the conscientious Reviewer, in
92
saying, p. 250, ' The practical part of their doctrines, as
it may be called, the physiognomy, craniology, or cranio-
scopy, the part which teaches us how to find out, by the
shape of the head, whether a man loves his children or
kills them ; whether he steals or is very benevolent !' We,
however, continually maintain, that we never can speak of
the actions of man ; and after having mentioned the title,
Physiognomical System, I begin the introduction of my
book, ' This system is commonly considered as one, accord
ing to which it is possible to discover the particular ac
tions of individuals : it is treated as an art of prognostica
tion. Such, however, is not the aim of our inquiries ; we
never treat of determinate actions ; we consider only the
faculties man is endowed with, the organic parts hy mean s
of which these faculties are manifested, and the general
indications which they present.'
Thus, the more the reader will compare our works, and
the reports given by our antagonists, and their and our opin
ions with nature, the more he will be enabled to decide of
whom it may be said, ' Were they even to succeed in shak
ing off the suspicion of malafides, which we apprehend is
inseparably attached to their character, we should not hesi
tate to say, that we do not know any writers, who, with a
conceit so truly ludicrous, and so impudent a contempt for
the opinions and labors of others, are so utterly destitute o f
every qualification necessary for the conduct of a philosoph
ical investigation.' Edinburgh Review, No. 49. p. 228.
93
CHAPTER II I.
PHILOSOPHY.
This chapter may be very short, since in this depart
ment our British antagonists confine themselves to general
considerations. The logical study of the author in the
Quarterly Review, No. 25. p. 165, is the most simple : he
admits in the mind only one understanding, and in that one
he seems defective. ' There is,' says he, ' no more solid
reason for dividing understanding into faculties, than for
dividing heat or light into faculties.' This comparison,
however, of understanding with heat and light, is not
very apt for simplicity, since neither has been proved
to be a single substance. Besides, as one single under
standing does not explain the phenomena of the mind, and
as all other logicians found it necessary to adopt several
powers, I leave him to make the best use of his one faculty,
and proceed to other propositions.
The Edinburgh Review, as to the faculties which we
adopt in the human mind, says, p. 243, ' The ratiocina
tion of Drs Gall and Spurzheim is of the most difficult
species to combat. Perhaps we might content ourselves
with saying, that the whole doctrine of the thirty-three fac
ulties to which the argument relates, is downright nonsense,
and so put an end to the discussion at once ; but we shall
take the liberty of substituting for the names of the thirty-
three faculties, two very simple and intelligible terms, viz.
intellect and inclination.'
9*
94
The reasoning, or rather dogmatic decision of a Review
er, certainly will not repel stubborn facts. I, however,
should like to know, why the conscientious Philosopher
adopts intellect and inclination. May I suppose that he
does so, because one or the other alone does not explain
the phenomena of the mind? Indeed, there may be strong
inclination without intellect. But is inclination always the
same ? Is, for instance, the inclination of the hen towards
the young duck, hatched by her, the same with the inclina
tion of the young duck towards the water ? Is the inclina
tion to calumny or respect, to concealment or candor, one
and the same ? In the same way, is intellect only one ? In
a boy who can repeat by heart whole pages after having
read them once or twice, but cannot compare or distin
guish two separate ideas, is the intellect the same as in
another who judges with precision of various ideas, hut
cannot recollect by heart one page ? Thus, as we can
have one inclination, or one intellect, and not another,
philosophers have divided the powers of the mind into
different sorts. Now we maintain, that those powers
which are adopted by logicians as primitive or special
faculties, do not explain the phenomena of the mind in
the state of health and disease. Hence we admit a greater
number, and as many as are necessary for the explana
tion of the manifestations of the mind. Particular and great
innate talents, such as for mathematics, or music, or me
chanics, and so on, while the other faculties are extremely
defective, viz. partial geniuses, who are in every other
respect almost idiots, induce us to consider such powers as
special. If then we find, by constant observation, that the
95
manifestations of such a power are never separate from the
development of a particular part of the brain, we adopt all
that is common to the manifestations belonging to one cere
bral part as the result of one special power, in the same way
as it is acknowledged that all the manifestations of vision
belong to one sense. Thus, in the division of the mental
operations, we are guided merely by observation and induc
tion. Pride, for instance, cannot be explained by external
circumstances alone, nor by intellect or inclination in gen
eral ; if now its appearance is always connected with a pe
culiar part of the brain, independently of the other powers
of the mind, and of the other cerebral parts, we maintain
that it belongs to a special faculty, different from the others.
We then observe the different manifestations of this sort,
and try to reduce them to one common consideration. Now,
whatever speculative reasoning our adversaries may oppose,
we insist on our observations, and will yield to facts alone.
Our philosophy of the mind differs from all preceding
opinions of the schools. Hitherto the special faculties of
the mind were overlooked, and philosophers were satisfied
with general or common considerations of the powers, or
with the modes of their being affected. Instinct, for in
stance, in animals is a mere general view, viz. every inter
nal impulse to act. But the impulse to build, or to sing, or
to migrate, or to amass provisions, or to place sentinels, Sic.
cannot be the same impulse, any more than hearing, seeing,
smelling, or tasting, are the same sensation. Hence, the
philosophers were satisfied with the general view of instinct,
and paid no attention to the special instincts.
An example of a common consideration is perception,
96
that is, perception is common to various powers ; but the
perception of the size, form, color, or place of an object are
quite different sorts of perception. In the same way, mem
ory is always a reproduction of the impressions which we
have perceived, but there is not one memory for every pre
vious perception. One sort of memory may be very ener
getic, and another quite defective.
We admit two sources of activity in the mind, an inter
nal and external. To the former belong the instincts of
animals, and the propensities and sentiments of man ; to
the latter, the intellectual operations, as far as we acquire
knowledge of the external objects, their qualities and rela
tions. Some powers make man act, others modify, assist
and direct the actions ; still there are others destined to
bring all the other faculties into harmony, and to constitute
unity.
One of our ideas, viz. the introduction of consciousness,
sometimes active and sometimes passive, in the five senses,
puzzled the Edinburgh Reviewer (p. 241.) a good deal.
The difference, however, seems to have been observed at
all times, since in all languages there are two sorts of sigqs
to express it. In the English we say, I see (passive) and
I look at (active) ; I hear (passive) and I listen (active) ;
I feel (passive) and I touch (active), Sic. In other words,
consciousness is sometimes involuntary, sometimes volun
tary.
These and other considerations are too complex for the
simple philosophy of the Reviewers. As our opinions are
not attacked in the particulars, there is no occasion for my
giving here a more detailed explanation. Those who are
97
desirous of knowing our philosophical propositions, will find
them in my work on Physiognomy. I have only to add,
that if the conscientious Reviewer has found in himself only
intellect and inclination, I leave it to others to judge, whether
they have found his intellect limited in judgment, and his
inclination extensive in malevolence.
CONCLUSION.
Considering the whole of the preceding statements, I
may say, that I have done with those who arrogate the right
of thinking and deciding for the rest of mankind ; with
those ' thorough partizans, who are thorough despisers of
sincerity ; ' (Edln. Review, No. 53. p. 14.) ; who will not
allow the least credit to any one that has not their approba
tion ; who anonymously calumniate and detract ; who, in
doing so, claim the merit of conscientiousness ; who dis
guise, mistate, and misinterpret ; who invent ridiculous
monstrosities ; who, in using the most vulgar language,
speak of personal dignity and politeness ; with beings who
change assertions as it seems convenient ; who do not un
derstand the passages which they quote : who, from differ
ent chapters, extract sentences, illustrating different propo
sitions, and represent these their own fictions, as nonsensi
cal and absurd conceptions of the author ; with such writers
on the brain, who have nothing in view but minute mechan
ical differences of size and form, and shades of color ; who,
however, cannot see brown substance in the pons Varolii ;
who, as if there were not, from ancient times, absurd names
enough, invent in the brain, cul-de-sacs, pits, grooves, moun-
98
tains, wings, lobules, and so on ; who never consider the
parts in connexion and relation, nay, create artificial separa
tions ; who are attentive only to the mechanical appear
ances, and never think of the functions of the parts ; who
believe, that a man can walk, and have voluntary motion of
his legs, without spinal cord, can philosophize without
brain ; who can assert, that physiological inquiries of the
brain are of no use to the medical profession ; who consider
one brain and its parts as the standard of all other brains ;
who admit, that the brains of men have their full growth at
seven years of age, and do not undergo any change after
wards ; and with such Historians, who affirm from erudite
research, and as the result of many experiments, made un
der a variety of circumstances, that there is no foundation
whatever for the supposition, that the convolutions consist of
two layers ; who maintain, that numerous unequivocal in
stances are on record, and are even occurring every day,
in which large portions of the brain, nay, almost the whole,
if not actually the whole of this organ, have been completely
destroyed by the progress of hydrocephalus ; who hold this
to be a fact just as certain as that there are many persons
now alive whose legs have been removed by the knife of
the surgeon ; and who at another time prove, that we are
not the first who maintain, that the brain exists in hydroce-
phalic heads, and that Reil could separate the convolutions
in the middle line, after we had shown to him that structure
four years before ; who, as author on the brain, did not
quote any anatomist to whom the decussation of the pyra
mids and the communication of the medulla oblongata with
the crura cerebri were known ; who ascribes the medulla
99
oblongata to the spinal cord, the mass of the pons to the
cerebellum, and terminates the brain at the upper edge of
the pons ; who denies the possibility of demonstrating the
two sets of fibres, (diverging and converging) ; who does
not mention the two layers of the convolutions ; and who
afterwards, as pamphleteer, asserts, that long ago these things
were known, that especially we have defrauded Reil, who
published four years after we had shown him our anatomical
discoveries, after we had demonstrated them in different
countries, in the Universities of Germany, Denmark, Hol
land, and in Paris, and after the publication of numerous
extracts by our pupils ; who tells his readers, that his pam
phlet owes its origin only to his strong anxiety for the pro
gress of medical knowledge, and deep concern for the repu
tation of a medical school which was indebted to anatomy
for its first celebrity throughout Europe, but who makes
morbid dissections, even in very rare cases, in the manner I
have witnessed and described above ; who in that very pam
phlet accuses all anatomists, and almost all medical profes
sors and teachers of Edinburgh, and every one of my audi
tors, as unfit to distinguish brown and white substance ; who,
in his ' painful ' compilation, forgets the Monros, who de
serve to be mentioned as well as Malpighi and Mayer ; a
neglect the less excusable, that Monro was one of the chief
founders of the celebrity ofthe medical school of Edinburgh.
Certainly, with such critical Reviewers, such would-be
Philosophers, such mechanical Dissectors, and such Histo
rians, I have done for ever ; and I may say, with Job, (xiii.
5.) ' Oh, that you would altogether hold your peace, and it
should be your wisdom ! '
165866
PHRENOLOGY.
ARTICLE
OF THE
FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW,
BY
RICH. CHENEVIX, ESQ. F.R.S. &c.
WITH NOTES BY
J. G. SPURZHEIM, M D.
Of the Universities of Vienna and Paris, and Licentiate of thft
Royal College of Physicians in London.
' Opinioimm commenta delet diei nature judicia confirmat.'—Cicero-
THE NEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBRARY
165867
ASTOR, LENOX AND
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
1900.
\
PREFACE.
THE proprietors of the Foreign Quarterly Re
view have now granted the permission to publish
separately the first article of their No. Ill, on
Gall and Spurzheim, or Phrenology. This per
mission was particularly desirable, since the article
is highly calculated to remove prejudice against,
and to excite inquiry into, the truth of a system
which finally must prove eminently important and
interesting to mankind. I avail myself of this
opportunity to correct, by additional notes, some
prevailing errors, and to explain several points of
phrenology, which are misunderstood, because
they have been misrepresented. I like discussions
fairly conducted, and as long as truth alone is the
object of inquiry ; but I am disgusted with scien
tific pursuits being degraded by a party-spirit and
selfish passions. The impartial reader, therefore,
is requested not to revere any petulant critic as a
decisive oracle, and not to rely on the opinions of
friends or foes, but only on the authority of nature
and her immutable laws ; to examine and judge
for himself, and to remember Lock's saying ( Hu
man Understanding, edit. 2d, line 4, chap. 15,
sect. 6, ) ' There cannot be a more dangerous
thing than the opinion of others, nor more likely
to mislead one, since there is much more falsehood
and error among men than truth and knowledge.'
J. G. SPURZHEIM.
London : 8, Gower Street.
ARTICLE
OF THE
FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW.
AKT. I.—1. Anatomic et Physiologie du Système Nerveux en
général, et du Cerveau en particulier, Sfc. Par F. J. Gall
et G. Spurzheira. 4 vols. 4to. avec Atlas in folio. Paris.
1810—1819.
2. Observations sur la Folie, ou sur les Dérangemens des
Fonctions Morales et Intellectuelles de l'Homme. Par G.
Spurzheim, M. D. 8vo. Paris. 1817.
3. Observations sur la Phrénologie, ou la Connoisance de
FHomme Moral et Intellectual, fondée sur les Fonctions du
Système Nerveux. Par G. Spurzheira, M. D. 8vo. Paris.
1818.
4. Essai Philosophique sur la Nature Morale et Intellectuelle
de THomme. Par G. Spurzheim, M. D. 8vo. Paris. 1820.
5. Essai sur les Principes Elémentaires d'Education. Par
G. Spurzheim, M. D. 8vo. Paris. 1822.
6. Sur les Fonctions du Cerveau et sur celles de chacune de ses
parties. Par F. J. Gall. 6 vols. 8vo. Paris. 1822—1825.
TWENTY-FIFE years have nearly elapsed since the ques
tion which we are now going to examine was first laid be
fore the British public. Since that period, it has occasion
ally been brought into notice, or fallen into neglect, as the
continental publications have made their way to this island,
1
or as the teachers of the system have thought fit to address
themselves directly to Englishmen. The manner in
which it was then received was not such as to authorize a
belief that it ever could be treated but with contempt.
Within a few years, however, it has attracted so large a
share of attention, it has been contemplated with so much
arnestness, with so much gravity — that we deem it a duty
to allot some pages to its serious consideration.
To the serious consideration of phrenology ! What,
then, is the Foreign Quarterly, in the very outset of its
career, to show itself a feeler of heads, a cranioscopist, a
teller of fortunes from cerebral bumps and excrescences ?
No such thing ; but the pages of this Review ever shall be
open to any appeal that science makes to it, to any litera
ry subject that comes within its sphere. Formerly, indeed,
our co-mates and brothers in criticism made rather merry
with the lucubrations of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim ; but the
thing is now beyond a jest ; and as it has so long been left
to writhe under the lash of ridicule in vain, it may be well
to try it by some other test, and to apply to it some of
the philosophic calmness by which phrenology itself pro
fesses to be guided.
But, before we proceed one step in this inquiry, we
must disclaim all intention to decide upon the truth or
fallacy of the pretended science. We do not mean either
to discuss or to judge it on our own account, but to let the
parties speak for themselves ; to give room to phrenolo
gists to state whatever they can in support of their doc
trine ; and to anti-phrenologists, to refute as much as they
can of it; to put our. readers in possession of the materials
which may enable them to form an opinion, and then leave
them to judge for themselves. If, too, we are serious
3
upon the subject, it is because the subject itself is a very
serious one. That which threatens the subversion of every
moral theory which has been devised since the days of the
seven sages of Greece, deserves to be treated with some
gravity. In the country of Bacon, all philosophic claims
should be canvassed with equity ; in the country of Shak-
speare, to mention with levity anything relating to the
human heart is derogatory.
The complaints of phrenologists, that their doctrines
have been mis-stated, and their opinions purposely mis
represented, have led us to admit the present article, in
order to rescue the land of juries from the imputation of
condemning any man unheard, still more upon wilful per
versions of his own words and meaning. Here then we
shall proceed a little differently from the usual method of
reviews, and utterly abstain from personal interference.
We shall introduce the parties themselves to the bar, and
let them severally plead their own cause. The sceptral
WE of criticism we shall abdicate, and not once shall we
use that plural pronoun in this article, but as appertaining
to phrenologists, or to anti-phrenologists, in whose favor
the choice spirits of the Foreign Quarterly abjure their
magic, and become listeners like the public. The only
part we take in the trial is to devote some of our pages as
an arena in which we allow the combatants to wrestle as
they please, but into which we ourselves shall never once
descend. The fact is, that the present state of the ques
tion ought to be laid before the public candidly ; for if the
writings of one party have not always been exactly as
might be wished, the clamors of the other have done them
little credit. The method we adopt appears to us fair,
and the use of the first person may a little dramatize the
dull discussion. The pleadings shall be opened, on the
part of the phrenologists, by a statement of the case, faith
fully collected from the writings of Dr. Gall himself.
' In the ninth year of my age,' says our author, ' my parents sent
me to one of my uncles, who was a clergyman in the Black For
est, and who, in order to inspire me with emulation, gave me a
companion in my studies. I was, however, frequently reproached
for not learning my lesson as well as he did, particularly as more
was expected from me than from him. From my uncle, we were
both put to school at Baden, near Rastadt, and there, whenever our
task was to learn by heart, 1 was always surpassed by boys who,
in their other exercises, were much my inferiors. As every one of
those who were remarkable for this talent, had large and promi
nent eyes, we gave them the nickname of ox-eyed. Three years
after this we went to school at Bruchsal, and there again the ox-
eyed scholars mortified me as before. Two years later I went to
Strasburgh, and still found that, however moderate their abilities in
other respects, the pupils with prominent eyes all learnt by heart
'with great ease.
' Although,' continues our author, ' I was utterly destitute of
previous knowledge, I could not help concluding, that prominent
eyes were the mark of a good memory ; and the connexion be
tween this external sign and the mental faculty occurred to me.
It was not, however, till some time afterwards, that, led on from ob
servation to observation, from reflection to reflection, I began to
conceive that, since memory has its external sign, the other facul
ties might very well have theirs. From that moment every person
remarkable for any talent, or for any quality, became the subject
of new attention, and all my thoughts directed to a minute study
of the form of their heads. Little by little, I ventured to flatter
myself that I could perceive one constant shape in the head of
every great painter, of every great musician, of every great me
chanic, severally denoting a decided predisposition in the individ
ual to one or other of those arts. In the mean time I had begun
the study of medicine, where I heard much about the functions of
the muscles, of the viscera, &c. ; but not a word about the funo-
5
tions of the brain. My former observations then recurred to me,
and led me to suspect what I afterwards proved, that the form of
the skull is entirely dae to the form of the viscus which is contain
ed in it. From that instant I conceived the hope of being able
one day to determine the moral and the intellectual faculties of
man, by means of his cerebral organization, and of establishing a
physiology of the brain. I therefore resolved to continue my re
searches, until I should attain my object, or find it impossible.
The task would have been less difficult had I abandoned myself
entirely to nature. But I had already learned too much of the er
rors and prejudices then taught upon those subjects, not to be biass
ed by them ; and I was still further entangled by the doctrines of
metaphysicians, who teach that all our ideas come from our senses ;
that all men are born alike, that education and accident alone make
them differ. If this be true, said I, no faculty can have an exter
nal sign ; and to study the brain, its parts, and its functions, is abso
lute madness. Still I remembered my former observations: I
knew that the circumstances in which my brothers and sisters, my
school-fellows, my playmates, had, from their infancy, been placed,
were all alike. I saw that education was bestowed in vain on
some persons, — that others had talents without it. I observed a
proportionate variety in the dispositions of animals. Some dogs
are born hunters, while others of the same litter cannot be taught;
some are peaceful, some ill-tempered. In birds there is a similar
diversity. The whole animal kingdom spoke then in favor of my
strong surmises, and I resolved to prosecute my plan. It was not
till thirty years had been spent in uninterrupted study, in observing
men of every description, and in many countries, men remarkable
for some talent or some defect, for some vice or some virtue ; in
studying inferior animals, domestic or wild, the inhabitants ofair
or of earth, that I ventured to embody my observations, and pub
lish them in one comprehensive work. '
Such is the account which Dr. Gall gives of the origin
and progress of his discoveries. It has been stated, not in
deed in his own words or order, but the scraps and morsels
of which it is composed were fairly picked out of his own
1*
works. Now, say the phrenologists, if the doctrine of the
relation between cerebral development and mental mani
festation, — if, as Dr. Spurzheim has more appositely nam
ed it, phrenology, be false — then men cannot sufficiently
reprobate the idle nonsense of the little urchin who dared
to turn from his rudiments to gaze at the eyes of his con-
disciples, and call them by <i name which the father of po
etry applied only to .the queen of the gods, the venerable
Juno, /3ou«j wrvia Hprj, ox-eyed ; or, as he probably
had it in his Hoch-Deutsch dialect, ochsenavgen. If it be
true, then we (phrenologists) declare that so extraordinary
an instance of early sagacity, of premature combination,
such an innate spirit of observation and induction, never
yet has come to our knowledge. We have seen prodigies
of music, of painting, of calculation, of every simple talent,
in very unripe infancy : we know that wonders of very ear
ly learning have existed ; but there is not upon record, a
person who, at the age of nine, caught the first glimpse of
a system which he afterwards made the study of his life ;
of a system which, as Dr. Spurzheirn says, must, if true,
' absolutely and entirely change the philosophy of the hu
man mind,' and make the study of mankind a new study.
All that we have read of youth, of childhood, fades before
this example ; and we know no alternative but for men to
admire how the doctor has escaped phlebotomy arid vene
section ; or else to say at once that he ranks high, and very
high, among the extraordinary geniuses that have lived to
honor the human species.
And this is not the only incident which creates alike di
lemma. Young Gall, like many other boys, was very fond
of looking for birds' nests ; but a point in which he differ
ed from the usual truants ' who rob the poor bird of its
young,' was that his motive was a love of natural history.
His observation of the situations in which each species
built, easily led him to discover the place of abode ; and
he spread his nets successfully, because he had studied the
habits of the bird that he wished to ensnare. But what he
could not do was to return to the spot in the woods or
wilds, over brake, over brier, through devious paths, where
his prey was caught ; in other words, he was not an adept
at finding his way. This deficiency induced him to take
with him one of his companions, named Scheidler, who
possessed this faculty in a very high degree ; for, while
Gall, after marking his road with boughs and branches, by
making incisions on the trees, by employing many means
of technical memory, never could unravel the track, his
companion, without any effort, without even any apparent
attention, never failed to take the shortest road to every
nest and snare. From this arose a brief but interesting
colloquy, most characteristic of mankind at large, whose
great rule for judging others is self: — 'How is it,' says
Gall, ' that you contrive to find your way thus ? ' ' How
is it,' answered Scheidler, ' that you contrive not to find
yours ? '
Dr. Gall did not immediately perceive anything peculiar
in the head of this youth ; but, in order to lay it up among
the treasures of his observation more faithfully than memory
could do, he took an indestructible and rigid transcript of
its form, by moulding it in plaster. To this cast he could,
at all times, refer ; he could study and re-study it ; he could
compare it with the living and the dead. He was well
convinced that a faculty for recognizing places, and the
ways which lead to them, did exist ; and what remained to
be done was, to determine the shape of head which was
concomitant to this faculty. He, therefore, inquired among
his acquaintances for persons distinguished for their local
memory, and at length found two. Scheuberger, a cele
brated landscape-painter, told him that, in his travels, he
merely took a sketch of the scenery which he wished to
paint, and that afterwards, when he made a more circum
stantial drawing of it, every tree, every bush, almost every
large stone, came back into his mind. Another was Meyer,
the author of Dia-na-sore, whose greatest delight was to
wander from place to place, and who, not having the means
himself of indulging this propensity, always attached him
self to some rich man, in order to travel with him. He,
too, had an extraordinary power of recognizing local rela
tions. The heads of these two persons, then, Gall mould
ed, and compared them with that of Scheidler. He turn
ed and twisted them in every direction, and for a long time
found only differences, whereas what he sought was a re
semblance. At length, however, he was struck with a co
incidence in the region situated on each side of the root of
the nose, and slanting upwards above the eyebrows. From
that moment he considered it as probable that the organ of
local perceptions was situated in this spot ; and, according
to his assertion, all his subsequent observations, which have
been incredibly numerous, have fully confirmed his opinion.
Dr. Gall, as before mentioned, had many brothers and
sjsters, all of whom received the same education, and were,
in all things, exposed to the same influences ; yet their fac
ulties and dispositions were totally dissimilar. One of his
brothers showed a very early disposition for devotion; his
toys were the ornaments of the Catholic altar, which he
made and engraved himself; his pastime was prayer and
high mass. His father had intended him for trade, but this
9
profession he peremptorily refused, because, as he said, it
would expose him to tell lies. At the age of twenty-three,
this young man ran away from his paternal home, and turn
ed hermit. His father, however, recalled him, allowed him
to pursue his studies, and five years afterwards he received
holy orders, in which he spent a life of mortification and
piety. Subsequently to this very juvenile observation, Dr.
Gall remarked, that some of his con-disciples had, as he
calls it, a receptiveness for religious instruction ; while oth
ers were totally averse to it. Among the persons who had
embraced the clerical profession, he saw some who were
studious, pious, and scrupulous; others, who were idle, in
dolent, and who wished for nothing more than to live at
ease, and at the expense of others. He conceived that
these tendencies were innate ; and, in order to embrace a
wide range of experiment, he frequented churches, monas
teries, visited religious seminaries, and observed both men
and women in the world. One of the first things which
Struck him was, that the most devout were bald on the sum
mit of the head ; ' yet,' said he, ' women are more devout
than men, and women are seldom bald. Baldness, therefore,
has no connexion with devotion.' He then perceived on
these bald heads that the summit was much elevated, slop
ing as it were from the forehead to the centre ; and this shape
he found common to both sexes. He then concluded, that
an elevation in that region of the brain was the organization
which gives a disposition to devotion and religious feelings.
He had not long been in possession of this induction,
when a remarkable fact offered itself to his view, imparting
a singular conviction to his mind of the accuracy of his
conclusion. He remarked that all the pictures of saints, of
martyrs, of persons recorded for their religious zeal and suf
10
ferings, of our Saviour himself, were high in this region ;
and lhat, even in the most remote antiquity, artists had giv
en this peculiar form to all that has been handed down to
us of heads of high priests, of sacrificers, and of whatever
persons they held to be most pious, sacred, and venerable.
Such were the first steps of this, the youngest child that
ever caught a glimpse of facts, and drew inferences, which
he afterwards called philosophy — which he taught as such,
and which has found followers. Who could have suppos
ed, that from the perceptions of a mere brat of nine years
old, a system could have ensued, which, in the hands of Dr.
Spurzheitn, would, in the year 1826, have filled not only
the large lecture-room of the London Institution, but all the
stair-cases, corridors, and passages leading to it, with hear
ers ? and, great, indeed, must be the folly or the wisdom of
the age.
Another observation of this young man was, that, among
his school-fellows, ihe most adept at learning by heart were
not those who retained facts the best ; in the same manner
as local and verbal memory did not always accompany each
other in the same mind. Thus, then, was he led to sur
mise, that memory was of more kinds than one ; that it was
not a simple faculty : and to a conclusion which some beard
ed philosophers had drawn before him, that there is a mem
ory for words, another for places, and another for things ;
exactly coinciding — but entirely without his knowledge —
with the memoria vcrbalis, the memoria localis, the memoria
realis, of his predecessors. He continued to make observa
tions on the world at large respecting this faculty, as he had
done respecting the others, and by the same means ; and
he at length succeeded in assigning the situation of its cor
responding organ in the head.
11
But the most extraordinary instance of folly and pre
sumption, if the system be false, or of sagacity, if it be true,
is, that Dr. Gall was not satisfied with observing the talents
of his fellow-students ; he carried his prying spirit into their
moral tendencies, and examined their diameters. One of
his companions had a head so strangely shaped, that he
could not help remarking it. It was particularly broad
above the temples, and the boy was renowned for his cun
ning and his tricks. Another boy, whose countenance be
spoke extreme candor — ars est celare artem — had a head
of the same shape, and Gall immediately mistrusted him.
In both cases his conjectures were confirmed, and his ob
servations in later life gave them an additional force. When
practising as physician, one of his patients died of consump
tion ; Gall was struck at the breadth of his head in this re
gion ; and shortly afterwards a long scene of artifice and
swindling came to light. Another person, so notorious as
to have been posted as a knave by the police of Vienna,
and whose head was of the same shape, confessed to Dr.
Gall that he knew no pleasure equal to deceit.
As Dr. Gall acquired experience in his art, his tact be
came more sure, and he accumulated observations ; but his
method of proceeding was alike throughout. It would in
deed have been difficult to devise any better method than
that which suggested itself at his first observation; and, be
his doctrine true or false, that justice is due to him.
One or two more examples of his mode of discovering
faculties and organs must be given. To study what is now
called combativeness, he collected persons of the lower
classes in his house, treated them with wine, excited their
talkativeness respecting each other, and uniformly found
that one shape of the head belonged to the contentious,
12
another to the gentle. He followed the same plan with re
gard to the propensity to thieving, and with the same suc
cess. On one occasion, he was requested to examine the
head of a lady who was remarkable for the strength and
durability of her friendships, and to take a cast of it ; and
thus was led to the discovery of the organ of attachment. At
Vienna, he knew a man, who, from his eternal doubts and
irresolution, was nicknamed Cacadubio ; the remarkable
form of his head, compared with others, revealed this fac
ulty, together with its local habitation. A servant of one of
his friends gave the first idea of an organ of benevolence,
at a time when he little thought that what is called a good
heart is seated in the brain. Some of the organs became
first evident to him in the heads of brutes. Thus the dif
ference between the heads of graminivorous and carnivo
rous animals pointed out what he then called the carnivo
rous instinct — murder ; and which now is termed by the
modified name of destructiveness. The innate love of
offspring, so necessary to every breathing thing, he found
by the difference which exists between the skulls of males
and females in general ; although he did not know exactly
what faculty the occipital protuberance denoted, until he
perceived it most strongly in female monkeys, whose attach
ment to their young is so extraordinary.
Thus it was that Dr. Gall proceeded in comparing the
manifestations of the mind with the development and form
of the brain, until he had ascertained the situation and
functions of twenty-seven organs ; all of which he looks
upon to be as clearly demonstrated, as observations multi
plied in various bearings, repeated upon an incredible num
ber of individuals, and continued during a long life, can
demonstrate anything.
13
Now, if all these observations are correct, we cannot
sufficiently commend the Baconian spirit with which they
were conducted. It is not very probable that, when Dr.
Gall was a young student of medicine in a German univer
sity he had acquired much intimacy with the writings of the
great English chancellor; yet he certainly adhered to his
mode of amassing knowledge as closely as if Lord Bacon
had rocked him in his cradle. Not a single fact was
assumed without repeated observation and verification;
not a truth was admitted without proof; no a priori con
ceptions were greeted as demonstrations. Still less is it
credible that when Gall was hunting after bird's-nests, led
by the local memory of his companion Scheidler; less
again, that, when, having seen nine winters in the Schwartz-
wald, he measured the projecting eyes of his school-mates,
he had heard of the lord of Verulam ; yet in no single in
stance was he found tripping in his researches. By an
innate impulse, he followed, unconsciously, the precepts of
Bacon, and of nature, — because Bacon, Gall, and nature
were the same, — as unerringly as if the Novum Or-
ganum had been his primer. Thus say the phrenologists.
(Note 1.)
The system of Dr. Gall, then, they continue, was, as
appears in his writings, the result of observation ; and to
determine its validity nothing was necessary but to verify
whether those observations were accurate or not. That a
facility for learning by heart is accompanied by prominent
eyes is, if true, an independent fact, standing by itself,
leaning on no other fact : it is an oak of the forest, not a
parasite fungus. Inquiry might stop there, and say, 'I
know that you can learn by heart with ease, because I see
that your eyes are prominent j' and the assertion would
14
not be either more or less true, be the function assigned to
what cause, to what member, to what organization, it may.
If, however, the physiology of the function can be ascer
tained — if its connexion with a certain part of the body
can be traced — if it can receive the support of anatomy —
inasmuch as anatomy can explain any animal function, it
must be confessed that assurance becomes doubly sure.
The visible and tangible signs of the twenty-seven facul
ties, announced by Dr. Gall, were found upon the ex
ternal surface of the head ; but to attribute them to the
muscular integuments would be absurd: still more irra
tional would it be to suppose that the bony covering, the
dura or the pia mater, the tunica arachnoides, had any
share in the operations of the mind. In the brain only
could the seat of the moral powers be placed ; and to it
the attention of the author was immediately directed.
It is now time to introduce to the reader's acquaintance
the second person whose name stands at the head of this
article, and whose anatomical labors bear so conspicuous a
part in the promotion of phrenology. Little had been
done to connect this science with anatomy ; and the dis
section of the brain by some appropriate method was yet a
desideratum, when Dr. Spurzheim, of whom more ample
notice shall presently be taken, became the pupil, and
afterwards the associate, of Dr. Gall.
The mode of examining this viscus then in practice
among anatomists, and not yet entirely abandoned, was,
after removing the membranes which enclose it, to cut
through it in different directions, to scrape away a large
portion of its substance to show the falx cerebri, the cor
pus callosum, the fissura silvii, the tubercular quadrigern-
ine, the fornix, and the septum lucidum, together with
15
many other parts, of which the names are well known and
barbarous, but of which compassion on the reader's jaws
and mind forbids the enumeration. To Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim this entire method appeared faulty, and they
were induced to invent some other mode. Not that they
expected anatomy to be more indiscreet in revealing the
secrets of nature on this than on any other occasion, or to
tell why and how the brain thought and felt, any more
than why the liver secreted bile. They knew that the
structure of an organ seldom denotes its functions ; but
they knew also that anatomy and physiology cannot be in
contradiction. The most obvious method was to examine,
in the dead body, whether the volume of the brain, in the
region where an organ was supposed to be situated, bore a
settled proportion to the manifestation which the living
subject had given of the corresponding power of mind.
This question was investigated by experiment ; and it was
ascertained, by the inspection of a very great number of
subjects that the volume and the faculty were in constant
unison.
This was an immense step ; but ' nil actum reputans
dum quid superesset agendum,' Drs. Gall and Spurzheim
were still anxious to obtain more satisfactory knowledge of
the structure of the brain. The figures and drawings
which transverse cuts of the cerebellum offer, the arbor
vita?, however picturesque, did not content them. A for
tunate accident occurred at length, and one more mystery
of nature was explained.
A woman who had been afflicted from her youth with
hydrocephalus, died of an inflammation of the bowels at the
age of fifty-four. Her head was found to contain four
pounds of water ; and this liquor had so insinuated itself
16
into every little cavity, — had so divided every little vessel
from the substance in which it was imbedded, that their
texture became immediately visible. Drs. Gall and Spurz-
heim then endeavored' to find a method which they might
substitute at pleasure for that which diseased nature had
employed in the case of this woman, and of many other
hydrocephali. It was not, indeed, till they reached Paris
that, stimulated by some objections made, as shall present
ly be related, by the French Institute, they fully assured
themselves of the most effectual methods of performing
this important operation. There they discovered that if
the brain be macerated in nitric acid, diluted with alcohol,
or in alcohol alone, if it be boiled for twelve or fifteen
minutes in oil ; if a small jet of water be projected upon
any part of it from a syringe; or if it be blown upon
through a blow-pipe, a separation is effected which answers
every purpose. By introducing the hand, too, between
the convolutions, a division may be operated ; and by any
of these means the structure of the brain becomes as evi
dent as when.it has been macerated for years in the mor
bid serosity of hydrocephalus.
Previously to these anatomists, the brain was considered
as a pulpy mass, in which the whole nervous system had
its origin. If by chance any attempt was mads to assign
a function to any particular part, to explain its use or
nature, the success was as small as the epithets by which
those parts were named were uncouth. Neither was this
extraordinary. Let us suppose that any muscle of the
body, the soleus maximus for instance, had always been
cut through transversely, it would always have presented
a transverse section of its mass ; but no such idea as we
now have of its fibrous texture could have been formed.
17
But the mere inspection of a muscle at once denotes a
fibrous texture, which in the brain is not so evident; and
the phrenological anatomists have the merit of a very
important discovery, in showing that the white substance
of the brain is not less truly fibrous than the soleus max-
imus. And here would be the place to introduce some
anatomical details in support of our doctrine, but in pity to
our general readers we shall refrain. We can, however,
assure them, that every fact evinced by dissection is in our
favor, and we defy our antagonists to the proof. Drs. Gall
and Spurzheim have most triumphantly answered every
objection on this head, and dread not to encounter any
more which can be adduced. Let it be remembered
merely that two great facts have been incontrovertibly
established : — 1st, the possibility of unrolling the convolu
tions of the brain ; 2d, the fibrous texture of the white
substance. (Note 2.)
Before Dr. Gall had received all the lights which the
collateral sciences could throw upon his doctrine, and sup
ported principally by the plain fact, abundantly ascertained,
that a certain form of the head constantly accompanied a
particular mental power, he be^an to communicate his
knowledge to others. He was at that time established as
a physician at Vienna, a city not very remarkable for the
brilliancy of its scientific lights. His auditors were not nu
merous, but they were select ; among them were Profes
sors Froriep, Walther, Martens, who published accounts of
what they had heard ; and lastly, the best of all, Dr. SpUrz-
heim, who, already advanced in the study of physic, be
came his pupil in J 800, and in 1 804 his associate. Dr.
Gall at first spoke only of the elevations and depressions
on the cranium, as denoting the presence or the absence of
2*
18
determinate dispositions and talents ; neither could he then
speak of much more. This imperfect stnte of his doctrine
entailed upon it a disadvantage which it has hardly yet
surmounted ; and exposed it to very absurd criticism and
ridicule, under the names of craniology, cranioscopy, (rec
ollect, gentle reader, that phrenologists, not the Foreign
Quarterly, speak,) bumps, protuberances, fee. When,
however, he became strengthened by the positive conclu
sions of anatomy, and by the cheering analogies of physi
ology, he grew more confident in his system ; and that
confidence imparted to it a form and pressure more worthy
of so vast a subject. His conversations at length assumed
the appearance of lectures ; but he had not continued them
long, when the Austrian government took the alarm, con
ceiving that to explain the functions of the brain, and to
improve its anatomy, must be dangerous to society. An
order was issued, prohibiting all private lectures, unless by
special permission. The doctor was reduced to silence,
but as the government was less solicitous about the morali
ty of strangers than of its own subjects, leave was granted
to corrupt them by teaching them the pernicious docirine,
and one or two Englishmen thus learnt what the Austrians
know not yet, that the brain is of some use. It is not sur
prising, that they who have the largest portion of this or
gan should be the most curious to know to what end it is
given.
In the year 1805, our masters, warmed with the zeal of
proselytism, turning their backs upon the lofty steeple of
St. Stephen's Kirche, to find their world elsewhere, sallied
forth to attack the reigning cerebral and metaphysical doc
trines of their fellow-creatures. They travelled together,
pursuing their researches in common, to more than thirty
19
towns of Germany, Holland, and Switzerland, and never
stopped till they reached Paris. This itinerancy has been
made the subject of reproach to them in this country ; but
\ve are all too apt to judge of others by ourselves. The
habits of the nations which they wished to convert required
such a mode of proceeding. Their own native land, di
vided into many petty states, has innumerable little points,
but no one large focus of light. From the one to the oth
er of these thought travels as slowly as the slumbering note
twanged through the twisted horn and snaps-swallowing
throat of a Westphalian post-boy. In Holland it advances
about as rapidly as an Amsterdam Cupid, flying on the
wings of Love, in a Dutch trekschuit. In France there is
one great metropolis of wit, as flashy as it is frivolous ; and
in this, words, with the ideas annexed to them, if any
there be, whiffle about from the Faubourg St. Germain to
the Faubourg St. Honore, and back again across the Pont
de Louis XVI., in the cutting of a caper ; but this empo
rium stands in the dreary middle of a vast wild, and
preaching any where 'but in Paris to the French nation
would literally be preaching in the desert. In Britain, on
the contrary, a new idea mounts a mail-coach, drawn by
four blood-horses, with plated harness, as light as the cha
riot of Queen Mab, and sweeps along with Macadamized
speed and Magna Charta security, from Land's End to
John o'Groat's house, in as short a time as Puck would
take to ' put a girdle round about the earth.' Everywhere
the fame of our professors had preceded them — every
where new discoveries awaited them ; and they had not
gone one half of their round among the German universi-
I ties, before they had met with more applause and more
opposition than they had experienced in all their former
i lives.
20
A feature of these memorable travels was the visit of
Dr. Gall to the prison of Berlin, and the fortress of Span-
dau. On the 17th ofApril, 1805, in the presence ofthe chiefs
ofthe establishment^ of the inquisitors of the criminal depart
ment ; of various counsellors ; and of many other witness
es, he was conducted to the prison at Berlin, where up
wards of two hundred culprits, of whom he had never
heard till that moment, to whose crimes and dispositions
he was a total stranger, were submitted to his inspection.
Dr. Gall lays much weight upon this visit, as a very great
practical test of the truth of his system ; and the result is
official, being witnessed by persons in the employment of
the Prussian government, and proposed for that purpose.
Dr. Gall immediately pointed out, as a general feature
in one of the wards, an extraordinary development in the
region of the head where the organ of theft is situated, and
in fact every prisoner there was a thief. Some children
also detained for theft, were then shown to him ; and in
them, too, the same organ was very prominent. In two of
them particularly it was excessively large ; and the prison-
registers confirmed his opinion that these two were most in
corrigible. In another room, where the women were kept
apart, he distinguished one drest exactly like the others,
occupied like them, and- differing in no one thing but in
the form of her head. ' For what reason is this woman
here,' asked Gall, ' for her head announces no propensity
to theft ?' The answer was, ' She is the inspectress of this
room.' One prisoner had the organs of benevolence and
of religion as strongly deve!6ped as those of theft and cun
ning ; and his boast was, that he never had committed an
act of violence, and that it was repugnant to his feelings to
rob a church. In a man named Fritze, detained for the
21
murder of his wife, though his crime was not proved, the
organs of cunning and firmness were fully developed ; and
it was by these that he had eluded conviction. In Maschke,
he found the organ of the mechanical ans, together
with a head very well organized in many respects ; and his
crime was coining. In Troppe he saw the same organ.
This man was a shoe-maker, who, without instruction,
made clocks and watches, to gain a livelihood in his con
finement. On a nearer inspection, the organ of imitation
was found to be large. ' If this man had ever been near a
theatre,' said Gall, ' he would in all probability have turn
ed actor.' Troppe, astonished at the accuracy of this sen
tence, confessed that he had joined a company of strolling
players for six months. His crime, too, was having per
sonated a police-officer, to extort money. The organs of
circumspection, prudence, foresight, were sadly deficient in
Heisig, who, in a drunken fit, had stabbed his best friend.
In some prisoners he found the organ of language, in oth
ers of color, in others of mathematics ; and his opinion in
no single instance failed to be confirmed by the known tal
ents and dispositions of the individual.
On the 20th of April the visit was made at Spandau, in
presence of the privy-counsellor Hufeland, one of the most
philosophic physicians of his age ; and of several other
official persons of similar respectability. Four hundred
and seventy heads were submitted to inspection. In every
robber the organ of theft was highly developed, accompa
nied by various other organs in the different individuals.
In one Dr. Gall perceived the organ of mathematics strong
ly pronounced ; together with others denoting skill in the
mechanical arts. This man, Kunisch, had in fact commit
ted several robberies, in which his dexterity had much as
22
sisted him, and his address was such, that he was intrusted
with the care of the spinning-machines in the house of cor
rection. Gall asked him whether he had any knowledge
of calculation ? ' Do you think I could put together a piece
of work like this, if I could not calculate the effects ?' An
old woman, in whose head theft, theosophy, and love of off
spring were the prominent organs, confessed the justice of
her punishment, and returned thanks to God for having
placed her in that establishment ; for since her confine
ment, her children, whom she herself could not have edu
cated, had been sent to an orphan-house. Albert, distin
guished for his haughtiness to his fellow-prisoners, was an
example of a strong development of the organ of self-es
teem. Regina Dosring, an infanticide, was presented to
him among a band of robbers, but he immediately called
to Dr. Spurzheim to remark how in one organ her head
resembled that of a servant of his at Vienna, a very excel
lent person in all other respects, but who delighted in kill
ing animals. In Kunow, he found the organ of music pre
dominant ; and it appeared that all the misfortunes of this
person proceeded from his having ruined himself by this
his ruling passion. Raps had the organs of theft, of mur
der, and of benevolence, highly developed. His crime
was having robbed an old woman, round whose neck he
had fastened a rope with intent to strangle her, but having
completed his robbery, an emotion of pity prompted him to
return and loosen' the rope, by which act the life of the old
woman was saved. Such is an extract of the narrative of
these celebrated visits to the prisons ofBerlin and Spandau,
which, in their day, attracted much notice throughout Ger
many.
But the great trial still awaited our travellers at the bar
of the French Institute ; and there they presented them
selves, to receive official support or condemnation, in the
face of expectant Europe.
The Institute was then in all its glory. In proportion as
Buonaparte had cannonaded, it had grown enlightened.
As the hero was the referendary of military justice, so was
it the areopagus of scientific truth. The chief of the ana
tomical department was M. Cuvier ; and he was the first
member of this learned body to whom Drs. Gall and Spurz-
heim addressed themselves.
M. Cuvier is a man of known talents and acquirements;
and his mind is applicable to many branches of science.
But what equally distinguishes him with the versatility of
his understanding, is the suppleness of his opinions. He
received the German doctors with much politeness. He
requested them to dissect a brain privately for him and a
few of his learned friends ; and he attended a course of
lectures given purposely for him and a party of his selec
tion. He listened with much attention, and appeared well-
disposed toward the doctrine ; and the writer of this article
heard him express his approbation of its general features,
in a circle which was not particularly private.
About this time, the Institute had committed an act of
extraordinary courage, in venturing to ask permission of
Buonaparte to award a prize medal to Sir H. Davy, for his
admirable galvanic experiments- and was still in amaze at
its own heroism. Consent was obtained ; but the soreness
of national defeat rankled deeply within. When the First
Consul was apprised that the greatest of his comparative
anatomists had attended a course of lectures by Dr. Gall,
he broke out as furiously as be had done against Lord Whit-
J
24
worth ; and at his levee he rated the wise men of his land
for allowing themselves to be taught chemistry by an Eng
lishman, and anatomy by a German ; sat verbum. The
wary citizen altered his language. A commission was
named by the Institute to report upon the labors of Drs.
Gall and Spurzheim ; M. Cuvier drew up the report. In
this he used his efforts, not to proclaim the truth, but to
diminish the merits of the learned Germans. Whenever
he could find the most distant similarity between the slight
est point of their mode of operating, and anything ever
done before, he dwelt upon it with peculiar pleasure ; and
lightly touched upon what was really new. He even af
fected to excuse the Institute for having taken the subject
into consideration at all, saying that the anatomical re
searches were entirely distinct from the physiology of the
brain, and the doctrine of mental manifestations. Of this
part of the subject Buonaparte, and not without cause, had
declared his reprobation ; and M. Cuvier was too great a
lover ofliberty not to submit his opinion to that of his Con
sul. His assertion, too, that the anatomy of the brain had
nothing to say to its mental influence, he knew to be in di
rect opposition to fact ; but even the meagre credit which
he did dare to allow to the new mode of dissection, he wish
ed to dilute with as much bitterness as he could. So un
just and unsatisfactory, so lame and mutilated did the whole
report appear, that the authors of the new method pub
lished an answer, in which they accused the commissaries of
not having repeated their experiments. Such was the re
ception which the science, that we (phrenologists) now see
spreading over the globe, met with from the Academy of the
Great Nation.
I
25
In November, 1807, Dr. Gall, assisted by Dr. Spurzheim,
delivered his first course of public lectures at Paris ; and
these the writer of this article heard with intense interest.
His assertions were supported by a numerous collection of
skulls, heads, casts ; by a multiplicity of anatomical, by a
multiplicity of physiological facts. Great, indeed, was the
ardor excited among the Parisians by the presence of the
men, who, as they supposed, could tell their fortunes by
their heads, as well as Mademoiselle le Normand could do
with a pack of cards ; and chiromancy was abandoned for
cranioscopy. Every one wanted to get a peep at the ne
cromancers ; every one was anxious to give them a dinner
or a supper ; and the writer of this article actually saw a
list on which an eager candidate was delighted to inscribe
himself for a breakfast, distant only three months and a
half; at which breakfast he sat a wondering guest. But
this was nearly all the harvest which phrenology reaped in
Paris ; and the season was not as long as the roll of festi
vals which curiosity had cooked. Though Dr. Gall has
been a constant resident there, and has delivered lectures
whenever an opportunity occurred, the public is not phre
nological : though Dr. Spurzheim has done all in his power
to diffuse the science there, it has remained recluse. Some
periodical publications in England have much overrated the
attention paid to it among our neighbors ; but in truth the
French have thought little upon it, neither will they think
upon it, until their minds are more seriously bent upon a
study which hitherto they have much neglected, — the
study of the human being in other parts besides nerves and
muscles. As a proof of this, we will mention that, in 1824,
the government of that nation, as wise as that of Austria
had been, prohibited the delivery of all lectures without its
3
26
special permission ; and Dr. Spurzheim was obliged to con
fine himself to private conversations at his own house. This
proceeding, which no rulers of a truly enlightened people
would have dared to attempt, was the death-blow to all phre
nological inquiry in France, and an apt reply to the lucubra
tions of the New Edinburgh Review, which had prompous-
ly stated that the French were greater proficients in phre
nology than the British. It must have been sufficient to dis
gust Dr. Spurzheim with every project of continuing his in
structions there ; and is most probably the reason why, with
in the last two years, he has taken this country-so entirely
under his tuition, and made it most essentially his phreno
logical domain.
It is probable, however, that, long before this time, a
mind like Dr. Spurzheim's must have seen that the soil
really appropriated to the seeds of his doctrine was pro
found, reflecting England, where every power of thought
is kept so much within its own province, and is so well em
ployed there, and where so important a branch of philoso
phy would be received with all due reverence. As soon
as the communicaiions were open, he came to this island,
and repaired to London. The moment was not propitious.
The nation was still smarting with the scars of war. Many
things, too, had indisposed it to the lore of Germany ; it
was jealous and touchy upon the subject of quackery.
Mesmer, Mainaduke, Perkins, the morbid sentimentalism
of Miss Anne Plumptre's translations, had made it so ; and
Dr. Spurzheim had to struggle against all these obstacles.
The campaign was opened by a dissection of the brain,
at the ' Medico-Chirurgical Society's in Lincoln's-Inn
Fields ; and the novelty, as well as the truth of the demon
stration, that this viscus is composed of fibres, created no
27
small surprise among the learned audience. The choice
of such a mode to enter upon the subject was eminently
judicious, as it placed it at once upon a respectable foot
ing, by making an appeal to science. The effect in its fa
vor, however, was not so general as might have been ex
pected. When a course of lectures was delivered, not
more than forty auditors were present ; neither did a sec
ond course attract a more numerous circle.
From London, Dr. Spurzheim proceeded to Bath, Bris
tol, Cork, and Dublin, where also he delivered lectures.
He then proceeded to Scotland. If, during his excursion,
the harvest of proselytes was not yet very great, the ad
ditions to his observations were extensive and interesting ;
and it is much to be wished that he may one day publish
his remarks upon the different races which he clearly dis
tinguished, spread like horizontal strata over the land through
which he travelled. In the Scottish capital another fate
attended him, and a decisive moment was approaching.
There, as in London, he opened his campaign by the dis-
seclion of the nervous mass ; but the circumstances of the
demonstration were highly piquant.
The writings of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, conjointly and
separately, had attracted the attention of our periodical
critics, and an article had appeared in the Edinburgh Re
view for June, 1815, in which these authors were most
heartily reviled. Hardly an opprobrious epithet in the
language was omitted on their moral, as on their intellectu
al characters, and they were roundly called fools and knaves.
The conclusion is as follows : — ' The writings of Drs. Gall
and Spurzheim have not added one fact to the stock of our
knowledge respecting either the structure or the functions
of tnan ; but consist of such a mixture of gross errors, ex
28
travagant absurdities, downright mis-statements, and un
meaning quotations from Scripture, as can leave no doubt,
we apprehend, in the minds of honest and intelligent men,
.as to the real ignorance, the real hypocrisy, and the real
empiricism of the authors.' Should phrenology prove
false, the sagacity of this article will be most brilliant, even
though, from beginning to end, it attempts no means of
refutation but assertion. Should the doctrine prove true,
then that production will be held by all men, as it now is
by phrenologists, as the most flippant, pert, vulgar, igno
rant, and presumptuous, that ever appeared in that able
collection ; and very wise, or very weak indeed, must be
the physiologist to whom the works there criticized can
teach nothing.
The intention of Dr. Spurzheim always was to visit the
Scottish Athens, but this article confirmed it. He procur
ed one letter of introduction for that city, and but one ; that
was to the reputed author of the vituperating essay. He
visited him, and obtained permission to dissect a brain in
his presence. The author himself was a lecturer on anat
omy, and the dissection took place in his lecture-room.
Some eyes were a little more, or a little less, clear-sighted
than others ; for they saw, or thought they saw, fibres. A
second day was named. The room was as full as it could
be, particularly as an intermediate bench was reserved for
Dr. Spurzheim to carry round the subject of inquiry to
every spectator. There, with the Edinburgh Review in
one hand, and a brain in the other, he opposed fact to as
sertion. The writer of the article still believed the Edin
burgh Review, but the public believed the anatomist ; and
that day won over near five hundred witnesses to the fibrous
structure of the white substance of the brain, while it drew
29
off a large portion of admiring pupils from the antagonist
lecturer.
Thus aided by success, Dr. Spurzheim opened a course
of lectures on the anatomy and the functions of the brain,
and its connexion with mind. He used to say to the
Scotch, ' You are slow, but you are sure ; I must remain
some time with you, and then 1' 11 leave the fruit of my la
bors to ripen in your hands. This is the spot from which,
as from a centre, the doctrines of phrenology shall spread
over Britain.'
These predictions proved true. Converts flocked in on
all sides ; the incredulous came and were convinced. Af
ter a residence of seven months, Dr. Spurzheim returned to
London ; but the seeds of phrenological folly or wisdom
were sown, and so rapidly did they germinate, that it would
almost seem there was not a good plant among them.
After an absence of three years from Paris, Dr. Spurz
heim returned there, and did not visit England again until
1825. Meanwhile, the voices of phrenologists, the clamors
of the enemies of the science were loud. The doctrine of
phrenology had set the Old and the New Town, from the
Galton Hill to the Castle, in a brain fever, a cerebral fer
mentation, which continued to send up bubbles, froth, and
ardent spirit in phrenological confusion, until the year 1820,
when, on February 22, the ebullition subsided, by the for
mation of a society, at the head of which stands the name
of Mr. G. Combe. This gentleman had begun by being a
sceptic ; but, by degrees he was convinced, and is now an
ardent sectary. He was, we (phrenologists) believe, the
proposer, and is the president of the earliest phrenological
society formed in this world j and his zeal and his writings,
3*
30
his perseverance and his abilities, have placed him very high
among British phrenologists.
In the beginning, this society was without heads or brains ;
and a phrenological society without heads or brains, is still
poorer than a mineralogical society without quartz or co
rundum, or a geological society without gneiss or granite.
The penury was quickly supplied by ample donations.
Not only skulls and masks, but the other necessary appen
dages just named, poured in from every side, insomuch
that never did a learned body exist which had such a pro
fusion of them for its own and others' use. Their collec
tion increased most rapidly, and was liberally left open to
public inspection. Their meetings were periodical ; and
in 1823 they published a volume of phrenological transac
tions, which, if the science be not false, will long be es
teemed. They gave an example, too, of candor at least,
which was soon followed, and similar societies were formed
in many other cities. Edinburgh had to wipe away a
large offence committed against phrenology, and thus did
she make amends.
It would be long to enumerate all the successes and tri
umphs which this new science now obtained in the shape
of societies, collections of busts, lectures fully attended in
different parts of the British empire. London, Exeter^
Manchester, Glasgow, Liverpool, Cork, Hull, Dublin, Pais
ley, Dundee, vied with each other, according to their
means, to learn and diffuse the science ; and in an instant}
as soon as the doctrine was fairly stated, more phrenolo
gists sprung up among us than during twenty years in the
country where Drs. Gall and Spurzheim had been residing
all that time.
In the British colonies, too, phrenology has not been
31
neglected ; and Dr. Murrny Paterson, in the East India
Company's service, delivered lectures at Calcutta, where a
phrenological society was about to be formed.
But the freest of nations must always be that in which
whatever relates to the study of man will excite the great
est interest. Without such knowledge, indeed, liberty can
not exist. Such is a cause of the warm reception which
phrenology has met with among its partizans in England,
and of the no less warm opposition of its adversaries. The
reverse, too, has procured it a tepid attention in France ;
for, whatever be the forms of liberty there its spirit is yet
to be born. It is, then, easy to conjecture what may be
the mind of the United States of America toward this doc
trine. Dr. Caldwell, medical professor in Pennsylvania
University, has edited ' Elements of Phrenology,' and de
livered lectures in Baltimore, Washington, &.c. ; and in
one of the American Universities, a professor of phrenolo
gy is as regularly announced as of moral philosophy, or of
anatomy, of chemistry, or of history. Neither have all the
European States been heedless of it ; and the city of Co-
penhagan boasts of Drs. Otto and Hoppe.
It must not, however, be supposed, continue the phre
nologists, that all this was effected in Britain without oppo
sition or ill-will. The clamor against phrenology was loud
and mobbish. The laughing journals scoffed, the weeping
ones lamented ; some would have put it down by authority,
some by ecclesiastical anathema. It would be too long and
doleful to tell all the means to which some — few, indeed
— resorted, to crush it without a hearing. But it is a prin
ciple in British law, because it is a feeling in British justice,
that a man taken in the very act of murder shall not be
dragged off to the first lantern-post, and there hanged
without judge or jury. The same sentiment pervades all
32
our decisions ; and while some roared out that Drs. Gall
and Spurzheim should be tied up in a sack with their evil
deeds and drowned as witches, others demanded, as did a
dying Irish judge — Lord Kilwarden — for his assassins,
that they should be tried by the laws of God and of their
country. A hearing has been obtained ; the trial is now
proceeding ; and all that we (phrenologists) pretend to do
is to address the jury, not for favor or for rigor, not for
mercy or for fury — but for justice.
The doctrine, as it is now taught and received in the
countries just mentioned, does not exactly coincide with
the original ideas of Dr. Gall, neither is his view of some
of the details, at this moment, in all respects the same as
that which Dr. Spurzheim has taken. Immense as have
been the toils and labors of the creator of phrenology, it
was decreed that his fate should still be human ; and that
his life should not close without his learning, that, vast as
was his horizon, it was not yet the limits of the earth.
The mind of Dr. Spurzheim, in our opinion, (phrenolo
gists), seems to have been cast in a still more metaphysical
mould than that of Dr. Gall, who, though he has shown
very uncommon acuteness in his abstract inquiries upon
mind, has yet left some points so feeble as to endanger the
whole system. As an example — and it is the most strik
ing of all — Dr. Gall attributed to the same organs, —
pride, the love of authority, self-esteem in man, and the
predilection which some animals show for elevated regions,
as the wild goat, the eagle, &tc. Now this even his best
disposed partizans found rather hard to grant; for it is not
easy to admit that moral and physical height are one and
the same thing. This piece of doctrine cooled his friends,
heated his enemies, and stood in stiong opposition to the
33
adoption and diffusion of his system. Dr. Spurzheim felt
the necessity of examining it more closely. The part of
the brain where this organ is placed by Gall, is prominent
sometimes in the upper, sometimes in the under portion ;
consequently it is not one organ ; for the very essence of
an organ is to be one and entire. Hence, then, Dr.
Spurzheim inferred two organs ; and experience has con
firmed his conjecture. To one of these he attributes self-
esteem, to the other the love of habitation ; and thus has
rescued the system from the ridicule thrown upon it by
confounding two such opposite sentiments as those which
prompt a man to esteem himself, and a chamois to climb a
mountain ; while, at the same time, he has shown the con
nexion which might have led to the error, as long as the
separation was not made.
Another of Dr. Spurzheim's modifications was a similar
analysis of the faculty of music. The well-known fact
that there are many excellent harmonists who are but
indifferent timeists, and vice versa, induced him to conclude
that an organ of music must be composed of an organ of
tone and an organ of time ; and he directed his researches
towards the discovery. Experience and observation have
authorized him to resolve the former simple organ into the
two separate ones just mentioned ; and his opinion has
been adopted by all the phrenologists of this island.
In like manner it occurred to Dr. Spurzheim that poetry
could not depend upon a simple faculty, but that it must
have its origin in more powers than one. Besides, there
are persons endowed with a large development of the
organ to which poetic inspiration is attributed, and who are
not poets. A feeling for the grand and beautiful, which
gives exaltation and rapture to the mind, Dr. Spurzheim
1
s
34
considers to belong to this portion of the brain, and he
terms it the organ of ideality, as one of its chief functions
is to picture an ideal world of beauty and sublimity ; to
impart enthusiasm ; and, in the fine arts, to accomplish
very much of what has usually been attributed to imagina
tion.
Dr. Spurzheim had met with persons in whom the
organ of theosophy was large, and yet religious feelings
feeble. He observed that some of these were antiquari
ans, others courtiers ; in short, that the object of their
respect was not always a Supreme Being. He suspected,
then, that the fundamental feeling was not religion, but a
mere propensity to respect and venerate. He termed it
the organ of veneration, without specifying, in any manner,
the thing which it venerates. When joined with the love
of properly, it may venerate wealth; with ambition, pow
er; with vanity it makes a courtier; with eventuality an
historian — an antiquarian. Among the organs enumer
ated by Dr. Gall, there is one in connexion with visions,
though none in combination with which, veneration would
select almighty power and supernatural agency for its
object. Dr. Spurzheim, knowing how little man can exist
without the knowledge and worship of a Supreme Being,
turned his attention to the research of an organ and facul
ty which might guide him to that end ; and in fact discov
ered one, which he named at first supernaturality, and
afterwards marvellousness. This faculty directs venera
tion towards the worship of one or more supernatural
beings, the choice and number of which are more select
and noble, in proportion as the higher faculties are more
developed and exercised.
35
Another proof of what we (phrenologists) consider as
the superior analytical talent of Dr. Spurzheim. is the dis
covery he has made of separate organs, each destined to
take cognizance of some special physical quality in objects.
Dr. Gall had found an organ for the perception of color ;
another for number ; another for place : but these discoveries
did not lead him to the general conclusion, that all the other
properties ofbodies, as well as their color, number, and place,
would be bestowed in vain for man, if man had not the facul
ties by which he could perceive them. The analogies of the
science indicated that their situation must be in the vicini
ty of the other organs destined to similar ends ; and they
have all been found in the ciliary ridge. They are —
size ; momentum, in which is included a very long cata
logue of properties, once thought distinct from each other,
but now known to be in fact but one ; and order. The
latter Dr. Spurzheim discovered in England, and order
certainly is a characteristic of the nation.
The additions which Dr. Spurzheim has made to the
number of the simple fundamental faculties of human
beings, not before admitted by Dr. Gall, are, including
marvellousness, eight. But it is not the number, it is the
spirit of these modifications which phrenologists principally
admire. If some persons accuse Dr. Spurzheim of having
abandoned the Baconian severity of his predecessor, and
of indulging himself in a priori hypotheses, those very
conjectures prove the extent of his analytical sagacity.
To do him justice in this respect, it is indispensable to dis
tinguish between inductions and facts. No fact, the exist
ence of no faculty or organ, was admitted by him upon
conjectural evidence. Before he adopted any new power
of mind, in conjunction with any yet unnoticed cerebral
36
development, he waited as rigorously as Gall could do,
for the result of repeated observation ; but to investigate
such and such a region of thought, and of the brain — to
turn his inquiries in this or that direction — he was,
indeed, guided by his previous reflections and inductions.
The truth of these time has proved, to his no small hon
or — if, indeed, they and all the rest be true; and he has
the glory, not very common, of anticipating by meditation,
the prudent march of experiment. Whatever talent Dr.
Gall may have shown in his earlier observations — how
ever acute, and clear, and philosophic he may have been
in his investigations, physiological and moral, he does not
seem, at any period of his labors to have been carried for
ward by preconceived notions respecting the primitive
faculties, but to have proceeded from step to step as each
successive conviction casually led him. This is not meant
as a reproach to Dr. Gall ; for the march of his mind was,
perhaps, more steady and secure on that account ; but the
sagacity of Dr. Spurzheim, who, by general reason, fore
saw the law of nature before he had proof of it, and after
wards proved it, is of a very high order. When metaphy
sicians reproached Dr. Gall with his mode of proceeding,
and with not first determining what the primitive powers
were, and then seeking out their organs in the brain, his
constant answer was, ' Do you metaphysicians tell me
what the primitive faculties are, and I'll find out the cor
responding organs.' But this they neither did nor could
do; and Gall continued, as some would say, empirically,
to compare mental manifestations with cerebral develop
ment, until he determined their mutual dependence.
Another part of the system which was not without its
inconveniences, was its nomenclature. The first observa
37
tions and conclusions of Dr. Gall could be made only in
extreme cases ; for, when a faculty and its organ are weak
and small, they could not attract an inexperienced eye, as
that of Gall, like that of other men, necessarily was, before
he had become familiar with them. When, indeed, he
had acquired the habit of observing them, their slightest
modifications became visible ; but the name which had
been derived from the exaggeration of the faculty became
inapplicable. The first determination of one organ was
made in thieves, of another in murderers ; and the one was
very naturally called the organ of theft — the other the
organ of murder. But these faculties exist among man
kind in diminished forms, and in various modifications;
and to call them constantly by these names would evident
ly be an abuse of language. In the use of these terms,
however, Dr. Gall perseveres : while Dr. Spurzheim has
adopted more proportionate epithets, calling the one the
organ of acquisitiveness, from its wish to acquire — a wish
which; when extreme, and not controlled by the superior
sentiments and faculties, does prompt to theft ; but which,
when under the guidance of the moral sense, and aided by
such mental powers as can promote its honest gratification,
becomes a motive of most conscientious exertion : the
other he calls destructiveness, implying the very first wish
of an infant to tear and break an insect or a toy. ' I saw,'
says Valeria to Virgilia in Coriolanus, speaking to her of her
son, ' his father's son, a very pretty boy,' — ' I saw him run
after a gilded butterfly ; and when he caught it, he let it
go again, and after it again ; and over and over he comes,
and up again ; catched it again : or whether his fall en
raged him, or how 'twas, he did so set his teeth and tear
it ! Oh, I warrant how he mammocked it ! ' It includes,
4
38
too, the very last measure of crime — murder, and assumes
every intermediate degree, according to its development
and its combinations. To call all these by one word cer
tainly is not correct, however difficult it might have been
to do otherwise, as long as the range and functions of a
faculty were not determined ; but the nomenclature of Dr.
Spurzheim proceeds upon more philosophical views, al
though even that has been found subject to some objec
tions. Neology is always displeasing, at least until the
ideas on which it is founded are fully established ; and to
embrace the entire scope of a faculty in one word is not
easy, particularly as much yet remains to be settled with
regard to the metaphysics of the faculties, though their
general functions are fully determined. But without new
words new ideas cannot be expressed ; ' and without new
ideas mankind rests stationary. Hallowed be the vices
(the dulcia vitia) of language, which impart a truth un
known before !
To give the reader materials for judging the state of
this German candidate for a place in philosophical society,'
and of knowing the two men to whom it owes its birth
and progress, he is here presented with a diagram of the
system such as Dr. Gall made, and still makes it ; and of
another comprising Dr. Spurzheim's latest modifications.
As Dr. Gall has not himself translated his names into
English, we give them in the original German, with an
attempt of our own to explain them ; —
No. 1. Zeugungstrieb — the instinct of generation.
No. 2. Jungenliebe, Kinderliebe — the love of offspring.
No. 3. Anhanglichkeit — friendship, attachment.
No. 4. Muth, Raufsinn — courage, self-defence.
No. 5. Wiirgsinn — murder, the wish to destroy.
No. 6. List, Schlauheit, Klugheit — cunning.
No. 7. Eigenthiimsinn — the sentiment of property.
No. 8. Stolz, Hochmuth, Herschsucht — pride, self-esteem,
haughtiness.
No. 9. Eitelkeit, Rhumsucht, Ehrgeitz — vanity, ambition.
No. 10. Behuthsamkeit, Vorsicht, Vorsichtigkeit — cautious
ness, foresight, prudence.
No. 11. Sachgediichtniss, Erziehungs-fahigkeit the mem
ory of things, educability.
No. 12. Ortsinn, Raumsinn — local memory.
No. 13. Personensinn — the memory of persons.
No. 14. Wortgediichtniss — verbal memory.
No. 15. Sprachforschungssinn — memory for languages.
No. 16. Farbensinn — colors.
No. 17. Tonsinn — music.
No. 18. Zahlensinn — number.
No. 19. Kunstsinn — aptitude for the mechanical arts.
No. 20. Vergleicheuder Scharfsinn — comparative sagacity,
aptitude for drawing comparisons.
No. 21. Metaphysischer Tiefsinn — metaphysical depth of
thought, aptitude for drawing conclusions.
No. 22. Witz — wit.
No. 23. Dichtergeist — poetry.
No. 24. Gutmiithigkeit, Mitleiden — good-nature.
No. 25. Darstellungssinu — mimickry.
No. 26. Theosophie — theosophy, religion.
No. 27. Festigkeit — firmness of character.
Dr. Spurzheim's arrangement of the faculties is com
prised in orders, genera, Sic. : they are :—
ORDER I. Feelings, or Affective Faculties.
GENUS I. Propensities:—No. 1. Amativeness. No. 2. Philo-
progenitiveness. No. 3. Inhabitiveness. No. 4. Adhesiveness.
No. 5. Combativeness. No. 6. Destructiveness. No. 7. Secre-
tiveness. No. 8. Acquisitiveness. No. 9. Constructiveness.
GENUS II. Sentiments:—No. 10. Self-esteem. No. 11. Ap-
probativeness. No. 12. Cautiousness.
GENUS III. Superior Sentiments: — No. 13. Benevolence.
No. 14. Veneration. No. 15. Firmness. No. 16. Conscientious
ness. No. 17. Hope. No. 18. Marvellousness. No. 19. Ideality.
No. 20. Mirtbfulness, or Gayness. No. 21. Imitation.
ORDER II. Understanding, or Intellect. External Senses — Feel
ing, Taste, Smell, Hearing, Sight.
GENUS II. Perceptive Faculties; the Intellectual Faculties
'which perceive the existence of external Objects and their physi
cal qualities : — No. 22. Individuality. No. 23. Configuration.
No. 24. Size. No. 25. Weight and Resistance. No. 26. Color.
40
GENUS III. Intellectual Faculties which perceive the Rela
tions of external Objects : — No. 27. Locality. No. 28. Calcula
tion. No. 29. Order. No. 30. Eventuality. No. 31. Time. No.
32. Tune. No. 33. Language.
GENUS IV. Reflective Faculties: — No. 34. Comparison. No.
35. Causality.
It is thus modified that Dr. Spurzheim has disseminated
the doctrines of phrenology since he has fixed his residence
in this island. (Note 3.)
The attacks upon the science, however, have by no
means become less virulent during this period ; and its old
enemy has again entered the lists. The LXXXVIIIth No.
of the Edinburgh Review opens with an article which pre
tends to nothing less than to put down phrenology forever,
but which the sectaries hold to be a still more pitiful pro
duction than any that had preceded it in the same Review.
In reading this precious article once over, with a pencil
in our hands, (say the phrenologists) we were induced no
less than one hundred and fifty-three times to mark some
passage which struck us as reprehensible, under one or
other of the following heads: — 1. Ignorance of every
principle of phrenology, of the situation, size, functions, and
value of the organs, and of the metaphysics of the phre
nologists. 2. Ignorance of the general principles of human
nature in its widest bearings. 3. Total inaptitude for phi
losophical pursuits and general science, and a mind the anti-
pode of Baconian. 4. Unsound and confused notions upon
every system of metaphysics. 5. Wilful misrepresentation
of facts, doctrines, and opinions, ad libitum. 6. Phrenologi
cal facts are never opposed by anti-facts, but by an ipse-dixit;
by assertions, jokes and quibbles. 7. Some as dull jokes and
stupid pleasantries as ever were cracked upon the heads of
our German doctors. Time and space do not allow a
41
special notice of this article at present, but until some be
nevolent critic shall undertake to give it due castigation, to
point out all its bad [faith, blunders and pretensions, one
phrase must be noticed as a specimen . of the philosophic
mind of the author (page 296, line 20 to 27). ' If it were
really true that, &c. it is, in the first place, inconceivable
that the discovery should have remained to be made in the
beginning of the 19th century ; and in the second place,
still more inconceivable, that, after it was made, there
should be anybody who could pretend to doubt of its reali
ty.' Admirable critic ! profound philosopher ! Adieu,
then, all that has been brought to light since the year 1800,
together with all that anybody doubts about ! Nay, more,
for if the critic fixes upon the opening of the present cen
tury as the sera at which he locks the gate of science, and
throws the key into a fiery furnace, we will wall it round in
1700. Some other friend to the progress of truth will
stifle it in 1600, and so on till the retrogradation of know
ledge is complete. And then adieu Vesta, Juno, Pallas,
and Ceres ; potassium and sodium ; hydrogen and oxygen ;
steam-engines and mule-jennies ; the discoveries of Newton
cannot be true, for somebody still doubts about them ; and
in fine, there is not either truth or knowledge upon earth,
and none can henceforth ever be disclosed !
This article has drawn a reply from Mr. Combe, against
whose work it was principally directed ; and although this
phrenologist has said more than is necessary to refute the
flimsiness of the attack, he has by no means exposed all
tbe weak points of his adversary, or held up the production
to the contempt which it merits.
The efforts of the Edinbugh Reviewer, however, have
been completely impotent to stop the spreading torrent of
4*
42
truth. On the contrary, they have assisted it so much,
that we (phrenologists) hope he may never cease to write
against us. About the time when the LXXXVHIth No.
of the Edinbugh Review appeared, Dr. Spurzheim visited
Cambridge, and was received in that seat of exact learning
with honors seldom bestowed before. By the influence of
some of the members of that eminent body, the most distin
guished for their characters and talents, permission was grant
ed to deliver a course oflectures on phrenology in the botani
cal lecture-room of the University ; a favor never conferred
on any who are not members of the establishment. The au
dience was most respectable, and increased as the course ad
vanced; till, towards the close, it amounted to 130, among
whom were 57, partly professors, partly tutors, and fellows
of different colleges. The attentions paid to Dr. Spurz
heim, personally, were most gratifying ; and the impression
made, not merely by his method of dissecting the brain, but
by his phrenological doctrines, was as complete a refutation
of the lame and impotent conclusions of the Edinburgh Re
viewer as candor and science could desire. Now the uni
versity of Cambridge will generally be held as high au
thority as the man who writes that our faculties, viz. the
love of approbation, acquisitiveness, cautiousness, &c.,
arise out of the constitution of human society, and not that
human society is the result of human faculties (page 263,
last lines) ; and who considers the ascending affections, as
the love of children for parents, Sic. to be as necessary and
as natural instincts as the love of parents for their offspring
(page 269.) (Note 4.)
From Cambridge Dr. Spurzheim proceeded to Bath and
Bristol ; and the managers of the literary institutions thera
have declared that since those establishments were opened,
43
no lecturer had attracted so numerous a class. The Lon
don Institution, too, had a weekly lecture, attended by sev
eral hundreds of auditors ; and the new mode of dissecting
the brain was exhibited with entire success at St. Bartholo
mews' Hospital. Thus Dr. Spurzheim may deride the
pert petulance of the ignorant.
But if the Edinburgh Review has not been able to pre
vent the public attention from being directed to phrenolo
gy, and convinced by truth, still less has it been able to ar
rest the accumulation of facts ; and the XVth number of
the Phrenological Journal* (page 467), contains — what,
in a certain slang dialect, would be called such a plumper,
that nothing softer than the Reviewer's fact-proof cranium
could resist it, — Mr. Deville's visit to the convict ship
England, bound with 148 prisoners for New South Wales.
This zealous practitioner, after examining the convicts, gave
a memorandum of the inferred characters of each individu
al, and of the manner in which the propensities of each
were likely to manifest themselves. The most desperate
were accurately pointed out, and one man in particular,
Robert Hughes, was noted as most dangerous, on account
of his ferocity and dissimulation. A mutiny, at the head
of which was this Hughes, was on the point of breaking
out, and the conduct of every prisoner coincided most ac
curately with Mr. Deville's predictions. The records of
the whole transaction are now officially in the Victualling
* A Trimestrial publication, as necessary to the lovers of this science
as the Journal of the Royal Institution, Professor Jameson's or Dr.
Brewster's Edinburgh Journals, &c. are to the friends of chemistry,
natural philosophy, &c. This work at present is much superior to
what it was in the beginning, and contains many very excellent dis
sertations on the metaphysics of phrenology, as well as a rich collec
tion of undeniable facts.
44
Office, and the following is extracted from a letter of Mr.
Thompson, surgeon to the ship, to whose care the con
victs were committed : —
' I have to thank you for your introduction to Deville and phre
nology. — Deville is right in every case but one, Thomas Jones ;
but this man can neither read nor write ; and, being a sailor, he
was induced to join the conspiracy to rise and seize the ship and
carry her to South America, being informed by Hughes that he
would then get his liberty. Observe how Deville has hit the real
character of Hughes, and I will be grateful to Deville all my life,
for his report enabled me to shut up in close custody the malcon
tents, and arrive here not a head minus, which, without the report,
it is more than probable I could ' not have done. All the authori
ties here are become phrenologists.'
Now the man who does not admit that to be a science
which errs but once in J48 cases, must have little experi
ence of what human science is. The visit to the convict
ship England is the fair appendix to Dr. Gall's visit to the
prisons of Germany ; and here, at least, the practical use
of phrenology cannot be denied. It is known that Mr. De
ville has been applied to by some persons in the employ
ment of government to examine another convict ship ready
to sail for New South Wales ; that he has complied with
the request, and that the report of the surgeon, by which
his prognostics will be either refuted or confirmed, is daily
expected. (Note 5.)
The science being thus brought down to its present con
dition, and the phrenologist having closed his pleadings,
the adverse party must now be introduced ; at the same
time, for the sake of brevity, the answers shall be given.
Many of the objections are anatomical, and would fatigue
the reader ; many of them must be omitted, but the most
45
prominent shall be preserved. The works of the authors,
the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews, the Phrenological
Transactions and Journals, the Report of the French In
stitute, and the answer to it, contain enough to satisfy the
most curious.
To every objection that ever has been, or ever can be,
brought against phrenology, one general answer might be
given ; and if we (phrenologists) were not very good sort
of persons, we might dismiss our adversaries with one word :
' Come to our schools and collections, and observe along
with us, whether mental manifestations are, or are not, in
constant proportion to cerebral development; whether a
given shape of head is not always accompanied by a cer
tain talent and a certain character. If this be not so, we
are in error. If it be true, all that you can say upon this,
that, or the other, cannot make it untrue ; and our facts,
the facts which we compel you to admit, cannot be de
stroyed by hypotheses or pre-conceptions. But we will
still listen to you, in order to show to the world of what
nature your objections are ; and because we are so strong
in honesty, that your words pass by us as the idle wind.
You do not venture to assert, say the anti-phrenologists,
that so soft a substance as the brain can give its form to the
skull ; or to maintain that it is not the bone which imprints
its configuration on the pulpy aggregate. You know, re
ply the phrenologists, that the cranium is formed after the
brain ; that its bones, at first cartilaginous and soft, follow,
as they become hardened, the structure of the cerebral
mass, assume its shapes, and very accurately represent its
hills and hollows: Observation confirms this fact, and you
yourselves know many analogous to it. Are not the boner
of adults often warped from their natural shape by the con
46
stant action of the muscles ; and do not the bones of hy-
drocephalic skulls expand and recede according to the
quantity of water contained in the head ?
You know, say the anti-phrenologists, that the internal
and the external plates of the bones of the skull are not
parallel ; consequently the impressions made upon the one
are not always perceptible upon the other. Hence, then,
even admitting that the brain gives its form to the internal
plate, you cannot judge of it externally ; and all your in
ductions are false. —We do know that the plates are not al
ways parallel, and that their deviation often amounts to
one or two tenths of an inch. But the difference in heads
amounts to one inch, sometimes to two inches ; that is to
say, to as many inches as the deviation from parallelism
does to tenths of an inch. Now, when you prove that a
tenth part is equal to the whole, we will admit your objec
tion.
You, continue the opponents, produce the fibrous ap
pearance in the white mass of the brain, by always scrap
ing in the same direction with your dissecting-knife. — Had
the dissecting-knife teeth, like a comb, there might be
some plausibility in your remark ; but, whatever be the
process we employ, — maceration, ebullition, congelation,
— the fibrous appearance is constantly the same. Now, a
result obtained by so many different processes must be in
nature, not in any particular method of proceeding.
But the great, the overwhelming objections under which,
with Sir Everard Home* at our head, say, thirdly, the
* Sir Everard Home is accused by phrenologists, 1st, Of not under
standing their doctrines ; 2dly, Of wilfully misrepresenting the little
he does know about them ; 3dly, Of attempting to appropriate to him
self some of the discoveries of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, to which he
bos not and could not have the slightest pretensions.
47
anti-phrenologists, we shall bury you and your science for
ever, although you think that you can shake them to air
like dew-drops from the lion's mane, are those derived
from incidents which have happened to different parts of
the brain ; while the faculties attached to those parts have
not been diminished or impaired. Innumerable cases are
quoted of cerebral wounds without any injury to the men
tal powers, by surgeons in every age and country. In
one of these a bullet was found upon the pineal gland,
after many years innocuous residence there. A boy lost
a piece of his brain as large as a pigeon's egg, but not a
jot of his reason. Stones, halberds, pistol-balls, knives,
stilettos, abscesses, cysts, steatomous tumors, excrescen
ces, cavities, have been detected after death ; while, in
the living subject, no diminution of intellect had been per
ceived. Sometimes a fragment of the right, sometimes of
the left hemisphere ; at others a good lump of the cere
bellum has been carried away, and no harm done ; nay,
the mental powers have been so tenacious in some indi
viduals, that they have continued to keep their seat, even
amid a general ossification of the cerebral mass, or its
total solution in the waters of hydrocephalus. The au
thorities upon which these facts rest are formidable, for
among them stand the names of Abernethy, Duvernay,
Earle, J. Hunter, Ambrose Pare, Petit, Pringle, Sic.,
with many others, quos nunc describere longum est.
If, say Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, and their associates,
all these observations were as correct as their authors state
them to be, not only phrenology would be subverted ab
imofundo, but it would be impossible to maintain that the
brain performed any intellectual functions, or indeed any
functions except that of terminating the columnar structure
48
of man with a round nob on which Quakers hang broad-
brimmed hats. Were the mass, said to be fibrous, con
verted to bone, without a loss of any faculty — vital, ani
mal, intellectual ; were it really liquid, and addled, as it
then might be, and no thought or action weakened, this
surely is the inevitable consequence. But the vague in
definite manner in which all these examples are produced,
save the head and its contents from the imputation of being
useless appendages, and give phrenology a chance of a
little longer life than its opponents wish. In order to
ascertain whether an injury done to any material organ is
followed by the disease of any function, the direct method
is to observe whether the function attached to that organ
is diseased or not. Thus let locomotion be supposed to
depend upon the soleus maximus ; to a certain this, we
should observe whether, when this muscle is injured, the
power of locomotion be impaired or not. The same pro
cess should be followed with the brain. If an ounce or
two of the organ of cautiousness be carried away, as in
one case it seemed to have been, we should not examine
whether the faculty of music, of eventuality, had been di
minished or increased, but whether the poor patient were
more or less cautious than he was before. If we confine
our inquiry to faculties which do not belong to the part
affected of the brain, we shall obtain as satisfactory an
swers as we should if we were to conclude that, because
smell and taste were not directly impaired when the
abductor oculi, or the constrictor oris, is cut across, the
patient suffered no injury but pain ; or that, because he
could still walk and hear, he could turn the globe of the
eye outwards, or purse up his mouth as well as ever.
But this, say the anti-phrenologists, is begging the ques
49
tion, answer Drs. Gall and Spurzheim ; it is merely-
assuming, for a moment, the fact which we wish to de
monstrate, in. order the more readily to come to a conclu
sion ; for, if the diminution of the faculty does not ac
company the injury done to the organ, we will cease to
say that such is the cerebral seat of cautiousness, of music,
&ic. ; and if, by the same mode, what we have asserted of
each portion of the brain be disproved, we give up phre
nology forever. What we do maintain is, that our prede
cessors and opponents did not possess the due means of
observing the fact which they have stated ; for, instead of
looking for the faculties which we attach to ' the injured
parts above quoted, they endeavor to find there, not mere
ly powers which do not belong to those parts, but powers
which we do not allow to exist in man as simple funda
mental faculties — perception, memory, judgment, imag
ination, Sic. These, indeed, as understood by the doctors
of the old school, may very well survive a partial lesion of
the brain. We say, too, that those cases have not been
adduced against us with fairness, and we give an example
of this. Dr. Ferriar quotes the case of the Due de Guise,
mentioned by Ambrose Pare : ' A lance entered under
the right eye, and came out at the neck, between the ear
and the vertebrae ; a piece of the steel remained there.'
So says Pare ; and, in that direction the brain could hardly
have been touched. But Dr. Ferriar says it entered
above the eye. Besides Pare never says one word either
about brain or faculty.
If the brain, say the phrenologists, be one organ, the or
gan of mind, then mind must be injured exactly in the same
proportion as the brain is injured ; that is to say, if one-tenth
of the brain be destroyed, then one-tenth of each mental
5
50
power — perception, memory, judgment, Sic., most be
destroyed along with it. Now we request the old meta
physicians to prove this ; while we most satisfactorily ac
count for the loss of one of our acknowledged innate facul
ties, when all the rest remain entire, by admitting a plurali
ty of organs. And as to the non-destruction of a faculty,-
even when its organ on one side of the head has totally dis
appeared, we explain it as we do the continuance of the pow
er of vision in a man who of two eyes has lost one. Eve
ry organ, every member of the human body is double, and
has long been acknowledged to be so. The fact has been
doubted, only since it became necessary to oppose phre
nology.
The plurality of the organs is in one sweeping condem
nation totally denied by the anti-phrenologists, while the
assertors of the doctrine pretend to support it by many ar
guments. 1st, The analogy between the brain and the
other portions of the nervous system declare that the for
mer, like the latter, must be composed of parts, each of
which has its separate functions. 2dly, In taking a large
view of the subject, and overlooking some partial anomalies,
the brain is found to become more complicated in every
class of animals, in proportion as that class stands higher in
the scale of intellect. Thus, beginning with insects, fishes,
proceeding upwards through birds to mammalia, through
the most sagacious quadrupeds to man, this viseus is aug
mented by the addition of new parts. Some animals, in
deed, have one portion greater, others another, according to
their natures ; but the number increases, as do the facul
ties, till in the most intellectual of all they become the most
numerous. Even in the individuals of the human species,
proportionate differences are observable; and whoever
51
studies the heads of Bacon and of an idiot, must become
half a phrenologist. 3dly, The cerebral development
takes place in all animals exactly in the regions where the
faculties for which he is the most distinguished reside.
4thly, The different parts of the brain grow not simultane
ously, but one after another ; the growth of each part is in
variably accompanied by the development of its concomi
tant faculty ; and both organ and faculty are developed ac
cording to the demands of nature, at the various periods
of our existence. Thus, in children, the perceptive facul
ties gain strength before the reflective facilities, because we
must collect knowledge before we can reason upon it.
Sthly, Intense application does not fatigue all the faculties,
but only that which is in action, and we repose it by chang
ing the object of our study. When the organ of number
has been over-exercised by calculation, the organ of tune
may yet be quite fresh, and we may be as well disposed to
hear or to make music, as if no part of the brain were wea
ry. Thus it is that gentle descents and risings in a road,
as they bring different sets of muscles successively into ac
tion, are more advantageous than a dead level. Thus, too,
'change of posture rests the body. 6thly, When, by the
over-excitation of an organ or faculty, monomania is in
duced, a cure is sometimes performed by exciting the ac
tion of another organ or faculty, and thus procuring rest to
the inflamed organ. 7ihly, A faculty is injured whenever
its organ is diseased, and the use of a faculty has been re
stored by restoring health to the organ. Topical applica
tions to a part of the head have brought back the healthful
action of the mental power attached to it. Sthly, The
'states of sleeping, waking, dreaming, and somnambulism
'can be satisfactorily explained only in the hypothesis of a
52
plurality of organs. We regret that the space allotted to
this article, already very long, prevents us from offering the
phrenological theory of these interesting phenomena.
But the objections in which British readers are most like
ly to take a part, are those founded upon fatalism, material
ism, and atheism. If, say the anti-phrenologists, you attach
the powers of intellect, the feelings, the passions, to the
shape and organization of the body, that shape and that or
ganization are decrees of fate. Weak, finite beings, men
are no longer masters of their thoughts and actions, but bow
before the mass of matter that composes them, as the reed
before the storm. If you assert that we think and feel by
means of material organs. then matter is our soul, and all
the properties of that immortal essence are corruption,
death, annihilation. If these be the laws of nature which
you expound, then there may be no God, there is need of
no God, and your system is as dreary and desolating as the
worst that ever attempted to plunge mankind in cheerless
scepticism, to root out hope and reason from our creed.
To all this, and much more, phrenologists reply : Our
doctrine does not in the least alter the questions of fatalism
and materialism, but leaves them exactly where it found
them. If you admit a Creator, you must admit him omnip
otent ; and, among the attributes of universal power, you
must insert omniscience. That the Almighty reads the
thoughts of our hearts before we form them, that 'he knows
what every one of his creatures is before he has sent him
into the world, is the inevitable consequence of omniscience.
The spirit, the essence of all things, flow from his will ; and,
without it, nothing can be. Now, whether his pleasure be
that good and evil, that the mingled nature of man should
be inherent in human organization, or should exist inde
pendently of it, the fact of their existence is constant ; the
means alone are different. Whether k be by the fibres of
his brain, or by his essential nature, that the created being
becomes the perpetrator of harm, harm is not more or less
his act — his lot. Whatever is is right. Whatever is is
by the will of God. If the will of God be fate, every doc
trine which admits a God endowed with will, as ruler of
the universe, is fatalism ; and divines and moralists are fa
talists as we are. If, too, the influence of the Creator over
human thoughts and actions be fatalism, it is fatalism, whe
ther exercised by spirit or by matter.
But it never was in our minds, continue Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim, to say that this influence resided in matter, or
that any mental faculty was substantial. We have, indeed,
discovered innate powers in man, and found the organs by
means of which these innate powers are manifested. But
we did not, as you allege, ever confound the faculty with
the organ. The faculty belongs to the soul, the organ to
the body, and until the soul and body be confounded, the
faculty and its organ must remain distinct. The muscles,
with the bony tubes which stretch them out, and which, in
their turn, they move at command, are no more the will to
move the faculty which causes motion, than is the organ of
benevolence, benevolence. The string which vibrates in
the harp, the hand which draws it out of the straight line,
and lets it go again, are not the note of music which we
hear ; neither is the organ of tone, tone. In this we have
advanced no more than many philosophers have done be
fore us, who have considered the body as the instrument of
the soul ; and mind to depend on organization. Solomon,
St. Paul, the Fathers ofthe Church, Heathen Philosophers,
Christian Moralists, all have attributed a material residence,
5*
54
an instrument to the soul. Some who called soul the pow
er by which the body grew and was maintained, irritability,
life, supposed it to be diffused in every limb and artery, in
every atom which composed us. Some divided the soul,
and allotted to its parts different regions, analogous to its
particular functions in those parts ; placing some of it in
the thorax, some in the abdomen, some in one part of the
head, some in another. Pythagoras, Plato, fixed it in the
brain ; the Stoics and Aristotle, in the heart ; Erasistratus in
the menynges ; Herophilus in the great ventricles of the
brain ; Servetto in the aqueduct of Silvias ; Auranti in the
third ventricle ; Van Helmont in the stomach ; Descartes
in the pineal gland ; Schellhammer at the origin of the
spinal marrow ; Drelincourt in the cerebellum ; Lancisi in
the corpus callosum, or in the great commissure ; Willis in
the corpora striata ; Vieussens in the centrum ovale ; Acker-
man in what he calls the Sinneshligel, or tubercules of the
senses ; Psorri in a very subtle, fragrant juice, which, ac
cording to him, is found in the brain ; and we should not be
surprised to hear, one of these days, that some peripatetic
had set it off full gallop on the sella turcica. All that is
proved by this is, that we know nothing of the nature of
the soul, or of its residence ; while we see that every phi
losophy has attached it to some material organ. Yet none
of these are accused of materialism ; and why then should
we, who have attempted no bolder change than merely to
proclaim what are the innate faculties of man, and what the
organs by means of which they act, be accused of saying
that the soul is matter ? We never said so. We no more
say this, than do the anatomists, who teach that motion de
pends on the apparatus of nerves and muscles, say that
motion is matter. In our whole doctrine there is not a
tenet which alters the position either of fatalism, or of ma
terialism ; yet futile minds accuse us of wishing to establish
both these heresies.
But, we might say to you anti-phrenologists, suppose that
our physiology of the brain does lead to those conclusions,
what will you say if pur theory be true ? What we show
you are facts ; what you oppose to us are opinions. And
what do you know about fatalism and materialism ? Who has
revealed to you what they are ? You scale the heavens too
soon when you dare to speak of them, for your best know
ledge of them ever must be ignorance. You would interpret
the laws of omnipotence according to your own weakness,
and make infinity finite ; yet you are blind to what your eyes
can teach you. Come with us, and see whether what we say
be true ; and then you must confess that what you once be-
lieyed is all imagination and hypothesis. You will own that
you never understood, that it is not given to you ever to un
derstand, what fatalism means, or what is materialism, any
more than to know the nature of your own soul. These
are questions not merely of human abstraction ; they involve
considerations still higher, and touch upon the essence of
the Divinity. The most unfortunate objections for our an
tagonists that ever were started, are those of fatalism and
materialism ; and the day is near when all men shall say,
' How could such absurdity ever have been spoken ?'
A question may now be put to phrenologists, which, in
a popular point of view, is the most trying of all. What is
the use of your science, supposing it to be true ? It may
he pretty, it may be ingenious, and it is amusing enough,
in a circle of bald heads, to pry into hidden dispositions,
and hold an infallible key to mens's minds. But cui bono
all this; and have you attained no greater end from all your
56
studies ? Certainly, answer these strange folks the phre
nologists, we have attained much greater ends, the great
est, perhaps, that ever have been attempted in anthropolo
gy ; and, if we have not already worn out your patience,
we will recount to you what we promise shall be the result
of our discoveries.
In the first place, then, TRUTH. We hold it to be in
absolute contradiction with the nature of things, that a
truth can exist, the knowledge of which is not uefusl to
mankind. The earth contains no poison, the air no pesti
lence, which Providence has not at the same time endow
ed with some principle which mankind will, some day or
other, turn to use. All is not, indeed, discovered at
once ; but let us look at the most deleterious substances
known in nature or in art, and see the murderous arsenic,
how useful it is in hardening types, and thus ministering to
a free press ; in forming specula for reflecting telescopes ;
in making glass; in dyeing; in printing cotton stuffs; nay,
in pharmacy, as a tonic. How many lives might a pound
of opium not destroy ; how many pangs may it not allay ?
Neither does any substance exist which can do no harm.
If a patient will submit to the trial, he will find himself as
effectually killed by a sufficient quantity of boiled chicken,
as of corrosive sublimate ; and the ' question a I'eau ' could
be made as unpleasing as any other species of torture, and
would still be so were that water Tokay. . What we give
you is truth ; truth, with its bad and with its good, like
all other human truths ; but in which the useful portion
far exceeds, not only the noxious, but even that which
malevolence can turn to evil, or folly make ridiculous.
Secondly, The knowledge of individual character is of
no mean interest in the life we lead, as it must give securi
57
ty to social intercourse, and make communication prompt
and easy. Physiognomy has been thought of some advan
tage to this 'end; but how much more will not a science,
which has fixed and certain principles, contribute to it.
Physiognomy is but the expression which the countenance,
and perhaps some other parts of the body, derive from the
habitual state of the mind and heart, from the predominant
feelings and passions ; but it goes no deeper. Many pow
ers which we discover have no tongue for the physiogno
mist ; neither can he lay down a body of doctrine by
which he can communicate his acquired knowledge.
With him all is tact, mere tact, fugitive and changeable as
the fancies of men and women, and more vague than
meteorology. But we proceed by rule and compass,
armed with all that can repel fantastic feelings ; we judge
by principles which can be explained. Let any man
read the works of our doctors, and those of Lavater; and
he will see that the two modes cannot bear comparison.
Neither did physiognomy ever pretend to tell what were
the original propensities of a man, much less to indicate
the simple fundamental faculties of our nature. If, then,
some credit was given to this most empirical mode of pro
nouncing, how much more does not our system deserve to
be approved and trusted, since we can, by surer precepts,
teach profounder truths ? It may be said, that phrenology
may create repulsive feelings among men, by revealing
hidden defects ; but will it not reveal hidden virtues also ?
And unless the false and gloomy system be admitted, that
vice is more general than virtue, phrenology must publish
more good than evil in the human species. Besides, when
some defect is seen, is there not seen in the same head
(unless it be one of those unfortunate cases, so rare in the
58
world,) the quality which corrects if ? In a word, phrenol
ogy will paint men as they are, and that alone is impor
tant , but whether it brings to light more virtue or more
vice, must depend, not upon it, but upon mankind. Nay,
more ; human virtue is likely to be increased by it, for
men will be convicted of their faults upon phrenological
evidence, from which no self-love, no flattery, can protect
them. They will be instructed, too, of the means which
Providence has given them to balance those faults ; and,
joined to destructiveness, for instance, they may find benev
olence, or justice, or religion, to stop their murderous
hand. In some heads, it is said, no good is found — no
weight to counterpoise a vicious propensity. It may be
so ; but independently of every system, of every hypothe
sis, Thurtell was a murderer. — The will of God be
done !
Nothing that ever was devised by man has put in his
hands so powerful an instrument to know himself, as that
which we (phrenologists) have given him ; for, if he be
lieves in us, he cannot deny the evidence of his own or
ganization. The first key to unlock the hearts of others
is that which opens our own ; and to know whether we
judge our neighbor fairly or not, we should measure the
quantity of our own feelings which we mix up in the
judgment. But from this acquaintance with ourselves and
others may result the greatest benefit that could accrue to
social intercourse, mutual indulgence. When we recollect
that each has his own particular organization, as we have
ours : that it is not easy to control the dispositions which
nature has implanted thus in our minds ; that we have de
fects as insupportable, perhaps, as any that we encounter,
we shall be more disposed to bear with others' foibles, that
59
they may pardon ours ; and mutual necessity will make
us tolerant. There are, indeed, those who have reproach
ed our system with inspiring indulgence even for vice ;
and say, that by it, it is unjust to punish the criminal, since
he only obeys the impulse of organization. But we must
here distinguish between feelings and actions : for the for
mer no man can be taxed ; for the latter all are accounta
ble to society ; and as to destiny, we have shown that to
be among the impenetrable mysteries of Providence.
Another influence which phrenology, say its advocates,
will have on individuals, is the mode of treating mania.
The whole theory of insanity has hitherto been much too
vague, and all its affections and appearances have been
considered only as inflammatory and as chronic. Some
practitioners, indeed, more happy than others, have struck
out particular modes of treatment, which have been crown
ed with occasional success. But the knowledge of the in
nate faculties, and of their seat in the brain, must general
ize the hygiene of mental derangement. In erotic mania,
in the mania brought on by the excessive development or
excitation of the organ and faculty of ambition, of acquisi
tiveness, of cautiousness, physicians will direct their prac
tice immediately to the part affected and to its functions ;
and not, as is now too often the case, apply, as it were, a
topic to the leg for a disease in the arm, and scrape away
the tibia to extirpate a caries in the humerus.
A stiU higher function of phrenology, as it relates to man
kind at large, not merely to the few unfortunates who la
bor under malady, is its empire over education. The vast
error, that men are alike fitted for all professions, that all
can turn their mental powers to the same account and prof
it, has done much injury to the education of individuals,
60
and consequently to the general progress of the world.
But our science (continue Drs. Gall and Spurzheim) shows
that all men are not alike fitted for all purposes ; that, in
one, a receptiveuess for musical, in another for mathemat
ical instruction predominates ; that some are endowed with
the power of prompt perception, and others with that of ab
struse induction ; in short, that every walk of social life has
its destined votaries. Now, it is to be hoped, that when
parents have the authority of phrenology for the talents and
disposition of their children, they will cultivate those which
nature has made the most salient in their cranium, and not
torment them with studies for which they have no sufficient
organ. Should one of their boys, in defiance of birch-rods
and ferulas, neglect his vocabulary to carve his taw, or cut
out wagon-wheels with his penknife, let them consult one
of us, and we will tell them that all the betula of Windsor
forest will not make a scholar of him ; we will show that,
not being one of the ox-eyed, he can but ill remember
words ; but that having a fulness in the frontal bone, just
above the spheno-temporal suture, he may become an ex
pert mechanic, an engineer, a mill-wright, or a Watt ; that
it is in vain to thrust in through the gluteus maximus what
cannot penetrate the head ; and that, flog him as they may,
his propria quce maribus will always be covered with chips
and chisels. In the same manner we will teach them to
oppose the bad propensities of youth, by withholding ali
ment from self-love, from obstinacy, from cruelty, and by
cherishing benevolence, justice, piety ; and correcting levi
ty by gently stimulating the reflecting faculties. We can
tell, too, why many a school-boy, who has carried away
prizes and rewards, sinks into an ordinary adult ; and why
more than one dunce has burst out like a luminary in later
61
years ; for we can show the organs which make a brilliant
infant and a dull man, and those which are of little use at
Eton, but most essential to a statesman or a philosopher.
Neither shall we allow ourselves to be imposed upon by
any urchin's cunning, or mistake ill-will and idleness for
inability. The marks by which we judge are registered by
nature, indelible, immutable, and clear to every eye.
But individual education is a very small portion of the
good which we aspire to teach — (these people really are
mad ; their ambition is unbounded !) We will educate na
tions ; and nothing can prevent us from fulfilling this mis
sion, but the destruction of the human race. We will tell
the men of every country their faults and their vices, their
virtues and their talents, and hold them up, as clearly as
size and form can be held up, to the notice of mankind.
None shall escape us. Already, not only Europeans, —
English, French, Germans, Italians, — the most enlighten
ed, the most refined of men have we scrutinized, but Asiat
ics under every latitude, Africans thirsting on both sides of
the equator, Americans as wild as Africans, as civilized as
Europeans. We have told truths to all, and pointed out
the means of improvement. At this moment, indeed, they
may not listen to us, but the day will come when they will
advance but by us. To us is given to decide the great
question of original national propensities, as of individual
propensities, and to show how they may be expanded or
repressed. We shall instruct rulers how to govern, and
subjects how to submit, and strike the just balance — as
various as the races and the regions of the earth — be
tween the sovereign and the people ; and the first time that
we inspire oppressed reason to demand her rights, and to
demand no more — that we teach men how much liberty
6
63
they can bear, how much privation they must yet endure,
we shall have our full reward. (Note 6.)
So much for the practical pretensions of our science.
The reader must now hear our claims to speculative superi
ority. Dr. Spurzheim has said, and been most heartily
abused for saying — and, if the science be false, most hearti
ly deserves to be abused for saying, — that the whole phi
losophy of the mind must be entirely changed ; that the
study of man in this respect will become a new study, &cc.
In this dictum — most noble or most arrogant, according to
events — we (phrenologists)concur, with the loudest cheers ;
and in this, do we say, lies the stupendous monument of
our science. Since the earliest records of philosophy, sages
have speculated on the heart, the mind, the passions, and
the understanding. For more than three thousand years
systems have flashed, and disappeared without leaving a
trace. Some of these', indeed, were abundantly ingenious ;
but were defective in that which alone can make them last
ing, truth. It would be curious to examine the hypotheses
which have grown up, one after another, in the fertile soil
of fancy, Arabian, Chinese, Persian, Egyptian, Greek,
Roman, and modern European, and to see how specious
and how futile all have been. Not one of them was found
ed on anything but conjecture ; and, until Gall appeared,
it was not supposed that mental philosophy, that psychology,
ever could have any other basis. But Gall proceeded erv-
tirely upon fact ; and those who accuse his system as im
aginative, will probably call the ' Farie Queene' an historic
al poem, and ' Lear ' an algebraical tragedy. He stalked
from brain to brain, from organ to organ, and trampled con
jecture under foot. ' The man of skulls ' — aye, Mr. Edin
burgh Reviewer, the boy of skulls — endowed in truth, with
\
63
not less imagination than his predecessors, had yet more love
of fact than they had ; and this single faculty has placed
him above them all. It is, indeed, most wondrous, that the
catalogue of the innate faculties of man should have escaped
the grey-haired philosophers of every age and climate, and
that its first fold should have been opened to a child of
nine years old, who in maturity unrolled it all, except a
leaf or uvo, which he left to his followers. Such a discov
ery, had it been made by a man after so long concealment,
and so many attempts to accomplish it, would have been
wonderful ; but let it never be forgotten that it was the
work, and not the accidental work, of an infant.
We (phrenologists) do not say that Dr. Gall has invented
the faculties which he attributes to man, or that he even
discovered them all. Many of them had a place in ethical
science before they were announced by him. Philoso
phers, the most remote, from admitting the connexion be
tween the brain and the mind, from adopting innate differ
ences of character, have yet allowed many of the powers
which we have recognized, to be simple and fundamental.
Thus Mr. D. Stewart, who attributes so much to habit,
does not deny an inborn bias to self-esteem, to friendship,
nay to pugnacity, as in the case of sudden resentment ; he
admits, too, conscientiousness, under the much more phi
losophical name of the moral sense. Many more moralists
have done the same, as Cudworth, Hutcheson, Reid, Brown,
&c., but still they went on no foundation but conjecture.
Neither had they the slightest notion of forming a body of
doctrine like that which our masters teach. Others again
have asserted, that all the disparity between man and man
resulted from later circumstances, for nature had made the
individuals of the species alike ; and systems of education
64
have been most erroneously founded on this opinion. The
British philosopher who, in our days, stands the most re
mote from our doctrine in his philosophy of mind is Mr. D.
Stewart ; whose theory, on this very account, must be the
first to become obsolete ; and whose works — to the great
impoverishment of English literature, — will be remember
ed only for the beauty of their style, and the benevolence
of their philosophy. He who has come the nearest to it is
the late Dr. Tho. Brown ; and, strange to say, many traces
of opinions like ours are to be found in some papers publish
ed since 1819, in the Edinburgh Review, and still more in
others inserted about the same time in the Quarterly Re
view, insomuch, that of one of these, (Art. XII. of vol. 25,)
it has been said, ' The observations of the reviewer are so
strictly phrenological, as almost to tempt rne to believe that
he is a phrenologist in disguise.' (See Phren. Journal, No.
VIII., page 603, note.)
It has already been mentioned —to the great dismay of
all sober-minded readers, — that we (phrenologists) had
entirely rejected the hum-drum faculties of perception,
memory, imagination ; which mental philosophers have so
long been discussing. It must now be added, that taste and
judgment — this the reader will easily credit, — have been
turned adrift along with the rest; that attention, associa
tion, are not simple fundamental powers ; that passion is a
resident, not in the heart, but in the brain ; that pain and
pleasure, joy and grief, are affections of the innate facul
ties, not faculties ; that sympathy is the unison of one or
more faculties in different persons, &ic. It would be as
long to detail the philosophical principles of phrenology, as
to dissect all the brains of the Royal College of Physi
cians : it is indispensable, nevertheless, not to pass them by
in utter silence.
65
No mode or action, no quality of mind, do we contend,
can be considered as a simple fundamental faculty, if it has
not an organ in the brain. Now perception, memory, imagi
nation, with all the above enumerated, have no cerebral seat ;
nay, they can have no cerebral seat, because not one among
them is ONE. Perception is ofas many kinds as there are kinds
ofobjects ofwhich it can take cognizance. Thesekinds are
determined by the intellectual faculties, which are found to
exist in the brain and mind. Thus there is a perception
of time, and a perception of place ; a perception of color,
of order, of number, of weight ; and the day is forgotten
when it was not known that a person who has a very live
ly perception of one of these, may be totally deprived of
the perception of the others. It has always been allowed
that a painter who estimates colors most accurately, may
not estimate number, and there may be most profound al
gebraists without a feeling of melody. Seeing, then, that
perception is thus necessarily divisible into many parts, one
of the most extraordinary instances of the laziness of the
human mind, which, when it falls into a rut, seems incapa
ble for centuries of rising out of it, is, that perception should
ever have been considered as a mental element. Some
philosophers, indeed, have attempted to resolve the difficul
ty, by saying, that chance directs the first current of our
perceptions, and that habit confirms it. But chance must
then be busy with us at a very early moment ; and habits
must be contracted in our mother's womb. Every nurse
at the Foundling Hospital knows this ; and that differences
of individual dispositions precede the possibility of habit.
But even admitting habit, still the fact, that perception is
as various as the kinds of things perceptible, stands as
firmly as before ; and perception is not, cannot be, a simple
(j*
66
fundamental faculty. The same reasoning is good with re
gard to memory. Memories which are most active, most
retentive on some subjects, on others are relaxed. One
man remembers facts, who forgets dates ; another recol
lects faces and not names ; some never lose from their
minds the places where they have been, yet have no pow
er to recall a tune ; therefore, memory is not a simple
fundamental faculty. In the same manner, had Milton
taken it into his fancy to imagine fluxions, it is probable
that he never would have put a dot upon his » or his ;, ;
neither would Newton have produced Adam, Eve, or Sa
tan. Handel never could have been a Rubens ; or Michael
Angelo a Mozart. Imagination, the creative power of mind,
then, is not one ; and of these three faculties, which were
the great battle-horses of all metaphysicians down to Gall,
not one has an independent existence as a simple funda
mental power of mind.
What then, are perception, memory, and imagination, for
surely they have an existence somewhere ? Certainly
intellectual faculty has its perception, its memory, and its
imagination ; and these have complete and full existence as
modes and qualities of every simple fundamental power of
intellect. They are modes of action, and the explanation
which follows will make their functions palpable.
Let a series of numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, be presented to
the eye, the organ of that external sense which takes cog
nizance of all that is visible, and the first thing it does is to
see the series of numbers which is thus communicated to
the mind, and perceived by it. For this operation no great
effort of intellect is necessary, and it constitutes the first,
the least complicated act of the faculty which receives
the impression of number. Let these numbers be now
withdrawn from the organ of sight; if any traces of
67
them remain, those traces are not pictured upon the retina,
but upon the the mind; and some stronger effort is re
quired to call them back after they have disappeared,
than to perceive them when they stood before us. This
is a second and higher operation of intellect than mere
perception : — it is memory ; and that memory is above
perception in the mental scale is evident, for in idiots, in
drivellers, in the lower animals, perception often remains
vigorous when memory fades. Let the person who has
seen these numbers be now requested to transpose them,
to repeat them, not in the order 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, but in any
other order ; it is clear that, unless he remembers them,
bis attempt must be vain. But should he be able to recall
them to his mind, he may, by a new e.Tort, throw them
into a different order, thus, 4, 2, 5, 1, 3, or into any other
order : he may diminish or add to them : he may sub
tract, divide, or multiply them, and produce an infinity of
new combinations. In these operations he is compelled
to spin from his own mind. Perception, indeed, collected
the materials, and memory furnishes them anew out of her
store-house ; but all the shapes into which he throws them
are the devices of his own understanding. The act which
performs all this is imagination ; and the tension of mind
is greater in imagination than in memory.
From this, then, it follows, that the first degree af activi
ty in the organ of number was to perceive the series of
numbers; a second and a higher degree of activity, was
to remember them ; a third and a still higher, was to pro
duce new forms with them. In the same manner let a
painter's pallet be shown to one man, he will perceive the
colors ; let it be shown to another, he will perceive and
remember them ; let it be put into the hands of a Titian,
68
and the result will be a San Pietro Martire. One man
may hear the notes of the gamut, another may remember
tones and tunes; Weber will compose the Hunter's
Chorus in the Freischiitz. The activity of the faculty of
color, of tone, produces these differences ; and so it is
with every faculty of the mind. Phrenology, then, does
not annihilate perception, memory, or imagination ; it
denies their existence as simple fundamental faculties, but
it assigns them a place as attributes of every intellectual
faculty. Every intellectual faculty perceives, every intel
lectual faculty remembers, every intellectual faculty ima
gines. No faculty can remember if it has not perceived ;
no faculty can imagine if it has not remembered : percep
tion is, then, the basis of all the operations of every intel
lectual faculty. It may be objected to this system, that
memory and imagination are not in constant proportions in
different minds; that one man who has a powerful recol
lection of events, of tones, of colors, cannot combine or
unite them in such a manner as to imagine new produc
tions ; while another, endowed with the most vivid power
of re-production, has a relaxed and feeble recollection of
his past perceptions ; whereas, if the system just expound
ed were true, one degree of memory should always be ac
companied by its corresponding portion of imagination.
In drawing conclusions upon these qualities of mind, the
distinctions just made must henceforth be kept in view,
viz., that there are as many kinds of memory, as many
kinds of imagination, as there are perceptive faculties. Is
it true that memory and imagination in these cases are so
disproportionate in quantity as in quality ? Does not this
apparent error often arise from mistaking memory in one
shape, for imagination in another? From confounding,
69
for instance, the memory of words with the imagination of
events ; or the imagination of tone with the memory of
color? From not knowing that neither memory nor im
agination is an element of the mind, but an attribute of
many of its elements? Future observations must clear up
this doubt ; for all that have been made before the true
nature of the attributes of mind was known, must be con
sidered as equivocal.
Besides, supposing — continue the phrenologists — mem
ory not to be always in the same proportion with imagina
tion in the same faculty, viz., that one man has a strong
memory and a weak imagination for numbers, while anoth
er has those attributes in reversed proportions in the same
faculty ; the fact, if ascertained, is easily accounted for by
the re-action of every faculty upon its fellows. No power
of mind can, for a single instant, act alone, much less de
termine an habitual state ; and when the higher sentiments,
as marvellousness, ideality, mirthfulness, or the reflective
qualities, as comparison, causality, are very active, they
may impart their stimulus to the memory of numbers, and
raise it nearer to imagination than it would be if it were
dully handed over to the propensities or the senses. Cer
tain it is that, without memory, there is no imagination.
Memory is the mine from which imagination takes the
ores that fancy shapes and taste refines, to gild its airy
castles. Had the good genius of the magic lamp not
perceived, not remembered all the elements of which
fairy artists fabricate their spells, Aladdin never could have
built a palace for his bride.
Having despatched the good old-fashioned faculties of
perception, memory and imagination, with as little cere
mony as we should our grandmother's high-backed, patch
70
work arm-chair, we (phrenologists) proceed to the demo
lition of some other antiquated powers, and assert that, if
they trust us, mankind have neither judgment nor taste.
Judgment is no faculty ; but every faculty of intellect has
its judgment. Hence it is correct and common to say
such a man is a good judge of music, such another of
painting, &-c. ; and this could not be so, had not the one
the organs of time and tone, the other those of form and
color duly developed ; and were they not moreover en
dowed, not merely with the power of perceiving, remem
bering, and imagining, but with another power different
from them : — these are modes of quantity. The one now
under consideration is a mode of quality, and entirely inde
pendent of the others. Before we can judge, indeed, we
must perceive ; and, if we wish to judge an object once per
ceived, but no longer present, we must be able to call it
back to our minds; but perception alone is sufficient to af
ford the judgment matter for its exercise.
Beside these special judgments, there is another judg
ment useful in the affairs of life, constantly talked of under
the plain, round name of common-sense ; and another, the
highest of all, metaphysical judgment. But these and eve
ry species of judgment are explicable in the same manner
as the special judgments, and are modes of quality belong
ing to the faculties which preside over the various depart
ments of mind. Thus, as the power ofjudging melody re
sides in the organ of tune, so does the power ofjudging the
value of metaphysical speculations reside in the organs of
comparison and causality, the highest and grandest of all
the human faculties. But the metaphysical faculties would
be of as little avail in judging melody, as the organ of tune
in judging abstract ideas. Each faculty, then, which pro
71
cures knowledge, has not only its perception, its memory,
and its imagination, which are modes of quantity, but its
judgment, which is a mode of quality.
This mode of quality assumes different names, according
to the objects upon which it is exercised. In the common
concerns of life it is called judgment ; in literature, in the
fine arts, it is called taste ; but judgment and taste are, in
fact, one and the same thing, only directed to different ends.
What, indeed, is taste, but the power of judging a poem, a
picture, a statue, any production of the fine arts, any beau
ty, any deformity of nature ? This mode, called judgment
when it pronounces on objects whose principal merit is their
fitness, and taste when it considers their beauty, belongs to
every intellectual faculty, from that which perceives an in
dividual, to that which compares all objects, and inquires
into first causes.
To keep this mode of action in its best condition, the
equilibrium of all the faculties is indispensably necessary.
The great sources of their derangement are the feelings,
the propensities, and the sentiments, of Dr. Spurzheim's
system. Our perceptions may be just, our reflective fae-
ulties may be sound and powerful, and thus far we may be
organized for excellent judgment in all its branches. But,
if our propensities be strong, our decisions will be influenc
ed by them, and the most preponderant will give its bias to
the mind. So is it with the sentiments ; and the best of
human feelings may err from too much, as from too small,
a development. To judge well, to have good taste, the
elements of the mind must all be present, but so balanced
that not one shall outweigh another, so mixed that not one
of them prevails, — as the best sauce, says the Cuisinier
Imperial, is that into which every good ingredient may en
72
ter, but where not one of them can be tasted separately.
Let a man in whom combativeness is too large, be consult
ed on a trifling point of honor, he will counsel arms ; let a
poet of a similar organization write a tragedy, his verse will
breathe pugnacity. Let this organ be deficient, both these
men will be too tame ; and, in either case, better organized
heads will blame the judgment of the one and the taste of
the other. If benevolence be too strong, it may produce
ruin in common life, and mawkishness in literature ; if it
be too weak, it may give too much scope to the evil pro
pensities in the one as in the other, and in both cases judg
ment and taste may be offended. It is now easy to under
stand how the same person may have excellent judgment
and excellent taste in some points, and in others be totally
deficient, as he may have local memory defective, and the
memory of numbers very powerful.
But we (phrenologists) go still further ; we annihilate
association also as a primitive faculty, and call it merely the
influence of the faculties upon each other. Sympathy, too,
is the simultaneous action of the same one or more organs,
similarly affected, in different persons. Pleasure, and
pain, joy and sorrow, result from the gratification or the
sufferings of any faculty. Passion is the over-excitement
of a faculty ; and when more than one is aroused, as is usu
ally the case, the passion is more complicated. Habit re
sults from the frequent exercise of any faculty, and is
more the effect than the cause of strong mental power.
Thus, for instance, if a man has not a strong faculty for
music, he will be little impelled to practise the art, and will
acquire no habit of execution. Should the natural impulse
be strong, he will perform music often—music will become
habitual to him. Then, indeed, the habit will re-act upon
73
his natural talent, and make him an expert performer ; but
it is not the less true that the habit was acquired only
through the strength of the primitive impulse. Labor as
you may to give a person, in whom the organs of compari
son and causality are weak, a habit of metaphysical induc
tion, and you will labor in vain.
Man acts and thinks by virtue of the primitive faculties
which Providence has implanted in his nature ; man can
act but by these ; he can give himself no new power or fac
ulty ; within his own limits he is as much confined as the
crustaceous animal that lives within its shell, only his lim
its are larger. Such is the law of creation. But what dis
tinguishes him is the number, the extent, the elevation of
his faculties. Some species of brutes possess one mental
power, others another, but none are conspicuously endow
ed with more than a few of these. In man, not only all
that are scattered through the races of the earth are united,
but other and higher faculties, peculiar to himself alone, are
given him. On these philosophers have proudly bestowed
the name of reason ; but what is reason in their sense ?
Can it be anything but the use of those superior, those ex
clusive faculties, which God has given as the badge of the
creature whom he formed in his own likeness? It may,
indeed, be improved by practice, as may the faculty of
number, form, or tune ; but the faculties on which it de
pends are as much an original gift of Providence as the in
stinct which prompts the puppy-dog to seek its mother's
teats, or the young kid to avoid the herbs that are poison
ous. All reason is cultivated instinct. It was by instinct,
planted by the hand of God, and tutored by human cul
ture, that Newton discovered gravitation and its laws. It
was by instinct that Bacon thought ; that Addison was wit-
1
14
Ij. By the instinct of ideality, Shakspeare ' exhausted
worlds, and then imagined new;' by marvellousness be
peopled them with elves, and spirits, and ghosts, and
witches ; by individuality, he enumerated all that Puck and
Fairy relate (Midsummer Night's Dream, act ii., scene 1.) j
by melody and time, he threw the words which his instinct
of language furnished, into the most melodious cadences .
and the steam-engine, which now towers to the clouds, has
its origin in instinct. Man is not less a bundle of instincts
than were the fasces which were carried before the Roman
Consuls a bundle of twigs.
These instincts then, (for so do we peremptorily denom
inate the innate faculties of man,) are the source of all that
now exists in human society ; and their primitive force, suc
ceeded by education, marks all the differences between hu
man beings. The most improved portions of mankind have
successively been raised from station to station, by the un
remitting action of cultivation. But, in every stage and
condition, it is original force which elevates the individual
above his age and country. It is this which gives him su
periority and power over the minds of men. This is genius ;
and the greatest that ever lived is he in whom the greatest
number of intellectual instincts has been the most complete
ly developed, and the most duly balanced.
Such is a summary of the system by which we (phre
nologists) pretend to explain all the phenomena of the hu
man mind and character, and to overthrow all the meta
physical theories yet devised by philosophers. One of
these neologists has communicated to us some observations
of his own, which, though not in print, are here imparted
to the reader. He says, that led by the nature of his stu
dies to examine, at various periods, the metaphysical sys
75
terns with which philosophy has swarmed for ages, he
could not find in them satisfactory explanations of the facts
which he daily witnessed in real life. For many of the
faculties which metaphysicians enumerated, he could see
no foundation ; and others which they did not even men
tion, he fully admitted as fundamental. He ransacked first
one theory, then another, then combined them from the
time ofThales the Milesian, who taught all Greece to call the
soul the principle of life, down ' to him that did but yester
day suspire;' and all he learned was, that he had learned,
and could learn, nothing from them, because they knew
nothing. This person, however, had been long engaged in
meditating a work upon some points of the human charac
ter ; and finding the doctrines of his predecessors so differ
ent from what his observations taught him, he remained at
variance as well with the moderns as with the ancients.
He had long since attended a course of lectures by Dr.
Gall ; but some things in the mental philosophy of this
master were unsatisfactory ; and though he .admitted the
truth of the general doctrine of the relation between brain
and mind, he abandoned the study. Brought back again
accidentally to reconsider it in the state to which Dr.
Spurzheim has advanced it, the first thing he did was to
examine its metaphysics, and these he found so conformable
to the ideas which he himself had long held to be the most
rational, that he gave it his full assent, not upon a com
parison between cerebral and mental development, but
upon its fitness to elucidate the phenomena of human char
acter. If, says he, the table of the simple fundamental fac
ulties, as given by Dr. Spurzheim, be weighed merely by
the same metaphysical principles as all preceding systems ;
if all considerations between brain and mind, if craniology,
76
be utterly abstracted from it ; if it be considered (like the
systems of Hobbs, Mandeville, Paley, Stewart, Brown, &cc.
&c.) an a priori system, conjectural, hypothetical, imagina
tive, it will be found to explain a greater number of facts than
ever have been explained since the days of Anaxagoras,
the great ancestor of all moral philosophy, down to the
Edinburgh Reviewer.
Let an example be given of this : — There is unfortunate
ly one which has made much noise in the world, and
which our adversaries have brought forward to overwhelm
us, under the many weights of phrenological, moral, and
religious perverseness. It is that of John Thurtell, execut
ed for the murder of VVeare. Our doctrine has been
reproached with finding, in the head of this assassin, a
large development of benevolence, and thus making him
out to be a harmless, good-natured person, and not the
atrocious, cool-blooded murderer who could brood for
days and nights over iniquity.
Surely the persons who make such an objection as this
must have been scared, by their dread of phrenology, out
of all they ever knew of human nature, if they can
not perceive that the same man does at one moment an
act of kindness, and at another an act of cruelty ; that he is
at one moment just, at another unjust. What was Augustus,
persecuting and proscribing, and Augustus emperor ? What
was Nero a stripling, and Nero when he saw the city bla
zing? What is every man whom we have ever known ?
Is there not a true, but common, cant, about the mingled
nature of the human species, about the good and evil of our
hearts, which shows the inordinate absurdity of such a re
mark, that might dispense us from all further answer ?
(Note 7.) But let us examine facts, and see, not from- his
head, but from his biography, what Thurtell was.
77
Thurtell, being applied to in behalf of a friend in dis
tress, drew out of his pocket his last remaining half-sove
reign, and said, 'Give him the half of this: but no — he
wants it more than I do : he is sick ; give it him all.'
He once innocently caused a quarrel between two friends,
and shed tears of tenderness over their reconciliation. His
kindness to Hunt excited as much gratitude as Hunt was
capable of feeling. His affection toward all his family was
extreme, and his attachment to his friends inviolable. His
general character, when lieutenant on board the Adamant
in the Leith roads, was that of a dashing, thoughtless,
good-hearted officer. Yet, from his early youth, he was
irascible, and what was called a murderous shot ; a very
dare-devil, a kind of prize-fighter, a notorious liar, a dupe
of all his gambling associates ; and he became a predeter
mined, cold-blooded murderer. These are facts ; and let
us now put different systems to the test, by attempting to
explain them. Unity of mind, its indivisibility into various
faculties, feelings, and propensities, can do it nearly as
well as the indivisibility of the solar ray can explain the
prismatic spectrum and the rainbow. This system then
needs not much examination, and recourse must be had to
some which admit a plurality of faculties. But which of
these must be preferred ? One that is hypothetical, or one
that is founded on fact ? All are subject to the same ob
jection, of admitting contradictory sentiments in man ; and
if phrenology falls by this objection, all the rest must fall;
and so indeed must facts. Whatever system does not ad
roit a sentiment, or a combination of sentiments, to account
for Thurtell's irascibility, his benevolence, his pugnacity,
his attachment, his lying, his firmness, his tenderness, his
cruelty, is defective. Let those who have leisure examine
7*
78
whether phrenology does not effect this more completely
than all others put together, and better than any that
could be fabricated by their means. In truth, no metaphy
sics but those of phrenology could account for the apparent
contradictions in that man's mind ; none which reject, as
fundamental principles of human nature, benevolence,
combativeness, attachment, destructiveness, secretiveness,
firmness, can explain the facts of his life and character.
If his charitable, generous acts be not totally denied, how
would unity of mind reconcile them with the murder he
committed ? But our (phrenologists) doctrine says, he
had large benevolence, and this was sometimes very
active ; he had large combativeness, large destructiveness,
and when circumstances roused these into action, they
were the more imperious, because they were aided by a
strong development of all the inferior propensities, while
the superior faculties were too weakly developed to coun
teract or counsel them. The cerebral organization of
Thurtell, compared with his life, testifies as strongly in
favor of phrenology as facts can do ; and if the world had
been told by any other tongue but that of our science, that
he, or any other murderer, had often done kind actions,
the thing would have appeared quite simple, quite in con
formity with daily observations. But the subterfuges
which men take to evade conviction, when they are resolv
ed that they will not be convinced, are wonderful.
One often hears of contradictions in character ; and,
often too it is said, that those contradictions are only ap
parent, because we have not the key of the character in
which they seern to be. Now, the general key, which
effaces all contradictions from every moral manifestation,
is phrenology. Actions, as opposite as cruelty and benev
olence, appear to us (phrenologists) as natural, as easily-
accounted for, as that a man should one day calculate by
means of his organ of number, and the next day paint by
means of his organ of color.
Although, tried by this test, the metaphysics of phre
nology pretend to greater validity than all other systems,
yet it is not thus that we — its votaries — maintain it, but
by the relation of cerebral development to mental mani
festations. It is upon facts confirming this relation that we
proceed, and the number which we have collected exceeds
all belief. The collection of Dr. Gall, that of Dr. Spurz-
heim, of Mr. Deville, whose zeal and activity in promoting
the practical part of the science cannot be sufficiently com
mended ; those of the Phrenological Societies of London,
Edinburgh, and many other places, contain many thou
sands of facts which are incontrovertible. It is not in the
power of any phrenologist to enregister all living exam
ples, but we build our pretensions upon every age of the
world, and call not only moderns, but ancients to our aid.
As this is one of the most curious parts of our pretensions,
it must be briefly noticed.
Every head whicb has been handed down to us from
antiquity is in as exact conformity with our doctrine, as if
we ourselves had moulded it for our own purposes. The
bad Roman emperors, Caligula, Nero, Caracalla, have the
regions where the inferior faculties reside very much de
veloped ; while the antagonist faculties are small. The
Antonines have heads that would do honor to any man.
Vitellius is a mass of sensuality, deprived of all elevation.
The Roman gladiator most powerful in the basilary
region, has a narrow and contracted forehead, where little
reason could reside. In Homer, the development of
80
ideality is immense, and still greater perhaps in the raptur
ous Pindar. In Demosthenes there is a fine show of the
superior faculties, but the organ of language is not the
most prominent, neither were the natural command and
flow of words the characteristics of his eloquence. His
desire of gain, too, is largely developed. The head -of
Socrates is such as Drs. Gall and Spurzheim would model
to demonstrate the organ of marvellousness, and a mind of
visions; and so is a head, more modern, that of TWquato
Tasso. The head of Zeno is that of a profound and
moral thinker, as he was. That of Seneca has much bad,
but more good ; so balanced that a struggle betweea them
will be necessary, but the latter will generally prevail.
The head of Cicero, larger on one side than on the other,
has more language than Demosthenes, with large reflecting
faculties — vanity, the desire of gain and of fame, and
cautiousness great, with little hope and little courni-e. In
short, the examples of antique statues in our favor are
innumerable. Now, either these heads are genuine casts,
or they are not. If casts, their perfect coincidence with
respective characters most phreriologically proclaim?, what
all men indeed have long since known, that nature has
acted in all ages by immutable laws. If they are not casts,
but ideal heads, then the ancients had observed the fact,
that a certain form of head regularly accompanied such a
power of mind ; and their sculptors, without accounting
for it, registered it in their works.
But the heads of Venus and Jupiter necessarily are
ideal. Now, the head of the Venus de Medici — cnppos-
ed, indeed, to be a modern addition to the originn! .nutila-
ted statue — is, like that of many a belle, too sma;! to con
tain much mind, but sufficient, perhaps, for the goddess of
81
beauty. The front of Jove is exactly what we would give
to the creator of the world — locality, space, immense ;
form, size, weight, color, order, number, phenomena, very
large ; with prodigious reflecting faculties. One single
faculty, indeed, is small, and that was the least necessary
of all to the maker of the world — wit. The occupation
of shaking the earth, the sun, moon, and stars out of chaos,
certainly was not one which could excite the creator to
crack jokes ; yet it seems he could rally his consort -—
whom, by-the-by, her ox-eyes must have made insuffera
bly verbose — when she read him one of her long curtain-
lectures. The ancients were at least as good seers, as
good observers, as the moderns, though they but ill ac
counted for the phenomena which they perceived.
It is with hosts of alleged facts that we (phrenologists)
have taken the field ; and the way to beat us out of it is
evident : it is to bring a very small number of counter-facts
to overthrow our fabric. A very small number indeed
would be sufficient ; for the arch which is built of many
stones falls when but two or three are removed. This is
the method which anti-phrenologists should long since have
tried, instead of abuse, — of allowing .themselves to be
come irritated, or endeavoring to out-face us by ridicule or
anathema. Not scorn nor irony, not force or tyranny, can
smother truth in the nineteenth century ; for even in the
seventeenth, the prisons of the Inquisition, though they
could silence Galileo, could not restore to the sun the sup
posed motion which this philosopher had destroyed. But
we are men of good composition ; and since so many per
sons are desirous of becoming our exterminators, and of
sharing in the glory of expelling error, we will put into their
hands the only weapons by which they can hope to sue
ceed ; and instruct them in the marches and the counter
marches by which they may the most vigorously assail us.
To this end we must begin by telling them that smiles,
sneers, contempt, fall from us like drops of pelting rain
from an armor of oiled silk, and the shafts of authority
would lose their points upon our hardened corslets. We
must be out-facted ; — such a number of well-ascertained
truths must be brought against us as, in all fair proportion
to human certainty, may overbalance our observations ; and
these truths must rest upon such evidence as a jury of un
biassed experts would allow to be fair and admissible.
It is not every person who has studied, or who has lei
sure and disposition to study, the forms of heads and their
coincidence with mind ; and we do not think it presumptu
ous to request all such to hold their tongues. But let any
man or woman of liberal education, endowed with average
mental powers, purchase (for about five shillings) one of the
casts on which the organs are marked, and let him thereon
assiduously study the topography of the head, until he can
lay his finger on the place of each organ, as surely as upon
the islands of Sumatra or Borneo on the terrestrial sphere.
Let him then divide the head by imaginary lines, as Dr.
Spurzheim has done in his ' Phrenology in connexion with
the study of Physiognomy,' into four regions ; first, by a
line drawn from the ear (the meatus auditorius externus) to
the point where the frontal and the sagittal sutures unite, —
into an anterior, the frontal. and a posterior, the occipital
region ; secondly, by another line crossing this, and drawn
from the middle of the forehead to the point where the
parietal and the occipital bones unite into an inferior or
basilary, and a superior or sincipital region. Let him
study the organs, and their import, which are situated in
83
each of these districts, and know in which of them the
inferior propensities, the higher sentiments, the percep
tive, the reflective faculties reside.* Let him, thus ac
coutred, sally forth to observation, and slily cast his eyes
on all the heads he meets; not yet to examine their
organs and faculties, but to reconnoitre the general shapes
of heads, to ascertain whether there really is so much dif
ference as we assert, and to obtain terms of comparison
with regard to the development of the various regions.
When his tact has been exercised upon these general
points, he may give a glance at the particular organs ; but
let him not be in a hurry to verify their relation to the
character of the individual. He must begin with the
larger organs, — with those which occupy the most room
on the head, and consequently modify its shape the
most — as cautiousness, for instance; and when he has
fully learned to appreciate the size of these, he may pro
ceed to the smaller organs, ending with those of which no
* The following is an improved method of studying the cerebral or
ganization in general. Let those portions of the animal feelings ; —
of the moral and religious sentiments; — and of the intellectual facul
ties, be compared with each other in the same person. To that effect,
let a line be drawn from the anterior edge of constructiveness at the
temples upwards to the temporal ridge, and continued along this ridge
to the middle of the upper border of cautiousness, and then toward the
mesial line of the head, between the organs of conscientiousness and
love of approbation, and terminate between self-esteem and firmness.
The portion of brain below and behind this line contains the organs of
the animal feelings. If another line be drawn from the anterior edg»
of constructiveness in the direction of the upper borders of tune, caus
ality and comparison, the cerebral portion between the two lines is the
seat of the human sentiments, and the portion before the second line
is the forehead, strictly speaking, and the residence of the intellectual
faculties. DR. SPDRZHEIH.
84
less than five are situated in the ciliary ridge. When his
eye is well exercised and his tact thoroughly formed, he
may begin to apply his knowledge. He must lay his
friends and intimates — the persons with whose characters
and talents he is the best acquainted — under contribution,
and scan their foreheads with his eye, or, better still, lay
his hand, widely extended, on their sinciput, embracing all
the organs of that region in one grasp, and afterwards pass
it down upon the occiput and the basilary region. His
friends, indeed, may not be very sincere upon all points of
their characters, and many inaccuracies in the current
ideas and current language of society will be embarrassing,
but the observer must supply the deficiency; and, in the
circle of his acquaintance, he will find many whose tal
ents — as music, drawing, calculation, manual dexterity,
&c. — or whose avarice, benevolence, cruelty, timidity, or
courage, are too well defined to admit of denial. The
examination of the heads of children, too, will do much to
confirm or refute our doctrine ; for parents avow many
things of them which they would -not say of themselves ;
and boys and girls tell tales of each other, which are often
just keys to characier. Visiting schools, then, if our an
tagonists have it in their power, and prisons, if that be not
repugnant, will give them boundless means to refute us;
and they will be much assisted by having access to the
collections of phrenological societies now largely diffused
over the kingdom — those of Dr. Spurzheim, and of Mr.
Deville, in London, and to Mr. O'Neil's, in Edinburgh,*
* It is much to be desired that the persons who possess collections
would add to them the heads of animals. Comparative phrenology it
one of the most interesting and amusing branches of the science.
85
&c. As they advance in knowledge, and become expe
rienced, opportunities will multiply around them. Public
meetings will rejoice them ; private assemblies will glad
den their hearts : in ball-rooms they will look for brains —
in churches for devotion ; in Westminster-hall for justice ;
in the navy and the army for courage ; and if they find them
not, we avow ourselves defeated. And if we are defeated,
may our enemies, when they stand exulting over our
crushed and prostrate organs, inherit from us the only
boon we have to bequeath to them — a delight unknown to
all but phrenologists — the raptures which a bald head —
once the field of our glories, now of theirs — inspires!
and curse the pernicious age of the Grand Monarch who
buried craniology in periwigs !
It is fair, however, to tell our adversaries, that this pre
cious knowledge is not to be acquired in a day ; neither
do we know of any science that can. To estimate the
mere size of an organ of a head, may not be very difficult,
though even that requires some practice ; but to appreci
ate the entire development of the brain, in all its parts, —
their proportions, their relation trt each other, their combi
nations, requires time and exercise. The tact must be
formed, and a minute knowledge of the shapes, general
and particular, which compose such and such a character,
and give this or that talent, must be acquired. They
among us who have had the good fortune to see Dr.
Spurzheim exercise his art in a numerous assembly of
subjects, to witness the promptness as well as the certainty
of his judgments, would be inclined to attribute it to super
natural agency. The writer of this article lately saw him
in a school of fifty-eight boys, not one of whom he had
ever beheld till that moment, run his eye rapidly over
8
86
every head, touch some which appeared to possess emi
nently any defect or quality, and, in less than an hour,
deliver his opinion upon the most remarkable subjects —
for good or for bad, without committing a single mistake ;
for all his opinions coincided most accurately with the tes
timony of the masters, to whom the scholars were well
known. The same trial was made, the same day, and
with the same success, in a school of thirty-four girls,
and gave miraculous evidence of the truth of our doctrine.
A course of practical — if we may so call them of clinical
lectures, as a compliment to phrenological study, has long
been desired, to form practical students : and Dr. Spurz-
heim now delivers such courses in London, for the further
instruction of those who already possess the rudiments of
the science. In this he analyzes known heads ; compares
their cerebral development with their mental manifesta
tions ; discusses the reasons why, according to their or
ganizations, they evinced such a talent, such a tendency;
and explains the combinations — for in them reside the
pith and marrow of the science — the final consequence
of which is the general assemblage of qualities called char
acter. Such a course as this he never thought of in
France, for the attempt would have been vain.
By all these helps, it is to be hoped that observations
will be multiplied, that the science will be diffused, and its
truth ascertained ; and the public opinion of England is of
much more value than the decision of learned bodies in
any other country. Some say that phrenology should be
handed over to one class of men, some to another ; and
physicians have been named as the most fit persons to de
termine the question. But we cannot see what requisites
they possess more than other men, unless they are at the
87
same time, what does not necessarily follow, good moral
observers. The requisites for a practical phrenologist are,
the power of appreciating size and form, accompanied by a
talent for estimating moral phenomena. Now these medi
cine does not bestow ; neither does the study of theology,
of the legum legumque, or the study of anything but of
themselves, bestow them ; and all we request is, that phre
nology may not be sentenced to annihilation by those who
know nothing of the subject. This prayer, we trust, is
not more extraordinary than those which mathematicians,
astronomers, chemists, nay, which shoemakers, would
proffer. (Note 8.)
We (phrenologists) are fully aware of the many motives
which militate against us, and the adoption of our doctrines.
Everything new is, and ought to be, received with caution ;
but how much more caution than usual must be used be
fore men who have long been in the habit of supposing the
brain to be useless can admit that a spherical excrescence
like the head is that which makes them think and feel.
And all this, too, comes from a German ; a man, who was
obliged to learn English, presumes to teach Englishmen
why and how they are the greatest nation on the globe.
This is too much ; and we are too wise, say some, to be
lieve the Doctor. We have an un-take-in-able sagacity
which will not be his dupe : we are too much upon our
guard even to listen to him. Others, again, are ashamed
to own their conviction ; and very sensible men are known
to be phrenologists, yet who are afraid to declare them
selves openly, as long as ridicule dares point his waggish
finger at their approbativeness. One word to quiet the
self-love of those who fear to commit their sagacity in this
trial. Sagacity does not consist either in doubting or in
88
believing : as much, or as little of it may be shown in the
one as in the other. Sagacity is proved by distinguishing
truth from falsehood. Now, the first step to this is in
quiry ; and this step, unlike that which St. Denis made
with his head in his hand — Jest le premier pas qui
coute — is the easiest of all. This is the step which we
(phrenologists) invite our foes to make, giving them up
entirely to their own wisdom to make the last, assuring
them that the true test of sagacity is truth.
Another calamity is, that phrenology has not been pro
tected by the fashionables in science ; and that its chief
supporters have been among the lower ranks of the learn
ed. We really do not understand what fashion is in
science ; neither do we conceive how truth is to be chosen
as a petite maitresse chooses her gown, or a dandy his
mustachoes. If persons of fashion will not believe in phre
nology, so much the worse for them ; phrenology can do
without them. If fashion and respectability be the same
thing, however, the University of Cambridge may count for
something, and save the blushes of many who now fear to
be called quizzes by avowing their conviction. (Note 9.)
The transition from the old to the new mental doctrines
certainly requires some force of mind ; and the change is
great from one metaphysical catalogue to the other. It re
minds us of a revolution which, in the memory of many
living, took place in the chemical sciences, when the
pneumatic doctrines were first published. The Aristote
lians, the Cartesians, the Stahlians of ancient days, were
the many-colored metaphysicians of former schools ; fire,
air, earth, water, were perception, memory, judgment, im
agination ; and phlogiston was the soul. Long had these
elements continued to furnish out the material world, when
89 l
a simple appeal to weight and measure put them all to
flight. Long had hypothetic principles explained every
phenomenon of mind, when experiment and observation
proved their non-existence. The Stahlians, who long had
reigned unmolested, shuddered when they heard ofoxygen ;
and would rather that the ocean had swallowed them up,
than have seen one drop of water decomposed. Athanors
waxed dim, caput-mortuums looked aghast, as phlogiston
took its nether flight, and hydrogen lorded it over metallic
resurrections. Even so do Lockeites and Reidites now
grow pale, when any one of the thirty-five innate faculties
is named, and when the element of general memory bows
before the powers which have rent its empire into four
teen sad dependencies. It is not that the names of Stahl
and Locke are not venerable in silence, but, fact versus
roan, man must be nonsuited.
The reasons, too, why error so long prevailed in both
these sciences, are not without analogy to each other ; and
they who have examined both sides of both questions, and
have finally been guided by experiment, find in them
much subject of reflection upon the general march of the
human mind. In the Stahlian doctrine, the increase of
weight in metallic oxides was entirely overlooked, as was
their loss of weight upon revivification ; and philogiston was
a body endowed with positive levity, one which took away
from the absolute weight of the substance with which it was
combined, yet augmented its specific gravity. No ac
count either was taken of the volatile products of an opera
tion of those which, when not allowed to escape, burst eve
ry vessel which would confine them. Not much more than
half a century ago, the art of perforating air-tight bolt heads
-8*
yo
was taught in chemical lectures ; that is to say, the mean*
of perpetuating ignorance ; but the art of making imperme
able lutes succeeded to it. All that was necessary to de
monstrate the errors of Stahlism was, to weigh a metal and
its oxide ; to collect the aeriform products, and to examine
them ; to see that combustion could not take place without
oxygen. These observations were made at length, and the
science changed its whole hypothesis. All that was want
ing to create phrenology, was, to know that all in metaphy
sics, was conjecture ; that not a single fact existed to prove
that perception, memory, imagination, were simple funda
mental faculties, but many to prove that they were not ;
that the various systems which had succeeded each other
explained nothing ; and that all we knew about the brain
was, how to slice it. What future progress and vicissitudes
remain to each of these sciences we shall not determine,
for they are beyond our speculations. Chemistry embraces
the most subtle properties of nature ; but is not the mind
of man a universe, and are not its relations infinite ? Far
greater, in our opinions, are the dependencies of human
feeling and reason, of passion and intellect, than those which
elaborate matter, or guide the world through space.
The facts adduced in favor of our science rest principal
ly on the authorities of its great founders, and it is but fair
that the objections should be brought forward by men whose
endowments bear some proportion to theirs ; or else that
they be supported by an adequate number of competent
witnesses. Although the Edinburgh Reviewer could col
lect no information from the volumes of Dr. Gall, yet we
(phrenologists) look upon them to be as extraordinary, in
point of erudition, new facts, and new observations, as any
that have honored the present age ; and Dr. Spurzheim
91
has shown, in all his writings, a mind far above the com
mon level of observing moralists and philosophers. These
two men have devoted their lives to the study, and it would
be unjust to overturn their doctrines by the hasty conclu
sions of a tyro. We do not, indeed, require so long and
severe an apprenticeship in our opponents, as the masters
of the science have undergone ; but we exact a fair and
honest competition. (Note 10.)
One claim we must make in favor of our science, and this
distinguishes it from all the branches of physiology which
have been cultivated to this day, — it has cost no blood :
not a single act of cruelty has dishonored it ; while Messrs.
Majendie, Flourens and others, have been torturing animals
to teach their pupils but little, and repeating their tortures,
to learn that little over and over again, our masters have
not mutilated a single insect while alive, or shortened the
existence of a single being, to have its brain a few days
sooner under their scalpel. Yet phrenologists might feel
as much interest in scraping away a piece of cautiousness,
and then observing how dauntless the animal would be
come ; or of excavating an organ of locality, to make him
lose his way, as any physiological butcher could do : or
they might be as curious as Vesalius was to take a peep
into the living organs of some human subject. But they
have abstained from every act of cruelty, and shown that
anatomy and physiology may receive some of its best ad
ditions without becoming inhuman.
' The bantling which but a few years since we ushered
into the world,' say the phrenologists, 'is now become a
giant ; and as well might you attempt to smother him as to
entangle a lion in the gossamer, or drown him in the morn
ing dew.' ' Your giant,' say the anti-phrenologists, ' is a
butterfly : to-day he roams on gilded wing, to-morrow he
will show his hideousness and be forgotten.'
Dixit the phrenologist. Dixit the anti-phrenologist. And
now the Foreign Quarterly resumes its wonted we, to re
peat our assurances to our readers, that not one word of
what precedes has been said by us, but by the advocates of
the contending parties. Fiatjustitia.
NOTES.
Note 1, page lit.
The phrenological faculties of Dr. Gall's infantile genius were,
Individuality, Eventuality, and Causality, in an eminent degree.
It has been remarked, as singular, that Dr. Gall should have
been the first founder of this new science, whilst he could not
recollect persons after dinner, though they had been near him at
table, and since he could not find his way again to places where
he had been before, or, in phrenological terms : since he had form
and locality very small. Those who make that remark, can nei
ther know the proceeding of Dr. Gall, nor understand the true
meaning of the two phrenological denominations. Dr. Gall com
pared the size of individual cerebral portions with certain talentSi
or characters, eminent in any way ; and he was not deficient in
the power of perceiving size and its differences. The want of
locality did not prevent him from making discoveries, any more
than the want of seeing certain colors hinders any one to cultivate
geometry or mathematics in general. Dr. Gall's deficiency in form
explains why he constantly attached himself to isolated elevations
and depressions on the surface of the heads, rather than to their
general configuration, and left this rectification of phrenology to
my exertions : he nevertheless, has the great merit of having dis
covered first, certain relations between cerebral development, and
mental manifestations.
The few historical statements of phrenology made in this article,
the nomenclature introduced by Dr. Gall, and our works, suffi
ciently prove that Dr. Gall and myself cannot be meant, when it is
asserted that the phrenologists first founded a theory, and then
looked out for facts to support it. I am sorry to see that friends
and foes, the former by unskilful management, and the latter by
unfair statements, have retarded the progress of phrenology. In
any accredited science, those who teach it are taxed for their mis
conception or mismanagement, whilst the reality and merit of any
new science, of phrenology for instance, are judged of, even by
the ignorance or unskilfulness of its disciples. Phrenology has
its foundation in experience, whatever the opinions of its friends
or foes may be. Whatever is maintained in opposition to nature
must be rejected, and every one of its teachers, master or disciple,
is, and can be, only answerable for his opinions.
94
Note 2, p. 17.
Some opponents of phrenology among the inedical profession
have a strong tendency to ascribe to others the merit of our ana
tomical discoveries. Dr. Gordon, in his examination of our claims
as anatomists, in 1816, said (p. 99), that Reil is the original discov
erer of our ideas ; that we have borrowed them from his writings ;
and (p. 182), that Reil has been defrauded. Dr. Gordon thought
it sufficient to make such statements, and to refer to Reil's archives
of physiology for the years 1809 and 1812.—A professor of anat
omy and physiology in his lectures before the College of Surgeons
in London in the spring of 1829, thought it right to renew Dr.
Gordon's opinion, and to give his assent to it. I must, therefore,
repeat to the public the same answer which I gave to Dr. Gordon
in 1817, in my Examination of the Objections made in Great
Britain against the doctrines of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim.
' Why have we not acknowledged that we ow our anatomical
information of the brain, to the writings of .Reil ? The reason is,
simply, because it is not the case.' (I may add: it could not be,
for his writings did not exist.) 'The proof of this assertion is equal
ly simple, I have only to state the history of our investigation.'
' While at Vienna, we spoke of the great leading points of our
anatomical demonstrations, viz. of the aggregation ofvarious cere
bral parts, and their connexion with the medulla oblongata ; of the
proportion of the grey and white substance ; of the diverging fibres ;
and of unfolding the brain.
' In the year 1805, the 6th of March, we left Vienna for Berlin,
where we repeated our anatomical demonstrations, in the presence
of the medical professors and numerous auditors. Outlines of our
anatomical and physiological propositions were published during
that spring, by Professor Bischoff. From Berlin we went to Pots
dam, then to Leipsig, where Dr. Knoblauch published an account
of our doctrines of the brain. Then the usual demonstrations and
lectures were delivered in Dresden, where Mr. Bloede published
outlines ofour anatomical and physiological views. From Dresden,
we went to Halle, where Professors Reil and Loder, and numer
ous gentlemen of the profession, honored us with their presence at
the public lectures and demonstrations. With Loder we repeated
several times the anatomical demonstrations ; and once we dissect
ed with Reil, a brain, quietly in his own room. He was so much
pleased with our demonstrations, that he gave to Dr. Gall some
drawings with which he was formerly occupied de structures ner-
vorum et cerebelli. Thus I beg to observe, that in the summer of
1805, we demonstrated to Reil the same leading points in the anat
omy of the brain which we still maintain. We then continued to
lecture and to demonstrate the brain, that very same year, in Wei
mar, Jena, Goettingen, Brownschweig, Hamburgh, Kiel, and Co
penhagen. In the year 1806, anatomical demonstrations were made
in Bremen, Munster in Westphalia, Amsterdam, Leyden, Frank
fort upon the Main, Heidelberg, Manheim, Stuttgard, and Fiibourgh
95
in Brisgasv. In the year 1807 we went to Marbourgh, Wiirtzbourgh,
Munie, Augsbourgh, Ulm, Zurich, Bern, Bale, and in the autumn
of the same year, to Paris, where we dissected the brain, first in the
e-esence of Cuvier, Fourcroy, Geoffroi de St. Hilaire, Dumeril, Dr.
emangeon and others, and successively before many learned so
cieties. Meanwhile, numerous publications bad appeared in Ger
many. Dr. Demangeon who had attended the lectures in Ham-
borough, published in Paris, 1806, his Physiologic Jntellectuelle, and
mentioned our anatomical views.
' In March, 1808, we delivered our memoir to the French In
stitute. The Commissioners declare at the beginning of their Re
port, that thej have hesitated a moment whether they should ex
amine our paper, because there is a rule ' de ne point emettre avis
sur les ouvrages deja soumis au grand tribunal du public par la
voie de 1'impression et 1'on pourait croire que la doctrine auatomi-
que de M. Gall a regu, par 1'enseignement oral que le professeur en
a fait dans les principals villes de 1'Europe, et par les nombreux
estraits que ses disciples en ont repandus, une publicit£ a peu pres
equivalente a celle d'une impression authentique.' They howev
er, add, that Gall had not given his sanction to any one of the pub
lications, and that this circumstance was one of the motives which
induced them to examine our memoir.
' The report is printed, even translated, and inserted in the Edin
burgh Medical and Surgical Journal, for January 1809. We pub
lished our Memoir with observations on the report in 1809. After
this, Reil published in his Archives, views essentially the same as
ours, of the aggregation of cerebral parts, of diverging and converg
ing fibres, and of the possibility of separating the convolutions in
the middle line. He does not state that he was the first who has
conceived such general ideas, nor does he mention us as the invent
ors. He does not, and could not say that we have learnt from
him ; he merely describes and represents them in engravings. As
we had been in almost every town, and at all universities in Ger
many, our countrymen knew how to estimate the proceedings of
Reil, and it is only the great publicity of our demonstrations that
can excuse Reil for not mentioning them.
' It is true Reil has chosen other names ; he calls our apparatus
of formation, Hirnshenkel system, and our apparatus of union,
Balken system, our diverging bundles are his Stabkrans. We
speak rimply of fibres, he of various convexities, obtuse and acute
angles of the fibres, of lamin«e, fossa?, and radii of the white sub
stance ; of wings, mountains, lobules, teeth ; of a comb, and of sim
ilar mechanical denominations, which may appear interesting to a
mechanical dissecter who is attentive to every litile cul-de-sur, and
declares the anatomy of the brain unnecessary to physiological ^nd
pathological views. (Dr. Gordon had said so.) We think that
there would be no end of s'.ich mechanical details in comparative
anatomy, if, for instance, in the gradation of animals every iie\v ad
ditional part in the cerebellum is to be named, who will learn all
the names ? and of what use will such a study be ? We therefore
96
point out the structure of each part, well aware, however, that eaeb
part is modified in the individuals of different species, nay in the
different individuals of the same species.'
Professor Bischoff, in the preface of his Exposition of Dr. Gall's
doctrine, reports Reil's own words, after we had dissected the brain
to him in 180.">. ' I have seen in the anatomical demonstrations of
the brain, made by Gall, more than I thought man could discover
in his whole life.' This short ;account is sufficient to prove, that
there is no occasion whatever for us to apologize with respect to
the publications ofReil. On the contrary, might we not rather com
plain of several recent authors who, in thtiir publications, speak of
our views without any mention of the source whence they were
derived, or of the individuals who first struck them out, or reduced
them to certainty by direct proofs. The influence our labors have
had on the study of the nervous system, is incontestible. To be
convinced of this, it is enough to examine the state of knowledge
in regard to the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the brain
and spinal nerves, when we began to develope our ideas on these
matters, whether it was by teaching orally, by dissecting public
ly, or by means of our writings. M. de Blainville is one of the few,
who, placing truth above selfishness, and looking for mere person
al merit, declared, (in his report on Dr. Foville's researches on the
anatomy of the biain, read to the Academy of Natural Sciences,
the 23d of June, 1828,) that Gall and myself have given to the re
searches of the nervous system and brain, an impulse and direction
altogether new; — that this new direction has diverted anatomists
from the beaten track to which they had attached themselves be
fore our labors ; and that if we had done nothing but this, and were
all the points of our anatomy to be successfully contested and com
pletely refuted, there would still remain to us, the honor of having
discovered a new impulse, and consequently to us must be referred
as to its source, all that may be valuable in future labors on that
subject.
As, however, our anatomical discoveries are often quoted under
the name Gall alone, it becomes necessary to allot to each of us the
portion he deserves. It is universally known, that Dr. Gall has the
great merit of having first begun our phrenological inquiries. The
medal published in Paris after his death, and dedicated, au creaieur
dda physiologie du cerveau indicates, the merit due to him alone.
He had pointed out many relations which exist between various
talents and characters of man, and instinct of animals, and certain
cerebral parts, before I was so happy as to become acquainted with
him. But though he is the first founder of the physiological basis
of phrenology, no one can deprive me of that honor and merit
which I deserve in our common labors and in the progress of
phrenology. (I settled my anatomical account with Dr. Gall, in an
appendix to my French Essay philosophique, Paris, 1820, and in
the preface of my English work on the anatomy of the brain, Lon
don, 1826. Dr. Gall has never contradicted my statements ; and is
97
the last volume of his work, Sur les Fonctions du Cerveau, p. 490,
he said, ' Qu'il me soit permis de relever, une tendance singuliere
que manifestent beaucoup de personnes d'attribuerwos ilecouvertes
& d'autres par example & Reil ; et M. Spurzheim a deja dans plus-
ieura endroits, revendique NOTRE propriete.' The following is a
summary of my relation with Gall. In the year 1800, 1 first at
tended a private course of lectures, which he had repeated from
time to time, during four preceding years. He then spoke of the
brain as the organ of the mind ; — of the necessity ofconsidering the
brain as divided into different organs ; — of the possibility of deter
mining the special organs, by the development of individual parts
of the brain, exhibited in the external configuration of the head.
He admitted organs of particular memories, and of several feelings,
but he had not yet commenced any anatomical investigation of the
brain. Hitherto he had recourse to physiognomical means alone.
to discover the physiology of the brain. But physiology without
anatomy is imperfect : Dr. Gall felt this, particularly in observing a
poor woman with hydrocephalus, who was weakly, but ns active
and intelligent as other women of her class. He concluded, as
Tulpius had done long before, from a similar case, that the struc
ture of the brain must be different from what it is commonly be
lieved to be. The woman died at the age of fifty-four years. Four
pounds of water were found in her head, but the brain was not
destroyed nor dissolved.
As Dr. Gall's time was greatly occupied by his medical duties,
he employed a medical student, Mr. Niclas, to dissect for him. The
investigations, however, were conducted from works published on
the brain, and with mere mechanical views, as mentioned in the
preface, p. xvi. of our large work on the anatomie et physiologic
du systeme nerveaux en general et du cerveau en particulier.
From the moment in which I got acquainted with Dr. Gall's
physiological doctrine of the brain I have never lost sight of it. My
medical school studies being at an end, in 1804 I joined Dr. Gall,
and undertook the prosecution of the anatomical department,
especially. Dr. Gall then knew the ecussation of the pyramids ;
he also spoke of their passage through the pons varoli, and eleven
layers of logitudinal and transverse fibres in the pons, of the con
tinuation of the optic nerves to the anterior pair of the corpula
quadrigemina, of the diverging bundles at the outside of the enira
cerebri in the dissection, in which Vieussens, Monro, Vicq d'Azyr,
and Reil (Gren's Journal, 1795, 1.) had followed them, the first in
scraping, the others in slicing the brain. He also showed, like
Vicq d'Azyr, the continuation of the anterior commissure through
the corpora striata, and mentioned the unfolding of the brain in
hydrocephalus. The idea, however, which he had conceived of
the brain in that state, was incorrect, inasmuch as he considered
the hemispheres as resulting from a membrane folded together,
and fancied that the crura cerebri expanded there, and were then
folded by juxtaposition of the convolutions. This erroneous idea
9
98
ir.ay be found recorded in all expositions which various individu
als have published of Dr. Gall's lectures, and was not corrected
previously to the presentation of our Memoir to the French Insti
tute, in the year 1808. Till then the true structure of the convo
lutions and their connexion with the rest of the cerebral mass had
never been described.
When I began to dissect the brain, I found the spirit in which
the structure of this organ bad been examined, too mechanical, and
endeavored to discover a structure of the brain in harmony with
its functions. I succeeded in observing the law of the continual
and successive additions of the cerebral fibres;—their division into
two principal portions which are in communication with the rest
of the nervous system ;—their divergent directions towards the
convolutions;—the difference of the diverging and converging or
uniting fibres ;—the true connexion of the convorutions with the
rest of the cerebral mass, and their structure, which permits every
convolution to be unfolded, as happens in hydrocephalus internus,
whilst the cerebral substance at the bottom of the convolutions,
viz. the mass where the diverging and converging fibres cross
each other, is pushed by the water, between the two layers of
which every convolution is composed. In our public as well as
private demonstrations of the brain, I always made the dissections,
and Dr. Gall explained them to the auditors.
Since our conjoined publication, I have extended our notions of
the communication of the nerves and cerebral parts with each
other, and collected them in a separate section, in my English
work on the anatomy of the brain. During the last three years, I
have been occupied with showing the regularity of the cerebral
portions, nnd with specifying the individual organs and their boun
daries. This additional discovery was desirable for phrenology.
It is also a means to prove that individual parts are wanting in
various idiots, and in the brain of the Ourang Outang, which,
however, has the greatest analogy with the human brain. I pre
sented these ideas in a paper accompanied with drawings, to the
Royal Society of London. The council of this learned body per
mitted them to be read, but did not think the paper worthy of
being published in their transactions. My ideas, however, are new,
no where demonstrated in books, and will be, I am sure, appreci
ated by phrenologists, as the completion of the phrenological
anatomy of the brain. Dr. Gall died without knowing the regu
larity of the convolutions and boundaries of the cerebral organs.
Note 3. p. 40.
It is curious to hear some opponents object to phrenology be
cause I admit a greater number of organs than Dr. Gall, and differ
from him in various points. Is chemistry to be rejected, or is it
less true, because the chemical knowledge of Sir H. Davy was
more extensive than that of Lavoisier, or because this latter did
99
not discover whatever may be known in chemical science in fu
ture ? Dr. Gall being the first founder of phrenology, remains
immortal. The success of his labors, too, was immense. He dis
covered the situation of twenty-six phrenological organs, I say
twenty-six instead of twenty-seven, because his organ of verbal
memory and that of language are to be considered as one. But
his talent and the sphere of its operations had their limits, and
since our separation in 1813, Dr. Gall has neither made a new dis
covery in phrenology, nor a step towards its improvement.
The spirit in which he from the beginning conducted his
researches into the moral and intellectual nature of man, is ex
pressed in the publication of the first chapter of a large important
but unfinished work, entitled Philosophised medicinishe Unter-
suchunjjen ueber Natur und Kunst im gesundem und krnnkcn
Zustande des Menschen. Wien, 1791.
The first printed notice of his inquiries concerning the head,
appeared in a familiar letter written by Dr. Gall to Baron Retzer,
and inserted in the German periodical journal, Doutscher Mercur,
in Dec. 1798. The objects of his private lectures in Vienna
from 1796 to 1802, are published by Dr. Froriep and Dr. Walther.
Further, the whole of the physiological doctrines, as exposed by
Dr. Bischoff and Mr. Bloede in 1805, are Dr. Gall's exclusive
property ; but every new addition from that period up to 1813,
belongs to us in common, because we pursued our inquiries
together.
My special rectifications of phrenology, and new physiological
discoveries, begin with our separation from each other in 1813.
They concern particularly the discovery of eight new organs, and
the analysis of the special powers of the mind, whilst Dr. Gall
mostly confined himself to the comparison of talents, characters,
and certain modes of acting, with individual cerebral portions.
He admitted in every power ofthe mind the same modes of action ;
for instance, perception, memory, judgment, and imagination ;
whilst I classify the mental powers into orders, genera and species,
and examine the common and special modes of acting of the dif
ferent faculties. Further, Dr. Gall ascribed to the senses the
notions which the mind acquires of existence, and of the physical
qualities of the external objects, whilst I think those operations of
the mind to be dependent on cerebral organs. I therefore speak
of immediate and mediate functions of the external senses; in the
former the mind takes cognizance by the assistance of the senses
alone ; in tlie latter it is assisted, besides the senses, by cerebral
organs. In general, my philosophical views in phrenology differ
widely from those of Dr. Gall.—The moral and religious consider
ations of phrenology, too, as they are taught in Great Britain, are
conceptions of mine. Dr. Gall never endeavored to point out the
standard of natural morality.—In the natural language I discover
ed several principles in addition to that found by Dr. Gall : that
the movements of the head, body, and extremities, are modified
165867
100
V
by the seat of the organs ia action. Moreover, in the practical part
of phrenology, and in examining the development of the special
organs, I began to pay more attention to the breadth of the organs
than Dr. Gall was accustomed to do, and directed phrenologists to
attend to the individual regions of the head, in reference to the
three lobes of the brain, and to the three regions of the animal
propensities, the human sentiments and intellectual faculties,
rather than to the protuberances and depressions to which Dr.
Gall attached himself almost exclusively. In short, the compari
son of Dr. Gall's works with my publications on phrenology, on
its philosophical principles, on education, insanity, and other mat
ters, will best show how much I have contributed to extend and
improve phrenology, and to forward its study.
Note 4, p. 42.
No one, acquainted with the Edinburgh Review, will doubt that
h was the greatest desire of the late editor and his party, to upset
phrenology perfas et nefas. In Dr. Gordon's celebrated attack
upon the new doctrines in the 49th number, even our anatomical
discoveries were treated with unsparing expressions. In No. 88,
of the Review, Mr. Jeffrey himself tried his wits and powers to
deliver the public from all the phrenolog cal absurdities. Though
he hail candor to avow that he is not learned in anatomy, he
hoped, however, to deprive phrenology of its pretensions. His
lucubrations, it is true, produced a temporary effect, but his igno
rance in phrenology, and his sophistical proceeding, were sure to
turn at last against the literary delinquent himself In a note to
the 89th number, Mr. Jeffrey stated that ' if we find at the end of
a few more years that the science is still known by name among
persons of sense, we may think it our duty to look once more
into its pretensions, and give ourseLves another chance of conver
sion.' 1 give Mr. Jeffrey up to his modified feeling of duty, and
rely on the truth of phrenology.
But as far as the Edinburgh Review is concerned, in reference
to our anatomical discoveries, and the basis of our phrenological
principles, there is an immense change from No. 49 to 94. In the
latter, there is an article on the nervous system, where special
functions are ascribed to individual nerves ; where it is admitted
that 'in the nervous system alone, we can trace a gradual progress
in the provision for thu subordination of one (animal) to another,
and of all to man ; and are enabled to associate every faculty which
gives superiority, with some addition to the nervous mass, even
from the smallest indications of sensation and will, up to the high
est degree of sensibility, judgment, and expression. The brain is
observed progressively to be improved in its structure, and with
reference to the spinal marrow and nerves, augmented in volume
more and more, until we reach the human brain, each addition
beitig marked by some addition to, or amplification of, the powers
101
of the animal — until in man we behold it possessing some parts
ofwhich animals are destitute, and wanting none which theirs pos
sess.' (p. 443.) —Is this not eminently phrenological ?
' Even within pur own time ( says the Edinburgh Reviewer, No.
94,) although many great anatomists had devoted themselves al
most exclusively to describing the brain, this organ used to be de
monstrated by the greater number of teachers, in a manner which,
however invariable, was assuredly not particularly useful. It was
so mechanically cut down upon, indeed, as to constitute a sort of
exhibition connected with nothing. The teacher and the pupil
were equally dissatisfied with the performance, and the former
probably the most. The latter soon gave up the painful attempt
to draw any kind of deductions from what he witnessed, and dis
posed of the difficulty as he best could, when he had to render an
account of what he had seen. Up to this day our memory is pained
by the recollection of the barbarous names, and regular .sections of
what was then the dullest part of anatomical study, which, although
often repeated, left no trace but of its obscurity or its absurdity.
Here an oval space of a white color, and there a line of grey or curve
of red were displayed ; here a cincritious, there a medullary mass ;
here a portion white without, and grey within, there a portion
white within, and grey without ; here a gland pituitary, there a
gland like grains of sand ; here a ventricle, there a cul-de-sac, with
endless fibres, and lines, and globules, and simple marks, with ap
pellations no less fanciful than devoid of meaning.' (p. 447.) Is
this not quite the language which Dr. Gall and myself used in dis
secting the brain to our classes ? ' Why then are our names never
mentioned in the article, since we have introduced a new and
better method of dissecting the brain ? At all events this article is a
powerful pleading ofthe phrenological principles, and the Edinburgh
Review is an evident proof that truth must prevail.
Note 5, p. 44.
Since the time when this article was published in the Foreign
Quarterly, I have delivered many courses ofphrenology to numer
ous and most respectable classes ; for instance, in the beginning
of 1828, three in Edinburgh ; in the spring ofthe same year, two in
Glasgow ; and, in 1829, at Derby, Nottingham, Sheffield, Wake-
field, Leeds, Manchester, Liverpool, and several other places. Mr.
George Combe, too, lectured on Phrenology in Dublin, during last
April, with the greatest success. The phrenological collections in
London, Edinburgh, and at various other places, have largely in
creased. In short, phrenology is propagated with unabated zeal,
and numerous converts are made in favor of it. The London En
cyclopedia, under the article Craniology, referred to that of phre
nology, on condition that the pretended science should not have
' (evaporated before that time.' In the 33d part, however, when the
turn of phrenology came, a favorable articleap peared. The great
\ 9*
\
102
change which meanwhile took place in the Edinburgh Review itself,
is already mentioned in Note 4.
Note 6, p. 62.
Phrenology, in establishing the knowledge of man, must become
the basis, not only of moral philosophy, education, and legislation,
but also of the science styled political economy. It will teach
those who constantly speak of the march of intellect, that intellect
is only one part of of the human mind ; that knowing to read and
to write is not the first basis ofcommon welfare ; that masters alone
cannot give talents, nor precepts produce morality. It will exer
cise a great influence on the welfare of nations, in indicating clear
ly the difference between natural and arbitrary nobility, and in
forming the relations between individuals to each other in general,
and between those who govern and those who are governed in par
ticular. Further, it will dispose governments who take interest in
the happiness of their subjects, to think of means of making them
not only rich, but also healthy, virtuous, and wise : and should they
not succeeed to produce such eminent results, a great merit will be
due to them for preserving individual families and their nation at
large from degeneracy. The laws of the hereditary descent in the
physical, moral, and intellectual constitution of man, will offer the
most important considerations to their study and reflection, and
those laws can be understood by phrenology alone.
Note 7, p. 76.
Phrenology has been objected to, because criminals have been
described as possessing at the same time certain organs of the ani
mal feelings and of human sentiments large. But does this appar
ent contradiction in organization not coincide with a contradiction
in character, not only among criminals but also in many other per
sons? First, if criminals possessed only the organs of the animal
propensities large, and were deprived of those of the human senti
ments, could they be declared guilty ? Hence the legislator and
judge, in inflicting pains and even capital punishment, suppose
counter motives against criminal propensities. Now, those coun
ter motives, as well as the brutal propensities, depend on cerebral
organs, and the only reasonable thing which car. be said on this
point is, that criminals are guilty, and their criminality great, in
proportion to their human sentiments and intellect with which they
are endowed. The object ofphrenology isonly to show such states,
which in reality are not rare. The ancients had Nemesis as a di-
'vinity of vengeance; and, since the Christian era, there have been
criminals who performed religious ceremonies, and said prayers,
in hopes that they might be successful in executing their heinous-
plans, and who, after fulfilling their evil deeds, gave thanks to some)
superior beings. Why should it be impossible to find in such indi-
103
viduals the organs of veneration and marvellousness large, as well
as some ofthe animal propensities ? Whilst lecturing for the sec
ond time at Manchester, in October, 1829, several gentlemen,
among them one of the first magistrates; went with me through the
prison. Amongst various criminals whom we examined, a female,
condemned to fourteen years transportation, was presented to us.
Her organ of acquisitiveness was large, but those of cautiousness
and conscientiousness were small. At the same time I perceived
the organs of veneration and marvellousness large, directed the at
tention of the gentlemen who were with me to this contradiction
of dispositions, and manifested the wish to be informed about her
devotional conduct. We then learned that her behavior in the
chapel is exemplary, and that on the preceding Sunday she had
been rewarded for it by the chaplain with a prayer-book. Many
criminals are faithful, and net with a feeling of honor towards their
companions, but 'deceitful and treacherous with th<; rest of man
kind.' Dr. Gall knew a devotee who kept several mistresses, gave
them prayer-books, and exhorted them to devotion. Do not con
querors and invaders sing Te Deum for having immolated thou
sands of innocent victims? Do we not observe, in daily life, that
individuals are pious and charitable at one time, preach even ser
mons, and write moral and religious treatises, btil who at another
time indulge in sensuality and debauchery, and degrade themselves
to the level of the brute creation ? Mr. Greg, in his answer to Mr.
Stone's pamphlet on Burke and Hare, pointedly says, ' Every ob
server of human nature, in its ever varying phases, must have been
surprised and confounded by the inconsistent and anomalous qual
ities which present themselves in the same character, sometimes
simultaneously, sometimes in the order of succession. We could
point out many who, calm and placid on all other occasions, be
come fiery and ferocious the instant that gunpowder word phre
nology is mentioned.'
Are not the reviewers partial one day and impartial another time ?
Bonaparte's carelessness of human life, in the mass is generally
known, but the instances are not rare where in individual cases
his humanity was very great. Mr. Bourienne, in his Memoirs of
Napoleon, states, that in the voyage to Egypt, when a man fell
overboard, the Commander-in-cliief had no repose till he was sav
ed. Napoleon invariably directed the ships to lay to, and ordered
the individuals who had exerted themselves to be well rewarded.
One night the crew were all alarmed by the cry of 'a man over
board,' which resounded from one end of the vessel to the other.
Bonaparte ordered the ship to be laid to. It proved, however, in
the end to be nothing more than a quarter of an ox, which had
slipped from the provision-hook. Bonaparte wisely ordered that
on this occasion the sailors should receive a more than ordinary re
ward.' ' It might have been a man, and these fine fellows had not
shown less courage and zeal than if it had.' So spake he who was
on his way to immolate thousands and tens of thousands, and at a
moment when he was most anxious to escape the English fleet.
104
In numerous instances Bonaparte seemed to be fond of pardoning,
be it from policy or from sensibility. But it required but a shadow
ofdanger to his political existence to justify in his eyes any act,
however bloody, however inhuman. He was sensible to individu
al sufferings when it did not interfere with his military or political
projects ; but in that case, it was his maxim to steel himself against
all softer feelings. He used to say : ' Unless the heart is firm, no
one ought to meddle with affairs ofeither war or politics.'
[The examples of contradictions in character and understanding
are very common ; even in the history of the Jews, and in individ
uals who were considered as inspired ; nay, in popes, who pretend
ed to he infallible. David was not mere wisdom and virtue ; and
the aberrations of Solomon were great and numerous, notwith
standing his extraordinary wisdom.
Pascal, and other divines, have considered it as one of many oth
er superiorities of Christianity, to represent man as a mixture of
good and evil. Did not the great apostle Paul himself complain
of two laws, one in his members, and the other in his spirit,
confessing that he saw and felt the better and did the worse ?
Phrenology alone furnishes the best natural explanation of this
opposition in the animal and human feelings of the same individu
al. Further, phrenology alone explains why only a few are ge
niuses either in virtue or talent, whilst some others are characterized
by mere brutal tendencies ;—why some excel in certain dispositions
but are middling in others, and almost defective in still others;—fi
nally, why the great bulk of mankind are followers of their leaders,
and apparently the work of ocasional circumstances, but middling
in all their proceedings.
The apparent contradiction in powers and cerebral organization
does not only exist in man, but also in animals. John Blackwall,
Esq. in a paper read before the Literary and Philosophical Society
of Manchester, March 23d, 1826, proves from direct observations
that the swallow tribe, partienlarly the house-martin, notwithstand
ing their great parental affection which is powerfully exerted dur
ing the breeding season, at the moment of their migration abandon
their eggs, or even consign their offspring to a painful and linger
ing death, in direct opposition to their feeling of parental love,
which is so intense at other times. A female dog may be kind to
her puppies and her master, but fierce with strangers. A cat may
be very mild and playful with her mistress, but most cruel with a
mouse. Phrenology, in showing the special powers in man and
animals, clearly accounts for such apparent contradictions.
Finally, it is to be remarked, that in applying phrenology to in
dividual criminals and their cerebral organizations, their disposi
tions, motives of action, and determinate actions should never be
confounded with each other. Phrenology examines merely dis
positions in relation to organization ; but the actions require the
consideration of motives and of external occasional causes. A last
ing motive will always be found accompanied by cerebral develop
ment, and here, for instance, the desire ofacquiring is the princi
105
pal motive of a murder, the organ of acquisitiveness will be found
large, and destructivcness acts as a mere means of satisfying the
strong desire.
The determinate actions, on the other hand, always depend on
external circumstances. Hare anil Burke, for instance, had the
animal propensities stronger and their respective organs larger than
the human sentiments and their organs ; hence their animal nature
being excited, would overpower their human sentiments. Yet
Burke was still obliged to take whiskey to suppress his better feel
ings ; but the atrocious crimes themselves of those villains were
entirely dependent on the local situation of their existence. In
France or Germany they never could have been guilty of their
atrocities, since the excitement of such a living and the opportuni
ty of selling the murdered would have been wanted. In both coun
tries several murders have been detected from the difficulty of con
cealing the murdered, whilst in Great Britain, the greatest facility
is offered, not only to conceal victims, but even to be dearly paid
for them. This alone should invite the legislator to provide for
better means than are in use to enable the medical profession to
study an indispensable branch of their art. At all events, contra
diction of character is no objection to phrenology.
Note 8, p. 87.
Medical men are frequently called upon to decide about the real
ity of phrenology. This, however, is a great mistake, since it ia
positive that, before our time the medical profession was quite ig
norant of the structure and functions of the brain, in its state of
health and disease. Medical men, therefore, before they study
phrenology, have no more right to judge of its reality than any
other man or woman who never attended to it. He who can per
ceive differences in size and forms, and compare coincidences of
cerebral development with mental dispositions, and who takes the
trouble of examining nature,—he alone is entitled to form and give
an opinion concerning the pretensions ofphrenology. There have
been many medical men, who, though ignorant of the new science
and its foundation, wished to keep up the craft which surrounds
their profession, and who with great self-complacency declared
phrenology to be nonsense. Their motives seem to have been of
two kinds: as long as the public opinion was against phrenology,
those with predominant secretiveness and acquisitiveness thought
it the most proper to go with the tide. In proportion as the public
opinion turns in favor of phrenology, these opponents become si
lent. Others with predominant organs ofself-esteem and firmness,
and smaller conscientiousness, think it necessary to maintain till
the end of their days that which they have once said, viz. ; phre
nology to be nonsense and quackery. Nature will take charge of
them, and send younger brains, open to conviction, truth, and new
discoveries. The march of intellect is quicker in our days than it
106
was in former times, yet it is still very slow. Before new doc
trines are generally admitted new generations must rise. The
discovery of Newton was not a system of opinions, but the gene
ralization of facts, made known by experiments ; it was brought
forward in a most simple and unpretending form, and had every
thing to recommend it ; yet a host of enemies appeared to attack
that which posterity was to confirm. Newton had published his
doctrine thirty years, when the principles of Descartes were still
taught at Cambridge. Gall and myself have taken, and I still take
all possible means to propagate and teach our discoveries.
Though their reality is admitted more and more, public teachers
show the greatest reluctance to adopt and propagate them to their
pupils. Since — years I repeatedly show a better method ofdissect
ing the brain : all medical men agree that the old and usual method
of dissecting this organ offers nothing to recommend, but many
reasons to reject it ; that every one, who does not make anatomy
his particular study, soon ibrgets everything that he has learnt of
the brain, as soon as he has passed his examination before the
medical authorities ; yet at this very day the teachers ofall medical
schools are obliged to go on with the anatomy of the brain in the
old absurd way, in order, as they say, to prepare their students for
examination. Thus the old schoolmen must die before a better
method of dissecting the brain can be generally introduced.
However, let me say that medical men who neglect the study of
phrenology, and think it below their dignity and wisdom, have to
choose between self-esteem and ignorance, or modesty and knowl
edge.
Note 9, p. 88.
'The votaries of phrenology are said to be third-rate men —per
sons without scientific or philosophical reputation. They are not
entitled to challenge the regard of those who have higher studies to
occupy their attention.' The assertion that no men of note have
embraced phrenology, is not supported by fact. The great success
with which I have hitherto lectured in London, Cambridge, Bath,
Bristol, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Manchester, Liverpool, and many
other places ; the respectable classes which never decreased in
number, but always increased as the course went on, so that my
last lecture was every where the most numerously attended,—is for
me a certain proof that phrenology excites the interest of enlight
ened minds, whenever it is fairly presented. I, however, am not
willing to occupy the pubhc with the personal merit of phrenolo
gists ; but it may be interesting to understand the talents which our
opponents display, the profundity of their knowledge, the consis
tency of their judgment, the fairness of their proceedings, the sin
cerity of their motives, and their eminence in every respect. It
may be noticed, as a general though singular remark, that many of
those who belong to the pretended liberal party, and who speak a
107
great deal of the march of intellect, are the most inveterate ene
mies of phrenology, though this science will do more for the wel
fare of mankind than all other means of improvement together.—
The probable cause of this class of opponents is, that their literary
gospel, the Edinburgh Review, without knowing phrenology, had
declared against it. Now, leaders of any kind do not wish to ap
pear to be in the wrong. Predominant self-esteem, firmness', and
love of approbation dispose the owner of such powers to look eve
ry where for the first place ; and the same feelings, if not guided
by conscientiousness, prevent him from changing his former decis
ions, or, at least, from avowing such a change of mind. I pardon
the adversaries among the liberal party, because they do not know
what they do ; and turn myself in particular to the Critical Review
ers and anonymous writers of the public press, who repeatedly
announced phrenology to be er.tirely upsjet. Mr. George Combe,
in his answer to Mr. Stone's contrived observations on ihe heads
of Burke and Hare, pointedly remarked, that 'the very fact of re
peating the same declaration year after year, since 1815, when Dr.
Gordon's celebrated attack on phrenology appeared in the 49th
number of the Edinburgh Review, seems never to have struck the
critics as demonstrating its falsity and absurdity. If phrenology
was refuted by Dr. Gordon, why did they laud Dr. Roget for de
molishing it ?—If Dr. Roget succeeded, why did they praise Dr.
Barclay so extravagantly for subverting what was already over
turned ?— If Dr. Barclay was a fatal enemy, why did they extol
Mr. Jeffrey to the skies as the prince of all anti-phrenologists ?— If
Jeffrey left no shred of the science sticking lo another, why did
they sound a loud acclaim to Sir William Hamilton for his ivpwit-
ed victories over its scattered members? and if Sir William's
brows were decorated with well-earned laurels on account of his
magnanimous achievements, why do they now cling to Mr. Stone,
as ifno other champion had tilted with success against phrenolo
gy ? The only inference that can reasonably be drawn is, that
those who uttered those eulogiums, entertained a great, yet childish
prejudice against phrenology ;— that they dreaded its ultimate tri
umph, as implying a censure on their own conduct towards its
founders—but that, even while they condemned it, they were con
scious of being ignorant both of its nature and its evidence, and
were beset by that inward misgiving, that secret uneasiness^ \yhich
ever haunts those who oppose truth on the strength of prejudice
alone. It was this state offeeling which caused them to hnil with
deep interest, every shadow of an argument, and every phantom
of a fact by which they might justify to their own minds the
doubtful conduct which they had pursued.'
The great critics of the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews, de
serve a particular notice. They, of course, must think themselves
of the first-rate men — persons of the greatest scientific and philo
sophical reputation, and therefore assume the mighty we of sove
reignty. The conscientious feelings of the former Editor of the
108
Edinburgh Review must he mortified to see that his successor, in
No. 94, has acknowledged the basis of phrenological principles,
though he did not mention that name, whilst the Quarterly con
tinues to. assail phrenology, probably to cover his shuffling con
duct : but the readers should mind their being deceived.
In No. 77, in alluding to Dr. Granville's remarks on the supposed
skull of Charlemagne at Aix-la-Chapelle, the Quarterly Reviewer
says, 'We have a higher opinion of Dr. Granville's sagacity, than
to suppose him capable- of being deluded by so gross a piece of
quackery, as craniology — for that is the proper name. Let him
leave that, by all means, to the young gentlemen of Edinburgh,
who pretend to believe so strongly in the infallibility of their patron
Spurzheim, us a good catholic does in that of the pope, each equal
ly contrary to common sense and human reason. While on this
subject, we will tell those nonhern bumphunters a little anecdote
of their oracle which we know to be true.
' On visiting the studio of a celebrated sculptor in London, hia
attention was drawn to a bust with remarkable depth of skull, from
the forehead to the occiput. ' What a noble head,' he exclaimed,
' is that, full seven inches ; what superior powers of mind must he
be endowed with who possesses such a head as is here represent
ed !' ' Why, yes,' says the blunt artist, ' he certainly was a very
extraordinary man ; that is the bust of my early friend and first
patron, John Horn Tooke.' 'Aye,' answers the craniologist, 'you
see there is something after all in our science, notwithstanding the
scofis of many of your countrymen.' ' Certainly,' says the sculp
tor, ' but here is another bust, with a greater depth, and a still more
capacious forehead.' ' Bless me,' exclaims the craniologist, taking
out his rule, ' eight inches ! Who can this be ? This I am sure,
must belong to some extraordinary and well known character.'
' Why, yes,' says the sculptor, ' he is pretty well known, it is the
head of Lord Pomfret.'
Now my simple answer is, that this little anecdote, which the
Reviewer knew to be true, has never occurred, and never could
occur with me, since I never measure skulls or heads by inches,
nor do I ever use language in correspondence with such a fallacious
proceeding. The whole story, in reference to me, is an unfound
ed assertion, and 'he who uses such weapons, will find that they
must necessarily recoil upon himself, and fatally pierce his own
reputation, both for sense and veracity.'
The simple report of this contrived story, proves the Reviewer's
peculiar veracity : let us now see a proof of his sense and perspicaci
ty. In No. 81, of the Quarterly, art. Gooch on Insanity, p. 176, in
a note we find — 'The following anatomical facts, selected from
WenzePs celebrated work, de penitiori structura cerebrihominis et
brutorum, show that up to the 7th year of life, very great changes
are going on in the structure of the brain, and demand, therefore,
the utmost attention not to interrupt them by improper or over ex
citement: just that degree of exercise should be given to the brain
109
at this period, as is necessary to its health, and the best is oral in
struction exemplified by objects which strike the senses. The di
mensions of tlte brain proper, are as follows:
LENGTH. Inches. BREADTH. Inches.
At the 3d rath- alter conception - 13
At birth -
At the 7th year - - 6 or 7
At the 80th year - - 6 or 7
32 to 44
5 to 6
5 to 6
' It appears therefore, says the Reviewer, tha the brain proper,
increases rather more in length and breadth during the six months
immediately preceding birth, than during the first seven years af
ter birth, that those dimensions arrive at their maximum at the age
of seven, and they suffer no change during the whole of after life.
The weight of the whole brain arrives, most commonly, at its maxi
mum at the age of three years, and remains without diminution
the whole of after life.'
The latter conclusions are heresies in phrenology, and I beg the
reader to mind that the great literary judges did not perceive the
fallacious proceeding of Wenzel to compare different individuals in
order to make out the size of the brain at birth, at seven years, and
at eighty years. I have seen in children of seven, even of three
years, larger brains and foreheads (the residence of intellect) than
in some adults who opposed phrenology ; hut does this prove that
the adults had already the same size of brain at their age of seven
years, and that the brains of children seven years old do not in
crease in after life ? Whoever will observe the same individual
will arrive at results very different from Wenzel's statements and
the Reviewer's conclusions. Critics, however, of so little sense of
comparison and discrimination dare to decry a science of which
they know nothing, and which they never wish to study.
In adverting to the language of our opponents, one might think
that phrenology could not be true before they had given their sanc
tion. But who will maintain that any doctrine is true because it
is recommended by reviewers, believed by all who are wise, or
considered as such, and even admitted and taught in public schools ?
On the other hand, shall any opinion be declared as false, because
it is new and rejected by the established professors, by the wise of
the age, and by all who have influence on society and its institu
tions ? Was the scholastic philosophy the best, because it enjoyed
the greatest reputation during many centuries ? Or was Galileo in
the wrong because his doctrine was opposed by the greatest au
thority of the time, by an authority considered even as infallible ?
Shall the poetical talent of Burns and Lord Byron be denied, be
cause it was opposed by the great critics of Scotland ? Is the mer
it of the late Dr. Thomas Brown as a philosopher less because his
works were not praised by literary judges, or, as his biographer
says, because ' in the reviews of the day, the name of Dr. Brown is
10
110
almost the only one of any celebrity that is never to be found'? '
The reader should remember that the human species ia the same
at all times, and that the same moiives produce the same actions in
ours- as well as in former days : iu doctors of medicine and divinity
as well as in reviewers. A new science is always opposed by those
whose reputation suffers from its introduction. Phrenology hav
ing an influence on tho improvement of all branches of anthropolo
gy, has been and is assailed by the professors of every branch, by
speculative philosophers, medical men, lawyers and divines. Yet
it spreads and gains ground. notwithstanding this powerful opposi
tion. I glory in thinking that the constant and malignant exer
tions of the reviewers have been frustrated, even during my life
time, by the intrinsic power of phrenology itself. My work on
phrenology, being at its fourth edition, is not due to its being prais
ed and recommended by leading reviewers.
Note 10, p. 91.
Whilst writing my notes to this article, I asked myself, several
times, whether it be necessary to speak of an opponent who is a
mere mouthpiece of an illiberal party, and who conducts the in
quiry and discussion with uncommon effrontery, particularly since
his erroneous proceeding, his fallacious argumentation, his evident
misrepresentations and misquotations have been clearly shown by
Mr. George Combe, in the Phrenological Journal- and by an acute
writer, in a series of articles in the London Medical and Surgical
Journal. Mr. Stone has been chastised in a manner which must
deprive him forever of scientific reputation. I refer to those refu
tations every impartial reader who wishes to know the arguments
on both sides, before he forms a decisive opinion. I shall make
only a few remarks which,- however, will be sufficient to indicate
the spirit in which M. Stone published his lucubrations and com
mitted his ' literary delinquencies.'
He begins his evidences with stating that Dr. Gall and myself
claim the merit of being the discoverers of several propositions, the
first of which is ' that the brain is a congeries of so many distinct
parts, each of which is the organ ofsome innate special faculty.'
Now this statement is evidently a mem invention of Mr. Stone.
Neither Gall nor myself have ever said that we claim to be the
discoverers of the idea that the brain is a congeries of organs.
This very proposition is developed with details in our joined works,
as well as in those which every one of us published separately.
Our works evidently contain more historical quotations than Mr.
Stone's pamphlet. We were particularly anxious to collect the
opinions of various ancient and modern writers, who believed in
the plurality of mental powers and their special bodily conditions,
since we are aware of the- natural tendency of opponents, first to
reject a new doctrine as long as they can ; but if they can no longer
resist its reality and force, then to ascribe its discovery to some pre
Ill
decessor: — The reader, however, will feel the difference between
admitting any general idea, and proving its details, hence between
believing in the plurality of menial powers and bodily conditions,
an I specifying the powers, and demonstrating their organs in the
brain. The latter i.s exclusively our merit.
The second proposition which, as Mr. Stone told his readers,
we claim, is that the power of manifesting each faculty, is always
proportionate to the size and activity of the organ or part of the
brain with which it is supposed to ba in immediate connexion.'
-. The argumentation of Mr. Stone, in examining this proposition is
-. particularly fallacious. I confine myself to repeat our real opin
ions. We admit that in the ordinary and healthy state in the same
brain, the larger organs show greater tendencies and energy than
smaller ones ; but the reader is reminded not to believe in the
Edinburgh Review, or any other opponent, who says that the
phrenologists measure the dispositions of the mind in proportion
'- to the size of the cerebral organs. All works on phrenology deny
this to be possible. In all my works there is a separate chapter on
the absolute size, and I aKvajs conclude that it is not possible,
even in individuals of the same kind, to measure their faculties ac-
* cording to the absolute size.' But to show how shamefully the
public has been deceived, let us hear only what the Edinburgh
- Reviewer, who boasted of a 'conscientious discharge of duty,'
No. 49, p. 229, told his readers, p. 249 :—' Gall and Spurzheim, in
affirming that the vigor of intellect is always proportionate to the
size of the head, seem to have been desirous bow far their ef
frontery might be carried.' I may answer: not as far as that of the
Reviewer goes. His conscientiousness is sui generis, and the
clearness of his understanding too. We place the intellect in
the forehead, and the critic confounds the ibrehead with the whole
head !
Mr. Stone particularly insists on phrenology not being support
ed by facts. Ho finds only twenty-eight observations in the pub
lications of the Edinburgh phrenologists. These in return,
(Phrenol. Journal, No. 19, \>. 408,) call Mr. Stone's assertion 'a fla
grant absurdity.' It is really puerile lo speak of only twenty-eight
observations in support of phrenology, whilst the phrenological
collections in Great Britain contain many hundreds of well-au
thenticated facts. Further, shall all the observations which Dr. Gall
sedulously made for above fifty years; shall my exertions since
thirty year's, and all the labors of our disciples he outweighed by
the authority an,I ipse dixit of Mr. Stone ?
Mr. Stone's ' Evidences against Phrenology' had died and wore
forgotten when he published his ' Observations on the phrenologi
cal development of Hare and Burke, and other atrocious murder
ers.' The opponents of phrenology, with great eagerness laid hold
on these pretended phrenological observations, and extolled them
to the skies. When I first read Mr. Stone's pamphlet, I found his
proceeding quite anti-phrenological, since he measures by decimals,
112
as if phrenology were a mathematical science ; — admits in the size
of the organs, length without breadth; — denies the boundaries of
<he organs fi bis known ; — compares one individual with another,
and proceeds in opposition to the phrenological principles,!!! taught
and applied l>y true phrenologists ; and I thought, with the Edin
burgh Phrenol. Journal, No. 19, p. 559, that these inaccurate ob
servations were 'obviously published for the purpose of opposition,
and ought to be called anti-phrenological.' With respect to Mr.
Stone's report of the cerebral development of Hare, BurUe, and
other atrocious murderers, 1 suspended my opinion till I could ap
peal to my only authority in phrenology, Nature. Till then, I
couid riot think that Mr. Stone could publish a barefaced falsehood,
in telling his readers that, in comparing the organs of the animal
propensities with those of the human feelings in Hare and Burke,
the organs of the moral and religions sentiments were not smaller,
and those of the animal piopensities not larger, absolutely and re
latively, than in individuals of high moral and intellectual charac
ter. But since I am in possession of exact copies, from nature, of
the heads of Hare and Burke, procured by an eminent artist, Mr.
Joseph, I cannot help believing in Mr. Stone's moral or intellectual
incapacity of instructing the public about phrenology. In my col-
leclion, among fifty busts and forty skulls (these partly real, p irtly
copies in plaster) of criminals, there are not six with so low cere
bral organization as Hare and Burke. — When, beside these evi
dent misrepresentations, I also read Mr. Stone's words : ' the skull
of this murderer (Pepe) which has been repeatedly inspected, ex
hibits a remarkable deficiency of the pretended organ of destruc-
tiveness,' whilst the same skull, during my visit in Edinburgh, in
1828, was put by Dr. Graham, into my hands, without telling me a
word of its history, but with the request to give my opinion of the
skull ; I at once found the organs of combativeness and destruc-
tiveness very large ; and when 1 find Mr. Stone's ' Evidences against
Phrenology ' to be evidently ' literary delinquencies,' 1 must be al
lowed to refuse all his authority in any. decision about cerebral de
velopment, and any phrenological truth. His high-sounding prop
ositions must dwindle into absolute insignificance ; and 1 cannot
conclude better, than in repeating Mr. Grorge Combe's expressions :
(See his answer to Mr. Stone's observations) that ' no opponent is
more admiiably qualified than Mr. Stone, to bring into contempt
the cause of opposition ; not a series of critcisms better adapted
than the encomiums bestowed on Mr. Stone, to render the press
ridiculous, in the eyes of reflecting and enlightened men.'
