{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1833__spurzheim___phrenology_physiognomy.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenology Physiognomy","mylang":"de"}
PHRENOLOGY,
IN CONNEXION WIT!l TilE
S T U D Y 0 F P H Y S I 0 G N 0 l\1 Y.
/
Bv J. G. SPURZHEll\f, M. D.
...
OF Til£ UNIVERSITIES OF Vlt;'f\ \ ANI) T'AJ\tSC:, 'NI) LICENTIATE OY Tilt~
RO\"AL COLL£0£ 01<' Pll\~fiiiCIANft OF LONDON.
ILLUSTRATION OF CHARACTERS.
lV IT R T HI R T Y · F I V E P LA T E S.
FIRST AAIERICAN J:tHTION, UIPROVED.
TO WIIJS;II IS l'REFIXED
A BIOGRAPHY OF THE AUTHOR,
BY
N A H U M CAPEN.
-
BOSTON:
.MARSI1, CAPEN&. LYON.
1833.
•
Entered acconliug to Act of Congress, in the year 1833, by
1\IARSH, c.\PEN AND LvoN,
in the Clerk':. Otlicc of the District Court of ~Ia:;:~achusctt;;;.
..
h ane &: C"o. f', mrtr-,
127 \\ u-lun toll :0:1r u 1.
Lt
S?7:Lro--
J <?.3.:,
Nun. After the Biogruphy had been placed in the h~~nds of the binder, we
rcc~1vcd a letter from Dr. Bngham, Jlarllord, ~lating that the John~on alluded
lo 111 page lOti, was not cor;c~rned in the late r.onspiracy and murder at the
~t.atu l'r~son; but another, a mo1e r~ct'nt convict of the same name. The one
alluded t.o by Dr. Spurzhcim 'gives good promise of having reformed.' 'vVe
correct the errllr with pleasure.
Dr. llrigham visited the pr~son in company with Dr. Spurzheim, and he fur·
ni>hcs a bel rnor~ interestwg and unvortant than the stalement_wluch has
reli:rcncc to Johnson.
' h 1,; a httlt: remarkable,' says Dr. Dri2ham, ' that when I visit•d the prison
with Ur. ::ipurzheirn, he pointed out the two leaders of this conspiracy and ulur-
der as very bad criminals. The nl•gro, Ca·oar Reynolds, who, from th.. te>ti-
mony, it appears actually cornmillt'd the murder, he noticed \\ht'n at oome dis-
tance, and remarked, "that negru iultH>l~ mt murlt, ' and Lt·ggcd tlw hbrrty
of examining his head minutdy, and aflcr he had done •o, he sa1tl that he
had tbt. best formation intellcctuully of any negro he ever saw; (and lw 1s far
IIUJii.'rior to most blacks,) but stated that he was a "retched and daul(t•ruu~ mau,
CaJmule of doing any w•cketlncti•, aut! one that would persevcn• m 1n111U1ty.
• The \\arden bas repeatedly assured u1e that Dr. i::l. gave the characters of
many of the criminals, especially the noted ones, as correclly as he hiu1self
could, who had long known them.' l'o. C.
INDEX TO BIOGRAPHY.
Dedication,
l1
rt>liminary remarks, ...... .
lltrth and parentage of ~pur:tlwim,
~oticc of Dr Gall, ....... .
G til and Spurzheim lca1·c Yienwt,
!'laces 11here they l·i,itNI, ....
Vi,.it to the Pri,;on of Berlin, ..
do. to the fortrc:;:- of ::-;p1r11bu,
Spurzhcun docs not admit or!{ Ill' of' 1/lltr./, r anrllluft,'
Rcc<'ption of Gall and SpurziH'un',. doctriiiC'~, .
Tht•) present a memoir to the Frt•Jtch Jn,.titute, . . . . .
Cu1 lf'r and Cuonaparte, ........... .
Gall and SpurzhC'im puhJi,Ja their l.trg(• work, ..
('hara('tt>r of Dr. Gall, .............. .
Spurzlwirn lca1e"' Pans fi1r Yit·Jtna a111l London,
llts n·CC'ption in London, .... . . . ..... .
Opmions of .'Ifr. Ah<'rtwthy, . . . . . . . . . ..
Spurzh<'illl I i...its Uath, nn..tol, CorI· aJtd Dublin,
Ahu"" c attack of the EdiJtbur!{ll Review, ....
Spmzhcim vi~its .Edinbnr!!h, hi-. r<'C<'ptton and success,
do. 1i~it to l\Ir. ,\1) Inc's 110rkshop,
Allswt•r to Gordon, .......... .
J(p reltlrns to Pari:;, . . . . . . . .. .
In-.tancc of his judgment upon a hram,
Stat<' of Phrenology in Pari, 1"'2I,
M.trria!_(e of Spurzhc;m, ....... .
Lccturt'" prohtbitccl in Paris, 1.....·21,
lie re1 1"'"' London, his recPpltoll, 6.-c.
'l'nnc of Puhlic .Tournab, ..... .
'Vorl<!; puhJi,.hcd in London, 1>--:!.),
Visit to Cambridge, his rcccptiou, .
Pag".
7
!)
1~
ib.
•2-2
'.!:l
2.)
ib.
;J(j
:n
1·!
t:3
41
4i
ib.
50
ib.
;):l
5-)
;)(i
.)9
G·2
G.
ib.
fil
(~'l
as
IV INDEX.
do. to Hull, . . . . . . . 70
do. to the ' Refuge for the Insane,' . 73
do. to Edinburgh 1825, . . . . . . . 77
Change in the Edinburgh,Review, . . ib.
Correspondence between Spurzheim and Sir Wm. Hamilton, 81
Account of Dinner gi' en to Spurzheim by the Edinburgh
Phrenological Society, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
V1sit to the City Lunatic Asylum, . . . . . . . . . . . 90
do. to the Children's Hospital, 9-2
do. to Glasgow, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
do. Li'erpool and other places, . . . • . . . 91
do. to Liverpool House of Correction, . ib.
Death ofMrs. Spurzheim, 96
Vil!it to Dublin, . . . 97
do. do. 1831, 100
Returns to Paris, . . . . . . . . . . ib.
Plmmology in Paris, . . . . . . . . . . .
Lca,·es Havre for the United States, . ..•.
Arri,·es in New York, ........... .
Vi~its New-Haven and Hartford, ..
Visit to Weathersfield State Prison,
ib.
• 103
104
10.>
100
Arrival in Boston, . . . . . . . . . . ib.
Lecture before the American Institute, 107
Lectures on Phrenology in Boston and Cambridge, ..... ib.
Visit to l\lr. Fowle's School, ....... 109
do. to Mr. Field's School, 117
His sickness and death, . . . . . . . . . 11~
Dr. Jackson's statement, . . . . . . . . 12:1
Proceedings in relation to Ius death, . . . . . . 133
Resolutions of the Bo~ton .Medical Association, 136
Funeral Ceremonies, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
Ode by the Rev. J. Pierpont, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ib
View ofSpurzheim as a man, . . . . 140
do. do. as a. Philosopher, . . . . . . 142
do. do. as a Christian, . . . . . . . . . . 144
Resolutions of Edinburgh Phrenological Society, 166
CONTENTS.
ILLUSTRATION OF CHARACTERS.
Page.
Introduction, 1
Definition of Physiognomy, ib.
T ho study of Physiognomy very ancient, 3
Difference between Physiognomy and Pathognomy, 5
T heory and Practice of a Science. 8
SECTION I.
CnAP I.-Physiognomical Signs of the Body 13
Size and Configuration of the Body, 14
Organic Con~titution or Temperament of the
Body, 15
Physiognomy of the Body ofthe Sexes 17
CuAP. H.-Physiognomical Signs ofthe Face, 19
F aces of the Sexes, 23
National Faces, ib.
CnAP. III.-Php;iognomical Signs of the Head, 30
Mode of Considering the Physiognomical Signs
~~~d. ~
Of differences among Heads, 35
Heads of the Sexes, 40
Heads of various Nations, 43
SECTION II.
CuAP. I.-Of the Cerebral Organization of different Char-
acters, 47
49
Characters in relation to l\1orality,
Caracalla and Zeno,
Nero and Selll.lca,
52, 56
5!>, 61
CO:"TF.~TS.
Cardin1l Ridl{'lic·n :mel Wabingham,
Alexander VI .111cl Fr. Oberlin,
GoJoi, Prince of Peacr, anJ Peter J eannin,
CnAr•. I.-Dtnton and \lalrshrrhes,
Gregory V!J. ami Pius VII.
Cu \P. II-Religious CharactPrs,
Deacon P 1r1s ancl Aug. Baker,
Cajt>t rur" and .John Cra-.sct,
Jo~cph Pric,tlcy :mel llichard Price,
)Jar tinY. and LPjt·mJe,
CHAP. III.-Indeperuknt Character~,
Prince of Oran~c and Ramus,
Stnbh~ ancl Gnstan1s ~chlabrendorf
CHAP. IV.- Amhitiou« Characters,
Philip 11. aucl Catlwrinc II.
Lala!Hic and Vanwre~,
Six fi:.!lHCs in.Jicallng V.mity,
Cu \1'. V.-Ga) Charartt·rs,
Piron ancl Carlin,
{j t,
71,
~-
I•),
~:3,
!}.),
!)9,
1()I,
lOi,
l I.),
J:.! I,
J:W,
J:w,
111,
Cu.\P. VI.-Tumd aJHI Bold Character::<,
The Skull of a Timid Woman and that of a
Courageous ,\Jan,
Cicero and the Glacliator,
.Marlin Luther and 1
\lclancthon,
Charles XI I. and Sully,
General Reflections,
Elements of\:mous Characters,
Summary View and Conclusion,
ERRATUM.
1 114,
I:;.J,
WI,
t-:'1~~4
(~"!
i:l
18
Rl
g:>
...
!H
!I"
](I(}
101
I ll
llt
II!)
1:.!-3
l'l!)
J:ll
I:J~
) ;)!)
l l.'i
I J.)
IIi
ih.
I.):l
wo
Ii:.!
Ji"()
l"";J
l!H
On page 117, in extract from Mr. Field's note, for originality of thought,
read unity of tllought.
TO TilE l\IE:>1B~:RS OF TilE
BOSTON PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
11'1 'filE HOrE TIIAT TilEY WILL
!:.!ITATE THE PERSEVERANCE A:\D PRACTISE THE VIRTUES OF
TillS HU~IBLE A'rTE~IPT
TO PERPETUATE JIJS NA:ME AND WOR'l'II,
.. ~10$'r RESPECTFULLY IIISCIIIDEO.
N.C.
Bn.,ton, ~l!ay, 18SS.
BI 0 G lt A PH Y.
Next in unportance to thr presence of great
and good men is the history of their lives. So-
ciety cannot prize too highly the value of those
who devote superior talents to the study and
melioration of man, and who exemplify the vari-
ous duties of life by a constant practice of them.
.'incc the shortness of life prevents the continu-
ance of such blessing:-: but for a limited time, it
becomes no less an act of duty than of gratitude
to record them with e' cry practical detail for the
good of those who arc to come after us, and for
the great cause of human perfection.
The study of human nature is but the study of
om~elvcs and of one nnother. It has in view the
objects of our existence, the perfection of our
being. It incrca:-;cs practical knowledge, exalts
the mind, encourages rirtuc, and in~pires a Hpirit
of mutual forbearance.
'1 heoretical speculations upon the causes of 1m-
man perfection, however hcautiful and promir-,ing
in aspect, have but littl<' influence in the real for-
mation of human character. The standard of
B
•
10
theorists, in morals, is usually of too high gradua-
tion-requiring more tban the history of man will
warrant us in anticipating. lf we would persuade
mankind to Improve, even to perfection, it must
be done by degrees, setting forth examples of
practice with every important principle of action.
Ahstract moral propositions generally contemplate
what is desirable, rather than what is practicable.
It is thought by some that we cannot adopt too
high a standard of perfection. This opinion indi-
cates an elevated mind, and ::::o far as the interests
of society may be thereuy promoted, is deserving
of consideration; but, from careful observation,
we are persuaded, that by requiring too much we
deter from mental activity rather than induce it.
We may require our neighbor to be perfect and up-
right in his dealings, to exerci:"c charity on all occa-
sions, to love his fellow-Ihen as he loves himself, to
return good for evil, and to make personal sacrifices
for the general good,-all this is admirable in theo-
ry, and what every good man hopes ultimately to
see pervade the world-uut what would be the
effect of the requisition? '\\'e might admire and
appro\·e, but should we adopt these duties a::; in-
cumbent upon ourselves? Let eYery man's expe-
rience answer the question. rt must be evi-
dent to the reflecting mind 1at the practice of
these important christian i.ils depends mostly
upon example and the natural dispositions.
The many conflictiug influences to which tho
11
mind is conRtantly exposed, from its earliest infan-
cy, may account for re:;u]ti; which often entirely
di=-appoint the rea:-onablc expectations of parents
and guardinn!:. Our mind:-; arc much more readily
excited and s\vaycd by what we :-;cc, than by what
we hear, and as external circum:;tanccs nrc not
always within our control, moral ini'truction labors
under an oln ions disad\ anta~c.
To sec the gn'at and good, to he in their pres-
ence, to feel the influcnce of their example, and
to participate in the fruits ofth<'ir labors, nrc privi-
leges as gr<'nt as they ar<' rare. To appreciate
them require:-> the utmost gratitude of man. To
gi\c a ju=-t and complete portraiture oftlwir plea-;-
urable cflects is hP.yond the po\\ cr of cxpres=-ion.
In preparing the Biogrnplty of Dr. Spurzh<'im,
we arc conscious of our inability to illustrnlc
hi;; character as it has been s(•en and felt. We
ha\'c but the usc of Jau~uil!!;<', which is cold
and inadcqnatc, while it mns1 be considered
that we \\'<'1'<' warmed and anilllat<'d hy the illus-
trious subjeet or our memoir,· hy his com·ersation,
acts and cloqu<'ncc. All thnt we can attelllpt is
an humble eflort to afford the public an imper-
fect f'kctch of his life and character.
.\ great and good man cannot le:wc a richer leg-
acy to the world than his character. Its import-
ance cannot he calcuiJted; its influence is infinite,
extending from nation to nation, and modifying
the character of every succeeding generation.
12
John* Gaspar ~purzhcim was born on the 31st
of December, 177(), at Long\ick, a village about
seven miles from the city of Tre\'es, on the l\To-
sellc, in the lower circle or the Rhine, now under
the dominion of Pru~sia. His parents cultivated
a farm of the rich Abbey of St. illaximin de Trrves,
and he received his college education at the uni-
versity of that city. lie was destined by his
parents to become a clergyman, but in 1799, "hen
the French invaded that part of Germany, he went
to Vienna to study medicine, where he became ac-
quainted with Dr. Gall. lJe entered with great
zeal into the con~iueration of the new doctrine;
and, to use his owJJ words, ' he was !'imply a
hearer of Dr. Gall till 1flOi, at which period he
was associated with him in his labors, and his
character of hearer cea:-;eu.'
The history of Spurzhcim being intimately con-
nected with phrenology, it may not be viewed as
inappropriate here to give a brief sketch of the
life of its original founder, Dr. Gall.
F. J. Gallt was born on the 9th of March, 1757,
and was the sixth child of the maniagc. He was
descended of a respectable family residing at Tie-
fenbrun, two league~ distant from Pforzheim, in
Swabia. His father ''as a merchant, and mayor
of the village. IJi:s parents, professing the Ho-
• lie sometimes wrote hi~ 11:1.1111' <:aspar, instead of John GaM[Hlr; this
wns done purely for the ~ak<• of h~t• \'ity.
I Plor~n . Tran~ . vol 1. hr l\Tr Cnouh~
13
man Catholic religion, had intended him for the
church; but his natural dispositions were oppo~cd
to it. IIi::> studic::> were pursued first at lladcn,
afterwards at llrucksal, and then were continued
at Strasbourg. Having selected the healing art
for his profession, he went, in 1781, to Vienna,
the medical school of which had obtained great
reputation, particularly since the times of \'an
Swieten and Stoll.
Dr. Gall gives an account, of which the follow-
ing is an abstract, of the manner in which he wus
led to the study of the natural talents and dispo:--i-
tions of men, his \'iews of which terminated in the
formation of the Phrenological System.
:From an early age he was giren to obi'erration,
and was struck with the fact, that each of his
brothers and Risters, companions in play, and
schoolfellows, pos::>essed ::;omc peculiarity of tal-
ent or di~po~ition, which distinguished him from
others. Some of his schoolmates were distin-
guished by the beauty of their penmanship, some
by their success in arithmetic, and others by their
talent for acquiring a knowledge of natural his-
tory, or of languages. The compositions of one
were remarkable for elegance, while the style of
another was stilf and dry; and a third connceted
his reascnings in the close:-;t manner, and clotiH'd
his argument in the most forcible language. Their
dispositions were equally different, and this divcr-
sity appeared also to determine the direction of
their partialities and aversions. Not a few of them
manifested a capacity for employments wh1ch they
were not taught ; they cut figures in wood, or
delineated them on paper ; some devoted their
leisure to painting, or the culture of a garden,
while their comrades abandoned themselves· to
noisy games, or traversed the woods to gather
flower~, seek for birds-nests, or catch butterflies.
In this manner, each individual presented a char-
acter peculiar to himself, and Gall never ob-
served, that the individual, who in one year had
displayed selfish or knavish dispositions, became
in the next a good and faithful friend.
The scholars with whom young Gall had the
greatest difficulty in competing, were those who
learned by heart with great facility; and such indi-
viduals frequently gained from him by their repe-
titions, the places which he had obtained by the
merit of his original compositions.
Some years afterwards, having changed his
place of residence, he still met individuals en-
dowed with an equally great talent of learning to
repeat. He then observed that his schoolfellows,
so gifted, possessed prominent eyes; and he re-
collected, that his rivals in the first school had
been distinguished by the same peculiarity.
When he entered the university, he directed
his attention, from the first, to the students \\hose
eyes were of this description, and he soon found
that they all excelled in getting rapidly by heart,
15
}\nd giving conect recitations, although many of
them were by no means distinguished in point of
gC'neral talent. This observation was rccogni~ed
also by the other student:'! in the classes, and
although the connexion betwixt the talent and the
external sign was not at this time established
upon such complete e\·idencc as is requisite for
a philo<:ophical conclusion, yet Dr. Gall could
not believe that the coincidence of the two cir-
cumstances thus observed, was entirely accidental.
Jle suspected, therefore, from this period, that
they stood in an important relation to each other.
After much reflection, he conceived, that if mem-
ory for words was indicated by an external sign,
the same might be the case with the other intel-
lectual powers; and from that moment all indi-
viduals, distinguished by any remarkable faculty,
became the objects of his attention. By degrees,
he conceired himl'elf to hare found external char-
acteristic:-;, which indicated a decided di~position
for painting, music, and the mechanical art:'. Ile
became acquainted also "ith some individuals
remarkable fot· the determination of their charac-
ter, and he observed, a particular part of their
heads to be 'cry largely dercloped. This fact
fir:-;t suggested to him the idea of looking to the
head for signs of the moral sentiments But in
waking these observations, he never conccired
for a moment, that the skull ''ns the cau~e of the
oiflcrent talent..:. a<.: ha~ bf'PII NroneOU'-'1) r<'prc-
16
scnted · he relcned the influence, whatever it was
,
to the IJrain.
In following out by obsermtion:::, the principle
which accident had thus suggested, he for some
time encountered difficulties of the greatest mag-
nitude. Hitherto he had been altogether igno ·
rant of the opinions of physiologists touching the
brain, and of mctaphy -ician~ respecting the men-
tal f~cultics, and had simply observed nature.
'\\hen, howm cr, he hogan to enlarge his knowl-
edge of hooks, he found the mo::;t extraordinary
conflict of opinions every where prevailing, and
this, for the moment, made hun hesitate about tho
correctness of his own observations. He found
that the moral ~entimcnts had, by an almo~t gen-
eral consent, been consigned to the thoracic and
abdominal vi:-;ccra; and that while Pnn \GOR \S,
PLATO, GALE;-;, HALLEn, and some other physiolo-
gi:::t~, placed the sentient soul or intellectual facul-
ties in the brain, Aristotle placed it in the heart,
Van Helmont in the stomach, Des Cartes and
hi~ follo'' ers in the pineal gland, and Drelincourt
and others in the cerebellum.
lie ob:-erred. also, that a great number of phi-
Jo~oplwr:; and physiologists a!'sertcd, that all men
arc born with equal menta.! faculties; and that
the diflcrcnces obsenahle among them arc owing
either to education, or to the accidental circum-
stances in "hich the} arc placed. If all differ-
ences an· accidental, he infeJTcd thnt there coult1
17
be no natural signs of predominating faculties,
and consequently, that the project of learning by
observation, to distinguish the functions of the dif-
ferent portions of the brain, must be hopeless.
This difficulty he combated by the reflection, that
his brothers, sisters, and schoolfellow::; had all re-
ceived very nearly the same education, but that he
had still observed each of them unfolding a distinct
character, over which circumstances appeared to
exert only a limited control. He observed, also,
that not unfrequently they, whose education had
been conducted with the greatest care~ nnd on
whom the labors of teachers had been most freely
lavished, remained far behind their companions in
attainments. ' Often,' says Dr. Gall, 'we were
accused of want of will, or deficiency in zeal; but
many of us could not, even with the most ardent
desire, followed vut by the most obstinate eflorts,
attain in some pursuits even to mediocrity; while
in some other points, some of us surpassed our
schoolfellows without an effort, and almost, it
might be said, without perceiving it ourselves.
But, in point of fact, our masters did not appear
to attach much faith to the system which taught
the equality of mental faculties; for they thought
themselves entitled to exact more from one scholar,
and less from another. They spoke frequently of
natural gifts, or of the gifts of God, and consoled
their pupils in the words of the gospel, by assuring
them that each would be required to render an
c
18
account only in proportion to the gifts which he
had received.'*
Being convinced by these facts, that there is a
natural and constitutional diversity of talents and
dispositions, he encountered in books still another
obstacle to his success in determining the external
signs of the mental powers. He found that, in-
stead of faculties for languages, drawing, distin-
guishing places, music, and mechanical arts, cor-
responding to the different talents which he had
observed in his school-fellows, the metaphysician
spoke only of general powers, such as perception,
conception, memory, imagination, and judgment;
and when he endeavored to discover external signs
in the head, corresponding to these general facul-
ties, or to dete!·mine the correctness of the physi-
ological doctrines regarding the seat of the mind,
as taught by the authors already mentioned, he
found perplexities without end, and difficulties in-
surmountable.
Dr. Gall, therefore, abandoning every theory
and preconceived opinion, gave himself up entire-
ly to the observation of nature. Being a physician
to a lunatic asylum in Vienna, he had opportuni-
ties, of which he availed himself, of making obser-
vations on the insane. He visited prisons, and
resorted to schools; he was introduced to the
courts of princes, to colleges, and the seats of jus-
' Preface by Dr. Gall to tl1e 'Anntomie, &c. du Cerveau,' from which
other facts in this sketch are taken.
19
tice; and wherever he heard of an individual dis-
tinguished in any particular way, either by remark-
able endowments or deficiency, he observed and
studied the development of his head. In this
manner, by an almost imperceptible induction, he
conceived himself warranted in believing that par-
ticular mental powers are indicated by particular
configurations of the head.
Hitherto l:e had resorted only to physiognomi-
cal indications, as a means of discovering the func-
tions of the brain. vn reflection, however, he
was convinced that physiology is imperfect when
~eparated from anatomy. Having observed a
woman of fifty-four years of nge, who had been
afflicted with hydrocephalus from her youth, and
who, with a body a little shrunk, possessed a mind
as active and intelligent, as that of other individ-
uals of her class, Dr. Gall declared his conviction,
that the structure of the brain must be different
from what was generally conceived,-a remark
which Tulpius also had made, on observing a
hydrocephalic patient, who manifested the mental
faculties. He, therefore, felt the necessity of
making anatomical researches into the structure
of the brain.
In every instance, when an individual whose
head he had observed while alive happened to die,
he used every means to be permitted to examine
the brain, and frequently did so; and he found as
a general fact, that on the removal of the skull,
20
the brain, covered by the dura mater, presented a
form corresponding to that which the skull had
exhibited in life.
The successive steps by which Dr. Gall pro-
ceeded in his discoveries, are particularly deserv-
ing of attention. Ile did not, as many have ima-
gined, first dissect the brain, and pretend by that
means to have discovered the scats of the mental
powers; neither did he, as others have conceived,
first map out the sk,Jll into various compartments,
and assign a faculty to each, according as his im-
agination led him to conceive the plo.cc appropri-
ate to the power. On the contrary, he first ob-
served a concomitance betwixt particular talents
and dispositions and particular forms of the head;
he next ascertained, by removal of the skull, that
the figure and size of the brain are indicated by
these external forms ; and it ''as only after these
facts were determined, that the brain was minute-
ly dissected, and light thrown upon its structure.
Dr. Gall·was first known as an author by the pub-
lication of two chapters of an extensive work, en-
titled, ' Philosophisch-rnedicinische Untersuchungen
uber Natur und .Kunst im gesunclen uncl lcrank.en
Zustande des J
lfenschen, Wien, 1791.' The con-
tinuation of this work has nc' or appeared ; hut in
the first of the two chapters printed, he has evinced
the spirit with which his researches into the moral
and intellectual nature of man were subsequently
conducted. The first written notice of his inqui-
21
ries concerning the head appeared in a familiar
letter to Baron Retzen, which was inserted in the
German periodical journal, ' Deutschen Mercur,'
in December, 1798. In this letter he announces
the publication of a work upon his views concern-
ing tho brain ; hut circumstances induced him to
alter his intention.
In 1796, Dr. Gall commenced giving courses of
private lectures at Vienna. Several of his hear-
ers, as well as others who had never heard him
lecture, published notices of his doctrines, and
have represented them with greater or less exact-
ness. Among the better class the following de-
serve to be noticed: FRORIEP, who has printed an
Exposition of the Doctrine of Dr. Gall. 3d edi-
tion, 1802. MARTENS, 'Quelque chose sur la
Physiognomic.' Leipzic, 1802. \VALTHER. 'Ex-
position critique de la Doctrine de Gall, avec
quelques particularitcs concernant son auteur.'
ZuTich, 1802.
Having continued his lectures for five years, on
the 9th of January, 1802, the Austrian government
issued an order that they should cease ; his doc-
trines being considered dangerous to religion. A
general regulation was made upon tho occasion,
prohibiting all private lectures, unless a special
permission was obtained from tho public authorities.
Dr. Gall understood the object of this ' General
Regulation,' and never solicited permission, but
rather stopt his courses. The doctrines, however,
22
continued to be studied with greater zeal than be-
fore ;-the prohibition strongly stimulated curios-
ity, and all publications on the subject continued
to be permitted, provided they abstained from re·
fleeting on the government for issuing the ' Gen·
eral Order.'
Spurzheim having completed his medical stu-
dies, he and Dr. Gall quitted Vienna in 1805, to
travel together, and to pursue in common their
researches into the anatomy and physiology of the
whole nervous system. In the period which
elapsed betwixt the interdiction of Dr. Gall's lec-
tures in 1802, and the time when he and Dr.
Spurzheim left Vienna, the doctrine had made a
rapid progress, not only in general diffusion, but
in solid nnd important additions-a fact of which
any one may be satisfied, by comparing the pub-
lications by Dr. Gall's auditors already mentioned,
with those by his hearers in the different towns in
Germany, visited in the course of his and Dr.
Spurzheim's travels. The following works, in
particular, afford evidence of the state of the
science in 1805 :
Bischoff. Exposition de la Doctrine de Gall
sur lc Cerveau et le Crane, suivie de Remarques
de Mr. Hufeland sur cette Doctrine.-Berlin, 2d
cd. 1805.
Blrede. Le Doctrine du Gall sur les Fonctions
de Cerveau.-Dresde, 2d cd. 1805.
From 1804to 1813, Dr. Gall and Dr. Spurzheim
were constantly together, and their researches
were conducted in common. They left Yienna
on the Gth of March, 1805, to go direct to Berlin,
and afterwards visited a variety of places, remain-
ing at each the time noted in the following table.
18().) Berlin, from 18th of Mar~h to the end of April.
Potsdam, during first half of May.
Leipsic, from 2:ld May till l:lth June.
Dresdom, " 11th June " 3d July.
Halle, " t-th July " 2..,th July.
Jena, " ht August " 7th August
\V1emar, " 7th August " lbth August.
Gocttin~en, " 21st August " 3ht August.
Braucrgchweig, " 5th September " 13th September.
Cop<'nhagco, " 21lh September " 6th :-iovemb<>r.
K1el, " J:lth :-iovember " 1st December.
Httmburgb, " 4th December " 1st February, 1800
1806 Bre1hcn, " 3d February, " 18th February.
Munwtcr, " 21st February " 1Oth l\larcl1.
Amsterdam, " 2.)th March " 2.)th April.
Leydt·n, " 2.ith April " 4th :\lay.
Dusseldorf, " !lth 'lay " 2ht :\lay.
Frankfort, " 27th May " Gth Juno>.
'Vnrtzbourg, " 2:ld July " 12th August.
Marbourg, " 11th August " 2:Jth August.
Stuu::ard, " 8th October " 1!lth October.
Carlsruhe, " 2--th ~ovember
" 2Gth Deccmb<>r.
Lastall, " 26th December " Jst January, 1807.
1807 Freybourg en} "
Bri•gaw, 2d January " 16th January.
Dont'schingue, " 1Gth January '· 23d January.
Hcidelb<>rg, " z...th January " 13th February.
;\lanheim, " 1!lth February " Gth )larch.
l\lunieh, " 27th ~larch
" 31st 1.\Iay.
Au!!•bourg,
,, :list i\Iay " 2.ith June.
Ultn, " 2rith June " lllhJuly.
Zurich, " Hith July " 2d August.
n('rn(', " bth August " 5th September.
B.ole, " 7th September " 21th Septemb<>r.
i\luhlhause, " 21th September " 2d October.
J>ar1~,
" November.
2·i
This mode of disseminating their opinions has
been made a subject of reproach to them in
England. But such an objection has no intrinsic
merit whatever ;-besides, some nations are accus-
tomed and content to receive their knowledge in
this way.
The necessity of this procedure is very pleasant-
ly elucidated by Chenevix, in the Foreign Quar-
terly H.eview. 'We are all,' says he, 'too apt
to judge of others by ourselves. The habits of
the nations which they wished to convert, required
such a mode of proceeding. Their own native
land, divided into many petty states, has innume-
rable little points, but no one large focus of light.
From the one to the other of these, thought trav-
els as slowly as the slumbering note twanged
through the twisted horn, and snaps-swallo·wing
throat, of a Westphalian post-boy. In Holland
it advances about as rapidly as an Amsterdam
Cupid, flying on the wings of love, in a Dutch
trekschuit. Jn France there is one great metrop-
olis of wit, as flashy as it is frivolous; and in this,
words, with the ideas annexed to them, if any
there be, whiffle about. from the Faubourg St.
Germaine, to the Faubourg St. Honore, and back
again across the Pont de Louis XVI., in the cut-
ting of a caper ; but this emporium stands in the
dreary middle of a vast wild ; and preaching any-
where but in Paris to the French nation, would lit-
erally be preaching in the desert. In Britain, on
25
the contrary, a new idea mounts a mail-coach,
drawn by four blood-horses, with plated harness
as light as the cltariot of Queen Mab, and sweeps
along with Macadamized speed and 1\lagna Charta
security, from Land's End to John o'Groat's
house, in as short time as Punch would take to
'put a girdle round about the earth.'
Independent of these considerations, this course
in any country is eminently calculated to promote
the objects of the Phrenologist. He is enabled
to multiply facts and observations with reference
to the science of far more value than the imper-
fect reports of imperfect observers. More than
this, justice to the subject requires that man should
be studied in the various conditions of life ; in the
city, in the village, in the forest, and even in the
abode of the lonely hermit. Gall and Spurzheim
were fully aware of this, and with their ample
opportunity and persevering industry, no individual
or institution, remarkable for any peculiarity, es-
caped their notice and remark.
'A feature of these memorable travels,' in the
words of Chenevi~, ' was their visit to the prison of
Berlin, and the fortress of Spandau. On the 17th
of April, 1805, in the presence of the chiefs of the
establishment, of the inquisitors of the criminal
department, of various counsellors, and of many
other witnesses, they were conducted to the prison
at Berlin, where upwards of two hundred culprits,
of whom he had ne\'er heard till that moment, to
D
26
whose crimes and dispositions they were total
strangers, were submitted to their inspection.
Dr. Gall lays much weight upon this visit, as a
very great practical test of the truth of his sys-
tem ; and the result is official, being witnessed by
persons in the employment of the Prussian gov-
ernment, and proposed for that purpose.
Dr. Gall immediately pointed out, as a general
feature in one of the wards, an extraordinary de-
velopment in the region of the head where the
organ of theft is situated, and in fact every pris-
oner there was a thief. Some children, also de-
tained for theft, were then shown to him ; and in
them, too, the same organ was very prominent.
In two of them, particularly, it was excessively
large ; and the prison-registers confirmed his opin-
ion that these two were most incorrigible. In an-
other room, where the women were kept apart, he
distinguished one dressed exactly like the others,
occupied like them, and differing in no one thing
but in the form of her head. 'For what reason is
this woman here,' asked Gall, 'for her head an-
nounces no propensity to theft?' The answer
was, 'She is the im;pectress of this room.' One
prisoner had the organs of benevolence and of re-
ligion as strongly developed as those of theft and
cunning ; and his boast was, that he never had
committed an act of violence, and that it was re-
pugnant to his feelings to rob a church. In a
man named Fritze, detained for the murder of his
27
wife, though his crime was not proved, the organs
of cunning and firmness were fully developed ; and
it was by these that he eluded conviction. In
Maschke, he found the organ of mechanical arts,
together with the head very well organized in
many respects ; and his crime was coining. In
Troppe he saw the same organ. This man was
a shoemaker, who, without instruction, made
clocks and watches, to gain a live'ihood in his
confinement. On a nearer in:';pection, the organ
of imitation was found to be large. ' If this man
had ever been ncar a theatre,' said Gall, ' he
would, in all probability, have turned actor.'
Troppe, astonished at the accuracy of this sen-
tence7 confessed that he had joined a company of
strolling players for six months. His crime, too,
was having personated a police officer to extort
money. The orga~s of circumspection, prudence,
foresight, were sadly deficient in Reisig, who, in a
drunken fit, had stabbed his best friend. In some
prisoners he found th~ organ of language, in others
of color, in others of mathematics; and his opin-
ion, in no single instance, failed to be confirmed
by the known talents anrl dispositions of the indi-
vidual.
' On the 20th of April,' continues the same au-
thor, 'the visit was made at Spandau, in presence
ofthe privy-counsellor Ilufeland, one of the most
philosophic physicians of his age, and of several
other official persons of similar respectabili~y.
28
Four hundred and seventy heads were submitted
to inspection. In every robber the organ of theft
was highly developed, accompanied by various
other oraans in the difrcrent individuals. In one,
0
Dr. Gall perceived the organ of mathematics
strongly pronounced ; together with others, denot-
ing skill in the mechanical arts. This man, Ku-
nisch, had in ract committed several robberies, in
which his dexterity had much assisted him, and
his address was such, that he was entrusted with
the care of the spinning-machines in the house of
correction. Gall asked him whether he had any
knowledge of calculation. ' Do you think I could
put together a piece of work like this, if I could
not calculate the effects?' An old woman, in
whose head theft, theosophy, and love of offspring,
were the prvminent organs, confessed the justice
of her punishment, and returned thanks to God
for ha\'ing placed her in that establishment; for
since her confinement, her children, whom she
herself could not have educ:1.ted, had been sent to
an orphan-house. Albert, distinguished for his
haughtiness to his fellow-prisoners, was an exam-
ple of a strong development of the organ of self-
esteem. R0gina Deering, an infanticide, was pre-
sented to him among a band of robbers; but Gall
immediately called to Dr. Spurzheim to remark how
in one organ her head resembled that of a servant
of his at Vienna, a very excellent person in all other
respects, but who delighted in killing animals.
29
In Kunow, he found the organ of music pre-
dominant; and it appeared that all the misfor-
tunes of this person proceeded from his having
ruined himself by this, his ruling passion. Raps
had the organs of theft, of murder, and of benev-
olence, highly developed. His crime was having
robbed an old woman, round whose neck he had
fastened a rope wit,h intent to strangle her, but
having completed his robbery, an emotion of pity
prompted him to return, and loosen the rope, by
which act the life of the old woman was saved.
Such is an extract of the narrative of these cele-
brated visits to the prisons of B~rlin and Spandau,
which in their day attracted much notice through-
out Germany.'
It should be remarked here, that Spurzheim
did not acknowledge any organ of 'murder,' or
of 'theft.' He says, in relation to the former,
that ' Gall formerly called this organ that of
murder, because he discovered it of large size
in the heads of two murderers; but 110 faculty can
be named from its abuse. The error Gall com-
mitted, however, was natural, for the functions
of all the organs are most easily discovered in their
state of extreme development, when they are
very apt to produce ·abuses. Such then was the
origin of tltis erroneous name of a faculty, whose
well regulated employment is, like that of every
other, essential to life. I think the name, organ
of the propensity to destroy, or of destructivP.ness,
30
is the most general, and the most conformable to
its sphere of activity.'
The organ of ' theft,' he denon1inated the 'or-
gan of the propensity to acquire, or of acquisitive-
ness.' 'We may inquire,' says he, 'whether
stealing is natural; and if so, the effect of a spe-
cial propensity ? To answer in the affirmative is
both irrational and dangerous : irrational, because
the Creator could not bestow any faculty absolutely
hurtful on man ; dangerous, because it would
apologize for acts punished as crimes by the law.'
Further, ' Theft must depend upon a certain fac-
ulty, and this must be manifested by means of an
organ ; but theft, being injurious, can only be an
abuse of that faculty.'
Gall and Spurzheim's ' anatomical demonstra-
tions, excited every where great interest and ap-
plause. :rhe great German anatomist and phys-
iologist, Rei], before whom they dissected a brain
at Halle, said to Professor Bischoff, who wrote an
exposition of their doctrine, 'I have seen in the
anatomical demonstrations of the brain, made by
Gall, more than I thought that a man could dis-
cover in his whole life.'
As might be expected, the physiological doc-
trines of Gall and Spurzheim gained many adhe-
rents, and a due proportion of determined oppo-
nents. The novelty of their system obtained them
a ready hearing, and their facts and philosophy
secured the respect of the candid and inquiring
31
mind, while on the other hand, the jealous and
prejudiced commenced an opposition without
regard to truth or justice.
' In the whole of our travels,' says Spurzheim
in a letter to a friend, ' we have been well re-
ceived, and the second course was always more
fully attended than the first, so that there was no
doubt that the subject excited great interest. But
it is to be regretted that we stopt too short a
time to form practical pupils. The principles
were explained, the development shown, and we
were off. You will conceive that this was not the
way to establish the doctrine. 'Ve had more ad-
vantage than our pupils, because we had great
opportunities of observing the heads of many men
of talents: we got more conviction than our au-
ditors. vVe were prepared by previous study to
make observations, but our stay was too short to
teach the auditors to repeat them. Dr. Gall even
gave the advice not to repeat the experiments,
since it is difficult to do so. But I am sure, that
not one Phrenologist from knowledge has fallen
back, saying that the doctrine is false. I have
seen frequently the contrary, i. e. the belief in it
strengthened by self observations.'
In November, 1807, Dr. Gall, assisted by Dr.
Spurzheim, delivered his first course of public
lectures in Paris. ' His assertions,' says Chene-
vix, ' were supported by a numerous collection of
skulls, heads, casts ; by a multiplicity of anatom-
32
ical, by a multiplicity of physiological facts.
Great, indeed; was the ardor excited among the
Parisians by the presence of the men, who, as they
supposed, could tell their fortunes by their heads,
as well as Mademoiselle le Normand could do
with a pack of cards; and chiromancy was aban-
doned for cranioscopy. Every one wanted to get
a peep at them ; every one was anxious to give
them a dinner, or supper; and the writer of this
article actually saw a list on which an eager can-
didate was delighted to inscribe himself for a
breakfast, distant only three months and a half; at
which breakfast he sat a wondering guest.'
In 1808, they presented a joint memoir, on the
anatomy of the brain, to the French Institute.
We present you, said they, in their memoir, ' Une
description du Systeme Nerveux, moins d'apres sa
structure physique, et ses formes mecaniques que
d'apres des Vues P!tilosophiques et Physiologiques
que des homrnes habitues a des considerations su-
perieures ne 1"ejuseront point d'accueilli1·.' ' The
Institute was then in all its glory. In proportion
as Buonaparte had cannonaded, it had grown en-
lightened. As the hero was the referendary of
military justice, so was it the areopagus of scien-
tific truth. The chief of the anatomical depart-
ment was M. Cuvier ; and he was the first mem-
ber of this learned body to whom Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim addressed themselves.
l\1. Cuvier was a man of known talent and ac-
ss
quirements, and his mind was applicable to many
branches of science. llut what equally distin-
guished him with the versatility of his unden;tand-
ing, wa~ the suppleness of his opinions. lie re-
cei\ cd the German Doctors ":ith much politenel's.
lie requested them to di!'sect a brain privately for
him and a few of his leamcd friends: and he at-
tended a course of lecture.;, ~iven purpo:-;ely for
him and a party of his !"election. H e listened with
much attentiOn, and appear<>d well disposed to\\ anl
tlJC new doctrine i and the writNofthisarticleheard
him express his approbatiou ol its general features,
i11 a circle which was not particularly private.
About thi.; time, the ln:-titute had committed an
act of extraordinary coura!,!e, in venturing to a~k
permission of Buonaparte to award a prize medal
to Sir IJ. Davy, for his admirahiP galvanic exper-
iments, and was still in anHlZ<' at its own heroism.
(.;onscnt was obtained i but the soreness of na-
tional defeat rankled dePply "ithin. When the
First Consul was apprisPd that tlw :neatest of his
comparatire anatomists had attended a course of
lecture:- hy Dr. Gall. he broke out as furiou:-;ly as
he had done a!rainst L ord \\"hitworth; and at his
levee he rated the wi!"c men of his land for allow-
ing thcausclres to h<' taught c hcanistr) hy an Eng-
lishman, and anatomy hy a (icrman i sat t•erbum.
The wary citizen altered his language. A com-
mis:-:ion was named by the Institute to report upon
the labor:; of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim i l\1. Cu-
E
34
vier drew up the report. In this he used his
efforts, not to proclaim the truth, but to diminish
the merits of the learned Germans. Whenever
he could find the most distant similarity between
the slightest point of their mode of operating, and
any thing erer done before, he dwelt upon it with
peculiar pleasure : and lightly touched upon what
was really new. lie even affected to excuse the
Institute for taking the subject into consideration
at all, saying that the anatomical researches were
entirely distinct from the physiology of the brain,
and the doctrines of mental manifestations. Of
this part of the subject Buonaparte, and not with-
out cause, had declared his reprobation ; and M.
Cuvier was too great a lover of liberty not to sub-
mit his opinion to that of his Consul. JJis asser-
tion, too, that the anatomy of the brain has noth-
in~ to say to its mental influence, he knew to be
in dirf'ct opposition to fact ; bu~ even the meagre
credit which he did dare to allow to the new mode
of di'5scction, he wished to dilute with as much
bitterness as he could. So unjust and unsatisfac-
tory, so lame and mutilated did the whole report
appear, that the authors of the new method pub-
lished an answer, in which they accused the com-
missaries of not huving repeated their experiments.
Such was the reet'ption which the science of
Phrenology met with from the Academy of the
great nation.'*
· Chenevix.
35
That Cuvier was favorably disposed towards
the new doctrines of Gall and !-'purzheiw '"o
think cannot be denied. That he was in-
fluenced by the opinions of the Firl:it Con:ml is
e<tually certain, he having expresl:icd himself to his
friends more in favor of their views, than in his
report.
'Cu,·ier,' says Spurzheim in his answ0r to Gor-
don, ' however, was too well acquainted with the
German and European literature, to accuse us of
plagiarism. Be allowed that our method of dis-
secting the brain is preferable to that commonly
used in the schools ;-that we arc the first who
have shewn the swel1ings in the spinal cord of
a calf ;-the proportion between the brown and
white subatance of the brain ;-the true origin
of the optic and other nerves :-the certainty of
the decussation ;-the succcssire reinforcement
through the pon::, crura, optic thalami, the cor-
pora striata ;-the two sorts of fibres in the brain,
and the generality of the commissures. As the
report is printed, even translat. d and inserted in
the Edinburgh Medical and Smgical Journal for
January, 1809, the reader, in p rusin!j the report,
may satisfy himsf'lf. I ask the historian, why he
has omitted to tell his readers, that Curier, in the
Annual Report, published, that onr Memoir "as
by far the most important which had occupied the
attention of the cla~s? '
About this time, 1809, they commenced pub-
36
Ji-,hing their magnificent work, entitled, 1
The
Anatomy and Physiology qfthe Nervous System it~
general, and of the Bmin in particular; 1cith Ob-
srrt·at;ons upon the possibility ofascertainin!! sn:cral
intdlcctual and mom/ di~J)I,sitions of .llan wul Ani-
mals, by the coJ!fi!:!zll'ation oftheir Heads. 4 volumes,
folio, with an Atlas of 100 plates.'
This great "·ork was continued, by the joint ex-
ertions of Gall and ~purzhcim, to the completion
of t\\ o and n half volurncs, and waH ultimately
finished by Gall in 1819. The reason of this sepa-
ration, it is alleged, originated in some di~ugrce­
mcnt between the authors. 1
Wc continued labor-
ing,' says ~purzhcirn, 'in common until 1HIS,
when our connc:\ion cea..ed, and each hr.gan to
pur:-:uc the !'Uhj<•ct f{>r him:-clf.' The al"~i:-tance
of ~purzhcim in the execution of this great work
mu~t have been important, as his discO\ cries
formed the principal ohjcct of its publication.*
'All the drawings,' sa) s he, 'were executed under
my supcrintcndcnc<', from anatomical prepara-
tions, made and dctcrminctl on by me ; the en-
grayer worked by Ill) directions; no plate" as ~ent
to pre!':; without my approral: the de!'cription~ of
the plates and anatomical details arc mine ; a11d I
furnished the literary notices in rcg:ml to the
nerves of the abdominal thorax, to thof:c of the
cerebral columu, of the five senses, of the cere-
bellum, and of the bram.'
• Prefare to ~putllll'im's An:nomy of the Bram.
37
The price of this work was 1000 francs.
' Dr. Gall, being the first founder of Phrenol-
ogy, remains immortal. The success of his la-
bors, too, was immense. He discovered the situa-
tioil of twenty-six phrenological organs. I say
twenty-six, instead of twcnty-se\'en, because his
organ of verbal memory and that of language are
to be considered one. But his talent and the sphere
ofits operations had their limits, and since our sep-
aration in 1813, Dr. Gull has neither made a new
discovery in Phrenology, nor a step towards its
improvement.'*
We think it proper here to conclude our notice
of the founder of Phrenology.
Dr. Gall made Paris his home. He acquired
an honorable reputation as a physician, wnter,
and philosopher, and, independent of the respect
shewn hint by all parties, he realized the additioual
reward of a handsome fortune. His sk1ll as a
physician may be inferred from the following fact:
In the year 182.0, a medal was presented to him,
' executed by 1\I. Barre, an eminent artist in Paris,
by order of Count Potosky, a rich Polish noble-
man, who took this method of expressing his deep
gratitude to Dr. Gall, who had cured him of an
old and dangerous malady, for which he had in
vain consulted the best medical men in Paris. On
one side of the medal is the head of Dr. Gall, an
admirable likeness; and on the other is Escula-
~ole :J lQ Cheveni.x s articl~, by Dr. Srurzheinl.
38
pius, standing at the bedside of the patient, chas-
ing away with one hand the birds of darkness, and
crushing a frog, the symbol of ignorance, under
his right foot. Behind Esculapius is an altar, with
a skull placed upon it, to denote the particular
kind of study to which Dr. Gall was addicted.
Near the couch are the arms of the count himself.
This medal is very scarce, and, as a testimony
honorable alike to Count Potosky and to Dr. Gall,
it is very valuable.'
A briefaccount of the death of this distinguished
man is presented in the following extract from an
address by Dr. A. Combe.*
' Passing over for the present, from necessity
rather than from inclination, a more detailed no-
tice of our immortal founder, I may simply add,
that in March last, at the conclusion of one of his
lectures, Dr. Gall was seized with a paralytic at-
tack, from which he never perfectly recovered,
and which ultimately carried him off on the 22d
of August, 1828, in the seventy-second year of his
age; that his remains were followed to the grave
by an immense concourse of friends and admirers,
five of whom pronounced discourses over his
grave, as is the custom in France on such occa-
sions; that his death gave rise to a succession of
eulogiums and attacks in the French newspapers
that had scarcely ever been paralleled; but that
• Dr. Combe's Address lo the Edinburgh Phrenological Soc1cty, Nov.
18'28, Ph. Jour. vol. v. p. 477.
39
public sentiment was warmly and loudly expressed
in his favor. In proof of this, I may be allowed to
quote a few lines of a letter lately received from a
:French friend with whom l was intimate in Paris,
but who is no phrenologist, and whose testimony
is therefore impartial. After speaking of the po-
litical relations of France, he adds, 'You will, I
am sure, be more affected by the death of Dr.
Gall than by any political events. In truth, it is
an immense loss to science. Whatever opinion
we may form of the system of that illustrious man,
it must be acknowledged that he has made an im-
mense .stride in the sciences of medicine an.! of
man. You must have been sati~fie I with the ho-
mage paid to his memory by the side of his grave,
by whatever distinguished men Pa··is possesses.
Nothing was wanting to his glory ; not even the
abuse and calumnies of our devots de ga::ette.'
'l\Iost of w:;,' says a writer in the Birmingham
Journal, ' find some amusement in tracing, on
fancy's tablet, the portrait of a person of whom
we have heard much, and particularly after we
ha.ve read many of the works of an author, but
\\ith whom we have had no personal acquaintance.
It generally happens, howerer, that our portrait
is not correct, when we compare it with the orig-
inal. Thus it was with myself. I found Dr. Gall
(in 1826) to be a man of middle stature, of an
outline well-proportioned ; he was thin and rather
pallid, and po:s:sessed a capacious head and chest.
40
The peculiai· brilliancy of his penetrating eye left
an indelible impression. 11is countenance "as
remarkable,-his Jcatures strongly marked and
rather large, yet devoid of coarseness. The
general impression that a first glance was calcu-
lated to convey would be, that Dr. Gall was a
man of originality and depth of mind, possessing
much urbanity, with some self-esteem and inflex-
ibility of design.
After presenting my letters of introduction to
him at seven o'clock A. M. he showed me into a
room, the walls of which were covered with bird-
cages, and the floor with dogs, cats, &c. Ob-
serving that I was surpri~cd at the number of his
companions, l1e observed, 'All you Englishmen
take me for a bird-catcher; I am sure you feel
surprised that I am not somewhat difrerently made
to any of you, and that I should employ my time
in talking to birds. .Birds, Sir, differ in their dis-
positions like men ; and if they were but of more
com;equence, the peculiarity of their characters
would have been as well delineated. Do you
think,' said he, turning his eyes to two beautiful
dogs at his feet, which were endea\'oring to gain
his attention, 'do you think that these little pets
possess pride and vanity like man?' 'Yes,' said I,
'1 have remarked their vanity frequently.' '\Ve will
call both feelings into action,' said he; he then
caressed the whelp and took it into his arms;
'mark his mother's offended pride,' said he, as
41
she was walking quietly across the chambN to
her mat ; ' do you think she will come if I call
her?' 'Oh, yes.' I answered. 'No, not at all.'
lie made the attempt; but she heeded not the hand
she had so earnestly endeavored to lick but an
instant before. ' She will not speak to me to-
day,' said the doctor. He then described to me
the peculiarity of many of his bird:>, and I was
a:-tonished to find, that he :-,;ecmed familiar also
with theit· di~positions, (if 1 may be a1lo\\ ed
the word.) 'Do you think a mnn"s time would
be wasted thu., in England ? You are a wealthy
and a powerlitl nation, antl as long as the equilib ·
rium exi~ts between the two. ~o shall rou remain:
but this nercr has nor cannot exi~t beyoncl a
certain period. Such is your iudustry, stimulated
by the love of gain, that your whole life is
Rpun out before you are aware the wheel is
turning; and so highly do you ralue commerce,
that it stand~ in the place of ~<·If-knowledge, and
an acquaintance with nature and her immense
laboratory.'
1 was delighted with this conversation ; he
:-cemed to me to take a "ider \ icw in the contem-
}Jiation of man than any other pcr~on with \\hom
I had erer conrer:-:ed. During hrcaHa:,:t, he frc-
ctucntly feel the little suitor:-:, who approached as
ncar as their iron bars would admit. ' You :-cc
they all know me,' !'aid he, 'and will feed fi·om
my hand, except this black-bird, who must gain his
r
42
morsel by stealth before he cats it; we will re-
tire an instant, and in our absence he will take
the bread.' On our return, we found he had se-
creted it in a corner of his cage. I mention these,
otherwise un~nteresting anecdotes, to show how
much Dr. Gall had studied the peculiarities of the
smaller animals. After our breakfast, he showed
me his extensive co11ection ; and thus ended my
first visit to the greatest moral philosopher that
Europe has produced ; to a man, than whom few
were ever more ridiculed, and few ever pursued
their bent more determinately, despite its effects;
to a man, who alone cfrected more change in
mental philosophy than perhaps any predecessor;
to a man, who suffered more persecution, and yet
possessed more philanthropy than most philoso-
phers.'
Many more interesting details might be added
in relation to this distinguished man, but our limits
forbid their introduction here, and we return to
the subject of our biography.
Jn June, 1813, Dr. Spurzheim paid a visit to
Vienna, to receive his degree of 1\I. D. Previous
to his departure, he l1ad studied for six months
the English language. These were preparatory
steps to his scientific travels, and considering that
England was to be the first field of his labors,
they were, of course, most important. After a
few months residence in Vienna, he left for Eng-
land, and anived at London, March, 1814.
43
'Vithout doubt, Spurzheim had seen much in the
character of the English that corresponded to his
own ;-carefulness and patience in study, but bold-
ness in opinion ; ardent in the pursuit of scientific
discoveries, but regulated by deliberate reflection.
Although he may have found these characteristics,
he probably sawothers quite as prominent, peculiar-
ly national; for, often what is denominated delibe-
ration proves to be studied obstinacy. Not that the
English are unwilling to sec and to hear, but that
their reason is too frequently made subservient to
their pride. They pursue a course contrary
to the principles of human nature, not be at-
tracted or moved by no\'elty or new objects of
utility, but they are too much accustomed to
esteem themselves infallible in their doctrines to
make it an easy task to surrender ancient opinions,
for the adoption of new ones from a foreign
country.
* ' The moment of his first visit was not pro-
pitious. The nation was still smarting 'vith the
scars of war. l\lany things, too, had indi~posed
it to the lore of Germany; it was Jealous and
touchy upon the subject of quackery. 1\lesmer,
1\Iainaduke, Perkins, the morbid sentimentalism
of l\Iii'is Ann Plumptre's translation, had made it
so; and Dr. Spurzhcim had to struggle against
all these obstacles. The campaign was opened by
Chenevix
a dissection of the brain, at the Medico-Clnrur~
gical Societfs in Lincoln's Inn Fields; and the
novelty as well as the truth of the demonstration,
that this viscus i::; composed of fibres, created no
!'mall surprise among the learned audience. The
choice of such a mode to enter upon the subject
was eminently judicious, as it placed it at once
upon a respectable footing, by making an appeal
to science. 1 he eflcct in its favor, howe\ er, was
not so general as might have been expected.
·when a course of lectures was delivered, not
more than forty .auditors were present ; neither
did a second course attract a more numerous
circle.'
lt is said, that Dr. •\bernethy 'fully acknowl-
edged the superiority of Dr. Spurzheim's anatom~
ical demonstrations over erery prerious mode of
dissecting the brain,' and that he ' directed the
attention of his class to Dr. Spurzheim's anatomi-
cal labors, as most important discoveries.'·*
As the opinions of l\Ir. Abernethy arc always
read with interest and respect, we introduce the
following extracts from the 2d volume of his Sur-
gery, which relate to Drs. Gall and Spurzheim
and their doctrinc8.
'The views which Drs. Gall and Spurzheim
have taken of the nature of the dispositions and
faculties of man and animals appear to me, how-
• Prof. Follen.
45
ever, both new and philosophical, and these admit
of being surveyed without any reference to organ-
ization or its supposed situation. It is thus only
that I submit them to you as well deserving your
examination ; for I think it will be acknowledged
that they have drawn a correct portrait of human
nature, whether they be right or wrong in their
speculations concerning certain protuberances
which they have depicted.'
It should be remembered that Gall and Spurz-
heim do not speak of' protuberances' or' bumps;'
they require that e\'ery one who 'wishes to form
an opinion concerning the reality of Phrenology,
must make himselfacquainted with, 1. the situation
of the special organs; 2. with the true meaning
of each fundamental faculty of the mind, as adopt-
ed in Phrenology ; 3. with the different tempera-
me nt~as giving more or less energy to the func-
tion of the organs; 4. with the relative develop-
ment of the four regions of the head, occipital,
lateral, frontal and sincipital ; 5. with the pro-
portionate size of tl.e basilar to the coronal por-
tion, and with the proportionate size of the three
great divisions of the in~erior feelings, superior
sentiments and intellectual faculties; finally, 6.
with the relative development of the special or-
gans in each individual.'
After considering the science in detail, 1\fr.
Abernethy thus remarks in conclusion :
' The foregoing representation of human nature,
4G
\\hen viewed in its proper light, and '' ith due at-
tention, mu~t, I think, plea~e every one ; for it is
not like others heretofore presented to us, which
appear in comparison but as mere diagrams, there-
sult of study and imagination, whibt this seems
like a portrait from life by masterly hands. It is
not, indeed, exactly like any individual, but ca-
pable by alterations of being matlc to resemble
e' cry one; so that by the help of a few touches
we are able readily to show ' Virtue her own image,
Vice her own deformity,' in all thQir di' ersities.
'I had great gratification in being intimate with
Dr. Spurzheim whilst he remained in London, and
m a l•ind of badinage I propo~ed to him questions
which he answered with facility, and in a manner
that showed a very perfect knowledge of human
nature. For instance, I inquired whether he had
discovered any organ of common sense ; and he
replied in the negative. I then demanded in
what that quality consisted; and he answered, in
the balance of power between other organs. This
answer shows why a quality so peculiarly useful
is common to all, and rare in any; for there are
but few who have not prejudices and partialities,
hopes or fears, or predominant feeling~'!, which
prevent them from pursuing that middle and equal
cour~e of thought and conduct, whieh unbias~ed
consideration, or common sense, indicates and di-
rects. I inCJuired of Dr. Spurzhcim if there "as
any organ of self-control, or 1f not, \\hence that
47
that power originated. He said, ' It is the re
suit of a predominating motive; thus, justice may
control avarice, and avarice sensuality.' In
short, I readily acknowledge my inability to offer
any rational objection to Gall and Spurzheim's
system of Phrenology, as affording a satisfactory
explanation of the motives of human actions.
' Their representation simplifies our notions of
such motives, by lessening the number of reputed
agents; thus the want of benevolence and virtuous
dispositions, with excitement to anger, produces
malevolence, and this, conjoined with concealment,
malice. I need not recite a variety of instances,
since they are sufficiently apparent.'
From London, Dr. Spurzheim proceeded to
Bath, Bristol, Cork and Dublin, where he was
well received, and where he lectured with success.
ln 1815, an article appeared in the June number
of the Edinburgh Review, in which Gall and
Spurzheim were most heartily reviled and abused.
It was too violent and severe for its own purpose,
viz. the prostration of Phrenology by general de-
nunciations and opprobrious epithets. An example
or two will illustrate the spirit of the writer
better than any language of ours. It is interesting
to mark the tone of this journal at that period,
and observe its subsequent changes. Violence of
thought, ofexpression, or ofaction being constantly
subject to the revision of cool reflection, is much
more liable to reverses than moderate hostility,
48
originating either in prejudice or "·ilful igno·
ranee.
From the Eclinburu·!t UNiew for June, 181.) :
.-,
' " 'e look upon the "hole doctrines taught by
thc!'e two modern peripatetics, (Drs. Gall and
Spurzbeim,) anatomical, physiological, and phy~­
iognomical, as a piece of thorough quackery from
beginning to end.'
'Were they (Dr~. (;all and Spurzheim,) ercn to
succeed. in shaking ofr the !:;U~picion of mala jidrs,
which '"e apprehend is inseparably attach('d to
their character, we should not hesitate to Ray,' &c.
'There are a certain number of indiridual:.;,
however, in every community, 'rho arc dc~tined
to be dupes of empirics, so it would he rather
matter of surpri:'=c if these itinerant philo:-;ophers
did not make some pro=-elytes wherever they
come. 'Yell has the learned and mo:.;t witty his-
torian of l\Ir. John Bull'::; indi:.;position remarked,
"there is nothing so impossible in nature, but moun-
tebanks will undertake, nothing so inacdiblc, but
they will affirm."'
''re ha,·e hro objects in riew in a formal e.7jW.~e
ancl expo5ure of the contents of the ,·olumc hcforc
u:-. The fir:-t i::: to contradict directly rarions
statr.ment<~, in point of fact. made by Dr:-. Gnll and
Spurzheim "ith unparallelecl boldness and <'fl'ron-
tery, which per~ons, puJi·rtly satisfied ofthe "l 1w-
• • b '
ral absurdity of their opinions, may not lut\'<' the
c:;amc opportunity of refuting as oursclrcc: : The
49
~econd, and by far the most important, to save the
purses of our readers, if possible, before it be too
late, by satisfying that curio~ity which might oth~
erwise lead them to purchase the books them-
selves, or attend the lectures of these cunning
craniologers.'
' Such arc the opinions of Drs. Gall and Spurz-
heim on the functions in general of man, and on his
intellectual faculties in particular. We have been
the more minute in our sketch of them, that their
absurdity might be the more apparent. To enter
on a particular refutation of them, would be to in-
sult the understandings of our renders. Indeed
we will flatter the authors so far as to say, that
their observations arc of a nature to set criticism
entirely at defiance. They are a collection of
mere absurdities, without truth, connexion, or
con;;istency; an incoherent thapsorly, which noth-
ing could have induced any man to have present-
ed to the public, under a pretence of instructing
them, but ab:-olute insanity , gross ignorance, or
the most matchle:o;s assurance.'
'Such is the trash, the despicable trump<'ry,
which two men, calling themselres scientific in-
quirers, ha,·c the impudence gravely to prec:cnt
to the phy;;iologists of the nineteenth century, as
::;pccimens of reasoning and induction.'
The re\•iew thus concludes:
' The \rriting::; of Drs. Gall and ~purzhcim Ita, e
not added one fact to the stock of our knon ledge,
G
50
respecting either the structure or functions ofman ;
but consi~t ofsuch a mixture ofgross errors, extrav-
agant absurdities, downright misstatements, and
unmeaning quotation~ from Scripture, as can leave
no doubt, we apprehend, in the minds of honest
and intelligent men, as to the real ignorance, the
real hypocri~y, and the real empiricism of the
author~.'
Dr. Spurzheim had always intended to visit
Scotland, and this article had a tendency to con-
firm hi~ desire. ' lie procured one letter of in-
troduction for that city, and but one; that was to
the reputed author of the vituperating essay, (Dr.
Gordon.) He visited him, and obtained permis-
sion to dtssect a brain in his presence. The au-
thor himself was a lecturer on anatomy, and the
dissection took place in his lecture-room. Some
eyes were a little more, or a little less, clear-sighted
than others, for they l'law, or thought they saw,
fibres. A second day was named. The room
was as full as it could be, particularly as an in-
termediate bench was reserved for Dr. Spurzhcim,
to carry round the subject of inquiry toe\ cry spec-
tator. There, "ith the Edinburgh Rericw in one
hand, and a hra.in in the other, he opposed fact to
assertion. The writer of the article still believed
the Edinburgh Review, hut the public believed the
anatomist; and that day won OYer ncar five hun-
dred witnesses to the fibrous structure of the
white substance of the brain, while it drew otr a
,j l
large portton of admiring pupils from the antag-
onist lecturer.'*
During this lecture, which occupied five hours,
he was 'repeatedly and captiously interrupted'
by his bitter antagonist ; but his mild deportment
and per-;uasive candor secured him the respect of
his auditors and an impartial hearing.
'Thus aiJed by succes:-:, Dr. Spurzheim opened a
eourse of lectures on the anatomy and the functions
of the brain, and its connexion with mind. He
used to say to the Scotch," You are slow, but
you arc sure ; I must remain some time with yo'J,
and then I'll !care the fruit of my labors to ripen
in your hands. This is the spot from which, as
from a centre, the doctrines of Phrenology shall
spread over Britain." These predictions proved
true. Converts flocked iu on all sides; the in-
credulou~ came and were convinced.'*
Phrenology became the topic of public and
private discussion. Parties were formed, the pas-
sions cn)i:-;ted, and all that ch<~racterizes the zeal-
ous politician, seemed to actuate the citizens of
Edinburgh in the investigation of the science.
During Dr. Spurzheim's ~tay in Edinburgh, he
\'i:-;itcd the work-shop of 1\Ir. James 1\lylne, an in-
genious brass-founder, and examined the heads of
his apprentices. The following is 1\Ir. 1\Iylnc's
account of 'vhat took place upon the occasion :
' On the first boy presented to Dr. Spurzhcim,
on his entering the shop, he observed, that he
• Chenevix
\\Ould excel in any thing ht' was put to. In thi:-
he was pcrlcctl) corrcc.t, as he ''as one of tlH'
cleverest bO) s I e\'er had. On proceeding further,
Dr. S. rcm;u ked of another boy, tha!. he "ould
make a o-ood \vorkman. In this in~tance. abo, hi:;
::::.
obsen·ation was well founded. An elder brother
of his was working next him, who, he l'aid, would
al:-o turn out a good "orkman, but not equal to
the other. J mentioned that in point of fact the
former was the best, although both were good.
In the cour:;e of further observation, Or. B. re-
marked of others, that they ought to be onlinarr
tradc::<mcn, and they were ~o. At la~t he pointed
out one, "ho, he said, ought to be of a diflcrcnt
cast, and of whom l would never be able to make
:wy thing as a workman, and. this turned out to
be too correct; for the boy ~ene<.l au apprentice-
ship of se,·cn years, and "hen <lone, he was not
able to do one third of the work performed by
other indiYicluals, to ''hose instruction no greater
attention ha<l been paid. So much wa:-; I :<truck
with .Dr. Spurzhcim'::; ob:-enation~, and ~o correct
ha.\'e l foutH1 the indications presented by the or-
ganization to be, that when workmen, or boy.s to
scrrc as apprentices, apply to me, J at once gi\ c
the prefereucc to tho:;c pos::'cssing a. large con-
~tructi\'errcss; and if the deficiency is very great,
I \rould be disposed to decline recci\in<T them
::::. '
being com·inced of their inability to succeed.'
• Phrenol. Jour.
Aftet' a re::;idence of seven months of great a.c~
tivity and success in Edinburgh, Dr. Spurzheim
returned to London in 1817. He there delivered
another course of lectures; but the interest in the
science had not much increased in his absence,
as was indicated by the number of his auditors.
·while in London, he became a Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians, and published the
following works, in English, viz. ; The Physiog-
nomical System of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim in
8vo; Outline of the System, in 12mo; a very
valuable work on Insanity, in 8vo, and a calm and
able answer to the reviewers.
The spirit and temper of this answer to the
reviewers was truly commendable, and afforded
a salutary example to his opponents, as may be in-
ferred from the extracts which follow, taken from
the preface :
' Di::;cussions properly conducted, are of great
utility. For that reason I am always ready to
examine every objection against our doctrines.
But 1 am sorry to observe, that scientific pursuits
arc so often degraded by selfish passions and
spirit of party ;-that literary publications are em-
ployed for the purposes of calumny and detrac-
tion; that invectives are used instead ofarguments;
and that by praising friends and blaming rivals,
the progress of the arts and sciences, and the im-
provement of man, are mightily retarded.
' Such bcha\'ior I will never imitate; nay, the
54
illiberal and uncandid manner m which some
British reviews have taken up our im estigations,
has hitherto prevented me from attempting justi-
ficatiOn. As, howe\ er, many per:sons harc no in-
clinat•on, and a greater number no time, for com-
paring the original works \\ ith the reports of the
critics ; and as in science the majority of readers
believe, without examining for themselves, I can-
not entirely avoid controversy.'
' 1 am now to submit to the public some obser-
vations on the objections of om principal antag-
oni~ts in Great Britain, confining myself to the
points in que~tion, and depending on the moral
scn~c, the judgment and observation, of my rea-
dono~.'
'Every one will perceive, that our adversaries
arc 'cry witty men. They deal very extensively
in the ridiculous; and when they hare leisure to
become serious, they speak of the motives and
dan!.(erous consrquences of om inquiries; but their
generous minds need not he apprehensive, since
they declare our doctrines ' incredible and dis-
graceful nonsem::c, absurd theories, trash and des-
picable trumpery.'
' Why do they not rather Ji..,ten to our constant
declaration, that one fact well observed, is more
decisive to us than a thousand opinions and all
the metaphysical reasoning of the schools, and
that facts alone can expel !:iuch intruders as our
doctrines ?'
55
This able and conclusive reply, which secured
to its author tho respect even of his opponents,
thus concludes :
'Certainly, with such critical reviewers, such
would-be philosophers, such mechanical dissec-
tors, and such historians, I have done forever;-
and I may say with Job (xiii. 5.) "Oh, that you
would altogether hold your peace, and it should
be your wisdom."'
In July, 1817, Dr. Spurzheim returned to Paris.
During his absence from Paris, Dr. Gall did not
lecture : after his return, Dr. Gall delivered one
private course in his own house, and two public
courses gratis; one ' a!'Ecole de Medicine,' and
the other in a hall de l'InstitutiOn pour les Aven-
gles.' Dr. Spurzhoim himself had regularly two
courses of lectures, after his r.eturn to Paris, 'sur
l'Anatomie, la Physiologic, et Ia Pathologic du
Cerveau, et des sens exterieurs ; ' each course
lasting three months.
' Phrenology,' said he, ' had been in a groat
measure forgotten during several years, but it
gains strength of new. The ridicule which pur-
sued it in France is overcome, and it now bears
the reputation of n science. My auditors have
increased in numbers each succeeding course ;
and as a greater part of them are strangers from
different regions, they will not fail to spread the
doctrines in their native countries. The zeal
and assiduity with which they have followed my
•
iu!'mtctions, authorize me to entcrtam this cxpcc.-
tation.:
~purzheim al:-;o dcrotcd himself to the practice
vf medicine, and \'isitcd in this capacity sc\eral
American t:unilic:-. then rc:-:iding in Paris. But the
medical profc:-;sion was not his faroritc occupa-
tion. Like many other professors of the healing
art, he had but little coufidence in his own pre-
scriptions. He was more dcroted to philosopl1y
and the study of man.
We arc indebted to Dr. Combe for a striking
confirmation of the truth of Phrenology "hich oc-
curred in his presence, while attending Dr. :->pmz-
heim's lectures in Paris.
' In the middle of the lcctme of the 1st Decem-
her, 18182
a brain was handed in, with a request
that Dr. Spurzhcun would say what dispositions it •
indicated, and he would then be informed how far
he was correct. l>r. Rpurzhcim took the bruin
without any hesitation, and after premising that
the experiment wn,; not a fair one, in as far as he
\\as not made acquainted with the state of health,
constitution or education, of the indi,·idual, all of
which it wa.... e:-::-ential for him to be a\\ arc of h~­
forc drawing po:::itirc inferences ; he added. that
ncverthele~", he would gire an opinion 011 tlw sup-
po,-ition that the hrain hud been a ~ound one, and
endowed with an ordinary activity. After which,
he procecue1l to point out the peculiarities of de-
velopment "hich it pre;;;cntcd, and dc.:-ired his
57
auditors to remark the unusual stze of the cere-
bellum, or organ of amativeness, and the great
development of the posterior, and of part of the
middle lobes of the brain, corresponding to the
organ of the lower propensities, the convolutions
of which were large and rounded, forming a con-
trast with the deficient size of the anterior lobes,
which are dedicated to the intellectual faculties.
The convolutions situated under the vertex, and
towards the top of the head, belonging to the
organs of self-esteem and firmness were also very
large, while those of veneration and benevolence
were small. These peculiarities were so well
marked, that Dr. Spurzheim felt no difficulty in in-
ferring that the individual would be very prone to
sensual indulgences; that 'his natural tendencies
would not be towards virtue ; ' that he would be
what is familiarly expressed in French by 'un
mauvais wJet,' being a very comprehensive term
for every variety of bad dispositions, and that 'he
'Wotdcl be one to whom the law would be necessary as
a guide;' but not knowing the circumstances in
which he had been placed, he could not say what
his actions might have been.
At the conclusion of the lecture, n young man,
an eleve interne of the Hotel Dieu, came forward
and said, that the brain was that of a suicide, who
had died in that hospital, and that the dispositions
inferred by Dr. Spurzheim coincided perfectly
with those manifested during life. As I was at
H
58
the same t1me following the surgical climque of
the celebrated Dupuytren, whose patient he was,
and as the case was intere~ting both in a profes-
sional and phrenological point of view, my atten-
tion had been particularly directed to this Yery
indi' idual from the day of his entrance into the
Hbtcl Dieu, to that of his death, a period of about
fourteen da} ~; and I was thus better able to ap-
preciate the perfect accuracy of Dr. Spurzheim's
conclusions, than if I had merely trusted to the
report of the eleve. The man, it appeared, had
been a ~oldicr, and had for some crime suffered
ignominious punishment, and had been dismi!"sed
from the army. He returned to Orleans, tore-
sume his trade of barber, but every one shunned
him ; and, suspecting his wife to hare been se-
cretly his enemy, he attempted to kill her with a
knife, and, being defeated in this, he stabbed him-
self in the side, was carried to the ho~pital, and
died of the wound. As he lay in bed, the head
sunk in the pillow, its size seemed to be small,
but this arose f'rom tho anterior part, or the seat
of intellect (which was very deficient) being alone
Yisihlc, the whole hulk con~isting of the organs of
the propensitie::. Dup\;ytren, when commenting
on the case, in his lecture, made daily complaints
of the man's mauvais moral, imperiousness, and
violenre qf tPmper, and represented these qualities
as great ob~ta.cles to his recovery. Ro that alto-
gether, the clo~c coincidence between the facts
59
with which I was familiar, and the remarks of
Dr. Spurzheim, who had never seen the skull, and
judged from the brain alone, as it lay misshapen
on a flat dish, made a deep impression on my
mind, as it went far to prove, not only that organic
size had a powerful influence on energy of func-
tion, but that there actually were differences in
different brains, appreciable to the senses, and
indicative of diversity of function.'
The following account of the state of Phrenolo-
gy in Paris, June, 1821, was communicated by a
member of the Edinburgh Society, in a private
letter, to the editor of the New Edinburgh Re-
view, and appeared in that journal in October of
the same year :
' I have heard,' says the writer, ' a belief, in
Phrenology avowed by some of the most eminent
Professors, both of the College and of the Garden
of Plants. Blainville mentioned in a lecture
which I heard, that the principles were too well
established to admit of doubt, and that he him-
self had made many observations, and never found
an exception. He said that he regarded the
greater number of the organs as established, and
that he believed further observations alone were
wanting to enable him to admit others.
He started some objections regarding the lower
animals, the unequal thickness of whose skulls, he
said, rendered it difficult to determine whether
the external elevations, perceptible in their heads,
tiO
were caused by brain or bone. ln man, he said,
no l:mch objection ehi~t::;, except in old age, or
cases of disease. Geoffroy St. Hilaire also, in his
lectures at the l\Jm;cum of Natural History, avows
his belief in the doctrines, and points out in the
lo,,er animals many correspondences. 1\Ion~icur
Royer, too, of the Garden of Plants, is well known
as a mo~t decided con\'ert ; and, indeed, he ap-
plied to me to procure for him the form of an ap-
plication to be admitted a corresponding member
of the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh, which
I obtained and gave him. It is worth mentioning
also, that about two years ago, Dr. Gall, at the
request of the l\linistcr of the Interior, commenced
lecturing for the benefit of the l\Icdical St1,1dcots
in Paris. The lectures were, like others, deli\·-
cred gratis; but he was provided with the usc of
the operation and lecture room in the Ilospice de
Perfectionncmcnt, for his first course, and after-
wards on account of that being too small, with the
large examination room of the Institution des
Jeunes Aveugles, "hich is well fitted for the pur-
pose. His audience amounted to betwixt 200 and
SOO; and so eagerly is he attended, that it is well
known that many more tickets were applied for
at each course than could be given, and that the
apartment was regularly crowded half an hour
before the lecture began. Dr. Spmzheim also
continues to lecture in Paris, and althoucrh from
t:> '
his demanding a fcc, his auditory is not numerous
61
compared with Dr. Gall's, yet he is regularly at-
tended, and his course is esteemed the more phi-
losophic of the two. I beg to add, that the phys-
iognomical expression of some of the English
students who were present at Blainville's lecture,
and who probably knew nothing of Phrenology,
but through the English Reviews, was truly ludi-
crous. They appeared to relax their features for
a laugh when the name of Dr. Gall first escaped
the lips of the Professor; but when they heard
him spoken of with respect, and his doctrines de-
clared to be true, the expression changed into
wonder with some, and in others to absolute con-
tempt. I thought of the self-esteem for which
their nation is so remarkable, and could not re-
frain from smiling in my own turn, at this amusing
manifestation of the organ.'
Dr. Spurzheim decided upon Paris, as his per-
manent home. There he had every facility for
the prosecution of his studies and valuable oppor-
tunities to teach his doctrines to students from
every part of the civilized world. Here, says he,
in a letter to a friend in Edinburgh, dated Paris,
2d February, 18.21-' je mt> propose de passer le
reste ma vie, occupe de la connaissance de l'lwrnme
dans l'etat de sante et de rnaladie.'
He published a work in Paris, Sur la Folie ;
another, Sur la Phrenologie; another, Essai Phi-
losophique sur lrt Nature ~Morale et Intellectuelle de
l'Homme ; besides his medical dissertation, Du
Cerveau sous les rapports Anatomigues. In the year
1821, the degree of Doctor of l\Iedicine was con-
ferred on him by the University of Paris.
In 1824, Dr. Spurzhcim married a }~rcnch
widow lady, "·ith whom he had been acquainted a
long time. She was a lady of great accomplish-
ment and merit. ' Several ladies of Boston,
who were introduced to Mrs. Spurzheim in
Paris and in London, remember her with the
highest esteem and delight. Her whole manner
expressed a union of true humility, tender at-
tachment, and conscious power, which excited at
once affection and confidence. She entered fully
into her husband's pursuits, and aided him by her
uncommon skill in drawing. To her pencil we
arc indebted for a number of those excellent draw-
ings used by Dr. Spurzheim in his lectures. But
far more important to him was the aid which he
derived from the unseen and inexhaustible treas-
ures of a true and devoted heart. It was often
observed, how well their characters seemed to be
fitted for each other. They were both adepts in
that profoundest of all sciences, and the most
pleasing of all the fine arts-Christian bene\'o-
lencc shewn forth in beautiful manners. It is
characteristic of Dr. Spurzheim, that one of the
reasons which influenced him in the choice of his
wife was the knowledge that she had underrrone
b
great ~ufl'ering, which he thought essential to the
perfection of human nature.' *
.. Prof. Follen.
63
These opinions respecting Mrs. S. were fully con-
firmed by Dr. Spurzheim, himselt~ a ~hort lime
prC\·ious to his death. Ha,-ing occa~ion to allude
to Iter, he remarked, ' that she possessed a mind
of an uncommon character, and that he had never
found a superior.' She pursued the study of
Phrenology with great assiuuit}, and was instru-
mental in forming associations of ladies for the in-
vestigation of the science.
During this year, the Government of France,
in its consummate wisdom permitted no lectures
without its special sanction. As in all cases of a
similar character, the motive of the Government
was to prerent the people from inquirin~ into
their own nature and condition, and the stud~ of
Phrenology was confined to limited circles.
Dr. Spurzheim held private conversations at his
own house upon the subject, and thus taught it
for a time; but this contracted field did not ~ati~:;fy
him, and he determined to revi~it England.
lie arrived at London in March, 1825. He com-
menced a course of eighteen lectures on Phrenol-
ogy at the Crown and Anchor tavern, on the
15th l\Iarch, at 8 o'clock in the evening. Ile
deli,·ered another course in the west end of
the city, at 3 P. l\1. which began on the 7th of
April.
Since his last visit, in 1815, the tone of the pub-
lic press had materially changed. It was now
respectful and candid in its allusions, and what
wm:; still more gratifying, public opinion no longer
trrated the subject with ridicule and neglect.
The change too, let it be observed, was in the
state of the public mind, not in the doctrines
taught: for Dr. Spurzheim delivered ~ubstantially
the i'ttme views as before.
As we ha,·e made some extracts, showing the
abuses of the press in 1815, it may be interesting
to contrast them with not1ces which appeared in
some of the London periodicals in 182,j.
The Medico-Chirurgical H.eview (one of the
best medical journals in Europe) in the April
number, 182,j, contains the lollO\ring notice:
'Phrenology.-While we award the meed of
praise to our diMinguished countrymen, (Mr. Bell
and 1\Ir. Green,) we must not be insen:-:ible to the
genius, talents and acquirements of an illustrious
foreigner, who, after an absence of more than
ten years, has again appeared among us. Every
one !mows the illiberal treatment "hich Dr.
Spurzheim received in the ' intellectual city ' when
la:st in these island~. Time has \vorked a won-
derful change in his favor. II e has been hailed in
this metropolis '' ith distin~uil'hed marks of re-
~pcct and attention ; and he i:-; now lecturing to a
crowded audience which is daily incren~ing, and
which evinces the most intense interest in every
ob:~ervation which falls from the ProfCi<ROr's lips.
' It is e\ idcnt that Dr. ~purzheim has now di-
ve~ted Phrenology of almost every particular
65
which was cap·able of being turned into ridicule
by the ignorant, the fanatical, and the prejudiced
portions of society. He follows nature step by
step, founds every principle on the pure basis of
observation, and demonstrates, what no physiolo-
gist in his senses can now doubt, that the mani-
festations of mind depend on the organization of
matter, and especially the organization of the
brain and nervous system. To trace the con-
nexion between structure and function is the work
of Phrenology, and is practicablo only by obser-
vation and experience. It is 6\1 these last grounds
that he rests, and 'most firmly convinced are we that
he is in the right path for unravelling the phys-
iology of the brain; or, in other words, the mani-
festations of the intellectual faculties. We se-
riously advise an attendance on his lectures, and
leave the result to the judgment of the auditor.'
The Lancet, a medical work, in the prelimi-
nary remarks to Dr. Spurzheim's lectures, (of
which it gives a full report,) says, ''\Ve have this
day the satisfaction of introducing to our readers,
the first of Dr. Spurzheim's excellent lectures on
the science of Phrenology, a science which by
far the greater portion of the English public havo
never yet heard mentioned, unless accompanied
by ridicule, abuse or misrepresentation. Thou-
sands of individuals will now for the first time,
have opened to their view, this beautiful and use..
ful branch of philosophy.
66
' We never listened to the addresses of any lec-
turer, whose language was so characteristic of
candor and truth; indeed we are perfectly satisfied,
and here we are sure we shall be joined by all
those who have had the pleasure of hearing him.'
The Globe has the following notice of a dissec-
tion of the brain by Dr. Spurzheim :-'Dr. Spurz-
beim, on ·wednesday, dissected the brain, in the
presence of several of the gentlemen who attend
his lectures (on Phrenology.) \Vhatever differ-
ence of opinion there may be as to Phrenology,
there can be no doubt, we think, as to the supe-
riority of the mode of dissection which Drs. Gall
and Spurzheim have recourse to, over that which
has been hitherto practised in tl1e anatomical
schools. According to the old plan of dissecting
the brain, the operation is _
commenced by slicing
off horizontally a portion equal to about half its
bulk, and containing the most material part of its
organization. This may be very well when the
object is merely to discover whether there is effu-
sion in the ventricles; hut it is quite obvious that
neither this nor any plan of slicing a soft structure
with a sharp instrument can show the organiza-
tion satisfactorily. Dr. Spurzheim follows the
more rational plan that has been adopted in the
case of all other parts of the body, viz. tracing the
course of the fibres. He showed, in the most
satisfactory manner, the fibrous structure of the
brain, commencing at the base, the decussation of
67
the fibres, and their divergence from the base to
the several upper and exterior parts, which he
considers as the several organs of propensities,
sentiments and intellect. By a comparison of two
brains, he showed the di~·ersity in the size of the
folds or organs of the brain externally, and the
identity of their general ~rrangcmcnt and direc-
tion in both cases. By a dilatation of the lateral
ventricles. he showed the manner in which, in hy-
drocephalic heads, the brain might be distended
without any dc~truction of its parts. He attempt-
ed, we think, with perfect success, to show the
fri,•olousncss of the objections, drawn from the
anatomy of the brain, to the foundations of
the system of Phrenol?gy. It appears that the
fibres which diverge from the base are continued
from the outermost part of the brain, but that in
their course new fibres are added. 'Vhcre this
addition takes place, there is uniformly obsen cd
grey or cincnt10us matter. In this way the differ~
once is accounted for, observable in the color of
the brain, according to the direction in which it is
cut, whether across the fibres or in the direction
of them. The whole exhibition and the explana-
tions of the professor were highly creditable to
him, and satisfactory to those who were present.'
The students of the London hospitals sub-
scribed a handsome sum, and paid it as a fcc to
Dr. Spurzheim to teach them his method of dis-
::-ecting the brain.
68
During the years 1825 and 6, Dr. Spurzheim pre-
pared several works, in English, for the press,
which were published, in 1826, in London. They
were entitled, 'Phrenology in connexion with the
study of Physiognomy, with numerous plates.'
'Phrenology, or the Doctrine of Mental Phenomena,'
in which he treated of the different powers of the
mind, and tbeir cerebral organs, in general, with
plates; ' Philosophical Principles of PhrenologiJ,'
explaining the doctrines of the mind, with its prac-
tical bearings on religion and morality; 'Philo-
sophical Catechism of the Natural Laws of Man;'
'Anatomy of the Brain, with a general view ofthe
Nervous System,,' with several highly finished en-
gravings; ' Outlines of Phrenology,' a text book
for his classes ; and a work of great value entitled
' Elementary Principles of Education.'
Some of these works have passed through sev-
eral editions, and have been deservedly popular.
'In the works of Spurzheim,' says a foreign
journal, ' we feel as in a garden ; where all is
regular and orderly ; where all the different pro-
ductions of nature are placed in an exact scientific
arrangement; where we may study them leisurely
and at our ease ; and where we may sec brought
together, in a comparatively small space, the pro-
duct of every zone and of every climate in the
known world.'
In the course of the year 1826, Dr. Spurzheim
visited Cambridge, 'and was received in that seat
69
of exact learning with honors seldom bestowed
before. By the influence of some of the members
of that eminent body, the most di~tinguishcd for
their characters and talents, permission was
granted to deliver a course of lectures on Phre-
nology, in the botanical lecture-room of the Uni-
versity; a favor never before conferred on any
who are not members of the establishment. The
audience was most respectable, and increased as
the course advanced ; till, towards the close, it
amounted to 130, among whom were 57, partly
professors, partly tutors, and fellows of the differ-
ent colleges. The attentions to Dr. Spurzheim,
personally, were most gratifying; and the impres-
sion made, not merely by his method of dissecting
the brain, but by his phrenological doctrines, was
as complete a refutation of the lame and impotent
conclusions of the EJinburgh reviewer as candor
and science could desire.'*
' lie was feasted in the college-halls' (says an
eminent scholar of Cambridge, in a letter to a
friend in Edinburgh) every day he was here. Our
anatomical, and, I believe, our medical professors,
arc amongst those most favorably dispo5ed to his
science.'
Early in 1827, he proceeded from Cambridge
to Bath and Bristol. The managers of the litera-
ry Institutions there ' declared, that since those
· (.'hene,•ix, and Edinbur~:h Juurual
70
establi~hments were opened, no lecturer had at-
tracted so numerous a class.' In Bath, addition-
al benches were required to accommodate the
audience. The interest increased with each lec-
ture, and the last was the most numerously attend-
ed at both places.
Dr. Spurzheim, this year, made London his
permanent place of residence, and took a house in
Gower street. lie commenced a course of lec-
tures in April, in the London Institution. These
lectures were unusually popular, and 'not only the
large lecture room of the Institution, but all the
stair cases, corridors and passages leading to it,
were filled with hearers.'
He possessed a large collection of phrenologi-
cal specimens, which were open for inspection at
his house, every Thursday, from 2 to 4 o'clock; at
which time he answered any question or objection
concerning the science. Ile also lectured at his
own house; and on Mondays and Thursdays, in
the evening, he had practical conversations on
Phrenology, with an examination of his auditors.
He left England for the continent, on a visit,
and remained there until October.
In December he visited Hull, agreeably to ap-
pointment. In this place a society had been es-
tablished for the purpose of investigating the
science of Phrenology. The learned Dr. Alder-
stan was, at that time, President. For the par-
ticular account of Dr. Spurzheim's visit to this
71
place, which follows, we arc indebted to the Ed-
inburgh Phrenological Journal, contained in a
letter from J. L. Levison to the editor.
' The Society for Phrenological Inquiry having
invited Dr. Spurzheim to lecture at Hull, he com-
menced a demonstrative course on Thursday,
December o, to a very good class, which con-
tinued to increase at every succeeding lecture.
Those who heard ·him admired the richness of
his intellectual stores, which he unostentatiously
displayed before them, during the course; and
this feeling was enhanced by the ease with which
he initiated the class into the fundamental axioms
of the science of Phrenology. Although gifted
with such a philosophic mind, his instructions
were free from all pedantry, so that "those who
went to scoff remained to pray;" to use an alle-
gorical illustration, he has planted the tree of true
knowledge, and it has taken deep root; we ra-
tionally hope, as it embraces the happiness of our
species, the sum of human misery and crime may,
by his teaching, be somewhat lessened or mitiga-
ted. Indeed, when we reflect on the candor with
which he discusses the merits of the science, the
obstacles he points out, and the constant appeal he
makes to the common judge, Nature! in verifying
his assertions, we cannot wonder his instructions
carry an irresistible conviction to his audience.
But this disciple of truth still continues to in-
vestigate human nature, and to observe the causes
•
i2
for the infinite variety among them. It may there-
fore be interesting to the readers of the journal
to be informed of some of the visits he made to
public establishments. The first one was to a
work-house, which, like other places of the kind,
contains the aged, the insane, the idiot, and the
children of illicit love. Among the latter there
were a boy and girl, who were selected by Dr.
Spurzheim for the extraordinary difference of
their cerebral organization. The former had the
frontal and sincipital regions very finely developed,
giving the stamp of 'nature's nobility ' to him;
whilst the latter had an organization quite the re-
verse ; the basilar and occipital regions presented
a considerable predominance over the frontal and
sincipital ; the cerebellum was of uncommon size,
and Dr. S. suggested that great care should be
taken of her. But on the following day, when we
went to take the models of these two individuals,
the house-surgeon informed us, that the girl had
already indicated a lewdness of manner, althougl~
she is only five years old! Her mother, we were
told, was a very low and depraved prostitute, and
her reputed father equally immoral and worthless.
This is a strong instance, said Dr. S. of the in-
fluence of propagation manifesting itself in a most
lamentable manner.
Another day, Dr. S. devoted to examine the in-
mates of the Charity Hall, which contains, in men,
women, and children above four hundred beings.
73
The Doctor selected two men, one with 'mirth-
fulness' very large, and though in rags, his face
seemed always ' big with humor.' The second
individual had with good moral feelings, the organ
of ' marvellousness' very large, and religious
topics was his constant theme. At every hour of
the day you might see him with his .Bible, endeav-
oring to find out the spiritual meaning. He told
Dr. Spnrzheim 'he had found the one thing need-
ful, but he knew not another Christian in the
house.' In the same place, five or six children
more particularly struck the Doctor's attention,
amongst the rest two boys (brothers,) who had the
occipital and basilar regions very predominant, and
some of the individual organs in them very large ;
combativeness, firmness and destructiveness, par-
ticularly so. On being asked what they would wish
to be, each answered, 'a butcher;' and when fur-
ther interrogated as to the reason why they made
such a choice, they replied, ' they liked to kill.'
Dr. Spurzheim also visited the 'Refuge for the
Insane,' attended by the medical gentlemen of
the establishment, and other individuals. Among
the patients there were some Dr. S. pointed out
with imperfect organizations, idiots from birth, fa-
tuous persons, &c. which may be found in every
asylum of the kind; but there were a few which
the Doctor selected as worth taking casts from,
being instances of the aberration of the dominant
feelings. One old woman with marvellousness
K
74
yery large ! She fancies herself constantly
troubled with 'devils in the head ; ' she told us,
that she not only felt them, but frequently saw
them, as they flew out of her head, and begged
' some persons ' might exorcise her of these infer-
nal guests. Another individual, who became in-
sane from the following circumstances, was one
peculiarly interesting. lie was a captain of a
small sloop, and had a favorite son on board, who,
whilst playing on the deck of the ve::;sel, unfor-
tunately fell overboard. Every means were used
to save him, but without success. Therefore, to
obtain the body, he followed the direction of the
tide as far as Grimsby, where the child was wash-
ed up, and some individuals attempted to catch
him with grappling irons. This circumstance so
pained his philoprogenitivencss, adhesiveness, and
benevolence, (all which arc very large in him,)
that he plunged into the water with his clothes on,
and snatched his darling boy from it; but he was
cold and covered with mud, death had already
claimed him ! When brought to the shore, he
placed him on the bank, and wiped the dirt from
the child's face; afterwards he had a strong fit,
and when he recovered from that shock, he soon
lost his reason. What is remarkable pathologi-
cally, and in reference to Phrenology, he com-
plained of violent pain at the posterior part of the
brain at the seat of philoprogenitiYeness, &c. and
·was treated with local applications. lie is re-
covenng.
75
The last place visited by this great observer of
our species was the town-gaol, where he inspect-
ed many prisoners ; but, on entering the felons'
side, his eye passed rapidly over the great num-
ber of them, but rested upon two or three indi-
viduals, whom he inspected with magical rapidity
and instantaneously seized the peculiarity of their
characters. This facility was the most surprising;
and those who had a great quantity of hair on the
head, he placed his hand or hands over the four
regions, and his conclusions proved astonishingly
correct.
Among the prisoners there was one for trial,
a most notorious swindler; his intellectual organs
were well developed ; but from the organ of ven-
eration to self-esteem appeared a most uncommon
absence of brain ; it resembled a skull with a
portion sliced off; but the basilar and occipital
regions, particularly the former, was very broad
at secretiveness and acquisitiveness. The Doctor
said of this man, ' You cannot believe what he
says.' The turnkey replied, with an expression
of surprise at Dr. Spurzheim's sagn.city, 'that he
never met a greater liar ; he had told him an un-
accountable number of lies in less than twenty-
four hours; ' I had intended to ask you what you
thought of him,' &c.
Another individual, whom a worthy magistrate,
that accompanied us, spoke of as one whose look
and manner would deceive any bouy, but that he
7G
was a notorious thief! Dr. S. found him very
large in imitation, secretiveness, firmness and self-
esteem. The latter combination induced him to
make the remark, that this person would always
be a leader, such individuals would never be sub-
ordinate ; and this proved to be the fact. He
had always been the head man in all schemes of
plunder ; and as a sheep-stealer he was notorious,
there being presumptive proof that he had stolen
and killed upwards of two hundred ! I need not
add that conscientiousness and cautiousness were
both very defective. The fourth and last was a
boy who had expressed a wish that he might be
enabled to commit many robberies, and, after some
years, to be brought to condign punishment, and,
when about to be launched into eternity, he might
hear the crowds below him express with surprise,
&c. 'that was the celebrated , whose deeds
were so daring,' &c. Love of approbation, secre-
tiveness, and imitation, were extremely large in
him, and the moral region defective. ' Should
his career of crime not be put an end to, he would
continue the thief; but, from his organization, he
must be only a subordinate being; ' 'for,' said
Dr. S. 'the organs of self-esteem and firmness
arc deficient in him.'
The Society for Phrenological inquiry give a
dinner to Dr. Spurzheim, to-morrow, December
28th. f
I am, Sir, &c. I
Hull, Dec. 27, 1827. J. L. LEVISON.
77
Dr. Spurzheim left Hull for Edinburgh, and
arrived there in the first week of January, 1828.
Since his visit to that city, in 1817, a wonderful
change had taken place in favor of Phrenology.
A Phrenological Society was formed, February 22,
1820, by George Combe, Esq. and others, and
which soon numbered among its members some
of the most respectable and learned men of Ed-
inburgh. This-society probably has done more
for Phrenology than any other society in the
world. It has published its transactions, and has
contributed mostly to sustain an able and inter-
esting Phrenological Journal since 1824. It still
lives in all the vigor and ardor of its youth, and
promises a continuance of its valuable investiga-
tions.
Even the Edinburgh Review, from which we
quoted a few examples of abuse, had undergone
a sensible change; a change from abusive epithets
to the actual adoption of the doctrines which it
had ridiculed.
'But as far as the Edinburgh Review is con-
cerned,' says Dr. Spurzheim, 'in reference to our
·anatomical discoveries, and the basis of our phre-
nological principles, there is an immense change
from No. 49 to 94. In the latter, there is an ar-
ticle on the nervous system, where special func-
tions are ascribed to individual nerves ; where it
is admitted that ' in the nervous system alone, we
can trace a gradual progress in the provision for
78
the subordination of one (animal) to another, and
of all to man ; and arc enabled to associate every
faculty which gives superiority, with some addi-
tion to the nervous mass, even from the smallest
indications of sensation and will, up to the high-
est degree of sensibility, judgment and expression.
The brain is observed progressively to be improved
in its structure, and with reference to the spinal
marrow and nerves, augmented in volume more
and more, until we reach tl1e human brain, each
addition being marked by some addition to, or
amplification of, the powers of the animal, until
in man we behold it possessing some parts of
which animals are destitute, and wanting none
which theirs possess.' (p. 44..S.) Is not this emi-
nently phrenological?
'Even within our own time (says the Edinburgh
Review, No 94.) although many great anatomists
had devoted themselves almost exclusively to de-
scribing the brain, this or,rran used to be demon-
strated by the greater number of teachers, in a
manner which, however invariable, was assuredly
not particularly useful. It was so mechanically
cut down upon, indeed, as to constitute a sort of
exhibition with nothing. The teacher and the
pupil were equally dissatisfied with the perform-
ance, and the former probably the most.
The latter soon gave up the painful attempt to
draw any kind of deductions from what he wit-
nessed, and disposed of the difficulty as he best
79
could, when he had to render an account of what
he had seen. Up to this day, our memory is
pained by the recollection of the barbarous names,
and regular sections of what was then the dullest
part of anatomical study, which, although often
repeated, left no trace but of its obscurity or ab-
surdity. Here an oval space of white color, and
there a line of grey, or curve of reo, were dis-
played; here a cineritious, there a medullary mass;
here a portion white without, and grey within ;
there a portion white within, and grey without;
here a gland petuitary, there a gland like grains
of sand ; here a ventricle, there a cul-de-sac,
with endless fibres, and lines, and globules, and
simple marks with appellations no less fanciful
than devoid of meaning.' (p. 447.)
' Is this not quite the language which Dr. Gall
and myself used in dissecting the brain to our
classes ? Why then are our names never men-
tioned in the article, since we have introduced a
new and better mode of dissecting the brain? At all
events this article is a powerful pleading of the
phrenological principles, and the Edinburgh Re-
view is an evident proof that truth must prevail.'
" "e find an interesting notice of his lectures in
Edinburgh, in the 5th volume of the Phrenologi-
cal Journal, which follows:
' He delivered a popular course of lectures on
Phrenology, which was attended by a large num-
ber of ladies and gentlemen ; he delivered also a
80
separate course on the anatomy, physiology, and
pathology of the brain, to eighty medical gentle-
men; of whom four fifths were students. By solici-
tation, he repeated his popular lectures. lie was
received with the highest respect, and listened to
with the deepest interest. His great talents, ex-
tensive information, and upright and amiable sen-
timents, carried conviction to every mind capa-
ble of recognizing those qualities, that Dr. Spurz-
heim's character and attainments were diametri-
cally opposite to the representations of them so
long and so shamefully disseminated by the British
press.
A great difference was observable between the
manner in which his audience listened to his lec-
tures in 1t317 and 1828. On the former occa-
sion, the authority of the Edinburgh Review was
paramount, and a smile of incredulity sat on the
countenances of many of his hearers as their fixed
impression : they were on the watch for some-
thing extravagant, and were disappointed rather
than gratified by the force of his demonstrations
and soundness of his arguments. In 1828, his
auditors yielded readily and cordially to the im-
pression of his talents ; they listened with the most
profound attention and sincere respect ; they felt
his power to enlighten and instruct them, and in
consequence opened their minds to receive posi-
tive ideas, and were richly rewarded for doing
so.
81
Dr. Spurzheim was equally successful in his lec-
tures to the medical students. He succeeded in
convincing them of a fact, which, in general, they
arc too apt to forget, viz. the general ignorance of
physiologists of the uses of the different parts of
the brain, of the real structure of that organ, and
of the nature and causes of insanity.
His dissections were minute, and most sedulously
demonstrated. He said, that he did not pretend
to convince his auditors that l~hrenology is trne,-
that they must go to nature, and learn its truth by
observation,-but that he hoped he had shown
enough to satisfy them, that it was of the very high-
est importauce to the medical profession, and that
no labor which they could bestow on its investiga-
tion would go unrewarded. The eflcct ofthese lec-
tures was to disabuse the students of the misrepre-
sentations about Dr. Spurzheim and his doctrines,
dealt out to th'3m every season by some of their
teachers, and to enable them to judge for them-
selves of the truth as well as dignity of the attacks
which continue to be made, ex cathedra, on Plue-
nology and phrenologists, and also to enable them
to prosecute the science for their own satisfaction.
Dr. 1\l'Intosh and Mr. Syme, with great liberality,
presented Dr. Spurzheim with the use of their
excellent Theatre as a lecture-room for the med-
ical course.'
During thi:< visit to Edinburgh, Dr. Spurzhcim
I.
82
had an interesting correspondence with Sir Wil-
liam Hamilton.
Sir William had read some papers against Phre-
nology before the Royal Society, and had made
statements which, by being erroneously reported,
led him to write and publish a letter of expla-
nation, in the Caledonian l\lercury. In this letter
he proposes to Dr. Spurzheim several propo~itions
for Jiscussion. In a Jetter to Dr. A. Combe, dated
1st May, 1827, Sir William writes thus: 'I have
only to say, that Gall and Spurzheim arc the only
authentic representatives of their own doctrines,'
and that ' Gall and Spurzheim arc the only au-
thors I propose to refute.' When it was deter-
mined, (in Nov.) that Spurzheim would lecture in
Edinburgh, George Combe, Esq. wrote to Sir
William and proposcJ that he should meet Dr.
S. on his arrival in January, and proceed with him
to a final termination of the points in dispute ; but
Sir fVilliam declined this proposal.
Sir William preferred a private reference to um-
pires, in place of a public discussion, which was
demanded by Dr. • purzheim. Previous to this
time, we should state, Phrenology had been dis-
cussed before a private reference by Sir William
and George Combe, Esq. but in a very unsatisfac-
tory manner to the Phrenologists. Sir William
was thought to be extremely deficient in admissible
proofs and specimens.
Dr. Spurzheim closes his first letter to the <'eli-
tor of the 1\Iercury in the following language :
83
' I heartily invite Sir William Hamilton to at-
tend my lectures and witness my demonstrations,
and then he will prosecute the inquiry with more
satisfaction to himself, and benefit to Phrenology.
Meanwhile, I repeat the offer made in Mr.
Combe's letter of 22d November, to meet him be-
fore as many judges as he chooses to bring forward,
to consider all the evidence he may be pleased to
adduce in support of his assertions, and to an-
swer his objections.'
Jan. 23, 1828.
This invitation was repeated five times, in the
course of the correspondence, but was not accept-
ed by Sir William. The fifth note of Dr. Spurz-
heim was as follows :
(DR. SPURZHEIM TO SIR WILLIA:.I HAMILTON.)
'Dr. Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir "\Vil-
liam Hamilton, and again states, that his published
doctrines are the results of many years' examina-
tion, repeated in various countrieR, and under the
most different circumstances; consequently, he
cannot be satisfied with a mere private explanation,
which Sir 'William offers to give. Moreover, Plue-
nology and its believers5 as well as Dr. Spurzheim,
having been pttblicly attacked, and publicly ac-
cused of" credulity and infatuation," and ofbeing,
" without exception, the most erroneous obse1·vers
1·ecorded in the whole history of science," the phre-
nological public, or, as Sir William calls them,
"the phrenological multitude," or "moh," insist
upon their right to ask for a public refutation.
84
'Dr. , purzheim repeats, for t!te fifth time, his
readiness to meet Sir 'Villiam Hamilton before the
public, any day before the 6th of l\Iarch.'
Feb. 2S.
This correspondence continued until the 20th
of March, a short time after Dr. Spurzheim had
left Edinburgh for Glasgow, but without any satis-
factory result to either party. Sir William be-
came angry and abusive, while Spurzheim con-
tinued calm, and expressed himself with his ha-
bitual mildness.
On Friday, 26th January, 1828, the Phrenologi-
cal Society gave a dinner at Barry's Hotel, Prince's
Street, in honor of Dr. Spurzheim; G. Combe,
Esq. was in the chair, supported by Dr. Spurzheim
and Sir G. S. Mackenzie on the right, and the
Bon. D. G. Haliburton, and P. Neill, Esq. on the
left; James Simpson, Esq. acting as Vice Presi-
dent.
This was a very interesting occasion, and it
would be gratifying to give the various speeches
then delivered, but our limits will not permit. We
shall insert only what has particular reference to
the subject of our biography. Those who are de-
sirous of reading the full account, may find it in
the 5th volume of the Phrenological Journal.
The following is an extract from the speech of
Mr. Combo, which is as beautiful as it is just.
After taking a general view of science and of
important discoveries, he thus concludes with
refer~nce to Phrenology.
85
'It is due, gentlemen, to the great founder of
this science, to his illustrious coadjutor now beside
me, as well as to you and to truth, to state the
magnitude of the discovery in these terms,-terms
not exaggerated and inflated, but too cold and fee-
ble to do justice to so mighty a subject.
1 need not recount to you the merits of Dr.
Spurzheim, they are written indelibly in the histo-
ry of the science ; to him are we indebted for in-
troducing Phrenology into the British isles ; to his
courage and perseverance do we owe the progress
which it has made amongst us, and that it has
withstood the critic's argument, the satirist's ridi-
cule, and all the calumnies and misrepresentations
which have been heaped on the cause itself and
its defenders. Dr. Spurzheim, gentlemen, has en-
riched our science with the most valuable anatom-
ical discoveries ; he has established several highly
important organs in addition to those pointed out
by Dr. Gall; he has infused philosophy and sys-
tem into the facts brought to light by observation ;
and, above all, he has dedicated his life to the best
interests of mankind by teaching them those splen-
did and useful truths.
'I have often said, and take pleasure in repeat-
ing, that I owe every thing I possess in this science
to him ; his lectures first fixed my wandering con-
ceptions, and directed them to the true study of
man ; his personal kindness first encouraged me to
prosecute the study thus opened up; and his unin-
8G
terruptcd friendship has l>ecn continued with me
since, communicating every new idea that occur-
red, and helping me in difficulties '' hich embar-
rassed my progress. It i~ eleven year::; this rery
month, since, l>y the kindness of Mr. Brownlee, I
was first introduced to Dr. Spurzheim ; and I
speak literally, and in sincerity, when I say, that
were I at this moment oflcred the wealth of India
on condition of Phrenology l>eing blotted from my
mind forever, I would scorn the gift; nay, were
every thing I possessed in the world placed in one
hand, and Phrenology in the other, and orders is-
sued for me to choose one, Phrenology, without a
moment's hesitation, \VOuld be preferred. In
speaking thus, I am sure that 1 express not my
own sentiments alone, l>ut, in a greater or less de-
gree, those ofevery other individual now present,
according to his practical acquaintance with the
science. The highest tribute therefore is due to
Dr. Spurzheim, and it is delightful to pay it. Our
meeting is a proof of the sagacity with which he
uttered a prediction respecting this city eleven
years ago, when the tide of ridicule was at its
height; he then said, that in Edinburgh would the
science first flourish : and our presence this day is
the fulfilment of his prediction.
'On a former occasion, I have said, how would
we rejoice to sit at the table with Galileo, Harvey,
or Newton, and to pay them the homage of our
gratitude and respect, and yet we have the felici-
87
ty to be now in company with an individual whose
name will rival theirs in brilliancy and duration ;
to whom ages unborn will look with fond admira-
tion, as the first great champion ofthis magnificent
discovery ; as the partner in honor, in courage,
and in toil, with Dr. Gall; as the rival in genius
of him by whose master-mind the science of man
started into existence. Dr. Spurzheim, gentle-
men, is an historical personage ; a glory dwells
on that brow which will never wax dim, and which
will one day illuminate the civilized world (great
applause). His greatness is all moral and intellec-
tual. Like the sun of a long and resplendent day,
Dr. Spurzheim at his rising was obscured by the
mists of prejudice and envy ; but in ascending, he
has looked down upon and dispelled them.
His reputation has become brighter and bright-
er us men have gazed upon and scrutinized his
doc.trines and his life. No violence and no an-
guish tarnish the laurels that flourish on his brow.
The recollection ofhis labors are all elevating and
ennobling ; and in our applause he hears not the
voice of a vain adulation, but a feeble overture to
a grand strain of admiration, which a grateful
posterity will one day sound to his name.
Let us drink-" Long life, health, and pros-
perity to Dr. Spurzheim." (Drank with all the
honors, and irnrnense applause.)
Dr. Spurzheim rose and said :
' Mr. Chairman, Gentlemen : l never felt so
,
88
much as at this moment the want of mental powers
necessary to express the gratification and gratitude
I feel. This day is for me a day of joy which I
never hoped to see. My joy would be complete
were Dr. Gall amongst us. (Loud cheers.) The
ideas crowd upon me, and I scarcely know what
to say. I heartily thank you, in the name of Dr.
Gall, and in mine, for the honor you have done us
in drinking our healths. I, in particular, thank
you for the distinguished reception you have giv-
en me on this occasion. Dr. Gall and myselfoften
conversed together about the future admission of
our doctrines. Though we relied with confidence
on the invariable laws of the Creator, we, howev-
er, never expected to see them in our life time ad-
mitted to such a degree as they really are. I of-
ten placed my consolation in man, being mortal, or
in future generations, to whom it is generally re-
served to take up new discoveries ; but we are
more fortunate.
Gentlemen, I repeat my thanks for the present
enjoyment ; it is a great reward for my former
labors, and will be a great encouragement to my
future pursuits.'
Dr. Spurzheim proposed the following toast:-
l\1r.Chairman, Gentlemen, We drank the health of
the Phrenological Society in general, and, certain-
ly, men of talent and science heing united, can do
infinitely more than single individuals for the
propagation of a science. I also admit that those
J
89
who came the last, as well as those who were the
first, in exerting themselves to forward Pluenol-
ogy, may have equal merit with respect to the
effect of theit· labor:=. I even grant, that those
who join later may contribute most to the aim of
the Society ; yet I beg permission to propose
health and prosperity to those who first united and
invited others to associate in the investigation
of Phrenology. They did so at a time (eight
years ago) when moral courage was necessary
to declare in favor of our science, assailed from all
sides by foes of great influence in public opin-
ion. I propose the health and happiness of the
founders of the Phrenological Society,-Rev. Da-
vid 'Velsh, George Combe, Dr. Andrew Combe,
Mr. Brownlee, William 'Waddell and Lindsey Mac-
kersey.'
To this sentiment, the several gentlemen alluded
to, made handsome and appropriate replies. With
all the honors, the Vice President, 1\Ir. Simpson, in
a most respectful and complimentary manner, pro-
posed the health of Mrs. Spurzheim, and female
Phrenologists; (great applause) upon which Dr.
Spurzheim rose and said:
' Mr. Chairman, Gentlemen : As Mrs. Spurz-
heim had the honor to be named, and placed at
the head of the females, who study Phrenology,
I think it encumbent on me to thank you in her
name, and in the name of the other ladies, for
your polite attention. There can be no doubt
M
among Phrenologists that the minds of laclies, as
well as our!", should be culttrated, to fit them for
their social relations and duties. With rc:-pcct to
Phrenology in p~rticular, I am com inced that
among an equal number of ladies and gentlemen,
a greater number of the former arc fitted to be-
come practical Phrenologists ; that i~, to hccomc
able to distingui~h the different forms and :o-izes
of the head in general, and of its part!" in par-
ticular. The reason seems to be, bccnu~c girls
and women, from the earliest age, exercise the
intellectual powers of Configuration and Size more
than boys and men, in their daily occupations.
' You may daily ob~en c, that boys reRcmble
rather their mother than their father in mental dis-
positions ; and it is known that great men gene-
rally descend from intelligent mothers.
'It is not necessary for me to speak of the great
influence that mothers ha\c on the education of
their children, bccaul'c ~cveral of you have al-
ready done justice to them. It is abo evident
that ladies may greatly contribute to the diffusion
of Phrenology in society, and may make frequent
usc of it in practical life. But if ladies do render
sen-icc to Phrenology, this ~cicnce will al;-;o be of
great advantage to them ; and I may gay, of the
grcatc~t <H.h·antage after Christianit}.'
On the J9th of February, Dr. Spurzhcim visited
the City Lunatic Asylum, and the IJo~pital for the
Children of Paupers: accompanied by Dr. Hunter,
91
the surgeon of the establishment, the Bon. l\Ir.
Haliburton, Dr. Combe, and some other gentle-
men. A few particulars of this visit we copy
from the Phrenological Journal.
' Dr. Hunter, and some of the other gentlemen,
who were not Phrenologist~, expected thn.t Dr.
Spurzheim would be able, from the mere examina-
tion of the heads of the patients in the Asylum,
to predicate the precise kind of insanity under
which they labored. This, Dr. S. stated, was not
his object. 1le could not, tt priori, determine
the nature of the disease, but if informed of it, it
would be founcl that the cerebral organization,
connected "ith the deranged faculties, was gen-
erally largely dereloped.
' After this explanation, a female patient \\as
pointed out who was insane from jealousy of
her husband. Her manifestations were attended
with violence an<l rnge. Dr.. '. pointed out the
great size of the lower part of the middle lobe of
the brain in the region of Destructiveness. This
was strikingly apparent. Another woman saw
ghosts and spectres. In her, the organ of lllar-
't:ellousness was remarkably developed. Dr. S.
asked her if she erer complained of a headache,
she answered :she did; and being requested to put
her hand upon that part of the head 'rhere she
felt the p tin, she did so on the very spot where the
above organ i:-; situated.
This individual had also Cautiousness consider-
92
ably developed, and JVit and Gaiety small. Her
prevailing feelings were those of a depressing
kind, and these she expressed on this occasion.
'A female who sat opposite to her, was a perfect
contrast, and her development was in precise ac-
cordance.
' In a female idiot, the propensity to destroy was
very great and incurable. Destructiveness was
largely developed.
'Among the patients, was an individual who
had made repeated attempts to destroy himself.
Dr. S. remarked, that in all such individuals, how-
ever the brain might otherwise be developed, it
was almost invariably found that tho organ of
Hope was small,-and such it was in this patient.
'The Children's Hospital was next visited.
'Ihe mistress was requested to bring two or three
of the ~est and worst behaved boys and girls;
but without, of course, informing Dr. S. of their
manifestations. She was also requested to bring
some of the cleanest and most orderly, and
those whose characters were of an opposite de-
scnptJOn. The children were then ranged in or-
der, and, without the least difficulty, Dr. S. deter-
mined at once which were their respective mani-
festations. The discrimination, however, evinced
by Dr. S. was still more minute. The mistress
had selected three girls as being the best behaved
in the Hospital ; Dr. S. not only fixed upon them
as being the best, compared to those with whom
93
they were contrasted, but remarked, that of the
three, their mistress would find more difficulty in
managing one of them than the other two. This
upon inquiry was found perfectly correct.
'The curiosity of the children having been ex-
cited by this visit and the object of it, they fol-
lowed the gentlemen as they retired. Dr. S.
whose affectionate attachment to children is very
remarkable, gathered them round him, and took
occasion to remark the very great contrast exhib-
ited by the heads of those children whose parents
are in general of the very lowest ranks of life, as
compared with the heads of the children of the
higher classes. Though here and there was an
exception, the beads were in general very low,
-narrow in the frontal and sincipital regions.
Let any one try, said Dr. Spurzheim, by educa-
tion, if the mind at birth is a sheet of blank pa-
per, to make Bacons and Newtons of such chil-
dren.'
In March, Dr. Spurzheim proceeded to Glas-
gow, agreeably to previous engagement; where
he delivered a popular course of lectures on Phre-
nology to a large audience of ladies and gentle-
men, and another of a professional character,
attended by sixty medical practitioners and other
individuals. These lectures were received with
great satisfaction.
Both in Edinburgh and Glasgow, Dr. Spmzheim
and his lady, who accompanied him, were re-
ceivcd in pri\ate society in the most cordial and
attentive manner by persons of the first respecta-
bility. Dr. Spurzheim received invitations to
visit .l3ath and Bristol again this year, but was
obliged to decline on account of other engage~
ments. We arc unable to find an account of his
lectures and visits for the remainder of this year,
and we pass to the year 1829.
During this year he lectured at Derby, Notting-
ham, Sheffield, Wakefield, Leeds, Manchester,
Liverpool and several other places, and was
received with great respect and honored with
highly intelligent audiences.
He lectured at Liverpool, in May, and in June a
Phrenological Society was formed in that city. 'Its
objects were stated to be, 'to hear papers and dis-
cuss questions connected with Phrenology, to hold
correspondence with other societies, and especially
to collect facts and views that may improve and
eularge the boundaries of the science.' The fol-
lowing account of Dr. Spurzheim's visits in that
city was communicated to the Phrenological Jour-
nal, by a member of the Society.
' Whilst lecturing at Liverpool, Dr. Spurzheim
visited Kirkdale House of Correction, in company
with several amateurs of his science. After pass-
ing through the prison, and examining the heads
of various of its inmates, he was introduced into
the Court-house, and his attention directed to a
female standing in a room. The Doctor instantly
9.5
exclaimed, ''Vhy, you have a man's, not a wo-
man's head!' and pointed out the great deficiency
of Benevolence and the love of ojj'spring, combined
with a large development of Pinnness and De-
stntctiveness.
'After the Doctor had given his opinion, he WQS
told that the female then before him was the
mother who had exposed her chi~d on the North
Shore ! Several highly respectable inhabitants of
this place were present, and can verify this state-
ment.
'Dr. Spurzheim also visited many of the public
schools, and was singularly felicitous in his dis-
criminations of the character of those individuals
marked by any peculiarity of disposition or tal-
ent.'
' At an infant school, in Duncan Street East,
he gave so favorable an opinion of one girl, his
remarks being also confirmed by the matron and
ladies who attended the school, that a gentleman
present engaged to take her into his house for a
yc~r on trial.'
''Vhilst lecturing at Manchester,' says Spurz-
heim in a note, 'in October, several gentlemen,
among them one of the first magistrates, went with
me through the prison. Amongst various crimi-
nals whom we examined, a female, condemned to
fourteen years transportation, was presented to us.
Her organ of acquisitiveness was large, but those
of cautiousness and conscientiousness were small.
96
At the same time I perceived the organs of vener-
ation and marvelJousness large, directed the atten-
tion of the gentlemen who were with me to this
coutradiction of dispositions, and manifested the
wish to be informed about her devotional conduct.
w·e then learned that her behavior in the chapel
was exemplary, and that on the preceding Sunday
she had been rewarded for it by the chaplain with
a prayer book.'
During the winter of 1830, Dr. Spurzheim did
not lectu!·e, owing to the death of his wife.
His attachment to his wife was strong, deep,,
and sincere, and her death was to him a dispensa-
tion of great sorrow.
While in this country, although constantly at-
tended both in health and in sickness, by persons
who had become his devoted friends, he frequently
' mourned the loneliness of his Eituation, par-
ticularly when indisposition, or fatigue, made him
long after those small services of domestic affec-
tion and ever watchful care, of which those who
devote themselves wholly to one of the great
general interests of mankind, be it the cause of
religion or of science, stand in special need-that
wholesome atmosphere of constant love, the
absence of which seems to be felt more pain-
fully the more unconscious we are while we
inhale it.'
*'The disease of his heart he ascribed to the
• Prof Foll!'n.
J
97
loss of her, saying, his pulse had int~rmitted C\'Cr
since her death.
'The death of his wife seemed to remind him
more strongly that his life and his labors belonged
to all mankind, whose vital interests he thought
most effectually to promote by developing particu-
larly the principles ofeducation, tHOt<llity, and reli-
gion, to which his studies of human nature had led
him.'
It has been thought by some, that he visited
America in consequence of the death of his
wife. But this is not correct, as we arc in-
formed by an article in the London Lancet, by
Marquis l\Ioscati, of which the following is an ex-
tract.
'It is not right to say that Dr. Spurzheim left
Europe in consequence of the death of his wif'c.
I saw him and spoke to him in Paris after that
melancholy event, but he mentioned it as a philos-
opher and a Christian, and appeared to me to be
perfectly at case, and quite satisfied with the
decree ofProvidence. The propagation of Plne-
nology was, in my opinion, the true object of his
visit to America.'
In compliance \\ ith an im·itntion from the Phre-
nological Society of Dublin, Dr. ~purzhcim ga\'c
a course of lectures in that city in April, 1830.
The Dublin Phrenological Society was formed in
1829, at the cloi'ic of a course of lectures deliv-
ered in that place by George Combe, £gq,
N
..
98
The subject of Phrenology excited great inter-
est, and some of the most learned professors of
Dublin ardently engaged in the stndy of the
scwnce.
The following is an extract from an article
which appeared in the 'Dublin Evening Mail' of
April 12th, in relation to this course:
'The class consists of over two hundred persons
of the very first rank and respectability of both
sexes ; and when we state that some dignitaries,
and many distinguished ministers of the established
church, the leading members of the learned pro-
• fessions, and those amongst us remarkable for lit-
crary or scientific pursuits, arc daily to be found
in his lecture-room, the most pleased, and cer-
tainly the most attentive audience we ever wit-
nessed in Ireland, perhaps we shall have pro-
nounced the best panegyric upon the matter of
which these lectures arc composed, and upon the
manner in which they are delivered.'
The following extract is from an article pub-
lished in 'The Star of Brunswick,' May 1st. It is
interesting for the reason that previous to this
time, it had been a violent and clamorous oppo-
nent.
' Spurzhcim, who first gave the science a con-
sistent shape and stability, is a philosopher in
every respect adequate to the task he has under-
taken. With an originality and power of intellect
able to conceive and mcthodise his conceptions,
j
99
he joins the most accurate phy~:;iological knowl-
edge and practical skill in that part of the human
frame which, in all theories of mind, is admitted
to be the seat of thought. He has likewise
brought to his aid the resources of a mind
well stored with philosophy, and with a power
of arrangement that throws light upon every sub-
ject. Under such circumstances, it is not won-
derful, that his course of lectures should attract
tho attention of the curious and thinkine part
of the public, and we have no hesitation in say-
ing, that, after the professor's present risit to
the city, Phrenology may be considered as an
established doctrine.
'The members of the medical profession have
induced Dr. Spurzhoim to give a course of lec-
tures on the anatomy, physiology, and pathology
of the brain, at tho school of anatomy, medicine,
and surgery, in Park Street; and, if any testimony
were wanting of Dr. Spurzheim's talents and qual-
ifications, even putting his extraOl'dinary power as
a phrenologist out of the question, it would be
found in this honorable testimony paid to his
scientific skill and his powerful abilities, by tho
Professors of the first School of Surgery, now in
Europe.'
"While in Dublin, Dr. Spurzheim was elected
an honorary member of the Royal Irish Academy.
In the course of the remainder of this year, I830,
he lectured at Belfast and Liverpool.
tOO
In January and February, 18~31, he again visited
Bath and Derby, where he lectured with great
effect. In April following, he again visited Dub-
lin, and was received with distinguished attention.
The Dublin Evening Post, after stating that this
was probably the last occasion on which Dr.
Spurzheim would lecture in that city, concludes
in the following language :
'This science, (Phrenology,) though so long a
subject of ridicule and contumely, is now estab-
lished on a basis that stands as little chance of
being shaken, as the foundation of the other de-
partments of natural philosophy ; and among them
competent judges assert there is not one of more
value to society than Phrenology. Even its oppo-
nents admit, that, if they could be satisfied of its
truth, they would not deny its paramount impor-
tance. The lectures of Dr. Spurzheim will prob-
ably remove all remaining skepticism, ip this city,
upon this point.'
After completing his course of lectures in Dub-
lin, Dr. Spurzheirn left for France. He proceeded
directly to Paris, his favorite city and adopted
home.
A Phrenological Society was formed in Paris,
14th January, 1831. The object of this society,
as stated in its own prospectus, is to propagate
and improve the doctrines of Phrenology. The
society publishes a journal, 'offers prizes, and
bestows medals of encouragement.'
101
'The society has a council of management,
composed as follows : a cabinet council ; a com-
mittee for editing the journal, a committee of
funds.
' The cabinet council consists of a president,
two vice-presidents, a general secretary, two secre-
taries for the minutes (proces verbaux,) a treas-
urer, and a keeper of the museum (materiel) of
the society.'
' On the '22d of August every year, the anniver-
sary of the death of Gall, the society hold a gen-
eral public meeting, in which the general secre-
tary gives an account of the labors of the society,
reads notices of the members which it has lost,
and proclaims the names of those whom it has
honored, announcing the prizes which it pro-
poses to bestow.
'The society have tickets (jetons) of presence,
bearing the portrait of Gall ; and on the reverse,
the title and year of the foundation of the soci-
ety, with this motto-Aux Progres Des Lumi-
eres.
'The journal is published monthly. Its con-
tents to be, I. An analysis of the proceedings of
the meetings; 2. Memoirs and other papers which
the society shall resolve to publish ; S. Articles
sent for the journal ; 4. A bibliographical bulletin.
M. Dannecy was elected president, and Casimi1·
Broussais, general secretary.
This society, within the first year of its exist-
10'2
ence, consisted of one hundred and ten members,
sixty of\\ hom were physicians. 1ts members arc of
the highest respectability in Medicine, Philosophy,
and Law, with some of both Chambers of the
L egislature. Among the members arc found,
Andral, Professor in the Faculty of Medicine of
Paris; Blondcau, Dean of the Faculty of Law of
Paris ; Broussais, Professor in the Faculty of 1\Ied-
icine, and Chief Physician of the Val-do-Grace;
Cadet, Mayor of the Fourth Arrondissement; Car-
tier, Civil Engineer; Cloquet, (Jules) Professor
of the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, and Surgeon
to the Hospital of St. Louis; David, Sculptor,
and member of the Institute ; Falret, Physician to
the Salpetricre; Ferrus, Physician to the Bicctre;
Focillon, Assistant Physician to the Invalids; Jut-
lien, Editor of the Rf.vue Encyclopedique; Lacoste,
King's Counsel ; Lenoble, Head of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction; Lucas, Inspector-
General of the Houses of Detention in France ;
Moreau, Inspector of the Prisons of Paris; Pinel,
Physician ; Poncellet, Professor in the Faculty of
Law at Paris ; Rostan, Physician to the Salpc-
tricrc ; Sanson, Surgeon to the Hotel Dieu,
&c. &c.
'As the public in general,' says the Edinburgh
Journal, ' in thi' country, have rejected Phrenol-
oey on the authority of men of established repu-
tation, we exhibit this list of names as authority on
the opposite side ; and maintain that they arc en-
103
titled to at least as great consideration through-
out Europe as those of the most distinguished op-
ponents of our science.'
On the 20th of June, 1832, Dr. Spurzheim sailed
from Havre for the United States, and arrived at
New York on the 4th of August.
The object of his visit to this country, was of a
twofold character. 1st. To study the genius
and character of our nation, and 2d, to propagate
the doctrines of l)hrenology. lle had a great
desire to visit the various tribes of Indians, and to
examine the mental and physical condition of the
slaves at the .'outh.
Phrenology, it may with truth be said, was a new
subject in the United States, and so far as it had
become known to the peo~Jic, was perverted and
misunderstood. It is true, societies had been
formed in Philadelphia and in Washington, and
lectures had been delivered by Dr. Caldwell, of
Kentucky; but these efforts were insufficient to
counteract the influence of the foreign reviewers.
Although these reviewers were actuated by feel-
ings of unexample-d hostility, <md evinced a disre-
gard for truth, yet their assertions were recei\'ed by
the literati of this country as facts, and their rea-
soning as true philosophy. Not that our professors
examined the science of Phrenology to ascertain
its claims, or to detect its absurdities; for very
fc\\ as~umed the task, or expended the pains,
hut that they recei\'cd unrescn cdlr the utos of
104
foreign critics and responded to their tone and
principles. We fear that this mode of proceeding
is true with respect to more subjects than one,
and that the views of foreign writers pass current
with less scrutiny than the opinions of our own.
However this may be, some of the people of this
country were ignorant that such a science as
Phrenology existed, some had heard of it, and
most of those who had even a smattering knowl-
edge ofits principles, had no desire for further in-
vestigation. Its friends were looked upon as fan-
ciful theorists, and the conductors of periodicals,
from a four and sixpenny print to a dignified re-
view, considered all articles in its favor as inadmis-
f ible, and never made allusions to its pretensions
without a sneer or a joke of foreign fabrication.
In this state ofthing~, a master-hand was wanted
to combat the prejudices of the people and to un-
deceive the learned. 1f there were one man more
capable than all others in the world, to set forth the
claims of this interesting science, and to defend it,
that man was SruRznEJM. ·with a desire to increase
his own knowledge, and moved by that noblest
moti,·e of human action, to do good to his fellow-
men, he resoh·ed to visit America.
' On board the ship, he proved himself a friend
in need to a number of poor emigrants, many of
whom being taken sick on their passage, experi-
enced his kind and successful medical a~siRtauce.'*
· Profe_;,-
r =-
t·o--:-11-en-.-------
105
In a letter which he received from a lady in
Paris, speaking of the poor emigrants, she says-
' That you, my dear friend, hare rendered yourself
on board the vessel so useful by your talent as a
physician, ought to reconcile you to the medi-
cal science. Many of these poor men would
perhaps have perished without your aid ; and the
fact that all were saved, is for you no small
blessing.'
He remained in New York until the 11th of
August, when he left for Now Haven and arrived
there on tho evening of the same day. It was
commencement week at Yale College. ' He was
much interested in the public exorcisef:, tho whole
of which he attended, and it was easy to read in
his expressive features the impressions made upon
his mind by the diflcrent speakers; it was obvious
that he understood every thing he heard. In the
e\·ening of the commencement day he attended
the annual meeting of the Society of ~he Alumni,
and listened attentively to their discussions.
' He dissected the brain of a child that had died
of hydrocephalus, and gave great satisfaction to
the medical gentlemen present, by the unexampled
skill and the perfectly novel manner in which he
performed the dissection.'·:.
On the 16th of August he proceeded to Hartford.
At this place he visited with deep interest the Asy-
lum for the Deaf and Dumb, and the Retreat for
Prof,·~~or !'illiman
0
lOG
the Insane. lie also risited the State Pnson at
'Vcath:::rsficld, near JI<~ rtford.
We find the folJo,,·ing remark in his .Jouma.l
re:O>pccting one of the prisoners confined at that
place:
' One Johnson, a negro, had great facility for
learning to read and \\rite. The chaplain hopes,
but 1 feat for him. He has individuality, e\ cntu-
ality and language large; but the sincipital region
small.'*
He arrived at Boston on the evening of the 20th
of Augu3t, and took lodgings at the Exchange
Cofl'ce House. On the next morning he engaged
roo111s at 1\Irs. Le l\.ain'~, Pea•·l Street, at '' hicb
place he remained till hi.,; death.
His an·iral was announced in the public journal!!,
and curiosity was soon awake to see a man whose
fame had so long preceded him, and who had
attracted the attention of the whole civilized world.
The rich and the learned soon paid him their
re~pect::;, as due to a di~tinguishcd stranger, and a
course of polite engagements was at once com-
menced.
*On the ni~ht of flprol :lOth, a. .\Tr. flnskins. one of the pri,on guards
nt "''·atlu~r•fil'ld, was llturdt•n•cl hy funr couvicts, unclc·r the 111ost ilppull-
ing ctrcumstanccR.' 1/nrtfonl I"'I'"· ThPsc convicts mach• :111 nth'rupl to
escape, and the munlc-r was a p.trl of their plan. It is a r<'tnn1 lwhlo cir-
cumstance that tho judgnwnt 111' ~pnrzhcim should be ~v ~oon \'Criflt•d,
and that this same JohLL<nn "houlci hnppt•u to be one of tllC' fnur • They
d~clarE'd, howevc>r, that it wn• nut tlu·ir inlPiltinn to l>avc>/il/(1/ JJnskins,
but only to have disabl~d hiut.
107
The first time that he appeared before an audi~
cnce in this country, was at a meeting of the
American Institute, in the Representative~ Hall.
I fe delivered, at the request of that literary institu~
tion, a lecture on Education:,.
When it was known that Dr. Spurzheim was to
speak, there was a genernl interest excited, all had
a <lesire to hear him, and the occasion brought to-
gether a large and mo:st rc:-:p<'ctablc audience of
ladies n.nd gentlemen. lie deli,·ercd his lecture
without Hotcs (as he always did) and \\·as li;:;tcned
to with profound attention. The audience P.cemcd
to be perfectly delighted; his views of education,
though new and differing from our 0\rn, met '' ith
a general response, and \\ e heard nothing but
remarks of co:umendation.
On the 17th of September, he com:nenccd n.
cour:-;e of eighteen lectures on Phrenology, at the
Athcmrum Hall in Boston, mHl soon after allother
course at the L'niversity, Cambridge. '1 hese
lectmcs occu~1ied six evenings in the week. lJe
delircred, be:-ide~, in the afternoon of C\'ery other
day, a cour:,:e of fire lectures before the Medical
l'aculty and other profe:-..:ional gentlemen of Bos-
ton, on the Anatomy of the Brain. His lectures,
hoth in Boston and at the Uni\'crsity, excited great
~ Th•• ln<titulc meets annually, nnd continu<·< its m<•••lings for sevr<n l
surrrssi ,.,, flay". fi>r tlw purpose of ho•arin~.: h•<·lun•t< on snbjrcts connrr!t·d
with r<lnnli•>·t. It i• com:>osNl <-hio·Oy of in•trnclrr< and prof,·•sional
lllCil, frn111 v;uious p~rts of the Unit•·•l Stal••s, and the character of its lile-
ary pcrf.,r.<LUlCC~ has been generally of a high order.
JOB
and lively interest: they attracted alike the ftu,h-
io:laule and the learned, the gay and the gra\ c,
the aged and the young, the skeptic and tlse Chris-
tian. Our mo:;t eminent men, us well us humble
citizens, were early at the; Hall to secure eligible
scats; and they were alike profoundly silent and
attentive to the clo(lucnce and philosophy of the
lecturer. Whether comiction or doubt followed
his words in the minds of his hearers, all uniformly
yielded to thoughts and feelings of admiration.
The simplicity of his views, his unaflcctcd and
amiable manners, his strict adherence to f:tcts and
candid discussion of doctrines, all be:.poke the
Christian and the philosopher. Some of those
who at first attended \\'ith a view to collect mate-
rials for amusement, or for ridicule, were among
the earliest to become converts to his ~ystem ; aud
among those of hi:; most constant and devoted
auditors, were some of our most respectaule and
intelligent ladies.
During the dny-timo, Dr. Spurzheim was mostly
engaged in visiting the various institutions of our
city, and in the vicinity, and returning the calls
of his friends. In his ,·i=-its to our prisons and
institutions of beneficence, he uniformly disco\'ered
great interest for the \Velfare of man by his ob..er-
vations and inquiric:; \\ ith respect to all the de-
tails of discipline, peculiarities and results.
On imitation from Prc:-idcnt Quincy, he was
present at the exerci--cs of Harvard Unircrsity,
109
on Commencement day, and attended those of
the Phi Beta Kappa Society on the day following.
His visits to our institutions were generally
made in haste, as it was his intention at a time of
more leisure to revisit them. We cannot but
regret that it so happened, as his deliberate and
explicit judgment upon character and the natural
dispositions of om· children would have afforded
us a clearer view of the practical importance of
his system. lt was astonishing to sec with what
facility he could point out among the schol-
ars of a school, those who were remarkable for
any superiority or deficiency. His quick and
penetrating ere seemed to read the very thoughts
and feeling::; of those around him, and his remarks
which immediately followed, .showed his entire
conliucncc in the truth of his ecicnce and the
certainty of his decisio~. He discovered no so-
licitude in making known his opinions, but gen-
erally expressed them without eren asking whether
they were right or wmng. He had been too
strict an observer of human nature not to be ac-
quainted with the extent of his own discrimina-
ting powers, and his conclusions invariably proved
that there was no cause for any apprehension of
a failure.
The following account of Dr. Spurzheim's visit
to the :Jionitorial school, is extracted from a
paper read before the Boston Phrenological So-
ciety, by Mr. William B. Fowle.
110
' ~oon after the commencement of Dr. ~purz­
hci:u':'; lectures in Boston, understanding that
some peculiarities of my school had led him to
exprc~s a \\ i:-:h to ri:'it it, I desired a gentleman
to inrite him to 'isit the school whcnerer he
pleased. lie came, October Sd, accompanied hy
the gcntlema11 hefore mentioned. It had been
previously hinted to the pupils that Dr. S. would
visit the school, and they having imbibed the
notion that he could sec farther than their teacher,
were hy no 1ueans at case, when a very tall, stout
man, with an exterior rather forbidding to chil-
dren, wa;o; introduced. The first imprc~sion upon
the mind:-; of th<' pupil:s was unfavorable, but the
countenance of the Doctor, which exprc:o;sed the
delight he felt at the :-;ight of so many interesting
~uhjccts for the exercise of his skill, soon remored
all apprehension. •
The clnldren were engaged at their desks in
a rariet~· of excrci:'el", and I requested him to
walk freely among them, remarking that h<' prob-
ably clid not wish to sec any exhibition of their
a<'quin:meut:-:. This, I said, becanse I "i:-;hed
him, if he garc any opinions, to do it \rhilc en-
tirely unacquainted \\'ith the points of excellence
which would uaturally be dcrclopc<l by any cx-
hihiiion.
1 h,ul jn t corrected Rome pieces of compo:-;ition,
aud I rem:trkcd to him that one short piece
seemed to hare such a phrenological bearing, that
111
it might amuse him. He read it, and said he
should like to see the child that wrote it. I told
him \\here she sat, and we careles:::ly walked in
that direction. Before we reached her, 'Ah,'
said he, 'caution.' 'A~k her,' said he,' whether
she ever heard any discuRsion upon the points
touched in her theme : ' I asked the question,
and she, blushing deeply, replied, that she never
had heard any one speak on the subject. ' Well,
my dear,' said he, 'you ha\'e nc,t given your own
opinion; to which side of the question do you in-
cline ? She hesitated, and he turned to me and
1-'aid, ' Caution will tal<e time to conRider ' She
then gave her opinion with great modesty, and it
happened to favor his view of the subject. ' A
fine head,' said he to me, ' a fine head. What
conscientiousness! and then what firmness! A
fine model of what a female head should be.'
Cantion is characteristic of this young female,
who \Yas then about fourteeu years old. She is
almost timid. Her talents are uot so brilliant as
those of some other pupils, but her perseverance
which I take to be the product of her firmness,
has always enabled her to ri:-e above commo11
pupils, and to rank with the best. With a perfect
knowledge of her character, having had her under
my care seven years, I could not have dc>scribed
her peculiar excellences as readily as he did.
As we turned to procc<'d back to my dc;-;k, he
lai<l hi:-; hand upon the head of a little girl nbout
five years old. 'Fun, fun,' said he, and laughed.
' Comage too,' said he, ' look out for her pro.wk:-.'
The child had only been my pupil three or fom
day:::, but she had already exhibited symptoms of
insubordination. A few months more experience
proved her playful to excess, and so courageous
in the pursuit of fun, that she disregarded the re-
straint:,: I usually impose upon insubordination and
inattention.
The Doctor's attention was called to a child
about ten years of age, to whom I had found it
almost impo::;sible to communicate instruction of
any kind, and who seemed to have no memory.
He playfully touched her head, and said there
was no deficiency of external development, but
he should think her mental powers sluggish. She
'viii never commit any thing to memor}, said he,
but will perhaps learn somethiug from tho::;e
around her. l then told him her case, but he did
not modify hi!> opinion as to the external develop-
ment. I thought this a paradox, but I "as after-
wards informed that the intellect was bright, uutil
the age of three or four years, when a dangerous
humor on the head was checked by powerful ap-
plications, which seriously affected the activity of
the mind. lie recommended exercise and almost
exclusive attention to h'3r physical education.
He next cast his c.' c upon one of the group
that ::;urroundcd him, and said she had Torm to a
!,!reat degree. 0, ..:aid he, if she would only cui-
113
tivatc this power, what could she not do? But,'
added he to me, 'she probably never will. Her
constitution is bad-too lymphatic. She lacks ener-
gy, and nothing but frequent and powerful exercise
will ever reform her temperament. 0,' said he
again, ' how strong ! ' It is true that her skill in
drawing, printing and writing is very great, and it
is as true that all her movements are very sluggish.'
The attention of Dr. S. was now riveted upon
a childabout twelve years old,whose head exhibited
an extraordinary frontal development. I asked
what he thought of her. 'Remarkable, remarka-
ble,' said he,' for the second education.' I did not
understand him, and asked an explanation. ' I
think,' said he, ' education consists of two parts ;
the first relates chiefly to the receiving of ideas,
and the second to giving them out. She may not
excel in the first part ; but when it comes to the
second, she will take a high rank.'
Still he was not particular enough. He then
at last said she might not excel in writing, spell-
ing and such elementary exercises, but when a
little older, would in astronomy, natural philoso-
phy, and subjects of that nature. He did not
think she was inferior to most children in other
respects, but her strength lay not there.
Her history is this. It is my custom in winter
to employ the afternoons in giving lessons to the
older pupils in natural philosophy, accompanied
by experiments with th~ valuable apparatus be~
p
114
longmg to the school. As the experiments are
amusing, I have been accustomed to let the
younger pupils attend as spectators, without ex-
pecting them to study the subject of the lesson.
This child, then ten years old, asked permission
to attend as a spectator. Iler request was granted,
and the next day she asked if she might recite the
lessons with the class, for I always required the
class to answer not only the questions in their
text book, but also such others as I thought might
fairly be asked. The request was novel_; but as I
never check any ambition of this sort, without
first ascertaining that it is unreasonable, I allowed
her to join the class, although so much their junior.
As the attendance in the afternoon was voluntary,
my regular duties ending with the forenoon, I
proposed a prize of two dollars to whichever at
the end of the course should have recited best,
and should undergo the best general review. At
the end of the season, it appeared that she had
recited as well as any one in the class. Next
came the review. I prepared twenty-five ques-
tions different from any that had been previously
asked, and put them all to each of the thirty-two
pupils that belonged to the class. Ten did not
mistake. I then proposed five more difficult.
questions to these ten, and she alone answered
them all correctly. Still thinking it possible that
she might have obtained the knowledge from some
other source than reflection, I ga~e her a further
115
review, till I was satisfied that she had understood
the principles, and was at no difficulty to apply
them. She_took the prize, and what is credita-
ble to her class, it would have been difficult to
say which was most pleased, the victor or the van-
quished.
I next called up a little girl, whom he pronoun-
ced quick at figures. She is the quickest I have
ever seen in the elements of arithme~ic. I then
called up the head and foot of a class formed of
three or four classes that I had been reviewing,
and asked him which was the best arithmetician.
He instantly pointed her out, hut said ' the other
was not deficient.' She was not, when compared
with the classes bel>w her.
By this time the curiosity of the pupils was so
much excited, that all regular work was inter-
rupted. Children that had been called, remained
standing around the Doctor, and in a short time
others joined them, and he had an audience of
twenty or thirty. He was a decided favorite.
At this moment, a few of the larger pupils brought
forward a Miss about thirteen years old, who had,
as they thought, a very small head, and respect-
fully requested Dr. S. to tell what her head was
good for. He turned to me and said, 'Imitation,
oh how full ! ' I asked him how it would be
likely to show itself. 'In mimicry,' said he, 'as
likely as in any way. Is she not a great mimic?'
I had never suspected her of any such disposition,
'
116
and turning to her companions, I asked them if'
. . '
they had ever seen her attempt to rn1m1c any one.
'0, sir,' said they, 'she is the greatest mimic you
ever saw. She takes every body off.' This was
news to me. ' You may rely upon it,' said Dr. S.
' she will be taking me and my foreign accent off
before I leave the room.'
About fifteen minutes afterwards, he jogged my
elbow, and pointed behind him, where I saw this
Miss putting her hand upon the head of her com-
panions in the very peculiar manner of Dr. S. and
saying in his accent, ' You, Miss, have the hump
of so and so, and you, Miss, have the bump of so
and so.' He laughed heartily at the verification
of his prediction. He said she had courage,
much self-esteem, and little caution, and must be
guarded, or her imitation would be inconvenient
to her.
I have mentioned some of the most prominent
cases that fell under the Doctor's observation.
He pointed out one pupil as having the organ of
language largely developed, and she is certainly
distinguished for one of her age. I called up
several whose forte 1 had not been able satisfacto-
rily to discover, and he generally pronounced that
they had none.
His visit lasted onIy two hours, and he left the
school much to the regret of the pupils to whom
his easy manners, benevolent advice, and knowl-
edge of their thoughts had strongly recommended
117
him. Next day, they requested me to beg him to
honor them with another visit. He promised to
do so, but his engagements prevented.'
When at the Massachusetts State Prison, he
selected one who probably would, as he said, soon
return if he were liberated. This prisoner was
there for life. He pointed out another who had,
as he remarked, no particular development that
should have led him to crime; and on inquiry, the
prisoner acknowledged that he was there for acts
committed while in a state of intoxication. He
thought the heads of tho prisoners, compared
with others of similar institutions, were unusually
good, and he explained this upon the ground that
a large proportion of them, previous to their com-
mitment, were addicted to habits ofintemperance,
and were influenced by other than natural causes.
We extract the following from a note received
from Mr. Barnum Field, Principal of Hancock
School, Boston.
' In answer to your inquiry respecting the visit
of Dr. Spurzheim to my school in October last, I
would observe that his objects seemed to be to un-
derstand the physical and intellectual condition of
the pupils.
The aptness of his questions to the subject,
and the originality of thought produced by them,
excited tho most lively interest in the pupils. His
examination of their intellectual progress, though
perfectly simple, was more appropriate and inter-
118
esting than any thing of the kind I have ever
witnessed.'
lie objected to the mode in which our primary
schools were conducted : he said that the chil-
dren ' learned to read and to spell in a mechani-
cal and old fashioned way ; thn.t their intellect
received attention to excess, while their feelings
were neglected, and that they were too much con-
fined. He thought ' it too much for the health of
the young beings to be confined six hours a day on
the benches.'
lle visited the schools kept for the children of
the colored population of Boston. He remarked,
' that individuality and eventuality were strong in
the negro children; the reflective faculties less,
and the whole forehead in general, smaller than
in the whites. They will receive their first edu-
cation as quick, if not quicker than the white;
they can read and speak as well, but they will
be deficient in the English High School.'
Having excited a most favorable interest among
our citizens, in relation to Phrenology, he labored
with great earnestness to elucidate the principles
of the science. His lectures in the city were
generally one hour and a half in length, and at
Cambridge two hours; aud he often remained at
the close of the lecture to answer such q•ICstions
as his auditors might feel disposed to ask.
His time and presence were in constant demand.
There was hardly an hour in the day after
119
9 o'clock, A. M. during which he was not engaged
either in receiving company or making visits.
This was not all. The little time which he had
after the close of his lectures, of almost every
evening of the week, was claimed, and he too
often yielded to the invitations of his numerous
friends.
Although he had naturally a strong constitution,
his exertions were more than he could endure.
Of this, he was fully sensible himself, and fre-
quently observed, that his health would require
him to lessen his labors, and that he should not
engage after his first course, to give more than
three lectures a week. When he complained of
any illness, he generally attributed it to change of
diet, to eating of food to which he had not been
accustomed ; or, as he usually expressed himself,
'The natural laws have been violated, and I must
suffer the penalty; I must live simple, and nature
will correct the evil.' He sometimes spoke of
'his slcin's being in disorder.'
The fever of which he died, gradually appear-
ed, and was evidently produced by a combination
of causes ; such as over exertion, changeableness
of the climate, sudden and protracted exposures
to the evening air, &c.
For several days after he had first complained,
there were no symptoms that gave rise to any se-
rious apprehension or alarm. He considered
himself as slightly indisposed, and confidently be-
120
lieved that his chosen physician, nature, would heal
and restore him. Had these moments been en-
joyed in rest and quietude, the fatal grasp ofdisease
had not secured so valuable a victim.
No man had more confidence in the strength of
his constitution and in the internal corrective
power of nature, than Dr. Spurzheim. We fear
that he had too much, and had become so familiar
with the natural laws of man, that he almost fan-
cied they were under his control. In answer to
compliments regarding his health, we have heard
him reply, 'I am well, 1 thank you, I am always
well.'
'At one of his lectures in Boston, (the beautiful
lecture on charity and mutual forbearance) while
he was diffusing light and warmth among his
hearers, be was seen suddenly shivering.' *
When leaving the Hall, after his lecture on
natural language, he said, ' I feel quito ill, and I
am afraid my own natural language has been too
strong for the pleasure of my hearers.'
Regardless of the entreaties of his friends, he
continued to fulfil his engagements. His lectures
were nearly finished, and he had a mo1)t ardent
desire to close them before he rested. ' The
arrangement has been made,' said he, ' the public
will expect to hear me at the stated time, and
when I have finished, it will be a relief to know that
I can rest without disappointing others.'
• Prof. f ollt•n.
121
As the Athenreurn Hall was not sufficiently large
to accommodate his increasing audience, he en-
gaged the spacious lecture-room in the Masonic
Temple, for the two concluding lectures of his
course, which were to be on the subject of educa-
tion.
On the evening of the first and last lecture in
that place, it was very apparent that his illness
had inrreased. "'hen he arri\ cd at the Temple,
although he rode in a close carriage, we observed
a free and cold perspiration on his face, and saw
that he was unusually pale and occasionally affect-
ed by chills. In his lecture he appeared feeble, and
did not discover that livqly animation \\ hich usually
lighted up his countenance, and characterized his
performances. He greatly exerted himself to edify
his hearers, but they seemed to be more concern-
ed for his health than interested in his subject.
They rather sympathized with the sick man, than
listened to the philosopher.
It was ascertained at the close of the lecture,
that the Hall in the Temple could not be had for
the next evening, and he, '' i:-;hing to consult the
convenience of his audience, a:-:ked with one of his
benignant smiles, ' In what place shall we meet next
time ?' A question, which it pleased the Almighty
Disposer of events to answer in the counsel of his
own will,-leaving man to dwell upon the infirmi-
ties of human nature, and to wonder at the inexpli-
cable decrees of Divine Providence!
Q
He returned to his lodgings, never to leave
them. lt was difficult, even then, to persuade
him that he was too sick to lecture. lie con-
sented to a postponement of only two or three
days, and until the expiration of that timef he
could not be prevailed upon to acknowledge
the importance and necessity of entire cessation
from labor. He entertained the idea, that exer-
tion would have an influence in restoring his sys-
tem.
A new obstacle now presented itself, he was
averse to all medicine. Wbile jn England he suf-
fered from a severe fit of sickness, owing as he
then supposed to change of climate, and after-
wards another when he returned to France. In
both cases he submitted to the advice and pre-
scriptions of his physicians, and from what he saw
in his own experience, he inferred that it was not
safe to place too much confidence in the skill of
of the faculty, or in the virtue of drugs.
' He stated that Cuvier had been bled, though
he (Dr. S.) protested against it, believing that lite-
rary men did not bear that evacuation. He stated,
that his own constitution was very irritable, and
that from his childhood he had never been able to
bear medicine~
·when very properly advised by Dr. Grigg to
employ some evacuant, he consented to take one
d,.achm of Epsom Salts, saying that this would
affect him powerfully. It did produce a hyperca-
123
tharsis, so that he took some small <loses of opium
to arrest it.' *
Heceiving no relief from the treatment of his
own choice, he consented that Dr. Jackson should
be called. This distinguished physician attended
him from the 30th of October till his death.
The attention of many of the citizens of Boston
and of Cambridge to Dr. Spurzheim, while sick,
was highly creditable to them. They were prompt
to answer every call, to anticipate his wants, and
to perform all those duties of kindness which his
situation required. A particular acknowledgement
is due to Drs. J. Tuckerman, J. Barber, William
Grigg, J.D. Fisher, S. G. Howe, J. G. Stevenson,
W. Lewis, Jr. George Parkman, John Flint, Prof.
Beck, Prof. Follen, and Mr. James A. Dorr.
Immediately after his death, Dr. Jackson pub-
lished a statement of his case, from which we
make the following extracts :
' On the 30th of October, I found Dr. Spurz-
heim in l1is bed. His tongue was perfectly dry,
except a line on each side, and dark, but not
thickly coated ; he had much thirst, but no appe-
tite ; he stated to me that his bowels were and
had been freely open, though I found that they
had not been kept so without artificial aid ; his
pulse was 96, firm, and with the hardness of age
rather than of disease, though he was only fifty-
------------- -- ------
Or. Jack•nn's statement.
121
five years old ; his pulse intermitted frequently,
but he stated that this had been the case for three
years pa~t, unaccompanied by any other symptom
of diseased heart ; his respiration was natural, or
as much so as that of any person so much diseas-
ed; he could expand his chest fully and freely, he
struck it and it resounded well, and he declared
that he had no symptom of disease referable to
that cavity; his skin was dry and rather hot, but
not much so ; he declared himself free from pain,
but he had uncomfortable feelings about the head;
and he had occasional uneasiness in the bowels,
which he was always able to remove at will by a
lavement; there was nothing morbid in his evac-
uations ; his most distre::;sing symptoms were an
extreme restlessness, with an appearance of impa-
tience, and very great watchfulness. '
' From the 30th of October to the 5th of Novem-
ber, he continued to manifest the same symptoms,
without material alterations, gradually getting
worse, but not in a marked degree from day to
day. On one day, (Sl st,) his skin was very moist,
but without corresponding amendment generally.
He had the usual exacerbations at e\ cning, and
these did not abate unt1l 2, S or 4 o'clock in the
morning. He had some good sleep, but I believe
never more than three hours in a night. He
manifegted at times great impatience, and an ir-
ritable temper, which he had not erinced in health.
Thi:s !'tate of mind pas,rd almost in~en-.ibly into
delinum, particularly m the night.
When I visited him on the 5th of November,
he was manifestly worse. JLis countenance was
altered, his pulse was accelerated, though it re- •
taincd its firmness in a good degree. The tongue
had been perfectly dry from the first day on which
I saw him, now it had diminished in volume, as if
its whole substance were dried ; his respiration
wa8 somewhat irregular; he had frequent twitch-
ings of the muscles, which had existed in a less
degree for two or three days, accompanied by a
picking of the bed-clothes ; and his tlelirium was
increased.
On the oth, the bad symptoms had become
much worse. He was disposed to coma, with in-
tervals of delirium. His respiration was more
hurried and irregular, with some rattle in the
throat ; and his pulse was now 120, more fee-
ble and unequal in force.
From this time his symptoms continued to be of
a bad character until his death, which occnrred
on the lOth of November, a little before midnight.'
' It is interesting to many persons to learn the
exact name of his di~case. Jt may be called a
continued fe\·er, in which the nervous symptoms
\verc predominant. There were no symptoms of
putrcsccncy, and no strong inflammatory symp-
toms. If it were called a pure typhus, the name
would mislead many. It may be rather called a
l'ynochuR, though not without dispute. Those
who arc accustomed to my teaching on thi· sub-
126
ject, know that I do not place a value on these
names, not believing that nature recognizes the
specific distinctions, which they arc intended to
designate. To those persons I should deRcribe
Dr. Spurzheim's disease thus: It wa8 continued
fever, in which the symptoms of the access came
on insidiously, and were alone for many days;
the symptoms of the other stages ne,·er became
very prominent; those of a crisis never appeared.
There was not evidence of inflammation in any
organ of the body. If inflammation did exist, it
must be called latent. '
' At this time, October :30th, he was really in the
third "eek of fever, though he had not hecn con-
fined to the house so much as one week. The
disease was fastened on him. I was convinced
that it was too far advnnced to be removed by med-
Icmc. Dr. S. avowed to me his strong aversion
to medicine. '
' But I have long since been taught by expe-
rience, and have taught to others, that, in this
confirmed and advanced period of fever, med-
icine is not of any avail in arresting the disease.
l:ndcr such circumstances we have only to watch
the disease so as to guard against accidents, and
especially to watch againl:'t the occurrence of in-
flammation in any part. I had then no hesitation
in confirming Dr. S. in the propriety of the ex-
pectante method of treatment nnclC'r hi~ actual
circnm:-lancc-.. '
127
The method of treatment in this case adopted
by Dr. Jackson was simple, and such as Dr. "'purz-
hcim highly approved. He recommended ' that he
should be supported by mild liquid diet, duly reg-
ulated in quantity ; that he should take such mild
beverages as were grateful to him ; and that he
should continue to rely on his favorite remedy,
the lavement, to regulate his bowels.
This simple treatment was continued during the
remainder of his sickness almost without a devia-
tion, except that after the 5th wine was administer-
ed in moderate quantities. Twice 1proposed to him
some mild medicine, to obviate inconveniences
wl1ich annO) ed him. In each case be took a
single dose; but, either from a peculiarly irritable
constitution, or from the influence of imagination,
he felt himself much irritated, and refused to go
any further. Had I urged upon him any impor-
tant medicine as essential to his safety, he might
perhaps have consented to usc it. I do not how-
ever believe that he would. Happily I did not
think it necessary to make the trial.
In regard to the chance of his recovery, I
must say the result disappointed me. Still, if
1 had thought the danger greater, I should have
pursued the same course. Could I indeed have
known that he would die in this course, I would
have hazarded another. But this was impossible.
I thought his recovery probable until the 5th of
Norember, because I could not discover any cvi-
128
dence of inflammation ; and it is very rare among
us for fever to be fatal unless there is some in-
flammation superadded to it. The unfavorable
result in this case may perhaps be explained by
the great labor, intellectual labor, which the pa-
tient had undergone for several weeks ; and that,
too, connected with a good deal of moral excite-
ment, though of an agreeable kind.
I ought to state, that at the request of Mr. Ca-
pen, Doctors vVare and Stevenson consulted
with Dr. Grigg and myself in the last five days of
Dr. Spurzheim's life. They accorded perfectly
in the measures pursued during that period.'
During the last week of his illness he frequently
complained of the want of light. On the eve-
ning of the 5th, he said ' the light is dirty, artifi-
cial, I want natural light.' He made the same
complaint on the succeeding night, and wanted
the doors and windows opened to admit more air.
The admission of light into the room when morn-
ing appeared, gave him great pleasure.
He believed the air of the city to be bad and
close, and was anxious that a carriage should be
procured to take him out to Cambridge, where it
was pure. His mind was so strongly impressed
with this idea, that his friends could hardly per-
suade him that the step would be dangerous and
perhaps even fatal. This was a trying scene for
those who were present. To be obliged to deny a
request made by one whom they loved and respect-
129
ed, and which was urged with every interesting
expression of feeling, of reason and of right-was
indeed a painful duty to perform.
It was thought at the time, that he was de-
ranged; but he had spoken of the subject fre-
quently, and had reasoned himself into the belief
that his recovery depended upon the measure.
On the assurance of his }:lhysician, however, that
such a remove would be im}:lossible without great
danger, be acquiesced, and after that made no
allusion to it.
About a week before his death, two letters were
received for him, from Paris. When told of their
arrival, he seemed to be reanimated and at the same
time profoundly affected. He grasped the letters
with an expression ofardent interest which we shall
ne\'er forget, and pressiug them to his lips, he laid
down and wept. The language of his soul shook
his noble frame, and with the simplicity of a child
he silently expressed by his tears and deep heaving
bosom, that to a mighty mind God had united an
affectionate heart.
Although these letters, so precious in his sight,
arrived to gladden him in his illness, yet he had not
strength sufficient to read them. He would not
suffer them for some time to be taken from him,
and frequently attempted to read their contents,
but with little success.
One day he called for his watch, to which were
attached several seals and nngs. He viewed
H
130
one of them for some moments with an expres-
sion of intem;e thought, and appeared to derive
an exquisite pleasure from the act. Who will
say that a gift from a friend we love can be kept
too sacredly, when such a mind as that of Spurz-
heim's acknowledged and enjoyed the presence
of a simple ring? Tokens of friendship become
sources of delight by association.
The anxiety of his friends increased as his ill-
ness continued. The anxious mind is never·sat-
isfied to remain inactive, however advisabJe inac-
tivity may be in certain cases; it is ever onward
from remedy to experiment, and from experiment
to failure or success, till the object of it:s interest
is secured frotn danger, or placed beyond the
reach of mortal hope.
On the night of the 8th, his medical attendants
placed him in a warm bath, of 98 degrees heat, in
which he remained fifteen minutes. He was
much pleased with the effects of it ; he breathed
easier, his pube was more regular and he appeared
more tranquil. Ile seemed for the moment to be
strengthened by the immersion, and afterwards
gained a few minutes of sleep. A large blister was
then applied over the bowel:l, and although he made
no objection to the application of it, he soon tore
it ofl'. The favorable symptoms, however, were
of short duration, and he returned to his former
restless and oppressed condition.
In the afternoon of the 9th, he called for the
131
writer of this biography, and three lawyers.
Soon after, the writer entered the room, and Dr.
S. was told that he was present. Dr. S. immediate-
ly signified a wish to be raised up, and could only
recognize his friend by a pressure of his hand.
His eyes were nearly closed, his mouth and tongue
dry, and his strength was insufficient to sustain his
body, even in a reclining position. He attempted
to speak but in vain. His friend, being satisfied
that he (Dr. S.) was conscious of his approaching
dissolution, assured him that every thing would be
properly done. But this assurance gave him no
strength to speak his wishes.
His inability grieved him, and for a moment
we saw an expression of despairing grief pass
over his countenance, aud an inward struggling
to make known his death-bed request. That he
had something particular to say, there can be
no doubt, as he expressed a wish to make some
communication to the writer, soon after his con-
finement, but feeling too ill at the time, he said,
' to-morrow, when 1 shall feel better.' To-mor-
row came, and days succeeded, but not to witness
the returning health of Spurzheim.
When his sickness began to grow more dan-
gerous, he said to one of his best friends, ' I
must die.' The other said, ' I hope not;' and
he replied, 'Oh yes, I must die; I wish to live
as long as I can for the good of the science ; but
I am not afraid of death. He never murmured at
132
his sickness, but awaited its issue with entire sub-
mission.'*
He did not .seem to suffer any pain, and for most
of the time, we think, he was in the possession of
his reason, although he did not voluntarily exer-
cise it. It was extremely difficult for him to
speak, but he plainly signified by signs that he
generally understood whatever was said to him.
A short time before his death a friend addressed
him in his mother tongue, and it manifestly gave
him pleasure.
His friends were soon brought. to realize the
solemn conviction that death had marked for its
victim the object of their respect and solicitude.
The scene had now l>ecome one of painful in·
terest. The man who had so lately appeared in
public, apparently enjoying all the blessings of
health; who had by his learning and eloquence ex-
cited the wonder and admiration of our citizens-
lay prostrate and helpless, and seemingly uncon-
scious of the presence vf those who surrounded his
bed. Nothing was h<'ard hut the lahorious hreath-
ing of him who was the object of attention, and
the low and melancholy whispers of his inquiring
friends.
Sadness and despondency clouded every coun-
tenance, and the silent language of the feelings
told, that a spirit, respected and beloved, was about
to depart, never to return.
• Prof. Follen
133
Men advanced to manhood and to the hardening
cares of life, gazed upon the face that had so
recently smiled upon them, and left the room weep-
ing at the sight of so vast a change. We saw
him but a few hours before his death, ' with his
hands folded upon his breast, while deep tranquil-
lity was resting on his uplifted countenance, as if
sayiug within himself,' the prayer which was ever
in his heart and upon his tongue, 'Father thy will
be done.'
He died without a groan, or a struggle, on Sat-
urday night, 11 o'clock, November lOth.
Early on the following morning several of the
friends of the deceased, both in Boston and at
Cambridge were notified to meet for the purpose
of adopting such measures as the solemn occasion
required. We give the account of the proceed-
ings of this meeting as afterwards published.
'On Sunday, the 11 th day of November, 1832,
the morning after the decease of Dr. Spurzheim,
a number of his friends assembled at his late apart-
ments for the purpose of considering what mea-
sures should be taken on this melanc!1oly occasion.
The Hon. Josiah Quincy, President of Harvard
University, being called to the chair, and J. Greely
Stevenson, M. D. appointed Secretary, a delib-
eration took place on the measures which should
be adopted to express a sense of the public loss
sustained by the death of this distinguished man,
and of the impression made by his talents and vir-
tues on those who had enjoyed the privilege of his
acquaintance during his short residence in this city.
The gentlemen assembled also took into consider-
ation what disposition should be made of his re-
rnain3, so as to place them at the future disposal
of his European friends and relatives, in case they
should be hereafter claimed by them, and in whose
hands his papers, casts, and other property should
be deposited so as to secure them from the possi-
bility of being damaged, diminished or lost, until
some person legally authorized should take them
into possession.
Whereupon it was voted,
I. That the arrangement of the funeral obse-
quies of the deceased, and of the measures proper
to be adopted to express a sense ofthe public loss,
by the death of Dr. Spurzheim, and the respect
entertained by the inhabitants of this city and its
vicinity for his talents and virtues be committed to
Josiah Quincy, LL. D. President of Han:ard Uni-
versity, Nathaniel Bowditch, LL.D. Joseph Story,
LL.D. Joseph Tuckerman, D. D. Charles Follen,
J. U. D. Jonat.han Barber, M. D. Charles Beck,
P. D. vVilliam Grigg, M. D. George. Bond, and
Charles P. Curtis, Esqrs.
2. Voted, That the body of Dr Spurzheim be
examined and embalmed, and be placed in such a
situation as will render it most suitable to be trans-
mitted to his European friends and relatives, should
they request it ; and also that a cast of his head
ISS
be taken, under the superintendence of Drs. John
C. 'Varren, James Jackson, George C. Shattuck,
Walter Channing, George Parkman, John Ware,
Edward H.eynolds, Jr. Winslow Lewis, Jr. J. Greely
Stevenson, John D. Fisher, \Villiam Grigg, and
Samuel G. Howe.
3. Voted, That the papers, casts and other pro-
perty of the deceased, be committed to John
J>ickerine, LL.D. Nathaniel Bowditch, LL.D.
Thomas ,V. 'Vard, and Nahum Capen, Esqrs. and
that they be requested to secure the same until
such disposition be made of them as the laws of
the land, in such cases, provide.
A true transcript of the proceedings,
JostAH Q u iNCY, Chairman.
Attest, J. GREELY STE\'E~SON, Secretary.
At a meeting of the committee appointed by
the 'friends of the late Dr. Spurzheim, ' to take
charge of his funeral obsequies, and to adopt meas-
ures proper to express a sense of the public loss
sustained by the death of Dr. Spurzheim, and the
respect entertained by the inhabitants of this city
and vicinity for his talents and virtues,' holden on
the 11th of November, 1832, it was
Voted, That the body of the deceased be con-
veyed on Saturday, the 17th inst. at 2 o'clock,J>.
M. to the Old South Meeting House, where appro-
priate services shall be performed: after which the
body shall be conveyed to the receiving tomb be-
136
lonCTincr to the trustees of 1\Iount Auburn, there to
0 0
remain until the determination of his European
friends shall be ,!mown, and that it be attended
from the Old South Church to the cemetery in
Park Street by a voluntary procession composed
of the members ofthe several committees and such
citizens as may be desirous to pay that mark of re-
spect to the remains of this distinguished stranger.
JosiAH QuiNcY, Clutinnan.
At a meeting of the above committee on the
17th of Nov. 1832, it was
Voted, That a place for the per~anent deposit
of the body of Dr. Spurzheim be prepared at Mount
Auburn, in case it should not be requested to be
sent to Europe hy his friends an<.l relatives ; and
that a monument be erected over his tomb ; and
for this purpose that a subscription be opened
among those who arc willing to pay this tribute to
his memory.
A true copy of the proceedings of the above sub·
committee, JosL\H QUJxcv, Chairman.
'At a Rpecial meeting ofthe Boston Medical As-
sociation, held at the Massachusetts Medical Col-
lege, November 14th, 1832, the following resolu-
tions were 1manirnously adopted, and ordered to
be published.
'The Boston Medical Association having receiv:
ed with great satisfaction the visit of the late Dr.
\
137
J. G. Spurzheim; and their acquaintance with him
having inspired them with high respect for his re-
searches in anatomy and physiology, and a deep
interest in his opinions on the moral and physical
improvement of man ; therefore,
Resolved, That we view the decease of Dr.
Spurzhe4m and the termination of his labors, as a
calamity to mankind, and, in an especial manner,
to this country.
Resolved, That a respectful letter be addressed
to his friends in Europe, by the Secretary of this
Association, detailing an account of his labors, his
illness and death, and the expression of public re-
spect paid to his memory.
Resolved, That this Association, as a body, will
attend the funeral obsequies of the deceased.
Resolved, That we recommend to our fellow
citizens the opinions of the deceased, on the im-
provement of our systems of education; and es-
pecially what relates to the development of the
physical powers and moral dispositions ; and as
they can no more expect to hear them from the
lips of our lamented friend, that they lose no time
in making a practical application of them to the
existing state of our institutions, for the culture of
the human mind.·
Attest,
s
JosEPH W. McKEAN,
Secretctry.
138
The solemn funeral rites were paid to the re-
mains of Dr. Spurzheim, at the appointed time
and place. 1 he body of the deceased was re-
mo,·ed from the l\Iedical College to the church,
at 12 o'clock, accompanied by the Boston l\Ied-
ical As~ociation. Several of the bells of the city
were tolled from 2 to 3 o'clock.
The services commenced at S o'clock, by a
dirge on the organ, by Zcuner. The Rev. J.
Tuckerman addressed the throne of grace in a
most fervent and impressive prayer. An able and
appropriate oration was then delivered by Pro-
fessor Follen.
The following beautiful ode, by Rev. John
Pierpont, was then sung with great effect by the
Handel and Haydn Society.
~TR.\ '\(,f~R, thru i• ~l1n1 o'er tl.ee:
)hn) au ~),. "llh .o"o" "tt
All our ""'cLr n ht>artt Jt p1on chrr:
\\ ho, thnt lnt '" thf'f', un (oJrJ;t t?
\\'M fo>rf!tt "h::al thou h:~. t '"J'Ol.tn!
\\'he-, th1ne ot)f"-4h) nuLir. framt ~
Dut, tbat s(•lof• n ho"lu hwktn,
l n lhf> l'tatn~tt o( th) f.Am,..
Autumn'• It 11H• ''"II r.u •n•l "'ithtr
On th... ~rM "lurt th..u "h'h rt,t:
'T1t in l·He '" ht tt thf'n tltithf"r
..fo thy ntuuuli11f: muthrr'111 ltrf':t~t.
Ft•r llu• JI«Hf't o( c-irnn. hruu ht u•,
l't~r tht: clnrm Ill) li''Oclnr • g:.H'"
"fo thtl 14 J hilt tl1t1U h.L•t t au~f1t U4,
t',m \\t fh·t·thtf'lmt ltr;ra\'(·?
Nalurf>"s prit-•t, h()w Irut an.-1 (t"utn\
\\·as thy \t"nr...hip Ill hn •hrme!
Frirnd o( man,-of(ioo the •tna.nl,
J\choc:.te of truth.. dnJOt',-
Tau,.ht a.ud charw('l) a.. hJ ao othf'r,
\Ye ba,.e I'('en~ a.nd hor•-..t to l~ ;
Dut wbtlt- waitin:: rouo,J t •< .., Brothf"r,
For tb.,- Iicht-~,;.. duk 1'1Hh thtt ! -
D:u·L nith Ibet' !- oo; thJ C"rralor,
All wbo..e cre:.:ur('" anti uho t•la"'
Thou tlid~t lo-re-1 ..ball ~1\f' thr(' t:'ff'~tcr
J.i~ht than <tarth"..,a. nflb 'Mitbdra\\~.
To thy Goo lh) ~odlike ' f>irit
Dack we ght-1 in lilialtru~l:
Thy cold cl:l)-w(' ~rit, e to bt:u .it
To iLJ c.h<~.mbcr-hut \H.' must.
On this occasion the Old South Church was
crowde(l with ladies a.nd gentlemen at an early
:
l
J39
hour, and several hundred came and went away
disappointed, who could not find even a place to
stand upon. It was estimated that about three
thousand persons were present. The ceremo-
nies were peculiarly solemn, and they made an
impression upon the audience that time can never
erase. After the close of the services, the remains
of the lamented deceased were removed to the
silent tomb, followed by several hundred citizens.
The decease of Dr. Spurzheim cast a gloom over
our city. We have never known a death which
seemed to excite so universal and sincere a feel-
ing of grief. The citizens of Boston had become
interested in him; they saw that he was a man
eminent both for his learning and his virtues ;
and they regarded his death as a public calamity.
They felt that they had lost a friend; one who
had made human nature his study, that he might
promote its perfection and administer to its wants.
Alas! what is life, and what is death! What
vast multitudes of human beings arc born, who
live, and move, and act and die without leaving a
single trace of their usefulness, or without dis-
covering to the world the design of their exis-
tence ! New names are almost hourly ad~cd to
our records of death ; but how few of the great
number that are let down into the cold grave,
excite public grief for the loss of their wisdom,
piety, or exertion !
Living is not physical action, though death
110
may be physical d~cay. To live, is to possess the
knowledge proper to man, to perform the duties
required by the condition of our fellow creatures,
and to act according to the noblest dictates of
human nature.
It should be humiliating to the pride of man
that so few arc alive to the great and sublime
objects of their existence. That the decease of
one human being out of so many millions should
create a void which no other is capable of filling!
And yet, who can fill the place of SPlJRZHF.tM!
On the evening of the 17th of November (day
of the funeral) several of the friends of the de-
ceased met and agreed to organize a society, to
be called the Boston Phrenological Society, for
the purpose of investigating the principles of \
Phrenology, and to ascertain the bearings of the
science upon the physical, moral and intellectual
condition of man.
It was voted at this meeting, that the Society
be organized on the 31st of December, 1832,
tlte birth-day of Spurzheim. It was organized
at the stated time, and in the course of three
months numbered about ninety members.
Regarding Dr. Spurzheim as a man, we find all
that dignifies and adorns the human character. He
was distinguished for his superior mind, and his
meek and amiable manners. In all his scientific
studies he invariably reasoned with reference to
the ordinary duties of life. He considered that
141
the true intent of philosophy was to rendet· man-
kind more perfect and more happy, and any re-
searches not having these grand objects in view,
he esteemed as useless and unworthy of pursuit.
He was kind and affectionate to his friends,
and charitable to his opponents. He was lib-
eral, prudent, and industrious. His habits of
living were those of strict temperance. '"'e
have seen him,' says Professor Follen, 'sitting
down to sumptuous meals, provided in honor of
him, and have seen him fasting, for the want of
food adapted to his simple taste.'
'Being asked what peculiar effect his system
(of Phrenology) had had upon his own mind, he
said, that without it he would have been a misan-
thrope ; that the knowledge of human nature had
taught him to love, respect and pity his fellow
beings.'*
His benevolence was not of a limited charac-
ter, having motives of selfishness for its origin, but
extending to the whole family of man. He al-
ways evinced the greatest pleasure in conferring
favors, and seemed to delight in nothing more
than in rendering his fellow creatures happy. Yet
he was scrupulously fearful that he himself should
be the cause of too much trouble to his friends.
He expressed gratitude for the slightest favor, and
when upon his death-bed, laboring under a tedious
restlessness, he would frequently forget himself m
• Prof. Follcn
142
a partial sleep, and rouse, and ask pardon of his
attendants for his seeming want of ceremony. ·we
mention these things, which in themselves arc
trifling, to,show what were his permanent habits.
We have known him to stop in the street and
enjoy the playfulness of children, clothed in tatters
of the most degraded poverty, and exhibit all the
interest in the rude display of their nature, that he
ever showed for others of more fortunate birth
and condition. He would say, ' See, there is na-
ture, see what nature is.'
E vcn to animals he extended his kind regard,
and expressed his indignation at the acts of bru-
tality which we too often witness in our streets,
particularly the forcing of horses to draw a load
beyond their strength.
He regarded love as the true foundation of all
discipline, and expressed great satisfaction when
he visited a school which was conducted upon
this principie.
'·we have works,' said he in one of his lectures,
'written upon the feelings ; we arc told to have
charity, to cultivate veneration and benevolence,
and children arc made to learn them by heart; by
doing so the verbal memory merely is exercised,
but the feelings remain as before. Exercise is the
putting into action. Speak to a child of hunO'er
b
and thirst o.nd give him very correct explanations
of the terms, yet he will never know what they
are by such explanations; but give him little to
\
143
eat and to drink, and he will soon know what they
are. Say nothing about bene\1olence and charity
to a child, and take him to see poor suffering be-
ings, and make him suffer a little also, and he will
soon learn what benevolence and charity arc.'
He spoke in terms of censure of the common
mode of correcting a child for an improper display
of anger. 'When a child is angry,' said he, 'we
wish to correct it, and we speak angry words
ourselves, but this will not do. We cannot ex-
pect to succeed until we have corrected ourselves,
as anger excites anger.'
'It sometimes happened that while he was
attending to the inquiries of some person unknown
to himself, and not distinguished in society, he
was addressed by another, a great and distin-
guished man. But he never attended to the
second inquirer until he had satisfied the first, al-
though he were the great and distinguished man.'*
Before he commenced his lectures, he author-
ized two or three individuals to use their discretion
in bestowing tickets upon those who were inclined
to attend, but were unable to pay; and he desired
that they should be conferred rather as tokens of
respect from his friends than as favors from him-
self, not wishing to offend even the delicate feel-
ings of pride.
In aU his observations and inquiries respecting
* Prof. FoiiE'n.
------------------- ~
our institutions, he invariably regarded practical
utility as the test of their value.
'Jt is unfortunate for humanity,' says he in one
of his works, ' that those who assume di~ti ncti,•e
titles, do not act up to them. From tltis cause it
is that the most noble appellations fall into dis-
credit. Pretended patriots have sometimes been
more dangerous than declared enemies; pretend-
ed Christians worse than heathens.'
Exertions predicated upon speculative theories
afforded him no satisfaction. Nothing, perhaps,
excited his displeasure so much as to hear pro-
fessions without seeing a corresponding practice.
'
'Union and morality alone,' says he in his work
on Education, 'can save the future happiness of
the United States of America. Being divided, or \
without morality, they will have the fate of the
ancient and modern nations of the old world. In-
tellectual education alone cannot produce the
desired effect, whilst the animal feelings predomi-
nate and physical education is neglected. Let
the iegi~lators be aware of the detrimental conse- \
quences of selfishness, luxury, ambition, vanity, of
the animal feelings in general, of all causes which
contribute to the degeneration of body and mind ;
let them be particularly careful about pauperism
on one side, and great riches on the other ; about
idleness, degeneracy of the race and immorality.
Praying alone, and religious ceremot1ics will not
remedy uatural c\'ils and the neglect of natural
law::..'
14;)
1laving heard a clergyman speak against long
prayers, and afterwards make a long prayer him-
sell~ he remarked, that such a course was inex-
cusable, since his words would be forgotten, but
his example remembered and followed.
On hearing a preacher denounce the things of
the world without qualifying his expressions, he
observed ' that the carpets, cushions, curtains and
splendid furniture of the church in which he Rpoke
contradicted the sincerity of his professions.'
He heard a clergyman preach who evinced
violent feelings when addressing the unconverted
part of his audience, and Faid ' that preacher pre-
tends to be a follower of Jesus Christ, but he docs
not imitate his meekness.'
On invitation of the Massachusetts Agricultural
Society, he attended tho fair at Brighton. He
seemed to be as good a judge of cattle as of men,
and readily pointed out their good and bad qualities.
'It is curious,' said he,' that your people think more
of the physical condition of their cattle than of
their children.'
'The great aim of all his inquiries into human
nature, was to search out the ~viii of God in the
creation of man. Obedience to his laws he con-
sidered as the highest '"isdom, and most expan-
~ivc freedom. In speaking of theories of men's
invention, he remarked, ' We say a great deal, and
we think we do a. great deal ; we would be wise
above what is given, and work upon the works of
T
14.6
God ; but it is all nothing.-Thy will be done !-
The Father is always overlooked. Vie look to him
perhaps amid great trials and on great occasions;
but not in smaller things. We say, "they are too
little." It is this in which we err. Can anything
that concerns his children, be too little for a
Father?'*
We give a phrenological statement of the char-
acter of Dr. Spurzheim, which was published in
1820 by Sir George S. Mackenzie.
Philoprogenitiveness and attachment, well mark-
ed ; courage, small; self-esteem, moderate ; love
of approbation, well developed; destructiveness,
large, but completely subdued ; constructiveness,
defective; acquisitiveness, small ; cautiousness,
large; wit, hope, ideality, marvcllousness and im-
itation, weak ; benevolence, veneration, firmness
and justice, strong; form, order, and number, 'Well
developed; coloring and tune, large ; eventuality,
individuality, causality and comparison, lwge.
The Marquis Moscati read a statement hefore
the London Phrenological Society, in January,
1833, in which he gives constructiveness, causali-
ty, individuality, eventuality, comparison, order,
form and size, all, ' as very large,' and veneration,
conscientiousness, benevolence, ideality, hope,
locality and language, 'mther large.'
Dr. ~purzheim was often heard to say,' When I
die, I hope they will not bury my skull ; it will
* Prof. Follen.
147
prove what my dispositions were, and afford the
best answer to my calumniators.'
As measures will be taken to preserve his skull,
according to his wishes, we may soon expect a
more accurate phrenological account of his char-
acter.
Viewing Dr. Spurzheim as n philosopher, we
find much to admire and approve. Early inclined
to study and reflection, h~ contracted those ltabits
of application and perseverance which enabled
him in after life to think with so much energy and
clearness. His philosophy grew out of his expe-
rience and observation, and was constantly sub-
mitted to the supervision of unsophisticated reason.
His motto was ' res non verba qureso.'
Truth with him, was the grand object of thought
and inrestigation, and fearless of all consequence~,
arising either from ignorance or prejudice, he
steadily pursued his object.
' In one of his works he proposes the question,
What should be the aim of every description
of study ? ' He answers, ' The establishment of
truth, and the attainment of perfection ; ' and he
quotes the saying of Confucius, 'Truth is the law
of heaven, and perfection is the beginning and end
of all things.'
' We remember the words with which he began
one of his lectures : ' T do not want you to believe
what I propose to you ; l only want you to hear
what 1 have to ~ay; and then go into the world
and sec and judge for your::;elres whether it be
true. If you do not find it true to nature, have
done with Phrenology ; but if it be true, you can-
not learn it one miuute too soon.'*
Ile was anxiou!'; that his hearers should exam-
inc the doctrines of Phrenology themselres; and
tho:;c who were ready to admit m·cry propo~ition
"ithout prm·ious study, he termed 'sheep con-
\'Crt.~.' ' lie wished that his science should be
studied as a part of physiology ; and anxiou~ly en-
deavored to prC\ ent its becoming an instrument
of quackery and soothsaying, in the hands of the
ignornnt and presumptuous. He therefore con-
:-:tantly refused the requests of those wl10 wi::;h-
ed him to point out tlwir own characters, or those
of others; and earnestly ad\i:::.ed hi:s too ardent
di.:;ciples to Jearn and reflect before they set out
to teach and pract isc.' *
If any one had a desire to explain to him the
nature of a particulm· animal or thing, he a:-:ked
for facts; if a position was ad,·anced with refer<'nce
to the character of man, he required it to be sus-
tained by facts. 1t ''as his opinion that man had
used his reason too cxclusirely, and that no ~cience
was safe unless confirmed hy the testimon) of na-
ture herself. lie sa\\ in nature but one philoso-
phy, one language; h<' saw in the existence of
man nothing discordant with the known and ac-
kno\vledged di~pcn!'ations of Dirinc Pro\ iclcnce,
• l'rof Follen.
149
but he contemplated the infinite variety of parts
as a vast and perfect whole.
'·we never,' says he, 'venture beyond expe-
rience. ·we neither deny nor affirm any thing
which cannot be verified by experiment. ·we do
not make researches either upon the dead body,
or upon the soul alone, but upon the man as he
appears in life. ·we consider the faculties of the
mind, only so far as they become apparent to us
by their organization. 'Ve never question what
' tho moral and intellectual faculties may be in
themselves. We do not attempt to explain how
the body and soul arc joined together, and exer-
cise a mutual influence. We do not examine
what the soul can do without the body. Souls,
so far as we know, may be united to bodies at the
moment of conception, or afterwards; they may
be different in different individuals, or of the
same kind in every one ; they may be emana-
tions from God, or something essentially differ-
ent. Hence, whatever metaphysicians and theolo-
gians may decide in respect to all these points, our
assertion concerning the manifestations of the
mind in this life, cannot be shaken.'
'1\Ian,' says he in another place, 'is a being of
creation ; and therefore the study of his nature
requires the same method as tlic examination of
every other natural being. Now, C\'cry class of
living beings presents two parts for investigation ;
the bodily structure which is the object of anato-
150
my: the functions, which arc the objects of physi-
ology. Thus, it is necessary to study man, 1st.
the structure of the whole body, and that of each
part in particular; 2nd. the functions in general,
and of erery part in particular ; 3d. the mutual
influence of the different parts, and of their func-
tions; 4th. the relations between man aud all the
bein<r::: around him, whether animate or inanimate,
0
even the relation to the Creator.
The knowledge of mankind may be further di-
vided into the knowledge of the healthy, and into
that of the diseased state.'
In the study of the mental faculties he avoided
and condemned the common practice of philoso-
pher::;, of inferring from their own consciousness
the nature and extent of the mental phenomena.
Although this mode ofjudging answered "ith res-
pect to themselres, he objected to the knowledge
as being applicable to all men. His course was to
analyze with all the strictness of a mineralogist or
a chemist, and from particulars to define the gen-
eral character of man. As in natural history,
when we speak of a stone, a plant, an animal, a
bird, &c. we should consider it an unpardonable
omission not to mention its species or distinctive
character ; so he Yicwed all general ideas and as-
sertions in relation to the mind. If a faculty was
to be explained, he demanded the result of long
and careful observation upon its earliest manifes-
tations: the diflcrent periods of its grm\ th, its
151
maturity, its condition in a state of health and of
disease, its peculiar habits and relations ; consti-
tuting a perfect history of its existence, as modi-
fied in the human race. From this strict course
of study he was never known to deviate, nor
would he consent to receive evidence from another
who did not acknowledge the importance of it as
indispensably requisite to a just conclusion.
As an observer of men and manners, of their
habits and condition, his equal prohably did not
exist. The minutest peculiarity, the most insig-
nificant circumstance, could hardly escape his
notice and investigation.
'IIis modesty and habits of patient investigation
prevented him from judging hastily of what he
no1iced in this country; he preferred waiving his
decision until further observation and experience
shoulu enable him to form more correct notions.
Still he was always willing frankly to express his
own opinjon of what he had observed, whenever
he 1hought that the light in which he viewed it,
might be of some use to others. ·whenever he
expressed an opinion on the character of men, he
always showed an uncommon power of discerning
not only the striking points, but even the nicer
combinations of difrerent moral and intellectual
qualities.'* But few men could describe the pecu-
liarities of their intimate friends with so much ac-
curacy as he could, after a single interview.
rrof. Follen.
15:!
The c1uestion has often been asked, ' What was
his opinion of the Americans ?' Ile refused to
answer this general question, for the reason that he
had seen but a small part of our country and but
very few of it::> inhabitants. We will give, how- ·
ever, an extract from his journal, to show his
opinion of the New England character:
'The Yankee character i::; !·cal Norman. They
(Yankees) act "ith Secreti\ cnf'ss, Cautiousness,
Courage, Self-esteem, Acqui~itivenes::5; "ith less
Approbation and Reverence.'
'He thought favorably of our American institu-
tions generally ; he considered it as a great hap-
piness that wealth is not here long hereditary, and
that rnen have, in this country, to make their own
way. Jle thought, howe,·er, that we were in dan-
ger from self-love and ambition, and that if feel-
ings of veneration and respect were not cultivated
in the young, we should, by and by, have fighting.'
To the compiler* of this notice he ~aid, with
reference to the permanency of our institutions,
when it wa!) stated that, as they had lasted two
hundred years, it was hoped they might be per-
manent, ' True-but, as yet, you have room
enough and bread enough, but how will it be
when your population becomes so dense that man
touches man, and there is no more room nor place;
how will it be then? I give you,' added he with a
smile, ' five hundred years for your experiment; if
J::xtract from a notice by Prof. Silliman.
'I
15S
your institutions stand five hundred years, they
may perhaps be permanent.'*
Tho journal which he commenced in this coun-
try and his rem:uks to individuals, amply prove
the great and uncommon acti' ity of his scrutiniz-
ing powers. We find in his journal even the pecu-
liarities of o. black scrrant described ; his manner
of ringing the breakfast bell, changing the plates,
and placing the knires and forks at the table, &c.
He speaks also of 'o. girl about seven or eight
years old, of delicate health, who ate at church in
a pew ncar him, dry leaves of mint.'
He frequently spoke of persons anrl things, that
a common observer would esteem as entirely un-
worthy of notice.
The labors of Dr. , purzhcim as an anatomist,
have produced a reform in the study of the ncr~
vous sy~tcm which will forever sustain him in the
first rank of his profession. To be convinced of
this, we have only to examine the state of know-
ledge in relat10n to the ano.tomy, physiology, and
pathology of the brain and spinal marrow, before
he devoted himself to the investigation of those
most important branches of science.
Sir Astley Cooper and l\Ir. Abernethy admitted
the importance of his discoveries and readily ac-
knowledged his great merit. It is to be regretted,
however, that some medical writers have had more
sense to usc, than fairness and candor to admit,
the discoveries of Spurzheim. They have always
u
151.
been ready to mention the source of any position
which they considered untenable, while they kept
all authority out of sight whenever they had occa-
sion to use ideas which their judgment could not
but approve. This course of conduct in scientific
men shows a deficiency of respect for truth and
justice that should bring upon them the marked
censure of every candid person. Not satisfied''ith
this species of injw;tice alone, some medical pro-
fessors have with unparalleled effrontery ascribed
to others the discoveries of Gall and Spurzheim;
than which a greater misrepresentation could
hardly be made, as may be seen from a statement
of facts given by Dr. Spurzhcim in a note to Chcu-
evix's article, published in the Foreign Quarterly
Hc,·iew. In the same work the reader may find a
particular account of Spurzheim's anatomical dis-
coreries, as given by himself.
The improvements which Dr. Spurzheim made
in the science of Phrenology arc considered very
important. The science received its present name
from him. ' In extending my vie\vs,' says he, ' I
found it necessary to change the name again (from
Craniology,) and ha\e chosen that of Phrenology,
which is deri\'Cd from two Greek words; 4l~'lv,
mind, and >..Gr_
o>, discourse; and I understand by
it, the doctrine of the special phenomena of the
mind, and of the relations between the mental dis-
po~'<itions of the boc.Jy, particularly the brain.'
He raised this branch of knowledcre to the dirr-
o 0
•
165
nity of a science, by a consistent philosophy, and
discovered, in a great degree, the true application
of its principles. Phrenology, with his improve-
ments, affords a most admirable system of educa-
tion. It is a system which is founded upon an
exact knowledge of our nature, and therefore both
simple and practical. It comprehends the intel-
lect and the feelings, and proposes a discipline
with reference to both ; it determines their extent
and mutual relations, and enables parents and in-
structers to direct the young mind with greater
certainty of success.
His work upon this subject is of too valuable a
character not to be read and made a book of refer-
renee by those who stand in any relation. to the
n smg generation. It is replete with knowledge
and advice which reaches every condition, and
which can be understood and reduced to practice.
The additions which Dr. Spurzheim made to
the number of the fundamental faculties, not be-
fore admitted by Dr. Gall, are eight. 'But it is
not the number, it is the spirit of these modifica-
tions which Phrenologists principally admire.'*
vVe present a diagram of the system such as
Dr. Gall made, and another comprising Dr. Spurz-
heim's latest modifications.
No. t, Zengunstrieb, the instinct of generation.
No. 2, Jungenliebe, Kinderliebe, the love of offsprir.g.
• Chev('nix's article, in which mny be f(Jund a more detailed view of
Dr. Spurzheim's improvements in Phrenology.
156
No. S, .'lnhiinglichkeit, fricnd~hip, attachment.
No. 4, ~lluth, Raufsirm, cournge, self-defence.
No. 5, TV111'gsinn, nmrdcr, the wish to destroy.
No. 6, List, Scltlauluit, Klrt!(heit, cunning.
I\o. 7, Eigentltumsinn, the st•ntilllcnt of property.
No.8, Stol:::, Hochmuth, Jfaschsucht, pride, self-esteem, haugh-
tinr......
No. 9, Eitelkcit, Rhumsucht, J.;hrgeit:::, vanity, ambition.
No. 10, Bl'huthsamktit, Vonicht, Vo,·sic!.tigkeit, cautiou~ne~~,
forc,ight, prudence.
No. II, Sachgedachlniss, Er::ichungs-fahigkest, the memory of
things, educability.
No. 12, Ortsum, Raum,,inn, local memory.
No. JS, Pe1·sonensinn, the memory of persons.
No. 14, JVortgedachtni.M, \t'rhal memory.
No. 15, Spi'Orlifo!·schun!(ssinn, memory for languages.
No. 16, Farbensinn, <'Olor,,
No. 17, Tonsirm, mu~il'.
No. 18, Zahlensinn, numh<'r.
No. 19, Kunstsinn, aptitude fur the mechanical arts.
No. 20, Ve,·glcirllt ntlt r, Srlwrf~inn, comparative sagacity, apti-
tude fur dra\\ing compari,ons.
No. 21, .lietapllysiscllcr Titfsinn, metaphysical depth of
thooght, aptitude for dru\\ ing conclusions.
No. 22, JVit::, wit.
No. 2S, Dichtergeisl, po<'lry.
No. 24, Gttlmt.lhigkeit, .llilleidcn, good-nature.
No. 25, Darstdlun~;,sitm, mimicry.
No. 26, Theosflphic, tlwm<oph), religion.
No. 27, Festigkeit, firmnc.,. ofcharacter.
' Philosophers,' !'aid Spurzheim m one of his
lectures, ' have merely spoken of the general
manifestations of the mind, and have given names
to them ; but we must be more particulu r, we
must specify the power!-', and hence we arc obliged
either to speak in circumlocution, or to give new
names. Some people say they do not like new
157
names, but if I have an idea, must I not give it a
sign ? If the first man gives names to all things
known to him, and if in future ages things are
discovered not known before, must we not name
them? I will not, however, dispute about names,
only let us have the powers kept distinct; I am
ready to change the names at any time, if any
person will suggest better.'
Dr. Spurzheim's arrangement of the faculties is
comprised in orders, genera, species, &c.
Special Faculties of the :Mind. ORDER I.-Feelings, Ol' Jlf-
fective Faculties. GENUS I.-Propensities.
t Desire to live. • Alimentivenes~. 1. D estructi1·eness.
2. Amativene~~. S. Philoprogeniti1•eness. 4. Adbesi1eness.
5 lnbabitivenes~. 6. Cor.~bativencss. 7. Secretivene~s. 8.
Acquisitiveness. 9. Constructiveness.
GENUS IJ.-·Sentimenls.
10. Cautiousness. 11. Approbati1·rness. 12. Self-esteem. 1S.
Benevolence. 1•1. Reverence. 15 Firmness.
tiou:.ness. 17. Hope. IS. Marvellousness.
Mirthfulness. 21. Jmitation.
16. Conscien-
19. Ideality. 20.
ORDER II.-Intelleclual Faculties. GENUS I.-External
Senses.
Voluntary motion. Feeling. T aste. Smell. Hearing.
Sight.
GEXUS 11.-Peruptive Faculties.
2'2. IndividualitJ. 23. Configuration. 24. Size. 25. \Veight
and resi.>tance. ~G. Coloring. 27. Locality. 28. Order. 29.
Calculation. SO. F.1cntuality. SL Tillie. S2. Tunc. s.~. Ar-
tificial languagf'.
C ENUS III.-Rrjlertive Faculties.
8 I. Compnrisuu. 95. CausalitJ.
158
To take a comparative view of these distin- -
guished philosophers, and to say which was the
greater of the two, Gall or Spurzheim, is a task
that we leave for abler hands to perform. Both
had their points of strength and originality, and
they both excelled in whatever they attempted
to accomplish. To express a preference is
not to decide the question, and when we evince
·our partiality for Spurzhcim as a philosopher, we
merely give an individual opinion. His views, in
our estimation, are more philosophic than those
of Gall ; more consistent and more practical.
Spurzheim carefuJly studied all the parts of the
science with reference to each other, and aimed
at a perfect whole. Gall did not do so much.
That Spurzheim was superior to Gall as an
anatomist, we believe all ad mit. This indeed was
to hare been expected, since he made anatomy his
particular study, while Gall attended mostly to phy-
siology. 'Gall said to me,' says Spurzheim, in one
of his works published in Paris, 1820, ' on the 5th
of March, 1805, on the day of our departure from
Vienna, Let us prosecute our original plan hon-
orably, you Spurzhcim as an anatomist and I
(Gall) as the Physiologist.'
Even Gall himself, in the preface of their large
work (HW9) says, 'Dr. Spurzheim, who for a
long time had been familiar with the physiologi-
cal part of my doctrine, and who was particularly
expert in anatomical researches, and in the dissec-
\
159
tion of the brain, formed the design of accom-
panying and of pursuing in common with me the
investigations which had for their end the anato-
my and physiology of the whole nervous system.'
We mention these particulars, as there seems
to have been a degree of uncertainty in the mind
of some writers with respect to the cha1acter of
Spurzheim's connexion with Gall.
As a christian, Dr. Spurzheim will ever be re-
membered with respect and admiration. His life
was a model of Christian excellence, and it was
eminently calculated to inspire reverence for the
doctrines of our Saviour. He was not a blind
partizan, searching for evidences that would favor
party views, but he always listened with great
kindness and attention to any proposition that was
made to him, and received or rejected it according
to plain reason. To those who would exclude
reason from the dominion of religion, he said,
' Reason is the noble gift by which the Creator
has di!:itinguished man from all other animated
things. God, who is all wisdom and all reason,
could never create man in his own likeness, as it
is said he did, and then forbid the employment of
the very faculties which must form a principal
feature in the resemblance.'
''Vhatever particular form of faith he may have
preferred, he firmly believed in the essential truths
of natural and revealed religion. He adopted
Christianity as a divine system, chiefly on the
160
ground of its great internal evidence, its perfect
adaptation to human nature, and the spirit of
truth and divine philanthropy, which gives life to
all its precepts. All morality, he thought, was
contained in those two precepts, Thou shalt love
the Lord thy God, and thy neighbor as thyself.
All prayers, he ·thought, ''ere comprised in this
one, ' Father, thy will be done.'*
It was his opinion that the Americans were too
much engaged in doctrinal controver~ies to al-
low the full effect of Christianity to appear in
their lives. He said, that he had lived under
limited and absolute monarchies, but he had never
been under such restraints with respect to his re-
ligious opinions, as he was in this 'country. ' On I
almost erery Monday,' said, he, 'the questions
arc asked, ' Did you attend church yesterday ?
Who did you hear? How did you like? What
do you think of his doctrines ? &c.'
With regard to religion in the United States, Dr.
Spurzheim says in his Journal, 'I do not like the
system of religion in England and America. The
rich have their places in their churches, but
what shall the poor do? There is more aristocracy
than in Germany, or France. The American
Churchdom is a worldly concern. Carpets, velvet
cushions, and curtains arc worldly things.'
As but few read the same language alike, we
----- - - -
• Prof. r ollt!n.
161
place the views of Dr. Spurzheim in relation to
Christianity in his own words, leaving it for every
individual to judge for himself of their import and
tendency. The following extracts are from his
various works.
' However delicate the object of religion may
be, I do not hesitate to examine it, placing truth
above any other consideration, relying on the de-
crees of the all-wise Creator, and being convinced
that truth is the corner-stone of human happiness,
and that true Christianity will gain by free inves-
tigation.'
' But reason tells us that religious belief must
work on kindness, reverence, justice in prac-
tice, and that religion cannot exclude mtellect
and moral conduct. It also tells us that any re-
ligious creed that does not tend to the glory of
God and the general good of man, is objection-
able and may degenerate to demonism. Doc-
trines which are contradictory in themselves, or
contradict common sense, must be surrounded
with awe and imposed ; this is expedient to selfish
or superstitious theologians, but it is not in con-
formity with reason and pure Christianity. Rea-
son cannot deny the reality of revelation ; and it
even finds in it a ereat motive of moral conduct.'
'It would have been more profitable to mankind
at large, if the teachers of religion had been pen-
etrated with the superiority of pure Christianity,
and if they had followed the example of their
w
162
great model. Reasou perfectly agrees with the
precepts, to refer every thing to God as the first
cause ; to venerate his almighty power and provi-
dence; to submit to his decrees and arrangement
of things; to feel gratitude for his benevolence,
and to adore him in truth and in spirit.'
' Our religion or union with God or liking
to him, then, only consists in exertions of such
powers which constitute our higher nature. ln
unfolding and enlarging these powers we truly
honor God. Nothing foreign to our original
constitution can be required from us, and the
cultivation of our rational and moral existence is
evidently the noblest tribute we can render to
our Creator and the end of our Godlike nature.'
' Whoever believe:'! in the existence of God,
should consider religion as the most important
object of his reflections, and being personally con-
cerned in this respect, his union with God should
be left free from human authority, particularly
from the spirit of those who have seized upon it
as their particular property.'
Meanwhile, it is certain that they only usurp
the name of Christians, who by their enactments
prove that their sole aim is individual happiness;
or, who strive after riches and worldly distinctions,
and other advancement of their private estates;
or, who live at the expense of others; or, finally,
who arc apt enough to laud, b•1t ever ready to act
in contradiction to the precepts of Christianity.
163
It is, indeed, blasphemous to bear the title of
Christian without acting up to the sacred duties
it requires. Let us, therefore, in acknowledging
the purity of Christian morality, put into practice,
before we dare to arrogate the noble name of
Christians.'
' Those, therefore, who would make exceptions
and say, Follow my word::; and not my deeds, have
no title to give rules of action to the community,
or to superintend their practice. How noble was
the saying of Christ in reference to this point,
"If 1 clo not the works of my Father, believe me
not." '
' How superior and noble arc the principles of
Christianity ; they prohibit anger, hatred and re-
venge, and order him not to return e\'il for c\·il,
they command forgiveness for every offence seven
times in a day, and seventy-times seven, if asked
for; to love our enemies; to bless them that curse
us, and to do good to them that hate us. They
interdict all selfish passions, and declare our
neighbors every one who docs the will of God.'
' True Christianity will gain, by every step
which is made in the knowledge of man.'
' Christian principles arc not sufficiently exer-
cised in society, yet it is not, on this account, con-
sidered superfluous to teach them; and he who
loves mankind will wish for their promulgation.'
' Go~pel-prcaching is infinite, hut many of those
who deliver exquisite sermons arc too often obliged
164
to add, Do what I say, and not what I do. Now
if they they themselves show no faith· by their
works, how can they expect others to do so ?
'As Christianity evid..!ntly tends to unite all
men in the presence of God, it appears to me,
that we arc entitled to reject every interpretation
of any passage of the gospel which does not agree
with general peace. The superiority of the Chris-
tian principles of morality, is proved ami recom-
mended by their good effects; and, in this way,
belief is converted into conviction.'
'Now, the general aim of all legislation ought
to be the happiness of mankind, combined, as far
as possible, with that of each individual; or, in the
language of Phrenology, it ought to be to estab-
lish the natural morality, coilfirmed by true Chris-
tianity.'
'1\lan being positively endowed with moral and
religious feelings as well as with vegetative func-
tions and intellectual faculties, it is my busine::iS to
speak of the former as well as of the latter. l\ay,
true religion is central truth, and all knowledge,
in my opinion, should be gathered round it.'
' Have men any right mutually to imploy their
'lcills as rules of mfJral conduct? They mo:-t cer-
tainly ha\c not. There is but one will that oucrht
0
to be done, the will of God, and this, in morality,
commands imperiously to man, ' Thou shalt love
thy neighbor as thys"if.'
'JI.Iay the doctrine of lll01 ality become a science?
;
165
There can be no doubt it may by studying the
Jaws of the Creator, and by comparing them with
pure Christianity.'
'Ph1·enology being true, can it be in opposition to
pure Christianity ?
This is impossible, as no truth either physical or
moral can be in opposition to any other. Chris-
tianity and Phrenology, when weB understood, will
give mutual assistance to each other.'
' Is the Phrenologist entitled to speak of Chris-
tianity, and ifso, howfar ?
The Phrenologist has the right to examine
whether Christianity is adapted to the innate dis-
positions of man, and he is delighted in seeing it
in perfect harmony with the human nature.'
' What can be the end oftrue religion ?
The glory of God, and the good of man.'*
In no place are the pre-eminent claims of
Spurzhcim as a man, as a philosopher and as a
Christian, more fully known and appreciated than
in Edinburgh. There, talent and industry have
been devoted to the study of his doctrines, with
a zea.l which reflects honor upon science and
upon man. We therefore think it appropriate
to close our biography with the foliowing ex-
tracts from the proceedings of the Edinburgh
Phrenological Society, December 13, 1832, in re-
lation to his death.
* Philosophical Catechism of the Natural Laws of Man.
166
James Simpson, Esq. in the chair.-After the
discussion on the papers read to the meeting, the
President addressed the ociety in nearly the fol-
lowing words :-
' Gr.NTLF.MEN,-During the twelve years of this
society's existence, no communication has ever
been made to it so atnicting as that which it is
now my painful duty to make to you. Dr. Spurz-
heim is no more? lie died of fever, brought on
by over-exertion in his great vocation, at Boston
in the United States, on the lOth day of last
month.
'The death of Dr. Gall, the great founder of
phrenology, was not without its alle,•iations. He
had run his course, had done all that seemed in
the decrees of the All-wise, allotted him on earth
to do, and fell like a shock of corn fully ripe.
Above all, Dr. Spurzheim his great pupil Rurvived,
heir of all his master's wealth, and richer than
even that master in treasures of his own. But
Dr. Spurzheim himself is now snatched away in
the midst of his usefulness, at the summit of his
power, about to pour the true philosophy of man,
like a flood of light on the transatlantic ''orld, this
is indeed a. blow almost de\ oid of alleviation.
' And yet hope deserts us not. To his own
geniuR we O\\ e the discovery of the organ of IJope,
and n. beautiful cxpoRition o( its functions. As
we bend O\ cr his early gra\'e, a ray brea1<s forth
eren from that dark abod<'. \mericn. lws r.clc-
167
bratcd his obsequies with public honors, and ranks
him with the illustrious dead. Europe will sanc-
tion the award. His philosophic page will live,
and even pride and prejudice will look into the
philosophy, when the philosopher whom they
shunned when alive, is no more. Galileo, New
ton, and Harvey, were all destined to teach from
the tomb ; so are Spurzheim and Gall. They too
are among the great departed, " who are dead yet
speak," and many a kindred genius will yet arise
to listen to their voice. The minds already la-
boring in the great work, by them bequeathed,
will be stimulated by the very thought that they
are bereft of their leaders. A hand to grasp all
the inheritance may not be; but there does live
a prophet who will wear gracefully the mantle that
has now descended upon hirn. May all of us, how-
ever humbly each, make redoubled exertions, to
do that which our teacher would have urged us to
do with his dying accents; promote by all that in us
lies the cause for which he lived and in which he
died. His labors were as expansive as they were
indefatigable, no scope was too great for them ;
he had gone to add the new world to the old in
one wide empire of truth. Alas! that America's
first tribute to her illustrious guest should be a
grave, and a monument! Be her's the care and
custody of his honored remains; the spirit of his
genius is every where; his memory is the cher-
ished legacy of the human race.'
168
l\1r. Combe then read to the society a letter
dated New York, November 16, 1832, from Rob-
ert .1\lc Kibbin, l\1. D. detailing the particulars of
Dr. Spurzhcim's death, and another letter dated
Boston, No\'. 15, 1832, from Mr. ~ahum Capen,
to a similar effect.
The following resolutions were moved by Mr.
Combe, seconded by Mr. Dun, and adopted unani-
mously.
' First, that this society have heard the commu-
nication now made, with sentiments of the most
heartfelt regret. While they deplore the prema-
ture death of Dr. Spurzhcim, as by far the great-
est loss which the phi!osophy of mind and man
can in their present state sustain, they lament it
as an especial bereavement to themselves of a
valued and beloved benefactor and friend.
'Secondly, that this society feel deeply, and,
considering their intimate and affectionate rela-
tion to the illu~trious decea~ed, gratefully, the in-
tense c.Jncern manifested by the citizens of Boston,
over his sick-bed, the public sorrow for his loss,
and the intended honors to his remains, aud his
memory, and they experience comfort in tho re-
flection, since it was in the Divine decrees that
that great man was so soon to be taken away,
that he did finish his mortal career in the midst of
a people enlightened enough to discern his distin-
guished talents and worth, and duly to appreciate
the philosophy which he had come among them
to teach.'
PHRENOLOGY,
IN CONNEXION WJTn T HE
STUDY OF PHY SIOGNOMY.
I
l
INTRODUCTION.
TuE word Physiognomy, considered etymologi-
cally, signifies the knowledge of nature at large.
Sometimes, however, it is employed to designate
the configuration, and, even more commonly, the
expression of the countenance. In another sense,
again, it is used to imply a knowledge of the
external signs which proclaim internal qualities.
Jt is in the latter acceptation that l shall employ
the term in this volume.
Entire nature, therefore, may be comprehended
in the study of physiognomy; inanimate objects
as well as living beings arc mcluded: there
is, for instance, a physiognomy of the heavens :
some forms and characters of clouds portend
wind, certain others rain, others thunder, other:>
fine wc:tthcr, &c.
Again, the husbandman judges by the aspect
of the soil whether it be dry or wet, light or
heavy, rich or poor, adapted to the production
of wheat, barley, grass, potatoes, or fruit-trees.
ln botany. too, a very important branch. t•iz.
1
2
JUdgment m regard to the healthy or d1scased
state of plants, ucpcnds on the observance of ex-
ternal signs. The gardener regards that tree as
weak which begins to lose its leaves at the end
of the branches.
Guided by their appearance, we choose or
reject apples, oranges, and other fruits. We fre-
quently say: This pear, or this orange has a
nice look-it seems to be good.
The qualities of animals, moreover, arc exhi-
bited in their physiognomy. Celerity is visible
in the configuration of the roe, sluggishness in
that of the bear; innocence in the countenance
of the lamb, and general activity in the rapid
motions of the monkey's eyes.
Medical men speak of consumptive or apo-
plectic conformations of body ; they judge of
the corporeal state, in regard to health or dis-
ease, by the heat and appearance of the skin,
by the pulse and respiration, by the countenance
and other external signs.
The muscular configuration of the Hcrcules,
as indicating strength, and the graceful figure of
the Hebe, are generally admired. Finally, the
affective and intellectual characters of man, in
the healthy and diseased states, are proclaimed
by physiognomical signs. In looking around us,
we distinguish, as by intuition, the benevolent,
candid, and modest individual from another who
is cruel, artful, and. haughty.
3
A man, full of candor and probity, says l\Iar-
cus Aurelius, spreads around him a perfume of a
characteristic nature ; his soul and character are
seen iu his face and in his eyes.
Persons without education, who have no recol-
lection of ever having heard of physiognomy,
nay children and animals, arc physiognomi:sts.
Even they who oppose the s~udy of physiognomy
frequently make usc of its language ; they speak,
for instance, of noble, fierce, severe, bold, placiu,
thinking, benevolent, and open countenances; of
the exterior of a priest, philosopher, fool, knave,
&c.; they say, I like the look of that person;
or, I could not place any confidence oa such a
man, &c.
1\Iorcovcr, poets and philosophers, both of ah
cient and modern times, have always made usc
of many physiognomical expressions. Solomon
said: 'A haughty person, a wicked man, walks
with a froward mouth, he winks with his eyes, be
speaks with his feet, he teaches with h;s fingcrf'.,.~
Ecclesiasticus observed, ' that the heart of a man
changes hi:; countenance, whether it be for good
or for cril ; :md a merry heart makes a cheerful
countenancc.'t 'The envious man has a wicked
eye, he turns away his face and despises man.'t
' A nn111 may be known by hi::; look, and one that
has understanding by his countenaucP, when thou
mcctcst hun.'*- Ari=-totlc looked lor e~tcrnal
sian::; in the confi.ruratiou and motions of the
0 0
bodily parts. Cicero, Leilmitz, Herder, and
many other ancient and modern writers h~ne
treated of this subject. 'You will make a choice,'
says Montaignc, ' between persons who arc un-
known to you ; you will prefer one to another,
and this not on account of mere beauty of lorm.
Some faces are agreeable, others unpleasant.
There is an art of knowing the look of ~ood­
naturcd, weak-minded, wicked, melancholic, and
other persons.' llacon cla!"sed physiognomy
among the sciences, and remarked that it was
founded 011 oL,servation, and ought to be cul-
tivated as a branch of natural history. Lava-
tor acquired great reputation by hi:; physiognom-
ical investigations. Finally, painters, sculptors,
actors, and all who play their parts in society
at large, must feel anxious to learn something
of buch a subject.
Is it not then astonishing that this science
should consist of mere isolated observations still
unreduced to principles? E\'ery one is conscious
of the various impr<'~sions made on him by others,
but no one can in any wi:::e account for them.
The que:-tion then is, "hcther or not it be pos-
sible, by observation and induction, to determine
• J:ccl<'•. xi\· ·~•.
5
physiognomical signs, in regard lo tl:e fundamen-
tal powers of the mind? Lavatcr, who wrote
fragments on phy::;iognomy, and \\ ho style::; him-
self a fragment of a physiognomi::;t, maintain::;,
nevertheless, that physiognomy exists aR a true
sctence. With this opinion of Lavater I agree
entirely.
Let us, therefore, begin by determining \\here-
in the study of the physiognomical signs of the
affective and intellectual faculties of man consists.
Whether, for instance, the respective f'igns arc
to be gought for in the size and configuration of
the hard parts, or in tho motions of the soft and
flexible ones? This distinction between r-ignf'
dependent on configuration and organic constitu-
tion, and those emanating from gest,ues and mo-
tions, is essential to the establishment of prin-
ciples. Signs of the first kind proclaim innate
dispositions and capacities of action. They con-
stitute the study of physiognomy, strictly speaking.
Signs of the second kind, again, indicate powers
in action, and constitute what is called pathogno-
my.; or natural language. The latter description
of signs is not included in the plan of this work ;
it will be examined in a separate treatise : at
present I treat of the physiognomical signs alone.
Whilst some who cultivate physiognomy look
for signs over the whole of the body, others
search for them in particular parts of it only.
Lavater conceived it possible to discover physi-
ognomical ~igns of tho affective and intol!cctual
powers in tho whole body. Ile declares posi-
tively, that the same force builds up every part;
that such an eye supposes such a forehead and
such a. beard; in short, that each isolated part
indicates the configuration of the whole, as, for
example, that all parts arc oval if the head pre-
sent that form : hence that man is a. unit, and
tlmt his size, form, color, hair, nose, mouth,
skin, cars, hands, feet, bones, muscles, arteries,
veins, nerve~, voice, a.Hcctions, passions, &c. are
all and ever in harmony with each other.
According to this hypothesis, an unsightly per-
!'!on ought to be the concomitant of on uncnvin-
blc soul. The contrary of this, however, is ob-
served every day. E sop and Socrates are proof:.:;
that a. fine form is not necessary to greatness of'
talent and to generosity of feeling. Indecd,
Enripid0s, Plutarch, and Seneca have long ago
lflaintaincd the inaccuracy of such an opinion.
Lavater himself was obliged to acknowledge, that
u1:gainly forms are sometimes combined with hon-
esty of character, and that individuals, beautiful
and well-proportioned, arc occnsionally deceitful.
' I hare often seen (says he) a contradiction
between the solid and flexible parts, and every
one may po~scss certain qualities, 'vithout the
rc!'pcctivc signs.' fie, therefore, admits excep-
tions, ~nd his a~scrtions contradict each other.
Thi:~, huW('\ cr, i~ not the ca"f' in nature. ~he
7
makes no exceptwnt> ti·01n her law!:i, and i~ uercr
in contradiction with her~-<elf. 1\Ioreo\ er, the
individual parts of the body arc not proportionate
to each other. The head of Pericles was too
large for his body, hence the ancient artists who
made his bust thought it necessary to conceal
this di::-proportion by covering the head with a
helmet. On the other hand, small heads ate
often found upon large bodies. There is occasion-
ally a resemblance ob:;ervable between the nose,
mouth, or some other part of different individ-
unJs, whilst all the rest of their persons is ex-
tremely unlike. Now, as every part has its par-
ticular function, aud as each part indicates its
special dispositions, it is impossible to find in any
one part physiognomical sign of the functions
performed by any other part whatever.
It will be sufficient for my purpose merely to
mention the error committed by those writers
who, after La Porte, Lebrun, and others, compare
the human face with that of certain animals.
These comparisons, like fortune-telling and chiro-
mancy, or the interpretation of moral dispositions
from the form of the hand, arc to be classed among
the aberrations of the human understanding.
Innumerable observations have proved, that
the affective and intellectual faculties, as innate
di~positions, arc manifested by various parts of
tit<' brain. Hence the physiognomical signs of
these faculties are to be sought for in the size and
orgautc coustitutiou ol' tht· cerebral part:-;. :->cr-
f!ra) physiognomist:-, particularly La\ater, have
already pointed out a few ~eneral sign:-; of thts
kind in the contiguratiou of the whole ltead, and Ill
that of the forehead ; hut it i" uece~sary to do
more tl:an thi~, ri:. to determine individually the
part" appropriated to, and the signs of the special
lhcultie"', and al"'o of the several combination::;
of these which constitute determinate charact<•n:>.
From numerous obsc•rvations it further re:-mlts,
that not the size onI), bnt also the organic con-
stitution of the cerebral parts, must be taken
into con..,ideration before physiognomical sign!-! of
the mental operations can he established. They
who attend to the mere f'ize of the organ~, and
they who deri\ e all from the influence of bodily
cnn...;titution, or temperament, as it is called, arc
e'lually in error. J'or information in regard to
the temperaments, I refer to my work on phre-
nology.*
In this, as in every other subject of inquiry, it
is important to distinguish between theOr) and
practice. The true prmciples of a science may he
cstahli:-;hed, but those "ho apply them may err.
Lavatcr a\'OWs that he often made mit>take~, and
that he met with many persons in whom he coul(l
discorcr no particular sign whatever. NeH'rthc-
less, he was persuaclC'd of the reality of ph) siog-
• r,,l!'' :1n
9
nomy as a science. The art of surgery is posi-
tive, yet there cannot be a doubt but that legs
have been amputated which might have been
saved ; and in the practice of their art, all surgeons
have not the same dexterity. Every physician has
not equal facility in distinguishing diseases ; the
healing art, nevertheless, exists. The advcrsaries
of phrenology arc sedulous, and ready enough in
exposing tl1e errors which Dr. Gall and I and our
disciples have committed, but they carefully ab-
f'tain from all mention of the numerous facts
which we cite in support of our opinions. I do
not conceive that phrenology ha::; reached perfec-
tion now, nor do I hope that its application, even
when perfect, will always be without error. I
have frequently been obliged to rectify my judg-
ment, but I always endeavor to profit by my
mistakes. If the study of physiognomy is to be
abandoned, because they who practice it have
committed errors, there is no art or science which
s~10uld not, for n. like reason, be given up. Is
there any chemist, physician, general, artist, law-
yer, or priest, who can l'my that he has never erred
in the practice of his profession ?
Let us observe farther, that in the study of
physiognomy, as of every other science, there arc
few who take pleasure in reflecting on its prin-
ciples. Man is naturally more disposed to ad-
mire the effects of n.n ingenious machine than to
examine the mechanical laws according to which
2
JU
it 1
s constructed. He like:; better to v1sit a col-
lection of butterflies than to inquire mto the laws
of nature, and would rather see the pa~:sions in
action upon the stn.ge, than search for their causes
in the world around him.
The figures of any work that contains platea
almost certainly attract attention first; and its
content;;, if philosophical, arc always examined
last of all. J. J. Hou:-;::;eau, in saying that the
state of reflection i::; unnatural to man, and that
he who reflects is a depraved animQ), had pro-
bably remarked, that the great majority of man-
k nd arc afraid of study, that they prefer amuse-
ment to instruction, and individual knowledge to
reasonmg.
Practical knowledge, all must allow, is import-
ant, but it ought to be combined with principle8.
.My object is to teach both theory and prac-
tice.
The subject of this volume is a practical appli-
cation of phrenology, which will, at the same
time, illustrate and aid in proving the science.
To study nature by means of figures and artificial
representations is lc:;::; certain and le:ss agreeable
than to obserre her in her::.elf. Yet the informa-
tion conveyed by delineations of forms is more
ample and more accurate than can be communi-
cated by mere description. Hence those who
would become phrenologists, derive far the great-
est ad~antage from a courl'e of practical lectures,
11
although the same number of forms be not there
shewn as are, or may be, mentioned in books.
The reason of this is, that notions of size and
form can scarcely be acquired from any descrip-
tion, whilst they arc gained at once by means of
the touch and sight.
Moreover, reading does not excite the same
degree of attention as demonstration. In read-
ing, for instance, of differences between the heads
and brains of carnivorous and herbivorous ani-
mals, the attention is less fixed than when the
actual heads and brains are placed before us, and
their points of difference are ascertained by the
eye and the hand. Finally, ocular demonstra-
tion has more weight, and carries conviction more
forcibly with it than a mere report.
Those of my readers who incline to interest
themselves in the study and scientific discussion
of the principles of phrenology, I must refer
to the respective publications on that science,
and on the philosophy of which it forms the
basis. Here I confine myself to historical facts,
which, if true, will occur and be observed again.
Let those, therefore, who would see with their
own eyes, observe individuals distinguished by
peculiarity of character or greatness of talents,
and examine the size and configuration of the
concomitant heads, and they will find that nature
is not influenced by false and subtle argumenta-
tionR.
12
[ shall subdivide thi~. the first part of the work,
mto two sections. In the first I shall make
some observations on bodily configuration and
organic conEtitution generally, in connexion with
adap_tation to peculiar functions ; on the differ-
ence in the heads and faces of individuals, whose
characters are opposed to each other ; and on the
difference between the heads of the sexes and of
different nations; in the second, I shall compare
the characters of various individuals, with the
accompanying cerebral organization.
In order to escape all cabalistic quibbling on
the part of adversaries, I repeat once more, that
the size of the brain is not the only condition
which gives energy to its functions; but that the
bodily constitution, and the exercise, and the mu-
tual influence of the faculties also modify their
activity. I repeat, too, that I make a distinction
between innate dispositions and the activity they
possess, and also between signs of dispos;itions
and signs of their activity. I add, that I treat in
this place of physiognomical signs only, i. e. of
signs which indicate innate dispositions.
IS
~ECTION I.
Cif the Physiognomical Signs of lite Body, .Face,
and llead in general.
It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the or-
ganization of the body being destined to certain
functions, mugt a.ct with more or less energy and
facility, according as the couditions necessary
inhere in its nature; for this is only saying, that
there is a relation hetween a cause and its effect.
The Jiscovery of the conditions which are nec<'s-
sary to the performance of function is the ohj<'ct
of physiognomical research. This section will be
found subdivided into three chapters: the first of
these treats of the body, the ~ccond of the face,
and the third of the head.
CHAPTER I.
Oftlte Physiognomical Signs ofthe Body.
The physiognomical signs of the body arc of two
kinds: they relate to the size and configuration
of the bod}, or they concern its intimate con~ti­
tutton.
14
J.-Ofthe size and Configuration ofthe Body.
The influence of the body on its functions, and
the external signs which indicate more or less fa-
cility of acting are generally enough recognised.
Short and thick limbs arc commonly considered
as signs of strength, long and slender limbs as
indications of celerity. A courier must have
good lungs, a blacksmith muscular arms, and so
on. The graceful and delicate form of an Anti-
nous can never be supposed capable of the labors
for which the ponderous figures of a Hercules
and a 1\lilo proclaim their fitness. No artist will !
ever conceive Jupiter with a misshapen Faun or
a Cyclops for his cupbearer. The bodily con-
figuration of an actor is of great importance to
the effective representation of many characters.
It appears evident then, that certain sizes and
forms of the body have been felt as fitting it for
the performance of particular functions. But it
may still be asked, whether the qualities of the
body at large indicate the affective and intellec-
tual dispositions? Experience proves that they
do not: sentiments and talents bear no kind of
relation to the size and form of the whole body;
nay, it would even seem that very tall men are
commonly less gifted with understanding than per- /
sons of middling size.
1.)
H.-OJ Lite 01gw~ic Constitution or Tempcuuw m
of the Bod~··
The detailed con:sidcration ofthe influence of the
organic constitution of the body hclongs to phy-
siology. Here I only mention that I employ tho
word tcmperameut iu reference to mixture::; of the
con:-tituent clements of the body. There can be
no doubt but the functions "hich contributt' par-
ticularly to nutrition, those, for inf'tnnce, of tiH'
stomach, liver, intr~tinef', lungs, laeart, as the}
are in a healthy or disea!'ed slate, modify the
whole organization, and influence the energy with
whi<..h the individual parts act. Sometimes it
would appear as if the vital powet· were con-
centrated in one system, to the detriment of nil
the other;-;. The mu..;cular or athletic constitu-
tion i::; often possessed of ,·ery little nen-ou:-J :-:<'11-
sibility; and, on the other hancl, great a~tivity c(
the brain seems frequently to check nn:scul.1r dc-
velopn:cnt.
Thus it IS important, in a physiological point or
view, to take into account the prculiar constitu-
tion or temperament of individuals, not as the
cause uf detern,inate faculties, but as influencine
the energy with '' hich the spcciul functie11~ or
the sevNal organs arc manifested. Their activ-
ily, gcnCI\tlly i:> dimini:;hed hy disorder iu the
function:-. of ,·egetati\c life, and it i~ favol'(·cl hy
16
the sanguine, and still more by the nervous, con-
I
(
stitution. A lymphatic, a sanguine, a bilious, and 1
a nervous temperament, arc therefore spoken of
with perfect propriety, as indicating four degrees
of activity in the vegetative and phrenic func-
tions ; but determinate faculties of the mind arc j
erroneously ascribed to individual temperaments;
memory, for instance, and sensuality to the san-
guine constitution, irascibility and penetration to
the bilious, and so on.
In the sense just mentioned I admit four tem-
peraments, in reference to the manifestation of
the mental powers.
1. The lymphatic constitution, or phlegmatic
temperament, is indicated by a pale white skin,
fair hair, roundness of form, and repletion of the
cellular tissue. The flesh is soft, the vital actions
arc languid, the pulse is feeble ; all indicates slow-
ness and weakness in the vegetative, affective,
and intellectual functions. Pl. i. fig. 1.
2. The sanguine temperament is proclaimed by
a tolerable consistency of flesh, moderate plump-
ness of parts, light or chestnut hair, blue eyes,
great activity of the arterial system, a strong, full,
and frequent pulse, and an animated counte-
nance. Persons thus constituted arc easily af-
fected by external impressions, and possess greater
energy than those of the former temperament.
Pl. i. fig. 2.
3. The bilious temperament is characterised by
I ~
!
11/Tdrl
f"'ll.
\
·~
I •
17
black hair, a dark, yellowish, or brown skin,
black eyes, moderately full, but firm muscles, and
harshly-expressed forms. Those endowed with
this constitution have a strongly marked and de-
cided expression of countenance ; they manifest
great general activity, and functional energy. Pl.
i. fig. 3, Brutus.
4. The external signs of the nervous tempera-
ment arc fine thin hair, delicate health, general
emaciation, and smallness of the muscles, rapid-
ity in the muscular actions, vivacity in the ~en­
sations. The nervous system of individuals so
constituted, preponderates extremely, and they
exhibit great nervous sensibility. Pl. i. fig. 4,
Montesquieu.
These four temperaments are seldom to be ob-
served pure and unmixed ; it is even difficult to
meet them without modifications. They are mostly
found conjoined, and occur as lymphatic-san-
guine, lymphatic-bilious, sanguine-lymphatic, san-
guine-bilious, sanguine-nervous, bilious-lymphatic,
bilious-sanguine, bilious-nervous, &c. The indi-
vidual temperaments which predominate may be
determined, but it is difficult to point out every
modification.
III.-On the Physiognomical Signs of the Body of
the Sexes.
The signs which characterise the bodies of both
3
18
sexes are examined in many anatomical and phy-
siological wotks ~ these may therefore be con-
sulted by those who would study this branch in
detail. A few general observations will answer
my purpose here. The female body is generally
smaller, and more delicate than the male ; the
extremities too are shorter and proportionately
more slender, the projections of the bones less
marked, the neck apparently longer, in conse-
quence of the shoulders drooping considerably1
the larynx less prominent, the clavicle less curved,
the chest shorter but more expanded, the sternum
shorter but broader, the lumbar vertebrre longer,
the abdomen larger, the necks of the thigh bones
longer and more transverse, and the pelvis rela-
tively more capacious in the female, than in the
male. If the female body be placed between
two parallel lines drawn so as just to include the
chest, the pelvis will be seen to extend beyond
them (Pl. ii. fig. 3.); whilst the male body sim-
ilarly circumstanced, will have its pelvis contained
within the lines, and the shoulders projecting be-
yond them. (Pl. ii. fig. 4.) Thus the chest is rel-
atively wider in man, the pelvis in woman. More-
over, in the female constitution the lymphatic
and cellular systems predominate ; the figure,
therefore, is rounder, the parts softer, the whole
more graceful and pliant than the male form, the
general exterior of which is marked by angular-
ity and hardness or boldness of outline. The
_?j 11
F1yJ
bodies of both sexes, then, being destined by na-
ture to different functions, are modified accord-
ingly; and he whose eye is somewhat exercised
in appreciating forms, will at once detect the fe-
male in male, and the male in female, attire.
There can be no necessity for multiplying proofs
upon this subject. The truth of my proposition
is indeed generally admitted, and 1 only mention
the matter here, for the sake of bringing it into
connexion with new considerations.
CHAPTER 11.
On the Physiognomical Signs ofthe Face.
We are all in the habit of examining features and
countenances; artists, especially, pay particular
attention to such points, and it is generally ad-
mitted that no two faces are exactly alike. Shalt
we inquire, then, are there certain faces which
correspond with individual characters? In order
to have a right apprehension of this subject, it will
be necessary to call to mind the difference which
has been established between physiognomical and
pathognomical signs. This done, we can then
say positively, that neither does the configuration
or'1the whole face, nor of any of its parts, except
as development of brain is concerned, indicate the
20
dispositiOns of the mind ; the same character and
the same talents may be observed in persons of
different size and form, or whose nose, mouth,
chin, check~, &c. are extremely different; and on
the other haml, individuals endowed with dillcrent
talents may often be seen who bear a strong re-
semblance to each other. Individuals with beau-
tiful, plain, and ugly faces may be eminent indif-
ferently in 'irtue, or in \icc. The nose and checks
of the wisest of men, ~ocratc~, certainly exhibit
no sign of superiority. In order to show the er-
roneous proceeding of those who confound the
configuration of the face with the morcmcnts of
its soft parts, I shall copy ~orne figures from the
work of Lavater, and add his judgment upon them.
Pl. iii. presents portraits of four persons of su-
perior talents: fig. 1. is Vcsalius; fig. 2. Gc~sner;
fig. S. DeRcartcs, and fig. L an individual not
named by Larater. Thc><c four faces and their
individual parts arc certainly very unlike each
other; but let us see what Lavater thinks of them.*
The portrait of Vcsalius, says he, dcsC'ncs the
attention of an enlightened physiognomist. The
no~c alone indicates a ~ound and solid judgment,
or, in better terms, is inseparable from good ~ense.
In the profile of John Gessner, Larater found
the expression of the deepest judgment, of im-
• F'ragrnrnt \"11. Th~> Study oflhf' lnt~llectnal PhysiugnomtPs.
1
FL/11
r »
,-
):;.._
•
/lj~\' ( ,
. '
21
mense learning, of extraordinary facility m deter-
mining with precision the objects of the senses
by abstract signR; of an astonishing capacity for
arrangement and classification, of superior talents
for comparing objects, of an excellent, benerolent
character, great modesty, exemplary patience,
strong probity and truly christian sentiments.
The portrait of Descartes, according to Lava-
ter, proclaims one of the greatest geniuses, one
of those who owe ercry thing to themselves, who
are constantly urged forward, and maintained by
their own powers, who remove obstacles and im-
pediments of every description, opening up new
paths, and occupying unknown fields.
Of the fourth figure Lavater says, it is impos-
sible to comprehend the judgment of this man.
His l-iews arc exceedingly precise. He can ex-
amine objects mediately or immediately, his opin-
ion is always clear, and the most suitable expres-
sions indicate his ideas. He readily recollects
external impressions, and learns with ease the
most difficult languages. Moreover his judgment
is sound and excellent. The most perfect wisdom
shines in his look, and appears in the form of his
nose.
Now as the chins, lips, checks and noses of
these four illustrious persons pre:scnt very diflcrent
configurations, I think that La" ater's opinion of
their talents and characters was formed from the
expression produced by the motions of the soft
22
part:s ; that i~, from pathognomical signs, rather
than from the configuration of the difl'erent mem-
bers of their faces. The language of Lavater is
obviously always vague; he seldom or never spe-
cifies the particular form of the part on which he
founds his judgment.
Yet it is true that certain forms of face do agree
better than others with certain characters. This,
howe,·er, happens not because configuration of
face produces character, but becau e configura-
tion of face il' an effect of the agency of certain
uatural laws with which this is of course in har-
mony. The artist, therefore, requires to design
his figures in harmony with the characters he
would express; to portray a severe and unbend-
lllg character, he will certainly never choose the
head of a Madonna as the medium for embodying
his conception; neither will he, with the view of
c\hibiting the mild and gentle character of a Saint
John, ever fix on such a form as that of a Pope
Gregory VTJ, (Pl. xx. fig. 1.) The countenance
of an actor is also admitted to harmonize or to
dnmgree \\ith the particular ch~racters he may
perform. Nevertheless, it remains certain that
the same character is to be observed in conjunc-
tion with very di::;similar faces, and that the char-
acter by no means depends on the configuration
of the face, although the face and character har-
monize, ju~t a,.; do all the parts of a good picture.
In a landscape. for inl"tancc. 1f all the object~" on
,~,
_._,
shore indicate tranquilht} and repo~e, the sea 1:-.
never represented as agitated by a tempest.
OJ t!te Faces of the Sc.tcs.
lt is not by the beard only that the male is di:-.~
tingui-.hed from the female face. This part, like
the body in general, has characteristic peculiari-
ties in each sex. The features of the feminine
countenance as well as body, arc ~ofter, rounder
and more flexible than those of the male, which,
in harmony with the outlines of his person at large,
arc angular, hard and stiff. .\!though the analog}
in the general outline of the two figures 1 and 2,
Pl. ii. be very c\·idcnt, still the former is at OIICC
rccogni:;;cd for a female, the latter for a male coun-
tenance. But, indeed, the characteristic features
of the male and female face arc generally enough
understood. Occasionally, however, deviation;:;
from the general law occur, and female faces may
sometimes be observed which resemble the male
countenance, or the contrary. The expres~ion of
' a masculine countenance,' in reference to a wo-
man, proves that such exceptions ha,·c been noted.
Of National Faces.
Experience shows that the majority of individ-
uals composing nations have something character-
istic in their countenances. The Chinese can
24
never be confounded with the English face; the
Negro can never be taken for an Italian, nor the
Grecian for an Esquimaux. The Jews, though
they have been dispersed over all the countries,
and have lived in all the climates of the globe for
many centuries, still preserve a particular and
distinguishing physiognomy. Peculiarities even
mark the two tribes of Judah and Benjamin; in
that of Judah, for example, the face is round, and
the checks are prominent, while in the tribe of
Benjamin, the face is lengthened, the cheeks are
but slightly prominent, the nose is aquiline, and
the eyes lively ; the whole, in short, composes what
is called an oriental countenance.
To observe varieties in national physiognomy,
it is not necessary to visit foreign or extremely
remote countries. Wc need not take a journey
to Arabia, l\1adagascar, China, or Mexico, for this
purpose; we have but to examine the inhabitants
of different provinces of the same country to be
convinced of the great variety that reigns ; in
France, for instance, we may observe the natives
of Picardy, of Normandy, of Burgundy, of Gas-
cogny, &c. to be very different in appearance
from each other. The Westphalians, Saxons,
Bavarians, Suabians, &c. have all very different
physiognomies. The inhabitants of the south-
west of Scotland, those of the north-east, and
those of the Highlands, belong to three different
races. England and Ireland having been occu-
/'/ /( '
ftiq I
i -
)
J
\
•
p1ed by various nations, particular districts of
each have n. population originally different. In
the county of Norfolk the same round and well-
fed figures arc seen which Rubens has transferred
to his canvas!~ from natives of Holland. On the
borders between Scotland and Englaed, the
Roman form of face is still found. ln the south,
again, the Saxon face is very ('Ommon. In short,
there are, beyond any doubt, national faces.
The figs. 1, 2, and S, of Pl. iv. will ne\'er be taken
for Grecian beauties; did I find a face like fig. 4,
of the same plate, in England or Ireland, I should
at once consider it as of foreign extraction. The
first figure is taken from the work of l\1. Chori~.*
It is the portrait of a chief of l\Ialayan origin of
the gulf Kutusofr-Srnolensky. The second is the
portrait of Jlyder Aly, a khan of Mongolian
blood; the third is easily distinguished as the
likeness of a Jew ; and the fourth is the portrait
of Hannibal.
On account of the importance and interesting
nature of the subject, I shall still give four por-
traits as national examples, all of which may fre-
quently be observed in Europe.
Pl. v. fig. 1, is Buchanan, a configuration of
more common occurrence in the south, than in
the north of Europe; I have, however, seen it in
the south-western part of Ireland, and in the cor-
responding district of Scotland. The foreh<'ad
Voyagp PJttnrf'&IJUe IIUtour du 1\lond ~, r·.,~, t.::20.
4
26
JS large, high, and mclincd a little backwards;
the root of the nose is prominent, the nose long
and somewhat aquiline; the checks arc little de-
veloped, the mouth and lips middlingly so, the
chin is prominent ; the parts of the face arc, in
general, elongated and slender, and its whole form
inclines to the conical. The temperament of this
race is mostly a compound of the bilious with the
nervous.
This configuration re.-embles that which the
Grecian artists selected as the finest and most
beautiful of all, that, in fine, which is commonly
called the Grecian face. However, as a great
many of the eminent men of Greece, whose por-
trnits have reached us, present a configuration
very different from that we have described, for
instance, Solon, Thcmistocles, Alcibiades, Socra-
tes, Demosthenes, Thucydides, and others, and
farther, as this form also occurs in countries
known to have been occupied by Phccnician colo-
nies, I prefer calling it the Phamician face. [t is
conspicuous in many Grecian portraits, as iu
those of 1\Iiltiadcs, Biafl>, Leonidas, Anacrcon, and
others, but it is also evident in those of other na-
tions, as of Hamilcar, Hannibal, .\.assinissa, Py-
thagoras, Numa, St. Augustin, St. Athanasius,
Polidoro Caravaggio, Coligny, Arundel, Mayenne,
Scaliger, Camden, &c.
Fig. 2. Cato, the censor; a portrait which pre-
sents another characteristic form of face. The
27
upper part of the forehead, and the region of the
frontal sinus arc very prominent ; the root of the
nose is depressed, the nose aquiline, the lips thick
and elevated, the chin prominent and rounded ;
all the features large and strongly marked. The
constitution which accompanies this configura-
tion is commonly bilious, sanguine, or sanguine-
nervous. This form of face appears to have oc-
curred among the Greeks, but 1call it the Roman
face, as it was more frequent among the Romans
than any other ancient nation. We find it in the
portraits of :Solon, Themi::;tocles, Antiochus, Philip
of Macedon, Antisthcnes, Aratus, Sylla, 1\Iarius,
Julius Cresar, l\Iarcus Agrippa, Vcspasian, Dio-
cletian, Theodosius the Great, Constantine, Lalli,
Louis XI. king of France, St. Thomas Aquinas,
Duns Scotus, &c.
Fig. S. Addison i::; a form of face in which the
eyes often occur promi11ent, the nose being thick
and short, the cheeks full, the lips thick, the
mouth large, the jaw-bones, particularly the lower
one, strong and large, the chin rounded, the face
generally full'and plump, and indicative of a san-
guiae-lymphatic constitution. It seems primi-
tively to be of Tartarian orign; it is common in
Germany, especially in Saxony, 1 therefore call it
the Saxon face. It is seen in Leibnitz, Handel,
~Wolf, the 1\Jareschal of Saxony, Argenson, Co-
horn, La Chaussee, Desjardins, and others.
Fig. Lt.• Isaac Watts: in this portrait the indi-
vidual parts are less f'trongly marked than iu
the Roman face ; the forms are here generally
rounded. The upper part of the forehead is
rather flat, but its lower region is particularly
prominent ; the root of the nose is elevated, less
so, however, than in the Phrenician face; the
eyes arc not so full as in the Saxon form, the eye-
lids arc scanty, the orbit:s round, the checks the
broadest part of the face ; the nose is slender,
straight, and of middling size, the chin is round-
ed and sometimes sloping, the jaw-bones are
small, and the lower one is contracted on the
sides. The accompanying temperament is bil-
ious-nervous. This configuration is frequent in
France, and in the low countries. I have also
seen it in the south of Wales, and of England, and
in the north-cast of Ireland. It belongs to a Cel-
tic or Gallic race. Traces of 1t are perceived in
Bayle, Berghem, Boecc, 1\licris, Claude de Lor-
raine, Girardon, Moliere, Paul Potter, Poussin,
Reaumur, Vouct, Voiturc, Van Ostade, Vander
Werff, &c.
I had already remarked on Great Britain being
inhabited by various tribes; th1s was what induced
me to give portraits of three among her men
of genius, in order that I might show indivi-
dual configurations of countenance, propagated
from generation to generation. These configura-
tions are permanent, if no admixture of foreign
blood be permitted. I have already Rpoken of
29
this circumstance in reference to the Jews. Nay
although the four races that have been partic-
ularised intermarry among themselves, and with
others not precisely referable to either, the char-
acteristic features we have mentioned are still
to be detected. In the portraits of many great
men, as of Bourdaloue, Descartes, and Corneille,
for instance, a mixture of the Gallic and Phreni-
cian forms is conspicuous. ·what is called the
Italian face, results from a blending of the Phreni-
cian with the Roman features. In some individ-
uals the Phrenician form predominates, as in
Dante, Doria, Jansenius, Alexis Comines, Clis-
son, Leonardo da Vinci, Scanderberg, &c. in
others again, the Roman configuration prevails,
as in the Pope Leo IV. Algarde, the Abbe Bar-
thelemy, Duprat, &c.
My only intention here is to show that there
are forms of face peculiar to tribes or races;
these, however, get blended together and finally
lose their characteristic traits, so as at length to
be no longer recognizable, in proportion as the
different families of mankind in~ermarry.
so
CHAPTER Ill.
Of the Physiognomical Signs ofthe 'Whole Head.
In the preceding chapter we have remarked
that the body, according to its size, configuration
and organic constitution, is variously adapted to
different functions, and that it is modified in the
sexes; moreover that there are characteristic
sexual and national peculiarities of countenance.
I shall now add that the form of the head at large
is not matter of indifference in connexion with
the manifestation of such or such mental dispo-
sitions, and that there arc characteristic male,
female, and national heads as well as faces. I
shall begin this subject with some general re-
marks, which I request the reader will continue
to bear in mind.
Jl.lode of considering the Physiognomical Signs of
the Head.
The first point to be considered by the phre-
nologist is, the bodily constitution of the individ-
ual subject of observation; whether this is lym-
phatic, sanguine, bi!ious, nervous, or is made up
by a mixture of these primitive temperaments.
This prelih1inary step is necessary in order to
Plf7
l
31
enable him to conclude concerning the degree of
activity possessed by the cerebral organs.
Ho must then examine the head generally, in
regard to size, and acquire ideas of what may be
entitled small, middling, and large-sized heads.
After this he will consider the relative size of the
various regions of the head, and the develop-
ment of the individual parts of each region, that
is to say, the length and breadth of the partic-
ular organs : finally he will ascertain the propor-
tionate size of all organs to each other.
To gain information upon these particulars, the
head is to be viev..·ed profile-wise, and divided
into two regions by a vertical line, drawn from
the orifice of the external ear, Pl. vi. figs. 1 and
2. (a) to the point in the middle of the upper part
of the head (b), which corresponds with the union
of the frontal and sagittal sutures. The region
behind the line a-b is the occipital, and that before
it the jtontal. The occipital and frontal regions
are then compared, and their relative size deter-
mined. In fig 1 the occipital region a b dis larger
than the frontal (£ b c; while in fig. 2. the frontal
region exceeds the occipital in size. '"e ha,·e to re-
mark, that in common the occipital region is unfor-
tunately more largely developed than the frontal.
On this circumstance depends in part, the general
and excessive energy of the animal nature of man.
In this view of the head, l~es may also be
drawn from the external opening of the car (a),
32
to the different points in the circumference of the
head, such as a-c; a-i; ab; a-d; in order to
learn in what direction the brain in the mesial
line is the most developed. In Pl. vi. fig. 1. the
lines a-c and a-i arc shorter than the lines a-b
and a-d; while in fig. 2. the lines a-c and a-i are
the longest.
Finally, in this view of the head, its length
from the forehead to the occiput, c-d, and its
height from the ear to the vertex, a-b, are to be
noted.
T he head is now to be divided in its height
into two regions, by a horizontal line passing
from the middle of the forehead to the point of
union between the parietal and occipital bones;
in other words, by a line extending from the
organ of eventuality, under the organs of ideality
and circumspection, to terminate at the organ of
inhabitivencss. The portion of the head below
this line I entitle the basilaT region, and that
above it the sincipital or coronal. The former of
these two regions is also generally larger than
the latter. This is another cause of the great
activity of the animal nature in man.
A line, e-i, drawn from the external angle of
the eye vertically, and parallel with a-b, will show
the degree in which the forehead, strictly speak-
ing, is developed, and also expose the relative
volume of its inf@rior, e-c, and of its l'uperior, c-i,
portions.
?1 . fTJI
I ·I
.,J[ , " ( ll't:fl l 1" ,
rz.1'11I
t.•
J.l,.r hu .Vll 'I t••
•
33
Finally, the width of the head is to be consid-
ered, and its height and breadth to be compared
with each other. In this way the proportion of
the lateral to the upward parts of the head will
be ascertained. The greater development of the
lateral than of the superior region of the head
likewise conduces to the great activity of the
animal nature of man ; and by far the greate1
number of individuals have wide rather than high
heads. Pl. vii. and Pl. viii. present two figures
each. Pl. vii. fig. 1, is Vitellius; fig. 2. is a
geometrician, after a picture in the gallery of the
Louvre, at Paris. The basilar region is in the
former very large, and the sincipital very small.
In the second the head is still very wide, but it
is proportionately higher than that of the Roman
emperor.
Pl. viii. fig. 1. is Henry IV. of France, and fig.
2. is Raleigh. The heads of both figures are high
rather than wide; but the latter is the higher of
the two, in proportion to the lateral development.
In order still further to inculcate the import-
ance of attending to the relative degrees in which
the different regions of the head are developed,
I have given two additional figures in Pl. xi. In
fig. 1. the lower portion of the forehead is very
prominent; the nose is long and aquiline, and
the upper portion of the forehead slopes back-
wards. This is a configuration upon which erro-
neous conclusions are apt to be formed. Those,
5
34
however, who understand phrenology, will not
judge from external appearance alone, nor, with
the inexperienced, be induced to prefer fig. 2. to
fig. 1. ; for the cerebral masses of the lower part
of the forehead are actually larger in fig. 1. than
in fig. 2. and the rest of the brain is of equal size
in both. All other conditions being the same,
the forehead of fig. 1. is therefore preferable to
that of fig. 2. The portraits of Titus Livius, of
Diderot, of Condorcet, and many others, must be
judged of according to the above spirit.
Once familiar with the comparative develop-
ments of the various regions of the head, and of
the individual portions of each, information in
regard to the functions of the cerebral parts they
severally include may next be required. In the
forehead, strictly speaking, lie the organs of the
intellectual faculties ; those of the perceptive
powers occupying the space between e-c, Pl. vi.
and those of tlte reflective faculties that between
c-i. The rest of the head is occupied by the or-
gans of the affective powers; the basilar region
with those of the faculties common to man and
animals, the greater part of the sincipital region
with those of the powers peculiar to mti.n.
The occipital portion, Pl. vi. o d b, of the sinci-
pital region c d b, deserves particular attention,
on account of the influence exerted by the organs
it includes over the functions of all the others; for
they stimulate them, and tend to maintain their
energy. This portion, in combinatiOn with the
frontal region, in large proportion, fortifies the
moral and reflecti,·e capacities; but when joined
to great development of the basilar region, it gives
increased vigor to the animal propensities, and
renders the character rude and brutal.
Further, the degree in which the individual or-
gans are developed requires to be ascertained.
The study of the different regions will give much
facility in this particular.
Finally, the peculiarities of the·special faculties
arc to be examined. They will be found discussed
in my publications on Phrenology.
To judge, then, by phrenological signs of the
natuml mental dispositions, the temperament is
examined in the first instance; the size of the dif-
ferent regions individually and relatively is next
determined: here the relation of the basilar to
the sincipital region, and of the frontal to the
occipital, arc the points especially to be attended
to. Finally, the comparative size of the individ-
ual organs is ascertained. No one who follows
this method can by any possibility fail of having
conviction forced upon him, of the existence and
reality of the cerebral organs.
f?.f Differences among 1/Ntds.
Pascal wa:. right m saying that he could not
36
concetvc a man without a head. Let us add, that
the dis:;imilar characters of men coincide with the
different conformations of their head:s. \\ hat an
error then must those modern artists commit, "ho
neglect the size and form of the head in their por-
traits! Did they but intend to give an accurate
likeness, some attention to the head is certainly
required ; and if they would do more, vi-:. paint
the moral and intellectual charact~r, the utmost
care in depicting the figure and volume of the
skull is indispensable.
Pl. ix. figs. I. and 2. represent active tempera-
ment; both heads have the same chin, mouth,
nose, and eyes, but the most superficial observer
will feel as by intuition that their mental dis-
positions differ, as he will perceive that their
heads arc altogether unlike. Suppose an artist
sets about making the portrait either of fig. 1 or
fig. 2. how imperfect would the likeness be did
he only imitate the lo" er parts of the face ; did
he give fig. 1. the general form of the head of
fig. 2. or the contrary ! Judged of according to
the principles of phrenology, fig. 1. has consider-
able facility in acquiring individual knowledge,
but little aptitude for philosophical reasoning ;
his animal inclinations arc stronger than his moral
sentiments ; the latter, therefore, will have to
struggle against the former. Fig. 2. on the con-
trary, besides great ability to acquire mformation,
I'l. J;f'.
Ftg.l.
( \ ~
I
\,) /
v
I
\
I
I \
v I 1'I
.~
T'l.X
37
may reason profoundly on his knowledge. Such
a head is fond of reflection, and can combat ani-
mal propensities without difficulty.
This phrenological judgment is founded on
the following considerations : in fig. 1. the organs
of the perceptive faculties are more largely devel-
oped than those of tho reflective powers, and the
basilar is larger than the sincipital region ; whilst
in fig. 2. both the lower and upper parts of the
forehead are voluminous, and the sincipital region
exists in great proportion.
I have given pl. x. figs. 1. and 2. to show that
the whole face, the forehead inclusive, is not suf-
ficient to convey a likeness, nor to indicate a cha-
racter. Both figures were intended to have been
drawn with the same face and forehead, the latter
part, howeyer, in fig. 2. is not exactly of the same
form as in fig. 1. ; but supposing it the same,
every one will certainly judge differently of their
characters, on account of the difference in the
rest of their heads. Fig. 1. I consider as the por-
trait of a person religiously inclined, whose moral
inclinations, however, find great obstacles, in his
self-esteem, and in his unbending disposition. He
will be apt to espouse calvinistic principles. He
has pretty good intellectual powers, but his judg-
ment will not be of the deepest kind. His verbal
memory is moderate. The physiognomical signs
which make me jndge in this way, are as follows.
The temperament is nervous; the sincipital is
38
large, compared with the baroilar region, and the
occipital part of the sincipital region is much
greater than its frontal portion. Such a charac-
ter is severe, and inclined to acknowledge the im-
mutable and eternal laws of nature as dictates of
the Creator ; to these he will at no time hesitate
to subject his benevolence. Both portions of the
forehead are of middling size ; the eyes are small,
and lie deep in their sockets.
T
n fig. 2. a moral character of a very different
description. He is modest, indulgent, and places
charity above every other virtue. His religion
consists in good works. He is not indifferent to
distinctions and worldly pleasures, but he ac-
knowledges the law according to which feelings
and their actions must all be directed by moral
principles. He will, however, never take the
lead in any profession he may choose. I form
this opinion from the large size of the sincipital
region generally, and from observing that its fron-
tal portion outmeasures its occipital one. The
basilar region is not actually small, but it is infe-
rior in size to the sincipital. Self-esteem is not
large enough to push forward and take up a con-
spicuous position.
Thus it is very far from a matter of indiffer-
ence what form of head is joined to a given face;
artists, therefore, err when they imitate the face
only of the individual whose portrait they would
paint.
39
Comparison of the Face with the Cranium.
!\lost persons attending to the face alone, con-
found this with the head ; Voltaire, for instance,
is commonly enough cited as having had a small
head, but Voltaire's brain was very considerable,
it was his face only that was small. Leo X.
Leibnitz, Haller, Puffendorf, Addison, Franklin,
Mirabeau, Fox, and many other men of great
talents, had both the brain and the face of large
size. On the contrary, Bossuet, Yoltaire, Kant,
and others, had the brain large and tlte face
small. This difference is even visible in whole
tribes.
To succeed in imitating nature exactly, and in
producing the best possible likenes!', artists do
well to compare the face with the brain, but
phrenologists and physiognomists do not find any
sign of their science in the relative proportions of
these parts. The Saxon is generally larger than
the Phrenician face; intelligence, however, is not
less conspicuous in the Saxon, than it is in the
Phoonician race.
The face is commonly compared with the brain,
and the talents then estimated by means of what
is called the facial angle of Camper, but the utter
erroneousness of this procedure is evident. How-
ever gifted with talents, the Negro would still,
were it confided in, be proclaimed inferior to the
almo£t idiotic European.
40
Let it be remembered then that, in phrenology,
the term head is taken as synonymou:; with that
of brain, and that phrenological judgments, in re-
gard to the innate dispositions of the mind, and
of their manifestations, are always founded on
the size and constitution of the brain and its
parts.
Of the Heads of the Se:ces.
The body and face vary in the two sexes;
do their brains differ likewise ? The talents and
feelings in the male and female arc commonly
considered as dissimilar; indeed it is proverbially
said that women feel and men think. This differ-
ence has been attempted to be accounted for in
various ways. Mallebranche thought that the
female cerebral fibre was softer than that of the
male. The majority of modern authors, however,
have attributed the phenomenon to the modified
education which the sexes receive. I here confine
myself to observation, and this shews that in gen-
eral the female head is smaller than that of the
male; it is often somewhat longer from the fore-
head to the occiput, but it is commonly narrower
laterally. The basilar region of the female head
is also smaller, the occipital more elongated, and
the frontal developed in a minor degree, the
organs of the perceptive faculties being commonly
huger than those of the reflective powers. The
Fl )..71
41
female cerebral fibre is slender and long rather
than thick. Lastly, and in particular, the organs
of philoprogenitiveness, of attachment, love of ap-
probation, circumspection, secretiveness, ideality,
and benevolence, are for the most part propor-
tionately larger in the female (Pl. xii. fig. I.) ;
while in the male those of amativeness, comba-
tiveness, destructiveness, constructiveness, self-
esteem, and firmness predominate. (Pl. xii. fig. 2.)
Some may perhaps object to the apparent con-
tradiction in this announcement of the differences
between the heads cf the sexes. I s:::.y that the
heads of men are wider than those of women, and
then I state that I consider circumspection and
secretiveness, whose organs lie laterally, as more
generally active in the female than in the male.
They who make this objection do not understand
the phrenological principle, according to which
the organs which are the most largely developed
in every individual display the greatest energy,
and take the lead of all the other powers. Now,
although the female head be so commonly nar-
rower than the male, the organs of secretiveness
and circumspection are still the most prominent,
and thus contribute essentially to the formation of
the female character. Phrenologists, therefore,
in examining the physiognomical signs of the in-
nate dispositions, never compare the heads of the
Rexes together, nor even those of two individuals
of the same sex ; they judge of every head indi-
6
42
vidually, and form conclusions in regard to the
dispositions generally, according as the organs of
the respective faculties are developed.
In my comparison of the heads of the sexes, I
have only stated the general result of observation.
I do not mean to deny that the intelligence of
some women is superior to that of many men, nor
that men sometimes feel as women commonly
do; on the contrary, there are individual excep-
tions from the general rule ; and in them tile
cerebral organization also differs from the ordi-
nary state.
I grant that both sexes do not receive the same
educo.tion ; but surely no one will maintain that
in all points girls arc less attended to than boys.
Indeed there can be no doubt but that girls are
more commonly instructed in drawing, painting,
and music than boys, and that females often spend
a great {!cal of time on these occupations. Fur-
ther, emulation, or the love of approbation, is even
a more active principle in the female than in the
male sex ; nevertheless, no woman has hitherto
produced such works as those of Handel, Mozart,
Haydn, Titian, Rubens, Raphael, Paul Veronese,
Canova, and so many others.
The female sex appears to greater advantage
in actions which result from feeling. History
records numerous instances of women distinguish-
ing themselves by great disinterestedness, friend-
ship. resignation, and exemplary probity. It is
quite evident that nature has destined the two
sexes to particular and dissimilar situations, and
that she has endowed the various dispo::;itions of
each with different degrees of activity.
Of National lleads.
Eren from ancient times whole nationg hare
been recognised as differing in character and tal-
ents. The inhabitants of diHerent islands, at no
great distance from each other, have been found,
in one, of a mild, peaceable and timid disposition,
and amicably inclined to foreigners; in another,
courageous, warlike, cmel and jealous of stran-
gers; in a third, cleanly or filthy, cunning or ~in­
cere, selfi:sh or benevdlcnt, and so on: a circum-
stance which has led several authors to admit dif-
ferent races of the human species.
Such varieties in disposition arc conspicuous
not only in nations very remote from each other,
but also in tribes dwelling in each other's vicinity,
and even in the population of different prorinces
of the same country. It has happened, indeed,
that the inhabitants of prO\ inccs, like whole na-
tions, have had epithets applied to them indicative
of their predominating character. ln France, the
inhabitants of Britany, Normandy, Burgundy, Pi-
cardy, Ga::;cogny, &c. arc well known to possess
individual menta] powers particularly strong.
It is not, therefore, by any means sufficient to
have seen the capital of an empire, to have dined
with several families, or to have visited the public
institutions, to know the character of a nation.
In every metropolis there are mixtures of all na-
tions, and of every variety of characters. More-
over, travellers get mostly acquainted with indi-
viduals of their own rank or profession : this ex-
plains why the reports made by different visitors
to the same country often vary so "idely from
each other. Hence, in phrenology, it is admitted
as a principle, that no general inference, in regard
to the talents and characters of whole nations,
can be drawn from observations made on a few
individuals.* One negro may be a good musician
or mathematician, but the whole race does not,
on this account, excel in these talents.
The same care is necessary in deciding on na-
tional configurations of head. These, neverthe-
less, exist and may be determined ; for they vary
according to the kind of character and talent most
generally possessed by the nation. The organs of
form, constructiveness, and notoriety, are com-
monly large in France, and superior manual dex-
terity and nicety of configuration are perceptible
in many of her manufactures ; in the article of
millinery the French regulate the taste of all Eu-
• This principle the author strictly adhered to, while m the United
Stales, as he invariably refut;ed to g•ve an opin1on upon our nallonal
charact~r.
I
rope, and their manners are eminently polite,
winning nnd elegant.
It is quite positive that the inhabitants of cer-
tain provinces of a country have greater abilities
than those of others ; and this circumstance can
only be attribu~0d to superiority in the tribes
which originally took possession of these favored
districts. The race from which we descend has
undoubtedly far more influence on our talents
than the climate of the country in which we live.
'This matter is not only interesting to philoso-
phers, but also to governments. Would a legis-
lator have his regulations permanent, he must
adapt them to the character of the nation to whom
they are given. A benevolent, intellectual, and
well-informed person, for instance, can never
adopt such religious ideas as content the cruel,
stupid, and ignorant being. One nation is gui~ed
by vanity and selfish motives alone; another re-
quires to be led by reason, and will only submit
to an enlightened and liberal government.
The influence of the cerebral organization upon
the affective and intellectual manifestations being
ascertained, we cannot help regretting that travel-
lers should still neglect the study of national char-
acters, in connexion with that of national configu-
rations of head. It seems reasonable to expect
that the same interest should be taken in increas-
ing our acquaintance with mankind, which is
shewn in the advancement of natural history.
46
Man is at least as noble an object as a plant or a
shell; and as animals, plants, minerals, and shells
are sedulously collected, I would ask why organic
proofs of national characters, I mean skulls, or
casts taken from nature, or exact drawings, should
not also be deemed worthy of some attention ?
Plate xiii. presents four national skulls ; their
form is as different as the character of the nations
to which they belonged. Fig. 1. is the skull of a
cannibal of Brazil: the frontal region is very low ;
the greatest mass of brain lies at the base of the
head, particularly above the ears. Fig. 2. is the
skull of a woman of the savage tribe Wabash, in
North America: the occipital region is much
larger than the frontal, and the basilar than the
sincipital: the forehead, strictly speaking, is very
small ; the region of benevolence is quite depres-
sed, but the organs of firmness and self-esteem
are extremely large. Such a head is always led
with the greatest difficulty. How different is the
Hindoo skull, fig. S. flattened on the sides, higher
than it is broad, and containing the greatest por-
tion of brain in the sincipital region. Fig. 4. is
from Blumenbach's work, and given a!; a speci-
men of the ancient Greek. I consider this form
as individual ; but certainly a nation, the greater
number of whose inhabitants were endowed with
such a cerebral organization, would excel in many
ways, and become the model for other nations to
imitate.
PI Ill/
fia I
v'
!'t~l I
IJF' I
/ttl
SECTjON JI.
Ofthe Cerebral Organization of different Chamcters.
The character is a product of the combination
of affective with intellectual faculties. Although
the variety of characters encountered in the world
be infinite, they may still be arranged into classes
according to the faculties which are most ener-
getic. There are, for example, moral and im-
moral, religious and irreligious, haughty and hum-
ble, vindictive and forgiving, quarrelsome and
peaceable, lively and serious, independent and
servile characters, and so on.
In speaking of the cerebral organization of these
and other characters, I shall give the portraits of
individuals known for peculiarity of disposition;
but then I may be asked if the portraits, as they
exist, be faithful representations of the men. For
my own part, I certainly do not rely implicitly on
the accuracy of every one of the configurations
which have been transmitted to posterity. I
should recommend artists, for the future, to take
a complete cast from the head of every man of
great talents or remarkable character, and to hand
down mental as well as personal likenesses, and
48
al:so to preserve and multiply the proofs of plue-
nology. Although it is evident tllat great differ-
ences in the form and size of the head have be~n
imitated by masters of eminence at least, still my
principal object in publishing this work is rather
to fix the attention of my readers on the relations
that exist between manifestations of mind and
cerebral organization, in individuals as well as in
whole nations, than to persuade them by the ex-
amples I shall give, which nevertheless show
clearly the application that may be made of phre-
nology.
lly far the greater number of these portraits
are from plates in the Cabinet d'Estampes of the
great royal library at Paris. I thankfully ac-
knowledge my obligations to M. Duchesne, the
conservator, for his kindness in affording me every
facility in furtherance of my design. The descrip-
tions of the individual characters are taken from
the Biographie Universelle, Ancienne et .Moderne,
published by .!Jlichaud, freres; from the Galerie
Historigue des Hommes les plus Celebres, published
by Landon ; from the General Biographical Dic-
tionary, revised and enlarged by A. Chalmers; and
from the General Biography, by J. Aikin and W.
Enfield.
49
CHAPTER I.
Portraits remarkable in relation to Morality.
' Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his right-
eousness,' says the Christian code; but this law
appears to be extremely difficult of accomplish-
ment, for Christian righteousness, love thy neigh-
bor as thyself, is the rarest thing in the world.
Th,c moral sentiments, particularly that of justice,
exert a very secondary influence over the greater
number of persons; the faculties common to man
and animals determine the actions of the majority
of mankind. This lamentable truth is generally
admitted, and whilst various reasons have been
assumed as accounting for it, all kinds of means
have been thought of, and employed, in the view
of strengthening the moral part of man : hitherto,
however, the success attending these attempts
has not been commensurate with the pains that
have been taken. Deficiency in the superior
sentiments, particularly in justice, is the cause
why no large society has hitherto been able to
maintain a republican form of government; why
kings must be declared inviolable, and their
.ministers made responsible; why all religious
systems admit future rewards and punishments;
why so few persons can be left to themselves, and
7
5()
positive laws arc indispensable; finally, why
lear prevents more mischief, than love effects
good.
On the other hand, again, though their actions
be not in conformity with its dictates, justice is
felt and admired by the great bulk of mankind.
Phrenology alone affords an explanation of this
state of things. The sentiment of justice exists
in a greater or less degree in every individual;
it is at leas~ felt and necessarily approved of by
almost every one's intelligence. The great mass
of mankind, therefore, claim justice and assent to
its being done, so long as their inferior or animal
feelings, as amativeness, philoprogenitivcness, in-
dividual attachment, self-esteem, love of appro-
bation, acquisitiveness, or selfishness in general,
are not in opposition; but justice is commonly
overwhelmed as soon as it is assailed by the ani-
mal propensities: the combat then becomes un-
equal, for very few possess justice strong enough
to triumph over and keep the lower feelings in sub-
ordination. Hence the great f.'lcility with which
mankind are corrupted-hence the great efficacy
of a civil law, whose foundation is selfishness.
Another commandment of Christianity says :
'All things whatsoever ye would that men should
do to you, do ye even so to them.' This com-
mandment is also seldom strictly accomplished ;
to me, however, benevolence appears to be more"
active than justice among mankind at large. In-
or
deed, the organ of the former feeling is commonly
found in larger proportion than that of the latter.
Let us now examine the portraits of a few indi-
viduals, who have followed the moral precepts
pretty closely, and compare their cerebral organ-
ization with that of others who sought their
pleasures and their happiness in immoral actions.
It may appear strange, but it is not therefore the
less certain, that the manifestations of tt:e moral
feelings depend on the brain. That which is, is;
this is the answer to any objection against tllis
natural truth. It was the will of the Creator that
the sentiments should be manifested by the brain,
in the same way as it was his will that the mind
should acquire notions of the external world by
means of the senses. It is a fact, and must be
admitted as such, that those who have the sinci·
pita] and frontal regions of the brain much more
largely developed, than the basilar and occipital
ones, shew noble and elevated feelings, and may
be called the chosen among men. Again, that
those who have the sincipital region of the head
in the same proportion as the basilar one, mani-
fest superior and inferior inclinations in nearly
equal degrees; and further, that those who have
the baRilar and occipital regions of the head more
considerable than the sincipital and frontal parts,
display much more of the animal than of the man
in their conduct. It was given to St. John to love
his master, and to Judas to betray him: in con-
52
formity, Da Vinci, in hil> sublime composition of
the Lord's Supper, represents St. John with a no-
ble high head, and Judas with a villanous low one.
The organ of justice is commonly smaller than
any other of the sincipital organs, precisely as the
feeling of justice is generally weaker than the
other superior sentiments. A general remark
remains to be made, viz. in stating that individuals
of a cruel disposition have the organ of benevo-
lence small, cruelty is not to be understood as
resulting solely from the deficiency of benevo-
lence; benevolence being inactive, the other fac-
ulties act in a manner called cruel, that is, with-
out the restraint or guidance of benevolence and
justice.
In the following illustrations my procedure will
be mostly the same. I shall first state my opinion
upon the innate dispositions of each person whose
portrait is given, supposing that it is an exact
imitation of nature, and I shall then add historical
outlines of the character, from the biographical
works already mentioned.
PLATE XIV.
Fig. 1.-The Empe1·or Caracalla.
Viewed according to phrenological principles,
this is one of the most ignoble configurations of a
head which it is possible to conceive. The basilar
1'1. .r;r
( '.JIM A
. "'
•
I
53
region contains a great mass of brain, whilst the
sincipital region is very small and contracted.
The head, at the same time, is low, and very
wide, particularly above and behind the cars.
The forehead, too, is narrow, and by no means
elevated. The organs of the lowest propensities
predominate over those of the moral and religious
sentiments, and of the reflective faculties, which
arc all cxceedinely defective. An individual thus
constituted is the victim of his inferior appetites,
and animal nature; he is one who will delight in
destruction, and prefer violent measures to mild-
ness and clemency ; his desires can never be re-
strained by reason and benevolence ; force alone
will avail to keep him within bounds, and were he
to succeed in throwing otf the ties of the civil
laws, it would not be with a view to philanthropy,
but to seize the supreme power, and to tyrannize
over his fellow creatures.
Born in the lower ranks of society, he would
delight in vulgar and degrading amusements, and
avoid the company of noble-minded and reason-
able beings. He is unfit to excel in any art or
science,-the whole tendency of his mind is to-
wards brutal pleasures.
History represents Caracalla as fierce, haughty,
hypocritical, intriguing, licentious, implacable in
his hatred to his brother, selfish, absurd, and
detestably cruel in war and in every situation.
He wished to possess all the money of the empire,
5i
and spent whatever he could extort with prodi-
gality in bribing the soldiers, in amusing and in
attracting the attention of the rabble. His under-
standing was limited, and he continued ignorant,
notwithstanding the great care that was taken of
his education. He shewed a mean curiosity, a
contempt for letters, an aversion for every kind
of dignity, and an attachment to the lowest and
most worthless of characters. He even chose his
ministers from among the low-minded villanous.
He lived amid debauchery himself, and punished
~ adultery with death : in general he affected a
hypocritical zeal for morals and religion, while
he perpetually violated the precepts of the former,
and degraded the latter, by mixing magic and
astrology with its tenets.
His behavior to his father, mother, and bro-
ther alone suffices to show his wretched character.
In the Caledonian war he attempted to assassin-
ate his father, and as he did not succeed, he
tried to bribe his physicians to hasten his death
by poison. He pretended to make peace with
his brother, promised to divide the empire with
him, hypocritically expressed an earnest desire
for a reconciliation, and engaged his mother to
procure him an interview with Geta in her own
apartments. Geta, at his entrance, was presently
assaulted by some centurions, whom Caracalla
had placed in ambush. Seeing his danger, he
ran and threw himself into his mother's arms,
55
entreating her to save him, but Caracalla urged
on the murderers, and they killed the unfortunate
Geta in the arms of his mother. She herself was
wounded in the arm, while attempting to protect
her son. Caracalla then flew to the camp of the
pretorian cohorts, prostrated himself before the
images of the tutelary deities, and informed the
bystanders that he had just escaped the treacher-
ous attempts of his brother Geta. He pacified
the soldiers, and reconciled them to the loss of
Geta by profuse donations; obliged his mother,
by menaces against her life, to refrain from any
manifestation of sorrow on the event, and jus-
tified the assassination before the senate on the
plea of the necessary prevention of a similar de-
sign against himself. He put to death Farlilla,
the only remaining daughter of the Emperor Mar-
cus Aurelius, and, under the name of friends and
partisans of Geta, sacrificed a vast number of per-
sons whom he feared or suspected, not even
sparing their children. The historian Dion speaks
of twenty thousand victims immolated by Cara-
co.lla's authority. It is not, therefore, astonishing
that this monster became an object of execration
to the Romans, and of contempt and horros to
posterity, though he was deified after his death, by
a decree of the senate.
56
Fig. 2.-Zeno, the Stoic.
This portrait is from an antique bust, in the
Hoyal Museum at Paris. lt presents a cerebral
organization which must excite the admiration
and respect of every phrenologist. The frontal
and sincipital regions predominate greatly over
those of the basis and occiput. The organs of
benevolence, veneration, firmness, conscientious-
ness, cautiousness, ideality, and of the reflective
faculties, are eminently large, whilst those of the
animal feelings are subordinate. The head is
flattened on the sides, especially in the region of
acquisitiveness and secretiveness. Such a brain
is incompatible with grovelling and unworthy
conceptions; it proclaims superiority in the moral
character, and constitutes the sage. The fore-
head is that of a deep thinker, and incompatible
with stupidity. The mind, when manifested by
means of such a cerebral organization, looks
every where for reason and morality; it readily
admits the immutable laws of the universe, ami is
a sure law to itself.
From history we learn that Zeno's character
and intellectual dispositions agreed exactly with
the indications furnished by his bust. Born on
the isle of Cyprus, he was brought up to mercan-
tile affairs. His father, a merchant, from matters
of business, had frequently occasion to visit
57
Athens, and there purchased several writings of
the Socratic philosophers for the use of his son,
who, at an early age, displayed a great turn for
learning. Zeno himself, at the age of twenty-
two, or, according to others, of thirty, made a
voyage to Athens. The goods were lost by ship-
wreck, but Zeno reached his destination, and at-
tended se,·eral lectures on philosophy.
Having informed himself on every part of the
philosophy then taught in (ireece, he resolved to
become the founder of a new sect. From the
place chosen for his school, called Stoa (porch),
his followers received the name of stoics. He ac-
quired great ability by the acuteness of his reason-
ing, and his primte charact<'r being highly respect-
able, he was much belo,·cd and esteemed by his
numerous disciples. The King of .Macedonia,
when nt Athens, attended hi:s lectures, and invited
him to his court, but Zeno was not at all disposed
to make an interested usc of royal favor. He is
said to have come very rich to Greece, but he
}i,·cd with great simplicity and abstemiousness,
kecpin~ only one sen·ant, and limiting himself to
bread and fruits at table. In other pleasures he
was equally continent, and his modesty led him to
~hun pcr6onal distinction. The Athenians placed
such confidence in his integrity, that they deposit-
ed the keys of their citadel in his hands, and de-
creed him a statue and a golden crown. His
8
58
constitution was naturally weak, but by temper-
ance his life was prolonged to extreme old age.
His doctrines were less new than the forms in
which they were taught, and Cicero has observed,
that he had little reason for deserting his mas-
ters, especially those of the Platonic sect. He
believed in one God, the soul of the world, and
had great confidence in the instinct of nature.
His moral principles were severe; placing happi-
ness in the practice of virtue, he insisted on the
same bearing both in pleasure and in pain, and
contentment with every situation, in adver&ity as
well as in prosperity. He thought it more wise
to listen than to speak, to be ignorant of things
which cannot be known than to hazard inquiries.
The wise man of Zeno, although unattainable, is
a character of the highest virtue, and supplied a
model for the imitation of the noblest individuals
that heathen antiquity has produced. He was
persuaded that a man's life was always at his own
disposal, and at the age of ninety-eight years,
having fallen by accident, and broken one of his
fingers, he went home and strangled himself. In
te::;timony of their respect for the precepts of vir-
tue which he inculcated on the youth who were
his auditors, the Atheninns honored him with a
public funeral.
/'/ I r
...._,, l, ,,. ,....
.59
PLATE XV.
Fig. I.-The Emperor Nero.
This and t~1e figure under it are u.lso after
antique busts in the !loyal l\luseum at Paris. ln
Nero the forehead is low, and the whole sinci-
pital region small; the organs of benevolence
and veneration are particularly defectire, whilst
those of firmness, self-esteem, and of all the animal
propensities arc very large. The basilar and
occipital regions arc greatly superior in size to
the upper and fore parts of the head. In what-
ever situation such a cerebral organization is
placed, the animal nature will or01·power the pe-
culiarly human sentiments. Principles ofChristian
morality would appear foolishness to a being so
constituted, and reflection and will would sink
overwhelmed by selfish and animal propensities.
Let us now see what history relates of the
character of Nero : he was born of parents both
notorious for their vices ; his father was so con-
scious bf his own and his wife's detestable dispo-
sitions, that he affirmed, at his son's birth, that
nothing could spring from himself and Agrippina
but some monster, born for the public calamity.
Nero, indeed, was cruel from the cradle. He
married young, but while he shewed an attach-
ment to a freed woman of a debauched charac-
ter, who obtained a great ascendency over him,
1:)0
he displayed nothing but aversiOn to his wife
Octavia, the daughter of Claudius, who, though
he had a son of his own, was prevailed upon by
Nero's mother, his second wife, to adopt him. A
long catalogue of crimes now succeeded. Agrip-
pina poisoned Claudius, and Nero, only eighteen
years old, contrived to have poison adminis-
tered to Britannicus, as they sat at table with
his wife and mother. He was always neeJy,
from his profusion of every kind, and there was
no mode of raising money by exactions and pil-
lage which he did not practise. He used to say
to his agents-' You know what 1 want, let it be
our business to leave nobody any thing.' He
made no scruple of plundering the most sacred
temples in the empire, for which he atoned by
paying extraordinary honors to some favorite
deity.
A conspiracy against his life exasperated the
tyrant. From this period he became suspicious
of every man of rank and character, set no bounds
to his cruelty, and displayed his brutal propensities
with more extravagance than before. A bloody
list of executions, in which the bc:-t and greatest
men of Rome were the victims, distinguishes the
annals of the subsequent years of his reign. At
the same time he mounted the public theatre at
Rome, disputed for the prizes of musician and
actor, and made the spectators feel his tyranny,
by the punishments inflicted on those who were
til
reported by his spiel' to have been careless or
tardy in their applauscs. He \Vas artful and cun-
ning, ungrateful to his benefactors, ferocious, and
execrable in the eyes of every honest man. In
the thirty-first year of his age, and fourteenth of
his reign, his troops forsook their allegiance, and
Galba was proclaimed emperor. Nero, who from
the first had shown the most cowardly irresolu-
tion, fled from Rome, and took refuge in the
country-house of one of his freed men. When
his flight was known, he was declared a public
enemy by the senate, and condemned to an igno-
minious death. He was exhorted by a few friends
who remained with him, to prevent this catas-
trophe by a voluntary death. He hesitated, com-
plained unmanfully, and attempted in vain to work
himself into a resolution for the deed. At length
the sound of the horsemen sent to apprehend him,
put an end to his hesitation, and he pierced his
throat with a poniard. Ilis memory has been
detested in all ages.
Fig. 2.-Senecct the Philosopher.
In this portrait both the basilar and sincipital
regions arc large, and the frontal portion of the
brain is considerable. The organs of benevo-
lence, of veneration, and of the reflecti\'e facul-
ties, are much larger than in fig. 1. Such a con-
stitution exposes a man to feel the struggle be-
G2
tween the lower and superior feelings ; the better
part of his nature, however, will prevail. The
philosophical judgment will be sound, and the
moral principles reasonable, as the upper part of
the forehead predominates; but firmness and self-
esteem are not large enough to be always de-
pended upon.
Seneca being brought from Spain to Rome,
when a child, was initiated into the study of elo-
quence by his father and other masters, but his
own inclinations led him to philosophy. His first
teacher was of the Pythagorean sect : he soon
grew tired of the obscure mysticism of that
school ; and became the disciple of a stoic : but
he, at the same time, extended his inquiries to all
the systems of Grecian philosophy. He was ap-
pointed by Agrippina preceptor to her son Nero,
while Pyrrhus was instituted governor and mili-
tary instructor of the young prince. When Nero
displayed his real character, and resolved to free
himself from his mother's presence, by the horrid
crime of matricide, Seneca did not oppose the
proposal as he ought to ,have done, and after the
deed was perpetrated, wrote a letter to the son-
ate in Nero's name to justify it. Though he was
unable to check the torrent of depravity of his
pupil, he experienced his lavish bounty to a de-
gree which produced an accumulation of wealth,
not only beyond the wants of a philosopher, but
surpassing the measure of a private fortune.
63
Afraid of Nero and his rapacious favorites, he
requested permission to retire from court, and
even offered to refund all that he had received
from the imperial liberality. Nero, a master in
dissimulation, assured him of his continued re-
gard, and would not permit the restitution of re-
wards which he had so well merited; but Seneca
knew his pupil too well to place any confidence
in his declarations. He, therefore, kept himself
as much as possible out of sight, retired to his
country scat, and, under pretence of indispo-
sition, rarely admitted visitors. It was not long,
however, before Nero sent a military tribune
with a band of soldiers to Seneca's house, with
the command that Seneca should immediately
put himself to death. The philosopher heard
this sentence with perfect composure, and asked
permission of the officer to make his testa-
ment. This being refused, he turned to his
friends, and said, that since he was not allowed
to shew his gratitude to them in any other
way, he would leave them the image of his life
as the best memorial of their friendship. He
then exhorted them to moderate their grief by
the precepts of philosophy, and the considera-
tion that such a fate was to be expected from
the character of Nero. The death he chose was
that of opening his veins, whilst seated in a hot
bath.
The characte1 of Seneca, both in ancient and
modern times, has been a. subject of much contro-
versy, some extolling him as an example of the
morality he taught, others representing him as
acting differently from his precepts: the phre-
nologist adds-from firmness, self-esteem, aHd
conscientiousness, not being large enough. Sen-
eca certainly had his faults, but while Nero fol-
lowed his instructions he uppeared an excellent
prince, and with Seneca all goodness forsook the
imperial court.
The tenor of Seneca's writings is that of solid
virtue, tempered with humanity, and exalted by
the noblest principles of theism. Though not free
from animal temptations, and too weak to resist at
all times, he, however, was strongly inclined to
benevolence, clemency, and virtue in general.
lie collected riche:::, -but always gave the advice
to be above them, and not to be unhappy in pov-
erty. His manner of living was simple, and even
austere. lie was fond of study from infancy to
the end of his life.
PLATE XVI.
Fig. I.-The Cardinal Richelieu.
The forehead of this portrait, particularly in
the region of the perceptive faculties, is large,
and the width of the head generally is greater than
its elevation. The organs of aequisitivencs~, sc-
•
1'1 Dl
Fu Lll ~ ur /, L t.l '
65
cretiveness, destructiveness, firmness, self-esteem,
and love of notoriety, are strongly marked; those
of benevolence, veneration, and conscientious-
ness, are small. Such a man will be talented,
but artful ; he will be guided by selfish motives
rather than by love of the truth ; religion itself
in his hands will be but a means of gaining his
immediate ends, of gratifying his worldly inten-
tions. He will sacrifice his adversaries without
pity or remorse, and in every situation, as father
or as husband, at the head of the church, or of
the civil government, he will insist upon being
obeyed. No man with such a configuration of
brain ought, therefore, on any account, to be in-
trusted with the direction of the state, he ought
always to remain answerable for his actions, and
under the control of some nobler and more hap-
pily-constituted heads.
Richclieu was educated for the church ; he
studied at the Sorbonne, went afterwards t~
Rome, and at the early age of twenty-two was
consecrated bishop of Lucon. Though he had
obtained some distinction, the ecclesiastical pro-
fession neither suited his morals nor his ambition,
and his great object was to make his way at
court. Under polite and insinuating manners, he
concealed a firm and determined mind, and a
spirit of intrigue, well adapted to make way
where favorites reigned supreme. The queen-
mother, Mary of Medicis, nominated him her
9
66
grand-almoner and secretary of state. He gained
her entire confidence, and was introduced into
the council notwithstanding the oppositiou of the
other ministers, who feared him, and the repug-
nance of the king, who suspected his ambition,
and was shocked with his licentious manners.
For some time he conducted himself with great
modesty and reserve; but he soon found means
to crush all his rivals, and to possess himself of
the whole authority of the crown. He then as-
sumed a tone of greater vigor and decision. He
began by strengthening the royal authority, and
with this view humbled the turbulent and fac-
tious grandees. Several of these engaged in in-
trigues against the government, but Richelicu
brought many of them to the scaffold. The
danger he himself incurred was a pretext for
giving him a body-guard. His power became
extraordinary ; even the royal authority was re-
duced to a shadow. The queen-mother, herself,
\l'as made to feel the cardinal's resentment. She
was put under arrest, her servants were all sent
to the Bastile, and she finally ended her days in
exile at Cologne. Ail that was great in the na-
tion trembled before him. The king, without
loving his prime-minister, submitted to all his se-
verities, and created him a duke and peer. The
daily expense of his household was enormous, his
equipage and establishments were rather upon
the scale of a sovereign prince than of a subject;
o7
and he much surpassed his ma~ter m external
pomp.
Richelieu even braved the court of Rome, and
reduced the French clergy to the same depend-
ence on the crown as all the other bodies of the
state. The principles of his administration ''ere
entirely despotic; in pursuit of his objects he
trampled law and justice, right:-1 and pri\ ileges,
under lm feet, and debased the ~pirit of the na-
tion. He said of himself-' I 'enture upon no-
thing till 1 have considered it well ; but ''hen I
have once taken my resolution, I go directly to
my end ; I o\'erthrow and mow down all that
stands in my way, and then corer the whole "ith
my red mantle.' Jle was liberal to those who
served him, and ardent in ruining his enemies.
He was the author of some splendid and u~eful
establishments, as of the Larbonne and the French
Academy. He was attached to literature, and
aimed at the same superiority in letters which he
posses~ed in politics. He compo~ed se\'eral dra-
matic pieces, but wa~ much disquieted by the su-
perior reputation of Corneille.
The Cardinal Hichelieu was undoubtedly a
man of great talent~, seeing that he succeeded
in orercoming all his enemies, in gaining all his
entls, and in maintaining himself at the head of
the government, though hated by the royal fam-
ily, and not liked by the king. But he owed
hig c;uccess to execrable mcanc;, to nnmmous
..
68
crimes, to corruption, and to the contempt in
which he held mankind, and every honorable or
conscientious feeling. The good he did was al-
ways blended with evil. He must be considered
as an imperious, ambitious, cunning, selfish, san-
guinary, vindictive man, totally devoid of con-
scientiousness. If the value and merits of a
statesman are to be appreciated by his justice and
love of the general welfare, by his reason and
moral rectitude, then was Richelieu's character
abominable.
Fig. 2.-Sir Francis Walsingham.
This is a fine noble head. The whole sinci-
pital region is larger than the basilar, and there
is a great mass of brain from the ear forwards
and upwards. The organs of the moral and re-
ligious feelings are very large, in union with those
of ideality, cautiousness, and the reflective fac-
ulties. Acquisitiveness is very small in propor-
tion to the superior sentiments. For such a man
it is easy to forget his own interests amid thoughts
for the public good; he will never advantage him-
self at the expense or to the detriment of another.
With the capacity of acquiring a vast stock of
knowledge, his mind will, however, always be
mounting to general principles. In every situa-
tion he will merit as he will grace the highest at-
tainable eminence ; happy the country that is
69
governed by such a brain! Were a phrenol-
ogist shewn this and the former portrait, and in-
formed that both of the men were in situations
to have enriched themselves, but that one died
poor and the other immensely rich, he would
never confound the former with the Aristides of
his country.
Walsingham, it is said, received a liberal edu-
cation, acquired sererallanguages, and many ac-
complishments. His first public engagement was
in the capacity of ambassador to France, during
the civil wars in that kingdom. Queen Elizabeth
kept him in considerable difficulties by a small
allowance, but he served her with zeal, discern-
ment, and fidelity, displaying every fitness for the
trust reposed in him.
After his return from France, in 1573, he was
appointed one of the principal secretaries of state
and a privy councillor. He then devoted himself
solely to the service of his country and sovereign,
and, by his vigilance and address, preserved her
crown and life from daily attempts and conspir-
acies. His general character has been thus sum-
med up :-'He was undoubtedly one of the most
refined politicians and most penetrating statesmen
that ever any age produced. He had an admira-
ble talent, both in discovering and managing the
secret recesses of human nature ; he had his spies
in most courts of Christendom, and allowed them
a liberal maintenance ; for his grand maxim was,
iO
that knowledge is never too dear. lie spent his
whole time and faculties in the service of the
queen and her kingdom ; his conversation was
insinuating, but yet reserved; he saw every one,
and none saw him. To him men':s faces spoke
as much as their tongucR, and their countenan-
ces were indexes of their hearts. Heligion, in
his judgment, was the interest of his country,
as it was of his own soul ; it had his head, his
purse, and his heart. He passed the latter
days of his life mostly in retirement, and when
any of his former gay companions came to Ree
him, and told him he was melanchol), he is RaJd
to have replied :-' No, I am not melancholy;
I am serious, and it is fit I should be so ; all
things arc serious about us.' His cautiousnegs
was certainly great. He died so poor, it is
Raid, that his friends were obliged to bury him
in St. Paul's, late at night, in the most private
manner.'
Cautiousness, great intellect, and moral and
religious feelings, were the most prominent fea-
tures in his character, as the organs of these
powers arc the most largely developed in his
brain.
.PI _lUI.
I ' ' ~ , l '"'
# II I
71
PLATE XVII.
Fig. I.-Pope Alexander VL
This cerebral organization is despicable in the
eyes of a phrenologist. The animal organs com-
pose by far its greatest portion. Such a brain is
no more adequate to the manifestation of Chris-
tian virtues, than the brain of an idiot from birth
to the exhibition of the intellect of a Lcibnitz or
a Bacon. The cervical and whole basilar region
of the head are particularly developed, the organs
of the perceptive faculties are pretty large, but the
sincipital region is exceedingly low, particularly
at the organs of benevolence, veneration and con-
scientiousness. Such a head is unfit for any em-
ployment of a superior kind, and never gives birth
to sentiments of humanity. The sphere of its
activity docs not extend beyond those enjoyments
which minister to the animal portion of human
nature.
Alexander VI. was, in truth, a scandal to the
papal chair; from the earliest age he was dis-
orderly and artful, and his life to the last was in-
famous.
He is said to have bought the tiara by bribing
a certain number of cardinals, or rather by mak-
ing large promises, which he never fulfilled. It is
well known, that when he became pope he had a
family of five children, four boys and one daugh-
ter. He made a regular practice of selling bish-
72
oprics and other ecclesiastical benefices, to enrich
himself and his family. Though profane and va-
rious religious writers do not all agree in their
judgment concerning the disorderly conduct of
this man, many atrocities committed by him are
well-ascertained facts. History will always ac-
cuse him of the crimes of poisoning, simony, and
false-swearing, of reckless debauchery, nay of in-
cest with his own daughter. In political matters
he formed alliances with all the princes of his
time, but his ambition and perfidy never failed to
find him a pretext for breaking his word, and dis-
turbing the peace. He engaged Charles VIII. of
France to enter Italy, in order to conquer the
kingdom of Naples, and as soon as that prince
had succeeded in the enterprise, he entered into
a league with the Venetians and the emperor
Maximilian to rob him of his conquest. He sent
a nuncio to the Sultan Bajazet to entreat his as-
sistance against Charles, promising him perpetual
friendship, in case of compliance ; but after the
receipt of a large remittance from the Turks, he
treacherously delivered Zizim, the brother of Baj-
azet, then at the court of Rome, into the hands
of Charles. As a singular example of Alexander's
arrogance, his bull may be mentioned, by which
he took upon him to divide the new world be-
tween the kings of Spain and Portugal, granting
to the former all the territory on the west of an
imaginary line passing from north to south, at
73
one hundred leagues distance from the Cape de
Vcrd Islands. Alexander possessed eloquence and
addre::;s, but a total lack of noble sentiments ren-
dered him altogether unfit for his sacred station.
Poisoned wine, which had been prepared forcer-
tain cardinals whose riches tempted the cupidity
of his holiness, was given him by mistake, and
ended his profligate career. Some writers have
questioned the truth of this account of Alexan-
der's death, but there is nothing in the relation
inconsistent with the acknowledged charncter of
this pontiff. Lowness of feelings and lowness of
brain are seen together.
Fig. 2.-Fr. Oberlin, Pastor of Five Villages among
the Vognesian Jlountains.
This is an extraordinary head, a form that a
phrenologist love:;: to contemplate. There i'5 little
brain at the basis, whilst all the upper and front
regions arc unusually large. The posterior sinci-
pital portion being also in great proportion, inde-
pendence of mind, steadiness, and perseverance
in every pursuit and undertaking, will be prom-
inent features in the exalted moral and religious
character indicated by the rest of the head. Self-
esteem will here become dignity, benevolence and
veneration be blended with, and made inseparable
from wisdom. In a word, such a cerebral organ-
ization approaches in excellence the idea which
phrenologists arc apt to form of that of Je::;us.
10
7-i
This model of christian piety found the inhab-
itants of his parish, isolated in five different vil-
lages, poor, ignorant, agitated by henious pas-
sions, and without the most necessary means of
comfortable existence. But by laboring unremit-
tingly he, by degrees, succeeded in changing their
wretched condition. He taught them to cultivate
potatoes, flax, and such vegetables as succeeded
best in light and sandy soils. He laid out a nursery,
in order to supply the peasants with trees of va-
rious kinds, and shewed them the advantages
they would reap by attending to their cultivation.
He gave instructions to the children himself, teach-
ing the younger to read, write, and calculate; while
he lectured to the more advanced in age, upon the
cultivation of fruit-trees, the principles of agricul-
ture, and the noxious and useful qualities of the
plants which the country produced. He particu-
larly accustomed them to order and cleanliness.
The good pastor, with his parishioners at his
back, actually worked at the formation of conven-
ient ways from one village to another, and of a
good and ready communication with the great
road leading to Strasburg. To this city he sent
children to become artisans, such as tailors, shoe-
makers, smiths, and carpenters, a female to learn
midwifery, and a promising youth to study medi-
cine and surgery. He himself had some knowl-
edge of the healing art, used the lancet in cases
of necessity, and preserved the most necessary
/'! 11111
f,
/]!-.".'\, ""/
I...
-
75
remedies in his house, which he distributed as he
thought they were required. He devoted his tal-
ents, time, labors, and whole life to the welfare
of his flock. He persuaded a benevolent family,
Legrand, to favor his philanthropic views, and
to transfer their manufactory of ribands from
Basle to his parish, and to furnish employment to
the people.
Besides his vast care of all worldly concerns,
he paid the greatest attention to moral and reli-
gious instruction, which he enforced in the most
effectual manner by deeds as well as words. He
ended a law-suit in which the parish had been in-
volved for many years, and he brought good will
and mutual love to dwell with his flock, instead
of discord. He well deserves the title father,
which his parishioners have given him. Their
love and gratitude, surely will not terminate with
his existence, and the good he has done will live
long after he is dust.
PLATE XVII I.
Fig 1.-Don JUanuel Godoi, the Prince ofPeace.
This head is round, and particularly broad
above the ears; it may be aptly enough compared
with that of a cat. The upper or sincipital re-
gion is very small, and much contracted ; the
76
iorehead i::; insignificaut, particularly in the quar-
ter of the reflective organs. Individuality, event-
uality, and melody, arc the most prominent parts.
A brain like this adapts itself readily to external
circumstances, anc.l follows the tide of occurren-
ces, viewing personal advantages particularly; it
therefore fits an individual to make his way in the
world, but no man with such a form of head de-
serves to be intrusted with the management of
great afrairs. He is incapable of understanding
principles, and can never feel the superiority of
ultimate and general happiness over mvmentary
and individual gratifications. lie is only destined
IJy nature to make up the number of her crea-
tures, to enjoy personal existence, and to make
room for others.
Don Manuel Godio, born at Badajos, in 1764,
of noble, but indigent parents, went with his
brother, Don Louis Godoi, to Madrid in quest of
a situation. .Both had an agreeable voice, and
played well on the guitar. Their musical talent
was a passport for them into good society, and a
means of gaining them powerful protectors. They
succeeded in obtaining admission into the royal
life-guards. Their whole income was limited to
their pay, 10d. sterling per day. So extreme was
their poverty, that Don Manuel is reported often
to have lived on dry bread, and to have had no
change of linen. His brother got acquainted with
a chambermaid of the palace, who made mf'ntion
77
of his musical talents to the queen. Orders were
given to bring Don Louis before her majesty.
She was delighted with his performance, and
applauded him warmly. Then he replied, 'Ah,
madam, what would her majesty say if she heard
my brother!' Immediately the queen command-
ed this prodigy to be brought into her presence.
Don Manuel possessed every requisite necessary
to please and to ensure success ; an elegant form,
an agreeable insinuating face, a fine voice, and
very great skill upon the guitar. He delighted
the queen to such a degree, that from the first
interview she determined on making his fortune,
and proceeded with an extraordinary zeal. Some
of the courtiers spoke with rapture to the l•ing
of Don Manuel's talents. His majesty himself
then desired to hear him, and his feelings were
so much excited, that he devoted to the chnrm-
ing youth a particular affection. Don .Manuel
was at once promoted from the rank of a simple
guardsman to that of major in the regiment, of
which the king was colonel. Before long he was
made counsellor of the state, then secretary of
the state, next prime-minister, with the title of
Duke of Alcudia, and in 1795, when Spain sep-
arated from the coalition against France, he re-
ceived the title of Prince of Peace, the rank of
grandee of the first order, an estate worth 60,000
piastres per annum, and the chain and badge of
the golden fleece.
78
He possessed great fluency of speech, graceful
manners, and a winning countenance. By de-
grees he conceived a great idea of his own capac-
ity and deserts; he could no longer brook oppo-
sition, and even braved the Prince of Asturias.
In 1796, he signed the articles of an offensive and
defensive alliance with the French republic, made
common cause with Buonaparte, to the ruin of
his country ; attacked Portugal, and received the
title of Commander-in-chief of the sea and land
forces, and of Grand Admiral of Castile. He
married a cousin of the king of Spain, excited the
king against his own son, and sold his country and
Portugal to France; but having at length fallen
into disgrace, he was glad to regain his freedom
by emigration. His intellectual powers were evi-
dently very middling, but his immorality was ex-
traordinary. A cerebral organization like that of
Don Manuel Godoi will never manifest senti-
ments esteemed in an Aristides, a Walsinghnm, or
a Jeannin.
Fig. 2.-Pete1· Jeannin, commonly called the Presi-
dent Jeannin.
Such a forehead fits a man for the study of
every science ; it will raise him to eminence in
every profession, while the great development of
the sincipital region will keep him in the path of
righteousness. The whole brain is only compat-
79
ible with nobleness of mind and elevation of char-
acter. All views which emanate from such a head
will be extensive, and beyond the reach of com-
mon understandings; moreover, they will be eno-
bled by soundness of judgment and generosity of
sentiment.
P. Jeannin, horn in 154.,0, even from infancy
displayed great talents; he was brought up to
the law, and first appeared in the quality of advo-
cate in the parliament of Burgundy. He soon
distinguished himself by his eloquence, and the
force of his arguments. He was frank and just.
The states of Burgundy appointed him agent for
the affairs of the province. It was Jeannin who
persuaded th0 lieutenant-general of Burgundy,
De Charny, to postpone the execution of the
order for perpetrating, at Dijon, the same horrid
massacre of the protestants on St. Bartholomew's
day, which took place at Paris and other cities.
He· protested that it was impossible the king
should persist in such a cruel purpose, and a
courier arrived a few days after to revoke the
order. This was the more meritorious in Jeannin,
as he had been induced by the zeal which the
leaguers affected for religion and the good of the
state, to JOlll their party. He was attached to
the Duke of Mayenne, and deputed by him to
negotiate with Philip II. of Spain, the declared
protector of the league.
Jeannin soon discovered that the real design of
80
Philip, in supporting the civil war in France, was
to gain possession of some of its best provinces.
He, therefore, on his return, exerted his influence
to detach the Duke from the Spaniards, and dis-
pose him to acknowledge his lawful sovereign.
After Mayenne had returned to his duty, Henry
IV. was desirous of engaging Jeannin in his ser-
vice; and when the latter honestly objected that
his majesty should prefer an old leaguer to so
many persons of known fidelity, Henry replied,
that he who had been faithful to a duke, would
never be otherwise to a king. This was a true
phrenological judgment.
Henry conferred upon Jeannin the office of
first president of the parliament of Burgundy,
intending that he should dispose of it to another,
and devote himself entirely to attendance in the
council of state. From this time he became one
of Henry's principal advisers and confidants, and
was always selected to conduct the more delicate
negotiatiOns. He assisted in drawing up the
Edict of Nantes. Henry called him the good man,
communicated to him his most secret thoughts,
and consulted him upon his nearest and dearest
interests. Having once discovered that a secret
of state had been revealed, he complained of it at
the council-board, saying at the same time, while
he took the president Jeannin by the hand, 'I
answer for this good man ; the rest of you must
examine one another.'-' Jeannin,' said Henry,
/.'} I ./,
J (I
I ' " Nl .. " ,fIt ' I
81
on another occasion, always thinks well ; he never
conceals a thought from me, and he never flatters
me.'
After the death of Henry IV. Jeannin was
intrusted by the queen-mother with the manage-
ment of the most important affairs of the kingdom,
especially with the administration of the finances;
and in the midst of universal disorder he preserved
his integrity of character unsullied. The mod-
erate fortune he left behind him is the best proof
of his rectitude. He died at the age of eighty-
two, having been minister during twenty-seven
years. He possessed a truly elevated mind. On
one occasion, when asked by a prince who meant
to disconcert him, whose son he was, he replied,
'The son of my virtues.' His name is illustrious
on account of his talents, his virtues, and the ser-
vices he rendered to his country.
PLATE XIX.
Danton and ft-falesherbes.
It is much to be regretted, in a phrenological
point of view, that many of the individuals who
displayed great mental energies during the French
revolution, are represented, in their portraits,
either with perukes or long hair, which prevents
their cerebral organization from being distinctly
seen. The difference between the two heads
11
82
represented in this plate is, however, conspicuous
enough. In fig. 1. Danton, the upper part of the
forehead is flat, and the head generally is broad
rather than high; it is particularly large laterally
above the ears ; the organs of benevolence and of
veneration are small ; those of the reflective pow-
ers but moderate. In fig. 2. Malesherbes, on the
contrary, all these cerebral parts are ~trongly
marked; the whole head is very elevated, and
much higher than it is broad.
Now Danton was renowned for his strong ani-
mal feelings, for his audaciousness, impetuosity,
and vehement elocution; for his bold conceptions,
and his violent means of execution; but at the
same time his incapacity as a leader, under try-
ing circumstances, as the director of such a des-
olating tempest as the French revolution, is ad-
mitted.
Malesherbes, on the other hand, was a philoso-
pher, in private life as well as at the head of the
government, in prosperous and adverse circum-
stances, in easy and in difficult situations. He
was devoid of all party spirit, without ambition,
unostentatious, and the foe alike of despotism
and of licentiousness, by whatever name entitled;
but he was the friend of truth, reason, modera-
tion, and peace ; the admirer of benevolent and
generous sentiments. His speeches are rare
models of truth unfolded without any mixture of
dissimulation, without any of the false coloring
Ill',.',.,
I ' '
I 1 •
'It.
83
of exaggeration, and without any tinge of irrev-
erence. They abound with sound reasoning,
and shew frequent traces of unobtrusive firmness
and of respectful sincerity. The grandeur of soul
with which he bore his proscription, and the
magnanimity he displayed in defending the unfor-
tunate Louis XVI. of France, at the expense of
his life, are facts generally known and universally
admired.
How is it possible to overlook the influence of
the brain on the manifestations of the mind ! Is
it not lamentable to see so little care taken to
preserve specimens of the principal of nature's
works; I mean, of the real cerebral configuration
of those who excel or are eminent in any way?
By using these means more will be done in ad-
vancing the knowledge of man, than has hitherto
been effected by all the learned societies and all
the schools of philosophy that have ever existed.
PLATE XX.
Fig. 1.-Pope Gregory VJJ.
Phrenologists being convinced of the existence,
immutability, and universality of nature's laws,
and of the influence of the brain on manifesta-
tions of mind, from the pope, emperor, and king,
down to the lowest grade in society, will always
regret to see the supreme power vested in a head
84
such as is here represented. The basilar and
occipital regions are extremely large, in propor-
tion to the upper region, and the greatest length
of fibre is between the ear and the organs of self-
esteem and firmness. The organs of the intel-
lectual faculties arc large, but they will only serve
as means of gratifying the lower feelings. The
fulness immediately above and behind the ears,
combined with great self-esteem and firmness,
whilst benevolence and veneration are small, will
produce brutality of sentiments, rudeness, and
roughness of manners. Such a brain is not made
to imitate the founder of Christianity, who was
charity itself, and desired that his disciples might
be distinguished by their mutual love and for-
bearance.
Gregory VII. indeed, is an excellent proof that
eminence is not achieved by superior moral
endowments alone, that exalted rank does not
bestow the qualities necessary to honor the situa-
tion on every one of its possessors, and that
Christianity has not abolished the laws of organ-
ization established by the Creator. He, among
many others who have styled themselves Christ's
representatives, evidently acted in direct opposi-
tion to the Christian law. Once secured in the
papal chair, ~nd his election confirmed by the
emperor of Germany, Gregory began to put the
'vast designs he had formed into execution. The
power which he resolved to usurp over all sove-
85
reign princes he first exerted against Philip I.,
King of France. He wrote a very sharp letter to
Philip, reproaching him that churches and monas-
teries were plund-ered with impunity, and that
the king himself had his share in the booty ;
threatening him likewise with the censures of the
church, if these abuses were not speedily re-
dressed.
The following year, 1074, he determined to
compel the clergy to observe celibacy, which sev-
eral of his predecessors had already attempted
without success, and utterly to do away with sim-
ony, or the practice of trading in bishoprics and
other benefices. With this view he assembled a
council at Rome, where he proposed and carried
the following decrees :-1. That those who had,
by simony, obtained any dignity or office in the
church, should be excluded from the exercise of
the office thus obtained. 2. That no man should
thenceforth presume to sell or buy any ecclesiasti-
cal dignity whatever. 3. That the married clerks
should not perform any clerical office. 4. That
the people should not attend at the masses, nor
any other sacred function performed by the mar-
ried clerks. 5. That those who had wives should
put them away, and that none should thenceforth
be ordained, who did not promise to observe con-
tinence during his whole life.
He formed the destructive project of relieving
the eastern Christians oppressed by the Saracens,
86
excommunicated the king of France, and issued a
decree, taking the nomination and investiture of
bishops out of the hands of princes. This decree
was a declaration of war against all Christian
princes ; but Gregory VII. thought it a point well
worth contending for, well worthy of the confu-
sion, civil wars, rebellions, and bloodshed that it
might occasion ; for he would, by carrying it into
execution, bring the disposal of the whole wealth
of the church into his own hands, and thus render
the clergy every where independent of their prin-
ces, and dependent upon him alone, as he alone
could reward and prefer them. For ages the
popes themselves had not been consecrated till
after the decree of their election was signed by
the emperor; Gregory himself had complied with
this ceremony, but he declared such a state of
things heresy and idolatry, and resolved that it
should continue no longer.
He therefore acquainted the emperor with this
famous resolution, and forbade him thenceforth to
meddle in anywise with ecclesiastical prefer-
ments, to grant imestitures, or dispose of vacant
churches upon any pretext whatever, and threat-
ened him with excommunication if he refused to
comply with these demands.
As Henry, howe\"er, paid no kind of attention
to the decree against investitures, Gregory sent
legates into Germany to summon him, in the
pope'::: name, to appear in person at Rome, on the
87
Monday of the second week in Lent, 1076, in or-
der to give an account of his conduct and clear
himself of the crimes laid to his charge. The
legates added that they were ordered by his holi-
ness to let him know, that if he did not obey the
summons, and appear on the day appointed, he
would on that very day he cut off with an ana-
thema from the body of the holy apostolic churc~.
The king, provoked beyond measure at such
an extraordinary summons, in order to render the
sentence of excommunication, with which he was
threatened by the pope, ineffectual, resolved to
have his holiness formally deposed in a council.
He invited the bishops and abbots to meet at
Worms, in order to concert jointly with him the
most proper means for delivering the church from
the tyranny of a man, who, in defiance of the
canons, exercised a power which none of his
predecessors had ever claimed, and who plainly
shewed, by his whole conduct, that he aimed
at nothing less than the subjection of both the
church and the state to his lawless and arbitrary
will.
The pope, then, was deposed in the council at
Worms, and the sentence immediately communi-
cated to the bishops of Lombardy, who assembled
at Pavia, and not only. confirmed the sentence,
but swore upon the gospel, that they would no
longer acknowledge Gregory as pope. Gregory
received the news of these events without betray-
88
ing the least sign of resentment. He only de-
clared in the council which he now assembled,
that nothing should ever deter him from correct-
ing the scandalous abuses which prevailed in the
church, and that he was ready even to suffer mar-
tyrdom, and to shed the last drop of his blood in
so good a cause. The bishops applauded his
firmness, and assured him, to a man, that they
would stand by him at the expense, if necessary,
of their lives. The emperor was, therefore, ex-
communicated, and in his turn deposed with great
solemnity, in haughty and violent terms. The
pope absolved all Christians from the oath of alle-
giance which they had taken, or might take to
him, and forbade any one to serve him as a sove-
reign. The bishops of Germany and Lombardy
were partly excommunicated, and partly threat-
ened with an anathema, if they did not, within a
limited time, repent of their wickedness, return to
their duty; and appear personally at Rome, to
plead their cause.
Gregory took care to acquaint the whole chris-
tian world with his decree, claiming the right
of deposing princes. He countenanced a league
against the emperor, and wrote to the princes,
bishops, and people, empowering them to choose
another monarch, if Henry did not turn from
his wickedness, and by sincere repentance ren-
der himself worthy of being replaced on the
throne, which he had deservedly forfeited by
89
his disobedience to, and contempt of, the apos-
tolic see.
The enemies of the emperor availed themselves
of the excommunication to stir up the people
against him ; even his fhends were afraid to lcod
him any assistance, so long as he continued under
that sentence; he therefore resolved to procure
his absolution. Being informed that the pope
had left Rome, and was coming to Germany, he
set out in great haste, with his wife and his son,
yet an infant, to meet him and to obtain absolu-
tion. He undertook this journey in the depth of
winter, which that year was extremely severe;
he crossed the Alps, often in imminent danger of
being buried in the- snow, or falting down the
precipices. Some of his train perished in the
passage, and others lost, by the excessive cold,
the use of their limbs.
In the mean time, Gregory had journeyed as
far as Lombardy, and when informed of the ar-
rival of the emperor in Italy, he retired to Can-
usium, a strong castle in the diocese of Reggio,
belonging to the famous Countess Matilda, who
always declared for the pope, followed in every
thing his directions, and accompanied him where-
ever he went.
Henry was weak enough to send deputies
thither to the pope, and to entreat his holiness to
absolve him from the excommunication, as he
had for that purpose alone undertaken so long
12
and so difficult a journey, in so severe a season.
The pope was with difficulty prevailed upon to
admit the suppliant to his presence. ' If he be
truly penitent,' said he, at last, ' let him come,
and by his submission atone for his long disobe-
dience to the decrees of the holy apostolic see.'
The emperor, upon his arrival at the first gate of
the castle of Canusium, surrounded with a triple
wall, was told that he must dismiss all his attend-
ants and enter alone. He did so,-tbe first gate
was then shut; at the second he was required to
divest himself of all the insignia of royalty, to put
on in their stead a coarse woollen tunic, and to
stand barefooted in that garb, in the month of
January, till it should please his holiness to com-
mand the third gate to be opened to admit him
to his presence. In this condition he was forced
to wait three whole days, fasting from morning
to night, and imploring the mercy of God and the
pope. This bard-hearted man shewed not the
smallest sign of compassion, whilst all the other
persons of distinction with him were touched
with pity on seeing so great a prince in suffering,
and reduced to so deplorable a state. Finally,
on the fourth day, the pope permitted the mon-
arch to appear before him, and absolved him un-
der these most severe conditions : that he should
appear at the time and at the place which the
pope should appoint, to answer the charges
brought against him, and should own the pope
91
for his judge ; that till judgment was given, and
his cause was finally determined, he should lay
aside all badges of royalty,-should not meddle,
upon any pretence whatever, with public affairs,
and should levy no money from the people but
what was necessary for the support of his family ;
that all who had taken an oath of allegiance to
him should be absolved from that oath before God
as well as before men ; that if he should clear
himsel~ of the crimes laid to his charge, and re-
main emperor, he should be ever obedient and sub-
missive to the pope, and if he failed in any of
the conditions, his absolution should be null,-he
should be deemed guilty of the crimes laid to his
charge as if he had owned them,-should never
again be heard,-the lords of the empire be ab-
solved from their oaths, and be at full liberty to
elect another sovereign.
Henry, when free, soon changed his mind:
Gregory, therefore, encouraged the Germans to
rebellion, and a new emperor, Rudolph, duke of
Suabia, was elected in his stead.
Gregory, towards the end of his life, was obliged
to retire to Salerno. He remained to the last
inflexible, haughty, and vindictive. He had un-
common abilities, but he grossly misapplied them
to the most wicked of purposes,-to the making
himself sole lord, spiritual and temporal, over the
whole earth, and becoming by that means tho
sole disposer, not only of all ecclesiastical digni-
9.2
ties and preferments, but of empires, states and
kingdoms. Such a_power vested in the bishops of
Rome was unknown to the world until Gregory
VII. occupied the see. His insatiable ambition,
his unbending haughtiness, and the miseries he
caused to France and Germany, explain satisfac-
torily why the bishops of neither of these coun-
tries even consented to add his name to the cal-
endar of the saints.
Fig. 2.-The Pope Pius VII.
In this head the organs of the animal propen~ei­
ties are small, those of the higher sentiments large.
Self-esteem and firmness are great, but they are
accompanied with justice, cautiousness, venera-
tion, benevolence, and good intellectual powers.
The perceptive and reflective faculties are full,
and the organ of order is particularly developed.
This is the head of a well-intentioned, noble-
minded, and prudent man, who will not give up a
good cause, but will never act with temerity. His
basilar region being sma11, he will avoid all violent
measures, but persevere with confidence in the
path of truth.
Pius VII. lived under very trying circumstances,
and his mind was tested in many and various
ways, but he always acted with prudence, and
never compromised the dignity of the eminent
situation with which he was intrusted. As a pri-
93
vate man Pius was truly gentle, humane, prudent,
and virtuous. His cerebral organization is very
different from that of Gregory VII. and in this
difference the phrenologist perceives the expla-
nation of the very dissimilar conduct of these two
pontiffs. Had Pius been organized as Gregory
VII. his bearing would not have been character-
ized by that noble firmness, that pious resigna-
tion which distinguished it. The firmness and
self-esteem of Pius were mitigated by benevo-
lence and veneration, and his whole life exhibits
a mind unacquainted with rigor, pride, or stub-
bornness.
CHAPTER H.
Portraits of Individuals remarkable tn a religious
point ofview.
In every age the religious sentiments have un-
questionably exerted a most powerful influence
over the condition of mankind. Tho great bulk
have still been, and will long continue to be, led
blindfolded, and the few constituted capable of
reasoning and deducing, will not yet dare to with-
draw the veil that conceals the sanctuary of faith.
The disposition to religion is certainly inherent
in the nature of man; but when we cast our eyes
over the world at large, we perceive his religious
ideas interwoven with erroneous conceptions to
such a degree, that it seems impossible to sep-
arate the little that is good, reasonable, and in
conformity with proper notions of the Divine and
of human dignity, from the abundance that is
noxious, unreasonable, and unworthy of rather
superior humanity, much more of an all-wise and
perfect Creator.
The object of the following portraits is to fix
the reader's attention on the differences in the
cerebral organization of religious persons, among
whom veneration in one case, and in another mar-
l'ellousness, predominates, each being afterwards
,t( I , '/1 II ~ I f}
95
modified by every variety of combination with
other fundamental powers.
PLATE XXI.
Fig. I.-Francis Paris.
This head is very high, but it is narrow in the
sincipital region ; the organs of benevolence, ven-
eration, and marvellousness, are particularly prom-
inent. Such a brain will never fit a man to excel
in any department of the arts or sciences ; it is
the attribute of a weak, superstitious mind-of
a mind that believes what it is told, that cannot
distinguish between the spirit and the letter of
religious language. One with such a brain, if
born a Jew, will worship after the manner of the
Jews; if sprung from Roman Catholic parents,
he will follow the ceremonies of the Romish
church ; descended from Mahometans, or from
parents professing any other creed, he will still
feel inclined blindly to worship as his forefathers
did before him. He will be of the number of
those who believe that a multitude of words de-
serves to be heard, and who flatter themselves
that they can contribute to the beatitude of the
Supreme Being.
The Deacon Paris was the eldest son of a
counsellor of the parliament, and born in Paris,
in the year 1690. He disliked the profession of
96
the law, by pursuing which he might have suc-
ceeded to his father's appointment, he preferred
embracing the ecclesiastical life. He thought
himself unworthy of any higher grade than that of
deacon. Upon the death of his father, he re-
nounced all claims to his patrimonial inheritance
in fa.vor of a younger brother, and devoted him-
self to what he conceived to be a life of merito-
rious poverty. Having made trial of different
secluded spots, in which to pass his days, he at
length fixed upon a house in the suburbs of St.
Marceau, where he spent his time in prayer and
the most rigorous acts of penance, supporting him-
self by making stockings for the poor, with whom
he divided the earnings of his labor.
By this course of life he acquired a character
for extraordinary sanctity with the superstitious
populace and pious old women, who, led by igno-
rance and credulity, looked upon such mortifica-
tions as the perfection of virtue. He died when
he was only thirty-seven years of age, probably
on account of the severity of the discipline which
he observed. He wrote commentaries on the
gospel, and several epistles, but his ,works arc
indifferent performances, and never had many
readers.
He was buried in the church-yard of St. Mc-
dard, at Paris, where his brother erected a mon-
ument to his memory, which the great reputa-
tion of his sanctity drew many people to visit.
97
They paid their devotions to him as to a saint.
The jansenist party, to whom he belonged, con-
sidered him as a subject proper to revive their
credit against the jesuits, who were supported by
the court. Within five years after his death, re-
ports of miracles wrought at his tomb were confi-
dently propagated, not only in the city of Paris,
but through the whole of France. In consequence
of this, immense crowds were perpetually pressing
to the place, decoyed by the artifices of the
crafty; and many went away proclaiming the
benefits received at the tomb of the saint, in the
cure or alleviation of various diseases. In vain
diu men of sober sense endeavor to disabuse the
multitude ; nor could all the power of the govern-
ment give a check to the spread of this supersti-
tion, till by enclosing the tomb within a wall, all
access to it was effectually precluded. Though
this expedient put an end to the external worship
of the saint, it did not, however, for some time,
shake the credit of his mi!·acles, detailed accounts
of which were drawn up and distributed among
the people. Several collections of these narra-
tions were published, consisting of above one
hundred in the whole, the authenticity and ac-
curacy of which were attested by clergy of the
first dignity, who presented n report upon them
to the archbishops, with a petition signed by
above twenty churchmen, praying that they might
be formally registered, and solemnly published to
the people as true miracles.
13
98
Fig. 2.-Augustus Baker.
The basilar region in this portrait is small in
proportion to the sincipital. The organs of the
moral and religious feelings are very large, and
their energy would be increased by the great
ideality and cautiousness. This is the cerebral
organization of a gloomy mystic character, de-
lighting in ascetic contemplations. A mind mani-
festing itself by means of such organs will be con-
stantly occupied with devotion and supernatural
considerations. The faith will be fervent, but
nev er without an admixture of fear and ap-
prehension. All kinds of austere and melancholic
conceptions are the offspring of similar brains.
Individuals so endowed are slow in their doings,
and commonly dark-minded; discontented with
the world and mankind, they are apt to prefer re-
tirement, or even perfect solitude, to any partici-
pation in the business of life. They are also ready
to conceive, that in yielding to such inclinations
they will be likely to render themselves agreeable
to the Author of the universe.
/'/ l/11
///\',It
/11 ffa • I II J'P \. '·I I
J
99
PLATE XXII.
Fjg. I.-Constantine Cajetan1ts,
Born at Syracuse, in 1560, he became a bene
dictine, and distinguished himself by his literary
labors and his extraordinary anxiety for the glory
of his order, among the members of which he
ranJ-.ed the author of every work of reputation,
and every individual of personal merit, or great
intellectual capacity. It was sufficient that a man
of celebrity had passed a night in a Benedictine
monastery to declare him a Benedictine. It was
this circumstance that led the Cardinal Cabellucci
to say:-' I apprehend that before long Cajetanus
will transform St. Peter into a Benedictine.' He
maintained that Gersen, an abbot of his order,
was the author of the work entitled, Imitation de
Jesus Christ. Cajetanus introduced severe regu-
lations among the Benedictines, and was con-
stantly occupied with holy things.
The phrenological explanation of this peculiar
character is easily deduced from the cerebral
organization. The organs of the religious senti-
ments were large, and combined with great firm-
ness, self-esteem, and love of approbation. The
piety became severe by firmness and self-esteem ;
whilst love of approbation and self-esteem placed
the order of Benedictines above all the others,
and declared it the most glorious. The eventu-
lOU
ality, individuality, and language, being large, ex-
plain the fondne~s of C·1jctanu~ for literary occu-
pation~. i\Ien 50 organized arc commonly brilliant
in :;ociety ; notwithstanding their religious opin-
ions and severe principles, they arc also easily
worked upon by world!} distinctions. These are
the being~, too, who introduce pomp and cere-
mony, and obserrance, into the wor:::-hip of the
Supreme Being. They arc not satisfied with the
text-' God is a spirit, and is to be adored in
spirit and in truth.'
Fig. 2.-John Crasset, Jesuzt,
Born at Dieppe, in 1618, had great aptitude for
scientific pursuits. lie became professor of phi-
losophy, and afterwards preacher. He also com-
posed many works of an ascetic character, and
during twenty-three year:; was director of the
Jesuitic establishment for gentlemen at Paris.
The organs of the perceptive faculties, of lan-
guage, and, indeed, of the forehead generally, arc
in large proportion. The organ of manellousness
is not more than full, and those of acquisitiveness,
secretircncsc::, cautiousness, and firmness, are
large. Crassct had a hrain, which gives what
the French cull saroirfaire, and I conceive that it
must haH' been very difficult to gain a knowledge
of all his private thoughts. His religious feelings
were not strong enough ever to have made him
Pll'A'Zll
Ft~!l
4 If , .. ,. '1.1 ~
....;..•.,j
101
forget himself. Those who have such brains as
John Crasset are practical spirits, and understand
the management of business to the greatest possi-
ble advantage. Crasset was well chosen to super-
intend the interests of the order, and to direct the
Jesuitical establishment at Paris.
PLATE XXIII.
Fig. I.-Joseph Priestley.
It is to be regretted that both this and the next
portrait were taken with the head enveloped in a
peruke. The organs of the perceptive and reflec-
tive faculties in Joseph Priestley's head are large,
particularly individuality, form, size, language,
comparison, and causality. This is the brain
which leads him who is so fortunate as to be en-
dowed with it in pursuit of solid information, and
which produces general soundness of judgment.
The man thus gifted is more disposed to believe
in positive facts than in marvellous reports.
Priestley was born of parents of the Calvinistic
persuasion, at Field-head, near Leeds. He was,
in his youth, adopted by an aunt, a woman of ex-
emplary piety and benevolence, who sent him for
education to several schools in the neighborhood,
where he acquired an extensive knowledge of ihe
learned languages, including Hebrew. He was
destined for the ministry, but indifferent health
102
caused his views for a time to be turned towards
trade. His constitution becoming :o;tronger, how-
ever, he resumed his fin;t purpose, and en-
tered a dissenting academy at Daventry. There
he spent three years, during which his acute
and vigorous mind was never unemployed. lie
acquired many new ideas of various kinds, and
changed the orthodox opinions in which he had
been educated, for doctrines usually called heret-
ical.
On quitting the academy he accepted an invita-
tion to officiate as minister to a small congrega-
tion at ~eedham-markct, in Suffolk. 1\ot having
the talents necessary to a popular preacher, how-
ever, and falling under suspicion of nmsing hereti-
cal opinions, he passed his time in obscurity, but
assiduously employed in theological and scriptural
studies. His first publication was an English
grammar on a new plan, for the usc of his scholars.
Gradually he began to distinguish himself by his
writings in various branches of science and litera-
ture. Several succcssive publications, particu-
larly his History of Electricity, made his name
extensively known. In this work he gave a clear
and well-digested account of the rise and progress
of that branch of science, and related many new
and ingeniously-devised experiments of his own,
the first essays of that inventive and sagacious
spirit, by which he afterwards rendered himself
so celebrated in natural philosophy. Be at the
103
~ame time pursued his theological studies. A
number of publications, on different topics con-
nected with religion, announced the zeal "ith
which he was im~pired. He engaged in a contro-
versy respecting the right and ground of dissent-
ing in general. Theology occupied a principal
share of his attention, and was his favorite study;
his works in this department were a fertile cause
of contro,·ersy, in which he engaged without reluc-
tance, and also without those uneasy feelings of
irritation which so commonly accompany warfare
of the kind. lie declared his conviction to be,
that all ecclesiastical establi:-;hments were hostile
to the rights of pri,·ate judgment, and to the pro-
pagation of truth; he represented them as directly
opposed to the spirit of Christianity. lie neces-
"arily irritated the established church by such
heresies, and when he had done so he added
another cau:;e of even more general animosity, by
expressing himself warmly in favor of the French
revolution. This raised a storm which it would
have been difficult to stand against, and he finally
resolved to quit his country, hostile alike to his
person and to his principles. Ile selected the
t:'nited States of .\merica for his retreat, influ-
enced in his choice partly by family reasons, and
partly allured by the civil aJHl religious liberties
which there so eminently prevail, and which he
desired so eagerly to cnjO).
.Joseph Prie:'ltley was a man of the most perfect
10-~
:s1mphcity and integrity. He laid open his mind
on all occasions, pursuing his ends by direct
means, and performing every social duty. Jl is
temper was easy and cheerful, kind and fi·iendly.
His manners were sweet and gentle iu social in-
tercourse; and many, who entertained the ~trong­
est prejudice again~t his opinions, were comerted
into friends on becoming acquainted with the
man. Even when irritated by his opponents, he
never used the language of animosity. lie could
be the friend of his antagonist.
lie had great activity, facility, and acuteness of
mind, and perseverance in investigation; he ex-
celled in perspicuity of expression, and no exper-
imentalist was erer more free from jealousy, or
the petty vanity of prior discovery. Religion was
to him the most important of all concerns, and
that which chiefly excited the ardor of his mind.
IIc believed in the proper humanity of Christ,
rejecting his miraculous conception ;md the doc-
trine of atonement; he also believed in a future
state, in which punishment is to be only emenda-
tory, since all beings arc to be finally happy. That
his man·ellousncss and secreti,·ene~s ·were small,
is easily percci,·ed. The organs of justice and
firmness were certainly large.
Fig. 2.-Ricltard Price.
In this head the organs of the perceptive and
105
reflective powers are of an uncommon magmtude,
particularly those of individuality, Rize, calcula-
tion, language, and cau:sality. The organs of
marvcllousncss and ideality arc very large. The
original picture is painted by Benjamin 'Vest, and
the engraving, from which this figure is taken, is
by Uolloway.
Dr. Price, universally known by his mathemat-
ical, moral, and political writings, was the son of
a dissenting minister at Brigend, in Wales. His
father was a rigid Calvinist, but young Hichard
occasionally started his doubts and difficulties
(his self-esteem and destructiveness being small,)
and often incurred his father's displeasure by the
arguments which he advanced against the tenets
of his sect. By his great reflective powers and
moral feelings, he cultivated the different branches
of academical learning with extraordinary dili-
gence and ·success, particularly the mathematical
sciences, moral philosophy, and divinity. On ac-
count of his perceptive and reflective faculties,
and moral and religious feelings being strong, the
books which he read were select rather than nu-
merous ; but these he studied with the closest
attention (by his great reflective powers.) He
made his first appearance before the public as an
author, in a Review of the principal Questions and
D~fliculties in Jlorals. There he contends for the
propriety of recognizing understanding as neces-
sary to establish morality, an eternal and immu-
14
106
table entity, and not the arbitrary production of
any power, but equally everlasting and necessary
with all truth and reason. Ile was fond of uniting
philosophy and piety. He was zealous for the
great principles of civil and religious liberty, and
for rational religious knowledge. His opinions,
of course, displeased those who were fond of
power, and they therefore endeavored to hold him
up to the public odium. In all his doings we
perceive great reflective powers, strong moral
and religious feelings, and little combativeness,
destructiveness, acquisitiveness, and self-esteem.
The contents of his sermons are practical. His
manner of delivering them was natural, unaffected,
and very earnest. In his devotional exercises
particularly, there was a great degree of fervor
and sincerity. His private character was exem-
plary and amiable. Of his disinterestedness he
gave a striking instance, when, on removing from
his native country into England,· he divided the
little his father had bequeathed him, between his
two sisters, and only reserved a few pounds to
defray the expenses of his journey to London.
Ile abounded in natural goodness. Ilis hours
of study were frequently broken in upon for as-
sistance and advice; but he could never resist
without reluctance even troublesome and unrea-
sonable solicitations. A fifth part of his annual
income was regularly devoted to charitable pur-
poses, and he was laudably anxious to distribute
•
107
it in such a way as might produce the greatest
good. In the practice of these virtues he was
devoid of ostentation. Simplicity and humility
were among the strong features of his character.
He attracted the attention and regard of all,
without an effort to outshine any one, and with-
out considering himself as a person of any con-
sequence. In its place, or when called upon, he
frequently displayed superior knowledge, and he
was always as willing to r.eceive as to give infor-
mation. He discussed with candor on every
subject, and was unaffected in receiving praise
and in acknowledging defects. He was free from
constraint and servility, in the highest company,
and from haughtiness in the lowest. He was
open to truth as he was fearless of making it
known.
PLATE XXIV.
Fig. I.-The Pope .Martin V.
In this portrait the basilar is much more de-
veloped than the sincipital region. Such a brain
always takes much less interest in general wel-
fare than in individual and private views. The
courage, destructiveness, secretiveness, acquisi-
tiveness, firmness, self-esteem, ::md powerful per-
ceptive faculties, produce an enterpriEing char-
acter, and give practical skill. Such brains go
10~
with the tide of circumstances, and choose the
party with which the greatest advantages may be
gained. Their benevolence and veneration are
not active enough to keep the feelings which are
common to man and animals under control. The
perceptive faculties being considerable, and acting
in combination with the above-mentioned feelings,
will have no difficulty in finding out means for
insuring success in all selfish views. Such a fore-
head may acquire a large stock of ideas, and im-
pose by borrowed knowledge, but it will attend
little to general principles. Usefulness will be a
leading feature in all the deeds of a man so con-
stituted ; even his religious opinions will be es-
teemed in proportion only as they are available
in actual life. Did circumstances lead such a
man to become a missionary, or did his great
locality dispose him to enter on that vocation, he
would not hesitate to use fear as a means of mak-
ing converts. Every means, indeed, would be
apt to appear good and admissible, provided he
gained his object.
History tells us that Martin V. when on the
point of being elected to the papal dignity, very
readily promised to favor the reformation of the
church, in its head and its members; but having
obtained possession of the popedom, he showed
himself disinclined to yield in any point noxious
to his interests. On the day of his coronation at
Constance, where his election took place, he
109
rode through the city, in pontifical attire, on
horseback, attended by the emperor on foot,
holding his bridle on the right hand, and the
elector of Brandenburg on the left, and followed
by a crowd of princes, and the whole council.
When he found that a reform of the church was
earnestly wished for, he, under the pretext of a
great deal of time being required for deliberation,
left the business to a council, which was to meet
at Pavia in the course of five years, and soon
dissolved the council at Constance. Before the
expiration of five years, a council was assembled
at Pavia, whence, however, on account of the
plague breaking out in that city, it was translated
to Sienna. Here, again, several efforts were made
towards the salutary work of reformation in the
church and clergy, which were eluded and frus-
trated under a variety of pretences ; and when
some of the bishops moved for the confirmation
of the decree of the council of Constance, assert-
ing the superiority of the council to the pope,
Martin, to prevent that point, or any other con-
cerning the power and authority of the apostolic
see, from being brought into debate, dissolved
the council, appointing another to meet at Basle,
before the expiration of seven years. Martin
made it a chief business to promote crusades
against the Hussites of Bohemia; he exhorted
the emperor Sigismund, the king of Poland, and
other princes, to unite, either in compelling those
110
heretics to return into the bosom of the church,
or in extirpating them. lie resembled the ma-
jority of his predecessors, not only in their arer-
sion for all measures tending to a reformation of
the church, but also in their love of money and
nepotism, preferring, in the disposal of lucrative
employments, his relations to all others, however
deserving, and by that means leaving them, at
his death, possessed of immense wealth. Martin,
soon after his arrival at Rome, caused the house
in the neighborhood of the church of the Twelve
Apostles, which belonged to his family, and in
which he was born, to be pulled down, and a
magnificent palace to be built in its room. Tern-
.. poral concerns were sufficient reasons for him to
excommunicate nations and princes. His mind
was exceedingly evasive. He apparently always
complied with reasonable proposals, but he con-
stantly contrived to elude them, if contrary to his
views. The emperor of Constantinople, Manuel
Paleolagre, proposed a meeting or council of the
Roman and Greek bishops, in order to effect a
reconciliation of the two churches. Martin an-
swered, that he was very willing to arrange this
important affair, if the emperor would pay the
expenses of all the Latin bishops and prelates
who should journey to Constantinople. Martin
knew beforehand that the emperor was not rich
enough to furnish the sums necessary for such
a purpose. His animal nature was evidently
111
stronger than the powers proper to man, ju t as
his cerebral organization indicates.
Fig .2.-Paul Lejeune, Jesuit and JJ.Iissionary.
This is one of the most noble forms of head
that can be seen, and is an excellent model of what
a missionary ought to be. The organ onocality,
which gives a fondness for travelling, i8 large,
and in combination with the organs of the per-
ceptive powers, particularly individuality and lan-
guage, in great proportion. The whole sincipital
region is much developed ; great benevolence,
veneration, and conscientiousness, are assisted
by firmnegs, hope, and marvellousness. If an
individual thus endowed give his word of pro-
mise, he may be depended on; he will be most
unhappy if circumstances put it out of his power
to fulfil it; he will never think of changing his
mind, un)egs the common welfare require it;
whilst a person with a brain like that of 1\lartin
V. (fig. 1. of the same plate) will merely attend
to selfish views, and according to these alter, at
every turning, his line of conduct. A man with
a head such as Lejeune's will be a credit and an
ornament in every profession. He will always
be prudent, firm, and unremitting in his duties,
and in doing good to others; whilst one with
such a head as Martin's, will be cunning and
112
persevering in acts agreeable to his animal pro-
pensities alone.
Lejeune displayed great abilities, and the no-
blest feelings, from his earliest age. He destined
himself to the task of propagating Christianity
among the savages of Canada, in North America.
No fatigues, no privations, no interruptions, could
turn him from his resolution of doing good to his
fellow-creatures. During seventeen years he
lived among the savages, exposed to hardships
of every description. The long winter season he
spent in their miserable huts, continually filled
with wood-smoke, which had no other outlet than
the door, and so low that he co~ld not stand
upright in them, and was therefore obliged to sit
or lie upon the ground, in company with the
filthy inhabitants and their dogs. His most disa-
greeable sensations resulted from the fii"thiness
of the people ; and his greatest annoyance from
the cunning behavior of a sorcerer, who de-
ceived the poor natives in the most shocking
manner, and was nevertheless adored by them.
The religious piety of Lejeune never abated, and
he constantly blessed God for every thing that
happened.
But the conduct of this good man was not only
moral and religious, it was also marked by great
prudence and understanding. He lived with the
savages; went out to hunt with them ; and took
the greatest pains to learn their language, though
113
he found it very difficult. He was sometimes
obliged to repeat the same word twenty times
before he could seize its pronunciation and mean-
ing; yet he succeeded by degrees in reducing
their language to rules ; he formed declensions
of the nouns, conjugations of the verbs, and com-
posed a syntax and a dictionary. He attached
himself especially to the children; became their
schoolmaster, and composed a catechism in their
mother tongue.
Every phrenologist must dwell with pleasure
over the contemplation of such a head as that of
the good Lejeune, and inwardly pray that every
one destined to teach the sublime truths of Chris-
tianity, were endowed with a similar noble config-
uration of brain.
15
CHAPTER lll.
Portraits ofl nd(pendent Characters.
When Rpcaking of tlw new method of c~amining
the physiognomical signs of the head, I said that
the posterior portion of the sincipital rceion
maintains the activity of, or gi\'CS pcr;:;c\ crance
to, the other faculties. This region of the head,
particularly that part of it in "hich the organs of
firmness and self-esteem arc situated, is strongly
marked in those 'rho arc conspicuous for their
love of independence. This feeling is strength-
ened by courage, and ennobled by justice. There
arc indi.. iduals who shew great reluctance to
obey, but who arc prone and eager to command;
they possess much self-esteem and firmness, with
little benevolence, veneration, and justice. Such
men arc furthermore oYerbearing, and Jond of
pririlegec;;, in proportion as their animal or selfish
propem;ities predominate. Individuals, on the
contrary, who possess great firmness and self-
esteem, along with the whole sincipital region in
large, and the basilar in small proportion, will
contend for the sacredness of per:'onal liberty,
and free principles of government, for equality
of rights, and submission by all to the same laws
as necessary to the happiness of the cornmunity
at large.
llJ. u l
FlLI 7
.
115
PLATJL XXV.
Fig. I.-William of Nassau, Prince of Orange,
founder ofthe Dutch Republic.
The forehead in this portrait is broad and high ;
hence the organs of the perceptive and reflective
faculties, individuality and language in pRrticular,
are large. The sincipital region, from bene,·o-
lence backwards, rises higher and higher, to firm-
ness. The lateral regions are considerable, but
still subordinate to the superior parts of the brain.
Upon a man thus constituted every reliance may
be placed ; such an indi'i<lunI is worthy of being
intrusted with the supremC' authority.
'William was born in 1533, at the castle of Dil-
lenburg, in Germany. Ilis parents were Luther-
ans, but he, liring at the court of the emperor
Charles V., conformed to the Roman Catholic
form of worship, and became a. greo.t favorite of
the emperor, who consulted him in the most deli-
cate affairs. Haring ample posRessions in tho
low countries, \Villiam was made governor of the
prO\ inces of IIolland, Zeeland, and Utrecht.
Charle::: sent him '~·ith the imperial crown to his
son Ferdinand, and "hen abdicating, appeared
before the public supported on his arm. Charles
also recommended him warmly to his son Philip.
William, however, soon perceived that Philip
II. did not entertain the same sentiments towards
him which he had experienced from his father.
116
It is true William opposed, by every means in his
power, the arbitrary proceedings of the Spanish
court, and the severities practised against the peo-
ple of the low countries on account of their re-
ligion; he even advised the states to petition for
redress, and communicated all the indignation he
felt at the policy of Spain to the Flemish nobility.
Though a professor of the catholic religion, the
prince of Orange was the open enemy of bigotry ;
he declared against tumultuous proceedings of
every description, and strove to prevent extremi-
ties. In the councils of Philip, however, a reso-
lution was taken to quell all resistance by direct
force, anu the duke of Alba was fixed upon as the
fittest person to carry sanguinary measures into
execution.
William, aware that his moderation made him
an object of suspicion, and satisfied that no effec-
tual opposition could be made to the plan of vio-
lence now adopted, threw up all his employments,
and retired, with his family, to his brother at Nas-
sau, having first publicly declared that it was his
intention to remain quiet, unless he were treated
as an enemy.
He was soon cited to appear and answer to
charges of sedition and treason, which were pre-
ferred against him. On his non-appearance, his
estates were confiscated, his eldest son, who was
studying at Louvain, was carried off to Spain, and
he himself condemned to death. He now applied
117
to several German princes for a:::~i:stance, and at
lrngth levied an army, with which it was hi!:l
intention to penetrate into Brabant ; but Alba
defeating hi~ brother, obliged him to disband hi~
troops, :md return to Germany. "illiam was not
shaken in his purpose by this defeat: he brought
together a new army, and went himself to Bra-
bant; but the towns were awed by the cruelties
of Alba, and shut their gates upon him, so that
he had to retire across the Hhine, without lmr-
ing come to an action. By these exertions his
resources were uow exha.u:-:;ted, and he could
maintain no more than twelve hulldred horse,
with which he joined the duke of Deuxponts, in
the cause of the young king of 1\:n arre. But the
protestants "ere defeated in Poitou, and William
had to effect his escape in the disguise of a peas-
ant. He assembled a third army, and again
entered Brabant. 1 his time he was received as
a deliverer, and gained several advantages over
the Spaniards, but for want of money was again
obligccl to disband his soldiers. Soon after,
however, his perReverancc was rewarded. Seve-
ral towns in Z<'cland and Holland re\·olted; the
nobles and deputies from the principal towns in
Holland formed themseh·es into an independent
state, and nominated William their chief. Forces
for sea and land service were levied, a regular
revenue was rl.i!:'cd, the Roman Catholic worship
abolished, and a protestant church, upon the
118
plan of that of Geneva, e$tablished in its stcnd.
After the greatest exertions, William succeeded in
carrying the important measure of a general uniou
among the provinces of the low countries for their
mutual defence.
The infamous designs against the life of Wil-
liam, which were never intermitted from the time
of his proscription, were at last successful. One
Balthazar Gerard, a native of Franche Comte,
shot him, at the age of fifty-one, at Delft. He
was lamented by the whole people ; they regarded
him as their protector and sole support. It is
said that his arrival in any town was commonly
announced in these familiar and endearing terms:
' Fathc1· 1Villimn is come ! '
The character of William is depicted as uniting
magnanimity, secrecy, prudence, equanimity, in
all situ~tions, singular penetration and sagacity,
popular eloquence, a retentive memory, and the
art of conciliating men's affections. His cerebral
organization explains his various endowments.
The brain was large, generally; all the upper
region, and particularly firmness, in great propor-
tion. The portrait, from which the one I have
given here is copied, is inscribed with the rnotto,
Je maintiendrai (I shall maintain). Cautiousnes::;,
secretiveness, and reflection acted as prudence
and sagacity, and William's nobler sentiments
produced magnanimity. Such a leader will
always render justice to whom it is due. ·william
119
was charged by Philip with ingratitude, disloy-
alty, and other crimes, in the grossest terms; but
his intentions seem alwars to haYe been pure and
patnot1c. If his memory has been reviled by the
adrocates of despotism, it has received and de-
serves the highest honors from a people, who
gratefully acknowledge him as the principal author
of their freedom and independence.
Fig. 2.-Ramus, (Peter Rarnee.)
This head is extremely ele,·ated at firmness
and self-esteem ; the occipital region is full, the
organ of courage particularly marked, and the
forehead is prominent,-language and individual-
ity remarkably so. It is the brain of a thinking
and determinate character. The constitution, or
temperament, moreover, is one of great activity.
Ramus was born at a village in Picardy. His
grandfather was a nobleman of Liege, who lost
all his property by the ravages of war, and with-
drew to France, where he was reduced to gain
his livelihood by making and selling charcoal, and
his father followed husbandry for his support.
Ramus at a very early period of his life showed a
fondness for learning, and went at different times,
from the age of only eight years, to seck instruc-
tion at Paris. But he was on every occasion
speedily compelled to depart by poverty, and the
adverse circumstances of the times. H1s passion
for study, howe\ cr, induced him to return once
more, when he ''a~ received in the capacit} of a
:-;ervant into the college of Nnrarre.
Jn this situation, after spending the day in at-
tendance upon his master, he de,·otcd th<' great-
e:.-t part of the night to study, and by I is own m-
du:;try made cousidernblC; progre::;s in learning.
His talents and pcr::-evcrance at last procured him
a more honorable station in the college, and he
spent three years and a half going through a
course of philosophy. During this time, having
become acquainted with the Aristotelian logic, and
di,;;co,·ered its defects, he came to the bold resolu-
tion of attacking it in the schools, and of substi-
tuting in its stead a better system. Accordingly,
upon the occa:.-ion of standing candidate for the
degree of Master of Arts, he held a public dispu-
tation against the authority of Aristotle, and main-
tained his theses with such ingenuity and ability,
as astonished and confounued his examiners.
From this time Raruus uetermined to overturn the
old logic. IJe lectured on philosophy and elo-
CJUence, and published a book, entitled, Arislotclirce
Animadt·ersiones, containing a very vehement at-
tack upon Aristotle.
This attack upon a system which had been uni-
versally admired for agel:!, gave great offence, as
was to be expected, to the followers of Aristotle,
and raised a vio]('nt storm of resentment againi:!t
Ramus, part1cularly among the profef"sors of the
121
University of Paris. At first they made use of no
other weapons in their contests with him than
those of logic and eloquence, but they soon pro-
ceeded to adopt harsher measures : they loudly
accused him, before the civil magistrate, of a
design, by opposing Aristotle, to sap the founda-
tions of religion and learning. So great was
their clamor, that the Parliament of Paris took
cognizance of the business; but when the Aris-
totelians perceived that the cause was likely to
meet with an impartial he'aring and equitable
decision from that tribunal, they, by their in-
trigues, got it removed from the parliament to
the king's council. A public disputation took
place ; it lasted two days: Ramus complained
of the unfair proceeding of his enemies, but the
result was, that the king, prepossessed against
him by the calumnies of his enemies, decreed,
that Ramus's books should be suppressed, and
himself prohibited, for the future, from writing
or reading any logical or philosophical lectures,
without express permission first obtained. His
enemies published the sentence in Latin and
:French, in all the streets of Paris, and sent it to
all parts of Europe. They even held him up to
ridicule upon the stage.
This disgrace of Ramus, however, was but of
short duration ; he soon lectured again, and at-
tracted a crowd of auditors. The faculty of the
Sorbonne attempted to expel him, but he was
16
•
122
maintained by an edict of the parliament. After
this he met with a generous and powerful patron
in the cardinal of Lorraine, who, by his interest
with the king, Henry II., obtained the repeal of
the decree of Francis I., and thus secured to our
author perfect freedom of writing and speaking
upon philosophical subjects. By means of the
same patron, Ramus was appointed regius profes-
sor of eloquence and philosophy.
His enemies, however, never desisted, and con-
trived to excite prejudices against him, as a con-
vert to the doctrine of the Reformation. He was
obliged to conceal himself at Fontainbleuu, under
the protecting arm of the king. When his ene-
mies discovered the place of his retreat, they
compelled him to seek safety in greater obscu-
rity. The peace concluded between Charles IX.
and the protestants, enabled him to return to
Paris, and to resume his station in the college, as
well as his professorship.
He continued his lectures with unabated activ-
ity and increasing reputation, till the second civil
war drove him once more from Paris, and forced
him to fly for shelter to the Protestant army,
when he was present at the battle of St. Denis.
The peace restored him to his occupations, but
foreseeing that he would be able to maintain
himself for but a short time, he asked and obtain-
ed permission from the king to visit the universi-
ties of Germany. Wherever he came much
1~3
respect was shewn him, and many honors con-
ferred upon him. At Heidelberg he read a
course of lectures. He was anxious to obtain
a professorship at Geneva, but he did not suc-
ceed. It is recorded, that while striving in vain
to fix himself among his protestant brethren,
he refused several liberal offers, made to him by
catholics. He now resolved to return to his
native country. At the commencement of the
massacre of St. Bartholomew, he took refuge in
a cellar, where he lay concealed during two days.
An infamous rival, Charpentaire, a professor of
mathematics, who hacl been eclipsed by the supe-
rior talents of Ramus, at length discovered him,
dragged him from his place of concealment, and
directed his hired assassins to despatch their
VICtim. The scholars of Charpentaire dragged
the body ignominiously along the streets, and
threw it into the Seine.
Ramus was a man of universal learning, and an
accomplished orator ; this was from the large size
of the organs of langunge, and the perceptive
powers in general. He was endowed with emi-
nent moral qualities; and the head of Ramus is
very elevated. He, on every occasion where it
could avail, shewed great firmness and resolution
of mind ; and the organs of firmness and courage
appear to be very large. His temperance and
disinterestedness were exemplary: his brain is
comparatively of small size laterally. With great
124
boldness and constancy, he asserted the natural
freedom of the human understanding. lie was
more successful in undermining the authority
which Aristotle had :so long pos&>cssed in the
schools, than in his attempt to raise a new system
of logic and metaphysics. His fame as a philoso-
pher vanished hefore that of Des Cartes. He was
strongly attached to hia country, and his inhabi-
tiveness is very large. He was never shaken by
disgrace or misfortune.
PLATE XXVI.
Fig. !.-Stubbs.
In this portrait the organs of benevolence and
firmness are particularly elevated ; that of venera-
tion is lower ; those of the perceptive faculties
are prominent. It is the brain of a humane and
b~nevolent, but sturdy and independent character.
In a man thus endowed, the religious arc weaker
than the moral feelings. Stubbs excelled as a
painter of animals ; but I give this figure as an
illustration of character, and not as calculated to
show the organs necessary to the arts of imita-
tion. To this end, front views of portraits are
necessary. The second part of this work, on
Talents,* will contain figures for that purpose,
• This part has never been pubhehed .
BF\ >'•I
•
125
whilst this part only presents cerebral configura-
tions that accompany or indicate a variety of
characters.
Fig. 2.-Gustavus de Scltlabrcndorf.
This portrait is copied from a bust in plaster of
Paris, taken after death. The greater portion of
the brain is in the anterior and sincipital, or up-
per regions ; the intellectual organs are but of
moderate size, and not large enough in proportion
to those of the feelings. Individuality, eventual-
ity, locality, language, and comparison, are the
fullest of the intellectual organs ; causality is
middling. Among the feelings, those of self-
esteem and firmness are extremely large ; then
come benevolence, veneration, conscientiousness,
hope, and cautiousness. Among those of the re-
ligious sentiments, that of marvellousness is the
smallest. In the basilar region, the organs of
acquisitiveness, secretiveness, destructiveness, and
philoprogenitiveness are the most largely devel-
oped; courage, attachment, and amativeness the
most scantily so.
De Schlabrendorfwas the eldest son of an emi-
nent family in Prussia; he received an excellent
education, and from the earliest age indulged in
liberal and independent ideas. He admired the
principles of the stoical philosophy, and openly
approved of the French revolution. This brought
126
down the displeasure of the Prussian government
upon him, and he lost his estates by confiscation;
but he bore his bad fortune manfully for several
years. He, like many others, was soon put out
of conceit with his sublime conceptions of the
dignity of humau nature ; at least he abandoned
them as applicable to the then living generation.
Though his landed property in Silesia was re~
stored to him nt a later period, he continued to
live with the greatest parsimony. He confined
himself to the most simple lodging on the second
floor, in the Rue Richelieu, near the Palais Roy-
ale at Paris. The same chamber was his library,
sitting, dining, and bed-room. He wore neither
small-clothes nor shirt; a morning-gown, a pair
of old slippers, sometimes stockings and a neck-
cloth, composed his whole attire. He never
shaved, kept no servant, but had his bed made by
the porter of the house, and his dinner brought
from the restaurateur's. At the same time he
was very benevolent and charitable, encouraged
young artists, and contributed largely to many
institutions of common utility. No onP; who was
poor ever asked him for assistance in vain; and
though frequently deceivecl, he never ceased to
be benevolent and useful. In this way he lived
for more than ten years, a hermit in the most
populous part of Paris.
Were I called on to give an opinion, as a phre-
nologist, of this singular mao, I should say that,
127
from the nature of his intellectual development,
he is fond of learning facts and historical events,
and of travelling; that his judgment will not
always be sound with respect to the causes of
events; that he is overwhelmed by his feelings,
particularly self-esteem and firmness. In any
good cause, too, he will be apt to flatter himself
with success, and, if disappointed, will suffer a
great deal, though he will struggle resolutely
against every appearance of chagrin. His secre-
tiveness being large, he will be pleased with con-
ceal~ng his intentions and thoughts. Family con-
siderations will be nothing to him, his love of in-
dependence predominates; but his benevolence,
veneration, and justice will prevent him from
injuring any one ; aud these feelings, in union
with little courage, will rather make him bear
with injustice than meditate re\·enge. As he is
rich, it were difficult to say what direction his
considerable acquisitiveness will take; probably it
would induce him to make collections calculated
to gratify some of his most active powers. Its
activity being combated by various sentiments of
a superior order, even by self-esteem, is never to
be apprehended. I conceive his singular manner
of living may be explained in the following way:-
He was confined to prison for many months dur-
ing the French revolution, and was obliged to
subsist upon five sols a day. At the same time
his property was confiscated on account of his lib-
128
eral and independent principles. This circum-
stance must certainly have offended his pride, his
notions of independence, and all his favorite phi-
losophical ideas. He knew, too, that his govern-
ment would have imprisoned him in some fortress,
had they been able to get him into their power.
~ow such a character as Schlabrendorf could
without difficulty resolve upon leading a life of
solitude, and once accustomed to it, would feel
inclined to continue the habit, even after poverty
and adverse circumstances generally made it no
longer necessary. I had opportunities of know-
ing that he had formed vast plans of establish-
ments for the public convenience. He therefore
felt greater enjoyment in contemplating future
results to be produced by his influence, than in
spending his money on his peculiar comforts.
On the whole, I think his firmness and self-esteem
were the mainsprings of all his actions.
129
CHAPTER IV.
Portraits of haughty~ ambitious, vain, and touchy,
or easily-qff'ended Characters.
Portrait-painter~ and sculptor:-, not aware of
the influence which the cerebral organization ex-
erts on the mental manifestions, hare hitherto, for
the mo~t part, been satisfied \\ ith an imitation of
the face and forehead alone, neglecting the rest
of the head altogcthN. Painter:; commonly pre-
fer front, or three-quarter face \ iews; but then
many of the organs of the affecti\·e powers, which
form \'ery essential clements in imhridual charac-
ters, cannot be seen distinctly. I hope that in
future artists will supply a greater number of
phrenological proof::; than they ha,·e yet done.
Painter:;, howcrer, hare occasionally made por-
traits in profile, and, with a few sculptors, have
taken great care in imitating the natural form
and relative size of the various parts of the
head. Now among these productions the plue-
nologist will find sp<'cimens that harmonize with
the principles of his science. The fashion which
prevailed during the reign of Louis XIV. of cov-
ering the head with enormous "ig:-, is greatly to
17
130
be regretted, for in all the eminent men of that
period, the organs in the forehead only arc visible,
and their character in regard to understanding
alone can be judged of phrenologically. Charac-
ters of the description mentioned in the title of
this chapter are of very frequent occurrence in
the world, and a few examples will enable my
readers to understand the cerebral configuration
which indicates them.
PLATE XXVII.
Fig. f.-Philip 11. of Spain.
The posterior and upper part of the head of
Philip II. appears much elongated backwards;
hence the organs of self-esteem and approbation
are very great. Cautiousness, firmness, ideality,
and par1icularly marvellousness, are also large,
whilst benevolence and veneration are of minor
magnitude. The organs of the intellectual pow-
ers are of middling size, but they bear no l\ind of
proportion to those of many of the feelings, by
which they will, therefore, he corrupted and
swayed. A man thus constituted will always be
guided by his feelings ; he _
will be remarkable for
his haughtiness and reserve, be very apt to be led
astray by religious fanaticism, and easily be made
the instrument of an ambitious, selfish, and cruel
but crafty priesthood.
FJ. ,r.l I II
/If. \ .,
131
Philip II. son of the Emperor Charles V. was
naturally of a reserved and apparently cold dis-
position. His cautiousness, self-esteem, and firm-
ness, account for this temper. Charles going to
Germany, committed to his son, then in his six-
teenth year, the administration of affairs in Spain.
Several years later the father was desirous of
having him near his person, and Philip met
the emperor at Brussels, when he visited many
of the towns of the low countries, in all of which
be was received with extraordinary rejoicings ;
but in the midst of these loyal festivities he dis-
played a severity of disposition, and an exclusive
attachment to his Spanish attendants, which in-
spired his Flemish subjects with a permanent
dislike. In 1550 he appeared with his father at
the diet of Augsburg, the emperor having at
heart his son's succession to the imperial dignity;
but Philip's whole demeanor was extremely offen-
sive to the Germans, and he was sent back to
Spain.
After Charles's resignation, Philip rose at once
from his subordinate station to that of the most
powerful prince in Europe. The most memora-
ble events of his reign are the commotions in the
low countries. 'Vithout any natural attachment
to this part of his empire, and equally despotic
in his temper and bigoted in his principles,
he was determined to use no other means for
silencing the public discontent than those of
132
authority. For the suppression of tho Heforma-
tion, he established a court of inquisition on
the model of that of Spain, and retained a
body of foreign troops in the country to over-
power opposition, notwithstanding the remon-
strances of the states, who saw that the subver-
sion of their liberties Y1 as the aim of his policy.
He pointedly refused to mitigate the severity of
the inquisition, protesting that ' he would rather
be without subjects than be a king of heretics.'
He never showed the slightest sign of compunc-
tion for the evils which his unfeeling bigotry
occasioned ; the severest measures indeed, had,
on all occasions, his wannest approbation. His
gloom and reckless severity were increased by a
tragical incident in his family. His eldest son,
equally ambitious with himself, and of an unruly
and violent temper, grew so much disgusted,
that he engaged with the disaffected, and formed
the design of leaving Spain. Philip ordered the
execution of his own son.
Philip by his blind zeal for the catholic re-
ligion, and his unfeeling spirit of domination,
everywhere excited civil commotions, caused an
insurrection in Ireland, fitted out an armament to
conquer England, or at least to dethrone the
queen and restore popery, and countenanced
and aided the famous league in France. His
boundless ambition and bigoted prejudices ren-
dered his whole reign but a succession of wars
133
and civil broils, and dissipated the immense re-
sources which he possessed, without effecting any
of the great objects at which he aimeu. li e
never commanded his troops himself; he was
only once in the ueighborhood of a battle gained
by his general, Emmanuel of Savoy, and then
during the time of the engagement he was on his
knees in a chapel between two monks, praying
and vowing nevN to be guilty of approaching the
battle field. To make up for this, however, the
Duke of Alba, his governor of the low countric1',
could boast of having, during the short period of
fi\e years, sacrificed eighteen thousand individ-
uals by the hands of the public executioner.
This very duke who h~d rendered him the great-
est !'ervices, having, on one occasion, entered the
king's cabinet without previous announcement,
was told by Philip himself, that such boldness
deserred the axe. Philip is also reported to hare
said that he would deliver his own eon to the
inqui~ition were he to be su~pected of heretical
principles. Phrenology can alone account for
such selfishness, co\\ ardliness, and haughtiness,
combined with !';uch a sanguinary and bigoted
dispo~ition. His cautiousnel'S was considerable,
his courage small, and his destructiveness acted
in combination with his religious feelings, self-
esteem, and firmness.
The engraving from which my figure is taken,
is after an original painting by Titian.
Fig. 2.-Catherine 11. of Russia.
This portrait gives the idea of an unusually
large head, and the forehead of a man rather
than of a woman. '1 he occipital and basilar re-
gions are strongly marked, and it is not likely,
therefore, that the inferior feelings will always be
kept in control by the superior sentiments. The
organs of self-esteem and love of notoriety are
particularly large, and will form a very principal
feature in the character. The head is high at the
upper front part, in the region of benevolence ;
hence cruelty, whatever other actions of an ani.
mal nature be indulged in, will never aftord any
delight.
This illustrious sovereign was the daughter of
the petty German prince of Anhalt Zerbst. She
was invited by the empress Elizabeth to the
Russian court, with the view of promoting an
union between her and her nephew, the grand4
duke, afterwards the emperor Peter III. Cathe-
rine's love of sway and passion for glory seem to
have been the dominant principles in her consti-
tution. To gratify the first she made no scruple
of breaking down all the barriers of common mo-
rality which stood in her way. In pursuit of the
second, she aimed at every thing that could raise
her character in the eyes of the world. No
prince ever surpassed her in the endowment of
noble and useful institutions, or the patronage of
135
science and letters, and the promotion of the arts.
She had great confidence in her abilities, aud was
perhaps too apt to follow splendid norelty, and
to seck for expensive rarities. be reformed the
administration of justice, encouraged industry,
commerce, and instruction, increased the strength
and wealth pf the empire, and concealed her pri-
vate crimes, and the evils of her bloody wars, by
superior talents, by the glory of foreign aggran-
dizement, and by the blessings of internal ciriliza-
tion. In this way she obtained the general love
and reverence of her subjects. She was gifted
with uncommon abilities, and wrote and con-
versed with case and dignity. She "·as kind and
humane to those about her, and possessed great
equanimity and command of temper. It is said
that an air of haughtiness was the more penna-
ncnt expression of her countenance, which, ho\V-
ever, was frequently tempered by grace and affa-
bility. Her mode of living was temperate and
regular. One pleasure, sensuality, alone she in-
dulged in without restraint, and in pursuit of it
she made all the decorum of sex openly give way
to the license of sovereign power. The nature of
her attCichmcnts, however, for the most part, pre-
vented favorites from gaining any influence in the
serious affairs of government. Her intellect was
too strong to be corrupted, her love of dominion
too powerful ever to endure the superiority of
mini:sters and favorites.
..
•
136
Her character and talents, iu general, ''ere
those of a man, aud her cerebral organization\\ as
in harmony.
PLATE XXVlll.
Fio-. !.-Lalande, the Astronomer.
~
Joseph Jerome Lalande was born at Bourg, in
the department of the Aine. Dis father intended
him for the bar, and sent him to Paris to study
law. But his natural talent for astronomy frus-
trated the views of his parents ; and this taste
once awakened, became his principal occupa-
tion throughout life. When engaged in the law,
he at the same time attended the lectures on
astronomy at the college of France, and was
the only auditor of the course. He requested
and obtained the permission of the professor Le-
monnier, to asl:ii::t him in his observations. He
soon gave np the law entirely, and laid himself
out to profit by the lessons of his instructer, who,
on his side, conceived a p<~rental affection for a
pupil who gave such promise of future eminence.
Shortly after this, the celebrated La Caillc was
preparing to set out for the Cape of Good Hope,
in order to determine the parallax of the moon,
and the distance of that planet from the earth.
To accomplish this object, it wns necessary that
.Pl. J:f11fl
137
the same observations should be made by another
observer, placed under the same meridian, and at
the greatest distance that could be conveniently
chosen ; and Berlin being thought the most proper
station, the French Academy determined that an
astronomer should be sent to that city. Lalande,
though scarcely nineteen years of age, was the
person fixed upon for this purpose. The account
which he gave of his mission, on his return, pro-
cured him a place in the Academy of Sciences,
and he became a constant contributor to its Me-
moirs. Almost every one of its volumes con-
tained an essay from the pen of Monsieur La-
lande. He repeated the same ideas frequently ;
but he was exceedingly fond of attracting public
notice, and of being mentioned in the news-
papers. He said of him!:elf, that he was an oil-
cloth for blame, and a sponge for praise. He
was particularly desirous of being considered a
philosopher, and above prejudice. He was pas-
sionately devoted to astronomy, a great promoter
of that science, and certainly the most learned,
though not the most profound and original, as-
tronomer of France. His eccentricities of char-
acter were great, and his vanity insatiable. His
labors were not confined to astronomical subjects,
but extended to various branches of science. He
was extravagant enough to pubEsh a dictionary of
Atheists, in which he registered not only many of
the illustrious dead, but a great number of his
18
)38
contemporaries, and some of the principal dJgni-
tanes of the French empuc.
The organs of individuality, size, configuration,
weight, number, and language, are very large;
those of ideality, approbation, and self-esteem,
predominant. Finally, those of the religious feel-
ings arc small. Hence the talent, as well as the
singular character of Lalande, arc easily con-
ceived upon phrenological principles.
Fig. 2.-James J'aniere.
The occ1pital region of th1s head is very much
elongated, particularly in the direction of the
organs of firmness, self-esteem, and lo\ c of ap-
probation. The cerebral organization, indeed, is
generally remarkable : the organs of language,
indi,·iduality, locality, time, number, and ideality,
arc large, and the bodily constitution is very
actire. This portrait may serve as a model of
what is called a touchy or susceptible d:aractcr ;
a frame of mind which principally depends on
self-esteem, love of approbation, and ideality being
active; tho disposition, however, 1s further in-
creased by a large endowment of combativeness
and firmness, with a smaller proportion of benevo-
lence and justice. l\len so constituted are much
disposed to be dissatisfied with the world, and to
be complaining continually of others. Such a
combination, without love of approbation, pro-
' .
.:
B F.\"d, l
139
duces self-sufficiency, and utter indifference to
the opinions of others ; but the addition of love
of approbation produces the unhappy state of
mind I have just mentioned.
The character of J. J. Rousseau, which appears
incomprehensible, is easily explained on the sup-
position of a similar combination of powers. He
certainly possessed the organs of ideality, self-
esteem, love of approbation, and cautiousness, of
a large, and those of courage and philoprogeni-
tiveness of a small size.
Vaniere was born in the diocese of Bezicrs, in
Languedoc. He studied in the Jesuits' College,
and entered into their society. He distinguished
himself by his Latin poetry. He employed
twenty years of his life on a dictionary of the
Latin and French tongues, but did not finish it.
The spirit of all Vaniere's lucubrations was of an
intolerant cast ; this pervaded even his descrip-
tions, composed amidst beautifi1l scenery, of the
artless manners of a simple peasantry.
PLATE XXIX.
The influence of self-esteem and love of ap-
probation being so extensive in social relations,
it may be useful to mankind to know exactly the
cerebral configuration which indicates great ac-
tivity of these feelings. It is with this view that
140
1 have given the six figures of this twenty-ninth
plate. Fig. 1. is the portrait of a bishop ; fig.
2. of a minister of state ; fig. 3. of a general ;
fig. .). of a governor of a province; fig. 5. of a
deputy or member of parliament; and fig. 6. of
an author.
A bishop with such a head will be fond of
worldly distinctions, and labor for the superiority
of the ecclesiastical order. He will possess great
intellect, and may speak in eloquent terms of
humility, but all his actions will indicate haughti-
nesa and vanity. A minister of state like fig. 2.
will display a powerful mind; but he will feel
strongly inclined to command, and impose his
own will as law upon the community : he will
foster national pride, speak of glory, exhibit
trophies, encourage the erection of monuments,
and feel the disposition, at almost any price, to
remain among the leaders or influential party in
the government. A general whose brain resem-
bles that of firr. 3. will Ji,•e for badges of orders,
for parade, and outward distinctions. He will
serve every master who satisfies his love of glory,
that is, who has titlea to confer, and who affords
him opportunities for display. The administrator
of the province will be fond of showing his power ;
he will be a ' little man dressed in brief author-
ity;' be very eager after marks of honor, and
show a large appetite for flattery. The dep-
uty will be zealous in the cause of religion and
141
government, provided his ambition &ud selfish
views are gratified. Finally, the author will
faithfully serve that party which appeals most
powerfully to his mnity and selfishness. Such
beings, and their like, particularly if the head be
wide, or laterally developed, anrl the organ of
conscientiousness be small, will always sacrifice
the duties of their station, whatever it be, to their
vanity and personal interest. Supposing the re-
ligious, political, military, and civil affairs of a
state to be in the hands of individuals so consti-
tuted, however vast their intellectual powers,
strict justice and morality will be little attended
to ; Christian humility will be disfigured, legisla-
tion corrupted, and the equality before the law
annihilated; personal distinctions and preroga-
tives will prevail, and all sorts of iniquities be
supported by the force of arms, by false reports,
and by wilful mistatements. The existence of
the commonweal is incompatible with that of
men in authority possessed of such brains. 'Vhat
a difference between these heads and those of
1\lassillon, L' Hopital, Crillon, Franklin, Males-
herbes, Jeannin, " 'alsingham, Oberlin, Lejeune,
William of Nassau, and of all who subject their
pride and ambition to the invariable laws of mo-
rality ! Phrenologists, as more particular ob-
servers of mankind, are fully aware of the in-
fluence and of the cause of the energy of these
two feelings, and cannot help considering them,
142
when very active, as among the most formidable
enemies of general happiness, of true liberty, and
of every institution that is calculated to raise
mankind in the scale of true worth and excel-
lence.
143
CHAPTER V.
Ofgay and gloomy Characters.
Mirthfulness, hope, and imitation, are faculties
essential in the constitution of the merry, witty,
or gay character; frequently, however, tune, in-
dividuality, eventuality, approbativeness, and se-
cretiveness, also enter into its composition, and
heighten it; on the other hand, great cautious-
ness, firmness, self-esteem, justice, and powers of
reflection, with little mirthfulness, hope, and imi-
tation, produce the gloomy or melancholic turn
of mind. The gay and the gloomy character are
alike exalted by ideality. Those who unite the
feelings which constitute the merry, as well as
those which compose tl1e gloomy chnracter, are
subject to alternate fits of despondency, and of
exuberant mirth. Mirthfulness, without benevo-
lence and veneration, is the parent of satire, the
disposition to indulge in which is increased by
combativeness, destructiveness, self-esteem, and
firmness. Mirthfulness, combined with secretivc-
ness and imitation, is fond of playing tricks. In
union with constructiveness, configuration, size,
and imitation, it produces caricature.
PLATE XXX.
Fig. 1-Piro1l.
This portrait indicates great development of
the organs of mirthfulness, ideality, the intellec-
tual powers, and a lymphatic-sanguineous con-
stitution. Individuality, ~ize, form, calculation,
language, and the reflective faculties, are strongly
marked. The rest of the head is so much con-
cealed by the "ig, that the organs of the feelings
can scarcely be guessed at. Piron was the son
of an apothecary at Dijon, and born in 1689.
The first twenty-five years of his life he spent in
obscurity, and amid vulgar enjoyments. The
odium excited by a licentious ode, of which he
was the author, obliged him to quit his native
town, and he went to Paris, where he for some
years supported himself as a copying clerk. His
earliest literary efforts were of a dramatic nature,
and written for the Comic Opera House. IJis
success was at first moderate. But at length, in
1739, having presented the public with his com-
edy of La llletromanie, his name rose immediately
into reputation. His society was then courted
greatly, and he became famous for his repartees
and bon mots, and particularly for his happy
knack at writing epigrams. lie was fond of
making caustic remarks upon the French Acade-
my, the members of which he used to call the
RP,,.d,(
_. ''''"' ...,, r~ ('; , ./.uh!'
145
invalids ofwit. He nevertheless made an attempt
to gain admission into this society, and never did
he forgive their negative. The epitaph he com-
posed for himself, on the occasion, is well known:
Ci-git Piron qui ne fut rien,
Pas mcme :tco.d.-miciem.
His self-esteem was somewhat too great, but his
conduct was never low nor wicked; his domi-
nant desire was to add to the amusement of his
friends.
Fig. 2.-Citarles Antony Bertinazzi,
Better known as Carlin, a famous comic actor.
His father was an officer in the Piedmontcse
service ; and Carlin, at the age of fourteen, be-
came an ensign. To provide the means of living
a little better, he gave lessons in fencing and
dancing, and also enacted comedies with his
scholars. When at Bologna, it happened that a
new piece was announced for performance, but
that he who was to have played the harlequin
had disappeared. Carlin offered to take the part,
and actually performed it to the great satisfac-
tion of the public. It was only at the fourth
representation that he was discovered by his
friends, who then advised him to take to the
stage as a profession. He adopted their counsel,
and went to Venice, and afterwards played m
several towns of Italy. In 1771 he appeared at
19
146
Paris upon the Italian stage, and continued to
amuse the Parisians, as harlequin, during forty-
two years. He was remarkable for his inventive
powers on the stage, and for the brilliant flashes
of wit which he displayed on the spur of the mo-
ment. He once engaged to play singly, and in ·
five acts to exhibit the twenty-six misfortunes of a
harlequin: he succeeded completely in his under-
taking, giving the greatest satisfaction to the
house. Many of his witty sayings arc still pre-
served, and frequently repeated by the admirers
of bon-mots. It is a pity that the greatest part
of the head is covered with a cap : the broad
forehead, however, and the great development of
the organs of mirthfulncJs, ideality, imitation, se-
cretiveness, configuration, and language, arc dis-
tinctly seen. The organs of benevolence and
justice must also have been large; for Carlin was
good-tempered in the highest degree ; his sallies
were never tinged with personal sarcasm, and his
probity was above suspicion.
!'1 LTI.l
11 .1. C"-r L tJ.
147
CHAPTER VI.
Portraits ofbold and timid Characters.
Characters of this description are particularly
indicated by the relative development of combat-
iveness and cautiousness ; the larger the former,
in proportion to the latter, the bolder and more
enterprising will be the disposition, and the con-
trary. Courage, however, is greatly aided by
destructiveness, self-esteem, firmness, and justice;
combined with sufficiNtt cautiousness and reflec-
tion, a prudent but decisive turn of mind is the
result.
PLATE XXXI.
T'Wo Skulls, seenfrom behind.
Fig. 1. is the skull of a very timorous female,
who, in spite of all her efforts, her own reason-
ings, and the exhortations of her friends, could
never overcome her coward temper. She always
replied, that her sensations were stronger than
reason. The organ of courage is very small ; that
of cautiousness, on the contrary, is remarkably
large. }'irmness is in middling proportion, but
•
148
not great enough to counteract fear. Individuals
with similar brains canno• endure disputation or
quarrelling ; they desire, above aU things, peace-
ableness of temper, and only express hostility to
violent proceedings.
Fig. 2. is the skull of the Austrian General
\Vurmser, also seen from behind. The organ of
courage is exceedingly large, that of cautiousness
rather small. According to phrenological princi-
ples, more personal courage than prudence may
be expected from such a. head. This, indeed, was
the character of the general ; he never displayed
eminent intellectual capacities, but he was re-
markable for his merely animal intrepidity.
PLATE XX.Xll.
Fig. 1.-M. T. Cicer·o.
This portrait is after an antique bust, which I
am inclined to consider an exact imitation of na-
ture. Xo artist, unless bent upon representing
nature faithfully, would ever have gin~n a configu-
ration, such as the bust of Cicero presents, to his
marble; the external car, and indeed the whole
head, is larger on one side than on the other ; a.
circumstance which very frequently happens in
nature. Again, the mental constitution indicated
by the bust is altogether in conformity with the
Pl .OJ/I
Fzal
/IF\ dd
& tv ''
•
149
character and talents of Cicero. The organs of
language, locality, comparison, causality, acquisi-
tiveness, secretiveness, approbativeness, cautious-
ness, attachment, philoprogenitiveness, benevo-
lence, imitation, marvellousness, and conscien-
tiousness are large, whilst those of courage and
hope are small.
Cicero, even in boyhood, showed uncommon
abilities; he excelled in everything to which he
applied. Plutarch tells us, that his schoolfellows
used to accompany him in a body to and from
school, giving him the place of honor in the
midst of them, and that many parents visited the
school to be witnesses of his extraordinary profi-
ciency. He was indefatigable in the exercises of
reading, writing, and recitation. His inclination
for tho study of eloquence declared itself as soon
as he quitted the juvenile ranks, and assumed the
manly toga. His progress was so great, that he
soon ventured to publish some remarks on rhetor-
ical invention. The fear of Sylla now induced
him to quit Rome for a season, and he went to
Athens, pretending ill health as the motive of his
journey. His ambition appears to have been con-
siderably mortified by this check to his progress
in the path of advancement. A retreat in the
centre of Grecian learning could not but be pro-
fitable to a man of Cicero's attainments and capa-
city. Here he evinced a decided taste for philos-
ophy; he was the first of the Romans who exam-
150
ined the great questions on morality and philoso-
phy, which had so long been familiar subjects of
discussion in Greece.
After the death of Sylla he returned to Rome,
at the age of thirty years; having, however, first
made tho tour of Asia, attended the principal
rhetoricians of that country, and, to improve his
action, taken lessons from the most eminent dra-
matic performers. On arriving at Rome he at
once became tho head of the Roman bar. His
first public employment was qurestor in Sicily ;
and as administrator he acted with benevolence
and justice. He gradually eained the affections
of the Sicilians, who treated him with unusual
honors, and considered him the patron and bene-
factor of their island.
He was the saviour of his country in the con-
spiracy of Catiline ; and the noble usc he made
of his power, notwithstanding some unworthy
compliances which he paid as its price, entitles
him to the character of a good citizen. His con-
duct in arriving at the consulate, however, has
been excused by tho corrupt state of the Roman
constitution, which made it scarcely pGssible to
act a distinguished part in public life without cer-
tain sacrifices to party politics.
Cicero was very careful of his health, and ap-
portioned his hours of business, study, menls, and
exercise with great regularity ; he was anxious to
cultivate both the favor of the people and the
151
friendship of the great, and it cannot be denied
but that to these objects he occasionally sacrificed
the principles of true patriotism.
He was naturally timid, and when the tribune
Clodius, whom he had offended, proposed the
law, enacting that whoever had been concerned
in the death of a Roman citizen, before he had
been condemned by the people, should be deemed
guilty of treason against the state, he lost his
presence of mind; and when Clodius impeached
him directly of having put Lcntulus and others,
concerned in Catiline's conspiracy, to death with-
out legal trial, he spontaneously retired into ban-
ishment. This happened in his forty-ninth year.
Dejected, desponding, uncertain where to seek
refuge, he wandered for awhile in the south of
lt.tly, and at length embarking at Brundusium,
crossed over to Greece. The marks of regard
and esteem everywhere lavished on him proved
no antidote to his affliction ; and Cicero, in his
e.xilc, afforded a signal proof how little the max-
ims of philosophy avail in steeling the soul against
adversity, unless aided by natural fortitude, by the
innate capacity to endure calamity.
Though his exile was the 'Cause of the most
glorious era in his life, his persecution had ren-
dered him extremely cautious in his political con-
duct. In the dissensions between Pompey and
Cresar he fluctuated for some time, uncertain
which of the two· parties to espouse. He ap-
152
proved the cause of Pompey more, but he au-
gured better of the success of Cresar. With the
change of the constitution which now took place,
Cicero's political career was at an end. He lived
privately, and devoted himself almost entirely to
the study of philosophy, and to the composition of
various works. He ultimately became the victim
of Antony, against whom he had declared himself
in very strong terms.
Cicero was mild, benevolent, inclined to virtue,
and attached to the public welfare, excessively
fond of praise, but devoid of that strength of mind
which can alone carry a man, with uniform dig-
nity and propriety, through the storms of public,
or the vexations of private life. That. is to say,
he had not enough of courage, hope, firmness, and
conscientiousness, in proportion to his love of ap-
probation, acquisitiveness, secretiveness, and cau-
tiousness. This mental constitution disposed him
to make undue compliances, and occasionally
even to desert the cause which he internally ap-
proved. Still his great benevolence and superior
sentiments led him as freely to admit the merits
of others as he openly laid claim to those of which
he deemed himself possessed.
Cicero's intellectual faculties were of a high
order. He had great acuteness of judgment, in
other words, great reflective and perceptive
powers : he also possessed uncommon powers of
language ; he will always be considered as one of
163
the first of prose writers : he excelled particularly
in forensic eloquence, and if he be inferior to De-
mosthenes in energy, he is superior in variety,
copiousness, and all the graces of embellishment.
The matter of his philosophical works, it is true,
is borrowed from the Grecian schools, but he has
the merit of having introduced their learning to
his countrymen in an agreeable form. He must,
indeed, be ranked rather as the admirer and pro-
moter of philosophy, than as one of its masters.
Viewing his mind phrenologically, or according to
the indication of the bust, Cicero may be said to
have been possessed of powers calculated to raise
him to eminence in practical life, or as adminis-
trator, but incompatible with the character of a
great statesman, through want of quickness and
boldness in conception, and of perseverance in
execution.
Fig. 2.-The Gladiator, from the antique statue, in
the Royal JI!IuseU?n at P aris.
The size and form of this heud are quite in
conformity with the character of a bold, pugna-
cious man. The principal mas~ of brain lies in
the occipital region, and particularly behind the
ears. The organs of the intellectual faculties and
moral sentiments are small, whilst that of the pro-
pensity to fight is unusually developed. Fighting
will be the greatest delight of a being with such n.
20
154
brain. Soldiers similarly constituted will be val-
iant, hut by want of capacity to profit by instruc-
tion, ought never to arrive at the rank of com-
manders. Their valor should, therefore, be re-
warded in some other way than by preferment-
by an increase of pay, for instance, by some
badge of distinction, medal, cross, title, or other
invention, by which man's inferior inclinations
have been flattered.
PLATE XXXIII.
Fig. 1.-Martin Luther.
The whole forehead of this portrait is large, the
organs of language, individuality, eventuality,
tune, and of the reflective faculties, are partic-
ularly prominent. There is also a great deal of
brain at the basis of the head, above and behind
the ears, and in the neck. The organ of firmness
is likewise strongly inJicated. A man with such
a cerebral organization will be bold, enterprising,
endowed with perseverance, and capable of de-
fending his cause by reasoning. lie may, how-
ever, often feel inclined to go further than pru-
dence allows.
Luther was descended of parents in humble
circumstances. He was the son of a smith at
Eislebcn, in Saxony, and born in the year 1483.
Pl. _I_A~FfII
Fz_q 1
155
He showed an early inclination for learning.
He acquired the rudiments of grammar at home,
and in his fourteenth year he went to Magdeburg,
where he was reduced to the necessity of begging
for his bread in order to live ; after a year he was
sent to Eisenach, lived four years among the rela-
tions of his mother, and distinguished himself by
his diligence and proficiency. In the year 1501,
he went to the university of Erfurt, and attended
the courses of logic and philosophy, according to
tho scholastic methods then in vogue; but his
understanding, naturally sound and superior to
everything frivol~us, was soon disgusted with
those subtle and uninstructive sciences. He was
only twenty years of age when he himself began
to read lectures on various branches of philosophy,
and determined to become an Augustinian friar.
In the convent he applied closely to the study
of divinity, as laid down in the writings of the
schoolmen; but having accidentally met with a
copy of a Latin bible in the library of the monas-
tery, he neglected his other studies, and perused
it with eagerness and as$iduity.
Ilo soon became famous for his learning and
for his knowledge of the scriptures, and was
chosen by Frederic, elector of Saxony, to fill tho
chair of philosophy, and afterwards that of divin-
ity, at the university of Wittenberg. He, at the
same time, distinguished himself as a pulpit
orator, and endeavored to controvert many erro-
156
neous notions, which had been received in the
church and in the schools. The better to qualify
himself for his profession, he now also commenced
the study of the Greek and Hebrew languages.
At this time the pope was in possession of the
supreme temporal as well as spiritual power over
emperors, kings, and nations. The scandal, in-
deed, was now so great all over Europe, that the
necessity of a religious reformation was generally
felt. Luther spoke freely and with great success
of the abuses practised by the holy see; and when
Leo X. to replenish his coffers, had recourse to
the sale of indulgences, Luther determined openly
to protest against such a scandalous imposition on
his deluded countrymen. The novelty and bold-
ness of his opinions excited great attention, and
his popular and persuasive eloquence made a
strong impression on the minds of his hearers.
The violent measures adopted against him
served but to call forth greater powers than he
had yet displayed, an event which might have
been foretold from his general character, incapa-
ble of submitting tamely to any thing like haughty
and arbitrary treatment. Though a simple monk,
he treated the pope as his equal, and, protected
by Frederic, burnt the bulls of his holiness, who
had already delivered the reformer's writing to the
flames. Though aware of the fate of Huss, who,
under similar circumstances, and protected by an
imperial safe conduct, had been sacrificed at Con-
J57
stance, Luther insisted on going to Worms,
against all the entreaties of his friends. ' I am
lawfully called,' said he, 'to appear in that city,
and thither will I go in the name of the Lord,
though as many devils as there are tiles on the
houses were there combined against me.' When
required by the diet to renounce the opinions
which he had hitherto held, he firmly and solemn-
ly declared that he would neither abandon them,
nor change his conduct, unless he were previously
convinced by the word of God, or the dictates
of right reason, that his sentiments were erro-
neous. To this resolution he steadily adhered,
notwithstanding the entreaties and threats which
were employed to conquer his firmness of mind.
He was permitted to depart in safety, but an
excessively severe edict was published in the
emperor's name, and by the authority of the diet,
in which he was declared a member cut off from
the church, a schismatic, a notorious and obsti-
nate heretic, and deprived of all the privileges
which he enjoyed as a subject of the empire.
The severest punishments were denounced against
those who should receive, entertain, or counte-
nance him, either b} acts of hospitality, by con-
~ ersation, or writing, and all were required to
concur in seizing his person as soon as the term
of his safe conduct expired. But Luther, on his
return from \Vonns, was conveyed with the utmost
secrecy to the castle of Wartburg, where he lived
158
in peace, the place of his retreat being carefully
concealed. Here it was that he translated a
great part of the New Testament into the German
language.
His active spirit, however, could not long en-
dure retirement, and without the consent or even
the knowledge of his patron and protector Fred-
erick, he returned to Wittenberg, where he de-
voted himself particularly to his translation of the
scripture, which was read with avidity and pro-
duced incredible effects. He even spoke, aud
wrote with more freedom than ever. He pub-
lished on the abolition of bishoprics and bene·
fices ; he also declared against the forced celi-
bacy of the clergy.
A diet, held at Spires, declru·ed as unlawful
every change which should be i.1troduced into the
doctrine and discipline or worship of tho estab-
lished religion, until agreed to by a general coun-
cil. Several princes, who wore friendly to the
reformation, together with the deputies of four-
teen imperial cities, when they found that all their
arguments and remonstrances made no impres-
sions, entered their solemn protest against this
edict of Spires, and, on that account, were called
protestants.
Another diet was assembled at Augsburg,
charged with finding means by which the schism
might be ended. The protestant princea em-
ployed Melancthon as their deputy, who, with a
169
due regard to the opinions of Luther, expressed
his sentiments and laid down his doctrine with
the greatest perspicuity, and in terms as little
offensive to the Roman Catholics as a regard for
truth would permit. This declaration of the sen-
timents of the reformers is known by the name of
the Confession of Augsburg.
Luther must be judged by his own conduct,
and·not by the tales either of his friends or h1s
adversaries. His life showed him superior to
selfish considerations, to honors, and church pre-
ferments ; he was satisfied with his original pro-
fessorship in the university and pastorate of the
town of Wittenberg, offices to which very moder-
ate stipends were annexed. He was vehement in
all his operations, was very apt to break into im-
petuosity, and to go to excess. Rash in assert-
ing his opinions, and obstinate in adhering to
them, he made no allowance for the timidity or
the prejudices of others, pouring forth a torrent
of invective against any one who ventured to op-
pose him. Regardless of any distinction of rank,
he chastised all adversaries indiscriminately with
the same rough hand. His boldness, energy,
firmness, and gift of language, were remarkable.
All his actions were much more effects of his nat-
ural temper than of the manners of the age in
which he lived. This proposition will be made
abundantly evident by contrasting his behavior
with that of the man whose portrait follows.
160
Fig. 2.-Philip Melancthon, or Schwarzerde, from
a portrait by Alb. Durer.
The organization of this head differs widely
from that of Luther. It is very narrow above and
behind the ears, and the whole basilar region is
very small; almost the whole of the brain, indeed,
lies in the forehead and sincipital regions, both of
which are exceedingly large. It is the brain of
an extraordinary man. The organs of the moral
and religious feelings predominate greatly, and
will disapprove of all violence, irreverence, and
injustice. The forehead betokens a vast and
comprehensive understanding. The ensemble a
mind the noblest, the most amiable, and the most
intellectual that can be conceived. If there be
any thing to regret, it is that the organs of the an-
imal powers should have been so small in compar-
ison with those proper to man. Such a head
may be called chosen ; its only cause of unhappi-
ness is in contemplating the injustice of mankind,
and its too eager wishes for their better condition.
Melancthon was born at Bretten, in the Palati-
nate, in 1495. He received the rudiments of edu-
cation in his native place, went to the college of
Pforzheim, and two years afterwards to Heidel-
berg, where he made such rapid progress in liter-
ature, that before he had completed his fourteenth
year, he was intrusted with the tuition of the sons
161
of a noble family. He was still very young when
Erasmus wrote of him:-' Good God, what hopes
may we not entertain of Philip Melancthon, who,
though as yet very young, and a boy, is equally to
be admired for his knowledge in both languages ?
'What quickness of invention ! what purity of dic-
tion! what powers of memory! what variety of
reading ! what modesty and gracefulness of beha-
vior!'
From Heidelberg, Melancthon went to Tubin-
gen, attended the different professors of classical
and polite learning, the mathematics, philosophy,
divinity, law, and even medicine, and before he
had attained the age of seventeen, he was created
doctor of philosophy. He likewise studied the
sacred Scriptures diligently, and always carried a
Bible about him.
At the age of twenty-three he was appointed
professor of the Greek language in the University
of Wittenberg. His youth and personal appear-
ance created unfavorable impressions, but his
inaugural oration not only removed them, but
even excited the highest applause and admira-
tion. He soon contracted a close intimacy and
friendship with Luther, and though he approved
Luther's design of delivering theology from the
darkness of scholastic jargon, his mildness of
temper made him extremely averse to disputation
of every description. He, however, rendered
great services to the cause of reformation by his
~·
162
admirable abilities and his great moderation. He
was even forced to sustain a conspicuous part in
all the principal religious transactions and eccle-
siastical regulations of that period. For the sake
of peace and union, he was naturally inclined to
yield, where essentials were not concerned, and
always anxious to soften the acrimony of reli-
gious controversy. It is said that his mother hav-
ing aRked him what she was to believe amidst the
disputes which divided the w'orld, he replied,
'Continue to believe and pray ns you have hith-
erto done.' He was humane, gentle, and readily
won upon by mild and generou'5 treatment; but
when his adversaries made use of imperious and
menacing language, he rose superior to his gen-
eral meekness of disposition, and showed a spirit
of ardor, independence, nay, of intrepidity, look-
ing down with contempt upon the threats of
power, and the prcspect even of death.
The fame of Melancthon, of his great learning,
and of his extraordinary moderation and pru-
dence, spread into foreign countries, and pro-
cured him invitations from Henry VIII. of Eng-
land, and Francis I. of France, nearly at the same
time ; but these he refused, and continued in
Saxony.
Hia constitution was delicate, but by observing
the most rigid temperance, and by endeavoring
to dismiss, when he lay down after an early sup-
per, every thought from his mind that could dis-
16S
turb his repose, his life was prolonged to a great
age, and he was enabled to pursue his studies
with an intenseness of application that is almost
incredible. He always rose at midnight to his
labors.
Never was any man more civil and obliging,
and more free from jealousy, dissimulation, and
envy, than Melancthon; he was humble, modest,
disinterested in the extreme ; in a word, he pos-
sessed wonderful talents, and most noble disposi-
tions. His greatest enemies have been forced to
acknowledge that the annals of antiquity exhibit
very few worthies who may be compared with
him, whether extent of knowledge in things
human and divine, or quickness of comprehen-
sion, and fertility of genius, be regarded. The
cause of true christianity derived more signal ad-
vantages, and more effectual support, from Me-
lancthon, than it received from any of the other
doctors of the age. His mildness and charity,
perhaps, carried him too far at times, and led him
occasionally to make concessions that might be
styled imprudent. He was the sincere worship-
per of truth, but he was diffident of himself, and
sometimes timorous, without any sufficient reason.
On the other hand, his fortitude in delending the
right was great. His opinions were so univer-
sally respected, that scarcely any one among the
Lutheran doctors ventured to oppose them. He
was inferior to Luther in courage and intrepidity,
164
but his equal in piety, and much his superior in
learning, judgment, meekness, and humanity.
He latterly grew tired of his life, and was particu-
larly disgu ted with the rage for religious contro-
versies, which prevailed universally.
PLATE XXXIV.
Fig. I.-Charles XIJ. King of Sweden.
The head here is higher than it is broad, and is
extremely large in the direct1on of hope, firmness,
and self-esteem; the lateral parts, which are the
most prominent, lie immediately above the cars ;
the organs of secretiveness and cautiousness arc
exceedingly small. The forehead is not more
than middling, in proportion to the rest, and the
perceptive organs, especially individuality, are
larger than those of the reflective powers. This
is the cerebral organization of an imprudent,
proud, and stubborn character; of a sanguine and
careless schemer. The will of such a man ought
to be subordinate to the la\vs of the country in
which he lives; for if his own inclinations ever
become the rule of conduct, the greatest misfor-
tunes will certainly result to the community.
Charles XII. from the earliest age, showed a
decidedly martial disposition, great firmness of
mind, careleasness of character, and obstinacy,
PJ.~CY.lYV.
RF.\' ,/,.!
< '
165
which was not to be overcome by force. When
still a child, he was fond of the most violent
bodily exercise, and bear-hunting became one of
his principal amusements. Armed with a spear,
he attacked his game with so little caution that
his life was frequently in jeopardy. The love of
glory soon declared itself as a principle and
ruling passion of his mind. He resolved to be-
come the Alexander of the north ; his talents,
however, were insignificant, and he was then
looked upon as a prince of but little promise.
The potentates of three neighboring states,
Denmark, Poland, and Russia, thinking to take
advantage of his youth and inexperience, and to
strip him of a part of his dominions, first aroused
his ambitious, haughty, and enterprising spirit.
When their designs became apparent, and the
Swedish council was deliberating, in Charles's
presence, on the measures proper to be pursued
in such an emergency, the young king suddenly
rose, and with a decided air, said-' Gentlemen,
I am determined never to engage in an unjust
war, and never to end a just one but with the
ruin of my enemy. It is my resolution to go, and
to attack the first who shall declare himself, and
when I have conquered him, I hope the rest will
be intimidated.' He now gave up all kinds of
amusement, enforced the strictest economy in his
household, and seriously prepared himself to play
the hero. He renounced female society forever,
166
and also made the resolution never again to taste
wme.
The king of Denmark was the first to com-
mence hostilities ; Charles at once determined to
march in person, and to attack Copenhagen. He,
therefore, disembarked his troops a few miles
from that capital, he, himself, sword in hand,
leaping into the water the moment his boat
touched the strand, followed by his guards and·
chief officers. Advancing amidst a shower of
musket balls, he asked a general who stood by
him, ' what that whistling was, which sounded so
strangely in his ears.'-' It is the noise of the
bullets shot at your majesty,' replied the general.
'This then,' said the king, 'shall heneforth be
my music.' The Danish entrenchments were
soon forced, and the king approached Copenha-
gen without further opposition. The Swedish
army, lying before the capital of Denmark, was
kept in the strictest disc1pline, and all the pro-
visions with which it was supplied were paid for
with perfect good faith. Prayers were said regu-
larly twice a day in the camp, at which Charles
always attended devoutly. The king of Den-
mark, seeing the Swedes in the heart of his
dominions, and his capital in imminent danger,
was glad to listen to terms of accommodation,
and the Swedish hero of eighteen, finished his
first war in less than six weeks.
Charles now advanced against the Russian
167
forces, and with only eight thousand men attacked
and discomfited an army of eighty thousand.
When he arrived before the Hul'sian entrenched
camp, defended by a hundred and fifty luass can-
non and the bulk of the army, he without hc::-ita-
tion led on his chosen band, and, after a combat
of three hours, carried the entrenchments at
every point, with dreadful slaughter. The
Swedes took many times their own number of
prisoners, besides the whole of the enemy's artil-
lery. Charles had t\\0 horses killed under him,
and when he mounted the third, he said gaily:
' These people make me take exercise.' Ilc
dismissed the prisoner~, as it wus impossible for
him to guard them ; he only detained the princi-
pal officers, \\hom he treated with the utmost
generosity. In general, Charles was admired for
his personal courage, his discipline, moderation,
and humanity.
The following year he went to Livonia, de-
feated the Poles and Saxons in several battles,
and brought the former to the determination of
deposing their king. The object whic;h now oc-
cupied all his thoughts \\'as to take signal \en-
geance on his enemy the Czar, Peter I., then at
Grodno in Lithuania. Charles, in the depth of
winter, marched against him, and drove the Hus-
sians acro~s the Dnieper. Peter I. becoming
seriously alarmed for his empire, caused some
propo:sals of peace to be made, to which Charles
168
only replied, ' I will treat with the czar at Mos-
cow.'
The king of Sweden had arrived, in October,
I 708, within a hundred leagues of Moscow, when
impassable roads and want of provisions induced
him suddenly to turn aside into the Ukraine. In
the following spring he was attacked by Peter.
Going, on one occasion, to reconnoitre, Charles
received a musket-shot in the heel, which frac-
tured the bone. No change in his countenance
betrayed the accident to his attendants, and he
continued six hours more on horseback, giving his
orders with the greatest tranquillity. At last the
pain became so excessive, that it was necE'ESary
to lift him from his horse, and carry him to his
tent. Such was the aspect of his wound, that the
surgeons were of opinion that the leg must be
amputated. One of them, however, promiEed to
save it by means of deep incisions. 'Cut away
boldly, then,' said the king, immediately holding
out his leg. During the operation he himself
kept the limb steady with both hands, looking on
like an indifferent spectator.
Meantime the czar was advancing, and ( 'harlcs,
without calling a council of war, ordered a gen-
eral attack for the next day, and then went to
sleep. He caused himself to be carried in a lit-
ter at the head of his infantry. The two horses
of his litter were soon killed, two others met the
same fate. The king was then carried by his
J69
life-guards, of whom twenty-one out of twenty-
four were destroyed. The Swedes began to give
way on all sides, their principal officers were
killed or made prisoners, and their camp before
Pultowa was at length forced. In this extremity
Charles still refused to fly. lie, however, was
placed on horseback, notwithstanding the cruel
pain of his wounds, and surrounded with about
five hundred horse, conveyed safe through the
Russian army. Having reached the baggage, he
was put into a coach, and his flight continued
towards the Dnieper. The coach broke down,
and he had again to be mounted on horse-back.
At length, after much hazard and suffering, he
reached the river, across which his attendants
ferried him in a small boat. The fatal issue of
the battle of Pultowa lost Charles his troops, his
generals, his ministers, and his treasury ; and the
unfortunate king became a fugitive among the
Turks, by whom he was honorably received, and
conveyed to Bender.
Liberal efforts were, in the course of time, -
made by the Grand Seignior, to send him home
with a large escort and provision for all his
wants. Charles, however, refused to go at all,
and then the Sultan lost all patience with his
stubborn and unreasonable guest, and s1gncd an
order to compel him to depart by force. Charles
formed the extravagant resolution of resisting
with three hundred Swedes the whole strength
Z2
170
of the Ottoman empire, and actually began to
fortify his small camp, in the face of a Turkish
army. Against t~is strange resolve all the eo-
treaties of his friends, officet:,S, chaplains, and
ministers were unavailing. The camp was of
course soon forced, the three hundred Swedes
were made prisoners, and the king with his gen-
erals rode off to his house, which he had commit-
ted to the care of about forty servants. Here he
was still as far as ever from any thoughts of yield-
ing. Cannon were brought up without effect;
at length fire was set to the roof, which spread
to the rest of the building, and nothing seemed
to remain for the king but to surrender, or perish
in the flames. He had made up his mind to the
latter, when one of his guards proposed taking
possession of a neighboring house which had a
stone roof. Charles causing the doors to be
opened, rushed out amidst the Turks, with a
pistol in each hand, and his sword at his wrist,
his principal officers following his example.
They were immediately surrounded, and the
king, entangled by his spurs, was thrown to the
ground and secured. After his furious exertions
he now sunk into a state of perfect tranquillity.
He was treated with respect and compassion, and
honorably escorted, though as a prisoner, to a
castle near Adrianople.
The senate of Sweden, no longer expecting his
return, requested his sister to undertake the re-
171
gency, to accommodate matters with the czar and
king of Denmark, and thus put an end to the cruel
wars which desolated the country. Charles being
informed of the proceedings of the senate, indig-
nantly sent word to them that, if they pretended
to intermeddle in public affairs, he would depute
one of his boots to govern them. He grew
tired at length of inactivity, and seeing that he
had nothing to expect from the Porte, he expres-
sed his wishes to return to his own dominions.
Permission was readily obtained for his departure,
and he set out, attended by a Turkish escort, to
the frontiers of Transylvania. There he ac-
quainted his suite that he should dispense with
their further attendance, and directing them to
meet him at Stralsund, he took post-horses, and,
accompanied only by two officers, travelled dur-
ing sixteen days und nights.
On arriving in Sweden, he found his affairs in a
desperate condition. lie defended Stralsund
with his usual resolution. It was bombarded, and
one day a bomb fell on the house where the king
was, and burst near his chamber, while he was
occupied in dictating to a secretary, whose pen
fell from his hand at the shock. 'What is the
mutter?' said the king. 'The bomh, sire! the
bomb !' was all the answer the secretary could
make. ' What has the bomb to do with our
busine!):) ?' replied the king ; ' go on.'
Charles was persuaded to qu1t Stralsund when
172
no longer tenable, and it was with great difficulty
that he escaped on board a Swedish ship. He
wintered at Carlscroon, refusing to revisit his
capital. He afterwards endeavored to re-estab-
lish James II. upon the throne of England; he
then invaded Norway, and was at last killed in
visiting the trenches during the siege of Frede-
rickshall, at the age of thirty-six years.
Charles was a mere soldier ; he had very little
knowledge of any kind. In religion he was a
thorough fatalist. He was void of fear, and acted
so exclusively from his natural dispositions, that
his history is his true biography. He was impru-
dent, haughty, and inflexible, and could not brook
oppos1t10n. He found his kingdom rich, happy,
and powerful, and he left it ruined, wretched,
and so totally without defences, that it was
obliged to purchase peace with the loss of its
most beautiful provinces. No king, indeed, ever
consulted the happiness of the people over whom
it was his lot to reign less than Charles. His
cerebral organization is perfectly in conformity
with every trait in his character.
Fig. 2.-Sully.
This head is very high, whilst it is at the same
time of considerable width. The organs of con-
structiveness, secretiveness, and cautiousness are
strongly marked; the whole sincipital region is
173
likewise large, and the forehead voluminous, par-
ticularly the organs of individuality, configuration,
size, locality, order, calculation, and of the reflec-
tive faculties. Such a brain fits a man to attain
excellence in various departments of the arts and
sciences. Happy the country whose administra-
tion is committed to such a head ! There the
general welfare will never be neglected,-and
fortunate the king who selects men with such a
brain as Sully's for his counsellors ! The glory
of his reign will be lasting.
Sully was born of an illustrious family, and
educated in the reformed religion, to which he
adhered during his whole life. At the age of
eleven he was presented by his father at Yen-
dome to the queen and her son Henry. He then
went to Paris, and was there pursuing his studies
when the horrible massacre of St. Bartholomew's
Day took place. The principal of the college of
Burgundy saved him from the fate to which all
the Huguenots were destined, by keeping him
concealed till it was announced that the execu-
tions were at an end. Sully then relinquished
classical studies, and devoted himself to the ser-
vice of the king of Navarre. He took lessons in
history and mathematics, and applied himself to
all the exercises proper for one destined to the
profession of arms. When Henry of Navarre put
himself at the head of the Huguenot party, Sully
entered into the infantry as a volunteer, and in
174
c;everal skirmishes displayed rather more temerity
than prudence. Henry, who thought him worthy
of his esteem, said to him on this occasion, 'It is.
not there that 1 wish you to hazard your life. I
prize your courage, but hope to find better occa-
sions for its employment.' . ully now left the ser-
vice of the king of Navarre for a time, to accom-
pany the duke of Anjou, who had been invited to
accept the sovereignty of the Netherlands. Sully
had in view the gaining possession of the property
of his family in Flanders, and particularly the re-
co...ery of the estates of his maternal grandfather,
the ,·iscount of Ghent, who had disinherited him
on account of his religion. Iinding, however,
that he, as well as other protestants, was looked
upon with a cold suspicious eye, he returned to
the king of Navarre. Henry having occasion for
a confidential resident at the court of France, in
orJer to penetrate the designs of the League, cast
hi:s eyes on Sully as the person most worthy to be
intrusted, and sent him thither.
In the war with the League, Henry summoned
Sully to give assistance. He joined without hesi-
tation, and was engaged in various sieges and
battles, always acquitting himself with honor. In
the battle of Zorg he received five wounds, and
being carried on a litter to the king, Henry em-
braced him tenderly, in the presence of the other
officers, and bestowed the warmest praises on his
fidelity and bravery.
175
Henry, though lawful king of France, on ac-
count of the difference of his religious opinions
from those of the community at large, found that
it would be impossible for him to obtain peacea-
ble po$session of the throne without reconciling
himself to the Catholic faith. One of his chief
objections to this step was the fear lest he should
b~ deserted by his old and most faithful friends.
Sully, however, consulting Henry's interest and
the welfare of the nation, desired that the
measure might be adopted, and he was then
employed to negotiate with the Catholic chiefs
on the grounds of Henry's abjuration of Protest-
a.ntism.
The League still continued to oppose Henry.
a.nd Sully's talents were vigorously exercised in
his service. He was considered as one of the
ablest commanders in the kingdom, for the attacl\
a,nd defence of fortified places. He also made
hjmself especially useful by his skill and integrity
in managing financial affairs. He was employed,
too, in many important negotiations, of which one
of the principal was for the king's second mar-
riage with Mary de Medicis. Sully hastened this
a1liance as much as possible, dreading Henry's
weakness towards his mistrcs_
s Mademoiselle
d-'~ntragues, to whom he had given a promi,se ot
marriage. This promise he put into the hands of
Sully, and that faithful friend, deeply affected
with the disgrace the ~ing must incur from such
176
a connex10n, after pondering a while, tore the
wntmg in pieces. 'Are you mad?' cried Henry.
' Yes, sire,' said Sully, '1 am mad, and I wish I
were the only madman in France.' As soon after
as he could gain a hearing, he laid before the
king all the reasons to convince him of his ex-
treme imprudence in the step he meant to take.
The spirit of Sully's administration was that of
order, regularity, and economy, joined with so-
briety of manners. He was the decided enemy
of luxury of all kinds, and ther~fore did not en-
courage the introduction of those arts and manu-
factures which minister to refinement. Agricul-
ture, in his opinion, was the basis of national
prosperity, and he wished to see the great mass
of the community employed in its operations. It
was his desire that taxes should bear exclu-
sively upon luxuries, and, if they were to be made
to act as sumptuary laws, and thus bring men
back to their ancient frugality, he thought it
would be much better for the nation.
Within ten years he paid the crown debts of
two hundred millions, and accumulated a surplus
of thirty millions, raising less money by taxation,.
all the while, than had been done before his
administration. Prior to his ministry, the gover-
nors of provinces and powerful nobles were in
the habit of levying taxes for their private advan-
tage, sometimes on their own authority, and fre-
quently by virtue of edicts which they had
177
obtained through court interest. Sully suppressed
these abuses, and had to encounter not only the
intrigues and machinations of the persons imme-
diately interested, but the facility of the monarch
himself, always disposed to comply with the re-
quests of his favorites and mistresses. On one
occasion the king's mistress d'Entragues said
haughtily to Sully: ' To whom would you have
the king grant favors, if not to his relations, cour-
tiers, and mistresses?' 'Madame,' replied he,
' you would be in the right, if his majesty took
the money out of his own purse; but is it reason-
able that he should take it from those of the
traders, the artisans, the laborers and peasants ?
These people, who maintain him, and all of us,
find one master sufficient, and have no need of so
many courtiers, princes, and mistresses.' Sully,
of whose integrity the king was fully convinced,
relieved him greatly when assailed by improper
requests; he could always throw the refusal upon
one who had no reluctance to undergo the
odium, provided the good of the state were con-
sulted.
Sully was very active and very temperate. His
table was simple and frugal; and when re-
proached with its plainness, he replied with
Socrates, that if his guests were wise, they would
be satisfied ; if not, he did not wish their com-
pany.
Though far from being a bigot, he was firm to
23
178
his own religious creed ; interest had not induced
him to change it, and it was not likely that any
other motive would do so. The pope once wrote
him a letter, beginning with an eulogy on his
administration, and expressing a wish, at the
conclusion, that he would enter into the right
path. In his reply, Sully said, that, on his part,
he would not cease to pray for his holiness's
conversiOn.
He continued at the head of affairs till the
assassination of Henry ; but that fatal event put
an end to his influence, for he was not a minister
for a minority and a female regency. He was
dismissed from court, and then lived chiefly in
retirement. It is related, that being once sent
for by the young king, Louis Xlll. to give his
advice on some important affair, his gravity and
antiquated figure excited the mirth of several of
the young courtiers. Sully, who perceived it,
turning to the kiog, said : ' Sire, when your
father, of glorious memory, did m~ the honor to
call me to his presence, in order to consult on
state affairs, he previously sent away the buf-
foons.'
The talents and the services of Sully to his
country were of the highest order ; and so was
his cerebral organization. A man constituted as
he was, will adhere to his duty in every situation,
and wish well to the poor as to the rich ; at the
head of governments the general welfare will be
(
J
179
especially cared for ; reason and justice will mark
all his enactments; the majority will always feel
inclined to obey such a superior ; all will be per-
mitted to enjoy their independence and personal
dignity, and be secured in perfect equality before
the law : opposition, therefore, will be only in-
dividual ; the mass will be happy as members of
one and the same family.
180
GENERAL REFLECTIONS.
Examples under each of the foregoing chapters
might be greatly multiplied; many additional
chapters too might be introduced. Those, how-
ever, that are given will enable the reader to un-
derstand nature, and the fixity of her proceedings,
which are constant, and always exhibit the same
effects under similar circumstances. The list
of words which designate determinate characters
is very extensive. It very seldom happens that
single powers constitute the predominant charac-
ter ; the mutual influence of several of the funda-
mental faculties of the mind is almost always per-
ceptible. Amativeness, whilst it is the basis of
every amorous character, is modified in its mode
of seeking satisfaction by its combination with
different other powers. Amativeness, in union
with strong moral and religious feelings, will dis-
pose to early marriage; the individual thus en-
dowed may see one wife after another sink into
the grave, but after the loss of each he will soon
take another, and always comport himself accord-
ing to the laws of propriety. But amativeness,
without much of the former feelings, will be apt
to lead to libertinism.
Attachment is the primary element of affection,
but an are particularly attached to those in whose
181
society their other faculties are satisfied. The
blackguard and drunkard avoid the company of
moral characters, they prefer that of their like.
The religious man sympathises with others pos-
sessed of the same feelings ; the just man with
others who are just ; the reasonable being with
those endowed with reason. It is, therefore,
proverbially said, that like draws to like. At-
tachment, combined with amativeness, is fond of
female society ; attachment with philoprogeni-
tiveness is pleased with the presence of children.
The disposition to seek society is as various as
are the unions of attachment with the other
powers of the mind ; fondness for society at large
is greatly increased by love qf approbation and
the other faculties, which find their gratification
by display.
Combativeness is the essence of all courage;
it, however, disposes to bravery or to conten-
tion in different direction:3, according to its com-
binations with other active faculties. It may
lead to fighting in order to gratify amativeness,
philoprogenitiveness, attachment, acquisitiveness,
approbativeness, or self-esteem. Combined with
the religious feelings, destructiveness, self-esteem,
and firmness, it has made men speak of holy
wars.
In this way each affective faculty must be con-
sidered in its combinations with various other
feelings and inte1lectual powers, a point quite
182
indispensable, would we understand the nature,
or arrive at the essence of each fundamental
power of the mind. This is always single, and in
its element the same, under every variety of mod-
ified application. Secretiveness, for instance, is
an elementary affective faculty of the mind ; but
it appears under many and various modifications,
such as in persons styled subtle, dissembling, sly,
artful, cunning, intriguing, lying, or hypocritical.
Wherever concealment appears, secretiveness is
active; the actor who would perform the part of
a cunning hypocritical man, and the painter who
would embody such a character upon his canvass,
therefore, require this power ; without it their
efforts, however successful in other directions,
will never be else than abortions in this.
Characters are commonly divided into good
and bad: that is to say, superior activity of the
powers proper to man constitutes the good, whilst
predominating energy of the merely animal na-
ture composes the bad character. To assist
those who are entering on the study of phrenol-
ogy, or who, already acquainted with the funda-
mental powers, desire to learn the influence of
their combinations, I shall give the elements of a
number of characters, according to their common
designations, in alphabetical order. Those which
I shall draw up may be strengthened or weakened
by the addition or a]Jsence of certain faculties ;
and the reader must remember, that the combina-
18S
tions of thirty-five powers are numerous beyond
conception ; this, indeed, is a study which may
be extended indefinitely ; my aim will be answered
if I succeed in showing the young phrenologist
how he must proceed in calculating the combina-
tions of the faculties.
Affable.
Individuality, eventuality, language, benevo-
lence, love of approbation, secretiveness, acquisi-
tiveness, courage, and not too much cautiousness,
self-esteem, and causality.
Amiable.
Benevolence, reverence, conscientiousness, love
of approbation and attachment; it increases by
individuality, eventuality, tune, imitation, amative-
ness; and by the absence of combativeness, de-
structiveness, and self-esteem.
Ambiguous.
Secretiveness, acquiSitiveness, cautiousness,
combativeness, and approbativcness, with little
conscientiousness, firmne!is, and self-esteem.
AudaciOJlS.
Combativeness, destructiveness, self-esteem,
firmness, hope, ideality, increased by deficient
cautiousness, conscientiousness, reverence, and
benevolence.
Austere.
Firmness, conscientiousness, self-esteem, cau-
184
tiousness, comparison, causality, destructiveness,
combativeness, ideality, with defective imitation,
mirthfulness, and benevolence.
Avaricious.
Acquisitiveness, cautiousness, order, and secre-
tiveness, with moderate benevolence and con-
scientiousness.
Booby.
A small or very inactive brain, where benevo-
lence and approbativcness are the most powerful
organs.
Brutal.
Combativeness, destructiveness, self-esteem,
firmness, acquisitiveness, without benevolence,
reverence, conscientiousness, approbativeness,
and attachment.
Caballist.
Secretiveness, acquisitiveness, self-esteem, ap-
probativeness, combativeness, with less cautious-
ness, conscientiousness, reverence, and benevo-
lence.
Calumniator.
Acquisitiveness, approbativeness, self-esteem,
firmness, secretiveness, increased by eventuality,
and language, without conscientiousness, benevo-
lence, reverence, cautiousness, and reflection.
Capricious.
Self-esteem, firmness, approbativeness, ideality,
185
with deficiC'nt conscientiousness, benevolence,
cautiousness, and reflective faculties, increased
by acquisitiveness and combativeness.
Comic.
Mirthfulness and imitation ; it increases by
tune, hope, eventuality, and by little cautiousness.
This character may be combined with inferior
and superior feelings.
Cormnu,nicative.
Benevolence, reverence, hope, attachment, rp-
probativeness, eventuality; language, with lit le
secretiveness, acquisitiveness, self-esteem, and
firmness.
Conspirator.
Self-esteem, firmness, combativeness, destruc-
tiveness, secretivene~s, hope, and less ca.uti n...::-
ness. The aim depends on the superior or i 1!·,
rior faculties ; conscientiousness, and bene' '0-
lence, or acquisitiveness and self-esteem may
guide.
Corruptible.
Acquisitiveness, secretiveness, with less cau-
tiousness a 1d self-esteem, and defective conscien-
tiousness, r~vorence, and benevolence ; the basi-
lar and lateral regions larger than the sincipital
and frontal.
Credulous.
Marvellousness, hope, reverence, conscientious-
24
186
ness, eventuality, with moderate cautiousness,
secretiveness, approbativeness, and reflection; it
may increase by self-esteem, and acquisitiveness.
Decent.
Approbativeness, cautiousness, conscientious-
ness, self-esteem, firmness, benevolence, and the
basilar region moderate.
Diffident.
Secretiveness and cautiousness, with less com-
bativeness, self-esteem, and firmness, increased
by reflection.
Discreet.
Great cautiousness, conscientiousness, benevo-
lence, reverence, and order, with less self-esteem,
and combativeness.
Disputative.
Firmness, self-esteem, combativeness, approba-
tiveness, increased by acquisitiveness, secretive-
ness, and less cautiousness and reverence.
Dogmatist.
Marvellousness, hope, reverence, cautiousness,
conscientiousness, firmness, and self-esteem, in-
creased by combativeness and destructiveness.
Double.
Secretiveness, acquisitiveness, cautiousness, ap-
187
probativeness, without conscientiousness, rever-
ence, self-esteem, or firmness.
Eloquent.
Individuality, eventuality, perceptive faculties
in general, language, comparison, causality, ideal-
ity, imitation, firmness, secretiveness, and com-
bativeness.
Extravagant.
Self-esteem, firmness, approbativeness, ideality,
hope, without cautiousness, and the reflective
faculties, increased by combativeness and destruc-
tiveness.
False.
Secretiveness, acquisitiveness, approbativeness,
without conscientiousness, reverence, and benev-
olence, increased by combativeness and self-
esteem.
Flatterer.
Approbativeness, secretiveness, acquisitiveness,
increased by less conscientiousness, self-esteem,
cautiousness, firmness, and causality.
Gloomy.
Cautiousness, firmness, self-esteem, conscien-
tiousness, and the reflecting faculties, without
combativeness, hope, mirthfulness, and imitation.
Hypocrite.
Secretiveness, acquisitiveness, cautiousness, ap-
188
probativeness, firmness, without conscientious-
ness, reverence, and benevolence.
Jacobin.
Combativeness, destructiveness, ~ecretiveness,
ac<tuisitiveness, self-esteem, firmnes~ , little cau-
tiousness, and defective conscientiousness, rever-
ence, and benevolence.
Impertinent.
Combativeness, destructiveness, self-esteem,
fi1 mness, acquisitiveness, without
a~probativeness, conscientiousness,
and benevolence.
Indiscreet.
cautiousness,
reverence,
Acquisitiveness, firmness, self-esteem, combat-
ircness, secretiveness, without cautiousness, order,
conscientiousness, and reflection.
Industrious.
Acquisitiveness, secretiveness, approbativeness,
f:rmness, cautiousness, the perceptive faculties,
orJer, and activity of the powers. The want of
cautiousness and acquisitiveness, and very great
<-onscientiousness, reverence, and benevolence,
w.ll prevent the accumulation of great riches.
Modest.
Cautiousness, the reflecting faculties, benevo-
le'lce, reverence, conscientiousness, with little
self-esteem and combativeness.
189
Noble.
Self-esteem, firmness, conscientiousness, rever-
ence, benevolence, the reflecting powers strong,
whilst all animal faculties remain subordinate,
particularly amativeness, combativeness, secret-
iveness, and acquisitiveness.
Partial.
Acquisitiveness, attachment, secretiveness, ap-
probativeness, self-esteem, combativeness, and
destructiveness, with deficient benevolence, rever-
ence, and conscientiousness.
Rash.
Combativeness, destructiveness, ideality, firm-
ness, self-esteem, approbativeness, acquisitiveness,
without cautiousness, conscientiousness, rever-
ence, and benevolence.
Superstitious.
1\Iarvellousness, reverence, hope, ideality, with
less comparison and causality.
Tyrant.
Self-esteem, firmness, approbativeness, combat-
iveness, destructiveness, secretiveness, acquisi-
tiveness, without conscientiousness, reverence,
and benevolence.
Unequal.
Self-esteem, firmness, approbativeness, ideality,
combativeness, and destructiveness, increased by
190
the want of cautiousness, conscientiousness, rev-
erence, firmness and benevolence.
Unpolite.
Firmness, self-esteem, combativeness, and de-
structiveness, without approbativeness, secretive-
ness, reverence, benevolence, and conscientious-
ness.
Vindictive.
Combativeness, destructiveness, self-esteem,
firmness, acquisitiveness, and approbativeness, in-
creased by the want of benevolence, conscien-
tiousness, and reverence.
JVicked.
Acquisitiveness, amativeness, combativeness,
destructiveness, self-esteem, firmness, secretive-
ness, without conscientiousness, reverence, benev-
olence, ideality, and the religious feelings.
191
Summary View and Conclusion.
I began by fixing the attention of my readers
on the constitution or temperament of those they
would examine according to phrenological princi-
ples. I then showed the difference of configura-
tion of the whole bodies of the two sexes, next of
the faces of the sexes, and then of the faces of
nations. .After having indicated the phrenologi-
cal mode of considering the cerebral organization,
I stated that the heads of the sexes, of nations,
and of characters are different. I then gave illus-
trations of immoral and moral, of religious, inde-
pendent, proud or haughty, ambitious and vain,
humorous, timid, bold, and prudent individuals.
I repeat that outlines only of determinate charac-
ters can be traced, that each is strengthened or
weakened by the addition or absence of special
powers, and by the different degrees of activity of
the faculties composing it, and that the number of
characters, and their modifications in regard to
quantity and quality, are infinite.
