{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1944__tristram___letters_from_christopher.pdf","mytitle":"Letters From Christopher","mylang":"de"}
k-
(.11 RISTOPI IHR
CHRISTOPHER
Born August jrd, 1925
Died at sea April, 1945
“All that he has written is as hefound it,
andclearlyputfor one soyoung ingrowth—
but do not expect to hear the tarne from
others,for to each cometa different medium
ofexpression andSpirit life is unboundedin
variety. Allis true andallis enclosedin the
boundlessness of L.OVE—GOD of all.”
From “Leiters from Lancelot,”
Written by Christopher's Grandfather.
Copies o£ this book can be obtained from
Mrs. Tristram, Cox’s Mill,
Dallington, Heathfield, Sussex.
Price 9/6.
MADE AND PRINTED IN OKEaT BRITAIN
KELIHEK HUDSON & KEAIINS, HATFIELDS, STAMFORD ST., LONDON, 8.18.1
FOREWORD by LORD DOWDING
I AM not quite sure how a Foreword is supposed to differ from a Preface
or an Introduction—possibly the difference lies in its being written by
someone other than the author of the book.
I shall assume that this is so, and bring out one or two points which
R.M.T. herseif might be too modest to mention. The main point in this
Connection is, I think, the calm faith and courage of this mother who is a
personal friend of mine. l^ettersfrom Lancelot has brought, and this book
will bring, solace to hundreds of other bereaved mothers who have not
attained to the serene heights reached by R.M.T. It is not only the con-
viction of immediate and conscious survival which they bring home so
vividly in every line, but it is the thought that our children not only
continue to exist consciously, but that they exist happily, mirthfully and
in an atmosphere of love and light and selfless Service.
Another point is that the Christopher—R.M.T. combination can spell
and write grammatical English. I know that some superficial critics
found the baby language of Lancelot a bar to serious consideration of his
book. To me, after the first shock, it was one of its chief charms. Even
now, in spite of his great spiritual development, Lancelot has not learned
to spell—why should he indeed when there are so many more important
things to learn, and when language has given place to thought-
communication? He still retains his fondness for words like “becos’’.
These same critics could not understand how a hand which could write
“just wen I wos cuming to the most portant bit” could spell “ectoplasm”
and other difficult words correctly.
As a matter of fact this peculiarity throws a valuable light on the
mechanics of automatic or inspirational writing. There are in fact two
distinct but overlapping methods. When the power is strong and the
communicator knows exactly what words he wishes to transmit, he can
control the hand of the sensitive by means of an “ectoplasmic extension”.
But when the power is weak or the Controlling mind hesitating, he
influences the mindofthe sensitive and fishes in it for what he wishes to say.
One last word to the analytical reader—Don’t allow yourself to be
antagonised by the strangeness of the account of life in Mars, and in other
worlds and planets, contained in the later messages.
The stränge thing to me is that humanity should receive so compara-
tively few messages describing life and conditions in the myriad globes
with which our Universe is besprinkled, when there are so many of our
friends who have the opportunity of making voyages of exploration.
I suppose the explanation is that the conditiöns encountered simply
cannot be explained in such a way as to “make sense” to minds fettered
by human limitations; and it is perhaps not very important, in the present
stage of our own development, that we should understand them.
Christopher did not understand all that he saw, but he does his best
to give us his impressions. The journey to Mars was made in Order to
obtain certain cosmic materials to assist in the lightening of our datkness:
he calls thcm ray-keys and we do not understand yet what he means.
Let us provisionally think of them as prisms used for bending light and
isolating from it radiations of the precise wave-lengths needed for each
spccific purpose. For I teil you, the Light is coming to us very soon now.
Light in every sense of the word. Light for our eyes, Light for the healing
of our bodics, Light for our minds and Light for our souls; and Lancelot
and Christopher are only two of the great Army of Light-bearers.
DOWDING.
INTRODUCTION
THE following letters have been received by me in “automatic writing.”
from my son Christopher during the first two years of his new life
Friends to whom I have shown them have suggested that the information
given about conditions in the “etheric” life is of interest and may be
helpfuL Matter exclusively personal has been omitted: otherwise the
letters are given exactly as he wrote them, except for some compression
to avoid repetition.
A brief account of his earth life may give readers a background for the
better appreciation of his letters. Christopher was a rather timid and seif-
conscious child, very affectionate and with a vivid sense of colour and a
great love of nature. His nursery days were difficult for him owing to the
ülness of his brother Philip (page 18) who was three years his senior
and whose mind became affected by an attack of encephalitis lethargica
at about the time of Christopher’s birtb: the boys were at hörne together
ander a governess until Philip was clcvcn years old. His eklest brother
Lancelot died at school at the age of eight: Christopher was then only two-
and-a-halfyears old and so can scarcely have remembered him (page i 7).
Christopher went to a small day school when he was five, to a prepara-
tory school at eight, and to a public school at thirteen-and-a-half years of
age. His various schoolmasters found him a difficult boy to teach, and
his reports were generally to the effect that he was capable of much better
work than his results showed: an exception was his Eton music-master’s
report, which praises Christopher for his industry as well as for his
aptitude with the flute.
In June 1940 we decided to send him to America with our youngest
son David, who is frequently mentioned in the letters. The boys sailed
in July 1940 and were in the care of my cousin, Theodore, or as he is
called by the boys “Uncle Toby” (page 14) until he died very unex-
pectedly in May 1942. “Uncle Toby’s” influence with Christopher was
admirable and profound, for he was deeply interested in education
and was also a psvchologist and a mystic; under his guidance Christopher
developed markedly in character. Part of “Uncle Toby’s” earlier life had
been spent gold-mining in Siberia: he spoke Russian fluently and had great
sympathy with the Russian people. I think that this may account for
Christopher’s first attempts to help soldiers on the battlefield taking place
in Russia (page 13).
After “Uncle Toby’s” death Christopher was “adopted” by a family
in Portland, Oregon, and his brother David by another family until such
time as passages home could be obtained for them. This proved difficult
but eventually in March 1943 Christopher was given a “priority” passage
as he was nearing military age: he sailed from New York about March 25,
1943. The rest we know from him in these letters. The only official
information we have received was on May ijth, 1943, that his ship was
“greatly overdue and must be presumed lost by enemy action” and we
have been unable to trace any survivor.
I have been asked to add a note on the way in which these letters comc
to me. Readers of Letters from Lancelot will have seen the explanation
of this in the Appendix to that book. I wish now to amplify this explana­
tion. The writing is not “automatic” in the sense that I am unconscious
of what is being written: it is in fact more akin to an ordinary conversa-
tion between my son and myself except that as my etheric hearing is only
slightly developed, the talk on his patt has to be written: for this purpose
Christopher uses my hand or, according to him, its ectoplasmic extension.
If my mind is fairly free I become aware of his presence as soon as he
arrives, but if I am preoccupied with thought concentrated on other
subjects it may be some time before he can gain my attention which he
says that he achieves by a “gentle tap on thebrain cells” (page 66).
If a stranger tries to communicate with tne, I only become aware that
someone in the etheric life wants my attention without realising any
distinct personality. With my sons or other near and known relatives
I feel this personality at once and I know who is with me before they
begin to write. This knowledge ofa definite and previously known person
is to me a safeguard against any deception—-subconscious or by other
entities. I seldom “write” without this knowledge and never without
the knowledge that someone is present who wishes to communicate.
In view of the efforts of psychologists and others to explain all commu-
nication from the next life between those who love each other as a “wish-
fulfilment” due to grief, emanating from the subsconscious mind of the
one in earth-life, I ask that it should be noted—
(a) That I was in clear communication with the etheric life for many
years before any child of mine had died, and
(b) therefore I never feit the grief which I know is feit so bitterly by
mothers who have not yet my knowledge, and which it is my earnest
desire that my sons’ letters may relieve.
If any reader who is seriously interested would care to ask questions
concerning these letters or the method of their communication, enquiries
may be addressed to me at Cox’s Mill, Dallington, Heathfield, Sussex,
England.
R.M.T.
A note from Christopher.
August zcjth, 1944.
“Can I write a paragraph in the preface to my book ? Insert as
follows-----
‘Strangers were a nightmare to the small boy who thought himself a
mark of reproach in cvery word said to or about him. An adoring love
of home and parents and an acute desire to shine in their eyes more than
his brothcrs was the mainspring ofhis life.
Great belief in Mother’s wisdom induced acceptance of Uncle Toby
at first, who soon gained respect and a desire to shine in his eyes too was
the ruling motive. Gradually a wider outlook opened and other people
became less formidable and therefore more real, until a longing to shine
in society began to dawn, which lasted till death brought the realisation
of valucs apart from seif.
1 am very interested in the making of my book and wish 1 had written
my earlier letters better!
Chris.’ ’
LETTERS FROM CHRISTOPHER
PART I
June yd, 1943.
“Yes, I am here, Mummy darling. I am being instructed in my new
life. I was afraid of death but I was glad when it was over, and I had
to be in a place of quiet for a long time till I lost my fears—I am longing
to be with you again and Dad and be at home. It is funny to be like
this not able to make you hear when I speak to you, and all my plans
of going into Dad’s regiment are upset, but I suppose they will let me
help a bit even here. I have guides who are helping me to find my way
about. It is all very confusing at first, because you see I never thought
of coming into this funny sort of life. ... I thought if I died I should
be floating about in the clouds somewhere, but I am in quite a solid
sort of life only you can’t see it yet, but quite real. I will teil you more
about it next time, but they say I must go now. I don’t know who my
guides are but they are very nice to me and help me all the time.
“ Goodnight, Mum, from Chris.”
June \yh.
“Chris is longing to talk to Murns, but I am not yet proficient and
want to speak instead, and you don’t hear—only a few words at a time.
Of course, I know you can’t, because I never did at all. Mums, you
are thinking of my childhood, and I am quite different now but always
same person ... I am in bigger, less cramped life now, and can
express my feelings better than I could before. But now I must teil
you about it all. I was very weak and upset at first because they didn’t
come for me for some time and I was so frightened because I was lost
and couldn’t make out what had happened to me. I feit I must be
dead because I was not on the ship and I knew I hadn’t landed. You
see, I came out of my cabin and it was all water—I rushed up on deck
and I . . . O, Mum, I can’t go on, you mustn’t make me remember
that. Cut to where I am now and I can go on, but I mustn’t go back till
I’m stronger. I must go soon, so 1’11 just say that I haven’t seen anyone
I know yet, so I can’t give news of them. I am training to help the
soldiers fighting with their fears, because I was so afraid that I need
such training before I can go on further. I am so glad to bc over the
frightened part because that was my task bn earth, to try to conquer
fear. I am full of buck now that I can get on further, and I shall be over
to see you offen as I get stronger.
io Leitersfrom Christopher
“So long—iove to Dad, teil him 1’11 write to him next time. I am
glad you get my messages, even like this. Some day we’ll talk properly,
when you come to this life too.
“Your loving son, Chris.”*
(JNote.—Many who have read bis first letters have expressed surprise
tbat Christopher sbotdd not have been met after death by someone he knew,
and shonld have gone through a short time offeeling “lost” and alone. I
believe that this was due to bis own introspective nature. His mind bad
been throughout his life centred on himself and the effect.he might produce
on olbers; this self-centredness probably rnade him unable at first to see
those helpers who were undoubtedly near him from the moment he died.
It needed a spirit of great power and love to break through the mist of his
self-imposed isolation and heal his blindness.—R.M.T.)
June i<>th.
“Chris wants to have a talk-----
You are making a place for me as if I had an earth body! It isn’t like
that; I am close to you but I can’t sit on the sofa because it isn’t in my life.
I can see all of your life quite plainly, but I can’t do things with it, only
with people who are spirits too. The sofa looks Like mist to me now, and
quite clear. I see all your solid things like shadows. I am guiding your
hand by a force you send out which is part of this life, so I can hold it and
make your hand work as I want it to, but it isn’t quite like my own writing
because you are guiding the hand too. I am getting very interested in
the life here, it is all so much more natural than I ever thought it would
be, and very full of life and things to do. . . .Murns, you are so happy at
having me with you . . . You aren’t -stopping me, but I left off to kiss
you, Mums my own. I went to see Dave yesterday ... I can go over there
and back to you in very little time as you count it, because I can travel
by desire, which is a sort of super speedway, much quicker than air
travelling even. I find this all very wonderful and had no idea the mind
was so powerful. I am being taught much about mind and its powers
•which are so little used in earth life. Mind is the maker of all things.
God is Mind, and we are bits of Him with self-will so that we can become
separate beings. All this is very wonderful to me to realise. I am learning
to play an Instrument of music which will take the place of my flute
I loved. It is much finer sound than air-borne waves, and you can’t
hear it any more than my voice now, but it is lovely, I wish you
could hear how lovely it soundsJn the harmony of sound over here.
It is something like my flute to look at but far easiei to play and more
beautiful to listen to . . . It has a ränge of sound beyond anything you
can understand ... I have a score of notes just like earth music but with
greater pitch and ränge, and all the great musicians of earth have written
music for this plane where I am now before they went on to higher planes.
I am full of kick over my music, it is so exactly Heavenly, just like we used
to call it on earth. I must not stay too long or you will be tired my guides
say, so—so long, Mums, from your son Chris.”
June i~ith.
“I want to teil you about my life here. It is so lovely and natural, much
nicer than I imagined. 1 learn lots of Science, only it is completely different
)
Leitersfrom Christopher n
to earth Science because it has to do with matterin another form, the inside
of what we see on earth—it is as if matter was turned inside out and we
are dealing with the light side, you with the dark. I often look on at my
school’s lessons and see them making experiments which are just opposite
to our forms here . . . . ”
Music on the wireless.
“Murn, I might be playing this tune, it is like one I play now----- Yes,
I hear tunes of earth music but only in the rrinds of people, not their
Instruments. You don’t know it, but your mind vibrates to human music
so that you are making sounds in our life when you’re listening. My guides
say you mustn’t take too much at a time, so 1’11 stop talking.”
June zznd.
“Heigh ho, a bit worried tonight. I can’t find my patrol yet, and I
should be joining up now. I must be off soon to get to grips with the
problem. You see, I was under guides till yesterday, and now they have
told me to carry on by myself and call them if wanted, so I want to show
I can carry on, but I ought to join a patrol for the boundary and can’t find
where they are yet. It is a question of contacting their minds, and I
haven’t quite got the hang ofit yet, but I mean to carry on without calling
for help or I shall never get on.
I must go, Mum, but 1’11 be in time tomorrow if I can come. I shall
be keeping the Silent Minute anyway though. So long—love to Dad.”
June z^th.
“Mum’s little boy! I’m six foot tall arid broad in proportion I would
have you know. I’m shocked at you! I want to have a nice talk before
our ‘Silent Minute’, that’s why I came early. I am keen to teil you about
my present surroundings and life, and it is so difficult because I see every-
thing in a different way, much füllet and more beautiful—more sides to
everything and no perspective at all. Things don’t get smaller as you go
away from them, but you needn’t see more than you want to. It is
hopeless to try and explain to you because all our geometry etc., is quite
out of the picture, and no amount of Euclid could go anywhere here.”
R. “It sounds as ifyou were infour dimensional Space Hon’.”
“I don’t know, but I see what you mean—Yes, I suppose I’m in four-
dimensional space now—you have given me a solution of the problem,
Murns, and 1’11 think it out. I believe that’s what it is. I am in space all
right, no floating about loosely but quite organised and real. I find it
interesting and mean to try to understand more about it all, but I should
feel very lost without you, Mum darling, for I can’t find anyone I know,
and the guides have gone now ... I believe I can’t see them because
I haven’t learnt some lesson I ought to know.”
R.—notpray about it't”
“I never thought of prayer—Christ came when I was drowning, to still
the waves of fear, and I saw Hirn then ... I must pray, and then I shall
know why I am alone so much, and some day I shall see Hirn again . . .
I thought He saved the disciples in the boat, so I prayed then and He
came. If I pray again He will hear me and help me to see my way
better ... It is so real here, Mum ... I can see light when you pray, it
shines like a ray of sunlight into the darkness.”
12 Leitersfrom Christopher
June zf>th.
“You come nearer as I write, I notice. Let’s be very cosy and have a
long ‘pyjama talk’ as Uncle Toby called it. I want to teil you about my
doings, and I am up against it for words because we don’t use thern, >
only thoughts, which are much clearer here than with you. I am trying
to get into the way of thinking more directly instead of round by means
of words. I can begin by telling you of our adventure when the boat was
torpedoed. I don’t mind talking about it now for I am much stronger,
and it isn’t on my mind. It was early in the morning of April zoth I
think (but not sure of date) when I was asleep and wakened by a bang
which shook me out of my bunk, and water rushed into the cabin before
I could get out—then I scrambled through it and came on deck, which
was awash, and the ship was settling down. I plunged overboard to try
to swim, but it Was such a big sea that I couldn’t get along. I was
struggling when they fired and I went down. Then I cried to Christ and
I was peaceful again and seemed to sleep. Soon I woke away from it all #
in a great wide quiet place with grass and trees, and I wandered about
trying to make out what had happened to me. It dawned on me that
I must be dead because I couldn’t have reached land, but it all seemed too
natural and homelike to be death. I got a little worried because no one
eise seemed to be there to teil me what to do, so I feit rather lost and very
tircd. I sat under a tree just like an earth tree and rested and after a long
time I saw—MARY—I know now who She was; but then I only blinked
at Fier light and wondered. I feit very tired still, and She carried me in
Her Arms as if I were a little baby, and Oh! the comfort of Her strength—
She never spoke, but took me to a wonderful place of healing where I
was rested and made whole again. I can never forget the wonder of Her
and being in Her Arms. I never knew such a comforting healing presence.
I stayed a long time in that place, and left it in the care of my guides
who only left me a few days ago. Since then I have been shown so much
that I am still bewildered by it all—I am given certain duties at certain
times, and train to join later in the war of liberation of man from earth-
bound spirits—light against darkness—it is a great fight and we are all
in it together, but I am such a beginnet that I don’t yet know what I have
to do. I am keen to begin though, and want to get on with my training.
I see things so differently now, and my earth life seems so silly compared
to reality as I see it now. I am just the same person though, not a bit
changed, and even feel as if I were wearing the same clothes, though I
know it’s only my feeling of them that makes them. It is happy and free
and quite beyond words to express. I long to teil you, but know it is
impossible to convey it to your minds at homc—I am told you have taken
enough, so will just wait for Big Ben without talking any more-----”
June z-jth.
“I’m so excited because I have been given a job to do. I am going to
be attached to a mobile unit of the camp force here which arranges camps
and test centres for the men who come here from battle. We have to move
about with the fighting earth armies and arrange for the reception of men
who come over in a battle suddenly. They are frightened sometimes, and
I have been through all that, so I can teil them it is all right and they need
Lettersfrom Christopher ij.
not be afraid. I am so proud to be allowed to use my new powers
already, and I feel very elated and glad—I shan’t be able to be with you
for some nights now because we are so much needed, but I shall come
when I can get off, and I shall be with you in spirit at nine each evening
—I can understand better how real it is to be with anyone in spirit now.
I am so thankful I can really help in the war. I wanted SO much
to join up, and was going to join Dad’s regiment but I was stopped, so
now I am glad I can help gunners who come on here and teil them I am
a Gunner’s son too. I am so glad Mum, you don’t know how much I
wanted to join up, and now I can help to win the war by keeping the
minds of the soldiers happy ... I am to be a guide to the camp for men
who come over, so I shall be almost the first to teil them. I can do that
because they will see me just as an earth young man and it will seem natural
to them for me to be there. I shall just guide them to our camp one at a
time and hand them over to a proper guide. They are highly trained for
knowledge of human minds, and have all come back from higher spheres
to do this work of helpers here on earth. There are thousands of them,
and all have been purified and passed through big tests which I know
nothing about yet. I shall come and teil you how I get on whenever I
can ... You mustn’t write more to-night, Mum darling-----”
June
“Here I am now Mum, can we talk? I want to teil you that my work is
so interesting, and I am on the Russian front now. They can’t speak
my lingo nor I theirs, but I am getting used to picking up thoughts
now and can give them an impression of what I want to say. You see,
that sort of thing is easier out of one’s body. I went to Smolensk first
as a base for our operations, and then we plunged into the fighting zone
and found plenty of work already waiting, for there were hundreds who
had come out of their bodies unexpectedly, so that their own people
didn’t know of it. You see, we are all at work over here, and can’t always
be sending thoughts to our earth relatives to find out if they are O.K.—
I made one bloomer though. I took a German Sergeant to the samt camp
as the Russian he had kicked when he was dying, and weren’t they stiff
to each other! They had to be sent to separate camps till they learn
better behaviour, for that sort of thing doesn’t go over here. I made
a good job of my first attempts on the whole though, I was told, and I
am so keen to get on with it and help a bit more. We shall be with our
own lads soon I hope, but they aren’t needing so much help just now.
I’m getting practice for when our big push comes along. Mum, I am
beginning to feel my feet a bit now, and this life is just fine. I’m getting
used to the ways of telling meanings by thoughts instead of in words;
and the colours I see now are marvellous, such beauty as I never dreamt
of before. I long to show you some of it, but earth eyes can’t see it. I
shall come when I can to you and Dad and teil you all my expcriences . ..”
(Later.) “We go in a group together and make a camp for the reception
of new-comers to this life—then we make it as like as possible to their
own surroundings so that they ncedn’t feel stränge, and we go back into
their homes to see if we can find out where their relatives on this side are
likely to be—that is for more advanced thinkers than I am yet. We try
Leitersfrom Christopher
v )
14
to keep them from any fear because that closes their spirit eyes and they
can’t see while they are frightened. They often are too, which isn’t
surprising really when you Come to think of how frightened we used to
be at the thought of death. I laugh to think how it looked from my
old life now. Well, they soon get over that, and most of them will have it
that they are not really dead at all and want to go back to their army
duties, so that we have to explain that they can’t do that sort of thing
any more, but will have plenty of work to do when they have rested a
bit after the shock of getting killed . . . Now let’s talk abo.ut the Com­
munications between this life and yours. I am told that they are to be
extended quite a lot—the time hasn’t come yet for everyone to do it,
but many more than ever before, and you are wanted to spread the belief
in its truth and possibility all you can. Many more people will soon be
able to talk to this life than ever in the world’s history, and so people will
have a clearer knowledge of what is coming when they die to help them
to prepare for it . . . I am so lucky to be able to send any messages I
want to, and put things right I did wrong—I am not good yet, but I
mean to try to be now ...”
/«/y ist, 1943.
“I want to teil you about our new Camp Commandant—He is Uncle
Toby! Aren’t you surprised! I was, and ever so pleased. It was a real
thrill to know I should be working under him, and he is just a Topper
to be in Charge here ... I was working hard and had just finished a
bad case of nerves when I was told to go to Headquarters as I was wanted,
so I rushed off thinking I had got hitched on to the wrong job or some-
thing, when I saw Uncle Toby just grinning at me like he used to do—
I was just offmy knocker with joy to see him again, and he seemed awfully
glad to find me making good like that...”
July znd.
“Uncle Toby says I am to be promoted soon to be a path-finder,
which means that I shall be able to find paths for men to go to their
homes by—It is difficult to explain, but you see we have to trace their
homes by thoughts they send out and then take them by means of their
thoughts making a sort of track which meets the thoughts of those who
love them. They are so glad to see their wives and children again, but
are sad that they can’t make them understand. I am lucky, Mum, to have
you. I only hope I shall be able to do it, because I am not very skilled
yet at thought-tracing. Uncle Toby says never mind, you try, so I must
as he’s Commandant. I must teil you about my last exploit which
I am very proud of. I was making a dive for a good landing in the
Camp when I found my man I had in tow was beginning to funk it,
so I just landed him flat in the German lines. Of course they couldn’t
see him and they didn’t know he was there, but he got so full ofexcitement
at being among the enemy that he quite forgot to feel afraid of flying
above the ground without a plane. He was absorbed in counting the
guns and making notes of what he saw, and he wanted to go back and
teil his own people—however he soon found it was no use as he couldn’t
make anyone understand, but he was ever so much better to handle after
Leitersfrom Christopher
)
15
that he had realized that he was dead and could leave the ground without
falling . . .
You didn’t know that I could fly? Of course I can, because our bodies
aren’t made of anything affected by gravitation now, so I can go wherever
I want just by wanting to—I am trying to do my bit so I don’t want to
leave earth yet, but I could if I wanted to like Lancelot did . . .
I want to say that I can make a powerful force which exerts pressure
on minds to influence them, but it isn’t so strong as will-power, and
only minds which are not decided respond to it. If they are wondering
what to do of two things 1 can influence them to decidc . . Of course
I only use it for good, what do you think I am, Mum! but it interests
me immensely to see minds react to influence by me, and makes me
feel quite cocky about my powersl Goodnight, Mums, I must go now.”
]uly ’jth.
R. “Teil me what your daily life is like?”.
“Oh well, it’s a bit difficult to describe, because we don’t divide our
time up into days and nights and meals, and divisions like that. We
just work hard and then rest when we feel tired, and my enjoyment when
I rest is to come home to Mum and Dad and talk to you.
I sometimes play my Instrument and make wonderful harmonies,
and sometimes I walk in the woods and find flowers 1 don’t know—
they all look so different to me now, all alive and breathing, with feelings
mounting up above them like coloured mists. I must teil you one
adventure I had which was very funny. I went to a wood, near where
they were felling trees, and I saw a tree clinging to its body like a green
mist, so I tried to disentangle it to help it I thought, but it clutched
round me instead and I was all mixed up in the tree’s etheric form
which wouldn’t leave me. I had to tear it away, and it soon went off to
find a young growth it could inhabit. You see they don’t really live long
because they aren’t spirits, but only etheric forms, so they gradually
dissolve when their tree dies, but not at once. So I never interfered with
tree forms again . . .
I shall so love to show you everything when you come here and
Dad too. It is difficult to describe though, because there is so much in
this life which you can’t understand and I can’t teil you for lack of
words. I -can’t explain the whole way the thing is worked because I
just don’t know myself, but I teil you it is good—oh boy isn’t it just!
like all you know of toffee—yes, Mum, I lapsed into slang I believel----- ”
July Sih.
“I am longing to teil you what we are doing now, it’s so interesting.
I am path-finding now, and shall be working on German lines for a bit,
to help me to get over thinking of them as enemies, which I can’t help
doing still. It is so difficultwhen one seesthemall thinking horrid thoughts
about our country to remember that we are all friends here whatever
country we come from. I try to trace their thoughts back to their homes
and families and then go there to see if I can get thoughts to come out
to meet them, and it is often not easy at all for their people will think
of anything eise in the World than them, and I can’t put thoughts into
people’s minds well yet. It is such interesting work though, and sometimes
Lettersfrom Christopher
I succeed better than I expect. I went to a corner of Leipzig to find a
soldier’s home and it was all wrecked and in ruins and his family gone I
don’t know where—but I had to let him go to see for himself and it was
awful, he was so mad with rage and pain, and I feit like a murderer
myself, but it was only done by a bomb I think. I wish it needn’t be . . .
Murn, I’m rather upset over what I’ve seen. I seem to have grown so
much older now. O Mum, you were making a rainbow of prayer for that
man, and I can see better now how to help these people. I am looking
out for his family now he has given me a sight of them in his mind, and
I hope to find them safe somewhere . . .”
July soth.
“I want to teil you about my new work of path-finding. I went to
the home of a Czech soldier who was killed in Russia because he wouldn’t
fight for the Germans—he tried to cross over to the Russian lines so
they shot him. He was terribly anxious about his family in case the
Germans would ill-treat them, so we went together and found his
father had been killed but his mother and sisters were all right, and
very bitter about his father being killed; so he is going to try to find
his father and they will help the others together. I left him looking for
his father because another soldier wanted help—and 1 tried to get a
thought-path for him to go to his wife, but she wouldn’t think of him
at all—however his son did better and sent a long ray of thought towards
his father which lighted the path up beautifully—so I left him going
to see his son, and telling his wife to think of him before I left. It is
awfully interesting, but very tiring work because I’m not very good
at it yet.”
(Later.} “You were not listening when Big Ben struck, Murns.” We
turned on the wireless andfound our watches were slow.
“I see, you can’t hear it till you turn the wireless on. I can hear it
right over in Russia without tuning in anything. Only one word more,
to teil Dad I am getting my stripe soon as a path-finder. I am going now,
Mum—Goodnight.”
July syth.
“1 have been off on my own for the first time, and trying to find how
to trace people out by their thought-tracks. I went off to follow that
tank you saw on the road, to see what they were up to, and then I traced
the girl back to her home by seeing her thoughts tracking back, and sure
enough I found her mother thinking of her when she met the girl’s
thought. It is awfully interesting, a sort of new Science of thought and
fecling, and they weave colours all over the place, quite lovely ones
but very different to earth colours.”
Pause—Areyou playihgyour Instrument?
“Rather—I want to test your hcaring again, so be still and listen”
(Pause). “You can’t vibratc quite fast enough to hear, but you caught
a few notes I think—anyhow better than last time ... I shall be away
from you after this leave for a bit, because we are going to move camp
again, and I hope it means we’ll be where our own fellows are fighting
now. I should get on much better with them I’m sure. We’ll have a
talk after the Silent Minute to-night again.”
Leitersfrom Christopher ’7
]uly i<)th, 9.5 p.m.
Expecting Christopher R. took a pencil, hüt to her surprise it was Lancelot
writing.
“Mum, I came to find you and Kitopher was talking to you in this
way. I am so surprised because I didn’t know he had come through
death ... I have been away over in Neptune since we last had a talk
and had ever such a grand time in trying to understand their ways
of thought and new ideas . . .”
Lancelot seemed to Step aside as Christopher came.
Christopher writing—“Mum, I am . . . why . . . (Panse').
“Chris speaking—Mum darling I am so excited—Lancelot is here
and was talking to you, and I am so taken aback I hardly know what
to say. He is so lovely, you never saw anything like him, like a marvellous
beautiful spirit of fire, and human too like me. I am his brother! Mum
darling, I am so glad to be here now—I am to go with Lancelot to-night
for a time of teaching, and we shall both be with you to-morrow. So
long, Mums—Love to Dad ”
Jrd_y zolh. Lancelot.
“Now, Mum, I want to teil you about our doings, Chris and I. Ile
is Corning soon, but was anxious to teil someone about my Corning
home again, so he went off to his camp. I showed him some of the old
schools I was in when I first came over here, and he was awfully interested
in seeing them, and how we got on in spiritual ways more than in eärth
things. He wants to help in this war, so that’s why he will work so hard.
I can help his work now I am on earth, and teach him how to train
his mind to help the soldiers inwardly instead of only by outward
guidance . . .”
Christopher arrived.—Christopher writing.
“Yes, I’m back rather out of breath—wait a bit—now, Mum I’m fit
to talk. I have so much to say I hardly know where to begin. Lancelot
is taking me round and showing me such a lot I can hardly kcep pace
with it all. Let me begin at the end of yesterday when he took me off
to see a place of rainbow buildings where he was at school, in his early
days, all iridescent and shimmering colours and baby spirits learning to
love beauty and know God. I was so astonished at the heavenliness of
it all—so pure and—just wonderful. I can’t describe it, there aren’t
any words. Then we went to another school where he had learnt to
know he must help other people, and that was plainer and more like
earth but all with a meaning. I can’t explain, but it was also wonderful.
I can’t teil you all of it because it is so different to our earth training,
but so much more glorious and beautiful. I don’t think brain work
comes into it at all but only the power of mind and spirit forces with
love and joy and helping those on earth. I think I shall be quite different
for having seen it all... I suddenly thought how much Uncle Toby would
like to know Lancelot was back, so I bolted off like a shot rabbit to teil
him while Lancelot talked to you. Uncle Toby was ever so glad to hear
the news. Now I must stop and teil you more another night. Lancelot
is going to show me some more wonders I think. I can’t teil you how
wonderful it all is . . .”
i8 Lettersfrom Christopher
July 21st.
“ Chris speaking. I want to teil you of all my doings and busyness
since I last spoke. First I went off with Lancelot to a city of spar (has
the Word got an R ?), and he showed me that the people loved their
beautiful homes so much that they spent all their time getting more
beautiful things for them. They aren’t very high in spirit, Lancelot said,
because they are so absorbed in their own interests. Then he took me
round a marvellous track of speed-cars—you don’t believe we have
cars over here? W ell, they are all imagined by people who are so full
of interest in them that they long to go on making and driving them,
so they build them up out of their minds and make them real by wanting
them so much. Over here we have all we want by creating it out of our
desires, so it’s very vital to have good desires, otherwise you have to
be suppressed like the guinea-pigs in Alice in W'onderland. Lancelot
knew I should love to see that, but he was careful to teil me that they
were not high spirits either. You see he explained that we ought to get
further than wanting earth things still, as there are millions more things
we never knew on earth to carry our knowledge further and further
for ever.”
R. “ You saidyou were ‘out of breath' when you came yesterday, how can
you be out of breath whenyou no longer breathe air?”.
“Yes, I was out of breath because I had rushed so fast that I hadn’t
time to think my way by stages, and it’s a sort of mental breath when
you want to go fastet than you can think. I can’t explain better because
circumstances are so different here and we do everything in a different
way, and the other way round. Can you grasp that if you want to think
fastet than natural it makes you out of breath mentally? ... I understand
much more now than I ever knew before seeing Lancelot—it has been
a great education for me just to be with him and see him.
I must go after the Silent Minute, so goodnight, Mum. Teil Dad good-
night from me. Chris.”
July zznd.
“I was away on a tracking job of tracing minds in military barracks
—didn’t you feel me leave the car where you passed a Tommy with a
bayonet on sentry go? I want to get into touch with their kind of mind
process, so that I can be more useful when we go to our own men.
Now about Philip, I was most interested in his psychic seif which
is far better developed than his human brain. He sends out wordless
waves of psychic thought which are quite beyond me and wonderful
to see—I am glad to see him from this Life because it is so plain that he
is quite a fine developed spirit and only inhibited by human brain
injuries which I can see plainly visible from my plane—they look like
brown places in his mind where action is prevented in the brain cells.
The speech centre is affected and the emotional will-power so that he
can’t be attcntive to other people’s emodons.
He is very strong in other ways, intellectually and physically, but he
can’t express this because of the speech damage—His psychic seif is
great, much bigger powers than mine, and he is learning a lot of our ways
of thought-waves which he can’t show in human life but which he uses
well even now.
Lettersfrom Christopher ig
I was very close to his mind several times, but I don’t know if he saw
me because he wasn’t thinking of me at all but absorbed in you and
Dad, and funny ideas of animals which come from his seeing their
psychic selves as well as the earth form. He is very contented with his
life, and knows much more than he can show of why he is under control
and taken care of,—He feels unable to manage his physical seif, so he is
happy to leave his life to others and learn on the psychic plane where
he is getting on so well—I can’t teil you more because I wasn’t there
long enough, but I am quite sure he is happy and loves the people he
is with.”
July zyrd. At Cox’s Mill.
“I don’t know about what Dad was asking—etheric forces for vege-
tables—I think they belong to a sub-spiritual life which the tree and
plant etheric forms belong to—I am very interested in learning about
other forms of life now because there was no indication of them in earth
life, and really they are most complicated and numerous, all interlocking
each other in a sort of sequence beginning with their outer earth-forms
up to the spiritual, which only man and the higher mammals and birds
possess. Birds have spirits I am so glad to see, because they are such
dariings and I love them so much, but they are very wee little spirits
and always bird-like, no transmigration like the Indians think so far as
I can see. Animals have quite big spirits of their kind sometimcs.
Can I just teil you a bit about my training to see thoughts? I hope to
be able to trace people to their homes quite well soon and not to make
mistakes.—Now let’s have a try at thought-reading without a pencil-----
I see you nced the writing to crystallize your ideas on mine so to speak.
----- You go all woolly after a minute of thought-speaking without
writing.----- 1 see, yes, perhaps you ought not to do it—but some people
in earth life are quite good at it.—I think you are a little afraid to try.
I am enjoying my leave ever so much, it is so peaceful at home and just
like old times. Give me a boat and 1’11 be slacking on the pond like
I9J9-—So long, Murn and Dad, till to-morrow. From Chris.”
July z^tb. At Cox’s Mill
“I am waiting till you have finished your business—I want so much
to teil you how I feel about this place.—It is a Center of fairy life and
I can see them now. When you used to teil me there were fairies here
I thought you just meant it was lovely, but I can see now lovely little
beings belonging to the etheric life who are decorating the trees with
coloured lights and building small homes of moss and fern and tiny
plants.—They are not spirits but beings of a lower life invisible to you
but quite visible to me now, and I see how fairy stories began with
glimpses of that etheric life. It is fascinating to watch their activities for
they are so busy, but they don’t seem to see our life of spirits—they
see and know of earth life and use earth things though they are in the
etheric world themselves. I suppose they are a link between the two—
Oh yes! I think I remember you told me, but I didn’t believe you then -
I was so positive that fairies were imagination........................................
Our ship was torpedoed at night so suddenly that there seems to have
been no time for anyone to rescue us.—I don’t know what happened to
(
Lettersfrom Christopher
(
20
any of the others because I was so alarmed, I just jumped for it when
I saw the boat was almost down and I heard firing and think they hit
the sub, but I don’t know because I went Straight down and never
came up again.—It was a night attack on the whole convoy I believe:
but perhaps they didn’t know for some time which ships had gone down,
because they all scattered when there was an alarm.
I want just to teil you something eise about this place which I love,
and that is the feeling of the old forests which were here hundreds of
years ago, and have left etheric forms here.—They are so beautiful those
ancient trees which have loved this place before men cleared the forests,
and I can see them still in places here where the ancient feeling Ungers:—
It is so beautiful and such a home to me.
I think we might leave off talking and just enjov it here—Yes, we’ll
keep the Silent Minute later but not talk to-night ——Talk to-morrow
here.-------- ”
]uly T.'-yth.
‘‘Yes, Dad, of course I hear what you say and see you thinking it,
so be carefull!—Of course I should not presume to criticize my father!—
I must build myself a boat in this life which I can use here for old time
sake, because it would be jolly to sail on the pond, and I could keep it for
holidays only—I can make anything I really want now by concentrating
mind power on it, but of course that would only be for my slack timeS—
Mum, I want to teil you that Uncle Toby is moving camp to-morrow,
so this is our last talk for a few days, and then I shall come to Stoke
again, shall I? I don’t yet know where we shall be, but I hope with
some of our own men—I must get on well with my work to be of some
use in the world—they want all the help they can get just now.—I meant
to teil you that Topsy is still here; she loves this place too and is evcr so
happy with old Toby the brown horse who used to be here too—His
name began with T, but I don’t think it was Toby? Tom was it?—
No! I don’t see our guinea-pigs, and I don’t think they have spirits
only etheric forms which soon dissolve away.—I can’t quite make
out where they draw the line and begin to have real spirits? I think horses
are higher than guinea-pigs, but I don’t know why they should be more
spiritual? I am not sure yet about guinea-pigs though, for I have seen
mice in our life, and cats too—I haven’t seen our Mew though, so perhaps
she isn’t dead yet?
I think you are busy so I must stop chattering. I must give you a
hug, Mum, for this lovely holiday—I have so enjoyed it and had a real
quiet rest time in my dear old home. So long, Dad, see you again soon,
I shall have news then of my work I expect.” Your son, Chris.”
The name of the old brown horse was Turpin. Topsj was the cbildren s pony
who had to be destroyed owing to illness.
July zSth, 1945.
In the garden at Stoke I heard a few words which sounded like Christopher,
so afew minutes later went in andgot a pencilfor him to write.
“Chris is away, it was me you were so close to Mum darling, and 1
loved to see your mind in doing the roses—I pretended to try and talk
like Chris to see if you would think I was he, but then 1 was sorry becos’
Leitersfrom Christopher 21
I
you did, and I had to go away to keep from laughing at my success—I
am still just a joker you see, and it was rather a silly joke, becos’ I know
you can’t see us yet. Chris is in camp still, and I am with you and Dad
for a bit of a rest from my work—Dad darling is pleascd to hear from
me again—I am so happy with you both becos’ you are my HOME
always, however far I go on my work—”
R. “But children leave home to make homes for themselvesl"
“I know but somehow I don’t, but seem to belong to you and Dad
in a special way becos’ I didn’t have a home of my own on earth, so I
didn’t grow any other human ties—I belong to Christ altogether,
but he teils me that you are my home-----1 see you have other things
to do now and I must stop, but wc’ll talk again another evening shall
we darling? love to dad ever so much from lancelot.”
july iC)th. Lancelot writing.
“Mum darling, I have been to see how Chris is gctting on with his
camp moving, and I tried to lind him by thought-waves but he isn’t
advanced enough to respond to that yet.
Chris is hearing more now of other things than earth, and is getting
on very well.—I found him sitting with Uncle Toby in a circle of newly
joined recruits hearing a communication from their Leader, who is a
very advanced spirit of higher planes. Uncle Toby was very surprised
to see me, and so glad, I could see. He told me that he had read my book,
so I said what book? and he explained that it was all my letters to you
which you had printed a long time ago, so he was quite like an old
friend to me.
I was very glad to see that Chris is under him for work, becos’ Uncle
Toby is so big in his ideas that he will soon move to a higher plane
than earth and be able to help in bigger ways than now.
Big Ben struck 9 p.m.
I saw a light spread over England when the clock struck----- All
together—I see, what a lovely idea to do it all at the same time—I can’t
join when l’m out of Earth, but when I’m at home I will love it, so put
my name down on the Fellowship or whatever it is-----
Goodnight Darlings from lancelot.”
August ist. Lancelot.
“You are so obliging, Mum, to come just when I want to talk! I was
quite prepared to wait till your bedtime. I want to teil you about Chris,
who is very courageously trying to take his part in the war. He is very
sensitive and it hurts him to see martyrs over there in the battlefields.
He was afraid to go at first to where they were being killed, and ofl'ered
to give help in the camp, but he was ordered to the front and wcnt so
bravely though he was desperately afraid of seeing men in pain. Now
he has got over his fear of it, and is quite good at bringing newcomers
along. I am very proud of his courage, which matters more for his
future than you realize now. You are his Inspiration and Dad—he
longs to be a son you are proud of, but he is too shy to say so—so be
very proud to hear of his work when he comes to you. He is so full
of colour and music, and that makes him dread the harsh colours of pain
0
zz Leitersfrom Christopher
and fear, but he can bring much more help now than if he had never
been so afraid himself.
I’ve got a surprise for you. Here is Uncle Toby!
Theodore—‘‘Uncle Toby” writing.
“Now, Ruth, I have taken the opportunity of Chris being absent to
teil you a little about him. I am very pleased with the progress he has
made and very happy about his future. You know so little of the working
of our present life that it is plainly useless to teil vou much about his work
but he is forming a splendid character and will be a fine spirit in time.
He will be able to come for his birthday, and frequent visits to you are .
needed by him now for you supply love, which is the best working
force there is, so I want him to come to you often, but to learn also
not to do it solely for his own pleasure. I can assure you that his highest
welfare is my present work, and I am waiting for high guidance for him
too. Lancelot has been a tremendous asset, for he supplies a great
incentive, the hero worship motif. He is a great lad and you will be
indeed a proud mother when you see him again. My duties call and
I have many just now, for fighting is heavy and we can hardly manage
to meet them all though there are thousands of us at the work. I am
glad to have had this opportunity of telling you how I feel about Chris
and his progress. Au revoir, Theodore----- ”
August yd—Christopher's Birthday (Afternoori). Christopher.
“I had a most interesting morning in Dad’s drill hall, and I could teil
the Germans heaps of secrets if I liked! I was absorbed in the instructors
and their work, so much more complicated than I ever thought guns
would be. I’m rather glad I didn’t have to learn all that after all. Say,
boy, what a bally show of guns and carriages and all. Dinky little show
spots on the walls, too, and all too cute lil aeroplanes hanging around.
I gotta hunch Dad’ll be mighty proud of that lot.----- ”
5.50 p.m. Christopher.
“Yes, as usual you are right, Mum, we are both here now, isn’t it jolly.
I am quite bucked at having a birthday party with Lancelot, too. No
birthday cake Mum? How silly of you to think of that, as if we wanted
any! Lancelot is going to write now —-
Lancelot.
“Mum ownest, I am so pleased to be home for Kitopher’s party
Sorry, Chris, I forgot. He say$ he is having a swell time—I like to hear
him talk Yankee don’t you? but he puts it on for fun, I believe ”-----
Christopher.
“Now Chris is writing. What fun it is, Mum, to be all together like
this with Lancelot, too, and dear old Dad sitting reading like he always
did. I do love to be here with you all again. Lancelot seems quite
natural to me now as if I had grown up with him. You see, he remembers
most things about my life, even things I had forgotten, and teils me of
them, and he is such a Topper, I can’t teil you how wonderful he is
to nie—
“Now I must teil you that we are Camping in Sicily next to give me
soinc practice with the Italianos I suppose, so I hope I shan’t have to be
)
Lettersfrom Christopher
lugging Germans about again, they are really too tough a lot for a
youngster like me to tackle, but Uncle Toby gave Orders so I had to do it.
I should be much better with our own boys I feel sure and p’raps he’ll
let me do that for a bit of a treat.
“We have still got to set up the camp, and it will be all different now,
to suit the men we are likely to have to help. I hear they are awfully
pleased with Uncle Toby’s work on the Russian front, and talk of making
him head of all the camps over there, so I may be sent back there again
with him, for he wants to keep me. He says he takes a fatherly interest in
my progress and wants to keep an eye on me. Now I’m going off with
Lancelot, who has got a special treat for me, he says—something of a
wonder to show me, I expect. We shall be here again round about Big
Ben time to-night. “What a birthday! O boy some dav! Cheerio till
to-night.—Chris.
9-15
“Mummy, I am going to leave you and Chris to talk, I am saving good-
night to you and Daddy darlings—goo bi.f.ss you from
“ I .AKCEI.OT.”
Christopher took the pencil.
“Chris speaking, Mum—Lancelot has gone now. I must teil you what
a show he has given me to-night, only I find it impossible to describc in
words. It was like a mountain of mists all made of colours new to me
altogether, not the same as earth colours at all—and wonderful patterns
kept forming in them like a kaleidoscope only infinitely more beautiful—
as if someone were inventing beautiful embroidery or----- no, all the
words I use seem to mean something small and stupid—there just aren’t
any words to describe what I saw, it was so lovely. It made me gasp witl
the beauty—sheer beauty—of it all.
“I think it was still on earth only not in your plane of being, because
we didn’t go away any distance, we just stood and watched it for hours—
and then I hadn’t seen enough, but Lancelot said you would be expecting
us and we ought to go. He is a most wonderful brother to have. I am
so lucky in my family, and to spend my birthday with you and Dad and
Lancelot has been the most wonderful day of my life.
“Now darling, I can see you are tired so I won’t write more to-night.
I must get back to work, but I think I shall be able to come fairly offen
when Uncle Toby gives me leave. Goodnight, Mum and Dad, with
many thanks for a jolly good birthday, from Chris.”
August jtb. Christopher.
“I have been allowed to come to-night to teil you about our doings.
I am delighted to find that we are behind the lines of the 8th Army itself!
The one place I wanted, and Uncle Toby is so lenient and says I am to
help the Tommies now. He says he was so pleased that I tackled Germans
as bcst I could without grousing too much, and he is going to let me
enjoy myself a bit! They are a fine lot of men. I never realised before
how grand men’s minds could be till I saw them from the inside like this.
I haven’t really started work yet, but I wanted to teil you the good news
that I am with our boys now. I came over a new way to-day, by
0 2
Leitersfrom Christopher
(
24
aeroplane instead of by thought-waves. I saw one of our planes taking
off and sat on the wing of it, and buzzed over to Tunis before I realiscd
it wasn’t going home. Then I got off and tricd to contact thoughts for
a home-bound plane, and soon found one was to leave from that very
aerodrome, so 1 tried the same dodge and had a lovely ride high among
the clouds and above them. Too high to see much but clouds below like
a blankel. 1 cnjoycd the trip though, because it was a new Sensation—one
goes too fast travelling by will-power; one has to concentrate all the time
on where one wants to get to, so one can’t enjoy the journcv much.
“Now, Mum, I want to say a bit of my new creed wliich I am making
<>ut of what 1 have been taught—
II"ritten very slon'ty.
1. I believe in GOD being LOVE.
2. I believe in CHRIST being LIFE.
5. I believe in SPIRIT being CONSC1OUSNESS.
4. I believe in CREATION being the working of these three.
“I wanted to try and put that into words, because it helps me to see it
tormulatcd, and I am beginning to grasp much more of these things than
■ ntcrcd mv b.cad before—I want to make a rule of life which comes from
the above. It runs something like this—
I WILL TO LIVE ALWAYS BY LOVE IN CHRIST AND
MAKING OTHERS CONSCIOUS OF HIS LOVE IN ME—
THIS SHALL BE MY RULE OF LIFE.
“ Now a word about Dad—I want so much to help him in his work,
and Uncle Toby is going to let me come to his drill hall on occasions
when we are slack at the front and see if I can tune the vibrations to be
helpful to him. It was an idea that came to me a long time ago, and when
I told Uncle Toby he said it was quite a good one. He showed me a bit
how to work it, and I feel sure I can help in that way. I am doing a bit
of path -finding at home now we are with the Tommies, so if I help a man
to his home rather quickly I can just come along to Dad afterwards
Uncle Toby doesn’t expect me to do more than one at a time. I think
we’ll wait now for Big Ben----- ”
August bth.
“Can you let mc come for a talk on coming Sunday? It is a great dav
and I am free to kcep it as a holiday. All day with you—but just a talk
now and then? I’m so glad.' ]ust over on path-finding and jinked over
to teil you that. So long—C.”
August ith. .Snnday
“I was listening to Dad’s music—I don’t want to talk till it is over . . .
You didn’t mind, did vou, Mum darling? . . . You hear music an awful
lot in your mind.
“Now I must teil you why I said it was a great day to-day, because
vou were wondering about it on our walk.
“It is a day of praycr with our camp organisations, and I joined them
from dawn till I came 10 vou at your breakfast, I have been with them in
spirit too since then, but Uncle Toby said I couldn’t go so far as the more
experienced spirits, so 1 could have a holiday instead. It is great because
Leitersfrom Christopher 25
4
so much help is given to them to carry on bettet than before, and it is as
if a great force was sct free by their all joining in it together, like we try
to do at the Silent Minute every evening.
“I love to see Dad’s mind when he is interested, and want to teil him
that I just don’t know about our bodies, what their Chemical analysis is—
I only know that they are more solid to me than yours are now, and that
I can do things impossible before, such as fly and gct through things
which used to be solid, such as walls, etc, I don’t have to open a door
to go into a room I just go through it—it seems just a soft misty thing to
me and I am the solid—the same with cverything. Yes, the aeroplane
1 came over on was a sort of mist but just solid cnough to support me
by wanting it to do so. You sc;e, I can wish solidity into things if it
suits my purpose. In fact I've a lot of power over what I sec only not to
interfere with them from the earth view point. But I can’t answcr Dad’s
Problems because I simply don’t know.
“Early on in the day I went to path-find for practice, and came across
a level track of thought leading ever so far, so I went along the beam and
it came from a mother who was ever so anxious that her son should be
healed. I looked to see her son, and he is unsound in his mind I think,
because part of his brain looked dark and cloudy -not like Philip’s, but
just cloudy, no definite spots of dead cells. I think he is being helped
very much bv her love, because the beam ol her thoughts was so broad
and clcar that I could see it easily—(qnes/io>i)—I don’t know her nam,e but
I feit I was guided to see her son, so probably she is meant to know how
I saw her mind. Teil her that he has only a elouded mind, no dead spots
in it, and I think it will clear in time. I am no expert in thesc things, so
can’t say for certain, but it secmed to me that her beam of thoughts must
be a very great help to him; and I saw a helper with him who scemcd ever
so loving, a man who loves him very much.
Later.
“I want to explain about seeing thoughts. So ta.r I find I can sec those
sent out towards other people like my path-finding work because they are
sent out seeking, so to speak, and want the person they are addressed to
to find them. 1 can see all your thoughts addressed to me and some of
Dad’s when he speaks or thinks of me, but 1 can’t see ordinary thoughts
of earth people, only those which makc light, and all loving thoughts do.
I can’t see what people think in their ordinary lives though.
“No, I’m afraid I couldn’t play the rpy on the Germans because their
thoughts are hard enough to read when they are dead and I’m surc living
Germans are much harder. I don’t think anyone in our plane can teil the
human plans people are making, but of course the higher spirits can, but
they know when to interfere and when people must be left to rhcmselvcs.
Murn darling, you are a bit tired, I think, so wc had bettcr stop. I shall
stay awhile and sit with you, but we won’t writc any more. Love to
Dad, from Chris.”
August iqth.
“You are not busy, are you Mums? I would like a jolly good chat with
you because I haven’t been for some days so I have a lot to say.
“We are working ever so hard at the front, and it is awfully good fun
Heftersfrom Christopher
)
26
being with our own boys. I am so happy over it all now, because their
minds are so clean and healthy compared to Russians or Germans.
Russians are awfully cruel in their thoughts you see, and have no
feelings of pity and fair play and not to hit a man when he’s down, and
our boys are so bright in thoughts compared to them. German minds are
simply horrid to deal with, but Uncle Toby says that I haven’t got a
missionary spirit yet or I would want to tackle the worst minds!—You’ve
got it Mums, he said it with a chuckle and I know it was taking me off, but
I just love taking Charge of a Tommy and telling him about the new life,
they are so full of interest and keen about it at once. I want to spread the
knowledge of it among their wives and families and I think that man you
met, Sir Hugh something, is the one to do it, because I saw when you
were with him that he is full ofideas ofletting people know more about us.
You see, they do wish their families could know they are all right, and so
few people can. Can you spread the knowledge all you know how? It
will help my work a lot if you do.
“Now I want to teil you a stränge happening which I can’t really
understand mvself. It was when a man came over suddenly by a bullet
from a gun—he was machine gunner in an aeroplane and he was shot
while doing it, but his body went on doing the machine gunning for quite
a long time after I had seen his spirit leave it. It looked so queer that his
body went on firing the gun hard and he wasn’t there at all 1 I don’t think
it was aimed at all, but it went on firing away, and he was away from it
with me. Is it possible to go on living when you have gone out of the
body? . . .
(His fatber explained the mechanism of tbe machine gun, and suggested
that the man’s finger remainedpressing the trigger, so that the gun n’ent on
firing automatically.')
“Dad has explained it splendidly because he knows about the gun—I
suppose that was it.
“I have lots I could teil you if you have time? Well, I find I can bring
my communication with you to a higher pitch by lowering my vibratory
System to support yours, so that we tune in better together. You see, I
vibrate much more quickly now than bodily life, that’s why you can’t see
me—so if I can lower the rate ofmy vibrations you might see me one day!
O I don’t think it could hurt me—you see, nothing can injure a spirit, it
is only a question of whether I have the power to do it.
“I have thought of another thing to teil you about my work. I can
bring men over here so casily to see their families because there are long
Strands of thought always lighting up the way here from the people in
England. They think of their own men infinitely more than the Germans
do of theirs and love them so much more. I can easily find a family of
one of our Tommics, for they think of him nearly all the time as a rule.
I wish they could know how to talk to thosc who die though. I believe
they are ready for it over here more so than anywhere eise in the world.
Murn, you will teil people, won’t you? . . . (xl rainbow out of the nin-
dou:.j Mums, you are so lovely when you see something beautiful, your
heart shines out like a rainbow itself. I can see your colours getting
glowing and warm with love of beauty. I must bc getting over to
America soon to see Dave, so 1’11 say good-night, darling. Love to Dad
Lettersfrom Christopher
)
27
and thank him for elucidation of my mystery about the gunner.
“So long, Dad and Mum, from Chris.”
August iuh.
“I would like to teil you something about my journey to Dave. I
went in a cloud which was travelling so fast that way that I thought that
it would save me some effort, and I found 1 could support myself on it
like a feather bed, it was so thick comparcd to air. I enjoyed it over the
sea, there were such wonderful colours in the clouds and water, like a
most beautiful picture and very changeful, always absorbing new rays
of light and making prisms in which they were magnificd and separated
into rainbows. It was so much more beautiful seen from my life than
anything I saw in body life before. I was so absorbed that I nearly forgot
where I was going and had to get oft’ on anothcr track in a hurry. I then
worked my way to Dave bv wishful thinking—which is a very real way of
getting about, and not something wrong which they seem to think over
here. I get along fine like that now, but it is more eflort than travelling
on a conveyance such as a cloud or an aeroplane. I think you are tired,
Mum darling, so 1’11 say good-night and see you again next Sunday, I
expect—I’m working harder now, you see. Good-night, Dad. Your
son Chris.”
August 2. ist.
“1 shall be coming to-morrow for my Sunday talk, but I just want
to-night to say that I made a forced landing on Italy near Naples, and
saw bombed areas galore, and smouldering ruins and pcople were digging
for their lost possessions and looking awful. I feit so sorry for them,
but I suppose it helps to win the war. I took off again before long. I am
very busy in our camp now because there are still hundreds to bc rounded
up and brought in, mostly Germans funnily enough. I thought we were
fighting Italians there, but they seem to have surrendered without getting
killed, and the Germans fought like tigers—they are rather like tigers in
character I think. Our men are jolly and full of fun and great to help.
I just love being with them. Now, Mum, I must hop back again, but I
want to say good-night to Dad, so teil him I’m saying it will you?
“Goodbye till to-morrow Murns.
“Ta, Dad, I did like your thoughts . . .”
August zznd.
“Now, Mum darling, you are fussing over my paper as if I minded
what we write on! and I waiting to teil you important news! I am
expecting a home job soon. Uncle Toby is coming over to England to
join forces with Cushna .. . Yes, you know his name, the friend of your
friends. He wants recruits for the awakening of England to our side, and
I am to be helping by giving you messages for his friends without psychic
power like that Sir Hugh who is such a great force but not psychic he
thinks. I am fairly aching to be working with my Murns, and now I’ve
had someforeign cxperience, Uncle Toby thinks it will be quite a good
thing for me to be home and dealing with English minds a bit. I am so
bucked about it.
“Now I want to teil you some more about our project«—1 ’ncle Toby
z8 Leitersfrom Christopher
and I are coming over here in about a week’s time when our camp would
be moving anyway, and we are joining up with a group of experts in
human guidance, to try and build more recognition of our life into the
minds of English people. England is far away' ahead of the rest of the
world in communicating with us, so we are trying to get the thing in
full swing here and other nations will have to acknowledge its truth. It
is to be a counterblast to those who say there is no life after dcath and also
to some people like the Japs and Chinese who are very full of fear of
devils and such like. I haven’t been over there, but Uncle Toby says
it's awful the amount of encouragement given to low dass spirits to
pret-md thev are fierce devils and get worshipped out of fear.
‘ ' to get the world out of that sort of thing it is necessary to have
more communication with our side and then we can give a truer picture
of life here. I am to help in this by talking to you and takin? messages
from one set to another of people, so I hope you’ll try and give me
more time, Mum darling, and we can work at it together.
“I must just add another thing and then you must stop. I came over
by sea part of the way this time, but it was too slow for mc, so I had to
get on by desire. I took a boat from Gibraltar and madc a few experi-
ments with a microphone they had on board—not a microphone, just a
radio sei—1 wanted to see if my waves corresponded with the radio
waves, but they are a different set it scems and can’t be used by us for
communicating at present. I think we need a stronger medium than
electro-magnetic waves and have to have something akin to human
ectoplasm or a brain of some kind to work on. All these experirnents are
intcresting though, and I dare say' we shall hit on something to link the
two worlds together soon. Now we must stop or you will be tired, my
Mum, darling. Chris.”
Aeptember, u7, 1943.
“You aren’t too busy are you Mum darling? because I am longing
to teil you about our new move to Canterbury where Uncle Toby' is
joining a pilgrimage of spirits belonging to England, or who love the
English, and they are starting from Canterbury because of all the old
fcelings in the place of past pilgrims. We have left our camp temporarily
to be carried on by all the others—there are hundreds of them—and we
are joining this great effbrt for the awakening of England to spiritual life.
It is going to be a tusslc because of the Churchmindedncss of the very
people who would be most help 1 I mean they follow the Church ideas
of praycr and sacraments being all that is needed and won’t have anything
to do with talking to our life and learning the laws which govern it. So
we are up against the very good ones who ought to be most help, more’s
the pity. . . . Now we are going to be in England I can come more
offen, but 1 want to be w orking hard at our crusade, and we are going all
o\er England in bands to turn pcoplc’s minds to thinking of life after
death and what it may be like—then people like you who know how to
talk to me will get more chance of telling other people about it. I am
wry keen to do this because it links mc up with your work and Dad’s too.
I go to Cann rburv to-morrow to a big sort of dedication of us all, there
where the old mh'rims prayed for England in Canterbury Cathedra! and
(
Leiters from Christopher 29
made a force of love of country which still inspires the place. I love it,
Mum darling. . . . My Mother ... I have your blessing like a knight
going to a crusade of old. I must go now for you ought to stop, and I
will come more offen now. Teil Dad, and 1’11 wait to see his thoughts of
me till he has read this—Chris.”
September, <jtb.
“I want to teil you ahout our great effbrt on Thursday last. We went to
Canterbury as I told you, and there met a great Company of old pilgrims
ol long ago who had come from tar sphercs to be guides to us newcomers,
all because they had such love of their old country.
“I was very impressed with the Company I was in, for they had been
far from carth and were wondcrful spirits some of them. They werc all
so full of lote of all, though, that one feit a friend in them all. I can’t
describe it in words, but I think you understand. I was just a beginnet'
and knew nothing, but they all seemed so welcoming and fricndly. \X'e
prayed in the Cathedra!, and the light simply poured out all over us, and
it was all connected with ancicnt history of the past. T can’t explain, but
it all seemed there together from the time Canterbury was first a place of
pilgrimage till now—all the history of our country came into it in some
mysterious way, and 1 seemed to see England as a sort of living person
with us all being bits of that person past, present and future, all making
one. 1 can’t really put it into words, but I can see you grasp my meaning,
Mum. Now I want to make you see what they want us to do. It is a
great task for England, and now the time has come. I can’t quite explain
as it is all in spirit not in human words, but your part is just what you
are doing now onlv more in prayer if you can, Mum darling. It was made
so plain there about that.
“I want to say one thing more and then I must go as there is more to do
to-night. Teil Dad we are going to be over here quite a long time, so I
can come to help his work as I promised. I can’t teil you much about
what we are to do, it is all spiritual work which I don’t yet understand,
but I am learning, and my work in path-finding has alrcady been a help
as I have learnt something about guiding thoughts. You will see the
effect by more people belicving in our life and trying to talk to us—that is
what we are helping with and working for, and that is where vou come in,
Mum darling. Now I must go, hur 1 shall be here again several times in
the weck I expect now.
“So long, Dad—from Chris.”
September Alb. (Beefhoreii's T:ijth Symphony, celebrnfing the surrender of
Italy.)
“I was hstening with you and Dad—I am so happy to listen, shall we
talk afterwards, Mum darling.-1”
After the symphony.—I agree, this isn’t so good, it seems dis-
jointed and doesn’t hang together like the other—
“Whv are they all so excited, Mum? . . . O I see, that’s a jolly good
show. I never thought thcy’d cruniplc up so sonn. I’m awfully glad
because it w ill end the war much sooncr than expected.
“1 can’t catch your thoughts, Mum? ... 1 haven’t much to say
really. We are working in London mostly, and opening minds to receive
Lettersfrom Christopher
3°
our messages, but I can’t manage much of it yet, it is too specialised for
me at my stage, so I just hang about trying to find openings I can help a
bit. I say, Mum, I’m awfully bucked over this news, it is grand and will
shorten the war by years, I imagine. I’m so pleased to have been with
you to-night to hear it—It’s great! . . . No, Dad, I wasn’t really de-
presscd, only Murns sensed my fceling a bit at sea over my new work, it is
a bit beyond my present powers, I think.”
September iztb.
“Chris—ycs, I’ve come for my Sunday talk, Mum dcarest, you arc so
happy to see me.
“I want to try to give you somc idea of our new work which is so very
important. I feel very priviledged to be allowcd to join these great
spirits who are working hcre in England. You see they know that
English-spcaking people are to rule the world and bring new knowledge
ot Gou, so they are keen to help our race to see the right wav to work,
and that way is by understanding thought power and influencing men
inwardly. I can’t help with that yet, of course, because I am only quite a
beginner, but I begin to see how it is done, and it is so important to teach
people how to think rightly and to send out light instead of only drawing
in to thcmselves all the time—I want so much to be able to help in this,
so I am going to try my hand at the people you are in touch with, because
you give out so much light that I can see their minds by your light.”
R. “Light up your work by prayer, my boy.”
“Yes, darling, how high your thoughts are—I am always forgetting I
can get light through prayer.
“Do you mind if I sit awhile and just think? (Pause) . . .
“I would like to teil you something I saw in my work in Sicily with
our troops. It was on our side of a hill and we were shelling the enemy
lines from the rear—our troops were crawling on their hands and knees
in the grass of the hill to carry it by assault, and one fellow had his musket
on a sling round his neck so that his hands were free. Suddenly he saw a
German just ahead and he couldn’t get his musket out to fire, so he went
for him with his bare hands and caught him a whack with the butt of the
gun which knocked him sideways. I was watching them both and
laughed at the sudden way he did it, but they hadn’t time for any more
when a shcll bürst close by and they were blown to bits. I picked the
Tommy out of his body, but the Hun I left to someone eise. I’ve had
enough of trying to help Huits, and thought someone more experienced
could do it this time. The Tommy grinned when he saw me and said
‘1 lullo, youngster, what are you doing here?’ So I said ‘I’ve come to help
you’—and he grinned more and said ‘Run home to your Mammy, you’re
in a dangerous place here.’ So I tried to explain that it wasn’t dangerous
any more to either of us, but he would have it that it was, and couldn’t
believe he was dead. Ile thought the shcll had been close, but that he had
miraculously escapcd. I couldn’t make him understand until I went oll
up in the air, and then he was so thunderstruck he just gaped at nie—and
began to take notice of what 1 said. 1 le was awfully jolly afterwards, and
I took him to see his family, and he was so intcrestcd in trying to get
them to understand what he wanted to say. They hadn’t hcard yet that
he had been killed, and he wanted his wife to know it was alright to soften
I
Lettersfrom Christopher j1
the shock when she heard. I left him trying to speak to her—(Music)
Yes, let’s listen—it’s lovclyl”
September i~;th. (Music on the wireless.)
es, Mum, I was listening to it too. I am coming more offen now as
I told you, but we ncedn’t talk always. I love to sit with you and Dad
and be at peacc”—(Pause).
“I wanted to say that I considcr myself one of the happiest ofall people
to have such a peaceful spot to come and rest in. I have seen more of
other minds lately than ever before, and I am so overwhelmed with the
maze of contradictory idcas and beliefs and the atmosphere of useless
worry and criticism of other peoplc’s ideas and beliefs and altogether
amazing restlessness. I hardly know what to do for them and find my
new powers quite unnervingly small to cope with it all. ... O Mum,
darling, you are too great for me, 1 can’t do your way. You seem to
think we can be powerful with God’s power. 1 can see your power in
prayer like that, but I can’t see how to act on it. . . . 1’11 try, Mum,
darling.
“Now I can’t stay long because we are awfully busy—but I want to
teil you that I am trying to help all I can in Mary’s army of help for
mothers—your work, darling. I am going now, good-bye.”
September i<)th (written in a (fuarry, If'erringlon, Stoke-on- Vrent.)
“Coming to such a lovely place—What did Dad say? (Dad—“Dow
does he see rocks?”) I can’t teil you reallv, Dad, because you can’t use your
eyes properly yet. When you can you will see rocks inside out, so to
speak. Whirling mists of atoms controlled by the force of gravity and
making gigantic efforts to escape, so that the etheric force containcd in
rocks is far greater than in loose earth or water. I can’t explain better
than that. 1 am thrilled to be here with you because it is such a place of
conquest of man. You haven’t got my meaning, Mum. This place has
been used for building men’s houses since early British days, and used to
be quite a mountain, but it has been quarried for thousands of years until
nearly used up, and there are impressions left of all those early men who
made their houses and forts round here. 1 can see history Stretching back
from here for ages. It makes a place so wonderful to see it as I do now
with all its past impressions still left visible from our side. . . . No, I
don’t see any fairy life here as there is at Cox’s Mill. I think it has always
been rather fierce and wild here, and the men who lived round here were a
rough wild sort ofpeople, never very cultured but awfully fierce and given
to fighting between themselves. I am so glad to come here to-day though,
to see it all like this.
“Dad says I must be quick so we’ll go on later, indoors, Mum—but
it is such a lovely day I want to see you enjoying it too ...”
Later, indoors. (On our way home Dad lalked abouf ghosts, and C.
said : “I can teilyou about that.")
“I only thought it might be a good opportunity now that you are so
quiet, and I heard you teil Dad you hadn’t many letters to-day. I think
Dad likes me to teil you things about how this life impinges on yours,
such as ghosts and hobgoblins and elves and such like. They are all part
Lettersfrom Christopher
(
32
of life in the etheric world, which is not spiritual at all and which is fully
visible to me now, though I never saw a glimpse of it before. I haven’t
studied the subject, but I believe ghosts to be connected with past events
such as the relics of the past I told you about this morning. They come
where vibrations have been badly disturbed and have gone askew so as to
make a sort of gap through which they appear in your life. It isn’t a real
appearance, you see, only the effect of what happened at another time.
You see, it is all there all the time—the past I mean—only sort of screened
off by your sense of time which makes the past gone away, so to speak.
But the real people who made that appearance have long ago gone to
other spheres—only the nicture of what happened is there, if you can
grasp that—I know I cov.l-l m.cr: thought of it at all in my earth life.
I don’t rcallv know muri: abovt it yet, but will find out if you like. Dad
is so scientific, he likes to put these things into their scientific aspect.”
Evening.
“This is so nice, Mum, to get you quiet at lastI I want to say a few
words if I may about mv opinion of what you and Dad were saying as to
the fairies.
‘T don’t think they have the powers that Scotch peasant people credit
them with. I think that is old superstition from the days when fear
governed almosteverything and the ancestors of these people were guided
by fear in all their beliefs. They had glimpses of that etheric life and didn’t
understand what it could be and so their fear made it seem terribie to
them. I have never seen any interfercnce with. man’s life by the fairy
world, but they can use plant life for their homes. They seem nearer to
the vegetable world than the animal somehow, yet they are more like the
animal or human world in appearance. They are very varied, all sorts and
kinds—like people only tiny, or like . . . {an Interruption}.
“Now wc can be quiet again and 1’11 go on telling you about fairies.
Some are quaint shapes like star-ftsh or cockle-shells only not made of
shell but flesh, and some have queer gnome-like faces like the seven little
dwarfs in Snow-White, and some are little flame-like lights which hardly
have a form at all, but are lovely colours. I am deeply interested in finding
out how they live, but they can’t see my life at all, only yours, and I don’t
know how much they see human beings because all I have seen have
been entirely occupied with the plant world. Plants have etheric forms
which are in the same plane as the fairies you see, and I think animals are
spirit, not etheric—1 don’t quite know what words to use, for etheric
might mean my sort of life too, but it isn’t in my life though plainly
visible to me. I can be in contact with their plane, and do things with it
if I want to but they can’t be in my plane. It seems more confusing to
vou than it rcally is when you get here.
“Mum, darling, I want just to give you an idea of my music. I was
playing this morning, and when I saw your mind I could see a sort of
picture of nie playing in it so you must have heard me really. I think
you aren’t quite able to be conscious of what your spirit hears yet. Now
I want to try to interest Dad again, because he likes me to be scientific
over my new experiences.
“Dad, I want some experiments to try to find out how houses get
hannted. I think I know the reason, and want to see if I can influence
(
Leitersfro»> Christopher jj
a ghost to disappear altogether, then if I succeed I shall be able to explain
what they are made of. They are not spirits, I can teil you that much
already, but I think they are dispelled by mind forces and I want to try it
out. Can you teil me of a genuine haunted house?............
“Muni, I’ve got the house at Edenbridge. I remembcr seeing it as we
went past in the car. Is it really haunted or was it only an idea because
some suicide happened there?
“Now I think you ought to stop, Mum, so 1’11 say Good-night—Love
to Dad—Chris.“
ti-ptei'/ibi-r zGlh.
“I would like to teil you what I saw in the morning when you and Dad
were out on that jolly walk—I so much enjoyed it I saw a big creaturc
like a balloon in the clouds, with great bulging sides and lins rather like
a monstrous fish only in the etheric world, not in yours. It was rolling
over the cloudbanks, and over and over it went fastcr than one would have
thought possible for a live thing, but I don’t know what sort oflife it has,
for it isn’t the same as the fairy life, I’m sure, and not in spirit life either.
1 watched it for a long time, fascinatcd by its gambols, like a clumsv giant
playing at gym. I can’t understand what life it belongs to yet, but there
are so many planes of being all interwoven with cach other that I expect
I haven’t come across all of them yet. I must try to find out . . .
“Can I say another thing I saw a few days ago? I was working in a
tunnel where they wanted help because a man was killed there, and I saw
a wonderful growth of luminous moss on the sides of the tunnel glowing
out like a greenish light all along.
“I would like one more word about my work now. I am getting very
keen about helping minds because they respond so easily in this country,
and I feel I am really able to do some good at last. I wanted so to help
my country, and now I’ve found the best way to do it. I take a message
from one of their people they love who are here and teil them in their
minds, and then I see a thought of that person reflected in their mind and
the message comcs into their consciousncss. It is so wonderful to see it
all happening, and makes me very happy because they get a happy thought
of one they love which helps them to bear the time of being parted from
them. . . .
“Now, Mum, we must stop writing, and let Dad see this will you?
Night night, Mumsic ...”
October jth, 1943, afiernoon. (.Ar DalUnglon.)
“I want to teil you a bit about my work. I was a glider pilot to see
what it was like, on my way here from Stoke where I had been working.
I stopped at an aerodrome in the vicinity of Northampton, and there were
gliders being towed and shot off, and I went in one and enjoyed the
Sensation of being taken in an cffortlcss way without noise of engincs. I
said I was a pilot because I enjoyed it in his mind, so to speak. You see,
the noise of engines only affects me as it affects the minds which are
jarred through their bodily senses—1 can’t bc jarred because I hain’t
got no senses now! Can’t be jarred in that way, but plenty jarred by other
worse things like awfu) thoughts of disgusting selfishness and cruelty. I
34 Leitersfrom Christopher
was overturned on landing, though, and I think my pilot was hurt. He
was a novice at it and learning, I expect.
“How do you like your new name? Of Mumsie? I think it suits your
nature better than Mum, which is rather prim and pursed up. You
haven’t a prim nature, and Mumsie is softer and sweeter. (R. “I love if.”)
I am so glad you love it, for I love it too. I am going to have a prowl
round before your tea—let’s come ”
Evening. (His father had asked what difference he saw in our day and
nighti)
“Can I have a tew moments now, Mumsie mine? I want to try to
teil you what Dad was asking, about day and night. I am in light of cos-
mic rays which are not coming from the sun e.t all but are filling all space
with a glorv of colour and beauty such as earth eyes can’t see or earth
minds grasp at all. The suns are like glowing focus points of this light,
which sets them in motion by attraction of atoms to other rays, and earth
light is the result of this motion which generates heat and gives out what
your eyes see. All space is light to our Organs of vision, and I am not sure
where the cosmic rays come from—what source, I mean—but they are so
beautiful that nothing you can think of can compare with it.
“Your night is just like your day except that the activity ceases and
thought-fozms come rising up from sleepers who are longing to meet some
of us. We greet them and they respond, but their human selves don’t
remember this when they wake. Tree and plant life is different, too,
because they dopend on the sun’s rays for their growth, and they go to
sleep when the sun is cut off. But it is all the same in our life, only we
see the changes in yours. I only necd fest ofmind, never rest ofbody now,
so I never need to be in darkness for my seeing apparatus never gets tired,
only my willing powcrs do when I have worked for some time. I long
to show you the colcurs here in the light of cosmic rays. Now I think
we ought to stop. Night night from Chris.”
October Gth (afternooii). (Sitting under a tree in a wood.)
R. feit Christophersaying : “Try io see, Mumsie.” (Writing).
“You are too self-conscious, Mumsie. I wanted you to see the forms of
the tree-sprites on the thick cdge of that birch—they are grouped in little
bands and bringing moss fibres to their Underground home in the roots.
Look again at the birch in front of you . . . They live in the roots, and
are comical little forms like gnomes only green all over, and one doesn’t
offen get a chance of seeing them, but . . . Yes, Dad, you cut off our
mind link by talking, but I get your idea—they are pointed heads and
woolly backs all mosslike and very quaint faces. Now 1’11 be off, see you
later.”
Evening. (During our afternoon drive home R. feit C. coming and going
from the car severa! timest)
“Can we make a regulär time to talk so that I shan’t come when you are
busy? . . . All right, 1’11 see when you are ready down there. 1 can’t teil
clock-time except by seeing minds thinking it, but 1’11 look out for yours.
Can we talk a bit now? I want to explain my many flittings to and from
your car to-day. I was parachuting off the clouds to see if I could land
plumb on a moving target like your car, and I hit it off pretty well, but I
Leitersfrom Christopher
)
55
had to usc will-power once or twice, which wasn’t really in the bargain.
I was up to pranks over the collecting of my parachute, which I made out
of etheric colour forms of human thoughts, making them into a woven
tissue of colours like a balloon only far more beautiful. Naughty, school-
boy pranks, not edifying for a grown man like me!”
October -jth. {At Cox's Mill.)
“Am I punctual? Sure, on the hickory-dot! You’vc collected a cat,
Mumsie. It’s little heart is full of gratitude and rclief. It’s had a bad time,
I can see, of loneliness and hunger, and they fecl so helpless without
human aid. I love cats, they aren’t really so cruel as they seem, for they
don’t give pain for pleasure as it looks like, only out of ignorance of what
pain is.
“I see so much of the beauty of ancient days here, calm lovely forest
trees weaving their placid charm all round. I am rhapsodising and must
not waste your time! I want to teil you something Dad will be intcrested
in. I went to Battle on the bus, just for old times’ sake, and I saw how
they manipulate Camouflage. They wcre doing a big lorry with dollops
of green and brown and black all over it, but it wasn’t good enough so
they splooged a big drag-net over it to make it all into smears and
streaks and looking exactly like a bog with rushes growing in it. Jolly
cute, I thought. I’m still interestcd in earth things, you see, not a high
spirit yet, as Lancelot would say! And I don’t want to get on too fast, and
have to leave Cox’s Mill just yet! . . . Of course, 1’11 have to get on, I
was only mostly in fun, Mumsie!
“I think you’ll like to hear how I see Mrs.----- . She is a very motherly
person with rather queer ideas about other lives. She is so content with
this plane that she doesn’t trouble her head about going on at death or
anything you think so much of. Her thought-colours are quite custardy—
I mean, thick like custard, not clear and radiant—and she produces only
small thoughts in rapid succession from her preoccupation with household
and practical details. You couldn’t do much with her however long you
talked, so it would be waste of your time.
“I am so happy here, just to roam around and enjoy the place. Yes,
we’ll talk again to-morrow.
“Your own boy, Chris.”
October üt/j.
“I must say, you are very quiet to-night, no bustling round with
visitors, and time to talk to mc—important me, Mumsie!—I want to teil
you a story of a mouse, it was caught in a trap and died, and it had a baby
family, so it was terribly upset and worried, but it had no power to intcr-
vene and help them. So one by one the babies came to it in this life, and
I watched the mother gather them in as they came, getting happier with
each one, and so happy now they are all together again. She is nursing
them at this moment in a beautiful ncst she has willed for them, and
crooning over them with joy. I was so touched by that little mouse
mother and her fears all ended.
“Can you breathe a little more deeply with longer breaths? I think 1
can take more power for writing when you do. Yes, it seems to exhale
more psychic power then, I can’t teil you why.
Leitersfrom Christopher
“Now I’ve got another story, this time about myself. I wanted to
spend a few hours at the sea, so I went off to Pevensey Bay and sat on
the beach and saw a submarine come in close to Pevensey. They were all
on deck and looking so happy to be nearly home again. I don’t know
where they had been, though I went on board to find out, but they were
all so full of getting safely back that all their thoughts were for home.
“I was so glad to be on a beach again and wanted to throw stones in
the sea, but had to be content with rnind stones which I threw with great
effect! I am sillv still, you see, and very fond of earth things.
“I want to teil Dad that his mother has been to see me. I was away on
my work a weck ago when I heard I was wanted at our headquarters,
and there she was to see me—and colours of gold and green, lovelv to see.
I had not remembered her till then, but I can now. I was quite tiny
when she died, I think. She is lovelv and serene, and verv calm and
orderly in mind, with great love for Dad and her other sons. I forgot
to teil von that betöre—it was a few weeks ago, I think. I am to work in
memory training soon, because I find I forget things like earth life, where-
as one cught to have memory for everything here, but I am rather dcficient
in somc wavs, and must try to develop more all round. . . 1 am not so
sclfish now, so that is something. . . . Mumsie, you are tired, so we musr
stop. I’j) stav till nine and then say good-night and go.”
October yth (During tbefirstpari oj this lotter C. was veryrestless, <z/<v/R. fe/t
he hadsomething on his mind, whichcam out when he told R. ofthe raid
with a bürst of emotion she cotddplainly feel.')
“You are very late, Mumsie—never mind, we’ll have a littlc chat . . .
T tried letting myself slide down a cloudbank, but it was too soft and
featherbedy, so I went off to Mary L—, but she isn’t at home now.
Then I wandered offlooking for old friends. . . Mumsie, you are very un-
comfortable and we seem interrupted all the time. Now, can I have your
mind a bit to mvselfr I was telling you all my morning doings, but you
weren’t a bit interested. I am off on duty again soon, so do let’s make
the most of this time when you aren’t busy. ... I was over Brightling
Beacon to-day and saw squadrons of planes going over the Channel out
to the French coast, I suppose. I only stayed a few minutes to watch
them and came back here thinking you’d be waiting for me, but not a
sign of it.” (Here R. passed bis first sheet ofpaperto Dad, saying: “He has
said nothing very much.”)
“Nothing very much when I’ve been telling you all my doings!
Naughty Mumsie.” (11'7/2' an effort) “Now for a splash of colour on
the canvas. I went last night to see a raid on Germany and was horrified
at it all. I never imagined such ghast'y fear as came surging up all round
me and nearly stifled me with its gruesome terrnr I wasn’t going to say
about that because it shocked me so much, but you wanted to hear some­
thing more so 1’11 teil vou it was awful. Our men in the planes were con-
ccrned only with dropping their loads and getting away, but I saw a lot
more than they did, and the lurid fear colours Corning up from below were
so awful 1 couldn’t stick it. I cried to God to stop it.” (M Sound ofdistant
guns.') “I’m off to see what that is.” (Later) “I don’t want to talk exccpt
to say that I’m back from a jaunt TU teil you of to-morrow, very7 exciting.
Leitersfrom Christopher ' 57
To-morrow will be best, in the morning before von go out. Good-night,
Dad and Mumsie.”
Or/ober lofb, morning.
“You arranged this time last night. I have been waiting for recognition
and getting impatient.” (f Us falber gare me n picce of apple.) “Now,
Mum, I can’t write when you’re cating, it takes your vibrations off me!
I wanted to teil you about mv adventure yesterdav in a submwine. I
went off to lind out about the bring you hcard and it was off tl, coast
out at sca, so I w ent along to look for the object, and it w as a I lun sub­
marine attacking a boat of ours with torpedoes. I saw them surface for a
moment to see what they had done, and I made a divc for them before
thev submerged and gor 011 board. Thcv werc a sorry-looking crowd.
I never saw such denressed minds, all out of gear, somehow, and wanting
10 be done with it all. I shouted Orders to the commander to make p<>rt
atrain and he looked so startled that I think he heard me, but he didn’t
obey because I could see that they were putting out for the Atlantic. 1
remembered the . . . and feit quite twengeful! But 1 couldn’t do anv-
thing to stop them beyond gixing their minds an extra push towards
wanting to give. up and go honte. I was awfully sorry for them really
because they seemed to have no fight in them at all. Then I slipped away
and left them because I thought of home and you might be wanting me.
1 shall be off to-morrow back to work, so I want to be along with you
all afternoon and on the terracc as you said. Till then—so Jong.”
Afternoon.
“Can I teil vou of a chance encountcr of mine with a cow—-yes, a cow,
Mumsie, horns and hoofs and tail! I was prospccting with you and Dad
for mushrooms and enjoying myself when I saw a cow in etheric. life,
who had lived in that ficld in her body. She had made herseif an etheric
body just like her old one because she had no ideas beyond that, and she
was just grandly happy thinking of sunshine and grass and cowslips or
something yellow she liked. I don’t think they have any teclings beyond
that sort of thing, and forget all about their calves when they go away.
Mumsie, whyare you so slcepy to-day? You keep almost going to sleep.
Shall I wake you up with an exciting tale? Must it be a true one, or shall I
invent?” (Jfyou invciit, plcasc teil nie so.) “I must stick to truth if I have
to teil you. Now for my tale of a bubblc which bürst. . . . It was a
mosaic of colours far more beautiful than any you know, and the fairies
were playing with it on their knees—from one to another they threw it,
till the last one dropped it and it bürst. I saw that just now down by the
water when you and Dad werc looking at the dragonfly.
“It is the happicst evening of my time here. I wish you could see it all
with my new sight, everything visible, even the tiny sparks of fairy flame
on the moss and grasses. It is so unendingly beautiful, and your fccling
of beauty is only a small beginning. I realise now how insignilicant our
life here is, and how much we have to train for the im nie. I see more of
fairy life here than anywhcre, and it is so good because they bring etheric
influenccs which are soothing to human minds if open to natutv. Teil
Dad the fairies I saw plaving with the bubblc werc sitting on the watet-
c
38 Leitersfrom Christopher
weeds in the pond. I don’t specially want to talk any more, so you get
your chores donc and 1’11 be happy loafing around. Good-bye till next
time, from Chris.”
Ortober i6th (at Stoke-on-Trent).
“Let me teil you about my doings during the past week. I have been
mixing with a Strange crowd lately under Uncle Toby’s directions
and with his approval. They are unwilling spirits who won’t believe in
spiritual ways because they want earthly pleasures so much, and they are
impeding our progress in the crusade, so something had to be done about
it. I contrived to mix, unperceived by them, among their gatherings and
overheard their plots of mischief against us, for they want to persuade
human people—those still in their bodies, I mean—to give them attention
at seances and gatherings so that they can boast of influence towa.rds
earthly things. I was bent on countcracting their machinations, so I
went to a ceance, too, where the medium was to be controlled by an
earth-bounder, as wc call them, and it was an awfully close and heated
atmosphere because the sitters were all so excited in an unhealthy way and
come for Sensation only. I was interrcpted in my possible help to them
by the force of cruclty which one of the sitters generated and which
nearly suffccated me, but I man?ged better with a younger cne who
hadn’t been there much, and rnc.de him fee! very mcomfortable to be
with such people at all. The medium, was a coarse sort of woman with an
eye on the money side of the business and I couldn’t do much with her,
but she heard my remarks on the sort of society she was encouraging
all right, and she didn’t like me one bit.
“She said, ‘Ahem—there is a mesmeric force present which is cbstruct-
ing the free manifestations of the'presiding spirit;, who are anxious for
us to concentrate against it. Now let us concentrate on the collective
manifestations we have usually expected on these occasions’. These
‘manifestations’ were too silly, bangs on the table and hoots and hocus-
pocus of all sorts. I grinned at being describcd as a ‘mesmeric force’!
Uncle Toby says it is quite all right for me to do this work because
none of these earth-bounders have any power really beyend their silly
bangs and hoots at seances, and he told me to keep my mind on our
Crusade for the Truth and I couldn’t cornc to any harm. It made me rather
sick, though, because their thoughts were all so lurid and hot and fusty.
Can I say one more adventure which is very funny—I was working on a
mind of an old man who is soon to come here and trying to make him
think a bit higher, when he turned over to his nurse and said, ‘I can’t
think what is coming over me, I seem to be thinking all goody-goody
now. It’s a queer feeling for an old sinner like me, but I dare say it won’t
do me no harm to be a bit pie for a change.’ I chuckled at his queer way
of putting it.
“1’11 go off and see if I can find Lancelot, so 1’11 say goodnight.”
Ortober lyth.
“Can I give you a message from Uncle Toby to say will you be away
at Christmas or here?” (Here, darling.) “All right—we’ve got a Christmas
party we’re planning, so 1’11 arrange for here. Going off now—so long.”
(Note : See page 46).
Leitersfrom Christopher
)
39
October z^th (iz noori).
“I came for your walk, but you and Dad haven’t gone out this
morning.” are going for a walk, with some friends this afternoon.)
“Oh—where to? . . . 1’11 stick to the car till I see where you are and
then go to bathe in the upper air till you’re ready.”
Evening : (R. got a betterpencil').
“You are fussy, I can write with anything you can hold, for I only
touch you, not the pencil.
“I had a super colour scheine to-day on the banks of clouds above the
storm you saw—it was a rainbow of quadruple bars with ultra violet
colours which you can’t see all in betwcen, so lovely and grand like a
Beethoven symphony. I can’t teil you how grand colours are when you
hear as well as see them, and music when you see as well as hear it. It
is full life, which you don’t even begin to think of yet. Mumsie,
darling, I wish you could come here, but I mustn’t want it before your
time. I was basking in the rainbow colours when I saw you and Dad
buzz off in your car and followed to see where you went. They are very
nice people, those you went with, and have most loving thoughts of their
babies. I was so glad to be introduced to them by you.
“I want to teil you a bit oflife which you don’t see yet. I was intcrested
in the fungus foray for old times’ sake, and then I made a discovery.
The little people have made medicines out of the fungus spores, and when
they get hurt they lind one of the right sort to live under until the spores
heal them. I was watching a group of gnomes carrying one along who
had a bad injury, and he was dumped under a fungus which had black
spores and began to turn over and over in the black dust which seemed
to soothc his pain. I don’t know how they get hurt but they seem to be
quite as vulnerable as human bodies. Then further on I saw some more
under a dull-coloured fungus and they seemed to be hurt oncs, too, so
I gathered that it was some sort of curing going on. It interests me to see
how they carry on their funny life, which is so like us yet so much lower
and more primitive—and all with plants, never animal life, so far as I
can see.
“I want to make a larger Instrument to play on. I hear that there are
tones ofsound beyond those I can hear even now, and a larger instrument
might touch some of them. I don’t know yet if this is possible, but I
should like to try. . . . Yes, I saw Lancelot a few days ago, and I meant
to teil you about it but forgot. We had a talk, and he told me he is working
in our crusade now, but from a higher plane than mine and in a way I
can’t yet understand. We shall meet a few times off and on, I hope, and
1’11 teil you when we do.”
October zGth.
“I just want to teil you I am going overseas again on Uncle Toby's
Orders to join a platoon of organisers of glory. You can’t understand
what I mean, but it is a great bit of our work for the war, to help those who
see the gloomy side only, and we try to give theth a new view of what it
looks like to us. I’m afraid I can’t explain any better in words, it is so
etheric and not earthly. It is a higher sort of work than I have yet done,
so Uncle Toby thought I ought to take the offer of joining this platoon.
C 2
40 Dettersfrom Christopher
I leave England Monday next so I shall be with you on Sunday as usual
and I shall be able to come over to you for rests often, so it won’t be a
Separation, onlv I was enjoying the feeling of helping your work. I can
come back to that later on, I hope, though. I would like to be very close
to you in mind at nine p.m. every evening, so will you think of me just
betöre Big Ben strikes and I shall see your thought and be with you then.
Good-night, Mumsie, darling, love to Dad. Your Chris.”
October }oth.
“Mumsie, 1 am so happy that you love me to come to you, not like
that queer woman you talked to this morning. Her mind is full of queer
ideas of taking away sins from people by belief in Christ—she scldom
thinks of mind belief but only going to church.
“I want to be a bit introspective to-night and teil you what I now
realise.” (Do you ir<iui me to k.eep it private?') “You can teil anvone you
like if it helps, Mumsie—I have got beyond that now. Christ means
more to me than I knew betöre. 1 have realised that I am enlistcd in a
great armv of His members, all in Him and working with His Power. I
mean to be a living member ot His Bodv, and He is our Head and Crown
and Life. He is the Force with which we fight. Christ is our Life itself.
I never bad any idea of this before I died, so ir took a little time for me to
assimilate it, and I have now taken mv oath ot allcgiance and am enlistcd
in the Army of Light. I am glad you are so understanding of my words
which seem to convey so little of the call I have answered. My loved
mother, I am now an adult and have chosen my carecr, to serve in the
Army of Light which is His Body.
“Can I say a word now for Dad to Interpret/ I met a tellow yesterdav
nearly blind, and he was unable to see because he had been enveloped in
Business to such an extent that his spirit had never grown. It was a bit
of a shock to me to find that just minding Business could have such an
effect, but he had thought only on the earth plane and not given a blink
of thought to anything like bcauty or spiritual values, so he was groping
about unable to see anything. I helped him to a rest centre where an
experienced guide took Charge and toid me he would have to be educated
from the very beginning. He was a grown man in earth life, too. I had
no idea befo'-e that people could stunt their spirits to such an extent as
that poor fellow.”
November -jth, 1943.
“Mumsie, I am waiting till evening when you have done your chores.
I know quite well that von have to do your chores, as we called them
in L’.S.A.
“Can 1 teil you something about my new work? i am liking it ever so
much, it is simply wonderful and full of spiritual power which I knew
nothing ot before. I am told what to do from a higher plane, and this
means alwavs being litted up above oneself, so to speal:. I have to be
careful not t<> let my own thoughts gut in the way, and then when 1
receivc the instructions I lind the power of influence comcs into me and
I can give it out to tho,c we are trying to hclp. It is a most wonderful
feeling to bc lifted into a higher world and filled with such power t<>
influcnce. I can’t des< ribe it, but you know what I mean I can scc. We
Leitersfrom Christopher 4i
go to the countries where the fear is, where people have been brought
low by starvation and terror of war, and there where darkness is deepest
we pour in light from higher planes. I am so thrilled by the glory of
going where need is greatest with such power to help. I am not meaning
that I have power, but the power comes into us all. I am only a beginnet-
and very self-absorbed still, but now I can see what to do to help and I
feel able to get on in the right way—Christ is in us. O, Mumsie, I
knew you would love to hear it.” (Pause.')
“Can I teil you something I saw on my travcls in the mountains of
Caucasus? I was on my way to find the home of a man who had just
come to us and wanted news of his family. I was going over the moun-
tains when I saw an avalanche of rocks cascading down a slopc on to a
little hüt where people lived, and I scemed to be told to go there to help
them, so I went near and there was an old man on the ground with a
broken back, and a girl bending over him crying. 1 saw that he was
due to die, so I went up and spoke to her, and to my surprisc shc heard
me and seemed thankful that I was there. I think shc thought what she
heard was her patron saint she had been praying to, but anyhow it com-
forted her. The old man was just dying so I helped him out of his body
and carried him to a nearby camp of our people. He was unconscious
because he wasn’t awake in spirit yet. I went to find the girl again and
she had gone for help to bring her uncle’s body in, so 1 leit her and wem
on to my job. I was so surprised to find she could hear me so easily,
though, and she caught my meaning though not in words.
“I think we ought to stop, Mumsie. Night-night to Dad and Mumsie,
from your son Chris.”
November s^tb (evening).
“Mumsie mine, you are tired with too much work of body. I am
away so much now that I only got here a few minutes ago to find you still
at work. 1’11 teil you a story to cheer you up. It was on a motor-boat
that I saw a man dive overboard to save a kitten which a wavc knocked
off the boat—and he picked it up by the tail to take it back, he couldn’t
grab anything eise, I suppose—and the kitten was furious at being held
by the rail and wouldn’t go near him alter it, though he had done it to save
it from drowning. I was on the boat seeing after a mind-wave from
someone who was killed and his pal was on the boat, but I couldn’t
get a thought to take him then because they were all thinking of the kitten.
I never knew such a boat-load, they had picked up some airmen who had
come down in the sea, and also men from a minesweeper which had stink,
and the kitten was theirs. Just like our sailors to think more of rescuing
a kitten than a man’s life. It was amusing to see the Indignation of the
kitten, though. You are cheered up now, Mumsie, so 1’11 teil you another
story ol a duck which had laid an egg and couldn’t wait to lay another but
sat on one till it hatched. Then she was very annoyed to have only one
duckling, and waddled oft to the pond with it in high dudgeon. I was
watching her mind working over it and thinking how badly her brood
had turned out.
“Mumsie, I am resting you by talking nonsensc, I can see you getting
rested and cheery again. Let me go on rattling oft little anecdotcs, they
seem to rest your mind, and I love to help you.
42 Leitersjrom Christopher
“I was over Malaya—ycs—a few days ago, and saw a whole bunch
of Japs arguing about malaria. I couldn’t understand their words, of
course, but I could see their thoughts in essence, so to speak. They were
arguing that this illness was due to devils in the swamps, which had bad
breath and gave it off so that men got ill from it. I was amused at their
queer ideas.”
(9 p.w. Ponse for Big Ben and the Silent Minute.}
“Can we make a plan for Christmas, Mumsie? I want to be able to give
you a present of some new experience, and to do that you will have to bc
verv quiet and away in mind from vour earth duties. I can do it at any
time,not on Christmas Day, but I want it to be a Christmas present because
I can’t give you anything eise now, you see. You will try to keep a time
when I can take you to see something of my life? Uncle Toby thinks you
can do it safely and it will interest you ever so much. We have a party
as I told you, and it will take place in your little house, so be prepared.”
(I can’t get cakes for them!} “Of course, not cakes! But you will have to
preparc a bit all the same. I mustn’t teil you any more yet. I think
we ought to stop talking, as you are tired to-night, so good-night,
Mumsie and Dad, from Chris.”
November zist.
Hisfather dreamt of Christopher and in the morning R. bcard C. say “Z
was with Dad then. Later he wrete—
“O, Mumsie, you are full of niceness! So pleased abcut my remark.
I was only meanir.g that I came over that night and met Dad’s sleep-form,
so he dreamt he saw fne—but the dream was all nonsense, only he knew
he had seen me and that pleased me awfully because so few people can
know what their sleep-forms have seen.” (V7bat are sleep-forms?}
“I don’t know but they aren’t like us—spirits have all left their bodies
altogcther. Sleep-forms are a sort of creation of the spirit when not
occupied on earth things, I think. They are a part of the person’s mind
but not the earth consciousness, and they come over to us when they
love somcone here. Mumsie, you often come, but your soul is so happy
aboüt us that you don’t need to bring it into earth mind. . . . Dad is
so able to see in dreams that I believe I could show him my life in that
wav better than more direct. 1’11 try to make him dream again and see
if I can. Don’t let him think he is going to beforehand or his human
consciousness will get in the way. One has to get away from thinking
humanly before one can get other consciousness, that’s why dreams
are so mixed up, because human ideas keep cutting in and mixing up the
experiences of our life.”
November zSlh.
“I must teil you what I am getting on with now—a piece of mechanism
of my own invention and fine for producing ctheric music. I am specially
full of that just now with my new work, as I am told music is a great
source of powerful rays of healing, and will be much needed in our work
of bringing joy in wherc fear lives and healing the fcaring minds.
“Mumsie, I have another thing to teil you about. I can control minds
at a distance sometimes by will power, and I make contributions to our
work like that. It is a big effort, though, and I don’t always bring it off,
)
Leitersfrom Christopher ' 43
but am trying to develop in that way. We are hard at work, therc is such
a lot of fear in the world just now. I find I have been chosen because
I had such a hard fight with fear myself, so I can help more than those
who haven’t been afraid.”
R. can you explain your new worki
“I can’t teil you much because you can’t understand the conditions of
our life here, but I will give you an instance of our help. I was working
on a mind of a boy who had been fired at and got helpless with fright,
and I gave him a glimpse of our life as a picture in his mind. He began
to look at it, and the courage came to grasp his gun and go on in spite of
the firing. He kncw that there was somcthing beyond what he could see,
and got out of his fear. I can’t make you grasp my meaning altogether,
but that was the effect of it.
“Now for an anecdote of considerable interest to Dad, I hope. I came
across a fine magnolia tree in a garden ncar home, which had evergreen
leaves and sceds, great pods open with coloured seeds like you are seeing
in your mind. I was Struck by the pods and sceds and didn’t know they
grew so big in England. While looking at it, I saw a creaturc in etheric
life on the branches, like a man, only green like the tree, and he was
making faces at me so I think he could see me. Most of them don’t see
our life at all, but he evidently knew I had spotted him and didn’t like me
for some reason. I couldn’t make him understand my mind, though, and
they don’t seem to have much mind power. He had a very pointed head
and face like a beak, and clung to the tree with hands and feet like a
monkey. I crept round to make him get off his perch, but he suddenly
scampcred away as hard as he could, so I didn’t pursue him any further.”
(Lateri)
“O Mumsie, 1 make such a good companion, because I sit here
and never speak until you ask me to. I am a model of tacc and impecca-
bility! Little boys should be seen but not heard, I was told, but I am
neither so I must be perfect!
Our headquarters now are in London at Westminster Abbey where
many rays concentrate and we get Inspiration from the past as well. It is
so interesting to see past as well as present, and they say I shall see a bit
into future too, soon, when I am more advanccd. I can’t understand how
it happens, but I come on by jumps. I seem to pass some Standard without
knowing it and then another side of life opens out which I didn’t know
before was there at all. I find it very exciting and am thrilled when I
suddenly begin to see more than I could before. For instance, I now see
people I had no idea were near me at first, with most beautiful mind
colours like marvcllous rings of light. They are all workers here on
earth but are in higher planes of work than minc. Uncle Toby could see
them long ago because he was so far advanced on earth and came here all
prepared for it. . . . Can I see lower forms, you mean? I don’t see much
of devils and such but I believe they exist, only lower minds are too dark
for us to see easily. I can’t believe in a real Devil with a big D, though,
for I can see good everywhere, and he must have very little power it he
exists at all. Christ made that plain really, only people won’t believe in
Him. Here we know He is our Life and Mind.
“I must go, so night night to Mumsie and Dad, from your son Chris.”
(
Leitersfrom Christopher
44
December yth, 1943.
“Now let’s talk about my doings. I went to a meeting of our platoon
Commanders, and they decided to work in . . . Mumsie, you are rather
tired and can’t get my mcaning. They decided to work in Russia. I tried
to teil you the name of the place but you couldn’t get it. So I am back
where I started after such a merry-go-round of places of work. I went to
a case of fear over there with one of our guides, and he told me to keep
the man’s mind occupied while he tried to divert the cause, which was a
bad barrage of big gun hre. So I told him ideas of his past, and he
responded beaurifullv and feit much better. The guide was pleased with
mv work and said I had handlet! him well for my inexperience. Did I teil
you a great adventurc I had in the weck betöre? Being carried by aero-
plane to Africa in charge of a man’s mind who was grappling with fear of
ilving? He was a passengcr on board and very jumpy, and I had to keep
telling him to stop it and be quiet, so he came over safely, but it was all
I could do to prevent him from jumping out half-way. \X eil, I was so
occupied with him that I failcd to observe what was happening to the
others, and when we got out one of them had died on the journey. I feit
simply awful to have been sitting there with this stupid frightened fcllow
when the other really needed help most. He was in a coma, though, so
all right.
“Just one more thing 1 want to say. I won’t be able to be so regulär
on Sundavs soon because thev want me to take Sunday duty on the patrol
as they have so many boundary bandits to contend with and can’t spare
many of us at a time. No, you don’t understand, but it’s a bit hard to
explain. We patrol the boundary between our mind regions and the
underworld of earth-bounders and they try to penctrate our boundaries
to damage the patients lately recovering from death, so wc patrol the
boundary to keep them from interfering and turning some of them to
their underworld way of thinking. I can’t explain any better because it is
al! so new to your mind and so different to what we used to think hap-
pened at death. It is just as natural as everything eise here really, and only
seems stränge to vou because vou can’t get away from earth ideas yet.
Anyhow, I’m wanted sometimes for Sunday patrol, so 1’11 come some
other dav now and then.
“Now I’ll say goodnighr to both my beloved parents like a dutiful
son . . . Chris.”
l')cccn;ber (.4/ Dallingtoni)
“I was absolutely at sea as to where you had located yourselvcs till I
saw your Hash just now. You never said you were going to a new
domicilc altogcthcr, so I buzzed off to old Mrs. •-----, and then to Cox’s
Mill, and no one could show me where you were, so I was just flat-
bottomed out and in total darkness till you Hashed that message . . .
“Can I teil you something about my new work which I find soenjoy-
able.-" 1 teil my boys 1 help to look lor the corrcct way of holding their
heads up, and I see their minds concentrating on attention to position
when they might bcconie alraid, so they lose their fear in holding their
heads as if they were couragious and full of pluck. I find these littlc
things help them more than bigger thoughts which they can’t grasp yet.”
'Lettersfrom Christopher 45
December \ytlj.
“Can we have a little cosy chat, Mum-sie mine? I would like to teil you
how my new power of sight works, hüt it is impossible to describe in
your words. It works by my own volition, not automatically as earth
eyes do, but I can will myself to see over milcs of earth landscape and
equally small . . . {an Interruption)—I can wait all right . . . That’s
better, Mumsie, get a grip of my presence and we’ll get on hrst-rate.
“I want to explain another most comforting thing, which is that I find
even the high spirits I am now able to see are quite human in their ways,
and want to laugh at their old selves and crack jokes as though they were
just old comrades come back front a journev. I am so glad because I was
afraid it would all be so grand and statelv and one would feel awfully
shabbv, but thev are all so friendlv and good fellow sort of thing that l am
quite at home with all of them even from very high planes. It makes us
all one family in reality, as we ought to be on earth but never are.
“ I must teil you of an cncounter I had with a I lun on a plane over ihe
coast near here. He was flying very fast, having dropped bombs on some
ships and wanting to get away before our lighters camc at him. I was
travelling in the opposite direction to get back to you, and I saw him
coming, so I slipped on to his plane and whispered to his mind—'No good
doing this, you’re beat and you know it’—and he swirled his plane round
as if he thought some other plane was alter him. So 1 Jaughcd at his panic
and came on here . . . I’m not very Christian yet, Mumsie, as you say! But
they are such nasty brutes, these Huns, and I always wanted to get at them.
I see you have things to do and 1 want to go and wander round a bit.
We’ll talk again on Friday as I can’t come to-morrow.
“Nightie-night from Chuis.”
December i~]th.
“Now I want to teil you a bit about my work which is possible to put
into human words.
“Can vou understand a glorious light, like a bonftre only no heat, just
light? We light our torches from it and hold them high in places where
minds are dark and there is no hopc of any human help. There we go to
light the hopeless minds and dispel the darkness which covers them. They
begin to hope and then waken to the light, and we are there to cheer
their drooping hearts and lighten their darkened minds. I can’t really
explain our work, it is not on human planes, but I am so gratified to be
allowed to help in such wonderful work as this.
“I must just teil you one thing more and then 1 must go back till to-
morrow. Clear rays of intense power come on us from some high sphere,
and we are Glied with this and enabled to do our work in that power, not
our own. I cannot describe how full of strength and power to help it
makes even me when I receive this ray from above. I must go now,
Mumsie darling, and I have enjoyed this little talk—more to-morrow,
probably.
“Love to Dad from his son Chris.”
December i itb.
“Give me your hand for a tinv talk and 1’11 teil you about an advemure
to-day. I went over to France and saw the German gunners on the coast
)
46 Leitersfrom Christopher
all working like mad to make big machines of which I can’t teil the use.
They looked like gasometers or cylinders of some kind and were quite
as big as an ordinary gasometer for a town. They are terribly hard at work
over there, and I think something is brewing, but I saw our reconnais-
sance planes coming over, so expect they have reported it all right. I came
back on one of them, flying very low as he had been hit by an A.A. gun,
I think. The pilot was a bit oft' colour, too, but I think he got safe back.
“. . . O, so this is our last talk here? Many thanks for a nice holiday,
so much enjoyed it all. . . . Mumsie, you needn’t mind fcr me, I am
happier than I could ever have been in earth life, and all is well in real life.
Love to Dad, from Chris.”
December zyd. (-4t Stoke-on-Trent?)
“Mumsie, I want you to be very quiet and come over to me as far as
you can. I am ncar you and my face is ...” (fk.felt a dim outline ofhisface).
“Mumsie, I might touch your hand, I am so close to you, and yet you
don’t really see me. Yes, I see you realise where I am and see a dim
outline but not the full me. I must try again, and keep off telling you, as
you get nearer when you aren’t trying hard to see.
“I am preparing a surprise for Christmas Dav, and you will see what
you will see. It is much casier than to see me, which you can’t do yet, I
fear. I know you are capable of it, Lut I must get you off your guard, so
to speak! Now I think we ought to get er. with our work, so no more
till Christmas Dayi from Chris.”
December z^ih. Lancelot.
“Love to Mum and Dad on Christmas Eve from Lancelot. Coming to
your party to-morrow evening invited by Chris who is arranging it. He
wants me to come early, at six, to talk first, because I can tune up your
mind best to receive the Company. It is to be a surprise so I mustn’t teil
you who are coming, but quite a lot will be there and you will hear news
of all of us you love over here. Darling Mum, I am so looking forward
to it—at six to-morrow evening. Good-night and Happy Christmas
from Lancelot.”
Christmas Day 1943, 5.40Christopher.
“My Mumsie, I was so exciped that I had to come along first to see if
you were really expecting us all? I said to Lance that he should come to
tune you up, but I find you are ever so full of expectancy too, so let’s
have a talk till the others come. A Happy Christmas to my parents from
your erring but loving son Chris.
“Darlings, you will hardly believe me when I teil you this is the greatest
Happy Christmas I have ever known. So far from regretting the old
festivity I used to enjoy so much, I just don’t want that kind of thing any
more, and I am so closely joined to you and Dad in love now that I
never could feel lonely or out of anything again—it’s just rich joy. Now
I am master of ceremonies, so must stop and introduce the Company as
they arrive.”
“Lancelot now. Mum ownest, I am so glad you are so happy at our
Leitersfrom Christopher 47
party, and Dad is too, teil him, please. I can be attendant to vour mind
now, to keep you in tune for the next visitor.”
(Personal messages were then written with my handfrom eleven different
relatives ofmine who had died during thepast thirtyyears.)
Later. Christopher.
“Only a word, Mumsie, then you must rest. Have you enjoyed your
party?” (jYes, ever so mach.) “I am so glad because if was a Christmas
present from me to you, only I couldn’t have done it without a lot of help
from Lancelot, who knows all thesc relations of vours. Now 1’11 say
nighty-night, and Lancelot will say a word.”
Lancelot.
“Mum Darling, I have so much enjoyed it all, and Chris has been super
—he likes me to say that! My best Happy Christinas ever. Dad is enjoy-
ing it too, which makes it so nice.
“Good night, Darlings, from Lancelot.”
December zGih. Christopher.
“Now, Mumsie, shall we have a heart to heart tete-ä-tete talk? . . .
Of course I include Dad, but I mean not a party like yesterday.” (L
enjoyed it very much.) “I’m so glad. I enjoyed it too, and so I think did
they all. They were most complimentary to me as organiser of it, though
Lance did most of the invitations. I only got Uncle Toby and my
Grannies. I am so happy it all went oft so well and I gave Mumsie a
treat for Christmas!
“Let’s see, what have I been doing? I went over to France again to
see those gasometer things, and our aircraft were over them fairly plugging
away with bombs. I saw one go down in flames, but I don’t know what
happened to the others. The Germans were making attempts to manipu-
late their A.A. guns but our aircraft moved too quickly and I think most
got away safely. I made out a bevy of lorries loaded with petrol tanks
or some such thing coming up which were getting a hectic time of it, too.
I think the Germans are very despondent, for they seem so jumpy and
on the run at any attack by our planes. I nearly forgot to teil you that
Uncle Toby said I was getting on very well and he was pleased with my
progress.. I am very proud when he praises me because he is very
particular and hard to please.
“I want to let you into a secret of my own and I can’t express it—
you know the old feeling of being unable to teil anyone what one really
means? I must try to explain myself. I am awatjö of much more now
than^I knew existed before, yet I still feel unexpressed somehow, and
want to do a big thing to get myself expressed. I hope to find a work I
can excel in soon. All I have tried so far isn’t quite my own work and I
don’t know what I really need yet. I shall find out soon, I hope, but
meantime I feel on trial and not doing what will eventually be my own
particular line of work. ... I am in His Army, but it is my work in that
I don’t yet know . . .
“May I teil you a bit of luck which came my way to-day? I had left
my Instrument on our table in the headquarters and was able to contact
the caretaker by telepathy to send it me on will-power. You see, we can
send any etheric object by will-power, as it doesn’t have to be moved by
48 Leitersfrom Christopher
physical jerks like your life. I was lucky in contacting his mind so handily,
as he might have been thinking of other things, but he responded at once
and sent it along.” (So you have tables!) “O yes, we have furniture all
right, our Offices would be awfully bare with nothing. It is much more
like your life than you think, I believe. I would like to show you our
headquarters some day. I think you ought to stop now.”
December z~tb.
■ “Can we have a few words on prayer? I want you to help me to
understand how you pray, because I seem to have no mental force like
you send out when you think about God or Christ.” (fThat is because
I love God, darling!) “I can’t understand. I don’t love those I can’t
realise at all. . . . Yes, I see a bit, but I can’t rise in spirit—I need to suffer
more till I have to find Him, I suppose. ... Yes, I see, so I seem a bit
ungrateful not to love Him. I don’t want to be ungrateful but I find it
very difficult.” (You love beauty and music, and they are part of God, you
thank. Him inyour lore of themi) “I see, so I have been gratcful after all.
I do love beauty and music. That makes things much clearer. I can
see now how to begin to love God, ever so many thanks, Mumsie darling.
I am nearly grown up now and can yet not understand what I ought to
have known as a small child. I am very backward in some ways still,
but I am getting on now.
“Dad would like to hear how I found a creature in the wood near
Cox’s Mill the other day. I went off down there before Christmas, and
went into the forest where they had been Hearing, and there I found a
creature in etheric life which had been inside the tree and was turned
out by cutting it down. It was a tree-elf of sorts, I suppose, but it was
not at all like the others I have seen—it had . . . 1’11 try to draw it. . . .
Not very good, but it is something like that. I can’t make its limbs look
real, but they were not so much like legs or arms as like feelers or some­
thing eise. He sat on the ground looking most uncomfy because his tree
had been cut down, and I didn’t know how to help him at all. He was
brownish with a black eye or something which looked like an eye, but
I don’t think it functions in the samt way at all.
“I mustn’t write more to-night as it is the third evening in succession
for you and you mustn’t be overdone, Lancelot says. So 1’11 say au revoir
till Sunday next, I shall be working again to-morrow. Love to Dad
from Chris.”
December $oth.
“Mumsie, I came to-day to teil you about instructions recently given
to our headquarters to be ready for a big development to assist our work.
It is a force ofpowerful spirits sending rays to aid earth and concentrating
them on England, from which the light is to spread over the world. I am
so proud to belong to England now I can see the part we are destined
to play in world development. I am so glad you are to be surrounded
by light of these rays so that your work will be more effective than before.
I shall be able to help too in this great work, and it is a marvellous thing
to be doing.
“You want to say something?”
(You told us a few days ago that your Instrument was sent to you “on will-
I
Leitersfrom Christopher 49
power” by the caretakcr—why couldn’t you will it to come to you without
contacting his thoughts ?)
“You think I’m super strong! I can’t do that yet, though I shall be
able to some day. But our office caretaker could send it more easily
because he got my mind waves to help too, it just needed his added
effort—two better than one, you see.
“I want to stop now—so good night, Mumsie and Dad, sce vou Sunday
probably. Chris.”
January znd, 1944.
“Can you hear me playing if you keep quiet? You must try now
I’ve tuned you up.” (Pause!)
“Yes, much better, but not real hearing yet. I think you wantme to talk
more than you want to hear me play. Some day you’ll hear my Instrument
properly, then you will love it. I want to teach you to hear me, so shall
we try again?” (Pause. R. received an impresston of Christopher playing.)
“I see vou receive it visually, not audibly, but you’ll be able to do both
later on. . . .
“I want to teil you how my Instrument works, because you still think
of me as playing it by blowing—it isn’t done like that at all because there
isn’t an\' air to blow into it in our life—well, I mean I can see your air
but can’t use it for blowing. I gather harmonies by thought-pressure
into a sort of tubc like a flute, but it is playcd by a mental proccss, not by
blowing or fingers. I exert mind pressure in the dircction of the harmony
I want and make the sound, following a score just like our books only in
another material, but the actual sound is made by mental pressure into
a tube which gathers the thought-forms. It is so difficult to explain
because you don’t undcrstand how we live at all yet. . . .
“May I teil you about my invention of a cloud carrier to waft me
along in upper air whenever I want to be extra luxurious? It is a bed of
soft cloud colours all mauve and grey and blue-grey which I fold myself
up in and am drifted along with the cloud in a lovely soothing way. I
have done it several times, but can’t be always lolling about while there
is so much work going on. Yesterday I careercd over to Tceland to find
a man I heard crying for help, and he was full of fear about his aeroplane
which he had to fly back to this country in winter weather. So I gave
him a picture of home and made him want to get there so badly that he
forgot to feel afraid of what might happen on the way. . . .
“I think we ought to stop writing now because you are getting tired,
and I’il be able to come another night soon. Your loving Chris.”
January yth.
“I came all primed to teil you of an adventure, when you were so
engrossed writing that you never heard me! Well, I went over to France
again aftcr my work, and saw a wreck off the French coast lying in shallow
water with her funnels out. I was interested to see that this ship’s cargo
was still on board and no one attempting to salvage it. It was a cargo of
muskets of some new kind, I think, but I don’t know where to or from—
she was a French boat,I think,but I couldn’t teil for certain. As I watched,
the ship’s cat came up to me—she had been drowned and was so upset
about having lost her nice home that she had stayed on it trying to carry
A A
)
5° 'Lettenfrom Christopher
on as usual, but began to be lonely because all the men had left and no
one came to pet her and give her milk, so she was ever so glad to see me.
I tried to explain to her that she ought to leave the ship, but a cat’s mind.
is so very tiny that I couldn’t get the idea into it. So I left her there and
went ashore, and came upon a heap of machinery which had been one
of those gasometer things I told you about. My goodness, our bombers
have made a job ot it there! I couldn’t recognisc any pari of it, all twisted
wires and onlv mixed bits of Steel and concreto in a broken pile. All was
quiet at the time, no bombers just then, but they had done their work
well. I couldn’t see anv soldiers about either, and no one seemed trving
to repair the damage. Just then I saw a queer old man come out of a hole
in the ground, where he had been hiding, I think; he took a long look at
the wreckage and hobbled off in the direction of some cottagcs in the
distance, I think they were smashed too, but still had walls Standing. I
feit sorry for the poor people living in those parts, but it had to be done,
of course.
“Good night, parents dear, from Chris.’’
(Christopher's yonnger brotber, David, arrived home front America on
January lofh.)
Jannary lAth.
“I was busy all week working with my gang up in White Russia, so
I never went to see if I could find Dave’s ship. Much surpnsed he got
here so soon—a successful voyage, I gather, not like mine! My coming
over here was all planned really, I know, but humans would call it a
calamity. I know better now, of cöurse. . . . Can I say about my work,
Mumsie? I am efficient in path-finding now, so they are giving me jobs
which need that very interesting and slippery work—T mean slippery in
a thought sense, you slip up in tracking wrong bands of thought some-
times. You are so quiet in mind to-day, Mumsie, I could explain more
if you have time? I touch a mind thinking of a soldier I am trying to help
and thev send out a fiash of recognition in his direction which shows him
where they are, then sometimes he slips along it safely and gets there, but
sometimes their mind closes in again so quick that he can’t see his way
and 1 have to be there to get another signal from his friend or rclation.
I can’t get you to see it clearly, but that’s how it works.
“ Can I teil Dave something he will be intercsted in? That radio is
coming over to us in waves of light. The waves used for radio are visible
to us as light-bands, and I can see messages being transmitted by ships in
visible form. I don’t want to make him envious, but he could do much
more from our life here in that way than he can on earth. I’m not gifted
that way, but it seems to me that radio is quite the nearest approach to
our life yet made from the earth sphere. I just can’t get a grip of these
wave-lengths, but maybe soon they’ll find one through which we can
speak to make our voices heard by you. Maybe Dave will be the man
to invent a gadget tor doing this! . . .
“Mumsie, 1 want to teil Dave [ came over here to be a guide to the
men who are killcd in this war, bcc.iu.se I so wanted to help win the war
and that is one big way .... I want him to know the re.i on for it so he
■von't think it was all just accide-nt and a misfortunc,”
Lettersfrom Christopher
)
51
(L..7rr.) ‘‘Mumsie, I am so interested in Dave’s idea of a lower
frequency of wave-length, for I thought I was on a short-length wave,
but I couldn’t make your vibrations tune in to mine, and I belicve I
could have stepped up a bit to tune in with you instead. Now shall we
talk of my adventures over in White Russia? I was admitted to a College
of Light ray instruction, very like Lancelot learned long ago. I am
staggered at the amount there is to tackle before one can be of much
use to other people. You see, we simply don’t get the elements of it
at our human schools and our instruction reallv begins at the beginning
when we come over here. Well, I have forged ahead since we last talked
and begin to understand how to combat evil influences and help the
fear in the world. It is simply glorious to feel I have been chosen because
of my timidity in earth life to help this work of fear-fighting. I feel so
grateful to find my weakness turned to this great use. I learned a lot of
wonderful things about rays we don’t use on earth at all, and shall have
to practice working them before I can use them to fight devils with.
Yes, we are up against real devils, but they are all results of evil thinking.
Most people can keep them off easily, especially in England, because good
thoughts are prevalent, but in backward countries it is very bad. They
get under influence of these evil beings who make them imaginc things
to frighten themselves, and that’s where our rays help so much, we give
their minds a healthy impetus and the devils are routed. It is difficult to
make you understand because your mind is so clear and bright that no
devil can come within your orbit at all. . . . But in Russia people are
very dark in mind and we have a Jot of work to do there. I am keenly
interested in this new linc of instruction and long to be able to use these
rays intelligently, but I’m not so good at that sort of thing as most. I
was chosen for my victory over my own fears, and that gives me sympathy
with those we are out to help and makes mc give out a longing to help
them which is good.
“ I must go soon, but I want to keep the Silent Minute, so think of me
then and 1’11 be v.’ith you.” (Dad said, “We like the photos ofyou which
David brought back.”) “All right, Dad, I’m glad you think them good
of mc—can’t send you any more yet, but p’raps Dave will invent a way
to take me with a multi-wave etheric photo-plate or thereabouts! I must
be off, I’m afraid, so Icave you and Dave to think out ways of snapping
me!
“So long, family. Your loving Chris.”
January zyd. (At Cox's Mill.)
“I want to teil you another adventurc of mine. ... I went on a sharp
bar of fear to help a man who was wounded and he had a leg blown off
by a shell or something, so I tried to find help for him. He gave me a
clue by his thought-wave as to the whereabouts of his battery and I came
upon his pal thinking of him, so 1 told him where the man was and he
was quite intelligent about it, but just as they got him up another shell
hurst and I was just in time to help them out of their bodies. The man
whose wave I first saw was afraid all the time but very plucky over
fighting it and soon found his feet at being freed. The other was non-
plussed and unable to understand what had happened. He had never
5 2* Fettersfrom Christopher
thought about dying so he didn’t think it could possibly have happened,
and I had great trouble to bring him in to our camp, he just would not
come, saying he must go back to his gun. At last I had to let him go,
but soon heard his call for help as he fouad no one paid the slightest
attention to him any more. However, he is quite reasonable to deal with
now he has once realised his own death. I wisb someonc could make them
think a bit before they go out fighting, it is so much easier to deal with
those who realise they may be dead. I am getting on fairly well in my
work of fear-fighting, and it is just the work for me. . . .
“ Now I must be off, so 1’11 just say au revoir and be with you next
week, Sundav probably.
“ Dave, old boy, it's great to see you. Chris.”
January jo/zL
“Hullo, Mumsie, I didn’t expect you so soon and came for a stroll in
the pond where I can study the gnome life at its best. I have been up to
pranks of my own with the atmosphere on the pond. I gave off fumes
of mist in etheric life so the little people couldn’t see, and they got very
fussed and set about making shelters to hide in. I cleared it off by will-
power, but they wouldn’t come out for a long time. I wanted to see how
they acted in emergency because I thought they were without powers
of reasoning, but I sec they have some ideas of their own. They give out
so little thought that I wondered if they had any at all. I think they are
above vegetable life but connected with it somehow, for they use nothing
eise. Animal life is beyond their scope altogether.
“Dave, old boy. ... I would love to have you in my new life, full of
new sorts of things to do. I go up into Upper air and float on clouds with
crimson glow of cosmic rays lighting them into wonderful glory of
colour, and then I shoot down like a rocket on mv volition energy to
see Mumsie and you snugly sitting.
“Cheerio, darlings, back again later. I’ve got a call to answer. So long.”
February ~;th, 1944. (David asked, “Is Chris sitting with ns?”)
“No, I’m here sitting on you! Not very heavily though because you
see I don’t weigh anything! Poor little Chris doesn’t weigh anything!
How are you getting on with your gadgets, Dave? I mean Lights and
things, chiefly things like lights.” (You are veryjrivolous this afternoon!)
“Why not? I’m awfully happy so I just have to bubble a bit. Too good
to talk, we’ll do that later.”
February 1 j/A (At Stoke-on-Trent.)
“I am very amused at you for thinking I was wandering at Cox’s
Mill trying to find you! As if I can’t contact your thoughts by this time
from anywhere! Quite a new idea has come to me for my work, which
is still fear-fighting. I give my patient a power of grasping hold of my
hand with his etheric hand and it seems to calm him wondcrfully. I saw
you do that yourself, Mumsie, when the raid was on the other night—you
grasped the etheric hand of your angelic guide, and nothing would have
been able to frighten you then. I was so interested, because I have only
just bccome able to see your angel, I was not far enough advanced
before.”
Lettersfrom Christopher ' 55
R. asked if C. would like to teilhersomething which would provide “proof”
that it was he who was talking to her.
“Cumulative evidence is best, and of that you have ample by now. I
am not confident of getting through material proofs because I can’t
remember details of my earth life which would be sufficiently convincing.
I hope you won’t want me to try, it is such a strain to think of those sort
of silly details.
“1'11 go now, as you are tired, I can see.”
February i^th. (Lancelot’s birthday.)
Lancelot. “I have been having a great partv of resctiurs for our
work of fighting evil thoughts, and I carried out a gloom dispcrsal—
vou can’t understand, but I liad great reserves of force w.iiting to rush
in when we lifted the gloom on evil minds and they broke up the thoughts
before they could do harm. . . .
Here comes Chris to keep my birthdav. I told him this morning to
come along for my birthday treat so we could be together with vou and
Dad all so cosy and mee on my birthday evening. . . . 1’11 stop and let
Chris talk, but give Dad my love and a birthday kiss from Lancelot.”
(Pause.')
Christopher. “Sorry, Mumsie, I was talking to Lance. He teils
me he is twenty-four to-day—what a grown-up he is! Yet hc seems
as young or younger than I am only much more advanced in spirit, but
just a boy full of fun and games. I am so surprised that he is so human
still after all these years of spirit life. ... I am very happy to see you an
extra day this week owing to Lance’s birthday, which I had no idea ot
till he told me to-day. I am so glad to be with him again, too.”
Lancelot. “Chris is ever so glad to know I still keep my birthday
because he thought all those things were just earth-life, but birthdays
are very spiritual too.”
Christopher. “I am surprised as he says, but I quite see how one’s
birthday is a part of one’s life here as well as on earth. I think you
are tired, Mumsie darling, so I will stop and let Lance finish as it is his
day.”
Lancelot. “Such a huge Hug for Murn and Dad on my birthday
from Lancelot with love.”
February zoth. Christopher.
“I was a bit later than usual so I expect you got anxious—-the fact
was, I couldn’t leave a case who had a bad attack of fear and wanted to
bolt, so I just had to stop till he righted himself. . . .
“Now I want to teil you that my work is progressing very strongly.
I mean, I have stronger powers to help now, and am so glad to be used
in this way to help the frightened men in this war. ... I feel ovcrcome by
gratitude that I can help fear, because it was so much my besetting sin
and I was so timid and faithless in my earth life. It fills me with grateful
joy to be able to clear it out of the minds of others. Now 1’11 give you
an example of the kind of work I do.
“Charles was a tank gunner, and very good at it, too, but hc had
attacks of nerves which gave him no peace of mind, he was always in
dread of being unable to carry on when firing at the enemy. I went with
t>
Leitersfrom Christopher
54 )
him into action and gave his mind a Stimulus to carry on as if he was only
practising, and he found it ever so easy and forgot his dread altogether.
I heard him say to another fellow that he feit better now he had reallv
been into battle and come out steady without doing anything silly. I feel
I am really helping to win the war as much or more than I could have in
my body. It is such grand fun, too, to see how they respond to my
suggestions and try to carry them out, thinking thev are their own!
“I think 1’11 get back and see if my chap is all right I was with just
now. You’ll understand, I know, that I’m rather busv to-night and shall
come again soon. Think of me at nine, won’t you, darling.”
March <>th, 1944.
“Mumsie, I want to teil you a bit of adventure for Dad to enjov.
I went to a battleground in Novra. ... I can’t get it into vour mind and
don’t know how to spell the beastly place, it ends in a shriek like most
of these Russian names. I had been getting on finely with a plucky
Russian boy who wanted to see his old home again, and we found close
to his house a new church was being built for worship, so he was delighted
because no churcb.es have been built in Russia for a generation or so. He
was much impressed with the need for bringing back their religion
because he found life went on after death, so it cheered him up no end to
see that his father was taking part in building a church.” (Interruption.)
(Later.) “Mumsie, I hope you haven’t pondered over all my drivel to
the extent you were doing just now! I shall be afraid to go on chatting
away if I think my words are so important!” (It interests people to hear
something aboutyour life.) “Yes, I can quite understand that when I think
of our crass ignorance of any other life than our human one in the old
days.” (Do you mind if I publish some ofyour letters?) “Of course, do
anything you like. I quite feel it may help and should be glad to contribute
anything.
“May I show you another picture ofa scene in France where I stumbled
on a hero in disguise? He looked a Cochin and wore uniform of a private
in the German army, but he was giving away his food to the starving
children, and I could see he had had nothing to eat himself for days.
Hc was a Frenchman escaping from Germans, I think, but I saw such a
glow of sacrifice of his own hunger for the sake of these ragged, hungry
children. I was much struck by his courage and unselfishness. Every-
where I go I see courage grown out of danger and despair. It is great to
think that war can produce great qualities like this. I make a tune now
about all that.”
(Pause. Ifeit music round me.)
“Good. Mumsie, you were nearly over to me, and heard my tune,
though not clearly. I must congratulate you on letting yourself go and
getting a bit further than usual. May I be abrupt and say good-night, for
I find it’s nearly nine and I promised to be over with a case for the nine
p.m. chimes. Good-night, darling, and Dad, too.”
March izth. (8 a.m.)
“Coming morning to teil you a secret. I am to be promoted to ray-
carrier soon. Uncle Toby has recommcndcd me for this, which is a
wonderful work, and I am very surprised they think I am capable of it.
Leitersfrom Christopher
)
5'
es, I can be here all day and talk when von are tree. Music meanwhile.”
(Jfeit that he began to play bis Instrument.)
Afternoon.
(A B.B.C. Concerti)
“Mumsie, do you mind if I go on listening? . . . Yes, I hear only your
vibrations, but I can listen also to music you can’t hear which is the result
of what is being played by Instruments on earth. I want to listen now.”
(Later.) “I want to teil you something I’ve just thought of. Carmine
clouds on deep azurc sky lighted up by a rainbow of uncarthly colours,
those you have no words for. I saw that coming here to-day. I can’t
describe the wealth of glory in it. I am full of love of colour now, it is so
marvellously beautiful. Mumsie, how great is God in beautv. God in all
—all in God. Mumsie, darling, let me teil you about another bit of
wonder I saw over here just before landing, it was ground this time.
Trees in their inner selves beginning to wake after winter sleep and
showing growth inwardly which will bürst through later—multitudes of
tiny cells all bursting with palest green fronds which will later push
through the bud into leaves. I looked in fascination at the purity of their
green and white sheen, and saw how the growth cells are making ready
to push out into the outer air. Such wonders one never thought of in
earth life when one was full of oneself..........Ml is God—I see now how
the Creative force works in all, and only man has separate force—which
he misuses. . . .”
Evening.
“Now I want to give you some idea ot how we gut our orders from
headquarters. I contact the mind of one of the guides, who passes me
the Orders come through from Uncle Toby, the Cominandant. He gets
instructions from a higher Order of being altogether, people I can’t see
even yet, very high up in Intelligence and knowledge of good and evil.
These high beings are the leaders of each group, which acts only on
their instructions as to big things like the work of Organisation. All
little details are left to us to use our own powers over. I have, for instance,
full scope for exercising my own discretion as to where I lo<>k for work
and who I help, also to some extent how I help. All I do is known by
these superior beings, who guide by intuition when I am hardly conscious
of being guided at all. So you see how it works—and I love to be under
high guidance, as it gives one such confidence that one will not be
allowed to do the wrong thing so long as one wants to do right. Have I
explained it clearly ? . . . I ought to be off now, I think, and shall come in
a week’s time as usual, so far as I know.
“Cheerio—Chris.”
March lyth.
“Shall we have a talk? I’m game if you like—shall have to be off soon,
for I came so early intending to get back to work early too. I want to
explain something you can’t quite grasp, I find, and that is the way I
arrange my aggressions into your mind. You seem to think I say words
aloud, but I only insert my meaning into your brain and you put words
to it yourself. Different to writing like this, when I use your ectoplasmic
(
5 6 Leitersfrom Christopher
hand and my own words. I also would like to explain that I can’t take
messages from one person to another unless they are given in thought-
form as you did so carefully this morning. I got your mental images
clearly.
“Now I want to be off, so 1’11 just teil one adventure which may amuse
Dad and then good-bye for the time. I coliected a cat from the wreck I
told you of months past. I went past it on a journey home, and there was
the little thing still on board and unable to understand why it was so
lonelv. It came up to me overjoyed at sceing a human being again, and
this time was quite willing to leave the boat, but not me! So I had to keep
it, and it is installed at our Headquarters as a pet of mine! Uncle Toby is
quite agreeable to my keeping it, but he says no more cats—he says he
knows mv preferences of old and wants me not to remain cat-ridden for
ever! I couldn’t bear the little thing being so lonely, though it was its
own silly fault. 1’11 be off now. Thoughts to Dad, many of ’em. Your
Chris.’’
(Note.—See 1etter of January cjth, 1944.)
March ztjtb.
“I want to teil you a great piece of news—that I have been given my
Promotion to ray-bringer. I am so keen, because it is a beautiful work,
all my love of colour will come in usefui, and my tuning ofmy Instrument
has prepared the way. I was told that my love of colour could be used
higher up but I never expected it so soön. I am more pleased than I can
explain. It is just a hop up live rungs of the ladder at a time, and means
leaving earth help a bit for a higher sort which is full of God and Beauty.
I am just full of pep and elation. I am going to be a lieutenant of rays to
begin with under Uncle Toby’s personal direction, but soon I shall be
leaving him to work on my own.
“Now for an adventure of mine. I was on a parachute to see how my
man stood his first jump—he had been funking it a bit. Suddenly I saw
a funny goblin thing attached to it too and being towed at a tremendous
speed—for it. I tried to disentangle it, but it had got into the mesh
somehow so I couldn’t bother about it as my man wanted help. He got
down well and took off his parachute, so the goblin got out too and sat
down and cried. I couldn’t see his thoughts as his mind is so small, but
I was so sorry for him, though having no notion what the trouble was.
He just sat there and cried and cried and nothing seemed to stop him, so
I had to leave him as I couldn’t help. Then I saw my man was so much
relieved at the success of his first jump that his mind was all clear again,
so I hove away in search of anything eise I could find.”
(Dad asked if C. could imte with his handi)
“What, Dadi I don’t think so, he hasn’t got any extension of his
ectoplasm which I could use so far as I can see, but he might develop it
if he tried, it would be just swell if he could. Your ectoplasmic hand is
so well developed, Mumsie, that 1 have no difficulty whatever unless you
let your mind get in the way. ... I must give Dad a chance of trying his
hand, do ask him to try.”
(Dad took. apencil and tried, but there was no result.')
“O what fun! Dad can’t get his ectoplasmic hand out of its sheath, so
I can’t use it, but he’ll be able to if he goes on trying to, I think. Dad is
Leiters from Christopher 57
so unused to exetting his psychic body, so he can’t get free of his shell.
He is like a hermit crab who can’t put his claws out, and Mumsie’s claws
come out fine.”
Can you explain ectoplasm?
“Yes, I can to some degree. Your ectoplasm is the cloak of your spirit
which it dtscards on leaving the body, just as in our birth, which is so
like our death, we have a wrapping which is born with the body and
discarded. Sometimes it is torn out prematurely and ghosts are formed
that .rav, but onlv a few, for it doesn’t last long. Mumsie can extrude it
a bit, though not like mediums who have practised doing it an awful lot.
“So long, must be off now. Chris.”
Apri! zud, 1944. At Cox’s Mill.
“Can we have a moment? You have been accablee with chorcs and I
feit so unwanted!” (I have bad a terribly busy time.') “Yes, of course,
Mumsie, and I was only funning. I see Dave has been out in the boat
already, much to the annoyance of the moorhens, I gather.
“I want to teil you some good news of my promotion to be a ray-
bringer. I have started that work and find it not so hard as I feared. I
grasp the ray firmlv, mentally, and direct its full force on to the casc to
be helped, and often the results are quite bewilderingly sudden and great.
It means great concentration of mental effort, and I find it tiring as yet,
though accustomed by now to mental force. It produces such a mighty
clearance in the patient’s mind that it is better than anything I have
touched yet—just fine.
“About the moorhens—yes, I was watching one in the rushes and he
was peeking at Dave through the stems and feeling very annoyed indeed,
because he wanted to cross the pond and Dave was paddling all over it
in the boat so he couldn’t venture. No more to-night, darling, you’re
tired.”
April <)th. Laster Sunday. (At Cox’s Mill.)
“Mumsie, I am afraid I must be late, but I was unaware of your clock-
changing business and came expecting to find you at tea. Now let’s
have a chat about my doings.
“I grasped my ray-work pretty well and am busy on innumerable
cases of fear healing—it is marvellous what ray control can do. Often
a man is nearly petrified with fear, and the directing of a ray on to him
gives a sense of security he learns to trust to and feel strong. 1 gave
another man a glimpse of etheric life and helped him to feel his feet
again. I am fully occupied now and working so hard that I seldom stop
to find adventures—-however, I must teil you that my cat is very happy
now in our life and quite at home in the office although she can’t catch
mice any more. I changed over to a big office yesterday, where we ray-
bringers have more scope for our work. Such wonderful colours in these
rays, I wish you could see them—colours I can’t desenbe because you
have no Word for them, but scientists over here use them.for all sorts of
work for humanity. All musicians use rays for their work which have
each a tone to which they vibrate, and over-strained minds relax under
certain tones of music. Certain tones bracc and others relax, all this one
has to learn in my work and it is just great to see a mind respond to the
58 Leiters front Christopher
treatment. Ovcrtired minds are a great handicap just now in the develop­
ment of man, and more ray treatment is needed than we can get qualified
for. I have only qualified for the elementary treatment so far, but I
hope to progress.
“Now shall I teil you a story of my cat? A very silly one, but funny.
I had gone off on my work and she missed me and got a hunch I was
leaving her for good, so she got out my Instrument I play on and wouldn’t
leave it till I got back. She just sat on it with determination to wait till
I came for it. Of course I went for it as soon as I got back, and she was
overjoved to see me again! I must get back to work, I fear, for a call has
just come in, thev say, so night nighr, Mumsie and Dave, old fellow—
nice to see vou sitting at home ac.un like old times.
“So long. Chris.”
April iyd.
“I must teil vou a bit of my work now which I think I can put into
human words. I Charge up at a power Station for sleep minds, to give
them a sense of securitv when they have been much lacerated b\ bomb-
noise. I feel so infused with power then that I speed like a bullet to its
goal to give them strength before sleep, and so keep their mental imagery
intact. It isn’t casv to say it in words, but I try to explain and you get
a glimpse of what I mean. I am awfullv keen on my work now and will
hope for good rwv.lts later when Uncle Toby inspects us. . . .
“I would like to say how I seem to be a part of your own mind to you,
because vou aren’t sure sometimes that I am speaking and think it must
be your Imagination. Can vou understand thought Vibration? I catch
vour thought as a wave or Vibration which affects my mind and I send
a wave back to vours, but you reccive it inwardly, not by your ears, so
you think it is your own wave returning—but I am often quite close and
saying something out loud to you before you take in that I am speaking.
You can hear berrer than you will believe because you are so afraid of
being taken in by your Imagination, but you needn’t feel so anxious,
I am gencralk able to make you hear without difficulty.
“I must be off and get some work done, so no more. Teil Dave good-
night from me. Chris.”
April yth.
“My goodness, what a day you had yesterday! I feit a mind wave of
yours over at work, and you safd how almighty good you feit out in the
forest. I wasn’t able to come because I had a big bit of work on, h-r;
Michael came and told me you had spent a whole day among trees and
were so refreshed that vour mind would be clearer than usual to-day,
so I came along a bit sooner in case vou thought of me. I want to teil
vou that I am among a band of colour workers with rays. . . .”
(R’j mind was bronght hark by a chaflinch who hopped on to the terrace
with a lond“Cbink. chink.")
“Much amused at your tarne bird ; a bit obstreperous, ain’t he?
Wanted a bit of cake, I gucss. To return to my work. I am selccted ror
colour work with rays because of my love of colour, and it is just gr
watching how the bands of colour harmonise and melt in together to form
new colours. I love to watch them, and am keen to learn which make the
)
Leitersfrom Christopher $9
effect needed on the minds I work for. Mumsie, I can’t make out what
you are doing, but it’s something for Dave, I guess?”
{Getting his clothes readyfor school.')
“O yes, I forgot about clothes, they were a silly business, we get on
much better with thought clothes which only wear out if we are stupid.
“I want to teil you all about my doings this past week. I gave a great
party to my pals in rav work and we went exploring over some etheric
plane hills where I had never been. One of the others knew the way so
he showed us how to go, and it was scrumptious—full of glory of golden
rays of power Streaming to the hills to light their furthcr side. They
were a power Station of great forces of glory, and we were helped in
our work by it. I took my special pal back to our office afterwards and
he said he had never known such a wonderful day. . . . My special pal
is Ian—a ver}’ good chap and with great fun in him, too. I haven’t
described our outing well, but it is impossible to put into words, really.
So much can’t be told because you just can’t understand until you come
over here. You may remember when I last spoke of Ian, it was as our
caretaker who sent my Instrument on a thought-wave. He is better than
I am at thought-force, but I have greater colour-sense, so we work well
together as a pair. Only a short adventure to relate on behalf of Dad,
who likes my expeditions into gnome life. I find it is analogous to fairy
life, but on a slightlv lower plane—gnomes are to fairies what fungi.are
to flowering plants or mosses. I was away for a case of fear in Arabia,
and I came to a small place where there were only a few houses and
military tents and camels. My man was among the soldiers and trying to
get a grip of what he might have to do if fighting came his way. He
went away from the others to try and become happier about it, and I
found I could influence his mind in nature so I showed him a picture in
his mind of gnomes on English trees, and he started thinking of fairy
Stories and Jack the Giant-Killer and all those. So he got the better of
his fear by forgetting himself a few minutes. I took him over my whole
repertoire of fairy Stories and he always feit he came out on top in the
way the right one always does, so it helped him quite a lot. Don’t break
off just yet, I want to teil you how I fished a complete outfit of gnomes
out of their homes to be a sample of gnome life to our naturalist here.
He had a poor opinion of their capabilities, so I showed him how much
they could do if one took them away from their normal surroundings to
adapt themselves to new ones. He put them on a table in the office with
only moss fibres to play with, and they set to work to conceal themselves
in the fibres in the cutest forms of Sabotage you could have thought of.
Not Sabotage, I mean Camouflage. I thought it rather hard on them so
returned them fairly soon to their own place, but our naturalist was much
Struck with their sensible behaviour and agrees that they must have
intelligence though small.
“Now I must go off back to my job, and thanks for a topping day,
from your Chris.”
May ~[lh, 1944. At Stake.
“I want to teil you of our great day this afternoon when 1 and other
colour experts are on parade at headquarters. I have graduatcd as an
6o Leitersfrom Christopher
expert ray-colourist already, and am very bucked over it. We are
inspected periodically by Uncle Toby as we are his platoon and work
under him. I have a squad of colour-finders under me and I send them
out to find the colour required while I assist the patient to absorb what
is there. There is a shortage of some of the most useful rays, and these
are collected in essence and brought in bv my colour-finders, who have
to work very hard and quickly sometimes. They bend the ray to focus
on the patient while I do the diagnosis of what is needed and help him
to absorb it.
I was a colour-finder only till vesterday when 1 was gtven a squad to
command, so I am cocky like anvthing to-day, you bet! I haven’t been
inspected yet so am awaiting it with some trepidation, but feel I am all
right as the last man got on well.
“O. you want to know something?” {Ari your patients in this life or
bare they kft their bodies?)
“Both—it makes little difference whether they have died or not tö the
etheric body which is what we eure. Most of them are on the battlefields,
and their etherics get hurt by vibrations of fear or anger, so they need
a lot of treatment in consequence of fighting on the body plane. Some­
times they have been hit and leave their bodies in a condition of fear,
then we bring ravs to bear to heal and soothe, but often they are unhurt
bodily but hutt cthericallv by fear. I can’t explain any better in words
which are not suited to our conditions over here.
“I want to say another detail about my work which you will appreciate,
and that is that I use emanations from the plant world for many cases of
tear—they have a soothing influence and work in harmony with human
auras which contain the rcsults of the mind feelings, so if you harmonize
the aura it soothes the mind which is producing it. I often get plant
emanations from England where they are softer and grccner than most
places, and bear quantities of happy thoughts of flower-lovers in them.
You give out lots of happy thoughts among flowers, which they absorb
and give out in their emanations—these have more influence than any
"thers. Teil Dad he is helping soldiers on the battlefield by giving out
love to his plants! Far-fetched ideas, I should have thought in earth life,
but practical and useful here.
“Now I think we ought to stop, so 1’11 say au revoir and be back
about Wednesday to teil you how I get on this afternoon. Mid-week
suits better than Sundays now if you can stand it. I am so busy on
Sundays because there is a chance of getting minds to relax a bit to give
an opening for treatment. Au re' oir till Wednesday, then. Cheerio!”
.May wth.
“You are so receptivc to-night, I nearly made you open your etheric
eyes—how splendid if you could! You are a bit scared of losing earth
sight, though, but you must in order to see etherically—you can’t
function in both worlds at onec, you sec. . . .
“I am awiully proud of myself since Uncle Toby’s inspection, when
he gavc me a good chit and said he was proud of my progress. I am in
Charge of a squad of ray-bringers and send them on my word ofcommand
to get the rayt needed for my cases, and only a short time back I was
(
Leiters from Christopher 61
flying around at the bidding of another squad Commander! Darling,
it is Grand, and I am overjoyed at my promotion. Teil Dad, please, I
can’t wait for him to know.” {Pause while Dad read this.) “Now let’s
talk-—I am about to teil you a charming story of a lame dog and his
master in our life.
“Chapter one. Master has died and dog awfully upset, can’t make out
where Master has gone. Master over here, not able to make his presence
known, sees dog’s nffection and longs to comfort him.
“Chapter two. Dog given to Master’s sister, who is a clairvoyante,
dog senses this and feels she can help him; still wants Master but is
happier.
“Chapter three. Sister sees Master and teils dog, who is able to sensc
Master is near and wags tail violently, hoping for more. Master able
to make his presence known to dog by sense of smell. Can materialise
a human scent and dog recognises this as his. Quite reassured by this,
gets very fond of sister, who often teils him Master is near.
“Chapter four bas just started, as dog got ill and died a few days ago,
and his master, a friend of mine, has got him at our Office with my cat,
and told me this tale. He and my cat are great pals already, and much
happier than before.
“I want to say something about my work which will alTect you, and
that is the colour-rays which vou form when vou are seeing beauty. I
use them otten, so I want you to be very full of beautiful things because
you send out colour-rays all over the place and they are such a help.”
(Shall I take up skerching again?) “Yes, you might help a lot if you took
to sketching again. You see, these colour rays are soothing to jarred
minds, and very concentrated rays proceed from the minds of lovers of
beauty which are more powerful than non-human rays. I can’t explain
better than that, but it is your love of colour which concentrates power
in your rays. Colours affect different minds in different ways, and some
have an opposite effect on one mind to what they have on another..............
Blue has a soothing effect on most minds. . . . Warm colours give a
reassuring warm glow which most people find too much for their etheric
aura.
“I must go, I am being called. Au revoir. Chris.”
May lyth.
“I want to bring a guest who is anxious to know you—he is my friend,
Ian M-----
Ian writing. “I am unaccustomed to being in control of a human
hand not my own—how queer—you are now getting only my—sorry,
I----- ”
“Chris speaking. Ian is so slow that I must help him out by saying
that he wants to know you and Dad, having a great love for me. 1 can
say that plainly, not feeling shy as we used to, because here we sce love
as a reality and it shows, so we can talk about it freely. Ian and I are
great pals and he wants to know you too. He is not anxious to talk to
his people, as he says they are over here—he was the youngest of a family
all killed in the war, and he too. Hc is getting interested at seeing our
method of communication and wants to try again.”
)
62 Dettersfrom Christopher
Ian writing. “O, how kind. It is more difficult than I thought. I am
clumsy at holding on. Chris much better.”
(R. had a vague Vision of hisfacei)
“Yes, I had a fair moustache, as you saw. My face is visible to you.
May we talk again? Many thanks, I get on well now, and it is fascinating
to see my words coming out like they used to before I came over here.
‘Mony a mickle maks a muckle.’ One day I shall get a message to teil
all not to be afraid—that is what we want, eh, Chris?”
Christopher. “I want to talk now, Mumsie. Ian has so much
enjoyed writing, it is a new experience for him, you see, and he hopes to
Icarn to do it better soon if you’ll let him use your hand again?
“Now I want to proceed with my history of doings. I am given a
post of some prominence in my capacity as leadcr of a squad of rav-
workers, and Ian is in another squad, so we don’t see much of each
other now. I am full of kick at my own importance and crowing like a
voung cockerel just found his voice!
“Can you bear another story of my work? I was carrying out a camp
tor refugees from fear—those who are frightened of death and so arrive
in our life blind. When we had got our workers together to form a circle
of healing rays I found an important colour was missing, so I had to
send an ambulance worker off for it as the others were holding their
rays already. A poor chap came in who was petrified with fear, and we
held him undcr the softest rays to hcal him just as the ambulance fellow
got back, when he went full blaze on to the patienr’s face and nearly
blinded him again. I was angry for the first time since I got here, and
never realised the effect before—my ambulance worker just got stunned
by the sudden shot of anger from me, and I was overcome by remorse
because he had only been a bit stupid really. It is awful howquickly one
can do harm by a bit of quick temper here, and makes one very careful.”
(Hisfather asked, “Ho»' does he measiire time?”)
“You are asking what? . . . Yes, I see. We measure time in a way by
timing the rotations of the earth and mcon, because we who are working
on earth need to keep in time with earth doings, and to know when we
can find people aslcep and so on. We don’t need time otherwise than
tor our earth work, I think, though I haven’t been away from earth yet,
so I don’t know conditions elsewhere. . . . Yes, I know Big Ben chimes
at nine p.m. because so many are keeping it now that it makes a lighting
up effect in parts of England.”
(Do you divide your time into iiours, etc.?)
“No, not so far as I have observed. Why are you so curious about
time? I don’t see that it matters much anyway. I can see a bit into future
events, though, now, but not as affecting individuals, only a sort of
national destiny looming out of the dark of war and England being a
destined Icader of humanity. I can’t see future clearly yet at all. Now,
good night, my Mumsie and Dad—teil Dad good night from me, he is
in a book just now. Chris.”
May ijth. Erening. ] 'ery slowly and with difficulty an unknown per-
sonality »rote thejolloning:—
“Your son—may he be blessed—has given me absolute relief. O God,
.)
Leiters from Christopher 63
the joy ot treedom front fear. I came to say how much I owe to you
through him. God hiess him and his great work. Ernest M—.”
May 1 ith. Christopher.
“I didn’t hear. . . . Ernest M.—I wonder why you spoke of him? He
was a case of mine and I was awfully sorrv for him, he was tcrribly
mangled and suflered such pain betöre he could get free from his body,
which was helpless under a gun. I was awfully sick at the gruesome sight
.and it took mc some screwing up of mv courage to tackle the job, as I
was new to it then. He was in desperate pain and waves of fear and I
couldn’t make him leave his body, he was too much afraid. I couldn’t
use rays and such things then, and I struggled hard to help him. Then I
left hirn with a guide, and later we met and he thanked me, and I showed
him where you lived as we talked, but I never dreamt he would try to
talk to you—how odd! Yes, I know he was grateful.
“I must teil vou a bit about mv work now, which is ever so good and
makes me happier than ever in my life. 1 am more and more interested in
the control of ravs of colour and their blending to heal human minds.
I never dreamt such power would be possible, and it is so grand to be
able to help men like this. I find it difficult to describe, though. Only
a few colours are normally used and these are those you can’t see yet.
My squad work along ray lines which make sort of rainbows meeting
at the man to be healed and arching from him into our power cefitre,
where they are renewed. I have to arrange the Order in which they contact
the man according to his condition, and this isn’t easy, as one has to
judge the probable effect on his will as well as mental attitude. I am
confined to the colours which affect fear, so ir isn’t too complicated for
my inexperience, but still absorbingly interesting. Once I had an expert
photographer to deal with, and when be saw these new colours he went
off his chump and I had to produce a force ray to keep him quiet, he
was so excited at the sight!
“Now 1’11 stop, as I think you are tired.”
May i.<)th. Lancelot.
“Lancelot—yes, Mum Darling—I am come to teil you a very exciting
thing, and. this is it.
“Chris has got on so well that he has been chosen for a special mission
to go out of the earth sphere into planetary space and collect help against
the fear forces swaying earth people now. I am to be his guide and help
him, but he must do the asking for help because he knows fear and I
never had to. He will be here to talk to you on Sunday for the last time
for some weeks, and then we shall set sail for Mars, which will be an
experience for him and also help his work. Hc is so keen about his work
that exploring makes no appeal, but he knows he will bring help, so is
just longing to do it, but only for that. I do admirc him so for his great
longing to help people from fear. I must say good night now to Dad
and Mum my own. Love from Lancelot.”
May zist. Christopher.
“Mumsie, my own, I can hardly bear to leas e home now, but I must
be brave and do it for my work's sake. Lance told you, didn’t he? I am
64 Cetters from Christopher
chucking away my advancement as a squad commander and all the work
I love so much—and you and my home and Dad—it’s Dad I mind most
because I so want to be a son he can be proud of—he can’t know what I
am going to do now.
“It is an honour to be chosen for this, but I would so much rather not."’
(But it will be a great adventure!) “Yes, I know. It is such a big plunge,
though. Lance is grand because he understands my feelings and yet he
has never been through it all.” (He feit just as you do when f.rst he wert
away from earth, and he was only nine years old.') “You have been with
Lance like this? I never knew he was like that, I thought him always
adventurous and brave. He was so young to go away then. That’s why
he is so grand now and understanding and brave too. My mother—I
will be brave too. I have conquered mv timiditv but this is a different
sort ot courage, courage to give up what I love because God calls me to
His work. . . .
“We go to-morrow, and are to travel in etheric space as Lance says
it is more direct. I shall be all right once we have said good-bye . . .
(Hisfather had been told by a mathematician that it would not bepossibie
to tie a knot in four-dimensional space, and suddenly asked, “Can he tie
knots?'")
“Can I tie knots? What a funny question! I won’t try because we don’t
have anything to tie with—no strings or ropes or anything of that sort.
Dad is perplexing his mind over some scientific problem, I guess?
Mumsie, you have made me quite cheerful again with your funny questions
from Dad! I was getting emotional, I guess, and that don’t do. After
all, we shall be back in some weeks or so, and 1’11 perhaps have some
comic adventures to relate on the human plane. Mars people are very
human, Lance says, and make unaccountable fuss over their potty little
planet. ... I shall be always with you in spirit, for I love you all too
much to be ever away in mind. I want to say good-bye to Dad now, and
then to go off Straight away quickly.
“Good-bye, Dad ... all right, 1’11 go.
“Good-bye, my own darlings.”
PART II
June. 1944.
“O my Mumsie Darling, 1 am just overwhelmcd with joy at getting home
to you and Dad again! I quite enjoyed my adventure, but it was taking
me so far away from you and I am radiant with jov to be back again.
How can I begin to teil you about it all? There is too much for me to
know where to start, but I will try by beginning where we went off
together, Lance and I—olf the earth for the first time into the blue!
I feit like a diver taking his first plunge—it was so glorious that I forgot
to feel homesick or anything. Off we went on wings of aspiration, for
you have to feel an uplifting force before you can rise out of earth’s
sphere of influence, and that we did, for our longing to bring the needed
help was sufficient to speed us on our way. Then I saw for the first time
out of earth’s atmosphere. I feit I had been blind before, and never
shall I forget that wonderful feeling of clear vision over long vistas
of space. I just simply can’t find words, my poor powers of description
are too inadequate altogether.
“Lance was too grand for words, he understood all I was feeling and
let me gasp a bit without interference—but our mission came to my mind
and we sped on, till a beam from an angelic being feil across our path and
he turned to receive further instructions from our guardian. Only a
message of encouragement and strength, and then we arrived. I had not
expected it so soon and was so surprised, for I had not been aware of
our approach at all. Mars is an immense reservoir of colour, and Martians
are all advanced beings who give out these colourful thoughts which are
much needed by earth to help our struggle. I was collecting rays imme-
diately, for they intoxicated me with their bcauty and colours which I
had never seen even in my new life. I just went wild with delight,
and I think the Martians were all out to help, for I met no feeling of
Opposition at all. I can’t describe what I saw for lack of words, but we
travelled a iot and over mountain ranges and hills, always with Martians
who seemed very interested in our mission . . .
“I was afraid you would want a description of our tour, but I find it
so impossible because there are no words which will fit. You can’t
pick up the proportions of a Martian because he comes under a different
set of dimensions or whatever it is. He is not a three-dimension being
at all, but mostly a brain with much more powers of creation than earth
men and less body. They are in bodily form but very tenuous and more
consistent with our etheric life than the earth bodies. The landscape is
unearthly, too, but with other Hasses of life such as we get over here all
interpenetrating each other—they are quite different to our forms, though,
and much more colourful, in fact, colour is the most accentuated thing and
65
V
66 _ * Leitersfrom Christopher
all rays we want are there in superabundance. I was overwhelmed with
the beauty ofit. Nothing seemed to conflict there, all was perfect harmony,
and no darkness either, for they all give out such bright thoughts that
we were lighted up all the time.
“I wish I could teil you more clearly, but I shall think of little things
soon, I dare say, which may give you some idea of it. Coming away, I
was better able to appreciate the landscape, which was comfortingly
like earth in configuration as we got further off—only clothed with colours
which beat description and which you have, of course, no names for.
Carrying our precious bürden of ray-keys, we created quite a Sensation
in the camp when we returned all laden, and what a help these will be!
You see, we can use them endlessly, for the key produces the ray when
turned. I am caught in a tangle of words again which mean other than
what I want to say! . . .
Lance has gone to a higher plane over the collaboration with Mars
on the spirit side, I believe, but he wants to come one day soon to see
you, I know. I shall come on Sunday next time, as I need a bit of a rest
now . . . Yes, better stop now. Teil Dad good-night and give him mv
endless love. Chris.”
]une lith.
“I came a while ago but you were occupied with other things and
I couldn’t get a look in! My method is unavailing if your mind is very
full, but usually you respond at once to a gentle tap on your brain cells.
Now, Mumsie, for a good graohic description of my travels, to please
Dad!
“Cumulus clouds over here—nothing like that on Mars—very clear
rarefied atmospherc, great mountains and clear rivers, but very little water
and no seas as far as I saw. Mind over matter has reached marvellous
powers—all Vegetation is cultivated for beauty, not food. No forms I
could draw would give any real idea of it, for it is different altogether from
any earthly ideas . . . Mind features in the plant world more than on
earth, and they hardly differ from animal life—in fact, I hardly know
whether to call it Vegetation except that they grow from the soil. Even
that was not as our plants grow, with roots, they just seemed to remain
static and I suppose sucked some sort of nutriment from the ground.
Colour was the beauty there, always colour of so many kinds that I got
bewildered by its variety. New colours surrounded me and I couldn’t
take them all in, it was all so strangely wonderful. I am just beginning
to revel in it in retrospect, I was too bewildered when actually seeing it.
“The Martians have buildings, too, but made of a clear substance like
our glass, only not so brittle, I think, and these buildings were only used
as laboratories of some kind for some sort of Chemical experimenting
which seemed to occupy a great many of them. I couldn’t make out how
Martians lived in a bodily way at all, for they were in bodies of a sort
but more akin to our etheric bodies and not earthly like our human
bodies. I don’t think they need food and drink or even air to breathe,
though they have a tenuous atmospherc much clearer than earth. Their
mental processes are tremendous, like giant upheavals of the atmospherc
in the shape of pyramids of colour with marvellous meaning and Creative
) ^7
Lettersfrom Christopher
effect. Camel-coloured objects abounded of which I couldn’t find the
meaning, and Lance couldn’t teil me either. . . . Do realise that I simply
can’t draw anything Martian in two dimensions on a bit of paper—it has
at least four dimensions, if not more, and you simply can’t grasp the
idea at all. These camel-coloured objects seemed to be a manufacturc of
Martian minds, but for what use I simply haven’t the foggiest. . . .
The ‘plants’, if such they were, covered the ground in most places, and
seemed to have a mental life of their own, not so high as the Martians,
who are on a level with man after death, but akin to our minds more
than to our vcgetable world. I was not able to make out their thoughts,
because all ideas on that planet are totally distinct from ideas here, and
only after a much more lengthy stay could one hope to grasp their mean­
ing. All seemed harmonious and friendly to us, though, and I feit sure
we were welcöme and interesting to them. . . . Yes, I think they under-
stood us better than I, at any rate, understood them. Lance knew more
than I did, of course, but he finds them a bit difficult to understand even
now. . . . O yes, there was a grand mixture of creatures corresponding
to our animal life, but again I can’t attempt to draw or describe them. . . .
These were gallumphing about all over the place, making hay among the
vegetative creatures which didn’t seem to mind a bit. I can’t think how
they live, for I never saw one cat or drink or anything. They must have
some other form of subsistence altogether. I saw grand thoughts pro-
ceeding from some of these, though on a lower plane than the Martians,
but still well above the capabilities of our animal life. . . . No, Mumsie,
1’11 not attempt to draw a Martian, for I feel that it would be almost
profane after their goodness to us, for we owe to them the success of
our journey, and I can’t simply attempt to describe them. You couldn’t
understand anything I might try to say. ... I am happy above all to be
back again, though I must say I enjoyed it more than I could have
imagined before. Now 1’11 stop and teil you some more another time.
Goodbye, darling, going now. Your loving Chris.”
June 2 ist.
“Can you give me a few minutes now? I am so glad to be able to
teil you that we are promoted as a result of our journey. Lance is
Celestial Light-bearer, and I am lance-corporal of ray-light. . . . No,
of course you can’t understand, but it means promotion for both and we
are very elated over the success of it all. Now I must be off again to
my work. So long. Love to Dad, and do teil him, won’t you?”
July znd, 1944. Lancelot.
“Mum Darling, I have got so much to teil you that I hardly know
where to start! I don’t know how much Chris said, but he was grand
and full of excitemcnt at going outside earth for the first time. It was
so long ago I did it that I can’t remember how it feit, but I wasn’t as
surprised as Kitopher, I think. Hc caught in his mental breath with
wonder, so I had to stop a bit to let him grow used to it. He gave out
such gasps of wonder that I was quite overcome by it and feit I hadn’t
realised before how great it all is. I am so used to it now, you see.
Many things were old to me becos I’ve been there often now, but I
think I never tried to describe it to you before? So 1’11 have a go at it.
Leitersfrom Christopher
68 (
Mars is coiour storage planet, and the Martians give out fans of colour
in their thought-forms, so that was what we were after becos they help
Kitopher’s work on earth. I couldn’t teil you much about their life
becos it is so different to your ideas, but they are limited to their own
planet and have no further outlook, though very high spirituallv
compared to our earth life.
(Ilare they no life beyond their bodily one?)
“No, they are a race of colour-formers and that only, without a
further development elsewhere such as we have. Sorry, Mum, I can’t
draw them, it’s too complicated, but they are verv beautiful in shape,
only so different to your ideas that it won’r go on to paper. . . . \X’e
went all over the place to find colour-keys, and the Martians helped bv
mind waves of impulse to help us. Some magnificent results may come
from this expedition, and I was to teil you that Chris is working in new
wavs, and will be here in a short time now to teil you about it. . . .
“Now may I teil you a thing of Mars which you can understand, and
that is their colour experimental factories, which are all made of crystal
clear as glass only not so breakable. They störe keys of new colours in
these, and cxperiment in blending them for purposes of life renewing.
They live bv the life-giving rays, you see, so they renew their vitality
in blending new colours which give out these rays. That takes the place
of your food and drink and air. All life on Mars is drawn from cosmic
rays being blcnded with planetary emanations and inhaled by the living
forms there.
“I must go now, and just want to send a Handshake to dad like old
times. He will find me just his Boy when he comes here, the same as
ever, but lots Bigger in Mind, of course.
“darling mum, Goodbye, see you soon again. Lancelot.”
]nly znd. (Later), Christopher.
“Mumsie, I couldn t come sooner because I had such a handful of
ray-keys to distribute to all our centres, and was actively employed these
two weeks past. Now I want to make up for lost time and go ahead
with our talks on Mars and such things. Now when I think of Mars
I seem to see it all more clearly than at first and have a grand idea of the
general outset of things. I remember seeing great volcanoes over there
which shot violent explosions all over the place, and much of the
Vegetation seemed to grow round these, as if explosions were good for
it! zX long fringe of mountains bounded the horizon when we were on
the surface, and manv volcanoes among them. Much mind activity
took place after each explosion, and they seemed to revivify the Vegetation
in a most stränge way. Another thing I saw was very surprising and
I can’t make it out at all. The Martians never slept or rested at all, so
far as I could see, nor did their animal and plant world. They had
etheric vision so of course no darkness, but they seemed to need no
rest of any sort at all. My mind was set on securing our rays and con-
fused with the strangeness of it all, so I could not take in much; however,
I hope I have given you some ideas which may set earth people thinking.
Lance could teil you more as he has been there many times.”
(Lancelot was with me this morningl)
(
Leitersfrom Christopher 69
“O, so you have heard from him?”
R. He explained what the crystal laboratories are for.
“O—he never told me that, but there was so much to do and see.
Colour is their main objective, and they are the source of a lot of the
rays we use on earth. . . . One more thing I can see in my mind to teil
you. Quantities of coloured bars of sand, or what appeared sand, lying
in regulär arrangement like chess-board squares, only vividlv coloured.
All round them the Martians placed special animals, to guard them, I
thought, but I can’t think why. There is sure to be a good reason,
because their thought-processes are so great. . . . Talk ayain later.”
Later.
“Came over on your wish-wave, Mumsie, just in time for Silent
Minute......... ”
R. Some months ago you told us you were a lieutenant of light-rays,
and a week cego you said you nere “promoted” to be a lance-corporal ;
esn’t a lieutenant higher than a lance-corporal?
“O, I see—I am lieutenant of light-rays now, but I got promotion
for our journey to lance-corporal of ray-light, which is a bigger thing
than light-rays, so I am both now. I can’t explain in human words
really, but you see ray-light has certain fundamental sources which pro-
duce the ray—they are known as keys from their porrability because
one can transfer them from place to place, and they produce their special
rav whenever needed by getting a light-ray and bending it over them
in a special way. You see how difficult it is to explain in words, but it is
all quite plain over here. I use them for my fear work incessantly, and
my helpers get accustomed to their own particular ray-key and soon
are quite good at it. Now may we have another Mars talk? I have
thought of more to say. Goblins abound over there in similar forms to
their plant life. I saw so many that I soon forgot to notice them, for they
were all over the plants like little insects. They were all in rounded
shapes like the plants, and I only call them goblins because they had the
same relation to the plant world that ours seem to have here. I also saw
coloured winged things flying, but not like our insects, they are more
like balloons with wings and some sort of gassy inside. ... I can’t
come every week now, you see, there’s more work than ever just now,
and we are hard at it, and I am so keen to help now I feel I am getting
good at it. I was off on a case just now between our talks, but ieft him
with my second-in-command—however, I must get back soon.”
Dad sends his love. “Teil Dad my best thanks and love too. No
more now, Mumsie, I must away.
“Your loving son, Chris.”
July iGth.
“O, Mumsie, I thought you had forgotten me altogether. Never mind,
here goes for a good talk while we may. Can we begin by a bit of my
work I am now doing? Don’t know if I can get it into your mind, but
1’11 try. First a luminous beit of colour of unearthly kinds all blcndcd
into one which glows with radiance. I carry my squad into this with
keys of the rays we need and all are infused with power from the ray-
light source in the beit. They then turn their keys in harmony towards
E
)
70 lattersfrom Christopher
the man whose fear is our objective, and he feels an uplifting force
which holds him clear of his body till fear is past. I claim no credit for
this way of healing, which is matter of course to higher workers but
not imagined by me till I got promotion. I feel very elated to have got
on so fast and arrived at this stage so soon. . . . Now for a bit about
Mars. My first impressions I can now see were too.amplified and diffuse,
and I want if possible to give you a clear-cut picture of some of it.
Maitian contours of land and hills are very earth-like but coloured
differently—colours of all sorts, widcly differing from earth. Valleys
full of life of all sorts and kinds and bare hill-tops, except volcanoes
where life seems to receive Stimulus. Quantities of camel-coloured . . .
(Interruption) . . . Lance has explained the camel-coloured objects as
being receptive of the planetary emanations which feed the life on Mars.
These are combined with interstellar rays in some Chemical process
which the Martians carry on in their laboratories, and the camel-coloured
things provide one of the important ingredients . . .
“Mumsie, you get quite transparent sometimes when you think out
like that. ...
“I don’t think you ought to talk any more about Mars to-night, you
seem so dim and tired out. . . .
“1’11 just hug you and send love to my Dad, and go.”
July zyd. R. Is Christopher here?
“Your idea is correct. I am at your feet and Service! Now, Mumsie,
shall we make good our deficiencies in a real Mars talk? I call much
more to mind than before, and can teil you of many amusing happenings.
Quite a bit was approachable in human language, so here goes. . . .
Cubical—that’s as near as I can get to it—shapes of marvellous colours
were over the laboratories, and one of the Martians overthrew one
of these in Order to produce our ray-key of that sort, and on his Inter­
pretation our amazernent must have seemed funny, for he gave spasms
of bright colours like those produced by merry thoughts of earth people.
He was obviously enjoying our surprise, because he had made such a
colour commotion in the whole laboratory by upsetting this top thing.
I can also remember a sight which you would have enjoyed on the
mountains of orange and gold strata in the rocks giving off emanations
which the plant forms were sucking in, I think; anyhow, they looked
larger there than elsewhere, and happier. Many varieties of plants were
guarded by animals, and I ’don’t know why, because all seemed
harmonious and no need for guards for anything. . . .
“To return to Mars and my journey, we were met on landing by a
Martian with dairvoyance—at least, he was more advanced etherically
than the others, although they could all see us. He enquired as to the
object of our visit, having ability to read our thoughts, which were
unintelligible to most of them. He gave us great welcome when he
heard what a state earth had got into, and put all their resources of
ray-power at our disposal in the kindest way, and then went with us as
interpreter. Many Martians have beginnings of knowledge of the way
we think, which I suppose would puzzle the average earth man, let
alone his hoping to understand their thoughtsl They are far more
)
Lettenfrom Christopher 71
evolved than earth, and link up with high spirits of ours who have long
left their bodies. I feit so small and ill-equipped to be asking them for
help, but Lance was on an equality with them and knows some of them
personally quite well. He is so sweet to me, and never makes me feel
any distance between us, just as if we were brothers together on earth.
I can't teil you how I love him, he is so good to me. ... I am very
hard at work just now, and there is hard fighting still to come, but not
much more bombing of England, I hear. The Germans are making
their last effort now to break England’s spirit and have already failed.
I imagine they’ll be making more of these bluebottles than they will
send over, as we are to get their French coast soon and stop it that way,
I am told. Can’t say more, as I am no prophet yet! By the way, you
remember I saw some preparations on the coast months past? I thought
then that they were gasometers, but I think they were intended for these
bombs, but we did them in so thoroughly that they had to concoct less
prominent ones, and went to ground in burrows instead. They were to
have been launched from a height on thosc towers, and would have
carried far into England then, but our bombers dished that little picnic.
“I am going over to France to have a look at our boys where my
work is now, so I must stop and come again soon. Expect me before
Sunday next probably, as I am working so near and in touch with
England now the bombs are flying. Give Dad my love and duty as
always. . . . Yes, 1’11 be here for Dave’s homc-coming. So long. Chris.
{Note.—For previous references to enemy preparations on French coast,
see letters ofDec. i$th and zGtb, 1945. The ideas as to pnrpose of what
he saw are Christopher s own andpossibly not accuratel)
July zltb.
“Cheerio, Dave, old thing. I love to feel you’re backat home in spite
of ‘doodles’ and all. Many happy returns to Cox’s Mill, I wish you.
“I am after catching up with these fly-bugs and helping pilots chase
them off you all, for I can’t see my family charrcd into cindcrs with
their nasty tails.
“Give me a bit of time and 1’11 teil you something of my present work.
All my helpers in my squad are graduates of our ray-light College. I give
them commands as to where to look for rays needed for any special
case, and they bring the ray’along on a trailer. I can’t describe it in your
words, but it trails the ray in a definite direction so as to bend it towards
my case. It is all worked by thought transference from me, and they have
to be quick at picking up my directing thought which I have to send out
with force when I have reached the patient. Now, imagine I am by a
case and sending out thought directions to my squad. Pretty soon they
bcgin to come in by ones and twos, trailing their special rays, and I gather
them into the right Order to suit the case of fear. Green blends are best for
my work, but sometimes a patient has a dominant fear which needs a
glowing colour of reassurance, and crimson is a help, but others you
have no name for are better than any earth colours. A blend is made to
suit the case, and they stand round holding their rays in the right Order.
The patient receives uplifting thoughts, and we apply our rays as his
mind rises in response, giving each a few seconds to operate and benefit
E 3
i
I
72 Leitersfrom Christopher
the etheric force within him, which glows out again as it should. Fear
shrivels the etheric, and we sustain force against the fear pressure, holding
it away from his mind till it recovers. I find it all so absorbing that I
seldom leave my work now except to come to you, so have no stories to
teil of travels and such. All mv life is fulfilled in this work I now do, and
I can’t teil you how happy I am in it. Many things combine to give me
power. Your etheric influence is great and I use it often. Dad gives me
courage and fine etheric rays of golden love of beauty. I can tap many
minds through your wotk of opening them to other life ideas, and all the
time I am in contact with a high source of directive force which Controls
and inspb'es me alwavs. 1 am in Heaven while I work and help the men
who need it so sorely. Teil Dad I am so happy, he will love to know.
I am coming more often now Dave is home, and will teil him some
marvels of Mars in my next talk—this has been all of my work because I
was so full of it, but I will stop now, as you are tired, and will come at this
time in two days—Sunday, I think? Give Dave a handshake from his
old brother and wärmest wishes.
“Au revoir. Chris."
July ioth.
“Came early to be in time for your plans for the day, but I see Dad and
Dave have gone off already, to church, I gather? Well, we’ll have some-
thing to show ’em when they get back!
“Come over to Mars with me for a stroll, Mumsie, you can do so with­
out any effort on my will-propulsion! Climb up one of the great Mars
mountains, all glowing in colours unknown to your sight but now well
known to me. I can’t make you understand them any more than you
could project your colours into the mind of one born blind. They must
be seen to be believed. Well, here we are on the top of a magnificent
mountain, with queer plants or animals or whatever they may be all
sending thoughts off in abundance, though restricted to their own type
of understanding. Clear as crystal is the air, not foggy like earth atmo­
sphere, and all is harmony, no resounding discords of hatred or fear or
self-aggrandisement as on earth—yet for that reason, so I am told, the
spirits of Martians never evolve beyond their planet. Discord and dis-
harmony give the capacity for development beyond earth, stränge
though it may seem to you. I want you to believe me when I say that I
feel a greater being than those on Mars who are already beyond me
in spiritual attainment, because I am a man and partake of earth’s pain
and turmoil. We stand on our mountain and gaze at the stränge landscape
of brilliantly coloured being> and gigantic craters and hills. Suddenly an
explosion takes place through a near crater of gases from the planet’s
interior. All the living beings rush towards it, the static plant-like ones
bend towards it to inhale these gases, which constitute their means of
life. A Martian appears, clothed in various radiant sheaths of thought-
forms, and . . . Sorry, Mumsie, we were interrupted by an external
trouble which I have now dispersed.
“He carrics a camel-coloured thing such as I have described elsewhere,
and proceeds to fill up this with the gases and project it on will-power to
his laboratory, where it seems they collect cosmic rays to combine with
'Leitersfrom Christopher -jy
these gases. All is calm once more, only invtgorated animals career in
ecstatic leaps all over the plants, and these send out clearer and more
beautiful thought-forms.
“I have built up this picture from confused memories by piecing
together what I did not clearly understand at the time, and I see how
things fit to make a coherent whole much better now in tetrospect. Lance
has told me a lot about how they live which he hadn’t time for then, we
were too busy. You are too different in mind to take in more about it
than I have now told, but I shall perhaps be able to think out another
picture of a different bit of it, such as their rivers which are very small and
contain scarcely a trickle of water, but this is conserved to the last drop and
conveyed in tubes to their laboratories. 1 don’t know for what purpose,
as they live on gases entirely and need no drink. A Mars river wells up
from a deep spring directly into a tube made of their clear crystal
material which conveys it Straight into a laboratory, so there is no river
fiora like ours. In fact, nothing is like ours, but all as different as can be,
and I only use words with the proviso that they don’t really give a correct
idea of it at all. Shall we have another talk when you are free again?
And meantime I will stroll under the trees and enjoy my home.”
(Later : A Flying bomb was coming up and passed overhead.')
“You are anxious for me to give you another talk, and I am too, but
we are not so near . . . All well now, Mumsie, I thought better wait
till the noise had passed—you contact earth noises in your ethcric at
present, and that makes you very sensitive to vibrations of sound.
“Lend me your hand for another expedition and we’ll go after the
ray-keys on Mars this time. Reminds me of hunting our rare plantsl
But these were far more use to me, and Lance and I had a great time
getting them. The leading Martian I told you of was intelligent enough
to see our thought-forms and Interpret them, and getting a line on our
requirements he gingered up his compatriots to supply our needs and they
hustled round no end. Umpteen camel-bags of all sorts were inspected
and laboratories opened up and the ray-keys produced from their private
Stores. I can’t describe what they look like, for you haven’t any idea of
the conditions under which we work, but their quality on Mars is far
superior to anything in the earth sphere, and some even make their
particular ray simultaneously with another ray and act as duplicators
when necessary. My Business was only with fear controlling rays, so our
trouble was to sort these out from among so many others, such as
vitalising and energising and many other sorts. You can have no con-
ception of the beauty of the Martian rays, all glowing with unknown
new colours ofinfinite variety. I was so bewildered that I simply couldn’t
cope at first, but Lance knew all about it so he carried on while I collected
my scattered wits. Nearly all the rays I wanted were utilised in their
laboratories, so it was very good of them to let us pinch so many of their
keys. I gather they have a means of producing new ray-keys there which
makes them endless or eise they couldn’t carry on. . . . We grasp ray-keys
on our carriers of mental construction—and you can’t grasp that! But
I can teil you it is a very real way ofcarrying a quite real thing, much more
real than your flimsy iron and Steel constructions!
Lettersfrom Christopher
)
74
“We travelled a bit to laboratories in various parts of the country
and our Martian guide was all hospitality and arranged it all for our
convenience.
“You are tired, Mumsie, and I think you have taken enough, so 1’11
just be off after Dave and say nightie-night to Dad and Mumsie. Your
Chris.”
Anguss 6th.
“I want to teil you a few more details of my trip to Mars, quite a
tourist I am now—Any more for Mars? All on board, please—all aboard
for Mars—and Jupiter next time, perhaps? Now for a picture of it,
inside a laboratorv this time. You must understand that a lot of what I
now teil you has been supplementcd by talks with Lance, who says I am
beiter than he at earth words because he left his body too soon to learn
’em, so he gives me Information and I am to pass it on. I was too confused
when there to absorb the meanings of what I saw.
Inside a laboratory then. Opening overhcad, clear glass walls of
complete transparency very thick, but there are more sides toit than you
know of, and a bit of a geometrical problem is presenred, as I can’t put
its geometry into human terms. However, we have before us a glass
tube or cvlinder into which emanations from eruptions are poured.
Surrounding it are focus points of light rays from cosmic sources, and in
due succession these are switched on by some mental process to amalga-
mate with the emanations. Now comes an intricate process I can’t
properly describe, of a sort of melting down and amalgamating with rays
from mental sources to enable absorption by the Mars forms of life. This
takes place on a key point in the centre of the lab. where many Martian
thought-rays are focused from those needing the absorptive process.
That means, I gather, that if you want, so to speak, ‘food’, you focus
your mind on this key-point and thereby receive it. The plant life gathers
its own in some other way by absorbing rays direct, but animals also
receive food from these laboratories. There is nothing of life feeding
on life as we do here, and I failed to understand how they carry on without
getting overcrowded, as I suppose they have some means of increasing
Hfe. Now I think of it I didn’t see any younger or older than others,
though some were more advanced and better equipped mentally. I just
don’t know about any reproduction of species, but I don’t think there
can be anything of that soru
Come a little further on the country side of Mars—for the laboratories
were grouped into sort of towns. I want to show you a fountain I have
just remembered—more like a N.Z. geyser—which gave out violent jets
of colourcd liquid of some sort. Not water, I am sure, but I don’t know
its Chemical make-up. It was away from much life and they seem to
shun it as though not beneficent like all eise there. I thought it beautiful,
as it had such marvellous colours, but they were different to those of the
rays they chiefly use. 1 saw a Martian go to it for one of our ray-keys,
though, and he seemed very careful not to approach it without a barrage
of health-giving thoughts. . . .
“Another thing of interest was a group of yellow stones or rocks
which were concerned with a form of chemistry other than that in the
Leitersfrom Christopher 75
)
labs., I think. The Martians got something off these by collecting their
emanations and combining them with those from eruptions, doing this
against the rocks with glass cylinders for the purpose. I didn’t properly
take it all in, of course, but gather it is for some such purpose. You are
busy now, I guess? So we’ll talk later on, perhaps. O.K., Mumsie.”
(Later.)
“Are you game for a detailed description of my work? Very well—I
am opening out new methods of subjugating fear, and they are pleased
with my progress up above. I have trained my squad to produce the
colours required in such rapid succession that they blend into a harmony
of a beit of ray-light round any patient, who feels the effect in a wholly
upiifted mind which harmonises his etheric more rapidly- than rays applied
singly. Now I have started a band of workers to give after care, which is
needed in these days ot recurring terrors. How often a brave man has
glowed out in response to our treatment! And the timid ones have gained
self-respect they had nearly lost. I am working in the minds of French
people a good deal now, as they are in need of all the help they can get.
I also come over here more often, to kecp an eye on the fly-fighters and
give them a push to guard my family! I can leave my squad in Charge now
since they are well trained, and my second-in-command carries on. My
chum Ian—yes, he wants to write if you’ll allow.”
(Ian writing.)
“You are good to let me try again. Your hand comes easiet to-day.
May I teil you about my work too? I am only a ray-bringer still, slowet
than Chris, but have got on in power-giving and can sometimes help him.
out with a case requiring forceful treatment. I go over unnecessary
paper in my scrawl, I see, not small writing like Chris. Can I come
again?”
Christopher.
“Ian finds it exhausting because he can’t tap your mind to the extent
I can yet. We are wanted back at our posts so must go. So long,
Mumsie.”
.August $rd, 1944. Christopher.
“O Mumsie, I am so happy to be with you all again and chatting
to you on my birthday as if we were all boys again. Lance is coming and
wants to have a talk now.”
Lancelot.
“Hello, Mum, here I am on Chris’s birthday—love to all my family.
I want you to know about my new work of growth-maintenance, it is
ever so important. ... I get away from earth conditions and test spiritual
power accumulating in various stations on earth by passing crown rays
through them which give off a sensitive light and show me how much
power is stored there for use for spiritual growth of mankind. It gains
in strength every time I do this and the power-station is giving out help
for good in man’s struggle all the time. I love to help in the maintenance
of power for good, because it is so important a help for the war and all
man is doing now. You will see a great development in outlook of people
soon, as we get the growth centres working full swing.
76 Leitersfrom Christopher
“I am so happy to be Home again and with Chris on his birthday,
and love to write for Mum like old times. . . .
Now I want to speak to my Father and give him all sorts of love.
I used to want him to be proud of me as his son and I do still, so teil
him to give me his blessing and I shall go happy to my work of bringing
new light to mankind. I am one of the light bearers, you see, and have
great powers for helping others now. I am still ever your LOVING
Lancelot.”
Christopher.
“Lance has finished, so 1’11 have my little say, to give you my birthday
greeting and teil you how happy I am now. All my life I wanted to be
able to accomplish something to express my inner seif, and now I am
given power to do that more than I knew could be possible. I am not
selflsh any more because I know now how to fulfil my desire to be
expressed. Not by wanting acclamation on my own account, but by
giving such Service to others that I earn their gratitude and thanks. All
my efforts are successful now because I work in power not my own and
for a purpose not my own. Yes, Mumsie darling, I am happier than I
ever thought could be. No more discouragcment and failure but a Strong
ccrtainty of success in all I undertake because it is done in the Power of
God and for His sake. I am nineteen years old to-day, and but for death
would be barely starting my life’s work, but in this infinitely füllet life
I am doing work such as no human man could grasp or undertake—
grand work, great work for men and for God. I want to teil my Dad
that I am fulfilling all he can have hoped of me, and look forward to his
praise when he comes here and sees it in reality. All I wish is for him to
know how I love him and want his praise and to earn a ‘well done ’ from
my Dad.
“You are telling Dave about my work, I hope? I would like him to
feel I am with him often and enjoying His hols. so much too. He is often
aware of me but does not like to say so in case it should be untrue and
only Imagination. Teil him I know when he feels I am with him and I
appreciate his reticence about it—much better say nothing till he is more
sure of me, but I hope he will realise my comings and goings more
clearly soon. .. .
“Can I teil you a few anecdotes of the fairy life here? A lot of fairies
of the lighter sort—little shining ones—were taking torches up a tree,
they looked so tiny in the great big tree like little dewdrops in the sun
making sparkies. They moved spirally up the trank in a long chain of
lights till they reached a hole into which they all went to light it up.
I can’t fathom their ideas, if they have any, but they are so pretty and
seem to love lighting up the trees. Then I saw another sort of fairy, the
lovely, dainty, flower fairies on tiny heather bells. They held a sort of
council on the stalks, sitting at the bases of the leaves and gesticulating
to each other. Can’t dcscribe them—very like their flower and same
colour usually, but quite collectively different. I mean each flower has
a completely different kind of fairy, not only colour but form. Colour of
flower, form different every time, always a separate life to the plant,
though, and with more Intelligence apparently of a low Order. Ö no,
'Leitersfrom Christopher 77
not like tiny people, some ot the gnomcs are, but not fairies, so far as
I have seen. I am longing to show you, when you get on clairvoyantly
a bit. O, you will, when you get your cthcric eyes open.
“Shall we stop talking, and 1'11 show Lance some of my special old
haunts here, such as the old beech and the cow lodge where we got
messed up?
“So long, Mumsie, and love to family all. Chris.”
August lytb. (Convcrsation between Christopher and David. David
askedquestions aloud and watched R.’.rpencilfor Christopher's answers.)
“David wants to know how much we over here see the electric currents
before they make contact. We can’t see ordinary electricity in batteries,
but we see waves of all sorts making contacts possible. Electric waves
are visible as pervading all things, and electric dynamos are just contact
vehicles. I mean electricity is contacted by them for human purposes,
but they only give off what was always there visibly to us. Your mind
isn’t accustomed to the terms I want to use, Mumsie, so it’s a bit difficult
to get it through, but Dave will understand if you teil him that generating
a current of electricity doesn’t make any difference in my life, as the
electric waves pervade everything and are fully visible to me. The
dynamo just makes the electric waves available in your life, that’s all.
I don’t think he can establish contact with us that way, more likely by
means of radio-magnetic waves. Magnetism is nearcr the approach by
means of the human ectoplasm, which seems the only available means
so far. I wish he could produce a radio communigraph, to use a word
coined recently by a friend of Lord Dowding’s I heard him talk about.
Their Instrument is not much good, I hear, from our side, but there is
an opening on more magnetic lines for some such thing. We’ll use it all
right if he produces it some day, teil him. I use magnetic radio-waves
on telepathic message work, but have to have a responding instrument
such as a brain at the reception end. Given a receptive instrument which
could record these, and we might get messages through by mechanical
means which would convince even scientistsl
“I must go now. Will you let me talk this evening again after 9 p.m.
chimes?”
9.10 p.m. (David holding a magneto.)
“Came a bit late, I’m afraid. Now, David, what is your contraption?”
(D. “Doyou see any effect when I use this?”')
“Yes, you make waves in the magnetic field or what you call, round
your bit of ether. Go on, this interests me—go on----- ”
(D. “Do you see heat?”)
“What? Yes, I get you. Heat is not feit by our bodies, but seen by
our organs of vision as radiation. Yes, I think I can see all these wave
propulsions of heat, magnetism, and so on, as waves of radiation. Yes,
get a magnet if you can.” (D. went to fetch one.)
(Note.—Dad was playing Beethoven piano sonatas.)
“You are good to let us bother you with all this, Mumsie. I can see
Dad’s music in your lovely mind making curves of colour in wonderful
rhythm. You are so much in tune with him and music.
Lettenfrom Christopher
)
7«
David came back with a large and a small magnet.
“Yes, I can see a blue light round the little one, and a dim----- I can’t
give vou the colour, you haven’t a word for it—round the other-—quite
a different colour.
“Heat and light? Well, there arc so many different Idnds of heat and
light, but all sorts of colours get mixed up in both. They are quite a
different ränge of colours, thcugh. Heat colours are dceper and stronger,
but not so bright and radiant. Light has evcry sort of colour in it, and
we have so manv different kinds of light here. Many more than you.
Cosmic light is quite above your ränge of knovvn rays, and most of our
colours are in that, not the same as colours in your light. I’m talking of
cosmic light, not cosmic rays, you know. I am not an expert and don’t
understand either, but I can see and hear the cosmic vibrations which
are bevond your ränge altogether.”
(D. “How does magnetism differ?”)
“Magnetism differs in degree of wavelength, but not so different as
wireless is from light, I think, but I don’t know, except that I see their
colours differently, so I know they must have different vibrations.”
(R. “Are you uncertain?”)
“Yes, I was, but I think I grasp what Dave is aiming at. My training
has been so intensively on fear waves that I have not grasped much of
the non-human vibrations. Human vibrations are siower than light,
but etheric bodies vibrate much faster than earth bodies.”
(D. “At what rate doesyours vibrate?”)
“I should say it vibrates at approximately the heat rate which is siower
than light, I think. I am not sure about these things because I see them
without calculation and never think of comparing spceds. I am keen
to teil Dave all he wants, but am such an ignoramus on these points.
“Human emotional vibrations are slow compared to electrically
stimulated waves and could easily affect an Instrument if one could
be made with that rate of Vibration. I am not scientist enough to say
what that rate is, but it is a siower rate than light, I can see. Can we
absorb our own emotions?”—(Pause)—“Sorry, Mumsie, I was called
off on an emergency case. Now, Dave, carry on with your queries.
Are my vibrations carrying over to you now? I am vibrating energetically
on purpose to see if vou can feel it. You aren’t developed in your etheric
body yet, but it will grow like Topsy, as they say—yes----- Not our
Topsy, stupid. (Topsy was the boys' pony.) Now. can you test my
vibratory powers with your magneto? See if it opens more juice.”
(David produced sparks from the magneto, saying, “ Now vibrate,” when
he did so.)
“No, I can’t affect it enough for your dense vision, I’m afraid. I
think I could if I vibrate above my normal rate.”
(D. “Now vibrate more.”)
“I’m having a hectic time trying to get a pitch of Vibration which will
satisfy Davel Dave, old boy, it’s a bit tiring for you. Let’s have another
go at it when I next come. I think your powers of sensing vibrations
don’t come on to the same plane as mine, for I thought I was affecting
your magneto quite a lot, but it seemed all the same to you. I must go.
Old boy, we’ll try again. Goodnight.”
)
Dettersfrom Christopher 79
August ~i~th, 1944. (Sitting on the terrate »atching the sivallowsi)
“Can we havtf a minute to join the birds in the air? Yes, I’m with you,
darling. \ou are not up to Mars, but can go a bit in the air with me,
I came to-night for a bit öf refreshmcnt after a strenuous fight.
“Swallows are feeling their wings for a long flight. and have happy
thoughts of exciting things ahead. They cannot understand why they
go, but are glad to be away and have lovely rejoicing in their power of
flight. Come with me up there, Mumsie. I can support your etheric
on will-powcr.” (A minute or two mentally among swallows.)
(David tarne to ask questions.)
“Yes, of course 1’11 do my best, but I’m better at etheric than clectric
power.”
(D. asked a question.)
“O dear, have I made a muddle of it? I’m trving, too. Magnetism is
slower Vibration than heat, I think, because magnetism makes a field of
force.”—(D. interrupted.)—“You be quiet, Dave, and let me get out
rr.y side of it! Magnetism makes a field of force, and heat goes oft’ in
waves which produce further currents beyond their immediate source.
I see them as vibrations of light of a deeper colour than your visible
light-rays, and magnetism has very dark rays of vibrations.”
(D. “The slower, the deeper in colour?”)
“Yes, I think so, that sccms to be the rule. I can talk better on human
waves than the others, but I gather you want what I meant by elcctrically
stimulated wat es? I meant all waves of clectric origin, such as non-
human waves mostly are.”
(D. “Wireless?”)
“Yes, I suppose I. meant wireless because wireless is non-human. I
am not sure that human waves are as slow as wireless waves, though. Now
let’s think it out—you confuse me by asking about things I haven’t
thought out at all. We are tapping human vibrations all the time here,
but not these others which just secm like nice colours to us. Your
vibrations respond to other waves which excite your mind and quicken
or get slower as your emotions dictate, so I can’t teil you where human
vibrations come in the scale of wavelengths. I think we have greater
ränge than you think.”
(D. “Could we change our rate of Vibration? ”)
“No, because you tunction through a limiting vehicle, the body and
brain, which bottles up your powers of vibrating. I think man can
function on any wave-lcngth he pleases once he is free of his body—but
he can’t make you denser people respond. I can generate waves but not
perceptible to your senses, you need such a coarse contraption that I
can’t get down to that pitch. Only people like Mumsie come a bit out
of their coarse sense, and feel our signals. But don’t be disheartened, we’U
get a sort of----- (D. interrupted?) You get signals from us, some of
your radio have already, but they get frightened and think they are
getting blingey or something.” ((Juestion from D.) “No, because it isn’t
a fine enough----- 1 think it has only been done on a---- -What I mean
is one of the big sets for listening to radio from America and Australia.
Sets they use for trans-Atlantic broadcasts. 1 don’t know enough about
this, Dave. I think it’s a bit too much for you, Mumsie, to grapple
(
8o Leitersfrom Christopher
with words you don’t understand. Dave, old boy, I mean the short
wave sets, I think, but anyhow the messages got through from our
side came about in the trans-Atlantic messages and were mysteriously
baffling to the B.B.C. people, who just put them down to atmospheric
interferences or something.”
(D. “ Were they in English?'')
“Yes, they were, that’s why the B.B.C. were so puzzled, but they
didn’t like to say they couldn’t trace them to anv known source so left
them unexplained. I think we could tap your set if you got a very
powerful short wave one. Now I must go, fear I haven’t been much use
to you, Dave, but I never had a flair for that kind of thing and my work
is all on human vibrations now.” (D. questioni) “Yes, I think when you
are crving for instance, your emotional uprush is intensely fast and the
same if you are intensely happy.” (D. “ Then do both emotions look. the
same toyou?” Canyou teil the difference?”) “Don’t be silly, of course you
can, their colours are at----- Sadness is great waves of----- no good,
it’s a colour you can’t see—but duil. Happiness is shining like light.”
(£>. question.) “No, both can be fast or slow according to the intensity
with which they are generated.”
August zoth.
“Only a short talk to-day, I was afraid I should have to miss it
altogether. I am due back to a meeting of light-ray workers and mustn’t
miss it on any account. I thought you’d expect me so had to come to
explain, but will come for a nice long talk on a weekday, as I think you
are less tired by chores and I’m freer, too. Must look up light waves,
electric and so forth, for Dave’s Information as so far I have worked on
human vibrations alinost entirely and those waves which affect human
emotions such as fear. I am kcen to help on the scientific means of
communication all I can though, so 1’11 see if I can get a bit more
informed and give him a better idea of conditions our side.
“Communication is coming they say, definitely, but not for some time
probably, as so few people are yet ready for it. It is only safe for those
who are spiritually minded really, and so few yet are, owing to church
narrowness and other circumstances. Now I must go, my best beloved
Mother—see you later this week. Your Chris.”
August iyrd. (Ian M----- writing. R. hadjust heard a flying bomb crash,
and wondered “How much longer will this go on?”)
Ian.
“Only a week more and coast will be won. I came to find your son
Christopher, but he is at work. I am his chum Ian, and take a holiday
after much strenuous work. Must stop.”
Note.—August tyrd was Wednesday. Thefollowing Monday we first
heard that troops were being massedfor attack. on the Coastal flying bomb
sites, and by the Wednesday the greater part of the Normandy coast was
taken and the fly-homb sites which sent them over East Sussex were in
our hands.
September ind, 1944.
“Your many chores are done now, so I thought we might converse
just a bit. 1 am after getting a iine on the doodles and accompanying
Leitersfrom Christopher 81
our troops to their dens. Not launching sites but the storage places
behind. We are fairly on their tails now, and no time to bring them
forward to launch as we are too close for safety. Our Tommies are full
of the zest for victory and would be chasing too far but for discipline—
unwillingly obeying Orders to camp for the night, longing to be up and
at ’em again. The colours of hope are spreading far ahead of our advance
and many countries are awaking from a nightmare. I see battles ahead
in them too, but hope is glowing like a lamp in all. I am too hard at
work to study general reactions, but saw all this in a bird’s eye view of
Europe as I rose above into upper air for refreshment to-day.
“Can you believe in my new powers? I can hardlv realise I have grown
so great, for I see now over Europe as a small field of vision and at will
I see into another hemisphere. My own mother, I am still at heart the
son you love. I am surprised that you are so longing for me as I used
to be. I am nearer to you now and so much happier. I am much happier
because I am aware of my own smallness betöre, and so I can see how I
improve.
“I want to give a bit of time to spreading the work of my book as
soon as it gets printed, so get on with it Mumsie, for the war will soon
be over and we must get our joint work under way.”
September löth arid iGtb.
“Now, Mumsie, I am longing to teil you my adventures in a trip to
the Moon I have just come back from. Lance took me as he had business
there of some light-ray kind, and I am full of surprise at the ease with
which one can get there and back, just like a trip to Wales or something.
Moon-beams are very good for my work, so I was glad to see the source
of their healing properties, which lies in the etheric radiance of the moon;
not light you see but other unseen rays.”
“Zero temperature, so no life because nothing protects from sun’s
rays—no atmosphere at all. I am talking on the moon you see. Crimson
rocks of alabaster or some such thing, much deeper colour than any we
have here—many kinds of precious stones I should imagine, but being
in the rough I didn’t know enough to make them out. Mountain ranges
are very fine when seen close, and many columns of some stalactite
origin, or so I supposed. We searched everywhere for the special ray-
key I came for, and found several but they depend on the curvature of
the hills and are not easy to spot at first. I was thrilled at the strangeness
of a dead world with no life on it, and it gave a sense of loneliness I
have never feit before. I loved being there as an adventure, but should
not like to stay there long as one would begin to feel cut off from all one
loves. Magnetic forces are frequent, we came across a magnetic centre
ever)' Step it seemed, yet not powerful enough to make contact with earth
I imagine. Dave would enjoy that side of it, and would soon teil you all
about these. I came across some aquamarine I think, clear blue-green
stones, lovely colour. Clear golden brown rock, colour of umher, was
quite frequent and unrelated to earth, I fancy? At least I can’t place it.
Most rocks were similar to earth, but more coloured I think because not
overgrown with vegetable matter.
“I am too far advanced now for talk about gnomes and fairies, but
can see them if I come back in earth-form again. I have left my earth-form
Lettersfrom Christopher
)
8z
now, and only fetch it up with an effort of will if I need it. I can’t
describe my present appearance which is conditioned by my thoughts
and will, but I can always appear earthly again if I want too. I only need
it for my work if none of my junior helpers are handy, when I appear to
one of my cases in human form to re-assure them. Otherwise I am free
of all air and space, and glory in my freedom.
"I am not coming so offen now in this wav because I have higher
work and can’t come to your sphere so often, but that means that I am
still with vou and working for your work, only not in so human a männer
as this. Lance and I are hand in hand now, and will talk from time to
time but not so often as before. I am going to be with Dave a bit now,
so bve bve Mumsie darling. Chris.”
September lytb.
“Now, mv Mumsie, I want to take you with me to a camp of rav-
workers in the Swiss border mountains. \\”e get special conditions in
Swiss air for our many colour rays to clear the patients minds. Come up
the mountain—I don’t know its name—and on to a fine glacier where
we placed our camp for the penetration of rays into our central column.
I have a squad of colour experts at work there to combine with earth
radiation the mcon ray-keys I brought back and producc a soft healing
ray of great power. I had a patient from the French fighting there and
he grew splendidly strong in courage and was hoping to give his pais
a helping hand soon. He was dead, of course, he couldn’t have come to
our camp otherwise, but we send helpers out to the battlefield from there
all the time to help Eving men who are frightened, too. It scems silly to
call them living and the others dead, but you know what I mean by
that. I want vou to visualise a green beit of radiance within which we
work, and then soft rainbow columns arching from that into a Center of
power-keys which keep .tenewing the light. I send a collector of colours
to fetch in a patient leaving his body in a state of fear—he draws him
away from the scene of fest and brings him into our radiance which
soothes his wounded etheric and he gradually opens his eyes, when we
are there to guide his mind to peace. Soon he realises this is a new life
and all fear ceases—then he wants to teil the others, and we use him to
fetch our guide when they need help. I was used in that way at first
when I began—long ago it seems now. I can’t explain much of it because
your mind can’t take it in and there are no words. I must go, Mumsie,
they call me.”
September zoth. (Lancelot.')
(R. “7.i it Lancelot?”) “Yes, Mum Darling. I came to give you a
message but shall stay and enjoy the funl The message was from Uncle
Toby to say he is obliged to go over to another plane so he is leaving
Kitopher, making him responsible for his own camp and all his work
now. He is awfully pleased with Kitopher’s progress and told me to teil
you that he leaves him to carry on with full confidence in him. He says
he will hope to be back in time for your Christmas party which we are all
looking forward to so much.
“Now I am oft to show /Xunt E----- the way to plan her girl guides
party. She is a trainer of young girls now to act as guides for newcomers,
Leitersfrom Christopher - ' 83
and is so happy doing this becos she feels so useful and needed. Au revoir
Dad and David and Mum, and God Bloss you from Lancelot.”
September z~jth. 6 p.m.
“Your mind is so clear now, shall wc be adventurous and go to Mars
again? I shall love to give you another picture of the life on that planet,
and I can be positive now about many things I was not sure ofpreviously
—for instance, I have been told since we went there that mechanism
exists for the transtusion of life from one individual to another if one of
their bodics is dcstroyed by an accident, so that it can be repaired and the
life restorcd to it when ready, just like repairing a garment or something
over here. I can’t uhderstand how they go on meantime though, but it
seems that two inhabit the same bodv temporarily.
“Come along Mumsie, let’s have a walk in the Martian valleys; we
went up a mountain before I think. W'e crawl under or ily over enormous
bag-like plants of weird shapes which can’t be picturcd bv vour mind.
A thing of the animal dass comes galloping along and we comparc his
agility with the colossal growth ot the static plants. He tosses them about,
but they gather again just as before and appear to enjoy the expcriencc.
The animal is off again to another point, and all over the place thcv are
careering about. Wc crawl undernesth these living lumps and find
numcrous gnome-likc beings all busy sucking juices or emanations
of the plants—not sucking, that. suggests our eating, but imbibing in
some other way I can’t dcscribe.
“Now we rise above these giant growths and see over them a wonderful
canopy of thought-colours wovon from their minds. I can’t teil you
what they think because all their ideas are as incomprehensiblc to you
as yours would be to them, but they weave wonderful patterns of colour
above them, rising from their thoughts. z\s we go on, a Martian
approaches and beckons to us, so we follow where he leads—far
into a jungle of plant life till we reach a stretch of bare rock with
bands ofmarvellous colours. These he clamps a curious contrivance on to,
which I can’t describe as it won’t go into words, and the rock seems to
release a colour of a new sort combining all its former colours into a
totally new one. The Martian withdraws his contrivance and the rock
remains as before but the new colour is hlling the contrivance and is
carried into a laboratory where it is used in some way. Having observed
this we proceed up our valley, where the life gets thinner as we go up,
till we can walk instead of crawling or flying. Between the plants is bare
rock of crimson or gold. Now an animal comes jumping over our heads,
and making gigantic leaps makes for higher ground where crowds of his
fellows are madlv jumping in a sort of game I suppose. As we emerge
on to higher ground the plants cease altogether, and a stretch of bare
rock lies between us and another ränge with other valleys.
“Can you take a little more? I am so reminiscent to-day—I was not
sure how to spell that word and you refused to think it for me! One thing
more we see on our tour. Coloured cuntours of the hills are so beautiful
as we emerge frorn our valley. I want you to gaze at them a moment.
{Aninterruptio».) Yes, it’s a bore, but I must go now anyhow—au revoir.
Chris.”
84 Lettersfrom Christopher
September ysth.
“I was waiting to give you a message from Lance, who is on a journey
to Neptune again, and wants me to teil you that it will be some time before
he can come to see you. He is an important person now as our celestial
light-bearer, which means a bearer of light to other planets or even
stars, I gather, although I am still too young in spirit to grasp all it means.
He wanted you to know he had gone so that you didn’t expect him here.
“Mumsie, shall I teil you about my work? 1 am on quarter-deck duty
as Uncle Toby calls it, meaning taking command in the captain’s absence,
so I am very careful what I do as he will be seriously displeased if I mess
things up. I am ever so proud that he thinks I am capable of carrying on
bv myself, but a little bit nervous of the responsibility.”
R. "Yoh carry on bravely.”
“Yes, that’s what he said and I’m doing it—as bravelv as I can. I am
looking forward to his return though, I can teil you. I have a group of
camps under me, including my own of course, and take the leading part
in Conferences between the camp Commanders, so I have to decide on
special lines of action to be taken by the group as a whole. I am very
difiident of making any big move till Uncle Toby gets back, so I expect
he’ll say I have been slack! I hope to earn his praise but it isn’t easy, he
never praises unless he really feels it is due . . . You are so loving,
Mumsie, you only see my best side ever . . . Yes, I know I can do it-
if my will is set on doing right and I don’t think of my own smallness.
I am so much better able to understand that now ... You are so
understanding and sweet, Mumsie mine ... Only very weak, but
strong in God’s work becaus.e of I-Iis power. I understand now all you
tried to teil me before, and 1 was so stupid in my earth-form, but now I
see as I never saw before, and all is glowing with the power of God and
with Love. Yes, darling, you have brought back my true knowledge.
I was thinking myself back in my human limitations, but I know now
that I am imbued with God’s power and cannot fail. I must go back to
work. God bless you and Dad darlings, I am much stronger now.
Coming again soon, so be ready for me, Mumsie!”
October 8th, 1944. Earlier in the day R. received a messagefrom her mother.
“Granny told me you were so happy and would be clear to-night,
so I came along at a great pace hoping for a good time, but not a bit of
it! All I got was complete neglect. I must be a little peeved sometimes
Mumsie, when I am so badly treated.
“I wanted to teil you all sorts of queer happenings in my sphere. There
is complete upheaval of government coming which will affect all the
inspectors of camps, so Uncle Toby will be in a new sphere of work
altogether, and I suppose I shall go too, as I am his understudy now.
It won’t make any difference to my help in your work, which is to
increasc by strides when my book is published. I shall merely have a new
quarter in which to organise my camps, and we shall probably be over the
Netherlands instead of on the French Alps.
“Can I teil you of a new notion I have had? When you writc to anyone
in grief, teil them how happy I am and make them feel sure of the great
joy it is to leave one’s body and come on here. They ought to feel glad
Leitersfrom Christopher 85
their sons have come here. . . . Carry on over there—that is what they
ought to feel. I can’t express what I tnean, but you understand, Mumsie,
and will put it better.”
October i^th and tyth.
“November is the month I think for activity from you.” R. “Ir it
Christopher?” “Yes, Chris of course. I wanted to teil you that your call
to more active work will come in Nov. I am instructed to close my camp
work then and be helping your influence to spread.
“I came to have a talk and you were so busy I was just going off
again. Yes, I am free all evening, so 1’11 send a telepath to my second-in-
command that I shan't be back till later. Talk after your chores are
done.”
Later. “Come on, Mumsie, at last! Can I have your undivided atten-
tion for a bit? I want to try and explain something about my work which
I think you ought to know.
“Grasping a ray-key is a mental concept, not physical. You imagined
us holding on to something with hands, I saw when you were reading
my old letters some days back. We grasp them mcntally, just as you use
the word often as in grasping a mathematical problem. You can grasp
your ray-key substantially that way, so that it can’t produce colour
other than the one you want of it. Now I want you to see something of
my work you couldn’t understand before. I can grasp my patient’s
fear and take it from him by so doing. I couldn’t help if I couldn’t grasp
bis trouble, and that is where my formet fears help me, because I am
able to grasp what he feels like and show him the way out . . . Yes,
you see what I mean. I am so happy to see how even my tailings can be
used.
“I am arranging a Christmas party for you as usual this year, and hope
you will keep the same time free for it as last year when it was such a
success. I don’t know yet who can come but hope to get more than last
year. Dave will be there too, which is jolly.
“Can we go on a bit? Let’s have a jaunt to Mars again, shall we?
I have remembered a charming coloured cloud of creatures in a sort of
curious liquid, like water but thinner, yet different to air in constituents
—I have got tangled up in words again—this was different to any earth
creation and yet was a liquid of sorts. The colours in it were marvellous
and so were these creatures which swam in it—not swam exactly but they
were immersedin it and moving about. Lance saw them before, he says,
and told me to look at them.”
October lith.
“Now I want to say that we are starting a campaign against Japanese
superstitions in the East and some of our Supervisors are going over
there.”
R. “M lady has written to ask ifyou can help her little boy?”
“Can I help him? How? Suffers from fear? I see. 1’11 try to find him
but direction isn’t clear. M . . . ? I don’t catch name. W . . . ? Yes,
If I find him 1’11 get our squad to come along and we’ll soon get him right.
All right, Mumsie, 1’11 see what we can do, and I think I’ve got directions
now you’ve said M ... in Wales. One of your ‘ cases ’ as I call ’em.
v
Leitersfrom Christopher
)
86
Same idea as me, I guess! . . . 1’11 try, Mumsie, but write and teil his
mother to look out for me and give some calls if she can to Chris T——,
then 1’11 have more chance of Unding him. Now I must be offand change
guard to see if all are there, so au revoir. Love to Dad. Chris.”
October i^th.
“Mumsie, I am hoping you v/ill not be tired, as I want to give you a
synopsis of my treatment of little W . . . I found him quite easily, his
people were thinking splendidly of me and making quite a wave when I
got into their district. He is a clever boy and very intuitive, but has a
deep-seated fear neurosis which I think was in him from birth, and is
slowlv coming to the surface of his mind. I am confident of his conquest
over it, but it mav take some time as it has been so deeply embedded,
long before he went to school, only too deep then to appear on the sur­
face. It is slowlv rising and has to be aided to appear or it will again sub-
merge and affect his later life. I am calculating the amount of motion
to apply so that it will be innocuous when it gets to the surface. He can’t
yet absorb ray treatment as this is not an emergency fear as on the
battlefield, but a hereditary sub-conscious tendency. I place Mary’s
Healing Ray very near him and hc absorbs it as he sleeps. Soon he will
feel its soothing influence and be less afraid—but iessons are a terror to
him owing to the bullying insdncts of other boys. I suppose he couldn’t
learn at home for a time? This fear neurosis will affect him only until
adolescence, it is connected with his astral which emerges at that time.
After puberty he will be completely cured, but only if all possible is
done to help him conquer his fears now. Control of his fear will prove
his great strength in the future as it has proved mine. I am full of sym-
pathy for him knowing how like his feelings are to mine of old. I am so
glad you called me to help him, and I know I can do more for him than
most people.”
October zSth and z<)th.
“You are so bright and nice to-day, Mumsie, I hardly expected a hear­
ing so soon. Came to bring news of Camp exodus, to be on your trade
route in future—Glory bei I am much pleased to join your work, darling.
My camp is closing as there are very many others now and I have had
my share of that kind of work. Much remains to be done of course, but
not by me as other newcomers are being worked up to my pitch and are
fit to carry on now.
“Your next move in spiritual circles is more apparent here than in
your life—and depends on contacts made by recipients of your letters.
Their effect is cumulative and gathers impetus all the time. We see it as
a whole here, and the effect is already great.
“I am coming more often now, so be on the look out for me. My
camp is all dismantled and we wait our Orders separately. Mine are to be
over-seeing your activity and giving a push to the minds your letters
are affecting, so be ready for my frequent visits now.
“ Charming sccne I saw on my way here over a cottage near Battle
I think. Very old crab tree laden with golden apples and many children
collecting them for Granny, who was much loved by all. I see earth
scenes just as clearly, only dominated by the greater visibility of the
Leitersfrom Christopher
etheric world. Granny’s thoughts and those of the children dominated
that scene to me. The crab-tree was shimmering with fairy lights and the
apples coloured as if painted in gold. The cottagc I see as a square thick-
ness in a mist, but with many shades of substance so that I can see the
furniture and carpets, all of different blends of misty colour, through
the walls which are thick mist with many different shades in it. It is a
bit difficult to describe, but you visualise a lot as I talk.”
November <)th, 1944. Lancelot.
“That is in your pond, mum, darling, and I
am at your side! Can you guess why I came?
Becos I am to give you a message from Chris
to say he has attended a seance of your friend
Mrs. B----- and is giving her son some lessons
in writing with a pencil. She is able to do this
Chris thinks, so will you write and teil her he
mav be able to use her hand now. Coo—I am
copying Chris, who uses funny words like that!
—Come a bit nearer, Mum, darling, and I will
teil vou a bit about mv work on higher planes. I am intensely happy
in it, and have attained great new powers which I can use to defeat
evil and protect those attacked by it. I am co-operating with other
beings from our planets and am man’s representative in some of their
inter-planet councils ... I use your knowledge of words that’s why I
spell so well nowl Not like my funny little scrawls at first.
“Chris may come to-morrow but thought you’d wonder why he didn’t
come, so I said I would teil you.
“I was trying to draw a creature I saw over in Neptune, but it isn’t
good a bit. I don’t draw so well as I used t<>, I’m afraid. Now I must
go over to Mercury for a Conference, o goodbye for a bit, with love
from LANCELOT.”
>' 2
<_ (
88 Lettersfrom -Christopher
November i6th. Christopher.
“Mumsie, you are quite transfonned to-day, I can see into your mind
like clear water full of living thoughts. I want to be introspective and
teil you how my mind now sees God. I cast out a thought and He gives
it life and I see my thought as an actual living thing. He is all Life and
is creating in us and in all things, and no confusion or wrong can affect
life in reality. Confusion exists because minds are growhig all the time
and try to understand before they can. They send out contrary thoughts
and cause confusion, but all is resolved into harmony with God. I
know we are taught this in earth religions sometimes but that is different
to taking it into one’s being as a truth. My life is 11 a great harmony
now in tune with God. God sends me power to live and He is my life
and the life of all. Candle power is mine, others are suns or moons,
but all are given light from Him ...”
(Dad asked “Do insects have etheric lijel”')
“Dad wants to know if insects are real? I mean real in our sense of
living here. I think bees have a sort of over-soul bee, who gives them
their hive instinct, but I don’t see them here much. No other insects
except butterflies, and they have been given existence because many
people created them by desire. Ants have an over-soul I believe, but not
in our life, only in the etheric like plants. I think one may suppose the
insect world to have refused further evolution in preferring a life of
antagonism to other creatures. Created with all possibilities open they
racially chose antagonism, and only bees and ants have evolved suffi-
ciently to produce a generic over-soul for their species. I don’t know much
about the subject though, as I have never inquired into insects at all.
Dad is so hopeful of me always, but I really don’t know much yet,
though I am growing fast in spirit as I can teil by the way I now see
other-----uds Interruption in his writing). Yes, we were interrupted by
Mrs. Y----- , she is a dear old lady, just come here to this life and still
thinks herseif old and fecble. 1 gave her directions to find the rest centre
where guides will take Charge of her—though she really should be able
to do without them now, she has passed over six months or so.
“Let’s go out together and 1’11 help Dad in the garden I’m taking an
afternoon off, having been hard at it for some time . . .”
November 24th.
“You are coming nearer than usual to-night, Mumsie, but you appear
worried at the pencil? Now for a chat over my music, I thought I had
explained it so well but you seem still very mystified. I concentrate
mind-force through a cylinder which takes mental vibrations, and accord-
ing to my meaning the Vibration produces notes in harmony. We have
glorious concerts like nothing you can imagine, for all our minds tune in
to the same score of music written in parts just like earth music.
Galumpshus!—I used the word and failed to spell it!—Anyhow, good—
super—supest—supcrnal. I don’t know how to express itl Our concerts
sound just like earth music only better, but are produced by concen-
trating thought on the score.
“Your letter to Mrs. A----- Interests me. Your answer is all she needs,
I couldn’t explain as well as those books.” (Mrs. A----- had sent a
I
Lettersfrom Christopher 89
Är/ of questions.) “I can’t put it nearly as well as you can, Mumsie, so
go on writing, don’t ask me.”
0. “Why do Mediums so offen have Red Indian Guides?”
A. “I can’t thinkl My own Impression is that they, the Red Indians,
have been more anxious to practise control of the human mind by
psychic methods and not spiritual enough to understand influencing
in higher ways.”
£). “How have they a perfect knowledge of the Lnglish language?"
A. “That’s easy, they use the knowledge possessed by the medium’s
brain.”
Q. “How do ‘Guides’ discover their mediums?”
A. “O how absurd! If one is on the look-out for a brain to control
one can see the possibilities at once by the type of mind and thoughts
given out.”
Q. “How can the medium be sure that her guides are not earth-bounders.”
A. “She can’t, there’s the danger, but she can make her own mind
so bright that earth-bounders can’t come into her aura. We only can
bear the light we are accustomed to and the higher we rise the more
light we can bear and emit. So low spirits can only get near earth-bound
minds, and often find a medium quite low enough for their purposes,
more’s the pity.”
O. “What stage of development do the spirits of elderly people return to
when they die?”
A. “You see that, but I should put it like this. An elderly body is not
an elderly spirit—the spirit may be merely an infant or hardly developed,
or even obscured altogether. The mind is what emerges and forms its
own body according to its inner compulsion, that is, what it thinks it is
like.”
Note by R.M.T.
I willjust add that mostpeople begin the new life as old as when they died,
and gradually realising that they needn’t be old, they become young again!
Ar they grow into rhe use of their new powers they recapture their youth
infull vigour, but with all the experience of wisdom and age added. Later,
they leave their earth-form and enter thefreedom and radiance ofspirit life.
November zGth. Christopher.
“I want to give you a picture in your mind of our surroundings at
this moment. You are encircled in a beit of many-coloured light, result
of your merry thoughts of my playfulness. Only a fraction of your real
seif is here, all your higher part is in a glory which dazzles even my present
capacity for sight. You sit on your terracc within your beit of colour
with a connecting rav from your higher seif Streaming from above in
glory. I am conscious of it but may not see it yet. You are now sending
a shaft of golden love to me and it makes me draw nearer and feel I am
your child after all and can be protected in your strength and power
like a baby with its mother. I am so happy to be yours and Dad’s.
Now Lance has a word to say . . .”
Leitersfrom Christopher
Lancelot.
“Mum, darling, I am very near you to-day and having a so jolly
holiday with Chris. Has he told you about our surprise for you? I
won’t say either, so it will be a surprise. You will know. by Christmas
Day—Yes, you have gucssed but not all!
“Darling, I want to try and give you an idea ofour hopes for England.
Can you see it as a whole being? England as one spirit not a lot of
people? I see such a great light springing up through knowledge of
God and His Love in sending so much help from our life to youis.
More people will tum to Him in heart and your work is to spread His
guidance as you are doing. You have a great work, but you will not see
it all on your life, it is more visible to us than on earth. Encl.and is
a power for raising mankind into greater knowledge of God, and you
are part of this power, so you see how far beyorid your earth Life it gces.
I am working for England too, and helping work you are not yet able
to see in your mind. Michael is my great helper in a sphere I can’t reach
even yet.
“Is my turn over, Chris?”
Christopher : “ Mumsie Mine, I am so happy! I want you to have a
time like this on Christmas Day when we can join in all the Christmas
fun. You arrange it if you can. Now let’s be on earth a bit and chat
about this lovely place with al! its fair/ life going on in the wood and
pond. I can sec them lighting up now for some concourse of fairies
and all the bushes are hung with lights of many colours Spärkling like
jewels. I wish you could see them! Collectk.g dewdrops on ehe
mess underneuth the de: d ler.ves arc gnemes of all sorts with tiny bags
of sort of cobweb which they fäll with moisture and then carry off ro
their Underground, homes. I think they use it for diink but can’t see
clearly encugh, as that life is not so clear now I am further into light.
It still shows when I want to bc earthly though—you see we can always
come back over the way we have been, though we can’t tise until fit
for it. I am getting on so well that I can almost gracp Laace’s posidon
now of Celestial Light-bec.rer, which is a higher grade than most of
those I can know personally as yet. Uncle Toby is a Great Spirit,
but he was so fond of me that he took care not to be too bright for my
earth sight so as to help me on.
Lance and I are going to give you a Christmas treat so I hope you’ll
be as nice and quiet as you are to-day—wc do so love our talks with
Mumsie darling. No, I -shan’t say what it is, that will come later.
Going now as you ought to be active again. Come later if you are
able ? Evening best I think, so au revoir till then. Chris and Lancelot
LOVE to DARLING Dad. God BLESS BOTH.
(Evening.)
Lancelot: “ I saw that out climbing
with Chris to-day, we went overhead
to the cloud layers and creatures of upper
air were climbing on the top of them.
My drawing is not so good as it used to
be I think, but I will try another one.
lettersfrom Christopher
91
Something like that and very fierce after the softer ones. It is
“ They have all sorts of
shapes and sizes but mostly
very flimsy and soft, and all along the upper air layers you get them
in baads. Chris was keen to study their ways so we went along
looking for new ones, and saw one quite different.
“ I can’t get it
quite right, it was
much more com-
plicated than the
others. Now 1’11 let Chris come.”
Christopher : “ My Mumsie, we have had such a jolly holiday Lance
and I and just enjoyed ourselves like boys again. I was so ipterested
in the upper air life which is all in the etheric plane and not visible
to your sight, but not in our life either. It is worlds within worlds
of life, and no one in body life can imagine the multitudes of life-forms
there are even in our planet. Give me your hand for a little excursion
on the level of the upper cloud layers. Clouds have a solidity you cannot
imagine in the etheric plane, they seem more substantiai than crust of
earth and harbour a vast population which drifts about overhead while
earth spins under them. All are small beings except a tew balioon-like
monsters, and many of them prey on each other . . . They belong to the
mist sprites and foam fairies, all being formed out of the vapours of
water, but they have a definite life of their own not just vapour shapes.
Those which seize others seem to suck them dry and then they dis-
appear altogether. It is queer and dreamy and not very active, but quite
real and most interesting to watch. Some of the more active ones were
calling to each other in sort of bell-Iike cries like a church bell single
note heard far off. Others cry like shecp only fainter and softer.”
Lancelot : “ Chris says he only wants a last
word, so I will try- another drawing before we go.
That is a fairly good drawing of one of those
Chris was talking about which gives a bell-like
cry. They are harmless and nice with colours of
all sorts, pearly and glowing. I think we must
say coodnight to dad and mum from Lancelot
with LOVE.”
Christopher : “ I want just to add that I go to work again to-morrow,
so give mc instructions if you want anything done. I have so enjoyed
92— Leitersfrom Christopher
our holidays and our talks with my Mumsie darling. Give Dad my love
and duty and say I am so glad of his loving thoughts sometimes—
he is such a help to me. Nightie night darlings.—”
December &th and \oth, 1944.
“ I want you to write to Mrs. B----- and teil her she is collecting
a crowd of gnomes by being too accessible. She ought to be careful
to feel sure her son is with her before she tries to write for him. He
can’t always come at the time she has told him because he is at school
and going in for training in help for others, so she must not write unless
she is sure he is with her.”
(R. “ What do the gnomes do t ”)
“ The gnomes ? Oh they just buzz round and plav with her pencil,
so that she thinks her son is trying to write but can’t manage it, and
then she tries all the harder. She has psychic powers which are develop-
ing but nceds more spirit consciousness like yours. Her son says she
might think of a signal for him to give her, when she begins so that she
will know for certain.”
(A'o/r ; Ajev days before the farm cat was injured in a traf and had
to be destroyed.)
“ Can we have a chat about my cat ? I had to leave her at the office
when I came to do your work, but she wanted me so bt.dly that I carried
her along and installed her with you.” (R. “ 1 can’t give her milk.’”)
“ Of course not, she is an etheric cat, not at all an ordinary one 1 And
now she has got a mate thanks to the trap episode the other day. I
never saw a cat so pleascd as she when that nice yovng Tom came aleng.
She knows I come here often so is quite content, and aderes the Tom
in a most sickly fashion. So’ all is well in the cat line !
“ Mumsie darling, I am in a frivolous mood I fear 1 I think 1’11
be off now. Au revoir. Chris.”
December i-jtb.
“ You aren’t very bright to-day.” (R. “ 1 have a headache.”) “ I see
—1’11 try to take it away.” (Pause during which R’r headache dis-
appeared.) “ Your light came out like a Hash of lightning, I was almost
blinded by it. Now Dave, old chap, geing on fine, I’m sure, getting
ready to contact me on the Q. wave of ether ? Many happy returns
home to Dave, and preparations for a swell Christmas going forward
on both sides of life. Huge preparations on my side I assure you, we’re
going to have a real slap up party this time, I hope.”
(Later.) “ Continuing our talk, what about my descent on your
head at tea-time ? Why, you meant to teil Dad and never did.” (R.
“ Didyou want me to ? ”) “ Yes, because you so clearly saw me, and that’s
twice to-day Mumsie, you are getting on finely and will soon bc properly
clairvoyante. I am so pleascd. Many people could if they only would
distinguish their etheric vision from imagination. You are beginning
to do so quite well but most people are too afraid of deceiving them-
selves and therefore never open their etheric eyes till death. l’ve been
away a bit off and on to see how people are getting on with my work in
France, and my successor was rather glad of a few hints from me. I am
transferred to the Engltsh Crusade now in Order to help you all I can.
Dettersfron Christopher 9J
<
Uncle Toby is in the crusade but in another quarter and I don’t see so
much of him as before . . .
“ Can I be a bit curious about E----- ’s children ? They aren’t at all
like other children but have minds which tune in to our life easily so
that they both see clairvoyantly already. I am puzzled as to how they
fit in at school since they are so different in their minds. Clear vision
is quite unusual in children in spite of carrying on tradition of their
clouds of glory.
“ Mumsie, I see you have taken enough so we had better stop new,
but you are getting on fine and will soon be able to see me properly.
Give Dad all the best from me and Dave too. So long all. C.”
December zyth.
Laticeiot: “ Yes, Mumsie Darling, I am come to give you a kiss on
Christmas Eve but I couldn’t get here sooner becos I came from Mars
were I have been negotiating a help party to collect more rays of colours
to give impetus to peace. It is like a soothing poultice round earth
to heal the fighting idea and make peace possible and we are trying it
on Europe were the fiercest feelings go on coming. It is just like a
disease this war and healing rays will calm it by degrees. I am coming
to-morrow all day so I won’t make you tired now but you needn’t talk
till evening so that you’ll keep fresh. A Happy Christmas Mum
and Dad from Lancelot.”
Christmas Day, 1944.
(The “Christmas Party” tookpla.ee al 6 p.m. and 17 relations and
friends ivrote short messages with R’r hand.)
December zt>th.
Tancelot: “ Mum, I have been waiting all day and you are so unwanting
me. Yes, I know really Mum darling, I was naughty to say that. I
had a thing to teil you and it was like this. I want Chris to come
over to my power centres on the moon where I focus power of moon-
rays to soothe earth from fear and he will see how we can help in a much
Bigger way than his, though his way hclps a lot in special people but he
would be so intrested in moon-ray power centres which I am focusing
just now, so may he come please ? ”
Christopher : “ Mumsie, I am thrilled with all Lance has been telling
me and shall soon be back at work on your route but feel I can grasp
larger ways of helping when I have scen Lance’s work. We were
planning to go to-night so we shan’t be able to talk long as you are so
late beginning. Yes, I know you couldn’t help it. Mumsie, how did
you enjoy the party ? ” (R. “ Very much.”) “ I am so glad. I’m sorry
Dad was disappointed but I had to bring along the old boy Cousin
C----- because he found out there was a gathering here and wanted
so to represent his familv. He is a quecr old cove and can’t bclieve
he needn’t be so middle-aged as he thinks he is, Dad’s parents are
overhead at present and I couldn’t get hold of any others for Dad this
time but yours simply swarm all over the place and I can always collect
a good many. Overhead ? Did I say that ? Overhead is a slang
expression meaning that they are having a course of celestial training
Lottersfrom Christopher
)
94
—going to stars and leaming of other forms of life. It’s used a good
deal by’ us younger ones who aren’t celestially educated yet. Courses
of star-training are a part of normal education of those come from
earth within a generation or so. I mean, when a man dies normally at
80 or so he has a year or several years to get accustomed to etheric life
on earth and then takcs a course of star-training to complete his next
Step in education. Dad’s parents are both away on star courses now
but they’ll be back soon I think.
“ You needn’t expect me back for a week or so, Mumsie. I shan’t
be gone very long though. Now we must say goodnight and love to
Dad and Dave—he is to be your only son for a week or two and must
be a prop to you and Dad. Cheerio. C.”
“ Lancelot says love too.”
January yth, 1945.
Christopher : “ Cats ! Love to Dave and his kitten is a pet. I see
he’s as fond of it as I am of mine ! Now I must teil you of my trip—
be open a bit more Mumsie. First Lance and I went to his power
centre on the mcon and caught c. wave of moon-ray going off to earth
on a healiig ccccentration. I was thrilled. by the power there, for they
concentrated ravs of all the healing sorts into a beit of light surrouncling
the war zones on earth and forming a powerful soothing influence which
will prevent the war from plunging too many into despair. Then I
watched the light break into colours of such beauty as I had never
imagined before.
“ Then Lance called me to see his new adaptor of colour blending
which he has invented and göt a credit for. It is a form of invention
you can’t get into your mind at all so I won’t atternpt to describe it.
He is given a post of prominence after this invention as it is considered
first rate and a great improvement on the old methods.”
Lancelot : “ Chris is great at puffing me up Mum. I wasn’t the only
one to invent something because we all feit we must get more peace-
power on Earth and thort out ways of doing it. Teil Dad I made a
better vention than his though. That will show him I am quite a
big son now 1 Going now, Chris. I just wanted a word with Mum
to-day because it’s going to be some time before I get back home again
from Venus and they want me over there to direct their musical help
for earth now. Goodnight Dad. From Lancelot.”
Christopher : “ Now I Want to give you a view of the Power centre
on the Moon where these healing rays are blended. Great machines of
etheric forces are used to collect the sun’s rays into a vast ocean of light,
and then absorb the terrestial essences of the moon to blend them into
separate colours until all are separated out and coloured with moon-
essences. As this takes place a beit of softer light forms without,
which glides to earth incessantly giving a soothing healing emanation
to all life. This all goes on through action of the power centre machines
which are set to work by concentration of thought surrounding them.
It is difficult to put into words but you have some notion of it now.
” I want to give a word of greeting to my Dad, and to Dave so glad
to be back home again. Sorry Mumsie, I must be off now. Coming
)
Leitersfrom Cbristopber
more often now on your work so look out for me. Cheerio Dad and
Dave. So long. C.”
(Lote : “Machines oj etheric forces“ should not be read as meaning
Machines in the earth sense.)
Janttary izth and lyth, 1945.
“ Sorry Mumsie, I was cal’ed away suddenly and went over to get
a glimpse of my chum Ian before he departs overhead for a bit. I am
glad you know that espression now as it explains in one word. He is
going for a course on planetary life and hopes to be better fitted to
place himself about jobs such as he hopes for. Elementary courses
in ray-healing lead to work on the mechanics of light and this opens
out a vast field of work for the evolution of man in space—not spiritual
evolution which is of course more important, but form evolution, how
to adjust himself to new surroundings in other Systems of stars. I am
not to go in yet for this because I am helping in the crusade at home.
Can you grasp another aspect ? Convolutions of space prevent many
from getting their perspective right and much learning of light mechanics
is needed to adjust that difficulty. Now I must be going again as I am
wanted by our chief on a gathering of helpers. Love to Dad. Chris.”
'Lancelot : “ I was with you in billiards before and so intrested to see
Dad playing wich I never Expected. Darling Dad was happy and you
all had such happy minds it made me quite bucked up over my family
being such a mee one. Can I just teil Mum something of a bigger sort ?
Michael is away on great business of ambassador for our Lady Mary
to a Conference of spirits of all planets in our System of our sun, and it
takes place on Mercury bccos that is empty and used for a spirit meeting
ground. It is the greatest honour to be chosen to represent earth at a
Conference of Planets and he is over there now to confer with the
arrangers of it. I am so proud to be his brother and quite swell with
Pride I
“ I am not going away for some time now becos I am taking turns
at Power Centres on Earth for a bit so shall be here quite a lot. Chris
teils me he is working for you now and I’m very intrested at that and
hope to be able to help, too. Can we go now ? Chris has work he
says. Goodnight Darlings. Lancelot and Chris.”
January 17th.
Lancelot: “ Come on Mum I am tired of being called Kitopher and
want you to be more observant of our comings and goings. I came to
teil you about my Power Station on the Moon as I shall have to go
back again soon to set it. in motion again. You see we can leave these
Power stations to carry on Like machinery for a bit till they run down for
lack of colour energy so we have to go back to combine more rays for
producing colour energy.”
Christopher : “ Colours have much more power than you know of
Mumsie and give out force which has great effect on earth. Yes,
Chris. I was here all the time but Lance was wanting you to recognise
him too and you only thought of me I ”
96 Leitersfrom Christopher
Lancelot: “ All right, Mum, I know you can only take in one of us
at a time so I don’t mind only I want you to know when I am there,
too. I shall be away on the Moon for a few days after tonight.”
January z(stb.
Christopher : “ Come on Mumsie, you are a time getting ready. I
see so I had to wait, well now we are off—Here’s the Cat 1 Comfortable
now ? I want to have a quiet talk for I have been away again over to
see Lance on the Moon and had some instruction in his special beit of
moon-rays. Openings for students of moon-ray healing are high if one
can qualify, as the world needs soothing and these are potent for such
treatment. I was thrilled with the currents set up in the direction of
earth looking like streams of clear blue light and carrying millions of
colours under the blue quite inexplicable in human words. Carrying
on the work there are great enthusiasts for the healing of man, holding
certificates from the greatest branches of medicine known, the manipu-
lators of Cosmic Creative healing. I was allowed to see all their
acüvities as being Lance’s brother, which was a high honour and I feel
very elated to have learnt so much. I can now discharge my work
of helping your cases with much more efficiency as I can take mind
impressions of curative processes unknown to me before, and be aware
of other forces than I formerly knew. O Mumsie, you can’t conceive
how lovely it is over there in the moon-ray works—gathering great
sweeps of healing colours into a wave of soothing yet glorious light and
focusing it to earth in bands of colour. Cool soft harmonies are all
around one and I feit bathed in new harmonious life. May I be over
there a bit again soon ? As I think my work will benefitfrom it more
than if I stayed over here and went on as before. (R. *' What about
your cases ? ”) Yes, I won’t forget to go to them and am going on my
rounds to-night. 1’11 bring you some reports to-morrow or Sunday
before I go moon gazing again. Lance will be back honte soon he says
but only on and off, for he is in Charge of one of the chief moon-ray
works there arid can’t be away long at a time. Teil Dad I am so thrilled
at my course of training there. I can’t stay long now as I haven’t been
to see your cases yet but wanted so much to teil you all the lovely things
I saw. Love to Dad and Dave. So long. C.”
January zSth, 1945. (Listening to music.)
Lancelot: “ Mum Darling, I am delighted with your awakening power
of vision. You are much more aware of us and our life than I thought
possible till you leave your body. I am So Pleased becos we can show
you a great deal more now and you will love to see it. I am so happy
about it all. Chris and I were each taking one arm to help you up a bit
and the music helps you more than most people. I never knew a mind
weave such music patterns as yours does; you have never got into earth
ways. of connecting music with notes and rules of harmony, so you weave
most wonderful spirit songs of joy in the beauty of it. Chris wants to say
something now.”
Christopher: “Chris speaking Mumsie. I am glad you are so quiet to-day.
Lance and I were inspired by your music love and ncarly took you into
our life until Dad made a noise and brought you back with a jerk. I know
"Lettersfrom Christopher 97
(
it can’t be helped because you are so sensitive to sound that you come
back in response to any noise at önce. It was a grand event to get you
so near us though and pleased us both no end. Some day you will really
see those colours properly and then you’ll gasp in wonder at them.
“You are to have a time of greater work soon, but don’t be impatient
at your seeming small Output for all are bearing fruit and you can’t see
the extent of your influence; if you could it would surprise you. I am
going now so give Dad my congrats on his industry, his mind is full of
work just now. Love to him of course. Your Chris.”
Michael: “Mummy I am here too, Michael yes, I am back from helping
a great Conference of Spirits to aid our earth. We are hoping great power
will come to enlighten men and Christ will be glorified by all in years to
come. I can be in your mind now I am your son ever. . . . Michael.”
"Lancelot: “ Yes, Mum Darling, I was waiting till you had got Michael’s
message becos he can’t stay long in writing, he is too big to get small
enough for earth things now. I am still just your human boy so I can use
your mind as easily as ever. I must go too now becos I am so wanted on
a course of moon-ray instruction. They are short of qualified instructors
so I’ve promised to take a course for them now. Goodbye Darlings.
DAD DARLING and MUM DARLING from LANCELOT.”
February 4th, 1945.
Lancelot: “I want a message given to Dad that he must try and think
of me as grown up now and not want me to write in words of my child-
hood! I put it on sometimes to show I am still the same boy but I really
am far grown in power and strength and knowledge. I can use your
brain to find all words I need and have knowledge of other languages too.
Don’t be afiraid I shall ever cease to be the same to you. I want just to
make Dad see that I am just his son just the same, but he mustn’t want
me to be childish still except in fun as a joke. I am an awful joker as you
know and tease Chris a lot because he is so serious minded and takes
himself very earnestly! Mum Darling I love being here with you and
dad but I must be off now to set my activator going on the moon again.
See you soon again. Love from Lancelot.”
Febrxärj $th.
Christopher: “Cousin M----- wants me to thank you for giving another
push to Mr. D----- ’s mind as he is very interested in my Mars trip and
full of explanations of certain things I described which he thinks conflict
with other reports through Mediums—I fancy a good deal of mystifica-
tion is caused by the medium’s own subconscious mind taking Charge
and twisting what is said to her; given a preconceived idea in the sub­
conscious, it is easy to twist a remark such as Martian into martial or
Heaven into leaven—that’s not a good one but conveys my meaning. I
know people have come away from a medium in a state of frustration as
all they said was given in a distorted way with a totally different meaning.
No—you are clear as a bell and never distort. I sometimes can’t get a
word I want into your mind but you know at once if I can’t and never
put down any other words.”
Leitersfrom Christopher
February 14/Ä, 7.45 a.m. (Lancelot's birthday.)
“Good moming to Dad and Mum. Lance isn’t able to come early as
his moonray apparatus fiinctions till sun up here and he’ll be along in a
few minutes now.” Lancelot: “Your birthday boy is with you, Mum
Darling. Love to Dad and Mum from Lancelot. Talk when you
have time later.”
11 a.m.
Lancelot: “Mum Ehrling, I am very good at catching thoughts so don’t
mind shoving me off if you are too busy to write; I only want a thought
from you now. Dad—he is only expecting a short chat so won’t mind.
However let’s go ahead now and I want to teil you a thing and it’s like
this. Over your head is a crown of happy memories and they make a
sparkle like diamonds and rubies and all sorts of glittering things. I am
so happy at seeing how happy is your lovely mind to-day.
“Not a good drawing but I
tried to draw a creature out of
the pond again. It is much
prettier really.
“Covering the stones at the bottom with coloured moss but you can’t
see it yet.
“That is in the pond too,
very observant of the mossy
things and expectant ofa meal
offthem, I think, but not your
sort of eating quite different
to that.
“Another pond thing very active and
jumpy. I have been watching them with
Chris, who is interested in Natural History
of the Etheric Plane, and I think will do
"some work of a naturalist sort in his spare
times. I am over to Mars again after to-
day to fetch more ray-keys so don’t expect
me for a bit.”
Christopher: “Chris speaking, Mumsie darling. How nice you are to-
day. I have been watching pond life again and asked Lance to do some
drawings for me as he is so good at it. I am having a complete holiday
as it is his birthday and we are enjoying Home so much. Lance and I are
off for another stroll now and we’ll coffee housc, as Dad says, to-night
when you are frecr.”
Leitersfrom Christopher 99
)
March yrd and iytb, 1945.
“We control a light-band lifting clouds from England gradually and I
am on lifting duty on your cases. You haven’t quite got that clear. Your
cases are getting enlightened and that helps to raise the clouds ofunbelief
and grieffrom England. Lots of others are hclping to raise the clouds in
a sort of band of enlightenment which is spreadlng over the country. You
are going to see more later on of the effect you have already made. C-----
has come out of her cloud, but she is very materialistic and can’t grasp
how to pray at all. She will try to say commonplace words with no
meaning in them and then gets cross at having no result. She’ll write
soon to you so I’m just giving you a hint or two.
“Can we have a very long undisturbed talk? I must teil you a fine
adventure of mine with Lance on the Grampians—yes, Scotland,
Grampian Mts. We .were prospecting for etheric conditions suitable for
a power centre to control N.E. Scotland and England, and a messenger
from Ethiopia came asking for help as they are in difficulties over there,
so Lance gave a wave-length of suitable span and wc rigged up a super
power centre for long distance help. They were so grateful as we couldn’t
go over, having much to see to here. The creatures of upper air inter-
fered and we had to chase them by thought concentration, so were kept
busy till a long distance call came for Lance and he had to go leaving me
to control his power centre. I was scared stiff as I had never taken Charge
of one of these before and they give out such stupendous power-rays
that it could damage the mental make-up of whole nations if improperly
used. However I did my little best and all in prayer for guidance, so soon
a great spirit came to check my findings and said all was well but a bit
too controlled by fear as I was so tense about it all the time. By that time
Lance was due back so I was relieved of responsibility. I haven’t had
much to do with these centres yet and am new to it.
“You might give a few more hints to Mrs. O----- that she should wait
till people ask her help rather than push them as she does. Mrs. Q----- has
agreed to have a few more trials of the medium at her son’s request, but
she is afraid they are doing wrong and keeps hoping he will give it up. I
was a bit premature in my conclusion that he had done so already.
“Quantities of gnomes have lost their houses in the forest Clearing that
has been going on all over England and are wandering round trying to
find acCessiblc people to play with on the table-turning Basis. They
collect in groups with a leader and then produce raps and taps and all the
nonsense people like to think is bogey noises. It is only that having lost
their homes they find no occupation, as normally they spend their lives
Building and ornamenting their little dwellings, so they just collect in bands
and make mischief if possible with people who produce ectoplasmic
extensions they can use. Can we talk again in evening? I am going now
to see another case.”
(Later)
“Over in Germany I see blazing colours of terror and fury. How
ghastly it all is, I still am fearfu! of going there, yet ashamed of this and
teil it only to you, my Mumsie. How grand to feel it will soon be cnded
and we can begin to reconstruct on our side the tattered hearts and bearen
minds.
IOO Leitersfrom Christopher
“Ijyve to Dad as always. All right, more next time. C.”
March zznd.
"Yes, Mumsie, but we’ll talk after your supper, I have plenty of things
to say and want a good time. Carry onl” (R. “Now, what doyou want
to talk about?”)
"My own affairs chiefly! I am preparing for a new Step in progress and
I am going overhead for a special training. Uncle Toby carries on my
work for you in higher ways than I can do and teils me all will be well
while I am away. I am not so panicky now as I was the first time, but I
don’t like leaving you any more than before, darling. I am far stronger
now though, as you can feel, my Mother. I start on work ofpreparation
to-morrow, but must be given special teaching which will take some weeks
or months according to my capability ofreceiving it, so expect me once or
twice before I say goodbye.” (R. “Are you going to be away long?”')
“No, only a few months probably, and Uncle Toby has promised addi­
tional help in your direction, so you can rely on him for anyone in need.
I want to get ahead in development so that Dad will be proud of his son.
Now to return to earth and your cases. Can you let Mrs. B----- know
that her son has gone on a planetary tour and will not be back for some
months? She may get misled by earth-bounder voices unless she knows
this. Good.
“You will be guided, so be quite happy about my going, for others
much wiser take my place, Mumsie, my own. Carry on, says Uncle Toby,
and you will soon see me back again. A message for Dave that I shall be
away for this hols but back for summet ones, I hope. Give Dad my best
ever, and often I shall think of home and both my own ones. Carry on,
that’s the motto for us all over here. God bless both, I’m going now. C.”
March z-jtb.
Christopher: “Soon I must away for a long time, I shall come on
Easter Day to say goodbye. Only a few months, and I shall learn won-
derful things which I am longing to know.”
Another: “Can I say a word or two? I am going with Chris, and he is
my companion in mind progress. You don’t know my name, so I can’t
teil you, but I am so glad to meet you as Chris told me you would let me
talk and I couldn’t think how. He says to teil you I am called Charlie,
that is enough. Thank you.”
Christopher: “You didn’t'expect him, but he is a friend who is admitted
to this course on the same level as mine, so we collaborate to some extent.
He would have it that talking with earth life people was impossible_as
none ofhis own can do it so I wanted to show him it could be done ifone
has a light-bearer as Mother! Seriously, he thinks me a bit swanky to
have such a grand fatlier and mother, though he is just thrilled to talk to
you himself. His people are quite awfiil, I believe, and not a spark to be
struck out of them, poor fellow. Yes, do let’s go back to Dad and Dave.
Good, family all coflected now, including kitten. Just want to give my
love all round and then must flit back on work. See you all on Sunday if
not before. Dave, old boy, shake. Jolly holidays, I hope. Goodnight all.
Lettersfrom Christopher
(
ioi
April ist, sytf. (BasierSunday.)
“Good Mumsie, to be passive and let us come on Easter Sunday.
Lance is coming on after I have had my say, and that must be short as 1
am overhead to-morrow and still have much to do. Not packing exactly,
but equipment of various etheric kinds which you couldn’t understand
if I tried to explain. I am nearly qualified as a ray-healer now, having had
such practice with your cases. Mrs. F----- is happier than she has ever
been before, for she never had much faith in organised religion and sees a
new heaven and a new earth rising out of our letters to you. I am glad
you gave her another bit of my letters, she will absorb every detail with
avidity and be clearer in mind than ever before.
“My mind is so full of my new training that I seem to have lost touch
with your cases lately. 1 shall help all the better when I get back, though.
No, I can’t teil you anything yet but hope to on my return. Can’t say
when, but not long I think. I am coming for a last Silent Minute to-
night at 9 p.m., so be aware ofme like last time, darling. Love to my Dad.
So long tÖl 9 p.m. C.”
Lancelot: “Mum, darling, I am going to be mote with you now
Chris will be away and helping about your cases and all that. Chris teils
me he was giving treatment to several, and I can go on with it on the same
lines as he did. Chris is joining a stellar radiance course which will teach
him complete control over ray products here and give him possibilities
of higher develqpment than he could by remaining here. I think he will
enjoy it, too, but it means feirly hard work first. I shall enjoy being home
a bit and am quite good at the work he was doing so can help quite a lot.
You cattepunt on me twice a week, Mum darling, and 1’11 come Saturdays
and Wednesdays like Chris used to, shall P Can I give you an idea of
my work qn mopn-ray coacentration of dynamic will-force? To utilise
radiance of moon rays towards earth; and already peaceful vibrations are
coming which will heal the suffering of minds caused by war. It isn’t
working for stopping the war, but for healing torn minds and giving
them peace, and it has a so beautiful effect that I love to watch them
respond. and raise their heads again, like a cornfield after a Storni all
beaten flat, rising in the sun again. This is moon not sun though—and I
am moon-controller. I hope to be sun treater of awakening spiritual
.growth soon. Mum you are to rest a bit now, and we’ll be here for Big
Ben to-night and stand one on each side of you in radiant harmony of
prayer. Lancelot. Dad is always included.”
(Later, 9 pjn. Big Ben.) “Come on, Lance, she’s waiting. Shall we
wait for Big Ben?”
Lancelot: “Mum, I come ovei to you. Now I am near—you went so
far we couldn’t see you. Your love is like an awning of blue and rose
colour over us both. Chris wants to say goodbye so 1’11 go now.”
Christopher: “O, Mother darling, I can’t bear to leave you. Christ
help me. I am so sure and safe in you, but now I must go and labour away
from your love. O you make it seem all one wherever I go—I know your
love is there, so I won’t mind being far in body. I am glad to gain new
knowledge, and shall be home again soon—so goodbye Mumsie and Dad,
G
loz Lettersfrom Christopher
of all parents best I could ever think of. God bless you both, always and
ever. I’m going now. Chris.”
April 4th.
Lancelot: “You are tired so I was resting vou, Darling. I came to
report as to Chris going off to Sirius. He was thrilled at the distance, not
having been far before, and quite forgot to be homesick, for which I was
thankful. I went part way to see him off, but he was one of a big party
including expert teachers, and he quite took his place and was happy to go.
So I came back much cheerfuller about him. I haven’t been over to
Sirius mvself for a long time, but it is great in stellar rays they are to learn
about. Came to-day and you were with other people having tea; they had
nice minds and are so fond of you, but I was not conscious of any wish to
be higher in their minds, onlv to have nothing hard to bear. You tried to
lift them by telling them they had God in them, but it left them just the
same as before, just wanting to be helped in a comforting way themselves.
I think they will have to lift themselves; nogoodtrying to help them yet.
I only saw them coming to you though, so praps they are better than I
thought. Now go to bed and 1’11 give you a good night and see those
cases before Saturday when I next come as I told you. God Bless
Darling Mum and Dad from Lancelot.”
April zith.
Lancelot: “O Mum how splendid to get your mind in the morning! 1
am interested to teil you about J----- . Yes, the case you gave me. She
is only a little way from her death, and will soon be with her son and
husband. They have been told this, and are ever so happy about it. She
was hearing hei husband when I got there, and wasn’t sure if she heard
right so wouldn’t believe him in case. I had a talk with him and he is
such a nice man. ever so loving to her and his son. He is getting a
lovely home ready for them all to live in when she comes, and is so happy
about that, but she mustn’t know yet of course.
“Mrs. Y.—— is here again and is much better—may she talk?
.Mrs. Y.——: “You are kind, I can help you now. I see how your son
writes. Soon i sleep again, for 1 am old and need sleep. I shall wake up
like my youth they say. You are kind. Thank you. I must sleep now.”
Lancelot: “Now Mum I want to say a message for dad, to say he can
trust me to take care you get enough sleep too, like old Mrs. Y----- 1
She just won’t believe she can go ahead like a young woman now, but
is beginning to get the idea into her foggy mind. She hasn’t even got the
sense to know when her husband comes to see her, but he wasn’t in love
with her really, so he can’t help much now.”
May (sthy 1945.
Lancelot: “Yes, I may lift you to-day to see I am your son. O Mum
you love me still, and long to know what 1 have become. I make my
aura mist to speak to you, like yours, to blend and harmonise so that I
can write still to use your longing mind. But I am far Huger than you
can think, and great in power for God. I love to be with you and dad
Darlings but can’t show you my Huge seif yet, so kcep to little words
•nd on your level of mind, because I love von both so much. Now be
'Leitersfrom Christopher i°5
attentive to a message from Chiis. He has turned his mind this way to
teil you a bit of his doings, and can send it through me like I did once
through Michael—‘Chris speaking telepath to Mumsie and Dad.
Very curious happenings. Shall have inillions of letters to write when get
home. AU’s well—Love from C.G.T. love.’
“You heard him fairly well and I only had to put in one word which
was curious. I think he meant stränge to him, becos I only feel he had
been to quite ordinary places, and not real adventures such as I have had
before.
“About your cases, you get on best by.my intuitive guidancc on the
spot: these reports in words are unnecessary so don’t expect that from me
now.
“Darling you can’t take my words very long because I am too high
up: so stop now. give dad my love of course. God bless my home.
From Lancelot.”
May icth.
Lancelot: “You must give me attention now for a message from
Uncle Toby; he is bringing a relation of his to see you and make your
acquaintance.”
Theodore: “I am pleased to be in your mind again Ruth and find
you all well after Armistice Celebrations. My friend K----- comes from
Oregon and knew your boys there; known to my circle out there, but I
know names can’t come through, she is Win’s great pal. She happened
along to see me just as I was coming to you. I came to teil you that
Chris will soon be returning via Orion and Neptune. He expects to
see you June ijth or so and I am getting up a party to welcome him
home to which I hope to invite you, in return for your welcome to me
at Christmas before last. Chris likes parties as you know, and will be
the hero of this one, as all are new to this life and will be thrilled to hear
his adventures. I am proud he is so brave and independent over this
tour. A co-operator of mine is carrying messages from the party and
gives good reports of C’s progress—My regards to Guy. You will
hear more of my party later. Theodore.”
“Goodbye Mum I must go too. Love to dad. Lancelot.”
May Tith.
Lancelot: “I am to teil you that ‘a great adventure* is Chris’s
description of his tour and he has already prepared several talks with
you which he hopes you will publish. Of course he can’t make you
understand it all teally, but he hopes to be a famous author of post-
earth travel adventures.
“Dad would like to know that I see lovely emanations coming round
him when he looks at plants he loves. I was watching you two looking
at the peonies and beautiful colours came floating out of your minds in
harmony. 1 just gave a hurst of happy joy to see you looking at those
flowers. Your crown is growing Mum Darling, and Dad’s too.
“No, I haven’t heard again from Chris; he is on his way home by now,
but they visit several planets on their way back I think. 1 must skip off
now to sort my moon-rays for work again, so O revoir Mum Darling.
Love to dad from Lancelot.”
g 2
(
io4 lettersfrom Christopher
May iftb.
Christopher: “You thought I was Lance, but I am Chris! I am coming
overland so got home before Lance thought, and glad to be back, but
had no end of a good time. Darling, it’s great to be home with you again
and I did so enjoy our flowery walk, though you kept thinking I was
Lance! Can we have time for a good talk or are you busy? O.K.—now
for a description of the starry skies! All I could do was gasp with wonder
at first, but it was all natural after all, and nothing conflicts with ideas
from our planet if we take it all as one God. I am much grown in spirit
as a result of the marvels of the Universe, and feel greatly better for it
all. Can you visualise the meaning of Christ’s birth here on earth? God
indwelling Humanity? That is sHown in other forms in the far distant
stars, and He is creating and indwelling all. I was lost in wonder at His
Great Love.
“Let me teil you a bit of the lighter side of our journey. We were
lifted by our combined wishes into a current of ray-force to assist our
efforts to leave the planetary system to which we belong. All spirits
belong to their own planet until perfected, and it needs great desire to
leave our sun’s control, so this current was set in the direction needed by
our party by one of the higher Controllers of our planet. I must mention
my companions who were all from earth and mostly new to stellar space.
I was one of the youngest in the band, though a few had joined our life
in the war. Our commänder was a grand spirit, with years of experience
and full of longing for the earth’s enlightenment. Cushna knows him
well, his name on earth was----- . O no you can’t quite get it C----- . How
queer I can’t get it into your mind but you ought to know him. Charles
Wesley, that’s more like it. Only you haven’t speit it right, have you?
“More another time, can you make it tonight? I am due at a return
parade soon and can’t be certain of coming afternoon, but will get back
as soon as it’s over. Came here rapidly to register return with you, all
important Mumsie! Greet Dad from his loving son: hope see him tonight
too. Au revoir. Chris.”
Cater. “Came for Silent Minute like we used to. Mumsie, I am over-
joyed to be home again and see Dad fussing over his plants to make C.M.
garden best in England! My Mumsie, home at last! I was working hard
to get on and be a credit to you both, so all was well, but the relief to be
home again is wonderful. All I want is Home! Give me a few talks in
the week, Mumsie, as I shall be on home-coming leave and free to teil
you my adventures.” (R.; “Can you help with my work again?”) “Can’t
say as I am under Orders still and may have different instructions, but I
hope to help you a bit. You are wondering something? 1’11 be happy to
work for you all my free time, sweet Mumsie.
“Now, Mumsie, have we time for a description of a glory of colour
you can’t conceive? We gathered speed on the current I spoke of before,
till planets looked dim in the distance, and a star came nearer and nearer,
showing as a great green ball, then paler and bluer until left behind too.
After what seemed hours (but time is unintelligible there) we closed in on
our destination the star Cereos or Sirius. Rays of glory penetrated our
auras, and protecting hoods were pulled round our minds. Colours, O
such colours. I have no words for the glory of them. Sirius is a home of
Leitersfrom Christopher ‘05
radiant spirits who have evolved from many planets into perfection of
love and beauty. God’s Presence was so near I feil on my face in worship.
O, Mumsie, I can’t describe it, only a fraction can be absorbed by your
dear mind. Clear radiance all around. We were supported by our Leader
and told to try and see—after a time we got accustomed to the glory and
filled with strength to learn what we came to know. It conccrns our little
earth so far away—yet home to all of us, and we then knew how far we
had to grow before we attained the glory of spirits we saw. I can’t explain
what we were taught, it is too far from human words, but it has made me
grow in spirit as I never before could have thought of.
“Clear shining hills of jewel colours, green mantle of soft light, glory
of brilliant focus points of blazing light. Colours you can’t get near in
mind at all. God in all His Beauty. O, Mumsie, I have been far and learnt
much. Some day you will know, more I cannot describe.
“Shall we talk each evening after Silent Minute? I shall be with you
a week or two now—and shall think of things I can describe, I expect.
No more now as you are tired.
“Night night to Dad.”
May lith.
Lancelot: “ Clever Mum to hear me, I was quite a long way oif, but
am close now. I couldn’t come yesterday and was surprised to hear Chris
had got back so soon. Uncle Toby told me and said he had got a party to
welcome him home, but they can’t all come yet becos he thought it would
be later on. I am keeping on my work with you for a time, becos Chris
has a bit of free time due to him before he takes it over.”
(R..- “Mrs. P----- is anxious to get a messagefrom her husband.”')
“She is wanting to know what he is doing? 1’11 see if I can find him.
Yes, if you have her letter.” R. beld the letter.
“She has a very quick Vibration and wants very badly to have news
from her husband. He was Standing near her when she had that letter
and longing to get her mind to know he was with her. Someone eise
makes her afraid she is mistaken when she feels him there. She would be
much more sure that he came if she accustomed herseif to believe her
feelings and not think she is wrong always. I will try to see her husband
and have a talk with him about mind influence.
“All right and OK, as Chris says. Dad is awfully funny when he laughs
at you because he thinks so differently to what he says and it makes a
twinkle in his mind to be so different! I like that. His twinkle, I rnean.
It is so Dad-ish. I do so love my Dad—Darling Mum too, of course.
God bless both from Lancelot.”
Christopher: “You were two minutes too soon, I should guess. 1 came
as I said for the Silent Minute and make a tune about good to be Home
again. Cheers for C.M. Hooray! Teil Dave I said that when you see
him. Now for a short talk of a long journey into the starry spaces where
light shines with a grandeur we on earth never know. After leaving
Sirius we toured some of the Satellites around that great home of light.
After Sirius they seemed so insignificant and shone with only his reflected
light. I saw many forms oflife on them all and curious some ofthem were
oot, indescribable in human words. Quaint living beings without any
Lettersfrom Christopher
106
resemblance to earth forms—so little that any words I might use would
give a false impression. They—the Satellites—circulate round Sirius as
our planets round our sun, so they have day and night much as we on
earth. Clouds were rare as few had any moisture or air as we know it.
All have life but our scientists can’t get the idea of airless life yet most
other planets are airless. May I stop and think it out a bit?
“You are tired, Mumsie, shall we try earlier to-morrow evening? O.K.
before Big Ben, 8.30. 1’11 think out ways of describing the indescribable!
So long.—Chris. Love to Dad.”
May z<)th. {Music on tbe wireless.)
“Can’t you write later? Do let’s listen. You are so anxious for our talk!
1’11 begin, but the Silent Minute comes soon. I want you to be very
receptive and try to take in colours you have never seen! Coo, you nearly
saw it! I never ventured to suppose you’d get so near! Ixt’s have a big
talk after Big Ben. Can’t get you quiet before—no good, Mumsie.”
(Pausefor Big Ben.) “O 1 was surprised when you came on my wish wave,
just before Big Ben, you soared right over my head till I could scarcely
follow you. Now shall we have a try to carry you all the way to Sirius?
I meant to teil you more about our Crossing but decide it is too difficult
to describe. I cannot get words, but you must imagine glory of self-
luminous world is far beyond that of planets lighted by external rays.
Silver-blue and amethyst are the only human colours I can name. No,
there was green in many shades. I cannot describe contour, for there was
no form as we know it. All was harmonious movement, a blending and
forming to be swiftly changed at the volition of Beings whose home it
was, unutterably beautiful. Beyond this a further depth I could not
fathom in mind. I can’t express it, Mumsie darling, it goes too far beyond
words. We absorbed as much as we were individually capable of, and our
guide gave us further directions to remove protective cloaks as we feil
out of light into comparative dimness—on to the Satellites in turns.
Night on one of these. Queer beings bending in worship to God. All
absorbed in praising Him from Whom they came. Not beautiful to earth
thought of beauty. Impossible to describe, Lance might draw them, but
it wouldn’t convey the reality. Grotesque, I thought, but their minds
had Love in them. Life was there in many forms, and all completely
alien to ours on earth. I can’t use words, they just don’t fit. Our guide
explained that all were within the aura of Sirius and thercfore attuned to
high vibrations we have no_ conception of on earth. Each star has a
different Vibration of its aura and those within this are in bodies attuned
to this. Can we go on a little? I wondered so much at all 1 saw that I
failed to take in some of the teaching, so had to stay behind on one
Satellite and miss out the next. My guide said it was not so important.
Have you done higher mathematics? It was something like grasping the
Calculus before one has learnt one’s numbers. I just had to go back to
learn a bit before I could go on. Now I think you had better stop and go
to bed. I can see your mind is tired. To-morrow sometime? Righto.”
May }ist.
“Your cat is so affectionate. I can see his little mind working in love
for you and Dad. Yes, I think we can manage without turning him off.
1
Lettersfrom Christopher 107
I want to try and fbcus your mind on another aspect of my tour—that of
taking radiance back to Earth. We were not only learning, but helping
conditions here by collecting radiance in our minds to distribute here at
home. You can’t understand how this is done, but it follows as a matter
of course on our attaining a certain stage of development. The swift
flowing current carried us on our return, but we made a halt at Orion
where a few joined us who had not been so far. Orion is a peaceful star
of great power, it is controlled by overseers of star Systems who give out
far reaching influence through the surrounding universe. Blue is the
prevailing colour and overwhelming forces are in the blue rays which
proceed from it. Very scientific they seem to be there with knowledge
unobtainable to us. 1 was scarcely able to breathe there with so much
wisdom all over the place. Orion came out of creation long before our
sun was born—we’ll go on later, darling. Your mind was so nice and s he
smudged it all! However, Mumsie, you are wonderful Clearing up so well.
Gorgeous colours of thought penetration all over Orion and marvellous
kaleidoscopic patterns of intricate design. I have said blue was the pre­
vailing colour, but other colours were there which you don’t know.
Human words aren’t much use after leaving earth, so I can’t attempt
descriptions. Our way home was interspersed with smallet stars all of
great beauty; and some over, some under the radiance of the sun. I am
glad to have seen it all, although I can’t explain to you as I should like to.
Uncle Toby sends you a message that he was unable to bring off his
idea of a party on my arrival, so he is keeping invitations for my birthday
instead, and wants you to be prepared to act as medium to quite a lot of
my friends. They feel it a great privilege and honour, and will be excited
and pleased I’m sure. I think it’s awfully jolly of Uncle Toby to have
thought of it. Good-night, Dad and Mumsie, I must be off now. God
bless both. C.”
June yd, 1945.
“Can we go over to Orion for a few minutes? I am hoping to give you
some idea of the dimensions of a visible part of the globe of marvellous
Creations. You keep thinking ofclear blue, but that is not the colour at all.
Blue of an opaque turquoise shading into green or white in parts, all
illuminated by light given out in bands of colour from within. A million
bodies size of earth would scarcely reach the circumference stretched
in a line. All beings there are very high, and gifted with extraordinary
intelligence, which makes our earth minds seem babyish indeed. Only
kindness makes them receive us with gracious hospitality, and explain
their vast mechanisms reaching far out to other stars. I was, ofcourse, too
small to begin to understand, but took in that help to others was the
purpose ofit all. Come on Mumsie, you are slow to-night. That’s right, be
more awakc. I can’t teil much more for lack of words to fit what I saw.
June -jth.
“Came to teil you that I am officially promoted Captain of a team of
ray-light workers for Britain. Am terribly bucked and crowing no end.
Hope you’ll be able to call on me for ray-light work on occasions. Useful
in every way, but chiefly' healing of mind troubles such as nervous dis-
orders, grief and anxiety.
( (
io8 Leitersfrom Christopher
“Now as you are fairly fresh I want to talk about stars a bit. All the
universe is alive: there is no cessation of life anywhere. Space (as we
think it) is full of living beings and high holy ones too. God is in all and
fills all with life. Great Beings I can scarcely bear to see are yet not
superior to small beings as we are, because God is equally in all and only
degrees of opening to His Power are real. I found a collection of little
beings on one of the Satellites I told you of—they seemed so small and
weak to me, but God was in them to just as great a degree as in the Angel
who guided us. Only happiness depends on the response individuals
make to His power in them. We can accept or refuse His control, for He
has given us free will. I can see much now which was confused to me
before. Open-mindedness is valuable, because new truth can then be
accepted, and no one has attained final truth. Can I teil you about Sirius
again? Quantities of marvellous colours is the predominant effect on my
mind, overwhelmingly beautiful. Clear vision was difficult to me, for I
was too undeveloped for life there, so I can’t give you much idea of it.
Only I knew, when there, much of spiritual truth I had never imagined
before. Teil Dad I am much older now than I was before I left earth.
“Can I return to my promotion? I am to train my team myself accord-
ing to my own ideas, and can choose a team from those I have worked with
before. My pal Ian is no use for this kind of work, he is going to a power
centre, as force is his line. I know a few already I should like to have under
me, and can consult Uncle Toby as to the test. Good-night, Mumsie
darling.”
June üth.
Lancelot: “Can you teil Mrs H----- that her boy has got on very well
and is to be given a dass of younger boys to teach occupations to? He
is getting on first rate, and is so keen to let his mother know he is happy
and working hard at things he never thought of in earth life. He says it
was a bit of luck for him being drowned as it has given him such a grand
life. I went to see her and found his trail ofthought, so went along to find
him in his work-shop with the younger boys learning from him. 1 was
reminded of my own early days when I was so pleased to be given a job of
teaching.
“Chris is pleased about his promotion to Captain and wants to celebrate
by a dance, but can’t find enough girls he says! I think he will manage
somehow as he is keen on that sort of thing. I can’t catch on with the
idea ofdancing, not having done it on earth; it just seems silly to me.
Can you give me a kiss, Mum? O Darling, you shine when I say Love
like that! I am so glad to have a lovely Mum like you! Dad is ever so
Lovely when he is in his garden—like picrures of colours. Good-night
Darlings both. Lancelot.”
June i}th and lyth.
Christopher: (Music} “O Mumsie, how lovely that was. Let’s. listen.
(Pause.) I want to give you an idea of my new work as a Captain of a
team. I attune myself to the vibrations of them all so that they can each
pick up my Orders. Then they gather their separate rays into a harmony
Leitersfrom Christopher
(
109
which colours as I cotnmand, according to the need of the person wc are
trying to help. Of course, we can’t tackle mass wrong thinking yet, but
we can do a lot for individuals in that way.
“A while ago you were wondering about my talk about Orion because
you thought I meant a star, and it’s a constellation of stars. I meant the
constellation all right but described most ineffectively the idea that
pervades them all. There is a kind of sympathy through that sequence
of stars, so that what I said would do for all. I am not good at conveying
names so couldn’t get the individual star names through and used a name
you knew better than them. Sorry ifit was misleading.
“Can I have a few minutes before you go to welcome bed, Mumsie?
I have been trapsing about on my rounds, seeing your cases again and
cheered by the care Lance has taken of them. He says he is off soon to
another plane so I want to get au Jait with the new ones. . . . Now
Mumsie, I must be off, so an revoir, see you again in a few days with some
reports I hope. Lance takes me round to-night, I think, and comes to
you to-morrow to say goodbye for a bit. I know you were hoping for
more talks about the stars, but I find I can’t put it into words! It is all so
different to the things our words are made for that they don’t fit in at all.
Cheerio, I’m off. Love to Dad, of course.”
June zist.
Lancelot: “O I am so happy that you are readv tor me this time, Mum,
Darling! I want to teil you about my new work now that you have heard
about Colonel Gascoigne and his great work for the Nation. I am
collecting apparatus for cleaning the black spots on Earth and purifying
the etheric conditions left where fear and anger have inked them over.
Berlin is one of the blackest spots of all, so that’s why he is so worried
about this Conference being held there, but I’m awfully top-headed
about my apparatus, which has great cleansing power, and minds respond
to it in great waves of Relief, so I think 1’11 clear even Berlin soon. So 1
shall be working over there now until war effects are a bit cleared off.
Chris has got a team of workers under him for your work now, so ought
to be capable of lots more power than before. He is a bit shy of tackling
big things like mental trouble, but will soon get accustomed to it.
“Can I teil you a bit about my apparatus? It is a mind concept so
you won’t understand much, but this is how it is. I collect force of
cosmic radiation into a cylinder of will-power, which projects the rays
with great strength on to the black Earth spot, and clears things like fear
forces and muddy anger colours in no time, just like sunshine clears dew.
Then men’s minds can begin again all fresh, but the awful thing is they
go and muddy it up again by their wrong thinking, till I get all cross
with them and want to bang their silly heads together. Of course they
are only like silly children, but it is so aggravating when I make a nice
clean place to see it all messed up with wrong thinking in no time. I
shall be coming off and on to see you, so don’t be so not knowing me
like yesterday, Darling!
“I love your lovely mind, Mum Darling. Teil Dad he is doing great
work in telling his friend about me and Chris. Dad’s friend was just
unsettled in his mind and needed a push towards belief. He is so im-
I IO Lettersfrom Christopher
pressed, and very glad to have more corroboration of what he heard to
make more sure of it. Good old Dad! Cheers for Dad’s work! Going
off now Mum, see you soon again. Chris has taken over them all.
Lancelot.”
Christopher: “O Mumsie, you are happy at my attempted visualisation
in your mind! It is much easier to answer Dad’s questions by a picture
than in words. Happy colours live here and that makes it all so beautiful.
I see colours of the trees that you can’t see, because their etheric life is
coloured differently to their earth forms; and happy bird thoughts are
coloured differently to human thoughts altogether. All looks vividly
alive to me, and only the human houses look dead or rather just non-
li’.mg. Even stones have more life than houses because they are covered
with inoss or tinv plants. But I can’t describe it only it is the same place
seen inside out and altogether, instead of only it’s outline as you see it.
“Good old Dad. I know, Lance told me. He was so pleased that Dad
took his book to give that friend of his, and mv letters, too. Teil Dad
I’m ever so bucked and proud to have so clever a father. Most men are
so terribly afraid to sav anything about this life, the subject is taboo and
not quite nice, I guess, in their opinion, why I can’t imagine!
“Ta ta Darlings both from your loving son. C.”
June 2-^rd.
Ian: “O Mrs. T----- your cousin left a message he is coming back
to speak to you at 8.30. I am Ian, friend of Chris, now working under
Uncle Toby.”
(8.30.) Theodore: “ Came for a communication from Win, who sends
you her warm invitation to a party we are giving to Chris on his birthday.
You will be told who the strangers are who are coming; and one of the
great attractions to them all is your ability to converse with them: techni-
cally speaking you are a freak in our knowledge of Science, since you
achieve the scientifically impossible by sheer spiritual uplift. So, if you
don’t mind, you will give great pleasure and interest to several of my
friends if you consent to let them write with you. Chris has asked his
own pals, and is very friendly with a good many now, I am glad to say.
He is bringing a girl you will like to meet as she was torpedoed in his
ship. She is a very fine spirit and takes care of other girls who were war
casualties, so she is a worker already. Expect us then, Ruth, on
August 3rd at whatever time you name—time means more to you than
in our sphere. Good, we’ll be with you then: not too many for you I
hope. I shall limit the numbers you write with, for we must not overdo
our kind hostess. Chris is getting on first rate: I am proud of his progress.
Ile won acclamation on the Sirius trip by his Intelligence in taking in the
teaching convcyed. I think he should be able l<> help your work more,
owing to his grcater powcrs since the trip. Candidly I think you and
Guy have evciy reason to be as proud of your son as 1 am.
“Win sends her grcctings and is hoping to have a talk with you at the
party. My love to Dasid and with the best to vou and Guy.
Theodore.”
)
Leitersfrom Christopher 111
June 2.4t!}.
Christopher: “Can we talk now Mumsie? I am full to the beim with
news, and hope to impress you and Dad with my new importance! 1 am
to give a demonstration of ray-healing work before a large audience,
who are studying the subject for enlightening the medical profession on
earth. It is to be tiltered through into the minds of earth doctors by
telepathic Suggestion from our side. That much I knew already, and that
doctors on earth will begin to use other rays than those already known
soon. But I am—bucked is too small a word—swollen headed and too
big tor my boots and everything eise, to have been chosen for this
demonstration of ray work! Just a beginnet like myselfl They say my
methods have won approval in very high quarters, and I have shown
initiative and enterprise in training my squad. The show takes place
tomorrow, so, as my boys are nearly perfect in their drill, I am taking
a bit of time off to-day to keep from giving ’em fresh thoughts and
muddling the show up. My mind is so excited that I am teaming with
new ideas, and afraid of upsetting their drill by my presence! I shall
have to concentrate when the time comes, so all should go well. Teil
Dad now, so that I can enjoy his pleasure in my progress.
“I shan’t be coming for your cases till this is over, so no good telling
me to-day. Yes, by Wednesday I can settle to work again I expect.
Mumsie, I am so Happy, and it’s jolly to be at home. Let’s go out
together shall we? I don’t want to talk, but just sit about with you and
Dad. Right—1’11 play about while you finish your letters and we’ll garden
together after.”
]une z(>th.
“Mumsie, you are working hard, why so busy? O yes, very important
in time of war and you are still short over here I suppose? Well I gave
my demonstration and was highly applauded. Bother that voice. I am
burning to teil you about it. My boys were grand and we carried all
before us, so I was told by Uncle Toby. He came over to mc as soon as
we had finished, and said he was as proud of the performance as if it had
been his own, and is going to teil you about it himself when he can get
away. I am keen to get to work now. I have got my boys so keen too, so
give me cases that want healing in the etheric mind, Mumsie darling.
Well, what Orders?” R. “Mrs. H-----?” “She is very confident in
her knowledge of her boy’s wishes but I think he may have changed
pretty considerably. Nothing was more unlikely in my earth life than
that I should be trying to heal people’s minds! Yet that’s what I now
long to do. So her son has probably got completely new ideas of what
he wants to do now. Yes, all right, 1’11 be off and see him. Lance says he
has workshops and was teaching, did he? And she thinks hc ought to
be in the Navy—well of all the silly ideas! There ain’t noNavy over here,
thank God!” R. “She meant helpingthose in the Navy.” “Not old enough
yet for that kind of work, I guess. All right, 1’11 bring a report, Mumsie.”
Lancelot: “Of course I’m here but you are wanting to listen? O.K.
as Chris says. I want to give you a thought to think over my work: I
can’t clear minds that aren’t wanting to be cleared, but your prayers
can. I have to be governed by wills of men, if they will ‘no’ I can’t
< (
uz Lettersfrom Christopher
clear their minds, but God can change them altogether, so if you send
God’s Power over here to me in Germany it will do more than any of
us.” Music on the wireless. “O Mum how lovely! O may we listen
again.” (Pause to listen.) R. suddenly saw L. upside down. “I’m sorry
Mum if I startled vou but it was so tempting: you were so far out of
your skin that I just said ‘bo’ and you shut up back again like a winkle.
This is a great day and I’m glad to be home to hear all that Lovely music.
“The H----- boy? I remember, a nice lad. He was so pleased at being
allowed to teach younger children; and was giving them a lesson in
collecting ideas from the countryside to complete their models of what
they enjoy most. One of the early lessons in mind training of Creative
thoughts is to find out your thing of most enjoyment, and make a model
by wanting it to be. He was deeply interested in showing them how to
build their models in his workshop, out of will-power, not tools. I think
he will be a great worker and go overhead early just as I did.”
Julj 4th, 1945.
Christopher: “I am not able to report much to-day, having been
having a beano with my pals! They wanted to feast me on my promotion
to Capt. and gave me a jolly good show offireworks on the etheric plane—
quite glorious they were, with all sorts of marvellous colours in ’em, to
the tune of ‘He’s a jolly good fellow,’ and I was blushing with pleasure
at their love of me. So I gave part of my time since last seeing you, to
admiring their display and having speeches and so forth.
“A message from Uncle Toby to say you are to expect us all on my
birthday. He is getting up a party for me! Isn’t that good of him? Can
you fix a time so that we shall.be free? I mean you will be free—we are
free already! I think early is better than evening when you’re tired; yes,
5.30 till 7—grand. 1’11 teil Uncle Toby that. Darling it is sweet of you
to do it: not many boys have such mothers as you. They get no parties
connected with their homes, poor devilsl
“Can Dad take part in it? I shall want him to be there, of course, but
can’t he be co-opted in some way? Buy him a Planchette, praps he’d
use that to talk to us? Dave too. Yes, Mumsie, do buy a Planchette and
see if they could use it? It’s awfully easy I believe. You are superior to
that method, but I would like to get Dad in too, with a party in my
honour going on—it seems unfair to leave him out just reading it after-
wards. Get him to try a bit beforehand, and see if it works. I see, shall
I come later on? O.K. Silent Minute and talk after again. I’m free now
all day.”
(After 9p.m.) “Came here on a wave of home-longing, I didn’t know
I could travel so fast! Are you getting a Planchette for Dad? Can’t buy
them? I see lots of people using them. All right, can’t be helped I
suppose, but I thought it would be great to talk to Dad. You can under­
stand how I long to talk direct to my Dad, I love him so much. He
can’t manage enough power for a pencil, but a thing on wheels runs so
easily I thought he would sometimes talk to me on that—but I don’t
mind, only should shout for joy if we could talk direct. Never mind,
Mumsie darling, he’ll talk to me here one day. I must be off now.
Coming on Sunday next I expect. Carry on and have lots of cases for
me then. God hiess you both. Chrts.”
Lettersfrom Christopher
(
July izth.
“Yes, I wanted yesterday to come, but had to see a personal friend of
Uncle Toby’s about my party. You aren’t very bright to-day. R. “A
headaehe.” “I see, let’s see if we can eure it. A good patient, you relax
well.” (Pause.) “About the collective effort for the enlightenment of
England, 1 am organising on our side a crowd of helpers, who are taking
every opportunity to control people who are psychic, so there is little
danger now of any getting under low control unless they definitely invite
it by their own low minds. So you can go ahead and teil anyone you like
and show them how with safety—we are educating them all the time too.
Your headache gone now? O.K. 1’11 be off too. Au revoir, Mumsie.”
(Later) “O Mumsie, you are so sweet, I nearly kissed you on your
lips but you drew back into your shell too quickly. I want ycu to teil
Dad that his lessons in church are doing more good than he knows of.
I was in church with him one Sunday, and I saw how deeply it impressed
so many there. They started thinking quite etherically. 1 mcan they
opened their minds to think about other things than themselves. Lots
of minds go to church to think entirely about themselves; if they have
been good and so forth—which does them not a scrap of good, rather
otherwise--Dad gives them time to think of other p'-ople’s writings of
ancient times, and some of them get quite interested and forget their own
feelings.
Clever of me to give your head a rest, but you will sleep it away to-
night and be O.K. to-morrow I gucss. Yes, 1 am away now. See you
Sunday next I suppose and 1’11 go to church with Dad again. Sweet
Mumsie farewell, your loving son, Chris.”
July i)ib, 1945.
JZ—.Al—.“Can you bepatientoverme? My name is M—.1 am a German
woman, you do overlook this? Continue may 1? Can myself understand
not how you so obliging are to let me talk so closely, for I was ofbitterness
full till laitly. Now see my fault do I; compatriot of all and all men are
actually so to others. Show my country will I of this stränge new life
over here so to themselves prepare and come not as 1 so unknowing ofit.
You have seen a difficulty?” (R. “They will not understandyou.”) “No,
yet try must I for it is of extreme importance that they have this know-
ledge, so no more they strive their country only but know of all are
connected here as one people. I shall my part strive to play in your so
right work to send news in other minds as you now do. You so kind
have been. May I come again? V—.M—.”
(From Another) “Your son is listening to Communications from a
crusader and cannot come now.
July i(>th, 1945.
Christopher: “O Mumsie, 1 am so excited at our Conference yesterday,
and want to teil you if you’ll give me a minute. A great Spirit came from
Sirius, and showed us our part of the Plan in the Universe it seemed
all so plain when he was speaking, because he gave our minds a grasp
of other planes of being, but after he had gone 1 was unable to grasp
more than the tinv bit we are to carry out on Earth. It is a great plan of
)
H4 Leitersfrom Christopher
God for this whole Universe, but each ofus has a bit ofit to do. All I can
remember now is a sense of reality and urgency about our work, yours
and mine, and a knowledge that we shall know more about it as we
get higher in spirit. 1 was left with a feeling of great expectancy, as if
our Earth was getting ready to take a bigger part in the Plan, and all us
human beings must work like niggers to fit ourselves for the next Step
we must soon take. “Carry on”—he seemed to say—“get on with your
jobs, you will soon be needed in the Universe as a whole”—-I feel it is
Great to be a Man—“Carry on”—I mean to do so, Goa help me. Zola—
that is the name he gave us. Spreading the Light is ofinfinite importance—
Spread it in prayer if no one asks your help, but spread it. I want to
lift all men’s minds up to know Truth now . . .”
“Shall I teil you another of my curious adventures? Dad would like to
hear it maybe. Uranus lay in our path on my last voyage, so we swiftly
descended to allow our guide to give the inhabitants a message. You
cannot conceive in your mind what it was like, but it reminded me of
quantities of jam. Piles of matter in a soft state with creatures alive
imbedded in it like raspberry pips in raspberry jam! Our guide’s business
was with certain great spirits in Charge of the planetary affairs, so I had
no chance of seeing these creatures closely. O no, it wasn’t all red like
jam, all sorts of kinds of colours, but a kind of jammy consistcncy in
which live beings moved. Only a part of it was like that; we didn’t really
land, so I saw no more than a small bit of it. Don’t use znd sheet, must
be off now.”
July litb.
Christopher: “Lance took me ovei his apparatus to watch it working
and 1 saw how a streak of luminosity appeared in the clouds cf anger and
animosity engendercd by our conquest. He turned on the force of coh-
centrated will-power and a whole area cleared into sunny, happier
feelings of hope. He has invented this means of absorbing will-power of
many high minds into this directive Instrument which works by his or
another*s volition as a means of etheric purifier. Not well expressed, but
1 am held up for words. 1 was intensely interested in the sight, and hope-
ful of great help to our leaders now holding this Conference. Mumsie,
how soon does Dave come horre? O 1’11 arrange to be more at home then,
but now I want to be away a bit to help over Berlin, it is so important
for the world’s future to keep their atmosphere pure. (R. “ Mrs. V7-----
needs help.”) “1 see, well, TU soon be back, and she isn’t desperate is she?
—1 think I ought to stay and help her first, as Lance can get on all right
really. Carry on, He said—Carry on, and I was thinking of my own
interest in Lance’s work. Good, Mumsie you are right, and have shown
me I must beware of selfishness still. 1’11 go at once to Mrs. W----- .
Thanks. Mumsie, you are able to think my thoughts before I even express
theml”
V—. M—“Your son is going. 1 come perhaps?”
Christopher: “Yes, Mumsie, I made way for a person who spoke to
you before and needs help.”
V—. M—..- “I so thankful am you friend to see. Germans not much
Leitersfrom Christopher "1
can hear vet. I speak clearly so loud. I must them warning give so they
go on no more of wrong thinking. God He cannot hear me. 1 do not
completely understand, but 1 see you more clearly so my best will do.”
August yd, 1945. (Christopher’s hirthday.)
“Yes, Mumsie, we are all here now, and Uncle Toby is toast-master,
he says. I am to speak first, as it is my party, and I am terribly intercsted
to see many of Uncle Toby’s New Zcaland relatives, he has been intro-
ducing me to H----- ’s and H----- B------’s and A----- ’s and all. I can’t
sort ’em out yet, too manv, but he says he isn’t going to inflict them all
on you only a few special ones like Auntie Win. My own pals are here to
grect me, and Dave, for I include Dave in any party I get.” (“Hieven
relations andfriends wrote with R’r hand in turns—then C. wrote.”) “Chris
speaks, Mumsie. We think you must have a rest now, so we’ll finish
the party after your supper. Plenty to amuse them all with here, as they
are chattering together like a swarm of bees! About 8.15 if you are ready
by then?”
(Cater. After 8.15 five more guests wrote, Christopher and Lancelot at
the end.)
August i^th.
Christopher: “Come over to Sirius again with me Mumsie, if you’ve
time? Great things are to be exuded from there to influence our Solar
System. Great power on the spiritual planes, and even our tiny earth will
feel its repercussions. Of course I can’t, but I know its power; one can
understand in spirit without knowing in mind. Your work is linked with
the spiritual power now flowing to earth from Sirius, and you are launched
on a stream ofinexhaustible power which you can’t conceive ofin mind at
all. Our country is destined, as I told you before, to rule the world in the
next age now dawning, and that’s why this stream of spiritual power
finds expression here in England. I can’t see any details of the future,
but I see clearly England’s destiny.
“Can you take a little more in this strain? I am trying to make you see a
globe of light on Sirius, like a moon only lovely colours of all sorts,
which are colours ofthe spiritual essences distilled by the holy minds there
to invigorate spiritual power in our Solar System. It is focussed on the
outer nm of planetary orbits now, and will move in focus to each orbit
in turn until all have feit the invigorating power. It is a poor description,
but the best I can do in words. It is so far beyond them really. Goodbye
darling, Love to Dad. C.”
August zGth.
Christopher: “I want to teil you a few hints on the future which have
come my way lately. Christ Himself is nearer earth than for hundreds of
years, and a great Light is soon coming. Presently all will know of this,
so our work will then be merged into the greater, and is now of extreme
importance to prepare men’s minds for His coming. They will know by
the reflection of His Glory on us who work in the etheric life, and our
influence on men’s minds will be far more potent and clearer than before.
1 can’t say when this Light will come, but I am told it may appear soon.
n6
(
Cettersfrom Christopher
All man’s career has been so far iraproving material life, and he has then
set to v/ork to destroy it! Now he has to work on different lines altogether
to create a spiritual development which will transform the world and
glorify it. 1 was not enlightened encugh to be told before of the Coming
Light. But now I am wholly Christ’s I can work with dearer knowledge.
Give me your blessing Mumsie once again—I am buckling on my t.tmout
of light for die last stiuggle of the .Cewl ntd theVictcry of Christ!” . . .
“ Menfaintingforfear, andfc,r expectation of the things
which are coming on the world ....
“ But when these things begin to come topass, lac ’:, up, and
lift up your beads; because your rcdemptioa draweth nigh.”
St. Lz/fes xxi. 26.28. (B_. V.)
INDEX
Age after death, 88, 89, 102
Air creatures, 33, 90, 99
Anger, 62
Animals, spirits of, 19
birdr, 19, 110
cats, 41, 49, 56. 58, 9z
cows, 37
dogs, 61
jpzinca-pigs. 20
horses, 20
mice, 20, 35
Apparates, etheric (activator) 97, ico,
114 .
Army, Eighth, 25
of Light, 40
Auras, 60, 102, 104, 106
Berlin, 109, 114
Big Ben, 16, 21
Birds, 19, 79, 110
Blindncss after death, 40
Boundary, 11, 44
Camps after death, 13, 23, 24, 27, 62, 82,
84, 86
Canterbury Cathedra!, 28, 29
Christ, 11, 24, 40, 115, 116
Church, 2S, 8e, 115
Clairvcyan.ce, 9z
Clothcs, 12, 59
Clcuds, 27, 66, 91
Colour, 23, 39, 55-63, 95, i°4, IO7, no
Coming Light, 1x5, no
CcOTiic rays, 34, 63, 72
Courage, 54, 64
Creation by desirc, 18
Crusade in England, 28, 92
Day -and night, 15, 34
Death incidents, 14, 30, 51, 52, 62, 65
Devils, 28, 4z, 43, 51
Earth-bour.ders, 38, 89
forms, 81-82
Ectoplastn, 56, 57
England, 27-30, 48, 62, 90, 99, 115, 115
Etheric bodies, 60
Fairy life, 19, 32, 57, 59, 76, 87, 90, 98
Fcar-fighting, 43, 44, 5L 55, 7>, 75, 83,
86
Flowers, 15, 76, 103
Forests, 20, 35
France, 45-47, 4y, 54, 7>
Furnirirc, 10, 48
Germans, 13, 23, 25-27, 36, 99, 113, 114
Ghosts, 31-33, 57
Gnome Efe, 34, 39, 43, 48, 52, 59, 92, 99
Goblins, 56, 69
God, 10, 24, 55, 88, 104, 108
Growth Contres, 75
Guides, 9-13, 89
Healing, 12, 71, 86, 96, 101, 111
Heat, 77-79
History, ancicnt, 29, 31
Infiucncc, mind, 15, 40
Insects, 88
Japanese, 28,42, 85
Keys, ray, 66, 68, 69, 73, 82, 85
Light, 34, 45, 69, 78, 95
bearers, 67, 76, 84, 90
Magnetism, 77-79, 81
Mars, animais, 67, 69, 72, 83, 85
laboratories, 66, 68, 72-74, 83
landscape, 65-72
Vegetation, 66, 68, 85
Martians, 65-67, 70-75, 85
Mary, 12, 31, 86, 95
Mediums, 38, 89, 97, 99
Mercury, 87, 95
Mind, pov/erof, 10, 15, 17, 18, 20, 8R, 89
Moon, 81, iox
rays, 93, 96, 97, iot
Music, 10, 11, 32, 39, 42, 55, 96
Musical instrument, 10, 39, 49, 88
Ncprune, 17, 84, 87, 105
Orion, 103, 107, 109
“ Overhead,” 93, 100, ioi
Past, the, 29, 31, 32
Path-iinding, 14-16, 25, 29, 50
Perspective, 11
Plants, 19, 32, 60
Power centrcs, 59, 75, 93-95, 99
Prayer, 11, 29, 30, 48, 99, in
Radio, 28, 50, 77-80
Ray-bringcr, 56, 57, 60
-keys, 66, 68, 69, 75, 82, 85
-light, 67, 69, 71, 107
Rays, colour, 60, 61, 69, 73, 82, 85
cosmic, 34, 63, 72
Crown, 75
force, 63
healing, 57, 62, 63, 71, 86, 93, 111
light, 51, 69
Martian, 65, 93
moon, 93, 96, 97
power, 45
Russians, 13, 23, 26, 51, 54
Schools, etheric, 17
Science, 10, 11
Scances, 38, 99
Sight, 40, 45, 81
“ Silent Minute,” 11, 21
Sirius, 102, 104-106, 108, 113, 115
Slccp forms, 34, 42
Solidity, 10, 25, 73
Space, 11
Star-training, 94, 101
Tclcpathy, 47, 77, 85, 103
Thought, 18, 19, 25, 35, 59, 112
forms, 34
tracks, 16, 18, 26
vibrations, 58
Time, 32, 34, 62
TravelEng, etheric, io, 18, 24, 27, 28, 3z,
49, 65, 104
Trc-cs, 15, 20, 55, 110
Uranus, 114
Venus, 94
Vibrations, 26, 78, 79
Waves, clectro-magnetic, 28, 77
Westminster Abbey, 43
WilJ-power, 24, 47, 48 49
