{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1944__purnell___the_comforter_mothers_book____v6.pdf","mytitle":"The Comforter Mothers Book","mylang":"de"}
THE
Book of Paradise
THE COMFORTER
The Mother's Book
VOLUME SIX
PREFACE.
TO THE LIVING Elect stones of God, gathered and to
be gathered to Christ—the foundation Stone—wherever
hid, scattered and dispersed, who are elected of God for
the New Jerusalem glory of the Immortal Church; with all
love, grace, peace and joy to be multiplied from Him who
was and is to come for the establishment of His Immortal
Church by His Holy Spirit, Christ, our Prince and Savior,
whom He hath sent in His own name to build up the founda
tion of the Father, the Holy Mother and Son, GREETINGS:
A Rock indeed, which remaineth steady and unshaken
from time to eternity; and indeed, who else is found suffi
cient for the ingathering and building of this Holy Temple?
The precious stones that are to be fitted and compacted
together to make up this glorious Immortal Church, that
may be presented all fair, without spot, thus becoming the
spouse and Bride of the Lord Jesus Christ, which you will
find the whole subject of the following revelation tends to;
even to the bringing out of all that is found in lifeless form
unto the very substantial Ldfe of the Holy Ghost Spirit which
is the increase and growing up and is known in that body in
which God will move and work, which ends all prophecies
that have been; which shall be fulfilled in this very age, for
good assurance is given from the fresh springing words of
Wisdom, which will produce a sealed commission, not only in
the letter, but from the wonderful fiery Breath, by which
alone I desire to make it known to all Israel and from thence
sending pure love greetings to those whose ears are open to
hear and receive what the Spirit of Truth hath declared and
unfolded in this beautiful Book of Paradise which is now
published.
II PREFACE
Therefore observe and be watchful for the same burning
ray, which will surely overshadow the believers who have put
on the meek, simple and childlike spirit, unlike the worldly
wisdom which can never reach the deep things of the Spirit.
Therefore there is a foreseen power and authority in the
beautiful Words of Life that was from the beginning and is
now come to bear its own Living record in our day.
These Divine Words are spoken in the Spirit of Truth
and Wisdom. Let none resist, but open the everlasting door
of thine heart to take it in, and so you will through that
living hope, partake and bear the True and Living testimony
with us, that the beautiful Morning Star has arisen to lead
us out of ourselves wherein is nothing but darkness.
Therefore let it be understood that when the fallen
spirits keep their strong-hold, they are binding and putting
out the eyes of Sampson, the Nazarite; and I have often
heard Benjamin say that before his eyes were put out his
natural strength was typical of Jesus Christ's Spiritual
strength, wherein such great love, grace and goodness hath
now abounded in us, in Christ Jesus our Lord, who came and
offered Himself—effectual, Eternal salvation.
Therefore there is not a door that Christ passes by
but at one time or another He knocks at it and would find
entrance, to redeem and fetch out His own eternal Spirit from
under bondage, death and misery. But all were so over
shadowed and weighed down in their spirit that they could
not get up to shake off this earthly dust, to walk with God
like unto Enoch, and observe the counsel of the Lord Jesus
Christ, first to seek the Kingdom of God and His Righteous
ness and all things shall be added unto thee. For there is
no God in all the earth but in Israel, and I am His servant.
MARY PURNELL.
MARY
of the
CITY OF DAVID
March 12, 1944.
Bentley Historical
Library
University of Michigan
THE
Book of Paradise
THE COMFORTER
The Mother's Book
VOLUME SIX
PEACE
THE GLORIOUS REIGN OF THE PRINCE OF PEACE.
ALL HAIL with love, peace and good will to the Holy
Mother of Zion, who shall not fail to open unto thee
what has lain under seal for centuries. If we will attend
unto Her, She will attend unto us—whosoever shall watch
within their hearts in Spirit and in Truth, for He is the
bright and Morning Star, the Conquering Prince to lead
His little flock.
Let it be remembered, in His personal absence from
this lower world, the devil tries in many ways through de
lusions, to turn you from the golden path of Eternal Life
in which all are in danger as long as they have the mortal
life of blood.
Therefore our blessed Ascended Master has sent His
Spirit of Truth to be with thee for counsel and comfort.
also to guide thee up to Him, wherein thou mayest know
and see by His Divine Spirit what I am doing in making
ready for the present and future day, preparing us to be
clothed with the garment of Immortality.
So in Spirit, come and see and taste of the heavenly
fruit of Paradise, thus entering into the joys of My Kingdom.
The glorious spring of Life and Love shall rise so high as
to drink My Holy Spirit up, thus, dwelling with Me thou
shalt ever feast, and thou shalt never hunger nor thirst any
2 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
more but dwell in Spirit with Me, your Lord and Redeemer ;
thus entering into liberty, sweet liberty of love Divine which
will cause thy bodies to grow as the trees of Lebanon.
Oh, thou spouse of Mine, thou shalt fly as a spark of
light to the body, that is, the power and fulness of light.
These are the sweet meats of Eternal Life He has left with
His Espoused ones to feed upon for a refreshing support until
a future day shall break through the heavens above, wherein
He shall appear with ten thousand of His saints.
So get you ready! get you ready to celebrate the Royal
Marriage feast with Christ, our Living Head, and with myr
iads of angels with their trumpets joyfully sounding at the
beautiful feast. \
Therefore send these honey drops to the,' ends of the
earth, telling them it is from the mouth of our Immanuel,
the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace.
Oh, ye anointed and faithful travelers in this golden
path to the City of your God, having the full assurance that
you are dwelling in the Holy Circle of His embrace, let it
be understood that the Great Day of Christ's appearing is
drawing near.
For this end, such deep and inward things are revealed
beforehand to make ready to be called His espoused Bride,
that you might be found all fair and clear, without blemish ;
for such a Church, Christ must have to entertain Him upon
this earth.
Therefore, as many in this, the Twelfth and Last hour
are fully expecting Christ in His glorious Kingdom to appear,
to all such lovers and waiters for it, let me quote that of
the apostle Paul in 1 Thess. 5:23: "And the very God of
peace sanctify you wholly ; and I pray God your whole spirit
and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming
of our Lord Jesus Christ."
Such qualified ones might hasten His coming, for it is
not to the cry of "Lo here or lo there" that He will appear,
but to those whom He hath by His Spirit quickened and
raised up by His own. Immortal Spirit. To them He will
first appear and go forth as lightning everywhere.
Therefore, all those who are divine lovers of this Christ
Life, willingly lay aside all vexation and worldly matters
which are cumbersome and weighty upon the mind; they
take in nothing which is not absolutely necessary. There
fore contentment with Godliness is great gain, so dear be
loved Israel, be content with such things as you have, for
I will never leave thee nor forsake thee.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 3
Praise God, we have such a prize put in our hands as
to honor God, thus being willing workers, longing for His
Kingdom to be established upon earth.
What I say unto one I say unto all, suffer not the out
ward to jostle out the inward, but ever seek to have that
golden seed of Faith wherein the water of Life doth bubble
up, for this is our cleansing, being in the Seventh springing
pool, keeping our hearts all pure and reserved ; doing nothing
contrary to His Holy Will.
Therefore watch and pray and be on your guard always.
Is not this a glorious and high privilege, to receive the Holy
Spirit which brings us things out of God's treasure, teach
ing us the way to obtain things both old and new?
The way to obtain these precious gifts is very costly—
being the Pearl of great price—and all who are able to obtain
and retain this precious and Holy anointing, come to know
the secrets of the deep things of God.
Truly, these jewels will not be found in common earthly
ground, for the earthly body profiteth nothing except it be
quickened by the Spirit ; for they who have no degree of this
Spirit of Christ cannot be His, but if there be so much of
this Light as doth check and rebuke sin, being willing to obey
the Spirit, it will manifest for counsel and comfort.
So He, the Spirit of Truth will reveal Himself clearly
as He finds the heart given up to be His in Spirit and in
Truth ; opening as a glorious flame in the heart, laying there
as a living, burning coal, which is made known to us to be
the baptism of the Holy Ghost.
This is present in feelings, and wheresoever it is in its
highest, penetrating powers, it causes vou to feel as if you
were flying on the wings of Jehovah; for as there was an
outward, personal going up to the visible Jerusalem to eat
the feast of the passover, this was a beautiful type of the
great day of the feast which is now kept in the New Jeru
salem Above.
Here the Lord Christ in His Spiritual humanity doth
appear, keeping up solemnly that Spiritual feast with the
body of His saints there and sometimes doth admit of pure
spirits that are yet in the body of visible flesh to come to
view the stately order and Holy Government of that Heav
enly feast and to taste thereof.
This is the True eating of the supper of the Lamb and
drinking of the pure wine of the New Testament with Christ
in His Kingdom. Blessings, joy and glory we may pro
4 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
nounce to all who are called and invited to come up to feed
upon this Paschal Lamb.
They shall never desire to leave this Holy Place, for
none can go up to this Holy Place without putting on the
tabernacle body which is the flaming heart of the Holy Ghost.
Let it be understood that this Holy birth of Wisdom
is to be brought forth in this Twelfth and Last hour. It
shall come forth in the mighty strength of the Godhead in
the chosen vessels of both male and female, which shall
be qualified to bear rule and manage the rod of power which
must certainly be kept in mind that it is only by the Divine
Marriage —the man dwelling in Christ; the woman dwelling
in Jerusalem Above —for what God has joined together let
no man put asunder, and seek not to be joined together with
any man who is not regenerated.
They are the King and Queen of the New Kingdom,
that the bodies of man and woman will be redeemed and
made in childhood once again, but with the Divine power
from the Mighty King and Queen of the New Creation.
Oh, Daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the
first dominion shall come to the Daughter of Jerusalem.
This Daughter must become the Bride in order to become
the Mother of the New Creation.
Those who have been redeemed in their bodies, who
shall inherit the earth, must possess the power which will
destroy the old nature and impregnate the body with New
Life, proving that She has the original birth from the Divine,
where She receives power from Her Husband, Christ.
Christ, who is the Prince of Life, will take to Himself
the Alpha and Omega that shall reveal to the inhabitants
of the earth, that His Jerusalem Bride shall sit with Him
upon His throne and reign till all those who have refused
obedience to this name, shall be constrained to come and
worship before His and Her feet.
The food of this precious Bride is within Herself, and
it is no other than the pure Deity which rises as a flaming
spring from Her own depths. She lives upon the heavenly
air which blows the purifying fire as the first Holy Virgin
purity, out of which the Immortal Soul is made.
Therefore the partition walls must be broken down that
Christ above and beneath may join together for a Divine
joy and happiness. These Holy ones will produce a new
generation.
The work of the Father is for the Spirit; the work of
Jesus Christ is for the soul; the work of the Holy Ghost,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 5
the Divine Mother, is for the body. These three are one
and their intention is to bring man back to His first estate
when spirit, soul and body were sinless.
This Holy and blessed Trinity is the Divine family—
Father, Mother and Son. Praise God we do testify that
the Royal Seed is upon the earth and each will come at
the Master's call to receive the Royal Seed at the hand of
the Mighty Shiloh Immanuel; that we may be joint heirs
with Him in His glorious Kingdom here upon earth.
Let it be understood, not only do I give unto you a
seal of protection, but it is also a seal of Life—a witness
that you are sealed to inherit Life Immortal, sealed to Live
and not to die—also the Mighty Shiloh Immanuel has de
clared unto you that He has prepared for His chosen ones
a City of Refuge, wherein no harm shall come to them and
there they shall flee when they see My judgments approach
ing.
Each shall have the knowledge when My judgments
have come; so shall each seek to come into My City of
Refuge, My Land of Goshen. Therefore when the flock of
Gentiles have neither food nor water they shall behold Israel
living on the Tree of Life; when all the land shall be in
darkness and distress there shall be light and peace, for My
Kingdom shall be set in the midst of thee and I the Lord
will be in the center for every eye to see.
Therefore the seal will be given to those who desire
their bodies to be cleansed and made fit to be the temple of
the Holy Ghost. Let it be made known unto all, that they
who do not desire to be conformed to the image of Jesus
Christ, the Immortal Son of God, are not Israel, and to be
conformed to His image means to be made like Him after
His resurrection.
He appeared to His disciples and said: "Handle Me and
see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bone as you see Me have."
I plead with thee not to be satisfied with anything short of
a complete fulfilment of His Holy Visitation, under the Voice
of the Seventh and last Trumpet, which will bring us safely
to the sweet Sabbath of rest.
Then hasten ye to obey, and look not for what ye have
expected but look for a strange act, unknown, and if ye
hear His Voice, harden not your heart. Ever remember we
are in possession of that Living Seal of redemption. His
Seal of promise, without money and without price, are the
commands to His sealed, His people Israel, before the de
stroying angels pass through the land.
THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Woe unto them, who have crucified the Lord of Glory
afresh and put Him to open shame; so dear beloved Israel,
let us ever seek to become of one mind and one spirit, de
siring the glorious reign of the Prince of Peace. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
HOLY MOUNT ZION.
I TELL YOU dear Israel, while I am giving out these deep
and glorious truths unto the anxious waiters, herein I find
myself at rest within the arms of God, whose blessed mes
sengers bring down to me the Bread of Life, wherein the
gate of God's deep mysteries has been opened, showing forth
that we must return into the womb of eternity, there to
be regenerated into a heavenly, Divine form, from the One
Holy Element, out of which Christ's Holy personality is
taken.
This is the rich garment His Elect 144,000 are to be ar
rayed in. Thereby they will be distinguished from those who
stick fast in corrupt nature and are not regenerated into this
bright image, and from those also who thought they were
regenerated according to the inward man, yet being en
tangled in the thicket of many things, fain would stay be
hind till those who by their hard pressing forward have
overcome the worldly beast and dragon.
Therefore these will be the first instruments in the
Lord's personal power, for the Lord assured me that this
would be the way He would take in this present age to
instate some who are known to Him in His personal reign,
that they may enjoy here upon the earth, their first heaven.
These are the faithful pilgrims who have been perse
cuted and treated cruelly in the beast's kingdom, now re
ceiving their good things from the Lord Jesus Christ's fold.
Their work shall speak forth praises from the Most High,
for Wisdom's Spirit will act so Divinely and in such a
mysterious manner as hitherto has not been known.
All these miracle powers have been reserved to make
up the glory of Christ's Second Coming in His representa
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 7
tives here on earth; for if the Lord should not in this man
ner demonstrate His Godhead power in His Saints, it would
set very lightly, and it would be a vain thing to assume
the title and name of kings, without the anointed power of
the Mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah.
Truly He hath assured me that He hath made a large
and full provision for this wonderful day. Therefore be noth
ing doubting concerning all the great things of His glor
ious Kingdom which has been opened to thee from the center
of Light. They have been revealed from the very throne
of God.
The head of the dial has moved into the Twelfth and
Last hour, which will manifest all these working powers of
the Holy Ghost. Wherefore strengthen thyself to encourage
all those to whom these words shall come through that Im
mortal Eye of Faith, as it is directed, for wonderful things
are upon the wheel, by which you may know it is high time
that you cry out with a loud voice: Awake! awake and do
not be found asleep like the disciples at the open door.
The foregoing words are that which make way for the
reign of Christ in personal power and glory, now the great
est thing to be waiting for as the end of a dispensation
cometh, wherein we are not to rest but to press forward
to enjoy the fruits of our labor in the Lord's vineyard, then
Christ will be made manifest in His personal glory and
power, for that Immortal Spirit will not be at rest till it
can put on the resurrected, Immortal body.
The Mighty Present One, Shiloh Immanuel, has come
to fulfil all prophecies in the substance of His own person
that is born of the Virgin, from whom we may expect the
perfection of that which all former ministers and manifesta
tions have left short in regard to those wonders which shall
be effected in this wonderful age; to which end Christ hath
opened the Immortal Eye that can pierce as deeply as the
Holy Deity, where this Virgin lies hid with all Her glory.
Ever since Adam's day She has been hidden away be
cause She would not trust Herself with any mortal; only
some of Her shining rays have now and then been scattered
into holy souls, a test of which has been given as the first-
fruits of what has been reserved for Christ, the Lord's
Second Birthday, where shall be provided a Pentecostal
feast, according to the royal and heavenly state of Jehovah's
Bride.
Oh, how unable am I to bring forth in words what hath
been shown me of the latter fruit that Wisdom's children
8 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
shall feed upon in this wonderful day, the discovery of which
we will pass by at present, wherein we shall behold what a
wonderful Virgin this is, and how noble, Divine and lovely
to be taken into God's bosom in a Godly love-embrace.
Therefore She may be termed, Goddess, and we cannot
give this title to any other, but proceed to describe this
Virgin according to the lineage which God hath given of
Her, wherein it is wonderful how the True Virgin's ear
is turned inward to listen to the sweet Voice of Her Bride
groom.
She listens for the beautiful words that drop from His
lips, whose Words are Spirit and Life. She is in such union
with the Holy Deity that She cannot hearken to any strange
voice, therefore She turns Her ear to those echoes, voices
and sounds which leave a sweetness of pure Virgin nature.
Truly, nothing but God can be the Virgin food—noth
ing is so well digested by Her—for it is a Divine flowing
from the Almighty's strength. Therefore, through the Holy
One, the New Life in you shall grow as the tree of Lebanon
and we shall behold on either side of the walk there is a row
of olive trees and to every tree there is an angel to guard
the way, having flaming swords in their hands; and the
olives continually dropping the same golden oil.
She shall still lead us on until we come to Her mighty
mountain where the Immortal Sons of God shall there be
seen. Then we shall hear a voice saying: This shall be
Paradise —the Paradise earth replenished with Virgin Wis
dom, bringing forth offspring which shall be called the Im
mortal Church of the First-born, and be named Jehovah,
I Am That I Am. The Lord our Righteousness is their
clothing.
After this, Wisdom said to Her faithful followers: Ye
must pass into this mountain, namely, the Holy Mount Zion;
so ye shall become capable with the same glory with these,
proving you have been highly favored and given to be a
pillar of support to this Immortal Church that has been
so long promised. For there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 9
THE ANCIENT OF DAYS.
"AND I WILL PRAY the Father and He shall give you
another Comforter, that He may abide with you for
ever, even the Spirit of Truth which the world cannot re
ceive because it seeth Him not, neither knoweth Him, but
ye know Him for He dwelleth with you and shall be in
you" —John 14:16,17 —that is, to such as are true seekers
and fervent lovers of Truth, how they may come to know
the True revelations of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, wherein
"My sheep know My Voice and a strange voice they will
not follow."
It is the same Voice of the Lord Jesus wherein He came
expressly to the patriarchs and prophets and spoke distinctly
in His Divine and Holy Voice. Therefore God was very fa
miliar in way of speech, as with Abraham and Moses, and
so to the Prophets till Christ's time, but now in these last
days He speaks to us by the Spirit of His Son, which is the
Spirit of Truth, the Comforter.
That is the Spirit we are to try and to be proven by;
whether or not He comes unto us as a Spirit of prophecy
and revelation which you shall know first by way of prepa
ration of the inward mind, for the spoken Word or Oracle
of God must have a most Holy, separated place, distinct and
apart from the outside world for they are to be prepared
in an inward temple body, for there can be no expectation
of the Holy Ghost without a suitable body being prepared
for Him as the Living Ark in which the Oracle of Truth
may open and show forth the records of heaven.
But it may be further inquired: How can this temple
body be raised up and kept so Spiritual as to receive an
Immortal body? Answer: Herein lieth the great mystery
of all mysteries—how to keep the spirit of the outward birth
with all of its infections from multiplying and rushing into
the inner court where the soul and God are to be in private
counsel together —for if there be a breaking in of the train
of Spiritual thoughts, this is what adulterates the pure, re
vealed things and brings a false covering upon them.
Therefore I shall give the following rules as they were
given to me by the Holy I Am That I Am. When I first
sought the privilege of Divine inspiration I was counseled
as to the outward state of things to avoid as much as I
could the choking, entangling cares of this life, and also to
keep myself from all worldly conversations; thus giving up
spirit, soul and body in a pure dedication, in which I can
10 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
say in my measure I have been obedient to and have found
good things as to the Spiritual part, having acted thereby,
which I never shall have cause to repent of; let my losses
be what they may as to the worldly lot of things.
Now the next rule, which is more interior and angelic
as to this inward and Holy place of the mind, for this
takes more special care and to keep the outward birth at
a distance from the superior and inward birth, calling in my
heavenly guard upon it, entering into no personal argument
with the outward man of sin concerning spiritual matters,
for you will find him a false prophet.
Therefore, be on the watch and dwell in that One Im
mortal Spirit with Jesus, your Keeper. Here lieth the great
danger; for the enemy will come as an angel of light, acting
so divinely that you can hardly discern their teachings from
the True teachings of the Holy anointed.
They are spirits that will put on such a priestly dress,
like those that rose up against Moses, the Lord's anointed
prophet, saying: Are we not spiritual and therefore to be
admitted into the secrets of God with you and giving the
verdict as from the Oracle of God?
Thus we are in danger to be encompassed with spirits
so finely clothed as they would think they could not be re
fused. But hark ye, when the Urim and Thummim of sound
judgment in such has come —that only can discern and test
spirits of all sorts, qualities, natures and degrees —for I well
know a mind may be replenished with knowledge and under
standing of Divine mysteries from the outward tongues re
ceived and taken in and yet have been kept strangers to the
flowing Spirit of Wisdom and Revelation within, from whence
the certainty of the True prophet is known.
'
Therefore let every one look to it what they speak, teach
or write, for it will pass through the inward ground for trial,
where the fiery furnace will prove it. But now we shall
come to describe the True and more certain way of Divine
opening and revelation, knowing the Holy consecration and
special separation as the foregoing preparation to this high
ministration.
Those are such as may come to feel in themselves one
essential birth of life to spring in the Spirit of Truth and
Revelation opening itself in the fiery essence of the Immortal
Soul in a sweet, silent stillness where all thoughts are ex
cluded; wherein the wonderful light ray of the Deity rises,
overshadows and fills the temple of the mind with Light
and glory. Then will the soul sink away deeper and deeper
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 11
into the abyss, being where the greatest of Wisdom's secrets
are known.
Therefore behold the glorified beings and hear the lan
guage of that beautiful light world which none else can hear
but those who have gotten out of the noise of other hearings
into that still and silent deep where most pleasant, joyful
voices and sounds are heard, which enter into the several
sounding harps of praise like unto a fiery breath, where noth
ing of vocal words is ever required or needed; by this you
may judge that pure and unadulterated revelations and vi
sions of the True sight is not quickly rushed into nor easily
attained.
It is a great and glorious gift and also requires great
watchfulness and attention upon it. Therefore the beloved
John the Divine, when he had all those visions and revela
tions, gave an account how they were seen and heard by
him, for saith he: "I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day,"
and a good proof there was of it, as much as if he had said
that it was neither man nor mortal days that did rise and
enclose upon him, but the one everlasting day or the Ancient
of Days in whose light he had the glorious prospects of
heavenly things within himself. Thus he was in the Spirit,
which was his defensive power and guard to keep out all
the trifling spirits.
Observe this further: it is a much different thing for
the mind and spirit of the soul to be caught up and taken
up into the Spirit, pure and Holy, for then it is secured
from mixture. Then you are encompassed with light as the
angel of which it is said in Rev. 19:17, "Standing in the
Sun"; all appearing as the very Sun of glory. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
12 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
TRUE STRANGERS.
"THE STRANGER that dwelleth with you shall be unto
you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him
as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I
am the Lord thy God" —Lev. 19:34 —fully realizing that the
True Stranger dwelleth with us; for when Israel was a child
I loved him and out of Egypt have I called My Son, and
that beloved Son is the Lord Jesus Christ.
He is calling His True Elect, who are now upon the
earth, whom He can trust with the cares of His household;
wherein He will appoint a Holy overseer in His newborn
Immortal Church that shall receive the apostolic Spirit and
power that has been lost out of the earth and has arisen
as a bright Morning Star.
He, the Mighty Present God, will multiply it into a gen
eration that will be all lovely, in which God shall see Him
self; for which end the Kingdom and Dominon is already
come unto some, and prosperity to a wonderful degree, treas
uring up now for a full bank in the Mighty Stone of the
Rock of Ages cleft for me. Let me hide myself in Thee!
Herein the Son of man will again appear in the heavens
for the delivering up of the Kingdom to the Father, so God,
who is love may be all in all, but in order to the accomplish
ment of the last and finishing mystery there shall arise a
MelchiseJec Priesthood who shall know the way unto the
Holy of Holies, for it springeth out of love's root in us.
This is the clear and Divine witness of Truth, when
Light and revelation, which is the Divine Life of enjoyment,
meet together; thus carrying power and authority with it
wherein the reign of love might come to spread itself as
a net to gather in, for this Divine Kingdom is never to be
put out of harmony.
You may ask: How can this agree when our most per
fect pattern, the Lord Jesus Christ, was troubled in His
soul unto death, also that affliction is not joyous at the
present? First, answering this main objection: As to Christ,
our Lord in His agony, you must know all this was on this
side of His resurrection.
Observe that it was to show that He had the sensative
passion of our humanity and that He was on our behalf to
feel a sinless grief and sorrow and to be really touched with
these kinds of infirmities or else how could He make pro
vision, by and through love's conquest, if He had not been
in temptation and encounter with it all? Yet He kept His
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 18
own peace, which was the fruits of love through all, and
was reconciled to all the cross dispensation that met Him
in this world.
It was this perfect love that carried Him through to
bear and suffer all things, which was for our example and
encouragement; wherein He came out a victorious Conquer
or, telling us that He had overcome; that in Him we shall
have a most firm and fixed place, though in the world ex
ercised with tribulation. — ;
So from hence it is to be admitted and allowed that in
the time of our ministry, before love is in its perfect degree,
it is assured to us by the Eternal Covenant that the Mighty
Conquering Prince, Shiloh Immanuel, would stand upon the
earth and call for the Holy Ghost to go out and gather in
those only who know where the Trueborn, ascended spirits
are, and where the sanctified in the water of Life do lie.
These will be brought out to be baptized with the Holy
Ghost, mingled with fire from heaven, so that it may be
evident to all to know who they are and to acknowledge
their Divine royalty—each one in their various order and
degree for power; for which there are several rules, charac
ters and Holy mission that will make out where all these
pure and lovely stones are compacted together, for a ruling
and governing, for this Divine love is a ministering flame
where Holy Divine passion and humility are as the open door
for the Holy ascension, thus feeding on the Bread of Heaven.
These are His stewards upon the earth, whom He trusts,
—wherein the Holy Ghost shall be made manifest in a more
full and perfect manner than that which in former ages has
been witnessed—this powerful and precious anointing shall
first work through. It will do no less than produce these
creating powers, that nothing more of the old earth or the
old heavens shall remain, for there is a day that the earth
shall burn as an oven.
Blessed are thev who shall have an understanding ; when
all dead and fruitless works shall be burned up which makes
room for the seven growing powers of the Holy Ghost to go
forth, wherein the Archangel Trump sounds through His
lightning Voice, saying: Prepare to meet thy God! for the
great day of the Lord has come and who shall be able to
stand? None but the new prepared heavenly host, who
are regenerated and made anew by the Holy Ghost accord
ing to the will of the great Immanuel.
These are the things we are looking for day by day,
being the Divine springs of Eternal Life, flourishing in the
14 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
very courts of Holiness, dwelling in the golden tents like
unto the golden tents of Jacob.
God, the Holy Ghost, comes to move higher from this
old, essential, created world; by which He makes a new
heaven that shall forever remain, immovable, it being the
created world of the Holy Ghost, which the sun and moon
of the visible heavens must bow unto—all the glory of flesh
rejected, when pure breath and Holy Spirit in an Immortal
body, coming out of the valley of dry bones, shall appear
as a terrestrial wheel moving both upward and downward;
carrying and bearing up as an anointed cherub that shall
mount and ascend and face the supreme glory of the Al
mighty God.
This is the highest adoption, that the Spirit in living
creatures doth move from the earthly center strait for
ward, being circled about with Immortal bodies of the heav
ens, to whom the Heaven of heavens will open and descend
to take in such royal ones that have put off their change
able heavens and are clothed with substantial power.
If any would ask how this should be, we can only di
rect you to wait at the beautiful High Priest's gate, which
will reveal all these innumerable working powers in the Holy
Ghost, thus showing by real evidence who it is.
The answer is: The sons and daughters who are fully
redeemed, wherein these deep things are now made known
for the True Elect's sake, that they may be strengthened,
supported and encouraged in this wonderful process through
the knowledge of the Mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah;
showing forth the high priesthood, who must no more look
down toward the creeping things of this earth.
Here you must consider Enoch's ti'anslation ; these
priests being designed for the company of God, the most
Holy and separated, wherein there is a real taking into God
to be experienced and separated from the life of sin. There
fore for the bringing up hitherto, there must be a passing
through into the Holy of Holies. Amen and amen! For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 15
SEVEN WITNESSING POWERS
"AND HE HAD in His hand a Little Book open: and
He set His right foot upon the sea, and His left foot
upon the earth, and cried with a loud voice, as when a lion
roareth: and when He had cried, Seven Thunders uttered
their voices." Rev. 10:2,3. Therefore the question may be
asked as to the time of the Lord's reign—when it shall be?
I would say that this is unknown and that none can prefix
the time.
It is true that many have calculated and asked many
questions about it, in vain; but if we will know how near
the time is, we must not look without but in the unsealed
Book of Life within us. There you will find the foregoing
signs which are first to be accomplished in your own heaven
and earth, meaning your own prepared body.
We must try and prove ourselves by what has been
already revealed from the Seven Seals and Seven Thunders
—how near the Kingdom of our Lord and His Christ is ap
proaching unto us.
Let each of us examine ourselves—how far the prepa
ration work is advanced in us. We must see that the beast
and dragon's kingdom must be slain and all of their power
put under our feet, taking off his crown and giving it to
Him whose right it is to reign, which is Jesus Christ, our
blessed Ascended Master.
Therefore we shall only know the time by such a one
who shall give the first deadly stroke and come forth a con
queror over the whole sensative life and the outward king
dom which stands divided between good and evil. In such
an overcomer as this, the Lord Jesus Christ said He would
appear and personate a kind and heavenly Kingdom, and
we are not to look out for any other sign at this time than
the manifestation of this conquering life.
It was further said, there would go forth an, arrow
from the words of Revelation which should so closely strike
in some as to pierce through the heart of the beast, who
has persecuted and tried to hinder the Lord's triumphant
reign in His Elect ; by all of which it is clear there, could not
be a more sure sign of the approaching personal reign of
Christ than to see the beast wounded to the heart, for no
sooner will the beast be removed, his kingdom is given over
to Him whose right it is to rule in heaven and in earth.
Who is it now that will believe and take in the essence
of these precious things? which is the dropping oil which
16 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
descends from the olive tree to make our way smooth, light
and clear and to preserve us from being denied, to keep us
pure and deliver us from every drop of blood which was the
life of the beast, and must be taken away before the Lord
appears in us like Himself, in power, glory and majesty.
Oh, what mighty drawing and desires may these weighty
sayings from the Lord enter into us for His glorious com
ing to reign in absolute dominion within us. Therefore ye
chosen ones, run hard, for there is a rich jewel to be taken
by the trampling down of the beast, which shall be taken if
pursued on to victory. Herein you shall behold a mighty
standard which reaches from the earth to the heavens and
it shall resemble a strait ascending flame, which signified
this was the standard of overcoming powers, which no earth
ly warrior would venture to engage in, for its dominion
reaches from the earth to the heavens.
Listen to the beautiful words ; stick close to it and move
not from under it, for it shall be a shelter from the storm
which is coming on with a flaming sea of trouble, raised by
the jealous ones whose kingdom is divided.
Therefore dear beloved Israel; let us ever cease from
sin, having our bodies ready and prepared for the reign with
Christ. Let not these words any more be as empty sails,
but they must be spread out to ride the troublesome waves
over the sea.
Hark ye to the thundering sounds of the Almighty's
power, which is Christ in His Ascended Spirits, who warns
from the heights above and the depths below! In this won
derful time, look ye and read the circle line that the most
marvelous things you may know and find; and ponder well
His Divine grace and love which has been sa great to enter
into my life so deep with thine that thou can suffer noth
ing but the Lord doth call it mine.
Thy body shall be prepared like unto our Lord, where
in ye can say: "The prince of this world cometh and hath
nothing in Me." Therefore all things are going on, advanc
ing in a moving circle of the Holy Deity, and all that is
required of thee is to be firm and steadfast in this Living
Faith.
I rejoice greatly in being a witnesss of this unsealed
Book —the Seven flowing prophecies of the Holy Ghost —
which will establish the Eternal Word and testimony that
are so beautiful in this wonderful age.
Wherefore a more sure seal is provided that will remove
all doubts and suspicions concerning this beautiful cup from.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 17
which His Elect are called to drink, from the hand of Him
who is appointed to fill it up, as the last and great reserve
which shall silence all controversy and doubtful disputings
and ratify and confirm who they are that are born again
to act, move and live from a new generated Spirit that
works away everything that would defile and make discord.
Herein seven evidencing powers were revealed to me, in
which the personal reign of Christ would consist. First we
shall behold a circle-cloud of Light from the beautiful river
wherein revelation would spring and open what was never
known before concerning the invisible scenes of glory, to
which the mortal man has been altogether a stranger, not
having understood his original royalty, but where Christ,
the Eternal Light, is entered into the Immortal Soul essence.
There everlasting Light doth break, which shows invisible
things in their first pure ground where the eternal fiery
soul moves strongly to come out of an impotent, weak life
that has been shut up in this vile body of sin, the light of
revelation making it restless any longer to abide therein
and so it makes another beginning from a new rising Spring
flowing from the Godhead.
This gives a living testimony that a new Spring is ap
pearing out of the old tree, whose sap is renewed to bring
forth the Second Child of the Holy Ghost as a wonderful
fruit-bearing Branch, which Branch has put forth as from
the all-encompassing element, wherein they are baptized by
the Holy Ghost, mingled with fire from heaven.
Wherever they be who come to know this, they need
no witness; they realize and know they are dwelling in the
very center-heart of God; they are fed and cherished with
the Bread of Life and oily lamps that make all the body
within to be as a burning cherubim that at times and seasons
can mount and fly into the very heavens.
Though this be a mystery and a dark speech, and little
experienced yet, know that the time of Elijah is nigh, and
a whirlwind is descending from the Alpha and Omega to
take up the witnesses who have been in the world so long
unobserved.
The ascension gate, which the bright Key unlocks for
all who go in after Him who was translated from among
men—so as not to be hid in mystery —and thus shall it be
again through another form for Elijah's prophets, that they
should be redeemed from everything which is of a degen
erate nature; but this shall be different from Elijah, for
he was taken up and seen no more among men.
18 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
These visible persons shall remain on the earth and
everywhere carry along with them the encompassing chariot
of fire, which shall not cease to follow fully where the Life
witnesses do remain after his own kind.
Praise God for this Heavenly Visitation which shows
us so plainly the strait and narrow way that leads us gently,
step by step, up to the very throne of God! For there is
no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
MELCHISEDEC PRIESTHOOD.
"PALLED OF GOD, an High Priest after the order of
Melchisedec," Heb. 5:10, being a Supreme Ruler. This
Holy Melchisedec order in which Christ is to be known, the
same yesterday, today and forever, carrying on this ever
lasting Priesthood from His own Eternal loins, in the Spirit
ual generation of which no account can be given; being
chosen of Him hitherto, before the foundation of the world,
which is not to vanish away; that way being made for the
New Creation which shall consist of these three degrees of
Divine Kingly Priests.
However, let all be on the watch, not to presume them
selves unto this sacred, Divine, Holy Place before the Mel
chisedec King in His True, Eternal, Spiritual birth doth
spring. There are several characteristics by which they may
be known before they reach to the high, Priestly mark.
We will mention one or two as the forerunning ground
work. In the first place they are crucified to all mortal and
temporal things that would invite and steal away the mind
and weaken the strength of God's love, which is perfectly
unchanged and loosed from all of this kind of deception
and witchcraft, by which millions of souls have been bound
down so that they never could expect this resurrected state
to reach the second character, wherein they are to become
dead to all things of evil appearance.
Then the Light of the great Morning Star appears,
shining upon the temple body, or tabernacle of God, to
come down from whence the everlasting, burning incense
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 19
and praise offerings are ascending now from these two
branches.
The Divine fruit of the Spirit will spring, by which you
may know the High Priestly offerings must need appear as
bright and terrible as an army with banners, for the Lord,
who is King of the whole creation, observes well, bringing
their freewill offerings of this kind.
Let not this seem as a tinkling sound, for the weight
of the Present God is in it, who will certainly flow in through
these rising priesthoods with such fruitful powers and gifts
as they may be able, to bless many with these blessings
from the Holy Ghost and knowing the temple body is here
for rising.
The golden nail is fixed wherein the time and age is
coming to be established. The Lion out of Zion is roaring
to gather in His priestly anointed, and blessed are they who
have come to know the thunder of His power and do obey,
taking hold of that Divine horn that is filled with priestly
oil which may give a True, separated mark to the Elect
and anointed ones; the time being far spent and the hope
ful expectation for all of these deep and glorious things to
be fulfilled.
No other thing will suffice now after all this Light and
revelation, but to be found in the Living epistle which is
the sure engraving of the Holy Ghost; as it was said that
the writings of the Virgin Law were by the finger of God.
Even so, yet once more again, God will copy out Himself,
not hi the dead letter but in a Divine, Living, acting power.
For this end a strong gust of wind from the third
heaven doth blow to open this fair rose and lily which are
yet in their bud. Although they have long been hid and kept
under the thicket of wild plants, behold the Divine, loving
flame has come to kindle upon them, that this Holy thing
may come to stand single and alone from every twisting
briar and thorn that hath shaded and destroyed the Spirit
of Life, which is to run up into the high throne of the ever
lasting priestly dominion with all boldness and freedom to
enter the Most Holv Place.
What is that but the most sacred tabernacle of the
Most High, wherein all pleasant joy and rest in love's com
munion is known, can we but come to put on this priestly
robe, which gives us admittance that we may speak with
God at any time.
But the question may be asked: Who is it that can be
privileged for such a Divine blessing? The answer is: Such
30 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
as wear the pure, Holy robe and the most Holy breastplate,
wherein the Urim and Thummim —the shut up Oracle—will
open to such who stand, through which God's mind is well
understood.
Of such qualification as this, it being the third and top
stature of the Melchisedec Priesthood in which the Ark of
the Testimony doth open, that all different points will decide,
either in reference to God or man.
This is the last and wonderful ministration, beyond
which nothing is to be looked for, for it brings fallen man
back again to what he was designed for before this visible
creation was brought forth.
May I be permitted to say—and with good authority—
that fallen man is to be restored to a degree above the
angels; for "Unto which of the angels said He at any time,
thou art My son; this day have I begotten thee?"
Let all the angels of God worship Him, meaning the
Lord Jesus Christ. The same appertains to all who are of
His Life line, begotten from the same incorruptible world
to the same joint preeminence. Therefore the Holy Ghost
has become the True, working, bubbling spring that main
tains a Divine cleansing with wonders; in which God in the
Holy Ghost will make Himself manifest in a more full and
perfect manner, that whatever in former ages has been wit
nessed, wherever this powerful and precious anointing shall
first work through, it will do no less than produce those
creative powers that shall renew another world.
Therefore God once more is to move Himself in this
mystery, which shall fulfil and satisfy all expectations; that
nothing more of the old earth shall remain, for there is a
day that it must burn as an oven. Blessed are those who
shall have that Living Faith within, knowing assuredly that
all dead, fruitless work shall be burned up; which makes
room for the seven growing powers of the Holy Ghost to
go forth.
Herein the Archangel's Trumpet is sounding as a light
ning Voice, inviting them all to enter into the Ark of safety
while the door standeth open for the Third and last time;
the powerful springs are overflowing like unto the tents of
Jacob, wherein the Mighty Present God and Holy Ghost come
to move higher; thus making a New Heaven that shall for
ever remain.
Let thy love stream forth as a shower;
Let it flow forth in Life and power.
This is the thing that is most pure—
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 21
It can all our diseases fully cure.
Oh, let the Kingdom of this love come
That we may reign with God and Son
In everlasting love's sweet harmony,
Hereby conquering all of the enmity.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
MAKE WAR UPON THE BEAST.
"I AM THE VINE, and ye are the branches! He that
abideth in Me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth
much fruit: for without Me ye can do nothing." John 15:5.
The Mighty Present God uses those words to teach us that
the New Birth that we are to receive is by the Virgin Mother,
Jerusalem Above; and we must have the same relationship
with Him that was between Him and His true disciples, the
same as there is between the vine and its branches.
He doeth the work in us which the vine does for its
branches. There cannot be branches till the birth of the
Vine is brought forth in them, and the birth of the Vine
must be brought forth in the branches, which is the proof
that we must be born again of the Holy Mother of Zion,
which gives us our Immortal inheritance.
It is also written that Christ in us is our hope of glory.
Therefore Christ formed in us, living, growing and raising
His own Life and Spirit in us, is our only salvation. This
brings forcibly to my mind concerning the woman at Jacob's
well. Christ said: "If thou knewest the gift of God, and
who it is that saith to thee, Give Me to drink; thou wouldst
have asked of Him and He would have given thee Living
water, and shall never thirst."—John 4:10,14.
How sad it is to think of this woman who stood so
near this gift of God, from whom she might have had this
Living water, if she would have had the Living Faith to
have asked for it. Therefore dear Israel, this happiness is
thine, for this Holy Ascended Master is the gift of God to
thee, as sure as thou art born.
22 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Hast thou let the sin of doubt blind thine eyes that thou
hast never known Him? Art thou wandering from Him as
the prodigal from the Father's house? Yet He is still with
thee as He is the gift of God to thee, and if thou wilt turn
to Him and ask of Him, He has that Living water for thee.
Dear beloved Israel, consider the treasure thou hast
within thee —the Savior of the world. The Eternal Word of
God lieth hid in thee as a spark of the Divine nature,
which is to overcome sin and death within thee and re
generate the Life of Heaven which will bring Eternal hap
piness and joy.
Thy pure heart will find its Savior —it is God within
itself—but those whose eyes are blinded with unbelief, thou
seeth, heareth and feeleth nothing of God because thou
seeketh Him from abroad with an outward eye; thou seek-
eth for Him in books which brings controversy amongst the
brethren, and shows very plainly they do not see eye to eye.
In this controversy and confusion thou wilt not find Him
till thou hast first found Him in thine heart; and I tell thee
for a truth thou wilt never seek Him in vain for He dwelleth
in the Light and the Holy Spirit, for turning to this great
Sunlight, which puts out all other lights, is the only turning
unto God.
There is no other way of finding Him but in that place
where He dwelleth with thee by the name of I Am That I
Am, Jehovah; but hark ye! who is it that is willing to
overcome all evil and the very appearance of it through the
power of the Holy Ghost? for great and glorious shall be
your Eternal happiness, fully realizing we have left all of
the old world behind us, going on step by step onward and
upward on this blessed ascending ladder.
Therefore, blessed are those who are able to receive
and practice it daily and hourly. There will be no loss, for
as the evil dies the fresh and Divine Life will spring hung
ering and thirsting to drink of that Living water, that we
might drink and thirst no more; having this living hope
of the redemption of the body, like unto our Ascended
Master the Lord Jesus Christ, who appeared in His flesh
and bone body after He arose from the dead.
He was in possession of this high and graduated Life
of Faith in which He pleased the Father; and did not His
Father embrace Him and say: "This is My beloved Son in
whom I am well pleased?" being the First-born of the Im
mortal Mother of the 144,000, the true Israel of God, stand
ing with our Ascended Master upon Mount Zion.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 23
Yea! "The desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.
It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and
singing: The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the
excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory
of the Lord, and the excellency of our God." Isa. 35:1,2.
So let us lift up our heads and rejoice, foreseeing what
a wonderful time is approaching in this, the Twelfth and
Last hour, which will reveal many hidden revelations, thus
revealing things which have been kept secret from the foun
dation of the world; for "He doeth nothing but what He re-
vealeth His secrets unto His servants the prophets."
There shall be many Divine changes to bring in His
Kingdom which will have such a firm foundation that it
will need no changes. The warning has gone forth that
has been given by His Messengers from time to time and
the call has been made for the Spirits of the Just to come
to the place where His Spirit now rests, ready to fight the
Lord's battle, that the decision may be given to those loyal
heirs who shall hold out in the fight of faith with that Cov
enant bow with the arrow which pierces through the seven
heads and ten horns of the beast, of whom it is said they
will be able to make war.
But let it be understood, "One shall chase a thousand
and two shall put ten thousand to flight" proving they have
mounted upon the white horse of Divine purity and bright
ness, wherein their strength shall be to put down all the
powers of darkness, that the Holy family of God might all
be gathered together and live in peace and Holiness unto
Him.
Herein the great conquerors and overcomers are to be
the True royal soldiers, fighting under the banner of Shiloh
Immanuel, and they shall have the name of the Mighty
Present God written upon their foreheads and the sealed
name of the Eternal Word upon their hearts. They shall
gird on the flaming sword of the Spirit, whereby they shall
put all to flight for the battle shall be fought and the vic
tory won.
Praise ye the Lord, all ye His saints, for that Immortal
Day is fast dawning upon us! Just think what it means
for you who are part of it! Never on earth was there such
an opportunity; never was Israel so highly blessed as they
are now, who have the opportunity to understand the Mighty
I Am That I Am, Jehovah, giving us knowledge and under
standing of all we are to do.
Through His great knowledge He could read a person
24 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
and tell them their thoughts; and He worked so earnestly
and so long to bring forth a nation of the Ascended Spirits.
The opportunity is before you today and all that He worked
for shall be fulfilled in His Elect, the 144,000.
Oh, dear brothers and sisters, have we not had an out
pouring from the Ascended Master —the Lord Jesus Christ
—right here in the City of David, pointing the way so won
derfully and plainly that His Kingdom of Peace should be
established? This shall be done through the great Law of
Paradise by His True Elect who walk in the strait and nar
row way, it being the Law of Life.
Therefore dear Israel, will you join with me silently in
pouring forth love and gratitude without limit to all the
brothers and sisters scattered abroad, who have given of
their love, money, energy and strength and are giving their
assistance to this great Sunlight, who are working in the
vineyard as pilgrims for the establishment of His Peaceable
Kingdom. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
ISRAEL'S REQUEST— JERUSALEM'S GOLDEN KEY
THESE ARE the beautiful Words of the Holy Immanuel :
All hail with love, peace and good will to the anointed,
chosen ones who are in the Spirit. Come up here and make
the request for that which is so well pleasing to the Father,
knowing that this anointed company will support the Im
mortal soul in its travels. But the greatest of all is Christ
in Spirit that walks in this Holy qualified soul, as in the
midst of seven golden candlesticks, giving assurance of the
precious, atoning blood of the Covenant that all guilt of sin is
crossed out, whereby the soul is encouraged and comforted.
From this let us press on to a second rest, which is the
record and seal of the Spirit. Outward application to Christ
is of no avail; it must be Christ within who pours in His
redeeming name as ointment, which performs the cure of
the lapsed state of the soul; because an inward disease must
have an internal medicine that may penetrate through in
ward parts, that all may be made whole. This is the in
tended redemption by Christ, and nothing less will set the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 25
soul right again so as to give it boldness to come and ap
pear before the great assembly of perfect Spirits in Mount
Zion's Kingdom.
Now we proceed to the third rest, which is yet more
pleasant because it is Paradise. As the patient traveler
passes through this country, they often enter into delight
ful entertainments, ministering angels and spirits that in
this Divine Holy place do meet thee. Therefore the Father
hath placed His Son in and over all principalities, powers
and dominion, both in the heights above and in the earth
below so He can give to whom He will, to possess with Him
joy for joy and glory for glory.
As I have received of my Father, so freely I give to
thee. In loving flames I ascend; ask now, O spouse of mine,
what is it that I should further do for thee? I give thee
liberty to ask most freely, for thou hast found favor both
with the Father, Mother and Son, whereupon the faithful
traveler worships and bows before the throne of God and
the Lamb and in great humility doth make this reply, say
ing in the language of the Spirit: O my Lord, I have come
up to this degree and sensibly I say it is all of the abound
ing grace and love from God, my Father, and the Holy
Jerusalem Above, my Mother, which was my guarding
strength on this wonderful journey.
One great proof I have had of a mighty strong guard
with continual supplies from the fountain heart or else I
would have fallen and fainted by the way; and the consider
ation of it has made such a deep impression upon me that
I am at a loss; I know not wherewith to pay my debt offer
ing of thanksgiving unto Thee, my God and King. Only ac
cept of what I have, which is beyond all sound of words, that
I cannot express praises for such boundless goodness, which
my spirit hath tasted so freely. Hence it is now that I do
study to offer unto Thee, that which has been refined and pu
rified by the Spirit of love's burning, given from You to me.
That which is of Thine own, receive, for I rejoice to
pass it as my true thanksgiving offering unto Thee. No
part shall I keep back from Thee. Had I ten thousand
thousand to give up to Thee, all would be too little for Thee
who hath worked out so great a redemption for me. There
fore, this is my request: that Thy Spirit shall be my con
stant overseer, guide and teacher as a mediator from the
Father and Fountain of Wisdom; flowing from Thee, that
there can be no erring from the Truth. If the petition of
Solomon was so grateful to God, then in no wise do I
26 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
doubt, 0 my Lord, to ask of Thee the Spirit of Truth which,
is promised by Thee; may the Oracle ever be fixed in me
that I do desire to be led aright, for it is already given by
Thee as a counsel to beware of transformed light.
Remember He said: "Follow Me, I am the Light; be
of good cheer; this is the beginning of the New World."
As this record being in me, O Mighty Shiloh Immanuel,
multiply this Light of Wisdom, Truth and revelation yet
more fully so that what remains of Thy concealed mind
may be further declared and known as an enlightened beam
passing through Thee, and with them also who are found
faithful in Enoch's walk, who have their face set stead
fastly to the beautiful City of Zion.
Therefore, all those who are such lovers of this Life
'
of Christ that they would not be bereaved of His company,
let them observe these rules I give as my experience. First
lay aside all worldly matters that do encumber and are
weighty upon the mind; take in nothing that is not abso
lutely necessary; be content with little of this world, that
thou mayest have much more of God, for as it is written:
"Be content with such things as you have, for I will never
leave thee nor forsake thee."
Herein we behold the great day of Christ's appearing,
the world draweth near and for this end such deep and
inward things are revealed beforehand, to get ready as an
Espoused Bride so She may be found all fair and without
blemish; for such a Church, Christ must have prepared to
entertain Him upon the earth. Therefore, as many in this,
the Twelfth and Last hour are in great expectation of Christ
in His Kingdom appearing, to all such lovers and waiters
for it let me command thee of the apostle Paul in 1 Thess.
5:23, that you may be found acceptable with all Spiritual
gifts and virtues blameless before Him.
Such qualified ones might hasten His coming, wherein
He will appear to those whom He hath quickened by His
Spirit, and raised up in His own Spiritual body. To them
He will first appear and so go forth as lightning every
where. And indeed it will be no desirable day to such as
those who live without God and Christ and are altogether
strangers to this Heavenly country, not having loved and
embraced it and made it their God; indeed, a present woe
will suddenly come upon them while the redeemed, the
144,000, will have that joy unspeakable as this blessed day
has come which they have long waited for, thus flying as
doves to Christ, their Life shall endure forever.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 27
She gives to all free Her private garden Key.
And here at rest with their heavenly, glorious, Virgin Queen
In all Her darling beauties, charms Divine.
And through all the Eternal peaceful dove
Out-pours the burning sea of Eternal love,
While loudly each Archangel Trumpet sounds.
With every breath Her echoing Voice is heard around
In universal hallelujah rings:
Glory to the returning King of kings.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
DIVINE SEALING.
«LJURT NOT the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees,
till we have sealed the servants of our God in their
foreheads." Rev. 7:3. Therefore the Holy and Just One hath
reserved His last and most wonderful sealing testimony to
go forth from the unity of a Holy, Ascended Spirit, which
is so far perfected as to stand no more in need of offerings
for sin, because He who sanctifieth and they who are sanc
tified are made all one in this ministration.
If they come not to a sinless state they cannot be of
the Highest Priestly order, because, to it a Key is given
which must open all the twelve gates before mentioned; and
without controversy, great is that power that shall be here
considered for our glorified Christ who has passed higher
than the heavens, having received power to transform Him
self in His Divine purity and excellent might unto this Elect
Priesthood, which shall be visible here on earth.
This is the True Mount Zion from whence decrees, laws,
judgments and Holy statutes shall go forth from the Urim
and Thummim —sound knowledge and understanding and the
certainty of the Words of Truth —which shall proceed so
that it will be a most sure and safe Oracle to determine all
doubts and difficulties for the Israel of God who would not
venture upon any concern, nor attempt any design without
having first inquired at the Holy Priest's mouth, who only
28 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
was to give forth the mind of God, which will now be again
renewed for those who are admitted to this high calling of
the Holy Priesthood.
Such honor these saints shall have above the lower ranks
as being not ordained by man, nor after the law of a carnal
commandment, but by the impress seal of the Mighty God.
Here are needed no epistles of communication; the power
of this anointed Priest will be sufficient to recommend them,
for great signs and wonders will be acted forth when the
temple body of the Holy Ghost shall come down and open
itself in the priestly ministration, every branch of which
will have its multiplying fruits for the priest offerings of
the sanctuary.
I shall now declare what the testimony of the Truth
hath spoken in me, which is this, that whatsoever God is
or can do, the same will appear in and among this Priestly
order. Visions, proverbs and similitudes must cease, which
as leading stars have been under the Son's ministration,
this being the fulness of time in which the Father will show
Himself plainly, without any figures or shadows but in a
substantial body of power; increasingly flowing, from which
the New Creation must bud out in a fresh glory and all of
the old and faded will wither and die.
But here it may be asked: Where are they to be found
of this Royal Priesthood who may give forth a sealing evi
dence in this present time? They have indeed long been
predicted of, but we would like to see some really instated
in this high order. Therefore to answer this I will say:
There may possibly be some who are advanced to a good
degree of this high state and who have passed through the
first and second order; all of which is an inward, secret,
purifying work from sin, therefore brought to Holy ground,
made ready for the Righteous Branch and its lily beauty
to spring, which may be done without any great noise where
Christ has come to offer Himself once and for all ; then
the next thing that follows is the coming of the Holy Ghost
to reign over all and in all.
Wherefore we will believe and hope there may be some
under this peculiar ordination, though dispersed and un
known, who are ready to enter upon this third degree which
is the Spiritual rule and authority; for it is no less than a
perfect regeneration that brings us to this gate, because
whosoever enters here must first bid farewell to worldly
conversations, no more touching any deadly thing.
This state is not common or easily attained but by such
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 29
who are touched by God's love and anointed for this Mel-
chisedec order of their high calling; of which none shall
ever have cause to repent, for great are the royalties that
shall follow, according to that which hath been declared;
wherein the Spirit of prophecy, speaking thus to me ex
pressly at the end of the subject, saying: I will choose a
disciplehood yet upon the earth again who shall know Me
in My inward, Spiritual figure as in former time I was known
in a visible humanity by voice and shape ; but now I am come
to appear and walk upon the invisible earth.
None but the Spiritually minded can understand My
speech or see My transformed shape, for behold I, upon a
new election, I Am That I Am, wherein the Alpha and
Omega is to call together such whose names are found in
the crowning number roll—one by one till the 144,000 —for
the increase and manifestation of the Most Holy Priesthood.
Blessed are they who shall be the first foundation pil
lars thereof. So sayeth the yea and amen, for this shall
be the Virgin Church upon whom no spot or wrinkle shall
be found. Therefore dear beloved Israel, hustle up, for if
you are not ready and prepared you cannot enter into this
Holy Priesthood, for things are now changed from what they
were in the day of My visible appearance in My flesh and
bone body upon the earth, which was the first dawning of
My day, in which the mixed and imperfect things among My
disciplehood could not fly away so suddenly.
Therefore a suffering state was to be succeeded after
Me, that so sin, by its daily dying might expire; which
among My old disciplehood, in their age, great effect did
take but yet deceasing before the full and perfect date,
which was to be the Holy Church.
Now something greater and more perfect is to be re
vealed after so long a night of apostles, where there had
been a going back instead of going forward; but there is a
bright Morning Star that has arisen out of the same light,
wherefore it shall be said: Behold Wisdom's day! Though
dark clouds do appear, out of the Holy Virgin's womb a
bright Star of Glory generates innumerably to make up the
temple Holy Church.
Joy, we are now in sight of that blessed day
Wherein Wisdom's wonders do so richly display,
But it may be asked: When shall this be
And who among the living shall see?
Come away Holy ones, and separate
30 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
From all dross and things that do captivate;
And you will find such a pearly prize
That will make you flourish as in Paradise.
The golden river thereof will flow
That all the essential goodness ye will know,
For in Wisdom's principle there doth lie
That will make the wordly principle fly.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PRESSING INTO REGENERATION.
«THE SEVENTH ANGEL sounded, and there were great
voices in heaven, saying: The kingdoms of this world
are become the Kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ."
Rev. 11:15. Therefore dear beloved Israel; let us return
unto Him with great rejoicing and thanksgiving for His
great Divine mercy that has brought us this far on our
journey, giving us such wonderful experience.
Therefore let all Israel with one voice call out to the
Mighty Present God and the Holy Angels that stand before
God, that they may be all together with the spirits of Just
men made perfect in assisting us in adoring, honoring, prais
ing, magnifying and giving thanks to the great, the Mighty
I Am, Jehovah, being the Creator of us all; these words are
so Divine and Living in me, that it is unspeakable because
of His wonderful grace which brings us forth victory and
liberty of spirit.
Herein I now find myself rejoicing in His mighty work
and wonderful grace of my deliverance which shall ever live
in my memory, that I in spirit said to the Holy Angels:
What a wonderful and Divine commotion. Oh, ye Holy Spir
its, ye can indeed with me praise and glorify the great and
most Holy God as the great Creator of us all, for so far
you are in obedience unto Him in the same duty, love and
thankfulness in which we are, because you always keep con
stantly to your Holy station. Ye can therefore know and
understand what Divine mercifulness is, which has delivered
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 31
us from our poisonous, corruptible and darkened state of sin,
condemnation and hate, thus being restored into the child
like state in liberty of spirit, wherein we can return back
to God.
Therefore we are indeed more than obliged to this most
Holy, Living, merciful God, and are bound to a far greater
thankfulness and love; and I wish and desire therefore to
be Holy and most Divine, united with and obedient to the
Most Holy Present God; thus entering into a regeneration
and obedience which shall be greatly honored in this Divine
freedom of the Spirit, as I press onward more and more
unto God, and especially unto Christ, the Son of God, pray
ing that I might be wholly His own as my Savior and Re
deemer has purchased me with His precious blood to be
His own property, and of whom I have received all of this
Living beauty and heavenly joy.
Therefore I rejoice so much in myself in these deep and
wonderful revelations from the Mighty Present God. The
feeling of this great joy has shed abundantly devotional and
loving tears. The Lord has given me to understand that
this blessed state wherein I rejoice so greatly, which could
bring in along with it the glorification of the body, was the
internal resurrected state of the Immortal soul answering
to the measure of the full age of Christ wherein He stood
when He was baptized at the River Jordan.
When I, or others, hath attained to this, then like as
it also was done with Christ in His baptism, the sealing of
the Holy Ghost, or a greater and much higher and more
powerful unction than this; in which we should follow there
upon, and thereby this Eternal, resurrected state should
be sealed and confirmed in us, so that we should sin no
more, like as Christ Jesus Himself; because His seed should
then perpetually abide with us and through Him we should
be able to overcome sin, death, hell and the grave, thus
overcoming all temptations, within and without.
Therefore, because the Lord gave me to understand that
the reason the feelings of this Spiritual resurrected state
made mention of in Proverbs 3:3: "Let not mercy and
truth forsake thee; bind them about thy neck; write them
upon the table of thine heart" that I, through the Spirit of
Truth, should be a Living, experienced witness and spy out
the blessed land; not only for myself, but a more full cer
tification and conviction of what I had hitherto from the
testimony of the sacred Scriptures and of the Spirit, believ
ing and hoping concerning it, that it is a state of sanctifica
32 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
tion as can be truly attained unto—even a mortal and a
glorified body like unto our pattern and waymark, Christ
Jesus.
Also through my own experience and feelings, better
known and understood through the Spiritual power and
glory which is to be hoped for and expected therein, and
with all this before my brethren and those who run with
me and are pressing forward to the glorious mark of the
perfect age of Christ, I should lay down a certain and honest
testimony for a powerful encouragement and confirmation
of their hope and confidence that they may not be discour
aged, but may firmly believe the prize set before us is
obtainable in this mortal body and shall certainly be at
tained by those who abide faithfully; going on constantly
and delighting in their sanctification.
Concerning the desire of the glorification of the body,
I was in memory directed to Rev. 11: "And after three
days and a half the Spirit of Life from God entered into
them and they stood upon their feet and great fear fell upon
them which saw them and they heard a Voice from Heaven,
saying unto them: Come up hither; and they ascended up
to Heaven in a cloud."
From that I was clearly instructed, that before this
cometh to pass we must follow the Lord Jesus Christ and
be conformed unto Him in that whole process which is de
scribed, namely, when we have first attained unto this Eter
nal, Spiritual and perfect resurrected state, the measure of
the full age of Christ will be felt and known by His True
Elect this day.
When we are like unto the Lord Jesus Christ, sealed
and anointed with the Holy Ghost in a great and special
manner, we must also henceforth, like as He has done in
this world and before the God of the earth, witness and pro
claim the Truth of the Kingdom of God—thus as He did
during His three years' ministry—healing the sick, opening
the eyes of the blind and raising the dead, therefore follow
ing thereupon such a resurrection as will bring along with
it a glorified body and ascend in the clouds also as it was
done with Him.
Our Mother dear, the New Jerusalem,
Thou cause the glassy ocean tide to stem.
She comes to meet Her high ascended race,
Glancing Her jasper bright, love's precious grace.
She unlocks Her pearly portals, streaming down
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 33
Celestial virtues from each precious stone
Flaming in Her bright garden, rich foundation.
Her streets are paved with love and pure gold;
No sun She needs, nor moon's inferior ray—
God's Presence makes Her everlasting day.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
ANGEL MESSENGERS UNDER GABRIEL.
"AND THE ANGEL answering said unto him: I am
Gabriel, that stands in the presence of God; and am
sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings."
Luke 1:19. Now this mighty Archangel, Gabriel, who stood
in the presence of God, and who did His will, has been sent
to do it in earth and once more sound the trumpet, as
thunder sounds of seven, and as the voice of many waters
and flashing forth Light and Truth as lightning which shin-
eth from under the heavens from east to west.
The Son of man is sent to stand up instead of the man
of sin and to gather in one the family of God, who shall
enter into the purchased possession of their inheritance.
They are elected by the majority Spirits of the Just who
were never driven out of Paradise —their lives were hid with
Christ in God—sealed by God Himself for this cause, that
they might testify unto the truth of Life and Immortality
and for the dethroning of satan and binding him down for
a thousand years that he deceive the nations no more.
Therefore these Elect Spirits will now be brought into
power to rule and reign and judge the nations, to have
power and dominion as lords of this creation, and shall
therefore create in Christ, bodies for their inheritance of
these Spirits who by God were elected; thus becoming the
lord gods of this coming Eden of Paradise.
This New Creation will replenish every class of Eden,
bringing forth after their own kind according to the Para
disical Laws; as it is written that Gabriel is shown to be
over Paradise. Therefore, this Visitation long promised, has
34: THE BOOK OF PARADISE
now come, and is given to these Archangels or Spirits of
Paradise in order to prove obedience and be raised with
knowledge as these gods of the former age, which are the
seed of the Lord God of heaven and earth handed down,
the Spirits of the Just who have been working with Christ
in the creation.
Therefore, while it was said by James that it is not
what we do but what our forefathers have done, this is far
reaching in its meaning. It runs back into the Eden of
Paradise, wherein what the lord gods, or our forefathers did
as gods; we therefore enter into our inheritance, being mind
ful of that country from whence we came and therefore
shall return.
This is the meaning of the Scriptural statement so often
given, showing us that we of ourselves can do nothing —it
is God who doeth it—and God in bodies gave the promise
for this time and day of Visitation, that I will be inquired
of by the House of Israel to do it for them.
The blessed, Holy Enoch, the seventh from Adam,
prophesied that the Lord shall come with ten thousand of
His saints; and it was said of Moses that the Lord did
come with ten thousand of His saints, so the promise was
to their children and to those who traveled in the wilder
ness. If they had been mindful of that country from whence
they came they might have returned.
Therefore, to all and in any age of time and season,
they who remain in the wilderness cannot be made perfect,
but the promise is to their children. This inheritance must
come from the Eden of Paradise, where it was sealed until
those came, upon whom My Spirit shall rest; prophesied
of with the spirit of interpretation.
The patriarchs and prophets did not do the work for
Immortal Life; they did not do the work that Jesus Christ
did and so it is for what we do in spirit, notwithstanding
what our fathers of Paradise did, but we ministered to the
patriarchs and prophets, the Spirits of the Just being the
spirits of prophecy wherein Gabriel was spoken of as work
ing in those days, both by Enoch and the Scriptures of the
second dispensation.
Not only so, but he was found at His Father's work in
the conception of both Jesus and John and was the first
with the Paradisical message by which the First-born Son
was made. He appeared to the shepherds and around about
Him shone a great Light, which was the same Light of Life
now given in this Visitation and they followed Him and im
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 35
mediately appeared around Him, showing they loved Light
and Truth and followed it; and they cried out: "Glory to God
in the highest, Peace on earth and good will toward men."
These also ministered to Jesus Christ during His min
istry, after He entered His Priestly office. In body, angels
ministered to Him, who were able. What class of angels
were able? Remember the Scripture Key is: "He calleth
those things that be not as though they were."
These Spirits of the Just were called angels from a
twofold meaning, they being Archangels, foreordained and
predestinated to be Angel Messengers in mortal bodies under
Gabriel. As we have shown, they followed Him and that
great Light, and when their spirit and soul are united they
are Archangels —what they were called to be from before
the foundation of the world and therefore were prepared to
minister to Jesus.
He said: "I could call My Father and He would immedi
ately give Me more than twelve legions of angels," using
the same words that were used when Gabriel appeared with
the great Light, and immediately there appeared the heav
enly host following the captain of the Lord's host. He used
the twelve to signify in seal, the twelve with the twelve thou
sand. It says: "More than twelve legions" and as He said on
another occasion : "If these hold their peace the stones would
cry out."
These Spirit angels of the Just are called stones, Jesus
Christ Himself being the Chief Corner Stone. Therefore in
this visitation, John, the great prophet like unto Moses said:
"I now speak by the Spirit of Him who shall stand up in the
last days,"Gabriel, who took a body at the time spoken of by
John, when the Spirit of Life should possess the temple,
before which He ministered to John, by whom, to whom and
for whom John spoke, saying: "The Seventh Messenger has
come," but then, in Spirit like as in former days of the
Visitation, speaking of that which was to come according
to the promise given by God, who cannot lie, before the
world began.
The last Message spoken of was to be the full interpre
tation by the Second Child who was to stand up in body
instead of Jesus Christ. He was in spirit presented when
Jesus set the little child in the midst of His disciples be
cause of their contention as to who was to be the greatest.
Therefore as Gabriel was to be the Child and Man
Branch to settle these difficulties and troubles, Jesus Christ
showed it and said: "He that receiveth not this Child in My
36 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
name receiveth not Me," Gabriel being present in Spirit,
of whom Jesus Christ spoke, knowing He would be sent to
stand up in His stead and would put an end to controversy.
Both. John and James pointed clearly and unmistakably
to the Seventh Angel sounding, according to the Scriptures,
by which the mysteries shall be finished as declared to His
servants the prophets; and this is the Trump of God by
which the seed and spirit of promise shall awake Israel
from their Adamic sleep.
Therefore, during the Millennium, the Eden Sabbath,
the earth was blessed and inhabited by the lord gods and
Sons of God, like as it will be in the Sabbath, the Eden of
Paradise to come, and so it is written: "The thing that has
been shall be and God requireth the things of the past."
The Kingdom of God shall be restored because it was
lost by sin, which is a transgression of the Law of Life.
Therefore the Star of Bethlehem will be a light until the
day dawn, the Day Star which shall arise in the heart unto
the Son of Righteousness who shall arise with healing in
His wings. Therefore heed to this high calling which is in
Christ Jesus.
This is Shiloh's Message to the twelve tribes with their
twelve thousand each. The Ingathering is now going on,
for "Unto Shiloh shall the gathering of the people be" and
as Jesus said: "Unto the Son of man shall all nations be
gathered." As they receive the Message it is a call to them
as God's work calls them in order. Why then should you
wait —having received the call—for those who have not yet
been called? This open book shall stand as an open door
till all Israel are sealed. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 37
THE SECOND PENTECOST!
THE BEAUTIFUL MORNING STAR.
"AND I LOOKED, and lo a Lamb stood on the Mount
Sion and with Him an 144,000, having their Father's
name written in their forehead." Rev. 14:1. I shall faith
fully give out according to the mind of our Lord and Savior,
Jesus Christ, in which we will see the effect that shall fol
low all these revelations given by the beloved John on the
lonely Isle of Patmos; and he also gave us the prophecy
of the 1,000 years reign mentioned in Revelation, set before
me and opened as to the time, persons and place.
Much controversy there has been concerning this mys
tery which I shall not meddle with, but shall only faithfully
declare what the Morning Star hath expressly revealed from
the Holy One's own mouth, wherein the interpretation begins.
Awake ! ye who have been under great persecution and
judgment; know ye not that My reign is near? The fore
running prophecy must have its fulfillment and therefore
there are those who are ripening for it, upon whom My
glorious Kingdom shall be fixed. Wherefore dost thou wisely
observe the following particulars, which are foregoing signs
of the Mighty Present God's reign, whereby it may be known
how near it is.
The first, particularly concerning those persons in whom
His reign is to begin, are such as have been greatly perse
cuted and have suffered for Christ's sake, in dying to the
evil of the mortal life for the living hope of a resurrection
of Spirit, soul and body like unto our Lord and Savior Jesus
Christ, for in Him dwelt the fulness of the Godhead.
Therefore I would ask : Who are they who have known
this honorable death from the flaming sword in the hand
of the cherubim? These are they who shall hear the resur
rected trump, to let them know that their thrones are set,
their conquering crowns fitted and that all power in judg
ment is given unto them to personate the Mighty King,
Jesus, here upon earth; for Christ the Lord shall have no
need in His glorified body to come down among the inhab
itants of the earth.
There is something to be done first by those who are
to personate Him in the Holy Kingdom Dominion. His trans
parent body is such as will not appear till the first reign
is finished, His first reign being 1,000 years; at the end of
38 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
the 1,000 years He will appear in His glorified body and we
shall be like Him.
It is sufficient that the Lord is come in His witnesses'
power and presence, through a new rising life in His elders
to reign in majesty of His all-governing eye, which pierces
as devouring flames and burning coals of fire which run from
each other and from one end of the earth to the other.
The Mighty Present God will supply the visible human
ity with a weighty flow from the Holy Deity, therefore it
will be sufficient and a great glory. Next we are to con
sider where the reign of Christ is to be manifested. The
answer is: In a renewed nature, from whence the serpent
and beast are cast out and have no place; where the Lord
alone doth reign in peace over all the regions of Light, for
now they are born anew into the beautiful Light-world which
is most firmly established in its Kingdom power and which
truly is the second Pentecost.
Herein all is coming in with the rising birth from whence
the power doth naturally and increasingly flow, and there
fore out of all danger; with His seven consoling Spirits which
do continually stand before the throne in the inward heaven
by the scattering coal from the Holy Deity and are made
as an enduring, burning element, where the glory of Christ's
Presence may be seen, and the same likeness is risen by
virtue of the creating Word in His members who are en
trusted with this active, powerful body, suitable for the
management of such a Kingdom.
In this Kingdom the soul at first reigns invisibly over
all its inward motions and properties, as over peoples, na
tions and languages and all which by Wisdom's power are
kept in God-like temperature —such as may express the Lord
is come to personate Himself in a Righteous and peaceable
Government such as has never been in this world since Adam
lost Paradise.
That which is inward and spiritual will not be taken
much notice of until it comes to its height of perfection,
for it may be hid amongst a small number and may yet
be known only to one another. Therefore this glorious reign
will not be universal or break out all at once, but gradually,
from the burning unction which prepares Christ's way and
makes room for His Kingdom.
There is much to be done; besides, there are those who
are unrighteous, of whom it is prophesied: "Let him that
is unjust be unjust still." These shall in no wise enter into
Christ's Kingdom, but will be shut out of the Holy City
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 39
which shall rule over them; for this Kingdom shall not
only be inward in the properties of the soul, but shall also
exercise its dominion over this visible principal, and those
who are unconverted shall be as stubble berofe the bright,
flaming cherubims, but all those who are in Christ Jesus'
power shall reign on the earth.
The Elect shall reap and long enjoy the creating works
of their own hand, for with no less power shall the repre
sentatives of Christ, the Lord, be invested. Thus it is de
clared and must be throughout all worlds, that Christ will
appear in His Saints that are risen who have proven they
have conquered death.
Therefore it might be asked: Who is able to suffer all
this? I would say: Faith and Love are given to the worthy
pertaining to the Kingdom, whereby they are carried as
with wings over all the floods, fear and discouragement,
proving they are destined for it, whose names are found in
the ancient roll.
A double and triple portion of His Spirit the Lord
hath said He will add to them, as they are found faithful
workers in His vineyard; which brings forcibly to my mind
the Words of our Ascended Master: "I will bring all things
to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto thee."
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am
His servant.
PEACE
DOOR OF HOPE OPENED.
THE SPIRIT OF WISDOM, revelation and prophecy has
been sent abroad abundantly, to declare many great and
wonderful mysteries now in this wonderful age, which is
shown also by the same Spirit in such harmony as the first
footsteps toward the Ascended Mount Zion, the wonderful
glory, yea the glory of Immortality. But before I proceed
upon this most Holy and Divine subject, it will be necessary
to let you know what you have setting evidently before your
eyes.
The crucified body of sin, in a deeper sense opens up
in me concerning the threefold bondage and captivity which
the Holy and royal offspring of God are groaning under as
40 THE BOOK OP PARADISE
to Spirit, soul and body, which things I am well acquainted
with in myself, in behalf of all the Elect seed of God.
Therefore in order hitherto, and in what way must we
follow for restitution, which from the Present God we are
commissioned to declare as He hath revealed it unto me;
and as thou hast the greater knowledge of it being what
is designed by the Father, He is the- way to bring forth
Life and redemption through it, which promise was from
the first wound of sin that was introduced by the serpent
unto Adam, which is all fully to be healed by a clean cut
from the old world; like unto Enoch who was faithful and
never saw death but was translated the whole man, Spirit,
soul and body.
Therefore the True foundation of this Immortal Church
must climb up to the top of the ladder which has been given
by vision and prophecy to see and understand the full re
demption of Spirit, soul and body, which puts an end to all
of that evil the fall hath brought in as having reserved this
as the highest wonder that is to be brought into manifesta
tion. Therefore go thou on, nothing doubting, having faith
in the Mighty Present God who wUl always be with thee,
and also among my Divine flock everywhere; even so come
Lord Jesus.
Thus you are given to understand by whom I am led
forward to open and lay a sure foundation for the New
and Heavenly restoration, even in that Living Word which
was made flesh in our Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ, wherein He has sent forth His renewed springs and
is at hand to reveal and expound all things which may
gather in the lost and scattered flock of Israel for bringing
them unto God's tent and tabernacle of rest, which only
can be by passing through the fourfold ministration.
Let it be remembered, it was in the fourth watch that
He came walking upon the waters. Therefore God shall
take them as they lie in their own degree and order; and
all those who have overcome all evil and the very appear
ance of evil, they shall be passed by those who do look for
a reigning Life with Christ and for this it cannot be made
out better than the worthy apostles have done it, as you
will find in the sixth and seventh chapters of Romans, laying
down full and clear argument, showing the necessity to die
the death of the evil, so that we need not doubt but it will
be granted.
In the next place we are to consider how it shall be
effected. I wish not to frighten any if I tell them at the
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 41
first outset, that where this sacrificing knife doth come it
will touch to the quick, but then consider in whose hand3
it is put—our Immanuel, in whose love we may well confide-
Therefore, by the lance of His Spirit we will fall only
upon the viperous body of sin to let out the very heart's
blood of it. So it must be, for there is no favoring that
life that hath made all of this to do, as referring to God
and ourselves, spoiling and defecting that pure angelical
image in which the Most Holy One took such great delight
to see His own similitude, but now so changed that it may
give God cause of repentance that ever He made such an
unstable creature to grieve His Spirit; but praise to the
Mighty Present God, there is a door of hope opened for
such as are weary and oppressed and are willing to give
up their whole degenerated life unto death.
You may say: If we must suffer at this rate, to what
end did the Lord Jesus Christ offer Himself as a propiti
ation for our sins in His own person if our sinful life must
go also for it? In answer to this take notice: The Lord
Jesus Christ was made a visible sacrifice for sin, yet He
never intended that it should excuse any one of His members
for a conformity and fellowship with Him in His death,
knowing His death for us would not do alone without com
ing, by His Spirit, to put the sin to death in our flesh; and
so, joyfully, He became salvation to the utmost, He having
no sin to put to death in His own body, and so was a living
type and example for us to follow.
It may still be objected: Who is able to go through
such a full and total death to all that infection of sin which
the first Adam brought in? We must say: No one is suffi
cient but the Mighty God and Savior; as by His Spirit com
ing to incarnate Himself in our flesh, He hath the Key to
lock up this mighty gate of death and thereby to pass us
through the vale of flesh.
For your comfort He goes not to work violently, all
at once, but considers our weak frame and also allures our
soul into it by degrees, showing and setting before us the
absolute necessity for it, and showing forth all of His Divine
love to follow Him in this track of dying to the evil; despis
ing the shame and contempt of it, as by faith, seeing that
glory, honor and Immortality of Life with Christ will in
sure hereupon.
This is the Mighty Present God's business, to interview
our life unto Christ, our Lord, for Him to offer it up in us,
through His Eternal Spirit as He did in His own personal
42 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
body; who laid it down freely, so that when the heart and
will is gained and brought over, I can assure you from my
own experience, having been long and deeply exercised here
in, knowing that the great Comforter and support will meet
you; wherein it may be felt as a burning Spirit that runneth
into every part till it gives ease to the burden of sin and
will not leave it while there is anything of evil essence re
maining. The soul thus agrees and gives consent thereto,
and truly a well informed soul that lies under any powerful
constraint of Christ's love, can do no less than herewith
comply and deliver up the accursed thing, and when it comes
to this what a hopeful dispatch there will be for the cutting
off of every member of the body of sin.
Oh, how I do hear the echo of some good willing spirits
about me, saying: Thus you have presented the necessity
of a crucifixion. Therefore none but a highly enlightened
and well instructed soul in God can have a right discern
ment of these deep things concerning the glorified body
which is brought to my remembrance in the 11th chapter of
Revelation. From that I was clearly instructed that before
this comes, we must follow the Lord Jesus Christ and be
conformed like unto Him, thus being sealed and anointed
with the Holy Ghost in a great and special manner.
We must do also hereafter like as Jesus did in this
world, and before the God of the earth witness and proclaim
the Truth of the Kingdom of God and His Christ to be estab
lished here upon the earth, where the deserts shall rejoice
and bloom as a rose ; it shall blossom abundantly and rejoice
even with joy and singing; the glory of Lebanon shall be
given unto it; the excellency of Carmel and Sharon and
they shall see the glory of the Lord. Isa. 35:12. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
Praise God.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 43
THE DIVINE MOTHER.
"I CONSIDERED all the living that walk under the Sun
with the Second Child that shall stand up in His stead."
Therefore O Israel, let us rejoice, knowing that the Second
Child has come in the name of Shiloh Immanuel, God with
us, to reveal what was sealed up in the Seven Thunders
appearing under the veil of pure humility, where He hides
me as in the cleft of His own Spiritual body while He talks
with me. I hear His words saying: Thou hast come to a
deep knowledge and understanding through that Immortal
Eye of the Spirit that can enter into the Light of Eternity,
where the looking-glass of all deep mysteries doth stand
open.
Therefore I shall not speak in proverbs, but plainly to
the Elect, wherein God created Adam at first to bear His
own image and figure, who was to represent God Himself,
the high and Divine Male and Female, so that Adam had
his virgin in himself in imitation of His Creator, which in
time was brought forth in a different figure; and this was
a type of the Eternal Virgin Mother that lay hid in God,
the Creator, in the heart of flaming love, from which pro
ceeded a glorious female figure brought forth that was so
commixed with the Deity, She became God's Espoused and
Bride, being Spirit of His Spirit.
Therefore let it be known unto all that from this Eter
nal Virgin Wisdom a new generation of Virgin Spirits shall
be born to make up the glory of the New Jerusalem, Jesus
Christ being the head and First-born of this Royal and
Priestly generation, who was after the way and manner
of the human nature conceived in the womb of the Virgin
Mary which was but a type of that Eternal Virgin; for
when they came out rejoicing and conferring great honor
on the Virgin Mary, saying: "Blessed is the womb that bear
Thee," Jesus Christ spoke unto them and said: "More
blessed are the wombs that never bear and the paps that
never gave suck," referring to His heavenly, Eternal Virgin
Mother, who brings forth the Sons of God at all times.
So that Eternal Virgin womb goes on still according
to nature to bring forth Wisdom's offspring by the over
shadowing of the Holy Ghost and the quickening power
from the Jerusalem Mother in Her glory. The Mighty Con
quering Prince, Shiloh Immanuel, is sounding His Trumpet
louder and louder for the great battle, therefore there is
something in us which doth witness that He is going on
44 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
gradually, as we have experienced in ourselves for we are
under the Seventh Sounding Angel, Shiloh Immanuel, which
runs the Golden Circle without the least dimness of its Light.
"After this I looked, and behold, a door was opened
in heaven; and the first Voice which I heard was as it were
a Trumpet talking with me, which said: 'Come up hither
and I will show thee things which must be hereafter.'
"
Rev. 4:1. Therefore Jesus Christ, the strong Lion of the
tribe of Judah set me free to run the race of faith unto
the end, giving me counsel to be well mounted on this horse,
being the Spirit of Faith and to hold fast to Him who rides
on it; which brings forcibly to my mind the beautiful vision
I had concerning Enoch, when he appeared to me on a
beautiful white horse. He sat me upon this horse and then
got on himself and girded me closely to him with a beautiful
white girdle. Then he said unto me: I will hold the reins
for I know the way, and yea, we did fly and we came to
a very large building with folding doors which rolled back
and we entered in without setting off the horse. There
I saw such beautiful people and they were singing all about
a Woman from another world, which filled my heart with
rejoicing.
Therefore it is sufficient to know that the Mighty Pres
ent God has come in His witnesses' power, so let it be
understood, when our spirit and that Immortal Spirit come
together we have agreed with Christ as Jesus agreed with
Him Then the wonderful power will be made manifest
here upon this earth, for nothing can be hid from them.
Like unto Peter, they will have power to raise the dead,
but all unbelieving spirits will have to get out of the room.
Therefore there will be great signs given that the har
vest of Christ's Kingdom is to be gathered in, wherein a
healing balm from heaven has come down, calling for uni
versal harmony and unity, being for a marvelous and won
derful change in bringing out all strife, contention and di
vision, for the Conquering Prince of love and peace is here
to pitch His Throne, Dominion and Kingdom —first invisible
and spiritual in the heart and mind from which will go
forth such mighty flaming power.
Therefore let us pray for this Divine flock to be gath
ered in to feed upon the overshadowing power of the Mighty
Present God and Savior, entering into the land of all bless
ings and plenty, peace and joy.
Oh, ye great and mighty ones of the earth, knowing
that the wonderful Trumpet has had its commission to sound,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 45
so by the resurrected Word of Life you may advance into
such a Divine glory that you need not fear when you show
forth that you wear this seamless robe. Nothing can be
compared with such a loving call as this, knowing that God
has chosen the poor of this world and the weak and foolish
things to confound the wise men after the flesh.
• Not many mighty, not many nobles are called. There
fore a True Israelite counts it a great honor to serve in the
vineyard of the Mighty God and King, showing forth all
energy and power for the beautiful Heavenly Kingdom to
come in great power to spread as lightning to all parts
of the earth; to awaken such pastors and watchers as may
go forth in the power like unto the Spirit of Elijah—to
turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and the
disobedient to the Wisdom of the Just.
Therefore in this the Twelfth and last hour, such shep
herds the Mighty Present God will raise up who shall feed
His flock from a Living ministration from His own Spirit,
these being the first fruits of God and the Lamb, who are
calling out to awake, awake to the mighty summons and
calling of God.
Oh, hark! how the Heavenly sound alarms,
Calling dear Israel to God's loving arms.
Hear! the Seventh Angel Trumpet sounds;
"Come, spread the news the earth around."
The sound which will True souls inspire
By breathing in this Divine, Holy fire,
For we, while here, as on Mount Pisgah stand
As God's Holy warriors marching to new Canaan's land.
Therefore O Mighty God, wilt Thou lead us on,
For never can we lay our weapons down
Until we possess the mighty golden Sun,
Thus wearing Thy beautiful starry crown,
Enthroned with our Immanuel dear;
In blessed love we shall unite.
All hail! all hail! Thou God of love!
From Thy charming Virgins from above.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
46 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
DWELL IN WISDOM.
"LJOLY BLESSED WISDOM is the work of all things;
in Her is an understanding spirit, having all power,
overseeing all things, going through all understanding, pure
and undefiled. She passeth and goeth through all things by
reason of Her pureness; She is the breath of the power of
God and pure influence flowing from the glory of the Al
mighty; no defiled thing can enter Her, for She is the bright
ness of the everlasting Light and the image of His goodness.
God loves them that dwelleth in Wisdom. She is more beau
tiful than the sun and above the order of the stars. Being
compared with the Light She is found before it." Wisdom
of Solomon.
This Holy Charity never faileth, seek Her espousal and
love Her beauty in that She is conversing with God. She
is magnificent in Her nobility, yea, the Lord Himself loveth
Her. She is a virtuous crown of Eternal Life; the way of
Holiness is Her path and She is within the strait gates of
the Holy City of the Mighty Present God.
In this path of virtue to perfection you will find this
way contrary to the will of the flesh and also to the Immortal
birth. It will be found not to be of blood, nor of the will of
the flesh, nor of man, but of God, and therefore in the path
way to this Immortal birth it cannot be according to the
will of the flesh, which is at enmity against the Mighty
Present God.
Therefore by the will of the Spirit of God, Shiloh, we
must crucify the will of the flesh and bring it in subjection
to the will of God; and it will be found as it is written, that
the flesh lusteth against the Spirit and the Spirit against
the flesh, therefore a war must be encountered.
You who enter upon the race must lay aside every
weight that doth so easily beset you and run with patience,
not as one beating the air or as if you had no prize to win
and not as though you did not care to win or lose. Such will
surely lose and suffer loss.
Therefore let Israel die daily and thus crucify all things
pertaining to the world, the devil and the flesh, crucify the
old man with his affections and lust and be justified of God.
God justifieth Righteousness, not wickedness, but suffering
for the Kingdom's sake or suffering for Righteousness, there
is a reward and blessings, thus being subject to the Law of
Paradise which takes us back safely to the Eden of Paradise,
where peace and happiness shall forever dwell.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 47
Blessed Esdras made inquiry of the times and seasons.
Daniel desired to know the times and seasons and concerning
things given in vision and by prophecy and it was said: "Go
your way until the time of the end." Esdras, who like Elijah
and Enoch was translated bodily, changed from mortal to
Immortal, to whom in the day of their prophecy the Arch
angel appeared, whose name was Uriel, angel of Light, and
gave answer to Esdras according to Wisdom and in parable.
Even the disciples of Jesus Christ, the beloved Son of
God, inquired also of the times and seasons and He said:
"It is not for you to know the times and seasons which the
Lord hath put in His own power." It was sealed until the
time of the end and day of Visitation, now to be revealed
according to the promises, but even now on condition, and
He doeth nothing but what He revealeth to those who keep
the Paradisical Law of God.
In His first coming, Jesus spoke in proverbs and para
bles, to be revealed and interpreted by Him to whom it is
given and who is prepared and who in spirit stood in the
Presence of God and now in body. For this purpose and to
this end was He born, that He might testify unto the Truth,
by which deliverance shall come to the whole earth in their
order and in their times and seasons.
To His Elect, Jesus Christ said: "The Kingdom is pre
pared for you from before the foundation of the world."
The Elect seed of promise was handed down from the Mighty
Present God and to Esdras He said: "Thy heart has gone
too far in the world and thinkest thou to comprehend the
things of the Most High?"
All is written for us upon whom the end of the world
has come, therefore, all who expect to know the revealed
mysteries must first know the Law by which he is prepared
for such knowledge which has been sealed since the Cheru-
bims were placed with flaming swords, because of the con
dition of the fallen world.
Now in this, the end and day of Visitation, there must
of a necessity, be a preparation going before the increase of
Wisdom and Divine knowledge. Therefore I, the Spirit of
Truth, have come to show you the way and to set three
similitudes before thee. Holy Uriel said: "If thou can declare
one, I will show thee also the way thou desirest to know;
and I will also show thee from whence the wicked heart
cometh. Go thy way and weigh me the weight of the fire;
and measure me the blast of the wind or cail me again the
day that is passed and the counsel of the woods and the sea
48 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
in war both imagined in vain for the fire consumes the wood
and the sands stood up and stopped the sea." Both had a
place in the earth.
Esdras judged the controversy between them, but said
Uriel: "Why not judge thyself? The fear of the Lord is
the beginning of Wisdom. Though we be as the trees of the
wild forest, and as the rolling sea or as drops of many waters,
Wisdom and understanding cometh from God, the Creator
of all."
We must be brought to fruit by the Law of Paradise
and the world shall do wickedly but the wise shall under
stand. Therefore the three ways are clearly seen as we view
His handiwork in the three dispensations of time, and the
three ways unto the three glories of the sun, moon and stars.
Now, by His Visitation of Truth we know the way He
takes, therefore we must follow His golden footsteps up into
the temple of Wisdom. It was said of the First-born, the
Lord Jesus Christ, that He knew what was in man and from
whence the evil heart did spring, so also we who seek Wisdom
and receive it when it is sent unto us; showing forth the
invisible, the eternal power and Godhead.
Three things agree in earth and three in heaven, spirit,
water and fire, but Wisdom must show how they agree.
Water and fire agree with man only in separation. Spirit,
water and blood agree with and in Jesus, but blood within
and spirit without and blood and water came from His side.
His spirit withdrew and afterwards returned and was put
within Him and He poured out His soul unto death, which
was the water soul life quickened by His spirit.
This was a resurrection of His soul, He being the resur
rection and the Life; and with the soul and spirit reunited
He went in spirit and preached to the disobedient spirits in
prison while the longsuffering of God waited in the days of
Noah. Therefore Michael, the Spirit of Jesus, led those who
were in captivity, captive and gave a free gift in hope of
resurrection, He being the first fruits of them that slept.
Disobedience brought on the flood of water and de
stroyed them all except those of good works in obedience,
faith and love. Lot escaped through obedience to the angel
of God. Therefore let it be remembered the evil must be
burned first by the substance of the seven spirits, like the
furnace seven times heated, then the Fourth will be seen,
man being in spirit, soul and body and the Fourth like unto
the Son of God, bringing back the day that is past, by
which we return back to days of youth.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 49
Then as the sea shall return from its waterbanks into
the inward parts of the earth, so thy spirit shall return
from war to its inward home of the body; and the fire
within the planet will agree with the water in its circle
around it, separated by earth and rock, and so work in
harmony for good to all who dwell upon the earth. The
earth, by its upward sweat, will yield her sevenfold and
so the spark of fire and sand of the sea and drops of rain
are compared to the people or seed of Abraham in whom
all nations shall be blessed. For there is no God in all
the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
SPIRIT OP FAITH.
"AND ONE OF THE ELDERS said unto me: Weep
not; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root
of David, hath prevailed to open the Book and to loose the
Seven Seals thereof." Rev. 5:5.
The Lion of the tribe of Judah has set me free to run
the race of faith unto the end and gives this caution: to
take care to be well mounted on this horse of the Spirit
of faith and to hold fast to Him who rides on it, who has
the conquering bow in His hand to shoot His arrow into
those unbelieving spirits that would still keep us in doubt
and perplexity.
At the opening of the Second Seal, Rev. 4:3,4; all
peace, pleasure and joy were taken away from the earthly
life and such a light broke forth which made me see the
vile abominations of an earthly state as compared with the
perfection of the Divine Life ; so that now I rejoice in noth
ing more than to see Him who sat upon the red horse, slay
ing with His sword, the beast and creeping things of the
earth —all the moving, stirring essence springing from the
original source of evil—and to find Him taking away peace
from the earthly life so that the earthly mind is bereft of
all peace, rest, contentment and satisfaction in all its going
out, whether in thought, word or action.
30 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
But how cometh this to pass? Answer: Why, because
He that sits on the red horse is given the mighty sword of
the Spirit of the soul, that thereby it may kill and destroy
all the essence of earthly life, which brings joint union with
Christ; that sword is nothing else but the power of the
Spirit of Life, which is Christ—the Deity —in His Eternal
humanity now fixed in the center of the soul. It is Christ's
risen Life in His saints, enabling them to conquer the essence
of the earthly life, which is the beast within themselves.
Now this taking away of peace from the earthly life
is a blessed introduction to its final destruction, which is
to fall upon it according to the intention of the Mighty I
Am That I Am, Jehovah.
The opening of the Third Seal, Rev. 6:5,6: "And I be
held, and lo a black horse; and He that sat on him had a
pair of balances in His hand," signifying the destruction
of the life of the beast in His saints which in this day of
plenty is passing away. Its earthly essence must be weighed
in the balance of Righteousness for the Lamb's life rising
in His dead and rising saints, putting them into one Seal,
weighing all their words, thoughts and actions in the weight
of perfection, Christ, the Holy One, to see where they be
brought into an even poise with it, to the end that all in
crease and plenty might richly abound in the fulness of the
Spirit, from which heavenly sowing so great a crop doth
spring, as may proclaim such a plenty that may exceed all
former crops. Thus it will naturally spring in the soul which
is evenly balanced with Christ, the anointed. Nothing of
the oil and wine which from hence shall proceed, shall be
hurt or diminished.
At the opening of the Fourth Seal, Rev. 6:6-8. Christ
riding with His saints on a powerful horse, whose name
is conquering. Death, hell and hate followed Him, but
though this death looks grim, yet it is such a death as shall
only hurt a fourth part of the earth.
This is the evil principal in the earthly life, which reigns
and hath dominion until the Life of Christ is risen in His
saints, till which time the beast may be permitted to kill
the Life of Christ in the soul, with hunger, famine and ling
ering death, for it is said that the beast shall make war
with the saints and for a time overcome them; that is,
keeping them under by reigning over them in the worldly
dominion which reacheth to their outward man, as stand
ing in his elementary kingdom where he has great power
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 51
to afflict and famish unto death by several cruelties when
so far permitted.
But I have expressly found that the greatest fury, hell
ish force and wrath of the dragon is quelled and over
come by the blood and endless Life of the Holy Lamb of
God; rising in His powerful might within me upon my
complaint of the continual usurper of the beast kingdom.
Therefore the Mighty Present God has given assurance
that there is a vial of wrath to be poured out upon him which
shall draw his kingdom into everlasting perdition; that he
may no longer insult the Sealed ones of God, to whom power
shall be given to bind him in everlasting chains; for the
Lord Omnipotent in the Life of the Holy Lamb is coming
to reign over all beasts of the earth.
The opening of the fifth Seal discovers the souls of the
slain saints—Rev. 6:9, 10—under the altar of the Deity of
humanity. Here the soul witnesses and conforms to the
death of the Lamb and lies as a living, burning coal under
the altar and cries incessantly to rise in such power and
might that it may be able to take vengeance on those who
had killed the Just One, whose eternal generation is to be
continued from the Virgin Seed—introduced into nature —
who hath laid a long time sealed up in death.
As Abel's blood did cry for vengeance, so doth the
blood of Jesus cry out more strongly in the souls of those
who are dead in Christ ; and the Lord hath expressly assured,
that when the rising incense goeth up from the altar from
the soul's live coal, it is a sure testimony that the resurrection
is nigh, when the naked soul shall be clothed with its long
white robe.
Though this has been a long rest and confinement to
many, yet it hath only been permitted that a stronger cry
may ascend, even as we see now that John the Beloved's
long sleeping prophecies are now by some strong crying souls
awakened, till all the Seals be made to fly open, to the end
that the imprisoned souls in Christ may, by their opening,
come to sit upon the throne when they shall judge the
dragon and the beast with all their adherents that formerly
exercised cruelty over them unto death.
Therefore rejoice, all ye who do find the effects of this
Fifth Seal opening in yourselves, for by them you may know
the earnestness of the Jerusalem Kingdom, looking for its
fulfillment in the world within, which shall also in due time
be fulfilled in the outer world.
I proceed now to the opening of the Sixth Seal, Rev.
52 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
6:4, where the first thing to observe is the great earthquake,
representing the terrible shaking of the very foundation of
the old earth in which is the original seed of sin, the hour of
whose judgment has come and the Trumpet has sounded for
the dissolving of the first earth and heaven that their place
may be no more found.
The wind of the Mighty Spirit blows upon all flesh to
make it wither and die. The sun of the outward season is
changed into blackness and the moon of the season into
blood. All of the starry imagination drops like untimely
fruit and every island and mountain of strength melts away,
for there can be no hiding in this day, a consumption being
determined upon the whole universe which has been under
the beast's captivity.
We may call this a blessed ruin and undoing, to see a
destruction come upon all that hath kept the Holy Lamb and
His Kingdom out. This causes a great out-cry and perplexity
in the properties of the degenerated nature, where the king
of reason and the captains, the senses, do not know where to
flee from the face of Him who has come to make all things
new, which could not be till all of the old buildings were
broken down and taken to pieces, where the terrible leprosy
of sin did still arise.
The Kingdom of God could no better way contrive for
the laying of a sound and sinless foundation for the New
Jerusalem, according to this fore-contrived model as by ex
pressed words it came unto me, that none could or ever
should come to the opening of the Seventh Seal till all this
was fully finished, and I must give witness of what it is
doing and yet it doth not seem grievous, because of what
is to succeed and follow when the next Seal shall be opened.
This I have been shown according to experience and
revelation, to open the wonderful meaning of what is written
in Revelation, according as it is to be fulfilled in the Holy,
heaven-born saints. Therefore I also well know that their
opening will cause a terrible day of woe to the rebellious and
unrighteous, for they who shall then be found in the beast's
kingdom must look to fall and go into perdition with him, for
as there are inward vials to be poured forth, so there are
outward vials to be poured forth on the world.
The Lord has shown me that to every Seal there is an
eye open within, which is therefore called to look inward
where the great mystery is to be opened; and as every Seal
hath its eye, so the ear hath its sounding horn, which is
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 53
filled with Holy oil, which makes kings and princesses in
God's tabernacle.
These are the Trumpets that give the most certain sound
for time to end and the everlasting Kingdom of the Alpha
and Omega to begin in that soul where the mighty Trumpet
shall sound, upon which follows the loosening of those angels
that have been bound, who are to fight the Lamb's battle
and to revenge His quarrel, for the great and last war will be
upon the Sixth Seal opening.
The Lord did testify that this would be such as in no
fore-going Seal had been known, but He said withal: I am
the Lord, strong and mighty, who will prevail and wholly
overcome the kingdom of the dragon and beast. Continue
thou while I am doing this in the most Holy secret of My
being, where the constant mediatorship offering may go on
as the strength of an army that shall overcome all through
the burning incense that is mingled by the angel, whose
place is to stand always at the altar.
No hurt or suffering by all this conflagration shall touch
the jewel that lieth hidden in My Deity that would shine
forth again in the body of its native, Virgin purity as before
time was. Wherefore suffer thou all this violence on thy
elementary part, as knowing that it will not at all be
disturbed.
The inward temple worships in the communion of the
pure Spirit, but not as of old time in the first Elect Church
and people God ministered to, who worshiped in a dark,
formal, mixed manner, going up and down in a movable
tabernacle till Solomon's day, the typical temple which was
to be filled with the glory and was built even so since the
time of the Son of man's offering up Himself.
The Holy One had walked in clouds and hath been
worshiped after an imperfect rate, therefore He had pre
pared a burning, flaming day for all His vessels to pass
through to know whether they be sanctuary proof or not,
for the Lord is carrying on a pure Jerusalem worship in
Truth and substantiality.
Rejoice all ye who shall stand the trial of the Sixth
Seal in order to it. Now according to this Divine interpreta
tion of the Sixth Seal, we may know how near is the end of
time and the passing away of the old heaven and earth in
ourselves, for it is we who are looking to every Seal-opening,
from the first to the last.
There is a sounding Trumpet to bring ruin and desola
tion to the first six days of creation because of sin and the
54 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
curse which came in by the serpent's sting, by which means
the beast hath created his kingdom and corrupted the whole
principle of time, which the Holy One has suffered now so
many thousand years, during which time all just men indeed
died in the faith of this prophecy but attained not to that
degree which is to usher in the heavenly New Jerusalem in
Her glory.
But the Lord is now stirring and in good earnest is
sounding His Trumpet for battle; and there is that in us
which doth witness that He is going on gradually to unmake
and dissolve all of the first creation, for the Holy Lamb will
not much longer carry the weight and burden of a sinful
creation. He hath in some already sounded to judgment and
will set Himself free thereby; and the spirits and souls of
those who are resolved to follow Him through every Seal
till they shall overcome.
It was given to me to observe that there are six engage
ments to which six overcomings do answer, mentioned in
Revelation ; and to every conqueror a most high and wonder
ful reward is promised, all of which is to encourage to follow
Him cheerfully, who is our Leader, who hath sworn that time
shall be no longer till He hath gotten the victory over the
beast and whore and hath destroyed the dragon's kingdom
in every property with us who are elected to reign in His
Life with Him on His throne, with a train of new created
powers in the properties of the redeemed earth.
Herein we shall have dominion over all outward things,
even over all the beasts of this visible earth, who must be
subject to the Lamb who has taken His victorious crown
and is putting it on the heads of the Holy warriors that
have passed through all and have come to the last over
coming that gives entrance into the Seventh Seal.
As I was collecting in my mind the near approaching
time for the manifestation of the great overturning, which
is to bring in the overflowing stream of Christ's Kingdom
unto His overcomers, behold I did see and hear the Voice
of Him from whom the first heaven and earth did flee away ;
who uttered these words : There has been a long and tedious
war between the House of God and the serpent's brood, to
gether with the harlots and beast, who have maintained their
envious war on the grounds of fallen nature; but now come
and see the place where they shall lie bound in perpetual
captivity, wherein immediately we shall be filled with light
from the open center of the peaceable Kingdom that flows in
as a Virtuous Life, felt in the quality of the pure, glassy
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 55
sea with sounding powers and lightnings; as if all the old
earth were now drowned in this bright ocean.
There followed a bright star with a Voice going forth
which said: The Lamb riseth out of the new elementary sea,
overcoming the serpent and beast with all their seed and this
will be their deluge, wherein the true, loyal soldiers of the
Lord Jesus Christ will obtain their Eternal Victory.
This is done through the opening of the Seventh Seal,
wherein this Living Book, which was presented to my view
to read, was the glorified person of the Lord Jesus Christ
who does now appear to reveal what was sealed up in the
Seven Thunders, wherein He hid me as in the cleft of His
own spiritual body while He talked with me, who thus said:
Thou art come to a deep knowledge, for here the greatest
good and highest, stands unsealed to the inward eye of thy
spirit, that can enter into the Light of Eternity, where the
looking glass of all mysteries stands open. Therefore the
seals are unloosed and the mysteries are made known. Oh
shout unto Israel awake! awake! For there is no God in
all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
THE HALF HAS NEVER BEEN TOLD.
«AND I SAW another mighty Angel come down from
heaven, clothed with a cloud and the cloud received
Him out of sight." This can only be seen by the True
brethren. He rolled away the stone from the tomb and has
shown us a Living Christ. He now brings to our remem
brance the things pertaining to the Kingdom of God on
earth.
Let us praise and rejoice at the sounding of the Sev
enth Angel; let us search our hearts for the Key that He
left in our charge. The Covenant Message is in our hands
and the Holy interpretation has been found.
Let us not sleep on and take our rest but let us awake
to Righteousness and sin not. Let us show the world that
we have been visited by the Seventh and last Messenger
and that we have been profited by His Visitation through
the Mighty Shiloh Immanuel.
56 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
It is He of whom all the Messengers of this Visitation
have spoken, yea, Christ Himself, when He said: "I consid
ered all the living that walk under the sun with the Second
Child that shall stand up in His stead." Eccl. 4:15.
Therefore have we not great reason to rejoice that we
are permitted to give in our names as volunteers to go forth
in search of our brothers and sisters who are longing to hear
the beautiful Message of Life—the gold of Virtue, Truth
and Holiness that Jesus Christ so faithfully upheld?
"Be ye therefore perfect as your Father which is in
heaven is perfect," which is the prize of our high calling
of God in Christ Jesus, knowing His promises are sure and
cannot fail.
Having this in view our hopes are brightened with the
old year passing out and the New Year coming in, the form
er things passing away as we march onward and upward,
striving for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.
Dear ones, how refreshing to see interested ones spring
ing up here and there, one of a city and two of a family,
rejoicing over this wonderful Message of Life, realizing that
their deliverance draweth near and that the Star of Beth
lehem has again risen to lead the wise men to the place where
My Spirit shall rest.
You will remember that He appeared to Abraham and
the prophets by the name of I Am That I Am, and He made
Himself known to the apostles and disciples by the name of
Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God, and in this, the day
of His heavenly Visitation He has made Himself known to
the Israel of God by the name of Shiloh Immanuel, God
with us, who is to finish the work and cut it short in Right
eousness.
When this is accomplished, these words of Jesus Christ
will be fully understood: "My peace I leave with you, My
peace I give unto you," and for a truth the true joy and
happiness will dawn upon all Israel as they begin to realize
the bitter is being made sweet. Therefore may the sunbeams
of Light and Truth ever shine around thee, thus being pro
tected under the wings of Law and Gospel.
So let us gird up our loins with fervent zeal, accord
ing to knowledge, pressing forward with renewed energy
on that strait and narrow path which leads to Life and.
Immortality. Oh, that Israel would seek to the God of
heaven without looking at the gains of this world, that the
Holy Spirit might rest upon them; which brings forcibly
to my mind the words of Jesus at twelve years of age: "Wist
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 57
ye not that I should be about My Father's business?" that
His Kingdom of peace might be established.
But O Israel! ever remember it is only those who walk
with God that He will give the Living Oil to, which causes
them to hunger for that Living Bread and Water from heav
en ; for if you will drink of that Living Water of Life Eternal
then thou shalt eat at the table of Zion, for the substance
of all things shall now appear under the Voice of the Sev
enth and last Messenger, who has now been sent.
The chariot wheels of Israel are rolling on and the great
Light of God's Holy Visitation is shining in its fulness, which
cannot be put out, for it putteth out all other lights, yea,
it is the Seventh Light which will lighten up the whole
world; and the more they try to put it out the brighter it
shines, yea, it is the same great Light that was shown forth
by Jesus Christ, which shone in darkness and the darkness
comprehended it not.
Then O Israel; ye favored few who have thine eyes
anointed to see and understand the deep Spiritual things of
God, of a truth, flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto
thee but the Father who art in heaven.
Therefore I set before thee an open door, that is, to
come into the Spirit, for that is the door. Behold He knock-
eth at every man's heart and he that will enter in will have
the Key of knowledge and shall never taste of death, but
shall be full of His love and mercy.
Oh, that beloved friend, the Lord Jesus Christ, who
laid down His life for Adam's transgression, for the Living
as well as the dead! Then He showed a spiritual body for
the dead and a flesh and bone body for the Living, and was
not this like Joseph to his brethren? who was first to them
as dead for they knew not that it was he. Afterwards he
made himself known, and listen to his sweet, humble words :
"I am Joseph, your brother, he said, .
And still to my heart you are dear.
You sold me and thought I was dead,
But God, for your sake, sent me here."
Oh, Israel! ever seek to have that Immortal Spirit with
thee as Joseph had when cast into the dungeon. Then let
us ask the God of heaven, through His beloved Son, the
Lord Jesus Christ, to give us a circumcised heart that we
might do His Holy will.
What great joy it will bring to the heart of an Israelite
indeed, in whom there is no guile, to have Paradise to reign
58 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
over them; for it is Christ and Jerusalem Above, which is
God's throne.
Then dear brothers and sisters, let us ever seek to turn
back to that Immortal Land where the enemy cannot come.
He cannot come into Paradise, for Paradise consists of three
characters —the Father, which is God, the Son, which is
Christ and the Holy Ghost which is our darling Mother of
Zion, they being three Spirits yet one; and behold they are
seen round about the City of Jerusalem, seeking Him whom
their soul loveth, and they find Him and will not let Him
go until the battle for them is fought and the victory won.
Therefore, O Israel! is it not encouraging and a great
comfort to the weeping heart to realize and know that the
same Spirit that was upon Jesus Christ is here now to clothe
His brethren when they are ready and prepared? It will
never leave them nor forsake them.
Many passages in the Scriptures prove that Christ gave
the mortal body of Jesus that He might raise Him in Im
mortality; that He might save His Israel as well as destroy
the devil. We see Jesus made a little lower than the angels,
but we do know that He was raised higher than the angels,
crowned with honor and glory that He, by the grace of God,
should taste death for every man.
You will remember the high priest who stood up and
said it was expedient that one man die that the whole nation
perish not. This one man was Jesus and the whole nation
that perish not is the 144,000. Therefore these words were
heard from the high and Holy One saying: Through My
ascension I shall dwell about the beautiful Paradise which
is alloted to them for a certain time, until all the faithful
ones are gathered into the beautiful Kingdom of Mount Zion.
There ye shall hear the good news that all are rich
and flourishing within this beautiful Paradise Kingdom. Can
you not hear the Spirit of Wisdom? saying: These things
that I have revealed unto thee have been given to thee in
declaring the place of Paradise where all may come who are
found worthy to make their ascension, spirit, soul and body,
like unto the blessed Enoch, showing forth they are pre
pared to meet the Bridegroom who will bring them safely
to Mount Zion where they are appointed to stay until their
number is completed.
Herein they find that they can pass the way to the
Tree of Life through the flaming Cherubims who remain
still on guard upon that Holy Tree of Life. In that place,
Holy Angels do also wait in turn to minister unto those
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 59
who come here as joint heirs of that glorious estate which
is revealed in Holy Zion.
These are some of the good tidings which doth belong
to the Eternal Father, and through the Mighty Shiloh Im-
manuel I shall open to thee a further mystery —which may
be entered upon in this very life time—the Law of Paradise,
which will bring to you peace, happiness and joy.
Thou hast received the anointing, wherein thou dost
walk with the Spiritual, Immortal Man in this beautiful
Paradise where thou dost ofttimes hear the echo of thy
Bridegroom's Voice, calling thee still to hasten; getting on
all that will make thee humble, meek and mild in the pres
ence of that Immortal Eye, thus obtaining the Spirit of that
sweet anointing coming down from the heavens above.
It is the Tree of Life to live upon, which is that which
will purify and put upon thee a most transparent body, for
they who do daily feed upon it shall indeed be transmitted
by it. Behold, this gate of Paradise doth stand open and
whatsoever things of God are there, thou hast a right not
only to know but they are thine own to enjoy.
Therefore take heed unto the Law of Paradise which
has been particularly given to thee. To this end observe
then, that the Holy Jesus Christ will here frequently talk
with thee and show Himself according to the Espousal that
is made afresh in His Elect in this beautiful Paradise. Truly,
truly the half has never been told! For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
HOLY ARK OF SAFETY.
"Ye can discern the face of the sky, but can ye not discern
the signs of the times?" Matt. 16:3.
QOD
IS A PARTICULAR judge not to respect any but
such as bear His own similitude and likeness; they shall
have the great preeminence and honor in His Divine King
dom. God grant that this may be a Holy and Divine call
to the ends of the earth that they bring their glory into
60 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
the City of God. May they as kings reign with Christ,
their head.
When it comes to this wonderful point, a turn and rev
elation will then soon follow upon the inhabitants of this
visible earth that are reserved for this wonderful age of
time; whereby a new model shall be brought in that shall
resemble the heavenly world above, setting up a Divine King
dom that shall rule over all nations by a rod of power in
the hands of such as shall be found in the spirit of Moses,
Elias, David and Daniel, which shall multiply in this day
of Christ's Kingdom abundantly.
For this, we shall hear a mighty rejoicing and trumpet
sounding in the heavens, that the Kingdom of the Holy
Lamb was upon its descending to the earth and therefore
warning is given to those who believe and love the appear
ance thereof, to keep their eyes steadfastly upon the heavens
for this glory to open and spread itself upon the Holy Ark
of safety.
Here is a subject further to be answered; that it was
so near to be revealed in this, the Twelfth and Last hour,
but it was the pleasure of Divine Wisdom to conceal from
the worthy as well as from the unworthy, the believing ones
as well as the unbelieving ones, and set a determined time
and season.
^Therefore, thus far is given to calculate the time is very
near, by the foregoing signs concerning that which through
the patriarch has been revealed to me, foreshadowing that
Christ's Kingdom is near now as there were signs literally
given by Christ, of His coming in His Divine Kingdom and
power which has its first accomplishment in His coming to
deliver His persecuted and depressed ones; bringing down
severe judgments on his or her enemies, as in the destruc
tion of the unbelievers.
So now it turns to that which is more spiritual and in
ternal, for the mystery doth work in various ways and man
ners in the commotion of various kingdoms; first the king
dom of the beast, which consists of simple pleasures and
advantages, stretching themselves upon their beautiful ivory
beds, not only neglecting and disregarding but opposing the
Spiritual Kingdom for fear it should supplant them of their
riches and temporal kingdom.
That the stupidness in pleasure and worldly enjoyment
which now reigns universally at this day in a more than
ordinary manner, is indeed a sign of the near approach of
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 61
the overturning of the kingdom of the antichrist beast, may
well be hoped.
Yea, there can be no manner of doubt made heretofore
by those who are wise to search into the calendar of former
ages and who therefore have an ear open, to hear and receive
what by truth itself hath been delivered, for as the days of
Noah, so also shall be the eoming of the Son of Man, to
destroy and overturn the whole beastly kingdom.
They did eat and feast; they drank and married wives;
they were given in marriage, notwithstanding the warning
and preaching of repentance for about a hundred years, until
the very day that he entered into the Ark of safety.
Likewise it was also in the days of Lot. They were
feasting and making merry, buying and selling, planting and
building until a sudden destruction out of heaven overtook
them. Even thus it is to be for a certainty in the day when
Christ shall be revealed for a Holy salvation to them that
wait for His appearance, but to all who have the beast mark
and worship the golden image, confusion, desolation and
disobedience.
This is the first, a sort of forerunner. The second is
under the dragon's power, who does assume and take up
persons in a peculiar manner. This is also a forerunning
sign.
There is another sort of persons that are very serious
according to their present understanding, but cannot bear
any spiritual dispensation that might prepare them for the
reign of Christ, which is coming contrary to their expec
tation.
Therefore the Spirit of Wisdom and Revelation breaking
out in this wonderful way, showing forth the great sign
of the opening of the mighty springing of the Spirit of
Faith that shall rise and conquer all self reasonings so as
not to admit any doubt or staggering, but makes its pass in
a strait line up to the glorified Jesus Christ, as He is invested
with all power in the lower regions as well as in the upper,
and so unite with that powerful name, Alpha and Omega.
Faith in this great name must produce those mighty
works and deeds, mentioned by our Lord after His resur
rection, as the signs that shall follow those who believe in
His name. They shall cast out devils; they shall speak' with
new tongues; they shall take up serpents and if they drink
any deadly thing it shall not hurt them. They shall lay their
hands on the sick and they shall recover.
Now by virtue of these mighty acting powers, redemp
62 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
tion shall be worked out, setting us free from the burdens
and oppressors that the whole creation for so many ages
has groaned under, from whence no deliverance could be till
these resurrected powers came down to rest upon those who
are to be the first rising witnesses thereof.
Another wonderful sign will be the great amazing
wonder of all appearance that yet has been, which is, that
a New Paradise shall spring up in the midst of the Holy
camps of Israel, wherein it is the goodwill and pleasure of
the Father to restore to them the rich, Divine gifts out of
Wisdom's bank and storehouses, which never were opened
before.
They shall be commanders both of what is in the upper
world and in this; no need of taking thought for this or
that which belongs to their own bodily estate, for it will
be given them as they stand united with Christ, their head,
to possess the earth and to inherit all things.
The seventh wonderful sign is putting on the transfig
uration, which will be accomplished at the descent and
appearing of Christ in them in His glorified being, by the
glance of which glory they are transfigured into the express
image of His bright body.
To this prepared Spouse a Voice was heard saying:
Arise and shine, for thy light has come and the glory of the
Bridegroom has now become thy covering. The marriage
here will be acknowledged by the High Throne Majesty,
who giveth His consent thereto.
Now what may we expect from the matrimonial unity
but such offspring —new creation of Spirits—that may be
all pure and perfect, as was designed by the Father of
Eternity, to bring forth after their own similitude before
Adam fell; which purpose of God could never be made void
though a stop was permitted for a while, for the bringing
forth of the manifold Wisdom and wonders of God, so
Divinely sent by Him who was from the Eternal generation—
the Sons of God.
The Spirits of the Just who were kept back were to be
repaid to a far greater advantage, which in the conclusion of
all secrets will be made manifest in admiration and astonish
ment by all, throughout the whole universe of God's creation.
It remains now to be observed what, from the redoubled
seven eyes, has been truly discerned; the signs forerunning
and those to follow, as evidence when the Kingdom is truly
come. It will begin as it was in the first Paradise, in male
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 63
and female, which reveals the redoubled seven eyes; the
restoring of the lost Eternal Virgin nature.
Therefore the Virgin rises in her room to draw and
feed upon that Tree of Life, having tasted of the virtue
thereof given to Her chosen and Elect mate, so knowing and
assigned to stand in the room of him (satan) who brought
in sorrow and the curse that must die and be extinguished;
as this Tree of Life by this True Eternal marriage of the
male and female comes to spring up in fruitful powers.
Then comes forth the renewing of that blessed Word
that God spoke in the beginning, Gen. 1:38; "And God
blessed them and God said unto them, be fruitful and multi
ply and replenish the earth and subdue it; and have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over
every living thing that moves upon the earth."
Now this has been forgotten and lost out of possession
in this lapping generation that proceedeth from the first
Adam, for these many ages of time have passed over, but
the grace and purpose of God cannot be disannuled but must
be made good. The pure Eternal Virgin nature will recover
itself and stand in great power over all opposition, whereby
an end may be put to this sinful old world.
But this great revelation and change will rise and come
on gradually, so from hence a new generation shall spring
and multiply here upon the earth, which will be a wonderful
time among mortals who are chosen to live, such as have
reached up to the faith of Christ-like unity. To them this
New Kingdom shall stand all open and free to pass into a
joyful, triumphant victory.
I must not omit another degree and rank of spirits;
when they pass out of the body in an imperfect state, they
reach no further than air region kingdom, which millions
of souls that are in a restless state pass into; aiming some
what at the Immortality of their bodies, for which the kind
and loving Savior also has no doubt made provision and has
condescended to commission ministering Spirits from the
Paradise region, frequently to minister to them to instruct
and exhort them and make out the large estate that Christ
has purchased for them; that they may gradually, by taking
in the faith of it, come out of their uneasy confinement.
Thereby all who appear to mean good shall have their
passing away, for the great Angel shall come to set His
feet, one upon the sea and the other upon the earth. Then
a mighty calm and quietness amongst the earthly inhabitants
64 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
will be, for the powers of eternity will make their descent
in time, among such sanctified, prepared souls who shall be
marked and sealed with the Father's name of power.
This name signifies no less than restoring Eternal
nature, bringing forth the similitude of God as was in the
beginning. Then the Kingdom and Dominion that Adam
departed from will be restored upon consideration thereof.
The question might be asked: Why such a prolonging?
It was answered that there was a deep and hidden cause for
it—why so many generations should pass away in this vis
ible principle under the mortal suffering and death, till the
number roll in the Court of Heaven was fulfilled and the
mystery finished for the filling up of the other mansions of
separated souls.
O ye great and mighty ones of the earth, knowing this
Divine horn has its commission to blow to you, that so you
may advance into a resurrected Life, to put on such priestly
glory as you need never fear to be disrobed of—sure that
nothing can prevail against such a loving call as this.
Therefore, according to the will of God, who did move
worthy and spiritual persons to assist at their own cost and
charge to bring to light, as believing that such an age is
coming on in which the prophecies might be fulfilled; that
the earth might be filled with the knowledge of the Lord
from those Holy sanctuary waters which shall cover the
earth with Wisdom and understanding in the deep mysteries
of God.
Therefore watch and pray and keep upon your guard
always; this being such a glorious and high privilege to
receive of this Spirit which is brought out of God's treasure
of things, new and old. Therefore it is very rare that any
is able to obtain and retain this precious and Holy anointing
whereby we come to know the secrets and the deep things of
God. Therefore there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 65
THE PATH OF LIFE.
"TTHOU WILT SHOW ME the path of life; in Thy Pres
ence is fulness of joy; at Thy right hand there are
pleasures for evermore." Psa. 16:11.
Praise God the path of Life is found in which there
is no death, and the day that is past returns with rejoicing
and delight. The Sun of Righteousness arises upon us with
healing in His wings. The day of Paradise is returning in
its cycle of time and the Day Star has arisen as a perfect
sign, lighting up the inward parts.
The sower that has cast into the earth such living
sparks of light has gone forth, preparing us for the great
harvest that must bring forth His golden sheaves that shall
be offered on the naming altar, where nothing can suffer
loss but the straw and chaff hanging about them.
Behold the day has come and is still breaking for the
spirit of judgment and burning to pass through for refining
and purging the inward floor of the fallen nature, wherein
they will come forth as the gold of Ophir, proving they have
searched into the deep things of God, which are only known
through and by that Holy Spirit which revealeth all things
which have long been laid up in store, to be given to those
who are prepared to become a mouthpiece for God in this
great and notable day of the Lord.
Herein ye may in this Holy place both meet and know
I am your Mighty Shiloh Immanuel. Therefore dear Israel,
can you conceive or believe the charge of Wisdom? Hearken
and you shall receive the Divine blessings, in being obedient
to Her Most Holy Laws. She would not that ye should have
less purity, power and dignity than your Lord Jesus Christ,
who is exalted and has the command to give and take what
soever doth lie in the Father's House.
Then ye shall realize what freedom ye shall have with
Wisdom, for Her deep secrets She will reveal, wherein
nothing can or will deny Her conquering Spirit of all the
opposing officers of satan. She will not be fearful or un
believing as to be terrified, although She, like Elijah, be
encompassed with legions of contrary spirits, which may
happen to prove what magnificent spirit of faith you have
entered into.
It is impossible to please God, only through that Living
Faith, which can say to that mountain, death: Be thou re
moved and it shall be done. It is then you will have your
own Divine power to search and see what is in the City
66 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
treasure, as we are by Wisdom, brought up hitherto in bold
ness and freedom to ask and take what belongs to Christ,
your Head, who is the great Prince and conqueror here who
would have you leave off all your earthly possessions and
come after Him with all your might, where there are great
depths of glory to draw you out of all earthly things.
Remember ye the words which He said, and He doth
now in Spirit, the second time say it again to thee that all
the Holy Deity hath, the uttermost and full extent of all
riches, power and greatness, the everlasting dominion is
now possessed by Jesus Christ as His own in common with
the highest Eternal Throne, and hath power to give the
same where and upon whom He will. Then ye are elected
and chosen by this great and high apostle to the profession
and endowed with power as joint heirs with Him, namely
our Ascended Master.
Therefore dear beloved ones, take heed that ye depart
not from your high calling, but bear up to witness thereof
and to the acknowledgment of the Father, the Word of the
Spirit of Wisdom, all agreeing to impress the golden mark
and living seal upon you—your right to all of those wonder
ful and rich goods that have been shown you in the House
of your God, that you may faithfully enter upon as your
Immortal inheritance.
Therefore dear ones, I entreat thee to be on the watch
that ye be found in obedience to these words of Eternal
Life, and see that you clip not the wings of your ascend
ing power in leaving your first confidence, for no firm bold
ness here can be till Jesus Christ, by water, blood and spirit
did come to cleanse you fully and thoroughly from all sin
and unrighteousness.
He Himself set the wonderful pattern before you, that
you might become like unto Him. Strive ye to understand
and receive all these precious things. Therefore open wide
henceforth and let all in, which shall drop from the ever
lasting, Holy mountain and heavenly hills upon the garden
of your pure mind and nourish the pure rose and lily with
the soothing waters of Shiloh.
Let us ever seek to become like our Ascended Master,
the Lord Jesus Christ, who had Holy communion with His
Father and was filled with raptures of glory and light, yea,
a Visitation from the God of Heaven which will fill every
Israelite's heart to overflowing. They shall have the knowl
edge of all deep mysteries of God, for He has taken great
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 67
pleasure in visiting His Elect by His heavenly, glorified,
ministering Spirits as well as by the still small voice.
These are they who have that Living Faith to believe
with all their hearts in His heavenly Visitation, which en
ables them to carry the glorious message of Eternal Life,
for through His great love and mercy He has sent His in
vitation to all, so that none shall have any excuse while the
door standeth open for the third and last time. Do you not
hear the Voice calling out: Awake! awake and put on the
whole armor of God to fight the battle, that the chain of His
love that has so long encompassed us about be not broken?
Dear beloved ones, when we look back to the days of
Enoch, who walked with God for three hundred years and
was not, for God translated him alive, spirit, soul and body,
remember he is now waiting in Paradise until the Sons of
God are made manifest upon the earth.
Therefore in this, the day and hour of Visitation, Israel
will make a long time a short time, for a quick work will
He make upon the earth and cut it short in Righteousness
and His Israel shall enter that sweet haven of rest, sweet
rest from the powers of satan. Therefore my eyes do long
to see those days when Righteousness shall cover the earth
as the waters cover the sea. "None shall say: Know ye the
Lord? for all shall know Him, from the least to the greatest."
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am
His servant.
PEACE
REVELATIONS FROM GOD
BLESSED IS THAT MAN and woman who are willing to
lay down the evil of their mortal life, thus entering
into the beautiful Law of Paradise and taking up the walk
with God, like unto Enoch, who made a clean cut from all
worldly things and kept his eyes steadfastly upon the Mighty
Present God, who was leading and teaching him the way to
return to the Holy translated liberty and glory, for which
the Holy Ghost was operating through the power of Faith.
I would say: Where are those enlightened spirits that
have the Divine seeing, who can take up here, for it is the
68 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
greatest witness to all Divine visions, prophecies and
revelations; and now all three degrees of senses we include.
They are a dark gathering cloud upon the center of light and
a strong enclosure to keep the spirit from passing into that
principal where the Triune Trinity and all the Holy train of
angels, seraphims and cherubims do attend God's throne.
Therefore let it be understood that no soul or spirit
can come to have a plain open view of a glorified personality
as seen and known in heavenly places. Therefore indeed
they are representations of heavenly objects and things in
a lower degree, which may consist with the bodily sensation
that enters into a calmness and sweet stillness, that the
spirit of the soul stands in a Divine seeing and hearing.
This is very frequently known and enjoyed by saints
in this present time, but that which is the most certain
knowledge—sight and hearing —is when the whole sensative
motion of spirit, soul and body enters into a translation.
Nevertheless, it then knows, hears and sees as in God's
glance and Light of Eternity. Thus it was with Daniel,
Paul and John; they were struck out of their senses while
the vision lasted upon them, and so it has in these last days
been witnessed, that when the Lord had any special revela
tions to give forth by His chosen thereunto, how the elements
of reason shut up and the stars of sparkling scenes falling
down as the pure ascended Spirits descending from God
with great and deep revelations that His mind and Word
might not be adulterated.
This is the more sure way of it, through the Mighty
Present God, wherein those who are so caught up in their
Divine senses by which they might really and substantially
find themselves entering into a very beautiful vision of God,
would fully understand that this agrees with that good say
ing of St. Paul, knowing that while present with the body of
sense we are absent from the Lord, but we shall be sober
and not run you out of your sensative life all at once, except
some sudden shower from the heavens shall fall and draw
you as it hath for some time done upon the good willing
heroes, who would heartily congratulate further witnesses
hereof.
This is not the lot of every saint. Nay verily, few may
as yet know open vision and yet will find their names written
in the Book of Life; but seeing the open door and making
a way to have more clear knowledge and familiar access to
God and the glorified person of Christ Jesus and the higher
order of angels, let this be a powerful motive to be dying
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 69
by degrees to that evil life which is separating and eclipsing
the face of God, wherein all peace, joy and assurance of
love is enjoyed.
Some one may ask the question: Who is it that can die
out of their own sense? For so great and glorious advan
tage, if we could find the pass door out of it we would not
stay in our troubled sense. For this I shall give you what
has been effected in my own experience which I find great
remedy and help in this case, as being instructed by Christ
Jesus, which brought me to finish the life of lower mortal
sense.
First ; avoiding all that might feed and nourish it up and
drawing out of all worldly concerns. You will find it will
grow weak and gradually expire, so that there may not be
so much as an evil essence left. But indeed, while this is
but doing and not thoroughly done, the evil sense will be
striving and casting up muddy water that clouds the Divine
Life and stops the inward hearing while you stay amid the
noise of the worldly reign which doth encompass; therefore
I can give you no other hope to get victory but by starving
it, coming away from all gross matters which feed it.
There may be a quietness of this stirring motion before
there be an arriving to the higher degree of overcoming,
putting all things under thy feet which will bring that Divine
Life of Faith which is the only ministry that Christ the
Lord doth set on foot afresh now in these days. Therefore
let it not be taught a stranger; but the sevenfold doctrine
blessing is for those who are able to receive and practice
it and there will be no loss, for as this evil sense dies the
fresh and separated life will spring.
There is one sense more which we must not omit to
speak something of, which is the dull pain and grief of the
natural body, and may abide where the sinful senses are
much brought out, which must be allowed till this natural
body is changed; as sensible hunger, thirst and want of this
and that refreshing for the natural body, carry the symp
toms of mortality. Of this kind, and yet sinless, Christ the
Lord could not expect to be loosed till something else did
follow, but yet carried through cheerfully in the hope of
redemption of the body.
Therefore this is the ground work of Wisdom's disciples.
They must first set their footing and dig deep here till they
find this golden grain which was once found in great rejoic
ing; yet here is not to be a rest till into the furnace for a
further progress and trial it shall pass, at which let none
70 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
be dismayed, for the redemption of this fiery, devouring,
lovely flame with the pure, Eternal breath from God doth
maintain till the White Stone shall be formed in a substantial
body.
The power of the Almighty God may go forth to renew
the ancient deeds of the Holy Ghost. This is the uniting
of Faith that is set before us to arrive to, wherein we behold
the great and Mighty Shiloh Immanuel bearing the Oracle
of Truth upon His breast, making a way for His Israel to
enter in, opening their eyes and ears that seeing they may
see and hearing they may hear, whatsoever is written by His
loving hand or spoken from His mouth, from which flowed
the loving words telling His Israel of Eternal Life that was
given by God, the Father, before the world began.
Therefore it brings forcibly to my mind the words that
were given me just after the coming forth of the Branch:
Loving Jesus, gentle Lamb,
In whose gracious hands I am,
Make me, Savior, what thou art;
Live forever in my heart.
Then the world will always see
Christ, the Holy Child in me.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant. Praise ye the Lord all ye His saints.
PEACE
COVENANT OF GOD'S LOVE.
BEHOLD! IN THIS, the Twelfth and Last hour, the
Mighty Present God is teaching us purity and love and
not a word is lost, for in the Book of God's remembrance
a registry is made of every thought, word and deed; when
His people are ready and prepared God will send a Mes
senger to open up the Book and copy from its sacred pages
all the messages of purity and love. Thus every man in
Israel will read the Words of Life and they will see the
Light and man will again be one with God.
No man, except the Lord Jesus Christ, could have taught
the high course of Divine Love and Wisdom. Therefore He
has come the Second time in the name of Shiloh Immanuel;
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 71
making all things new, being ready to give forth the prom
ises of His Father in the wonderful and Divine teachings
of the Eternal Gospel. I say to the faithful witnesses who
understand all mysteries, that it brings forcibly to my mind
our Ascended Master who gave His charge to His disciples
when He was to depart to the outward eye, that they should
wait at Jerusalem, the Holy City, in Divine harmony, dwell
ing in the one Spirit of Christ with great confidence and
love toward each other. Acts 1:4.
A deep search the Holy One doth make in this wonder
ful hour, waiting with longing eyes to be endowed with the
fulness of His Holy Spirit, which will be manifested in a
different manner than in the days of the apostles, that being
by the way of gifts coming down as a shower. But those
who shall be endowed with His Holy Spirit must have it by
way of a Divine birth in them. The apostles were to wait
at Jerusalem, which was a figure of the wonderful Light
wherein the 144,000 must dwell in that great Sunlight
and counsel one with another in a lowly spirit, according
as it was plainly shown in our Ascended Master, the Lord
Jesus Christ.
Therefore the Holy Spirit will have its birth in a peace
ful habitation, where the conquering Life of Jesus is. By
His dying and rising, it first made its way by reconciling
the Divine nature and bringing them into Divine harmony,
by which, renewing nature into a soft and sweet mildness,
causing all contrary spirits to cease by subduing them to
the Light's Divine principles.
Wherefore it is but in vain to expect the establish
ment of Christ's Kingdom until the birth of the Holy Ghost,
which will bring that Holy power to all bodies that are
prepared; and when this work is accomplished it will bring
unity within ourselves and with one another, which is a
very high perfection. Truly from hence I have been in
formed when the birth of the Holy Ghost according as the
Lord Himself hath revealed, but it may be that some will
object that the terms being so strange to an unbeliever,
that it would look to them impossible to obtain it. Therefore
nothing of any evil nature is allowed to enter. Pray there
fore, let us know what provision hath been revealed against
this, that it may beget a hope and belief in those who are
yet in the division and strife; a good war against the evil
and the evil against the good, being divided between the
night and the day.
Therefore the Spirit of the Lord has searched and found
72 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
out a cure, which will bring the broken and divided estate
of the first Adamic birth unto unity, harmony and Divine
liberty. I shall, as I am able to, bring forth the same as
it was given to me by the One Immortal Spirit, by which
we are directed to fathom the deep ground of the eternal
soul, and so to find out its true, essential properties as they
are being drawn from the mixed to the one pure element,
the eternal, living soul, breathing by God into an Immortal
body; thus formed in an Immortal flesh and bone body from
one pure element, all of which was to be seen in the first
Paradise man, which was our Ascended Master who has
sent the Second Child in the name of Shiloh Immanuel —
God with us—the only one that can make all things new
again.
That Holy Spirit is first to be known in a bright ray
of the great Sunlight that discerns where the root of evil
doth lie, and when the Spirit of that Immortal soul, which
comes by the Word of Life to understand its own original
life and by what means it had been corrupted in captivity,
it is made willing and eager to join in with the Holy Spirit,
Christ, which rises from the center of Light in its own Im
mortal soul to redeem and reconcile all to Himself that was
taken from Him in the birth of strife.
Thus Christ in us is our peace indeed, who hath made
of both, and all, one New Creation, having abolished the
law of enmity, blotted and rooted out sin by the same degree
as His own Righteous nature entering in, which restores
all peaceable counsel so that the spirit that is made to par
take of this gift of God hath put on Royal liberty; thus being
clothed with Christ in His Immortal body, finding himself un
loaded of all sinful weight, moving swiftly in the circle of
Light and running its race through the unknown places,
wherein other worlds do appear in such a glorious order,
all in happiness and bliss to that Immortal soul which is
begotten of the Father and conceived of the Mother and
carried by Her until the appointed time of the Father, thus
being born of Her in Immortality.
Dear Israel, let not this seem strange or impossible, for
in the deep truths is found the bringing forth of this golden
seed which has long waited to arise in His own original,
Immortal body. Therefore God has come to move and show
Himself in the Covenant of His love according to the fore-
ordination in the heart of Christ, for by Him we do obtain
this glorious resurrection from the mortal to Immortality.
The Divine glory which the Mighty Present God will bring
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 73
with Him, this instruction being so divinely from the Lord,
carrying great weight with it, causes all Israel to resolve
to wait upon the working powers which cometh from the
Mighty Jehovah. It revealeth all things which are mighty
and powerful, causing His Israel to press forward to this
wonderful and Divine order in a composed mind ever to
abide, wherein Jesus Christ thus spoke: "Consider to know
thou art to hold fast what I have purchased in giving My
body and pouring out My blood to save My Bride from
corruption and death, making the sacrifice once and for all."
Therefore they can ciaim no law to condemn, for thou
hast lived a Life of Holiness unto Him, seeing the redeem
ing spirits have come down to renew and gather in the lost
tribes from whence they did proceed at first—pure as God
is pure—to which degree of perfection we may be restored,
to enter in with Christ to reign in His beautiful Kingdom
of love.
Therefore O Mighty Prince and Savior, in the end
Thou wilt with flaming ministering spirits descend.
Oh! bow, oh! bow ye heavens and come down;
Oh! Prince of Peace, descend in Thy bright throne.
Wonders and signs shall through the earth be hurled
Prom the four quarters of this outward world.
All earthly craft shall then be brought to naught
And Wisdom's hidden stones to light be brought.
Those glorious saints who in Christ they represent
Shall all be clad in glorious ornaments,
In brightness and glory shall shine free,
Where nothing is of earth's obscurity.
'
The Elect seed shall all be brought in;
Christ then shall reign and put an end to sin.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
74 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
THE HOLY IMMORTAL CHURCH.
THE IMMORTAL CHURCH is unknown to the world but
there is one thing we do know, that it is having its ful
filment today in the Israel of God in this Visitation, where
in there shall be a complete and full redemption through
Christ. This wonderful, hidden mystery is not to be under
stood without the revelation of the Holy Spirit; therefore
the Holy Spirit is here to reveal the same to all earnest
seekers and lovers of Truth under the Voice of the Seventh
Sounding Angel, which is the Voice of the Second Child who
has come in the name of Shiloh Immanuel —God with us—
who shall open seal after seal so the redemption shall come
to be revealed as beholding your face in a looking glass.
This is the wonderful opening of the deep mysteries
of the redemption in Christ, which does consist of the un
searchable Wisdom of God, that will continually reveal new
and fresh things to the True believers, in order to which,
the Ark of God's testimony in heaven shall be opened be
fore the end of this present age and the testimony of the
Living, the 144,000, which is herein contained, shall be re
vealed.
The beautiful presence of this Divine Ark will constitute
the Life of the Immortal Church, and wherever that is,
there must of a necessity be the Ark. Behold the beautiful
unveiling of the Living testimony within the Ark of the
Lord, which was the beginning of the promulgation of the
everlasting Gospel of the Kingdom of God, wherein we shall
understand that the testimony of this Holy Kingdom will
be by the sounding of the Seventh Trump to alarm all nations
of the earth.
There shall be an authoritative decision given forth
immediately from Christ to put an end to all controversy
concerning the True Church. This mighty decision will be
the actual sealing of the members of this Immortal Church
with the name of God, giving them a commission to act
by virtue of the same; and this name will distinguish them
from all other different churches.
The election and preparation of this Immortal Church
is after a secret and hidden manner, as David in his minis
try was elected and anointed by the prophets of God, yet
was not admitted to the outward possession of the Kingdom
for a considerable time afterwards, for out of the stem of
Jesse a Virgin Church shall come forth through and by the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 75
Law of Paradise, which shall be brought forth at the
appointed time of God.
The birth of this Immortal Church was wonderfully
typified to John the beloved Revelator, by the great wonder
in heaven bringing forth Her First-born who was caught
up to the throne of God. This Virgin, that is here spoken of,
must be a pure Spirit, also of a prepared body and all over
impregnated with the Holy Ghost. This Immortal Church
is brought forth and signed with the mark of the Divine
name and shall be adorned with miraculous gifts and power
beyond what has been, whereby all nations shall be brought
unto it. It shall be the Holy, Divine, Immortal Church and
bear the name of Christ—His Immortal Church —for He is
head of the Church and Savior of the body.
This Holy and anointed Church must be perfectly Holy
that it may worthily bear the name, the Lord our Righteous
ness. Therefore, until there be such a Divine, Immortal
Church made ready upon the earth, so Holy, anointed, with
out spot or wrinkle or any such thing, so that it is adorned
as the Bride to meet the Bridegroom —Christ—He will not
personally descend to solemnize the marriage and present
the same to His Father. When this Holy Church shall be
made ready and thoroughly cleansed and sanctified from
every spot of defilement, then He will no longer delay His
coming. Then shall the glory of God and the Lamb rest
upon it as the cloud upon the typical tabernacle, that it shall
be called the tabernacle of Wisdom.
Though this Holy Immortal Church is not known in
visibility yet (it is hid at present in the womb of the morn
ing) nevertheless, it will be brought forth into visibility out
of the unbelieving world in a short time. Then it shall go
on multiplying itself universally, not only as to the number
of the First-born and the 144,000, but also to the remnant
of the seed, namely the aliens and strangers, against whom
the dragon shall make war.
The spirit of David shall revive in this Immortal Church
and more especially in some more select members of it as
the blossoming Root is to preceed the day of Solomon in
the Millennium. These will have might given them to over
come the dragon and his angels, even as David overcame
Goliath, the Philistine.
This will be the standing up of Michael, the great Prince
of Israel, and will be as the appearance of Moses against
Pharaoh, in order that the chosen seed may be brought out
from their hard servitude under which each one of Abra
76 . THE BOOK OF PARADISE
ham's seed groan ; but a prophetic generation will the Mighty
Present God raise up, who shall deliver His people by the
mere force of Spiritual arms, for the Mighty Present God
will raise up certain head powers to bear the first office, who
are to be persons that stand in great favor with the Trinity,
fear and dread of them shall fall upon all nations, visible
and invisible, because of the mighty acting power of the Holy
Ghost which shall rest upon them, for Christ, before His own
personal appearance, will first appear and represent Himself
in some chosen vessels, anointed to be leaders unto the rest
and to bring them into the promised land, the New Created
state.
Therefore Moses, Joshua and Aaron may be considered
as types of some upon whom the same Spirit may come, yet
to rest in greater power, whereby they shall make a way for
the ransomed of the Lord to return to Mount Zion; but
none shall stand in any Divine office under God but those
who are tried stones, after the pattern of the chief Corner
Stone, Christ Jesus.
This will be a thorny trial which very few, namely the
144,000, will be able to pass or to bear. _
Wherefore, the
waiters for the visible breaking out of this Immortal Church
are strictly charged to hold fast that which they have, and
wait together in unity of pure love, praying in the Spirit,
according to the apostolic pattern, that they may be sent
forth to multiply universally.
This trial must be absolutely necessary to every one
in particular and to all in general, together, for the clearing
away of all the remaining infirmities of nature and burning
up all hay and stubble and dross, for nothing must remain
in this Immortal Church but what can remain in the fire,
the Holy Ghost.
As a refiner will the Lord purify the sons and daughters
of the Living God and purge them into a perfect Righteous
ness. Therefore, through the operation of the Spirit in the
faithful, chosen ones, who are living upon the earth in this
the Twelfth and Last hour, they must be fully and totally
redeemed, having obtained an Immortal body.
Therefore the Lord, whose hand is lifted up, sweareth in
Truth and Righteousness that from Abraham's loins, accord
ing to the spirit, there shall rise a Holy and prepared Priest
hood. Abraham and Sarah were a type of that which should
be produced and manifested in this last age of the world.
The mighty spirit of Cyrus is appointed to lay the
foundation of the True temple and to support it in its build
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 77
ing. Therefore there are such characters or marks whereby
the pure Virgin Church, so founded, shall certainly be known
and distinguished from all others, and whereby their actions
prove the true sound of the Holy Ghost in the beauty of
holiness, so bringing down heaven upon earth, representing
here the New Jerusalem state.
Oh hearken, I plead with thee, and you will hear the
Seventh Trump sounding from the Seven Spirits that are
before the throne, giving His True soldiers strength to fight
the great battle in which the victory shall be won and Israel
gathered in safety to the New Jerusalem.
In songs of praise we all shall sing;
Behold Shiloh Immanuel, our New-born King.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
GABRIEL'S MESSAGE.
r%Hl ISRAEL, behold thy darling Mother of Zion, know-
ing that thou art to enter into a Covenant with Her to
obey the Law of the New Creation which shall be revealed
in the opening of this golden book. In it are revealed the
deep mysteries of the Divine Wisdom which have been sealed
up for ages, now to be opened and made manifest unto Her
children that should be found willing to receive and obey
such Laws that should bring forth in the new heart and in
the new Spirit.
Under the Voice of the Seventh Sounding Angel She
has appeared, being the Holy Queen of all the earth; and
with Her a great army of angels. Therefore behold! She
is God's eternal Virgin Wisdom whom thou hast been in
quiring after. She is here to unseal the treasures of God's
deep Wisdom unto thee, for out of Her Holy womb thou
shalt be brought forth after the manner of a spirit being
conceived and born again; like unto Jesus at the River Jor
dan, begotten of the Father and conceived of the Mother;
which thou shalt know by a new motion of life, stirring
and giving a restlessness, till Wisdom be born within the
inward parts of thy soul.
78 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
What a glorious thought: The Holy Mother has re
turned in this, the third dispensation; and I must testify I
saw Her in presentiment. She was so beautiful and was
dressed in such a wonderful, bright sunny robe, with a crown
of twelve stars upon Her head and the moon under Her feet ;
the twelve stars upon Her crown representing the twelve
tribes which are now to be gathered through the Mighty
I Am Presence, Shiloh Immanuel, whereby many wonderful
and mighty things shall be published in this great day, ex
horting and pleading with all Israel to obey and hearken
to Her counsel and Laws which shall be given out by Her.
This brings forcibly to my mind, the Virgin Mary given
the message of the angel Gabriel from this person who was
encompassed about with the heavenly host and made a Spirit
of Light; and as the Law was given to Moses of old, being
taken up to Mount Zion to converse with God, so in like
manner it has pleased the Mighty Present God, our Father,
to give forth in these last days the Law of Paradise by that
Spirit who was, years after, caught up on purpose to Mount
Zion to receive it.
There is no doubt that these Holy commandments so
received will carry along with them to many awakening
ones —as mentioned in Revelation —to again be restored, that
it may be known that God and His Christ has not forgotten
to reveal Himself to the inhabitants of this lower world in
Truth and Righteousness. Therefore my Lord did say to
me, the pure and Righteous revelation should not go forth
naked, but clothed with power in the Number Seven, where
the strength of the Almighty shall be a guide upon its testi
mony of Truth and Virtue.
Therefore the Spirit of Christ which first was this, that
the time was very near approaching in which the earth
should cast forth the dead that have been buried in the body
of sin. For this end a terrible blow and strike upon the
nations of the earth will suddenly come. God saith He is
worn out with the sinful abominations of this world which
He will shortly put to an end, for it has certainly been
sounded in my inward ear that the end of all sinful worlds
are, by the Great Creator of them, coming to an end as it
is written: "My Spirit shall not always strive with man."
Therefore Christ the Almighty being the Redeemer, into
the next—third—world, nothing of evil or sin can enter or
in the inhabitants dwell. The first of these is the Paradis
ical world, being all celestial and a very pleasant state, where
there is a growing up to high degrees of perfection to com
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 79
plete us for the Kingdom of Mount Zion, where Christ's—
the Lord's—Kingdom is in great magnificence with all the
angelical principalities under Him and with the elders, patri
archs, prophets and apostles.
The third heavenly world is the royal and principal
seat of God, the Father, with the eternal Virgin Wisdom
and the Seven Spirits; thus bearing the title of the Great
City called the New Jerusalem, which the glassy sea doth
encompass about. Then above this is the world called the
Still Eternity, out of which world generates all these worlds
above mentioned, all of which I must give an account accord
ing as I have been shown and seen opened from the deep
center and original beginning of them, which brings forcibly
to my mind the life of Enoch and others of the Paradisical
Laws.
Oh, how blessed are we to realize and know that the
Mighty Present God doth still follow us with His fresh rev
elations, and from His own eternal deep, which runs as
fiery streams through me so that I find there is no resisting
this Divine power, by which hidden and unknown worlds
must be made manifest in this, the Twelfth and Last hour.
Therefore the question may be asked: Since the Holy
Scriptures make no mention of such a variety of worlds,
how shall we give credit thereto? In answer to this, it is
given from Him who was and is and will be the True Inter
preter to open new volumes of His mind, which are not to
be less reputed and contradicted than the foregoing Scrip
tures, being the Old Testament, having been appropriated
to the ministration of the Father, the New to the Son and
now the third has come in which the Holy Ghost —being the
darling Mother of Zion—will exceed all before it, to unseal
and reveal those things which never were revealed or under
stood.
In this Holy, Spiritual day, must go forth a new spring
of things yet to be revealed, both as to the present and future
state that has lain hid within these mentioned worlds, the
account of which I am more particular to give as it has
been shown to me from the Spirit of inspiration, for I write
henceforth from no other ground but what the Spirit of
Christ in this Divine glass of Wisdom hath presented to my
inward eye, which proceedeth from the deep of God's mind
which is no longer to be concealed; for the Spirit has given
this for the end, to drop His golden oil which will dissolve
all those seals that have stood so long in hiding and shut
ting up of these mighty Truths, that a commission is now
80 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
given to bring forth in order to their being proclaimed and
inscribed upon the pillars and temple of God's House.
Whether they believe it or not, it must stand as the
ingraying of God's hand. Therefore there is a foundation
for His manifold Wisdom in a wonderful way and manner
to be made manifest, like unto our Ascended Master, the
Lord Jesus Christ, begotten of the Father, conceived of the
Holy Mother and carried by Her until the appointed time
of the Father. Then He was brought forth by His Holy
Mother in Immortality, for in Him dwelt the fulness of the
Godhead; and when He made His last ascension He as
cended far above all heavens which was the Spirit of Im
mortality. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
PEACE
PARADISICAL MAN.
The signs of the Kingdom of Christ, both forerunning and
evidencing when it is come.
IS7HILE I WAS in deep thought and contemplating on
the manifold counsel and Wisdom of God, who is now
revealing many deep secrets relating to the new state of
revelation according to the will of God, who has moved wor
thy and spiritual persons to bring His children to the light;
believing that such age is coming on in which that prophecy
might be fulfilled; that the earth should be filled with the
knowledge of the Lord, and no one shall say: "Know ye the
Lord:for all shall know Him, from the least to the greatest,"
with Wisdom and understanding in the deep mysteries of
God, wherein we can almost hear His Voice, saying : Behold !
and see the Divine order and government that is managed,
here by the Mighty Present God.
All shall be classed according to their order and degree
in Holy circles about the throne, rejoicing together in a
melodious harmony, wherein you shall hear the echo of a
voice, saying: These chosen elders of the Mount Zion world
did frequently descend into the original world, to them that
were of a lower degree; bringing down messages of encour
agement, teaching them things they were to know to ad
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 81
vance up higher; and such as were of the higher estate in
this Paradise world were assigned to bring the lower up to
a more Divine degree to pay their worship to the Mighty
Present God—to Him who had thus far redeemed them.
By all this, it was made known that the heavenly worlds
were put into such a condition. Therefore a warning was
given here from the Mighty Present God, that they shall
employ all their interest and power, riches and honor for
lifting up the standard of Christ's Kingdom here on earth;
so shall they come to hold a state of honor and dominion
in this Divine, golden age, proving themselves to be heirs of
faith; for be it known, God is no partial judge to respect
any but such as bear His own similitude and likeness. They
shall have the greater preference in His honor and court
God grant this may be a special call that will reach to
the ends of the earth, that they might bring their glory
into the City of God, there to reign with Christ, their head;
increasing in power and in gifts of prophecy, in knowledge
and understanding all deep mysteries, living in a most Di
vine habitation, thus enjoying the Virgin Wife of youth; all
working in sweet harmony together, doing whatsoever their
hands find to do, all in subjection to the Mighty Conquer
ing Prince, like unto Solomon in his great dominion and
glory in the beautiful reign of the Holy Ghost.
All this must not draw you out to covet. Now you may
say: This is hard, to see all these high perfections confer
red upon my spiritual neighbors and yet they have no de
sire to lay down their riches to stand upon equal ground
with the true and faithful leaders who are anointed to lead
them on safely to the promised land, their eyes being heavy
with sleep, not seeing the deep ground from which every
one is to be blessed, according to what nature and soil they
are planted in; not understanding they are to dig deep till
they shall come to find that precious white stone with their
own name upon it, which may advance and establish them
in the beautiful state of glory.
Therefore it is ordered that all who belong to the union
of the Godhead should improve their own stock of life; and
so each one wear his own crown, not coveting anything out
side of themselves; because I, the Mighty Present God, have
enough to give to every one of My children, so they have
no occasion to be grumbling one with another; but their
growth and degrees and gifts may be different, according
as in My own Wisdom and counsel, which I will confer upon
such as I see and know to be most delighted ; for they shall
82 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
have no cause to repent who have their minds wholly in
clined to the Mighty Present God, according to His example
that was given forth to the first Paradisical man which was
our Ascended Master, to be revealed afresh unto a full and
perfect accomplishment, according to His Word when He
said that He came not to destroy the Law and Prophets
but to fulfil it, thus bringing in the everlasting Righteous
ness.
As Jesus Christ was the First-born of the New Creation,
being the True Neighbor that should be joined to the inward
man and never be separated from it; this last neighbor is
as Esau, who would come in for his birth-right, but who is
rejected and must live by his sword—like the old world—
that is, to bring in his blessings consisting of fat things of
this outward principle to which his blessings gave him right ;
and he being thus ordered not to meddle with Jacob's prop
erty, to whom the dominion is pronounced and to have lord
ship over all, he being a true co-worker with the Shiloh of
God, that which is the true neighbor indeed.
Therefore, what Jesus Christ hath in thee thou needest
not to covet, for thou art in Divine work with Him, as all
that is the Father's and mine is His, so what is His, is
thine in common which thou shalt better understand when to
the tenth number thou shalt come, for the tenth belongeth
to the Lord.
Therefore I do give you this charge—to look and wait
upon this change in yourselves, to see whether in My record
you may be—thus being eye witnesses of Jesus Christ in
your own personalities, the dominion being willed to Wis
dom's offspring, the first to come down, because they are
trained up to perfection through Wisdom's discipline, to obey
in all things in My revealed will, knowing also that this com
mandment doth further reach—to have the love of Jesus
Christ in thyself —which is the finisher and the command
of what is yet left behind to be done; and who will now
come as a record bearer to preach the everlasting Gospel
upon this earth.
These witnesses are before the coming down of the New
Jerusalem, in which thou art to wait until thou be trans
figured all over by the Holy Ghost, who will then be the
true and endurable witnesses which shall convince the un
believing world that Jesus Christ is risen and doth appear
to certain witnesses, upon whom the lot did fall and accord
ing to foreknowledge; which is to show in this wonderful
age and time at the opening of this original stone and diadem
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 83
of glory, in what manner of person they shall, in and through
the touch and sight hereof, come to be; and being made by
it, all is pure and white in proportion according as to the
Lord Jesus Christ.
Nothing short of this will be worth bearing a record to.
Therefore, Israel, we have the golden opportunity to prove
that we belong to that record from which our names are
to be called out one by one, for Her will was made to the
offspring of Wisdom, the Holy Mother of Zion, who has
come to earth to bring forth Her sons and daughters for
the glorious Kingdom here upon earth. For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
HE SHALL APPEAR TO YOUR JOY.
QO UNTO MY BRETHREN and say unto them: "I as-
cend unto My Father and to your Father; and to My
God and your God." All of those who are rejoicing and
laying down the evil of their mortal life, are proving they
have received the Spirit of Christ—offering it up as a burnt
offering upon Christ's sacred altar. Who is it then that
would grieve to become a Living sacrifice for so great a
joy and glory as will hereupon follow, which will be a mat
ter of great encouragement to go forward and onward in
spiritual overcoming; thereby you will be set free from the
serpent's sting, thus being plunged into the cleansing pool
wherein Christ, the Lord, first moved to purchase a full
and perfect cure to heal every disease which thou hast
groaned under.
For this I am commissioned as both a servant and friend
to my Lord and heavenly Bridegroom; to invite all Israel
to the great supper of God and the Lamb, wherein a table
is furnished suitable to the four ranks and degrees of per
sons and spirits. The first corner that is set hereupon is
the broken and crucified body of our Lord Jesus. This is
the proper food for the ascended spirits to eat His flesh
and drink His blood, for in Him the Word was made flesh
and dwelt with us here upon earth for forty days.
The table is again spread for such as have overcome
84 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
sin, death, hell and the grave, for they shall behold and see
Christ, the Lord, and hear His Voice, saying: "To My Israel
here I give My rising body, more pleasant, powerful and
strong to feed upon, for those who have not feared to con
quer death." Oh, what a beautiful lesson is this of the
marriage feast where the water is turned into wine; and
by the governor of the feast ye are earnestly called upon
to eat of this transparent body, which is so restoring that
nothing but perfection shall ever be known. Such sweet
ness and pleasure there is in eating of this Immortal body,
that all other perishing things are disdained and put out
of taste.
Oh, what joy it is to God, the Father! to see His table
set with rising, spiritual souls, saying: "Hasten and follow
the chariot wheels closely, taking off of the table and set
ting on; and eating that which is proper for ascension, that
with Him they may go up to worship in the New Jerusalem,
there to hold the seven day feast of the tabernacle with
all high celebration and praises. Here you may see a table
richly furnished in an exceedingly high and excellent de
gree for all of the Lord's ascended eagles, which cannot be
satisfied with any other prey but to feed upon the glorified
body which fills all with the fulness of God's Spirit which
flows freely unto those whose vessels are prepared.
Therefore, in the fourth and last ministration, what can
be expected in this most wonderful day; wherein the Holy
Trinity shall descend in this, the ascending age of time for
the celebration of the marriage with the Lamb and Bride.
What joy and gladness are now poured down from the heav
ens above at the glorified appearing of Christ to claim His
ascended ones, crying in the Triune Trinity, saying: "These
are they in whom I will be glorified."
The long sealed fountain is broken open; the everlast
ing mountains dropping down the power of the Holy Ghost.
Come all ye who have labored and not fainted, but have
kept up your Living Faith unto this day. You are those
that are to be fed and nourished with all the chosen fruits
of the Tree of Life and are ordained to be those Josephs
who are to give out the heavenly stores, that they shall also
be enriched and partake of the same glory with you.
This is the Lord Jesus Christ's own prophecy, now re
newed by His Holy Spirit; it is powerful and strong and
nigh to be fulfilled in those who are prepared and made
ready, proving that they have been led by the beautiful Star
of Bethlehem which has now appeared to lead the ascending
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 85
spirits to that place where My Spirit shall rest; revealing
and fastening them with a golden nail which shall not be
moved away, and let it be made known that this Divine ray
of Sunlight, shall pass over some and glide away without
making any impression, proving they had the golden oppor
tunity to enter into the marriage of the Lamb, but heeded
it not.
Oh, Israel awake! awake and be ye ready to hearken
to the Bridegroom's call to this wonderful Spiritual feast,
knowing that for you great things are prepared in the New
Jerusalem ; having communion in the Holy circle at one table,
each one to their measure and degree which they have at
tained unto, without begrudging one another.
You shall see how the Lord, Christ, has set Himself
forth in a fourfold presentation in His heavenly humanity,
for a feeding and strengthening Life to four sorts and ranks
of spirits, that all may come forth according to their growth
—first: a newborn babe; second: for children; third: for
the young man's estate; fourth: for the elders, who have
come to a full and perfect age through that wonderful power
of the Holy Ghost; to go forth for the establishment of the
New Heavens and earth.
So now ye may see here, suitable provision for every
sort and degree according to their calling and election in
God, for communion in one body together. There shall be
no warring or contention among these heaven born spirits;
they shall meet one another in harmony and unity, proving
that the mighty ascended angel has come forth with vials
filled with love of the Holy Ghost to pour forth everywhere,
so that the Lord Christ's elect bodies may become bone of
His bone, flesh of His flesh and spirit of His Spirit.
Therefore, O. Israel! let us all plead as the angels did
in heaven, for the Holy Trinity to hasten this wonderful
gathering, wherein we shall dwell in unity and love. Oh,
what volumes of rejoicing to meet with our fellow travelers
who have resolved in God's power not to grow weary, but
to press right on until we have reached the top step of
the ascending ladder, that we all together may be com
forted, supporting each other as we travel on in this beau
tiful golden path; putting on our changeable garment that
we may sit down at the great supper of the Lamb, whose
joys will be so great, for the Bridegroom Himself will come
forth to serve us with the new wine of the Kingdom that
will prepare us for the great things that are to be brought
forth into manifestation; things which are now upon the
86 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
beautiful chariot wheels rolling along in the chosen ves
sels whom God will honor as His faithful stewards, being
entrusted with the Divine secrets of His Kingdom.
My eyes do long to see the day for the operation of the
Holy Ghost which will bring happiness and peace through
out this beautiful golden age, and wonderful, hidden things
which have been under seal shall now be broken up. There
is a ripe age coming on, that we may be ready and
waiting for the knowledge that shall be given to the highly
graduated spirits for which I shall be known and found as
a friend and servant to my God and to all my fellow mem
bers who wait for that great day of His appearing in His
saints. Oh, what a Divine joy there will be in Him who was
dead but now liveth, and who shall appear to our joy for
evermore.
O Wisdom, precious Wisdom! who teaches us to walk
in the footsteps of our ascended Master, will bring us out
of bondage and captivity; which the holy, royal offspring
of God are groaning under in spirit, soul and body. I, be
ing well acquainted within myself of these things, knowing
that sorrow, sweet sorrow is God's angel, speak in behalf
of all the Elect seed of God who will have a childlike spirit ;
offering themselves freely and voluntarily to the leading
and teaching of the Divine spirit which will yet open the
treasures that lie so deep in God to be brought forth; be
cause there is a new Divine school brought forth under the
government of the Virgin Wisdom of God—that as soon
as they are born unto Christ they are taken care of and
brought up in this Divine Faith till they are educated under
this mighty ruling power of the Godhead which was man
ifested in Christ.
Oh, for such hearts that will believe and trust, where
in they shall know the length and strength of Jehovah's
arm. But methinks I hear the sound of a cry from those
unbelieving spirits still in question and fear of the possi
bility of reaching to this high step of all conquering faith.
The answer: Now the counsel of the Holy Ghost concern
ing the birth of reason, they must all remember that the
patriarchs and prophets and Christ Himself with His apos
tles were delighted in this high working faith which will
give them Virtue, strength and power; and such sharpness
of understanding as they shall take out one lesson after
another and also have encouragement to encounter with a
valiant spirit, or whatsoever may oppose and try to stagger
their faith.
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 87
Thus, they being found in the pure Living way, where
many pleasant flowers shall grow on either side of the way,
and these will give forth a sweet odor that they may be
refreshed, not tired and faint; but encouraged through all
of the crosses, troubles, thorns and thistles by the way.
They keep their Enoch walk with God.
Therefore, when the heirs of faith shall enter into their
state of ministry, as Jesus said: "As My Father sent Me,
so send I you with that great power of Christ which will
heal the sick, open the eyes of the blind and raise the dead,"
and it shall be proven that Shiloh Immanuel is upon the
earth to gather His precious jewels and establish His beau
tiful Kingdom here upon earth; wherein peace and happi
ness shall reign throughout one Eternal day. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
HIGH PRIESTLY CALLING.
"G0D HATH REVEALED them unto us by His Spirit,
for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things
of God." 1 Cor. 2:10. Herein the testimony of truth, love
and purity did open through all, as one entire arc of the
heavenly body of the Lord Jesus Christ, compacted togeth
er, sounding forth new and wonderful praise, different from
all others ; who in the heavenly places did worship the
Mighty Present God.
This was a lively and express manifestation of the ever
lasting and unchangeable priesthood which the Holy Ghost
will build up and appear in; therefore it comes beforehand
to open the scene of it and give rules to direct in the way
which leads therein, according to the substantial ground
which opens from the center of Eternity.
From hence all perfect things must spring out again;
out of this fallen, corrupt region, for which a most Holy
and Royal Priesthood is ordered that is to be the salt of
the earth; to send forth their seasoning for Life where per
fection shall reign, wherein we shall proceed to give forth
what hath run in as a fountain sending forth its springs.
It is then assured unto us by an irreversible Covenant
88 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
that a Kingly Priesthood shall in this present day stand
upon the earth; which is an election call from the Holy
Ghost and is going out to effect the same, that knows only
where the True born Nazarites are and where the sanctified
in the water of Life do lie.
They will be brought out, baptized by the Holy Ghost,
so that it may be evident to all to know who they are and
acknowledge their Priestly Royalty, each one in their vari
ous order and degree of power and eminency; for which
there are several rules, characters and Holy missions, that
will make out where all the pure, clear, Living stones are
compacted together for a ruling and government priesthood
in this visible earth.
These are of the election hereunto that may yet be hid
among the outside world, like unto David who may be a
keeper of sheep, or Elisha, plowing with 12 yoke of oxen, till
a special order comes forth for an anointing to a higher,
more worthy and honorable employ, in which the business
will be only to do with God; and therefore is set apart and
sanctified for this use only, ceasing from all wordly cares
and servings and withdrawing from all defiling things.
Whatsoever feels the touch of the live coal that sets
the Holy matter of the soul's eternal essence aburning, will
soon find what separation is made and can henceforth no
more serve the earthly, fallen nature —-from all this he is
set free—freed from the bondage of corruption into the
glorious liberty of the children of God, wherein he is anointed
by the Most Holy Present God.
Therefore it is but meet that the body should answer
hitherto, that as our great High Priest has passed into the
heavens —being found perfect, separated from sin and sin
ners—so likewise all appertaining to this higher order will
be known in their pure consecration, for this springing of
the Spirit will rise from within to cleanse every instrument
that must be used about the table service; because God
will have nothing to come near Him but what hath Holiness
engraved upon it.
This doth imply —coming out of what is common and
defiling—that nothing of this corrupt nature may be found
among the Priestly tribe, for these are designed and ap
pointed to deal with God in all weighty and Spiritual mat
ters belonging to the restoration; and thus enter into the
New Jerusalem state in this New World.
Therefore there is to be an extra call of the Holy Ghost
for the employing and fitting out thereto, or else it would
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 89
be impossible to carry this beautiful evangelist ministration
into such an evil region; therefore indeed unto the Most
High it hath been blocked, for no open face of God could
through this muddy glass be seen, as being the dark side
of the cloud which keeps from God.
A healing balm from the great and merciful God hath
been sent down, even the victorious, Divine crown of the
Priestly order which rises as a fountain of purity, over
spreading the whole humanity, consecrating it for both tab
ernacles, the Ark and Altar in which the Holy Ghost offici
ates and accomplishes the whole Divine service.
Now whatsoever soul and spirit shall be raised up and
taken upon God's account, to serve and minister about the
heavenly and most excellent things which belong to the ever
lasting Priesthood, is not to be taught that the Most High
will allow or permit any defllement while He is supplying
what is needful to the true Temple worshippers, but keep
ing and walking with God in the perfect way, fulfilling all
His sanctuary instruments such as a lily, to spring and grow
without toil or care, surrounded by the Water of Life.
The blessings of the deep shall evermore abound and
flow in while there is an abiding in the faith thereof, giving
God full credit and running all fully upon His account unto
this case.
The truth is, the Lord stands engaged to prove all suffi
ciently for His servants whom He hath called into His ser
vice and employ, being Himself in Covenant with the Priest
hood of His own ordination.
Holy Paul makes use of it from the unchangeable Law
which runs from shadows and figurative service till it comes
to the life and substance. Do you not know, saith he: That
they who minister about Holy things live off the things of
the temple and they who wait at the altar are partakers
with it?
They have a right thereunto, according to the Law
of Divine instruction and they are justified of those who are
made perfect in Christ's Kingdom and Priestly office, for
wherever the Lord comes to offer Himself up through the
Eternal Spirit by His own body, they are fully perfect.
It was appointed for the priest only to bear the Ark,
so under this Covenant mentioned, none but the Spiritual,
consecrated priests who are of this order can bear the living
testimony of Christ's risen and Spiritual body, which goes
forth with great power—wherever it comes to make rocks,
bricks and islands to flee and water divides all, which makes
90 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
way for the bringing up of the last step of the all priestly
throne to sit down with Christ in heavenly places at the
right hand of His Majesty on high.
Here we are to consider those who are of this Holy, high
and separated order and are become the tabernacle Ark and
Altar and the most inward Holy places where Christ, the
anointed, hath so poured forth Himself that He is to be
made known in them as no other than God, the Holy Ghost
officiating and accomplishing the most Holy service as in
the person of the Mighty Present God who has perfect Holi
ness —the open face of the most inward, separate place where
God is manifested.
No spirit or soul can come to know or meet God but
here, according as we have it from the mouth of the Lord
Himself who told Moses that here, in this Holy place, He
would commune with him and appear in His glory.
But alas! who is able to see at the first glance into this
high, Holy degree of Priestly calling? It is so great and
wonderful that it makes the light of all former ministra
tions to look dim and dark; but before we proceed to set
forth this third and last degree that brings us so near unto
God, let us consider further of the two lower orders which
to this Priesthood do belong—what their qualifications are
and from whence called out from the first ranks of those
aforementioned —who have been under the Altar, purifying
with perfuming oil by which they are made perfect, clear
and bear the mark of Holiness unto God. For there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
THE YOUTH SHALL DELIVER THE SEALS.
"^FTER THIS I LOOKED, and behold, a door was opened
in heaven," which is for the Elect now, who will hear
His Voice through this mighty Trump and not harden their
hearts. The first voice was as it were of a trumpet talking
with me, which said: Come up hither and I will show you
things which must be fulfilled hereafter.
Here we see one sitting upon a throne and there fol
lowed the four and twenty elders. Now remember he said:
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 91
These are the things which must be hereafter and that
the door was open in heaven and as it said: Before the be
ginning of the New Creation of God.
Dear beloved Israel, if the door was not open in heaven
for us, how could we enter into the spiritual and heavenly
things? We are to be both in heaven, the Spirit of this
Visitation, and also upon the earth —the beginning of the
New Creation of God on earth. Therefore enter in with
Him and He in us, like Jesus who dwelt first in the King
dom of Heaven and then the Kingdom of Heaven was put
within Him, and He said: "I in you and you in Me."
Behold! He stands at the door and knocks: "If any man
opens the door within himself I will come in and sup with
him and he with Me." Again He said: "I am the way, the
Truth and the Life," which is the Spirit and Life of this
Visitation. The door is open by the unsealing of the mys
teries; an open vision; but is it for you? Are the sealed
doors open in your case? Do you hear His knock and do
you hear His Voice? We know that His sheep hear His
Voice and therefore the Spirits of the Just, now having
bodies, will enter in at the strait gate by the Word of His
promise.
These were seen in white robes and with golden crowns
upon their heads. Out of this throne proceedeth thunder
and lightning and voices; and there were seven lamps of fire
burning before the throne, which are the Seven Spirits of
God; and a sea of glass like unto crystal. It says in another
place: "I saw a river of water clear as crystal, proceeding
from the throne of God and the Lamb and on either side
the Tree of Life, yielding her fruit every month."
Our souls should long for that habitation, yea more,
our spirit, soul and body should awake and take interest in
that glorious habitation to come; which will come and not
tarry. We must be ready and as He said to John: "Behold
I come quickly, to give every man according as His work
shall be."
In this haven of rest is a fountain of Righteousness,
encircled around with the springs of Wisdom; and from this
great fountain and springs of Wisdom they all drank; and
as Jesus Christ said: "Drink and thirst no more" and it is
also written: "I will lead you unto fountains of Living water."
"And I saw a pure river of water proceeding from the
throne of God and the Lamb." Iniquity shall pass away
like a shadow, and the Living Faith shall flourish and grow
up like a myrtle tree, all growing in grace and knowledge,
92 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
full of Wisdom from the fountain and springs of Wisdom.
"The Bridegroom cometh! Go ye out to meet Him!"
signifying; prepare to meet Him without being destroyed,
as it says: "The darkest hour is just before the dawn," and
so it is to come; but the Elect will still be on the watch,
knowing that His great appearing is in the morning watch,
as all Scripture shows the morning of the great Sunrising.
All these things have been shown in the great resur
rection of the Son in His glory; all pointing to that great
day of His rising the second time, in this dispensation day,
which time is at hand and we see the dawning of that day.
Therefore, watch for the Sun in its beauty and glory.
Dear Israel, be on the watch, as Moses was only al
lowed to view the promised land. That was because he
smote the rock for water in his own name, notwithstanding
all the great things he did. Verily he did not lose his re
ward, for He gives to every man according as his work
shall be; and Moses received a good resurrection and ap
peared with Elias in the great resurrection and ascension
of Jesus Christ, who also followed Him up to the heavens
above, and so they are with the Lord in the upper heavens.
I have shown the promises to the children of Israel and
Spirits of the Just, who will do His will without complaining
or rebellion. He that hath an eye to see and an ear to hear,
let him hear and see that the Second Child, Benjamin, was
sent by the Father and kept as a ransom by Joseph for all
Israel, which was the means of bringing all Israel into the
land of plenty.
Therefore, this Child was born, foreordained and pre
destinated by the Eternal counsel of God with the Divine
Mother to bring all Israel into the open vision by the Book
of Life and Truth. For this cause and unto this end came
I into the world, that I might testify unto the Truth by the
Spirit of Prophecy, unto which all Israel must come and
by it enter within the veil; delivered from the bondage of
corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God—
the Sons of the True and Living God, freed from the law
of sin and death.
Let it be remembered, Shiloh was the place for the
whole congregation of Israel to be gathered to, after they
crossed Jordan and gathered at Shiloh. Yet the children
of Israel were slack to go and possess the land of their in
heritance and enter into their rest.
The tabernacle was set up at Shiloh and the land sub
dued before them, which was a beautiful type of this Twelfth
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 93
and Last hour, wherein Israel shall now be gathered by
Shiloh; as it is written that unto Shiloh shall Israel be gath
ered and by the Virgin Law of Paradise they shall subdue
the land, according to the command given at first, which
the first Adam failed to do.
They shall take unto themselves virgins for wives while
in the Rock of Refuge, wherein we must seek, for all who
are not virgins shall be put to death. Therefore I want to
explain who are virgins in the eyes of the Almighty God.
Now hark ye unto the interpretation. To that woman
who enters in and keeps the Virgin Law of Paradise, having
lier body ready and prepared for the Holy Mother, Jerusalem
Above, to rest upon her, is that Holy Virgin; and to that
man who is faithful and true to his God in keeping the
Virgin Law of Paradise, thus having his body ready and
prepared for Christ to rest upon, hark ye, it is then that
the man has a wife and the woman has a husband; and
whom God has joined together let no man put asunder.
This does not count upon the age of man or woman.
Though they be a hundred or three hundred years old, like
unto Enoch, they are that young woman and that young
man, fulfilling the words of Job: "They shall return to the
days of youth."
This is the Living Child which cannot be divided, but
shall be given to the rightful Mother, yea, the Holy Mother
of the free; the Spirits of the Just shall be sealed and My
precious youth shall deliver the seals to whom the word
Thou signifies; upon whom My Spirit shall rest and turn
him back to the days of youth by My Spirit being made alive
in him, which shall fill all Israel with virtue, the youth of
Life.
Every one shall be led by the Child—the Child of My
youth. Let them prepare a robe, even the double robe of
Righteousness, that they may be able to stand before Him;
for He shall stand upon the top of a table, even the table
and testimony of Jesus Christ, in the midst of My people,
Israel; for the first table of the law fell in pieces on the
ground and now the table and testimony of Jesus Christ is
found and He puts His rod down at four points; for the
number four, twain, is a perfect square—the establishment
of the Seventh Church.
The Seventh Church has been in the seed of the wom
an, Mother Jerusalem, as declared by John and they are
now upon the earth. Therefore O Israel, marvel not at this,
for the hour is coming and now is when My Spirit shall do
94 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
the work for all Israel who keep My Virgin Law of Paradise
as I, Jesus Christ kept it, for I am the Door, the Way and
the Light.
Did not I tell thee that when the Son of man shall come,
they who follow Him through the regeneration shall sit upon
twelve thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel? Herein
I shall come and establish My Kingdom in earth as it was
in heaven. The Branch of Me was taken from the woman,
which shall be given to the Son of man. This Branch is
twain; Shiloh Immanuel is His name.
They shall agree with My Bride in spirit and in Truth,
which shall form a Trinity for ever in heaven and in earth,
in which all Israel shall be gathered, to live and reign with
Me, their Lord, on the earth for a thousand years.
This Branch lit, according to the will of God, in the
appointed time of the third watch; according to the word
given to James, which stands on record in the sixth part of
the eleventh hour, which tells us the Graft would light be
fore the third watch was up.
This was fulfilled at cock-crowing in the morning of
the twelfth of March 1895, and by the Message of the
Branch all Israel shall be grafted into the further faith of
the Lord Jesus Christ for the cleansing by the Word, which
is Spirit and Life. This, Thou shalt cause to become Im
mortal in whomsoever it be grafted. For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
JEHOVAH'S THRILLS AND WONDERS.
"And the Seventh Angel sounded; and there were great
voices in heaven, saying: The kingdoms of this world have be
come the Kingdoms of our Lord, and His Christ; and He shall
reign forever and ever." Rev. 11:15.
VE CHOSEN SPIRITS of the Just: How blessed are we
to be under the Voice of the Seventh Sounding Angel,
wherein the Divine and wonderful way is described to those
who have the mark and name of the Virgin white stone,
for they shall receive the most joyous and noble gifts trans
ferred from the Holy Place of the Mighty I Am That I Am,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 95
yea; the fountain of Wisdom, making us skillful in this
wonderful work.
Oh, what transforming powers will pass from one to
another, bringing forth the Divine fruits while on their way
to the Eden of Paradise, wherein dearly beloved ones, we
must dig deep to find this golden kernel which has lain hidden
in the ground of this Virgin Wisdom; from whence it must
be transmitted to those who are numbered, who will work
in harmony to bring the beautiful Paradise here upon earth ;
a sure and unalterable, Divine decree has gone forth; for
it is affirmed by the Living Word which declared before
hand the Truth of these things which have already begun,
and shall be finished as soon as this Virgin passes through
all these pearly gates.
This is so Divine and glorious, seeing the wonderful un
derstanding between these two Kingdoms —Holy Paradise
and Mount Zion—wherein all these rich things will be trans
ferred from one to the other. Yea, Immortality is to be
gained between these two heavenly worlds, where Paradise
will be made visible here upon earth. This is the invisible
stock which the Virgin doth transfer; and there She gains
honor, wealth and a crown of glory to Her God and Bride
groom.
Now it may be asked: What must here be worked upon
for such abundant increase? Where lieth the mystery of
this art that must be transferred by Her as a gift? I would
say: This is the great secret which cannot be revealed all
at once; so deep a mystery that it cannot be understood but
by Wisdom, who shall be able to reveal it at Her appointed
time, when the body is ready and prepared.
It must not be denied whence this great favor comes;
yea, from the Mighty I Am That I Am, the Most High who
has revealed the secret things through the person of Christ
Jesus—glorified in His humility, so that we might know what
will make the mortal dross become like the finest gold of
Ophir.
But to give an answer to that which is Wisdom's prin
ciple we are to work upon, it is something you cannot give
away nor sell, it being the precious gift of God which needs
no barn or storehouse to lay it up in. To describe according
to what is revealed, it is like a rushing flash of lightning—
the Mighty Present God transferring these deep mysteries
to a Virgin Spirit, as in the person of Christ Jesus and His
Virgin Bride, transmitting themselves as a spiritual root
96 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
from whence all fruitful powers of that Holy Ghost may be
provided therewith.
All former, past things will bring little glory to our
mighty King and Savior. Therefore dear beloved Israel,
let us ever be ready and prepared to pass the Seventh gate,
which will take off all veils that have been upon the Most
Holy Place; where we may enter into all knowledge and
Wisdom. But here lieth the difficulty; to know how to at
tain the skill to stir up the precious gift, wherein many will
be gathered under Her Divine wing who have heard the
glorious and grand teachings, yet they stand in doubt ot
these wonderful things while they are yet passengers from
gate to gate.
Therefore we must not expect to be believed by those
who are yet without the gate. However, we will according
to what has been revealed by the Mighty Present God, de
clare and set forth what can be done by His instructions,
to those who are highly and Divinely qualified; wherein they
are regenerated into the Virgin nature, proving they have
entered into that healing water which flows from the glassy
sea and encompasses every place where Wisdom's offspring
shall pitch their habitation, and they shall also be able to
transmit all gross material into transparent gold, so that
it shall be far more plentiful than in Solomon's time.
The very earth on which we now walk shall be made
crystaline; yea, the river that was divided into four heads,
which has been cut off ever since Adam was turned out of
Paradise, shall now be made to return again with the full,
Divine stream to bring forth the seed of gold in sparkling
glory.
The beautiful house, namely the body, shall here be
built and the goodly, golden tent pitched, which shall exceed
all structures which ever have been. Their dwelling places
shall be magical; sometimes visible and at other times in
visible, according to the pleasure of the inhabitants who
dwell therein in everlasting security.
These shall live alone and shall not be numbered among
the nations, therefore they shall dwell within Wisdom's gate
and if the enemy attempts to break in upon them, a devour
ing coal shall be scattered to terrify and consume them.
Let it be remembered, Moses was a meek and peaceable
man and yet he was made a terror to the Egyptians. He
had no way to subdue Pharaoh but by shaking His magical
rod, which alone could do more than a whole host of army
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 97
men. This will be the way of God's appearing to keep the
powers of darkness back.
Well does He understand to go in and out amongst
them, and it will be their daily business to deliver the Israel
ites from bondage by displaying Jehovah's thrills and won
ders in such a manner as this age doth require, which shall
be in a higher degree than has ever been done; showing
forth the power to make the dumb to speak, the deaf to
hear and the blind to see, all of which is both inwardly and
outwardly performed by our Lord upon the soul as well
as upon the body.
The Lord has given full assurance that not only all
these shall be revealed, but that the Divine power shall open
in a greater degree, so that the great wonders are yet
to be made manifest, for which we are appointed to wait
until the pearly gate shall be opened upon us; there all
miracles will be brought forth afresh for the crown and
glory of the Virgin Bride and Her followers.
This gate the Lord Jesus Christ will hasten to open
to all who are willingly under the power of the Holy Ghost,
proving themselves to be qualified, who have stood firm as
the pillars of heaven and who will now be placed in the
foundation of this Immortal Building.
There shall be no length of days, as it was with the
patriarchs before the flood, even to Methuselah's years.
Therefore dear beloved ones, let us all sing out praises for
this golden age, for it is a witness that Christ has set His
foot to reign upon the earth and His Spirit made manifest
in His Immortal body; as He has espoused to Himself His
Bride, namely the 144,000, and this we do not expect to
see until the Lord God Jehovah Himself shall appear in the
Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, giving Himself as the bread of
Life. This is the bread that cometh down from heaven
that a man may eat thereof and not die.
Now you might ask: What kind of eating must this
be? The very Divine Virgin Spirit of Christ, the Tree of
Life, drawn into our bodies by the strong attraction of faith
and love, the Eternal Love of God, having the eye of faith
upon the resurrection mark.
There is a deep communication likewise of His resur
rection and what brought His body forth. It was His Im
mortal soul that He received from His Divine Mother, Jeru
salem Mother Above, and this was accomplished at the
River Jordan; begotten of the Father, conceived of the Moth
98 THE BOOK OP PARADISE
er and born of Her in Immortality; and He was the First
born of the 144,000.
All shall be forced to acknowledge that these are the
anointed ones; as bearing the Royal, Priestly mark of God,
their King, upon them. Therefore upon them the heavenly-
powers shall descend, as it is written that the Graft shall
descend upon such as are prepared stones for the building
of the New Jerusalem; the City wherein shall reign the
Mighty God and King.
The root of pure speech must proceed from the pure
heart of the Triune Deity without the sound of a voice, and
who in this eternal stillness communes with His Elect, Ezek.
47, because our spirit with His Spirit comes together. Then
we are begotten of Christ as Jesus was begotten. Then
we can receive communications from the very throne of God,
which will carry such fiery, flaming power, wherein we can
understand the same native language, thus opening up the
mystery that has been shut for so long.
Herein we understand the blessed day of His heavenly
Visitation. It opens up all the healing pools, that the body
may be cleansed and prepared, thus entering into the con
tinually rising spring of this Water of Life where His Israel
shall be healed and gain Eternal Life, according to Scripture,
Ezek. 47.
This river of Life must never cease to run, for it is the
gift of healing in Elijah's spirit, wherein he had that Living
Faith that gave him his ascension. In the following century
of the apostles it was revealed to them to convey virtue out
of themselves for healing, which they could not command
at all times for then they could have conquered all sickness
and death in themselves.
This mighty gift shall be restored again, which is now
in this, the Twelfth and Last hour. Then the great evil of
sin will be taken out of the way and suffering shall cease,
for those who live in the New World shall not complain that
they are sick.
Therefore those who are called and chosen shall be
strong pillars to bear up the Mount of Holiness, upon which
shall be written, Shiloh Immanuel, the Conquering Prince,
to live and reign here. Those who are under His reign shall
be able to rise and go forth as lightning upon the earth,
like unto our Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ; He
being the only one that can establish our name among the
redeemed and will preserve thee in all the wars and deso
lation that is coming upon the earth.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 99
He will establish His Holy seed in Righteousness, caus
ing us to become like Jesus Christ, His First-born. There
fore this Holy seed shall go forth, thus becoming a spring
of Righteousness of Holy men and women; and the Holy
One has numbered them, He also has sent His Holy Angels
to watch over them while they are journeying back to the
Eden of Paradise. For there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
PERFECT LOVE IS THE HEIR.
CORROW, SWEET SORROW is God's angel. Therefore
let it be remembered, when Christ our Lord was in His
agony that it was all on this side of His resurrection. Ob
serve that; and it was to show that He had the sensible pas
sion of our humanity and that He was, on our behalf, to
feel a sinless grief and sorrow; to be really touched with
this kind of infirmity or else how could He make provision
through and by love's conquest, if He had not been in temp
tation and encountered all disputes and slander?
Yet He maintained His own peace, which was the fruit
of love through all; and was reconciled to all the gross dis
pensation that met Him in this world, for it was His per
fect love that carried Him through; to bear and suffer all
things, which was for our example and encouragement, to
show forth during the time of His humble ministry and
His faithful endurance and passion; but He came out a vic
torious champion and tells us that He has overcome; and
such who believe in Him shall have a most fixed and firm
peace, though in the world exercised with tribulation.
So from hence it is to be admitted and allowed that
in the time of our ministry, before love is in its perfect de
gree, it cannot be otherwise expected, because love is a little
weak and low of stature; it has not gotten up into the throne
of dominion so as to govern all by the law of love. Yet
such are not to be hopeless, or of a doubtful mind, nor
desponding ever to see the resurrection of love so as to
possess its peace, happiness and joy.
No difference wherever they be who are made willing
100 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
to venture the loss of all to arrive at the pearl of charity,
you shall most surely find it; and great rejoicing there will
be at the finding of the lost peace.
Indeed the house, our body, must be very thoroughly
searched, wherein the natural self-love must be swept out;
but what is that which we must lose but all rubbish, filth and
dross? so that our hearts, being emptied and cleansed from
all this, then the Kingdom of love may enter in with its full
train, where we may know nothing but the Divine affinity
in love, joy, happiness and peace.
Therefore let all Holy, pure minds be stirred up to wait
for the dropping dew which falls from the one Eternal ele
ment to bring this plant of love's Kingdom even to its full
height of perfection and thus be tender for its first budding,
for it has many subtle enemies, both at home and abroad.
It is the heir, and therefore the enemy conspires against it.
When the envious spirit finds out where this birth doth
spring, it will attempt to kill it while it is but in its infancy;
for which cause it must be hid in the cleft of the Eternal
Rock, Christ, there to be fed and nourished with its own
Holy Mother's milk and honey of love till it becomes strong
and able to encounter and overcome all its opposers, that
it may reign alone as a monarch.
Therefore dear beloved Israel, wherever you be that
shall read this wonderful writing, know assuredly that if you
can find this burning star of love rising, nay, if you can but
feel the glowing and Divine heating in the center of your
heart, it is more to be valued than all other spiritual gifts,
powers and Divine ornaments which pertain to the New
Creation.
Then we may boldly dispense all worldly dominion and
obtain all the joy and delight of the Holy God's love; for
you must know it is such a sacred and clarified seed, com
ing immediately from the heart of the Holy Deity, that can
not admit anything of defilement or polution to abide with
it. It soon disappears if anything be taken in which cannot
abide the burning touch of this altar coal.
But here it may be asked: What is this love which is
so highly exalted above all the heavenly and earthly things?
Surely there must be some rare, transcending quality in
it,
not commonly known, that makes you press
it
so dearly.
Truly will
I,
yet not of myself but that Eternal love itself
doth move me to open the mystery of it, which happily hath
not been understood as now, by breaking up the founda
tion of
it
that so
it
may be plentifully run forth, thus giving
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 101
light of the knowledge of it, which will make way for the
very substantial body itself to rise perfectly in its flaming
quality.
Take this further account of it, that it is known to be
the most Holy and pure generation of the Holy Virgin of
God, for which He prepares a Virgin womb, that this birth
might be the choice and undefiled one of Her that brings it
forth.
It will not be now at Christ's second birth as it was at
His first—that His "Visage was marred more than any
man's." "He was a man of sorrow and acquainted with
grief and there was no form of comeliness in Him," which
made Him be set at nought and greatly despised; and though
without sin or guile but being a sufferer under it, therefore
could not be exalted till He had slain the enemy and worked
out His victory.
Thus He had His first birth in us, which must precede
His second; but there is a vast difference between Christ's
first and second coming. Many ages have passed wherein
saints have only known the birth of Christ in them after
this terrible suffering and dying, whereby the apostles, upon
whom the Holy Ghost was poured forth after a most singular
manner, by which Christ gave witness in them of His victory,
and the great out-pouring of that Holy Spirit enabled them
to work manfully; yet notwithstanding, they were not be
yond the suffering birth of Christ in themselves, for they
only had the revelation and foresight of His appearing in
power and great glory.
They departed this life and did not see the sign of the
Son of man to take up in them for a visible reign and King
dom that might redeem them out of all tribulation; and so
it hath continued unto this day, but yet they are not to be
found as a generation so prepared and made ready for the
Second Coming of Christ; and as it was in that day, which
might make us doubt whether the coming of Christ be so
nigh, because this birth of love is so scarcely found in any
rising up to an absolute dominion, which is a sure introduc
tion to the Omnipotent reign of Christ in this visible earth
in the inward properties of this loving flock.
But they will say the apostles and those who were
converted by their ministry were all in the dispensation of
love and were in the expectation of having the Kingdom
restored to Israel in their day.
What was the reason that Christ's second birth did not
102 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
rise in them? To this I answer that it was through the
knowledge of the Father of Wisdom that all of that genera
tion should drink of the Lord's suffering and dying cup, as
He often hinted unto them when personally He was with
them, though they had a great spirit of prophecy concerning
His glorious reign in which He would appear in His saints.
Therefore St. Paul, Peter and John, who were most
eminent amongst them, seemed to have somewhat more in
their eye than to what they had attained and so were still
pressing after it, but however it may be considered, they had
got the start before any that are known at that day.
Yet it seems that hitherto love's womb had been shut
up from bringing forth children of the resurrection, at least
to anything that is manifest; knowing but for this we may
have good hope that if indeed it be born in anyone and made
strong to maintain its right and supremacy over the whole
creation, ruling as God, by whom it is certainly His Divine
promise that a Virgin Spirit shall be given to such as are for
the Eternal generation, who shall be able to raise and quicken
the Holy grain of love that lieth as dead; that so love may
see her offspring to multiply exceedingly into all perfection,
such a Holy congregation being one raised to reign upon
love's throne together.
They will be as so many raised, beautiful banners, which
will be terrible to the nations who stand without the City
of Love.
Behold we feel love like a budding spring,
Which makes us ever the New Song sing.
All praises we will give to Immanuel !
Moods of joy with celestial praise
Shall now flow to the Ancient of Days,
For while we feel and taste love's fire;
It doth extinguish all earthly desire.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 103
THE GOLDEN TALENT.
TTHE BEAUTIFUL REVELATIONS still follow me, know
ing it is the unsealed Book of Life which none can shut,
revealing the golden talent for a mighty increase in its own
invisible, Holy ground from whence it opens at first, till
such time as it might come forth in the multiplying number
of the Holy Ghost, to unseal the glory of all that has gone
before in vision and prophecies.
Christ, the bright banner of glory, stands before His
chosen Elect, saying: Keep on record the jewels of the new,
raised Life, according to the Divine profession thou art go
ing on, knowing that which hath been and is further re
vealed, shall be sealed with a mighty witness, conquering
all opposition wherever it shall rise. Wherefore I bid thee
go on; forbear not writing, for it shall be as the unclouding
of the present dark day and many shall come in at the
brightness of its rising.
This was a fresh encouragement from the all piercing
Word of my Lord, who knows for what end He moves me.
Therefore I shall no longer be backward to reveal what is
of great weight and importance; as being well assured that
the Lord Jesus Christ will go along with me till I have ful
filled and given the interpretation of the whole mystery,
through the Mighty I Am, Jehovah, feeling the Divine agent
that works mightily in separating the Immortal soul and
mind, driving on to make way for what is yet behind in suf
fering to the manifestation of that Kingdom which now the
Lord is about to restore to His faithful saints; therefore
giving forth fresh and living ideas of it, that pure minds
may be exercised to look for its coming in their new earth
and heaven which are to be garnished as with purity; so
with dominion and power, even the rising body of the Holy
Ghost must restore all things which have been in confusion.
Now what goeth before to make ready? This has al
ready been set down by the golden pen, meaning that which
is dipped in the springing, Holy Book of Life; and these
wonderful words are added by the Holy One, who said He
has come to make all things anew, being ready to give forth
the promises of the Father in the ministration of the ever
lasting Gospel.
I say : The faithful witnesses and ground of all mysteries
reminded me of the charge that Jesus Christ gave to His
disciples when He was to disappear from the outward world:
That they should wait at Jerusalem, the Holy City, in Divine
104 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
harmony and openness of mind with great confidence and
love to each other. Acts 1:4.
Oh, what a deep search the Holy one doth make in
those who in this last age are waiting to be endowed with
the full acting body of the Mighty Present God; it will be
manifested in a different manner than in the days of the
apostles, that being by way of gifts coming down as a
shower; but now those who shall be endowed with this single
blessing must have it by way of a birth in them.
The apostles were to wait at Jerusalem, which was a
figure of the principle of light where all natures and prop
erties are harmonized to an equal temperature and recon
ciled to each other in a sweet, loving accord.
It is plainly shown me that the Holy Spirit will have
His birth in a peaceable habitation, where the conquering
Life of Jesus, by His dying and raising, has first made its
way by reconciling the properties of nature and bringing
them to a Divine harmony, by renewing nature into a soft
and sweet mildness.
Wherefore it is but in vain to expect the establishment
of that Kingdom which the birth of the mighty Holy Spirit
will bring to us, till this thorough work is done ; that we may
come to unity in ourselves and with one another, which is
a very high perfection; and truly from hence I have been
informed where the birth of power has struck and the way
so many fruitless births have been brought forth.
Therefore, let not our senses be bribed, or the spirit of
unbelief take hold, trying to deceive us and make us be
lieve contrary to what is written; wherein the Holy Spirit
will open its birth according to what hath been by the Lord
Himself revealed.
Can you not hear the Voice of Jesus, saying: Know thou
art to hold fast what I have purchased by My death for
thee? Having assumed that the body of sin—to offer it
up for a consuming sacrifice once for all, as was shown in
the type of the visible body, namely Jesus—which now is
to be done again in the invisible, so that you are to reckon
and account your sins verily done away.
They can claim no law either to reign or condemn —
Rom. 6:14—looking upon all motions of this kind, it being
the check of the Spirit which has again quickened the dead
—that are dead to the knowledge of God—and will no more
give way to that which comes in flesh to destroy.
Therefore let none pretend of a necessity, contending
in that which hath brought in confusion and disagreement,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 105
seeing a redeeming Spirit has come down to renew and gather
the lost tribes again to the Divine Holy One, from whence
they did proceed at first—pure as God is pure—to which
degree of perfection we may be restored into Christ's Di
vine office, not only without but within us, where the body
of sin has been yielded up for a burnt offering.
This confirms the words of Christ, the Lord—who is
risen—left with me for those who have been in the death
with Him, that we henceforth may know ourselves in Him,
to be acquitted and released from all claims which the evil
powers and properties can make for upholding such a king
dom where the beast throne is, which consists of envy, wrath
and strife, from all which, by eternal decree of the Lord
Jehovah, you are set free and brought into the harmony
of that blessed Kingdom where the springing joy from the
peace of God doth run as a river that has its divisions
through all properties to bring them to the heavenly unity;
whereby the creature is set free from the bondage of sin
into the glorious liberty of the children of God. For there
is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
MIGHTY VICTORY.
QH, THE WISDOM of God in laying a sound and sinless
foundation for the New Jerusalem, wherein it came unto
me that none could, or ever should, come to the opening of
the Seventh Seal till all this was fully finished; and I must
give witness to what it is doing; and it does not seem griev
ous because of what is to succeed and follow when this
mighty Seal shall be open.
This I have been shown according to experience and
revelation, to open the mystery and meaning of what is
written in Revelation, according as it is to be fulfilled in
Holy and Heaven-born saints; I also well know that their
opening will cause a terrible day of woe to the rebellious and
unrighteous, who shall be found in the beast's kingdom.
They must look to fall and go into perdition with him, for as
there are inward vials to be poured forth, so are they out
wardly poured on the world.
106 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Therefore the Lord has shown me that to every Seal
there is an eye opener within; therefore you are called upon
to look inward where the great mystery is to be opened;
as every seal hath its eye, so the ear hath its sounding
trumpet, which is filled with Holy oil which makes Kings
and Priests in God's tabernacle.
These are the trumpets that give the more certain sound
for time to end; and the everlasting Kingdom of the Alpha
and Omega to be ushered in—that soul where the mighty
trumpet shall sound—upon which follows the loosening of
those angels that have been bound, who are to fight this
mighty battle and revenge his quarrel, for the great and last
war will be in opening up this mighty Seal; and the Lord
did testify it would be such as in no foregoing seal had been
known.
He said withal: "I am the Lord, strong and mighty,
who will prevail and overturn the kingdom of the dragon and
the beast. Continue, ye faithful ones, while I am doing this
in the most Holy secret of My being, where the constant
mediatorship and offerings may go on in the strength of
My arm, that shall all overcome through the burning incense
that is mingled by the angel, whose place is to stand always
at the altar.
No hurt or suffering will dare to touch the jewels that
lie hid in the Holy Deity that would shine forth again in the
body of its native Virgincy, as before time was. Wherefore
suffer thou all this violence on the elementary part, as know
ing that it will not distrub the inward temple."
They who are prepared will worship and commune with
the Holy Spirit, but now, as of old times in the first elect
church and people, God was ministered to and worshiped
in a dark, formal, mixed manner, going up and down in a
movable tabernacle till Solomon's day, when the typical
temple, which was to be filled with glory, was built. Even
so, since the time of the Son of Man offering Himself up,
the Holy One hath walked in clouds and hath been worshiped
in an imperfect manner. Therefore He hath prepared a
burning, flaming day for all His vessels to pass through to
know whether they be sanctuary proof or not.
The Mighty Present God is carrying on a pure Jerusalem
worship in Truth and Righteousness. Rejoice all ye who
shall stand the trial of this mighty Seal in order to it. Now
according to this Divine interpretation of the Seal, we mav
know how near is the end of time and the passing away of
the old heaven and earth in ourselves, for that is what we
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 107
are looking for at every Seal opening, from the first to the
last.
There is a sounding trumpet to bring ruin and desolation
in this sixth day of creation, because of sin and the curse
which came in by the serpent's sting; by which means the
beast has created his kingdom and corrupted the whole
principle of time, while the Holy One hath suffered now so
many thousand years, during which, all just men died ; indeed
in the faith of this prophecy, but attained not to that degree
which is to usher in the heavenly New Jerusalem in Her
glory.
But the mighty Present God is now stirring in good
earnest, sounding His trumpet for battle, and there is that
in us which doth witness He is going on gradually, for He
said: "My Spirit shall not always strive with man." The
Mighty Present God will not much longer carry on the weight
and burden of a sinful creation.
He hath in some already sounded the judgment, and
will set Himself free thereby and the spirit and soul of those
who are resolved to follow Him through every Seal till they
shall overcome.
It was given me to observe that there are six overcomers
mentioned in Revelation and to every conqueror a most
high and wonderful reward pronounced, all of which is for
encouragement to follow cheerfully the Mighty Present God
who is our leader, who hath sworn that time shall be no
longer till He hath gotten the victory over the beast and
whore; and hath destroyed the dragon's kingdom in every
property within us who are elected, namely the 144,000, to
reign in His Life with Him on His throne with a train of
new created powers in the prospects of the redeeming earth
in the soul essence.
Then we shall know we have dominion over all outward
things, even over all the beasts of the visible earth, who must
be subject to the Mighty Present God, who has taken His
victorious crown and put it on the head of His Holy warriors
that have passed through all and are come to the last over
coming that gives entrance into the Seventh seal.
As I was thinking in my mind of the near approaching
time of the manifestation of the great overturn, which is to
bring in the overflowing stream of Christ's Kingdom into
the overcomers, behold, I did see and hear the Voice of Him
from whom the first heaven and earth did flee away, who
uttered these words: As there has been a long and tedious
war between the House of God and the serpent and the
108 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
serpent's brood, together with the harlot and beast who have
maintained their envious war on the ground of fallen nature,
but now come and see the place where they shall lie bound
down, hand and foot, for a thousand years.
Immediately I was all filled with light from the open
center of the peaceable Kingdom that flowed in with power
and lightning as if all the old earth were now drawn in;
and there followed a bright Star with a Voice going forth,
which said: The Lamb riseth out of this elementary sea,
overcoming the serpent and beast with all their seed; and
this will be to them, namely, their Mighty Present God's
victory.
Therefore, put on your Life armor, day by day, and
continue in the fight for joy of that which is now revealed—
the open Book, written within—and every one of the Seven
Seals broken. It was in the hand of the God-head man,
who said: Come and read of the seven wonders which my
faithful witness John the beloved did declare in His day of
revelation, which were then to be sealed up, because the day
of their fulfillment was afar off; but in this the Twelfth
and Last hour, the Living Book which was presented to my
view to read was the glorified person of the Lord Jesus
Christ, who doth now appear to reveal what was sealed up
in the seven thunders. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
PEARLY GATES OF WISDOM.
« A ND THE TWELVE GATES were twelve pearls; every
several gate was of pearl; and the street of the City
was of pure gold, as it were transparent glass." Rev. 21:21.
This is the beautiful pearly gate of Wisdom from whence
the richest gift is brought forth that ever has been received
since Adam lost his Holy Virgin, who now is here, giving
Herself again to the Immortal Soul—to all who are puri
fied and made ready, like unto Jesus.
Oh, who could ever have hoped for such a degree of
advancement after so long a time, an echo sound we now
do hear, that She will appear in Her beauty, but to whom
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 10ft
shall this gate stand open to receive this liberty from Her
hand? Is it not for Ruth who hath forsaken the Moabitish
land and comes to be established here where her eternal
nativity is driven?
She has no sooner arrived but she is decked with all
the Virgin's ornaments, which are the various accomplish
ments in all supreme powers and high abilities to act in a
Divine and important manner, as she shall be judged, with
reference to place, time or person according to the region
where the Bridegroom with His Bride shall be, whether in
the heights above or depths beneath; where His or Her re
joicing shall be in each other through the breaking open
of the center, from whence the virgin tincture doth flow
as pure blood flows in every vein; and a nourishing life is
felt passing through every sense.
This is that gift which the Virgin will bestow upon
the Immortal Soul for a greater manifestation of God's
manifold wonders throughout the habitable part of this
earth; where the whole Trinity, in Wisdom, will assume a
Virgin humility to bring all that hitherto has been con
fused, into order again.
The government of the satanic spirit must give way
to Her day, who comes to overturn all satanic reign; for
none of them shall be brought through Her gate, neither
shall any sale of the harlots goods be mingled with Her
treasure; but a vast separation there shall be as between
Paradise and this world, where all things stand in a Divine
birth, wherein they are blessed with a perpetual spring of
all pleasant things, which we shall know and understand
in their variety in the next gate.
Therefore; we are by the steady hand of Christ led
up to that, that we may see the wonderful depths of Wisdom,
the beautiful inward city, and come to know all going in
and coming out at these wonderful gates. This beautiful
pearly gate bears the title of Wisdom, proving all that has
been mentioned by Her management from Her own stock
and principle, very different from all merchandise which
is used in this visible world, which is wholly shut out from
entering these gates.
None can drive an earthly trade but such as bear the
mark and number of the beast here in this outward world
principle. Wherefore, Wisdom will not take any notice, but
to those who have renounced all worldly trading, which is
maintained by bearing the mark of the beast, a new and
wonderful way is prescribed to them who shall have the
110 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
mark and name of the Virgin —White Stone—by which they
shall be enpowered to drive a free and mighty trade within
the Heavenly City, which shall be so highly favored for
having here broken through, that they shall have liberty to
open this high and wonderful place to the rest of the fellow-
members.
All of this shall be seen in the breaking in of the Bride
groom Spirit and His Virgin, who will deliver the exiled
captives and class them closely within themselves; giving
them the Virgin nature to receive all good and pleasant
things according to the first Paradise. This transferring
power will pass from one to the other, to bring forth the
flourishing Eden, that it may again appear in this New World.
Therefore Wisdom's children now must dig deep to find
this kernel which hath lain hidden in the ground of Virgin
Wisdom, from whom it must be transmitted to those who
shall plant Paradise in a greater latitude in this New World.
Thus it is affirmed by the Living Word, who declared before
hand the Truth of these things which are already begun and
shall be finished as soon as all the Virgin gates are entered
and passed.
. This is more considerable where such a Divine, constant
corresponding is between the two Kingdoms —Paradise and
Mount Zion. All rich things will be transferred from one
to the other; yea, an Immortal factory is here to be main
tained between the inhabitants of the two heavenly countries.
This is a great secret which cannot be revealed all at
once —the opening of the secret things through the very
person of Christ glorified in His humility—that so we may
know what will make mortal dross become like the gold of
Ophir. But to give an answer to this question; it is some
thing you cannot buy, it is the Divine Wisdom of God.
Therefore we say it is a rushing breath; a purified
blood; a running flash of light and fire co-mingling together.
In a word, it is the power of the Divine Deity transferring
to a Virgin Spirit on God's behalf, as in the person of Christ
and His Virgin transmitting themselves as a Spiritual Root,
from which all fruitful powers of the Holy Ghost may be
provided; which would bring great glory to our Mighty King
and Savior.
So let us take off all veils that have been upon the Most
Holy Place, where we may enter into all knowledge and
wisdom, mysteries and wonders. But here lies the diffi
culty—how to attain the skill to stir up the precious gift
according to what was before described of the purified blood
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 111
of the Divine Virgin, like unto the pure blood of our As
cended Master.
The question may be asked several ways, all of which
can be referred to these two heads—transformation and
transfiguration —in which two great efforts will be known
in its essential Virtue flowing out from the Holy Wisdom's
stone, and the body shaped into a bright terrestrial body,
which Wisdom's Virgins shall have power to put on when
called upon to appear before the beautiful throne to receive
a new commission; how to act further according to the
counsel and will of the Holy Trinity, who will greatly de
light in putting them upon a working that is noble, great
and wonderful, of which none can experience only those
who have passed all former gates.
Therefore Wisdom's disciples, who have been gathered
under Her wing, will sometimes be in doubt of these things
while they are yet passengers from gate to gate. Where
fore we must not expect to be believed by those who are
yet without the gate; however we will, according to what
hath been revealed by the Holy One, declare and set forth
what God can do by His instruments who are thus highly
and Divinely qualified. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
THE MIGHTY TRUMP SOUNDS.
J^ET
ALL THE TRUE ELECT cry out in one voice to
the Mighty Present God of Israel who has gained victory
for us. Therefore let all the strength within me give the
mighty trumpet sound and a great shout that the Lord Je
hovah has come to reign. Rejoice ye heavens, without, with
in and round about, for the Lord Jehovah only has done
it ; He hath made war to cease in keeping the enemy without
the gates.
Oh, Mighty Prince and Savior: Thou hast entered into
Thy throne of rest: Thou hast become Lord of the Sabbath
indeed and therefore Thou hast power to eternalize it as
a memorial of Thy redeeming blood, which has become the
112 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
quickening and reigning life, obtaining my love forevermore
in this new and Divine, Holy place with Thee.
I never knew such a pleasant state till since the time
Thou hast brought Thy Kingdom unto me, to rule over all
in peace and love and in keeping every spirit under check,
wherein they fully realize Thy throne is set; Thy counsel
is fixed—the Urim and Thummim of sound and right judg
ment has come down, and the Divine decree has gone forth
with all powerful might and will in this Holy, hidden King
dom of my soul and mind.
The prospects of all this which now has come, the Spirit
of Christ, my Lord's personality, did give me to see and
therefore to prophesy as hoping the time is at hand, which
is so in good earnest. Therefore I am made to understand
that the Holy and Just One is come in His first and earthly
reign, to put all things to rights that were found in confu
sion in the fall of nature and to harmonize whatsoever did
put forth from the bitter root essence in jealousy and strife.
Oh, to have a cure coming in to relieve this fallen, weary,
tired out life. Therefore, seek God and His Righteousness
and all things shall be added unto thee. Wait in patience
for that Holy One who sits upon His throne and is ready
to fulfill all His Royal Laws that are expressed from the
counsel of the Triune Deity.
Truly we do find great joy in keeping up to this resur
rection and ordinance, which doth pertain to the Lord
Christ's Kingdom, although they be quite different and of
another kind, that was allowed to be, and by the Just One
did declare unto them that He had come to make a total
alteration and to throw out all their forms and customs
which have passed for a heavenly foundation, but they fell
short of ever reaching it.
It was little regarded by such who have eyes and see
not the workings of the Mighty Counsellor, who moves in
the third heaven, hidden from all mortal sight, from which
alone we have sought for honor; and now I am greatly
satisfied to be esteemed of no repute and to be as a poor
Lazarus for the joy of that Kingdom which is already pos
sessed by Me, the Holy Jesus Christ, fully believing that
the invisible Kingdom will work invisibly as it will make
the sun, moon and stars of this inferior order to bow be
fore it; for the assurance of which we can desire no fuller
or better evidence than the total and victorious reign of the
Mighty Present God, it being a manifestation of the reign
of the Holy Ghost who will not fear to face the enemies of
SIXTH COMFORTER: OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 113
the earth that have had their fulness and blessings from
the beast's kingdom, whose glory will certainly wittier and
die.
Nay, they who are of this number of Israelites and yet
abide in the abomination of self love will be so ashamed
and confounded at the opening of the Mighty Present God's
plentiful store, that will so abundantly shower down upon
them that sit on the throne with Christ, that all those who
have retained these worldly goods shall have such indigna
tion against themselves for it, that they shall throw their
gold and silver to the moles and bats.
Seeing their money would not save them, they will cry
for the rocks and mountains to fall upon them to hide them
from the face of the Lamb; for the great day of the Lord
has come and who shall be able to stand? Those who are
called and chosen of God, who will be led in the way of
all Truth and shown things to come, which is the most won
derful, eternal salvation that ever was yet brought to mani
festation, for which cause it will necessarily follow that the
visible Kingdom will also be established and become as a
lifted up ensign, that all flesh may tremble and fall before it.
Therefore the Lord Jesus Christ did come in His first
reign and no show of glory was seen to the outward appear
ance, but rather dark clouds of suffering which, being rightly
improved, make meet for the full possession for the first
and second Kingdom; each one in their grade, thus coming
forth to glorify but are yet hidden to the natural eye, where
the high throne glories are manifested in another manner
of kingly pomp and splendor, that whatever hath, or in
deed possibly could be figured out, till the Kingdom itself
doth work out visibly, then we shall know that we are
present with our God; in order to this excellent reign which
is to answer to the royalty, purity and pomp that God Him
self has now, with all His glorified saints and angels.
It is fully assured me that God hath taken unto His
eye a loving election at this very day—those who shall
come to sit in Priestly majesty and great dominion in the
inward regenerated soul conquering the twisting motion of
sin—and their own possession for faithfulness, Truth and
love to carry through here will be sign and evidence suffi
cient of what God will further exalt unto; in whatsoever
they have attained to the first Kingdom in Wisdom, sancti-
fication and in the excelling charity, knowing that these
will give the mighty out-set for entering into the uttermost
bonds of this everlasting Kingdom; which we will not think
114 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
it sufficient only to pay for, but to be doing all that is re
quired for it in comely order and fixed in all reason to hold
fast what we already have; that none may supplant us of
that which shall be the lifting up crowns, to be seen every
where upon the heads of the anointed ones.
What mysteries great, Divine,
For us are unsealed,
Kept until this, our day
For us to now reveal!
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
CONSECRATED TABERNACLES
"gLESSED ARE THE PURE in heart for they shall see
God." Matt. 5:8. Therefore as the Spirit of burning
love takes possession of the heart, then the very face of
God will be the covering by which we shall see and know,
that before we were ignorant of, as to our own pure love
which was foreknown in Christ before the world of wrath
and bitterness did show itself. Thus by the first and second
birth of Christ in us, all will come to be restored to a glorious
new creation where love shall die no more; nor sin live,
which brought in the curse and sorrow that caused God to
withdraw from us.
Now, is not all of this a most persuasive motive to the
loving flock of I Am That I Am, Jehovah; wherein He
intends to bring them to this loving band of perfection, that
so we may know one another as God's kindling sparks in
creasing to a flame, which will consume all envy and wrath
as stubble and dross?
The trumpet sounds loudly from Mt. Zion and waxeth
louder and louder. We daily hear it, from which we have
declared, in it are the most excellent, divine things concerning
the Eternal love and fellowship in God's own clearness, in
which no spot of darkness is to be found.
You might say: Where are such to be found according
to this degree which you here have described? All visible
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 115
churches and creeds are far too light when weighed with
the golden grain and shekel of the Eternal Sanctuary. We
know it to be so from the all piercing eye which doth try
all degrees of love and unity.
It may be universally bewailed that so much super
ficial form and dead love is found both to God and one
another. Here we do not wonder that the Bridegroom makes
no more haste, but His Bride waiting as yet Her full vesture
—or robe of pure charity—without which She never can be
said to be ready; for this is to be all Her glory, within and
without; and to adorn Her for love and delight.
Therefore, all pure Holiness and honor is given to love,
taking care to nourish it up in Her Mighty Present God and
there abound in it toward one another. This pure and Divine
unity of love hath been yet very little understood and less
practiced; that heavenly born love being much scattered.
Therefore, where is love's paved habitation to be found,
in which favored charity doth wholly act and move, loving
and adoring as the Mighty God appears and looks for
through the lattice of humanity in each one? Oh, how
soon will it draw out and open the spring of love, as God
Himself who is the Spirit and Life of love, which moves and
rises in Holy Anointed Ones? Therefore it behooves us to
be tender of it, not to grieve it or quench it in one another,
for that may cause it to sink and die away in ourselves,
and then the very Ark of our strength departs from us
and the heat and virtue of all spiritual life declines with it.
Therefore, upon which consideration O ye heaven-born
out of the womb of Eternal love, wherever dispersed, let
your gathering be to this lifted up standard where love's
kingdom is known and possessed in all peace and joy; sound
the trumpet loudly from Mt. Zion to call you away from
all worldly dross and perishing love which are not super
natural and essential. Nay further: from all lukewarmness,
being neither cold nor hot He will spue thee out of His mouth,
for love's working must be fervent and strong, immovable
for the making meet for the rising and the abiding power
of the Holy Ghost to work for all which will be brought out
of the fiery furnace of love,
For these great and mighty things that give testimony
of Christ's Kingdom in His saints being come, it will surely
open from the center. Now, wherever ye are who feel the
touch of this celestial firestone, send forth your warning
sparks to set one another in a Holy flame. Knowing your
own Heavenly Mother's children, hide not yourselves from
lie THE BOOK OF PARADISE
them; be no longer strangers toward them; find them out
from north to south, revive it once again—the Apostolic
band of unfading love, that may forerun the Bridegroom's
return to dwell amongst us, that so we may no longer fast
and mourn, but be feasting with love's multiplying from the
fountain. Even so confirm it O Lord Jesus Christ, that we
may feast on those fat and pleasant things that are within
the garden springs, where the everlasting gates stand open
for such as are to be united in love's band.
Come! enter then as chariots burning flames into that
Holy place where His name is known and we have come to
set forth according to the gift still bestowed upon us. The
glorious state of the everlasting Priesthood of Christ car
ried on in His Most Holy temple body and the heavenly
sanctuary, is framed for it by the loving power and the
Wisdom of the Most High, who will have a kingdom of praise
elected and set apart for the purpose to draw near in all
assurance with Him and all His Holy offspring; each one
from their consecrated tabernacle to minister to the Mighty
Jehovah, for that which is required —special ordination in
which none can be acceptable but such as are all purified
in the burning springs of love—that so they may become
wholly merciful and compassionate; to intercede for the ig
norant and such as turned aside from the track of the just
and perfect one, now to be called and anointed of God to
this Holy Divine place —the greatest honor that can be con
ferred upon the loving flock.
It is so Divine; both the prophecies and kingly domin
ions which do so wonderfully agree together, wherein the
priestly officers outshine in glory, being the last and finish
ing ministration, which shall be reconciled and gathered
into this unity with this Most Holy and ever blessed Trinity;
where fixation within the temple body of the Holy Ghost
shall evermore be enjoyed.
Now in order to the revealing and making out of this
high and peculiar priesthood, it is expedient that I should
declare in what living figure it appears to me; or rather
to some, who are raised up to be as clear burning lamps of
love which are capable of this great and marvelous sight
which did open from the very Godhead-being in whose body
of Light and glory this anointed Priesthood in the heavens
is clearly manifested, which is the ground-work I shall go
upon according to the expression which the Melchisedec
Priesthood set up and made teachable hereby, for the benefit
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 117
of that Holy and royal tribe, that shall hereafter be num
bered in this present age.
The most precious ones have their call to come out
from all earthly things, thus departing and entering into
the great God of Love; going onward according to the ML
Zion pattern which we have seen and the words which we
have heard from them.
Love born of God here is to all good
Stewards of His House giving out food.
Is not this the only one excellent thing,
Which will burn out the serpent's sting?
Nay; more than this to clearly see,
Love will enter the secret of the Deity;
Where ye shall see love a burning lamp,
Upward flying, never choked or damp.
Wing we up as angels to God above,
Where we may drink our fill of love.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
THE TRIUNE DEITY
(Far Above All Heavens)
"AND I (John the beloved) turned to see the Voice that
spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden
candlesticks; and in the midst of the seven candlesticks, one
like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to
the foot, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.
His head and His hair were white like wool, as white as
snow; and His eyes were as a flame of fire." Rev. 1:12-14.
"He ascended far above all heavens," Eph. 4:10, which is
the Spirit of Immortality—the seven Spirits embodied in
one glorified body of Christ. His wonderful Power and Wis
dom fill all these worlds with the fulness of the Godhead,
made manifest in the express image of His glory in the
second number of the three, namely, the Mother Jerusalem.
Therefore, until we understand our own eternal being
118 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
we cannot know God, for we are the inbreathed soul from
God. We live in the essence of the True and Living God,
which is the Immortal glass through which we may see and
know the invisible Deity and thereby also know ourselves,
as we consist of the high principles and worlds above, like
wise as those below, for they are all qualified with the Im
mortal and also with the elementary part in us for the most
wise and wonderful ends.
Oh, how wonderful is the mysterious greatness of the
soul, that lieth veiled and covered, unknown to itself. The
outward earth of sensibility shuts it up from understanding
its own power, as it is an essence derived from God; an
out-flowing breath from the Most High and Eternal God,
wherein the earthly life binds it down in all men until Christ
in Spirit enters, thus making it free in its own liberty, by
quickening the dead senses of light and power.
By this, the soul is restored to its preexistence and a
True, Divine nature of God, which is apt to be forgotten
if not continually in the mind; in which, being exercised
will put a check upon it, for the consideration of what it
is and to whom it must return, which is to the True and
Living God.
Therefore we come to the consideration of this most
wonderful subject, wherein I must say that these are not
my words but the Words of that One Immortal Spirit from
the High and Heavenly Court, to give the words of counsel
and exhortation for all those who are seeking for a full re
demption of spirit, soul and body.
Remember you have the Presence for your own Counse
lor and Comforter, a mighty golden Key to open the heaven
ly worlds unto you and to give you an inheritance in them,
the assurance whereof will be perfect peace, joy and hap
piness, proving yourselves to be a true witness to the ful
filment of His promises, and we are pleased to have it pub
lished and sent to the ends of the earth, showing forth the
great Wisdom of God, unveiling and declaring it is a seal
broken open that does belong to this present age.
Herein knowledge is to be increased in order to pre
pare for this great and wonderful day, in which we shall
hear the Voice of Wisdom saying: These things which I
have been giving thee will prepare thee to be ready and
prepared to meet the Bridegroom; thus proving they have
found the golden path that leads them gently to the Tree
of Life through the flaming cherubims, who remain still on
guard upon this beautiful Tree of Life.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 119
Here the Holy Angels do also wait to minister in their
proper time to those who come here, as they are the lawful
heirs to that most glorious state which is revealed in Zion,
this being the good tidings which doth belong to your Eternal
Father; but just remember there is a further mystery, which
is the beautiful Law of Paradise; and all of His Elect must
enter into it and ever prove faithful and true until you re
ceive the anointing; and while walking with your Spiritual
Man-child in this Most Holy Place thou shalt often hear the
echo of the Bridegroom's Voice calling thee still to hasten.
You have no time to lose; be ready and prepared to
receive the seamless coat that our Ascended Master wore,
that all of thy garments may smell as a bed of roses in which
thou shalt stretch thyself for a while, to dwell after the
manner of a spirit in a spiritual body like unto Jesus when
He appeared to Mary; for we must first be clothed with the
Immortal Spirit until it is put within; thus having the Tree
of Life to live upon, which will grant unto thee a most trans
parent body; for all those who daily feed upon it shall be
transparent by it.
Therefore behold; to thee the gate of Paradise doth
stand open and whatsoever of these things of God are there
thou hast a right, not only to know them as your own and
to enjoy, but the words of counsel are given that thou takest
heed unto the Law of Paradise, which has been in particular
given to thee for the end to observe, wherein Jesus Christ
will here frequently talk with thee and show Himself accord
ing to love's betrothment that is made afresh with thee in
Paradise.
Therefore arise ye Virgin daughters, and draw near,
having this name inscribed upon you with the finger of your
God, having your twelve foundations according to the
number of the stones of the Holy Circle made clear and sure
in you, being all that which is to be taken up in honor of your
Jerusalem glory.
Draw near now, ye Virgin daughters of Zion, who lie
hidden and bring your glory to the City, wherein the beauti
ful name of the Lamb is here written upon every gate, for
the serving number of every ascended spirit to obtain
admittance; for none can enter the gates but those Virgin
spirits who before have stood upon Mount Zion and passed
through the beautiful sea of glass, being the living jasper
stone.
The walls of your habitation shall be a rock of fiery
stones and your hiding shall be as in God, wherein you have
120 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
gone forth proclaiming another day of Pentecost to those
who have obtained a higher birth, thereby influencing them
in bringing down their gifts and power into the manifesta
tion, in and through those who stand in such loving unity
with those perfect Spirits in their separated order.
These will understand and take notice who are most
fitly qualified, whereby they communicate and talk over the
life of the new revelation unto this lower understanding,
so the inhabitants herein may come thereby to be enlightened
and regenerated by these blessed ones above, waiting so
patiently to be opened and spread among mortals till
Immortality shall be swallowed up in its own Eternal Light
and Life.
It is renewed within us from Wisdom's center, which is
now manifesting itself, being under commission to keep
nothing back that would serve for the information or sancti-
fication of Wisdom's meek and lowly children, who are
restless inquirers to learn and understand in this the Divine
Mother's rising day, which is to be proclaimed to the ends
of the earth. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
PURE TEMPLE MIND.
"IN THE MIDST of the street of it, and on either side
of the river, was there the Tree of Life, which bear
twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month;
and the leaves of the Tree were for the healing of the
nations." Rev. 22:2.
The wonderful Tree of Life springs up into the Para
dise of God, wherein all the deep mysteries of the New
Creation in this Virgin Church of the First-born of Wisdom
must proceed by leaps and bounds as we are entering into
the wonderful New Year. Here we have found the working
wheel from the strong hand of the Mighty Present God and
are striving hard for the bringing back of our spirit, soul
and body into eternal and Divine nature.
Speaking plainly, it is no less than to be born again into
another world where this visible birth in the sin of this
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 121
old world is forgotten, being a thing of the past. Therefore,
remember to give occasion to the deepest wonder and ad
ministration of that great infinite goodness of the Mighty
Present God to set you free to be born into a Divine Immortal
body, so to dwell and inhabit it in this beautiful, high and
heavenly world.
Herein we shall see and understand in these secret mys
teries of eternity as to what doth lie hidden there through
the awakening of thy mind and watchful attention, that
nothing shake thy living faith as to this great and wonderful
revelation, to the accomplishment of a full and perfect, re
deemed state among mortals, here to be seen and known, in
which I have been blessed with renewed understanding and
promises for the keeping up and opening of the springs of
faith which otherwise would have been stopped.
Therefore I must proclaim the goodness of God who
hath kept the Divine stock of faith growing in me for the
hopeful and glorious things which are yet to come, which
are great, weighty things, worth waiting in patience for the
wonderful accomplishment; thus seeking wherever I might
find one who has their eyes anointed to see and understand
the deep things of God, waiting in a pure temple mind
unitedly for the greater out-pouring of the Holy Ghost power
again to rise in greater power, that will gather the Holy
people together who will see eye to eye when the Lord brings
again Zion.
This living faith can grow up in no other soil but a
ground all purely refined with oily springs and dew from
heaven. This is the living faith that will bless all Israel
with wisdom, strength and righteousness, for which I find
in my heart so earnestly to seek and pray that it may be
most sacredly kept and circulated round about with the pure,
living, cleansing fire of the Holy Ghost which may be its
shelter from all the evil spirits that so diligently watch to
break in to corrupt and suck away its strength.
Therefore I entreat each and every one to be on the
watch and ever seek to be skillful in this wonderful faith, that
you might understand the way for preserving and cherish
ing this chosen, golden grain from whence the Tree of Life
might its full growth attain; going forth for the multiply
ing and making up of this spotless and Divine Virgin Church,
wherein they shall arrive safely to their Father's House—
the Holy Royal City—in great rejoicing celebrating such a
triumphant glory in unity with the body of saints that
are in heavenly places beforehand; even such a wonderful
122 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
glory through the Spirit, until we come into the very same
glory as Christ had with the Father before the world was.
This is too great to be known here, thus having all the
degrees and branches of the Living Faith opened and set
before thee for trial, examination and information, not
only for myself in particular, but for those who do agree
to ascend with me and go forward, on through all of these
degrees which God has chosen —someone or other that are
made willing to give up their all by waiting upon it until
the great fulfillment shall bring forth this Divine Tree of
Life to its full stature, that the Ascended Spirits may find
all the virtues of food for themselves; therefore greatly in
crease in all kinds of substance without being beholden to
the world, for it has been testified unto me that their bread
and water shall be sure; the bread being that Living Bread
from heaven and the water being that Living Water that
we shall drink and thirst no more.
Therefore, be ye ready to receive and to hearken to
the express charge, to wait until all firm believers hitherto
are with me to agree for the full accomplishment of these
gifts and miracle working powers, which so long have been
silent and lain asleep.
By whom are these to be awakened? Only by the firm
believers constantly feeding upon the Living Faith, like un
to Abraham, who have ears to hear and a heart to under
stand the glorious message from the heavens above, bring
ing glad tidings to the whole House of Israel, in fulfillment
of the promise that the Holy One has made unto them from
the beginning of time.
In this the Twelfth and Last hour, all of the Divine
promises that He has spoken shall be fulfilled in His faith
ful and True Elect; and they shall be filled with joy and
gladness, which words cannot express when they realize
they have been called, chosen and prepared to be brought
forth by the Holy Mother of Zion, like unto a beautiful rose,
yea, the Rose of Sharon, and also like unto the beautiful
white Lily which is altogether lovely.
Dear beloved chosen ones, I am telling you of things
yet to be fulfilled here upon this earth, so hustle up and
get you ready! There is no time to lose for the chariot
wheels of Israel are rolling along. Therefore this Divine
Life is like unto the walk of Enoch. It is so hidden and
unknown save to His True Elect who will understand that
by the beautiful Law of Paradise they can return back to
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 123
that land from whence they came, through that noble and
Divine walk with God.
Herein you will meet with those who are kind and hum
ble, showing forth the fruits of the Spirit, ever ready to
speak of the fulfillment of the promises of God. Oh, what
a noble company, whose hearts are filled with the words
of Eternal Life! Can you not hear the voice of an angel,
saying: Thou art the offspring who are born for right
eousness and righteousness has rested upon thee; and the
Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, will not forsake
thee but He will walk and talk with thee from the heavens
above.
Therefore, hark ye to the traveling tent of which I
have given thee, meaning that Immortal Spirit that will
teach thee and give thee an opportunity to know beforehand
the rich and pleasant things of the heavenly country to think
upon, thus filling you with that Divine Wisdom to under
stand all those deep things that the Seventh and Last Mes
senger hath spoken unto thee, for He, the Mighty Present
God, has sent His Messengers before your face, which is
the Spirit of refining fire, to purify and make you ready
for His double robe of Righteousness that you might enter
into the great Marriage of the Lamb.
Angels, archangels will celebrate that day! Therefore
the great power of the Holy Ghost will be poured upon those
who are looking for this blessed hope and most glorious
reign of Christ. It behooves all Israel to be prepared and
ready for their ministry, as Jesus said : "As My Father sent
Me, so send I you," which means a great outpouring of
the Holy Ghost, wherein their words shall go as balls of
fire until all Israel are gathered into that place where My
Spirit shall rest.
Herein that Holy Spirit will do the work for you and
crown you with love, joy and peace under the Voice of the
Mighty Shiloh Immanuel, the full Gospel power from the
Seven-fold pool, in which they are purified, thus receiving
the baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from heav
en. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
124 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
WISDOM'S POLISHED PILLARS.
«T*HE LAW of Thy mouth is better unto me than thousands
of gold and silver." Psa. 119:72. Therefore, knowing
that the Eternal Law and Testimony given forth in Paradise,
from which I say and say it again, I shall never depart but
I am resolved to cleave and by it to stand until it shall make
me altogether righteous; so complete that thou mayest re
joice to see that perfected Holiness in so high a degree by
the mighty God of Hosts; and He will guard me from all
harm.
Jehovah will be my safeguard, yea; the Holy, blessed
Trinity will ever watch my safety. Therefore the Almighty
God, the Prince of Peace shall appear to the Second Child
which is to rule the nations with a rod of iron, showing God's
power here upon earth and thus doing greater wonders—
greater than Moses ever did; for that Eternal, Immortal
Eye shall bring forth all of Her lawful legitimate heirs.
The Divine Wisdom shall be brought into manifestation
and replenish the earth, that God may walk in the midst of
it and no longer be unknown to His Elect, they are refined
from the dross and thereby beget a free and open entrance
into the Jerusalem from Above.
The partition must be broken down that Christ Above
and Christ beneath may join together for Eternal happiness.
But here it may be asked: How can this be as long as
the body is terrestrial, for the earthly body can not ascend
to the Mighty God's glory? Answer: Therefore a new body
is prepared, even a heavenly body, such an one as Christ
had, who could change His form how and when He pleased.
He appeared to Moses and Elias in His transfigured,
bright body and then came down again in a terrestrial body
to the sight of mortals, which power shall be renewed in
those who shall personate Christ upon the earth. These
shall ascend and descend at pleasure and transmit them
selves readily, which estate will excel all visions of the
glorified person of Christ.
Without this celestial body we cannot hold out in that
Divine and sweet communion, hid with Christ, which shall
be in the Kingdom of Saints; wherefore there is such a body
prepared which shall be able to pass into the invisible where
the King of Glory dwells.
It is given to me to see the approaching day in the
Spirit. If representation be so glorious, what will the thing*
itself be when actually accomplished? This report that the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 125
Holy Ghost hath given of it, which behooves all Israel to
put on their whole stock of faith for it, the sum of all
these wonderful things concerning the reign of Christ
must be transmitted in the Virgin seed which will produce
a new generation.—Rev. 12:1 —to whom this Kingdom shall
be given in Truth.
This was revealed from that vision which the beloved
John saw of a great wonder in heaven :"A woman clothed
with the sun and the moon under Her feet and a crown of
twelve stars on Her head." These twelve stars representing
the twelve tribes which are to be gathered to receive the
drops as they fall from the heavenly cloud to thee, for
which is required a well purified body in which no taint or
defilement doth remain.
Therefore I entreat all Israel to prepare, namely the
body, before they can see the cloud break and send down
its showers upon their ground. This I mention for the sake
of those who are in this Divine ministration of revelation.
Now from this Eternal Wisdom a birth is to be born,
in which nothing but joy, life, blessings and eternal power
and dominion shall take place, which we are to declare to
our little flock; and it brings such great happiness as doth
far exceed that of Gabriel to the Virgin Mary, who was
blessed among women, being designed to be the mother of
our blessed Jesus in His fleshly appearance.
Now by this Virgin, the Mighty Present God has brought
forth another appearance, namely the Second Child —a
mighty Ruler and Protector over this earth —who is really
and truly to fulfil whatsoever was typified in Solomon's
reign. David's war must cease, which cannot be until the
Eternal Virgin hath brought forth the birth of the Holy
Ghost, wherein She will bring forth Her sons and daughters,
thus restoring to them their Immortal inheritance to estab
lish His beautiful Kingdom here upon earth.
Blessed are those who have first known the painful
feeling under Her discipline, for such shall be Her polished
pillars on which She will engrave Her Virgin name, as the
Holy One hath said, who is the true and faithful witness who
has come to take off the Virgin's veil that they may see
Her in the glass of perfection and come to know Her.
Herein She shall not depart from us, but lead and teach
us in the Divine understanding which is pleasing to the
Mighty Present God, thus bringing a joyful feeling in the
Holy Breath of the purifying fire. Then we shall see what
shall follow the harmony of those scenes, which is a char
126 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
acter of the Virgin nature—the pattern that we are to try
ourselves by—for which end we are also called to look into
Her looking glass so it may stir up all Divine desires in us
to have these scenes which are exceedingly awakening within
us.
Oh, great Goddess and Queen of all the earth, now,
after so long a time away, we are thankful to the Mighty
Present God you have come to earth to stay! Oh, Thou
Mighty Holy Wisdom and only espoused of God, knowing
and remembering us who are brought to Thy feet and have
been under Thy Divine discipline, allot Thyself to be our
golden crown, that we may advance step by step, higher,
toward Wisdom's heavenly throne, from whence Thy golden
sceptre is stretched forth to lay hold on while we pass
through beyond every dark cloud ; for which cause the bright
sun now doth shine, guiding us on to that blessed Oracle;
and "He who gave the Oracle then gives it now."
Then hearken! O Israel to the call and summons from
the Mighty Shiloh Immanuel to fight this great battle in
power and might of the Conquering Spirit, which shall go
on conquering until the victory is won, under the banner
of Christ, the great General, for His Kingdom that has 30
long been expected upon the earth ; and His promises cannot
fail.
Therefore His true Elect will not grow weary on this
wonderful journey until they arrive safely unto the Eden
of Paradise, proving that they belong to that mighty invisi
ble army and shall fight valiantly until they have overcome
and gained that possession that doth rightly belong to Him,
our Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore let us sing out glory to God in the highest!
Let thy voices ring out, saying: Publish, O publish these
glad tidings of the Kingdom of God and send them to the
ends of the earth, like unto the Angel flying through the
midst of heaven, preaching the everlasting Gospel to them,
that dwelleth upon the earth, proclaiming with a loud voice:
Fear not ; give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgments
has come. "For He is Lord of lords and King of kings and
they that are with Him are called chosen and faithful." Rev.
17:14. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
PEACE
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 127
VIRGIN CROWN OF POWER!
Wisdom's Golden Ophtr.
•THE HOLY MOTHER of Zion has brought down Her
Virgin crown of power, as a signal testimony of the
Mighty King's reign that must prevail over all the earth.
The bright, flaming standard of Christ's personality will be
of such magnificence as to draw home the dispersed and
scattered flock, which has suffered greatly in this Satanic
kingdom, wherein a great jubilee will be proclaimed by those
to whom the dominion shall first come.
They, the kings and leaders, are appointed to shine
forth as the Morning Star, which shall bear such wonderful
power as to make all the Elect to hasten and fly to this
Kingdom, as doves to the windows; there none shall have
any occasion for complaining about the necessities of life,
for our bread and water are sure; the bread being the
Bread of Life, and the Water being the Water of Life that
we shall drink of and thirst no more; and whatsoever is
needful of this kind, the Paradisical lost power shall be re
stored in a higher degree than ever.
Self love and prosperity will be taken away; it cannot
enter into Christ's Kingdom, for the Lord hath declared
that none who are of this spirit shall ever inherit this King
dom. The vast and unchangeable, Divine riches cannot be
enjoyed in prosperity, but only in love's communion with the
great I Am That I Am.
Herein the Holy Ghost that gives witness to Christ's
reign doth consent to a life of praise and joy, which goeth
forth in angelical tongues' power and sounds of so many
perfumed offspring, paying an everlasting love tribute of
joy to the Ancient of Days, by and in whom they are come
to reign over all Kingdoms in this world in Christ's personal
power.
The new praises from the fiery breath of the Holy
Ghost shall be the Holy sport and celestial play of the chil
dren of this Kingdom. Their works shall speak forth the
praises of the Most High, for Wisdom's Spirit will act so
high and in such a mysterious manner as hitherto has not
been known, all of which miracle powers have been revealed
to make up the glory of Christ's Second Coming, who shall
come in great power and glory.
Wisdom stands by Her angel to call and invite them
to come, wherein all the Ascended Spirits will come and
hearken to the call in great rejoicing, severing all the chains
128 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
that bound them to the mother of harlots; casting her down
under their feet, thus being on the watch to see that she
enters not into this gate because of the gulf which stands
before it.
The mortal spirit, whose affection is joined to gross,
elementary things, cannot pass this gate without suffering
loss. It is a life that cannot be saved, but must be swallowed
up; but with Christ our life will swiftly pass through as a
fiery chariot, proving we are an overcomer of all tempta
tions, which would give us the desire to enter into this golden
gate, which is very great indeed; it being the field for Wis
dom's Gold of Ophir and where unknown in rich substance
it doth lie.
Oh, who is it that will hold on to their endurance till
they arrive safely to this gate? It may be truly said that
many have striven to enter this gate, but because they
could not or would not leave behind all mortal births, strip
themselves of all things belonging to the old world, and
failing to do so they could not enter.
None can enter this third gate except the Christ of the
Mighty God enables us to pass, and then we shall wait with
freedom to come up to this gate. Therefore let it be under
stood, this third gate is a translation which is placed in
Wisdom's land. The center of Virgin's Wisdom may often
open and take up souls and spirits into it and then be shut
again and the soul and spirit let down into mortals.
This, I say, may happen often before the soul can be
placed in the Holy Wisdom, but where the soul is placed in
the heavenly budding life of its Immanuel and is trans
lated into a pure Nazarite virgincy, which knows nothing
more of the fallen birth; here the soul stands in another
principle, having got a firm footing in Wisdom's land.
Here a goodly lot is cast for the conquering ones who
will find all riches standing before them in Wisdom's treas
ury without any bonds or limits. Whatever is of use or
of service, is there laid down at the feet of a translated spirit;
as the returning of her adventure and trust in that day
while she was under that great power of the glittering stars.
Oh, what a welcome feast do we see already prepared
within this gate. Therefore, behold the Virgin coming and
saluting the ascended ones with a loving invitation, saying:
Come now and inherit the substance with Me, ye who have
been in a weary travail to attain this glorious gate. I be
hold you in the face of the Bridegroom, by whose means
you arrived here. Now in His name ask and see what honor
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 129
and perfection you shall have in My Kingdom, which will
recompense a thousand fold for the loss you sustained in
the world from whence you have come out, as you did
give credit to Me, the Mighty Present God.
The Words of My testimony and the glorious fame which
was brought to your ear, though as yet you possess nothing
of what is intended for you; but here is what will weigh
down and recompense all of your suffering, wherein you
have resisted manfully those busy spirits that would have
blocked up your way; but in strong faith you have broken
through all.
Let your victory be asigned to Him who hath the open
Key to let in from gate to gate. All this dropping from the
lips of Shiloh Immanuel. Therefore,
O joy, we're now in the sight of that blessed day
Wherein Wisdom's wonders so richly display,
But it may be asked: When shall this be
And who among the living shall see?
The names, written when with Michael they did stand,
Fighting faithfully to obtain this Immortal land.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
ROYAL LAW OF CHRIST.
IJERE FOLLOWS the Divine opening of the reign of the
Kingdom of love dwelling in heavenly places, there to
reign in love, not alone but must seek it orderly, for her
fellow members even when rejected and fought against; for
this is the new Gospel Law so urged and pressed by Jesus
Christ and His apostles in their day; knowing it was the only
means to plant us again in our own pure, Eternal, begotten
state where nothing but perfect love was known.
Oh, this is of such importance and so weighty that I
cannot find words to express it. It brings forth the Divine
130 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
sweetness that is to be found in it when it comes as a con
queror, as having been tried by God Himself and by our own
fellow disciples, which is more piercing than any trial from
others; yet all this will not quench the right Spirit which is
mingled with the God-head flames of love.
It is so strong that it works over all choking and water-
floods that could not drown it, thus having given a most
true, experienced account, according to how the Kingdom of
love comes to reign in dominion for all shaking of this pure
Just Spirit, which is rooted and fastened into it, as an in
visible rock.
As in reference to God, the beginning of love, so likewise
toward all my fellow members growing up in their various
degrees in this body of love ; fulfilling that Royal Law which
is to love one another, from a pure heart, with that wonderful
love wherein God our Father has loved us; who causes our
love to enter into our enmity and thereby slay it, thus
causing this enemy, satan, to be our servant.
Charity that is begotten of God in us, will suffer, bear
and raise up a conqueror who has power to cast out legions
of evil spirits like unto Jesus Christ. Then we shall behold
Israel clothed in their right mind, for Christ has come to
condemn sin in the flesh; yea, the very root and source of
all evil, and we shall thereby know the falling away of the
man of sin eternally.
The great God of love sinks the enemy —satan and all
his followers into the bottomless lake from whence he never
can rise any more, and it must be said: This is a rare and
wonderful thing indeed, but is it attainable at this time of
mortality? Yea assuredly, or else the Lord Jesus Christ
would never have urged it and commanded it so freely, both
in leaving it as His last charge and summing up the whole
Law of perfection, in love to God and our fellow members;
preaching the same doctrine by His Spirit in the apostles
after His ascension, according as it is by St. John and St.
Paul; abundantly recorded in their epistles. You will find
that pre-eminence is put upon this gift, more than all others.
Now the Holy Ghost brings in charity—more excellent
than them all, and the Holy inspiration thus opened it—that
charity is of that high extraction so purely descended that
no defiled thing can ever enter it. Its consistency is an
invisible body, as thin as air, as piercing as a flame, an all
moving action and vigorous Spirit of power and Life, that
can go in and out as the invisible breath which no mortal
eye can see ; only its force can be felt as a sapphire heat, that
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 131
burns as a refining fire wherein it may mingle with the Holy
Ghost.
This is the true and faithful description of the perfect
thing called by the apostles, Charity. Wherever this comes
it makes all imperfect things flee before it, but it strengthens
and confirms every just, ascended spirit that is sown by His
Holy Spirit; and makes them appear above ground, which
have long lain burdened under it.
It is the Rose of Sharon, the Paradisical spring that
protects the whole, transmitting all into one entire body
of love that doth extend and give forth itself in all spiritual
bountifulness according to its high nature and property.
It is not shut up in itself nor considers as to what it
possesses and enjoys; it holds nothing in property what
soever its lot is; but all is free to the disciples of the same
descent and birth with Himself, the Holy One of Israel.
His love cannot withhold from any their necessities, for it
seeketh not its own.
Then it hath also a virtuous power, as made to inherit
the best of riches and substance of the everlasting Kingdom;
to convey and distribute this wonderful and excellent
treasure and to impart to impoverished souls, to relieve them
that are in great distress, which power can pass in us, as
a high, healing balm to heal the wounded; for this love is
a ministering flame unto the holy possessors of humility
and is as the open door.
Charity is furnished with all sorts and stores. It is
God's steward upon earth, whom He doth trust with the care
of His household, who are in spiritual hunger. It is the
most infallible truth that God will appoint such a Holy
overseer in His New-born Church that shall receive the
apostolic spirit and power that has been lost out of the earth.
It shall rise as a bright Morning Star and multiply itself
into a generation that will be all lovely, in which God may
see Himself, for which end the Kingdom and dominion is
already come into some, where, in this wonderful day in
which our Son of man will again appear in the heavens for
the delivering up of the Kingdom to the Father, that so God,
who is love, may be all and in all.
In order to this accomplishment of this last and finishing
mystery, there shall arise a Melchisidec Priesthood which
shall know the way, for this is the most clear and under
standing witness of Truth when Light and revelation and
Life of enjoyment meet together, carrying power and
authority with it.
132 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
But to return to the present things, what can be said
sufficiently of it, wherein the reign of love shall meet to
gether and spread itself as a net to gather in for the Divine
Kingdom, for joy and happiness will reign throughout one
Eternal day. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
RISING IN CHRIST.
0sI, YE SPIRITS of the Just who stood loyal and true to
the Union of the Godhead, your reward is Immortality;
and from that Ancient Roll you will hear the Voice of God
calling out your names one by one. Praise God our Deliverer
has come! He has lifted up the standard of this Most Holy
Faith into the hands of some who are prepared and set apart
to go forth in the spirit and power of Elias, showing forth
the wonderful manifestation of the Living Faith which is
to be revealed in this, the Twelfth and Last hour, for which
purpose the revelations are renewed; yea! The mighty power
from the heavens, to roll in His Divine power and love; to
call and gather in the dispersed of His Elect flock who are
in bondage and in all their days have been locked up.
Hark ye! Enter into this wonderful school, yea, the
school of the prophets. They must come here to be taught
the true, ancient and Eternal freedom, of which I myself
have been taught by the great Master; the Lord Jesus Christ,
who is the saving Ark of Faith ; giving Himself to such who
can receive Him, to be the body in which the living coal of
faith causes our hearts to burn within us as He reveals unto
us the secrets of heaven: preparing us for the new birth;
thus becoming one family of God by faith in Christ Jesus;
being born from the Virgin womb of the Jerusalem Mother
Above.
Herein, all the Spirits of the Just will see and understand
the work of God, our Father, in bringing us up in the Living
Faith from the very day of our being born into it; growing
up step by step into the temple of Wisdom, until the body
is full grown in this stature to be prepared in this wonderful
Divine spirituality till every organ, member and faculty has
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 133
been run through the highest Divine power. Thus the Spirit
of Truth has taught me to be patient and abide until this
true ShUoh body in me be fully developed, thus bringing
forth the most powerful and glorious outpouring of the Holy
Ghost after such a long silence; even the very heavens should
then speak through me, not by voice only but by pure act.
Oh, this is the proof that my God will of Himself fill
us with His glorious sunlight in His wonderful power; where
in the roots shall spring up and manifest themselves, all
working in Divine harmony, and peace and happiness shall
forever dwell. Oh, how encouraging to wait and give our
whole heart to this Holy One, which will disannul all evil
thoughts of this old world, thus being able to possess the
great Jehovah as our wonderful fountain, continually within
to flow for the washing away of all impurities, and for the
preparing of a body in which the Holy Ghost forever shall
dwell, never to depart.
The Spirit and the Bride gives me not only a call but
a loving separation from all that is of this lower element.
Oh, Thou Mighty Present God, who is so loving and kind
as to give me an understanding to walk this golden path
of Eternal Life, which leads me gently into the Kingdom of
peace and happiness; reigning within the circle of a pure
mind, and from thence to govern all parts of the world:
telling the wonders of God, which shall as lightning fly out
upon eagle's wings of faith; the precious fruits of this won
derful Tree of Life, springing up into this Eden of Paradise,
which is the only thing that will bring the long expected
redemption.
This is no less than the seed of the Trinity which is
retained in the pure Holy Virgin's womb, which generates
in this high birth of power, the true heir of faith as it did
appear in the Holy Divine Jesus. Oh how great is the secret,
and to whom has it been revealed: who hath found this
wonderful stone? Truly in all ages it hath had its seekers,
but none have digged deep enough for it. Every arm for
these many hundred years has been too short to reach it.
Now unto thee who are daily upon the inquiry and
watching for the High Priest gate to open, which thou art
now to press forward to find within the borders of Immanuel;
where the seven baptizing pools are to be passed through,
before this transparent stone comes to perfection in color.
Into seven of them thou hast been plunged, yet knowing this,
there remaineth three, which is the blood, oil and fire. The
first pool that we must pass through is the pool of convic
134 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
tion; second repentance; third revelation; fourth passing
our spirit over by pure dedication, which is what we must
meet to enter into the baptizing of the wonderful Holy Ghost,
which would finish the whole mystery, thus entering into
the bloody pool—the blood being the mortal life of Jesus that
He poured out upon the cross.
Hark ye O Israel! When we give up our mortal life of
blood, this is dying with Jesus; then we are begotten of the
Father, conceived by the Mother, and carried by Her until
the appointed time of the Father; this being a total giving
up of that birth that was out of the womb of that which was
of the earth, earthy ; therefore it must be again delivered up.
No more would I, the Father, have thee to draw the birth
of life from that principal which is a gulf of separation —
the circulating pool that surrounds the wonderful Tree of
Life, which I am longing for, wherein the Lamb has been
slain in thee ; giving a resurrection of a new life, proving our
selves to be the wonderful conquerors; making way for the
plunging into the pool of oil—which oil is the -substance and
senses from which the Holy Ghost doth spring. Praise God!
We pass from this to the pool of fire, which also opens itself.
It brings the Golden Seed from the Deity wherein we
work Divinely together, for this is the rising in Christ that
we are called to live by alone; for as much as by this, they
are always ascending above the earth, as if they had no more
to do with it; bringing down by faith all needful things out
of the storehouse of heaven while they yet are in the body
terrestrial. They live upon the fruit of the Tree of Life
which brings in both for food and clothing abundantly while
they are in need of it. Then praise to the God of Israel!
There is an age coming; the Tree of Life is growing up in
those who are prepared in this ground —being our body—
bringing it to full ripeness, which will cause our bodies to
be rudy and glorious, so that mortal shall be hid in Immortal
ity, which is the garment that will last a thousand years
reign of Christ.
Herein it shall be said: This is the resurrected body like
unto our Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. Death
shall be swallowed up in victory by the mighty operation of
faith, which subdues all things to itself, and changes this
vile body into its glorious body like unto our Ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ; proving themselves to be
the glorified persons of our Lord, and the Father in them
with the Virgin Wisdom.
All the saints shall appear before this spiritual eye
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 135
according as it is written: "Behold the glory of the Lord!"
Herein we shall be changed from glory to glory, for when
we see Him we shall be like Him. Thus it has been shown
me what the wonderful effects of faith will do in its time
and age; but it may be said: "Who shall live such an age
to see?" To which I answer: "Many have died in this faith
not having received the promise, but seeing it afar off re
joiced in the Spirit."
Therefore, seeing we have arrived into the Twelfth and
Last hour, behold, the whole world is warned; but to the
true Israel of God it is nigh thee, even in thy mouth. Seeing
we are now under the voice of the Seventh and Last Messen
ger, wherein the secrets of heaven are now being revealed,
showing us the straight and narrow way, back to the land
from whence we came, angels—Archangels —are helping us
on our way and the sweet affinity and loving words cannot
be brought forth by tongue nor pen; it is something you
cannot buy and something you cannot give away; it being
the Divine Interpretation from the heavens above; the
Almighty working wheel, of which there is no beginning or
ending. There is a Living Spirit moving in this wheel, work
ing as a loadstone, drawing the Ascended Spirits up into
His heavenly throne ; for they dwell together in this beautiful
Faith as coworkers with Him.
It seems I can hear the still small Voice saying: "There
is a birth that is coming forth that shall bring the blessings
of a mighty increase, to present and succeed in bringing forth
a generation like unto Sarah in her old age." It was near
her time of bringing forth the heir who must possess the
good things of the upper and lower world. Understand ye
what this means ? The old age is the arrival in the mysteries
of faith. How excellent are those that are of goodwill to
encourage themselves with the hope of this good old age,
to see the mighty heroes in this faith, wherein ye shall bring
forth the blessings to the weary and oppressed. Gird up I
say and take heed! do not falter or turn out of this Living
Faith, then ye shall bring forth a nation in one day, and that
one day is a thousand years of peace and goodwill towards
all men. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
136 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
RETURNING TO THE FATHER'S HOUSE.
TO MY DEAR beloved Israel, scattered abroad, who are
longing to come to their Home, sweet Home: Like unto
Jacob they have grown weary of living in a strange land
under servitude and bondage, longing, yes longing to have
a free spirit and to return to their Father's house with their
spiritual stock and riches of life that Wisdom has blessed
them with ; to provide for the sustenance of their own family
within themselves, of which the outward was but a shadow
and type.
It was shown me in like manner that this was the time
and experience fulfilled, of the long and weary servitude
in a strange land and country; they are now called to
separate and come away to their Father's house, and to
draw in all His substance and stock of Divine Spirit that
came from the pure Virgin Essence, that nothing there,
might be scattered or left behind, for all will be little
enough to supply and maintain that which is of a pure gen
eration, wherein it will bring him great joy and pleasure
to his sons and daughters, his man servants and maid ser
vants, to grow up in stature, happy and flourishing in his
own house.
In this faith the Spirit shall be his blessing, but these
things will bring him great persecution and great tribula
tion from the Laban spirit, which must be expected, for he
will never consent to let Jacob go. Therefore Wisdom did
put it into his heart to make the breach by stealing away
from Laban with his subtle entreaties; resolving to make
his own way back to his father's house, the wife having an
understanding spirit to be firm and so to engage in his flight
and journey on, having with him and for him, Jacob's angel
that will not leave him till safely conducted into the inward
court of great love and joy in the presence of the Father.
Therefore, in the process thereof, Laban raised an army
that was of the same evil eye as himself and these pursued
hard to overtake him, but God disappointed the evil inten
tion and gave warning, saying: I warn and charge that you
let My Jacob go free; touch not My anointed for he must
now ascend to Me. No bonds or cords shall evermore be
upon him, but as a free son in My Holy City; wherein he
is to wait upon all My commands, for My work is so great
that all must be taken up in it.
Therefore, hasten up yourselves, whereunto you must
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 137
be found of one entire mind working with the Mighty I Am,
Jehovah; for which end I have now set you free, that you
may stand and hearken to no other command but wait to
receive Laws as Wisdom shall reveal unto you; that the oil
will not cease to run. Empty your vessels as fast as you
can! It will become in you a rising, bubbling life till it hath
made you pure, without sin, by which you will give proof
that you are the first redeemed out of the earth.
Go on! rejoicing in this work My Elect one. The high
powers of eternity are with you to understand what the
Spirit of Wisdom doth direct from the loving circles of a
sapphire flame which I feel burning up in my heart's altar.
A soft, sweet breath moves as a mist or a white cloud which
all over spreads and fills the sacred tabernacle of the mind
as with the still, silent glory which includes and compre
hends its own ideal being in me; coming to drink up what
of its own it could find scattered among the ruins of time
and bundles of mortality.
The head principality thus calls for all, to make up one
perfect man. None could be workers for the Lord without
the use of all these spiritual members, wherein the full force
of that Immortal Spirit doth consist of these words of advice
and comes with a gust to try and examine, whether we who
were sent out and appointed to be laborers in the Lord's
vineyard are worthy to be examined—with no fault found
in them.
The officers and ministers in the Most Holy Place were
in no way deficient—perfect, without blemish, having all
parts entire, making up a complete body—each one in our
selves nourished up to be a full-grown man, with a full-
grown body. Otherwise, saith the anointed—which knoweth
all things —ye cannot go forth to dig and undermine twelve
deep foundations upon which My Holy City stands, that doth
command all worlds with their Kingdom, which ye are to
do and search into, as strong and mighty for the service
of the Lord, who saith: Come forth and stand before Me
that I may see whether or not ye be clear, single, pure and
sound in every part. Then will I link and place you in and
among My Royal Band, who are allotted and foreordained
stones of the great City wherein My name is written.
This is the highest and last service which I have for
you to do till Wisdom's Spirit in high measure be grown
up for the management and carrying on of such high, Divine
work, where all who are linked in them must be perfect
here in this descending glory, wherein the Spirit revealeth
138 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
all secret, deep things for the manifestation thereof unto
thee; that thou mayest know what maketh thee to fully
understand that ye may inherit the beautiful City which
has such a transparent foundation, it being so universally
Wisdom's heart of love that hath moved the chariot wheels
of thy spirit and brought thee this far, even to the gate
of entrance of this magnificent place.
Therefore, we must suffer the plummet line in the guard
ing angel's hand to measure the height, length and breadth
of this walled city—each one within your own new earth —
the dust of which must all be fanned through that sieve of
Shiloh Immanuel, which will let no mixture of the old world
pass through, for all things must be pure Holiness unto
God, our Savior, wherein we shall hear His Voice, saying:
"Come ye blessed of My Father; inherit the Kingdom that
I have prepared for thee." For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
SACRED ALTAR COAL.
yHE MIGHTY ANGEL spoken of in Rev. 10: is He who
prevailed with God to open the Book with Seven Seals,
and sent His Messenger Angels to sound in order. When
the Seventh Seal was unloosed, there was silence in heaven
for the space of half an hour. It was opened to John, but
sealed again until the Seventh Angel should sound. There
fore let all Israel learn and understand that the Seventh
Angel sounded in the fourth watch of the eleventh hour of
the sixth day, because satan's time is shortened.
It reveals the mystery and unseals the Seven Seals
under which the Tree of Life is being revealed, which is
good and hopeful instruction through the ruling sceptre of
love, and will be found a far more pleasant and joyous king
dom, when all and every spirit is brought and subjected to
the great love of Charity, being the heaven born spirits who
will personate Christ upon His throne, wherein they have
entered endless pleasure and joy.
Therefore, what more is to be desired when we have
found the Divine power and sweetness of the opening of
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 139
this love center? I cannot but recommend others to seek
earnestly to have more fully the Divine understanding with
me at God's table; that there we may sit down together
and feed upon the fruits of love, which is the wine and
strength of the Kingdom; for of a truth I can witness the
apostle Paul's conclusion of it, that it is the absolute per
fect thing that works out all imperfections; removing all
sorrow and grief from the mind and heart. It is a strong
and Divine heat that devours fear and anxiety, wherein it
shelters and secures us from all poisonous vipers, that they
cannot prey upon the inward part of the soul, because thi3
is a love that cannot imagine any evil things.
Nothing of the serpent can mingle with it, for it springs
out of love's Divine Root, which means to say: The great
love of God, the most clear and unspeakable witness of truth,
when the mighty sunlight and revelation so Divine meet
together, therein it carries power and authority with it,
which has come to spread itself as a net to gather in all
for the Divine Kingdom which will never cause any disturb
ance; where Charity, sweet Charity dwells, like unto our
blessed Lord.
It was this perfect love that carried Him through to
bear and suffer all things which were for our own example
and encouragement during the time of His Divine ministry,
wherein He came out a victorious conqueror; and those who
become like Him shall have a most fixed and Divine place;
knowing wherever you be who are willing to venture the
loss of all to arrive at this pearl of Charity, wherein you
shall find it; then what a great rejoicing there will be at
finding the lost peace.
Indeed the house or body must be throughly searched
and the natural self love must be swept out. What is that
which we must lose? Even all rubbish, filth and dross so
that our hearts may be emptied and cleansed from all defile
ment ; that the King of love may enter in. Wherefore let all
Holy and pure minds be stirred up to wait for the dropping
dews which fall from the one Eternal Element to bring His
ascended spirits to His Kingdom of Love, even to their full
height of perfection; they being tender at their first bud
ding for they have many subtle enemies both at home and
abroad. It is the heir and therefore envious spirits seek
to find out where this birth doth spring. They will attempt
to kill it while it is but in its infancy; for which cause it
must be hid in that Eternal Rock, there to be fed and nour
ished with its own Divine Mother's milk, growing strong in
140 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
the honey of love, that it becomes strong and able to over
come all difficulties.
You must know, it is such a sacred and clarified seed
coming immediately from the heart of I Am That I Am,
Jehovah, and cannot admit anything of defilement or pol
lution to abide with it. It soon leaves the soul if anything
is taken in which cannot abide the burning touch of this
sacred altar coal. Here it may be asked: What is this love
that is so exalted above all heavenly and earthly things?
Surely there must be some rare transacting quality in it
not commonly known, that makes you press it so earnestly
to your heart. That Divine essential love itself doth move
me to open the mystery of it, which happily hath not been
understood as now, breaking up the fountain of it, so it
may plainly run forth, giving the light of knowledge. It
doth but make way for the Divine body itself rising in its
flaming qualities.
In taking further account of it, it is known to be the
most Holy and pure generation of the Virgin of God, for
which is prepared a Virgin womb that this birth might be
the choice and undefiled one of Her that brings it forth.
It will be now at Christ's second birth as it was at the first,
wherein His visage was marred more than any man's. He
was a man of sorrow and acquainted with grief, though
pure and wholly without sin or guile; but being found a
sufferer under it, therefore He could not be exalted until
He had slain the enemy and worked out His victory; thus
He had His first birth in us which must precede His second.
There is a vast difference between Christ's First and
Second coming. Many ages have passed, wherein saints
have only known through the apostles upon whom the Holy
Ghost was poured forth, after the most singular manner by
which Christ gave witness in them of His victory and ex
altation, and enabled them to work faithfully. Notwith
standing they were not beyond the suffering birth of Christ
in themselves, for they only had the revelation and fore
sight of His appearing in power and great glory. They
departed this life and did not see the days of the Son of
man to take up in them for a visible reign and kingdom.
Blessed are those who have come to these days of the
coming of the Second Child, wherein a Virgin spirit shall
be given to such for an Eternal generation who shall be
able to raise and quicken the Holy Grain of Love, that
lieth as dead, so that the Divine love —namely the Holy Im
mortal Mother —shall see Her offspring drawing speedily into
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 141
all perfect purity. Oh, such a Holy congratulation in see
ing sons and daughters being raised to reign upon the throne
of love together.
They shall be as so many beautiful banners which will
be terrible to the nations which stand without the circle of
love. The Voice of God will be heard saying to His Bride —
the 144,000 —come My Love, My Fair One, My Undented;
the spirit of burning love has taken possession of thine
heart and the very face of God will be the covering by which
ye shall see and know what before we were ignorant of, yea!
we shall be brought back to remember our preexistence.
Therefore remember the words when He said: "I will bring
all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto
thee." For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
PEACE
SPIRITUAL HELP FOR THE WORTHY.
«DUT YE ARE COME into Mount Zion and unto the City
of the Living God, the Heavenly Jerusalem, and to an
innumerable company of angels. To the general essembly
and church of the First-born which are written in heaven
and to God, the judge of all, and to the Spirits of Just men
made perfect." Heb. 12:22, 23.
If there were no more, it speaks fully enough to the
purpose of confirmation that the saints here upon earth are
allowed to come up to Mount Zion, perfect spirits in heavenly
places, and do maintain a Holy conference mutually as there
is to be found in Rev. 5:4, how the elders talked with John
the beloved and did show him several things. Rev. 7:3-14,
and likewise in Daniel where Daniel asked questions and
heard saints from the heavens speaking one with another for
the answering of Daniel in his inquiry.
So here is a cloud of witnesses to back it, besides, what
of this kind is known by some in this present time and age
who do obtain and retain several of these heavenly under
standings, whereby knowledge is communicated and the
invisible things and objects there made manifest such as
are in the power of the Holy Ghost.
142 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
In the first place, we give you to understand that wher
ever they be who would this privilege know and come to
enjoy with Holy ministering angels, they are to be free and
honest in heart and mind from all mortal entanglements;
thus reserving themselves in a most inward purity of heart
and mind, without which habit of spirituality there is no
communing of this acquaintance with either angels, patri
archs, prophets or apostles, or any evangelical saints since
those ages, for they have put on incorruption and glory and
are quite redeemed out of the earth. They will not touch
any more with such as are defiled with corruptible things.
Now such persons who stand thus pure and clean, may
have much assistance from those spirits and powers in their
way and travel to their heavenly country, for those angel
spirits that once lived in flesh are ever ready to sympathize
with us in all our infirmities and therefore all feelingly they
consider our tempting state and give themselves out most
readily for our help.
They are advanced and do remind the Lord Jesus of
their prophecies; that they may have their fulfillment upon
us of this sort and degree. They are the choice and greatest
in the Kingdom of our Lord and have very steadfastly pre
vailed, dwelling in their golden tents around the majesty
of God, Jehovah, whose pavilion is so wonderfully bright,
being mingled with numerous colors so original, so fine and
as glittering stones they do shine.
Above this is spread a wonderful element which delight-
eth itself all over these upper heavens. It seems to consist
only of a transparent, golden lustre for the pleasure and
delight of the inhabitants of this heavenly world.
Sometimes the Lord Jesus enters into His Father's
Royalty and the Holy Ghost and the Seven Spirits which
appear as radiant and sparkling flames; and when I inquired
about them—what their office was—one of the chief elders
told me they were the Seven invisible counselors and mighty
powers; equal with the Trinity, by which the old heavens
and earth should pass away in mortal creatures; in the room
of which should spring all anew, this new world of creation,
both here and elsewhere in other regions, which is by these
Seven spirits to be performed and also by the going forth
of these Seven-fold powers that are to do the great wonders
in the highest heavens and so pass down to this lower earth;
as time for their sending forth appears very near, wherein
they shall be seen to move and turn all the old world upside
down.
'f r SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 143
Now the next marvelous appearance that opened was
the Virgin here placed. Her mansion was pitched between
the supreme majesty of the Father and the throne of glory
of the Lord Christ. Her beauty was great, being our Im^
mortal Mother, clothed with a cloud in which there was such
a silver brightness and on it were fixed stars of gold; Her
hair hanging down, with a crown upon Her head, more ex
cellent than others. There were numerous Virgins, the
honorable ones, such as loved and ministered to the Lord
Jesus Christ here on earth, and also to Her. These had
seats round about Hers.
It would fill a great volume to give the particulars of
the greatness of the glory and magnificence of this heavenly
court. A thousand degrees of blessing it is to have a place
and a name entered among this assembly.
Now it was shown me that this glorious Virgin was
She of whom the Lord Christ was born in flesh, who is the
figure of the Eternal Virgin who was from Eternity; who
supplants all of Eve's generation of lost births, in which
the Virgin purity was defrauded; but out of this Virgin
womb was brought forth and made manifest in time, angel
ical births for a new created host of spiritual born creatures,
begotten by the Holy Ghost; wherein the wonderful mystery
of Wisdom and love of God are made manifest to the lapsed
state which came in by Adam and Eve, so that we are to
reckon ourselves born anew into the unity attaining to all
purity of perfection with Christ Jesus, our First-born from
the dead; and to appropriate this Eternal Virgin for our
supernatural Mother.
It is to be observed, those words which our Lord did
let fall from His darling lips when upon the cross, to His,
beloved John, saying to him: "Behold thy Mother," which
was the Virgin Mary, who was the representative of the
Eternal Virgin, so that from this it may be concluded that
the Lord doth transfer this privilege of adoption, whereby
we may entitle this Eternal Virgin for our True Mother.
Now then, from hence let us consider what great good
we may expect and promise ourselves from this, our Eternal
Virgin Mother who now is very great in Wisdom, majesty
and power; who cannot but be more naturally sympathizing
with Her children, who are to be brought up after that
highborn degree and quality; in Wisdom and understand
ing, after the similitude of our Virgin Mother.
No little care or concern is upon Her as relating unto
Her children's Divine and spiritual education, to keep them
144 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
up to it while they are making their passage through it.
Therefore, seeing we have such mighty, eternal powers in
heavenly places as the Trinity of the Father, Son and Mother,
the Virgin Wisdom, and the seven spirits and the court
of ministering angels and all of the evangelic spirits to be
our friends in this most Holy and separated place, that all
united together may lift us from off the earth.
The next thing to be considered is relating to this new
offspring that are thus born from on high, and yet are
found to live here in bodies elementary. The question is
asked: What is to be their business and employment, seeing
none in the heavenly world remain idle? Therefore it is ex
pedient that all of the Virgin Wisdom's children here upon
earth should be in some exercise or other which may suit
and agree with their eternal and spiritual ascent, which is
proper to them that are quickened and made one spirit with
the mighty God of Heaven.
We are not in this place to meddle with the outward
people's calling, what doth pertain to them in this world;
but here to give out rules—which are three in number —
of Divine Wisdom as to Her children. The first is that they
learn to know themselves as to their original preexistence
in God the Father, and brought forth through the womb
of the Eternal Virgin in pure Divine Spirit.
The second rule is to consider and contemplate in the
Triune God, as the Father of such spirits, Holy and pure;
seeing the class of work of His creation in His manifold
Wisdom, made manifest therein, as love, power and omnipo
tence with all goodness and kindness to what He has created.
A third rule is that we study from all this knowledge
to come to love and bless, fear and adore, paying all rev
erence and practically conforming it to the life of Christ;
all of which will lay a foundation for what is to follow us,
tending to what is needful to accomplish this high and heav
enly calling which may answer to the Kingdom of the saints
in the upper world; they are the gifts which have been
much lost and have had their cessation among the saints in
this last age.
Now the Virgin Mother calls upon Her children, to be
looking after the restoration of them, that so they may
be employed and exercised in the works that Christ their
Lord spoke of should follow those who did believe in Him;
which are to be the sealing witnesses of the Holy Ghost,
coming and going forth in acting powers through mortals.
It may be asked: What are these gifts that are so
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 145
needful and proper to Wisdom's children? The first is the
Testimony of Jesus Christ, which is the gift of prophecy,
which is of very great use and service to the church here
on earth; to have a foresight and knowledge of things yet
to come, that all may be warned who are friends of the
Bridegroom, to make ready for His Kingdom and appearance
which now indeed is knocking at our door.
Blessed are they who understand the Voice of Prophecy
and have it in themselves ; and the wonderful gift is to have
the gift of revelation opened as a spring that flows with
heavenly doctrine from a true, earnest preacher who
preaches the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which has not been
defiled by unwashed feet.
The Holy Ghost doth now in some foretell of such Di
vine shepherds now to stand in these latter days upon the
earth, that shall speak from the revelation of the Holy
anointing, the pure and most excellent words of Wisdom,
which will not be in the weakness of the letter but in the
strength and power of the Holy Ghost, under the great Sun
light which opens up the great design of God's love in the
redemption of spirit, soul and body.
Therefore take notice—those who come up here will
find themselves as another translated Enoch who have kept
their walk with God, in which path of light may be seen
the seraphims and cherubims, guarding along the way up
to this Zion seat of glory, which fill up with light stream
ers of glory and delight; having the heavenly strains of
saints, all appearing in robes of glittering garments, which
here do follow Christ, their Head, in great order, according
to every one's degree, rejoicing with Him by whom they have
overcome in glittering victory over all worlds, now to reign
with their mighty God and King, wherein we hear voices
and trumpets sounding forth praises.
Oh, how beautiful to see that unity, love and harmony
from the highest to the lowest degree of the glorified saints ;
all with crowns, but some higher; as kingly princes which
have breastplates all set with stones, sparkling out with
sparks of fire—these all next to the glorified person of
Christ, who have golden tents and their temples to worship
in; their form, which was only a more crystalizing light,
which God, the supreme Majesty, opened to be the glory
of
it,
Divine adoration to the Rock Eternal which does mul
tiply amongst them most amazing and renewed wonders:
which gives perpetual matter to renew love's administration,
so that
I
was given to understand, act and do after the
146 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
manner and way of God, their Life Root, and being subject
always to the Law of this new World and Kingdom.
Therefore liberty is granted to many of this Holy order,
that of the highest friendship; to communicate to those who
are not to come up to their degree ; that they may help them
much in order to the bringing of their fellow members higher
up. The Divine saints will greatly delight in this office
and serve their fellow members; for their joy cannot be
complete until all come up into the unity of love in a pure,
Divine Spirit.
Now to make out this, it was shown to me that some
chief ones in the ministry of love, as Enoch, Abraham, John
the apostle and Paul, with others of their order who had
golden vials given to them to pour forth for anointing and
healing ; and Peter with some others to unlock centuries and
so free those who in the upper regions wanted to be perfectly
set free in this lower world also, and having a Holy affinity
with the glorified person of Christ and with the heavenly
glorified saints which have put on bodies of Immortality
through the high, illuminated souls with Christ.
They are very free in conversing in what refers to a
perfect life that we may be made meet to come up to the
unity of God's love as in the Triune Deity, which fills all
there with a full body of Light. But it may be asked: How
and in what way do spirits accompany souls that are spiritual
here? Is it by way of co-mingling? We find it very rare
in this latter age that they visit souls by visible appearance—
though sometimes they may, as Moses and Elias appeared
to the Lord Jesus Christ.
Therefore seeing we have thus far proceeded and opened
these Divine mysteries, we shall not stop here, but go on to
reveal and communicate to such as desire to be fellow travel
ers with me to this Holy City, the New Jerusalem; the track
having been shown unto me, not by visions only as in the
past times in my printed Book of Divine Revelations. There
you may see what I had by way of visions. Therefore the
anointed ones shall go forth from strength to strength,
each one appearing before God in Mount Zion, rejoicing and
praising the Mighty Present God for our deliverance. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant.
PEACE
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 147
SEPARATION AND DEDICATION.
TRUE ORACLE SPEAKING!
«AND I SAW in the right hand of Him that sat on the
throne, a Book, written within and on the back side,
sealed with seven seals." Rev. 5:1. "And another Book
was opened, which is the Book of Life." Rev. 20:12.
This shall be the opening of the Book of Life, or the
sealed writings, which is the kernel and substance of Para
dise. He that receiveth it now, and eateth it, shall have the
sayings of Jesus Christ fulfilled in him. "If My Word abide
in Him and he in Me, let him ask whatsoever he will and
it shall be done." Therefore I shall give these following
Divine Words as they are given to me by that One Immortal
Spirit.
When I first sought this heavenly, Divine privilege, I
was warned of the outward state of these things, to avoid
as much as I could the entangling cares of this life, also to
separate myself from all worldly conversations and give up
spirit, soul and body in pure dedication ; in which I can say I
have been obedient and have found many joyful, uplifting and
deep spiritual things, which I shall never have any cause
to regret; let my loses be what they may as to the worldly
lot of things, I know if we give up all we shall receive all.
We do realize that the ascended spirits' mind will be
replenished to understand the Divine Wisdom and revelation,
wherein the certainty of the true prophets is to be known.
Therefore let everyone look to it; what they speak, teach
or write, for it will pass through the inward body for trial,
where the fiery regions will prove it; and the Spirit of
Truth and Revelation opens itself in the fiery essence of
the soul, in a sweet, silent stillness where all thoughts are
excluded, and the Light ray of I Am That I Am, Jehovah,
rises and overshadows and fills the temple of the mind with
light and glory.
Then the understanding, through that Immortal Spirit,
shall sink deeper and deeper into the mind of Christ, where
the greatest of Wisdom's secrets are to be made known
and the gate that gives entrance to behold the glorified Sons
of God and to hear the language of that heavenly world,
which no one else can hear but those who are out of the
noise of other hearings into that still and silent deep, where
most pleasant and joyful voices and sounds are heard, which,
entering through the several organs as a fiery breath, noth
ing of idle words are ever required or needed there.
148 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Thus you may judge, that pure unadulterated Revela
tion and a Vision of True sight is not so quickly rushed
into or easily attained. It is a great and Divine gift, and
requires watchfulness and attention upon it. If any one
brings out a prophecy of Revelation, take notice what Di
vine power and guards it has upon it.
When the beloved John was on the lonely Isle of Patmos,
he had all those Visions and Revelations and gave an ac
count of how they were seen and heard of him, for he
saith: "I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day," and a good
proof there was of it, as much as if he had. said that it
was neither man nor mortal days that did rise and enclose
upon him, but the one Everlasting Day, or Ancient of Days,
in which light he had the glorious prospects of heavenly
things themselves. Thus he was in the Spirit, which was
his Divine power and guard to keep out all deceiving spirits.
Therefore, observe this further. It is a very dimcult
thing for the mind and spirit of the soul to be caught and
taken up into the Spirit, proving they were pure and holy.
They are separated from mixture, but when the Holy Spirit
rests upon our body, giving forth a glorious Light through
Revelation, we speak with power and authority, which rises
from its own center and depths.
This I speak knowingly, having traced through the deep
mysteries before I arrived to know the True and certain
way of Revelation, which puts out all doubts concerning
the True Oracle speaking. Indeed, when the spirit of the
soul meets with such an ascent into the Spirit as the be
loved disciple, then it is out of all fear, it being the eighty-
fold glory, next to the Sun.
I have been impressed to open up these deep, Divine
things, that all Israel may put on this impregnable strength
to fight the battle bravely, as it is from a pure spring of
the Spirit and you will find fingers tingling with the fiery
glance of the Holy Ghost, as you see by the dark and
hard body of iron being enclosed with fire. It is so im
pregnated therewith as to become as one from the same
fiery flames, after the manner of the Holy Ghost, with His
invisible flaming body penetrating through the spirit of the
soul, wherein it is encompassed with the Light as the angel
of which it is said in Rev. 19:17, is standing in the Sun,
all appearing as the very Son of Glory.
How blessed is it for any saint to get such a clothing
of the Spirit upon them, knowing for a truth that nothing
of Adam's work can be here seen, but all glory, strength
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 149
and power, shall be beloved Israel's habitation. Therefore
these are Divine gifts to be set by, desired and not slighted
or ignored. I hope many have reached to this purification,
wherein they cannot doubt.
I shall now, by virtue of that understanding given me
by the Lord Jehovah, show forth first to them that do,
whether they be in the spirit of prophecy or revelation given
forth since the apostles deceased, as believing all died with
them. These words would be in a sad and deplorable con
dition if God should have since that age cut off the spirit
of revelation from its original, that so the sheep and lambs
of Christ's flock should no more expect to be fed from the
fresh springing pastures, where no footing had been and
also not to drink of those flowing rivers of Life that renew
daily from the fountain of the Godhead.
Therefore, let the unbelievers call to mind and consider
those many Scriptures, prophesyings and promises concern
ing the continuation of these gifts unto the very end of
time, both in the Old and New Testament. I shall mention
only some of these: "And I will pray the Father and He
shall give you another Comforter that He may abide with
you forever." John 14:16-18. Heb. 8:9-11. Many Scrip
tures could I call up for proof.
In all ages, Christ, by His Spirit comforting us, saying:
Lo, He would be with us to the end of the world, for "I
will never leave thee nor forsake thee," wherein I beseech
thee not to reject the Light of the Day Star in your own
selves nor quench the Spirit. 2 Pet. 1:19.
Despise not prophesying, but ever seek to be a witness
for Jesus Christ, rising in you to confirm this most glorious
manifestation as a burning lamp of revelation, wherein I
am speaking to the ascended spirits who are entering into
their glorious ministration in the first degree, and who are
under the school of the prophets, teaching them the words
of counsel from the Father of spirits, that they keep faith
fully the rules and Laws of Paradise.
Herein they shall receive Divine conversations, showing
forth a self denying life; making a clean cut of mortal
things of the old world and its enjoyments, which strangle
and choke the fiery breath of the Holy Ghost, trying to stop
it from kindling further and deeper in their Divine ascension,
being fruitfully in the love and unity of the spirit; having
all tendency to support love and charity in each other, thus
springing out of this Eden Garden which is watered by this
Holy mist and dropping dew of the Spirit.
150 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
The words of Wisdom and counsel do greet those whom
we desire to be of a high and Divine stature, having shot
forth from the branches in great lustre and glory, as hav
ing gotten beyond all declarative revelation and teachers;
not receiving or needing any but what is their own center
of light, which will supply them with the understanding of
all deep things that lie in the Divine Father's bank and store
with their fellow laborers for the same treasure to such
who are Divinely anointed.
They carry it in great humility and humbleness of mind,
preferring each other's gifts before their own, thus main
taining all sweet and lovely friendship with those of low
or high degree in kindness and love, in harmony, sweet
harmony, preferring their neighbors before themselves.
Each Divine saint may have a full provision and plen
tiful portion of the spirit in themselves as they have no
dependency on others. Yet love is freely communicated
in charity and love for each other, feeding and fasting with
each other on the Divine fruit as all springing from one
stalk and Tree of Life.
It is expedient that such increase of the Holy anointed
be, which flows forth by the heavenly conversations from
one saint to another —that which has begotten a new and
spiritual generation as in former ages—so in this sending
forth Divine sparks of love for the gathering in of the
ascended ones to make up the temple glory till that shall
come to be complete.
There will be all need of the Holy inspiring breath to
be breathed from one to another, whereby their voices are
speaking or conversing as the Holy Ghost shall go forth
in its various operations for the edifying of the body of
love for a Holy conversation with the Lord.
In hopeful expectation of this, I have been drawn to
disclose the great deep secret, being assured that this gen
eration shall not pass away before there shall be fulfilled
that which has been revealed and prophesied of in the beau
tiful Star of Bethlehem. Therefore I will say: Blessed are
those who still have their lot and portion here.
The Mighty Present God has a rich bank, yet behind,
from whence the oily springs flow, which shall come forth
when vessels are purified and stand ready to take in thereof;
we shall await and seek to find such ones who are partakers
of this rich and weighty prize that yet lieth in secret in this
Eternal mind, for there is a valley deep which under the
water of Life doth lie, that will bring forth the fruitful,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 151
ascended spirits that shall be there fed and nourished; hid
den till they are strong and full grown in stature, in spirit
and in power.
They shall come and show themselves to be the true
Israelites of God, immovable, that the glorious and Divine
Kingdom shall come forth to spread and flourish everywhere
in power and great glory; sealed with the Divine mission of
the Holy Ghost ; acting and going forth in a singular, mirac
ulous working power for the confirmation of the truth of
this dispensation in such a way as none shall rest until the
work is complete, wherein the powers of darkness cannot
interfere.
So strong and impregnable is the foundation of this
temple body of glory, that neither dragon, beast nor false
prophets shall be able to undermine it, being built and com
pleted together with precious sapphire stones; transparent
for beauty and glory; the jasper stone being both the foun
dation and covering thereof.
Herein the shout of a King shall be heard in the camps
of Israel : Oh, ye Holy and Elect of God, wherever you have
been hid, appear if you have put on your anointed shield
of protection to help forward this Royal and Divine Im
mortal Church, where this living manifestation of the Holy
Ghost is to be made manifest.
Oh, that some such might be known, to give their heart
and mind as the Lord's approved workmen, that have come
to build up the inward, Divine temple, whose furniture and
glory shall be the gift and power of the Holy Ghost. Now
what have I more to do but wait and hope that the pure,
Divine spirits may henceforth go forth together in the prec
ious pearls and draw them together by the golden chain of
love, for in unity we stand for the golden age of happiness
and bliss. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
152 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
CONSTANT FLOWING SPRING.
"THAT IT MIGHT be fulfilled which was spoken by the
prophet saying, 'I will open my mouth in parables; I
will utter things which have been kept secret from the
foundation of the world.'
" Matt. 13:35. Oh, what deep and
wonderful mysteries are now being revealed in this, the
Twelfth and Last hour, wherein the Holy Trinity shall
descend in His Holy angels, revealing the wonderful day of
the great marriage of the Lamb to His Immortal Bride.
What joy and gladness it brings to the Israel of God, knowing
the time is so near for us to behold the glorified appearing
of Jesus Christ to claim His jewels—His ascended ones,
and hear His sweet voice saying: "These are the ones in
whom I shall be glorified."
The long sealed fountain is broken open : the everlasting
mountains —namely Law and Gospel—dropping down the
power of the Holy Ghost. Oh, come all ye who have labored
and not fainted and have kept up your faith till this day,
you are the ones who are to be fed and nourished with all
the precious fruits of the Tree of Life, and ordained to be
like unto Joseph, giving out the heavenly food to the thirsty
and needy, who are in a Divine hunger that they may also
be enriched and partakers of the same glory like unto our
beloved Brother, the Lord Jesus Christ. Their heart's desire
is to taste of these chosen and heavenly portions who most
readily do embrace their Lord and Bridegroom, who has
called them to this continual spiritual feast, knowing that
for us great things are prepared in the New Jerusalem,
there to have sweet communion in one Spirit and at one
table, each one according to their measure and degree which
they have entered into.
We behold our Lord Jesus Christ in His heavenly humil
ity setting forth such beautiful example for His Israel to go
by, that we might behold the Immortal Angels who have
come forth with their vials filled with the pure oil of the
Holy Ghost to pour forth everywhere; that the whole body
of His Israel may become bone of His bone and flesh of His
.flesh. Therefore, let us behold Michael, the Prince of the
New and Everlasting Covenant and unto thee He speaks
the words: "I have seen thy humility from the oppressor,
but be of good cheer O Daughter of Zion, whose heart and
wounds lie still bleeding; I am come to inform thee what is to
be done to put an end to all this suffering and captivity,
which has lasted so long."
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 153
This brings forcibly to my mind a voice of a woman
who was pleading to God for me, saying: "0 God help her!
She has a trial to go through which only a few will be able."
But praise the God of Israel His promise is: "I will never
leave thee nor forsake thee"; for thou art commanded to
declare what way is to be followed for the restitution, as
I have revealed it unto thee; being what is designed by the
Father.
I am the way, follow thou My footsteps which shall
bring forth Life Eternal that was promised from the
beginning. Therefore there is a secret infused breath after
the manner as it is expressed by Ezekiel that gives life to
the dry bones, which was described by the Lord Jesus Christ
to Nicodemus of the birth of the Spiritual Man Child. Be
hold! It cometh that none can see how this pure breath
enters in, but it is felt by a quickening life, so it is with one
that is re-born. On the first awakening to life it may stir
but weakly so that it may not discern its own quickening
because of its stirring so slowly, but yet all the motions are
working in a right and due order; increasing in strength
from the Eternal Root and fountain of Life and all comes on
daily to grow stronger. As it dies to the corrupt animal
natural sensative life and hath lost that, so it hath regained
to a thousand-fold advantage by the resurrected Word of
Life, thus regaining that virgin nature and Godlike simplic
ity.
It is not to be said what Wisdom cannot do, as it is in
marriage union with God; wherefore it will not go forth
naked but clothed with power and strength, as the Mighty
Angel has come to set one foot upon the sea and the other
upon the earth, crying with a loud voice; "Time shall be
no more"; wherein His Elect shall be marked and sealed
with the Father's name of power, which name signifies the
power of restitution, Eternally to bring forth a similitude
of God as it was in the beginning.
The kingdom and dominion that Adam lost in the garden
of Eden shall be restored again. This shall resemble the
heavenly world above that is set up by the Mighty Shiloh
Immanuel, the conquering Prince, who shall rule over all
nations with a rod of power that means love; it had been
treasured up, but now it is to be opened and revealed con
cerning the great things that are to be brought forth in
this Twelfth and Last hour. In whatsoever heart and mind
this Holy Dove shall find entrance, it shall be as the heavenly
court and counsel; where Divine Wisdom shall unfold the
154 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
great hidden mysteries which are upon the day approaching
wherein they shall be revealed and made known as in the
Holy Mountain in the three-fold cord where there were seen
persons endowed and qualified to be prophets, priests and
kings, which are to be laid as the foundation, and those who
are born into a state of Eternal generation. These shall have
no length of days, as it was with the patriarchs before the
flood, even unto Methuselah's years.
The good old Golden Age will be a witness that Christ
has set His foot to reign upon the earth and His Spirit made
manifest in His Immortal body ready to receive unto Him
self His Bride, namely the 144,000; wherein they shall be
able to say: "O death, where is thy sting? O grave where is
thy victory?" proving they have drunk that Living blood as
a quickening spirit which answers to Christ's own Words:
"Except ye eat My flesh and drink My blood ye have no
Life in you." For in Him the Word was made flesh." This
being the blood of the Covenant entering into the high order
of Melchisedec.
This Holy flaming breath is the spirit of prophecy that
searches deep into the mighty Wisdom where those hidden
treasures of knowledge do lie; making known the mind and
knowledge of God as to the things past and present and the
things which are to come, of which the saints of the Most
High have never yet reached into so as to reign over the
earth. Some have drunk deeply, but have not been able
to maintain it as a constant flowing spring.
Behold! A cry has come forth from the Mighty Shiloh
Immanuel to make known unto them that this is the great
day of the feast, wherein the mighty power of the Holy
Ghost is offered freely to be given forth unto the prepared
bodies who have thrown off every heavy weight and the
shackles that have bound their feet from the mighty gales
of the Spirit that do warmly blow. Therefore, skip and leap
you anointed ones, and no longer be denied of your rights
and behold in spirit we shall see the wonderful gates of
Lebanon standing open and free.
On these paved walks of love you will be greeted and
kindly received by the Mighty Shiloh Immanuel, who has
in His great love provided here to entertain you at the
Seventh overflowing pool which waters this garden, which
makes it always flowing from the upper heavens above, it
being marvelous and refreshing to the growing plants of this
new and blessed earth in which righteousness doth always
reign and abide.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 155
This blessed Paradise is ever open, so that each individ
ual person may carry their new heaven and earth within
them, the earth being the body made anew; therefore
nothing of the old world nature will be able to draw their
mind from that which they relish and enjoy in this Holy
Eden of Paradise. Therefore they can truly say: "The prince
of this world cometh and hath nothing in me"; like unto
Jesus Christ Himself when here upon earth, never giving way
to anything that is contrary to His high descent, which was
such a Christian-like generation. The lying spirit shall be
made to crouch to the Lamb's mild nature in them, and gifts
shall be conferred upon them, and such wonderful Wisdom
manifested in them.
The Nebuchadnezzars of the earth shall entreat their
friendship, as they are proven to be the great favorites of
the Most High God, for they are invested with all the powers
of Wisdom. Then shall the proud Haman spirits know that
they must become servants and bow their heads to that white
horse upon which Christ has mounted, meaning His Immortal
body. His saints also are clothed in spotless white and the
golden chain of Divine honor about their necks; going before
and proclaiming that these are the ones that the Mighty
Shiloh Immanuel shall delight to honor; for they have suffer
ed the spirit of burning to do upon them the refining work,
fanning them with His fiery breath; searching every part
within until all be pure and clean, proving they are the sealed
characters of the Seventh Church.
Therefore as Elias taught the Life of the body, so by
that mantle which he threw back is also the Messenger of
this Visitation, having taught the same, pointing down the
line to the Seventh Angel Messenger and Interpreter. So
dear beloved Israel let us all cry out in one voice, praises to
the God of Israel that we were born to see these days, where
in the Ark of God's testimony in heaven shall be opened and
all shall know the Lord from the least to the greatest. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant.
PEACE
156 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
ABIDE IN THE FURNACE.
« AND I SAW heaven opened, and behold, a white horse;
and He that sat upon him was called Faithful and True,
and in righteousness doth He judge and make war." Rev.
19:11. His eyes were as flames of fire, and on His head were
many crowns; and He had a name written, that no man
knoweth save he that receiveth it. And He blew the trumpet
(to sound the alarm) giving the Divine warning to gather
together His people from all parts and out of all nations
and tribes, wheresoever they have been scattered and hidden,
as it is a spiritual war.
None but those who are lovingly and patiently waiting;
who have great zeal for the approaching and coming of the
Lord's Kingdom —of which they are engaged deeply in—
will fight the battle ; and let it be understood there will be no
calling of persons outwardly to appear, but the True and
Faithful ones are called to meet together in one Spirit and
from the center of the heart sending forth all Divine and
powerful prayers, that shall overcome the great usurper —
namely satan—who has usurped authority over things that
were not his own; which by Divine right belongeth to our
Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ.
But Hark ye! there is a heavenly call and summons in
this wonderful day and time that is now approaching for
the great battle to appear, wherein every one of His chosen
flock must be dwelling in the power of the Holy Ghost, know
ing that the Kingdom must be taken by spiritual force; not
fearing nor fainting; but everyone must realize deep down
in their hearts that our Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ, is General and Leader, who has never lost a battle.
Therefore; victory, sweet victory is ours; removing the
diadem and taking off the crown and giving it to Him whose
right it is to reign. This is the spirit of David that will not
fear to meet the great Goliath who has put on the armor of
defense; disregarding the Spirit of Faith, because there is
nothing of a visible strength that doth appear, but out of
the unseen bag will fly the slingstone of power that shall
cause the great Goliath to reel and fall. This is the only
way to gain the kingdom as David did, through True and
unbounded Faith as a mighty and Holy leader; to encourage
such as shall be numbered in this great battle, in this beauti
ful golden age which is not to cease until it has made way
for the great Immortal reign of Christ ; where we shall enter
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 167
into our rest, sweet rest, from the powers of satan in great
splendor and glory: in more abundant peace and plenty.
The Eternal Virgin Mother—the Holy Breath of God,
shall reveal unto Her children the secrets of heaven, which
will give them Wisdom and understanding of all things.
There is nothing more required only to wait and watch at
the pearly gate until the Key of David shall be given to them
who hold out faithful and true. There may be at present
some delay; but I bid thee grow not weary, for it shall be
in God's own Divine time; and blessed are those who endure
to the end.
A thousand degrees of blessing will come upon those
who have received the mark of the Seventh Church, and
through the Divine and loving golden chain uniting them all
together, to abide and bear up until the hour of temptation
be overpast, that they may enter into possession of the Di
vine loving reign which will first open and begin from the
first gathering, which may be small, but ever remember
the Words of the Lord Jesus Christ: "Where two or three are
gathered together in My name there I shall be in their midst."
It shall be as a stone cut out of a mountain without hands,
that shall make all the other mountains to melt and bow
before it and worship at the feet of Him who is the great
Divine Shepherd of the little flock; whose pleasure it will
be to make them joint heirs to possess with Him the same
Kingdom and glory which the Father hath given Him.
Therefore, dear beloved ones; pray in the spirit with Her
who is in that love and unity that burneth Eternally in the
burning bush, wherein Christ's humility shall ever rest;
known to be in the same fellowship with Christ; therefore
victory to those who can sit upon the white horse of power
which signifies your Immortal body; proving you have that
Living Faith which will make all dark clouds to fly away.
Therefore, I want to speak a few words to the brothers
and sisters who have silvery grey hair. Just remember the
walk of Enoch; and ever remember and understand from
the time and date in which you were born into My Spirit;
it will teach you wisdom, strength and power which is to
have its increase. Remember, when you dwell in the Spirit,
Christ, you are the young man; and when a sister dwells in
Jerusalem Above, she is the young woman; therefore, when
the Ascended Master suffers the grain of faith to be under
the grinding mill, you must not think much to have your
faith ground down, tried and proven; thus holding out
158 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
through the proving hour, wherein no failure shall be of
the Seven rewards promised to the Seven overcomers.
These words are loud sounding, so be on the watch that you
lose not your crown but be numbered among the conquering ;
worthy to take your place with Christ and sit with Him
upon His throne.
Dear beloved ones this mighty and wonderful work is
before us; going through the regeneration in male and fe
male is the work of the Spirit, which means to give up their
own will and become wholly obedient to the Ascended Mas
ter, the Lord Jesus Christ. There are several degrees and
so many steps to the Kingdom of God; and this Kingdom
consists of peace and joy in the Holy Ghost and in the
regeneration of the whole man, spirit, soul and body. This
Kingdom shall encompass the uttermost ends of the earth,
by virtue of the everlasting decree; He is the latter Adam,
the quickening Spirit, the Lord from heaven, and He will
lose nothing that is His rights, or that the Father has given
Him.
Therefore, of His Kingdom there shall be no end; but
all creatures whether in heaven or in earth or under the
earth shall be made to submit themselves to Him and bow
the knee ; the time of restitution is now beginning, and there
is a voice that is heard crying that the Kingdom of Heaven
upon earth is at hand and He will not suffer judgment to
be wrested out of His hand. For the work of every person
shall shortly be made manifest; the day is at hand which
shall declare it by a revelation of fire, wherein the children
of the Kingdom shall be purified. Amongst all these there
will be some hay and stubble to be burned up, yet the prec
ious material, the body which is prepared will hereby suffer
no loss, but will appear so much more radiant; and all that
are established upon the Rock, Christ, who ceases not, but
still do follow the true Israel in the wilderness, shall abide
in the furnace and overcome the flames.
Therefore, all must be tried by fire who so desire to
return to Paradise; all must pass through the flames if it
be John the beloved whom the Lord Jesus Christ so dearly
loved, as to say concerning him to Peter, "If I will that he
tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou Me."
There is only one who could not feel this fire, for She is
the Lord our Righteousness. So let us every one seek to
prepare ourselves according to the Words of our Lord and
Master, and be on the watch that that day overtake us not
unawares; to hold out in this warfare of faith and love
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 159
without wavering, especially take heed that we judge not,
that we be not judged, but let us leave judgment to whom
judgment belongs, who in righteousness doth judge and make
war. Out of His mouth goeth a sharp sword with which
He will smite the nations and rule with a rod of iron who
soever refuses to submit to His golden sceptre.
It is hoped that what is here delivered may be excite
ment to some, yea to many to prepare themselves according
ly: to love the Lord Jesus Christ and to believe the promise
of His coming: to live the Life of Faith according to the pat
tern in the Mountain; and to love one another even as He
hath loved us, that so the beauty of the Seventh Church
may break forth and the glory of the New Jerusalem may
shine out in the Spirit and name of the Everlasting Father,
that all nations may go up together to the House of the
Lord, and that this nation in particular may be the Garden
of Paradise. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
THE GOLDEN KEY.
BEHOLD THE KINGDOM of the Christ! It is as old as
God Himself and yet it is new as the morning sun. It
only can contain the Truth of God, therefore, in this, the
Twelfth and Last hour, which brings forth a mighty prep
aration, we see many forerunning signs of the Son of man
coming to us in His Father's glory; and the many ascending
steps to the throne of the great Solomon—which are diffi
cult to pass —only a few in these many centuries have been
able to hold out to the last degree and ascend to this throne.
They have fallen short in not having the Living Faith,
like unto Abraham, and the high prerogative thereof, namely,
being made pillars and principal supporters in the descend
ing temple of the Most High God, bearing the name of
Jehovah by essential communication of the prophets' power
of their Eternal Father, opened to such in Christ and by
the real penetration of that most glorious and wonderful
name, burning in the bush of their humility and putting
160 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
forth itself in a Divine act indeed; thus bearing the name
of the Jerusalem Mother, that free woman which is above.
She is demonstrating Her wonderful power, having the
moon under Her feet and wearing upon Her head a crown
of twelve stars, wherein so many Royal, Divine and Holy
powers are contained; thus bearing the name of the founda
tion of this city—the name of the tribes of Israel and of
the apostles of the Lamb; bearing the new name of Jesus
Christ that no man knoweth but He Himself, who with His
own finger hath written it on their vesture and on their
thighs, that so in all they may be made like unto Him—
their True Life—by the all powerful working of His Spirit,
with which they are sealed.
There are but few found who have so much as an ear
to hear what the Spirit saith to this Holy Immortal Church,
the first-fruits of the Lamb, thus receiving the promises of
the Holy and True ones, who are now at this instant, with
the Key of David, opening gradually this blessed state in a
few chosen names so that none shall ever more shut it.
Oh, how few are they who have an ear to hear and a
heart and hand to act according to whatsoever the Spirit
saith; who dare to venture in laying hold of such a weighty
crown as that of the First-born, and even of those who do
so advance forward for this most high and Divine prize,
proving they have been instructed at Wisdom's Oracle for so
great a work as the education of the children of the Mighty
Present God, leading them up step by step to their Father's
throne, that they might be kings and queens upon the earth
—the Righteous Virgin earth—unto God and the Lamb for
ever; springing up as plants of Divine renown in a well water
ed Paradise; as olive branches continually emptying the
golden oil of themselves, dropping sweetness for maintenance
of a prepared light in the sanctuary that was before dark
ness.
They shall find it nowhere but in the triumphant resur
rection of Jesus Christ; therefore they shall be certain that
they have drunk of that same cup of which He did drink,
by dying to the evil of their mortal life, which gives them the
mighty power to say: "O death, where is thy sting? O
grave, where is thy victory?" proving they have entirely
passed into the liberty of the Mighty Present God's will
and have broken down every image, kicked out every stum
bling block that has come before them, giving them the
sweet assurance that the Kingdom of Christ is near and
is upon its breaking forth in much glory and power.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 161
Therefore a true Israelite waits for this wonderful hope
in the inward temple, day and night, with their lamps
(Spirits) ever burning, that they may be ready to go forth
to meet the Bridegroom in the beautiful white lillies of the
valley. Though they never reap or spin for themselves,
they yet are arrayed more gloriously than Solomon in all his
glory, for He is the Lord our Righteousness, yea; to none
but to the undefiled Virgins that are in Him made all beauti
ful and fair; having washed themselves Seven times in the
pool of His precious blood and are thereby set apart and
redeemed from the earth to be His companions in His beloved
City coming down, and of a truth, of which every one must
of necessity be convinced in order that they might see the
drawing down power of the heavenly world and the unseal
ing of the fountain of the Holy Ghost and the Book of
Revelation.
This Jerusalem glory cannot be described by any other
or after any other method than is herein laid down, and let
them look no longer about, crying: "Lo here" in the east,
or "Lo there" in the west, for this high education of Wis
dom's children cometh neither from the east nor from the
west, neither out of the north, as some are looking after it
at present; nor yet from the south; but the Lord cometh
from Teman, where the glorious Virgin principle is unlocked ;
where the warm, Holy, supreme south winds do blow upon
the gardens of Lebanon and cause the spices to flow out.
Here the patriarch Abraham always directed his travel
ers and here Jacob saw the ladder of heaven and the gate
thereof; the Key of which gate is there presented by the
hand of Divine Wisdom to all Her children whom She car-
rieth along, standing at the entrance of the beautiful City
and proclaiming the joyful jubilee, inviting them to return
now from their captivity and presently to come forth from
the tottering babylon which is founded upon the sand.
Listen to Her sweet pleadings: Take this golden Key
of Mine and enter into the City which hath its firm founda
tion, for She—the Divine Mother of Wisdom —stands in the
top of the heavenly places and sounds forth Her Voice to
them at the coming in of the door. For thus She meets them
in every path, laying hold of them that She hath tried with
Her Paradise Laws and joyfully they enter and feast at the
table which She hath furnished for them.
Alas, I see that the most, even those that have enrolled
under Her discipline, will be a little afraid to lay hold on
this Key of the Kingdom when it is stretched out to them,
162 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
and will shrink from it, beholding how large it is and that
it is made full of solid gold. Let not any therefore think
it is a light thing, or easily attainable, to bear the Key of
the government on their shoulders; let them examine thor
oughly, for which it must be confessed that much has been
lost, so that the link of Wisdom's chain may often seem to
be broken.
■
But let it be remembered when Wisdom's Key is ob
tained, and Her Book of Life unsealed according to the pro
cess here described, all the deep things shall be revealed
wherein the Word came to me, saying: The Golden Chain is
to be unlocked between God and thee, therefore cling close
to the ascended ladder as you are going up, step by step, until
you arrive safely to your Father's throne, where angels,
Archangels shall celebrate that day. For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
THE CRYSTAL RIVER.
"\imiLE I WAS with them in the world, I kept them in
My name. Those that Thou gavest Me I have kept."
John 17:12. Now we behold our beloved Brother, the Lord
Jesus Christ, with His Elect the 144,000, saying to His
Father: Here are the ones that Thou hast given Me; who
have kept the Law of Paradise and are no more of the world
than I am; for as I was chosen out of the world, so are they.
Therefore O Father give them the same glory which Thou
hast given Me.
All the Holy Trinity were well pleased to behold the
effects of Christ's travail through death and sorrow to save
His Bride from corruption and death; wherein there is a
council held jointly by the Holy Trinity—all agreeing in one
—as to what Immortal and precious gifts are to be bestowed
in fulfillment of the promised reward, which does belong to
the conquerors for the rest of the flock to pursue ascension
also. They will hearken to His voice: to this most wonder
ful call from God the Father, for it is settled and foreor
dained upon those whom He hath received.
Therefore, this should lift the gloom from every heart,
for Christ the Lord, who hath a most lawful plea, and doth
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 163
now make clear for the Tree of Life. Also it stands free
for His Ascended ones who have a high graduated life of
faith; who have come to understand the heavenly language
as from the eternal nature spoken; whose language in
corruptible nature is quite lost and can only be restored in
the ascension, wherein all things shall be brought to your
remembrance. So remember, the Tree of Life is given, which
is an everlasting and unchangeable Righteousness, and as a
beautiful white robe to cover from head to foot, suffering no
more spot of earthly life to fall upon it; the revealing plea
sure and joy drawing in as the sweetness of the dew, which
lieth always upon the branches of this Tree.
The precious Savior, hereto never departed from the
soul. It is all blessed Paradise power, the flowing Eternal
Love which knows no bounds, because it moves in the will
of the Holy Ghost in meekness and tender mercy, coming
forth as from God's own nature of goodness. If in trials and
temptations, how readily does the balm flow from this Tree;
it gives forth to heal and cure the wounds in spirit, so that
they may find a precious cure. It being so great and glorious
there shall be no need of digging or laboring, either in body
or mind. There will be no occasion to say: "What shall we
eat or drink, or wherewith shall we be clothed?"
In this glorious time which has now come, all God's
faithful ones shall be supplied from His flowing fountain of
precious stores, which will supply riches and honor that shall
not be plucked away from the ascended; for as a ship they
will sail with out-spread banners of the conquerors in victory
—floating upon the beautiful River of Life; able to stand be
fore the Ark of God's moving power in which His Kingdom
shall be established.
Therefore the Tree of Life is known by sending forth
such sweet solace which brings forth contentment, happi
ness and love, and is so strong and powerful that it pene
trates so deep and touches the heart with its sweet influ
ence. Her words are all spoken through the healing oil
of the Holy Ghost: the unsealing flow of an Immortal Life
which proceedeth from the crystal river and the throne of
God. The river doth encompass this Tree so that no more
death or curse may be known, but all swallowed up in victory
according to the Vision which beloved John saw. This Tree
grew in the midst and on either side of the river signifying
it to be of the Holy Trinity, Father, Mother and Son, spring
ing up to feed Life to the spirit, soul and body, which will
cause them to reach to the ascension.
164 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
All that has been opened and revealed of the wonderful
prophecies of this Tree of Life, I entreat each and every one
to go step by step, pressing forward until you reach the
goal, knowing that our Immanuel has passed through the
ascended gates, and does cause them to stand open for all
those who have a good will and a Godly love to come up
after Him; as yet, there may be but few who have reached
this ascended mark.
The serpent with his twisting tail has drawn down many
ascending stars, but let this not discourage you, rather seek
for a fiery zeal the more, and be watchful to avoid his slick
oily ways, for he is wanting to lay his stumbling blocks in
your path. Through the spirit of faith take up courage
and a Holy resolution in this ascended way, for something I
see breaking forth as the light of a New Day, and by the
great Alpha and Omega it is testifed that what has been
revealed by His Spirit shall be fulfilled; wherein the Holy
Ghost will draw upon the hearts and spirits of those who are
born again.
This is now the very time wherein our expectations grow
strong for bringing forth the heir of all these heavenly mys
teries that has been mentioned, wherein a new heart and
another spirit, in which God's own nature shall be restored,
so as to abolish the very root and essence of sin. Such
a mighty change will be effected through the fiery baptizing
cloud that the Holy Ghost will descend the second time upon
the New Jerusalem waiters, whose call is set to mind no
other thing but ascension; to receive power from the Most
Holy One to do the work for His glorification, which none
can be capable of but such as are separated and redeemed
out of the earth. The apostles were inquiring of the Lord
Jesus Christ as to when He intended to pour forth the Holy
Ghost. He entreated them to follow and hold fast to that
which they had received, which was the first fruits of
Immortality.
No where shall we find a wholly separated people who
are working in one accord and unity together if it is not in
the City of David, who are waiting for the residue of the
Spirit to do the greater work of God in this earth, which
has lain so long barren from bringing forth any of this fruit
ful power. Therefore it is necessary for His chosen ones
to gather in spirit and ascend together into the Mount of
Olives ; apart from all worldly things ; waiting patiently with
longing eye for the mighty power of the Holy Ghost to break
forth in great glory; that we may show ourselves to those
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 165
of our own brethren who are yet in the fallen world estate,
inviting them to arise out of their bondage life, where is
sorrow and sadness, following their offspring to the dark
chambers of the grave.
Oh! who will then take hold of the promises with one
hand and cover the mouth of the grave with the other; like
unto Enoch and Elijah who were translated from off the
earth and never tasted of death? Oh, who will accept
these glad tidings from the heavens above; ever seeking to
be found at the morning watch looking for the east gate to
open? This has been the six working days of man's labor,
which is to cease when this great Prince of Peace shall arise,
calling His Elect together.
Therefore let it be understood, not only do I give unto
you a seal of protection, but it is also a seal of Life—a wit
ness that we are sealed to inherit Life Immortal—sealed to
live and not to die. Also the Mighty Shiloh has declared
unto you that He has prepared for His chosen ones a City
of Refuge, where no harm shall come to thee; and ye shall
flee when ye see My judgments approaching. Each shall
have the knowledge when My judgments have commenced;
so shall each seek to come into My City of Refuge —which is
this Living Ark of protection. I entreat all to ever seek to
enter in while the door stands open for the Third and Last
time. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
QUICKENING AND REIGNING LIFE.
AT THAT TIME Michael shall stand up, the great Prince
which standeth for the children of Thy people; and
there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since
there was a nation even to that same time: and at that
time Thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be
found written in the Book. Dan. 12:1. Therefore O Israel
I say unto you, the time has come for all to receive a cir
cumcised heart in Spirit and in Truth: to wear My beautiful
clothing of white and be baptized in the river of Seven waters
which shall flow into one river—the great fountain of Life
f
166 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
which proceedeth from God and the Lamb. There ye shall
be baptized with the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from
heaven ; proving the body was prepared to enter the beautiful
throne which God has chosen, wherein the sceptre of His
Kingdom shall rule over all nations by His Divine love and
power.
They shall hear the Mighty Voice of Gabriel saying:
"Time shall be no more"; for He has come to create all
things anew; to confirm His Covenant in the Holiness of
His Spirit and to destroy all the lukewarm and fruitless life
that stands in the dead letter, which could never destroy
the root of sin. It is now made known by the Word of
Truth, that nothing else shall ever cast out the serpent's
sting but the overflowing of the burning oil from the sea
of glass, which is broken up by the wonderful stroke of the
Holy Ghost. All sanctifications and renewings are imper
fect and changeable till this comes as a covering to make
the prepared body transparent, wherein God shall come to
enthrone Himself and there will be felt this burning sea
from which the fiery lamp doth proceed, which guards the
Holy throne.
Oh! it is the greatest and highest attainment to be
able to witness that God's Kingdom is now near to be estab
lished, springing up in a Divine power. Oh, the joy and
pleasure which the ascended Spirit for Immortality doth
feel in its first rising; it is more Divine and precious than
has been related by Jesus Christ's own personality, whose
appearance did so thoroughly describe the glory of His King
dom to me. The Kingdom is first to be inwardly completed
before it comes to make a visible showing, wherein the Seven
lamps of fire are burning and are set down with Christ upon
His throne; reigning over and judging all nations in them
selves. Therefore it is the precious business of our day
to watch, to have every lamp fed from the glassy sea, that
is so burning in the light and loving flames.
Oh, what a great and grand privilege it is to have
Christ sitting upon His throne within us. All things then
must need be in peaceable and Holy order; where our con
versations shall be heavenly. Oh! happy are those whose
eyes are open to see all this. We can rejoice, knowing we
are being so translated into and among the ascended Spirits
in heavenly places and such Divine company, as to make
me spend my hours and days with all spiritual thought and
joy; for behold! Shiloh Immanuel has come to lead us on
to the everlasting burning throne of the Deity, so that I
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 167
find I am to be reserved for God's throne in heavenly con
versations; which is as the Seven days feast of the taber
nacle. Praise to the God of Israel who alone has brought
victory to us.
Oh! that all within me may give the trumpet sound and
glorious shout that the Lord Omnipotent has come to reign.
Oh, rejoice ye heavens, without and within and around about,
for the Lord Jehovah only has done this. He has made war
to cease; the enemy to cease and keep the war without
the gates. Oh, Mighty Conquering Prince and Savior, Thou
hast entered into Thy throne of rest; Thou art indeed be
come the Lord of the Sabbath, and therefore Thou hast
power to declare it as a memorial of Thy redeeming blood,
which has become the quickening and reigning life. We
shall maintain Thy love forevermore within the new Golden
Age with Thee. I never knew such joy and Divine pleasure,
knowing Thou hast come in Thy Kingdom to reign; bring
ing all Divine peace and love; therein Thy throne is set;
Thy counsel is fixed: The Urim and Thummim of sound and
right judgment has come down, the Divine decree has gone
forth with all powerful and mighty examining within this
hidden Kingdom of my soul and mind.
The substance of all this has now come —namely, the
Spirit in Christ My Lord who in His personality did give
me hope and light to see that the time is at hand, which .
speaks in good earnest. For I am made to understand that
the Holy and Just One has come in His first and earthly
reign to put all things aright that were found in confusion
in the fallen condition of nature, also to harmonize whatso
ever was put forth from the budding rod, consisting of jeal
ousy and strife.
There is nothing to be done but to become willing to
enter in and keep the beautiful Law of Paradise —ready to
fill all Royal Laws that are brought forth from the counsel
of the Royal Head, never relapsing into sin—the cause of
wickedness and sorrows —which will be the most wonderful
salvation that was ever yet brought into manifestation; for
which cause it will be necessary that this visible Kingdom
will be so established, being as a lifted up ensign that all
fiesh may tremble and fall before it.
The Lord has yet but come in His first reign and no
showers of glory were seen to the outward appearance, but
rather dark clouds of suffering, which being rightly im
proved, is making ready for the full possession of the First
and Second Kingdom —each one in the high graduation from
168 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
the school of the prophets —coming forth to glorify that
which is now hidden in the Golden Rock where the high
throne of glory is manifested in another manner of kingly
pomp and splendor. Wherefore indeed, it could not possi
bly be figured out here until the Kingdom itself did work
out visibly; then we shall know which is to answer to the
royalty, purity and pomp that God Himself has now with
all His glorified saints and angels fully assured me.
Therefore I will say: "Hold fast to what we have al
ready gotten that none may supplant us of that which will
be"; the lifting up the crown to be seen everywhere upon
the heads of the anointed ones. Having been greatly in
terested for some considerable time in the prophecies and
ministration from the Spirit of Revelation— as my writing
bears witness concerning the Kingdom of Christ in its suf
fering state—first of all in its rising up through tribulation
unto victory; for dominion and glorification through the
Divine love, in bringing in and establishing this Holy King
dom to whom the spirit of prophecy was given for a sealing
evidence; that the Spirit of Truth being the Divine Spirit of
those foregoing revelations, which are now to be fulfilled
by the Divine reign of a risen Christ in some personalities.
These are and shall be taken up for this end to show
it forth by the most excellent and perfect thing coming in,
which is love's dominion, that has exalted the same proph
esying spirit now with Christ upon the throne, and doth
abundantly rule in God's meek love, over the region even
to the uttermost parts of the soul's inward earth, where now
great peace is found. The Golden Government being carried
on secretly and calmly through the conquering love, like
unto a river overflowing the whole earth, wherein peace and
harmony shall forever dwell. God is Love, and Love is
God, for He will make the earth anew and on it all His glory
show. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 169
WATERED BY THE HOLY MIST.
«I WILL PRAY the Father and He shall give you another
Comforter, that He may abide with you for ever; even
the Spirit of Truth; whom the world cannot receive because
it seeth Him not, neither knoweth Him: but ye know Him;
for He dwelleth with you, and shall be in you." John
14:16,17.
Many more quotations of Scripture could I call up for
confirmation of the continued run of the Spirit throughout
all ages—Christ by His Spirit confirming us, saying: Lo,
I Jesus Christ, will be with thee to the end of the world,
therefore now, as from the Lord, I beseech thee not to eclipse
the light of the beautiful Day Star in your own selves:
"Quench not the Spirit. Despise not prophesyings." 1 Thess.
5:19. Then may the witnesses of Jesus Christ rise in you to
confirm this most glorious ministration as a burning lamp
of Revelation.
The beautiful words of love and kindness to those who
are entering into this ministration, in its first degree, and are
under the Spirit's discipline. Being taught the word of
counsel from the Holy, Divine Father, these Spirits are they
that keep personally to the rules and Laws of the Spirit,
for there will be expected from such, most Divine and Holy
conversations, showing forth in itself a dying life, dying to
all mortal things and frivolous enjoyments that would
strangle and choke the fiery breath of the Holy Spirit, to
stop it from kindling further and deeper in the soul's essence.
Thus they may come up to a mighty increase and fruitful-
ness in the love and unity of the Spirit, having all tendency to
support, love and cherish all those who are springing out of
this glorious Eden garden which is watered by the Holy mist
and dropping dews of the Spirit, wherein the words of Wis
dom and counsel do greet them.
Those who desire to be of a high and Divine nature,
having shot forth their branches in great luster and glory,
having got beyond all declarative Revelation and teaching,
as not receiving or needing any but what their own center of
light will supply to them; with all mclinings not to slight
what lieth in bank and store for their fellow-laborers work
ing for the same treasure. To such these words are sent that
they carry it in great humility; with God's love in their
minds, preferring each other's gift before their own or as
their own maintenance, all dwelling together in Divine, lov
ing friendship with those of higher or lower degree in sweet
170 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
unity and harmony; ever seeking to be the chosen family
of God; ever seeking to help each other along in this strait
and narrow path back to that beautiful land from whence
we came; feeding and feasting with each other on various
fruits as though all spring from one stalk, which is the
Tree of Life.
It is expedient that much increase of this Holy anoint
ing hath flown forth by the conversation and declaration of
Divine inspiration from one to another; which hath begotten
a new, Spiritual generation. As in the former ages, so in
this, the Twelfth and last hour, sending forth Divine sparks
of light and love for the gathering in of the Holy, chosen
ones, making up the temple glory till all shall be complete,
meaning the second Pentecost day, wherein that Holy inspir
ing breath shall be breathed from one to another. There
the Holy Voice will be speaking and conversing as the Holy
Spirit shall go forth in its various operations for the edify
ing of the body of love; for a Holy conversation to the
Mighty Present God.
In this hopeful expectation, we feel impressed to dis
close this great and deep secret, being assured that this
generation shall not pass away before there shall be a ful
fillment of what has been revealed and prophesied of in the
writings of this Visitation. Blessed are they that shall have
their lot and portion herein.
There is a rich, Divine bank, yet behind, from whence
the oily springs do fill, that may be emptied forth when
vessels —meaning the prepared body—are made more fine
and ready thereby to take in that which we shall want and
seek to find, such to partake of—that rich and weighty prize
that yet lieth in the secret and Eternal mind—for there a
valley deep under the water of Life doth lie, that shall bring
forth the fruitful olive plants which shall be fed and nour
ished and hidden till of a strong and full grown stature
they may come to be.
Then will they show themselves to the true Israel of
God, that the beautiful Kingdom may come forth to spread
and flourish everywhere in power and great glory, sealed
with a mission of the Holy Ghost, acting and going forth
in a wonderful working power for the confirmation of the
truth of this dispensation in such a way as none shall resist,
and no side light shall be able to counterfeit.
So strong and impregnable is the foundation of this
temple body glory that neither dragon, beast nor false proph
et shall be able to undermine it, for they are built upon the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 171
Rock, Christ, which is immovable. Therefore let none doubt,
but be guarded with the Holy, Divine Faith which will ride
the waves swiftly, leaving all unbelievers behind.
A race we have to run. Some may not yet be set out,
others newly engaged and others a good way in the race;
but blessed are they who shall this prize first win, that
they may return, strengthen and encourage their compan
ions in tile race, who may see the rosy garden of victory
in their hands and the diadem of precious stones as the
prize which they have won.
The question may be asked: Who and where are those
which are so resolute and strong in spirit as to hold out to the
end of the race? For none can be found indeed but such
as are risen with Christ, from the dead. He is and must be
the racer in us, for all other legs we run with will soon tire
and grow weary. Therefore, set not out till Christ—your
life and strength —be raised in such qualified persons as
have been separated and called out from these worldly prin
ciples.
This is evident, that the true sign of glory will break
forth and enlighten the whole inward heavens and earth.
Thus the Holy One will set, footing in the inward ground of
the heart, that it be in its throne habitation, there to reign
till He subdues; and every thought and motion be made sub
ject to Him. Then shall the heavens and the earth in the
New Creation rejoice, that the King of the earth has taken
to Himself His great power to reign Eternally in the won
derful power of His Spirit.
Therefore, as it is thus invisibly made manifest, so it
will dilate itself and spread into a visible Kingdom. There
are Seven visible signs that will make out the Dominion and
Kingdom in its first appearance. You might ask: In what
person? I would say: The Second Child, the Seventh and
Last Messenger, and when the Seventh begins to sound,
the mystery shall be finished. For there is no God in all
the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
172 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
THE LILY AND THE ROSE.
•THE WORLD WILL REEL to and fro in judgment when
they see Israel made Immortal, which shall be an amaz
ing wonder of all the miracles that yet have been, which is
the New Paradise again springing in the midst of His people,
Israel. The beautiful Rose of Sharon and the Lily of the
Valley which are altogether lovely, will lift up their heads
and rejoice, fully realizing they are again in their own native
Kingdom, which it is the good will and pleasure of their
Divine Father to restore to them.
These rich diamonds of Wisdom never have been re
vealed since the days of the Lord Jesus until now in His
Second Coming under the Voice of the Mighty Conquering
Prince, Shiloh Immanuel, wherein there shall be no need
of taking thought of this or that which belongs to the out
ward bodily state, for it will be given them as they stand
united with Christ, their head, to possess the new earth and
to inherit all things.
The seventh sign is putting on a transfiguration, which
will be accomplished at the coming and appearing of Christ
in them in His glorified figure, by the wonderful glance of
which glory in transformation they behold the express image
of His bright body.
A voice was heard, saying: "Arise! shine! for thy light
is come." The glory of the Bridegroom is now become thy
covering. The marriage here will be honored and blessed
before the high throne of His Majesty, who giveth His full
consent hereunto. Then what may we expect from the mat
rimonial unity but such offspring for the new creation of
spirits that may be all pure and perfect, as was designed
by the Father of eternity to bring forth after His similitude
before Adam fell?
This purpose of God could never be made void, though
a stop was permitted to be put to it for a while, for the
bringing forth of the manifold Wisdom of God which was
foreordained by Him who was from the eternal generation
—the Son of God by whom all that was laid aside was to
be called and repaired again to a far greater advantage.
Herein all deep things shall be made manifest for in
struction and astonishment to all throughout the whole uni
verse of God's creation. Therefore it remains now to be
observed under the Voice of the Seventh Angel and those
who follow, that there is evidence that the Kingdom is truly
come and will begin as it was in the first Paradise, in male
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 173
and female, through the restoration of the lost Eternal Vir
gin nature.
As Eve did suck in the serpent's evil and introduced
it unto the first Adam, thereby corrupting and involving
him in the same transgression, there was a going out and
dividing from God's eternal root, which banished them out-
of Paradise, wherein he lost the Kingdom and dominion.-
Therefore, let us behold the Virgin rising in her roottl
to draw and feed upon the Tree of Life, and having tasted
of the virtue that Jesus Christ received at the River Jordan,
begotten of the Father and conceived of the Mother by the
true eternal marriage of male and female—the renewing
of the blessed Word that God spoke in the beginning: "God
blessed them and said unto them: Be fruitful and multiply
and replenish the earth and subdue it and have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over every living thing that moveth upon the earth." Gen.
1:28.
This has been forgotten and lost out in the first Adam,
for the many ages of time that have passed over, but the
grace and purpose of God cannot be unfulfilled but must
be made good. The pure Eternal Virgin nature will recover
itself and stand over all the opposition of satan, whereby
an end may be put to the sinful reign of the old world.
Lamentation and bitter weeping will be a thing of the past
and there shall be a great renovation, and changes will rise
and come on gradually. So from hence a new generation
shall spring and multiply here upon the earth and in this
manner the Kingdom of God and His Christ shall come to
be made manifest.
Blessed are those who stand in their lot in this wonder
ful age and time. Take notice how the afore-mentioned signs
do go forward as a sure and certain sign we are near the
Kingdom of God, which will run parallel according to the
type of the first creation, "for the thing that has been shall
be again and God requireth the thing of the past."
Now it may be asked: "What is required of those who
are in a hopeful way of possessing and entering into the
reign of this blessed day and looking forward to the time
when the Eternal Virgin will appear to bring forth the
heavenly birth, to multiply abundantly and replenish the
new Paradise?" The answer is: Through the spirit of faith
that shall arise and conquer all selfishness so as not to
admit any doubt or stumbling, but make this passage in
a strait line up to the glorified Jesus Christ, as He is in
174 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
vested with all power, as well in the lower regions as in
the upper, and so unite with the powerful name —Alpha
and Omega.
This faith in that great name must produce those mighty
works and deeds mentioned by our Lord after His resur
rection as a sign that shall follow those who believe. In
My name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with
new tongues; they shall take up serpents and if they drink
any deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay their
hands on the sick and they shall recover.
Now by virtue of these mighty acting powers redemp
tion will be wrought out. What a happy time this will be
for the 144,000; and all who are found alive shall stand and
rejoice for this wonderful victory over sin, death, hell and
the grave. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
PEACE
DIVINE PASTURE.
"THE DESERT shall rejoice and bloom as the rose; it
shall blossom abundantly and rejoice even with joy
and singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it; the
-excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory
of the Lord and the excellency of our God." Isa. 35:1,2.
Therefore, it is foreseen by the Spirit of Truth, what
a wonderful time is approaching upon this visible earth,
which predicts many great revelations and changes in order
to the bringing in of that beautiful Kingdom, which shall
have such a firm establishment as to admit no changes.
The wonderful alarm has gone forth through the sound
ing of the Seventh and last Messenger for His Israel to be
gathered into one body, dwelling in the Spirit of Jehovah
to fight this great battle that the decision may be given
for those great heroes who shall hold out the fight of faith
with that Holy Covenant vow.
A wonderful arrow shall pierce through the seven heads
and ten horns of the beast, of which it is said: Who shall
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK lf8
be able to make war with it? None but those who mount
upon the white horse, meaning our prepared bodies through
purity and holiness; their strength shall be to tread down
all power of evil spirits, that the body of Israel may be
gathered together, which is to be understood inwardly or
spiritually; as outwardly, evil spirits always prove to be
your enemy.
It is plain to be seen that this time has commenced
already. Therefore those who are here called upon who
have renounced the mark and name of the beast, which
hath numerous names and doth come forth from the trou
blesome sea of this world to cast up the muddy earth. All
which resist and overcome are to be those who come forth
from out the calm, serene and quiet ocean of God's love
which the glassy sea doth represent, including where the
great conqueror and overcomer is to be; for this Holy army
shall bear the name of the Mighty Present God upon their
foreheads and the sealed name of the Eternal Word upon
their hearts, girding on the flaming sword of the Spirit
whereby they shall put to flight all that with the beast
and his kingdom do take part.
Be wise and understand, all those to whom this doth
belong and try your most inward state, whether you do
engage in the war for this Holy Immortal Lamb of God,
or continually give place to this great enemy.
Therefore examine yourselves, within and without, and
see where you stand in the fight; for the Holy Lamb's
Kingdom shall prevail, which is opened here in the follow
ing treatise as a reward for those who shall hold out in
strong resolution till they have gained the victory.
Now, by the commission from the wonderful Counselor
and Leader of this heavenly land, I am to go forward and
proceed further to declare and make known to such as have
passed through this trying hour and have in a good degree
abolished the body of sin, these joyful tidings, pronouncing
to them that the Jubilee time is at hand and the everlasting
gate now stands open for His chosen ones to return into
their native Paradisical land.
The great Jehovah, through Jesus Christ, is our Leader,.
wherein each one casts their lot according to their Divine
deeds which they have performed. So much larger and
greater possession must be assigned, but no lack or defici
ency shall be by any here. Such full portions are provided,
for the free must not be in any way inferior to the first
176 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
described in this beautiful Book of Paradise, will be as an
unshaken foundation.
The Lord Jesus Christ is this desirable, springing Root,
wherein the beautiful morning Star of Wisdom has cast
forth Her glances of Light, whereby it is clearly seen what
a pleasant, peaceable and joyous state of life does here await
the inhabitants of this new earth, which consists- not of
outward lands, houses, pomp or simple pleasures, but is
Holy, pure, radiant and spiritual, and with it is prepared
for each one to enjoy and possess in their own Divine way,
where we may set forth mansions and tents, which abso
lutely God Himself will raise up tabernacles for the body,
soul and spirit to inhabit, which no earthly powers can ad4
to or diminish.
All refreshing and delightful tastings in abundance from
this Spiritual Rock will also flow. No mortal can of this
Divine food taste or know; rich and beautiful clothing also
will become the Immortal clothing of this heavenly country,
where robes must suit and agree with this Royal Court and
family of the Triune Deity.
This all belongs to the inward and Divine body, which
freely corresponds with the power and dominion of this
celestial world; the passage being made by Christ—the as
cending way—to go in and out and feed upon the Divine
pasture which is ever new, fresh and flourishing, because
there is a golden mist which waters it every moment and
for as much as they are clothed upon, for Christ hath formed
Himself therein, opening the rosy tincture of His own Holy
Being.
Upon this account also the outward image has a right
to possess such an accomplishment of all things as this
temporary state can afford —habitations and vineyards and
the olive fatness which in all fruitfulness may abound and
;spring in such blessings as the pure life of faith is to bring
in; for these Holy ones of Paradise have no other care or
labor but to dress, trim and watch their ground as their
enclosed garden, henceforth to prevent all mixed matters
that from the earthly parts may put forth.
Then nothing shall hinder or stop the free current of
Abraham's blessings which abound and come in from the
upper fountain stores. The coming and appearing of their
Present God amongst His Holy, separated flock shall so
clearly be manifested that all courtesies and favors shall
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 177
be bestowed upon them, even by those who are without,
for they shall have the wherewith to bless such returns as
shall far transcend all that this outward world can extend.
Thus the author has faithfully given forth out of Wis
dom's bank and treasure, as much as may be for the in
ducement and encouragement of all who truly aspire to
know a transplanting out of the wild, barren and cursed
earth, to become a springing plant, namely, the body out
of this Paradisical ground, where they may come to inherit
all things.
Therefore these beautiful things are set before your
eyes to provoke and hasten you who are of this elected
number that must fill up the Holy Court, upon which the
beautiful Rose of Sharon's glory, the bright face of cover
ing, shall not be delayed, but speed up and make your flight
as doves away, which is the voice of that cry in me to all
who shall remain and intercede for you as for myself; that
we may meet together in that beautiful Sharon's land, as
roses are always springing and giving forth praises and
honor to the Ascended Master, dwelling in the boundless
circle of eternity.
Wherein our dearest Mother will lead us on,
For never can we lay our weapons down
Till we possess of Thy bright Sun
And wear Thy starry crown,
Enthroned with our Immanuel dear,
All conquering, born in us the Spouse and Son
In blissful love, divine union unite
The Lily, the Rose of Sharon, in precious praise to Thee,
The living faith possess, and are assured the victory.
All hail, all hail from the God of Love,
Her Voice, all charming, being the Virgin from above.
You claim the great Jehovah, victory's love,
Possessing the happy plains where nature grows,
Eternal, pure, where milk and honey flows;
Rivers of oil and the New Kingdom wine
In fair meadows run fruitful and divine,
On silver branches, Tree of Life descends;
All plenteous bliss, luxurious, without end.
Seven mighty mountains here transcending in height,
Flowing with lilies bright
To fill our darling heroes with delight.
Rose and Lily, twain, in one combine
And shall in us unite.
178 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Our Mother dear, the New Jerusalem,
Now calls the glassy ocean's tide to stem.
She comes to meet Her high ascended race,
Glancing Her jasper light, love's precious grace,
And flies with open arms to your embrace.
She unlocks Her pearly portals, streaming down
Celestial virtues from each precious stone
Flaming in Her bright garment, rich foundation.
Her streets are paved with love, Her heavenly mould
Of living, precious treasures of God.
No sun She needs, nor moon's inferior ray;
God's Presence makes Her everlasting day.
Nothing profane, no curse can enter here;
This clime not one polluted thought can bear,
All rejoicing to the melodious sound
They spring in divine triumphs
Circled with the saints and angels' beauteous train.
Then shall the morning stars together sing
And echoing loud, the New Creation rings.
The victorious, both in heaven and earth are crowned.
Praise to the God of Israel, peace on earth is found,
Wherein mercy and love have met together;
Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
VISION TO SEVENTH ANGEL.
AND I, JOHN saw the Holy City, New Jerusalem, com
ing down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband—Rev. 21:2. —which means to say
Jerusalem Above, the Mother of us all. He foresaw Her
in Spirit coming down from God out of heaven to prepare
the Bride, Jerusalem below, as the heavenly descends into
the earthly.
Man is to be prepared and made Godman; that
is,
in
the image and likeness of God; male and female created
He them; bone of His bone and flesh of His flesh, less the
blood; as the blood
is
to be cleansed and washed away, for
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 179
flesh and blood cannot inherit the Kingdom of God. There
fore it must be taken away that flesh and bone may become
the habitation for the Mighty God of Jacob to dwell in, as
it is written: "I am with you, and shall be in you," John
14:7, having their vile bodies changed and fashioned like
unto His glorious body of flesh and bone which saw not
corruption, wherein dwelleth the fulness of the Godhead;
raised higher than angels, crowned with honor and glory;
the First-born Son of God among many brethren, which
shall be made manifest; for the earnest expectation of the
creature waiteth for the manifestation of the Sons of God,
called the Bride, the Lamb's wife, the Church of God who
shall be made like Him.
Therefore great is the mystery of Godliness—God man
ifested in the flesh —when mortal puts on Immortality at
the sound of the last trump, which is the trump of God;
the sounding of the Seventh Angel of God by which the
mystery shall be finished; Rev. 10:7. —which is the mystery
of Godliness, God manifested in the flesh. Therefore the
sounding of the Mighty Angel brings us back to the Flying
Roll—the Little Book opened —that is, unsealed in the hand
of the Angel; Rev. 10:2 —the Mother's Book, who is joined
to Christ, Her Head. Therefore it is called Shiloh, being
male and female, wherein Jerusalem Above has come down
to Zion and Jerusalem below; by which man shall be pre
pared and finished, made in the image and likeness of God.
2 Cor. 4:4.
As touching the Angel of Light going before the Arch
angel, John speaks of it as an angel flying through the
midst of heaven having the Everlasting Gospel to preach
to them that dwelleth upon the earth —Rev. 14:6 —which is
a Flying Message for the Ingathering of Israel. When John
heard the utterings of the seven thunders and was about
to write, it was said: "Seal up these things and write them
not"; but was it not said to him that he should prophesy
again before many nations, peoples, tongues and kings?
Rev. 10:11. And whose voice was heard in the second watch
of the night of the eleventh hour. Did not Jesus say of
John: "If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to
thee? John 21: 22.
Was it not written of Michael —the Spirit of Jesus, who
was also called the Archangel —that He should stand up for
the deliverance of His people, Israel? And at that time
there should be a time of trouble such as never was even to
that same time again. This may be applied to the First
180 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Coming of Christ in Jesus, but we would ask: Did He de
liver and gather Israel out at that time? No! not according
to the Scriptures; but no prophecy of the Scriptures is of
any private interpretation. 2 Peter 1:20. He stood up at
that time, but remember, Israel were scattered and given
up until the time of the end.
When Jesus Christ said He was going, the disciples
said: "Where will He go? Will He go to the dispersed of
Israel among the Gentiles?" Did not Jesus Christ also say
to His disciples : It is not for you to know the times and the
seasons, which the Lord has put in His own power." Jesus
Christ Himself, referred to the time of the end, like Daniel
and other prophets at that time, saying that, at the time of
the end there would be a time of trouble such as never was
or ever shall be—Matt. 24:21—and that the Second Child
should stand up in His stead—Eccl. 4:15—called the man
Branch, the Son of man, who would stand up by the Spirit
of Jesus—Michael —and that He would send His angels to
gather His Elect from the uttermost parts of the earth to
the uttermost parts of heaven, knowing it was to come upon
the earth —that is, the Immortal Spirit of God—Zion and
Jerusalem who came down as fore-shown, which is called
the Holy City; and at that time Thy people shall be deliv
ered, every one whose name is written in the Book. Rev.
13:8. What book? The Book of Life, the Little Book open
in the hand of the angel. Rev. 3:5.
Therefore if Israel will judge themselves, they shall not
be judged, for the gifts and calling of God are without re
pentance. Rev. 11:29. The Law and Gospel virtually
stand as the testimony of the two prophesying witnesses
which have been dead in the streets; a dead letter to both
Jew and Gentile having on their grave clothing, yet they
did not bury them. Therefore Law and Gospel being dead
to them, they are under the curse of the dead letter which
killeth under the seals of the tomb.
Therefore the saints which have been killed for the
testimony of Jesus Christ, are crying out from under the
altar upon which Jesus was laid; like the blood of Abel,
they are crying up from the ground for the just and godly
vengeance upon them that dwelleth on the earth. Rev. 6 :10.
All are waiting and crying out from above and from below
for the day of judgment and for the establishment of God's
Peaceable Kingdom upon earth.
At an unexpected time and in an unexpected way, the
Flying Roll comes forth swift and powerful as the Flying
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 181
Chariots from between two mountains —Zech. 6:1—under
which the prisioners of hope are held, and at this Trumpet
sound both the quick and the dead shall awake at the voice
and summons of God. So it is written: "When the Seventh
Angel begins to sound, the mystery shall be finished as de
clared unto His servants, the prophets." Did not Jesus
Christ say: "If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that
to thee?" And did not He say: "Without a vision the people
perish? But the vision is for an appointed time, and at the
end it shall speak, it shall not lie; though it tarry, wait for
it, it shall surely come."
Therefore beloved Israel, was not the vision to be given
to the Seventh Angel, as thunder following the lightning
flash of the Spirit from the Presence of God, all pointing
down to the sounding of the Seventh ; and all being written
for us—the Spirits of the Just, or the seed which was to
come to whom the promise was made. Therefore in the
fourth watch of the hour, the Son of man, namely Shiloh
Immanuel, male and female, came with the Seventh Key
to unlock the third and last watch; and Israel shall be
gathered unto Shiloh, and they shall see eye to eye when the
Lord brings again Zion.
These also are the words of Benjamin when he said:
"Benjamin and Mary, the Messengers, were commanded to
prophesy to the world and let their voices be heard, and I
have commanded thee to declare it, and the Messengers
have been faithful to do so." Therefore, all those who have
been faithful to hold to their first confidence, proving
that they stood with the union of the Godhead in heaven,
the reward for them is Immortality; and they shall hear
the Voice of God calling out their names one by one, prov
ing that they are worthy to enter into the Eden of Paradise;
to live and reign with our Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ, throughout one Eternal Day. For there is no God
in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
182 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
LOST EDEN FOUND.
"QN THE EAST three gates, on the north three gates,
on the south three gates and on the west three gates;
and the wall of the City had twelve foundations, and in them
the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb." Rev.
21:13,14. This signified the opening of the ministry which
has been for some ages shut up, which shall rise again out
of the Divine, Eternal root in great magnificence and glory;
and the Lord Jesus Christ in His humble and Divine way
did order and call twelve disciples, that they might be wit
nesses of His mighty works and deeds, as He was the Son
of God, a Savior of all.
Therefore let it be understood in this, the time of His
Second Coming, He will now elect and call twelve disciples
who have passed through the regeneration, proving them
selves to be His foundation builders, who shall stand each
one to his gate entrusted with the Key thereof, to take
out and open as they are directed by the Mighty Present
God; and so go on to multiply the number of disciples until
they be countless, for the publishing and revealing of this
Divine and glorious ministration that consists purely of the
fiery baptism of the Holy Ghost, which all those who shall
find admittance through these gates must be made partakers
of as they shall pass through the three Holy circles before
mentioned.
Herein they shall be made natives, to dwell and inherit
this new Divine Paradise. Therefore it is to be understood
that those who are born natives in this Holy Land, have
government and laws quite different from the manner of
the worldly principle, for all here moves according to the
Divine, Supreme working wheel that winds them up to a
mighty, high and wonderful act of faith through these sa
cred arts and senses of which they are inspired with wisdom
and knowledge to find out.
These have been lost and never could be found out till
Jesus Christ replenished it again in Paradise ground; and
before this Divine Message could be brought forth, there
could be but little expectation of the establishment of that
Kingdom in which the reign and dominion of Christ shall
appear.
This new, wonderful court and palace within, and
the new walls without, were described to me with the works
of counsel and information, with assurance that such an
order or principle should open and give place for joy and
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 183
praise to the inhabitants of this new earth, whereby the
old earth with all their craft, merchandise, pomp, riches and
glory they have gotten thereby, shall all be out of date.
Therefore they will cry for the rocks and mountains to
fall upon them to hide them from the face of the Lamb,
for the great day of the Lord has come and who shall be
able to stand? None who have the mark of the beast can
enter into this Holy Land; they must first obtain their free
dom from the Supreme Judge and Lawgiver and receive the
seal of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost upon their fore
heads to signify that they are ordained free, designed here
to work and act, not by their outward bodily strength, but
by the operation and acting of the Spirit.
Now it may be asked: Are we to be gathered into one
place? Yes, as it is written: "I will gather you one by one,
0 ye children of Israel, and bring you to Zion." Therefore
it is a Divine principle that opens itself individually, and
each one may have a Paradise opened within him, proving
himself to be a joint heir to this golden circle, being a
builder and laying the foundation —subduing his own will
—by Him who is the springing flower of that seed of the
Eternal Godhead that does here show itself, giving forth
its increase and multiplying as the ground is wholly pre
pared like unto the temple body of Jesus Christ and will
be built and the spiritual stones will be joined together in
one accord to worship God in Spirit; waiting together for
the fulness of the spiritual power; giving themselves up en
tirely to this great and wonderful work that the Divine
Spirit may awaken those who are lying scattered in many
nations and kingdoms; that they may have a call to the
temple body rising visibly here, in the City of David where
it is pitched by the Seventh mighty sounding Angel, who
was to finish the work and cut it short in righteousness;
bringing them up as children and disciples of the Heavenly
Wisdom, who will assuredly make all provision for the out
ward bodily part, seeking after what is for the heavenly
born souls that are redeemed out of the world.
These are the things that our blessed Lord tells us the
Gentiles seek after; but the Father stands more Divinely
charged for His own family, as knowing what things are
needful for them, and by conferring that spiritual gift, which
is faith in Him as the Key that opens the unknown store
house where all treasures shall stand open at the hand of
the faithful, which must be steady and never wavering,
184 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
looking upward with a fixed eye, not dividing between two
principles.
Then it will be experienced as it was by the great pa
triarchs and prophets of old, who were encompassed with
blessings on the right hand and on the left; not knowing
what way they would be brought in; confiding in the ever
lasting fountain that was unsealed unto them in all its fruit
ful springs.
This is such a dispensation as cannot gain with any
but such as are of the high faith of Abraham who was
obedient and was called of God, who as a father did much
transcend in giving his son a lot, which was a figure of
his Immortal inheritance.
Therefore he said in confidence of his God, that he
would not be holden for a shoe-latchet to the evil spirit.
It is little known or considered what faith may extend to
in relating to the increase of all temporal blessings: "For
I will never leave thee nor forsake thee." The words of
the Holy, blessed Jesus Christ, who was manifested in our
human form, paying the full price of our redemption, has
opened that gate whereby we may return to our native
country again.
All of His Elect have put Him on as their essential
Paradise body, though in this world in their outward figure
they may in their habitation be yet in the true liberty of
the Spirit. They maintain their interest and conversation
in Christ, wherein is the Divine mystery, opening and de
lighting Himself in the Immortal Soul, telling us, 0 Thou
beloved, where Thou feedest and where Thou keepest Thy
flock to rest at noonday, because Thou hast sent Thy Sev
enth sounding Angel, not only to give us intelligence but to
lead and bring us up to Thy glorious rest in Thee; as mak
ing us partakers of the same glory which Thou hast pre
pared for us in Thyself, before the foundation of the world
was.
Now it may be inquired of further, upon whom Para
dise principles shall be made manifest. In answer thereto:
They are such as have a peculiar and high degree of faith
to set themselves apart, keeping themselves steadily on
watch, which has been known already by some, both in ages
past and also present, which has not been without effect
They have witnessed the opening of the spiritual, tem
poral climate where all peaceable and pleasant conversa
tions with their priestly Lord and King are enjoyed; who
are required in spirit to keep their walk in the inward, new
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 185
planet earth, and as the visible Paradise was separated from
the gross part of this old world, so it is to be understood
in the garden of God enclosed; and as Adam went out of
Paradise into the world, so now in the restoration they are
returning again through the union with the Spirit of Christ,
wherein there is abiding in this place a most free and glor
ious liberty.
Therefore, after one being situated here, there is no
turning their eye out or from the Tree of Life, for we are
not out of all danger of being tempted until we become an
established root and are grounded so firmly into the Tree
of Life that nothing may shake or disturb these ascended
spirits.
Therefore, when we have passed our examination state
in both principles —the outward and the inward —then will
be the season to any who are this far advanced to expect
the Mighty Holy Ghost power will be poured down as a
rushing wind and warm penetrating showers, which will
bring up the beautiful increase or token of Christ's Presence
returning, showing forth the distinguishing mark of other
apostles' resurrection of those various powers and gifts that
the apostles were endowed and replenished with.
Therefore, the spirit of prophecy will show things both
present and things to come; as also the renewing of the
healing through the beautiful Balm of Gilead that shall be
sent forth through and by the oily pool by the Angel of the
Covenant of Eternal Life. Therefore:
After many years of battle and toil
How precious do the gracious tidings sound
Of Sharon's glory and the lost Eden found.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
186 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
ROBE OF GLORIFICATION.
"TTHOU HAST MADE US unto our God, kings and
priests; and we shall reign on the earth." Rev. 5:10.
This agrees with these latter prophecies that have been
brought forth as the renewed witnesses and testimony of
Jesus Christ. The three sorts of golden liquor in the golden
cup, answers to the threefold office and function of these
loving elders that are to be enthroned with Christ, the Lord.
Faith is first begotten as a quickening Spirit,
'
carrying
with it a mighty, deep thirst to drink in of this Living blood;
which answer to Christ's own Words: "Except you eat of
My flesh and drink of My blood you have no life in you," the
virtue of which must cleanse and take away the Adamic evil
that sin hath contracted, thus producing a healing spring
that renews Spiritual Life continually.
This is the blood of the Covenant which relates to the
high order of the Melchisedec priesthood. Therefore the
flaming breath is appropriated to the spirit of prophecy that
searcheth into the deep things of all foreknowing Wisdom,
wherein those hidden treasures of knowledge do lie, making
known the mind and counsel of God to the things past, pres
ent and to come.
Though there has been a great relapse, sinking down
and quenching the Spirit even unto death, now a resurrection
thereof is witnessed and is upon its further growth and in
crease that God may justify in this abounding dispensation of
express revelation of His mind.
The third draught is of the Holy healing Oil, which
gives the sacred understanding of this Holy, Kingly domin
ion, which the saints of the Most High have never yet
reached unto so as to reign over the earth.
Now it may be known what it is that has retarded and
kept back the possession of this Kingdom —because they
have not been drinking in of these two foregoing, Divine and
special liquors in that measure as to have it their daily
portion, though it cannot be denied but some have drunk
deeply thereof, but not being able to contain it as a constant
flowing spring.
But behold! a cry has come forth from the Mighty Head
Prince and King to those who are in the believing spirit and
we are pleased to let them know that this is the great day of
the feast of the tabernacle, wherein the great powers of the
Holy Ghost are offered freely, to be given forth and emptied
into the sanctuary vessels according to this foreordination
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 187
and predestination; and now, upon such a free generation
the Mighty Holy Spirit is calling and would not slack their
pace, but throw off every heavy weight and whatsoever of
this earthly mould doth cleave to them, and unshackle their
feet.
It is time that doth require all haste, for the Millenium
summer from the heavens is now breaking forth, in which
their flight may be easy and pleasant, for the gales and wind
of the Spirit do warmly blow and draw up from all that is
of the earthly. Therefore, proudly skip and leap, ye lambs
who are anointed to this kingly fold and be no longer sup
planted of your rights, who to the Christlike crown belong,
that as priestly powers here over the earth in Him you may
come to reign.
Behold the spirit and you will see the everlasting gates
of Lebanon stand open and free, where on the paved walks
of love you will be greeted and kindly received by the Holy
Shepherd and His priestly Bride, the Jerusalem Mother who
hath provided here to entertain you.
The seven overflowing pools which water this garden,
like the seven thunders, or seven Messenger Angels, which
make it always flowing and springing from the descending
showers of the upper heavens, giving marvelous feedings
and refreshment to the chosen, Ascended Spirits, in which
Righteousness doth always reign and abide —thus wonderful
Paradise which will everywhere be opened so that each indi
vidual person may carry this new heaven and earth with
them, and Christ, their Holy dominion.
Though this be in the midst of the wilderness where the
wild plants do grow and would be tempted by them—seeing
fair and delicious fruits —yet no force or power will they
have to corrupt or draw the mind from what is related to
and enjoyed in this Paradise land, for the inhabitants thereof,
as the lily purity in Christ, their life shall come to its per
fection; they shall be all temptation proof, as Christ Him
self while He conversed upon this earth.
Never give place to anything that might deteriorate
from His high descent, such as—Christlike—are now upon
their coming forth, to whom He will commit the reign of
His government; who shall be priests, each in their order,
which shall have all free communion and correspondence
with Christ and the highest of those saints that have put on
the robe of glorification.
These are they who shall be the first springing fruits,
separated and redeemed out of the earth to bear dominion
188 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
over it, for the Holy Ghost power from the sevenfold pool
into which they are baptized shall expressly show forth what
they are designed for, not only to go forth to make report of
this approaching Kingdom, but to be active instruments in
the establishment of it, by overthrowing that which is Baby
lonish and earthly and making discovery of all false appear
ance of such as do pretend to own that Spiritual Kingdom,
but are found as hollow and empty trunks that bear a name
to live when they are dead, not having the sap of the Spirit
in them.
Upon the plains of Sharon where the spicy plants do
grow, it will be given to them to discern what under the face
of this covering doth show itself, so that by the rising of
this apostolic Spirit all false imaginations will be tried, that
they may no more go forth to deceive the simple and ignorant
mind, which will prove a terrible shaking to this old heaven
and earth which must have an overturning.
Therefore, while the mighty Trump is sounding—let
all who have drunk only of the bitter waters and outward
husk of the grape, but have not tasted the sweet, royal
blood of it, that it might become a fountain of life within
them—make their call to be transplanted from their wild
and briary soil into this fruitful land of all blessings.
Now methinks there is an echoing cry in my ear saying:
Here is made mention of a strange and wonderful time and
state to be made manifest in this visible world. But when
shall it be? The only answer from the Spirit of Truth and
prophecy is: The time is here and the call is for us to come.
The first spark from the Holy Ghost has been sown and
they are still sowing in the new refined earth ; therefore fitly
prepared in persons scattered and dispersed here and there;
in some of them lying still under-ground, in others putting
forth, but yet young and tender, others growing up to a
wonderful degree as being under a more fruitful and thriving
climate in such as have weathered out all storms and shak
ings and have stood their ground.
These are they who come near and shall be the first
Immortal Lillies to put on their rosy crowns and will produce
births' of a Godlike Spirit and nature that shall go forth in
a Nazarite purity, being accomplished with all commanding
powers that shall not fail to spring from the Godlike Root
within and shall stand in these latter days to judge the earth
and to bind down the oppressor of it, for I will make thine
enemies thy footstool and nothing shall hurt nor harm in all
My Holy Mountain saith the Lord.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 189
Therefore, knowing that the Virgin Law and Testimony
given in Paradise —for the Spirits of the Just were never
driven out of Paradise —to which I say, and say it again,
wherefrom I shall never depart, but I am resolved to cleave
to it and to stand by until it shall make me altogether right
eous and so complete that the Holy Ghost might rejoice to
see that God has perfected Holiness in such a high degree
by the Mighty Present God; and He will guard me from all
harm. Jehovah will be my safe guard, yea, the Holy, Blessed
Trinity will ever watch my safety.
The Almighty God, the Prince of Peace, has appeared
to the Second Child which is to rule the nations with a rod
of iron, showing forth the Mighty Present God's power in
this world, and also great wonders —greater than Moses ever
did—for through that Eternal, Immortal Eye She shall point
out to all of Her lawful, legitimate heirs the Holy, Divine
Wisdom, which shall be brought into manifestation and
replenish the earth, the body, that God may walk in the
midst of it and no longer be unknown to His Elect who are
refined from all dross, thereby gaining a free and open
entrance into the Holy Jerusalem.
Therefore the partition must be broken down, that Christ
above and Christ beneath may join together for Eternal hap
piness ; but here it may be asked : How can this be as long as
the body is terrestrial, for an earthly body cannot ascend to
the Mighty God's glory? Answer: Therefore a new body is
prepared, even a heavenly body, such as Christ had.
He could change His form how and when He pleased,
so He appeared to Moses and Elias in His transfiguration —
in a bright, refined body—and then came down again in a
terrestrial body to the sight of mortal people, which power
shall be renewed again in those prepared bodies who can
personate Christ upon the earth.
They shall ascend and descend at pleasure, proving they
have themselves ready, which state will exceed all visions of
the glorified person of Christ, for without this celestial body
we cannot hold out in that Divine and sweet communion—
hid with Christ—which shall be in the Kingdom of saints
where there is such a body prepared, which shall be able to
pass into the invisible where the Kingdom of God dwells.
It is given to me to see the approaching day in the Spirit,
therefore, if the representation be so glorious what will the
thing itself be when actually accomplished. Therefore this
report which the Holy Ghost has given of it behooves all
Israel to enter into that Living Faith, for it is the fulfillment
190 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
of all these wonderful things concerning the reign of Christ,
wherein must be terminated in the Virgin seed which will
produce a new generation.
"And there appeared a great wonder in heaven, a woman
clothed with the sun, the moon under Her feet and upon
Her head a crown of twelve stars." Rev. 12:1. This was
revealed from the vision which beloved John saw; and these
twelve stars represent the twelve tribes which are to be
gathered to receive the Divine drops as they fall from the
heavenly cloud; for which is required a well purified vessel,
namely the body, in which no taint or defilement doth remain.
Therefore they can see the clouds break in sending their
showers down upon the ground, namely their prepared
bodies.
This I mention for the sake of those who are in this
Divine ministration of revelation now from this Eternal
Wisdom, the Holy Mother of Zion, wherein a birth is to be
born in which nothing but joy, life, blessings and eternal
power dwelling within this domain shall take place, which we
are to declare to our little flock bringing such tidings of joy
that so far exceeds that of Gabriel to the Virgin Mary who
was blessed among women, being designed to be the mother
of our blessed Jesus in His fleshly appearance.
Hark ye now! by this Eternal Virgin Mother, the Mighty
Present God has brought forth the Second Child who has
come in the name of Shiloh Immanuel, God with us, as a
mighty ruler and protector over all the earth; who is really
and truly fulfilling whatsoever was typical in Solomon's
reign. Now this Holy, Divine, Eternal Mother will bring forth
Her sons and daughters like unto Jesus Christ at the River
Jordan, begotten of the Father, conceived of the Mother
and in God's appointed time She will bring them forth in
Immortality; restoring to them their Immortal inheritance
to establish His beautiful Kingdom here upon earth.
Blessed are they who have first known the painful feel
ing under Her severe discipline, for such shall be Her pol
ished pillars on which She shall engrave Her Virgin name,
as the Holy One hath said: Who are the true and faithful
witnesses who have taken off the Virgin's veil that they may
see Her as in a looking glass to behold Her perfection, thus
coming to know Her; wherein She shall not part from us,
but lead and teach us in the Divine understanding which is
pleasing to the Mighty Present God, thus bringing a joyful
feeling in the Holy breath which is purified by fire.
Then we shall see what shall follow the harmony of these
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 191
scenes which is the chariot of the Virgin nature, the pattern
which we are to go by, for which we are also called to look
into Her looking glass so that it may stir up all Divine desires
in us to have those senses in us which will cause a wonderful
awakening.
0 great Goddess and Queen of all the earth! now after
so long a time away, we are thankful to the Mighty Present
God you have come to earth to stay. O Thou mighty and
Holy Wisdom, the only espoused of God, knowing and re
membering us who are brought to Thy feet and have been
under Thy Divine discipline, allot Thyself to be our golden
crown; that we may advance step by step, higher toward
Thy heavenly throne from whence Thy golden sceptre is
stretched forth to lay hold of as we pass through beyond
every dark cloud, for which causes the bright sun now doth
shine, guiding us on to that blessed Oracle; and "He who
gave the Oracle then gives it now." Therefore there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
JE£
PEACE
BEGINNING OF THE NEW WORLD.
SSUS SENT two of His disciples and said: "Go ye into
the village over against you in which, in your entrance
you shall find a colt tied whereon yet never man sat. Loose
him and bring him hither; and if any man ask you why do
you loose him, thus shall you say unto him : Because the Lord
hath need of him. And as they were loosing the colt the
owner thereof said unto them: Why loose ye the colt? and
they said: The Lord hath need of him and they brought him
to Jesus. And they cast their garments upon the colt and
they sat Jesus thereon; and as He went they spread their
clothes in the way and when He was coming nigh, even now
at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of
the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud
voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying:
Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord,
peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Some of the
Pharisees from among the multitude said unto Him: Master
rebuke Thy disciples; and He answered and said unto them:
192 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones
would immediately cry out." Luke 19:30-40.
At this the tune of His Second coming under the sweet
Voice of Shiloh Immanuel, let them come with rejoicing and
singing into the Holy Temple. Let His sweet, heavenly Voice
break the cedars of Lebanon. Let it shake the wilderness
and let every one that heareth it speak of His glory. Amen
and Amen! He will give strength to His people, yea, unto
His Immortal Church. To the least among the thousands
of Judah wilt Thou give strength. Yea, He will bless them
with peace. Yea, even with the peace of Jerusalem wilt Thou
bless them. O Israel, let us rejoice.
But on the other hand, the proud He will scatter in the
imaginations of their hearts. The Mighty Conquering Prince
will pull down the mighty from their thrones and will exalt
the humble and meek. Yea, He shall exalt and establish
them and they shall be established as anointed in His temple
to go out no more: therefore let thy right hand do this, 0
God of Israel. Let even those that know not that they are
wretched, miserable and poor be brought to buy of thee the
gold of Ophir—which is seven times tried in the fire—that
they might be rich. Let those that know not that they are
blind be convinced, thus having their eyes anointed with
the eye-salve, that they may see and obtain the blessings
of the pure in heart; that they may be prepared to buy of
thee the white raiment and the Immortal Robe; that the
shame of their nakedness may not appear and the Holy
Anointed One be clothed with righteousness. Let them re
joice that they have found the Law of Paradise that was
given by Wisdom for the translated spirits that belong to
this Immortal Church.
The Voice of the Mighty Present God did thus cry out,
saying: "Unseal the Living Testimony!" wherein new and
fresh things will be revealed. For inasmuch as they are
honest seekers and loving inquirers, so accordingly My Spirit
is at hand to open seal after seal till the whole mystery of
a total and full redemption shall be understood. Now the
same Voice did the Second time cry out, saying: "Ye that
have an ear to hear what the Spirit saith, remove all stum
bling blocks out of the way, for the Lord whom ye have
waited for is drawing near to be revealed in and after a
wonderful manner."
Therefore, My dear little flock, assemble yourselves to
gether and wait in the unity of pure love, praying in the
Holy Ghost, who shall go forth to multiply more universally.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 193
So shall My Kingdom appear upon the earth, proving them
selves they are the anointed ones dwelling in Righteousness
in My own likeness and so, beholding Myself in them, My joy
shall be filled. Oh, I am your Immanuel, wherein I am the
Tree of Life that with variety of fruits shall you feed as you
are a fountain of divine gardens unto Me. So will the golden
floods from the Mighty Present God flow to water you
throughout; and in this Divine way you may grow and spring
as the Lily and Rose of Sharon, in the midst of which your
Holy Shepherd will walk and lovingly with you talk, so that
you shall not complain that I am a stranger unto you and
gone away to leave you as if there were nothing more to hear
from Me. It is far from Me to desert My loved ones, for
I am that Ancient, Present Rock that will still abide with you
to reveal and give forth the power of all acting wonders.
Hark ye to the Voice that is calling out : Blow ye tie trumpet
and proclaim it is the beginning of the glorious reign of the
Lord Jesus Christ who has come to pitch His throne in Virgin
minds, into which the honey dew shall fall to keep them from
all famine and drouth.
For now the fountain of Life stands open to refresh and
cherish every ascending Spirit who is climbing up step by
step until we arrive safely unto our Father's throne, wherein
He is now gathering and preparing them by the sounding
of this present Trump which is now blowing from thence
to knit them in pure unity of the Virgin Immortal Church,
that they may be presented as one Holy Bride without the
least spot of defilement, by the beloved Bridegroom, to His
Father.
Therefore grace, love, peace and joy be multiplied from
Him who was, and is, and is to come. The establishment of
this Immortal Church cannot be by man, nor by man's
wisdom, but by the Holy Spirit which Christ, our Prince and
Savior, sent in His own name to build upon the foundation of
the Father and the Son, a Rock indeed, which remaineth
steady and unshaken from time to eternity. Indeed, who
else is found sufficient for the great ingathering and building
of these Holy Temple Stones that are to be fitted completely
together, to make up this glorious Immortal Church that may
be presented all fair, without spot, thus becoming the
espoused and Bride of the Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus
Christ. Herein you will find the whole subject in the wonder
ful Revelation, even to the bringing out of all that are found
In lifeless form into the very substance of life, through and
by the Holy Spirit—where the increase and growing up is
194 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
known —into that body in which God will move and work,
which will fulfil all prophecies that have been in this, the
Twelfth and Last hour. We have good assurance given from
the fresh-springing words of Wisdom, that may produce a
sealed commission, not only in a letter, but from the feeling
of the fiery breath, by which alone I desire to make it known
to you, and thence to send pure love greetings to those whose
ears are open and ready to receive what the Spirit of Truth
hath declared and unfolded in this writing. It shall be pub
lished and sent to the ends of the earth to feed upon and be
refreshed in this all-fruitful and pleasant pasture, being
satisfied here in drinking that Living water and eating that
Living bread from heaven.
What a rejoicing feeling within my heart when He ap
peared to me in His bright, beautiful, sunny garment
and said: "Follow Me! I am the Light! Be of good cheer!
This is the beginning of the New World." Oh, what a
revelation this was to me; and that beautiful sun-ray will
overshadow all believers; the holy and just ones, and above
all, put on the meek and simple, childlike spirit, wherein
the worldly wisdom can never reach the deep things of the
Spirit.
But let it be remembered, there is power and authority
in the Word of Life that was from the beginning and is
now come to bear its own living record in our day, which
Word is the Spirit of Truth and Wisdom. Let none resist,
but open their ear and the door of their heart and mind
to take it in; and so you will of that living hope partake
and bear the Living Testimony with us, that the Morning
Star has arisen to lead us out of all darkness into the beau
tiful Sunlight of His Word. Grace and goodness hath now
abounded in us through Christ Jesus, our Lord, who came
and offered Himself to be crucified upon the cross to save
His Bride from corruption and death.
Therefore there is not a door that He passes by, but
at one time or another He knocks at it and would find en
trance, to redeem and fetch out His own Eternal Spirit from
under bondage, death and misery, whereby the fallen race is
so overcharged and weighed down in their spirit that they
cannot get up to shake off their earthly dust to walk with
God like unto Enoch, not observing the counsel of the Lord
Jesus Christ, first to seek the Kingdom of Heaven and with
all thy gettings to get Wisdom.
But alas, this wfil not do. Christ will not be served last.
Wherefore, let not the serpent beguile any who seek the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 195
pearl of Christ's Kingdom, but hark ye to the tidings that
are brought forth from the bright east, that the Lord is
going to bring forth Himself in a new and marvelous resur
rection, such as never was yet. There He sends His Holy
Spirit of prophecy to proclaim what He intends to fulfil ac
cording to His promises and decree. To this end He has
shown what gates are to open to give entrance into where
His Divine flock might unite together in sending out praise
and honor to our Immortal King. For there is no God in
all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
HOLY WARRIORS.
JESUS SAID : "If ye had known Me, ye should have known
My Father also: and from henceforth ye know Him, and
have seen Him." Philip said unto Him: "Lord, show us the
Father and it sufficeth us." Jesus said unto him: "Have I
been so long a time with you and yet hast thou not known
Me, Philip? He that hath seen Me hath seen the Father;
and how sayest thou then, show us the Father?" John
14:7-9.
Oh, where is thy faith and why still so slow to believe
what is to be beyond all simple feeling of old age with its
infirmities? Is there not another age that I have set be
fore thee which you are to keep your aim and eye upon
from the time and date into which you were born into My
Spirit.
You are not to mind how short you are from coming
up to that good old age and eldership, in spiritual humility
and full grown body of My strength and power, which is
to have its increase, though you may have seen humbling3
by others in its decay and decrease, which yet must not
weaken the force and power of the springing and growing
of that Living faith, though it stands in the midst of thorny
ground in overspreading all which from the deepest funds
of Me, thy God shall still make it spring and live.
Herein we shall stand as it were upon a mountain, yea
Mount Zion, in a very clear and sunny air; and a door shall
be open therein with an invitation to His ascended ones,
196 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
whose spirits were made free to draw off from the common
walks of the inhabitants of the world and enter thereinto,
where we shall find the precious golden grains which are to
be from the Paradise ground; and here we must be ground
down to make heavenly manna, which is to be provided for
those that were separated from all dross, to live upon the
increase of this meat which shall never fail; for so long as
the Holy wind from the Eternal element should still stir their
sails about them, a fresh growing should be and so the re
newed fruits of faith should be for the sustaining and
strengthening of the birth of Christ till it should arrive to
its full maturity.
The word was added: Suffer the grain of faith to be
under the grinding mill that they make up such a pure mould
from the leaves of Deity which shall pass and so make a
most Divine and savory meat, which shall be angelic food
for all such as shall hitherto yield themselves up, even those
just and perfect ones who live upon the Laving faith.
The concluding word was: You must not think much to
have your faith ground down, tried and proven, wherein,
following the call and summons from the Lord God of hosts
to the Lamb's Holy warriors, to fight His battle in the power
and might of that Spirit which shall go on conquering and to
conquer.
Therefore, there is a counsel of war to be called in the
heavens in order to the raising of a spiritual army that was
to fight the Lamb's battle under Christ, their great General,
for His Kingdom that has been so long expected to come upon
the earth could not otherwise be brought down in dominion
and power over this lower principle where the beast and the
dragon have had so long a reign, but by the force of the
spiritual warriors, for hitherto many ages and times have
run out and nothing was expected of the recovering of the
Lamb's rights of His Kingdom in His saints. Now His Words
come to His ascended ones to take fresh courage, that there
was a decree sealed for the raising up of such a mighty,
invisible army as shall fight valiantly till they have overcome
and regained that possession which does by right belong
to Him who is the King over all worlds, whether in the
heights above or here below, which is a new method that
shall now be taken.
Much has been spoken and many calls have been to the
exercise of these spiritual weapons and many have put on
the armour, but put it off again before they have gained
the victory, being apt to faint and grow weary, meeting with
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 197
such hard and strong contest from that prince and power of
the air with all his numberless legions, but it was said to
the faithful: Be of good comfort, for his day is expiring, and
there is a priestly host that is to come forth out of God's
tabernacle who shall be clothed with the fiery breath of the
Holy Ghost. No rumors or noise in the outward hostile
way shall be heard here, for all these spiritual weapons are
invisible and shall be exercised so as to do execution upon
the violators and oppressors of the Lord's heritage, which do
set themselves in battle array for the maintaining of their
own kingdom.
Therefore, all which shall be scattered by these powers,
so strongly being against them that they themselves shall be
amazed and confess there is no dealing with or standing out
against this mighty host of the Lord, with whom is the flam
ing sword proceeding out of their mouth; and the motto
that they bear upon their breast is: The Eternal Word that
gains the victory by His own blood.
Thus the standard shall be lifted up so high as to cast
a dread upon all the armies of the enemies that they will
run and great fear shall be put upon them. Then the faithful
soldiers of the Lord Jesus Christ shall hear His Voice saying:
Blessed and highly honored shall all those be that shall offer
and enlist themselves under the great General in this royal
and Holy army, proving they have been brought up and
qualified in Wisdom's school; trained in Divine skillfulness
in the use of principle instruments and in the understanding
of spiritual war, for which cause there is enough for all Her
children who must first commence war against what within
themselves is so repugnant and opposing to the full posses
sion of the love and peaceable Kingdom of the Prince and
Lord of Life, wherein they must expect to meet strong en
counters, but as they obey and follow the rules of their
Captain and Leader, the conquest will be obtained.
Further, these Holy warriors are to be qualified with
love and not push against or wound each other, all agreeing
on this one point ; to fight for their Lord and Master's rights.
Such as are found in this Holy Spirit shall prove they are
endowed with power whereby they shall prevail. As they
have overcome all within themselves, so also outwardly and
visibly, fulfilling that prophecy that by the iron rod the
nations shall be subdued under them.
Now as to the time, it is not to be put as a day far off,
but the time is present and has already begun in some that
198 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
are known and regenerated in the heavens, and shall from
a little number to a full body increase.
Now the question might be asked upon whom this lot
shall fall. They are to be considered as yet dispersed and
scattered and cannot come forth and appear until they are
awakened by the Mighty Seventh sounding Trump that from
the Lord of Hosts shall sound in their inward ear, whereby
they will be put on the watch and gird on their spiritual
armor; and they shall know their place where they shall
meet all together in spirit, pitching their tent upon the Rock
of Strength so impregnable with that Holy Spirit, the
nation's' hearts will melt before them at the sight of this
Holy army. So dreadful will the going forth of this mighty
army be, not by outward strength but by the Spirit of the
Lord shall all be made to fall under and through the con
stant Presence of this Eternal Ark, and deliverance shall be
worked out.
The question might be asked: How long is this war
expected to continue? The determined end thereof is fore
known to God alone; but assuredly there is a time pre-fixed
when David's war shall cease and Solomon's reign shall begin
and increase throughout the whole earth. There shall be
rest and peace and the reign of this Divine government shall
abide throughout all generations.
Now some Divine motives were given for the encourage
ment of these Holy soldiers. The first was that they should
enter into a present pay, which should come out of Wisdom's
store and bank, and would for them command a peculiar
dowry as they are called forth for this Divine, military
service; being taken off from all other employed service.
Upon them should be supplies of other kinds so great, so
weighty, so wonderful that none can know only those who
receive them, and from them the mystery of faith will begin
to work its wonders and marvelous deeds when it has had its
pass under the grinding mill that has been made mention of.
Then will the Divine miracles open and work to those
high degrees that shall usher in the immense glory of Christ's
Kingdom, wherein the faithful ones shall abide and hold out
in this Holy battle and conquer and obtain a crown and a
Kingdom each one for themselves, not only future, but pres
ent upon the earth; substantial under their great King and
General, the Mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah.
Therefore the question may arise wherein all that have
engaged as battlers for the recovering of their Lord's and
their own Kingdom, shall escape the mortal death, for if not,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK ■199
how can they come to reign as kings upon the earth? Verily
they shall not lose their reward, for these shall enter into
the hollow of His hand in order to return again with Him in
His personal glory to begin and reign anew with Him upon
the earth.
It was further declared that in this Holy warfare there
would be some endowed immediately with the Spirit of
prophecy, whereby they should know the event of all their
engagements and what success they might expect in this
battle against the enemy.
By that Holy weapon, the hammer of faith, the floods of
the dragon shall be cast out and bound down for a thousand
years to tempt mankind no more. Then will that glorious
Virgin, mentioned in Rev. 12, begin to appear as the sun
shining in its strength, that has long been travailing for
the bringing forth of the Mighty Prince, which is the pro
duct of all the exercises of the spiritual weapons and all the
wrestlings of the Holy warriors in faith and prayer, that
they might see this King of nations brought forth, to whom
the sceptre and rod of dominion shall be given.
In order to this, all the supreme and elected ones shall
in their course circle about till the land of Paradise shall be
found, which has been so many ages under hiding and ob
scurity, and has been prepared for these Holy warriors who
by the Mighty Present God shall find entrance here, which
none can do but those who have passed through all the
degrees of faith's mighty race.
Herein you shall find your true rest, by the descent of
your New Jerusalem Mother which will open Her bright
glance distinctively in each individual spirit, whereby a
peaceable habitation shall be known, so that the noise of
warrings shall not here molest, but joyous sounds, saying:
The circle of peace upon these holy waiters shall descend
that they may attend with all seriousness and calmness till
the tabernacle of God shall come down and therefore be
mightily empowered to act and work, in order to the main
taining of the dominion and reign in the appearance of the
Lamb that was slain, that was dead and is alive again.
Therefore, I shall put no other burden upon you but
that you hold fast the Words of My Counsel, which is to
abide and not turn aside till you be endowed with all those
glorious powers, as the present occasion doth require them.
Then you shall know that you are in that boundless circle
into which neither the dragon nor any adherents shall be
able to break or hurt.
100 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Therefore was added these words: Blessed are those
who are found watching and waiting till the Lord shall
appear in the full power of His Godhead to manifest His
own Kingdom and maintain the right thereof above all
kingdoms of the world. Even so, come Lord Jesus, and make
good all these faithful sayings to the joy and praise both
of the Jerusalem Above and Jerusalem below, who are wait
ing in all obedience, wherein nothing more is required but
that we rest in the bosom of our Holy Mother, there drawing
out the all-nourishing Spirit of Life.
So shall we become as a Nazarite, waiting to receive and
entertain your glorified King and Bridegroom with His Holy
Virgin train that has been touched with those fiery sparks
of your godly love that have prevailed in the unity powers of
the Spirit for help, seeing we have such need of Divine
assistance.
Therefore it is now as it was in the days of Esther and
Mordecai, which do represent the royal seed and free-born
of the New Jerusalem Mother that are scattered here and
there, and the God of Israel will gather them into one fold,
which will bring great rejoicing in the camps of Israel, where
the battle shall be fought and the victory won for our Mighty
God and King. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
ASCENSION OF THE BODY.
«pEAR GOD and give glory to Him, for the hour of His
judgments has come; and worship Him that made
heaven and earth." Rev. 14:7. Then hark ye to Wisdom who
is calling to the true ascended heirs of Her Kingdom, for
She has prepared a beautiful feast and the Holy Father will
come down with His darling beloved Son, the Elder Brother
and the Holy Divine Mother who will abide with us, wherein
we can feast.
The fountain of Jacob shall be thy blessings and we
shall hear the Divine Father saying: Let thy youthful age
renew as from its original, in which the prophecies may be
fulfilled and that the earth shall be filled with the knowledge
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 201
of God, with the understanding of the deep mysteries which
shall be revealed.
This will prepare His Elect ones to take their flight into
Paradise where all things are in harmony, sweet harmony,
in the same flowing state as before Adam lost His Virgin
Immortal Mother of Paradise, who now has returned with
those who have waded through the sea of sin and suffering
in order to put on the image of purity, which is to the chil
dren of the resurrected Word of Life, that which was given
by Jesus Christ; for not the least guile or fault shall be found
in any of the inhabitants of this place, where all things shall
be in wonderful harmony.
Therefore, ye Spirits of the Just, let us all call out with
one voice in great power to all the Holy Angels that stand
before God, that they, together with the Spirits of Just men
made perfect should assist us in adoring, honoring, praising,
magnifying and giving thanks to the great Infinite and Most
Holy God, being the Creator of us all.
His Words were so Divine and loving within me, through
pure Holiness unto Him, because of His loving grace deliver
ing us and giving us Divine liberty of Spirit. Therefore the
Lord gave me to understand that this enjoyable state was
not yet that resurrected state which could bring along with
it the glorification of the body, but that it was the internal,
resurrected state of the soul answering to the measure of
the full age of Jesus Christ, wherein He stood when He was
baptized at the River Jordan.
Others shall also attain to this, like as it was done with
Christ Jesus in His baptism, it being the sealing of the Holy
Ghost, where we should follow thereupon, and thereby enter
ing this resurrected state that should be sealed and con
firmed in us so that we should sin no more, like as in Jesus
Christ Himself, because His seed should then perpetually
abide with us, and through Him we should be able to over
come sin, the devil and the world and to discern exactly
all the temptations, within and without.
Herein the Lord gave me to understand the reason that
I was introduced into this actual and essential feeling of
this Spiritual, resurrected state—that I should be as a living
witness and spy of the blessed land; not only for myself,
but the more fully convinced of what I had hitherto from
the testimony of the Scriptures and spiritual believers and
hope according to it, namely, that it is such a state of sancti-
fication as can truly be attained unto, even in a mortal and
202 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
glorified body, as the example of Jesus Christ, which we
testify unto as our pattern.
We are directed, and also that I should by my own
experience and feelings, be thus better known and under
stood, of the peculiar condition wherein you understand the
spiritual power and glory, which is to be hoped for and ex
ercised therein ; and that all of this, being explained for my
brethren and those who run with me and press forward to
the glorious mark of the perfect age of Christ Jesus, I should
lay down a certain and truthful testimony for a powerful
encouragement and confirmation of their hope and confidence
that they be not discouraged, but may firmly believe the
prize set before us is attainable in this mortal body, and
shall certainly be attained by those who abide faithfully and
go on constantly and diligently in their sanctification, proving
their desire and glorification of the body.
The 11th chapter of Revelation was brought forcibly to
my mind: "And there was given me a reed, like unto a rod,
and the angel stood, saying: Rise and measure the temple of
God and the altar and them that worship therein." From
that chapter I was thoroughly instructed that before this
comes to pass, we must follow the Lord Jesus Christ and be
conformed unto Him in that process which is there described,
namely, when we have first attained, internally and spirit
ually, the perfect resurrected state, or the measure of the
full age of Christ Jesus, who felt and revealed to me this
day, that when we are like Him—sealed and anointed with
the Holy Ghost in a greater and spiritual manner—we must
also hitherto do as He has done in this world, and before the
God of the earth witness and proclaim the Truth of the King
dom of God; but before this, the evil must be slain and we
must abide in such a condition till the appointed time of God.
Then shall follow thereupon such a resurrection as will bring
along with it the glorification of the body and ascension into
the clouds, like as it was done also with the Lord Jesus
Christ.
Herein was a beautiful manifestation of the Immortal
golden Head of Jesus Christ, with a pair of wings only, joined
to it, and under each wing there were seven eyes, all fiery
and piercing. These wings were to wing us up to Paradise,
and the eyes represent the seven spirits that stand before
the Holy Throne of God, wherein He will greet His ascended
ones, saying: Though thy natural eyes be dim, these eyes
are come; yea! the Immortal Eye, that thou shalt see and
behold all things clearly.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 203
I felt as if this head and wings clapped themselves about
the vital part of my heart, from whence it was said: The
pure in heart shall be all-seeing and the ear fixed in the
golden Head shall be the true hearing; that we shall hearken
to the still small Voice wherein you shall hear a Voice saying:
Behold and see the blessed order and government that is
managed here by the Holy Supreme One.
All shall be in ranks according to order and degree and
in various colors about the throne together, rejoicing in a
melodious harmony; and a Voice was heard, saying: These
great Elders of the Kingdom of Mount Zion did freely
descend to Paradise, to them that were of a low degree,
bringing down and revealing unto them things they had not
known.
Such as were of the high state of this Paradisical world
were assigned to bring the lower up to pay their worship
to the great I Am That I Am, to Him who had redeemed
them. Therefore a warning was given from the Great One
to them that are honored in fulness of all things and in great
power and dominion in the kingdom of this world, who do
labor to be born into the heavenly principles and light world
and are truly acquainted in spirit and in truth with the
Prince of Life.
They shall employ all of their energy and power, riches
and honor for the lifting up of the standard of Christ's King
dom here upon earth. They shall come to hold a state of
honor and dominion in the New World of Life, proving them
selves to be heirs of the Faith and knowing that God is not
a partial judge to respect any but such as bear His own
similitude and likeness. They shall have His preferred honor
in His court. God grant they may hearken to this wonderful
call that will reach to the ends of the earth, that they may
bring their honor and glory into the City of God, to reign
with Christ, their head.
O ye Spirits of the Just, who have been made to see
and understand wherein good insurance is given to all who
shall unite, traveling and journeying on together with Him,
your Ascended Master, in love and harmony in the beautiful
Spirit of faith, shall see the Key suddenly come down that
will open the Ascended Gate where we may pass in, one by
one, proving we are prepared.
Therefore, O Mighty and Present God, to Thy Holy will
we come that we might gird up like unto the mighty, strong
Elijah and outrun all of Ahab's chariots. Even so let Thy
mighty hand, O Present God, be upon the Ascended Angels
2(H THE BOOK OF PARADISE
which are Thy chariots and with all swiftness do move, as
driven on by the whirlwind of Thy Spirit, on which let our
eyes be fixed evermore, as our heart's desire is to reach this
high mark to the top ladder of ascension, gradually entering
into Paradise where all things are in sweet harmony and
love, sweet haven of rest.
This is the same estate as Adam was in before he lost
his Virgin mate, namely, Jerusalem Above. Sweet Paradise
gate now stands open for those who have waded through the
floating sea of sin, seeking Immortality in order to put on
that Holy image, purity, which is to the children of the re
surrection of spirit, soul and body, given by Jesus Christ,
for not the least guile or fault shall be found in His Bride,
namely the 144,000. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
WISDOM'S RAINBOW.
"AND THERE WAS war in heaven; Michael and His
angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon
fought and his angels, and prevailed not; neither was their
place found any more in heaven. And the great dragon was
cast out, that old serpent called the devil and satan, which
deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth,
and his angels were cast out with him." Rev. 12:7.
Therefore there was war in heaven as of old, and now
again in earth, meaning in the bodies of all Israel, for the
battle is within and without. Therefore to the Law and to
the Testimony, which hitherto the heavens did open, wherein
give heed that thou may prevail and come out a conqueror
by keeping the commandments of God and having the faith
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
The last battle which is to be fought is now in the pre
paration, wherein we are to engage in a single combat.
Therefore, to thee the Mighty Present God brings forth His
flaming armor, which is the Living faith and love, by which
ye shall overcome.
Remember the charge of honoring thy eternal Father
and thy Holy Mother and do not disgrace them, for now thou
art upon the public stage to prove where you stood in the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 205
great war in heaven, wherein we shall behold how Michael in
thee will fight against the dragon with His eternal might in
honor of His eternal Father. Michael will be concerned
much in thee that thou should have power over the beast and
false prophets, defying the number and removing the mark
of his name, that nothing more will he ever be able to claim
in thee; for through the living faith holding out thou wilt
see him, cowardly, sneaking out of this Holy Place wherein
he will not care to abide when he sees his condemnation set
by the Spirit of the Almighty, who foresees all his cunning,
slick and oily ways, by which his aim would be to pluck thee
down out of this Holy Place —if thou should fall—how it
would reflect upon the Eternal Father and the Holy Mother.
Therefore dear Israel, forever stand so that thy days
may not be shortened in this Holy promised land to which
thou wilt surely come if thou hold out until the appointed
time of temptation. Then another removal thou shalt see,
and no more shalt thou by this dragon be exposed, but shall
these long and everlasting days inherit and keep this Holy
Sabbath of a thousand years in great rejoicing, according
as thou shalt glorify the Mighty I Am Presence, Shiloh
Immanuel ; but to this world it is unknown.
Therefore, let all Israel be encouraged by Wisdom, who
is against this great opposition which we shall feel at the
opening of the sixth command, wherein He said: "Showing;
mercy unto thousands of them that love Me and keep My
commands." Ex. 20:6. He shall appear to all Israel suddenly,,
while Wisdom is giving Her counsel and charge, wherein we
shall behold the glorious circle with all flaming colors, like-
unto the rainbow, upon which let all Israel look very stead
fastly, for many things we shall behold in this, the Twelfth
and Last hour; they shall appear as clear and bright as the
air without a cloud. Then we shall hear the Voice of Wis
dom, saying: "What hast thou seen here?" The answer is:
Through that Immortal Eye we see all things where light*
power and might are within its circle, so there is no need to>
go out for supplies, for it all lies within the compass of this
all-penetrating Eye. Thou wilt see it rise in a moment, and
it shall give new existence from its own in the twinkling of
an eye.
This is the manner of Paradise, living quite different
from the inhabitants of the outer world, who live upon the
moulded bread which feeds the natural mind, upon whose
breast they cling and cannot endure to be plucked from it,
where they suck in the curse and poison of God's anger which
206 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
comes in when the Paradise life ceases to be. But to those
who have come out and separated from them, My counsel
is that they entirely rest and depend upon this Immortal Eye
and never wander out of it. So will it become to thee thy
basket and thy store, and also be to thee thy fountain of
blessings ; thou shall need to know no more and to take care
of no more than this will give forth to thee; for it is an end
less creating source that fed the multitude with five loaves
and two fishes, and a thing that has been shall' be again.
Therefore I present to thee who was our example, who
had a body terrestrial ; but He being a Paradisical man, had
Keys to open all these treasures either in heaven above or
in the earth beneath; and this Paradisical man was our
Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. I know many will
say: "I know this is too wonderful for me to expect." Nay,
not so, for He said: "The works that I do shall ye do also."
Therefore we must not fear, for that which is formed in thee
will certainly drive thee to this if thou do not choke it by
unbelief.
Now listen to the words of Christ, when He said: "All
that the Father hath are Mine" ; so it is ours by virtue of the
same Spirit of Christ being within us. Therefore all Israel
will unveil themselves to this New Name written within and
bow to the mighty Jehovah, the Lord Jesus Christ, wherein
He will not fail to aid thee with His Immortal Eye. There
fore, let us lift up our hearts in praise to the God of Israel
as we are living in the day and hour wherein deliverance
shall come to all Israel as suddenly as it came to Joseph's
brethren, thus proving that the Son of man shall find faith
upon the earth.
This brings forcibly to my mind the words of Jacob,
wherein he saw that God would come and dwell in the seed
of Israel, which is the woman, and as they had done unto his
son, Joseph, so would they do unto the seed of the God-
woman and that seed of God would ascend into the heavens
until the Gentiles had filled up their time in afflicting Israel.
.And so He saw his son, Joseph in the place of God; he
was not God, but the Spirit of God was with' him. So let
ius all with one voice call out saying: It is glorious and grand
to live by that wonderful faith's supply, whereby Jesus
Christ fed the multitude.
Therefore O Israel, get you ready, get you ready for
that wonderful second Pentecost day. These are the words
of the Fifth Messenger: "The God of Israel will sow Her
afresh with another Spirit and She shall bring forth new
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 207
things that have never been revealed," whereby that Holy
Spirit will come forth and be poured out in its fulness, and
all Israel shall see eye to eye when the Lord brings again
Zion. "For I have given her the Light of the day as well
as the Light of the night. She shall rule and no man shall
hinder Her, neither the Host of heaven." J. Wroe p. 1390.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am
His servant.
PEACE
INWARD TEMPLE BODY.
«DE PURE as I am pure, and Holy as I am Holy" saith
the Lord. This is the Trumpet sound of Christ, the
Lord's Spirit, to such who are of this high order, that they
may break away from the iron yoke and be unbound from
all trying things in order to be received into the New dis-
ciplehood and with the Lord to have all freedom of speech.
O where shall we find any that shall for this high and
spiritual degree give all they have and are here resigned
to be fixed pillars for this Immortal Church. They must
come so to be, like unto the Lord Jesus Christ. It is Thy
golden crook that must take hold and draw them in for
such a priestly ministry. I shall, before I conclude, answer
some questions that may arise in the minds of some as they
read the wonderful revelations, who may require some fur
ther satisfaction concerning the truth of these things.
The first objection that meets me asks how, and after
what manner are these great and deep mysteries revealed
and made known, for we are in doubt whether any since
the apostles' days can have so pure and clear discovery of
the mind of God, by the way of visitation and revelation?
Therefore I say: Let every one search and examine from
what ground and spirit they came forth as the Oracle of
God to give His mind out.
The Divine Wisdom was my counselor; Her Spirit be
comes the conductor of truth and the Separator. She still
throws out what would not bear the touch of the burning
stone, which Wisdom hath placed in the center of my heart,
by which a wonderful light of manifestation did spring for
the knowledge of the Truth in deepest essence of it; the
208 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Divine way of Her wonderful measures and rules which
was experienced by me when, in a vision, a beautiful woman
came to me with a measuring line and measured me from
head to foot, of which I must say, it must have been for
the seamless coat that I shall wear, like unto my Lord.
How sweet and divine it is to know the true revelations
of the Spirit of Christ, knowing that He spoke by a Voice
in His day, since Christ the Lord ascended. But I would
ask: What was it before, when as the Words of the Lord
came expressly to the patriarchs and prophets through a
Divine and Holy Voice? God was so loving and familiar
in way of speech as with Abraham and Moses, and so to
the prophets till Christ's time, but now in these last and
wonderful days He speaks to us by the Spirit of His Son,
which is the Spirit of Truth and Comfort.
That is the Spirit we are to try to be proven by, whether
or not He is come unto us as a spirit of prophecy and rev
elation, which you shall know, first by the way of prepa
ration of the inward mind, for the speaking Word or Oracle
of God must have a most Holy separated place, distinct and
apart from the outward world, for there is to be a prepared,
inward temple body, or else no expectation of the Holy
Ghost without a suitable body be prepared for Him, as the
Living Ark in which the Oracle of Truth may open and
show the record of the heavens.
It may be further inquired: How can this temple body
be raised up and kept so spiritual? Therefore we answer:
Herein lieth the deep mystery of all mysteries —how to keep
the spirit of the outward birth with all its infection multi
plying, from rushing into the inward court where the Im
mortal soul and God are to be in private counsel together;
for if there be a breaking in of the troubled sea of thoughts,
that which adulterates the pure, revealed things, it brings
a false covering upon them.
Therefore, as to the inward and Holy place of the mind,
for this take more special care and keep the outward birth
at a distance from the superior and inward birth—call in
your heavenly guard upon it—thus seeking to be replenished
with knowledge and understanding of Divine mysteries, that
you might not be a stranger to the flowing Spirit of Wisdom
and Revelation within, from whence the certainty of the
true prophet is to be made known.
Therefore, let every one look to it—what they speak,
teach or write—for it will pass through the inward ground
for trial, where the fiery trial will prove it, but now we
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 209
shall come to describe the true and more certain way of
Divine opening through revelation as a foregoing prepara
tion to this high ministration. These are such as may come
to feed in themselves one essential birth of life to spring,
which is not having knowledge to understand such things,
wherein the Spirit of Truth and Revelation opens itself in
the fiery essence of the soul in a sweet, silent stillness,
where all thoughts are excluded, and the Light-ray of the
Holy One doth arise, overshadow and fill the temple of the
mind with light and glory. Then will the Immortal soul
sink away deeper and deeper into the abyss, being where the
greatest of Wisdom's secrets are to be known.
Therefore when the spirit of the soul can after this
manner steal and slide away from time and mortal day, then
open stands that gate that gives entrance to behold the
glorified bodies and to hear the language of that Light glori
ous world, which none else can hear but those who can shut
out the noise of other hearings into that still and silent deep
where most pleasant voices and sounds are heard, which
enter in through the several organs as a fiery breath. Noth
ing of vocal words are ever required or needed there.
Therefore, by this you may judge that pure and
unadulterated revelation and vision of a true sight is not so
quickly rushed into nor easily attained. It is a great and
peculiar gift and also requires great watchfulness and
attention upon it if any would enjoy and hold it securely;
and that there may be no mistake in this matter when you
come to try your own and other spirits.
Take this observation further with you—if any one
brings out a prophecy or revelation, take notice what power
and guard it has upon it. The beloved John, when he had
all those visions and revelations, gave an .account how they
were seen and heard by him, for he said: "I was in the Spirit
on the Lord's day," and good proof there was of it, as much
as if he had said that it was neither man nor mortal days
that did rise and enclose upon him, but the one everlasting
day or Ancient of Days, in whose light he had the glorious
prospects of heavenly things themselves. Thus he was in
the Spirit, which was his mighty power and guard to keep
out all other trifling spirits.
Observe this further—it is a much different thing for
the mind and spirit of the soul to be caught and taken up
into the Spirit pure and absolutely. Then it is secure from
mixture, but when the Holy Spirit has come only into the
property of our soul, giving forth its beautiful fight from
210 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
whence the oily springs do fill, that may be emptied, for when
vessels, our bodies, are made more fine and ready thereof
to take in from that which we shall wait for, and seek to find
some such to partake of that rich and weighty prize that
yet lieth in the secret and eternal mind, for there is a valley
deep which under the water of Life doth lie, which will bring
forth the fruitful olive plants, meaning the prepared bodies
that shall be there fed, nourished and hidden till of a strong
and full grown stature in spirit and power they shall come.
Therefore will they show themselves to the true Israel
of God, thus unveiling the pure and Divine Kingdom of God,
wherein they shall come forth to spread and flourish every
where in power and great glory; sealed with the Message of
the Holy Ghost with such a beautiful, Divine Message of this
dispensation and in such a way as none shall resist ; it being
built and compacted together of precious sapphire stones,
transparent for beauty and glory, the jasper stone being both
foundation and covering thereon. Then will the shout of a
King be heard in the camps of Israel, wherein we all shall
rejoice and praise God together throughout one Eternal day.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am
His servant.
THE NEW SHARON
I ET US REJOICE and praise God that we are in the
Twelfth and Last hour wherein God will open His own
meaning herein—what may relate to the approaching time.
Therefore as the strong wind or breath from the Triune Deity
blows upon what was under such suffering and death, it
obtains a new springing life in those who shall make up the
glory of the New Sharon.
As the first-formed Adam lost the honor of bringing
forth his virgin offspring for the replenishing of that bless
ed reign in which he was placed, so now the never-dying
Immortal body of Life does come to fill up the vacancy with
a more noble and highly graduated generation, by thus
passing through the womb of Eternal Wisdom.
All of these spiritual births lie hidden in the visible cor
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 211
•
poreal figure which cannot bear the glory of a celestial body
as yet to visible light till transplanted into such an Eden
garden together, we may all wear one clothing as our Im
mortal Robe, as may suit with our glorified Head.
Therefore had not the Lord Jesus Christ Himself so
condescended as to clothe Himself with the self-same mortal
life, yet without evil, that we through the apostles of sin do
bear—finding such nakedness with malice and with infirm
ities—wherein He, Jesus Christ, has answered me in the
most kind and friendly manner, saying: Think not much
nor be dismayed, seeing it is but for a limited time that
thou bearest the reproach that is so contemptible, seeing
that I, Myself being the Lord Jesus Christ did not despise
it for your sake, not suffering it to be an impediment to the
springing and growing body which is now invisible for the
fulfilment of all righteousness.
So in like manner you are not to think it an impossi
bility that you may to the same perfection arrive gradually,
as the Divine seed which is cast into a new created heart
shall come up to a spiritual body, answering to My own when
made complete, like unto Mine when clothed upon at the
River Jordan with that Holy Spirit, Christ, and through that
Holy Spirit, I, Jesus Christ did many wonderful miracles —
opening the eyes of the blind, healing the sick and raising
the dead.
Therefore dear beloved Israel, it is a message from
above, of good and glad tidings to the whole creation, from
the beginning of time to the final end and extinction thereof.
God's boundless grace will reach thereto, wherein this love
doth express itself, which is proclaimed to the whole fallen,
Adamic race by Him, the Lord Jesus Christ, who was made
an offering for Adam's transgression.
But be it known, God's love is not so easily seen if it
should stop in this visible way of redemption by Christ,
but it must go much deeper in bringing forth a new-created
Godlike similitude in the soul. That which was diminished
and disappeared may be repaid by the birth of the Holy
Ghost, concealed, and so springing up instantly through ren
ovation in every part of the soul.
This you will find to be the whole scope and drift of
what is written here, God having taught me by His Spirit
in this great mystery of inward redemption and I find my
self impressed to make it known in this, the Twelfth and
Last hour that they might rejoice with me, knowing all deep
212 THE BOOK OP PARADISE
things would be interpreted and made plain under the Sev
enth Sounding Angel.
Therefore hasten to do my Lord and Master's work
while the Dayspring from on high is shining upon thee,
being as my most delightful call to it from on high, from
which this goeth forth, otherwise in my circumstances I
would not have rendered myself public, for every woman
praying or prophesying with her head uncovered dishonor-
eth her head. 1 Cor. 11:5.
But Christ being my head-covering, I have been both
commissioned and ordained with a multitude of strength,
upon which I shall proceed and go forward and say some
thing as to this first part, which is the spring flow of the
mind, essenced in a never dying root, rendering the face
of the mind perfect and beautiful in love and delight to
Him who is the express brightness of the Father's light, in
which you will, as in a glass, see the Royal degrees and
spiritual ascension with festival entertainments in the spirit,
so prepared as may be for inviting imitation to the Heaven-
born Spirits, and also to them that are yet unborn; that all
may labor in such a heavenly habit of mind which for them
is found.
The next part which I have to commend to the Israel
of God—according to the inscription of the Book of Enoch's
life that is so hidden and unknown— has been by the spirit
ual pilgrims and travelers found and may be still found by
such as shall cease from walking after the flesh and worldly
ways and resolve to take up their walk with God in the
Spirit.
If once you can clear and get off from those lower,
clogging and sandy ways, then you may enter into this high
and pleasant walk with God which, when you are once come
into, you will meet with those various sweets and delights
that will encourage you to keep to them, because you will
meet good company here.
If but few among mortals, yet numbers of the heavenly
associates will walk and talk with you from those upper
heavens where is your traveler's tent—of which I have given
an account for encouragement—and notice to draw up sep
arated Spirits hitherto, who have liberty and opportunity to
know beforehand the rich and pleasant things of this heav
enly country, to contemplate upon them.
For this end I have joined and added to this first part
what was opened and revealed to me in this present age,
where you will see a peculiar knowledge and experience of
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 21S
what the saints, yet abiding in this lower world, may enjoy
in communion with Holy and separated Spirits of the higher
world, which may be of great advantage; also in what way
and manner we may expect the Lord Jesus Christ's appear
ing, about which so many prophecies and sounds in this
present age have gone forth, according to what is written —
the sure foundation for both His present and future appear
ance in the world.
Sure I am that He will send His Messengers before His
face, which is the Spirit of refining fire, to prepare for His
more visible and splendid coming in His Kingdom to make
kings, princes and prophets to reign with Him here upon
the earth and when we shall see more of this multiplying
oil of the Holy Ghost poured forth upon those who are
looking for this blessed hope and most glorious reign of
Christ, then we may expect He is drawing near.
Therefpre, let the ministers of the Lord Jesus Christ
make themselves ready in the power of the Holy Spirit to
preach the everlasting Gospel in God's redeeming love.
Praise God, I have been waiting and longing for those be
loved Ascended Masters and the greatest of all, our Ascended
Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, who is our pattern and way-
mark; for He ascended far above all heavens, which is the
Spirit of Immortality.
Can you not hear the hosts of angels rejoicing at the
return of the prodigals who have sought existence so long
of the outward world and found only husk? After his
energy is wasted he comes back home; the Father meets
him and embraces him and puts a ring upon his finger, a type
of that Eternal Covenant He said He would make with His
chosen people, Israel. He put shoes upon his feet, which was
typical of the understanding of Christ, and He put the best
robe upon him—the seamless coat of purity—and he arrived
safely at his Father's house.
The question might be asked: When is he in safety?
When made Immortal. Therefore O Israel, let us rejoice
that we have found the Spirit of Wisdom to open up the
Oracle to reveal the deep and weighty things which belongeth
to our peace. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
214 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
SEVEN LOCKS OF HIS POWER.
"AND NOW abideth faith, hope and charity; these three,
** but the greatest of these is charity." I Cor. 13:13. The
perfect beauty with spotless charity, which will well please
this Mighty Prince of Peace who wul not refuse thee, know
ing well that thou hast forsaken all worldly things, never to
turn back to them, but constantly to cleave to the Mighty
God, the Everlasting Father, wherein His hidden strength
He will to thee reveal: nothing from thee conceal: being in
joint union, no more twain but one spirit.
The Seven Locks of His power He will grant thee to
unloose and draw out thereof such mighty power as shall
overcome all satanic powers which have prickly briars, being
so envious against this Most Holy Place which is appointed
for the Ark of the Covenant there to rest.
Therefore behold! Now is risen the Mighty Judge
and Lawgiver, the One that is mighty to save and deliver out
of the hands of all thy enemies, which is the true covering
in the day of battle. Henceforth fear not those evil warriors
which come forth with Goliath's sword and shield.
The Divine One which stands within shall make them to
stagger and fall, for this Conquering Prince will gain the
victory over all. It is well worth sheltering under His
mighty wing; here with safety thou mayest sit and through
His Divine love He will not allow the evil one to attract thine
heart, but stand immovable upon the Rock, Christ, wherein
He will reveal His wonderful secrets unto thee.
This is the only precious thing wherein no one can de
ceive Her—Wisdom being Her bright garment, and the
Conquering Prince is well pleased with Her beauty—with a
pleasant smile will Immanuel look toward thee and give
thee to read within the Seventh Sealed Book —which is the
interpretation of all the deep mysteries —from whence I gave
thee to understand the mystery of the Nazarite Seven Locks.
The answer to the Seven Seals of this Book of Life,
which is only to be opened by the Virgin, completed in the
Seventh number of Spirits, are the Seven all-seeing Eyes that
can only be read in this Book, which is the true ground work
of all those wonderful, written prophecies.
Take heed to those powers which have visited thee and
will admit of no mixture of company—all of one sort. All
in pure harmony will meet in this love-divine sanctuary and
search until thou find out what lieth hid in the breast of the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 215
worthy Nazarite, who now has received His wonderful glory;
invested with all powers to a full and perfect state of glory,
wherein His Spirit still draws down the tabernacle of wit
nesses in the heavens.
The rainbow in the clouds, which thou hast seen as the
mark or seal of the Covenant betwixt God and thee, accord
ing as it is written in the prophecies, shall be given for a
Covenant of what to do—not to read over as a dead letter.
Thou shalt be a witness that this wonderful Book of
life is written within thee, which now, with all those Seven
Eyes do thou turn in, that this rainbow in the New heavens
as a Divine Circle may enclose thee with Him as a secret
to thyself.
No adulterous thing can break through to disturb while
thou art looking into this Divine Book of Life, which shall
never be trusted out of this pure circle of the Life Covenant;
in which, by My Virgin purity thou only can pass in, proving
that thou hast been in the Seventh Oily Pool to bathe and
purify thee within and without; so that the inward eye may
make thee all fair and send forth a Holy breath of air, which
is agreeable to thee, thus giving thee freedom to take and
read this Book of Life.
John the Beloved did open the nature of this Royal
Stone as it opened in him on the lonely Isle of Patmos when
he was in the Spirit, and it is written that when the universal
love was born in any one it was a true and perfect sign that
this precious stone would have its formation. After this was
described it was said by John: "Thou shalt now be brought
to the ancient that have made a progress upon this stone."
In this, the Twelfth and Last hour the stones shall be
made complete and we shall hear the Voice of the Bride
groom saying: O thou persecuted, afflicted, tossed and for
saken One—being My precious Bride, the 144,000—I will
marry thee unto Myself: Thou art Mine: Be not dismayed:
Fear none of those things that cause thee to suffer, for the
Mighty Present God shall be with thee.
Thou must be tried stones, at which many shall fall
and stumble. Thou hast been refused and set at naught,
but I will magnify My name in thee and make it honorable.
Only this I require, that thou separate thyself and touch
no more the unclean spirits of this world, for no polluted
thing shall come before Me; therefore separate from sin and
sinners.
Thou must be in the Holy Priesthood; thou shalt wait
on Me, therefore give praise and thanks to the Mighty
216 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ, who points out the
way that you might step firmly upon the sure foundation of
the Rock Christ, from which no outward disturbance can
ever shake you once you have seen the Lord yourself in His
beautiful, seamless garment of love.
Therefore we hold a firm anchor in this decision to keep
our feet firmly upon the Rock of Truth, which is one of the
greatest jewels in God's Kingdom. So dear beloved Israel,
hold fast to the Mighty I Am Presence, Shiloh Immanuel, God
with us, who causes our hearts to beat: whose life flows
through our veins: whose energy flows through our minds.
We have a free will and praise God we accept
it,
which
brings our own perfection, wherein "I Am" is the flames of
God, the great Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ,
which should be an anchor in the hearts of all Israel, but
with some
it
is but a spark which can be fanned into
a
crea
tive fire to purify and cleanse the body. But hark ye, you
must take your attention away from that which has bound
you—namely the attraction of the old world.
Today the Spirit of power and authority to free your
selves from the chain of limitation that has bound you
so long is knocking at your heart, so put your house in order
and be on the watch, for some have entertained angels
unawares.
O
Israel, have you not heard Him knocking at your door,
pleading for entrance to purify and cleanse your blood and
dress you in His seamless coat of purity? inviting you to
His wedding —the Holy Marriage of the Lamb —thus receiv
ing the baptism of the Holy Ghost mingled with fire from
heaven.
If you engaged in the war against satan in heaven;
and if you stood with the Archangel Michael, then you shall
receive and dwell in your body—a temple made Immortal—
as a reward for doing so;
if
you stood with Him you were
taught all the things
I
am now teaching you before you came
down to take a body, and all of this is being brought to your
remembrance. If you stood with this Mighty Archangel,
Michael, you are sure to follow on in this Visitation under
the Voice of the Seventh Sounding Angel.
The Triune Trinity is like unto our home below—the
home above consists of Father, Mother and Son, for as the
earthly, so
is
the heavenly, and also you will understand
the man is not without the woman in the Lord.
As Jesus was the manifestation of the Father, spoken
of as the Bridegroom, so Shiloh is the manifestation of the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 217
Eternal Mother, called the Bride, male and female; for I,
John, saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, coming down
from God out of heaven prepared as a Bride adorned for
Her Husband, Rev. 21:2.
Therefore:
Sing us the angel's song
They sang at Jesus' birth,
Sing us the glorious song
Which promised peace to earth.
Repeat to us the glorious news
As wise men of the east,
Join us in welcoming
The coming Prince of Peace.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
H1
PEACE
ANOTHER BIRTH.
fEARKEN O DAUGHTER of Zion; behold thy Bride
groom cometh, no more a servant, but to be served by
all flesh! The Word that was made flesh in Jesus Christ's
Immortal body, reigns now in Spirit to prepare for Christ's
Kingdom to come into a visible dominion here upon the earth
by wonderful signs and miracles, wrought by the Spirit in
form of flesh, to confirm Christ the Lord is coming to appear
in His saints to set them over the earth.
For the Daughter of Zion, the dominion shall be re
stored through a perfect, Holy union with the Lamb of God.
This is the first resurrection of the holy people which shall
be the Trumpet Voice that shall awake the rest that lie dead
in sin. The hour of God's judgment will thus come upon
the evil nature that has hitherto reigned in man and the
Spirit shall be so fully poured forth upon these first rising
ones as to go forth with a quickening life to raise the dead,
spiritually and bodily.
This shall be the terrible day of the Lord for the con
demning and destroying, not of persons, but of sin in the
flesh. Therefore I have informed you, in that you are
commanded to have all care to take this way of the Spirit
218 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
free and clear that your ascension may not be stopped; so
then you will keep your dwelling secretly above with Me in
the heavens and need not be careful what happens to the old
world beneath, for your mountain situation in God shall
never be moved. This is the Law of the Spirit of Life.
Therefore happily, Divinely united are those who know
Me thus far to be their new, Living and ascending way, that
as with My spiritual body they may go in and out, taking
what is for their present use which they may have from
Me their Lord, all free, as coming in the faith of Immortality.
Having taken in these communications from the Mighty
Present God, I found a precious feeding hereupon, wherein
I did feel such a springing and quickening life come upon
me, as if all were filled with Christ in every part, which may
be compared to Elijah stretching himself upon the dead child
which was made alive thereby.
Therefore the Lord Christ draws a Living feeling of
Himself in every part in the soul, and He nourishes it with
His own Royal blood, which runneth through every vein,
by which we know we have put on Christ in His resurrected
Spirit and inward body, in which perfect thing the coming
redemption is finished.
Highly blessed are they who shall arrive hereunto by all
these manifestations, wherein I see the day of love is break
ing to encompass the whole earth and Christ will no longer
be a stranger, for so He doth prophesy, giving me an under
standing in the Holy Ghost.
He will in this last age of the world more wonderfully
appear. Therefore I Am Present in Spirit to revive all who
love and long to see, feel and know Him as a present con
soler and comforter, that they would thus prepare by an
honest heart and mind, waiting for this bright Morning Star
to arise and multiply itself to numerous stars of love and
power, that may be a heavenly host to proclaim the glory
of Christ's Kingdom.
Even so come, Thou Mighty King of glory, and make us
kings to rule over all that is of the earthly life, thus re
deemed by Thee Thou Lamb of God, to whom all honor and
glory doth belong, Thou being so pure, Holy and good in
Thyself.
The Divine Wisdom keeps all in their place and station,
unviolated in themselves, therefore I have a deeper thing
than this to declare and make known to those who know
all outward births have been conceived in sin and yet some
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 219
what of good, from the original root of nature, having their
form in every one springing forth now.
Know and consider there is no other way to make a
perfect cure but by taking out the sting of sin; and that by
another birth conceived within the soul—which is Christ,
the quickening Spirit—that which is a sinless birth and as
that grows and becomes strong in spirit, the sinful part
withers and dies away. Thus Christ, the God-man, works out
sin which came by fallen nature, and so completes redemp
tion victoriously; for that which is born of God overcomes
the world. I John 5.
But here a question is asked, namely: Is Christ to be
conceived and born in every one for Immortality? Yes,
surely; this is and must be the foundation seat whereby God
the Father will own and claim us as being the express image
of His beloved Son, whe'rein Christ is the light that hath
enlightened every one that cometh into the world —John 1—
and those who have this light and life of Christ that have
been shut up and sin hath gotten uppermost, yet Christ, the
eternal spark of Life, will save all whom He has permitted —
nothing shall suffer loss but the fruit of evil workers that
cannot pass through the judgment and burning.
If this life be passed over and little or nothing of this
done, there must be a remaining, a fearful expectation in
going through this terrible, refining work after this life in
regions so appointed for this purpose. Therefore let all be
warned to mortify and renounce the earthly birth, that so
they may escape the fiery indignation that will come upon
the workers of iniquity.
Therefore, while you have a day with the everlasting
sunshine of love in your soul, turn into it and it will clarify
and brighten you, that so saved you may be out of all further
punishment, and find entrance in the joys of our Lord, which
may be known now in this present time in the heavens
of a pure heart, the happy affinity of which I have already
set forth in this writing, hoping this may give satisfaction
to the pure, sober mind—the unfolding of the mysteries, that
have been under the veil which is now fading away for the
breaking of day with the Lamb of God's power and riches,
wisdom and strength, honor, glory and blessings, for the
way is broken through for such to follow after; that is,
those who are in the same Spirit of Faith are acquitted or
set free from their sensual reasonings.
Then did I see many striving to enter in but could not
till they had relinquished the name and mark of the beast,
220 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
which is this worldly principle with all its polluted environ
ments; but by the power of this all-conquering angel they
were prevailed to do so. Then a free pass was made by
many, known by name, to enter in and receive Divine power
to multiply and to spread Mount Zion's glory over the whole
face of this earth. Thus will all nations be made to flow in
at the rising of the Mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah, for
great powers indeed are moving from the heavens.
Oh Mighty Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, Thou art
breaking this golden circle by and in such whom Thou wilt
assume and take up to open the fountain of great wonders,
by which the lost purity shall come again to be restored and
the heavens as a curtain over the whole world.
This is a Divine vision and the fulfillment thereof draws
near. Therefore it seems good to me to add it to the fore
going part. The Divine Mother has much of this kind laying
by Her that shall come to light as God shall open the eternal
door for more to be revealed, that many may make them
selves ready for the New Jerusalem Bride, to be united to the
Immortal Lamb of God, thus lighting up the standard—
the resurrected Life of Christ—who cometh down in the
fiery baptizing cloud by which He will enter into souls who
are willing to have their sin defiling garments taken away.
The oil of the Spirit is still flowing, but must now stop
for the present till vessels shall be found and made ready
to take it in, for which the increase of pure prayers shall
still ascend up to heaven. For there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel, and I am His servant.
PEACE
MIGHTY SUN OF GLORY.
"OOLINESS UNTO GOD"; therefore there must be a
manifestation of the Spirit whereby to edify and raise
up this Church suitable to the ascension of Christ Jesus,
wherein this manifestation must be in great power and in
the beauty of Holiness to bring down heaven upon earth,
thus, representing the New Jerusalem state; in order to
which, spirits that are thus purely begotten, conceived and
born of God can ascend to Jerusalem Above, where Christ,
their Head, in great majesty doth reign; and there receive
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 221
such a mission whereby they shall be empowered to bring
down to this world its transcending glory.
None but those who are risen in Christ in the regenera
tion can thus ascend and receive of His glory and descend
again to communicate, the same being thereby His represen
tatives upon the New Earth, being chosen priests under Him
—the Lord of lords and King of kings.
Now He that ascends and is glorified has made Himself
our Divine Messenger. He will not be wanting in qualifying
and furnishing certain high principles, insomuch they shall
be most humble and of as little regard as David was when
he was endowed with great knowledge and priestly pre
pared, for the drawing together in one of the little scattered
flock unto one fold, coming out of all nations.
Therefore, there should be a Holy drawing and stirring
up of all true lovers of Jesus Christ so that they may be the
first fruits of Him that is risen from the dead and so be
made Divine, principle agents for Him and with Him that
they may be possible members of the First-born of Jerusalem
Above, our Mother.
All lovers of Jesus Christ and true waiters for His
Kingdom in Spirit are true members in this Divine and Im
mortal Church, being spirits to whom this Message pertains,
which consists of those who are assembled to wait and hope
in the unity of the Spirit for its appearing and manifestation.
There is therefore a strict charge given them throughout
this Message to be watchful, and what I say unto one I say
unto all, At the sounding of the Seventh Angel there was
a door open in heaven, which Heavenly City, or Jerusalem,
has come down from God out of heaven prepared as a Bride
adorned for Her Husband, which is Christ.
This Immortal Divine Church endures and suffers all
things in the Master's cause and for His sake, always expect
ing Him to come quickly. A true Israelite of God will never
flinch but will keep the word of His patience and will re
member to hold that fast which he hath, that no man take
his crown.
All other names of churches shall fall and be burned
up, but this shall abide. The name of this Holy Immortal
Church shall endure forever; it shall be continued as long
as the sun and all nations shall call Him blessed of the Lord.
These are the true and Divine marks that are given to
a true traveler journeying toward the Heavenly City, by a
strong angel that ascended —being the Archangel Michael —
which was the spirit of Jesus, pouring out His mortal blood
222 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
life upon the cross and laying it upon the table, or altar,
leaving as it were a naming coal in the room thereof, which
burns incessantly with a most Godly desire for the good of
all His brethren, that is of all mankind, on the part of the
Mighty Present God.
We believe that He is faithful and true to perform all
His promises and that He is ready now to assist those who
truly believe on Him, as He was to assist all the ancient
worthies and great heroes who are left as a cloud of wit
nesses for us to follow. "Let us lay aside every weight, and
the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with
patience the race that is set before us." Heb. 12:1.
The Virgin Law of Christ is a bright ray from the Di
vine nature, communicated by the blessed angels and souls.
Hereby the true Immortal Church is made like unto the
Deity, which is the truth and thus never rejoices but in the
truth or in the reflection of His own Immortal light.
Wherefore, the Immortal Church rejoices not alone, but
with the best company and with the Holy Majesty of God,
with the Holy Court of heaven and with all good men on
earth. Their great care is to do nothing against the truth,
but to bear and keep all things in their hearts that are not
to be communicated to any but to the wise; according to the
most express command and caution of Christ Himself and
His own practice with that of His Holy Mother and apostles;
and indeed of all the prophets and wise men and scribes of
the Kingdom of all ages.
This gift of Holy silence is most absolutely required for
Him, as He stands engaged in great undertakings for the
glory of God, for if the secrets of princes ought to be sacred,
then how much more the true Immortal Church of Him by
whom princes reign, ought to be sacred; and yet even His
secrets are with them that fear Him. Psa. 25:14.
However, this advice of reserving must not hinder, but
that He be bold as a lion to declare and promulgate all that
He is commanded by His Supreme Lord, thus to bear up and
support the pillars of His wonderful government.
Oh, what a wonderful resurrection of this newborn
Church here will be, wherein the Holy Shepherd shall sud
denly appear in the midst of this Holy flock, spreading out
Himself as a Mighty Sun of glory upon them, making them
all to shine in His brightness.
Can you not hear His Voice saying: These are the Holy
flock that I will make My companions, for I have glorified
them with the glory with which the Father has glorified Me?
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 223
So He will cast a circle of fire around about them, by which
they become a city, compact within themselves; Christ the
Head walking in the midst of them, wherein all were made
kings, priests and prophets, there to reign with Him who
had now endowed them with all miraculous and spotless
gifts.
Then can you not hear His Voice, telling them that
having thus established them He should for a time withdraw
into the upper heavens, but that He would have His repre
sentatives for the increase and promulgation of this Im
mortal Church; and the bringing of them from the four
corners of the earth as the principle witnesses to proclaim
this New Immortal Church?
Thus He blessed them, that they might increase and
multiply upon the face of the whole earth. The witnesses
were chosen out by Him to whom He gave this authority
and command to sound forth their trumpets over all the
earth and publish the Everlasting Gospel, proclaiming the
acceptable time and year for all to be brought in; being
that which was to reach out not only to the living, but also
to the dead that were to be born again.
Their Message was peace, love and goodwill unto all who
will come in to this Newborn Church; after it was shown
me, though many did attempt, none could pass the fiery
circle but those who were ready and prepared through that
Virgin Wisdom that had opened to me all these great
mysteries of the Immortal Church.
The question was asked whether it was necessary for
this body to be gathered personally into one place; and it
was answered to me, that, as many as could be together
would be a great advantage to freedom of fellowship and
personal conversations while remaining at the present, as
the Immortal Church is now in its infancy and it will grow
up to a higher understanding; for the Spirit will be so strong
and outpouring as to be translated from the lower elementary
life into the Supreme, Divine element; and as Christ put on
His body of transfiguration, so they will be able to do the
same, as occasion should require.
Thus admittance may be had through the Supreme Head
and His upper heavens, when a bright, shining raiment must
be put on which may be called the Immortal Robe, till such
a time as this earth shall be changed into a Paradise nature,
as we are to be of one principle, one light, one love, one faith
and one in all the excelling qualities of wisdom, humility,
meekness, righteousness and other fruits of the Spirit which
224 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
are the golden chain by which we are linked together, there
being nothing out of unity and harmony of this blessed Im
mortal Church. For there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel and I am His servant.
"A1
PEACE
REMNANT SHALL BE PREPARED.
, ND I SAW a new heaven and a new earth : for the first
heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there
was no more sea." —Rev. 21:1—is now coming true. There
fore O Israel, lift up your heads and rejoice, for by these
things which are coming to pass, you know that your re
demption draweth nigh. Truly, truly the promises of God
cannot fail! Even as it is, the world will only be saved for
the sake of the remnant. All worlds have been destroyed,
because the Kingdom of God has not been formed as it
ought to be, and the Holy City has not been prepared.
The question might be asked: "What is the Holy City?"
It is Christ and Jerusalem Above, and this is spoken of else
where as the bosom of the Divine and Holy Mother, which
is the gathering place of the remnant that will be saved in
this third overturn wherein this will never be done except
by the remnant, but by the remnant it will be done, for the
end of six thousand years is upon us, and with it the new
age sets in, the new birth—the new heavens and the new
earth —in fact all things are made anew, thus giving the
beautiful understanding of the coming redemption.
On the whole, their work is like unto the rainbow, ca
pable of being broken into seven beautiful colors; and what
is more important, there is no failing in what the Lord God
has promised, and of the seven prophesying angels who
have declared their Seven Messengers, wherein all is- coming
to pass, and those of the Seven are one great continuation
of the prophecies, which agree with the Bible from Genesis
to Revelation.
Therefore, let it be remembered, when a fruit tree is
failing to give satisfaction, the Crowning Prince will graft
it with a new stalk —giving him a clear understanding —thus
preparing him to be impregnated with His own life, and
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 225
therefore making his body Immortal. The 144,000, the rem
nant in fact, wul see the restitution of all things whereby
the twain, God-man and the Woman by which He will make
one new God-man, will be restored; nothing else will conform
man to the image of Jesus Christ.
Let those who love the Master, seek unto His witnesses
and know that He doeth nothing but as He seeth the Father
do. Do His followers today follow His Father's counsel and
teachings, through the prophets who divinely hold the secrets
they testified of in the written word of prophecy? that God
would manifest; as the Father had to become flesh in man
before John could say: "The Word was made flesh and dwelt
among us; and we beheld His glory as the only begotten of
the Father." Eventually, in this the time of His Second
Coming, which will be found in written words of prophecy,
it is set forth that, whereas the First Coming was the mani
festation of the Father, the Second Coming will be the
manifestation of the Divine Mother, known in the scriptures
as the Mother of us all, the Bride, the Comforter.
Moreover, will there be a person who like St. John,
can testifv that the Word is made flesh and dwells amongst
us? It will be impossible to gainsay the fact, because the
work will manifest the truth that She is able to impart a
New Life to the bodies of those who are willing to receive
Her, even as Jesus Christ imparted heavenly life to the souls
who received Him. Therefore let it be remembered, that
is why the disciples failed upon their work of the prophecies
that had been entrusted to them, thus failing to set forth the
Divine Mission of the Heavenly Mother and the near
approaching of the Heavenly Kingdom upon earth. It is a
fact the prophets themselves expected it to be manifested
in their own day, and many labored to bring to pass the
Word which they faithfully taught, but grew weary on their
journey in waiting for proper developments in the fulness
of time.
The Holy Trinity shall descend in the Ascended Angels
of time, for the celebrating of the Marriage of the Lamb,
with His Bride. What joy and gladness now are to be re
newed! Behold, now appears the glorified person of Christ
our Lord, to receive His Ascended Ones —His prepared jewels
for the establishment of His Kingdom of Love, wherein we
shall hear the Voice of the Holy Ghost saying: "These are
they in whom I will be glorified."
The long sealed fountain is broken up, and the Ever
lasting Mountains dropping down the power of the Holy
226 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Ghost. Come all ye who have labored and not fainted, and
have kept up your faith to this day. You are those who
are to be fed and nourished with all the choice and precious
fruits of the Tree of Life, and are ordained to be those
Josephs that shall give out of the heavenly stores, and main
tain an open community to the thirsty and needy that are in
divine- hunger. They may also be enriched and partake of
the same glory with our Ascended Master, knowing that for
them great things are being prepared in the New Jerusalem;
there to have communion in one body at one table, all dwell
ing in the same Immortal Spirit.
The Spirit of Life and Love shall rise so high as to drink
thy spirit up; being one with Him, thou shalt feast and
drink of the Water of Life and thirst no more, which shall be
so encouraging, and shall make thee to bend all thy force in
spirit to be with your beloved Shiloh Immanuel, until thou
arrive unto the New Jerusalem state, O thou spouse of Mine.
Thou shalt fly as a spark of lightning to the body-
that is the body and fulness of all light. These are the sweet
meats which He leaves with His Espoused Ones to feed upon,
namely, His Immortal body, for in Him the Word was made
flesh, and these are the sweetmeats for a refreshing support
till a future day; breaking through the dark shady cloud,
wherein the Sun shall arise to set no more; for the voice of
an angel will be heard inviting the true Elect to the Marriage
Feast with Him, their Christ and Living Head; and with
myriads of angels that shall sound their trumpets of joy
at this wonderful Marriage Feast. For there is no God in
all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
THE WATCH GATE.
TTHIS MORNING the words of the Fifth Messenger were
brought forcibly to my mind, wherein he said that the
Spirit would come to the City of David as the rustling of the
leaves, falling as the dropping rain —of the Holy Ghost-
to refresh and bring up what has been sown by former
revelations, which is to be looked for in every true believer
who is found at the watch gate desiring the same plentiful
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 227
showers, looking with great joy for it to come down upon
them.
They shall receive and read the words of this prophecy,
for a most wonderful and strange time is at hand which
doth call upon us to leave the sinful land, then the Mighty
Present God will engrave our names on every one of Wis
dom's gates, so that we may claim a right to enter.
But hark ye! We are yet to open a more inward ear to
hear the Message which the Lord hath expressly left for His
Elect who are watching at this, wonderful gate, from thence
to ascend one step higher, that they may be enclosed in the
Spirit of the Holy Ghost where Wisdom is to be learned,
understood and actually practiced for the planting of the
New Paradise, wherein it never fades its beauty nor glory.
By this means the Holy Deity will be invited to renew
His walk with men as at the beginning, who will take great
delight to see the children of Paradise acting so Divinely
under the teachings and government of the Holy Ghost, for
no work or action is so agreeable to the Trinity as that which
is wrought from the Immortal seeing eye, where God beholds
and views Himself in His manifold wonders of Wisdom in
Holy and pure Virgincy.
Now the great question of those who are seeking to be
Wisdom's disciples is, which way they may ascend. This
question is deep and weighty and shall be answered accord
ing to the gift of revelation received; knowing then the way
to ascend through that Immortal Spirit although it descends
into the root essence of the soul, attracting with its Divine
purity through the Immortal Eye, where then it may most
easily ascend, before which all stand unclothed of this satanic
world, having proceeded from the center ground of God's
Holy glory.
Therefore, they who shall find such favor as to be called
and invited, shall come to understand these Holy grounds
through the power of the Holy Ghost, without which, all
attempts for it will fail. They cannot climb up any other
way, therefore let us remember the depths of those sayings
of our Lord Jesus Christ when personally upon this earth;
who still invites and calls upon all to believe on Him, for:
"The Father and I are one," thereby entrusted with all power,
both in heaven and in earth.
Therefore it is given us to understand all deep mysteries,
wherein He did not limit or shut up the faith in His Divine
personality and appearance on the earth. Lo! "I and the
Father are one," wherein there is no change to the end of all
228 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
worlds. He is therefore now to be believed, so if we can but
find the incarnation of Christ, the Lord in us, we then have
a sure and steadfast anchor for our faith to hold by, and
work out our own freedom magically; having somewhat of
Divine, pure matter to work upon, we may go on forward
rejoicing.
Another Divine rule is going forth in the prerogative
of the Royal will that is immersed into and become one with
the power of the Holy Ghost. Therefore remember that
Christ, the Lord, upon doing any great, marvelous cure, put
forth the sovereignty of His will, as when He said to the
leper: "Be thou clean," and sometimes He put it to those He
perceived had faith in Him, saying: "What will ye that I
should do unto thee?" For they desired the Lord should do
for them according to their affliction.
This expression of our Savior may be a grand rule for
us to follow and ought well to be regarded by us, for in His
will is the highest magic, when it is united with the will of
the Highest. When these two wheels meet in one, they are
the swift running chariot, which nothing can cross nor stop,
in which the Bridegroom with His Bride ride most trium
phantly together over all things, namely, over rocks, moun
tains and hills, which are all made plain before them, and
seas dried up.
Oh, who is able to resist a will that is united with God's
will, before which everything must stop and bow, which
will whenever it goes forth, always accomplishing its enter
prise. It is not a naked will that wants its garment of power
wherein it can pluck up to plant, to kill and to make alive,
to bind and to loose, to save and destroy, all of which power
will be contained in the Royal, free-born will, which we shall
come fully to know and to understand as we are made one
in the Holy Ghost.
Then may we go forth safe and secure in this wonderful
will to glorify the great I Am That I Am, Jehovah, whether
in body, visible or invisible, all is and shall be acted forth
according to the foresight of that Immortal Eye and carried
on in and through the operation of the Holy Ghost.
These are they whom God will take into His high school
of Divine Wisdom. They are to be brought up in deep wis
dom and to be so perfectly accomplished that nothing may be
beyond their art and skill to perform, exalt and magnify
their God and King, by whom alone they shall be able to do
all marvelous things.
The Virgin's will was never in bondage to anything,
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 229
therefore stands free and clear in conjunction with the
Almighty's power which will most certainly produce through
Her purity and royalty, and is kept fixed in the socket where
the burning oil of the Holy Ghost flames out in sparkling
majesty, operating here and there, awakening Wisdom's
slumbering virgins wherein the Lord hath appeared in His
own glorified humanity, revealing these wonderful mysteries
of the Holy Ghost to encourage each other as we see the
wonderful day approaching. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
MIGHTY TRUMP OF GABRIEL.
LJEARKEN O ISRAEL! Hearken to the Seventh Trumpet's
sound from the seven spirits that stand before the throne
of God, telling you that the Twelfth and Last hour is here
and that the whole world is warned; the everlasting Gospel
of eternal love is opening, telling us that the Heavens Above
are ready to roll down to open their eternal glory upon the
earth, that the inhabitants of the earth may no longer lay
burdened in the dark shade of earthly life. Therefore over
thee, O City of David, a mighty angel doth fly with this
thundering cry, saying: "Do not despise prophesyings" ; and
we plead with thee not to reject the Ark of the Living testi
mony, from which the Spirit as a flowing stream must renew
Paradise upon the earth. This warning is given to all and
every one this call doth reach, wherein the sceptre and
crowns must be thrown down to the Mighty Present God,
for He, in His Saints, has come to reign; wherefore all
nations, languages and people, not only here in this dominion,
but beyond the seas, everywhere, must the sound of this
mighty Trump of Gabriel be heard.
A mighty cry is already raised, wherein the Most High
will in such a manner uphold and will endure steadfastly
with His Spirit as He shall be able to bring forth His mighty
glory and praise, so out of all kingdoms, countries and
languages there may be a gathering, and as eagles they may
fly to that high Mount where the olive tree will drop down
the consecrated oil most freely. This is the oil that in Spirit
230 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
I do see run in all nations and will henceforth be shortly
sprinkled to give notice that the mighty I Am That I Am,
Jehovah, is entering in upon His one thousand year reign.
Now the question might be asked: Should there be any
world or worlds more than the Scripture has made mention
of? Therefore according to the Spirit of revelation, that is
never to cease but more than ever to increase yet upon this
earth, as well as in this very age to be known and witnessed.
Therefore, be on the watch to guard against all evil
that may arise in the mind, in opposition to the Holy Spirit
of Wisdom. I entreat thee to ever seek for that Holy Key
to open the deep mysteries unto thee and give you knowledge
to gain your inheritance, which will be perfect peace, joy
and glory, as some do truly witness and give forth their
experience, who do therefore advise and exhort all, whereso
ever the Mighty God has been unveiled and declared; for it
is the Seventh Seal broken open that doth belong to this
present age, wherein knowledge is to increase in order to
prepare for the great day that hath been prophesied of con
cerning the Daughter of Zion. The call is: Come forth! Be
ye no longer hid ye precious Sons of Zion, wherever you have
been scattered and dispersed, near or afar off, at home or
beyond the sea, wherever ye be hid, come forth. The golden
bells from the eternal world doth sound out their alarm to
draw unto them, as you are His own people and native
country; that ye may be at the feast of the tabernacle.
Come ye! and sit ye down together. Enjoy, and ever
more celebrate this marriage feast in the golden cords of
love where the author of this golden treasure in the Spirit
doth meet, and so never cease to congratulate you as fellow-
citizens; there to eat with you the feast of love, who have
passed through the regeneration given by Jesus Christ, that
not the least guile or fault may be found in any of His Sons
and Daughters, wherein they all dwell together in wonderful
harmony.
These words were heard from the high and Holy One,
saying: Praise God, we have been brought from mortal to
Immortal to dwell within the beautiful Paradise which is
alloted to us for a certain time; until all be gathered up
into the supreme Kingdom of Mount Zion of the New Jeru
salem; wherein we shall hear the good news, all is rich and
flourishing within the Holy Paradise Kingdom.
After this, the Spirit of Wisdom saith: Enter in, being
in thy Immortal body, which doth prepare thee to meet the
Bridegroom, wherein they find they have found their way
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 231
to the Tree of Life through the flaming Cherubims, who re-
maineth still a guard upon this Holy Tree of Life. In this
Divine place Angels do also wait for their turn to minister
unto those who come here as the legitmate heirs to that
most glorious state which is revealed in Zion, the glorious
part of those good tidings which doth belong to our eternal
Father; and the Holy Spirit gives a seal to me that thou
hast passed, thus receiving the anointing; and thou dost
walk with the Spiritual man in this beautiful Paradise where
thou dost often hear the echo of thy Bridegroom's Voice
calling thee still to hasten, getting on the beautiful seamless
coat which will make thee humble and meek in His eyes, thus
having the Tree of Life to live upon, which is that which will
put upon thee a most transparent body. For they who daily
feed upon it shall be admitted to behold the gate of Paradise
which doth stand open; and wheresoever the things of God
are, there thou hast a right, not only to know, but as your
own to enjoy.
These words of caution are given, that thou take heed
unto the Law of Paradise which has been particularly given
to thee for this end. Observe them, and the Holy Jesus
Christ will here frequently talk with thee and show himself
according to the love betrothment that is made afresh with
thee in this Paradise. This is what, so many years ago,
was to be communicated and which was left on record by the
Spirit of Truth. Now the Ascended Spirits must ever seek
to have their eyes anointed to see what doth lie for thetn
beyond this most Holy place. Among the precious things
that do flow from that river of Life which is between Para
dise, Mount Zion and the New Jerusalem, there is that glassy
sea that is spoken of by the beloved John upon which the
conquerors are seen singing their songs of triumph; and it
doth compass around the Holy City where the residents of
the great King are; where the throne of the Lamb and the
Seven sealing powers are the fountain Spirits of God that
goeth forth from the Most Holy One.
Now, this burning sea is a fiery trial and only a few
will be able to pass it; but those who have attained a full
and perfect control over this beast and over his image—so
as nothing more of this mark do they bear—they and they
only can stand, because they are witnesses for this flaming,
purifying sea, clear and shining like unto the meridian Sun.
Therefore we behold Mount Zion, where is an innumerable
company of Angels with the Church of the First-born, in
which they contain all the original and living patience of
232 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
what was copied out by Moses, who had a sight of them, and
must open and be established before the Kingdom of the
New Jerusalem can come down, either invisible or visible.
Therefore it is needful for the mediator and priestly Kingdom
to go before and make way to show forth the Divine cor
respondence between the two, that they in some way bear
the name of one Kingdom. For that Mighty Present God
doth often come down hither, and the whole grand assembly
which is here at certain seasons ascends up into the New
Jerusalem, so that from the strict union that is between
them it is not to be wondered at if sometimes the name of
one be applied to the other, because they dwell in that One
Immortal Spirit. Praise ye the Lord, all ye His Saints. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant.
PFACE
THE WHITE STONE.
AND I LOOKED, and lo, a Lamb stood on Mount Zion,
and with Him 144,000, having His Father's name written
in their foreheads. Rev. 14:1. Therefore Jesus Christ being
the Head and First-born of the 144,000, being the Holy gen
eration, who was after the way and manner of a Divine
nature; who was conceived by the Virgin Mary, overshadow
ed by the power of the Holy Ghost and brought forth the
Holy child Jesus. He grew up to be about thirty years of
age, when He was baptized in the River Jordan by John, who
heard the Voice of God saying: "This is My Beloved Son in
whom I am well pleased"; Then His name was changed to
Jesus Christ, who was the Son of God.
So the eternal womb still goes according to Divine con
ception; to bring forth Wisdom's offspring by the over
shadowing of the Holy Ghost, and the quickening power from
the Mighty Present God, who reveals unto us the manner
of bringing up in the way of the Divine teachings and the
light of Wisdom; for Wisdom is justified of Her children.
As the birth is great and high, being heirs to the Father's
Kingdom of Eternity, so they may have all these worthy ac
complishments, suitable to the same which are required.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 233
The Holy way is according as it has been revealed by
the Spirit of Wisdom, and shall be declared and made known,
wherein this is the first provision or divine caution which
is given; for as much as these Holy births are encompassed
with the powers of darkness, great danger and temptations
do lie to prevent and hold down the powers of darkness. As
soon as the birth is formed, its descent is with all its high
graduation of the Holy Ghost; it must deny and despise the
image of the earthly, sinful birth, by which the heavenly
born spirits will be daily provided. For Christ the Lord was
not exempt from temptation, so, tried in like manner all must
be until the mighty conquerors work it out.
Therefore we are charged to forsake our sinful native
country, and people of that sort which belong to Adam's
and Eve's family, and to return to our first ancient degree,
as free sons and daughters of that City of which God is the
light, where Wisdom, through the Eternal Spirit doth rule
and reign through one Eternal day. Wisdom's children are
to be educated in their infancy. As soon as they are spirit
ually born, care is to be taken that this Holy birth draws
its sustenance from no other than its own Virgin Mother,
whose breasts must at all times satisfy and nourish it; for
according to what it sucks in, of such kind, nature and
quality tie birth is, for it draws in the spirit and life of its
Mother. Therefore watch to it and hang not upon a strange
breast.
Next, it may be inquired what kind of clothing this
Royal birth must have. Answer: "Though it be born in
pure spirit, yet it must not be naked and without a body,
for clothing for such sort has become the degree of Wisdom's
Divine children." You will ask: "What is that?" I will an
swer: "It is a pure and fine robe made up of a pure trans
parent mantle, from one eternal and unmixed element, which
can no more fade as did the first Adam's Paradisical body
that was celestial and yet alterable, withdrawing itself, he
became naked, for he had then lost his virgin body where
in his strength did lie." Now therefore, care is taken in the
New Creation that a body be particularly prepared for the
making up of the New Jerusalem Bride.
Therefore let it be understood, none can do the work
without being clothed upon with this spiritual body, without
which there would be no getting up so high as to face the
beautiful throne, wherein they must abide in the center of
a lower degree till they can put on Christ's resurrected
234 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
body—the Royal Robe in which the Virgin Bride with all
Her offspring do appear in that beautiful heavenly feast day
in which the marriage will be solemnized.
The first fruits of it is given as a token and pledge to
Wisdom's children by Christ, now in the time of His betroth-
ment of the pure in spirit who keep their virgin minds
undefiled, who will as a most true lover make frequent visits,
bringing unto them choice and spiritual food that the
espoused may eat at the table with Him while the cup of love
is still renewed and filled as fast as it is drunk in, this being
the heavenly love of our Immanuel.
Therefore He doth make it out to this degree, consider
ing that we are yet in our ministry, out of which in His
Divine time, He will make the vile and gross image which
we bear to be more fine than the gold weight of Ophir, by
means of the supreme elements that will be with our mind
so qualified and co-mingled as this beautiful light arrives, so
as to reach thereby in a shining sunlight to come up in the
unity of the Lord's glory.
Herein, let us proceed into this wonderful world with
the inhabitants assigned to flll them up, which is the begin
ning and height of all worlds, called the stillness of Eternity.
There is no way possible for any one to describe or give an
account of it, but by being taken up into it, from which
there is a freedom to give a description according to what
has been seen in this world, by being spiritually translated.
It may be more properly entitled the Highest Court or
Principality of the Triune Majesty. The situation of it is
founded upon a mighty deep, wherein an innumerable light
doth generate and spread itself without bounds, as a vast
globe of Eternity.
Now it is here to be known and understood, absolutely
from eternal nature that abides in its own simplicity, before
either the angels or other creatures were created here, the
Holy Triune Trinity dwelt in this meek stillness, enjoying
themselves before they brought forth any image or likeness
to themselves, for in that high and lofty sphere no figures
or glory could be seen through this great power that did
move here.
A variety of wonders did appear, sending forth the
wonderful voice of Eternal Love, wherein was an innumer
able company of angels, being with the Church of the First
born, and in which they obtained all their original and living
patterns of what was copied out by Moses; who beheld the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 235
sight of them, opened itself and became established before
the Kingdom of the New Jerusalem can come down visible.
It is necessary for the mediator and priestly kingdom to
go before and make way for the Mighty One to come down
hither, so that from the Holy Union it is not to be wondered
at, that sometimes the name of one is applied to the other.
In the New Jerusalem glory there must be appointed certain
keepers of these everlasting gates, most highly spiritual,
to let in and shut out according to this Kingdom; and every
angel of these gates shall sound forth his trumpet. For
the Holy breath out of this City shall make them to pro
claim and sound forth to all parts of the earth the glory and
Mighty Name of Jehovah, which is the name of the City
that is to be written upon all those that are to be admitted
into it.
Therefore Arise! arise ye Virgin Daughter having this
name inscribed upon you with the finger of your God, having
your twelve foundations according to the number of the
precious stones of the Holy Circle made clear; and be sure
you have all which is to make up the honor of your Jeru
salem glory. Draw near now ye Virgin Daughter of Zion
that lieth hid, and bring your glory to the City at which
all gates shall fly open, and the apostles' name of the Lamb
is here written upon every gate for the serving number of
the apostolic spirits to obtain admittance by name and enter
through the gates.
The virgin spirits have before stood upon Mount Zion
and passed through the sea of glass, being the living Jasper
stones that are all covered up with the flaming colors of the
rainbow. Such therefore you must be, O ye Jerusalem
witnesses and children of Wisdom, and by Her stones within,
ye must become touched and changed that ye may be
joined to all these precious stones.
Be of good cheer, wherefore it is given me to advise
you that you give way to this living coal within you, so it
may burn away all the dross and tin, as nothing but the
golden material is acceptable, proving you are in your inward
furnace still waiting upon and ministering fuel to it, that
your fire may never go out, still taking out from the golden
pool of oil, which will then make you come to that height
as even to a perfect Jasper purity, which will whatever it
touches turn into its own bright light and power.
This is the white stone to which the Bride of the New
Jerusalem will be joined, which will be put in Her crown
thereof; therefore ask for nothing less, ye favored ones, and
236 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
say not in your heart: "How can this be?" But put your
faith in the Living God, for in some the stone of Wisdom is
sown, who are looking and longing for this wonderful day,
otherwise, those who believe nothing of it, stand without the
City among the worshipers of the beast.
The precious foundation stones are prepared by the
Lamb, for His conquering tribe to follow after Him, with
palms of victory over all fear and doubt. These are the
words of the Fifth Messenger: "The God of Israel will sow
Her afresh with another spirit and she shall bring forth new
things which have never been revealed." He also said: "The
day is come that I showed unto the woman, I will also show
unto thee, for Her writings shall be unto thee as the Scrip
tures." For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
PEACE
TRANSPARENT MANTLE.
LIAR BELOVED ISRAEL let us rejoice, knowing that
God's Elect are upon the earth, who shall finish the
mystery of the Seventh Seal and be instated in His Kingdom
with the Alpha and Omega, who has designed for His Virgin
Bride before Paradise or this world were, that they might
know that this design is unchangeable and the decree of
God is still going on, which was shown in a clear white stone
in which were engraved numberless names, all ordained to
make up the glory of this City of God which shall be the
praise and admiration of the heavens ; which will be a dread,
and so amazing upon the earth, for the revelation of it will
bring a woe upon those who have no part in it.
Thus the Lord Himself did signify, saying: Henceforth,
knowing your free birth name I placed it in this city; be not
fearful or unbelieving, but travel on in the assurance and
hope that shall not be made ashamed, for the Eternal Father
hath prepared for you this City, of which I Am That I Am,
the builder in you.
Therefore the hand of the Lord will be strong upon
His Elect, taking them to a high and lofty place, where they
shall see a burning furnace which appears all blue, like the
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 237
airy clouds; and they shall behold the Lord walking in it
to and fro, who saith: See and behold where thou can make
thy pass to Me and abide in the pure and everlasting burning
which is the Spirit, the cleansing fire, which will devour what
soever is not of the same essentiality with Me.
Upon this a voice replied: O my Lord, I am free to make
my passage to Thee whose Presence will make these outward
elements to flee away from that One Immortal Spirit; and
the Voice of the Holy One replied: Be not troubled at thy
binding—mortality—for I, the Lord, will descend in this
fiery cloud unto thee as a baptizing fire which shall take
away the gross impurities of the senses, that thou may be
classified in order to thy comingling with the Deity.
This will manifest the outspreading name of thy Im-
manuel, whereby thou shalt receive power to ascend through
fire and air and receive all that is described, namely, freedom
of communion with the Holy Trinity. Wherefore pursue and
watch to drink in of this pure Spirit of burning, that which
will clear and take out of the way whatsoever hath kept
you from ascending into the Holy City.
These wonderful words from the Mighty Present God
bring forcibly to my mind the two disciples while on their
way from Jerusalem to Emmaus, when Jesus entered into
company with them and the disciples said: "Did not our
hearts burn within us as He talked with us by the way?"
which causes my body, soul and spirit such a beautiful sen
sation, as if I were covered with a cloud of sunheat, giving
out light by which I could see what was inwardly done, as
well as feeling it.
Then it was further spoken that all Israel should take
notice that this was also the bright garment of the Sun and
the beautiful bright cloud encompassing His chosen Elect,
giving them further revelation to show what the Holy One
is about to do; giving His order to lay the foundation of
this strong city, in which the Mighty God will pitch His
tabernacle and settle His rest forever.
This beautiful Jerusalem City has been given through
many, many ages of the world, but the heavenly thing itself
hath not been brought forth as now. It is because the set
time is fast approaching, for the trying, burning furnace is
kindled and the winds of the Almighty forcibly do blow upon
the flames thereof in the center of the soul of every one who
are the Elect members of this Holy Immortal Church.
Now is the time for the Spirit of burning and judgment
to prepare each stone which is designed for this Holy, Im
238 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
mortal glory. No coin, mixed gold, nor reprobate silver
can pass through this furnace, which is ordained to prove
whatsoever coins to build this foundation on.
The Mighty King sends forth His decrees to fulfil the
ancient prophecies concerning the return of the long capti
vity of those who belong to the Jerusalem Mother City, that
they may know their original freedom and no longer abide
in captivity and exile among the outward world in confusion
and reproach.
You might say: What sign will the Lord give for this?
The answer is: By loosening the last seal under which doth
lie the rich bank and divine treasures of Wisdom's Spirit and
power, which shall carry on this New Jerusalem building that
all the powers which the dragon beast can raise by their
agents, visible and invisible, shall but turn to their own
shame and confusion, when the Mighty Present God arises
to open this Seventh seal, under which the most precious
things —even that fine, transparent mantle—lies hid, to be
manifested in due time for the beautifying of this Divine
building; but many may arise in confusion, saying the time
is not yet.
Therefore, let the Spirit of Truth give the answer, who
best knows what He has worked out—in order hitherto in
the central deep of some select vessels who are not to make
any outward cry—until the mystery be fully finished in them,
knowing that the time is at hand.
Wherefore let none look afar off or remote from them
selves and neglect their own vantage at home, but regard
how near the grape is to ripeness, which contains the wine
that is to be drunk at the marriage supper of the Lamb,
whose charge is as a great overseer upon those who are
regenerated, that they have not put this day afar off, not
discerning the Lord's body, but who are quickened with Him,
who have died the death of the evil in obedience to their
Divine Master, who are passed from death unto Life, break
ing up all those seals, which shall make way for them to
enter into the Holy City. >. ,„,,„,
Therefore John the beloved, who brought forth the Book
of Revelation, mentioned concerning these things that are
very beautiful and mighty, that there is no fault finding of
it unto the uttermost until the Lord Himself cometh with
the plumet line of the Holy Spirit to measure out the mean
ing. Though there have been some who have been favored
with this Light of Revelation— by means of which they un
derstood—which lieth hid until the appointed time of the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 239
opening of the seals, wherein they have discovered those
rich jewels which were concealed under that dark covert,
the opening of which seal the angel shall set down in order
as it was acted in my own personal thoughts —the Immortal
Soul waiting for the Mighty Present God's power.
"After this I looked and behold a door was opened in
heaven; and the first voice which I heard was as it were
a trumpet talking with me, which saith: Come up hither,
and immediately I was in the Spirit; and behold a throne
was set in heaven and One sat on the throne." —Rev. 4:1,2 —
which was the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the
Prince of Peace. For there is no God in all the earth but
in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
GOD'S ETERNAL FREEDOM.
«DUT THE COMFORTER, which is the Holy Ghost, whom
the Father will send in My name, He shall teach you
all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, what
soever I have said unto thee." John 14:26.
Let us rejoice at His words when He said: "I will bring
all things to your remembrance whatsoever I have said unto
thee." Those deep, choice and rich things that are reserved
to be brought forth in this, the Twelfth and Last hour, where
in we shall possess these choice and rich things, that are
reserved for this day in the New Jerusalem Immortal land
where our Lord doth stand, and which will be divided unto
each one according to their spiritual understanding.
Doubt not that we may find deep and glorious things
as it was in the apostolic day, through whom God has spoken
expressly and doth declare without adding or diminishing.
Therefore I answer according to what is given me to know
in the deep mysteries whereunto my spirit hath been drawn
by a strong power that has brought me to a new experience
of a Divine revelation, which flows by the true oracle ground
of the Holy Ghost.
Herein the unmixed oil of the Holy Spirit is infused in a
still Voice which may not be so clear to others as to those
who live in the light, who have ears to hear and understand,
240 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
feeling the Divine powers of the Holy Spirit that Jesus Christ
doth bring in, wherein we humbly receive this Graft of the
Word of Life, opening and renewing its witnesses again as
in the old apostolic time, not only in part but in its fulness,
with the overshadowing of a bright cloud.
Through the mist of it, by that Immortal Eye, we shall
behold our Divine Mother richly adorned in transparent gold,
Her face shining as the sun for brightness and Her counten
ance being beautiful and sweet, which will cause all Israel
to become somewhat amazed; but immediately you shall hear
Her sweet Voice saying: I am God's Eternal Virgin Wisdom
whom thou hast been inquiring after, who will unseal the
treasures of God's deep Wisdom unto thee.
In this, the Twelfth hour She shall appear with a crown
upon Her head saying: Behold thy Mother! wherein thou
must enter into a Covenant to obey the New Paradise Law
that shall be revealed unto thee; I shall now cease to appear
unto thee in a visible form, but I shall not fail to transform
Myself in thy mind of Wisdom.
As we hearken unto Her She shows us the Golden Key
to open the great mysteries which lie deeply hidden in my
heart; and I said: O my Father, how is it Thou hast shown
me the glory of Thine House and the riches and dominion of
Thy Kingdom? She who is spoken of in Esdras, who was
removed from the earth but has returned —the Bride, the
Mother of the New World—wherein man is to be born. It
is through Her and the Lord working with Her that man's
body is to be made like unto His glorious body.
While writing these beautiful words, a Divine hope
springs up in my heart, longing for the New World, the
Golden Age, wherein all things shall be made anew. There
fore read the blessed words of this Visitation and hold on to
every thread of hope with that living faith that cannot fail,
and you shall hear the Voice calling out: Oh, feast with Me
My Christ and Living Head, for I espouse you to one Hus
band and that Husband is Christ. Do you not hear the Voice
of an angel sounding the trump of joy at this great marriage
feast?
These words that came from His mouth were like honey
drops. Therefore all this which has been declared should fill
your hearts with wisdom, love and kindness toward the
faithful travelers who are on their way to the City of God.
It might invite and encourage some who have not set their
foot in this way toward the New Jerusalem, the City of God.
O ye who are lovers and friends of this strait and
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 241
narrow way, longing to be counted worthy to enter into the
courts above with Christ your Lord, with the innumerable
spirits, pure and glorious, which gives you wisdom, comfort
and joy, bidding you to go on swiftly in the path of Life,
giving you a full assurance of all His loving assistance with
His dear embrace and a most glorious communion wherein
all veils and briars are taken away.
Therefore we shall behold the Lord our Christ upon the
mountain. He will show Himself and talk with thee as God
did with Moses, only thou must put off thy shoes, because it
is Holy ground you will walk upon, as much as to say: Come
here, being all pure and clean, leaving all at the foot of the
mountain that would contact the worldly earthly dust.
Then shall you know, hear and see that which is so
refreshing for the feelings of all your Divine Wisdom so that
you will say: It is good to be here; and so it may be per
mitted for so long a time as you can abide clothed with that
transfigured robe of the Spirit of Christ.
That will be at certain times and seasons, yet it will
be enough to know that this place is Holy ground. It is
Divine; it is a high and blessed privilege to see and know the
place and company beforehand, for our Lord Jesus Christ
is ever ready to show unto the spiritually minded the domin
ion in His Kingdom and to give a good assurance of being
joint-heirs with Him of the same glory as you may see in
John 17 and Rom. 8. All this is to confirm what in every
succeeding age may be as a fresh seal, evidently given by the
Most Holy Spirit.
Oh, who would not be of the number of the sealed One?
Surely it is worth forsaking all earthly things pertaining to
the old world for. Therefore we entreat thee to hold up
these great privileges that you have had by experience of
those who have traveled the strait and narrow way and
have gained their eternal freedom, proving if we live up to
the Law of Life we shall Live and we shall not die, therefore:
The Lord will make the earth anew
And on it all His glory show.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
242 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
PURSUE THE ASCENSION.
«f AM JEALOUS over you with Godly jealousy: for I have
espoused you to one Husband, that I may present you as
a chaste Virgin to Christ." 2 Cor. 11:2. Therefore, when
the man has Christ the woman has a husband and when the
woman has Jerusalem Above the man has a wife, and what
God has joined together let no man put asunder. There is no
tie more sacred than the marriage tie ; the golden chain that
binds the two together in love is also joined in heaven, where
in the mighty Archangel Gabriel bears witness of this Holy
Marriage.
As there were neither sin nor confusion in the former
cycle, so it must be again when the hour of God's judgments
shall have come to pass ; then a final sentence against all the
powers of darkness. Then God's anointed Israel—and that
anointing means the power of the Holy Ghost, His new
creation —cannot be disturbed or tormented.
This is the prophecy throughout eternity which will be
known; Eternal rejoicing as a fore-runner of this blessed
Jubilee; the Seventh Trump of the everlasting Gospel of love,
peace and rejoicing, it being the Holy Ghost that enters in
and gives the power of the resurrected Word of Life.
The question might be asked: When will this marvelous
resurrection be? It is now with the Elect of God, if you
can receive it, which will bring favor and friendship with
our God again. Now in answer to this as to the time, it
is known only to God in the secret chamber of His council,
only it is this far revealed unto His Israel, that it will be at
the fulness of the great mystery wherein the Sons of God
will be made manifest here upon earth; also when genera
tions according to fleshly birth, shall cease in this world.
Then this great redemption shall be complete and high
priest officers shall be at an end, for the battle is fought
and the victory is won and Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living
God, delivers the Kingdom back over to His Father and God
is all and in all; sanctifying Himself in all His new creation
which will mount to perpetual, endless joy and pleasure, that
will fill the New world with voices and instruments of praise
to the Holy Trinity; in unity as it was from the beginning.
Therefore dear Israel, I have given you a true and
spiritual account of what in my spiritual travels I have seen
and heard, the words which fell from the lips of the Seventh
and Last Messenger by being admitted into that Heavenly
court at certain times and seasons.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 243
This shall be a living testimony to the spiritual-minded
furthermore to judge, for no other can receive it or fathom
out the deep Wisdom of God; this is for those who have
entered into the resurrected Word of Life that is written in
the beautiful Star of Bethlehem —those true hearts who do
not grieve the Holy Spirit away from them, but rejoice
greatly in the brightness of its rising with an open heart and
mind to receive those most valuable and precious gifts, which
is the Divine intelligence of God's mind and the breaking
open these sealed treasures which are more precious than
the gold weight of Ophir.
Therefore this will be understood by a true spirit of
sound judgment and discernment, that they can give proof
that they have lived and walked in Christ's Spirit and that
we shall know where our anointing is poured forth; for by
their fruits ye shall know them, and by their wonderful
understandings, being educated in the school of the prophets,
going in and out as strangers, no longer dwelling upon the
earth.
Herein they always do see the ladder of ascension
steadily before their eyes, knowing that their stay is not
to be long before they will be brought before the Holy Throne
of God; being thus qualified they do stand in all readiness
for their ascension, wherein the heavens do open and the
bright clouds break as an open gate for their ascension.
They are now to be parted from the earth, being caught
up in their tabernacle body, thus having a conversation with
the Holy Trinity. But how shall it be discerned when you do
ascend? In answer to this: No gross, earthly eye that looks
at things according to the outward appearance can indeed
discern the Lord's body which is put on for ascension.
No one can be in the Divine understanding but such as
are in the great Sunlight. Others are not to see it or know
it until they come to descend into the tabernacle body of the
Holy Ghost. Then they shall be confessed and owned by
those who are doubtful and unbelieving, but blessed are those
who know themselves in it and are received out of sight to
be very much with Jesus Christ, their Lord.
How is it, you will say, to be out of sight and yet in
sight amongst the brethren? Let it be understood that the
soul and spirit is in the secret Divine body which was shown
by Jesus Christ, who appeared first to Mary in a spiritual
body while Christ took the flesh and bone body and appeared
to His disciples in the upper room.
We cannot find words to explain what joy, love and
244 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
embraces do Divinely pass between the Lord Christ and the
ascended ones—no height, length and breadth of love which
is enjoyed here in the highest circles of Eternal Life can be
measured out. It may be well and truly said: "It passeth
all understanding."
But this is not all. There is yet much more to be done
and conferred by the Father of the Ascended Spirits whom
the Lord Christ presented unto Him and said: Behold and
see, they whom Thou hast given Me are come up after Me,
being no more in the world than I am. Therefore O Father,
confer upon them what Thou hast conferred upon Me in the
presence of the Supreme glory, wherein all were well pleased
to behold the effects of Christ Jesus' travail through death
and sorrow, to save His Bride from corruption and death.
Therefore, upon all this there was a council held jointly
by the Holy Trinity, all agreeing in one as to what Divine
gifts were to be conferred with all those promised rewards,
which do belong to the conquerors for the encouragement of
the rest of the flock to pursue their ascension also in this
the Twelfth and Last hour, wherein these Divine promises
of God shall be fulfilled. Angels, Archangels will celebrate
that day, for under the Voice of the Seventh and Last Mes
senger the mighty work shall be complete. For there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
I
PEACE
TO APPRECIATE GOD.
TURNED to see the Voice that spake with me, and being
turned, I saw seven candlesticks; and in the midst of the
seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with
a garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a
golden girdle. His head and His hair white like wool; as
white as snow: and His eyes were as a flame of fire; and His
feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and
His Voice as the sound of many waters. And He had in His
right hand seven stars, and out of His mouth went a sharp
two-edged sword: And His countenance was as the Sun
shineth in His strength. Rev. 1:12-16. This being our
Ascended Master, the Lord Jesus Christ in His glorified body,
wherein the sceptre and crown of the old world must be
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 245
thrown down at His feet, for He in His Saints is coming to
reign; all nations, languages and people, not only here in
this dominion, but beyond the seas everywhere, must hear
the sound of this Mighty Trumpet; for there is a great cry
already raised whom the Most High will in such a manner
uphold and will endow with His Spirit, as He shall be able to
bring forth His temple glory and praise, that so out of all
kingdoms, countries and languages there may be a gather
ing, that as eagles they may fly to that high mountain where
the Olive Tree will drop the Holy Oil most freely.
This is the Oil that in Spirit I do see run, and I see that
some in all nations will herewith shortly be sprinkled, to give
notice that the mighty King is entering in upon His thousand
year reign, thus having an answer to that wonderful
question, how there should be any world or worlds more
than what the Scriptures have made mention of—demon
strated. There is a succession of the Spirit of Revelation that
is never to cease, but is more than ever to increase yet upon
the earth, and will in this very age be known and witnessed.
Now we must draw to the conclusion of this world,
called the stillness of Eternity, concerning which I have this
to declare, from what the ascended spirits like unto Enoch,
Elijah and also Paul—were shown—who were taken up into
and admitted to the knowledge thereof, and were then shown
and taught these three particulars worthy to be observed:
First, that no entrance for habitation heretofore to any
departed spirit would be, though arrived to ever so high a
degree of perfection. Nay, it was said that Christ Jesus
Himself as the First-born from the dead and is glorified in
His humanity, ascended far above all heavens which signi
fied Immortality; but ever remember, the Godhead is always
here, but not in His personality. For this globe and in
most court is reserved for a greater mystery that has yet
to be made known, only this much was with respect to
inform, that as out of this still Eternity the Deity in and
through this Eternal Immortal Eye did provide His own
working properties to manifest Himself in His Divine nature,
and thereby generate out of the Eternal, meek stillness.
The creating powers from the Trinity goeth forth to bring
in the first place, the angelic world, furnishing it with angelic
spirits, and so did proceed to the rest of the above men
tioned worlds.
The second thing we are to notice is that the shut-up
principal and highest court of the Triune God and of His
Virgin Wisdom with Her offspring of simplified Spirits, is
246 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
not to be opened till the will and pleasure of God, the creating
Father, who shall move Himself through these mild and pure
spirits for some new manifestation and regeneration upon
what is in the created world found defective, that so by a
renewed, creative power going forth in this manner out from
the still beautiful Eternity, another face of more excellent
beauty and more transcending glory for everlasting fixation,
comes over that which was under a lapse, en apostacy, or
falling away hath been.
But how finite and short is all that can be said or even
imagined in comparison of all those amazing and beautiful
changes that still add to the glory of God's workmanship in
His new Creation!
As to the third particular that we are to take notice
of, which is the order, union and equal degree of these spirits
in this beautiful globe of Eternity, we can just hint at
it;
this unity and Divine quality, which is manifested by their
Divine operation. They are in their working motion most
active, but all their acts and powers go forth in a most pro
found stillness, the Divine Deity cooperating through them,
by which an ineffable stillness does from them pass forth
to the inhabitants of these other worlds; and yet their
spirits remain all the while immovable within their own
principal and center, moving accordingly as the Deity glances
forth in them with His governing Eye, which gives them
their all seeing commission; in a delightful obedience they
never fail to execute, neither can they do otherwise, being
naturally fixed in the moving power of the Holy Ghost.
Therefore, having now mentioned these many worlds,
not from history, but from the revealed mystery according to
the measure of the communication of the Spirit of Christ,
it
remaineth to consider what use and application may be made
by the readers of these deep and weighty things.
In the first place, we are hereby called upon to consider
with the deepest humility the efficient cause and Founder of
these worlds, that produces them all
;
out of the Divine deep,
secretly, we are called upon to appreciate the mighty loving
God, who
is
greater than all greatness: higher than all
heights; and deeper than all depths; more perfect than all
perfections; who makes His dwelling in an Eternal circle of
love, power and wisdom, filling all of these worlds with the
fulness of His Godhead, made manifest in the express image
of His Glory, namely in the second number of the Three, that
bear record in Heaven.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 247
Thirdly, we are exercised to consider what we mortals
are, from whom our descent is and what manner of spirit
we consist of. Until we understand our own eternal being,
we cannot know God, the beginning of all things. As we are
the inbreathed soul from God, we live in His essence, which
is the glass in which we may see and know the invisible Deity
and thereby also know ourselves, for we consist of the higher
principles and worlds above, and likewise of those below.
They are all qualified with the Immortal, and also with the
elementary part within us, for the most wise and wonderful
ends. Oh! how great are the mysteries; the greatness of
the soul that lieth veiled, covered and unknown to itself;
the body of outward sensibility shuts it up from understand
ing its own power, as it is an essence derived from God and
an overflowing breath from the most High Majesty. The
earthly life binds it down in all men until Christ, in Spirit
enters in, to make it free in His own liberty by quickening
the dead essences of these principles of light, love and power;
by this, the soul is restored to its preexistence and true na
tivity in God, and is apt to be forgotten if not continually
revived in the mind; being exercised, it will put a check upon
it for the consideration of what it is and to whom it must
return as to its Eternal center.
Being come to the conclusion of the subject, I must be
permitted what I am in commission for, from the highest
and Heavenly Court, to say these words of counsel and
exhortation to all those who would see full redemption, and
glad to be set free from all fears, doubts and concerns upon
that account, and watch against all evils and commotions
that are apt to arise in the mind by the way of opposition to
the pure inspiration of the Holy Ghost.
O grieve it not, either in yourselves or in any other.
Remember that you have it for a Counselor and Comforter,
and for a Key to open the heavenly worlds unto you, to give
you an inheritance in them. The assurance thereof will be
perfect joy, peace and glory, as some do truly witness and
give it forth through their experience, who therefore advise
and exhort all to whomsoever this treasure may come,
whether in this nation or in any Divine place where God is
pleading to have it published; they seriously study and
soberly ponder upon what by the Wisdom of God hath been
unveiled and declared. It is a Seal broken up, that doth
belong to this present Age, where knowledge is to increase
in order to prepare for the great Day, that into Paradise we
shall take our flight, where all things are in perfect order
248 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
and the same flowing state as before Adam had lost his
virgin mate.
Praise God! Paradise is now stocked again with such
as have waded through the floating sea of sin, thus being
found worthy to put on Immortality, in order to the putting
on of that image of purity which is to the Elect ones of the
resurrection, given by Jesus Christ, for not the least guile
or fault may be found in any of the inhabitants of this place.
Therefore through that Immortal Eye we see all here in
wonderful harmony, wherein a Voice said unto me: "This
is the true baptism, like unto Jesus at the River Jordan,"
begotten of the Father, conceived of the Mother, by which
the soul would return to its first original, and then would
know itself to have power in God as His virgin heart and
Spouse, to do and act agreeable in so high and Divine unity.
This is the summit of all depths that can be searched
into. Study this, and the eternal world from its stillness
will come, to qualify with and operate in you according to
your wishes and understanding, leading you into all Wis
dom's treasures, there to be admitted. And the walls about
your habitation shall be the Rock of fire stones, wherein
your hiding shall be in God's own eternal secrecy, until you
go forth to proclaim another day of Pentecost.
Therefore, what a rejoicing! that to understand and
know that the mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah, is coming
to reign in His Saints for a thousand years; and at the end
of the thousand years He will return in His glorified body,
and we, the 144,000 His Church Bride, shall be like Him.
Oh, the joy of this Kingdom can never be told,
The deserts in roses shall bloom,
And the flowers most beautiful to behold
Fill the air with their fragrant perfume.
Praise ye the Lord, all ye His Saints! For there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 249
PROMISED GLORIFICATION.
<*pEAR GOD and give glory to Him for the hour of His
judgment is come ; worship Him that made heaven and
earth." Rev. 14:7. O Holy, precious Elect, let us not sleep
but set our morning watch, for tidings are coming to make
all things ready for Him, and the Spirit will bear record with
us of what was and is and is yet to come.
■
Now the thing yet to come, is that powerful and Divine
reign unto glorification, which hath long been promised and
now again with affirmation that the Lord will suddenly be
upon us to take unto Himself His Kingdom, with which noth
ing of the beast reign shall mingle.
Therefore, let it appear who the wise Virgins are by
making themselves ready to meet the Lord, not only for a
visit or salvation, but for eternal marriage, so to be ever
with the Lord, or rather the Lord to be ever with us as His
dear Bride, perfectly redeemed from the earth as it becometh
Her; thus to be found Holy and blameless for the everlasting,
priestly celebration and Holy ministration in no other temple
but what is called God and the Lamb, where the only true,
spiritual worshipers are found, and from whence our praise
offerings will spring as from the high sphere of glory that
swallows up darkness, death, sorrow, contempt and the grave
in a full and total victory.
Therefore ye are called to a life of glory and Immortal
ity. It is great and wonderful indeed, knowing that the east
gate now will open to those who earnestly knock, so that
there is a certain possibility to get up into all these degrees
of glory. Wherefore let none doubt, but be guarded by the
living faith which will ride the waves swiftly, leaving all
unbelievers behind, wherein all the Elect are linked together,
on their way to that land from whence we came.
Through the power of the Mighty I Am, Jehovah, we
make the dumb to speak, the deaf to hear and the blind to
see, all which were both inwardly and outwardly performed
by our Lord upon the soul as well as the body, yet the Lord
hath given full assurance that not only all this shall be
revealed, but that the mighty power of Jehovah will open in
a great degree.
Therefore the great wonders are yet to be manifested,
which we are appointed to wait for till the wonderful gate
shall open, whereby all miracles will be brought forth afresh
for the crown and glory of the Virgin Bride and Her
250 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
followers, which gate the Lord Jesus Christ has to open for
such who are under the strong and wonderful drive.
Let all learn to live in God and God shall live in them in
His most Holy Tabernacle, which shall be visible to the Elect
of God, that they may know that the Most Holy One is with
them, though He will dwell in desolate places of the earth
with His own, giving them that foregoing rule for this end,
that the mighty attraction of faith which rises from the
burning love must bring God down to be all and in all, that
so the humility may be covered over with the Tabernacle
of the Holy Deity, which will be our house that cannot be
dissolved, where the bright Morning Star in this wonderful
day doth appfiar.
All this hath but made way for the opening of the ever
lasting Tabernacle where we may be clothed upon with the
Divine body of the Holy Ghost, that so we may know what it
is to live in God.
Oh, what wonderful weight these words do carry with
them. Let us not suffer it to go lightly, but take in what
the Holy Spirit doth advise. Wherefore I give forth the
communication of this high and perfect love from revelation
or from Divine and pure sensation. I must acknowledge it
is from both—they meet together as proceeding from one
love center—for it brings in no less than a Kingdom of sweet,
peaceable, Divine love, wherein we now find an unspeakable
benefit.
But it may be asked: How came this most precious and
worthy thing to be wrought so easily in the spirit, soul and
body, evermore to rule upon the throne? In answer to this
I shall give my own experience as one who hath obtained
grace of this kind after it was begotten by experience and
revelation, and formed in me as a true essence of life—birth
—which I find daily growing up and increasing in wisdom
and strength.
Then, after that, this love was grown up in such a Divine
way as was known to me in person, which was the Lord
Jesus Christ, and I ofttimes feel His Presence when preach
ing or conversing with others, which I do greatly enjoy in an
unknown and most singular way; His words were so graceful
and so sweet that it drew my spirit, soul and body after Him,
for "How can any one come unto Me except the Father who
sent Me draw him?"
That Holy love of God was so beautifully enjoyed of
His Divine Presence, which brought forcibly to my mind
such sweet and Divine thoughts, in which He was proving
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 251
those two great witnesses in me—Faith and Love —which as
twins did grow out of the fresh Rose of Sharon.
Herein the Lord Jesus Christ, having begotten His living
signature in me by His ofttimes appearing, so possessing in
Himself an essential rising body which reaches to the bounds
of the everlasting Mount of God—Immortality of love—from
whence it sprang and with many, will it not multiply and
produce as it goeth on ? still conquering all enemies wherever
He meets them, as having overcome them in His own purified,
Immortal body. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
H1
PEACE
THE BEAUTIFUL AND GLORIOUS MANNER
OF CHRIST'S APPEARING.
[EARKEN O DAUGHTER of Zion, behold! Thy Bride
groom cometh, no more a servant, but to be served by
all flesh. The Word that was manifested in flesh reigns in
Spirit to prepare for Christ's Kingdom to come into a visible
dominion here upon the earth, by signs and miracles wrought
by the Spirit in form of flesh, to confirm Christ the Lord
is coming to appear in His saints, to set them over the earth ,
for through the Daughter of Zion the dominion shall be
restored through marriage union with the Lamb of God.
This is the first resurrection of the Holy people which
shall be the Mighty Trumpet Voice that shall awake the rest
that lieth dead in sin. The hour of God's judgment will thus
come upon the evil nature that hitherto hath reigned in man.
The Spirit shall be so fully poured forth upon these first
rising ones, as to go forth with a quickening Life to raise the
dead spiritually and bodily. This shall be the terrible day
of the Lord for the condemning and destroying —not of
persons, but the sin in the flesh which shall be fulfilled in
its times and seasons, which times shall be when the wind of
the Spirit shall arise more strongly from the Holy Ghost.
It is to be the wonderful day of glories prophesied of,
and the expected Kingdom of Christ to be manifested here
252 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
upon the earth, in which He will reign personally in His
saints who are anointed at first with such a measure of Spirit
that is so highly sanctified, which does prepare for this great
day of a thousand years reign; but let it be understood,
according to our number of years it is not to be determined
wherein this glorious reign in the Spirit shall be, before
Christ in His glorified body will come distinctly upon the
earth to turn it into a Paradise to make these lower parts
of the earth glorious, upon which He will stand and model
it into a beautiful land which shall be the New Earth and
Heaven which is declared in the Scripture.
So from hence it is made known to me what is the work
and business of our present age and day, which is to pass
daily through the baptizing river that may drown and destroy
all sin, that the spring of Righteousness may arise for the
true washing of regeneration. Then will the Holy Ghost be
renewed and set up His reign in His chosen and shall exercise
power and dominion, as it shall be known that the Lord God
Jehovah, liveth and reigneth here; for this must be the fore
runner of the great and notable day of Christ, as to His
appearance in His own personal glory.
Therefore there is much more to be done in the kingdom
of this world by the wonderful effects of the Spirit than yet
has been. Each one in their own Jerusalem within, must
be waiting for this wonderful spiritual day which is the great
increase and mighty power that will turn the world upside
down.
Nothing is more to be expected for the hastening of our
blessed Lord's appearance, than that all who are watchmen
and holy seers to sound out that Mighty Trumpet of the
Spirit, may gather the dove spirits together to wait in love's
unity, that the thousand years reign may have a speedy
beginning and entrance, upon which it will follow as inquiries
are made into this spiritual reign and dominion, they shall
be encouraged by that chosen one who has put on the beauti
ful likeness of Christ the Lord. Such have a good and right
claim to His person and possessions, thus believing and
appreciating the liberty granted to draw out of this stock
and treasure as the present occasion may require.
Out of this fulness and emptying into the Holy and
sanctified vessel may be most easily proportioned to its
growth and degree; for do you not hear the Voice of the
Ascended Master saying: "You are not ignorantly to suppose
that I willingly hold back from those who stand in unity
with Me; but there is a cause if there be any stop in the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 253
veil of not knowing and not believing the things reported
which of right do belong to My Virgin Spouse; also wanting
Holy boldness and courage to come freely and take what is
Mine and make it your own.
Let it be known unto thee, it is far from Me your Lord,
to keep to Myself what the Father hath so much and liberally
bestowed on Me. Was it not that I might give it out as
plentifully? Therefore come with full assurance of faith in
Me, your Lord and Master and ye shall receive grace for
grace, and power for power as I have obtained and received
of My Father in Heaven.
Pondering in my spirit these words of my Lord, I re
plied: "How shall it be that a spirit should thus be mingled
and made one pure lump with Me, the Lord, so as to be noth
ing of itself?" Answer: "It was that this should be effected
by dying out of earthly senses, whereby a vacancy of a place
for the Holy Ghost to rise and move as one eternal spiritual
body within; for so it will be wherever there is a cessation
and a rest from the whirling thoughts and motions which
is from the outward birth."
This shall be the manner of My coming in this wonderful
latter day to stand upon the earth, which thus empties and
is refined by the fire that never dieth, which fire is that seed
of God that shall multiply itself to bring your Christ forth
numerously to overspread this world, till all shall be formed
anew; thus shall each one become a Christ or anointed from
this Holy Root opening within their own soul ; and when this
Life of Christ shall outgrow its minority and come to its
maturity of wisdom and strength, then it shall be known
what you are made heirs to and shall possess while in the age
of time you do remain, for Christ fully grown, will bring
such gains as trains of heavenly power will open and fly
like lightning that shall reach from one nation to another,
by which the dark corners of the earth Will become light.
This is the new and living model in which your Lord
Jesus Christ will begin to manifest. Therefore, let the
Holy Anointed ones ever wait for Me, their Lord and Master,
till power overcomes all negative and unruly spirits. There
fore, Thou Mighty Present God, the Immortal Soul that is
so greatly in love with Thee, which must have had fre
quent admittance into Thy counsel chamber to hear, learn
and know what may be so Divine in a high degree of unity
as hath been mentioned by Thee, for Thou art so overloaded
-with goodness and majesty, that it is no light or easy thing
254 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
to maintain access unto Thee as required, so high and
important this is to know the secrets that consist in Thy
blessed Kingdom.
Therefore, my joy and glory to Thee O My Lord, be
pleased to reveal Thy wonderful secrets of Life unto me,
which was answered most sweetly and mildly from my
blessed Lord in these words: "O thou soul of Mine, thou hast
searched deep to find this path of Life that few have found,
because it is all Holy ground where none but the spirits that
have put on My Spiritual Body can ascend and keep their
feet steadfastly in this golden track, which I, Jesus Christ,
to God, My Father did freely pass, and so may you as I
in you this rising body shall quicken up; that hereby you may
know it is not My personal glory that shall prevent such
spirits in this their humble love attempt; for I, your Lord,
do well know it is but expedient you should thus keep up
your acquaintance with Me, your Lord. Great will be your
advantage hereby in taking and receiving from Me, your
Lord, such fresh and wonderful supplies of wisdom and
knowledge in the heavenly mansion which shall satisfy and
quicken the mind in the midst of a disturbed and disquited
world.
So dear beloved Israel, I have informed you in what
you are privileged, taking all care to keep this way of the
spirit free and clear that your flight may not be stopped;
that you keep your dwelling secretly above with Me, your
Mighty God in the heavens and need not mind what happens
to the earth beneath. Therefore the only True and Eternal
happiness is in those who know Me, their True and Living
God, this far to be their new living and ascended way; that
so with My Spiritual Body they may go in and out, taking
what is for their present use which they may have from Me,
their Lord, all free as coming in this faith of safety.
Now having received these wonderful words from the
Mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah, thus a precious feeling
thereupon I did feel, and such a spreading and quickening
life which came upon me as if all were filled with Christ
in every part ; it may be compared to Elijah stretching him
self upon the dead child which was made alive thereby.
Therefore, the Living Christ draws a living picture of Him
self in every part of the soul and nourishes it with His own
Royal blood, which runneth through every vein for which
we greatly rejoice, knowing that we have put on Christ
in His resurrected Spirit and inward body to which perfect
redemption is finished.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 255
How highly blessed are those who shall arrive hereto
by all these manifestations. Praise God! I see the day of
love is breaking out to compass the whole earth, and Christ
Jesus no longer will be a stranger, and so He doth prophesy
in me, that in the Holy Ghost He will in this last age of the
world most wonderfully appear.
Therefore I am impressed in the spirit to all that love
and long to see, feel and know Him as a Present Counseller
and Comforter that they would thus prepare by pureness of
heart and mind, knowing that this beautiful Star of the
Morning has arisen and is multiplying itself to numberless
stars of love and power, that the heavenly host may proclaim
the glory of Christ's Kingdom here upon the earth. Even so
come, Thou Mighty King of Glory and make us kings to reign
over all that is of the earthly life, so as to be redeemed by
Thee, Thou Lamb of God, to whom all praise is given. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant, and the King's business requires haste.
PEACE
HEAVENLY CALLING.
QOD HAS SPOKEN unto us by His Son whom He hath
appointed heir of all things ; by whom also He made the
worlds, who is the brightness of His Glory and the express
image of His person, and upholding all things by the Word
of His power, when He had by Himself purged our sins,
set down on the right hand of the Majesty on high. Heb.
1:2,3.
Therefore let us apply ourselves to that wonderful name
Jehovah, where we shall find a refuge at all times; thus
preceding deliverance—ofttimes unexpectedly—from the
mighty Conquering Shiloh Immanuel, God with us. There
fore I have much to say and make mention of by way
of thankfulness and praises. Thus the number of our days
are far too short to rehearse and proclaim His kindness and
great love; and in His great kindness He has watched over
me and fed me all the days of my life, thus preparing me to
be ready to celebrate the everlasting Sabbath of rest with
256 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
pure and powerful praises to Thee, O Holy, Holy, Infinite
Almighty God, whom my Spirit, soul and body doth greatly
adore ; silence shall speak much more with my life with Thee
throughout all ages and Eternity, wherein it has been the
main drift and whole scope of my life since the unsealing of
the Heavenly Mysteries by which the interest hath pressed
in so deeply upon me.
It has made me to make a clean cut of all things belong
ing to the outward world, so that I might follow on spirit
ually-minded with a pure heart, so I might be a partaker and
a possessor of what is to follow; which has been accordingly
made known through the Spirit of Revelation unto me, and
has raised all the power and force in myself, through that
great power of Shiloh Immanuel to that high and heavenly
calling, which is the Holy Living Faith like unto good old
faithful Abraham, wherein My Lord hath revealed and estab
lished His Word Divinely unto me.
The Spirit doth strongly declare unto me that upon this
Rock of faith I must stand and go forward steadily. The
work is so great that I do stand unchangeable, for which,
O God, my own strength is but small. Therefore to the
mighty Present God I do call, for that must be my all and in
all, to make me successful in this high and heavenly calling.
The matter which I have to work upon is only from that
Holy Word of faith which did create all worlds, and doth
greatly support me as a strong stake and power that will
carry me on to Victory, keeping my eyes always upon the
mighty Present God, for He is my protection in full for all
things that I stand in need of, wherein the Tree of Life may
suddenly spring up within me, which spreads forth its
branches for increase and delicious fruit.
Therefore would I have no dependency upon any other
but this precious Tree of Life, which grows in no other soil
but a garden all purely refined with oily springs and dews
from Heaven, which must be its watering. Then will it
spread and flourish all richly, having this Divine fruit within
itself without any dependency. Oh, this is the Tree of Life
that is blest with Wisdom's strength and Righteousness,
which I feel it in my heart most earnestly and pray that it
may be very choicely kept and circled round about with the
pure, loving fire blown by the Holy Ghost, which may its
shelter be from all the envious spirits that so diligently watch
to break in; to envy and suck away its strength. For this,
O ye Chosen Ones, be on the watch; for I well know what
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 257.
damage and spoil it has caused. Keep it low under thy feet,
proving yourself to be the world's conqueror; having a good
supply of oil that your light will shine brightly, lighting up
your narrow path until you arrive safely unto your Father's
House, thus preserving and cherishing this precious golden
grain from whence the Tree of Life might attain to its full
growth: for such rules are prescribed and revealed unto me
by the wonderful helpmate, the Holy Mother of Zion. There
fore observe and obey, that you may win the Day!
God's great working power thereby doth display much
more than has been in former days. Therefore it is such a
reverse change to what —in this whole universe of mankind —
has been practiced that it will be a difficult point to enter
thereupon, so as to hold on, for here is required a crossing
of the tide and stem of nature in all its motions. But the
true Israelite will cross this wonderful tide dry-shod over
into that promised land from whence he came.
Therefore this is the everlasting Gospel. Oh, where are
the Angels! the Messengers of power, that have prepared
their trumpets to sound these glad tidings to those that have
ears to hear? They being witness-bearers to this Gospel
Revelation, which yet to very few is made known but by the
fiery Lamp of the Spirit making it burn brightly, wherein
it should draw out and open the spring of love, as God Him
self, who is the Spirit of Life and love which moveth and
riseth in holy souls. Therefore it behooves us to be tender
of it, not to grieve it or quench it in one another.
O ye Heaven born of the womb of Eternal Love! wherev
er dispersed, let your gathering be to this lifted up standard
where Love's Kingdom is known and possessed in all peace
and joy, wherein the trumpet from Mount Zion doth sound
to call you away from all worldly dross. Therefore God is
here to work for all who are brought out of the fiery furnace
of love, for the great and mighty things that give testimony
of Christ's Kingdom in His Saints being come, for it will
surely open from the center.
Now, wherever ye are who feel the touch of this beauti
ful, Immortal, fiery Stone, send forth your warning sparks
to set one another in a Holy flame; knowing your own
Mother's Children, hide not yourselves from them. Be no
longer strangers toward them. Find them out from north to
south, to revive once again the apostolic bond of love that
may forerun the Bridegroom's return.
258 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
O God, inspire with Thy loving fire,
That we may abide in the angel's choir.
The mighty trump doth sound to call us up
To drink of this loving, flaming cup.
The spirit thereof does so sweetly burn
That mortal into Sapphire turn.
Oh, Charity, what can be said of thee?
Dost thou not proceed from the Deity?
Henceforth I must proclaim love's fame,
To all that bear that loving name.
Who would not in love, be with love alone?
Love born of God here to all good,
Stewards of His House giving out food.
Is not this the one, only, excellent thing
Which will bring out the serpent's sting?
Yea, more than this I clearly see —
Love will enter the secret of the Deity,
Where ye will see love a burning lamp,
Leading us up to God above,
Where we may drink our fill of love,
And feed upon those pleasant things
Within the garden, mighty springs
Where the everlasting garden gate open stands
For such as have been united in love's band.
Come! enter then as chariots burning flames,
Unto that place which is known by name.
We feel love like a budding spring,
Which makes us the New Song ever sing.
All praises we will give to Him,
With floods of joy, and eternal praise
Shall now overflow to the Ancient of Days,
For while we feel and taste love's fire,
It does extinguish all earthly desire.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 259
WISDOM'S FIRST-BORN MANIFESTED.
« AND A VOICE came out of the Throne, saying: Praise
our God all ye His servants and ye that fear Him,
both small and great. And I heard as it were a great mul
titude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice
of mighty thunderings, saying: Hallelujah, for the Lord God
Omnipotent reigneth." Rev. 19:5,6.
"And out of the Throne proceeded lightnings and thund
erings and voices; and there were seven lamps of fire burning
before the Throne, which are the Seven Spirits of God," Rev.
4:5, that beareth the title of the great City called the New
Jerusalem, where the glassy sea doth encompass about them.
Therefore the first is the Paradisical world, being all
celestial and a very beautiful state, where there is a growing
up to a very high degree of perfection to complete us for
the Kingdom of Mount Zion, where Christ, the Lord's King
dom is in great rejoicing with all angelic principles under
Him and with the elders, patriarchs, prophets and apostles.
Herein the third heavenly world is the Royal and
Principle seat of God the Father, with the Eternal Virgin
Wisdom; and above this is the world called the stillness of
Eternity, out of which were generated all these worlds above
mentioned, of which I must give account as I have had them
shown to me from the deep center and original being; from
the Mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah, which has been shown
forth by Enoch's life and others of the Paradisical Law and
still following His Elect with fresh revelations to His own
Holy lineage; from His own Eternal deep which runs as a
fiery stream through me so that I find there is no resting
from this all-driving power which has been hidden and un
known to the world, but must be made manifest in this last
age of time.
Therefore in Heb. 1 :2, the Father, by the prophets, hath
in these last days spoken unto us by His Son whom He hath
appointed heir of all things, by whom also He made the
worlds which were given by Him who was and is and will
be the True Interpreter to open new volumes of His mind,
which are not to be disputed or contradicted any more than
are the foregoing Scriptures; the Old Testament having
been appropriated to the ministration of the Father, the New
to the Son and now the third day has come in which the Holy
Ghost will have Her Testament, the Comforter.
This will exceed all before it, to unseal and reveal what
was never yet known or understood, that will be communi
260 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
cated to and by such as are in a Holy like manner; sanctified
and set apart for this Holy foundation, for this wonderful,
new, Spiritual day must go forth in new springing of things
yet to be revealed, both as to the present and future state
that hath lain hidden in these mentioned worlds. The
account of this, I am more particular to give according as it
has been shown me by the Spirit of inspiration, for I write
here from no other ground than what the Spirit of Christ in
the glass of wisdom hath presented to my inward eye, which
penetrates into the deep depths of God's mind and is no
longer to be concealed, for these Holy things are for this end,
and is dropping His golden oil which will dissolve all those
seals that have stood so long in hiding, shutting up those
mighty, wonderful Truths.
Herein a commission is now given to bring forth in order
of their being proclaimed and inscribed upon the pillars and
temple of God's house; whether believed or not, it must stand
as the engraving of God's hand. Therefore the first in order
in this corporeal, visible world in which we now live were
good and evil births, having been produced from Adam, and
so shall still go on to be produced till the number shall be
finished and filled up, which are indeed to us as numberless,
but numbered by God.
Here is laid a foundation for His wonderful way and
manner to be made manifest. Therefore it is now being
made known how those that are born of God and so renev/ed
in every part that the whole man is being changed into a
different nature, must know and enjoy before hand the joys
and pleasures of these worlds to which they belong, accord
ing to that degree which in this life time we do reach.
Such as are alloted to this Paradise world, the mysteries
will open and give them an understanding while in the body,
as the true Divine Paradise put forth its wonderful glory in
the inward ground of a renewed mind, wherein those pleas
ant, golden springs, running, circling and watering the
ascended ones, which by the Spirit of Christ hath been
renewed.
Therefore, the Holy Trinity do delight ofttimes to mani
fest themselves in the Paradisical heart and mind that will
now as henceforth give me to understand that, as the Divine
Paradise, also the Holy Zion, doth therewith stand open in
the ground of this pure heart, gradually shooting forth and
revealing itself in concerning this most glorious world —the
Holy Kingdom of Christ—in which He with His perfect
saints doth reign; herein it is shown me where the same
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 261
light and principle doth open itself in those souls where this
Paradisical and angelic life doth spring.
Spiritually, every word or principle that doth attract
to itself its own which belongeth to it, and the powers and
influence of each are instantly felt, according to the mind
that any one who is under the vile and wicked sort are drawn
and pulled by the magnet of the dark world; but the heavenly
born souls are inspired and quickened by these upper worlds,
as by some it is well known, that Paradise and the Mount
Zion world are manifest in their own original light in the
center of the soul, from which I do give a distinction of these
invisible worlds as they are first opened within, from whence
love, power, joy and peace doth spring, which maketh heaven
to be the soul's present dwelling with Christ and all the
angelical train, though not visibly seen yet, but essentially
enjoyed.
This is only to be made known to those who are deeply
in travail and carrying out beyond a Divine, heavenly life;
and when any worthy one in this light principle shall be fixed,
then we expect that Eternal power will move and work
through such, to whom the dominion of Christ's Kingdom
here below will be instructed; for which we have many
Scripture prophecies, as in Isaiah, Revelation and Daniel,
that do abundantly declare how it must and will be given
to the saints of the Most High to possess the Kingdom; there
is also a confirmation by a renewed spirit of prophecy that
doth assure us that this day is very nigh and that it will
be upon the world before they are aware of it; for as the
man of the earth has had his ruling day universally, so shall
the Lord from heaven descend in such a manner into His own
prepared vessels here below, showing forth the glory of the
two lower blessed worlds.
As to the walls and foundation of it, with the gates that
open into it, they are so full of the golden sunlight that it
is altogether wonderful to make it out even in any degree
according as it hath been spoken and seen by that Immortal
Eye; the Immortal figure of it representing the spiritual
substantiality of this City, which is God Himself dilating and
springing forth from His Godhead in such amazing variety.
This is a principle world, which none but Christ in His
glorified humanity and such saints as are glorified with
His glory can have any access to, of which inconceivable
abundance of glory these do with Him continually partici
pate, ascending and descending, which requires no passing
there into the City but through the glassy sea, which none
262 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
do tread or stand upon but such as are qualified and clothed
with the self same mantle, which is all crystaline water and
transparent fire.
Oh, how I am lost out of myself while this great sun-
light and all the wonders therein do open, for in this entrance
it was said to me: Behold! all these weights of gold have I
prepared, not only for pleasure to myself but for such as do
love and put on the seamless coat that our Ascended Master
wore, thus passing through the glassy sea to enter the gate,
having the City written upon their foreheads.
Now, it remains to open the more mysterious senses of
the Eternity of this Holy Mother's City, the New Jerusalem
that from the Father, in union with His Virgin Wisdom doth
multiply; so filling up that principle with Virgin Spirits which
are most perfect —pure Holiness unto God—it is through
this that the redeemed will arrive to the throne of God,
which is Mount Zion's Kingdom, and is most great and
glorious because it is in the mediatorship of Christ and in
this world all is complete and finished; so when this New
Jerusalem shall descend, it will soon put the old, sinful and
impure world to an end, for the Triune Majesty, which is
the situation of it, is founded upon the mighty deep, where
the golden light doth generate and spread itself without
bounds as a vast globe of Eternity.
God is here to be known and understood, abstracted
from the eternal nature, as abiding in His own wonderful
Deity. Before either the angels or other creatures were
created, the Holy Trinity dwelt in the meek stillness, enjoying
themselves before they brought forth any image or likeness
to themselves; for in this high and lofty sphere no figures
of glory could be seen, wherein the great power did move
here and the varieties of wonders did appear, sending forth a
mighty swiftness.
But it may be demanded what the wonders of this world
are, since there is nothing of figure in it to behold? Neither
the Father, nor the Son, nor the Holy Ghost in any distinc
tion are known. It is verily so, yet there is a consisting of
the blessed Trinity in each other, the fulness of the Godhead
dwelling here, namely, His Virgin Wisdom and His Seven
Spirits, all of which do open themselves from an infinite
source; and from them all the creating powers do flow forth,
for this is the wonderful world from whence all other worlds
were created.
It may be further asked: What further wonders did
you hear and see? Answer: A glorious and wonderful
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 263
element was seen with numberless sparks of light; as this
outward air or ether is full of stars, so this element was
spangled with lights. Upon inquiry of the spirit that was
there caught up—like unto Paul, who was caught up to the
third heaven —it was answered that all of these were simpli
fied spirits that were ordained to garnish that globe and to
attend their Triune Deity, from whom they are generated;
evermore watching the eye to see when it would send them
forth to assume or take up bodies, being all pure, meek and
mild spirits which do perfect whatever and whenever they
enter. These are the spirits that are sublime and make
bodies to become all Divine.
It was further asked by the translated spirits, like unto
Enoch and others, whence their birth was ? It was answered :
From God, the Father, in conjunction with the Eternal Virgin
Wisdom, who brought them forth. Upon this I was advised
how that these spirits are reserved in this high globe till
Wisdom's day upon this visible world should as the morning
break forth. Then are they to go forth to multiply and
make a priestly haste of God's wonders throughout all
nations for a display, that so this world of misery shall be
a thing of the past.
For ye, that beautiful golden age has entered in and His
Elect made Immortal to enjoy those wonderful, happy days
from the operation of this Eternal and meek stillness, which
will infuse their power and quality with the Immortal souls
that were from before all worlds, destined to be spiritual,
like unto the Mighty King; for their spirits are the First
born from out of the womb of the Eternal Virgin, as hid
in God before there was a figurative manifestation.
They will enter, therefore, into Holy souls with pene
trating powers as shall give another habit of mind, casting
it into eternal stillness and quickening all the working pro
perties in the reign of nature. No awakening or stirring up
shall there be of the soulish issue in conjunction with the
body, for the property of these spirits is to do and act all in
a still and silent way; and from thence the great power and
force shall most affectionately go forth, for it was made
plain when Wisdom's First-born shall be manifested; that
this world or globe shall descend to open in the Virgin off
spring of Wisdom, by whom alone these mighty works and
deeds will be made to appear, for they are workers in God
alone.
All counterfeit acts will fall down as Dagon before the
Ark so that no dark magi shall be able to stand, for in this
264 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Twelfth and Last hour all faces of covering shall be rent
away, that the True and right acting spirits may be known.
Now in this new manifestation, which is in spirit, soul
and body, no other motive of life may be but from the
Triune Deity, namely, from the Father, Mother and Son,
for these three are all linked in one, bringing all things to our
remembrance. For there is no God in all the earth but in
Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
MY ANOINTED SHIELD.
ALL HAIL with love, joy and peace to the Israel of God
who are in the Spirit coming up here to the Ark of safety
to make request for that which is so pleasing to the Father's
heart and mind, namely the Eternal Mother. This wonderful
answer therefore was received, that thy petition shall be ful
filled in spirit, and shall not fail to open in thee what has
lain under seal for centuries.
Attend Him and He will attend thee, whosoever shall
watch in their hearts, His movings, for He is the bright
Morning Star who is to be the Divine Leader of My little
flock now in My personal absence from this lower world,
where the evil tempting tree doth spring in all souls. There
fore great need they have I know of this, My anointed shield,
that may be a defense upon every onset of evil spirits, which
endanger all while in this elementary body.
I have provided this Spirit of Truth to be with thee for
counsel and comfort, also to guide thee up to Me where thou
mayest know and see by this glass of the Spirit, what
I am doing and making ready for the present and future
day, wherein thou shalt be clothed with the garment of
Immortality.
But for the present, come and see, and taste of the
heavenly fruit, power and joy of My Kingdom, for the spring
ing of life and love shall rise so high as to drink thy spirit
up. Thus with Me thou shalt feast and never go away empty.
This shall be such an encouraging motive as will make
thee to bend all thy force still in spirit to be with Me in My
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 265
secret chamber, where thou mayest have liberty of Divine
discourses with Me in those weightier affairs that do pertain
unto the New Jerusalem state.
So then, O thou spouse of Mine, in this Holy entertain
ment thou wilt fly as sparks of light to thy body that is the
body and fulness of all light. The gifts and powers that went
forth from the Lord Jesus Christ and the apostles in their
day, will be renewed most certainly and will be as a fore
runner, that the reign of Christ upon the earth in His saints
is drawing very near, wherein more mighty and miraculous
powers must be given in this wonderful age to go forth.
Therefore, the great day of Christ's appearance in the
world draweth nigh; and for this end such deep and inward
things are revealed beforehand to make ready an espoused
Bride that may be found all fair and clear, without blemish,
for such a church Christ must have to entertain Him upon
this earth.
Let nothing stagger or buffet us out of our rights to
a portion in this blessed spirit, but let it put you upon an
earnest seeking and a most watchful service, where each
one in his own lot and pitched tent, in the spirit themselves
abide.
The sounding of the Seventh Angel has the right and
true Trumpet sound for the right gathering of eagle spirits,
where the bright body of glory will through all clouds appear,
as the everlasting Sun shines forth to be seen throughout
the whole earth.
As the outward sun in our visible firmament, so this
Son in the one invisible element shall from Himself enlighten
the whole earth when He comes in His glorified body, name
ly, Jesus Christ, that as doves they may fly to their ever
lasting Sabbath of rest.
Let us be found waiting for this blessed and glorious
appearing of our Mighty God and Savior, in which this
mortal shall be swallowed up in Immortality. Even so come
quickly, Lord Jesus, saith the Spirit of the Lord, wherein
I do beforehand see the feast of joy.
Therefore dear Israel, what more joyful tidings can
come to our ear in this, the Twelfth and Last hour, which
shall swallow up all those ages where sin and death have
reigned with all those miserable effects that have been since
the creation of this world.
A new and wonderful model God will bring forth in
a new created state. Behold! saith the Lord, I will make
all things new, thus bringing a complete restoration, for as
266 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
there were neither sin nor confusion in the first beautiful
Paradise of God, so it shall be again.
Therefore, pray that what has been by the Spirit of
Immanuel unfolded here, may be received and entertained as
the golden oil from the dropping Olive Tree, as the anointed
ones of the Lord do multiply for a priestly Kingdom here
upon the earth; which subject has been published by the
City of David, entitled: "The Seven Seals Broken Open
By Divine Revelation," some of which are yet to be re
vealed, though in my possession in the beautiful Star of
Bethlehem, which shines forth in this present generation
in heart and mind, which can only be expected from those
upon whom the anointing is poured forth abundantly, who
will be so well stored with that pure grain and golden seed,
that they may as sowers go forth to sow it everywhere.
0 how much I wish and how much would it be my joy
to know such powerful sowers in this our day, which may
bring forth such pure white Lily and Rose of Sharon spirits,
with whom Christ, our noble Shepherd, may walk and
feed them. He will be no longer a stranger to His Divine
flock here upon earth, but well known to be our feeding
pasture continually.
1 cannot stop, for the half has never been told; but
to those who are called, liberty has been given a true spirit
ual ministry that they may know what this season and time
may call for. Therefore, go forth with your anointed shield
and with your trumpet filled with the oil of the Spirit.
Spare not to sound your trumpet that may gather in His
Israel from the uttermost parts of the earth, that they may
both see, know and partake of this glorious Day Star ; rising
first in our hearts, and from thence lead most rightly where
we may with our Priestly Redeemer see eye to eye through
that Immortal Spirit, pure and separated from the gross
earth, and be both with Christ, the Head, and with His body
of saints. Greeting and conversing may be allowed as
springing from one Eternal Root and ground, complete to
gether in love's golden chain of Eternal unity.
Therefore it is given me to understand that such saints,
which are yet in the corporeal state, are privileged to come
up to this beautiful, heavenly court; every spirit according
to its growth and attainment so it will be reckoned with
such as are above; each one joined to its like in heavenly
places, for so it will be while in the body of time ; and when
they therefore are separated from their most kind and lov
ing friends whom they come to know, they will little care
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 267
for any other associate but what is above, for He, Christ,
being glorified, mightily doth draw pure spirits to be with
Him as their most proper and center dwelling place. There
fore the spirit shall be so fully poured out upon these first
rising ones as to go forth with a quickening life to raise
the dead, spiritually and bodily.
This shall be the terrible day of the Lord for the con
demning, not of persons, but of the sin in the flesh. So it
is declared unto me, which shall be fulfilled in its seasons
and times, which time will be when the winds of the spirit
shall rise more strongly, for the Holy Ghost is to be the
latter day glory prophesied of, and the expected Kingdom
of Christ to be manifested here upon earth, in which He
will reign personally in His saints, who are anointed first
with such measure of the spirit that doth highly sanctify,
which doth prepare for this great day of the Lord —one
thousand years prophesied of—but whether it is to be un
derstood according to our number of years is not yet de
termined.
However, a glorious reign in the Spirit there will be
before Christ, in His glorified person, will come distinctly
upon the earth to turn it into a Paradise, to make these
lower parts of the earth glorious in this, His Second time,
which will be the New earth and heaven as declared. For
there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His
servant.
PEACE
TREASURES OF WISDOM.
[! FOR THOSE beautiful, glorious days, the dawn of this
Golden Age, wherein the Church must be purified and
Holy, to bear the name of the Lord our Righteousness. And
when this Bridal Church is thoroughly cleansed and sancti
fied, then Christ will no longer delay His coming. Therefore
O God of Israel! we pray that Thou wilt aid us one and all
to cease from every sin through that Living Faith to secure
Peace in this, our New World.
Let it be remembered, none shall be able to stand but
such as are tried stones. This will be a severe trial which
very few will be able to pass. These trials are absolutely
268 THE BOOK OP PARADISE
necessary to prove our relation with God the Father, proving
we were never driven out of Paradise, but were hid with
Christ in God, wherein we shall be caught up in the Spirit,
away into the realms of bliss and stand alone within the
circle of the Sun, and there we shall find the sacred Spring
that opens up the Door to Wisdom.
O Mighty Present God, give us an understanding heart,
that the faithful ones shall enter in, thus understanding the
beautiful Words of Melchisedec, the Christ who lived in the
time of Abraham and pointed out to man the ways of life,
which are only known through and by that Holy Spirit who
digs into the rich mines and treasures of Wisdom, which
comes down as a refreshing shower in this, the Twelfth and
Last hour, wherein all things shall be revealed which have
been kept as a garden enclosed and a fountain sealed, as the
true Israel of God who have arrived at the manifold degrees
and growths which are here in a most simple and plain
manner brought forth, without any alteration, but just as
the Spirit was pleased to render itself in its own Immortal
clothing.
So in obedience to the call of Wisdom, and the same
Visitation of that Holy Divine teaching, as a Day-star in
our hearts it appears, which will greatly revive and cheer the
spirit, soul and body during the time that the Divine flames
of the Holy Ghost doth all over spread and keep all sense at
the foot of the Mountain while the Spirit enters into the
Tabernacle, the Glory of the Holy Trinity. This sort of
Wisdom, John the beloved was in when caught up in the
Spirit, and saw deep wonders of Jehovah's Wisdom which
has been sealed up, that none could, or ever shall break up.
But those of Her Virgin offspring will appear who will Her
Law of Life receive and keep, as they shall spring daily in
their new heart and mind.
These Divine Words are wonderfully sweet and refresh
ing to me, thus pondering them in my heart with great
comfort and joy; the Day Star has visited me from on
High, which opens up the Spring of Wisdom and understand
ing to serve God in Spirit and in Truth. By that Spirit of
Truth, Christ, the anointed prophet, shall reveal many great
and wonderful things unto thee that are to be made known
and published in this, the Twelfth and Last hour; we shall
behold the Cherubims and Seraphims that guard the circle
of the Sun, the mighty Ones who were proclaimed by the
Divine Master long ago, and we shall hear the name of
every cherub ; then we shall stand upon that wonderful place
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 269
where ages meet, where we shall behold the guarding Spirits
in this beautiful Golden Age. These four great Spirits of the
Triune God stand close together in the presence of the sacred
Three: the God of Might, the God of Wisdom, and the God
of Love, wherein we shall hear the charge of the Triune God,
But these I will not now reveal until you learn the secret
Laws of unity, of peace on earth and good will toward all
men. When you arrive to this place you will understand
the Golden Age of the Wisdom of the Son of man; there
the Holy Ghost of Wisdom speaketh; with Her Divine and
loud Voice she poureth the benediction of the Holy Breath
upon all those who have ears to hear and hearts of
understanding.
Then I shall write the Words which She hath spoken,
telling you of the Golden Age wherein you shall receive the
crown. She shall whisper to Israel the song of praise when
She shall receive the Golden Sceptre of the Newborn Age.
Then shall She sing the song in every land in praise and
honor to Her Newborn King. These words are so precious
to those who shall have the mark and name written in the
white stone; they shall be endowed with that Divine Spirit
of power, which will lead them gently into the Eden of
Paradise.
As soon as some have entered into this Pearly Gate they
shall have liberty to open up the understanding of the rest
of Her beloved brothers and sisters. For the night hath
passed and the Golden Age of happiness and bliss has dawned
upon us, yea! the coming forth of the Bridegroom and His
Bride. And, dear beloved Israel ! will this not prove that the
Mighty Present God is with us, working and laying His
foundation? proving to be our Ishi Husband, having long
patience for the seed that was sown, which shall show forth
the blade, then the ear and then the full corn in the ear;
wherein they shall be endowed with wisdom, power and with
an understanding heart.
Yea! the Lord with His own hand has pulled far back
the curtain of the night, and the Son of Truth is filling the
New Heaven and earth ; the presence of the Divine Ark will
constitute the Life of the Church ; the unsealing of the testi
mony within the Ark must begin the promulgation of the
Everlasting Gospel of the Kingdom, wherein this Holy Virgin
Church shall be made ready, cleansed from every spot of
defilement, then Christ will no longer delay His Coming.
Let him that understands rejoice within his heart that
he is called into the Courts of the Lord's House where love
270 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
and mercy have met together; righteousness and peace have
kissed each other. Therefore in this day the secrets of God
have been revealed,
Which hitherto have been sealed;
To gather His Israel to that Immortal bliss,
Where pain and sorrow shall forever cease;
With Abraham's ministering Angels to help us on our way,
For we are now in the dawn of that Immortal Day,
Where Pilgrims, sweet Pilgrims have marked the way.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
THE HEALING BALM.
J\EAR BELOVED ISRAEL! Let us ever seek unto that
beautiful Law of Paradise. It is a healing balm for the
restoring of Life through the unity of the Holy Spirit power
and Virtue of the Holy Ghost; through its wonderful pene
trating power thereof, you may be a witness if you faint
not be persevere with all diligence and be not turned aside;
although vou meet sometimes with the waters of strife, hold
on steadfastly. I would not that any of you who are so
valiant, who are called to this mighty and wonderful work
should ever grow weary until your work is crowned, having
chosen you out of His Holy Olive ground to sprout, so that
ye may to each other, empty forth what your foundation,
hath blessed you with, as a fruitful womb to bring forth
even that mighty Holy Sprout that has grown up within
you, which will make your heaven and earth rejoice and
all the host of them to praise and celebrate the Rising Star
from the east.
Therefore, I bid thee go on and persevere till all things
shall be put under Him who is born in you, the mighty King
of Peace, wherein He shall all enemies defeat through the
crown of His anointing oil, the Triune Victory of a sound
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 271
mind and of a perfect heart; take all these and put them
under the grinding wheel and ever abide under the Great
Sunlight from the heavens above; there ye shall attain unto
a full height of a Life Quickening Spirit, laying up in thee
as a, precious jewel, resolving to follow the Golden Rule of
our Ascended Master; to love God, our Father and keep His
commandments, that our body might be brought forth Im
mortal, which must be worked out in the golden tent of the
Virgin Wisdom, where no failing thing must interfere; where
the glory of the Majesty doth the glory of itself unfold.
Oh, the great purity which is required to minister about
those Holy things.
Therefore O Israel! Keep thine eye so single and clear
through this wonderful ointment purity, that it cannot bear
to behold in itself any spot, blemish or wrinkle, knowing
well in this tabernacle of God's Holiness, with Him we must
abide to drink of this essence of Life, which may suddenly
come through the Divine hand that prepares it; and that
we shall both feel and see, which makes our spirits so in
terested while the great and Holy One is at work.
I cannot have my eye taken off it, so I may be able
and skillful after the same manner; thus entering into the
same number, weight and measure, for indeed it is my chosen
drink always to have by me, for it is my meat and drink
to do the will of my Ascended Master, giving thereof to
the thirsty which in Wisdom's choice are worthy. While
we are spreading our request before the Holy mercy seat
within the new-raised tabernacle, we shall hear a Voice
from thence speaking, saying: Anoint every vessel within
the sanctuary, that all may be blessed in love and happi
ness, with that ointment which Wisdom hath made within
that Golden Tent.
And oh! how affectionate was my Spirit with that oil
burning upon the Altar, upon which seven lamps are that
draw forth the matter to feed upon. The tabernacle needs
no other light than from thence did shine, surrounded with
Godly love and rejoicings so refined, waiting within the sanc
tuary, not departing. We shall be meeting all with great,
satisfying provision, which doth invite our spirits here to
abide till the spicy liquor be fully ripe, which upon the
great preparation is again, at that day of the feast.
After the finishing of the tabernacle, an order from
the Heavenly court did come forth, for a seven day separa
tion to be held by us who are called lawfully to strive to
be an Ascended Master like unto Enoch and Elijah, and
272 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
to understand the Divine Art according to Wisdom's high
rules of the Immortal Church thereof. And She gives forth,
saying: Watch, pray and wait within the sanctuary. Gather
together as in one, all the spicy powers to make a perfume
incense to offer upon the Altar, from which the mighty fire
will arise that will make you pray unto the Holy Ghost,
like unto Moses and Elias in their day, as you will see,
wherein is set an appointed time for these Holy offerings
to be brought unto the Altar. Draw near, ye Holy and
separated ones, and dedicate it without a blemish, multiply
it seven times seven, your pure meat and drink offerings
during the time that the solemn sanctuary is celebrated,
making way for the reign of Christ in personal power and
glory, which is the greatest thing to be waiting for; here
we are not to rest, but press forward to enjoy the fruits
in the inward center where Christ will be manifest; there
we shall understand the Royal seed proceeding from the
New Jerusalem as the Virgin Bride of Christ Jesus:
Wherein they are now gathering Home,
His children dear.
The Kingdom restored,
For Christ is here.
The deserts shall bloom in roses white,
And the world is filled with Light.
The rose is red, mid verdant green
And fields in beauty now are seen.
Throughout the earth His Glory sweep
Over mountains high and valleys deep.
New Heaven and earth we then shall see,
Righteousness and Peace here shall be.
All over the earth a glorious sight,
Rivers wide and sparkling bright.
Stars of Heaven in skies of blue,
Giving light to earth in every hue.
The knowledge of God covering the deep,
The glorious Sabbath all shall keep.
Amidst all the birds He's chosen the Dove,
Let all behold our Redeemer's love.
The world is great, His people few,
And on the earth as a sparkling residue.
His Voice from Heaven we hear the sound,
Which shakes the earth the world around.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 278
It sounds to us as thunders Seven,
Not only the earth but also heaven.
'Tis the seven thunders, how they roar!
In the borderland of the golden shore.
In the raging sea the ship is tossed,
Save O Lord, or we are lost!
He reaches forth His lightning hand
And leads us safely on to land.
The prince of air could do no harm,
The Lord leads us gently through the storm.
His watchful eye as a Shepherd keep,
As lightning comes through the stormy deep.
The night shall pass and Sabbath dawn,
Sunrise now and Resurrection Morn,
The First-born babe and Second Boy,
The heavens ring and shout for joy.
The time rolls on, the world is lost,
And the Woman stood bravely at the cross.
The world in darkness, no light was seen,
Save around the cross the lightning beamed,
In darkest night and hellish fiend
Thunders crashed around the scene.
Thunders roar and the earth now shake,
Lightning flash and Saints awake!
Freed from prison now shall be,
In resurrection all shall see.
He laid in the garden in deep repose,
In resurrection morn He then arose.
Early in the morning at the break of Day
The Angel rolled the great stone away.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
274 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
SPIRITUALLY GRADUATED BY THE HOLY GHOST.
MOW YE are no more strangers, but fellow citizens of the
saints and of the Household of God, and are built upon
the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ
Himself being the Chief Corner Stone. Eph. 2:19,20. The
Archangel's Trump sounds forth the redemption of spirit,
soul and body. God knows how to give the Spiritual seed
a body after its own kind, that it may be suitably clothed
upon ; there is a secret infused breath after the manner that
is expressed by Ezekiel, which gives life to the dry bones,
that does very plainly figure out the Immortality of the
body, to which we may add as the Lord Jesus Christ ex
plained to Nicodemus: "The wind bloweth where it listeth,
and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell from,
whence it cometh or whither it goeth: so is everyone who
is born of the Spirit."
So indescribably it cometh, that none can see how this
pure breath enters in, but it is felt as a quickening life. So
it is with those that are prepared: the Spirit and the Im
mortal soul moveth. Upon the first awakening to life it
may stir very weakly, so that you may not discern its own
quickening because of stirring so slowly, yet all the motions
are working in a right and perfect order, increasing in
strength from the Eternal Root and foundation of Life. AH
comes on daily to grow strong as it overcomes the corrupt
animal sensitive life, and when it hath lost all of it, it has
regained a thousandfold advantage by thus entering into
a new and higher Divine life which brings you into a pure,
Holy union with the Trinity itself. And every spiritual
member belongeth to that Immortal body.
Therefore Wisdom shall lay Her foundation, in order to
restore the Virgin nature and Godlike simplicity; wherein it
cannot be said what Wisdom can do, as she is in marriage
union with God; it will not go forth naked, but all clothed
with power and strength, thus doing many strange and
marvelous things, also the wonderful understanding to be
made manifest like unto Jesus Christ.
And who shall be able to stand when She reveals Her
Divine understanding? revealing the power of eternal na
ture all will be awakened to; the old face of things being
made anew, which will bring Joy, peace and happiness of an
unfading glory. Oh, there is a great need for this wonderful
day of wisdom, so that the old, corrupt figure of things may
pass away to be remembered no more, it being a thing of the
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 275
past; His Elect, the 144,000, shall not be dismayed, but shall
rejoice to see this long expected day.
As with Moses, it might be desired that the whole
heritage of God were ordained prophets for a higher and
more heavenly service, which we may hope shall be worked
out in this very time by the mighty Conquering Prince,
Shiloh Immanuel, wherein we observe that our Lord, after
His resurrection, did not only show Himself to the brethren,
going in and out, living amongst them a few short days,
but having other worlds to visit the inhabitants thereof. So
it is with the Risen in Christ, who are His living witnesses.
You might ask : Who are they, that we might not be deceived
in them? The answer is: "By their fruits ye shall know
them," They are not of this world, for God has chosen them
out of it. The Divine Truth is that they are so spiritually
graduated by the Holy Ghost.
Let it be remembered that Christ Jesus did in His Im
mortal body appear after His resurrection, and He ate honey
comb and broiled fish to prove He had the very same iden
tical body that they had crucified Him in. The broiled
fish represented His pure, Immortal body without blood,
and the honeycomb proved that the bitter had been made
sweet, and proving all this shows forth a rising life, hav
ing gotten so much of God's nature into them, thus be
ing strengthened till they bring it forth into manifestation
in the way of Divine power, acting God's great wonders
upon this visible earth. We behold the Heavens open and the
bright clouds break as an open gate for ascension, to receive
the Spirit and soul that has put on its rising body of flesh
and bone, less the blood; a fit habitation for the Mighty
God of Jacob to dwell in as the moving strength goeth
forward, not looking back any more, for they are now re
deemed, walking with the Holy Trinity, being so refreshed
and satisfied, thus becoming prepared pillars, no more to
come out, it being the fulness of all joy.
Therefore, blessed are they who know themselves to
be in the ascended state and are received as out of sight
to be very much with Christ, their Lord. Can you not hear
some one saying: How is it that you say: "To be out of
sight, and yet in sight among the mortals?" You are to
understand it thus: That the soul and spirit in the sacred
Divine body which puts on Immortality, so highly soaring
and moving as the cherubim wheel—as mentioned by Ezek-
iel—is lifted up by the Spirit, and ascending from the earth
as neither caring nor mindful of earthly things.
276 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Let it be understood that Christ the Lord hath a most
lawful plan that doth now make clear for the Tree of Life
also to stand all free to feed upon, which gives a Divine
healing, giving us the understanding of the heavenly lan
guage as from the Eternal nature spoken, which language
is in corrupt nature now quite lost and can only be restored
in the ascension. This Holy Tree of Life is given everlast
ing and unchangeable Righteousness as a white robe that
covers from head to foot, suffering no more spots of earthly
life to fall upon it; and the wonderful joy drawing in as the
sweetness of the dew, which lies always upon the branches
of this Tree.
Our precious Savior never departed from His soul. It
was all Paradisical power given to Him by His Father, to
appear and disappear as a flowing of His wonderful love
which knows no bounds. It comes all covered with love's
sweetness, being the pure, sparkling love received from the
Deity, giving absolute freedom and liberty. It makes good
because it moves in the power of the Holy Ghost which
sends forth a Divine healing life which feeds it from the
throne of God, which river doth encompass the Tree for
fixation that no more death, lamentation or bitter weep
ing shall be known, as it is swallowed up in Victory, ac
cording to the Vision which John, the beloved saw—how
that the Tree grew in the midst, and on either side of the
river, signifying it to be the Holy Trinity, springing up to
be a feeding life to the spirit, soul and body which hath
reached to the ascension (Rev. 22), where they shall see
His face, and His Name shall be in their forehead. There
shall be no more night there and they need no candle nor
the light of the Sun, for the Lord God giveth them light
and they shall reign forever and ever, wherein:
No trouble, nor grief, nor sorrow, nor cry.
One family of God never say good bye!
The Lord our Righteousness always the same,
In all the earth will live and reign.
Love and mercy is brought to birth
And we shall now inherit the earth.
The resurrection of the morn
And Spirits of Light now are born,
Who do His will as once before,
Have crossed the sea to the golden shore.
Now on earth is the Heavens Above,
And all the world has universal love.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 277
And as He talks now by the way,
He anoints our eyes by the light of day.
And still within our heart now burns
And at our home within He turns,
And at our table He broke us bread,
He blessed it and then quickly fled.
Then we knew and opened our eyes,
And to us now a great surprise
Among the loved ones, and how many tears,
To the Upper Room He now appears.
The Lord with us who was so dear,
Now says to all, dispel your fear!
Joy reveals to us untold,
The light of glory to us unfold.
Mysteries unfold at which we wonder,
And light flashed forth and rolls of thunder.
Good news we tell in joy so great
The Kingdom shall come for which we wait.
The night passes away like a great dream
Tis the Lord of Glory we now have seen.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PEACE
THE DESERT SHALL REJOICE AS A ROSE.
QH! WHAT a rejoicing thought to remember that the
Redeemed body will know nothing of sin nor sorrow,
neither shall there be any more pain, for its former condition
under the fall will have passed away. Restitution and re
generation will have set in, and God Himself will wipe away
the tears from every eye. The desert shall blossom as a
rose, and the earth—that is, the body—will be the field which
the Lord hath blest, wherein peace will flow like a river,
sorrow and sighing will flee away and neither shall there be
any more pain. Death will cease, and all who remain will
return to the days of youth.
Therefore a Woman is now inspired by the Jerusalem
Mother Above to plead God's promises, that the head of Her
adversary —namely, satan—shall be bruised even as Christ's
278 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
heel was bruised at the crucifixion. The Lord's day of
vengeance is at hand, and He is now coming to take ven
geance on satan for bruising His heel. The following words
are the reason for the Lord's First Coming —to take the
blame which Adam cast on God: to die in the place of the
woman whom Adam blamed as well as God, to have His heel
bruised on the cross by satan, by slaying Jesus. Satan the
officer of death overstepped his office, for death is the wages
of sin, and Jesus was sinless. Therefore as satan slew Jesus
unjustly, the Lord has inspired a Woman through the power
of the Holy Ghost to bruise his head, and thus bring death to
an end. Woman must be proven to be what God created her
to be, namely, the Helpmate; and Woman is therefore the
instrument now being used for the redemption of man from
the effects of the fall. Woman in Jerusalem Above is the
Tree of Life and the fountain of Living water. Gen. 2 :9.
Therefore O Israel! If you desire to be a worker to
gether with God in the redemption of the body, or in the up
lifting of humanity, you must fully rely on the beautiful
Law of Paradise, wherein you must accept the Divine mode
of bringing it to pass. Enoch and Elijah became perfect men
and possessed their bodies to prove that it is possible to re
tain the body, but they did not receive what we seek in this
Visitation, namely, to be conformed to the image of Jesus
Christ, Son of God, and to live with Him upon the earth.
Let it be remembered ; to be a perfect man is not so great as
to be a Godman like unto Jesus Christ. Belonging to the
Godfamily signifies nothing lost: the uplifting of man from
the human kingdom to God's Kingdom.
Therefore as Adam went out of Paradise into this world,
so now in this restitution all of the Ascended Spirits are
returning back again through being in union with the Spirit,
Christ. And dear beloved Israel! the abiding in this place
is a most free and glorious liberty. After once being estab
lished here, there will be no turning the eye off from the Tree
of Life, for we are out of all danger of being tempted; we
can say as Jesus did: "The Prince of this world cometh but
hath nothing in Me." And all those who are this far ad
vanced can expect the mighty Holy Ghost power will be
poured down as a rushing wind and warm, penetrating-
showers, which will bring up the Divine pledge or token of
Christ's presence returning and resting for a distinguishing
mark of another apostolic resurrection of those various
powers and gifts that the apostles were endowed with, such
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 279
as the Spirit of prophecy, which will show things both
present and to come.
Therefore when the moving is in the oil pool by the
Angel of the New Covenant, then the Virtue will be sent
forth for the cure of mortal infirmities as the faith of the
patient upon whom the cure may be performed. Therefore
behold! and see what the sacred Trinity hath let down for
an inspiring power that shall give a distinguishing seal to
those who are born in Wisdom's Kingdom. Those who are
first able and fitly qualified shall know the healing spring
through the Spirit, Christ, the fulness of the Godhead. Yet
the mystery lies in Him concealed until the time of the full
power of the Spirit, the opening of the center where the
Triune power has lain hid.
But an alarm sounded from the Heavens above, saying:
"I will restore unto you a new world from whence the curse
shall be a thing of the past. Therefore the Lord Jesus Christ
must abide in the heavenly restitution until this birth in you
grow ripe. For it is the Elias that shall come in another
and more perfect ministration than ever has been, that must
prepare the coming of our Lord from Heaven, who left this
work to be accomplished by the birth of the Holy Ghost
which was to bring forth the most perfect restitution, that
His true elect might come to know Elias' track through
the burning chariot of translation. It will certainly fall upon
some that have been foreordained to bring forth the mighty
Elias in Spirit, as the First-born in Wisdom's Day to go
before, overturn and make ready for My beautiful reign yet
to be in the earth.
Therefore take heed that ye be ready and prepared to
believe this wonderful birth. So quicken up your living faith
like unto Abraham. Pray and travail mightily that you may
be of those worthy ones to bear a Living testimony. For
a great and mighty government will be entrusted unto you
when Wisdom's birth shall be fully ripe, a more glorious
state than that of Solomon's, like unto the two prophesying
witnesses who have been long slain in the seed, and buried
over in the earth so as to be forgotten in the world, but
now expect the rising up of them in each of you, meaning the
Law and Gospel, who shall stand as an olive Tree before Me,
flowing out your golden oil. It shall not be as formerly by
way of gifts now and then, but the fatness and olive-
sweetness shall spring out of your own root that shall bring
such great joy and happiness that we can sing out: "Fare
well old world, farewell!" The True and Living God would
280 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
desire all men to return to the Tree of Life and become Im
mortal like unto Jesus Christ, who still lives in the body in
which He was crucified.
Wherein the world in darkness, no light was seen,
Save around the cross the lightning beamed,
In the darkest night and hellish fiends
Thunders crashed around the scene.
Thunders roared and the earth did shake,
Lightning flashed and Saints awake;
Free from prison now shall be,
In resurrection all shall see.
He laid in the garden in deep repose,
In Resurrection Morn He then arose.
Early in the morning at the bre,ak of day,
The Angel rolled the great stone away.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
PFACE
RETURNING TO MOUNT ZION.
«I CONSIDERED all the living which walk under the sun
with the Second Child that shall stand up in His stead."
Eccl. 4:15. Therefore remember, all those who receive the
Graft of the Spiritual Child shall understand, for it is the
Child destined of God to lead Israel and they who possess
it shall be clothed with Shiloh Immanuel; but he who rejects
that Child who has come in the Son of man shall not receive
or partake of My Kingdom.
The beloved John, the Fifth Messenger, said by the
Spirit: "My departure shall be as the sun that goeth down
behind the clouds and at My return it shall be as sudden
as lightning upon you." This signifies the Day Star and
the rising sun of the Morning which shall arise in your
hearts as suddenly as the lightning from the east, which
shineth even unto the west, which has now risen to set no
more; it is the same from everlasting to Eternity.
It has been to Israel as the earth which revolves, which
turns them into the shadow of the evening and the night
for a time, till it comes to its proper channel—till the mortal
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 281
earth revolves back to its appointed place, till it be cleansed
and clothed with the Son of the Morning, to set no more.
It shall never fail its shining unto one Eternal Day, for
there shall be no night there.
O Israel remember, in the fourth watch of the morning
She arose to set no more. Therefore it is written that the
whole of the writings shall be printed again, that My people
Israel might see the difference between that which is in
part and the fulness ; that is, the whole of the sealed writings.
They are commanded to be printed again that it may
be unsealed to the Israel of God by the Interpreter who
has come in the name of Shiloh Immanuel; who stands in
great favor with the Trinity; whose dread and fear shall
fall upon all nations because of the mighty acting power
of the Holy Ghost, which shall make a way for the ran
somed ones to return with joy and gladness to Mount Zion.
Herein the new and Living Priesthood shall, according
to the Covenant and oath of the Spirit of Life, be effectively
and officially performed in a much different manner than
the first; all falling short of reaching the essential top and
highest degree, which shall be acted by high and Holy Spirits
in the walls of Jerusalem when it comes down upon the
earth.
They will offer their bodies a living sacrifice in the Holy
Temple, wherein it was given to understand and to know
the very truth that such a faithful Priest without guile,
who was born again by the Holy Divine Mother, even such
as our Lord would not be ashamed to own as His Priestly
brotherhood; the preeminence of being anointed with a dou
ble degree so that He may have that freedom to ascend up
to where God Himself will appear in His Immortal body,
to talk and give forth His mind freely to such as draw
near to Him in a prepared body, that they be able to receive
the deep secrets of the Holy One.
Therefore, as God took the Spirit of Moses and caused
it to rest upon seventy chosen ones to bear the burden
with Moses, so in like manner will the same Spirit of the
Lord Jesus Christ be given out to qualify and furnish for
the high degree of spiritual government which will rest
upon some who are yet in mortal bodies, until they receive
an Immortal body, which will be given them when they
are called up to enter the Most Holy Place of purity, when
power will also be given them suitable unto that state to
which they are called —to that Holy Virgin glorious Church
—for which they are chosen and redeemed from among men
282 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
to bear and support in these latter days upon the earth.
Christ Himself is in the heavens, there to remain until
such a perfect, Divine Church be brought up that has all
those characters and marks that the 144,000 are to have;
wherein He will anoint some by the Holy Ghost power in
a Divine, Holy manner, to officiate as if He Himself were
here upon the earth. This is a great and wonderful power
which is already on foot; therefore dear Israel, the only
thing that is required of us is to suffer the Spirit of burning
to do upon us the refining work, fanning us with His refin
ing breath until we be all pure and clean; for this burning,
purifying oil of the Holy Ghost searches every part with
in us.
It is the true consecration of the everlasting priesthood
so that we may come near to the Holy One and be accept
able worshippers before His Holy Throne; to mediate for
all these adoring powers and gifts that we may prove that
we are in the election for the Holy Immortal Church that
is coming out of the wilderness, like unto pillars of smoke
and flames of fire, the terrible crystalizing purity whereby
we may display the banners of Jehovah as the sealing charter
of the Immortal Church.
Therefore, happy are those who are like unto Thee.
Before Thee a fiery Law shall go forth which shall not be
after the manner of Mount Sinai that could never abolish
sin, but this fiery Law is as a flash of lightning that will
try, burn and consume every rising motive that from the
earthly man has been.
Observe and cherish this burning Spirit, into which suf
fer all and every part to be purged thoroughly, for this
will be witness of thyself, it being the Triune baptism. It
was further revealed that this fiery Law would be the fixa
tion of the Urim and Thummim, which was said unto me
to be a Divine sight from a fiery piercing eye that could have
a deep inward search; searching into the sacred things of
the Holy One and could prophesy thereof on clear grounds,
knowing what was concealed in the first original bringing
forth. Therefore according to the counsel and pleasure of
the Most High, things new and old, even to the wonderful
love of God in revealing this fiery Law which is the highest
binding Law.
Praise to the God of Israel, She will bless Her people
with peace; even with the peace of Jerusalem will She bless
them, but on the other hand the proud and rebellious will
She scatter, for they cannot endure Her Divine Presence.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 283
She will pull down the mighty from their thrones and will
exalt the humble and meek. Yea, She will exalt and estab
lish them, and they shall be established as pillars in Her
temple, to go out no more. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
INIQUITY WAS SOUGHT FOR AND NOT FOUND
He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment;
and I will not blot out his name out of the Book of life, but I will
confess his name before My Father, and before His Angels. Rev 3:5.
J7ULLY REALIZING that the transgressions are blotted out
and are sealed by the Spirit through the promise of the
Father as a witness, let all therefore send forth in one voice
a prayer from the depths of our hearts, which has been given
to us ever since we have been a trained soldier under the
discipline of the Lord Jesus Christ, our wonderful Spiritual
Leader; and with simplicity of heart, realizing it is a Divine
call to prepare and fit ourselves against the great revolution
which has come upon the world, the greatest that ever has
been.
Those who abide faithful and steadfast, will have great
reasons to rejoice; for these things are not to be wondered
at, but withal it is the power of God made more manifest
through it, which would be very hard, if possible, to imitate.
These are the things remarkable, fully realizing that the
General of the Army has appeared upon His White Horse in
a transparent and triumphant manner, to supply the army
by His wonderful decree of the Heavenly Councils and pro
clamation of war, the alarm for the gathering of His chosen
Bride, namely, the 144,000, and how they are to be admitted
into this ancient Military Roll which is already opened in
Heaven. And the wonderful success of this war is, all the
soldiers enter into present pay, and all the conquerors are
to wear a golden crown for their reward. The Heavenly
True-born soldiers of Israel have the assurance of Victory,
the interest of all Paradise to join themselves with this
army, and the beautiful heavenly thought of riding on white
284 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
horses, namely, their Immortal bodies; and the effect of
their appearance brings on the great battle, as they are the
discoverers of the New Jerusalem.
Have they not received a Message from the Conquering
Prince, Shiloh Immanuel, to this wonderful army, warning
us of the constant plotting of the enemy? Therefore, be
on your guard like unto Esther and Mordecai, showing forth
the wonderful success of the children of Wisdom —how they
are assisted by the four and twenty elders in great encour
agement to proceed, being visited by the Heavenly Host and
from them receiving the anointed Shield.
The three watchers and the great power that is given,
is the third, being the Triune Deity, giving particular in
structions to the soldiers and watchmen, the wonderful as
surance of this Holy Army being the Seven Spirits of the
mighty I Am That I Am, Jehovah, who has marked the seal
and the mighty proclamation of the wonderful Jubilee; the
watchword revealed and continued to them that would obtain
the benefit of it; the magical rod of Moses, needful to the
great approaching deliverance of the captives, to partake
of the promised Jubilee; the blessings upon them, namely,
the three-fold appeal concerning the promises to the believers
and half-believers ; and these treasures are to be observed—
the many and wonderful rewards of the conquerors and the
mighty power of Faith; the blessed fruits of Love; the
heavenly conversations of the Ascended Spirits, generating
and multiplying in the manner and progress of the replenish
ing Paradise; the separation from the earth, the Divine cup
which is the spring of Divine understanding, the fountain of
Wisdom, and the light of knowledge; the communication of
the priestly and Royal Spirits being the Court of the Prince
of Peace, with special regard to the New Dispensation now
upon its entrance. Indeed all the writings do point out this
most wonderful and Holy Divine Church. The wonderful
manifestation is so near at our door, but is carried on by an
invisible power, and not by the wisdom or arms of flesh, for
God is no respecter of persons, but that whosoever truly
fears Him and seeks to do His will in any trial or persecu
tion is acceptable by Him.
In this very day, from the whole world He will gather to
Himself a Holy and peculiar people to be as the first-fruits
of the Kingdom of His Son. Therefore the promises of the
Father concerning the gift of the Holy Spirit were never
determined as to place or time, but it was extended
universally to as many as should believe throughout all these
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 285
ages, wherein the Spirit bloweth where it listeth and is not
controlled by the wisdom nor power of man. The regenera
tion of man is the works of the Spirit, and that man ought
only to cease from the activity of his own will therein, and
seek to become strictly obedient to the Divine power of God,
that in the process of regeneration there might be a con
forming to the blessed Jesus Christ, our wonderful example,
wherein there are several degrees thereunto, that is, so many
steps to the Kingdom of God.
This Kingdom consists in perfect righteousness, peace
and joy in the Holy Ghost and in the renovation of the whole
man, spirit, soul and body, that this Kingdom shall encom
pass to the uttermost ends of the earth by virtue of an ever
lasting decree and that Christ, as He is the Second Adam,
a quickening Spirit, the Lord from Heaven, He being the
Head and representing the whole human nature,, not only
the justice, but also the mercies of God are over all His
works. But that they may both endure forever, Christ
being the heir of all things, will lose nothing that is His
right, or that the Father has given Him. Therefore of His
Kingdom there shall be no end. All creatures, whether in
Heaven or in earth, or under the earth, shall be made to
submit themselves to Him and to bow the knee; that the
time of restitution is now beginning and there is a voice at
present calling out, crying that the Kingdom of heaven on
earth is at hand, which is sent forth in His Name.
He will not suffer judgment to be wrested out of His
hands, for the work of every person shall shortly be made
manifest. The Day is at hand, which shall declare it by the
Revelation of fire, wherein the children of the Kingdom shall
be purified; but in the first place, there will be found among
all these some hay and stubble to be burned up, yet the
precious material, the Immortal body, will suffer no loss,
but will appear so much more ruddy. All that are established
upon the foundation —the Rock Christ—who cease not still
to follow His True Israel in the wilderness, shall abide in
the furnace and overcome the flames. Let it be remembered,
this fiery baptism, in which all iniquity shall be consumed and
the righteousness shall shine as the Sun in the Kingdom of
their Father, where all must be tried by the fire, whosoever
desires to return to Paradise; all must pass through the
flames, whether it be John the beloved, whom the Lord so
loved because of the Spirit of prophecy, as to say concerning
him to Peter, "If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that
to thee? Follow thou Me."
286 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Therefore, as much as the days of these fiery trials are
at hand, fear not, little flock! Be not afraid, it is I. For
as My Father sent Me into the world, so send I you, that My
Truth may be unfurled. It was on the cross that My Scrip
ture then was sealed. And by the Second Child My Truth
shall be revealed,
As a little Child My brother then was hid,
Now shall be revealed and stand up in My stead;
And all I considered with Him now to be,
As I showed the little Child who then was with Me.
I came into the world —now to be revealed —
And the twelve tribes soon shall be sealed.
Forty days Jesus came, and again He went
As the earthly wind wherein He was sent.
Seven times He came as the winds that blow,
And as the lightning again to Heaven go.
As the lightning shineth from the east to the west,
Son of man cometh and shall make a test.
Unto Shiloh, His gathering now shall be.
They shall come from all the earth, His glory to see.
As the winds that blow, in Spirit now are born,
With Him all shall arise, in daylight's early morn.
Judgment time, for all now shall be,
As flashing lightning, all shall see.
Many try to overthrow the Shepherd of the ranch,
Shiloh soon will say, I am Husband of the Branch.
Shepherd of the sheep, toiling in the field,
The fruits of His labor, now soon must yield.
The earth in Eden's bliss, soon shall be enrolled,
Glory from a hundred to a thousand fold.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 287
NATION BORN IN A DAY.
((MHEN ISRAEL was a child I loved him and out of Egypt
have I called My Son; and whom He called, them He
also justified; and whom He justified them He also glorified."
Can you not hear His wonderful Voice saying to His
Elect : Arise quickly and follow Me, wherein I will show you
greater things than yet have been known to thee, whereupon
you shall feel a mighty attracting power drawing you up,
preparing you for your ascension, like unto Jacob when he
took his flight to return to His Father's house. The day
of judgment is hastening on, wherein we shall be given up to
be tried by the fiery Law of Paradise which issues forth
from the Ancient of Days, who hath appointed a day in
which He will avenge His Elect that crieth mightily unto
Him, who are oppressed by those envious and jealous spirits.
Therefore be of good comfort, the Judge has nominated
the jury, and the jury is chosen, by whom the verdict will
be given. Be faithful and true, proving your interest in My
Son who is appointed to judge the world in thee and to cast
out hell, sin and death, casting satan and all his followers
into the lake, from whence there shall be no return to tempt
and turn His True Elect out of this strait and narrow way.
This is to be done by joining issue and power with Me,
your Ascended Master, who has come to help thee against
the great Leviathan who makes war most when he sees his
time of reign is almost run out and that he shall have place
no more. He thinks it is a very great injury to be cast out
of man's nature before laying down the mortal body, but in
God's name do I entreat thee to cast him out and let not the
smell of the old world come upon thee, proving to fallen
angels, men and devils that you have returned to your Virgin
purity, for the fear of man is taken away and I, through
Shiloh Immanuel, have done the work, wherein the Ascended
Master will meet thee with a smiling countenance.
It seems as if you can hear a voice, saying: Here is
the place for love's Divine Kingdom to grow, with its natural
inhabitants who have left behind the gross, selfish love that
must not come here, for that is what makes this passage so
strict, in as much as none can come in until they are stripped
and unclothed of the lower, sensative nature, for in this
place, all that are counted worthy to come in with Thee must
put on a transfiguration, which means: "Holiness unto God,"
thus dwelling in their golden tents, to go in and out.
That time is now approaching when Wisdom shall put
288 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
a new face upon what has been disfigured and under a
cloud, but this deep mine wherein these deep treasures have
so long lain hidden shall be brought up, as the Divine John
to whom this mystery was well known and who was the
person who had before spoken thus to me, said: "As there
is a natural stone, so there is a spiritual stone," which is
the root and ground of what is brought forth by that Spirit
of Truth, wherein it takes a considerable time for it to ar
rive to its perfection, for it is gradually working out and
may require as many years as others do months.
Herein it must be the will of God, who does search dili-'
gently to find His True Elect, who will help and assist with
all their heart to bring forth this light; as believing such
an age was coming in which that prophecy might be ful
filled, that the earth should be filled with the knowledge of
the Lord which should cover the earth as the waters cover
the sea, which shall also cover the earth with wisdom and
understanding in the deep mysteries of God; all paying
homage and high praises to their Redeemer.
Here we shall hear a voice, saying: "Behold and see
the Divine order in this Holy Place." Every one was placed
according to order and degree in various circles about the
throne, rejoicing together in such Divine harmony; and a
voice was heard, saying that: "These great elders were ap
pointed kings of Mount Zion, they being prepared to ascend
into the Paradise world."
Therefore a warning was given by the Mighty One in
great power and dominion, wherein His True Elect do labor
to be born into that heavenly principle, through Christ, and
they shall employ all their interest and power, riches and
honor for the lifting up of the standard of Christ's Kingdom
here upon earth; they shall hold a state of honor and do
minion, knowing that God is not a partial judge, to respect
any but those who bear His own similitude and likeness;
they bring their glory into the City of God, longing to reign
with Christ, their Head.
They, with gladness of heart accept the Seventh Angel
who is now sounding His Trumpet, whereby the kingdoms
of this world may become the Kingdoms of our Lord and
His Christ—that Eternal Word was made flesh —that He, the
Mighty Present God might repair all the wounds and deso
lation that came in by the fall, for which God, in His Wisdom,
has prepared for Himself in His own Divine time for the
finishing part of all mysteries.
The line of time is far spent, wherein the great Angel
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 289
shall come to set His feet, one upon the sea and the other
upon the earth, which will cause a mighty calm and quiet
ness among the inhabitants and among such as are prepared
and sealed with the Father's name of power; which name
signifies no less than the restoring of eternal nature, bring
ing forth the similitude of God as it was in the beginning
by such as shall be found in the Spirit of Moses, Elias,
David and Daniel, which shall be multiplied in numberless
waiters in this day of Christ's Kingdom, for a nation shall
be brought forth in one day, and that One Day is a thousand
years.
For this we have mighty rejoicing and trumpets sound
ing in the heavens that the Kingdom of the blessed Lamb
has descended into* the earth. Therefore, warning is given
to those who believe and love His appearing, to keep their
eye single upon the heavens for this glory to open and
spread itself upon the Ark, the earth, meaning, the Holy
Spirit is the Ark, and the earth being the prepared body.
Here is a question to be answered. It was thought that
it was near to be revealed in the apostolic age, but it was
the pleasure of Divine Wisdom to conceal from the worthy
as well as from the unworthy, the believer as well as the
unbeliever.
Therefore, the foregoing signs, concerning which some
patriarchs made known —fore-seeing that Christ's Kingdom
was near—as there were signs given by Christ of His coming
in His Kingdom of power, which had its accomplishment in
His First Coming, to deliver the persecuted and oppressed
ones and bring down severe judgments upon His enemies
as in the destruction of the Jews.
But there is a beautiful point for the tribe of Judah,
as they accepted Christ through Moses, this brings them in
by adoption. Therefore, to all who put the calendar to the
years of former ages, or who have kept an ear open to receive
what by truth has been delivered—which has been as the
days of Noah —so also shall the coming of the Son of man
be, wherein we have arrived to the third overturn of all
nations.
The Twelfth hour is here and the whole world is warned,
like unto Noah who warned the world for one hundred and
twenty years, until the very day that he entered into the
Ark, and they knew not until the flood came and took them
all away except the eight souls who entered into the Ark.
Likewise also was it in the days of Lot. They were feasting,
290 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
making merry, buying and selling, planting and building until
a sudden destruction overtook them.
Now this is for a certainty the day when Christ shall
be revealed, and blessed are those faithful servants who are
patiently waiting for His appearance, a beautiful sign of His
Second Coming by and through the opening of the Living
Testimony which proclaims the appearing of Christ's King
dom, which shall be guarded with such power and authority
from the Holy Ghost as shall convince and invite the rich
and noble of the earth to hearken thereto and look into the
deep mysteries relating to it and prepare for it.
There shall be a mighty stirring for the bringing in of
the scattered tribes of Israel, wherein they shall begin to
come at the hearing of the joyful sound to gain a resur
rection out of this deadness and unbelief, which will be
marvelous and wonderful. For there is no God in all the
earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
SEE EYE TO EYE
WITH THY CREATOR AND GUIDE.
pEAR GOD, and give glory to Him; for the hour of Hi»
judgment has come (Rev. 14:7). Then hark ye to Wisdom,
who is calling to the true ascended heirs of Her Kingdom;
She has prepared a fruitful feast and the Divine Father will
come down with His dearly beloved Son, the Lord Jesus
Christ, and the Holy Divine Mother who will abide with us,
wherein we shall feast on that Living Bread that cometh
down from Heaven.
Truly the fountain of Jacob shall be the blessings; we
shall hear the Voice of the Father saying : Let thy youthful
age be renewed as from its own originality, in which the
prophecies may be fulfilled and that the earth be filled with
the knowledge of God and with the deep mysteries that shall
be revealed. This will prepare His Elect ones to take their
flight into Paradise where all things are in harmony, joy and
peace, the same Immortal state which was before Adam lost
his Virgin Immortal Mother of Paradise, who now has re
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 291
turned again with those who have wandered through the
sea of sin and suffering, in order to put on the image of
purity, which is to the children who have received the res
urrected Word of Life which was given by Jesus Christ, for
not the least guile or fault shall be found in these True
and Holy Ones in this place, wherein all things shall be in
wonderful harmony. These have proven themselves to be
in the high estate of this Paradise world, who were signed
to bring the lower up to pay their worship to the great I
Am That I Am, to Him who has redeemed them. Therefore
a warning was given from these great ones, who are honored
in the fulness of all things, in great power and dominion.
Dear beloved Israel, let us labor earnestly to be born
into this heavenly and Divine world, wherein we shall be
made acquainted in Spirit and in Truth with the Prince
of Life. We shall employ all our energy and power, riches
and honor for the lifting up of the standard of Christ's
Kingdom here upon earth. We shall come to hold a state
of honor and dominion in this New World of Life, proving
ourselves to be the heirs of faith, knowing that God is not
a partial judge to respect any but such as bear His own
similitude and likeness and shall have His preferred great
honor bestowed in His court. God grant that all Israel may
hearken to this wonderful call that will reach to the ends
of the earth, that they may bring their glory and honor into
the City of God to reign with Christ their Head.
O ye Spirits of the Just, who have been made to see
and understand, wherein good assurance is given to all that
shall unite, travel and journey on together with Me, your
Ascended Master in love and harmony in the beautiful Spirit
of faith; ye shall see the Key suddenly come down that
will open the ascended gate where we may pass in one by
one, proving we are prepared.
Therefore, O Mighty and Present God, to Thy Holy Will
we come, that we might gird up like unto the strong Elijah,
and outrun all of Ahab's chariots. Even so let Thy Mighty
hand, O Present God, be upon Thy Ascended Angels, which
are Thy chariots, and with all swiftness move as driven on
with the whirlwind of Thy Spirit, for which, let our eyes
be fixed steadfastly evermore, as our heart's desire is to
reach the top ladder of Ascension, gradually entering into
Paradise where all things are in sweet harmony and love—
sweet haven of Rest.
This is the same estate as Adam was in before he lost
his Virgin mate, namely, Jerusalem Above. Sweet Paradise
292 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
Gates now stand open for those who have waded through
the foaming sea of sin, now seeking Immortality in order
to put on that Holy image of purity which is to the children
of the resurrection of spirit, soul and body given by Jesus
Christ. For not the least fault or guile shall be found in
His Bride, namely, the 144,000.
Therefore hark ye! Won't the world reel to and fro in
judgment when they see Israel made Immortal? which shall
be the amazing wonder of all miracles that yet have been.
It is the New Paradise again springing up in the midst of
His people, Israel, the beautiful Rose of Sharon —Jesus in
His mortal life—and the Lily of the valley —Jesus Christ
when made Immortal —which is altogether lovely. We shall
lift up our heads and rejoice, fully realizing we are again
in our own native Kingdom, which is the good will and
Divine pleasure of our Father to restore unto us; there
shall be no need of taking thought of this, or that, which
belongs to the outward bodily estate, for it will be given
them as they stand united with Christ, their Head, to pos
sess the New Earth and to inherit all things.
The Seventh is a Divine sign of putting on the trans
figuration, which will be accomplished at the coming of
Christ and His appearing in them in His glorified figure;
the express image of His Immortal body. A voice was
heard saying: "Arise and shine, for Thy light is come."
The glory of the Bridegroom has now become thy covering.
The marriage here will be honored and blest before the
Mighty I Am That I Am, who gives His full consent. Then
what may we expect from this matrimonial unity, but such
offspring for the New Creation of God, who shall all be pure
and perfect, as was designed by the Father of Eternity to
bring forth after His similitude before Adam fell?
Therefore this purpose of God could never be made void,
though a stop was permitted to be put to it for a while, for
the bringing forth of the manifold Wisdom of God; which
was foreordained by Him who was from the Eternal gener
ation, the Son of God by whom all that was laid aside was.
to be called and prepared again to a far greater advantage,
wherein all deep things shall be made manifest for instruc
tion and admonishment to all throughout the universe of
God's creation. Therefore it remains now to be observed
under the Voice of the Seventh Angel and those who follow
it, it is a true evidence the Kingdom is truly come, and will
be again as it was in the first Paradise, in male and female,
through the restoring of the lost Eternal Virgin nature.
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 293
It may be asked: What is required of those who are in a
hopeful way of possessing and entering into the reign of
this Blessed Day, looking forward to the time when the
Eternal Virgin will appear to bring forth the Heavenly birth,
to multiply abundantly and replenish the New Paradise?
The answer is: Through the Spirit of Faith which shall arise
and conquer all selfishness, so as not to admit any doubt
and stumbling, but make this Golden Path a strait line,
up to the glorified Jesus Christ. He is invested with all
power, as well in the lower regions, as in the upper, and
so unite with the powerful name, Alpha and Omega. This
faith in His great name must produce those mighty works
and deeds mentioned by our Lord after His resurrection as
a sign that shall follow those that believe in His Name.
They shall cast out devils; they shall speak with new
tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any
deadly thing it shall not hurt them. They shall lay their
hands upon the sick and they shall be healed by the virtue
of these mighty acting powers, wherein redemption shall be
worked out.
What a happy time this will be for the Bride, namely,
the 144,000. And all who are found alive shall stand and
rejoice for the wonderful Victory over sin, death, hell and
the grave. For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel
and I am His servant.
294 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
A VISIBLE KINGDOM.
TTIE REVELATION of Jesus Christ, who sends greeting
by His Spirit to all those who stood loyal and true to the
Union of the Godhead—the Mighty Savior and Deliverer —
insomuch that there was heard from Heaven a Voice saying:
"Behold! I come with a full recompense of reward to the
faithful watchers who are holding out in this, the Twelfth
and Last hour." Lo! the judgments have already set in, and
a decision shall be given, wherein there shall be a sealing
going forth in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost
and there shall be the Living Oracle brought down that shall
be the fulfillment of all prophecies, the pure Living Testi
mony turning them into the mighty acting power.
This shall be the joyful sound heard from the throne and
Kingdom of the Mighty Present God, which gives further
proof whereby it should be known by the fulfillment in whom
the Kingdom of God should first appear, at first invisible.
This shall be in such qualified persons as have been separated
and called out from this worldly principle. This is the true
sign of the Heavenly Glory which will break forth and en
lighten the whole Heavens and earth, wherein the Holy One
will set footing in the inward ground of the heart, that it be
in the throne habitation there to reign till He subdues, every
thought and motion being made subject to Him. Then shall
the heavens and the earth in the New Creation rejoice that
the King of Glory has taken to Himself His great power to
reign Eternally in the wonderful power of His Spirit. There
fore as it is thus invisibly made mainfest, so it will dilate
itself and spread into a visible Kingdom.
There are seven visible signs that will make out the
dominion and Kingdom in its first appearance. You might
say: In what person? I would say, the Second Child, the
Seventh Sounding Angel; whereas He was crucified and slain,
so shall He arise and become the resurrected glorious plant
in the Heavenly, bright Kingdom, where He shall have
liberty, power and might to act and do visibly according to
the prophecies of Christ's resurrected Life.
There is nothing of this worldly principle can any more
touch and bind Him down, being translated from out of the
powers and dominion of the satanic kingdom. For it is the
mark of the ascension into those goodly tents which Christ,
our Kingly Shepherd, has pitched for them near Himself,
where they may have free access to Him and He to them,
receiving the impression and similitude of their Lord, having
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 295
such a relation to Him by standing so near to this Glorified
One, which causes contentment and great rejoicing by vir
tue of their mission and gifts of the Holy Ghost, as no dis
turbance or wounding weapons can here enter, because
they are encircled with eternal burning flames of Himself,
that will devour all prickly briars and thorns that shall spring
up and set themselves against them, wherein they shall turn
to dust and ashes before them, for they dwell in the mighty
springs of the Spirit of faith, that shall arise and conquer all
selfishness, so as not to admit of any doubt or staggering,
but make it pass in a straight line, up to the glorified Jesus
Christ, as He is invested with all power, and so united with
that powerful name, Alpha and Omega.
The wonderful faith in their great name, will produce
those mighty works and deeds which were shown forth by
our Lord after His resurrection, as a sign that shall follow
them that believe in His name. They shall cast out devils;
they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up ser
pents and if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt
them; they shall lay their hands on the sick, and they shall
be healed by the virtue of these mighty acting powers. Re
demption shall be worked out, setting them free from the
burden and oppression that the whole creation for so many
years have groaned under, from whence no deliverance
could be till the resurrected powers could come down to
rest upon those who are to be the first rising witnesses
thereof, wherein the New Paradise shall again spring up in
the midst of the worthy; the beautiful Rose of Sharon and
the pure, white Lily lifting up their heads as being installed
again in their native Kingdom, which is the good will and
pleasure of their Father to restore to them, the rich, Divine
things out of Wisdom's Heavenly Bank and store, which
were never opened before. No need of taking thought of
this or that belonging to the outward world, for it will be
given to them as they stand united to Christ, their Head,
to possess the earth and to inherit all things.
What a glorious thought to realize and know we are
under the Voice of the Seventh Sounding Angel, wherein
we shall put on the transfiguration which will be accomp
lished in the beautiful appearing of Christ in them in His
glorified body. And a Voice was heard, saying: Arise and
shine; for thy Light is come, and the glory of the Bride
groom, giving His consent and command to bring forth His
offspring, all pure and perfect as was designed by the Father
of Eternity before Adam fell. The promise of God could
296 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
never be made void, though it was permitted to put a stop
to it for a while till He brings forth His manifold Wisdom,
transacted by Him who was from the Eternal generation,
the Sons of God, by whom all that was lapped over was
to be repaired again to a far greater advantage, which in
the concealing parts of all secrets will be made manifest
and will bring a great astonishment to all throughout the
whole Universe of God's Creation.
It remains now to be observed from the redoubled seven
eyes, which has been truly the forerunning sign, and those
that follow are evidence that —truly the Kingdom has come.
It will begin as it was in the first Paradise, in male and
female, through the restoration of the lost Eternal Virgin
nature sounding forth the loving call of God to those who are
yet strangers to the knowledge of the blessed resurrected
state.
But here it must be understood that these do first rise in
a childlike state and so grow up as Christ Himself did in
wisdom and stature ; as this being the time of their ministry,
they cannot suddenly reach to the full possession of their
inheritance and kingdom, but as Divine Spirits they will be
brought up and served according to their high spiritual birth
degree ; as Moses was brought up in all learning of the Egyp
tians, as the son of Pharaoh's daughter, so shall these heav
enly born children be taught discipline and instruction in
all the Divine arts in the Royal Court of God, their Father,
and the New Jerusalem, their Holy Mother; from which
may be expected the great deeds and wonders to be acted
forth after the manner of Moses and the prophets and apos
tles, in a degree more glorious than all that has hitherto
been, because it will be the manifestation of the great Day
of Christ setting up His Kingdom, rejoicing here upon earth
over all nations and kingdoms, which has never been, but
the wonderful prophecies thereof are now to be fulfilled.
Therefore, it is foreseen and shown that this mighty
Trump is a forerunner of the Seventh Angel sounding, thus
to awake and raise the dead. And if this mighty Trump
awakes the dead, how much more the Living? which brings
peace and joy to the great and mighty ones of the earth,
knowing that this mighty Trumpet has its commission to
sound in such a loving call, giving full rejoicing.
Blessed are those that shall stand in their lot in this,
the Twelfth and Last hour, wherein take notice how the
former signs do go forward, showing forth plainly that the
Kingdom of God will run parallel according to the type of
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 297
the first Creation. Therefore all that are in a hopeful way
of possessing and entering into the reign of this blessed day,
and looking forward to when the Holy Virgin shall appear
clothed in white raiment, methinks I hear the Voice of the
guarding Angel saying: "Get you ready! Tarry not! The
Sons of God are going to be made manifest here upon this
earth."
Therefore the Spirit and the Bride say, come! And who
soever will may come and partake of the waters of Life
freely and enter into the joys of thy Lord. For there is no
God in all the earth but in Israel and I am His servant.
PEACE
LOVE'S DOMINION.
r\ YE CHOSEN Israelites of God, who will now take
heed to that most pure Word of prophecy under the
Great Sunlight which is shining so brightly upon the Words
of this Visitation. Oh, thy loving God of Israel is so pleased
to be in communication with those who stand upon the
Rock immovable, while this wonderful day is so quickly ap
proaching. That Holy Star from on high is sMning in thine
own heart, wherein it will not fail to do according as they
shall be found true to what they have already received,
believing in the promises that are given for their sake, from
Him who is the faithful witness, and that He is the same
now as He was yesterday, also in the days of the patriarchs,
prophets and apostles, and will be the same forever. Praise
His Holy Name!
Therefore let it be remembered; in all ages of the world
God has had some special chosen ones, though perhaps hid
den from the world because they were not of it; in a plainer
and more Divine manner, He has chosen to converse with
and manifest Himself in all ages, thus revealing His secrets
unto His servants, the prophets, like unto the days of Moses,
of the beautiful tabernacle and all its vessels which were
in Solomon's temple, in those of Ezra, of the restitution, and
of the Law. Those of the apostles and of the foundation
of the Spiritual Kingdom of Christ, which is now in the
fulness of time about to be revealed at His Second Coming
298 THE BOOK OF PARADISE
in the power and glory of the Father, to judge the quick
and the dead, according to the everlasting Righteousness,
and to put down all evil imaginations under His feet, not
only for a thousand years—which is to Him but as One
Day—but forever, to sit upon His Holy Hill of Zion, gov
erning all worlds with His sceptre of Holiness, as the Lord
of lords and King of kings. It is again revealed to us much
more strongly than at first, through the pure humanity of
Christ, which is exalted above all principalities and powers
in the Heavenly places, the express character of the Father
afresh imprinted as in the very forehead, a new everlasting
commission established to go forth and act in the Triune
name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost, which is sealed
with the heart of Jesus.
All the Royal ensigns are again delivered—the Crown
of Immortality, the Sceptre of Righteousness —thus bring
ing forth the Holy Family of the First-born, passing through
the glorified body of Jesus Christ that is able to subdue
everything unto Himself. This verily is that Kingdom which
is so much talked of and so little understood everywhere.
But in this, the Twelfth and Last hour, Shiloh Immanuel
looks toward thee and gives thee to read within the Seventh
Sealed Book the beautiful interpretation from whence I give
thee to understand the mystery of the Nazarite Seven Locks,
the answer to the Seven Seals of this Book of Life, which
only can be opened by the Virgin, completed in the Seven
Spirits which are the Seven Seeing Eyes that only can read
in this Book which is the true groundwork of all those
writings, which is through and by Shiloh Immanuel.
Therefore, take heed to this wonderful power which has
visited thee, which will admit of no mixture of company—
all of one sort —in pure harmonies will meet in the beautiful
sanctuary. Now, the wonderful subject that we are to work
upon, is the Divine salt put into a crystallized glass that is
pure Spirit, it being furthermore known that this salt is
hidden in all men, but hath lost its savor; it is the Light
that contains all principles, but is unknown to himself,
wherein he may find in himself whatsoever he searcheth for.
But this cannot be done until the salt stone, which has
lain as dead, be quickened by Christ, the fiery Stone that
cleanses the blackness into Jasper brightness.
Therefore John, the beloved did open up the nature of
this Royal Stone as it was opened to him on the Isle of Pat-
mos when he was in the Spirit. It was understood further
SIXTH COMFORTER OF THE MOTHER'S BOOK 2M
that wherever that universal love was born in anyone, it
was the true sign that the Sacred Stone would have its for
mation; and when this is accomplished, we are then free
to be married to Him that is risen from the dead and so
shall become the Ascended Master's Wife, joined in all the
lands and possessions that He hath. The eternal revela
tions belongeth unto Her, it being our Holy, Divine, Mother
Jerusalem Above. Whether invisible or visible, all power in
Heaven and earth is given to Her, and all things are given
to those that are His, namely, His Bride, the 144,000 ; wheth
er it be gifts of prophecy, revelation, or of manifestations,
discerning of Spirits, or that high education of the learned
which speaks only from Wisdom's breath, wherein I shall
be a witness of Jacob's Star rising, and shall see for myself
and not for another. Then shall the saying be fulfilled:
"Death is swallowed up in Victory."
The Law of Paradise has set me free from the law of
sin and death. Be astonished, O ye who are wounded, weak
eyed despisers of this wonderful redemption which I now
see so near to be revealed! For the beautiful garments of
the Bride are being made ready, and it is glorious unto me
to see in whose hands it shall be. O Wisdom, darling Wis
dom! to Thee is committed the ordering of this wedding
garment, which of Divine colors shall be, different from
all others, She being the King's Daughter. Behold the
Bridegroom rejoicing to see His Bride as a spotless lily
flowing from under the beautiful Tree of life.
The Bridegroom with His Bride shall walk and talk to
gether concerning the deep things wrapped up in the mys
tery of the Trinity. O thou deep well of Love which so free
ly flows! No need of drawing when the Spring is unlocked,
wherein we commune with the great I Am That I Am,
having the golden promise that we shall be admitted into
the fiery Chariot all paved with love.
When the birth is strong enough grown, it will show
itself whose Child it is. In the meantime it is hid and con
cealed, wrapped up in the mantle of love, in the breast of
Wisdom, by which it shall still be sustained until it arrives
to a perfect age; then shall the government upon His shoul
ders be laid, wherein we shall rejoice to see Immanuel's
Kingdom arising as the Star out of the east. I have now
no other words to give but that thou hold fast and keep
the Word of God's patience, enduring all trials and perse
cutions, and shrink not back from that which will crown
thee. Therefore stand on the Rock immovable, wherein:
THE! BOOK OF PARADISE
We shall walk among the roses,
Yea, the Rose of Sharon
With its fragrance rare and sweet,
For the Sun shines bright and golden
On the ripening fields of wheat.
It is a short time that now lingers
We will let the old world go,
For the Voice of Shiloh is calling
And to our sweet Home we go;
Telling so true of life made new,
O ye Chosen, Elect, faithful few,
Paradise to you now comes in view,
Wherein we are raised up from the valley
Even as the lily sweet,
When the Son of man is pleading
We shall stand upon our feet,
And those who with Him are numbered
Shall receive a precious Stone
And in it a New Name written,
But to none other known.
For there is no God in all the earth but in Israel and
I am His servant.
SIXTH COMFORTER OP THE MOTHER'S BOOK 801
TTHE LORD is on My head like a Crown, and I shall not be
without Him. They wove for Me a crown of truth, and it
caused Thy branches to bud in Me. For it is not like a with
ered crown which buddeth not; but Thou livest upon My
head, and Thou hast blossomed upon My head. Thy fruits
are full-grown and perfect; they are full of Thy salvation.
Odes of Solomon 1:1-4.
A ND there appeared a great wonder In heaven, a Woman
clothed with the sun, the moon under Her feet, and upon
Her head a crown of twelve Stars. Revelation 12:1.
INDEX—BOOK OF PARADISE
Title Page No.
Abide in the Furnace 156
Ancient of Days, The 9
Angel Messengers under Gabriel 33
Another Birth 217
Ascension of the Body 200
A Visible Kingdom 294
Beautiful and Glorious Manner of Christ's
Appearing, The 251
Beginning of the New World 191
Consecrated Tabernacles 114
Constant Flowing Spring 152
Covenant of God's Love _ 70
Crystal River, The _. 162
Desert Shall Rejoice As A Rose, The 277
Divine Pasture 174
Divine Sealing 27
Door of Hope Opened _..._ _. 39
Divine Mother, The _ 43
Dwell in Wisdom 46
Gabriel's Message _ 77
Glorious Reign of the Prince of Peace, The 1
God's Eternal Freedom _ 239
Golden Key, The _ 159
Golden Talent, The 103
Half Has Never Been Told, The 55
Healing Balm, The 270
Heavenly Calling — 255
He Shall Appear to Your Joy 83
High Priestly Calling 87
Holy Ark of Safety 59
Holy Immortal Church, The 74
Holy Mount Zion 6
Holy Warriors 195
Iniquity Was Sought For and Not Found 283
Inward Temple Body 207
Israel's Request —Jerusalem's Golden Key 24
INDEX—BOOK OP PARADISE
Title Page No-
Jehovah's Thrills and Wonders — 94
Lilly and the Rose, The 172
Lost Eden Found 182
Love's Dominion 297
Make War Upon the Beast 21
Melchisedec Priesthood 18
Mighty Sun of Glory 220
Mighty Trump of Gabriel 229
Mighty Trump Sounds, The 111
Mighty Victory 105
My Anointed Shield 264
Nation Born In A Day 287
New Sharon, The 210
Paradisical Man _ 80
Path of Life, The _ 65
Pearly Gates of Wisdom 108
Perfect Love is the Heir 99
Pressing Into Regeneration „. '. 30
Promised Glorification 249
Pure Temple Mind 120
Pursue the Ascension 242
Quickening and Reigning Life 165
Remnant Shall Be Prepared 224
Returning to Mount Zion 280
Returning to the Father's House 136
Revelations From God _ _ 67
Rising in Christ 132
Robe of Glorification _ _ 186
Royal Law of Christ 129
Sacred Altar Coal 138
Second Pentecost —the Beautiful Morning Star, The 37
See Eye to Eye With Thy Creator and Guide 290
Separation and Dedication, True Oracle Speaking 147
Seven Locks of His Power 214
Seven Witnessing Powers 15
Spirit of Faith 49
INDEX—BOOK OF PARADISE
Title Page No.
Spiritual Help for the Worthy . 141
Spiritually Graduated by the Holy Ghost 274
To Appreciate God 244
Transparent Mantle 236
Treasures of Wisdom 267
Triune Deity, The . 117
True Strangers 12
Virgin Crown of Power 127
Vision to Seventh Angel 178
Watch Gate, The 226
Watered by the Holy Mist 169
White Stone, The 232
Wisdom's Polished Pillars 124
Wisdom's Rainbow 204
Wisdom's First-born Manifested 259
Youth Shall -Deliver the Seals 90
THE BOOK
of
PARADISE
THE COMFORTER
The Mother's Book
VOLUME SIX
JERUSALEM ABOVE IS FREE ANOTHER COMFORTER. WHOM
THE MOTHER OF US ALL. THE WORLD CANNOT RECEIVE.
GALATIANS 4:26. JOHN 14:16,17.
Thy calling, O Virgin Daughter of Israel, is not to depart, but to
remain on the battlefield, and gather the castaway stones.
Extracts of the Flying Roll.
He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire. Whose fan is
in His hand, and He will thoroughly purge His floor, and
gather His wheat into the garner. Matt. 3:11,12.
In those days and at that time, I will cause the Branch of Righteous
ness to grow up unto David; and He shall execute judgment and
Righteousness in the land. In those days shall Judah be saved,
and Jerusalem shall dwell safely; and this is the name
wherewith She shall be called: "The Lord Our
Righteousness." Jeremiah 33:15,16.
/ am the bright and Morning Star!
Revelation 22:16.
By the power of the spirit of the woman, he shall
overcome by obedience to the spirit of her word,
for she shall finish the work.—II Star p. 307.
