{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__godwin___lives_of_the_necromancers.pdf","mytitle":"Lives Of The Necromancers","mylang":"de"}
LIVES
OF THE
N E C R 0 M A N C E R S:
Oil,
AN ACCOUNT OF THE MOST EMINENT PERSONS IN
SUCCESSIVE AGES, WHO HAVE CLAIMED FOR
THEMSELVES, OR TO WHOM HAS
BEEN IMPUTED BY OTHERS,
THE
EXERCISE OF MAGICAL POWER.
BY WILLIAM GODWIN.
LONDON:
FREDERICK J. MASON, 444, WEST STRAND.
1834.
BAYLIS AND LEIGHTON,
JOHNSON'S·COURT, FLEET·8TBEET•
....
I
l
'1
n
!
'
. j
1
.1
I
,'I
I
I
'
I
PREFACE.
THE main purpose of this book is to exhibit a
fair delineation of the credulity of the human
mind. Such an exhibition cannot fail to be pro-
ductive of the most salutary lessons.
One view of the subject will teach us a useful
pride in the abundance of our faculties. Without
pride man is in reality of little value. It is pride
that stimulates us to all our great undertakings.
Without pride, and the secret persuasion of extra-
ordinary talents, what man would take up the pen
with a view to produce an important work, whe-
ther of imagination and poetry, or of profound
science, or of acute and subtle reasoning and in-
tellectual anatomy? It is pride in this sense that
makes the great general and the consummate le-
gislator, that animates us to tasks the most la-
A
Vl PREFACE.
borious, and causes us to shrink from no difficulty,
and to be confounded and overwhelmed with no
obstacle that can be interposed in our path.
Nothing can be more striking than the contrast
between man and the inferior animals. The latter
live only for the day, and see for the most part
only what is immediately before them. But man
lives in the past and the future. He reasons upon
and improves by the past ; he records the acts of
a long series of generations : and he looks into
future time, lays down plans which he shall be
months and years in bringing to maturity, and
contrives machines and delineates systems of edu-
cation and government, which may gradually add
to the accommodations of all, and raise the species
generally into a nobler and more honourable cha-
racter than our ancestors were capable of sus-
taining.
Man looks through nature, and is able to reduce
its parts into a great whole. He classes the beings
which are found in it, both animate and inanimate,
delineates and describes them, investigates their
properties, and records their capacities, their good
and evil qualities, their dangers and their uses.
Nor does he only see all that is; but he also
PREFACE. Vll
images all that is not. He takes to pieces the
substances that are, and combines their parts into
new arrangements. He peoples all the elements
from the world of his imagination. It is here that
he is most extraordinary and wonderfu1. The
record of what actually is, and has happened in
the series of human events, is perhaps the smallest
part of human history. If we would know man in
all his subtleties, we must deviate into the world
of miracles and sorcery. To know the things that
are not, and cannot be, but have been imagined
and believed, is the most curious chapter in the
annals of man. To observe the actual results of
these imaginary phenomena, and the crimes and
cruelties they have caused us to commit, is one of
the most instructive studies in which we can pos-
sibly be engaged. It is here that man is most
astonishing, and that we contemplate with most
admiration the discursive and unbounded nature
of his faculties.
But, if a recollection of the examples of the
credulity of the human mind may in one view
supply nourishment to our pride, it still more ob-
viously tends to teach us sobriety and humiliation.
Man in his genuine and direct sphere is the dis-
A
viii PREFACE.
ciple of reason ; it is by this faculty that he draws
inferences, exerts his prudence, and displays the
ingenuity of machinery, and the subtlety of system
both in natural and moral philosophy. Yet what
so irrational as man ? Not contented with making
use of the powers we possess, for the purpose of
conducing to our accommodation and well being,
we with a daring spirit inquire into the invisible
causes of what we see, and people all nature with
Gods "of every shape and size" and angels, with
principalities and powers, with beneficent beings
who "take charge concerning us lest at any time
we dash our foot against a stone," and with devils
who are perpetually on the watch to perplex us
and do us injury. And, having familiarised our
minds with the conceptions of these beings, we
immediately aspire to hold communion with them.
We represent to ourselves God, as "walking in
the garden with us in the cool of the day," and
teach ourselves "not to forget to entertain strangers,
lest by so doing we should repel angels unawares."
No sooner are we, even in a slight degree, ac.
quainted with the laws of nature, than we frame
to ourselves the idea, by the aid of some invisible
ally, of suspending their operation, of calling out
PREFACE. IX
meteors in the sky, of commanding storms and
tempests, of arresting the motion of the heavenly
bodies, of producing miraculous cures upon the
bodies of our fellow-men, or afflicting them with
disease and death, of calling up the deceased from
the silence of the grave, and compelling them to
disclose "the secrets of the world unknown."
But, what is most deplorable, we are not con·
tented to endeavour to secure the aid of God and
good angels, but we also aspire to enter into alli-
ance with devils, and beings destined for their
rebellion to suffer eternally the pains of hell. As
they are supposed to be of a character perverted
and depraved, we of course apply to them princi-
pally for purposes of wantonness, or of malice and
revenge. And, in the instances which have oc-
curred only a few centuries back, the most com-
mon idea has been of a compact entered into by
an unprincipled and impious human being with
the sworn enemy of God and man, in the result
of which the devil engages to serve the capricious
will and perform the behests of his blasphemous
votary for a certain number of years, while the de-
luded wretch in return engages to renounce his
God and Saviour, and surrender himself body and
X PREFACE.
soul to the pains of hell from the end of that term
to all eternity. No sooner do we imagine human
beings invested with these wonderful powers, and
conceive them as called into action for the most
malignant purposes, than we become the passive
and terrified slaves of the creatures of our own
imaginations, and fear to be assailed at every mo-
ment by beings to whose power we can set no
limit, and whose modes of hostility no human
sagacity can anticipate and provide against. But,
what is still more extraordinary, the human crea-
tures that pretend to these powers have often been
found as completely the dupes of this supernatural
machinery, as the most timid wretch that stands
in terror at its expected operation ; and no phe-
nomenon has been more common than the confes-
sion of these allies ofhell, that they have verily and
indeed held commerce and formed plots and con-
spiracies with Satan.
The consequence of this state ofthings has been,
that criminal jurisprudence and the last severities
of the law have been called forth to an amazing
extent to exterminate witches and witchcraft.
More especially in the sixteenth century hundreds
and thousands were burned alive within the com-
PREFACE. ux
pass of a small territory ; and judges, the directors
of the scene, a Nicholas Remi, a De Lancre, and
many others, have published copious volumes,
entering into a minute detail of the system and
fashion of the witchcraft of the professors, whom
they sent in multitudes to expiate their depravity
at the gallows and the stake.
One useful lesson which we may derive from the
detail of these particulars, is the folly in most cases
ofimputing pure and unmingled hypocrisy to man.
The human mind is of so ductile a character that,
like what is affirmed of charity by the apostle, it
" believeth all things, and endureth all things."
We are not at liberty to trifle with the sacredness
oftruth. While we persuade others, we begin to
deceive ourselves. Human life is a drama of that
sort, that, while we act our part, and endeavour
to do justice to the sentiments which are put down
for us, we begin to believe we are the thing we
would represent.
To shew however the modes in which the delu-
sion ·acts upon the person through whom it ope-
rates, is not properly the scope of this book. Here
and there I have suggested hints to this purpose, .
which the curious reader may follow to their fur-
xii PREFACE.
thest extent, and discover how with perfect good
faith the artist may bring himself to swallow the
grossest impossibilities. But the work I have writ-
ten is not a treatise of natural magic. It rather
proposes to display the immense wealth of the
faculty of and to shew the extrava-
gances of which the man may be guilty who sur-
renders himself to its guidance.
It is fit however that the reader should bear in
mind, that what is put in this book is but a
small part and scantling of the acts of sorcery and
witchcraft which have existed in human society.
They have been found in all ages and countries.
The torrid zone and the frozen north have neither
.of them· escaped from a fruitful harvest of this sort
of offspring. In ages of ignorance they have been
especially at home ; and the races of men that have
left no records behind them to tell almost that they
existed, have been most of all rife in deeds of
darkness, and those marvellous incidents which
especially astonish the spectator, and throw back
the infant reason of man into those shades and that
. obscurity from which it had so recently endea-
voured to escape.
I wind up· for the present my literary labours
PREFACE. Xlll
with the production of this book. Nor let any
reader imagine that I here put irito his hands a
mere work of idle recreation. It will be found preg-
nant with deeper uses. The wildest extravagances
of human fancy, the most deplorable perversion of
human faculties, and the most horrible distortions
ofjurisprudence, may occasionally afford us a salu-
tary lesson. I love in the foremost place to con-
template man in all his honours and in all the ex-
altation of wisdom and virtue ; but it will also be
occasionally of service to us to look into his obli-
quities, and distinctly to remark how great and
portentous have been his absurdities and his follies.
May 29, 1834.
"
C 0 NT E NTS.
Page
INTRODUCTION 1
AMBITIOUS NATURE OF MAN . 9
HIS DESIRE TO PENETRATE INTO FUTURITY 10
DIVINATION 11
AUGURY.
CHIROMANCY
PHYSIOGNOMY
INTERPRETATION OF DREAMS
CASTING OF LOTS
ASTROLOGY
ORACLES .
DELPHI • ..
THE DESIRE TO COMMAND AND CONTROL
FUTURE EVENTS
ih.
12
ib.
13
14
ib.
•• }5
16
20
xvi CONTENTS.
Page
COMMERCE WITH THE INVISIBLE WORLD 20
SORCERY AND ENCHANTMENT 21
WITCHCRAFT 24
COMPACTS WITH THE DEVIL 25
IMPS 26
TALISMANS AND AMULETS 27
NECROMANCY ih.
ALCHEMY . 29
FAIRIES . 32
ROSICRUCIANS 35
SYLPHS AND GNOMES, SALAMANDERS AND
UNDINES. 36
EXAMPLES OF NECROMANCY AND
WITCHCRAFT FROM THE BIBLE 39
THE MAGI, OR WISE MEN OF THE EAST . 44
EGYPT . 46
STATUE OF MEMNON 50
TEMPLE OF JUPITER AMMON: ITS ORACLES 51
CHALDEA AND BABYLON . 54
ZOROASTER 55
GREECE 57
DEITIES OF GREECE 58
DEMIGODS 62
D.£DALUS 64
THE ARGONAUTS 66
MEDEA 67
CIRCE 70
ORPHEUS ib.
AMPHION 74
TIRESIAS 75
ABARIS 76
PYTHAGORAS 77
CONTENTS. XVU
Page
EPIMENIDES 92
EMPEDOCLES 95
ARISTEAS 98
HERMOTIMUS 99
THE MOTHER OF DEMARATUS, KING OF
SPARTA 100
ORACLES 101
INVASION OF XERXES INTO GREECE 107
DEMOCRITUS 110
SOCRATES 112
ROME 119
VIRGIL ib.
POLYDORUS. ih.
DIDO. 120
ROMULUS 122
NUMA ib.
TULLUS HOSTILIUS 124
ACCIUS NAVIUS ih.
SERVIUS TULLIUS 125
THE SORCERESS OF ,VIRGIL 127
CANIDIA 129
ERICHTHO 133
SERTORIUS 146
CASTING OUT DEVILS • 150
SIMON MAGUS ih.
ELYMAS, THE SORCERER 153
NERO 155
VESPASIAN ih.
APOLLONIUS OF TYANA 157
,APULEIUS 164
ALEXANDER THE PAPHLAGONIAN 165
xviii CONTENTS.
Page
REVOLUTION PRODUCED IN THE
HISTORY OF NECROMANCY AND
WITCHCRAFT UPON THE ESTA-
BLISHMENT OF CHRISTIANITY 171
MAGICAL CONSULTATIONS RESPECTING THE
LIFE OF THE EMPEROR 173
HISTORY OF NECROMANCY IN
THE EAST . 177
GENERAL SILENCE OF THE EAST RESPECT-
ING INDIVIDUAL NECROMANCERS . 185
ROCAIL . 187
HAKEM, OTHERWISE MACANNA . 188
ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS 189
PERSIAN TALES. 195
STORY OF A GOULE . 201
ARABIAN NIGHTS 203
RESEMBLANCE OF THE TALES OF THE EAST
AND OF EUROPE . 204
CAUSES OF HUMAN CREDULITY 206
DARK AGES OF EUROPE
MERLIN .
ST..DUNSTAN
0 ill
216
222
OF EUROPE AND
THE SARACENS . . 231
GERBERT, POPE SILVESTER II .
BENEDICT THE NINTH
GREGORY THE SEVENTH .
DUFF, KING OF SCOTLAND
. ib.
234
0 235
241
CONTENTS. XiX
Page
MACBETH 243
VIRGIL . 249
ROBERT OF LINCOLN 252
MICHAEL SCOT . 254
THE DEAN OF BADAJOZ · 255
MIRACLE OF THE TUB OF WATER 257
INSTITUTION OF FRIARS 259
ALBERTUS MAGNUS 260
ROGER BACON • 263
THOMAS AQUINAS 266
PETER OF APONO • 268
ENGLISH LAW OF HIGH TREASON 269
ZIITO 273
TRANSMUTATION OF METALS 277
ARTEPHlUS 278
RAYMOND LULL! ib.
ARNOLD OF VILLENEUVE 281
ENGLISH LAWS RESPECTING TRANSMUTATION 282
REVIVAL OF LETTERS . 285
JOAN OF ARC 286
ELEANOR COBHAM, DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER 294
RICHARD III . • 297
SANGUINARY PROCEEDINGS
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT 299
SAVONAROLA 311
TRITHEMIUS 318
LUTHER . 320
CORNELIUS AGRIPPA 322
FAUSTUS . 330
SABELLICUS 358
PARACELSUS 359
CARDAN 362
XX CONTENTS.
Page
QUACKS, WHO IN COOL BLOOD UNDERTOOK
TO OVERREACH MANKIND 364
BENVENUTO CELLINI 365
NOSTRADAMUS . 372
DOCTOR DEE . 373
EARL OF DERBY 398
KING JAMES'S VOYAGE TO NORWAY 399
JOHN FIAN . 404
KING JAMES'S DEMONOLOGY 405
STATUTE, 1 JAMES I 407
FORMAN AND OTHERS " 408
LATEST IDEAS OF JAMES ON THE SUBJECT 412
LANCASHIRE WITCHES . ib.
LADY DAVIES 418
EDWARD FAIRFAX 419
DOCTOR LAMB . ib.
URBAIN GRANDIER 421
ASTROLOGY . 428
WILLIAM LILLY 426
MATTHEW HOPKINS 432
CROMWEL 437
DOROTHY MATELEY 440
WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW HALE 448
WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN • 448
WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND 454
CONCLUSION . • 468
LIVES
OF THE
NECROMANCERS
THE improvements that have been effected in
natural philosophy have by degrees convinced the
enlightened part of mankind that the materia]
universe is every where subject to laws, fixed in
their weight, measure and duration, capable of the
most exact calculation, and which in no case admit
of variation and exception. Whatever is not thus
to be accounted for is of mind, and springs from
the volition of some being, of which the material
form is subjected to our senses, and the action of
which is in like manner regulated by the laws of
matter. Beside this, mind, as well as matter, is
subject to fixed laws; and thus every phenomenon
and occurrence around us is rendered a topic for
the specu1ations of sagacity and foresight. Such
is the creed which science has universally pre-
scribed to the judicious and reflecting among us.
It was otherwise in the infancy and less mature
state of human knowledge. The chain of causes
B
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS,
and consequences was yet unrecognized ; and
events perpetually occurred; for which no sagacity
that was then in being was able to assign an ori-
ginal. Hence men felt themselves habitually dis-
posed to refer many of the appearances with which
they were conversant to the agency of invisible
intelligences; sometimes under the influence of a
benignant -disposition, sometimes of malice, and
sometimes perhaps from an inclination to make
themselves sport of the wonder and astonishment
of ignorant mortals. Omens and portents told
these men of some piece of good or ill fortune
speedily to befal them. The flight of birds was
watched by them, as foretokening somewhat im-
portant. Thunder excited in them a feeling of
supernatural terror. Eclipses with fear of change
perplexed the .nations. The phenomena of the
heavens, regular and irregular, were anxiously re-
marked from the same principle. During the
hours of darkness ·men were apt to see a super-
natural being in every bush; and they could not
cross a receptacle for the dead, without expecting
to encounter some one of the departed uneasily
1
wandering among graves, or commissioned to re-
veal somewhat momentous and deeply affecting to
the survivors. Fairies danced in the moonlight
glade ; and something preternatural perpetually
occurred to fill the living with admiration and awe.
All this gradually reduced· itself into a system.
Mankind, particularly in the dark and ignorant
LIVES OF THE NECROMANC£RS. 8
ages, were divided into the strong and the weak ;
the strong and weak of animal frame, when cor-
poreal strength more decidedly bore sway than in a
period of greater cultivation ; and the strong and
weak in reference to intellect; those who were
bold, audacious and enterprising in acquiring an
ascendancy over their fellow-men, and those who
truckled, submitted, and were acted upon, from an
innate'consciousness of and a supersti-
tious looking up to such as- were of greater natural
or acquired endowments than themselves. The
strong in intellect were eager to avail themselves
of their superiority, by means that escaped the pe-
netration of the multitude, and had recourse to
various artifices to effect their ends. Beside this,
they became the dupes of their own practices.
They set out at first in their conception of things
from the level of the vulgar. They applied them-
selves diligently to the unravelling of what was
unknown; wonder mingled with their contempla-
tion ; they abstracted their minds from things of
ordinary occurrence, and, as we may
it, of real life, till at length they lost their true
balance amidst the astonishment they sought to
produce· in their inferiors. They felt a vocation
to things extraordinary; and they willingly gave
scope and line without limit to that which engen-
dered in themselves the most gratifying sensations,
at the same time that it answered the purposes of
their ambition.
B
4 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
As these principles in the two parties, the more
refined and the vulgar, are universal, and derive
their origin from the nature of man, it has neces-
sarily happened that this faith in extraordinary
events, and superstitious fear of what is superna-
tural, has diffused itself through every climate of
the world, in a certain stage of human intellect,
and while refinement had not yet got the better of
barbarism. The Celts of antiquity had their
Druids, a branch of whose special profession was
the exercise of magic. The Chaldeans and Egyp-
tians had their wise men, their magicians and their
sorcerers. The negroes have their foretellers of
events, their amulets, and their reporters and be-
lievers of miraculous occurrences. A similar race
of men was found by Columbus and the other dis-
coverers of the New World in America; and facts
of a parallel nature are attested to us in the islands
of the South Seas. And, as phenomena of this
sort were universal in their nature, without dis-
tinction of climate, whether torrid or frozen, and
inc!ependently of the discordant 111anners and cus-
toms of different countries, so have they been very
slow and recent in their disappearing. Queen
Elizabeth sent to consult Dr. John Dee, the astro-
loger, respecting a lucky day for her coronation ;
King James the First employed .much of his
learned leisure upon questions of witchcraft and
demonology, in which he fully believed ; and sir
Matthew Hale in the year 1664 caused two old
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 5
women to be hanged upon a charge of unlawful
communion with infernal agents.
The history of mankind therefore will be very
imperfect, and our knowledge of the operations
and eccentricities of the mind lamentably defi-
cient, unless we take into our view what has oc-
curred under this head. The supernatural appear-
ances with which our ancestors conceived them-
selves perpetually surrounded must have had a
strong tendency to cherish and keep alive the
powers of the imagination, and to penetrate thos6
who witnessed or expected such things with an
extraordinary sensitiveness. As the course of
events appears to us at present, there is much,
though abstractedly within the compass of human
sagacity to foresee, which yet the actors on the
scene do foresee : but the blindness and per-
plexity of short-sighted mortals must have been
wonderfully increased, when ghosts and extraor-
dinary appearances were conceived liable to cross
the steps and confound the projects of men at
every turn, and a malicious wizard or a powerful
enchanter might involve his unfortunate victim
in a chain of calamities, which no prudence could
disarm, and no virtue could deliver him from.
They were the slaves of an uncontrolable destiny,
and must therefore have been eminently deficient
in the perseverance and moral courage, which may
justly be required of us in a more enlightened age.
And the men (but these were few compared with
6 LIVES OF THE NECB.O.MANCER.S.
the great majority of mankind), who believed
themselves gifted with supernatural endowments,
must have felt exempt and privileged from com-
mon rules, somewhat in the same way as the
sons whom fiction has delighted to pourtray as
endowed with immeasurable wealth, or with the
power of rendering themselves impassive or invi-
sible. But, whatever were their advantages or
disadvantages, at any rate it is good for us to call
up in review things, which are now passed away,
but which once occupied so large a share of the
thoughts and attention of mankind, and in a great
degree tended to modify their characters and dic-
tate their resolutions.
As has already been said, numbers of those who
were endowed with the highest powers of human
intellect, such as, if they had lived in these times,
would have aspired to eminence in the exact
sciences. to the loftiest flights of imagination, or
to the discovery of means by which the institu-
tions of men in society might be rendered more
beneficial and faultless, at that time wasted the
midnight oil in endeavouring to trace the occult
qualities and virtues of things, to render invisible
spirits subject to their command, and to effect
those wonders, of which they deemed themselves
to have a dim conception, but which more rational
views of nature have taught us to regard as beyond
our power to effect. These sublime wanderings
of the mind are well entitled to our labour to trace
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 7
and investigate. The errors of man are worthy
to be recorded, not only as beacons to warn us ,.
from the shelves where our ancestors have made
shipwreck, but even as something honourable to
our nature, to shew how high a generous ambition
could though in forbidden paths, and in
things too wonderful for us.
Nor only is this subject inexpressibly interest-
ing, as setting before us how the loftiest and most
enterprising minds ofancient days formerly busied
themselves. It is also of the highest importance
to ingenuous curiosity, inasmuch as it vitally
affected the fortunes of so considerable a portion
of the mass ofmankind. The legislatures of remote
ages bent all their seve"rity at different periods
against what they deemed the unhallowed arts of
the sons and daughters of reprobation. Multi-
tudes of human creatures have been sacrificed in
different ages and countries, upon the accusation
of having exercised arts of the most immoral and
sacrilegious character. They were supposed to
have formed a contract with a mighty and invisible
spirit, the great enemy of man, and to have sold
themselves, body and soul, to everlasting perdition,
for the sake of gratifying, for a short term of
years, their malignant passions against those who
had been so unfortunate as to give them cause of
offence. If there were any persons who imagined
they had entered into such a contract, however
erroneous was their belief, they must of necessity
8 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
have been greatly depraved. And it was but
natural that such as believed in this crime, must
have considered it as atrocious beyond all others,
and have regarded those who were supposed guilty
of it with inexpressible abhorrence. There are
mapy instances on record, where the persons ac..
cused of it, either from the depth of their delu-
sion, or, which is more probable, harassed by
persecution, by the hatred of their fellow-creatures
directed against them, or by torture, actually con-
fessed themselves guilty. These instances are too
numerous, not to constitute an important chapter
in the legislation of past ages. And, now that the
illusion has in a manner passed away from the face
of the earth, we are on· that account the better
qualified to investigate this error in its causes and
consequences, and to look back on the tempest
and hurricane from which we have escaped, with
chastened feelings, and a sounder estimate of its
nature, its reign, and its effects.
..
9
AMBITIOUS NATURE OF MAN.
MAN is a creature of boundless ambition.
It is probably our natural wants that first awaken
us from that lethargy and indifference in which man
may be supposed to be plunged previously to the
impulse of any motive, or the accession ofany un-
easiness. One of our earliest wants may be con-
ceived to be hunger, or the desire of food.
From this simple beginning the history ofman in
all its complex varieties may be regarded as pro-
ceeding.
Man in a state of society, more especially where
there is an inequality of condition and rank, is very
often the creature of leisure. He finds in himself,
either from internal or external impulse, a certain
activity. He finds himself at one time engaged in
the accomplishment of his obvious and immediate
desires, and at another in a state in which these
desires have for the present been fulfilled, and he
has no present occasion to repeat those exertions
which led to their fulfilment. This is the period
of contemplation. This is the state which most
eminently distinguishes us from the brutes. Here
it is that the history ofman, in its exclusive sense,
may be considered as taking its beginning.
Here it is that he specially recognises in himself
the sense of power. Power in its simplest accep-
tation, may be exerted in either of two ways, either
10 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
in his procuring for himself an ample field for more
refined accommodations, or in the exercise of com-
pulsion and authority over other living creatures.
In the pursuit of either ofthese, and especially the
first, he is led to the attainment ofskill and superior
adroitness in the use of his faculties.
No sooner has man reached to this degree of
improvement, than now, if not indeed earlier, he
is induced to remark the extreme limitedness of his
faculties in respect to the future ; and he is led,
first earnestly to desire a clearer insight into the
future, and next a power of commanding those
external causes upon which the events ofthe future
depend. The first of these desires is the parent
of divination, augury, chiromancy, astrology, and
the consultation of oracles ; and the second has
been the prolific source of enchantment, witch-
craft, sorcery, magic, necromancy, and alchemy, in
its two branches, the unlimited prolongation of
human life, and the art of converting less precious
metals into gold.
HIS DESIRE TO PENETRATE INTO FUTURITY.
NOTHING can suggest to us a more striking and
stupendous idea ofthe faculties of the human mind,
than the consideration of the various arts by which
men have endeavoured to penetrate into the future,
and to command the events of the futu!e, in ways
that in sobriety and truth are entirely out of our
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 11
competence. We spurn impatiently against the
narrow limits which the constitution of things has
fixed ,to our aspirings, and endeavour by a multipli-
city of ways to accomplish that which it is totally
beyond the power of man to effect.
DIVINATION.
_ Divination has been principally employed in
inspecting the entrails of beasts offered for sacrifice,
and from their appearance drawing omens of the
good or ill success of the enterprises in which we
are about to engage.
What the divination by the cup was which
Joseph practised, or pretended to practise, we do
not perhaps exactly understand. We all of us
know somewhat of the predictions, to this day re-
sorted to by maid-servants and others, from the
appearance of the sediment to be found at the
bottom of a tea-cup. Predictions of a similar sort
are formed from the unpremeditated way in which
we get out of bed in a morning, or put on our
garments, from the persons or things we shall
encounter when we first leave our chamber or go
forth.in the air, or any of the indifferent accidents
of life.
AUGURY.
Augury has its foundation in observing the flight
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
of birds, the sounds they utter, their motions
whether sluggish or animated, and the avidity or
otherwise with which they appear to take their
food. The college of augurs was one of the most
solemn institutions of ancient Rome.
CHIROMANCY.
Chiromancy, or the art of predicting the various
fortunes of the individual, from an inspection of
the minuter variations of the lines to be found in
the palm of the human hand, has been used perhaps
at one time or other in all the nations of the world.
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Physiognomy is not so properly a prediction of
future events, as an attempt to explain the present
and inherent qualities of a man. By unfolding his
propensities however, it virtually gave the world to
understand the sort of proceedings in which he was
most likely to engage. The story of Socrates and
the physiognomist is sufficiently known. The
physiognomist having inspected the countenance
of the philosopher, pronounced that he was given
to intemperance, sensuality, and violent bursts of
passion, all of which was so contrary to his cha-
racter as universally known, that his disciples de-
rided the physiognomist as a vain-glorious pre-
tender. Socrates however presently put them to
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 18
silence, by declaring that he had had an original
propensity to all the vices imputed to him, and
had only conquered the propensity by dint of a
severe and unremitted self-discipline.
INTERPRETATION OF DREAMS.
Oneirocriticism, or the art ofinterpreting dreams,
seems of all the modes of prediction the most in-
separable from the nature of man. A considerable
portion of every twenty-four hours of our lives is
spent in sleep ; and in sleep nothing is at least
more usual, than for the mind to be occupied in a
thousand imaginary scenes, which for the time are
as realities, and often excite the passions of the
mind of the sleeper in no ordinary degree. Many of
them are wild and rambling; but many also have a
portentous sobriety. Many seem to have a strict
connection with the incidents of our actual lives ;
and some appear as if they came for the very pur-
pose to warn us of danger, or prepare us for com-
ing events. It is therefore no wonder that these
occasionally fill our waking thoughts with a deep
interest, and impress upon us an anxiety of which
we feel it difficult to rid ourselves. Accordingly,
in ages when men were more prone to superstition,
than at present, they sometimes constituted a
subject ofearnest anxiety and inquisitiveness; and
we find among the earliest exercises of the art of
prediction, the interpretation of dreams to have
14 LIVEs· OF THE NECROMANCERS.
occupied a principal place, and to have been as it
were reduced into a science.
CASTING OF LOTS.
The casting of lots seems scarcely to come within
the enumeration here given. It was intended as
an appeal to heaven upon a question involved in
uncertainty, with the idea that the supreme Ruler
of the skies, thus appealed to, would from his om-
niscience supply the defect of human knowledge.
Two examples, among others sufficiently remark-
able, occur in the Bible. One of Aclian, who
secreted part of the spoil taken in Jericho, which
was consecrated to the service of God, and who,
being taken by lot, confessed, and was stoned to
death•. The other of Jonah, upon whom the lot
fell in a mighty tempest, the crew of the ship en-
quiring by this means what was the cause of the
calamity that had overtaken them, and Jonah being
in consequence cast into the sea.
ASTROLOGY.
Astrology was one of the modes most anciently
and universally resorted to for discovering the for-
tunes of men and nations. Astronomy and astro-
logy went hand in hand, particularly among the
• Joshua, vii. 16, et 1eq.
LIVE!! OF THE NECROMANCERS. 1.5
people of the East. The idea of fate was most
especially bound up in this branch of prophecy.
If the fortune of a man was intimately connected
with the position of the heavenly bodies, it became
evident that little was left to the province of his
free will. The stars overruled him in all his deter-
minations; and it was in vain for him to resist
them. There was something flattering to the
human imagination in conceiving that the planets
and the orbs on high were concerned in the con-
duct we should pursue, and the events that should
befal us. Man resigned himself to his fate with a
solemn, yet a lofty feeling, that the remotest por-
tions of the universe were concerned in the catas-
trophe that awaited him. Beside which, there was
something peculiarly seducing in the apparently
profound investigation of the professors of astro-
logy. They busied themselves with the actual
position of the heavenly bodies, their conjunctions
and oppositions; and of consequence there was a
great apparatus of diagrams and calculation to
which they were prompted to apply themselves,
and which addressed itself to the eyes and imagina-
tions of those who consulted them.
ORACLES.
But that which seems to have had the greatest
vogue in times of antiquity, relative to the predic-
tion of future events, is what is recorded oforacles.
16 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
Finding the insatiable curiosity of mankind as to
what was to happen hereafter, and the general de-
sire they felt to be guided in their conduct by an
anticipation of things to come, the priests pretty
generally took advantage of this passion, to increase
their emoluments and offerings, and the more
effectually to inspire the rest of their species with
veneration and a willing submission to their
thority. The oracle was delivered in a temple, or
some sacred place; and in this particular we plainly
discover that mixture of nature and art, ofgenuine
enthusiasm and contriving craft, which is so fre-
quently exemplified in the character of man.
DELPHI.
The oracle of Apollo at Delphi is the most re-
markable ; and respecting it we are furnished with
the greatest body of particulars. The locality of
this oracle is said to have occasioned by the
following circumstance. A fed his flocks
on the acclivity of mount Parnassus. As the
mals wandered here and there in pursuit of food,
they happened to approach a deep and long chasm
which appeared in the rock. From this chasm a
vapour issued ; and the goats had no sooner
haled a portion of the vapour, than they to
play and frisk about with singular agility. The
goat-herd, observing this, and curious to discover
the cause, held his head over the chasm; when, in
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 17
a short time, the fumes having ascended to his
brain, he threw himself into a variety of strange
attitudes, and uttered words, which probably he
did not understand himself,· but which were sup-
posed to convey a prophetic meaning.
This phenomenon was taken advantage of, and
a temple to Apollo was erected on the spot. The
many believed that here was obviously
a centre and focus of divine inspiration. On this
mountain Apollo was said to have slain the serpent
Python. The apartment of the oracle was imme-
diately over the chasm from which the vapour
issued. A priestess delivered the responses, who
was called Pythia, probably in commemoration of
the exploit which had been performed by Apollo.
She sat upon a tripod, or three-legged stool, per-
forated with holes, over the seat of the vapours.
After a time, her figure enlarged itself, her hair
stood on enu, her complexion anrl features became
altered, her heart panted and her bosom swelled,
and her voice grew more than human. In this
condition she uttered a number of wild and in-
coherent phrases, which were supposed to be dic-
tated by the God. The questions which were
offered by those who came to consult the oracle
were then proposed to her, and her answers taken
down by the priest, whose office was to arrange
and methodize them, and put them into hexa-
meter verse, after which they were delivered to
c
18 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
the votaries. The priestess could only be con-
sulted on one day in every month.
Great ingenuity and contrivance were no doubt
required to uphold the credit of the oracle ; and
no less boldness and self-collectedness on the part of
those by whom the machinery was conducted.
Like the conjurors of modern times, they took care
to be extensively informed as to all such matters
respecting which the oracle was likely to be con-
sulted. They listened probably to the Pythia with
a superstitious reverence for the incoherent sen-
tences she uttered. She, like them, spent her life
in being trained for the office to which she was
devoted. All that was rambling and inapplicable
in her wild declamation they consigned to oblivion.
Whatever seemed to bear on the question proposed
they preserved. The persons by whom the re-
sponses were digested into hexameter verse, had
of course a commission attended with great discre-
tionary power. They, as Horace remarks on
another occasion•, divided what it was judicious
to say, from what it was prudent to omit, dwelt
upon one thing, and slurred over and accommo-
dated another, just as would best suit the purpose
they had in hand. Beside this, for the most part
they clothed the apparent meaning of the oracle in
obscurity, and often devised sentences of ambigu-
ous interpretation, that might suit with opposite
• ne Arte Poetica, v. 150.
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS, 19
issues, whichever might happen to fall out. This
was perfectly consistent with a high degree of en-
thusiasm on the part of the priest. However con-
fident he might be in some things, he could not
but of necessity feel that his prognostics were sur-
rounded with uncertainty. Whatever decisions of
the oracle were frustrated by the event, and we
know that there were many of this sort, were
speedily forgotten ; while those which succeeded,
were conveyed from shore to shore, and repeated
by every echo. Nor is it surprising that the trans-
mitters of the sentences of the God should in time
arrive at an extraordinary degree of sagacity and
skill. The oracles accordingly reached to so high
a degree of reputation, that, as Cicero observes,
no expedition for a long time was undertaken, no
colony sent out, and often no affair of any distin-
guished family or individual entered on, without
the previously obtaining their jurlgment and sanc-
tion. Their authority in a word was so high, that
the first fathers of the Christian church could no
otherwise account for a reputation thus universally
received, than by supposing that the devils were
permitted by God Almighty to inform the oracles
with a more than human prescience, that all the
world might be concluded in idolatry and unbe-
lief\ and the necessity of a Saviour be made more
apparent. The gullibility of man is one of the
most prominent features of our nature. Various
b Romans, xi. 32.
c Q
20 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
periods and times, when whole nations have as it
were with one consent run into the most incre-
dible and the grossest absurdities, perpetually offer
themselves in the page of history; and in the re-
cords of remote antiquity it plainly appears that
such delusions continued through successive cen-
turies.
THE DESIRE TO COMMAND AND CONTROL FUTURE
EVENTS.
Next to the consideration of those measures by
which men have sought to dive into the secrets of
future time, the question presents itself of those
more daring undertakings, the object of which has
been by some supernatural power to control the
future, and place it in subjection to the will of the
unlicensed adventurer. Men have always, espe-
cially in ages of ignorance, and when they most felt
their weakness, figured to themselves
an invisible strength greater than their own ; and,
in proportion to their impatience, and the fer-
vour of their desires, have sought to enter into a
league with those beings whose mightier force
might supply that in which their weakness failed.
'
COMMERCE WITH THE INVISIBLE WORLD.
It is an essential feature of different ages and
countries to vary exceedingly in the good or ill
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. .
construction, the fame or dishonour, which shall
attend upon the same conduct or mode of beha-
viour. In Egypt and throughout the East, espe-
cially in the early periods of history, the supposed
commerce with invisible powers was openly pro-
fessed, which, under other circumstances, and
during the reign of different prejudices, was after-
wards carefully concealed, and barbarously hunted
out of the pale of allowed and authorised practice.
The Magi ofold, who claimed a power ofproducing
miraculous appearances, and boasted a familiar
intercourse with the world ofspirits, were regarded
by their countrymen with peculiar reverence,
and considered as the first and chiefest men in the
state. For this mitigated view of such dark and
mysterious proceedings the ancients were in a
great degree indebted to their polytheism. The
Romans are computed to have acknowledged
thirty thousand divinities, to all of whom was ren-
dered a legitimate homage ; and other countries in
a similar proportion.
SORCERY AND ENCHANTMENT.
In Asia, however, the Gods were divided into
two parties, under Oromasdes, the principle of
good, and Arimanius, the principle of evil. These
powers were in perpetual contention with each
other, sometimes the one, and sometimes the
other gaining the superiority. Arimanius and his
2'l LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS,
legions were therefore scarcely considered as en-
titled to the homage of mankind. Those who
were actuated by benevolence, and who desired to
draw down blessings upon their fellow-creatures,
addressed themselves to the principle of good ;
while such unhappy beings, with whom spite and
ill-will had the predominance, may be supposed
often to have invoked in preference the principle
of evil. Hence seems to have originated the idea
of sorcery, or an appeal by incantations and wicked
arts to the demons who delighted in mischief.
These beings rejoiced in the opportunity of
inflicting calamity and misery on mankind. But
by what we read of them we might be induced to
suppose that they were in. some way restrained
from gratifying their malignant intentions, and
waited in eager hope, till some mortal reprobate
should call out their dormant activity, and demand
their aid.
Various enchantments were therefore employed
by those unhappy mortals whose special desire was
to bring down calamity and plagues upon the indi-
viduals or tribes of men against whom their animo-
sity was directed. Unlawful and detested words
and mysteries were called into action to conjure
up demons who should yield their powerful and
tremendous assistance. Songs of a wild and ma-
niacal character were chaunted. Noisome scents
and the burning of all unhallowed and odious
things were resorted to. In later times books and
...
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. !lS
formulas of a terrific character were commonly
employed, upon the reading or recital of which
the prodigies resorted to began to display them-
selves. The heavens were darkened; the thunder
rolled ; and fierce and blinding lightnings .flashed
from one corner of the heavens to the other.
The earth quaked and rocked from side to side.
AH monstrous and deformed things shewed them-
selves, " Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras
dire," enough to cause the stoutest heart to quail.
Lastly, devils, whose name was legion, and to
whose forms and distorted and menacing
tenances superstition had annexed the most
frightful ideas, crowded in countless multitudes
upon the spectator, whose breath was flame, whose
dances were full of terror, and whose strength
infinitely exceeded every thing human. Such
were the appalling conceptions which ages of
bigotry and ignorance annexed to the notion of
sorcery, and with these they scared the unhappy
beings over whom this notion had usurped an as-
cendancy into lunacy, and prepared them for the
perpetrating flagitious and unheard-of deeds.
The result of these horrible incantations was
not less tremendous, than the preparations might
have led us to expect. The demons possessed all
the powers of the air, and produced tempests and
shipwrecks at their pleasure. " Castles toppled on
their warder's heads, and palaces and pyramids
sloped their summits to t.heir foundations ;" forests
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
and mountains were torn from their rootS, and
cast into the sea. They inflamed the passions of
men, and caused them to commit the most un-
heard-of excesses. They laid their ban on those
who enjoyed the most prosperous health, con-
demned them to peak and pine, wasted them into
a melancholy atrophy, and finally consigned them
to a premature grave. They breathed a new and
unblest life into beings in whom existence had long
been extinct, and by their hateful and resistless
power caused the sepulchres to give up their dead.
WITCHCRAFT.
Next to sorcery we may recollect the case of
witchcraft, which occurs oftener, particularly m
modern times, than any other alleged mode of
changing by supernatural means the future course
of events. The sorcerer, as we shall see here-
after, was frequently a man of learning and intel-
lectual abilities, sometimes of comparative opu-
lence and respectable situation in society. But
the witch or wizard was almost uniformly old, de-
crepid, and nearly or altogether in a state of penury.
The functions however of the witch and the sor-
cerer were in a great degree the same. The earliest
account of a witch, attended with any degree of
detail, is that of the witch of Endor in the Bible,
who among other things, professed the power of
calling up the dead upon occasion from the peace
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. fl-5
ofthe sepulchre. Witches also claimed the faculty
of raising storms, and in various ways disturbing
the course of nature. They appear in most cases to
have been brought into action by the impl,l]se ofpri-
vate malice. They occasioned mortality of.greater
or less extent in man and beast. They blighted
the opening prospect of a plentiful harvest. They
covered the heavens with clouds, and sent abroad
withering and malignant blasts. They undermined
the health of those who were so unfortunate as to
incur their animosity, and caused them to waste
away gradually with incurable disease. They were
notorious two or three centuries ago for the power
of the " evil eye." The vulgar, both great and
small, dreaded their displeasure, and sought, by
small gifts, and fair speeches, but insincere, and
the offspring of terror only, to avert the pernicious
consequences of their malice. They were famed
for fabricating small images of wax, to represent
the object of their persecution; and, as these by
gradual and often studiously protracted degrees
wasted before the fire, so the unfortunate butts of
their resentment perished with a lingering, but in-
evitable death.
COMPACTS WITH THE DEVIL.
The power of these witches, as we find in their
earliest records, originated in their intercourse with
"familiar spirits," invisible beings who must be
26 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
supposed to be enlisted in the armies of the prince
of darkness. 'Ve do not read in these ancient
memorials of any league of mutual benefit entered
into between the merely human party, and his or
her supernatural assistant. But modem times
have amply supplied this defect. The witch or
sorcerer could not secure the assistance of the
demon but by a sure and faithful compact, by
which the human party obtained the industrious
and vigilant service of his familiar for a certain
term of years, only on condition that, when the
term was expired, the demon of undoubted right
was to obtain possession of the indentured party,
and to convey him irremissibly and for ever to the
regions of the damned. The contract was drawn
out in authentic form, signed by the sorcerer, and
attested with his blood, and was then carried away
by the demon, to be produced again at the ap-
pointed time.
IMPS.
These familiar spirits often assumed the form of
animals, and a black dog or cat was considered as
a figure in which the attendant devil was secretly
hidden. These subordinate devils were called
Imps. Impure and carnal ideas were mingled with
these theories. The witches were said to have
preternatural teats from which theirfamiliars sucked
their blood. The devil also engaged in sexual in-
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 27
tercourse with the witch or wizard, being deno-
minated incubus, if his favourite were a woman,
and succubus, if a man. In short, every frightful
and loathsome idea was carefully heaped up toge-
ther, to render the unfortunate beings to whom
the crime of witchcraft was imputed the horror
and execration of their species.
TALISMANS AND AMULETS.
As according to the doctrine of witchcraft, there
were certain compounds, and matters prepared by
rules of art, that proved baleful and deadly to the
persons against whom their activity was directed,
so there were also preservatives, talismans, amulets
and charms, for the most"to be worn about the per-
son, which rendered him superior to injury, not
only from the operations of witchcraft, but in some
cases from the sword or any other mortal weapon.
As the poet says, he that had this,
Might trace huge forests and unhallowed heaths,-
Yea there, where very desolation dwells,
By grots and caverns shagged with horrid shades,
nay, in the midst of every tremendous assailant,
" might pass on with unblenched majesty," unin-
jured and invulnerable.
NECROMANCY.
Last of all we may speak of necromancy, which
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
has something in it that so strongly takes hold of
the imagination, that, though it is one only of the
various modes which have been enumerated for
the exercise of magical power, we have selected it
to give a title to the present volume.
There is something sacred to common appre-
hension in the repose of the dead. They seem
placed beyond our power to disturb. " There is
no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom
in the grave."
After life's fitful fever they sleep well :
Nor steel, norpoison,
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
Can touch them further.
Their remains moulder in the earth. Neither form
nor feature is long continued to them. We shrink
from their touch, and their sight. To violate the
sepulchre therefore for the purpose of unholy
spells and operations, as we read of in the annals
of witchcraft, cannot "fail to be exceedingly shock-
ing. To call up the spirits of the departed, after
they have fulfil1ed the task of life, and are con-
signed to their final sleep, is sacrilegious. · Well
may they exclaim, like the ghost of Samuel in the
sacred story, " Why hast thou disquieted me?"
There is a further circumstance in the case,
which causes us additionally to revolt from the
very idea of necromancy, strictly so called. Man
is a mortal, or an immortal being. His frame
either wholly "returns to the earth as it was, or
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
his spirit," the thinking principle within him, " to
God who gave· it." The latter is the
sentiment of mankind in modern Man is
placed upon earth in a state of probation, to be
dealt with hereafter according to the deeds done
in the flesh.· " Some shall go away into everlast-
ing punishment; and others into life eternal." In
this case there is something blasphemous in the
idea of intennedding with the state of the dead.
We must leave them in the hands of God. Even
on the idea of an interval, the " sleep of the soul"
from death to the general resurrection, which is
the creed of no contemptible sect of Christians,
it is surely a terrific notion· that we should disturb
the pause, which upon that hypothesis, the laws of
nature have assigned to the departed soul, and come
to awake, or to "torment him before the time."
ALCHEMY.
To make our catalogue of supernatural doings,
and the lawless imaginations of man, the more
complete, it may be further necessary to refer to
the craft, so eagerly cultivated in successive ages
of the world of converting the inferior metals into
gold, to which was usually joined the elixir vita!, or
universal medicine, having the quality of renewing
the youth of man, and causing him to live for ever.
The first authentic record ·on this subject is an
edict of Dioclesian about three hundred years after
30 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
Christ, ordering a diligent search to be made in
Egypt for all the ancient books which treated of
the art of making gold and silver, that they might
without distinction be consigned to the flames.
This edict however necessarily presumes a certain
antiquity to the pursuit; and fabulous history has
recorded Solomon, Pythagoras and Hermes among
its distinguished votaries. From this period the
study seems to have slept, till it was revived
among the Arabians after a lapse of five or six
hundred years.
It is well known however how eagerly it was
cultivated in various countries of the world for
many centuries after it was divulged by Gebel".
Men of the most wonde1ful talents devoted their
lives to the investigation ; and in multiplied in-
stances the discovery was said to have been com-
pleted. Vast sums of money were consumed
in the fruitless endeavour; and in a later period it
seems to have furnished an excellent handle to
vain and specious projectors, to extort money
from those more amply provided with the goods
offortune than themselves.
The art no doubt is in itself sufficiently mys-
tical, having been pursued by multitudes, who
seemed to themselves ever on the eve of consum-
mation, but as constantly baffled when to their
own apprehension most on the verge of success.
The discovery indeed appears upon the face of it
to be of the most delicate nature, as the benefit
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 31
must wholly depend upon its being reserved to
one or a very few, the object being unbounded
wealth, which is nothing unless confined. If the
power of creating gold is diffused, wealth by such
diffusion becomes poverty, and every thing after
a short time would but return to what it had been.
Add to which, that the nature ofdiscovery has or-
dinarily been, that, when once the clue has been
found, it reveals itself to several about the same
period of time.
The art, as we have said, is in its own nature
sufficiently mystical, depending on nice combina-
tions and proportions of ingredients, and upon
the addition of each ingredient being made exactly
in the critical moment, and in the precise degree
of heat, indicated by the colour of the vapour
arising from the crucible or retort. This was
watched by the operator with inexhaustible pa-
tience ; and it was often found or supposed, that
the minutest error in this respect caused the most
promising appearances to fail of the expected suc-
cess. This circumstance no doubt occasionally
gave an opportunity to an artful impostor to ac-
count for his miscarriage, and thus to prevail upon
his credulous dupe to enable him to begin his
tedious experiment again.
But, beside this, it appears that those whose
object was the transmutation of metals, very fre-
quently joined to this pursuit the study of astro-
8fl LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
logy, and even the practice of sorcery. So much
delicacy and nicety were supposed to be required
in the process for the transmutation of metals,
that it could not hope to succeed but under a
favourable conjunction of the planets; and the
most flourishing pretenders to the art boasted that
they had also a familiar intercourse with certain
spirits of supernatural power, which assisted them
in their undertakings, and enabled them to pene-
trate into things undiscoverable to mere human
sagacity, and to predict future events.
FAIRIES.
Another mode in which the wild and erratic
imagination of our ancestors manifested itself,
was in the creation of a world of visionary beings
of a less terrific character, but which did not fail
to annoy their thoughts, and perplex their deter-
minations, known by the name of Fairies.
There are few things more worthy ofcontempla-
tion, and that at the same time tend to place the
dispositions of our ancestors in a more amiable
point of view, than the creation of this airy and
fantastic race. They were so diminutive as almost
to elude the organs of human sight. They were
at large, even though confined to the smallest di-
mensions. They "could be bounded in a nutshell,
and count themselves kings ofinfinite space."
LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 33
Their midnight revels, by a forest-side
Or fountain, the belated peasant saw,
Or dreamed he saw, while overhead the moon
Sat arbitress, and nearer to the earth
Wheeled her pale course-they, on their mirth and dance
Intent, with jocund music charmed his ear;
At once with joy and fear his heart rebounds.
Small circles marked the grass in solitary places,
the trace of their little feet, which, though narrow,
were ample enough to afford every accommodation
to their pastime.
The fairy tribes appear to have been every where
distinguished for their patronage of truth, simpli-
city and industry, and their abhorrence of sensu-
ality and prevarication. They ]eft little rewards
in secret, as tokens of their approbation of the vir-
tues they loved, and by their supernatural power
afforded a supplement to pure and excellent inten-
tions, when the corporeal powers of the virtuous
sank under the pressure of human infirmity. Where
they conceived displeasure, the they
inflicted were for the most part such as served mo-
derately to vex and harass the offending party,
rather than to inflict upon him permanent and irre-
mediable evils.
Their airy tongues would syllable men's names
On sands, and shores, and desert wildernesses.
They were supposed to guide the wandering
lights, that in the obscurity of the night beguiled
the weary traveller " through bog, through bush,
through brake, through briar." But their power
D
811 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
of evil only extended, or was only employed, to
vex those who by a certain obliquity of conduct
gave occasion for their reproofs. They besides
pinched and otherwise tormented the objects of
their displeasure ; and, though the mischiefs they
executed were not of the most vital kind, yet,
coming from a supernatural enemy, and being in-
flicted by invisible hands, they could not fail greatly
todisturb and disorderthose whosufferedfrom them.
There is at first sight a great inconsistency in
the representations of these imaginary people. For
the most part they are described to us as of a sta-
ture and appearance, almost too slight to be marked
by our grosser human organs. At other times
however, and especiaUy in the extremely popular
tales digested by M. Perrault, they shew themselves
in indiscriminate assemblies, brought together for
some solemn festivity or otherwise, and join the
human frequenters of the scene, without occa-
sioning enquiry or surprise. They are particularly
concerned in the business of summarily and with-
out appeal bestowing miraculous gifts, sometimes
as a mark of special friendship and favour, and
sometimes with a malicious and hostile intention.
--But we are to consider that spirits
Can every form assume ; so soft
And uncompounded is their essence pure ;
Not tied or manacled with joint or limb,
Like cumbrous flesh; but, in what shape they choose,
Dilated or condehsed, bright or obscure,
Can execute their airy purposes,
And works of love or enmity fulfil.
LJVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. .':35
And then again, as their bounties were shadowy,
so were they specially apt to disappear in a mo-
ment, the most splendid palaces and magnificent
exhibitions vanishing away, and leaving their dis-
concerted dupe with his robes converted into the
poorest rags, and, instead of glittering state, find-
ing himself suddenly in the midst of
and removed no man knew whither.
One of the mischiefs that were most frequently
imputed to them, was the chilnging the beautiful
child of some doating parents, for a babe marked
with ugliness and deformity. But this idea seems
fraught with inconsistency. The natural stature
of the fairy is of the smallest dimensions ; and,
though they could occasionally dilate their figure
so as to imitate humanity, yet it is to be presumed
that this was only for a special purpose, and, that
purpose obtained, that they shrank again habitually
into their characteristic littleness. The change
therefore can only be supposed to have been of
one human child for another.
ROSICRUCIANS.
Nothing very distinct has been ascertained re-
specting a sect, calling itself Rosicrucians. It is
said to have originated in the East from one of the
crusaders in the fourteenth century; but it attracted
at least no public notice till the beginning of the
seventeenth century. Its adherents appear to have
D 2
3fi LlVES OF THE NECHOJ\IANCERS.
imbibed their notions from the Arabians, and
claimed the possession of the philosopher's stone,
the art of transmuting metals, and the elixir vita!.
SYLPHS AND GNOMES, SALAMANDERS AND
UNDINES.
But that for which they principally excited public
attention, was their creed respecting certain ele-
mentary beings, which to grosser eyes are invisible,
but were familiarly known to the initiated. To be
admitted to their acquaintance it was previously
necessary that the organs of human sight should
be purged by the universal medicine, and that
certain glass globes should be chemically prepared
with one or other ofthe four elements, and for one
month exposed to the beams of the sun. These
preliminary steps being taken, the initiated imme-
diately had a sight ofinnumerable beings of a lumi-
nous substance, but ofthin andevanescent structure,
that people the elements on all sides ofus. Those
who inhabited the air were called Sylphs ; and those
who dwelt in the earth bore the name of Gnomes;
such as peopled the fire were Salamanders ; and
those who made their home in the waters were
Undines. Each class appears to have had an ex-
tensive power in the elements to which they be-
longed. They could raise tempests in the air, and
storms at sea, shake the earth, and alarm the inha-
bitants of the globe with the sight of devouring
flames. These appear however to have been more
UVES OF THE NECROMANCERS. 87
formidable in appearance than in reality. And the
whole race was subordinate to man, and particularly
subject to the initiated. The gnomes, inhabitants
of the earth and the mines, liberally supplied to the
human beings with whom they conversed, the
hidden treasures over which they presided. The
four classes were some of them male, and some
female; but the female sex seems to have prepon..
derated in all.
These elementary beings, we are told, were by
their constitution more long·lived than man, but
with this essential disadvantage, that at death they
wholly ceased to exist. In the mean time they
were inspired with an earnest desire for immor-
tality ; and there was one way left for them, by
which this desire might he gratified. Ifthey were
so happy as to awaken in any of the initiated a
passion the end of which was marriage, then the
sylph who became the bride of a virtuous man, fol-
lowed his nature, and became immortal ; while on
the other hand, if she united herself to an im-
moral being and a profligate, the husband followed
the law of the wife, and was rendered entirely
mortal. The initiated however were required, as a
condition to their being admitted into the secrets
of the order, to engage themselves in a vow of per-
petual chastity as to women. And they were
abundantly rewarded by the probability of being
united to a sylph, a gnome, a salamander, or an
undine, any one of whom was inexpressibly more
.;
38 LIVES OF THE NECROMANCERS.
enchanting than the most beautiful woman. in ad-
dition to which her charms were in a manner per-
petual, while a wife of our own nature is in a
short time destined to wrinkles, and all the other
disadvantages of old age. The initiated of course
enjoyed a beatitude infinitely greater than that
which falls to the lot of ordinary mortals, being
conscious of a perpetual commerce with these
wonderful beings from whose society the vulgar
are debarred, and having such associates uninter-
mittedly anxious to perform their behests, and
anticipate their desiresa.
We should have taken but an imperfect survey
of the lawless extravagancies ofhuman imagination,
if we had not included a survey of this sect. There
is something particularly soothing to the fancy of
an erratic mind, in the conception of being con-
versant with a race of beings the very existence of
which is unperceived by ordinary mortals, and
thus entering into an infinitely numerous and
variegated society, even when we are apparently
swallowed up in entire solitude.
The Rosicrucians are further entitled to our
special notice, as their tenets have had the good for•
tune to furnish Pope with the beautiful machinery
with which he has adorned the Rape of the Lock.
There is also, of much later date, a wild and poeti-
cal fiction for which we are indebted to the same
source, called Undine, from the pen of Lamotte
Fouquet.
• Comte de Gabalis.
EXAMPLES FROM THE BIBLE. 89
EXAMPLES OF NECROMANCY AND WITCHCRAFT
FROM THE BIBLE.
THE oldest and most authentic record from
which we can derive our ideas on the subject of
necromancy and witchcraft, unquestionably is the
Bible. The Egyptians and Chaldeans were early
distinguished for their supposed proficiency in
magic, in the production of supernatural pheno-
mena, and in penetrating into the secrets of future
time. The first appearance of men thus extraor-
dinarily gifted, or advancing pretensions of this
sort, recorded in Scripture, is on occasion of
Pharoah's dream of the seven years of plenty, and
seven years of famine. At that period the king
" sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and
all the wise men ; but they could not interpret
the dream\" which Joseph afterwards expounded.
Their second appearance was upon a most
memorable occasion, when Moses and Aaron,
armed with miraculous powers, came to a subse-
quent king of Egypt, to demand from him that
their countrymen might be permitted to depart to
another tract of the world. They produced a
miracle as the evidence of their divine mission :
and the king, who was also named Pharoah,
• Genesis, xli. f!, :25, &c.
40 EXAMPLES FROM THE BIBLE.
" called before him the wise men and the sorcerers
of Egypt, who with their enchantments did in like
manner'' as Moses had done ; till, after some ex.
periments in which they were apparently success.
ful, they at length were compelled to allow them.
selves overcome, and fairly to confess to their
master, " This is the finger of Godb !"
The spirit of the Jewish history loudly affirms,·
that the Creator of heaven and earth had adopted
this nation for his chosen people, and therefore
demanded their exclusive homage, and that they
should acknowledge no other God. It is on this
principle that it is made one of his early com-
mands to them, " Thou shalt not suffer a witch to
live•." And elsewhere the meaning of this pro.
hibition is more fully explained : " There shall not
be found among you any one that useth divination,
or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch,
or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or
a wizard, or a necromancerd: these shall surely be
put to death ; they shall stone them with stones•."
The character of an enchanter is elsewhere
more fully illustrated in the case of Balaam, the
soothsayer, who was sent for by Balak, the king of
Moab, that he might " curse the people of Israel.
The messengers of the king came to Balaam with
the rewards of divination in their handr ;" but the
b Exodus, vii. 11 ; viii. 19. c Ibid, xxii. 18.
d Deuteronomy, xviii. 10, 11. • Leviticus, xx. 27.
r Numbers, xxii. 5, 6, 7.
EXAMPLES FROM THE BIBLE. 41
soothsayer was restrained from his purpose by the
God of the Jews, and, where he came to curse,
was compelled to bless. He therefore " did not
go, as at other times, to seek for enchantments![,"
but took up his discourse, and began, saying,
" Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob,
neither is there any divination against Israel"!"
Another example of necromantic pgwer or pre-
tension is to be found in the story of Saul and the
witch of Endor. Saul, the first king of the Jews,
being rejected by God, and obtaining "no answer
to his enquiries, either by dreams, or by prophets,
said to his servants, seek me a woman that has a
'familiar spirit. And his servants, said, Lo, there is
a woman that has a familiar spirit at Endor." Saul
accordingly had recourse to her. But, previously
to this time, in conformity to the law of God, he
" had cut off those that had familiar spirits, and
the wizards out of the land ;" and the woman
therefore was terrified at his present application.
Saul re-assured her ; and in consequence the wo-
man consented to call up the person he should
name Saul demanded of her to bring up the
ghost of Samuel. The ghost, whether by her en-
chantments or through divine interposition we are
not told, appeared, and prophesied to Saul, that
he and his son should fall in battle on the succeed-
ing day!, which accordingly came to pass.
g Numbers, xxiv. 1. h Ibid, xxiii. 23.
i 1 Sam. xxviii. 6, et seq.
EXAMPLES FROM THE BIBLE.
Manasseh, a subsequent king in Jerusalem,
" obsen'ed times, and used enchantments, and
dealt with familiar spirits and wizards, and so prQ.o
voked God to
It appears plainly from the same authority, that
there were good spirits and evil spirits. " The
Lord said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may
go up, and fall before Ramoth Gilead ? And there
came a spirit, and stood before the Lord, and said,
I will persuade him : I will go forth, and be a
lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And
the Lord said, Thou shalt persuade him'."
In like manner, we are told, " Satan stood up
against Israel, and provoked David to number the
people ; and God was displeased with the thing,
and smote Israel, so that there fell of the people
seventy thousand menm."
Satan also, in the Book of Job, presented him-
self before the Lord among the Sons of God, and
asked and obtained lea\·e to try the faithfulness of
Job by " putting forth his hand," and despoiling
the patriarch of " all that he had."
Taking these things into consideration, there
can be no reasonable doubt, though the devil and
Satan are not mentioned in the story, that the ser-
pent who in so crafty a way beguiled Eve, was in
reality no other than the malevolent enemy of
mankind under that disguise.
k 2 Kings, xxi. 6. 1
I Kings, xxii. 20, et seqq.
m I Chron. xxi. I, 7, 14.
EXAMPLES FROM THE BIBLE. 48
We are in the same manner informed of the
oracles of the false Gods ; and an example occurs
of a king of Samaria, who fell sick, and who " sent
messengers, and said to them, Go, and enquire of
Baalzebub, the God of Ekron, whether I shall re-
cover of this disease." At which proceeding the
God of the Jews was displeased, and sent Elijah to
the messengers to say, " Is it because there is not
a God in Israel, that you go to enquire of Baalze-
bub, the God of Ekron ? Because the king has
done this, he shall not recover ; he shall surely
dien."
The appearance of the Wise Men of the East
again occurs in considerable detail in the Prophecy
of Daniel, though they are only brought forward
there, as discoverers of hidden things, and inter-
preters of dreams. Twice, on occasion of dreams
that troubled him, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Baby-
lon, " commanded to be called to him the magi-
cians, and the astrologers, and the sorcerers, and
the Chaldeans" of his kingdom, and each time with
similar success. They confessed their incapacity l
and Daniel, the prophet of the Jews, expounded to
the king that in which they had failed. Nebuchad-
nezzar in consequence promoted Daniel to be
master of the magicians. A similar scene occurred
in the court of Belshazzar, the son of Nebuchad-
nezzar, in the case of the hand-writing on the wall.
n 2 Kings, i. 2, 3, 4.
44 THE MAGI.
It is probable that the Jews considered the Gods
of the nations around them as so many of the fallen
angels, or spirits of hell, since, among other argu-
ments, the coincidence of the name of Beelze-
bub, the prince of devils", with Baalzebub, the
God of Ekron, could scarcely have fallen out by
chance.
It seemed necessary to enter into these par-
ticulars, as they occur in the oldest and most
authentic records from which we can derive our
ideas on the subject of necromancy, witchcraft, and
the claims that were set up in ancient times to the
exercise of magcial power. Among these examples
there is only one, that of the contention for supe-
riority between Moses and the Wise Men of Egypt
in which we are presented with their pretensions
to a visible exhibition of supernatural effects.
THE MAGI, OR WISE MEN OF THE EAST.
The Magi, or Wise Men of the East, extended
their ramifications over Egypt, Babylonia, Persia,
India, and probably, though with a different name,
over China, and indeed the whole known world.
Their profession was of a mysterious nature. They
laid claim to a familiar intercourse with the Gods.
They placed themselves as mediators between
heaven and earth, assumed the prerogative of re-
o Matthew, xii. 24.
THE MAGI. 45
vealing the will of beings of a nature superior to
man, and pretended to shew wonders and prodigies
that surpassed any power which was merely human.
To understand this, we must bear in mind the
state of knowledge in ancient times, where for the
most part the cultivation of the mind, and an ac-
quaintance with either science or art, were con-
fined to a very small part of the population. In
each of the nations we have mentioned, there was
a particular caste or tribe of men, who, by the pre-
rogative of their birth, were entitled to the advan-
tages of science and a superior education, while
the rest of their countrymen were destined to sub-
sist by manual labour. This of necessity gave
birth in the privileged few to an overweening
sense of their own importance. They scarcely
regarded the rest of their countrymen as beings of
the same species with themselves ; and, finding a
strong line of distinction cutting them off from the
herd, they had recourse to every practicable me-
thod for making that distinction still stronger.
Wonder is one of the most obvious means of gene-
rating deference ; and, by keeping to themselves
the grounds and process of their skill, and present-
ing the results only, they were sure to excite the
admiration and of their contemporaries.
This mode of proceeding further produced a re-ac-
tion upon themselves. That which supplied and
promised to supply to them so large a harvest of
honour and fame, unavoidably became precious in
46 EGYPT.
their eyes. They pursued their discoveries with
avidity, because few had access to their opportu-
nities in that respect, and because, the profounder
were their researches, the more sure they were of
being looked llP to by the public as having that in
them which was sacred and inviolable. They spent
their days and nights in these investigations. They
shrank from no privation and labour. At the
same time that in these labours they had at all times
an eye to their darling object, an ascendancy over
the minds of their countrymen at large, and the
extorting from them a blind and implicit deference
to their oracular decrees. They however loved
their pursuits for the pursuits themselves. They
felt their abstraction and their unlimited nature,
and on that account contemplated them with ad-
miration. They valued them (for such is the in-
destructible character of the human mind) for the
pains they had bestowed on them. The sweat of
their brow grew into a part as it were of the in-
trinsic merit of the articles; and that which had
with so much pains been attained by them, they
could not but regard as of inestimable worth.
EGYPT.
The Egyptians took the lead in early antiquity,
with respect to civilisation and the stupendous
productions of human labour and art, of all other
known nations of the world. The pyramids stand
EGYPT. 47
by themselves as a monument of the industry of
mankind. Thebes, with her hundred gates, at each
of which we are told she could send out at once
two hundred chariots and ten thousand warriors
completely accoutred, was one of the noblest
cities on record. The whole country of Lower
Egypt was intersected with canals giving a benefi-
cent direction to the periodical inundations of the
Nile ; and the artificial lake Moeris was dug of a
vast extent, that it might draw off the occasional
excesses of the overflowings of the river. The
Egyptians had an extraordinary custom of pre-
serving their dead, so that the country was peopled
almost as numerously with mummies prepared
by extreme assiduity and skill, as with the living.
And, in proportion to their edifices and labours
of this durable sort, was their unwearied applica-
tion to all the learning that was then known.
Geometry is said to have owed its existence to the
necessity under which they were placed of every
man recognising his own property in land, as soon
as the overflowings of the Nile had ceased. They
were not less assiduous in their application to astro-
nomy. The hieroglyphics of Egypt are of universal
notoriety. Their mythology was of the most com-
plicated nature. Their Gods were infinitely varied
in their kind; and the modes of their worship
not less endlessly diversified. All these particulars
Rtill contributed to the abstraction of their studies,
and the loftiness of their pretensions to knowledge.
48 EGYPT.
They perpetually conversed with the invisible
world, and laid claim to the faculty of revealing
things hidden, of foretelling future events, and
displaying wonders that exceeded human power to
produce.
A striking illustration of the state of Egypt in
that respect in early times, occurs incidentally in the
history of Joseph in the Bible. Jacob had twelve
sons, among whom his partiality for Joseph was so
notorious, that his brethren out of envy sold him
as a slave to the wandering Midianites. Thus it
was his fortune to be placed in Egypt, where in
the process of event'i he became the second man in
the country, and chief minister of the king. A
severe famine having visited these climates, Jacob
sent his sons into Egypt to buy corn, where only
it was to be found. As soon as Joseph saw them,
he knew them, though they knew not him in his
exalted situation ; and he set himself to devise
expedients to settle them permanently in the
country in which he ruled. Among the rest he
caused a precious cup from his stores to be privily
conveyed into the corn-sack of Benjamin, his only
brother by the same mother. The brothers were
no sooner departed, than Joseph sent in pursuit of
them ; and the messengers accosted them with the
words, " Is not this the cup in which my lord
drinketh, and whereby also he divineth? Ye have
done evil in taking it away•." They brought the
• Genesis, xliv. 5.
EGYPT. 49
strangers again into the presence of Joseph, who
addressed them with severity, saying, " What is
this deed that ye have done ? Wot ye not that
such a man as I could certainly divineb ?"
From this story it plainly appears, that the art
of divination was extensively exercised in Egypt,
that the practice was held in honour, and that
such was the state of the country, that it was to
be presumed as a thing of course, that a man of
the high rank and distinction of Joseph should
professedly be an adept in it.
In the great contention for supernatural power
between Moses and the magicians of Egypt, it is
plain that they came forward with confidence, and
did not shrink from the debate. Moses's rod was
turned into a serpent ; so were their rods : Moses
changed the waters of Egypt into blood; and the
magicians did the like with their enchantments :
Moses caused frogs to come up, and cover the
land of Egypt ; and the magicians also brought
frogs upon the country. Without its being in any
way necessary to enquire how they effected these
wonders, it is evident froin the whole train of the
narrative, that they must have been much in the
practice of astonishing their countrymen with their
feats in such a kind, and, whether it were delusion,
or to whatever else we may attribute their success,
that they were universally looked up to for the
extraordinariness of their performances.
b Genesis, xliv. 15.
E
50 STATUE OF MEMNON.
While we are on this subject of illustrations
from the Bible, it may be worth while to revert
more particularly to the story of Balaam. Balak
the king of Moab, sent for Balaam that he
might come and curse the invaders of his country;
and in the sequel we are told, when the prophet
changed his curses into a blessing, that he did not
" go forth, as at other times, to seek for enchant-
ments." It is plain therefore that Balak did not
rely singly upon the eloquence and fervour of
Balaam to pour out vituperations upon the people
of Israel, but that it was expected that the
phet should use incantations and certain mystical
rites, upon which the efficacy of his foretelling
disaster to the enemy principally depended.
STATUE OF MEMNON.
The Magi of Egypt looked round in every
quarter for phenomena that might produce as-
tonishment among their countrymen, and induce
them to believe that they dwelt in a land which
overflowed with the testimonies and presence of a
divine power. Among others the statue of Mem-
non, erected over his tomb near Thebes, is re-
corded by many authors. Memnon is said to
have been the son of Aurora, the Goddess of the
morning ; and his statue is related to have had
the peculiar faculty of uttering a melodious sound
every morning when touched by the first beams of
TEMPLE OF JUPITER AMMON. :il
day, as if to salute his mother; and every night at
sunset to have imparted another sound, low and
mournful, as lamenting the departure of the day.
This prodigy is spoken of by Tacitus, Strabo, J u-
venal and Philostratus. The statue uttered these
sounds, while perfect ; and, when it was mutilated
by human violence, or by a convulsion of nature,
it still retained the property with which it had
been originally endowed. Modern travellers, for
the same phenomenon has still been observed,
have asserted that it does not owe its existence to
any prodigy, but to a property of the granite, of
which the statue or its pedestal is formed, which,
being hollow, is found in various parts of the
world to exhibit this quality. It has therefore
been suggested, that the priests, having ascer-
tained its peculiarity, expressly formed the statue
of that material, for the purpose of impressing on
it a supernatural character, and thus being enabled
to extend their influence with a credulous peopleA.
TEMPLE OF JUPITER AMMON: ITS ORACLES.
Anotherofwhatmaybeconsidered asthe wonders
of Egypt, is the temple of Jupiter Ammon in the
midst of the Great Desert. This temple was situ-
ated at a distanceofno lessthan twelve days•journey
from Memphis, the capital of the Lower Egypt.
The principal part of this space consisted of one
• Brewster on Natural Magic, Letter IX.
E2
TEMPLE OF JUPITER AMMON.
immense tract of moving sand, so hot as to be in-
tolerable to the sole of the foot, while the air was
pregnant with fire, so that it was almost impossible
to breathe in it. Not a drop of water, not a tree,
not a blade of grass, was to be found through this
vast surface. It was here that Cambyses, engaged
in an impious expedition to demolish the temple, is
said to have lost an army of fifty thousand men,
buried in the sands. When you arrived however,
you were presented with a wood of great circum-
ference, the foliage of which was so thick that the
·beams of the sun could not pierce it. The atmos-
phere of the place was of a delicious temperature ;
the scene was every where interspersed with foun-
tains ; and all the fruits of the earth were found in
the highest perfection. In the midst was the tem-
ple and oracle of the God, who was worshipped in
the likeness of a ram. The Egyptian priests chose
this site as furnishing a test ofthe zeal of their vota-
ries; the journey being like the pilgrimage to Jeru-
salem or Mecca, if not from so great a distance,
yet attended in many respects with perils more
formidable. It was not safe to attempt the pas-
sage but with moderate numbers, and those ex-
pressly equipped for expedition.
Bacchus is said to have visited this spot in his
great expedition to the East, when Jupiter ap-
to him in the form of a ram, having struck
his foot upon the soil, and for the first time occa-
sioned that supply of water, with which the place
TEMPLE OF JUPITER AMMON. 53
was ever after plentifully supplied. Alexander
the Great in a subsequent age undertook the
same journey with his army, that he might cause
himself to be acknowledged for the son of the
God, under which character he was in all due form
recognised. The priests no doubt had heard of
the successful battles of the Granicus and of Issus,
of the capture of Tyre after a seven months' siege,
and of the march of the great conqueror in Egypt,
where he carried every thing before him.
' Here we are presented with a striking specimen
of the mode and spirit in which the oracles of old
were accustomed to be conducted. It may be
said that the priests were corrupted by the rich
presents which Alexander bestowed on them with
a liberal hand. But this was not the prime impulse
in the business. They were astonished at the
daring with which Alexander with a comparative
handful of men set out from Greece, having medi-
tated the overthrow of the great Persian empire.
They were astonished with his perpetual success,
and his victorious progress fi·om the Hellespont to
mount Taurus, from mount Taurus to Pelusium,
and from Pelusium quite across the ancient king-
dom of Egypt to the Palus Mareotis. Accus-
tomed to the practice of adulation, and to the
belief that mortal power and true intellectual great-
ness were the same, they with a genuine enthu-
siastic fervour regarded Alexander as the son of
their God, and acknowledged him as such.-
.54 CHALDEA AND BABYLON.
Nothing can be more memorable than the way in
which belief and unbelief hold a divided empire
over the human mind, our passions hurrying us
into belief, at the same time that our intervals of
sobriety suggest to us that it is all pure imposition.
CHALDEA AND BARYLON.
The history of the Babylonish monarchy not
having been handed down to us, except inciden-
tally as it is touched upon by the historians of
other countries, we know little of those anecdotes
respecting it which are best calculated to illustrate
the habits and manners ofa people. We know that
they in probability preceded all other nations in
the accuracy of their observations on the pheno-
mena of the heavenly bodies. We know that the
Magi were highly respected among them as an
order in the state; and that, when questions oc-
curred exciting great aJarm in the rulers, " the
magicians, the astrologers, the sorcerers, and the
Chaldeans," were called together, to see whether
by their arts they could throw light upon questions
so mysterious and perplexing, and we find suf-
ficient reason, both from analogy, and from the very
circumstance that sorcerers are specifically named
among the classes of which their Wise Men con-
sisted, to believe that the Babylonian Magi ad-
vanced no dubious pretensions to the exercise of
magical power.
;; i 1- ..
ZOROASTER. 55
ZOROASTER.
Among the Chaldeans the most famous name is
that of Zoroaster, who is held to have been the
author of their religion, their civil policy, their
sciences, and their magic. He taught the doc-
trine of two great principles, the one the author
of good, the other of evil. He prohibited the use
of images in the ceremonies of religion, and pro-
nounced that nothing deserved homage but fire,
and the sun, the centre and the source of fire,
and these perhaps to be venerated not for them-
selves, but as emblematical of the principle of all
good things. He taught astronomy and astro-
logy. We may with sufficient probability infer his
doctrines from those of the Magi, who were his
followers. He practised enchantments, by means
of which he would send a panic among the forces
that were brought to make war against him, ren-
dering the conflict by force of arms unnecessary.
He prescribed the use of certain herbs as all-pow-
erful for the production of supernatural effects.
He pretended to the faculty of working miracles,
and of superseding and altering the ordinary
course of nature.-There was, beside the Chal-
dean Zoroaster, a Persian known, by the same
name, who is said to have been a contemporary of
Darius Hystaspes.
57
GREECE.
THUS obscure and general is our information re-
specting the Babylonians. But it was far otherwise
with the Greeks. Long before the period, when,
by their successful resistance to the Persian inva-
sion, they had rendered themselves of paramount
importance in the history of the civilised world,
they had their poets and annalists, who preserved
to future time the memory of their tastes, their
manners and superstitions, their strength, and
their weakness. Homer in particular had already
composed his two great poems, rendering the pe-
culiarities of his countrymen familiar to the latest
posterity. The consequence of this is, that the
wonderful things of early Greece are even more
frequent than the record of its sober facts. As
men advance in observation and experience, they
are compelled more and more to perceive that all
the phenomena ofnature are one vast chain of un-
interrupted causes and consequences : but to the
eye of uninstructed ignorance every thing is asto-
nishing, every thing is unexpected. The remote
generations of mankind are in all cases full of pro-
digies : but it is the fortune of Greece to have
preserved its early adventures, so as to render the
beginning pages of its history one mass of impos-
sible falshoods.
.58 DEITIES OF GREECE.
DEITIES OF GREECE.
The Gods of the Greeks appear all of them once
to have been men. Their real or supposed adven-
tures therefore make a part of what is recorded
respecting them. Jupiter was born in Crete, and
being secreted by his mother in a cave, was
suckled by a goat. Being come to man's estate,
he warred with the giants, one of whom had an
hundred hands, and two others brethren, grew
nine inches every month, and, when nine years
old, were fully qualified to engage in all exploits
of corporeal strength. The war was finished, by
the giants being overwhelmed with the thunder-
bolts of heaven, and buried under mountains.
Minerva was born from the head of her father,
without a mother ; and Bacchus, coming into the
world after the death of his female parent, was
inclosed in the thigh of Jupiter, and was thus
produced at the proper time in full vigour and
strength. Minerva had a shield, in which was
preserved the real head of Medusa, that had the
property of turning every one that looked on it
into stone. Bacchus, when a child, was seized on
by pirates with the intention to sell him for a
slave : but he waved a spear, and the oars of the
sailors were turned into vines, which climbed the
masts, and spread their clusters over the sails ;
and tigers, lynxes and panthers, appeared to swim
round the ship, so terrifying the crew that they
DEITIES OF GREECE. -'9
leaped overboard, and were changed into dolphins.
Bacchus, in his maturity, is described as having
been the conqueror of India. He did not set out
on this expedition like other conquerors, at· the
head of an army. He· rode in an open chariot,
which was drawn by tame lions. His attendants
were men and women in great multitudes, emi-
nently accomplished in the arts of rural industry.
Wherever he .came, he taught men the science
of husbandry, and the cultivation of the vine.
Wherever he came, he was received, not with
hostility, but with festivity and welcome. ·On his
return however, Lycurgus, king of Thrace, and
Pentheus, king of Thebes, set themselves.in oppo-
sition to the improvements which the .East had
received with the most lively gratitude; and
Bacchus, to punish them, caused Lycurgus .to be
torn to pieces by wild horses, and spread a delll8ion
among the family of Pentheu.s, so that they mis-
took him for a wild boar which had broken .into
their vineyards, and of consequence fell upon. him,
and he expired amidst a thousand wounds. ··
Apollo was the author of plagues. .and ·con-
tagious diseases ; at the same time that, when
he pleased, he could restore salubrity to a cli-
mate, and and vigour to the sons of men.
He was the father of poetry, and possessed in
an eminent degree the gift of foretelling future
events. Hecate, which was one of the names of
Diana, was distinguished as the Goddess of magic
60 DEITIES OF GREECE.
and enchantments. Venus was the Goddess of
love, the most irresistible and omnipotent impulse
of which the heart of man is susceptible. The
wand of Mercury was endowed with such virtues,
that whoever it touched, if asleep, would start up
into life and alacrity, and, if awake, would im-
mediately fall into a profound sleep. When it
.touched the dying, their souls gently parted from
their mortal frame; and, when it was applied to
the dead, the dead returned to life. Neptune had
the attribute of raising and appeasing tempests :
and Vulcan, the artificer of heaven and earth, not
only produced the most exquisite specimens of
skill, but also constructed furniture that was en-
dowed with a self-moving principle, and would
present itself for use or recede at the will of its
proprietor. Pluto, in perpetrating the rape of
Proserpine, started up in his chariot through a
cleft of the earth. in the vale of Enna in Sicily,
·and, having seized his prize, disappeared again by
the way that he came.
Ceres, the mother of Proserpine, in her search
after her lost daughter, was received with peculiar
hospitality by Celeus, king ofE1eusis. She became
desirous of remunerating his liberality by some
special favour. She saw his only child laid in a
cradle, and labouring under a fatal distemper.
She took him under her protection. She fed him
with milk from her own breast, and at night
covered him with coals of fire. Under this treat-
DEITIES OF GREECE. 61
ment he not only recovered his strength, but shot
up miraculously into manhood, so that what in
other men is the effect ofyears, was accomplished
in Triptolemus in as many hours. She gave him
for a gift the art ofagriculture, so that he is said to
have been the first to teach.mankind to sow and to
reap corn, and to make bread of the produce.
Prometheus, one of the race of the giants, was
peculiarly distinguished for his proficiency in the
arts. Among other extraordinary productions he
formed a man of clay, of such exquisite workman-
ship, as to have wanted nothing but a living soul
to cause him to be acknowledged as the paragon of
the world. Minerva beheld the performance of
Prometheus with approbation, and offered him her
assistance. She conducted him to heaven, where
he watched his opportunity to carry off on the tip
of his wand a portion of celestial fire from the
chariot of the sun. With this he animated his
image ; and the man of Prometheus moved, and
thought, and spoke, and became every thing that
the fondest wishes of his creator could J u-
piter ordered Vulcan to make a woman, that
should surpass this man. All the Gods gave her
each one a several gift: Venus gave her the
power to charm ; the Graces bestowed on her
symmetry of limb, and elegance of motion; Apollo
the accomplishments of vocal and instrumental
music ; Mercury the art of persuasive speech ;
Juno a multitude of rich and gorgeous ornaments;
DEMIGODS,
and Minerva the management of the loom and
the needle. Last of all, Jupiter presented her
with a sealed box, of which the lid was no sooner
unclosed, than a multitude of calamities and evils
of all imaginable sorts flew out, only Hope re.
maining at the bottom.
Deucalion was the son of Prometheus and
Pyrrha, his niece. They married. In their time
a flood occurred, which as they imagined destroyed
the whole human race; they were the only sur.
vivors. By the direction of an oracle they cast
stones over their shoulders ; when, by the divine
interposition, the stones cast by Deucalion became
men, and those cast by Pyrrha women. Thus the
earth was re-peopled.
I have put down a few of these particulars,
as containing in several instances the qualities of
what is called magic, and thus furnishing examples
of some of the earliest occasions upon which su-
pernatural powers have been alleged to mix with
human affairs. ·
DEMIGODS.
The early history ofmortals in Greece is scarcely
separated from that of the Gods. The first ad.
venturer that it is perhaps proper to notice, as his
exploits have I know not what of magic in them,
is Perseus, the founder ofthe metropolis and king·
dom of Mycenre. By way of rendering his birth
DEMIGODS. 68
illustrious, he is said to have been the son of
Jupiter, by Danae, the daughter of Acrisius, king
of Argos. The king, being forewarned by an
oracle that his daughter should bear a son, by
whose hand her father should be deprived of life,
thought proper to shut her up in a tower of brass.
Jupiter, having metamorphosed himself into a
shower of gold, found his way into her place of
confinement, and became the father of Perseus.
On the discovery of this circumstance, Acrisius
caused both mother and child to be inclosed in a
chest, and committed to the waves. The chest
however drifted upon the lands of a person of
royal descent in the island of Seriphos, who ex-
tended his care and hospitality to both. When
Perseus grew to man's estate, he was commissioned
by the king of Seriphos to bring him the head of
Medusa, one of the Gorgons. Medusa had the
wonderful faculty, that whoever met her eyes was
immediately turned into stone ; and the king, who
had conceived a passion for Danae, sent her son
on this enterprise, with the hope that he would
never come back alive. He was however fa-
voured by the Gods ; Mercury gave him wings to
fly, Pluto an invisible helmet, and Minerva a
mirror-shield, by looking in which he could dis-
cover how his enemy was disposed, without the
danger of meeting her eyes. Thus equipped, he
accomplished his undertaking, cut oft' the head of
the Gorgon, and pursed it in a bag. From this
64 DJEDALUS.
exploit he proceeded to visit Atlas, king of Mau.
ritania, who refused him hospitality, and in re-
venge Perseus turned him into stone. He next
rescued Andromeda, daughter of the king of
Ethiopia, from a monster sent by Neptune to
devour her. And, lastly, returning to his mother2
and finding the king of Seriphos still incredulous
and obstinate, he turned him likewise into a stone.
The labours of Hercules, the most celebrated of
the Greeks of the heroic age, appear to have had
little of magic in them, but to have been indebted
for their success to a corporal strength, superior to
that of all other mortals, united with an invincible
energy of mind, which disdained to yield to any
obstacle that could be opposed to him. His
achievements are characteristic of the rude and
barbarous age in which he lived : he strangled ser-
pents, and killed the Erymanthian boar, the Ne-
mrean lion, and the Hydra.
D.iEDALUS.
Nearly contemporary with the labours of Her-
cules is the history of Pasiphae and the Minotaur;
and this brings us again within the sphere of magic.
Pasiphae was the wife ofMinos, king of Crete, who
conceived an unnatural passion for a beautiful
white bull, which Neptune had presented to the
king. Having found the means of gratifying her
passion, she became the mother ofa monster, half-
D.lEDALUS. 65
man and half-bull, called the Minotaur. Minos
was desirous of hiding this monster from the ob-
servation of mankind, and for. this purpose applied
to Dredalus, an Athenian, the most skilful artist of
his time, who is said to have invented the axe, the
wedge, and the plummet, and to have found out
the use of glue. He first contrived masts and
sails for ships, and carved statues so admirably,
that they not only looked as if they were alive, but
had actually the power of self-motion, and woUld
have escaped from the custody of their possessor,
if they had not been chained to the wall.
Dredalus contrived for Minos a labyrinth, a
wonderful structure, that covered many acres of
ground. The passages in this edifice met and
crossed each other with such intricacy, that a
stranger who had once entered the building, would
have been starved to death before he could find his
way out. In this labyrinth Minos shut up the Mino-
taur. Having conceived a deep resentment against
the people of Athens, where his only son had been
killed in a riot, he imposed upon them an annual
tribute of seven noble youths, and as many virgins
to be devoured by the Minotaur. Theseus, son of
the king of Athens, put an end to this disgrace.
He was taught by Ariadne, the daughter ofMinos,
how to destroy the monster, and furnished with a
clue by which afterwards to find his way out of
the labyrinth.
F
66 THE ARGONAUTS.
Dredalus for some reason having incurred the
displeasure of Minos, was made a prisoner by him
in his own labyrinth. But the artist being never
at an end ofhis inventions, contrived with feathers
and wax to make a pair of wings for himself, and
escaped. Icarus, his son, who was prisoner along
with him, was provided by his father with a si-
milar equipment. But the son, who was inexpe-
rienced and heedless, approached too near to the
sun in hi<J flight ; and, the wax of his wings being
melted with the heat, he fell into the sea and was
drowned.
THE ARGONAUTS.
Contemporary with the reign of Minos oc-
curred the expedition of the Argonauts. Jason,
the son of the king of Iolchos in Thessaly, was at
the head of this expedition. Its object was to
fetch the golden fleece, which was hung up in a
grove sacred to Mars, in the kingdom of Colchis,
at the eastern extremity of the Euxine sea. He
enlisted in this enterprise all the most gallant
spirits existing in the country, and among the rest
Hercules, Theseus, Orpheus and Amphion. After
having passed through a multitude of perils, one of
which was occasioned by the Cyanean rocks at the
entrance of the Euxine, that had the .quality of
closing upon every vessel which attempted to
•
MEDEA, 67
make its way between them and crushing it to
pieces, a danger that could only be avoided by
sending a dove before as their harbinger, they at
length arrived.
MEDEA.
The golden fleece was defended by bulls, whose
hoofs were brass, and whose breath was fire, and
by a never-sleeping dragon that planted itself at
the foot of the tree upon which the fleece was sus-
pended. Jason was prepared for his undertaking
by Medea, the daughter of the king of the coun-
try, herself an accomplished magician, and fur-
nished with philtres, drugs and enchantments.
Thus equipped, he tamed the bulls, put a yoke on
their necks, and caused them to plough two acres
of the stiffest land. He killed the dragon, and, to
complete the adventure, drew the monster's teeth,
sowed them in the ground, and saw an army of
soldiers spring from the seed. The army hastened
forward to attack him ; but he threw a large stone
into the midst of their ranks, when they immedi-
ately turned from him, and, falling on each other,
were all killed with their mutual weapons.
The adventure being accomplished, Medea set
out with Jason on his return to Thessaly. On
their arrh:al, they found ..£son, the father of Jason,
and Pelias, his uncle, who had usurped the throne,
both old and decrepid. Jason applied to Medea,
F
68 MEDEA.
and asked her whether among her charms she had
none to make an old man young again. She re-
plied she had : she drew the impoverished and
watery blood from the body of .lEson ; she infused
the juice of certain potent herbs into his veins;
and he rose from the operation as fresh and vigor-
ous a man as his son.
The daughters of Pelias professed a perfect wil-
lingness to abdicate the throne of Iolchos ; but,
before they retired, they requested Medea to do
the same kindness for their father which she had
already done for .lEson. She said she would. She
told them the method was to cut the old man in
pieces, and boil him in a kettle with an infusion of
certain herbs, and he would come out as smooth
and active as a child.
The daughters of Pelias a little scrupled the
operation. Medea, seeing this, begged they would
not think she was deceiving them. If however
they doubted, she desired they would bring her
the oldest ram from their flocks, and they should
see the experiment. Medea cut up the ram, cast
in certain herbs, and the old bell-wether came out
as beautiful and innocent a he-lamb as was ever
beheld. The daughters of Pelias were satisfied.
They divided their father in pieces; but he was
never restored either to health or life.
From Iolchos, upon some insurrection of the
people, Medea and Jason fled to Corinth. Here
they lived ten years in much harmony. At the
MEDEA. 69
end of that time Jason grew tired of his wife, and
fell in love with Glauce, daughter of the king of
Corinth. Medea was greatly exasperated with his
infidelity, and, among other enormities,- slew with
her own hand the two children she had borne him
before his face. Jason hastened to punish her
barbarity ; but Medea mounted a chariot drawn
by fiery dragons, fled through the air to Athens,
and escaped.
At Athens she married ...Egeus, king of that
city. ...Egeus by a former wife had a son, named
Theseus, who for some reason had been brought
up obscure, unknown and in exile. At a suitable
time he returned home to his father with the in-
tention to avow his parentage. But Medea was
beforehand with him. She put a poisoned goblet
into the hands of ...Egeus at an entertainment he
gave to Theseus, with the intent that he should
deliver it to his son. At the critical moment
...Egeus cast his eyes on the sword of Theseus,
which he recognised as that which he had delivered
with his son, when a child, and had directed that it
should be brought by him, when a man, as a token
of the mystery of his birth. The goblet was
cast away; the father and son rushed into. each
other's arms; and Medea fled from Athens in her
chariot drawn by dragons through the air, as she
had years before fled from Corinth.
70 ORPHEUS.
CIRCE.
Circe was the sister of JEetes and Pasiphae, and
was, like Medea, her niece, skilful in sorcery. She
had besides the gift of immortality. She was ex-
quisitely beautiful ; but she employed the charms
of her person, and the seducing grace of her man-
ners to a bad purpose. She presented to every
stranger who landed in her territory an enchanted
cup, of which she intreated him to drink. He
no sooner tasted it, than he was turned into a hog,
and was driven by the magician to her sty. The
unfortunate stranger retained under this loathsome
appearance the consciousness of what he had been,
and mourned for ever the criminal compliance
by which he was brought to so melancholy a
pass.
ORPHEUS.
Cicero• quotes Aristotle as affirming that there
was no such man as Orpheus. But Aristotle is at
least single in that opinion. And there are too
many circumstances known respecting Orpheus,
and which have obtained the consenting voice of
all antiquity, to allow us to call in question his
existence. He was a native of Thrace, and from
that country migrated into Greece. He travelled
into Egypt for the purpose of collecting there the
information necessary to the accomplishment of his
ends. He died a violent death ; and, as is almost
• De Natura Deorum, Lib. I, c. 38.
ORPHEUS. 71
universally affirmed, fell a sacrifice to the resent-
ment and fury of the women of his native soilb.
Orpheus was doubtless a poet ; though it is not
probable that any of his genuine productions have
been handed down to us. He was, as all the poets
ofso remote a period were, extremely accomplished
in all the arts of vocal and instrumental music.
He civilised the rude inhabitants of Greece, and
subjected them to order and law. He formed
them into communities. He is said by Aristo-
phanes• and to have reclaimed the
savage, man, from slaughter, and an indulgence in
food that was loathsome and foul. And this has
with sufficient probability been interpreted to
mean, that he found the race of men among whom
he lived cannibals, and that, to cure them the
more completely of this horrible practice, he
taught them to be contented to subsist upon the
fruits of the earth•. Music and poetry are under-
stood to have been made specially instrumental by
him to the effecting this purpose. He is said to
have made the hungry lion and the famished tiger
obedient to his bidding, and to put off their wild
and furious natures.
This is interpreted by Horacer and other recent
expositors to mean no more than that he reduced
b Plato, De Republica, Lib. X, sub finem.
• v. 1032. " De Arte Poetica, v. 391.
• Memoires de l'Academie des Inscriptions, Tom. V, p. 117.
r De Arte Poetica, v. 391, 2, 3.
72 ORPHEUS.
the race ofsavages as he found them, to order and
civilisation. But it was at first perhaps under-
stood more literally. We shall not do justice to
the traditions of these remote times, if we do not
in imagination transport ourselves among them,
and teach ourselves to feel their feelings, and con-
ceive their conceptions. Orpheus lived in a time
when all was enchantment and prodigy. Gifted
and extraordinary persons in those ages believed
that they were endowed with marvellous preroga-
tives, and acted upon that belief. We may occa-
sionally observe, even in these days of the dull and
the literal, how great is the ascendancy of the man
over the beast, when he feels a full and entire
confidence in that ascendancy. The eye and the
gesture of man cannot fail to produce effects, in-
credible till they are seen. Magic was the order
of the day ; aml the enthusiasm of its heroes was
raised to the highest pitch, and attended with no
secret misgivings. We are also to consider that,
in all operations of a magical nature, there is a
wonderful mixture of frankness and bonhommie
with a strong vein of cunning and craft. Man in
every age is fu11 of incongruous and incompatible
principles ; and, when we shall cease to be incon-
sistent, we shall cease to be men.
It is difficult fully to explain what is meant by
the story of Orpheus and Eurydice; but in its
circumstances it bears a striking resemblance to
what has been a thousand times recorded respect-
ORPHEUS. 78
ing the calling up of the ghosts of the dead by
means of sorcery. The disconsolate husband has
in the first place recourse to the resistless aid of
After many preparatives he appears to
have effected his purpose, and prevailed upon the
powers of darkness to allow him the presence of
his beloved. She appears in the sequel however
to have been a thin and a fleeting shadow. He is
forbidden to cast his eyes on her ; and, if he had
obeyed this injunction, it is uncertain how the
experiment would have ended. He proceeds how-
ever, as he is commanded, towards the light of day.
He is led to believe that his consort is following
his steps. He is beset with a multitude of un-
earthly phenomena. He advances forsome time
with confidence. At length he is assailerl with
doubts. He has recourse to the auricular sense,
to know if she is following him. He can hear
nothing. Finally he can endure this uncertainty
no longer ; and, in defiance of the prohibition he
has received, cannot refrain from turning his head
to ascertain whether he is baffled, anrl has spent all
his labour in vain. He sees her ; but no sooner
he sees her, than she becomes evanescent and im-
palpable ; farther and farther she retreats before
him ; she utters a shrill cry, and endeavours to
articulate; but she grows more and more imper-
ceptible ; and in the conclusion he is left with the
scene around him in all respects the same as it
i Virgil, Georgica, Lib. IV. v. 464, et seqq.
74 AMPHION.
had been before his incantations. The result of
the whole that is known ofOrpheus, is, that he was
an eminently great and virtuous man, but was the
victim of singular calamity.
We have not yet done with the history of Or-
pheus. As has been said, he fell a sacrifice to the
resentment and fury of the women of his native
soil. They are affirmed to have torn him limb
from limb. His head, divided from his body,
floated down the waters of the Hebrus, and mira-
culously, as it passed along to the sea, it was still
heard to exclaim in mournful accents, Eurydice,
Eurydicehf At length it was carried ashore on
the island of Lesbos;. Here, by some extraordi-
nary concurrence of circumstances, it found a rest-
ing.place in a fissure of a rock over-arched by a
cave, and, thus domiciliated, is said to have retained
the power of speech, and to have uttered oracles.
Not only the people of Lesbos resorted to it for
guidance in difficult questions, but also the Asiatic
Greeks from Ionia and 1Etolia ; and its fame and
character for predicting future events even ex-
tended to Babylonk,
AMPHION.
The etory of Amphion is more perplexing than
that of the living Orpheus. Both ofthem turn in
h Gcorgica, iv, 525. i Metamorphoses, xi, 55.
k Philostratus, Heroica, cap. v.
TIRESIAS. 75
a great degree upon the miraculous effects of mu-
sic. Amphion was of the royal family of Thebes,
and ultimately became ruler of the territory. He
is said, by the potency of his lyre, or his skill in
the magic art, to have caused the stones to follow
him, to arrange themselves in the way he proposed,
and without the intervention of a human hand to
have raised a wall about his metropolis•. It is cer-
tainly less difficult to conceive the savage man to
be rendered placable, and to conform to the dic-
tates of civilisation, or even wild beasts to be made
tame, than to imagine stones to obey the voice and
the will of a human being. The example however
is not singular ; and hereafter we shall find related
that Merlin, the British enchanter, by the power
of magic caused the rocks of Stonehenge, though
of such vast dimensions, to be carried through the
air from Ireland to the place where we at present
find them.--Homer mentions that Amphion, and
his brother Zethus built the walls of Thebes, but
does notdescribe it as having been done by miracleb,
TIRESIAS.
Tiresias was one of the most celebrated sooth-
sayers of the early ages of Greece. He lived in
the times of Oedipus, and the war of the seven
chiefs against Thebes. He was afflicted by the
• Horat, de Arte Poetica, v. 394. Pausanias.
b Odyssey, Lib. XI, v. 262.
76 ABARIS.
Gods with blindness, in consequence of some dis-
pleasure they conceived against him ; but in com-
pensation they endowed him beyond all other mor-
tals with the gift of prophecy. He is said to have
understood the language of birds. He possessed
the art of divining future events from the various
indications that manifest themselves in fire, in
smoke, and in other ways•, but to have set the
highest value upon the communications of the
dead, whom by spells and incantations he con-
strained to appear and answer his enquiriesb; and
he is represented as pouring out tremendous me-
naces against them, when they shewed themselves
tardy to attend upon his commands·.
ABARIS.
Abaris, the Scythian, known to us for his visit
to Greece, was by all accounts a great magician.
Herodotus says\ that he is reported to have travel-
led over the world with an an-ow, eating nothing
during his journey. Other authors relate that this
arrow was given to him by Apollo, and that he
rode upon it through the air, over lands, and seas,
and all inaccessible placesb. The time in which
he flourished is very uncertain, some having re-
presented him as having constructed the Palla-
a Statius, Thebais, Lib. X. v. 599. bJbid, Lib. IV, v. 599.
c Ibid, Lib. IV, v. 409. et seqq,
a Lib. IV, c. a6. b Iamblichus.
PYTHAGORAS, 77
dium, which, as long as it was preserved, kept
Troy from being taken by an enemye, and others
affirming that he was familiar with Pythagoras, who
lived six hundred years later, and that he was ad-
mitted into his special confidenced. He is said to
have possessed the faculty of foretelling earth-
quakes, allaying storms, and driving away pesti-
lence ; he gave out predictions wherever he went ;
and is described as an enchanter, professing to cure
diseases by virtue of certain words which he
pronounced over those who were afflicted with
them•.
PYTHAGORAS.
The name of Pythagoras is one of the most me-
morable in the records of the human species ; and
his character is well worthy of the minutest inves-
tigation. By this name we are brought at once
within the limits of history properly so called.
He lived in the time of Cyrus and Darius Hys-
taspes, of Croesus, of Pisistratus, of Polycrates,
tyrant of Samos, and Amasis, king of Egypt.
Many hypotheses have been laid down respecting
the precise period of his birth and death ; but, as
it is not to our purpose to enter into any length-
ened discussions of that sort, we will adopt at
once the statement that appears to be the most
e Julius Finnicus, apud Scaliger, in Eusebium.
d Iamblichus, Vita Pythagone. • Plato, Charmides.
•
78 PYTHAGORAS.
probable, which is that of who fixes his
birth about the year before Christ 586, and his
death about the year 506.
Pythagoras was a man of the most various
complishments, and appears to have penetrated
in different directions into the depths of human
knowledge. He sought wisdom in its retreats of
fairest promise, in Egypt and other distant coun-
triesb. In this investigation he employed the
earlier period of his life, probably till he was forty,
and devoted the remainder to such modes of pro-
ceeding, as appeared to him the most likely to se-
cure the advantage of what he had acquired to a
late posterity.
He founded a school, and delivered his acquisi-
tions by oral communication to a numerous body
of followers. He divided his pupils into two
classes, the one neophytes, to whom was explained
only the most obvious and general truths, the
other who were admitted into the entire confidence
of the master. These last he caused to throw .
their property into a common stock, and to live
together in the same place of resortd. He appem:s
to have spent the latter half of his life in that part
of Ita1y; ca11ed Magna Grrecia, so denominated in
some degree from the numerous colonies of Gre-
cians by whom it was planted, and part1y perhaps
a Chronological Account of Pythagoras and his Contempo-
raries. b Lacrtius, Lib. VIII, c. a.
c Lloyd, ubi supra. d Iamblichus, c. 17
'
:
PYTHAGORAS. 79
from the memory of the illustrious things which
Pythagoras achieved there•. He is said to have
spread the seeds of political liberty in Crotona,
Sybaris, Metapontum, and Rhegium, and from
thence in Sicily to Tauromenium, Catana, Agri-
gentum and Himera'. Charondas and Zaleucus,
themselves famous legislators, derived the rudi-
ments of their political wisdom from the instruc-
tions of Pythagorasr.
But this marvellous man in some way, whether
from the knowlege he received, or from his own
proper discoveries, has secured to his species bene-
fits of a more permanent nature, and which shall
outlive the revolutions of ages, and the instability
of political institutions. He was a profound geo-
metrician. The two theorems, that the internal
angles of every right-line triangle are equal to
two right anglesh, and that the square of the hypo-
thenuse of every right angled triangle is equal to .
the sum of the squares of the other two sides1
, are
ascribed to him. In memory of the latter of these
discoveries he is said to have offered a public sacri-
fice to the Gods ;.and the theorem is still known by
the name of the Pythagorean theorem. He ascer-
tained from the length ofthe Olympic course,which
was understood to have measured six hundred of
e lamblichua, c. 29. f Ibid, c. 7.
g Laertius, c. 15. h Ibid, c. 11.
i Symposiaca, Lib, VIII, Qurestio 2.
....
. . '
.. c .
80 PYTHAGORAS.
Hercules's feet, the precise stature of that hero".
Lastly, Pythagoras is the first person, who is
known to have taught the spherical figure of the
earth, and that we have antipodes'; and he pro-
pagated the doctrine that the earth is a planet,
and that the sun is the centre round which the
earth and the other planets move, now known by
the name of the Copernican systemm.
To inculcate a pure and a simple mode of sub-
sistence was also an express object of pursuit to
Pythagoras. He taught a total abstinence from
every thing having had the property of animal
life. It has been affirmed, as we have seen", that
Orpheus before him taught the same thing. But
the claim of Orpheus to this distinction .is ambi-
guous ; while the theories and dogmas of the Sa-
mian sage, as he has frequently been stylerl, were
more methodically digested, and produced more
lasting and unequivocal effects. He taught tem-
perance in all its branches, and a resolute subjec-
tion of the appetites of the body to contemplation
and the exercises of the mind ; and, by the unre-
mitted discipline and authority he exerted over
his followers, he caused his lessons to be con-
stantly observed. There was therefore an edify-
1< Aulus Gellius, Lib. I, c. 1, from Plutarch.
' Laertius, c. 19.
m Bailly, Histoire de l'Astronomie, Lib. VIII,§ 3.
" Plutarchus, de Esu Carnium. Ovidius, Metamorphoses,
Lib. XV. Laertius, c. 12.
I ]J -
PYTHAGORAS. 81
ing and an exemplary simplicity that prevailed as
far as the influence of Pythagoras extended, that
won golden opinions to his adherents at all
that they appeared, and in all placeso.
One revolution that Pythagoras worked, was
that, whereas, immediately before, those who were
most conspicuous among the Greeks as instructors
.of mankind in understanding and virtue, styled
themselves sophists, professors of wisdom, this
illustrious man desired to be known only by the
appellation of a philosopher, a lover of wisdom".
The sophists had previously brought their deno-
mination into discredit and reproach, by the arro-
gance of their pretensions, and the imperious way
in which they attempted to lay down the law to
the world.
The modesty of this appellation however did not
altogether suit with the deep designs of Pytha-
goras, the ascendancy he resolved to acquire, and
the oracular subjection in which he deemed it ne.
cessary to hold those who placed themselves under
his instruction. This wonderful man set out with
making himself a model of the passive and unscru-
pulous docility which he afterwards required from
others. He did not begin to teach till he was
forty years of age, and from eighteen to that pe-
riod he studied in foreign countries, with the reso-
lution to submit to all his teachers enjoined, and
to make himself master oftheir least communicated
" Iamblichus, c. 16. P Lacrtius, c. 6.
G
PYTHAGORAS.
and most secret wisdom. In Egypt in particular,
we are told that, though he brought a letter of re-
commendation from Polycrates, his native sove-
reign, to Amasis, king of that country, who
fully concurred with the views of the writer,
the priests, jealous of admitting a foreigner into
their secrets, baffled him as long as they could,
referring him from one college to another, and
prescribing to him the most rigorous preparatives,
not excluding the rite of circumcision\ But
Pythagoras endured and underwent every thing,
till at length their unwillingness was conquered,
and his perseverance received its suitable reward.
When in the end Pythagoras thought himself
fully qualified for the task he had all along had in
view, he was no less strict in prescribing ample
preliminaries to his own scholars. At the time
that a pupil was proposed to him, the mastt>r, we
are told, examined him with multiplied questions
as to his principles, his habits and intentions, ob-
served minutely his voice and manner of speaking,
his walk and his gestures, the lines of his coun-
tenance, and the expression and management of
his eye, and, when he was satisfied with these,
then and not till then admitted him as a proba-
tioner•. It is to be supposed that all this must
have been personal. As soon however as this was
over, the master was withdrawn from the sight of
q Clemens Alexandrinus, Stromata, Lib. I, p. 302.
• Iamblichus, c. 17.
PYTHAGORAS. 88
the pupil ; and a noviciate of three and. five, in all
eight years•, was prescribed to the scholar, during
which time he was only to hear his instructor
from behind a curtain, and the strictest silence
was enjoined him through the whole period. As
the instructions Pythagoras received in Egypt and
the East admitted of no dispute, so in his turn he
required an unreserved submission from those who
heard him : .zuTof " the master has said it," was
deemed a sufficient solution to all doubt and un-
certainti.
To give the greater authority and effect to his
communications Pythagoras hid himself during
the day at least from the great body of his pupils,
and was only seen by them at night. Indeed
there is no reason to suppose that any one was ad-
mitted into his entire familiarity. When he ·came
forth, he appeared in a long garment of the purest
white, with a flowing beard, and a garland upon
his head. He is said to have been of the finest
symmetrical form, with a majestic carriage, and a
grave and awful countenance". He suffered his
followers to believe that he was one of the Gods,
the Hyperborean Apollo'"', and is said to have told
Abaris that he assumed the human form, that he
might the better invite men to an easiness of ap-
proach and to confidence in himx. What how-
• Laertius, c. 8. Iamblichus, c. 17.
1 Cicero de Natura Deomm, Lib. I, c. 5.
" Laertius, c. 9. " Ibid. " Iamblichus, c. 19.
G 2
84 PYTHAGORAS.
ever seems to be agreed in by all his biographers,
is that he professed to have already in different
ages appeared in the likeness of man : first as
...Ethalides, the son of Mercury; and, when his
father expressed himself ready to invest him with
any gift short of immortality, he prayed that, as
the human soul is destined successively to elwell
in various forms, he might have the pri,·ilege in
each to remember his former state of being, which
was granted him. From ...Ethalides he became
Euphorbus, who slew Patroclus at the siege of
Troy. He then appeared as Hermotimus, then
Pyrrhus, a fisherman of Delos, and finally Pytha-
goras. He said that a period of time was inter-
posed between each transmigration, during which
he visited the seat of departed souls ; and he
professed to relate a part of the wonders he had
seenY. He is said to have eaten sparingly and
in secret, and in all respects to have given him-
self out for a being not subject to the ordinary
laws of nature'.
Pythagoras therefore pretended to miraculous
endowments. Happening to be on the sea-shore
when certain fishermen drew to land an enormous
multitude of fishes, he desired them to allow him
to dispose of the capture, which they consented to,
provided he _would name the precise number they
had caught. He did so, and required that they
should throw their prize into the sra again, at the
Y Laertius, c. 1, • Ibid, c. 18.
I II
PYTHAGORAS. 85
same time paying them the value of the fish•.
He tamed a Daunian bear by whispering in his
ear, and prevailed on him henceforth to refrain
from the flesh of animals, and to feed on vege-
tables. By the same means he induced an ox not
to eat beans, which was a diet specially prohibited
by Pythagoras ; and he called down an eagle
from his flight, causing him to sit on his hand,
and submit to be stroked down by the philo-
sopher''. In Greece, when he passed the river
Nessus in Macedon, the stream was heard to
salute him with the words " Hail, ·Pythagoras"!"
When Abaris addressed him as one of the hea-
venly host, he took the stranger aside, and con-
vinced him that he was under no mistake, by
exhibiting to him his thigh of gold: or, according
to another account, he used the same sort of
evidence at a certain time, to satisfy his pupils of
his celestial descentd, He is said to have been
seen on the same day at Metapontum in Italy,
and at Taurominium in Sicily, though these
places are divided by the sea, so that it was con-
ceived that it would cost several days to pass
from one to the other•. In one instance he ab-
sented himself from his associates in Italy for a
whole year; and when he appeared again, related
that he had passed that time in the infernal re-
• Iamblichus, c. 8. b Ibid, c. 13.
• Laertius, c. 9. lamblichus, c. 28.
d Laertius, c. 9. lamblichus, c. 18. c Ibid, c. 28.
86 PYTHAGORAS.
gions, describing likewise the marvellous things
he had seen1
• Diogenes Laertius, speaking of
this circumstance affirms however that be re-
mained during this period in a cave, where his
mother conveyed to him intelligence and neces-
saries, and that, when he came once more into
light and air, he appeared so emaciated and co-
lourless, that he might well be believed to have
come out of Hades.
The close of the life of Pythagoras was, ac-
cording to every statement, in the midst of
misfortune and violence. Some particulars are
related by which, though he is not an
authority beyond all exception, are so characteris-
tic as seem to entitle them to the being transcrib-
ed. This author is more circumstantial than any
other in stating the elaborate steps by which the
pupils of Pythagoras came to be finally admitted
into the full confidence of the master. He says,
that they passed three years in the first place in
a state of probation, carefully watched by their
seniors, and exposed to their occasional taunts
and ironies, by way of experiment to ascertain
whether they were of a temper sufficiently philoso-
phical and firm. At the expiration of that period
they were admitted to a noviciate, in which they
were bound to uninterrupted silence, and heard
the lectures of the master, while he was himself
I Laertius, c. 21. g Iamblichus, c. 17.
PYTHAGORJ\S,
concealed from their view by a curtain. They
were then received to initiation, and required to
deliver over their property to the comm_on stock.
They were admitted to intercourse with the master.
They were invited to a participation of the most
obscure theories, and the abstrusest problems. If
however in this stage of their progress they were
discovered to be too weak of intellectual penetra-
tion, or any other fundamental objection were es-
tablished against them, they were expelled the
community ; the double of the property they had
contributed to the common stock was paid down
to them ; a head-stone and a monument inscribed
with their names were set up in the place of
meeting of the community ; they were considered
as dead ; and, if afterwards they met by chance
any of those who were of the privileged few, they
were treated by them as entirely strangers.
Cylon, the richest man, or, as he is in one place
styled, the prince, of Crotona, had manifested the
greatest partiality to Pythagoras. He was at the
same time a man of rude, impatient and bois-
terous character. He, together with Perialus of
Thurium, submitted to all the severities of the
Pythagorean school. They passed the three years
of probation, and the five years of silence. They
were received into the familiarity of the master.
They were then initiated, and delivered all their
wealth into the common stock. They were how-,
ever ultimately pronounced deficient in intellec-
88 PYTHAGORAS.
tual power, or for some other reason were not
judged worthy to continue among the confidential
pupils of Pythagoras. They were expelled. The
double of the property they had contributed was
paid back to them. A monument was set up in
memory of what they had been ; and they were
pronounced dead to the school.
It will easily be conceived in what temper
Cylon sustained this degradation. Of Perialus
we hear nothing further. But Cylon, from feel-
ings of the deepest reverence and awe for Py-
thagoras, which he had cherished for years, was
filled even to bursting with inextinguishable hatred
·and revenge. The unparalleled merits, the ve-
nerable age of the master whom he had so long
followed, had no vower to control his violence.
His paramount influence in the city insured him
the command of a great body of followers. He
excited them to a frame of turbulence and riot.
He represented to them how· intolerable was the
despotism of this pretended philosopher. They
surrounded the school in which the pupils were
accustomed to assemble, and set it on fire. Forty
persons perished in the flames h. According to
some accounts Pythagoras was absent at the time.
According to others he and two of his pupils
escaped. He retired from Crotona to Metapon-
tum. But the hostility which had broken out in
the former city, followed him there. He took
h Iamhlichus, c. 35. Laertius, c. 21.
PYTHAGORAS. 89
refuge in the Temple of the Muses. But he was
held so closely besieged that no provisions could
be conveyed to him ; and he finally perished with
hunger, after, according to Laertius, forty days'
abstinence1
•
It is difficult to imagine any thing more instruc-
tive, and more pregnant with matter for salutary
reflection, than the contrast presented to us by
the character and system of action of Pythagoras
on the one hand, and those of the great enquirers
of the last two centuries, for example, Bacon,
Newton and Locke, on the other. Pythagoras
probably does not yield to any one of these in the
evidences of true intellectual greatness. In his
school, in the followers he trained resembling him-
self, and in the salutary effects he produced on
the institutions of the various republics of Magna
Grrecia and Sicily, he must be allowed greatly to
have excelled them. His discoveries of various
propositions in geometry, of the earth as a p1anet,
and of the solar system as now universally recog-
nised, clearly stamp him a genius of the highest
order.
Yet this man, thus enlightened and philanthr?-
pical, established his system of proceeding upon
narrow and exclusive principles, and conducted it
by methods of artifice, quackery and delusion.
One of his leading maxims was, that the great and
fundamental truths to the establishment of which
i Laertius, c. 21.
90 PYTHAGORAS.
he devoted himself, were studiously to be con-
cealed from the vulgar, and only to be imparted
to a select few, and after years of the severest no-
viciate and trial. He learned his earliest lessons
of wisdom in Egypt after this method, and he
conformed through life to the example which had
thus been delivered to him. The severe exami-
nation that he made of the candidates previously
to their being admitted into his school, and the
years of silence that were then prescribed to them,
testify this. He instructed them by symbols,
obscure and enigmatical propositions, which they
were first to exercise their ingenuity to expound.
The authority and dogmatical assertions of the
master were to remain unquestioned; and the
pupils were to fashion themselves to obsequious
and implicit submission, and were the furthest in
the world from being encouraged to the inde-
pendent exercise of their own understandings.
There was nothing that Pythagoras was more
fixed to discountenance, than the communication
of the truths upon which he _placed the highest
value, to the uninitiated. It is not probable there-
fore that he wrote any thing : all was communi-
cated orally, by such gradations, and with such
discretion, as he might think fit to adopt and to
exercise.
Delusion and falsehood were main features of
his instruction. With what respect therefore can
we consider, and what manliness worthy of his
PYTHAGORAS. 91
high character and endowments can we impute to,
his discourses delivered from behind a curtain,
his hiding himself during the day, and only ap-
pearing by night in a garb assumed for the pur-
pose of exciting awe and veneration? What shall
we say to the story of his various transmigrations?
At first sight it appears in the light of the most
audacious and unblushing imposition. And, if
we were to yield so far as to admit that by a high-
wrought enthusiasm, by a long train of maceration
and visionary reveries, he succeeded in imposing
on himself, this, though in a different way, would
scarcely less detract from the high stage of emi-
nence upon which the nobler parts of his charac-
ter would induce us to place him.
Such were some of the main causes that have
made his efforts perishable, and the lustre which
should have attended his genius in a great degree
transitory and fugitive. He was probably much
under the influence of a contemptible jealousy,
and must be considered as desirous that none of
his contemporaries or followers should eclipse
their master. All was oracular and dogmatic in
the school of Pythagoras. He prized and justly
prized the greatness of his attainments and dis-
coveries, and had no conception that any thing
could go beyond them. He did not encourage,
nay, he resolutely opposed, all true independence
of mind, and that undaunted spirit of enterprise
which is the atmosphere in which the sublimest
.EPIMENIDES.
thoughts are most naturally generated. He there-
fore did not throw open the gates of science and
wisdom, and invite every comer ; but on the con-
trary narrowed the entrance, and carefully re-
duced the number of aspirants. He thought not
of the most likely methods to give strength and
pennanence and an extensive sphere to the pro-
gress of the human mind. For these reasons he
wrote nothing; but consigned all to the frail and
uncertain custody of tradition. And distant pos-
terity has amply avenged itself upon the narrow-
ness of his policy ; and the name of Pythagoras,
which would otherwise have been ranked with
the first luminaries of mankind, and consigned to
everlasting gratitude, has in consequence of a few
radical and fatal mistakes, been often loaded with
obloquy, and the hero who bore it been indiscri-
minately classed among the votaries of imposture
and artifice.
EPIMENIDES.
Epimenides has been mentioned among the
disciples of Pythagoras; but he probably lived at
an earlier period. He was a native of Crete.
The first extraordinary circumstance that is re-
corded of him is, that, being very young, he was
sent by his father in search of a stray sheep, when.
being overcome by the heat of the weather, he re-
tired into a cave, and slept fifty-seven years.
EPIMENIDES.
Supposing that he had slept only a few hours, he
repaired first to his father's country-house, which
he found in possession of a new tenant, and then
to the city, where he encountered his younger
brother, now grown an old man, who with diffi-
culty was brought to acknowledge him\ It was
probably this circumstance that originally brought
Epimenides into repute as a prophet, and a favou-
rite of the Gods.
Epimenides appears to have been one of those
persons, who make it their whole study to delude
their fellow-men, and to obtain for themselves the
reputation of possessing supernatural gifts. Such
persons, almost universally, and particularly in
ages of ignorance and wonder, become themselves
the dupes of their own pretensions. He gave out
that he was secretly subsisted by food brought to
him by the nymphs ; and he is said to have taken
nourishment in so small quantities, as to be ex-
empted from the ordinary necessities of natureb.
He boasted that he could send his soul out of his
body, and recal it, when he pleased ; and alter-
nately appeared an inanimate corpse, and then
again his life would return to him, and he appear
capable ofevery human function as before•. He
is said to have practised the ceremony of exorcising
houses and fields, and thus rendering them fruitful
and blessed". He frequently uttered prophecies
• Laertius, Lib. I, c. 1Ofl. Plinius, Lib. VII, c. 52.
b Laertius, c. 113. r Ibid. d Ibid. c. 111.
94 EMPIMENIDES.
of events with such fonns of ceremony and such
sagacious judgment, that they seemed to come to
pass as he predicted.
One of the most memorable acts of his life hap-
pened in this manner. Cylon, the head of one of
the principal families in Athens, set on foot a re-
bellion against the government, and surprised the
citadel. His power however W&S of short duration.
Siege was laid to the place, and Cylon found his
safety in flight. His partisans forsook their arms,
and took refuge at the altars. Seduced from this
security by fallacious promises, they were brought
to judgment and all of them put to death. The
Gods were said to be offended with this violation
of the sanctions of religion, and sent a plague upon
the city. All things were in confusion, and sad-
ness possessed the whole community. Prodigies
were perpetually seen ; the spectres of the dead
walked the streets; and terror universally pre.
vailed. The sacrifices offered to the gods exhi-
bited the most unfavourable symptoms•. In this
emergency the Athenian senate resolved to send
for Epimenides to come to their relief. His repu-
tation was great. He was held for a holy and
devout man, and wise in celestial things by inspi-
ration from above. A vessel was fitted out under
the command of one of the first citizens of the
state to fetch Epimenides from Crete. He per-
formed various rites and purifications. He took a
e Plutarch, Vita Solonis. Laertius, Lib. I, c. 109.
EMPEDOCLES, 95
certain number of sheep, black and white, and led
them to the Areopagus, where he caused-them to
be let loose to go wherever they would. He di-
rected certain persons to follow them, and mark
the place where they lay down. He enquired to
what particular deity the spot was consecrated,
and sacrificed the sheep to that deity ; and in the
result of these ceremonies the plague was stayed.
According to others he put an end to the plague
by the sacrifice of two human victims. The
Athenian senate, full of gratitude to their bene-
factor, tendered him the gift of a talent. But
Epimenides refused all compensation, and only
required, as an acknowledgment of what he had
done, that there should be perpetual peace between
the Athenians and the people of Gnossus, his
native city'. He is said to have died shortly
after his return to his country, being of the age
of one hundred and fifty-seven years8•
EMPEDOCLES.
Empedocles has also been mentioned as a disci-
ple of Pythagoras. But he probably lived too late
for that to have been the case. His principles
were in a great degree similar to those of that il-
lustrious personage ; and he might have studied
under one of the immediate successors of Pythago-
ras. He was a citizen of Agrigentum in Sicily;
f Plutarch, Vita Solonis. Laertius, Lib. I. c. 110. g Ibid.
96 EMPEDOCLES.
and, having inherited considerable wealth, exer-
cised great authority in his native He was
a distinguished orator and poet. He was greatly
conversant in the study of nature, and was emi.
nent for his skill in medicineb. In addition to
these accomplishments, he appears to have been a
devoted adherent to the principles of liberty. He
effected the dissolution of the ruling council of
Agrigentum, and substituted in their room a tri-
ennial magistracy, by ·means of which the public
authority became not solely in the hands of the
rich as before, hut was shared by them with ex-
pert and intelligent men of an inferior He
opposed all arbitrary exercises of rule. He gave
dowries from his own stores to many young maidens
of impoverished families, and settled them in eli-
gible marriagesd. He performed many cures upon
his fellow-citizens ; and is especially celebrated for
having restored a woman to life, who had been
apparently dead, according to one account for seven
days, but according to others for thirty•.
But the most memorable things known of Em-
pedocles, are contained in the frlle,<Ttllents of his
verses that have been preserved to us. In one of
them he says of himself, " I well remember the
time before I was Empedocles, that I once was
a hoy, then a girl, a plant, a glittering fish, a bitd
a Laertius, Lib. VIII, c. 51, 64. b Ibid, c. 57.
< Ibid, c. G6. 4
Ibid, c. 73.
• Plinius, Lib. VII, c. 52. Laertius, c. 61.
EMPEDOCLES, 97
that cut the airr." Addressing those who resorted
to him for improvement and wisdom, he says,
"By my instructions you shall Jearn medicines
that are powerful to cure disease, and re-animate
old age ; you shall be able to calm the savage
winds which lay waste the labours of the husband-
man, and, when you will, shall send forth the
tempest ; you shall cause the skies to be fair
and serene, or once more shall draw down refresh-
ing showers, re-animating the fruits of the earth ;
nay, you shall recal the strength of the dead man.
when he has already become the victim of
Further, speaking ofhimself, Empedocles exclaims:
"Friends, who inhabit the great city laved by the
yellow Acragas, all hail t I mix with you a God,
no longer a mortal, and am every where honoured
by you, as is just; crowned with fillets, and fra-
grant garlands, adorned with which when I visit
populous cities, I am revered by both men and
women, who follow me by ten thousands, enquir-
ing the road to boundless wealth, seeking the gift
of prophecy, and who would learn the marvellous
skill to cure all kinds of diseasesh."
The best known account of the death of Empe.
docles may reasonably be considered as fabulous.
From what has been said it sufficiently appears,
that he was a man of extraordinary intellectual en-
dowments, and the most philanthropical disposi-
tions ; at the same time that he was immoderately
t Laertius, c. 77. g Ibid, c. 59. h Ibid, c. 62.
H
98 ARISTEAS.
vain, aspiring by every means in his power to ac-
quire to himselfa deathless remembrance. Working
on these hints, a story has been invented that he
aspired to a miraculous way of disappearing from
among men; and for this purpose repaired, when
alone, to the top of Mount JEtna, then in a state
of eruption, and threw himself down the burning
crater: but it is added, that in the result of this
perverse ambition he was baffled, the volcano hav-
ing thrown up one of his brazen sandals, by means
of which the mode of his death became knowni.
ARISTEAS.
Herodotus tells a marvellous story of one Aris-
teas, a poet of Proconnesus, an island of the Pro-
pontis. This man, coming by chance into a
fuller's workshop in his native place, suddenly
fell down dead. As the man was of considerable
rank, the fuller immediately, quitting and locking
up his shop, proceeded to inform his family of
what had happened. The relations went accord-
ingly, having procured what was requisite to give
the deceased the rites of sepulture, to the shop;
but, when it was opened, they could discover no
vestige of Aristeas, either dead or alive. A tra-
veller however from the neighbouring town of
Cyzicus on the continent, protested that he had
just left that place, and, as he set foot in the wherry
i Laertius, c. 69. Horat. De Arte Poetica, v. 463.
99
which had brought him over, had met Aristeas,
and held a particular conversation with him. Seven
years after, Aristeas reappeared at Proconnesus,
resided there a considerable time, and during this
abode wrote his poem of the wars of the one-eyed
Arimaspians and the Gryphons. He then again
disappeared in an unaccountable manner. But,
what is more than all extraordinary, three hundred
and forty years after this disappearance, he shewed
himself again at Metapontum, in Magna Grrecia,
and commanded the citizens to erect a statue in
his honour near the temple of Apollo in the forum;
which being done, he raised himself in the air ;
and flew away in the form of a crow•.
HERMOTIMUS.
Hermotimus, or, as Plutarch names him, Her-
modorus of Clazomene, is said to have possessed,
like Epimenides, the marvellous power of quitting
his body, and returning to it. again, as often, and
for as long a time as he pleased. In these absences
his unembodied spirit would visit what places he
thought proper, observe every thing that was go-
ing on, and, when he returned to his fleshy taber-
nacle, make a minute relation of what he had seen.
Hermotimus had enemies, who, one time when
his body had lain unanimated unusually long, be-
guiled his wife, made her believe that he was cer-
• Herodotus, Lib. III, c. 14, 15. Plinius, Lib. VII, c. 52.
H 2
100 THE MOTHER OF DEMARATUS,
tainly dead, and that it was disrespectful and in-
decent to keep him so long in that state. .The
woman therefore placed her husband on the funeral
pyre, and consumed him to ashes ; so that, con-
tinues the philosopher, when the soul of Hermo-
timus came back again, it no longer found its
customary receptacle to retire into•. Certainly
this kind of treatment appeared to furnish an in-
fallible criterion, whether the seeming absences of
the soul of this man were pretended or
real.
THE MOTHER OF DEMARATUS, KING OF
SPARTA.
Herodotusb tells a story of the mother of De-
maratus, king of Sparta, which bears a striking
resemblance to the fairy tales of modem times.
This lady, afterward queen of Sparta, was sprung
from opulent parents, but, when she was born,
was so extravagantly ugly, that her parents hid
her from all human observation. According to the
mode of the times however, they sent the babe
daily in its nurse's arms to the shrine of Helen,
now metamorphosed into a Goddess, to pray that
the child might be delivered from its present
preternatural deformity. On these occasions the
• Plutarch, De Gcnio Socratis. Lucian, Muscm Encomium.
Plinius, Lib. VII, c. 52.
b Lib. III, c. 61, 62.
ORACLES. 101
child was shrouded in many coverings, that it
might escape being seen. One day as the nurse
came out of the temple, a strange woman met her,
and asked her what she carried so carefully con-
cealed. The nurse said it was a female child, but
of opulent parents, and she was strictly enjoined
that it should be seen by no one. The stranger
was importunate, and by dint of perseverance
overcame the nurse's reluctance. The woman
took the babe in her arms, stroked down its hair,
kissed it, and then returning it to the nurse, said
that it should grow up the most perfect beauty in
Sparta. So accordingly it proved : and the king
of the country, having seen her, became so en-
amoured of her, that, though he already had a
wife, and she a husband, he overcame all obstacles,
and made her his queen.
ORACLES.
One of the most extraordinary things to be met
with in the history of ancient times is the oracles.
They maintained their reputation for many suc-
cessive centuries. The most famous perhaps were
that of Delphi in Greece, and that of Jupiter Am-
mon in the deserts of Lybia. But they were scat-
tered through many cities, many plains, and many
islands. They were consulted by the foolish and
the wise; and scarcely anything considerable was
undertaken, especially about the time of the Per-
IOQ ORACLES.
sian invasion into Greece, without the parties hav-
ing first had recourse to these ; and they in most
cases modified the conduct of princes and armies
accordingly. To render the delusion more success.
ful, every kind ofartifice was put in practice. The
oracle could only be consu1ted on fixed and
the persons who resorted to it, prefaced their ap-
plication with costly offerings to the presiding
God. Their questions passed through the hands
of certain priests, residing in and about the tem-
ple. These priests received the embassy with
all due solemnity, and retired. A priestess, or
Pythia, who was seldom or never seen by any of
the profane vulgar, was the immediate vehicle of
communication with the God. She was cut off
from all intercourse with the world, and was care-
fully trained by the attendant priests. Spending al-
most the whole of her time in solitude, and taught
to consider her office as ineffably sacred, she saw
visions, and was for the most part in a state of
great excitement. The Pythia, at least of the
Delphian God, was led on with much ceremony
to the performance of her office, and placed upon
the sacred tripod. The tripod, we are told, stood
over a chasm in the rock, from which issued fumes
of an inebriating quality. The Pythia became gra-
dually penetrated through every limb with these
fumes, till her bosom swelled, her features enlarg-
ed, her mouth foamed, her voice seemed super-
natural, and she uttered words that could some-
ORACLES, 108
times scarcely be called articulate. She could with
difficulty contain herself, and seemed to be pos-
sessed, and wholly overpowered, with the God.
After a prelude of many unintelligible sounds,
uttered with fervour and a sort of frenzy, she be-
came by degrees more distinct. She uttered in-
coherent sentences, with breaks and pauses, that
were filled up with preternatural efforts and dis-
torted gestures; while the priest&. stood by, care-
fully recording her words, and then reducing them
into a sort of obscure signification. They finally
digested them for the most part into a species of
hexameter verse. We may suppose the supplicants
during this ceremony placed at a proper distance,
so as to observe these things imperfectly, while
the less they understood, they were ordinarily the
more impressed with religious awe, and prepared
implicitly to receive what was communicated to
them. Sometimes the priestess found herself in
a frame, not entirely equal to her function, and
refused for the present to proceed with the cere-
mony.
The priests of the oracle doubtless conducted
them in a certain degree like the gipsies and for-
tune-tellers of modern times, cunningly procuring
to themselves intelligence in whatever way they
could, and ingeniously worming out the secrets of
their suitors, at the same time contriving that their
.drift should least of all be suspected. But their
104 ORACLES.
mam resource probably was in the obscurity, al-
most amounting to unintelligibleness, of their re-
sponses. Their prophecies in most cases required
the comment of the event to make them under-
stood ; and it not seldom happened, that the mean-
ing in the sequel was found to be the diametrically
opposite of that which the pious votaries had ori-
ginally conceived.
In the mean time the obscurity of the oracles
was of inexpressible service to the cause of su-
perstition. If the event turned out to be such
as could in no way be twisted to come within the
scope of the response, the pious suitor only con-
cluded that the failure was owing to the grossness
and carnality of his own apprehension, and not to
any deficiency in the institution. Thus the oracle
by no means lost credit, even when its meaning
remained for ever in its original obscurity. But,
when, by any fortunate chance, its predictions
seemed to be verified, then the unerringness of
the oracle was lauded from nation to nation ; and
the omniscience of the God was admitted with as-
tonishment and adoration.
It would be a vulgar and absurd mistake how-
ever, to suppose that all this was merely the affair
of craft, the multitude only being the dupes, while
the priests in cold blood carried on the deception,
and secretly laughed at the juggle they were
palming on the world. They felt their own im-
.....1..... 1 I II
ORACLES. 10.5
portance ; and they cherished it. They felt that
they were regarded by their countrymen as
something more than human ; and the opinion
entertained of them by the world around them,
did not fail to excite a responsive sentiment in
their own bosoms. If their contemporaries wil-
lingly ascribed to them an exclusive sacredness,
by how much stronger an impulse were they led
fully to receive so flattering a suggestion t Their
minds were in a perpetual state of exaltation ; and
they believed themselves specially favoured by the
God whose temple constituted their residence. A
small matter is found sufficient to place a creed
which flatters all the passions of its votaries, on
the most indubitable basis. Modern philosophers
think that by their doctrine of gases they can ex-
plain all the appearances of the Pythia ; but the
ancients, to whom this doctrine was unknown, ad-
mitted these appearances as the undoubted evi-
dence of an interposition from heaven.
It is certainly a matter of the extremest diffi-
culty, for us in imagination to place ourselves in
the situation of those who believed in the ancient
polytheistical creed. And yet these believers
nearly constituted the whole of the population of
the kingdoms of antiquity. Even those who pro-
fessed to have shaken off the prejudices of their
education, and to rise above the absurdities of
p&oo-anism, had still some of the old leaven adhering
to them. One of the last acts of the life of So-
106 ORACLES.
crates, was to order the sacrifice of a cock to be
made to ..LEsculapius.
Now the creed of is said to have made
up to the number of thirty thousand deities.
Every kingdom, every city, every street, nay, in
a manner every house, had its protecting God.
These Gods were rivals to each other ; and were
each jealous of his own particular province, and
watchful against the intrusion of any neighbour
deity upon ground where he had a superior right.
The province of each of these deities was of small
extent; and therefore their watchfulness and jea-
lousy of their appropriate honours do not enter
into the slightest comparison with the Providence
of the God who directs the concerns of the
verse. They had ample leisure to employ in
dicating their prerogatives. Prophecy was of all
means the plainest and most obvious for each deity
to assert his existence, and to inforce the reve-
rence and submission of his votaries. Prophecy
was that species of interference which was least
liable to the being confuted and exposed. The
oracles, as we have said, were delivered in terms
and phrases that were nearly unintelligible. If
therefore they met with no inte11igible fulfilment,
this lost them nothing ; and, if it gained them no
additional credit, neither did it expose them to
any disgrace. Whereas every example, where the
obscure prediction seemed to tally with, and be
illustrated by any subsequent event, was hailed
INVASION OF XERXES INTO GREECE. 107
with wonder and applause, confirmed the faith of
the true believers, and was held furth as a victo-
rious confutation of the doubts of the infidel.
INVASION OF XERXES INTO GREECE.
It is particularly suitable in this place to
tice the events which took place at Delphi upon
occasion of the memorable invasion of Xerxes
into Greece. This was indeed a critical moment
for the heathen mythology. The Persians were
pointed and express in their hostility against the
altars and the temples of the Greeks. It was no
sooner known that the straits of Thermopylre had
been forced, than the priests consulted the God, as
to whether they should bury the treasures of the
temple, so to secure theni against the sacrilege of
the invader. The answer of the oracle was: "Let
nothing be moved ; the God is sufficient for the
protection of his rights." The inhabitants there-
fore of the neighbourhood withdrew : only sixty
men and the priest remained. The Persians in
the mean time approached. Previously to this
however, the sacred arms which were placed in
the temple, were seen to be moved by invisible
hands, and deposited on the declivity which was
on the outside of the building. The invaders no
sooner shewed themselves, than a miraculous
storm of thunder and lightning rebounded and
flashed among the multiplied hills which sur-
108 INVASION OF XERXES INTO GREECE.
rounded the sacred area, and struck terror into all
hearts. Two vast fragments were detached from
the top of mount Parnassus, and crushed hun-
dreds in their fall. A voice of warlike acclama-
tion issued from within the walls. Dismay seized
the Persian troops. The Delphians then, rushing
from their caverns, and descending from the sum-
mits, attacked them with great slaughter. Two
persons, exceeding all human stature, and that
were said to be the demigods whose fanes were
erected near the temple of Apollo, joined in the
pursuit, and extended the slaughter . It has been
said that the situation of the place was particularly
adapted to this mode of defence. Surrounded
and almost overhung with lofty mountain-sum-
mits, the area of the city was inclosed within
crags and precipices. No way led to it but
through defiles, narrow and steep, shadowed
with wood, and commanded at every step by
fastnesses from above. In such a position arti-
ficial fires and explosion might imitate a thunder
storm. Great pains had been taken, to repre-
sent the place as altogether abandoned ; and-there-
fore the detachment of rocks from the top of
mount Parnassus, though effected by human
hands, might appear altogether supernatural.
Nothing can more forcibly illustrate the strength
of the religious feeling among the Greeks, than
the language of the Athenian government at the
• Herodotus, Lib. VIII, c. 36, 37, 38, 39.
INVASION OF XERXES INTO GREECE. 109
time of the second descent of the Persian arma-
ment upon their territory, when they were again
compelled to abandon their houses and land to
the invader. Mardonius said to them : "I am
thus commissioned by the king of Persia, he will
release and give back to you your country ; he
invites you to choose a further territory, whatever
you may think desirable, which he will guarantee
to you to govern as you shall judge fit. He will
rebuild for you, without its costing you either
money or labour, the temples which in his former
incursion he destroyed with fire. It is in vain for
you to oppose him by force, for his armies are
innumerable." To which the Athenians replied,
" As long as the sun pursues his course in the
heavens, so long will we resist the Persian inva-
der." Then turning to the Spartan ambassadors
who were sent to encourage and animate them to
persist, they added, " It is but natural that your
employers should apprehend that we might give
way and be discouraged. But there is no sum of
money so vast, and no region so inviting and fer-
tile, that could buy us to concur in the enslaving
of Greece. Many and resistless are the causes
which induce us to this resolve. First and chief-
est, the temples and images of the Gods, which
Xerxes has burned and ]aid in ruins, and which
we are called upon to avenge to the utmost,
instead of forming a league with him who made
this devastation. Secondly, the consideration of
110 DEMOCIUTUS.
the Grecian race, the same with us in blood and
in speech, the same in religion and manners, and
who!1e cause we will never betray. Know there-
fore now, if you knew not before, that, as long as
a single Athenian survives, we will never swerve
from the hostility to Persia to which we have de-
voted ourselves."
'
Contemplating this magnanimous resolution, it
is in vain for us to reflect on the absurdity, incon-
gruity and frivolousness, as we apprehend it, of
the pagan worship, inasmuch as we find, whatever
we may think of its demerits, that the most heroic
people that ever existed on earth, in the hour of
their direst calamity, regarded a zealous and fer-
vent adherence to that religion as the most sacred
of all dutiesb.
DEMOCRITUS.
The fame of Democritus has sustained a singu-
lar fortune. He is represented by Pliny as one of
the most superstitious of mortals. This character
is founded on certain books which appeared in his
name. In these books he is made to say, that, if
the blood of certain birds be mingled together, the
combination will produce a serpent, of which who-
ever eats will become endowed with the gift of
understanding the language of birds•. He attri-
butes a multitude of virtues to the limbs of a dead
b Herodotus, Lib. VIII, c. 140, et aeqq.
• Historia Naturalis, Lib. X, c. 49.
DEMOCRITUS, 111
camelion : among others that, if the left foot of
this animal be grilled, and there be added certain
herbs, and a particular unctuous preparation, it will
have the quality to render the person who carries
it about him invisibleb, But all this is wholly
irreconcileable with the known character of Demo-
critus, who distinguished himself by the hypothesis
that the world was framed from the fortuitous con-
course of atoms, and that the soul died with the
body. And accordingly Lucian•, a more judicious
author than Pliny, expressly cites Democritus as
the strenuous opposer of all the pretenders to
miracles. " Such juggling tricks," he says, " call
for a Democritus, an Epicurus, a Metrodorus, or
some one of that temper, who should endeavour
to detect the illusion, and would hold it for cer-
tain, even if he could not fully lay open the deceit,
that the whole was a lying pretence, and had not
a spark of reality in it."
Democritus was in reality one of the most dis-
interested characters on record in the pursuit of
truth. He has been styled the father of experi.
mental philosophy. When his father died, and
the estate ·came to be divided between him and
two brothers, he chose the part which was in
money, though the smallest, that he might indulge
travelling in pursuit of knowledge. He
visited Egypt and Persia, and turned aside into
b Plinius, Lib. XXVIII, c. 8.
< Pseudomantis, c. 17. See also Philopseudes, c. 32.
112 SOCRATES.
Ethiopia and India. He is reported to have said,
that he had rather .be the possessor of one of the
cardinal secrets of nature, than of the diadem of
Persia.
SOCRATES.
Socrates is the most eminent of the ancient
philosophers. He lived in the most enlightened
age of Greece, and in Athens, the most illustrious
of her cities. He was born in the middle ranks of
life, the son of a sculptor. He was of a mean
countenance,. with a snub nose, projecting eyes,
and otherwise of an appearance so unpromising,
that a physiognomist, his contemporary, pro-
nounced him to be given to the grossest vices.
But he was of a penetrating understanding, the
simplest manners, and a mind wholly bent on the
study of moral excellence. He at once abjured
all the lofty pretensions, and the dark and 'recon-
dite pursuits.of the most applauded teachers of his
time, and led those to whom he addressed his in-
structions from obvious and irresistible data to the
most unexpected and useful conclusions. There
was something in his manner of teaching that
drew to him the noblest youth of Athens. Plato
and Xenophon, two of the most admirable of the
Greek writers, were among his pupils. He recon-
ciled in his own person in a surprising degree
poverty with the loftiest principles of indepen-
dence. He taught an unreserved submission to
SOCRATES. , 118
the laws of our country. He several times unequi-
vocally displayed his valour i_n the field of battle,
while at the same time he kept aloof from public
offices and trusts. The serenity of his mind never
forsook him. He was at all times ready to teach,
and never found it difficult to detach himself from
his own concerns, to attend to the ·wants and
wishes of others. He was uniformly courteous
and unpretending; and, if at any time he indulged
in a vein of playful ridicule, it was only against
the presumptuously ignorant, and those who were
without foundation wise in their own conceit.
Yet, with all these advantages and perfections,
the name of Socrates would not have been handed
down with such lustre to posterity hut for the
manner of his death. He made himself many
enemies. The plainness of his manner and the
simplicity of his instructions were inexpressibly
wounding to those (and they were many), who,
setting up for professors, had hitherto endeavoured
to dazzle their hearers by the loftiness of their
claims, and to command from them implicit sub-
mission by the arrogance with which they dic-
tated. It must be surprising to us, that a man
like Socrates should be arraigned in a country
like Athens upon a capital accusation. He was
charged with instilling into the youth a disobe-
dience to their duties, and propagating impiety to
the Gods, faults of which he was notoriously
.cent. But the plot against him was deeply laid,
I
114 SOCRATES.
and is said to have been twenty years in the con-
coction. And he greatly assisted the machina-
tions of his adversaries, by the wonderful firmness
ofhis conduct upon his trial, and his spirited reso-
lution not to submit to any thing indirect and
pusillanimous. He defended himself with a serene
countenance and the most cogent arguments, but
would not stoop to deprecation and intreaty.
When sentence was pronounced against him, this
did not induce the least alteration of his conduct.
He did not think that a life which he had passed
for seventy years with a clear conscience, was
worth preserving by the sacrifice of honour. He
refused to escape from prison, when one of his
rich friends had already purchased of the jailor the
means of his freedom. And, during the last days
of his life, and when he was waiting the signal of
death, which was to be the return of a ship that
had been sent with sacrifices to Delos, he uttered
those admirable discourses, which have been re.
corded by Xenophon and Plato to the latest
1
___ __posterity.
' But the question which introduces his name
into this volume, is that of what is called the
demon of Socrates. He said that he repeatedly
received a divine premonition of dangers impend.
ing over himself and others ; and considerable
pains have been taken to ascertain the cause and
author of these premonitions. Several persons,
among whom we may include Plato, have con-
..
SOCRATES. 115
ceived that Socrates regarded himself as attended
by a supernatural guardian who at all times
watched over his welfare and concerns.
But the solution is probably of a simpler nature.
Socrates, with all his incomparable excellencies
and perfections, was not exempt from the super-
stitions of his age and country. He had been bred
up among the absurdities of polytheism. In them
were included, as we have seen, a profound defer-
ence for the responses of oracles, and a vigilant
attention to, portents and omens. Socrates ap-
pears·to have been exceedingly regardful of omens. I
Plato tells us that this intimation, which he spoke
of as his demon, never prompted him to any act,
but occasionally interfered to prevent him or his
friends from proceeding in any thing that wouJd
have been attended with injurious consequences•.
Sometimes he described it as a voice, which no
one however heard but himself; and sometimes it
shewed itself in the act of sneezing. If the sneez-
ing came, when he was in doubt to do a thing or
not to do it, it confirmed him·; but if, being already
engaged in any act, he sneezed, this he considered
as a warning to desist. If any of his friends
sneezed on his right hand, he interpreted this as
a favourable omen ; but, if on his left, he imme-
diately relinquished his purpose". Socrates vindi-
cated his mode of expressing himself on the sub-
• Theages.
b Plutarch, De Genio Socratis.
1
116 SOCRATES.
ject, by saying that others, when they spoke of
omens, for example, by the voice of a bird,
said the bird told me this, but that he, knowing
that the omen was purely instrumental to a higher
power, deemed it more re1igious and respectfu1 to
have regard only to the higher power, and to say
that God had graciously warned him". One of
the examples of this presage was, that, going along
a narrow street with several companions in earnest
discourse, he suddenly stopped, and turned another
way, warning his friends to do the same. Some
yielded to him, and others went on, who were en-
countered by the rushing forward of a multitude
of hogs, and did not escape without considerable
inconvenience and injuryd. In another instance
one of a company among whom was Socrates, had
confederated to commit an act of assassination.
Accordingly he rose to quit the place, saying to
Socrates, " I will be back presently." Socrates,
unaware of his purpose, but having received the
intimation of his demon, said to him earnestly,
" Go not." The conspirator sat down. Again
however he rose, and again Socrates stopped him.
At length he escaped, without the observation of
the philosopher, and committed the act, for which
he was afterwards brought to trial. When led
to execution, he exc1aimed, " This wou1d never
have happened to me, if I had yielded to the inti-
• Xenophon, Memorabilia, Lib. I, c. 1.
d Plutarch, ubi supra.
SOCRATES. 117
mation of Socratese." In the same manner, and
by a similar suggestion, the philosopher predicted
the miscarriage of the Athenian expedition to
Sicily under Nicias, which terminated with such
signal disaster'. This feature in the character of
Socrates is remarkable, and may shew the preva-
lence of superstitious observances, even in persons
whom we might think the most likely to be ex-_j
empt from this weakness. ._
• Plato, Theages. r Ibid.
119
ROME.
VIRGIL.
FROM the Greeks let us turn to the Romans
The earliest examples to our purpose occur in the
JEneid. And, though Virgil is a poet, yet is he
so correct a writer, that we may well take for
granted, that he either records facts which had
been handed down by tradition, or that, when he
feigns, he feigns things strikingly in accord with
the manners and belief of the age of which he
speaks.
POLYDORUS.
One of the first passages that occur, is of the
ghost of the deceased Polydorus on the coast of
Thrace. Polydorus, the son of Priam, was mur-
dered by the king of that country, his host, for
the sake of the treasures he had brought with him
from Troy. He was struck through with darts
made of the wood of the myrtle. The body was
cast into a pit, and earth thrown upon it. The
stems of myrtle grew and flourished. JEneas,
after the burning of Troy, first attempted a settle-
ment in this place. Near the spot where he
landed he found a hillock thickly set with
myrtle. He attempted to gather some, thinking
H?O DIDO.
it might form a suitable screen to an altar which
he had just raised. To his astonishment and hor-
ror he found the branches he had plucked, drop-
ping with blood. He tried the experiment again
and again. At length a voice from the mound was
heard, exclaiming, " Spare me l I am Polydorus ;"
and warning him to fly the blood-stained and
treacherous shore.
DIDO.
We have a more detailed tale of necromancy,
when Dido, deserted by .lEneas, resolves on self-
destruction. To delude her sister as to her secret
purpose, she sends for a priestess from the gardens
of the Hesperides, pretending that her object is
by magical incantations again to relumine the pas-
sion of love in the breast of .lEneas. This priest-
ess is endowed with the power, by potent verse
to free the oppressed soul from care, and by simi-
lar means to agitate the bosom with passion which
is free from its empire. She can arrest the head-
long stream, and cause the stars to return back in
their orbits. She can call up the ghosts of the
dead. She is ·able to compel the solid earth to
rock, and the trees of the forest to descend from
their mountains. To give effect to the infernal
spell, Dido commands that a funeral pyre shall be
set up in the interior court of her palace, and that
the arms of ..illneas, what remained of his attire,
DIDO,
and the marriage-bed in which Dido had received
him, shall be heaped upon it. The pyre is hung
round with gar1ands, and adorned with branches
of cypress. The sword of .lEneas and his picture
are added. Altars are placed round the pyre ; and
the priestess, with dishevelled hair, calls with ter-
rific charms upon her three hundred Gods, upon
Erebus, chaos, and the three-faced Hecate. She
sprinkles around the waters of Avernus, and adds
i:ertain herbs that had been cropped by moonlight
with a sickle of brass. She brings with her the
excrescence which is found upon the forehead of
a new-cast foal, of the size of a dried fig, and which
unless first eaten by the mare, the mother never
admits her young to the nourishment of her milk.
After these preparations, Dido, with garments
tucked up, and with one foot bare, approached the
altars, breaking over them a consecrated cake, and
embracing them successively in her arms. The
pyre was then to be set on fire ; and, as the differ-
ent objects placed upon it were gradually con-
sumed, the charm became complete, and the ends
proposed to the ceremony were expected to follow.
Dido assures her sister, that she well knew the un-
lawfulness of her P.roceeding, and protests that
nothing but irresistible necessity should have com-
pelled her to have recourse to these unhallowed
arts. She finally stabs herself, and expires.
122 NUMA.
ROMULUS.
The early history of Rome is, as might be ex-
pected, interspersed with prodigies. Romulus him-
self, the founder, after a prosperous reign of many
years, disappeared at last by a miracle. The king
assembled his army to a general review, when sud-
denly, in the midst of the ceremony, a tempest
arose, with vivid lightnings and tremendous crashes
ofthunder. Romulus became enveloped in a cloud,
and, when, shortly after, a clear sky and serene
heavens succeeded, the king was no more seen,
and the throne upon which he had sat appeared
vacant. The people were somewhat dissatisfied
with the event, and appear to have suspected foul
play. But the next day Julius Proculus, a senator
of the highest character, shewed himself in the ge-
neral assembly, and assured them, that, with the
first dawn of the morning, Romulus had stood be-
fore him, and certified to him that the Gods had
taken him up to their celestial abodes, authorising
him withal to declare to his citizens, that their
arms should be for ever successful against all their
enemies•.
NUMA.
Numa was the second king of Rome : and, the
object of Romulus having been to render his peo-
ple soldiers and invincible in war, Numa, an old
a Livius, Lib. I, c. 16.
NUMA. 128
man and a philosopher, made it his purpose to
civilise them, and deeply to imbue them with sen-
timents of religion. He appears to have imagined
.the thing best calculated to accomplish this pur-
pose, was to lead them by prodigies and the per-
·suasion of an intercourse with the invisible world.
A shield fell from heaven in his time, which he
caused to be carefu1ly kept and consecrated to the
.Gods ; and ·he conceived no means so likely to
.be effectual to this end, as to make eleven other
shields exactly like the one which had descended
.by miracle, so that, if an accident happened to
.any one, the Romans might believe that the one
given to them by the divinity was still in their
possessionb.
Nnma gave to his people civil statutes, and a
code of observances in matters of religion; and
these also were inforced with a divine sanction.
Numa met the goddess Egeria from time to time
in a cave ; and by her was instructed in the insti-
.tutions he should give to the Romans : and this
barbarous people, awed by the venerable appear-
ance of their king, by the sanctity of his manners,
and still more by the divine favour which was so
signally imparted to him, received his mandates
with exemplary reverence, and ever after impli-
citly conformed themselves to all that he had sug-
gested•.
b Dionysius Halicarnassensis.
c Livius, Lib. I, c. 19, 21.
lfl4 ACClUS NAVIUS,
TULLUS HOSTILIUS.
Tullus Hostilius, the third king of re-
stored again the policy of Romulus. In his time,
Alba, the parent state, was subdued and united to
.its more flourishing colony. In the mean time
Tullus, who during the greater part of his reign
had been distinguished by martial achievements,
in the latter part became the victim of supersti-
tions. A shower of stones fell from heaven, in
the manner, as Livy tells us, of a hail-storm. A
plague speedily succeeded to this prodigy•. Tu1-
lus, awed by these events, gave his whole atten-
·tion to the rites ofreligion. Among other things
he found in the sacred books of Numa an account
ofa certain ceremony, by which, if rightly per-
formed, the appearance of a God, named Jupiter
.Elicius, would be conjured up. But Tullus, who
had spent his best days in the ensanguined field,
-proved inadequate to this new undertaking. Some
defects having occurred in his performance of the
-magical ceremony, not only no God appeared at
his bidding, but, the anger of heaven being awak-
ened, a thunderbolt fell on the palace, and the
king, and the place of his abode were consumed
togetherb.
ACCIUS NAVIUS.
In the re1gn of Tarquinius Priscus, the fifth
• Livius, Lib. I, c. 31. b Ibid.
SERVIUS TULLIUS•. 12.5
king of Rome, another famous prodigy is recorded.
The king had resolved to increase the number of
the Roman cavalry. Romulus had raised the first
body with the customary ceremony of augury.
Tarquinius proposed to proceed in the present case,
omitting this ceremony. Accius Navius, the chief
augur, protested against the innovation. Tar-
quin, in contempt of his interference, addressed
Accius, saying, "Come, augur, consult your birds,
and tell me, whether the thing I have now in my
mind can be done, or cannot be done." Accius
proceeded according to the rules of his art, and
told the king it could be done. " What I was
thinking of," replied Tarquinius, "was whether you
could cut this whetstone in two with this razor."
Accius immediately took the one instrument and
the other, and performed the prodigy in the face
of the assembled peoplea.
SERVIUS TULLIUS.
Servius Tullius, the sixth king of Rome, was the
model ofa disinterested and liberal politician, and
gave to his subjects those institutions to which,
more than to any other cause, they were indebted
for their subsequent greatness. Tarquinius sub-
jected nearly the whole people of Latium to his
rule, capturing one town of this district after an-
other. In Corniculum, one of these places, Ser-
• Livi11s, Lib. I, c. 36.
1!!6 SERVIUS TULLIUS.
vius Tullius, being in extreme youth, was made
a prisoner of war, and subsequently dwelt as a
slave in the king's palace. One day as he lay
asleep in the sight of many, his head was observed
to be on fire. The bystanders, terrified at the
·spectacle, hastened to bring water that they might
extinguish the flames. The queen forbade their
assiduity, regarding the event as a token from the
Gods. By and by the boy awoke of his own ac-
cord, and the flames at the same instant disap-
peared. The queen, impressed with the prodigy,
became persuaded that the youth was reserved for
high fortunes, and directed that he should be in-
structed accordinglyin all liberalknowledge. In due
time he was married to the daughter ofTarquinius,
and was destined in all men's minds to succeed
in the throne, which took place in the sequelb.
In the year of Rome two hundred and ninety
one, forty-seven years after the expulsion of Tar-
quin, a dreadful plague broke out in the city, and
carried off both the consuls, the augurs, and a
vast multitude of the people. The following year
was distinguished by numerous prodigies ; fires
were seen in the heavens, and the earth shook,
spectres appeared, and supernatural voices were
heard, an ox spoke, and a shower of raw flesh fell
in the fields. Most of these prodigies were uot
preternatural ; the speaking ox was probably re.
eeived on the report of a single hearer; and the
b Livius, Lib. I, c. 39.
THE SORCERESS OF VIRGIL. l2'7
whole was invested with exaggerated terror by
means of the desolation of the preceding year".
THE SORCERESS OF VIRGIL.
Prodigies are plentifully distributed through the
earlier parts of the Roman history ; but it is not
our purpose to enter into a chronological detail on
the subject. And in reality those already given,
except in the instance of Tullus Hostilius, do
not entirely fall within the scope ofthe present vo.,
lume. The Roman poets, Virgil, Horace, Ovid and
Lucan, give a fuller insight than the Latin prose-
writers, into the conceptions of their countrymen
upon the subject of incantations and magic.
The eighth eclogue of Virgil, entitled Pharma- \
ceutria, is particularly to our purpose in this point. I
There is an Idyll of Theocritus under the same
name ; but it is of an obscurer character; and the
enchantress is not, like that of Virgil, triumphant
in the success ofher arts.
The. sorceress is introduced by Virgil, giving \
direction to her female attendant as to the due
administration of her charms. Her object is to
recal Daphnis, whom she styles her husband, to
his former love for her. At the same time, she
says, she will endeavour by magic to turn him
away from his wholesome sense. She directs her
attendant to burn vervain and frankincense; and
< Livius, Lib. III, c. 6, et seqq.
128 THE SORCERESS OF VIRGIL.
she ascribes the highest effiCa.cy to the solemn
chant, which, she says, can call down the moon
from its sphere, can make the cold-blooded snake
burst in the field, and was the means by which
Circe turned the companions ofUlysses into beasts.
She orders his image to be thrice bound round
with fillets of three colours, and then that it be
paraded about a prepared altar, while in binding
the knots the attendant shall still say, "Thus do
I bind the fillets of Venus." One image of clay
and one of wax are placed before the same fire ;
and as the image of clay hardens, so does the
heart of Daphnis harden towards his new mis-
tress ; and as the image of wax softens, so is the
heart of Daphnis made tender towards the sor-
ceress. She commands a consecrated cake to be
broken over the image, and crackling laurels to be
burned before it, that as Daphnis had tormented
her by his infidelity, so he in his turn may be
agitated with a returning constancy. She prays
that as the wanton heifer pursues the steer through
woods and glens, till at length, worn out, with
fatigue, she lies down on the_ oozy reeds by the
banks of the stream, and the night-dew is unable
to induce her to withdraw, so Daphnis may be led
on after her for ever with inextinguishable love.
She buries the relics of what had belonged to
Daphnis beneath her threshold. She bruises poi-
sonous herbs of resistless virtue which had been
gathered in the kingdom of Pontus, herbs, which
OANIDIA.
enabled him who gave them to turn himself into a
hungry wolf prowling amidst the forests, to call up
ghosts from the grave, and to·translate the ripened
harvest from the field where it grew to the lands
of another. She orders her attendant to bring out
to the face of heaven the ashes of these herbs, and
to cast them over her head into the running
stream, .W at the same time taking care not to
look behind her. After all her efforts the sor-
ceress begins to despair. She says, "Daphnis heeds
not my incantations, heeds not the Gods." She
looks again; she perceives the ashes on the altar
emit sparkles of fire_; she hears her faithful house-
dog bark before the door; she says, u Can these
things be; or do loyers dream what they desire?
It is not so I The real Daphnis comes ; I hear
his steps ; he has left the deluding town ; he
hastens to my longing arms!"
CANIDIA.
In the works of Horace occurs a frightful and\
repulsive, but a curious detail of a scene of \
tion•. Four sorceresses are represented as assem-
bled, Canidia, the principal, to perform, the other
three to assist in, the concoction of a charm, by
means of which a certain youth, named Varus, for
whom Canidia had conceived a passion, but who
regards the hag with the utmost contempt, may
• Bpod. V.
K
180 CANIDIA.
be made obsequious to her desires. Canidia 'ap-
pears first, the locks ofher dishevelled hair twined
round with venomous and deadly serpents, order-
ing the wild fig-tree and the funereal cypress to be
rooted up from the sepulchres on they grew,
and these, together with the egg of a toad smeared
with blood, the plumage of the screech-owl, va-
rious herbs brought from Thessaly and Georgia,
and bones torn from the jaws of a famished dog,
to be burned in flames fed with perfumes from
Colchis. Of the assistant witches, one traces with
hurried steps the edifice, sprinkling it, as she
with drops from the Avernus, her hair on her
head stiff and erect, like the quills of the sea-
hedge-hog, or the bristles of a hunted boar ; and
another, who is believed by all the neighbour-
hood to have the faculty of conjuring the stars
and the moon down from heaven, contributes her
aid.
But, which is most horrible, the last of the assis-
tant witches is seen, armed with a spade, and, with
earne8t and incessant labour, throwing up earth,
that she may dig a trench, in which is to be
plunged up to his chin a beardless youth, stripped
of his purple robe, the emblem ofhis noble descent,
and naked, that, from his marrow already dry and
I ·his liver (when at length his eye-balls, long fixed
I
on the still renovated food which is withheld from
his famished jaws, have no more the power to dis-
cern), may be concocted the love-potion, from
CANIDIA. 181
which these bags promise themselves the most
marvellous results. I
Horace presents before us the helpless victim
of their malice, already inclosed in the fatal trench, /
first viewing their orgies with affright, asking, by
1
1
the Gods who rule the earth and all the race of
mortals, what means the tumult around him ?
He then intreats Canidia, by her children if ever
she had offspring, by the visible evidences of his
high rank, and by the never-failing vengeance
of Jupiter upon such misdeeds, to say why she
casts on him glances, befitting the fury of a step-
mother, or suited to a beast already made despe-
rate by the wounds of the hunter.
At length, no longer exhausting himself in fruit-
less intreaties, the victim has recourse in his
agonies to curses on his executioners. He says,
his ghost shall haunt them for ever, for no ven-
geance can expiate such cruelty. He will tear
their cheeks with his fangs, for that power is given
to the shades below. He will sit, a night-mare,
on their bosoms, driving away &leep from their
eyes; while the enraged populace shall pursue
them with stones, and the wolves shall gnaw and
howl over their unburied members. The unhappy
youth winds up all with the remark, that his
parents who will survive him, shall themselves wit-
ness this requital of the sorceresses' infernal deeds.
Canidia, unmoved by these menaces and ex-
ecrations, complains of the slow progress of her
K2
lSi CANIDJA.
channs. She gnaws her fingerR with rage. She
invokes the night and the moon, beneath whose
rays these preparations are carried on, now, while
the wild beasts lie asleep in the and while
the dogs alone bay the superanuated letcher, who
relies singly on the rich scents with which he is
perfumed for success, to speed her incantations,
and signalise their power beneath the roof of him
whose love she seeks. She impatiently demands
why her drugs should be of less avail than those
of Medea, with which she poisoned a garment,
that, once put on, caused Creusa, daughter of the
king of Corinth, to expire in intolerable
She discovers that Varus had hitherto baffled her
power by means of some magical antidote ; and
she resolves to prepare a mightier charm, that
nothing from earth or hell shall resist. " Sooner,"
she says, " shall the sky be swallowed up in the
sea, and the earth be stretched a covering over
both, than thou, my enemy, shalt not be wrapped
in the flames of love, as subtle and tenacious as
those of burning pitch."
It is not a little curious to remark the operation
of the antagonist principles of superstition and
scepticism among the Romans in this enlightened
period, as it comes illustrated to us in the compo-
sitions of Horace on this subject. In the piece,
the contents of which have just been given, things
are painted in all the solemnity and terror which
is characteristic of the darkest ages. But, a few
pages further on, we find the poet in a mock Pali-
ERICHTHO.
ilodia deprecating the vengeance of the sorceress,
who, he says, has already sufficiently punished
him by turning through her charms his flaxen hair
to hoary white, and overwhelming him by day and
night with ceaseless anxieties. He feels himself
through her powerful magic tortured, like Hercules
in the envenomed shirt of Nessus, or as if he were
cast down into the flames of .LEtna; nor does he
hope that she will cease compounding a thousand
deadly ingredients against him, till his very ashes
shall have been scattered by the resistless winds.
He offers therefore to expiate his offence at her
pleasure either by a sacrifice of an hundred oxen,
or by a lying ode, in which her chastity and spot-
less manners shall be applauded to the skies.
What Ovid gives is only a new version of the
charms and pbiltres of Medeab.
ERICHTHO.
Lucan, in his Pharsalia"', takes occasion, imm:-1
diately before the battle which was to decide the
fate of the Roman world, to introduce Sextus, the
younger son of Pompey, as impatient to enquire,
even by the most sacrilegious means, into the im-
portant events which are immediately impending.
He is encouraged in the attempt by the reflection,
that the soil upon which they are now standing,
Thessaly, had been notorious for ages as the
b Metamorphoses, Lib. VII. "'Lib. VI.
ERICHTHO.
noxious and unwholesome seat of sorcery and
witchcraft. The poet therefore embraces this oc..
casion to expatiate on the various modes in which
this detested art was considered as displaying
itself. And, however he may have been ambitious
to seize this oppqrttmity to display the wealth of
his imagination, the whole does not fail to
curious, as an exhibition of the system of magical
power so far as the matter in hand is concerned.
The soil of Thessaly, says the poet, is in the
utmost degree fertile in poisonous herbs, and her
·rocks confess the power of the sepulchral song of
the magician. There a vegetation springs up of
virtue to compel the Gods ; and Colchis itself im..
ports from Thessaly treasures of this sort which
she cannot boaSt as her own. The chaunt of the
Thessalian witch penetrates the furthest seat of the
Gods, and contains words so powerful, that not
the care of the skies, or of the revolving spheres,
can avail as an excuse to the deities to decline its
force. Babylon and Memphis yield to the supe-
rior might ; and the Gods of foreign climes fly to
fulfil the dread behests of the magician.
Prompted by Thessalian song, love glides into
the hardest hearts J and even the severity of age
is taught to bum with youthful fires. The ingre·
dients of the poisoned cup, nor the excrescence
found on the forehead ofthe new.:cast foal, can rival
in efficacy the witching incantation. The soul is
melted by its single force. The heart which not
ERICHTHO. 13.5
all the attractions of the genial bed could fire, nor
the influence of the most beautiful form, the wheel
of the sorceress shall force from its bent.
But the effects are perhaps still more marvellous
that are produced on inanimate and unintellectual
nature. The eternal succession of the world is
suspended; day delays to rise on the earth ; the
skies no longer obey their ruler. Nature becomes
still at the incantation: and Jove, accustomed to
guide the machine, is astonished to find the poles
disobedient to his impulse. Now the sorceress
deluges the plains with rain, hides the face of
heaven with murky clouds, and the thunders roll,
unbidden by the thunderer. Anon she shakes her
hair, and the darkness is dispersed, and the whole
horizon is cleared. At one time the sea rages,
urged by no storm ; and at another is smooth as
glass, in defiance of the tempestuous North. The
breath of the enchanter carries along the bark in
the teeth of the wind ; the headlong torrent is sus-
pended, and rivers run back to source. The
Nile overflows not in the summer ; the crooked
Meander shapes to itself a direct course; the slug-
gish Arar gives new swiftness to the rapid Rhone J
and the mountains bow their heads to their
dations. Clouds shroud the peaks of the cloudless
Olympus ; and the Scythian snows dissolve, un-
urged by the sun. The sea, though impelled by
the tempestuous constellations, is counteracted by
witchcraft, and no longer beatf! along the shore.
186 ERICHTHO,
Earthquakes shake the solid globe ; and the
affrighted inhabitants behold both hemispheres at
once. The animals most dreaded for their fury,
and whose rage is mortal, become tame ; the hun-
gry tiger and the lordly lion fawn at the sorce-
ress's feet; the snake untwines all her folds amidst
the snow; the viper, divided by wounds, unites
again its severed parts ; and the envenomed ser-
pent pines and dies under the power of a breath
more fatal than his own.
What, exclaims the poet, is the nature of the
compulsion thus exercised on the Gods, this
obedience to song and to potent herbs, this fear
to disobey and scorn the enchanter? Do they
yield from necessity, or is it a voluntary subjec-
tion ? Is it the piety of these hags that obtains
the reward, or by menaces do they secure their
purpose? Are all the Gods subject to this con-
trol, or, is there one God upon whom it has
power, who, himself compelled, compels the ele-
ments ? The stars fall from heavP.n at their com-
mand. The silver moon yields to their execra-
tions, and burns with a· smouldering flame, even as
when the earth comes between her and the sun,
and by its shadow intercepts its rays; thus i{; the
moon brought lower and more low, till she covers
with her froth the herbs destined to receive her
malignant influence.
r But Erichtho, the witch of the poet, flouts all
these arts, as too poor and timid for her purposes.
ERIC l-ITHO. 187
She never allows a roof to cover her horrid head,
or confesses the influence of the Houshold Gods.
She inhabits the deserted tomb, and dwells in a
grave from which the ghost of the dead has been
previously expelled. She knows the Stygian abodes,
and the counsels of the infernals. Her counte-
nance is lean ; and her complexion overspread
with deadly paleness. Her hair is neglected and
matted. But when clouds and tempests obscure
the stars, then she comes forth, and defies the
midnight lightning. W:herever she treads, the
fruits of the earth become withered, and the whole-
some air is poisoned with her breath. She offers
no prayers, and pours forth no supplications ; she
has recourse to no divination. She delights to
profane the sacred altar with a funereal flame, and
pollutes the incense with a torch from the pyre.
The Gods yield at once to her voice, nor dare to
provoke her to a second mandate. She incloses
the living man within the confines of the grave;
she subjects to sudden death those who were de-
stined to a protracted age ; and she brings back
to life the corses of the dead. She snatches the
smoaking cinders, and the bones whitened with
flame, from the midst of the pile, and wrests the
torch from the hand of the mourning parent. She
seizes the fragments of the burning shroud, and the
embers yet moistened with blood. But, where
the sad remains are already hearsed in marble, it
is there that she most delights to exercise her
188 ERICHTHO.
-
} sacrilegious power. She tears the limbs of the
f dead, and digs out their eyes. She gnaws their
fingers. She separates with her teeth the rope on
the gibbet, and tears away the murderer from the
cross on which he hung suspended. She applies
to her purposes the entrails withered with the
wind, and the marrow that had been dried by the
sun. She bears away the nails which had pierced
the hands and feet of the criminal, the clotted blood
which had distilled from his wounds, and the si-
news that had held him suspended. She pounces
upon the body of the dead in the battle-field, an-
ticipating the vulture and the beast of prey ; but
she does not divide the limbs with a knife; nor
tear them asunder with her hands : she watches
the approach of the wolf, that she may wrench
the morsels from his hungry jaws. Nor does the
thought of murder deter her, if her rites require
the living blood, first spurting from the lacerated
throat. She drags forth the foetus from its preg-
nant mother, by a passage which violence has
opened. Wherever there is occasion for a bolder
and more remorseless ghost, with her own hand
she dismisses him from life ; man at every period
of existence furnishes her with materials. She
drags away the first down from the cheek of the
stripling, and with her left hand cuts the favourite
lock from the head of the young man. Often she
watches with seemingly pious care the dying hours
of a relative, and seizes the occasion to bite his
ERICHTUo. 189
lips, to comptess his windpipe. and whisper in his
expiring organ sotne message to the infernal shades. -
Sextus, guided by the general fame of this wo*
man, sought her in her haunts. He chose his
time, in the depth of the night, when the sun is
at its lowermost distance from the upper sky. He
took his way through the· desert fields. He took
for companions the associates, the accustomed
ministers of his crimes. Wandering among broken
graves and crumbling sepulchres, they discovered
her, sitting sublime on a ragged rock, where
mount Hremus stretches its roots to the Pharsalic
field. She was mumbling charms of the Magi and
the magical Gods. For she feared that the war
might yet be transferred to other than the
thian fields. The sorceress was busy therefore en-
chanting the soil of Philippi, and scattering on its
surface the juice of potent herbs, that it might be
heaped with carcasses of the dead, and saturated
with their blood, that Macedon, and not Italy,
might receive the bodies of departed kings and
the bones of the noble, and might be amply peo-
pled with the shades of men. Her choicest labour
was as to the earth where should be deposited
the prostrate Pompey, or the limbs of the mighty
Cresar.
Sextus approached; and bespoke her thus: " Oh,
glory of Hremonia, that hast the power to divulge
the fates of men, or canst turn aside fate itselffrom
its prescribed course, I pray thee to exercise thy
140 ERICHTHO,
gift in disclosing events to come. Not the mean-
est of the Roman race am I, the offspring of an
illustrious chieftain, lord of the world in the one
case, or in the other the destined heir to my
father's calamity. I stand on a tremendous and
giddy height : snatch me from this posture of
doubt ; let me not blindly rush on, and blindly
fall ; extort this secret from the Gods, or force
the dead to confess what they know."
r
--,.o whom the Thessalian crone replied: "If
you asked to change the fate of an individual,
though it were to restore an old man, decrepid
with age, to vigorous youth, I could comply; but
to break the eternal chain of causes and conse-
quences exceeds even our power. You seek however
only a foreknowledge of events to come, and you
shall be gratified. Meanwhile it were best, where
slaughter has afforded so ample a field, to select
the body of one newly deceased, and whose flex-
ible organs shall be yet capable of speech, not with
lineaments already hardened in the sun."
Saying thus, Erichtho proceeded (having first
with her art made the night itself more dark, and
involved her head in a pitchy cloud), to explore
the field, and examine one by one the bodies of
the unburied dead. As she approached, the wolves
fled before her, and the birds of prey, unwillingly
sheathing their talons, abandoned their repast,
while the Thessalian witch, searching into the
vital parts of the frames before her, at length fixed
ii i
ERTCHTIIO. 141
on one whose lungs were uninjured, and whose
organs of speech had sustained no wound. The
fate of many hung in doubt, till she had made her
selection. Had the revival of whole armies been
her will, armies would have stood up obedient to
her bidding. She passed a hook beneath the jaw
of the selected one, and, fastening it to a cord,
dragged him along over rocks and stones, till she
reached a cave, overhung by a projecting ridge.
A gloomy fissure in the ground was there, of a
depth almost reaching to the Infernal Gods, where
the yew-tree spread thick its horizontal branches,
at all times excluding the light of the sun. Fear-
ful and withering shade was there, and noisome
slime cherished by the livelong night. The air
was heavy and flagging as that of the Trenarian
promontory; and hither the God of hell permits
his ghosts to extend their wanderings. It is doubt-
ful whether the sorceress called up the dead to
attend her here, or herselfdescended to the abodes
of Pluto. She put on a fearful and variegated
robe ; she covered her face with her dishevelled
hair, and bound her brow with a wreath of
VIpers.
Meanwhile she observed Sextus afraid, with his
eyes fixed on the ground, and his companions
trembling ; and thus she reproached them. " Lay
aside," she said, "your vainly-conceived terrors I
You shall behold only a living and a human figure,
whose accents you m!ly listen to with perfect secu-
14.! ERICRTHO.
rity. If this alarms you, what would you say, if
you should have seen the Stygian lakes, and the
shores burning with sulphur unconsumed, if the
furies stood before you, and Cerberus with his
mane of vipers, and the giants chained in eternal
adamant? Yet all these you .might have witnessed
unharmed ; for all these would quail at the terror
of my brow."
She spoke, and next plied the dead body witlt
her arts. She supples his wounds, and infuses
fresh blood into his veins : she frees his scars from
the clotted gore, and penetrates them with froth
from the moon. She mixes whatever nature has
engendered in its most fearful caprices, foam from
the jaws of a mad dog, the entrails of the lynx, the
backbone of the hyena, and the marrow of a stag
that had dieted on serpents, the sinews of the re-
mora, and the eyes of a dragon, the eggs of the
eagle, the flying serpent of Arabia, the viper that
guards the pearl in the Red Sea, the slough of the
hooded snake, and the ashes that remain when the
phoenix has been consumed. To these she adds
all venom that has a name, the foliage of herbs
over which she has sung her charms, and on which
she had voided her rheum as they grew.
At length she chaunts her incantation to the
Stygian Gods, in a voice compounded of all dis-
cords, and altogether alien to human organs. It
resembles at once the barking of a dog, and the
howl of a wolf; it consists of the hooting of the
ERICHTHO. 148
screech-owl, the yelling of a ravenous wild beast,
and the fearful hiss of a serpent. It borrows some-
what from the roar of tempestueus waves, the
hollow rushing of the winds among the branches
of the forest, and the tremendous crash of deafen-
ing thunder.
"Ye Furies," she cries, "and dreadful Styx, ye
sufferings of the damned, and Chaos, for ever
eager to destroy the fair harmony of worlds, and
thou, Pluto, condemned to an eternity of ungrate-
ful existence, Hell, and Elysium, of which no
Thessaliao witch shall partake, Proserpine, for
ever cut off from th.J health-giving mother, and
horrid Hecate, curst with incessant hun-
,...
ger, ye Destinies, and Charon endlessly murmur-
ing at the task I impose of bringing back the dead
again to the land of the living, hear me !-if I call
on you with a voice sufficiently impious and
abominable, if I have never sung this chaunt, un-
sated with human gore, if I have frequently laid
on your altars the fruit of the pregnant mother,
bathing its contents with the reeking brain, if I
have placed on a dish before you the head and
entrails of an infant on the point to be born-
" I ask not of you a ghost, already a tenant of
the Tartarean abodes, and long familiarised to the
shades below, but one who has recently quitted
the light of day, and who yet hovers over the
mouth of hell : let him hear these incantations,
and immediately after descend to his destined
ERICHTHO.
place t Let him articulate suitable omens to the
son of his general, having so late been himself a
soldier of the great Pompey t Do this, as you love
the very sound and rumour of a civil wart''
Saying this, behold, the ghost of the dead man
stood erect before her, trembling at the view of
his own unanimated limbs, and loth to enter again
the confines of his wonted prison. He shrinks to
invest himself with the gored bosom, and the
fibres from which death had separated him. Un-
happy wretch, to whom death had not given the
privilege to die t Erichtho, impatient at the un-
looked for delay, lashes the unmoving corpse with
one of her serpents. calls anew on the powers
of hell, and threatens to pronounce the dreadful
name, which cannot be articulated without con-
sequences never to be thought of, nor without the
direst necessity to be ventured upon.
At length the congealed blood becomes liquid
and warm ; it oozes from the wounds, and creeps
steadily along the veins and the members; the
fibres are called jnto action beneath the gelid
breast, and the nerves once more become instinct
with life. Life and·death are there at once. The
arteries beat; the muscles are braced; the body
raises itself, not by degrees, but at a single im-
pulse, and stands erect. The eyelids unclose. The
countenance is not that of a living subject, but of
the dead. The paleness of the complexion, the
rigidity of the lines, remain ; and he looks about
Gonslc_
_ _
ERICHTHO. 14.5
with an unmeaning stare, but utters no sound.
He waits on the potent enchantress.
" Speak !" said she ; " and ample shall be your
reward. You shall not again be subject to the art
of the magician. I will commit your members to
such a· sepulchre ; I will burn your form with
such wood, and will chaunt such a charm over
your funeral pyre, that all incantations shall there-
after assail you in vain. Be it enough, that you
have once been brought back to life! Tripods,
and the voice of oracles deal in ambiguous re-
sponses ; but voice of the dead is perspicuous
and certain to him who receives it with an on-
shrinking spirit. Spare not! Give names to
things ; give places a clear designation ; speak
with a full and articulate voice."
Saying this, she added a further spell, qualified
to give to him who was to answer, a distinct know-
ledge of that respecting which he was about to be
consulted. He accordingly delivers the responses
demanded of him ; and, that done, earnestly re-
quires of the witch to be dismissed. Herbs and
magic rites are necessary, that the corpse may be
again unanimated, and the spirit never more be
liable to be recalled to the realms of day. The
sorceress constructs the funeral pile ; the dead
man places himself thereon ; Erichtho applies the
torch ; and the charm is for ever at an end.
Lucan in this passage is infinitely too precise,
and exhausts his muse in a number of particulars,
L
'•
SERTORIUS.
where. he had better have been more sttccinct and
select. · He displays the prolific exuberance of a
young poet, who had not yet taught himself the
multiplied advantages of compression. He bad
not learned the principle, &linquere f[UO! desperat
tractata nitescere posse.b But, as this is the fullest
enumeration of the forms of witchcraft that occurs
in the writers of antiquity, it seemed proper to
give it to the reader entire,
SERTORIUS.
The story of Sertorius and his hind, which
occurred about thirty years before, may not be
l improperly introduced here. It is told by Plu-
1
,tarch in. the spirit of a philosopher, and as a mere
deception played by that general, to render the
barbarous people of Spain more devoted to his
service. But we must suppose that it had, at
least for the time, the full effect of something
ternatural. Sertorius was one of the most highly
gifted and well balanced characters that is to be
found in Roman story. He considered with the
soundest discernment the nature of the persons
among whom he was to act, and conducted himself
accordingly. The story in Plutarch is this.
"So soone as Sertorius arriued from Africa, he
straight leauied men of warre, and with them
subdued the people of Spaine fronting upon his
" Horat., de Arte Poetica, v. 150.,
E
SERTORIUS. 147
marches, of which the more part did willingly
submit themselues, upon the bruit that ran of
him to be mercifull and courteous, and a valiant
man besides in present danger. Furthermore, he
lacked no fine deuises and subtilties to win their
goodwils: as among others, the policy, and deuise·
of the hind. There was a poore man of the
trey called Spanus, who meeting by chance one
day with a hind in his way that. had newly calued,
flying from the hunters, he let the damme go, not
being able to take her ; and running after her calfe
tooke it, which was a young hind, and ofa strange
haire, for she was all milk-white. It chanced so;
that Sertorius was at that time in those parts. So,
this poore man presented Sertorius with his young
which he gladly receiued, and which with
time he made so tame, that she would come to
him when he called her, and follow him where-
euer he went, being nothing the wilder for the
daily sight of such a number of armed souldiers
together as they were, nor yet afraid of the noise
and tumult of the campe. Insomuch as Sertorius
by little and little made it a miracle, making the
simple barbarous people beleeue that it was a gift
that Diana had sent him, by the which she made
him understand of many and sundrie things to
come : knowing well inough of that the
barbarous people were men easily deceiued, and·
quickly caught by any subtill superstition, besides
that by art also he brought them to beleeue it as a
L
148 SERTORIUS.
thing verie true. For when he had any secret
intelligence giuen him, that the enemies would
inuade some part of the countries and prouinces
subject vnto him, or that they had taken any of
his forts from him by any intelligence or sudden
attempt, he straight told them that his hind spake
to him as he slept, and had warned him both to
arme his men, and put himselfe in Rtrength. In
like manner if he had heard any newes that one of
his lieutenants had wonne a battell, or that he had
any aduantage of his enemies, he would hide the
messenger, and bring his hind abroad with a gar-
land and coller of nosegayes : and then say, it was
a token of some good newes comming towards
him, perswading them withal! to be ofgood cheare;
and so did sacrifice to the Gods, to giue them
thankes for the good tidings he should heare be-
fore it were long. Thus by putting this supersti-
tion into their heades, he made them the more
tractable and obedient to his will, in so much as
they thought they were not now gouerned any
more by a stranger wiser than themselues, but
were steadfastly perswaded that they were rather
led by some certaine God."---
" Now was Sertorius very heauie, that no man
could tell him what was become of his white hind:
for thereby all his subtilltie and finenesse to keepe
the barbarous people in obedience was taken away,
and then specially when they stood in need of
most comfort. But by good hap, certaine of his
SERTORIUS. 149
souldiers that had lost themselves in the night,
met with the hind in their way, and knowing her
by her colour, tooke her and brought her backe
againe. Sertorius hearing of her, promised them
a good reward, so that they would tell no liuing
creature that they brought her againe, and there-
upon made her to be secretly kept. Then within
a few dayes after, he came abroad among them,
and with a pleasant countenance told the noble
men and chiefe captaines of these barbarous peo-
ple, how the Gods had reuealed it to him in
his dreame, that he should shortly haue a maruel-
lous good thing happen to him : and with these
words sate downe in his chaire to giue audience.
Whereupon they that kept the hind not farre from
thence, did secretly let her go. The hind being
loose, when she had spied Sertorius, ranne straight
to his chaire with great joy, and put her head be-
twixt his legges, and layed her mouth in his right
hand, as she before was wont to do. Sertorius
also made very much of. her, and of purpose ap•
peared maruellous glad, shewing such tender af-
fection to the hind, as it seemed the water stood
in his eyes for joy. The barbarous people that
stood there by and beheld the same, at the first
were much amazed therewith, but afterwards when
they had better bethought themselues, for ioy they
clapped their hands together, and waited upon
Sertorius to his lodging with great and ioyfull
shouts, saying, and steadfastly beleeuing, that he
1.50 SIMON MAGUS•
.he was a heavenly creature, and beloued of the
Gods-."
CASTING OUT DEVILS.
We are now brought down to the era of the
Christian religion ; and there is repeated mention
of sorcery in the books of the New Testament.
One of the most frequent miracles recorded of
Jesus Christ is called the " casting out devils."
The Pharisees in the Evangelist, for the purpose
of depreciating this evidence of his divine mission,
are recorded to have said, " this fellow doth not
cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of
devils." Jesus, among other remarks in refutation
of this opprobrium, rejoins upon them, " If I by
Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your chil-
dren cast them out• ?" Here then we have a plain
.insinuation of sorcery from the lips of Christ him-
self, at the same time that he appears to admit that
his adversaries produced supernatural achievements
similar to his own.
SIMON MAGUS.
the. most remarkable passage in the New
Testament on the subject of sorcery, is one which
describes the proceedings of Simon Magus, as
follows.
• Plutarch, North's Translation. • Matt. c. xii, v. 24, 27.
SIMON MAGUS. 151
" Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, .
and preached Christ unto them. But there was a
certain man, called Simon, which before time in
the same city used sorcery, and bewitched the
people of Samaria, giving out that himself was
some great one. To whom they all gave heed,
from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is
the great power of God. And to him they had
regard, because that of long time he had bewitched
them with sorceries. But, when they believed
Philip, preaching the things concerning the king-
dom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they
were baptized both men and women. Th'en Simon
himself believed also. And, when he was bap-
tized, he continued with Philip, and wondered,
beholding the miracles and signs which were
done.
" Now, when the apostles which were at Jeru-
salem heard that Samaria had received the word
of God, they sent unto them Peter and John.
Who, when they were come down, prayed for
them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost.
For as yet he was fallen upon none of them : only
they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then laid they their hands on them, and they
received the Holy Ghost.
" And, when Simon saw that, through the
laying on of the apostles' hands, the Holy Ghost
was given, he offered them money, saying, Give
me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay
:152 SIMON MAGUS,
hands he may receive the Holy Ghost. But
Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee!
because thou hast thought that the gift of God
might be purchased with money. Thou hast
neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart
is not right in the sight of God. Repent therefore
of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps
the thought of thy heart may he forgiven thee:
for I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitter-
ness, and in the bond of iniquity. Then answered
Simon, and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that
none of these things which ye have spoken come
upon me"."
This passage of the New Testament leaves us
in considerable uncertainty as to the nature of
the sorceries, by which " of a long time Simon
had bewitcheu the people of Samaria." But the
fathers of the church, Clemens Romanus and
Anastasius Sinaita, have presented us with a de-
i tail of the wonders he actually performed. When
anu to whom he pleased he made himself invisible;
l1e created a man out of air ; he passed through
rocks and mountains without encountering an
obstacle; he threw himself from a precipice un-
injured; he flew along in the air; he flung himself
in the fire without being burned. Bolts anu
chains were impotent to detain him. He animated
so that they appeared to every beholder
to be men and women; he made all the furniture
h Acts, c. viii.
ELYMAS, THE SORCERER. 1.58
of the house and the table to change places as re-
quired, without a visible mover; he metamor-
phosed his countenance and visage into that of
another person ; he could make himself into a
sheep, or a goat, or a serpent ; he walked through
the streets attended with a multitude of strange
6gures, which he affirmed to be the souls of the
departed ; he made trees and branches of trees
suddenly to spring up where he pleased; he set
up and deposed kings at will ; he caused a sickle
to go into a field of corn, which unassisted would
mow twice as fast as the most industrious reaperr.
Thus endowed, it is difficult to imagine what he
thought he would have gained by purchasing from
the apostles their gift of working miracles. But
Clemens Romanus informs us that he complained
that, in his sorceries, he was obliged to employ
tedious ceremonies and incantations; whereas the
apostles appeared to effect their wonders without
difficulty and effort, by barely speaking a
ELYMAS, THE SORCERER.
But Simon Magus is not the only magtclall
spoken of in the New Testament. When the
apostle Paul came. to Paphos in the isle of Cyprus,
c. Clemens Romanus, Recognitioncs, Lib. II, .cap. 9. Anas-
tasius Sinaita, Qurestioncs ; Qurestio 20.
" Clemens Romanus, Constitutioncs Apostolici, Lib. VI,
('8p. 7.
1.54 ELYMAS, THE SORCERER.
he found the Roman governor divided in his pre-
ference between Paul and Elymas, the sorcerer,
who before the governor withstood Paul to his
face. Then Paul, prompted by his indignation,
said, " Oh, full of all subtlety and mischief, child
of the devil, enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou
not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord ?
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon
thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun
for a season." What wonders Elymas effected to
deceive the Roman governor we are not tolc.l : but
" immediately there fell on him a mist and a dark-
ness; and he went about, seeking some to lead
him by the hand•."
In another instance we find certain vagabond
Jews, exorcists, who pretended to cast out devils
from the possessed. But they came to the apostle,
and " confessed, and shewed their deeds. Many of
them also which used curious arts, brought their
books together, and burned them before all. And
they countec.l the price of them, and found it fifty
thousand pieces of silver'."
It is easy to see however on which side the
victory lay. The apostles by their devotion and
the integrity oftheir proceedings triumphed ; while
those whose only motive was selfishness, the ap-
plause ofthe vulgar, or the admiration ofthe super-
ficial, gained the honours of a day, and were then
swept away into the gulf of general oblivion.
• Acts, c. xiii. ' Ibid, c. xix.
VESPASIAN. 155
NERO.
The arts of the magician are said to have been
called into action by Nero upon occasion of the
assassination of his mother, Agrippina. He was
visited with occasional fits of the deepest remorse in
the recollection of his enonnity. Notwithstanding
all the ostentatious applauses and congratulat,ions
which he obtained from the senate, the army and
the people, he complained that he was perpetually
haunted with the ghost ofhis mother, and pursued
by the furies with flaming torches and whips. He
therefore caused himself to be attended by magi-
cians, who employed their arts to conjure up the
shade of Agrippina, and to endeavour to obtain
her forgiveness for the crime perpetrated by her
son". We are not informed of the success of their
evocations.
VESPASIAN.
In the reign of Vespasian we meet with a re-
markable record of supernatural power, though it
does not strictly fall under the head of magic. It
is related by both Tacitus and Suetonius. Vespa-
sian having taken up his abode for some months
at Alexandria, a blind man, of the common people,
came to him, earnestly intreating the emperor to
assist in curing his infirmity, alleging that he was
prompted to apply by the admonition of the God
I Suctonius, Lib. VI, cap. 14.
156 VESPASIAN.
Serapis, and importuning the prince to anoint his
cheeks and the balls- of his eyes with the royal
spittle. Vespasian at first treated the supplication
with disdain ; but at length, moved by the fervour
of the petitioner, inforced as it was by the flattery
of his courtiers, the emperor began to think that
every thing would give way to his prosperous for-
tune, and yielded to the poor man's desire. With
a confident carriage therefore, the multitude ·of
those who stood by being full of expectation, he
did as he was requested, and the desired success
immediately followed. Another supplicant ap-
peared at the same time, who had lost the use of
his hands, and intreated Vespasian to touch the
diseased members with his foot; and he also was
cureda.
Hume has remarked that many circumstances
contribute to give authenticity to this miracle,
" if," as he says, " any evidence could avail to
establish so palpable a falsehood. The gravity,
solidity, age and probity of so great an emperor,
who, through the whole course of his life, con-
versed in a familiar manner with his friends and
courtiers, and never affected any airs of divinity :
the historian, a contemporary writer, noted for
candour and veracity, and perhaps the greatest
and most penetrating genius of all antiquity : and
lastly, the persons from whose authority he related
the miracle, who we may presume to have been of
a Tacitus, Historire, Lib. IV, cap. 81. Suetonius, Lib, VIII,
cap. 7.
'APOLLONIUS OF TYANA. 157
established character for judgment and honour ;
eye-witnesses of the fact, and confirming their
testimony, as Tacitus goes on to say, after the
Flavian family ceased to be in power, and could
no longer give any reward as the price of a lie\,
APOLLONIUS OF TYANA.
Apollonius of Tyana -in Asia Minor was born
nearly at the same time as Jesus Christ, and ac-
quired great reputation while he lived, and for a
considerable time after. He was born of wealthy
parents, and seems early to have betrayed a pas-
sion for philosophy. His father, perceiving this,
placed him at fourteen years of age under Euthy-
demus, a rhetorician of Tarsus; but the youth
speedily became dissatisfied with the indolence
and luxury of the citizens, and removed himself to
.lEgas, a neighbouring town, where was a temple
of .JEsculapius, and where the God was supposed
sometimes to appear in person. Here he became
professedly a disciple of the sect of Pythagoras.
He refrained from animal food, and subsisted en-
tirely on fruits and herbs. He went barefoot, and
wore no article of clothing made from the skins of
animals". He further imposed on himself a novi..
ciate of five years silence. At the death of his
£1ther, he divided his patrimony equally with his
b Hume, Essays, Part III, Section X.
• Philostratus, Vita Apollonii, Lib. I, cap, 5, 6.
158 APOLLONIUS TYANA.
brother; and, that brother having wasted his estate
by prodigality, he again made an equal division
with him of what remained". He travelled to
Babylon and Susa in pursuit of knowledge, and
even among the Brachmans of India, and appears
particularly to have addicted himself to the study
of magicc. He was of a beautiful countenance
and a commanding figure, and, by means of these
things, combined with great knowledge, a com-
posed and striking carriage, and much natural elo-
quence, appears to have won universal favour
wherever he went. He is said to have professed
the understanding of all languages without learn-
ing them, to read the thoughts of men, and to be
able to interpret the language of animals. A
power of working miracles attended him in all
placesd.
On one occasion he announced to the people of
Ephesus the approach of a terrible pestilence ; but
the citizens paid no attention to his prophecy.
The calamity however having overtaken them,
they sent to Apollonius who was then at Smyrna,
to implore his assistance. He obeyed the sum-
mons. Having assembled the inhabitants, there
was seen among them a poor, old and decrepid
beggar, clothed in rags, hideous of visage, and
with a peculiarly fearful and tremendous expres-
sion in his eyes. Apollonius called out to the
b Philostratus, Vita Apollonii, Lib. I, c. 10.
c Ibid, c. 13. d Ibid, c. 13, 14.
APOLLONIUS OF TYANA. 159
Ephesians, " This is an enemy to the Gods ; tum
all your animosity against him, and stone him to
death !" The old man in the most piteous tones
besought their mercy. The citizens were shocked
with the inhumanity of the prophet. Some how-
ever of the more thoughtless flung a few stones,
without any determined purpose. The old man.
who had stood hitherto crouching, and with his
eyes half-closed, now erected his figure, and cast
on the crowd glances, fearful, and indeed diaboli·
cal. The Ephesians u;nderstood at once that this
was the genius of the plague. They showered
upon him stones without mercy, so as not only to
cover him, but to produce a considerable mound
where he had stood. After a time Apollonius com-
manded them to take away the stones, .that they
might discover what sort of an enemy they had
destroyed. Instead of a man they now saw an enor.
mous black dog, of the size of a lion, and whose
mouth and jaws were covered with a thick en-
venomed froth•.
Another miracle was performed by Apollonius
in favour of a young man, named Menippus of
Corinth, five and twenty years of age, for whom
the prophet entertained a singular favour. This
man conceived himself to be beloved by a rich and
beautiful woman, who made advances to him, and
to whom he was on the point of being contracted
in marriage. Apollonius warned his young friend
Philostratus, Lib. IV, c. 10.
I
'
160 APOLLONIUS OF TYANA.
against the match in an enigmatical way, teiiing
him that he nursed a serpent in his bosom. This
however did not deter Menippus. All things
were prepared ; and the wedding table was spread.
Apollonius meanwhile came among them, and pre-
vented the calamity. He told the young man that
the dishes before him, the wine he was drinking,
the vessels of gold and silver that appeared around
him, and the very guests themselves were un-
real and illusory ; and to prove his words, he
caused them immediately to vanish. The bride
alone was refractory. She prayed the philosopher
not to torment her, and not to compel her to con-
fess what she was. He was however inexorable.
She at length owned that she was an empuse (a
sort of va,mpire), and that she had determined to
cherish and pamper Menippus, that she might in
the conclusion eat his flesh, and lap up his blood'.
One of the miracles of Apollonius consisted in
raising the dead. A young woman of beautiful
person was laid out upon a bier, and was in the
act of being conveyed to the tomb. She was fol-
lowed by a multitude of friends, weeping and
lamenting, and among others by a young man, to
whom she had been on the point to be married.
Apolionius met the procession, and commanded
those who bore it, to set down the bier. He ex-
horted the proposed bridegroom to dry up his
tears. He enquired the name of the deceased,
f Philostratus, Lib. IV, c. 25.
APOLLOSIUS OF TYANA. 1()1
and, saluting her accordingly, took hold of her
hand, and murmured over her certain mystical
words. At this act the maiden raised herself on
her seat, and presently returned home, whole and
sound, to the house of her father'.
Towards the end of his life Apollonius was ac-
cused before Domitian of having conspired with
Nerva to put an end to the reign of the tyrant.
He appears to have proved that he was at another
place, and therefore could not have engaged in the
conspiracy that was charged upon him. Domitian
publicly cleared him from the accusation, but at
the same time required him not to withrlraw from
Rome, till the emperor had first had a private con-
ference with him. To this requisition Apollonius
replied in the most spirited terms. " I thank your
majesty," said he, "for the justice you have ren-
dered me. But I cannot· submit to what you re-
quire. How can I be secure from the false accu..
sations of the unprincipled informers who infest
your court? It is by their means that whole
towns of your empire are unpeopled, that provinces
are involved in mourning and tears, your armies
are in mutiny, your senate full of suspicion and
alarms, ·and the islands are crowded with exiles.
It is not for myself that I speak, my soul is invul-
nerable to your enmity ; and it is not given to you
by the Gods to become master of my body." And,
having thus given utterance to the virtuous an-
s Philostratus, Lib. IV, c. 45.
M
16tl APOLLONIUS OF TYANA.
guish of his spi.rit, he suddenly became invisible in
the midst of a full assembly, and was immediately
after seen at Puteoli in the neighbourhood of
Mount Vesuviusb.
Domitian pursued the prophet no further ; and
he passed shortly after to Greece, to Ionia, and
finally to Ephesus. He every where delivered
lectures as he went, and WIJS attended with crowds
of the most Jistinguished auditors, and with the
utmost popularity. At length at Ephesus, when
he was in the midst of an eloquent harangue, he
suddenly became silent. He seemed as if he saw
a spectac1e which eng.-ossed all his attention. His
countenance expressed fervour and the most de-
termined purpose. He exclaimed, " Strike the
tyrant; strike him !" and immediately after, raising
himself, and addressing the assembly, he said,
" Domitian is no more ; the world is delivered of
its bitterest oppressor."-The next post brought
the news that the emperor was killed at Rome,
exactly on the day and at the hour when Apollo-
nius had thus made known the event at Ephesus1
•
Nerva succeeded Domitian, between whom and
Apollonius there subsisted the sincerest friendship.
The prophet however did not long survive this
event. He was already nearly one hundred years
old. But what is most extraordinary, no one could
tell precisely when or where he died. No tomb
bore the record of his memory ; and his biogra-
" Philostratus, Lib. VIII, c. 5. ; Ibid, c. 26.
APOLLONIUS OF TYANA. 168
pher inclines to the opinion that he was taken up
into
Divine honours were paid to this philosopher,
'
both during his life, and after his death. The in-
habitants of Tyana built a temple to him, and his
image was to be found in many other temples1
•
The emperor Adrian collected his letters, and
treated them as an invaluable relic. Alexander
Severns placed his statue in his oratory, together
with those of Jesus Christ, Abraham and Orpheus,
to whom he was accustomed daily to perform the
ceremonies of religion m. Vopiscus, in his Life of
Aureliann, relates that this emperor had deter-
mined to rase the city of Tyana, but that Apollo-
nius, whom he knew from his statues, appeared to
him, and said, " Aurelian, if you would conquer,
do not think of ,the destruction of my citizens:
Aurelian, if you would reign, abstain from the
blood of the innocent: Aurelian, if you would
conquer, distinguish yourself by acts of clemency."
It was at the desire of Julia, the mother of Severus,
that Philostratus composed the life of Apollonius,
to which he is now principally indebted for his
fame0
•
The publicity of Apollonius and his miracles
has become considerably greater, from the circum-
stance of the early enemies of the Christian reli-
k Philostratus, Lib. VIII, c. 29, 30. I Ibid, c. 29.
m Lampridius, in Vita Alex. Severi, c. 29. ,n C. 24.
o Philostratus, Lib. l,·c. 3.
M2
164< APULEIUS.
gion ha\'ing instituted a comparison between the
miracles of Christ and of this celebrated philoso-
pher, for the obvious purpose of undermining one
of the most considerable evidences of the truth of
divine re\·elation. It was probably with an in-
direct view of this sort that Philostratus was in-
cited by the empress Julia to compose his life of
this philosopher; and Hierocles, a writer of the
time of Dioclesian, appears to have penned an
express treatise in the way of a parallel between
the two, attempting to shew a decisive superiority
in the miracles of Apollonius.
APULEIUS.
Apuleim of Madaura in Africa, who lived in
time of the Antonines, appears to have been
more remarkable as an author, than for any thing
that occurs in the history of his life. St. Augus-
tine and Lactantius however have coupled him
with Apollonius of Tyana, as one of those who for
their pretended miracles were brought into com-
petition with the author of the Christian religion.
But this seems to have arisen from their misappre-
hension respecting his principal work, the Golden
Ass, which is a romance detailing certain won-
derful transformations, and which they appear to
have thought was intended as an actual history of
the life of the author.
The work however deserves to be cited in thi"
--
ALEXANDER THE PAPHLAGONIAN. 165
place, as giving a curious representation of the
ideas which were then prevalent on the subjects of
magic and witchcraft. The author in the course
of his narrative says : " When the day began to
dawn, I chanced to awake, and became desirous to
know and see some marvellous and strange things,
remembering that I was now in the midst of Thes-
saly, where, by the common report of the world,
sorceries and enchantments are most frequent. I
viewed the situation of the place in which I was;
nor was there any thing I saw, that I believed to
be the same thing which it appeared.
that the very stones in the street I thought were
men bewitched and turned into that figure, and
the birds I heard chirping, the trees without the
walls, and the running waters, were changed from
human creatures into the appearances they wore.
I persuaded myself that the statues and buildings
could move, that the oxen and other brute beasts
could speak and tell strange tidings, and that I
should see and hear oracles from heaven, conveyed
on the beams of the sun."
ALEXANDER THE PAPHLAGONIAN.
At the same time with Apuleius lived Alex-
ander the Paphlagonian, of whom so extraordinary
an accouqt is transmitted to us by Lucian. He
was the native of an obscure town, called Abono-
tica, but was endowed with all that ingenuity and
l(j(.i ALEXANDER THE I'APHLAGONIAN.
cunning which enables men most effectually to
impose upon their fellow-creatures. He was tall
of stature, of an impressive aspect, a fair com·
plexion, eyes that sparkled with an awe-command-
ing fire as if informed by some divinity, and a
voice to the last degree powerful and melodious.
To these he added the graces of carriage and
attire. Being born to none of the goods of for-
tune, he considered with himself how to turn these
advantages to the greatest account; and the plan
he fixed upon was that of instituting an oracle en-
tirely under his own direction. He began at
Chalcedon on the Thracian Bosphorus ; but, eon-
tinuing but a short time there, he used it princi-
pally as an opportunity for publishing that lEscu-
lapius, with Apollo, his father, would in no long
time fix his residence at Abonotica. This rumour
reached the fellow-citizens of the prophet, who
immediately began to lay the foundations of a
temple for the reception of the God. In due time
Alexander made his appearance ; and he so well
managed his scheme, that, by means of spies and
emissaries whom he scattered in all directions, he
not only collected applications to his prophetic
skill from the different towns of Ionia, Cilicia and
Galatia, but presently extended his fame to Italy
and Rome. For twenty years scarcely any oracle
of the known world could vie with that of Abono-
tica; and the emperor Aurelius himself is said to
have relied for the success of a military expedition
ALEXANDER THE PAPHLAGONU.N. 167
upon the predictions of Alexander the Paphla-
gonian.
Lucian gives, or pretends to give, an account
of the manner in which Alexander gained so
traordinary a success. He says, that this young
man in his preliminary travels, coming to Pella in
Macedon, found that the environs of this city were
distinguished from perhaps a11 other parts of the
world, by a breed of serpents of extraordinary size
and beauty. Our author adds that these serpents
were so tame, that they inhabited the houses of the
province, and slept in bed with the children. If
you trod upon them, they did not turn again, or
shew tokens of anger, and they sucked the breasts
of the women to whom it might be of service to
draw off their milk. Lucian says, it was probably
one of these serpents, that was found in the bed
of Olympias, and gave occasion to the tale that
Alexander the Great was begotten by Jupiter un-
der the form of a serpent. The prophet bought
the largest and finest serpent he could find, and
conveyed it secretly with him into Asia. When
he came to Abonotica, he found the temple that
was built surrounded with a moat ; and he took
an opportunity privately of sinking a goose-egg,
which he had first emptied of its contents, in-
-serting instead a young serpent just hatched, and
closing. it again with great care. He then told his
fellow-citizens that the God was arrived, and
hastening to the moat, scooped up the egg in an
168 ALEXANDER THE PAPHLAGONIAN.
egg-cup in presence of the whole assembly. He
next broke the shell, and shewed the young ser-
pent that twisted about his fingers in presence of
the admiring multitude. After this he suffered
several days to el.apse, and then, crowds
from every part of Paphlagonia. he exhibited him·
self, as he had previously announced he should do,
with the fine serpent he had brought from Mace-
don twisted in coils about the prophet's neck, and
its.head hid under his arm-pit, while a head artfully
formed with linen, and bearing some resemblance
to a human face, protruded itself, and passed for
the head of the reptile. The spectators were be-
yond measure astonished to see a little embryo
serpent, grown in a few days to so magnificent a
size, and exhibiting the features of a human coun-
tenance.
Having thus far succeeded, Alexander did not
stop here. He contrived a pipe which passed
seemingly into the mouth of the animal, while the
other end terminated in an adjoining room, where
.a man was placed unseen, and delivered the re-
plies which appeared to come from the mouth of
the serpent. This immediate communication with
the God was reserved for a few favoured suitors,
who bought at a high price the envied distinction.
The method with ordinary enquirers was for
them to communicate their requests in writing,
which they were enjoined to roll up and carefully
seal ; and these scrolls were returned to them in a
ALEXANDER THE PAPHLAGONIAN. 169
few days, with the seals apparently unbroken, but
with an answer written within, strikingly appro-
priate to the demand that was preferred.-It is
further to be observed, that the mouth of the ser-
pent was occasionally opened by means of a horse-
hair skilfully a(ljusted for the purpose, at the same
time that by similar means the animal darted out
its biforked tongue to the terror of the amazed by-
standers.
\
171
REVOLUTION PRODUCED IN THE HISTORY OF
NECROMANCY AND WITCHCRAFT UPON THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF CHRISTIANITY.
IT is necessary here to take notice of the great re-
volution that took place under Constantine, nearly
three hundred years after the death of Christ,
when Christianity became the established religion
of the Roman empire. This was a period which
prodllced a new era in the history of necromancy
and witchcraft. Under the reign of polytheism,
devotion was wholly unrestrained in every direc-
tion it might chance ·to assume. Gods known and
unknown, the spirits of departed heroes, the Gods
of heaven and hell, abstractions of virtue or vice,
might unblamed be made the objects of
.worship. Witchcraft therefore, and the invoca-
tion of the spirits of the might be practised
with toleration; or at all events were not regarded
otherwise than as venial deviations from the reli-
gion of the state.
It· is true, there must always have been a hor-
ror of secret arts, especially of such as were of a
maleficent nature. At all times men dreaded the
mysterious power of spells and incantations, of
potent herbs and nameless rites, which were able
to control the eternal order of the planets; and the
172 REVOLUTION IN NECROMANCY.
voluntary operations of mind, which could ex-
tinguish or recal life, inflame the passions of the
soul, blast the works of creation, and extort from
invisible beings and the dead the secrets of futuri-
ty. But under the creed ofthe unity ofthe divine
nature the case was exceedingly different. Idol-
atry, and the worship of other Gods than one,
were held to be crimes worthy of the utmost ab-
horrence and the severest punishment. There was
no medium between the worship of heaven and
hell. All adoration was to be directed to God
the Creator through the mediation of his only be-
gotten Son; or, if prayers were addressed to infe-
rior beings, and the glorified spirits of his saints,
at least they terminated in the Most High, were a
deprecation of his wrath, a soliciting his favour,
and a homage to his omnipotence. On the other
hand sorcery and witchcraft were sins of the
blackest dye. In opposition to the one only God,
the creator of heaven and earth, was the " prince
of darkness," the "prince of the power of the
_air," who contended perpetually against the Al-
mighty, and sought to seduce his creatures and
his subjects from their due allegiance. Sorcerers
and witches were supposed to do homage and sell
themselves to the devil, than which it was not in
the mind of man to conceive a greater enormity,
or a crime more worthy to cause its perpetrators
to be exterminated from the face of the earth.
The thought of it was of power to cause the flesh
MAGICAL CONSULTATIONS. 173
of man to creep and tingle with horror : and such
as were prone to indulge their imaginations to the
utmost extent of the terrible, found a perverse de-
light in conceiving. this depravity, and were but
too much disposed to fasten it upon their fellow"
creatures.
MAGICAL CONSULTATIONS RESPECTING THE
LIFE OF THE EMPEROR.
It was not within the range of possibility, that
such a change should take place in the established
religion of the empire as that from Paganism to
Christianity, without convulsions and vehement
struggle. The prejudices of mankind on a subject
so nearly concerned with their dearest interests
and affections must inevitably be powerful and ob-
stinate ; and the lucre of the priesthood, together
with the strong hold they must necessarily have
had on the weakness and superstition of their
flocks, would tend to give force and perpetuity
to the contention. Julian, a man of great ability
and unquestionable patriotism, succeeded to the
empire only twenty-four years after the death of
Constantine ; and he employed the most vigorous
measures for the restoration ofthe ancient religion.
But the reign of Julian was scarcely more than
eighteen months in duration : and that of Jovian,
his successor, who again unfurled the standard of
Christianity, lasted hardly more. than half a year.
174 MAGICAL CONSULTATIONS.
The state of things bore a striking similarity to
that of England at the time of the Protestant Re-
formation, where the opposite faiths of Edward
the Sixth and his sister Mary, and the shortness
of their reigns, gave preternatural keenness to
the feelings of the parties, and instigated them to
hang with the most restless anticipation upon the
chances ofthe demise ofthe sovereign, and the con-
sequences, favourable or unfavourable, that might
arise from a new accession.
The joint reign of Valentinian and Valens,
Christian emperors, had now lasted several years,
when information was conveyed to these princes,
and particularly to the latter, who had the rule of
Asia, that numerous private consultations were
held, as to the duration of their authority, and
the person of the individual who should come after
them. The succession of the Roman empire was
elective; and consequently there was almost an
unlimited scope for conjecture in this question.
Among the various modes of enquiry that were
employed we are told, that the twenty-four letters
of the alphabet were artificially disposed in a
circle, and that a magic ring, being suspended
over the centre, was conceived to point to the ini·
tial letters of the name of him who should be
the future emperor. Theodorus, a man of most
eminent qualifications, and high popularity, was
put to death by the jealousy of Valens, on the
vague evidence that this kind of trial had in-
MAGICAL CONSULTATIONS. 17.5
dicated the early letters of his name•. It may
easily be imagined, that, where so restless and
secret an investigation was employed as to the
successor that fate might provide, conspiracy would
not always be absent. Charges of this sort were
perpetually multiplied ; informers were eager to
obtain favour or rewards by -the disclosures they
pretended to communicate; and the Christians,
who swayed the sceptre of the state, did not fail
to aggravate the guilt of those who had recourse
to these means for satisfying their curiosity, by
alleging that demons were called up from hell to
aid in the magic solution. The historians ofthese
times no doubt greatly exaggerate the terror and
the danger, when they say, that the persons appre-
hended on such charges in the great cities out-
numbered the peaceable citizens who were left un-
suspected, and that the military who had charge
of the prisoners, complained that they were wholly
without the power to restrain the flight of the cap-
tives, or to control the multitude of partisans who
insisted on their immediate releaseb. The punish-
ments were barbarous and indiscriminate; to be
accused was almost the same thing as to be con-
victed ; and those were obliged to hold themselves
fortunate, who escaped with a fine that in a man-
ner swallowed up their estates.
• Zosimus, Lib. IV, cap. 13. Gibbon observes, that the
name of Theodosius, who actually succeeded, begins with the
same letters which were indicated in this magic trial.
b Zosimus, Lib. IV, cap. 14.
•
177
HISTORY OF NECROMANCY IN THE EAST.
FROM the countries best known in what is usu-
ally styled ancient history, in other words from
Greece and Rome, and the regions into which the
spirit of conquest led the people of Rome and
Greece, it is time we should turn to the East, and
those remoter divisions of the world, which to
them were comparatively unknown.
With what has been called the religion of the
Magi, of Egypt, Persia and Chaldea, they were
indeed superficially acquainted; but for a more
familiar and accurate knowledge of the East we
are chiefly indebted to certain events of modern
history; to the conquests of the Saracens, when
they possessed themselves of the North of Africa,
made themselves masters of Spain, and threatened
in their victorious career to subject France to their
standard ; to the crusades ; to the spirit of nauti-
cal discovery which broke out in the close of the
fifteenth century; and more recently to the exten-
sive conquests and mighty augmentation of terri-
tory which have been realised by the English East
India Company.
The religion of Persia was that of Zoroaster
and the Magi. When or Artaxerxes, the
founder of the race of tbe--8assanides, restored the
N
178 NECROMANCY IN THE EAST.
throne of Persia in the year of Christ he
called together an assembly of the Magi from all
parts of his dominions, and they are said to have
met to the number of eighty thousand•. These
priests, from a remote antiquity, had to a great
degree preserved their popularity, and had re-
markablyadhered to their ancient institutions.
They seem at all times to have laid claim to the
power of suspending the course of nature, and
producing miraculous phenomena. But in so nu-
merous a body there must have been some whose
pretensions were of a more moderate nature, and
others who displayed a loftier aspiration. The
more ambitious we find designated in their native
language by the name of Jogeesh, of the same sig-
nification as the Latin junct£.
Their notions of the Supreme Being are said to
have been of the highest and abstrusest character,
as comprehending every possible perfection of
power, wisdom and goodness, as purely spiritual
in his essence, and incapable of the smallest vari-
ation and change, the same yesterday, to-day, and
for ever. Such as they apprehended him to be,
such the most perfect of their priests aspired to
make themselves. They were to put off all human
weakness and frailty ; and, in proportion as they
assimilated, or rather became one with the Deity,
they supposed themselves to partake of his attri-
butes, to become infinitely wise and powerful and
·• Gibbon, Chap. VIII. b This word is of Sanscrit origillal.
,/
NECROMANCY IN THE EAST. 179
good. Hence their claim to suspend the course
of11ature, and to produce miraculous phenomena.
For this purpose it was necessary that they should
abstract themselves from every thing mortal, have
no human passions or partialities, and divest them-
selves as much as possible of all the wants and de-
mands of our material frame. Zoroaster appears
indeed to have preferred morality to devotion, to
have condemned celibacy and fasting, and to have
pronounced, that " he who sows the ground with
diligence and care, acquires a greater stock of reli-
gious merit than he who should repeat ten thou-
sand prayers." But his followers at least did not
abide by this decision. They found it more prac-
ticable to secure to themselves an elevated repu-
tation by severe observances, rigid self-denial, and
the practice of the most inconceivable mortifica-
tions. This excited wonder and reverence and a
sort of worship from the bystander, which indus-
try and benevolence do not so assuredly secure.
They therefore in frequent instances' lacerated
their flesh, and submitted to incredible hardships.
They scourged themselves without mercy, wound-
ed their bodies with lancets and nailsc; and con-
demned themselves to remain for days and years
unmoved in the most painful attitudes. It was no
unprecedented thing for them to'take their station
-upon the top of a high pillar ; and some are said
• " They cut themselves with knives and lancets, till the
blood gushed out upon them." 1 Kings, xviii, 28.
N2
180 NECROMANCY IN THE
to have continued in this position, without
coming down from it, for thirty years. The more
they trampled under foot the universal instincts
of our nature, and shewed themselves superior
to its infirmities, the nearer they approached to
the divine essence, and to the becoming one with
the Omnipresent. They were of consequence the
more sinless and perfect ; their will became the
will of the Deity, and they were in a sense in-
vested with, and became the mediums of the acts
of, his power. The result of all this is, that they
who exercised the art of magic in its genuine and
unadulterated form, at all times applied it to pur-
poses of goodness and benevolence, and that their
interference was uniformly the signal of some un-
equivocal benefit, either to mankind in general, or
to those individuals of mankind who were best
entitled to their aid. It was theirs to succour
virtue in distress, and to interpose the divine as-
sistance in cases that most loudly and unquestion-
ably called for it.
. Such, we are told, was the character of the pure
and primitive magic, as it was handed down from
the founder of their religion. It was called into
action by the Jogees, men who, by an extraordi-
nary merit of whatever sort, had in a certain sense
rendered themselves one with the Deity. But the
exercise of magical power was too tempting an en-
dowment, not in some cases to be liable to abuse.
Even as we read of the angels in that not
NECROMANCY IN THE EAST. 181
aU of them stood, and- persevered in their original
sinlessness and integrity, so of the Jogees some,
partaking of the divine power, were also under the
"direction ofa will celestial and divine, while others,
having derived, we must suppose, a mighty arid
miraculous power from the gift of God, after-
wards abused· it by applying it to capricious, or, as
it should seem, to malignant purposes. This ap-
pears to have been every· where essential to the
history of magic. If those who were supposed to
possess it in its widest extent and most astonish-
ing degree, had uniformly employed it only in be-
half ofjustice and virtue, they would indeed have
been regarded as benefactors, and been entitled to
the reverence and love of mankind. But the
human mind is always prone to delight in the
terrible. No sooner did men entertain the idea
of what was supernatural and uncontrolable, than
they began to fear it and to deprecate its hostility.
They apprehended they knew not what, of the
dead returning to life, of invisible beings armed
with the power and intention of executing mis-
chief, and of human creatures endowed with the
prerogative of bringing down pestilence and
slaughter, of dispensing wealth and poverty, pros..
perity and calamity at their pleasure, of causing
health and life to waste away by insensible, but
sure degrees, of producing lingering torments, and
death in its most fearful form. Accordingly it
appears that, as there were certain magicians who
NECROMANCY IN THE EAJT.
were as Gods ·dispensing ,benefits to thule.·vtaD
best deserved it, se were others, whose
only principle of action was caprice, and against
whose malice no ·innocence and no degree of
virtue. would prove a defence. As the former sort
of magicians were styled Jogees, and were held to
be the deputies and instruments of infinite good-
ness, so the other sort were named Ku-Jogees, that
is, persons who possessing the same speeies ofas-
cendancy over the powers of nature, employed it
only in deeds of malice and wickedness.
In the mean time magicians appear to have
produced the wonqerful effects which drew to
them the reverence o(the vulg.ar, very frequently
by intervention of certain beings of a nature
superior to the human, who should seem, though
ordinarily invisible, to have had the faculty of
rendering themselves visible when they thought
proper, and assuming what shape they pleased.
These are principally known by the names of
Peris, Divesd, and Gins, or Genii. Richardson,
in the preface to his Persian Dictionary, from
which our account will principally be taken, refers
us to what he calls a romance, but from which he
appears to derive the outline of his Persian my-
thology. In this romance Kahraman, a mortal, is
introduced in conversation with Simurgh, a crea-
ture partaking of the nature of a bird and a griffon,
who reveals to him the secrets of the past history
d Otherwise, Deevcs.
NECROMANCY IN THE EAST, 188
of the earth. She tells him that she has lived to
see the world aeven times peopled with inhabjt-
ants of so many different natures, and seven times
depopulated, the former irihabitants having been
so often removed, and giving place to their suc-
cessors. The beings who occupied the earth pre-
viously to man, were distinguished into the Pens
and the Dives; and, when they no longer possessed
the earth in chief, they were, as it should seem,
still permitted, in an airy and unsubstantial form,
and for the most part invisibly, to interfere in the
affairs of the human race. These beings ruled the
earth during seventy-two generations. The last
monarch, named Jan bin Jan, conducted himself
so ill, that God sent the angel Haris to chastise
him. Haris however became intoxicated with
power, and employed his prerogative in the most
reprehensible manner. God therefore .at length
created Adam, the first of men, crowning him
with glory and honour, and giving him dominion
over all other earthly beings. H,e commanded the
angels to obey him ; but Haris refused, and the
Dives followed his example. The rebels were for
the most part sent to hell for their contumacy ;
hut a part of the Dives, whose disobedience had
been less flagrant, were reserved, and allowed for
a certain term to walk the earth, and by their
temptations to put the virtue and constancy of
man to trial. Henceforth the human race was
secretly surrounded by invisible beings of two
184 NECROMANCY IN THE EAST.
species, the Peris, who were friendly to man, and
the Dives, who exercised their ingenuity in in·
volving them in error and guilt. The Peris were
beautiful and benevolent, but imperfect and of-
fending beings ; they are supposed to have borne
a considerable resemblance to the Fairies of the
western world. The Dives were hideous in form,
and of a malignant disposition. The Peris subsist
wholly on perfumes, which the Dives, being of a
grosser nature, hold in abhorrence. This mytho-
logy is said to have been unknown in Arabia till
long after Mahomet : the only invisible beings we
read of in their early traditions are the Gins,
which term, though now used for the most part
as synonimous with Dives, originally signified
nothing more than certain infernal fiends ofstupen-
dous power, whose agency was hostile to man.
There was perpetual war between the Peris and
the Dives, whose proper habitation was Kaf, or
Caucasus, a line of mountains which was supposed
to reach round the globe. In these wars the Peris
generally came off with the worst; and in that
case they are represented in the traditional tales of
the East, as applying to some gallant and heroic
mortal to reinforce their exertions. The warriors
who figure in these narratives appear all to have
been ancient Persian kings. Tahmuras, one of the
most celebrated of them, is spoken of as mounting
upon Simurgh, surrounded with talismans and en-
chanted armour, and furnished with a sword the
SILENCE RESPECTING EASTERN NECROMANCERS,
dint ofwhich nothing could resist. He proceeds
to Kaf, or Ginnistan, and defeats Arzshank, the
chief of the Dives, but is defeated in turn by a
more formidable competitor. The war appears to
be carried on for successive ages with alternate
advantage and disadvantage, till after the lapse of
centuries Rustan kills Arzshank, and finally re-
duces the Dives to a subject and tributary condi-
tion. In all this there is a great resemblance to
the fables of Scandinavia; and the Northern and
the Eastern world seem emulously to have con-
.tributed their quota of chivalry and romance, of
heroic achievements and miraculous events, of
monsters and dragons, of amulets and enchant-
ment, and all those incidents which most rouse the
imagination, and are calculated to instil into gene-
rous and enterprising youth a courage the most
undaunted and invincible.
GENERAL SILENCE OF THE EAST RESPECTING
INDIVIDUAL NECROMANCERS.
Asia has been more notorious than perhaps any
other division of the globe for the vast multiplicity
and variety of its narratives of sorcery and magic.
I have however been much disappointed in the
thing I looked for in the first place, and that is, in
the individual adventures of such persons as might
be supposed to have gained a high degree of credit
and reputation for their skill in exploits of magic.
Where the professors are many (and they have
186 SILENCE RESPECTING EASTERN' NECROMANCERS.
been perhaps no where so numerous as those of
magic in the East), it is unavoidable but that some
should have been more dextrous than others, more
eminently gifted by nature, more enthusiastic and
persevering in the prosecution of their purpose,
and more fortunate in awakening popularity and
admiration among their contemporaries. In the
instances of Apollonius Tyanreus and others
among the ancients, and of Cornelius Agrippa,
Roger Bacon and Faust among the moderns, we
are acquainted with many biographical particulars
of their lives, and can trace with some degree of
accuracy, their peculiarities of disposition, and ob-
serve how they were led gradually from one study
and one mode of action to another. But the magi-
cians ofthe East, so to speak, are mere abstractions,
not characterised by any of those habits which
distinguish one individual of the human race from
another, and having those marking traits and petty
lineaments which make the person, as it were, start
up into life while he passes before our eyes. They
are merely reported to us as men prone to the
producing great signs and wonders, and nothing
more.
Two of the most remarkable exceptions that I
have found to this rule, occur in the examples
of Rocail, and of Hakem, otherwise called Mo-
canna.
BOCAIL. 187
ROCAIL.
The first of these however is scarcely to be
called an exception, as lying beyond the limits of
all credible history. Rocail is said to have been
the younger brother of Seth, the son of Adam.
A Dive, or giant of mount Caucasus, being hard
pressed by his enemies, songht as usual among the
sons of men for aid that might extricate him out
of his difficulties. He at length made an alliance
with Rocail, by whose assistance he anived at the
tranquillity he desired, and who in consequence
became his grand vizier, or prime minister. He
governed the dominions of his principal for many
years with great honour and success ; but, ulti-
mately perceiving the approaches of old age and
death, he conceived a desire to leave behind him
a mon.ument worthy of his achievements in policy
and war. He according erected, we .are not told
by what means, a magnificent palace, and a se-
pulchre equally worthy of admiration. But what
was most entitled to notice, he peopled this palace
with statues of so extraordinary a quality, that
they moved and performed all the functions and
offices of living men, so that every one who beheld
them would have believed that they were actually
informed with souls, whereas in reality all they did
was by the power of magic, in consequence of
which, though they were in fact no more than in-
animate matter, they were enabled to obey the
188 HAKEM, OTHERWISE MOCANNA.
behests, and perform the will, of the persons by
whom they were visiteda.
HAKEM, OTHERWISE MOCANNA.
Hakem was a leader in one of the different divi-
sions of the followers of Mahomet. To inspire the
greater awe into the minds of his supporters, he
pretended that he was the Most High God, the
creator of heaven and earth, under one of the
different forms by which he has in successive ages
become incarnate, and made himself manifest to
hi!! creatures. He distinguished himself by the
peculiarity of always wearing a thick and imper-
vious veil, by which, according to his followers,
he covered the dazz1ing splendour of his counte-
nance, which was so great that no mortal could
behold it and live, but that, according to his ene-
mies, only served to conceal the hideousness of his
features, too monstrously deformed to be contem-
plated without horror. One of his miracles, which
seems the most to have been insisted on, was that
he nightly, for a considerable space of time, caused
an orb, something like the moon, to rise from a
sacred well, which gave a light scarcely less splen-
did than the day, that diffused its beams for many
miles around. His followers were enthusiastically
devoted to. his service, and he supported his au-
thority unquestioned for a number of years. At
• D'Herbelot, Bibliotheque Orientale.
NIOHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS. 189
length a more formidable opponent appeared, and
after several battles he became obliged to shut ·
himself up in a strong fortress. Here bowever he
was so straitly besieged as to be driven to the last
despair, and, having administered poison to his
whole garrison, he prepared a bath of the most
powerful ingredients, which, when he threw him-
self into it, dissolved his frame, even to the very
bones, so that nothing remained of him but a lock
of his hair. He acted thus, with the hope that it
would be believed that he was miraculously taken
up into heaven ; nor did this fail to be the effect
on the great body of his adherentsb.
ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS.
The most copious record of stories of Asiatic
enchantment that we possess, is contained in the
Arabian Nights' Entertainments ; to which we may
add the Persian Tales, and a few other repositories
ofOriental adventures. It is true that these are de-
livered to us in a garboffiction; but they are known
to present so exact a picture ofEastern manners and
customs, and so just a delineation ofthe follies, the
weaknesses and credulity of the races of men that
figure in them, that, in the absence of materials ofa
strictly historical sort ofwhich we have to complain,
they may not inadequately supply the place, and
may furnish us with a pretty full representation of
b D'Herbelot, lJibliotheque Orientale.
190 ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS.
the ideas of sorcery and magic which for centuries
were entertained in this part of the world. They
have indeed one obvious defect, which it is proper
the reader should keep constantly in mind. The
mythology and groundwork of the whole is Per-
sian : but the narrator is for the most part a
hometan. Of consequence the ancient Fire-wor-
shippers, though they contribute the entire mate.
rials, and are therefore solely entitled to our
gratitude and deference for the abundant supply
they have furnisherl to our curiosity, are uni-
formly treated in these books with disdain and
contumely as unworthy of toleration, while the
comparative upstart race of the believers in the
Koran are held out to us as the only enlightened
and upright among the sons of men.
Many of the matters most currently related
among these supernatural.phenomena, are tales of
transformation. A lady has two sisters of the most
profligate and unprincipled character. They have
.originally the same share of the paternal inherit-
ance as hersel£ Butthey waste it in profusion and
folly, while she improves her portion by goodjudg-
ment and frugality. Driven to the extremity of dis-
tress, they humble themselves, and apply to her for
118sistance. She generously imparts to them the
same amount of wealth that they originally
·sessed, and they are once more reduced. to poverty.
This happens again and again. At length, fimJing
them incapable of discretion, she prevails on them
AllABJAN NIGHTs' ENTERTAINMENTS. 191
to come and live with her. By wearisome and
ceaseless importunity they induce her to embark
in a mercantile enterprise. Here she meets with
a prince, who had the misfortune to be born in a
region of fire-worshippers, but was providentially
educated by a Mahometan nurse. Hence, when
his countrymen were by divine vengeance aU
turned into stones, he alone was saved· alive. The
lady .'finds him in this situation, endowed with
sense and motion amidst a petrified city, and they
immediately fall in love with each other. She
brings him away from this melancholy scene, and
together they go on board the vessel which had
been freighted by herself and her sisters. But the
sisterS become envious of her good fortune, and
conspire, while she and the prince are asleep, to
throw them overboard. The prince is drowned;
but the. lady with great difficulty escapes. She
finds herself in a desert island, not far· from the
place where she had originally embarked on her
adventure ; and, having slept off the she
had encountered, beholds on her awaking a black
woman with an agreeable countenance, a fairy,
who leads in her hand two black bitches coupled
together with a cord. These black bitches are the
lady's sisters, thus metamorphosed, as a punishment
for their ingratitude and cruelty. The fairy con-
veys her through the air to her own house in Bag-
dad, which she finds well stored with all sorts of
commodities, and delivers to her the two animals,
ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS.
with an injunction that she is to whip them every
day at a certain hour as a further retribution for
their crimes. This was accordingly punctually
performed ; and, at the end of each day's penance,
the lady, having before paid no regard to the ani-
mals' gestures and pitiable cries, wept over them,
took them in her arms, kissed them, and carefully
wiped the moisture from their eyes. Having per-
severed for a length of time in this discipline, the
offenders are finally, by a counter-incantation, re-
stored to their original forms, being by the seve-
rities they had suffered entirely cured of the vices
which had occasioned their calamitous condition.
Another story is of a calender, a sort of MallO-
metan monk, with one eye, who had originally
been a prince. He had contracted a taste for
navigation and naval discoveries ; und, in one
of his voyages, having been driven by stress of
weather into unknown seas, he suddenly finds
himself attracted towards a vast mountain of load-
stone, which first, by virtue of the iron and nails
in the ship, draws the vessel towards itse]£ and
then, by its own intrinsic force, extracts the nails,
so that the ship tumbles to pieces, and every
one on board is drowned. The mountain, on
the side towards the sea, is all covered with
nails, which had been drawn from vessels that
previously suffered the same calamity; and these
nails at once preserve and augment the fatal power
of the mountain. The prince only escapes ; and
ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS. 1U.'3
he finds himself in a desolate island, with a dome
of brass, supported by brazen pillars, and on the
top of it a horse of brass, and a rider of the same
metal. This rider the prince is fated to throw
down, by means of an enchanted arrow, and thus
to dissolve the charm which had been fatal to
thousands. From the desolate island he embarked
on board a boat, with a single rower, a man of
metal, and would have been safely conveyed to
his native country,. had he not inadvertently
pronounced the name of God, that he had been
warned not to do, and which injunction he had
observed many days. On this the boat imme-
diately sunk ; but the prince was preserved, who
comes into a desolate island, where he finds but
one inhabitant, a youth of fifteen. This youth is
hid in a cavern, it having been predicted of him
that he should be killed after fifty days, by the
man that threw down the horse of brass and his
rider. A great friendship is struck up between
the unsuspecting youth and the prince, who never.
theless fulfils the prediction, having by a pure
accident killed the youth on the fiftieth day. He
next arrives at a province of the main land, where
he visits a castle, inhabited by ten very agreeable
young men, each blind of the right eye. He
dwells with them for a month, and finds, after a
day of pleasant entertainment, that each evening
they do penance in squalidness and ashes. His
curiosity is greatly excited to obtain an explana-
o
194 ARABIAN NIGHTS' ENTERTAINMENTS.
tion of what he saw, but this they refuse, telling
him at the same time, that he may, if he pleases,
pass through the same adventure as they have
done, and, if he does, wishing it may be attended
with a more favourable issue. He determines to
make the experiment ; and by their direction,
after certain preparations, is flown away with
through the air by a roc, a stupendous bird, that
is capable in the same manner of carrying off an
elephant. By this means he is brought to a castle
of the most extraordinary magnificence, inhabited
by forty ladies of exquisite beauty. With these
ladies he lives for eleven months in a perpetual
succession of delights. But in the twelfth month
they tell him, that they are obliged to leave him till
the commencement ofthe new year. In the mean
time they give him for his amusement the keys of
one hundred apartments, all but one of which he
is permitted to open. He is delighted with the
wonders of these apartments till the last day. On
that day he opens the forbidden room, where the
rarity that most strikes him is a black horse of ad-
mirable shape and appearance, with a saddle and
bridle of gold. He leads this horse into the open
air, and is tempted to mount him. The horse first
stands still ; but at length, being touched with a
switch, spreads a pair of wings which the prince
had not before perceived, and mounts to an amazing
height in the air. The horse finally descends on the
terrace of a castle, where he throws his rider, and
PEllSlAN TALES. 195
leaves him, having first dashed out his right eye
with a sudden swing of his tail. The prince goes
down into the castle, and to his surprise finds him-
self in company with the ten young men, blind of
one eye, who had .passed through the same ad-
venture as he had done, and all been betrayed
by means of the same infirmity.
PERSIAN TALES.
These two stories are from the Arabian Nights :
the. two following are from the Persian Tales.-
Fadlallah, king of Mousel, contracted an intimacy
with a young dervise, a species ofTurkish friar, who
makes a vow of perpetual poverty. The dervise.
to ingratiate himself the more with the prince, in-
formed him of a secret he possessed, by means of a
certain incantation, of projecting his soul into the
body of any dead animal he thought proper.
To convince the king that this power was no
empty boast, he offered to quit his own body, and
animate that of a doe, which Fadlallah had just
killed in hunting. He accordingly executed what
he proposed, took .possession of the body .of the
doe, displayed the most surprising agility, ap-
proached the king, fawning on him with every
expression of endearment, and then, after various
bounds, deserting the limbs of the animal, and re-
possessing his own frame, which during the expe-
riment had lain breathless on the ground. Fad.
196 PERSIAN TALES.
lallah became earnest to possess the secret of the
dervise ; and, after some demurs, it was commu-
nicated t.o him. The king took possession of the
body of the doe ; but his treacherous confident no
sooner saw the limbs ofFadlallah stretched senseless
on the ground, than he conveyed his own spirit into
them, and, bending his bow, sought to destroy the
life ofhis defenceless victim. The king by his agility
escaped ; and the dervise, resorting to the palace,
took possession of the throne, and of the bed of
the queen, Zemroude, with whom Fadlallah was
desperately enamoured. The first precaution of
.the usurper was to issue a decree that all the deer
within his dominions should be killed, hoping by
this means to destroy the rightful sovereign. But
the king, aware ofhis danger, had deserted the body
of the doe, and entered that of a dead nightingale
that lay in his path. In this disguise he hastened
to the palace, and placed himself in a wide-spread-
ing tree, which grew immediately before the apart-
ment of Zemroude. Here he poured out his com-
plaints and the grief that penetrated his soul in
such melodious notes, as did not fail to attract the
attention of the queen. She sent out her bird-
catchers to make captive the little warbler; and Fad-
lallah, who desired no better, easily suffered him-
selfto be made their prisoner. In this new position
he demonstrated by every gesture of fondness his
partiality to the queen; but if any of her women
approached him, he pecked at them in anger, and,.
'
PERSIAN TALES. 197
when the impostor made his appearance, could
not contain the vehemence of his rage. It
pened one night that the queen's lap-dog died ;
and the thought struck Fadlallah that he would
animate the corpse of this animal. The next
morning Zemroude found her favourite bird dead
in his cage, and immediately became inconsolable.
Never, she said, was so amiable a bird; he dis-
tinguished her from all others; he seemed even to
entertain a passion for her; and she felt as if she
could not survive his loss. The dervise in vain
tried every expedient to console her. At length
he said, that, if she pleased, he would cause her
nightingale to revive every morning, and entertain
her with his tunes as long as she thought proper.
The dervise accordingly laid himself on a sopha,
and by means of certain cabalistic words, trans-
ported his soul into the body of the nightingale,
and began to sing. Fadlallah watched his time ;
he lay in a corner of the room unobserved; but
no sooner had the dervise deserted his body, than
the king proceeded to take possession of it. The
first thing he did was to hasten to the cage, to
open the door with uncontrolable impatience, and,
seizing the bird, to twist off its head. Zemroude,
amazed, asked him what he meant by so inhuman
an action. Fadlallah in reply related to her all the
circumstances that had befallen him ; and the
queen became so struck with agony and remorse
that she had suffered her. person, however inno-
198 PERSIAN TALES.
cently, to be polluted by so vile an impostor, that
she could not get over the recollection, but pined
a\vay and died from a sense of the degradation she
had endured.
But a much more perplexing and astounding
instance of transformation occurs in the history of
the Young King of Thibet and the· Princess of the
Nalmans. The sorcerers in this case are repre-
sented as, without any intermediate circumstanCe
to facilitate their witchcraft, having the ability to
assume the form of any one they please, and in
consequence to take the shape of one actually pre-
sent, producing a duplication the most confound-
ing that can be imagined.-Moebel, the son of an
artificer of Damascus, but whose father had be-
queathed him considerable wealth, contrived to
waste his patrimony and his youth together in
profligate living with Dilnouaze, a woman of dis-
solute manners. Finding themselves at once poor
and despised, they had recourse to the sage Bedra,
the most accomplished magician of the desert, and
found means to obtain her favour. In conse-
quence she presented them with two rings, which
had the power of enabling them to assume the
likeness of any man or woman they please. Thus
equipped, Mochel heard ofthe death of Mouaffack,
prince of the Na'imans, who was supposed to have
been slain in a battle, and whose body had never
been found. The niece of Mouaffack now filled
the throne ; and under these circumstances Mochel
PERSIAN TALES. 199
conceived the design of personating the absent
Mouaffack, exciting a rebellion among his coun-
trymen, and taking possession of the throne. In
this project he succeeded; and the princess driven
into exile, took refuge in the capital of
Here the king saw her, fell in love with her, and
espoused her. Being made acquainted with her
history, he resolved to re-conquer her dominions,
and sent a defiance to the usurper. Mochel, ter-
rified at the thought of so formidable an invader,
first pretended to die, and then, with Dilnouaze,
who during his brief reign had under the form of
a beautiful woman personated his queen, pro-
ceeded in his original form to the capital of Thi-
bet. Here his purpose was to interrupt the hap-
piness of those who had disturbed him in his de-
ceitful career. Accordingly one night, when the
queen, previously to proceeding to her repose, had
shut herself up in her closet to read certain pas-
sages of the Alcoran, Dilnouaze, aSsuming her
form with the minutest exactness, hastened to
place herself in the royal bed by the side of the
king. After a time, the queen shut her book, and
went along the gallery to the king's bedchamber.
Mochel watched his time, and placed himself, un-
der the form of a frightful apparition, directly in
the queen's path. She started at the sight, and
uttered a piercing shriek. The king recognised
her voice, and hastened to see what had hap-
pened to her. She explained; but the king
200 PERSIAN TAI.ES.
spoke of something much more extraordinary,
and asked her how it could possibly happen
that she should be in the gallery, at the same mo-
ment that he had left her, undressed and in bed.
They proceeded to the chamber to unravel the
mystery. Here a contention occurred between
the real and the seeming queen, each charging
the other with imposture. The king turned
from one to the other, and was unable to decide
between their pretensions. The courtiers and
the ladies of the bedchamber were called, and
all were perplexed with uncertainty and doubt.
At lenbrth they determine in favour of the false
queen. It was then proposed that the other should
be burned for a sorceress. The king however
forbade this. He was not yet altogether de-
cided; and could not resolve to consign his true
queen, as it might possibly be, to a cruel death.
He was therefore content to strip her of her royal
robes, to clothe her in rags, and thrust her igno-
miniously from his palace.
Treachery however was not destined to be ulti-
mately triumphant. The king one day rode out a
hunting; and Mochel, that he might the better
deceive the guards of the palace, seizing the op-
portunity, assumed his figure, and ".'ent to bed to
Dilnouaze. The king meanwhile recollected some-
thing of importance, that he had forgotten before
he went out to hunt, and returning upon his steps,
proceeded to the royal chamber. Here to his
- __J
- - - - ----
STORY OF A GOULE.
utter confusion he found a man in bed with his
queen, and that man to his greater astonishment
the exact counterpart of himself. Furious at the
sight, he immediately drew his scymetar. The
man contrived to escape down the backstairs. The
woman however remained in bed; and, stretching
out her hands to intreat for mercy, the king struck
off the hand which had the ring on it, and she im-
mediately appeared, as she really was, a frightful
hag. She begged for life ; and, that she might
mollify his rage, explained the mystery, told him
that it was by means of a ring that she effected the
delusion, and that by a similar enchantment her
paramour had assumed the likeness of the king.
The king meanwhile was inexorable, and struck off
her head. He next turned in pursuit of the adul-
terer. Mochel however had had time to mount
on horseback. But the king mounted also ; and,
being the better horseman, in a short time over-
took his foe. The impostor did not dare to cope
with him, but asked his life ; and the king, consi-
dering him as the least offender of the two, par-
doned him upon condition of his surrendering the
ring, in consequence of which he passed the re-
mainder of his life in poverty and decrepitude.
STORY OF A GOULE.
A story in the Arabian Nights, which merits no-
tice for its singularity, and as exhibiting a particular
STORY OF A GOULE.
example of the credulity of the people of the East,
is that of a man who married a sorceress, without
being in any way conscious of her character in that
respect. She was sufficiently agreeable in her per-
son, and he found for the most part no reason to
be dissatisfied with her. But he became uneasy
at the strangeness of her behaviour, whenever they
sat together at meals. The husband provided a
sufficient variety of dishes, and was anxious that
his wife should eat and be refreshed. But she
took scarcely any nourishment. He set before her
a plate of rice. From this plate she took some-
what, grain by grain ; but she would taste of no
other dish. The husband remonstrated with her
upon her way of eating, but to no purpose; she
still went on the same. He knew it was impossible
for any one to subsist upon so little as she ate;
and his curiosity was roused. One night, as he
lay quietly awake, he perceived his wife rise very
softly, and put on her clothes. He watched, but
made as if he saw nothing. Presently she opened
the door, and went out. He followed her unper-
ceived, by moonlight, and tracked her into a place
of graves. Here to his astonishment he saw her
joined by a Goule, a sort of wandering demon,
which is known to infest ruinous buildings, and
from time to time suddenly rushes out, seizes
children and other defenceless people, strangles,
and devours them. Occasionally, for want of
other food, this detested race will resort to church-
ARABIAN NIGHTS. 208
yards, and, digging up the bodie!j of the newly-
buried, gorge their appetites upon the flesh of
these. The husband followed his wife and her
supernatural companion, and watched their pro-
ceedings. He saw them digging in a new-made
grave. They extracted the body ofthe deceased ;
and, the Goule cutting it up joint by joint, they
feasted voraciously, and, having satisfied their ap-
petites, cast the remainder into the grave again,
and covered it up as before. The husband now
withdrew unobserved to his. bed, and the wife fol-
lowed presently after. He however conceived a
horrible loathing of such a wife ; and she discovers
that he is acquainted with her dreadful secret.
They can no longer live together ; and a metamor-
phosis followed. She turned him into a dog, which
by ill usage she drove from her door; and he, aided
by a benevolent sorceress, first recovers his natural
shape", and then, having changed her into a mare,
by perpetual hard usage and ill treatment vents
his detestation of the character he had discovered
in her. ·
NIGHTS.
A ·compilation of more vigorous imagination and
more exhaustless variety than the Arabian Nights,
perhaps never existed. Almost every thing that
can be conceived of marvellous and terrific is
there to be found. When we should apprehend
201 RESEMBLANCE OF THE TALES OF
the author or authors to have come to an end of
the rich vein in which they expatiate, still new
wonders are presented to us in endless succession.
Their power of comic exhibition is not less extra-
ordinary than their power of surprising and terri-
fying. The splendour of their painting is endless ;
and the mind of the reader is roused and refreshed
by shapes and colours for ever new.
RESEMBLANCE OF THE TALES OF THE EAST AND
OF EUROPE.
It is characteristic of this work to exhibit a
faithful and particular picture of Eastern
customs, and modes of thinking and acting. And
yet, now and then, it is curious to observe the co-
incidence of Oriental imagination with that of an-
tiquity and of the North of Europe, so it is
difficult to conceive the one not to be copied from
the other. Perhaps it was so ; and perhaps not.
Man is every where man, possessed of the same
faculties, stimulated by the same passions, de-
riving pain and pleasure from the same sources,
with similar hopes and fears, aspirations and alarms.
In the Third Voyage of Sinbad he arrives at an
island were he finds one man, a negro, as tall as a
palm-tree, and with a single eye in the middle of
his forehead. He takes up the crew, one by one,
and selects the fattest as first to be devoured.
This is done a second time. At length nine of the
THE EAST AND OF EUROPE.
boldest seize on a spit, while he lay on his back
asleep, and, having heated it red-hot, thrust it into
his eye.-This is precisely the story of Ulysses and
the Cyclops.
The story of the Little Hunchback, who is
choaked with a fish-bone, and, after having brought
successive individuals into trouble on the suspicion
of murdering him, is restored to life again, is
nearly the best known of the Arabian Tales. The
merry jest of Dan Hew, Monk of Leicester, who
" once was hanged, and four times slain," bears
a very striking resemblance to this\
A similar resemblance is to be found, only
changing the sex of the aggressor, between the
well known tale of Patient Grizzel, and that of
Cheheristany in the Persian Tales. This lady
was a queen of the Gins, who fell in love with the
emperor of China, and agrees to marry him upon
condition that she shall do what she pleases, and
he shall never doubt that what she does is right.
She bears him a son, beautiful as the day, and
throws him into the fire. She bears him a daugh-
ter, and gives her to a white bitch, who runs away
with her, ant.l disappears. The emperor goes to
war with the Moguls; and the queen utterly de-
stroys the provisions of his army. But the fire
was a salamander, and the bitch a fairy, who rear
the children in the most admirable manner ; and
• It ia in Selden's Collection of Ballads in the Bodleian Li-
brary. See Letters from the Bodleian, Vol. I, p. 120 to 126.
!!06 CAUSES OF HUMAN CREDULITY.
the provisions of the army were poisoned by a
traitor, and are in a miraculous manner replaced
by such as were wholesome and of the most invi-
gorating qualities.
CAUSES OF HUMAN CREDULITY.
Meanwhile, though the stories above related
are extracted from books purely and properly of
fiction, they exhibit so just a delineation of
Eastern manners and habits of mind, that, in the
defect of materials strictly historical, they may to
a certain degree supply the place. The principal
feature they set before us is credulity and a love
of the marvellous. This is ever found characte-
ristic of certain ages of the world; but in Asia it
prevails in uninterrupted continuity.. Wherever
learning and the exercise of the intellectual facul-
ties first shew themselves, there mystery and a
knowledge not to be communicated but to the
select few must be expected to appear. Wisdom
in its natural and genuine form seeks to diffuse
itself; but in the East on the contrary it is only
valued in proportion to its rarity. Those who de-
voted themselves to intellectual improvement,
looked for it rather in solitary abstraction, than in
free communication with the minds of others ; and,
when they condescended to the use of the organ
of speech, they spoke in enigmas and ambiguities,
and in phrases better adapted to produce wonder
--
CAUSES OF HUMAN CREDULITY. lJ:(Yf
and perplexity, than to enlighten '811d instruct.
When the more consummate instructed the novice,
it was by slow degrees only, and through the me-
dium of a long probation. In consequence of this
state of things the privileged few conceived of
their own attainments with an over-weening pride,
and were pufi'ed up with a sense of superiority ;
while the mass of their fellow-creatures looked to
them with astonishment; and, agreeably to the
creed of two independent and contending
principles of good and of evil, regarded these se.
1ect and supernaturally endowed beings anon as a
source of the most enviable blessings, and anon as
objects of unmingled apprehension and terror,
before whom their understandings became pros-
trate, and every thing that was most appalling and
dreadful was most easily believed. In this state
superstition unavoidably grew infectious ; and the
more the seniors inculcated and believed, the more
the imagination of the juniors became a pliant and
unresisting slave. ·
The Mantra, or charm, consisting of a few un-
intelligible words repeated again and again, always
accompanied, or rather preceded, the supposed
miraculous phenomenon that was imposed on the
ignorant. Water was flung over, or in the face of,
the thing or person upon whom the miraculous
effect wns to be produced. Incense was burned;
and such chemical substances were set on fire, the
CAUSES OF HUMAN CREDULITY.
dazzling appearance of which might confound the
senses of the spectators. The whole consisted in
the art of the juggler. The first business was to
act on the passions, to excite awe and fear and
curiosity in the parties ; and next by a sort of
slight of hand, and by changes too rapid to be fol-
lowed by an unpractised eye, to produce pheno-
mena, wholly unanticipated, and that could not be
accounted for. Superstition was further an essen-
tial ingredient ; and this is never perfect, but
where the superior and more active party regards
himself as something more than human, and the
party acted upon beholds in the other an object of
religious reverence, or tingles with apprehension
of he knows not what of fearful and calamitous.
The state of the party acted on, and indeed of
either, is never complete, till the senses are con-
founded, what is imagined is so powerful as in a
manner to exclude what is real, in a word, till, as
the poet expresses it, " function is smothered in
surmise, and nothing is, but what is not."
It is in such a state of the faculties that it is en-
tirely natural and simple, that one should mistake
a mere dumb animal for one's relative or near con-
nection in disguise. And, the delusion having
once begun, the deluded individual gives to every
gesture and motion oflimb and eye an explanation
that forwards the deception. It is in the same
way that in ignorant ages the notion of changeling
CAUSES OF HUMAN CREDULITY. 2{)9
has been produced. The weak and fascinated
mother sees every feature with a turn of expres-
sion unknown before, all the habits of the child
appear different and strange, till the parent herself
denies her offspring, and sees in the object so
lately cherished and doated on, a monster uncouth
and horrible of aspect.
1'
DARK AGES OF EUROPE.
IN Europe we are slenderly supplied with his-
torians, and with narratives exhibiting the manners
and peculiarities of successive races of men, from
the time of Theodosius in the close of the fourth
century of the Christian era to the end of the
tenth. Mankind during that period were in an
uncommon degree wrapped up in ignorance and
barbarism. We may be morally sure that this was
an interval beyond all others, in which superstition
and an implicit faith in supernatural phenomena
predominated over this portion of the globe. The
laws ofnature, ancl the everlasting chain of antece-
dents and consequents, were little recognised. In
proportion as .illumination and science have risen
on the world, men have become aware that the
succession of events. is universally operating, and
that the frame of men and animals is every where
the same, modified only by cauS'es not less un-
changeable in their influence than the internal
constitution of the frame ·itself. We have learned
to explain much ; we are able to predict and in-
vestigate the course of things ; and the contem-
plative and the wise are not less intimately and
profoundly persuaded that the process of natural
events is sure and simple and void ofal1 just occasion
212 DARK AGES OF EUROPE.
for r;;urprise and the lifting up of hands in asto-
nishment, where we are not yet familiarly ac-
quainted with the developement of the elements
of things, as where we are. What we have not
yet mastered, we feel confidently persuaded that
the investigators that come after us will reduce to
rules not less obvious, familiar and comprehen-
sible, than is to us the rising of the ·sun, or the
progress of animal and vegetable life from the first
bud and seed of existence to the last stage of de-
crepitude and decay.
But in these ages of ignorance, when but few,
and those only the most obvious, laws of nature
were acknowledged, every event that was not of
almost daily occurrence, was contemplated with
more or less of awe and alarm. These men " saw
God in clouds, and heard him in the wind." In-
stead of having regard only to that universal Pro-
vidence, which acts not by partial but
by general laws, they beheld, as they conceived,
the immediate hand of the Creator, or rather, upon
most occasions, ofsome invisible intelligence, some-
times beneficent, but perhaps oftener malignant
and capricious, interfering, to baffle the foresight of
the sage, to humble the pride of the intelligent,
and to place the discernment of the most gifted
upon a level with the drivellings of the idiot, and
the ravings of the insane.
And, as in events men saw perpetually the su-
pernatural and miraculous, so in their fellow-
DARK AGES OF EUROPE. '213
creatures they continually sought, .and therefore
frequently imagined that they found, a gifted race,
that had command over the elements, held com-
merce with the invisible world, and could produce
the most stupendous and terrific effects. In man,
as we now behold him, we can ascertain his na-
ture, the strength and pliability of his limbs, the
accuracy of his eye, the extent of his intellectual
acquisitions, and the subtlety of his powers of
thought, and can therefore in a great measure an-
ticipate what we have to hope or to fear from him.
Every thing is regulated by what we call natural
means. But, in the times I speak of, all was mys-
terious: the powers of men were subject to no
recognised laws: and therefore nothing that ima-
gination suggest, exceeded the bounds of
credibility. Some men were supposed to be so
rarely endowed that " a thousand liveried angels"
waited on them invisibly, to execute their behests
for the benefit ofthose they favoured; while, much
oftener, the perverse and crookedly disposed, who
delighted in mischief, would bring on those to
whom, for whatever capricious reason, they were
hostile, calamities, which no sagacity could predict,
and no merely human power could baflle and resist.
After the tenth century enough of credulity re-
mained, to display in glaring colours the aberra-
tions of the human mind, and to furnish forth tales
which will supply abundant matter for the re-
mainder of this volume. But previously to this
214 DARK AGES OF EUROPE.
period, we may be morally sure, reigned most emi-
nently the sabbath of magic and sorcery, when
nothing was too wild, and remote from the reality
of things, not to meet with an eager welcome,
when terror and astonishment· united themselves
with a nameless delight, and the auditor was
alarmed even to a sort ofmadness, at the same time
that he greedily demanded an ever-fresh supply of
congenial aliment. The more the known laws of
the universe and the. natural possibility of things
were violated, w.ith. the·stronger marks
tion was the tale .received : while the dextrous
impostor, aware of the temper of his age, and
knowing how most completely to blindfold and lead
astray his prepared dupes, made a rich harvest of
the folly of his contemporaries. But I am wrong
to call him an impostor. He imposed upon him-
self, no less than on the gaping crowd. His dis-
courses, even in the act of being pronounced, won
upon his.own ear; and the dexterity with which he
baffled the observation of others, bewildered his
ready sense, and filled him with astonishment at the
magnitude of his achievements. The accomplished
adventurer was always ready to ·regard himself
rather as a sublime being endowed with great and
stupendous attributes, than as a pitiful trickster.
He became the God of his own idolatry, and stood
astonished, as. the witch of Endor in the English
Bible is represented to have done, at the. success
of his incantations.
---r
DARK AGES OF EUROPE,
But all these things are passed away, and are
buried in the gulf of oblivion. A thousand tales,
each more wonderful than the other, marked the
year as it glided away. Every valley had its
fairies; and every hill its giants. No .solitary
dwelling, unpeopled with human inhabitants, was
without its ghosts; and no church-yru:d in th,e.ab-
sence of day-light could be crossed with impunity•.
The gifted enchanter " bedimmed
The noon-tide sun, called forth the mutinous winds,
And 'twixt the green sea Rnd the azured vault
Set roaring war; to the dread, rattling thunder
He gave forth fire, and rifted Jove's stout oak
With his own bolt, the strong-based promontory
He made to shake, and by the spurs plucked up
The pine and cedar."
It is but a small remnant of these marvellous
adventures that has been preserved. The
part of them are swallowed up in that gulf of ob-
livion, to which are successively consigned after a
brief interval all events as they occur, except, so
far as their memory is preserved through the me-
dium of writing and records. From the eleventh
century commences a stream of historical relation,
which since that time never entirely eludes the
search of the diligent enquirer. Before this period
there occasionally appears an historian or miscel-
laneous writer : but he seems .to start up by
·chance ; the eddy presently closes over him, and
all is again impenetrable darkness.
216 MERLIN.
When this succession of writers began, they
were unavoidab1y induced to 1ook back upon the
ages that had preceded them, and to co11ect here
and there from tradition any thing that appeared
especia11y worthy of notice. Of course any in-
formation they cou]d g1ean was wild and uncertain,
deep1y stamped with the credu1ity and wonder of
an ignorant period, and still increasing in marve1-
1ousness and absurdity from every hand it passed
through, and from every tongue which repeated it.
MERLIN.
One ofthe most extraordinary personages whose
story is thus delivered to us, is Mer1in. Heap-
pears to have been contemporary with the period
of the Saxon invasion of Britain in the 1atter
part of the fifth century; but probab1y the earliest
mention of his name by any writer that has come
down to us is not previous to the eleventh. We
may the less wonder therefore at the incredible
things that are reported of him. He is first
(·mentioned in connection with the fortune of
1
Vortigern, who is represented by Geoffrey of
; Monmouth as at that time king of England. The
\ Romans having withdrawn their legions from this
· the unwarlike Britons found themselves in-
competent to repe] the invasions of the uncivilised
Scots and Picts, and Vortigern perceived no re-
medy but in inviting the Saxons from the northern
MERLIN. 217
continent to his aid. The Saxons successfully
repelled the invader ; but, having done this, they
refused to return home. They determined to
settle here, and, having taken various towns, are
represented as at length inviting Vortigern and his
principal nobility to a feast near Salisbury under
pretence of a peace, where they treacherously slew
three hundred of the chief men of the island,
and threw Vortigern into chains. Here, by way
of purchasing the restoration of his liberty, they
induced him to order the surrender of London,
York, Winchester, and other principal towns.
Having lost all his strong holds, he consulted his
magicians as to how he was to secure himself from
this terrible foe. They advised him to build an
impregnable tower, and pointed out the situation
where it was to be erected. But so unfortunately
did their advice succeed, that all the work that his
engineers did in the building one day, the earth
swallowed, so that no vestige was to be found on
the next. The magicians were consulted again on I
this fresh calamity ; and they told the king that .·
that there was no remedying this disaster, other .
than by cementing the walls of his edifice with the J
blood of a human being, who was born of no hu- '
man father.
Vortigern sent out his emissaries in every direc-
tion in search of this victim; and at length by
strange good fortune they lighted on Merlin near
MERLIN.
the town of Caermarthen, who told them that his
mother was the daughter of a king, but that she
had been got with child of him by·a being of an
angelic nature, and not a man. No sooner had
they received this infOrmation, than they seized
him, .and hurried him away to Vortigern as the
victim required. But in presence of the king he
baffled the magicians ; he told the king that the
ground they had chosen for. his tower, had under-
neath it a lake, .which being drained, they would
find at the bottom t\Y"O dragons of inextinguishable
J
hostility, that under that form .figured the Britons
and Saxons, all of which upon. the experiment
proved to be true.
Vortigern died shortly after, and was succeeded
first by Ambrosius, and then by Uther Pendragon.
Merlin was the confident of all these kings. To
Uther he exhibited a very criminal sort of com-
pliance. Uther became desperately enamoured of
Igerna, wife of the duke of.Cornwal, and tried
every means to seduce her in vain. Having con-
sulted Merlin, the magician contrived by an ex-
traordinary unguent to metamorphose Uther into
the form of the duke. The duke had shut up his
wife for safety in a very strong tower; but Uther
in his new form gained unsuspected entrance; and
the virtl.i.ous lgerna received him to her embraces,
by means of which he begot Arthur, afterwards
the most renowned sovereign of this island. Uther
--
MERLIN.
now contrived that the duke, her husband, should
be slain in battle, and immediately married the
fair Igema, and made her his queen.
The next exploit of Merlin was with the intent
to erect a monument that should last for ever, to
the memory ofthe three hundred British nobles that
were massacred by the Saxons. This design pro-
duced the extraordinary edifice called Stonehenge.
1
These mighty stones, which by no human power J
could be placed in the position in which we be-
hold them, had originally been set up in Africa, and
afterwards by means unknown were transported
to Ireland. Merlin commanded that they should
be carried over the sea, and placed where they
now are, on Salisbury Plain. The workmen, hav-
ing received his directions, exerted all their power
and skill, but could not move one of them. Mer-
lin, having for some time watched their exertions,
at length applied his magic ; and to the amaze-
ment ofevery one, the stones spontaneouslyquitted
the situation in which they had been P.laced, rose
to a great height in the air, and then pursued
the course which Merlin had prescribed, finally
settling themselves in Wiltshire, precisely in the
position in which we now find them, and which
they will for ever retain.
The last adventure recorded of Merlin pro-
ceeded from a project he conceived for sun·ound-
ing his native town of Caermarthen with a brazen
wall. He committed the execution of this project
MERLIN.
to a multitude of fiends, who laboured upon the
plan underground in a neighbouring cavern•. In
the mean while Merlin had become enamoured of a
supernatural being, called the Lady of the Lake.
The lady had long resisted his importunities, and
in fact had no inclination to yield to his suit.
One day however she sent for him in great haste;
and Merlin was of course eager to comply with
her invitation. Nevertheless, before he set out,
he gave it strictly in charge to the fiends, that
they should by no means suspend their labours till
they saw him return. The design of the lady was
to make sport with him, and elude his addresses.
Merlin on the contrary, with the hope to melt her
severity, undertook to shew her the wonders of his
art. Among the rest he exhibited to her observa.
tion a tomb, formed to contain two bodies; at the
same time teaching her a charm, by means of
which the sepulchre would close, and never again
be opened. The lady pretended not to believe that
' the tomb WfS wide enough for its purpose, and in-
veigled the credulous Merlin to enter it, and place
himself as one dead. No sooner had she so far
succeeded, than she closed the lid of the sepulchre,
and pronouncing the charm, rendered it impossible
that it should ever be opened again till the day of
judgment. Thus, according to the story, Merlin
was shut in, a corrupted and putrifying body with
a living soul, to which still inhered the faculty of
• Spenser, Fairy Queen, Book III, Canto III, stanza 9, et seqq.
MERLIN.
returning in audible sounds a prophetic answer to
such as resorted to it as an oracle. Meanwhile
the fiends, at work in the cavern.near Caermarthen,
mindful of the injunction of their taskmaster, not
to suspend their labours till his return, proceed for
ever in their office; and the traveller who passes
that way, if he lays his ear close to the mouth of
the cavern, may hear a ghastly noise of iron chains
and brazen caldrons, the loud strokes of the ham-
mer, and the ringing sound of the anvil, inter-
mixed with the pants and groans of the workmen,
enough to unsettle the brain and confound the
faculties of him that for any time shall listen to
the din.
As six hundred years elapsed between the time
of Merlin and the earliest known records of his
achievements, it is to pronounce what
he really pretended to perform, and how great
were the additions which successive reporters have
annexed to the wonders of his art, more than the
prophet himself perhaps ever dreamed of. In
later times, when the historians were the contem-
poraries of the persons by whom the supposed
wonders were achieved, or the persons who have
for theBe causes been celebrated have bequeathed
certain literary productions to posterity, we may
be able to form some conjecture as to the degree
in which the heroes of the tale were deluding or
deluded, and may exercise our sagacity in the
question by what strange peculiarity of mind ad-
1
ST. DUNSTAN.
ventures which we now hold to be impossible ob-
tained so general belief. But in a case like this
of Merlin, who lived in a time so remote from
that in which his history is first known to have
been recorded, it is impracticable to determine at
what time the fiction which was afterwards gene-
rally received began to be reported, or whether
the person to whom the miracles were imputed
ever heard or dreamed of the extraordinary things
he is represented as having achieved.
ST. DUNSTAN.
An individual scarce1y less famous in the dark
ages, and who, like Mer1in, lived in confidence·
with successive kings, was St. Dunstan. He was
born and died in the tenth century. It is not a
· little instructive to employ our attention upon the
recorded adventures, and incidents occurring in
the lives, of such men, since, though plentifully
interspersed with impossible tales, they serve to
discover to us the tastes and prepossessions of the
times in which these men lived, and the sort of
accomplishments which were necessary to their
success.
St. Dunstan is said to have been a man of dis-
tinguished birth, and to have spent the early
years of his life in much licentiousness. He was
however doubtless a person of the most extraor-
dinary endowments of nature Ambition early
ST. DUNSTAN.
lighted its fire in his bosom ; and he displayed the
greatest facility in. acquiring any talent or art on
which he fixed his attention. .His career of pro.
tligacy was .speedily arrested by a dangerous ill-
Del&, in which he was given over by his physicians.
While he lay apparently at the point of death, an
angel was suddenly seen, 'bringing a medicine to
him which effected his instant cure. The saint
immediately· rose from his bed, and hastened to
the nearest church to give God thanks for his
recovery. As he passed along, the devil, sur.
rounded with a pack of black dogs, ·interposed
himself to obstruct his way. Dunstan however
intrepidly brandished a rod that he held in his
hand, and his opposers took to flight. When he
came to the church, he found the doors closed.
B.ut the same angel, who effected his cure, was at
hand,. and, taking .him up softly by the hair of his
head, placed him before the high altar, where he
performed his devotions with suitable fervour.
· That·he might expiate the irregularities of his
past life, St. Dunstan now· secluded himself en.
tirely from the world, and constructed for his
habitation a cell in the abbey of Glastonbury, so
narrow that he could neither stand upright in it,
nQr stretch out his limbs in repose. He took
scarcely so much sustenance as·would support life,
and. mortified his flesh with· frequent castigations.
He did not however pass his time during this
seclusion in vacuity and indolence. He pursued
ST. DUNSTAN.
his studies with the utmost ardour, and made a
great proficiency in philosophy, divinity, painting.
sculpture and music. Above all, he was an ad-
mirable chemist, excelled in manufactures of gold
and other metals, and was distinguished by a won-
derful skill in the art of magic.
During all these mortifications and the severe-
ness of his industry, he appears to have become a
prey to extraordinary visions and imaginations.
Among the rest, the devil visited him in his cell,
and, thrusting his head in at the window, dis-
turbed the saint with obscene and blasphemous
speeches, and the most frightful contortions of the
features of his countenance. Dunstan at length,
wearied out with his perseverance, seized the red-
hot tongs with which he was engaged in some
chemical experiment, and, catching the devil by
the nose, held him with the utmost firmness, while
Satan filled the whole neighbourhood for many
miles round with his bellowings. Extraordinary
as this may appear, it constitutes one of the most
prominent incidents in the life of the saint; and
the representations of it were for ever repeated
in ancient carvings, and in the illuminations of
church-windows.
This was the precise period at which the pope
and his adherents were gaining the greatest ascen-
dancy in the Christian world. The doctrine of
transubstantiation was now in the highest vogue ;
and along with it a precept still more essential to
__j
ST. DUNSTAN.
the·empire of the Catholic church, the celibacy of
the clergy. This was not at first estaplished with-
out vehement struggles. The secu1ar. clergy, who
were required at once to cast off their wives as
concubines, and their children as bastards, found
every impulse of nature rising in arms against the
mandate. The regular clergy, or monks, were in
obvious rivalship with the seculars, and engrossed
to themselves, as much as possible, all promotions
and dignities, as well ecclesiastical as civil. St.
Augustine, who first planted Christianity in this
island, was a Benedictine monk ; and the Benedic-
tines were for a long time in the highest reputa-
tion in the Catholic church. St. Dunstan was
also a Benedictine. In his time the question of
the celibacy the clergy was most vehemently
agitated ; and Dunstan was the foremost of the
champions of the new institution in England.
The contest was carried on with great vehemence.
Many of the most powerful nobility, impelled
either by pity for the sufferers, or induced by
family affinities, supported the cause of the secu-
lars. Three successive synods were held on the
subject; and the cause of nature it is said would
have prevailed, had not Dunstan and his confede-
rates called in .the influence of miracles to their
aid. In one instance, a crucifix, fixed in a conspi-
cuous part of the place of assembly, uttered a voice
at the critical moment, saying, ".Be steady t you
have once decreed right; alter not your ordi-
Q
!!6 ST. DUNSTAN.
nances." At another time the floor of the place
of meeting partially gave way, precipitating the
ungodly opposers of celibacy into the place be-
neath, while Dunstan and his party, who were in
another part of the assembly, were miraculously
preserved unhurt.
In these instances Dunstan seemed to be en-
gaged in the cause of religion, and might be con-
Ridered M a zealous, though mistaken, advocate
of Christian simplicity and purity. But he was
not contented with figuring merely as a saint. He
insinuated himself into the favour of Edred, the
grandson of Alfred, and who, after two or three
short reigns, succeeded to the throne. Edred
was an inactive prince, but greatly under the
dominion of religious prejudices ; and Dunstan,
being introduced to him, found him an apt subject
for his machinations. Edred first made him abbot
of Glastonbury, one of the most powerful ecclesi-
astical dignities in England, and then treasurer of
the kingdom. During the reign of this prince,
Dunstan disposed of all ecclesiastical affairs, and
even of the treasures of the kingdom, at his
pleasure.
But Edred filled the throne only nine years, and
was succeeded by Edwy at the early age of seven-
teen, who is said to have been endowed with
every grace of form, and the utm0$t and
intrepidity of spirit. Dunstan immediately mn-
ceived a jealousy of these qualities, and took an
ST. DUNSTAN.
early opportunity to ellldeavom to disarm; them.
Edwy entertained a passion for a priDcess of the
royal house, and even proceeded to marry her,.
though within the degrees forbroden by the canon
law. Ttre rest of the stoty exhibits a lively pic:..
ture of the manners of these barbarous times.
Odo,. archbishop of Canterbury, the ol>edient
of DuMtan, on the day of the coronation obtruftdl
himself with bis abettor into the pri'Vate apartment,
to which the king bad retired with his queen, only
accompanied by her mother ; and here the
tions abbot, after loading Edwy with bitterest
reproaches for his shameless sensuality,. thrust niml
back by main force intd the ball,. where· the nobles
of the kingdom were still engaged at their banquet•.
The spirited young pri11ce conceived a. deep
resentment of this unworthy treatment, and, seiz-
ing an opportunity, calfed Dunstan to few
malversrrtian in the treasury during the late king's
life--time. The priest refused. to answer ; and the:
was that he was banished the realm. ·
But he left behind· him a faithful and implicit
coadjutor in archbishop Od01. This }M'elate iSf saild
actually to have foreed his way with a. party of
so1Wers itrto the palace,. and, having seized the:
queen, barbaromly to have seared her cheeks> with
a;red:.hot iron, and sent }re; o:tf a prisoner tO' be•
land·.. He· then proceeded to institute aU the furMS
of a· divoree,. to which the u11happy king wa.s.
obliged to submit. MeMt-while the queen, having
Qfl
228 ST. DUNSTAN.
recovered her beauty, found means· .to escape, and,
crossing the Channel, hastened to join her hus-
band. But here again the priests manifested the
same activity as before. They intercepted the
queen in her journey, and by the most cruel means
undertook to make her a cripple for life. The
princess however sunk under the experiment, and
ended her existence and her woes together.
A rebellion was now excited against the sacri-
legious Edwy ; and the whole north of England,
having rebelled, was placed under the dominion of
his brother, a boy of thirteen years of age. In the
midst of these adventures Dunstan returned from
the continent, and fearlessly shewed himself in his
native country. His party was every where tri-
umphant ; Odo being dead, he was installed arch-
bishop of Canterbury, and Edwy, oppressed with
calamity on every side, sunk to an untimely grave.
The rest of the life of Dunstan was passed in
comparatively tranquillity. He made and .unmade
kings as he pleased. Edgar, the successor of
Edwy, discovered the happy medium of energy
and authority as a sovereign. combined with a dis-
posit.ion to indulge ·the ambitious. policy ·of the
priesthood. He was licentious in his amours,
without losing a p&fticle of his ascendancy as a
sovereign. He however reigned only a few years_;
but Dunstan at his death found means to place his
eldest son on the throne under his special protec-
tion, in defiance of the intrigues of the ambitious
ST. DUNSTAN.
Elfrida, the king's second wife, who moved heaven
and earth to cause the crown to descendupon her
own son, as yet comparatively an infant. ·
In this. narrative we are presented with a lively
picture of the means by which ambition climbed
to its purposes in the darkness of the tenth
tury...Dunstan was enriched with all those en.
dowments which might seem in any age to lead to
the highest distinction. Yet it would appear to
have been in vain that he was thus qualified, if he
had not stooped to arts that fell in with the gross
prejudices of his contemporaries. He had con-
tinual recourse to the aid of miracles. He gave into
practice!! of the most rigorous mortification. He
studied, and excelled in, all the learning and arts
that were then known. But his main dependence
was on the art of magic. The story of his taking
the devil by the nose with a pair of red-hot tongs,
seems to have been of greater service to him than
any other single adventure of his life. In other
times he might have succeeded in the schemes of
his political ambition by seemly and specious
means. But it was necessary for him in the times
in which he lived, to proceed with eclat, and in a
way that should confound all opposers. The ut-
most resolution was required to overwhelm those
who might otherwise have been prompted to con-
tend against him. Hence it appears that he took
a right measure of the understanding of his con-
temporaries, when he dragged the young king
280 ST. DUNSTAN.
frOtU the tcene .of his retirement, and brought him
bd by force into the aseembly of the
And the inoonreivable barbarity practised to the
queen, which would have rendered his name
hotrible in a more civilised age, was exactly cal-
ada.ted oo overwbclm the feelings and subject the
understandings of the men among whom he lived.
The great qua.lity by which he wa.s
was confidence, a frame of behaviour which shewed
that he acted from the oouvietion, and never
doubted that his procero.ings had tbe a-.ediate
approbation of heaven.
COMMUNICATION OF EUROPE AND THE SARACENS.
IT appears to have been about the close of the
tenth century that the more curious and
tive spirits of Europe first had recourse to the East
as a source of such information and art, as they
found most glaringly deficient among their coun-
trymen. We have seen that in Persia there was
an uninterrupted succession of professors in the
art of magic : and, when the followers of Mahomet
by their prowess had gained the superiority over
the greater part of Asia, over all that was known
of Atnca, and a considerable tract of Europe, they
gradually became awake to the desire of cultivating
the sciences, and in particular of making them-
selves masters of whatever was most liberal and
eminent among the disciple3 of Zoroaster. To
this they added a curiosity respecting Greek learn-
ing, especially as it related to medicine and the
investigation of the powers of physical nature.
Bagdad became an eminent seat of learning; and
perhaps, next to Bagdad, Spain under the Sara..
cens, or Moors, was a principal abode for the pro-
fessors of ingenuity and literature.
GERBERT, POPE SILVESTER II.
As a consequence of this state of things the
more curious men Europe by degrees adopted
·'
'•
GERBERT, POPE SILVESTER II.
the practice of resorting to Spain for the purpose
of enlarging their sphere of observation and know-
ledge. Among others Gerbert is reported to have
been the first of the Christian clergy, who strung
themselves up to the resolution of mixing with the
followers of Mahomet, that they might learn from
thence things, the knowledge of which it was im-
possible for them to obtain at hoine. This gene-
rous adventurer, prompted by an insatiable thirst
for information, is said to have secretly withdrawn
himself from his monastery of Fleury in BU:rgun-
. dy, and to have spent several years among the
J. Saracens of Cordova. Here he acquired a know-
! ledge of the language and learning of the .Ara-
bians, particularly of their astronomy, geometry
and arithmetic ; and he is understood to have been
the first that imparted to the north and west of
Europe a knowledge of the · Arabic numerals, a
science, which at first sight might be despised for
its simplicity, but which in its conse·quences is
no inconsiderable instrument ·in subtilising the
the powers of human intellect. He likewise in-
troduced the use of clocks.· He is also represent-
ed to have made an extraordinary proficiency in
, \ the art of magic ; and among other things is said
To have constructed a brazen head, which would
ianswer when it was spoken to, and oracularly re-
.solve many difficult questions\ The same his-
; torian assures us that Gerbert by the art of necro-
• William of Malmcsbury, Lib. II, c. 10.
GERBERT, POPE SILVESTEil II.
mancy made various discoveries of hidden trea-
sures, and relates .in all itS the spec-
tacle of a magic palace· he visited underground,
with the multiplied splendours of an Arabian tale,
but distinguished by this feature, that, though its
magnificence was dazzling to the sight, it would
riot abide the test of feeling, but vanished into
air, the moment it was attempted to be touched.
It happened with Gerbert, as with St. Dunstan,
that he united an aspiring mind and a boundless
spirit of ambition, with the intellectual curiosity
which has already been described. The first step
that he made into public life and the career for
which he panted, consisted in his being named
preceptor, first to Robert, king of France, the
son of Hugh Capet, and next to Otho the Third,
emperor of Germany. Hugh Capet appointed
him archbishop of Rheims ; but, that dignity being
disputed with him, into Germany, and,
becoming eminently a favourite with Otho the
Third, he was by the influence of that prince
raised,. first to be archbishop of Ravenna, and
afterwards to the papacy by the mime of Silvester
the Secondb.
Cardinal Benno, who was an adherent of the
\
anti-popes, and for that reason is supposed to 1
have calumniated Gerbert and several of his suc-
cessors, affirms that he was habitually waited on
by demons, that by their aid he obtained the papal
b William of Malmesbury, Lib. II, c. 10.
!l84 BENEDICT THE NINTH.
crown, and that the devil to whom he had sold
himself, faithfully promised him that he should
live, till he had celebrated high mass at Jerusalem.
This however was merely a juggle of the evil
spirit ; and Gerbert actually died, shortly after
having officially dispensed the sacrament at the
church of the Holy Cross in Jerusalem, which is
one of the seven districts of the city of Rome.
This event occurred in the year lOOSe.
BENEDICT THE NINTH.
According to the same authority sorcery was at
this time extensively practised by some of the
highest dignitaries of the church, and five or six
popes in succession were notorious for these sacri-
legious practices. About the same period the
papal chair was at its lowest state of degradation ;
this dignity was repeatedly exposed for sale ;
and the reign of Gerbert, a man of consummate
abilities and attainments, is almost the only re-
deeming feature in the century in which he lived.
At length the tiara became the purchase of an am-
bitious family, which had already furnished two
popes, in behalf of a boy of twelve years of age,
who reigned by t4e name of Benedict the Ninth.
This youth, as he grew up, contaminated his rule
with every kind of profligacy and debauchery.
c Naude, Apologie des Grands Hommes Accuses de Magie.
Malmesbury, ubi supra.
GREGORY THE SEVENTH. !l85
But even he, according to Benno, was a pupil in
the school of Silvester, and became no me&ll pro.
ficient in the arts of sorcery. .Amoug other things
he caused the matrons of Rome by his incant;a..
tions to follow him in troops among woods and
mountains, being bewitched and their souls sub·
dued by tbe irresistible charms of his magic•.
GREGORY THE SEVENTH.
•
Benno presents us with a regular catalogue of
the ecclesiastical sorcerers of this period : Bene.
diet the Ninth, and Laurence, archbishop of
Melfi, (each of whom, he says, learned the art of
Silvester), John XX and Gregory VI. But his
most vehement accusations are directed against
Gregory VII, who, he affirms, was in the early
part of hi11 career, the constant companion and
asBistant of these dignitaries in unlawful practiceat
of this sort.
Gregory VII, whose original name was Hil.
debrand. is one of the great champions of the
Romish church, and did more than any other man
to establish the law of the celibacy of the clergy,
and to take the patronage of ecclesiastical dignities
out of the hands of the laity. He was eminently
qualified for this undertaking by the severity of his
manners, and the inflexibility of his resolution to
accomplish whatever he undertook.
• Naude, Apologie des Grands Hommes Accuses de Magie,
chap. 19.
286 GREGORY THE SEVENTH.
His great adversary was Henry the Fourth, em-
peror of Germany, a young prince of high spirit,
and at that time (10'75) twenty-four years of age.
Gregory sent to summon him to Rome, to answer
an. accusation, that he, as all his predecessors had
done, being a layman, had conferred ecclesiastical
dignities. Henry refused submission, and was im-
mediately declared excommunicated. In retaliation
for this offence, the emperor, it is said, gave his
orders to a chief of brigands, who, watching his
opportunity, seized the pope in the act of saying
mass in one of the churches of Rome, and carried
him prisoner to a tower in the. city which was in
the possession of this adventurer. But no sooner
was this known, than the citizens of Rome, rose en
masse, and rescued their spiritual father. Meanwhile
Henry, to follow up his blow, assembled a synod
at Worms, who pronounced on the pope, that for
manifold crimes he was fallen from his supreme
dignity, and accordingly fulminated a decree of
deposition against him. But Henry had no forces
to carry this decree into execution; and Gregory on
his side emitted a sentence of degradation against
the emperor, commanding the Germans to elect,a
new emperor in his place. It then became evident
that, in this age of ignorance and religious subju-
gation, the spiritual arm, at least in Germany, was
more powerful than the temporal; and Henry.
having maturely considered the perils that sur-
rounded him, took the resolution.to pass the Alps
GREGORY THE SEVENTH. CJ.87
with ·a few domestics only, and, repairing· to the
presence of the pope, submit himself to such pe-
nance as·the pontiff should impose.. Gregory was
at this time at Canosa, a fortress beyond 'Naples,
which was· surrounded with three walls. · Henry,
without any attendant,· was admitted· within the
first wa11. Here he was required to cast off all the
symbols of royalty, to put on a hair-shirt, and to
wait barefoot his holiness's pleasure. · He stood
accordingly, fasting from morn to eve,· witho'ut
receiving the smallest notice from the pontiff. It
was in the month of January. · He passed through
the same,trial the second day, and the third. On
the fourth day in the morning he was admitted
to the presence of the holy father. They parted
however more irreconcileable in heart than ever,
though each preserved the appearance of good
will. The pope insisted that Henry should· abide
the issue of the congress in ·Germany, of which
he constituted himself president; and the emperor,
exasperated at the treatment he had received, re-
solved to keep no terms with Gregory. ·Henry
proceeded to the election of an anti-pope,' Clement
the Third; and Gregory patronised a new emperor,
Rodolph, duke of Suabia. Henry had however
generally been successful .in his military ·enter-
prises ; and he ·defeated in two battles,
in the last of which his opponent was·slain. In
the :synod of Brixen, in which Clement the ·Third
was elected, Gregory was sentenced as a magician
!!88 GREGORY THE SEVEN'IH.
and a necromancer. The emperor, puffed up with
his victories, marched against Rome, and took it,
with the exception of the castle of St. in
which the pope shut himself np ; and iD the mes
time Henry caused the anti-pope, his to
be solemnly inaugurated in the church of the I&
teran. however, never dismayed, and
never at an end of his expedients, called in the
Normans, who had recently distinguished them-
selves by their victories in Naplea and Sicily.
bert Guiscard, a Nonnan chieftain,. drove the Ger-
mans out of Rome ; but, some altercations ensuing
between the pontiff and his deliverer, the city
given up to pillage, and Gregory was glad to take
refuge in SalemoF the eapital of his Norman ally,
where he shortly after expired,. an exile ard a
fugitive.
Gregory was no doubt a 1m11 of extraordinary
resources aJJ.d invittcible courage. He did DOt liYe
to witness- the triwnph of his policy; his pro-
jects for the eultatioo of the church fimllly met
with every mccess his most sanguine wishes could
have aspired to. In addition to aU the rest i1
bappeued, that the cmmtess Matilda, a priRcess
who in her owftl right extellsive sove-
reignties in It.aly, nearly eommensurate with> wfirat
bas since beem styied the ecclesiastical state, tran!J-
ferred to the pope in lmr life-time-,. 3lflld eonfinned
by her testament, all these territories, thus- mainly
COiltributing to render him and his sutteSM>rlJ so
GREGORY THE SEVENTH. 289
considerable as temporal princes, aa since that time
they have appeared. _
7
It is, however, as a sorcerer, that Gregory VII
(Hildebrand) finds a place in this volume. Benno
relates that, coming one day from his Alban villa,
be found, just as he was entering the church of the
Lateran, that he had left behind him his magical
book, which he was ascustomed to carry about
his person. He immediately sent two trusty
servants to fetch it, at the same time threatening
them most fearfully ifthey should attempt to look
into the volume. Curiosity however got the
better of their fear. They opened the book, and
began to read ; when presently a number of devils
appeared, saying, "We are come to obey your com-
mands, but, if we find ourselves trifled with, we
shall certainly fall upon and destroy you." The
servants, exceedingly terrified, replied, " Our will
is that you should immediately throw down so much
of the 'fall of the city as is now before us." The
devils obeyed ; and the servants escaped the danger
that hung over Itis further said, that
exper
1
.thin .thebarts that hde ..
wo turuw out 1g tnmg y s arm, an .
dart thunder from his sleeve.b ;
:But the most conspicuous circumstance in the
life of Gregory that bas been made the fOundation
of a charge of necromancy against him, is that.,
• Momay, Mysterium Iniquitatis, p. !58. Coeft'etean, Re-
pense aditto, p. 4. ' IDid.
240 GREGORY THE SEVENTH.
rhen Rodolph marched against IV, the
pope was so confident of his success, as to venture
publicly to prophesy, both in speech and in writing,
that his adversary should be conquered and perish
in this campaign. "Nay," he added, "this pro-
phecy shall be accomplished before St. Peter's day ;
nor do I desire ariy longer to be acknowledged for
pope, than on the condition that this comes to
pass." It is added, 'that Rodolph, relying on the
prediction, six times renewed the battle, :in which
finally he perished instead of his competitor. But
this does not go far ep.ough to substantiate a charge
of necromancy. It is further remarked, that Gre-
gory was deep in pretended science of judicial
astrology ; and this, without its being necessary to
have recourse to the ·solution of diabolical may
sufficiently account for the undoubting certainty
with which he counted on the event.
In the mean time this statement is of great im-
as illustrative of the spirit of th.e times
in general, and the character of Gregory in parti-
cular. Rodolph, the competitor. for the empire,
has his mind w·rought up to such a pitch by this
· prophetic assurance, that, five times repulsed, he
yet led on his forces a sixth tiine, and perished the
victim of his faith. Nor were his followers less
animated than he, and from the same cause. We
see also from the same· story, that Gregory was not
an artful and crafty impostor, but a man spurred «;m
by a genuine enthusiasm. And this indeed is
DUFF, KING OF SCOTL.o\ND. 1
necessary to account for the whole of his
The audacity with which he opposed the claims of
Henry, and the unheard-of severity with which he
treated him at the fortress of Canosa, are to be re-
ferred to the same feature ofcharacter. Invincible
perseverance, when united with great resources of
intellect and a lofty spirit, will enable a. man tho.-
roughly to effect, what a person of inferior endow-
ments would not have dared so much as to dream
of. And Gregory, like St. Dunstan, achieved
incredible things, by skilfully adapting himself to
circumstances, and taking advantage of the temper
and weakness of his contemporaries.
DUFF, KING OF SCOTLAND.
It is not to be wondered at, when such things
occurred in ·Italy, the principal seat of all the
learning and· refinement then existing in Europe,
that extreme northerly and western districts
should have been given up to the blindest super-
stition. Among other instances we have the fol-
lowing account in relation to Duff, king of Scot-
land, who came to the crown about the year 968.
He found his kingdom in the greatest disorder
from numerous bands of robbers, many ofwhom
were persons of high descent, but of no competent
means of subsistence. Duff resolved to put an
end to their depredations, and to secure those who
sought a quiet support from cultivating the fruits
R
••
DUFF, KING OF SCOTLAND.
of the earth from forcible invasion. He executed
the law against these disturbers without respect of
persons, and hence made himselfmany and power-
ful enemies. In the midst ofhis activity however
he suddenly fell sick, and became confined to .his
bed. His physicians could no way account for his
distemper. They found no excess of any humour
in his body to which they could attribute his ill-
ness ; his colour was fresh, and his eyes lively ;
and he had a moderate and healthful appetite. But
with all this he was a total stranger to sleep ; he
burst out into immoderate perspirations ; and there
was scarcely any thing that remained of him,
but skin and bone. In the meantime secret in-
formation was brought that all this evil was the re-
sult of witchcraft. And, the house being pointed
out in which the sorcerers held their sabbath, a
band of soldiers was sent to surprise them. The
doors being burst open, they found one woman
roasting upon a spit by the fire a waxen image of
the king, so like in every feature, that no doubt
was entertained that it was modelled by the art
of the devil, while another sat by, busily engaged
in reciting certain verses of enchantment, by
which means, as the wax melted, the king was con-
sumed with perspiration, and, as soon as it was
utterly dissolved, his death should immediately fol-
low. The witches were seized, and from their own
confession burned alive. The image was.broken to
pieces, and every fragment of it de8troyed. And no
MACBETH.
sooner was this effected, than Duft'had all thatnight
the most refreshing and healthful sleep, and the
next day rose without any remains of his infirmity•.
This reprieve however availed him but for a
short time. He was no sooner recovered, than
he occupied ·himself as before with pursuing the
outlaws, whom he brought indiscriminately to
eondign punishment. Among these there chanced
to· be two young men, near of the gover.
nor of the castle of who had hitherto been
the king's most faithful adherenf:4. These young
men .had been deluded by.ill company : and the
governor most earnestly sued to Duff for their par.
don. ·But the king was inexcirable. Meanwhile,
&B he had always placed the most entire. trust in
their father, he. continued to do so ·without the
smallest suspicion. The·night a.fter the execution,
the king slept in the castle of Fores, as he had
often done before ; but the governor, conceiving
the utmost rancour at .the repulse he had sustain.
ed, and moreover instigated by his wife, ·in the
middle of the night murdered Duff in his bed,· as
he slept. His reign lasted only four yearsb.
MACBETH.
The seventh king of Scotland after Duff, with an
interval of sixty-eight years, was Macbeth. The
• Hollinshed, History of Scotland, p. 206, 207.
b Ibid, p. 207, 208.
R 2
MACBETH.
historian begins his tale of witchcraft, towards the
end of the reign of Duncan, his predecessor, with
observing, " Shortly after happened a strange and
uncouth wonder, which afterward was the cause of
much trouble in the realm of Scotland. It fortuned,
as Macbeth and Banquo journeyed towards Fores,
where the king as then lay, they went sporting by
the way together, without other company save
only themselves, passing through the woods and
fields, when suddenly, in the midst of a laund,
there met them three women in strange and ferly
apparel, resembling creatures of an elder world,
whom when they attentively beheld, wondering
much at the sight, the first of them spake and said,
All hail, Macbeth, thane of Glamis (for he had
lately entered into that dignity and office by the
death of his father Synel). The second of them
said, Hail, Macbeth,thane ofCawdor. But the third
said, All hail, Macbeth, that hereafter shall be king
of Scotland. Then Banquo, What sort of women,
said he, are you, that seem so little favourable
unto me, whereas to my fellow here, besides high
offices, ye assign also the kingdom, appointing
forth nothing for me at all ? Yes, saith the first
of them, we promise greater benefits unto thee
than unto him, for he shall reign indeed, but with
an unlucky end, neither shall he leave any issue
behind him to succeed in his place ; where contra-
rily thou indeed shalt not reign at all, but of thee
those shall be born, which shall govern the Scottish
.1\IACBETH. 245
kingdom by long order ofcontinual descent. Here-
.with the foresaid women vanished immediately out
of their sight.
" This was reputed at the first but some vain
fantastical illusion by Macbeth and Banquo, inso-
much that Banquo would call Macbeth in jest king
of Scotland, and Macbeth again would call him in
sport likewise the father of many kings. But after-
wards the common opinion was, that these women
·were either the weird sisters, that is (as you would
say) the goddesses ofdestiny, or else some nymphs
or fairies, endued with knowledge of pr?phecy
by their necromantical science, because every
thing came to pass as they had spoken.
" For shortly after, the thane of Cawdor, being
condemned at Fores of treason against the king
committed, his lands, livings and offices were given
of the king's liberality unto Macbetha."
Malcolm, the preceding king of Scotland, had
·two daughters, one of them the mother of Duncan,
and the other of Macbeth ; and in virtue of this
descent Duncan succeeded to the crown. The
accession of Macbeth therefore was not very re-
mote, if he survived the present king. Of conse-
quence Macbeth, though he thought much of the
prediction of the weird sisters, yet resolved to wait
his time, thinking that, as had happened in his
former preferment, this might come to pass with-
out his aid. But Duncan had two sons, Malcolm
• Hollinshed, History of Scotland, p. 243, 244.
MACBETH.
-Cammore and Donald Bane. The law of succes.
_sion. in Scotland was, that, if at the death of the
reigning sovereign he that should succeed were
not of sufficient age to take on him the govern-
ment, he that was next of blood to him should
admitted. Duncan however at this juncture
created his eldest son Malcolm prince of Cumber-
.land, a title which was considered as
him heir to the throne. Macbeth was greatly
troubled at this, as cutting off the expectation he
thought he had a right to entertain : and, the
words of the weird sisters still ringing in his ears,
his wife with ambitious speeches urging
him to the deed, he, in conjunction with some
trusty friends, among whom was Banquo, came to
a resolution to kill the king at Inverness. The
deed being perpetrated, Malcolm, the eldest son
of Duncan, fled for safety into Cumberland, and
Donald, the second, into Irelandb.
Macbeth, who became king of Scotland in the
year 1040, reigned for ten years with great popu-
larity and applause, but at the end of that time
changed his manner of government, and became a
tyrant. His first action in this character was
against Banquo. He remembered that the weird
sisters had promised to Banquo that he should be
father to a line of kings. Haunted with this re-
collection, Macbeth invited Banquo and his son
Fleance to a supper, and appointed assassins to
b Hollinshed, History of Scotland, p. 244, 245.
MACBETH.
murder them both on their return. Banquo was
slain accordingly ; but Fleance, under favour of
the darkness of the night, escaped•.
This murder brought Macbeth into great odium,
since every man began to doubt of the security
of his life, and Macbeth at the same time to fear
the ill will of his subject..s. He therefore
ceeded to destroy all against whom he entertained
any suspicion, and every day more and more to
steep his hands in blood. Further to secure
self, he built a castle on the top of a high hill,
called Dunsinnan, which was placed on such an
elevation, that it seemed impossible to approach it
in a hostile manner. This work he carried on by
means of requiring the thanes of the kingdom, each
one in turn, to come with a set of workmen to help
forward the edifice. When it carne to the tum of
Macduff, thane of Fife, he sent workmen, but did
not come himself, as the others had done.
beth from that time regarded Macduff with an eye
of perpetual suspiciond.
Meanwhile Macbeth, remembering that the
gin of his present greatness consisted in the pro-
phecy of the weird sisters, addicted himself con-
tinually to the consulting of wizards. Those he
consulted gave him a pointed warning to t.ake
heed of Macduff, who in time to come would seek
to destroy him. This warning would
• Hollinshed, History of Srotland, p. 246.
d Ibid, p. 248, 249.
1\fACBt:TH.
ably have proved fatal to Macduff; had not on the
other hand Macbeth been buoyed up in security,
by the prediction of a certain witch in whom he
had great trust, that he should never be vanquished
till the wood of Bernane came to the castle of
Dunsinnan, and that he should not be slain by
any man that was born of a woman; both which
he judged to be impossibilities•.
This vain confidence however urged him to do
many outrageous things; at the same time that
such was his perpetual uneasiness of mind, that in
every nobleman's house he had one servant or
another in fee, that he might be acquainted with
every thing that was said or meditated against him.
About this time Macduff fled to Malcolm, who
had now taken refuge in the court of Edward the
Confessor; and Macbeth came with a strong party
into Fife with the purpose of surprising him. The
master beiug safe, those within Macduff's castle
threw open the gates, thinking that no mischief
would result from receiving the king. But Mac-
beth, irritated that he missed of his prey, caused
Macduff's wife and children, and all persons who
were found within the castle, to be slain.'
Shortly after, Malcolm and Macduff, reinforced
by ten thousand English under the command of
Seyward, earl of Northumberland, marched into
Scotland. The subjects of Macbeth stole away
daily from him to join the invaders; but he had
• Hollinshcd, History of Scotland, p. 219. 1 Ibid.
:a --- --
VIRGIL.
such confidence in the predictions that had been
delivered to him, that he still believed he should
never be vanquished. Malcolm meanwhile, as he
approached to the castle ofDunsinnan, commanded
his men to cut down, each of them, a bough from
the wood of Bernane,, as large as he could bear'
that they might take the tyrant the more by sur-
prise. Macbeth saw, and thought the wood ap-
proached him; but he remembered the prophecy,
and led forth and marshalled his men. When how-
ever the enemy threw down their boughs, and their
formidable numbers stood revealed, Macbeth and
his forces immediately betook themselves to flight.
Macduff pursued him, and was hard at his heels,
when the tyrant turned his horse, and exclaimed,
"Why dost thou follow me? Know, that it is or-
dained that no creature born of a woman can ever
overcome me." Macduff instantly retorted, " I am
the man appointed to slay thee. I was not born
of a woman, but was untimely ripped from my
mother's womb." And, saying this, he killed him
on the spot. Macbeth reigned in the whole seven.
teen years8•
VIRGIL.
One of the most curious particulars, and which
cannot be omitted in a history of sorcery, is the
various achievements in the art of magic which have
been related of the poet Virgil. I bring them in
g Hollinshed, History of Scotland, p. 251.
!loo .VIRGIL.
here, because they cannot be traced further back
than the eleventh or twelfth century. The
place ofthis illustrious man was at Pausilippo, near
Naples.; the Neapolitans had for many centuries
cherished a peculiar reverence for his memory ;
and it has been supposed that the old ballads, and
.songs of the minstrels of the north of Italy, iirst
originated this idea respecting hima. The vulgar
of this city, full of imagination and poetry, con-
ceived the idea of treating him as the guardian
genius ,of -the. place; and, in bodying forth this
conception, they represented him in his life-time as
gifted with. supernatural .powers, which he em-
ployed in various ways for the advantage of a city
that he so dearly loved. Be this as it will, it ap-
-pears that Gervais ·of Tilbury, chancellor to Otbo
the Fourth, emperor of Germany, HeJinandus, a
Cisterian monk, and Alexander Neckam, all of
whom lived about this time, first recorded these
particulars in their works.
1 They teJl us, that Virgil placed a fly of brass over
!one of the gates of the city, which, as long as it
continued there, that is, for a space of eight years,
had the virtue of keeping Naples clear from mos-
kitoes and all noxious insects : that he built a set
of shambles, the meat in which was at all times free
from putrefaction : that he placed two images over
, the gates ofthe city,one ofwhich was named Joyful,
and the other Sad, one of resplendent beauty, and
• Naude.
VIRGIL. 2.51
the other hideous ..nd deformed, and that whoever
entered the town under the fonner image would
in all and under the latter
would as certainly miscarry : .that he caused a
brazen _statue to be erected on a mountain near
with a trumpet in his mouth, which when
the north wind sounded so shrill as to -drive
to the sea the fire and smoke which issued from
the neighbouring forges of Vulcan : that he built
different baths at Naples, specifically prepared for
the cure of every disease, which were afterwards
demolished by the malice of the physicians : and
that he lighted a. _perpetual fire for the refreshment
of all- _clqse to which he placed an archer
of brass, with his bow bent, and this inscription,
" Whoever strikes me, I will let fly my arrow :"
that a fool-hardy fellow notwithstanding struck the
statue, when the arrow was immediately shot into
the fire, and the fire was extinguished. It is added,
that, Naples being infested with a vast multitude
of contagious leeches, Virgil made.a leech of gold,.
which he threw into a pit, and so delivered the
city from the infection : that he surrounded his
garden with a wall of air, within which the rain
never fell : that he built a bridge of brass that
would transport him wherever he pleased: that he
made a set of statues, which were named the sal-
vation of Rome, which had the property that, ifany
one of the subject nations prepared to revolt, the
statue, which bore the name of, and was adored by
ROBERT OF LINCOLN.
that nation, rung a bell, and pointed with its finger
in the direction of the danger : that he made a
head, which had the virtue of predicting things
future: and lastly, amidst a world ofother wonders,
that he cut ·a subterranean passage through mount
Pausilippo, that travellers might pass with perfect
safety, the mountain having before been so infested
with serpents and dragons, that no one could ven-
ture to cross it.
ROBERT OF LINCOLN.
The most eminent person next, after popes Sil-
vester II and Gregory VII, who labours under
the imputation of magic, is Robert or
Robert of Lincoln, appointed bishop of that see
in the year 1fl35. He was, like those that have
been mentioned, a man of the most
transcendant powers of mind, and extraordinary
acquirements. His parents are said to have been
so poor, that he was compelled, when a boy, to
engage in the meanest offices for bread, and even
to beg on the highway. At length the mayor of
Lincoln, struck with his appearance, and the quick-
ness of his answers to such questions as were pro-
posed to him, took him into his family, and put
him to school. Here his ardent love of learning,
and admirable capacity for acquiring it, soon pro-
cured him many patrons, by whose assistance he
was enabled to prosecute his studies, first at Cam-
ROBERT OF LINCOLN•.
bridge, afterwards at and finally at Paris.
He was master ofthe Greek and Hebrew languages,
then very rare accomplishments; and is pronounced
by Roger Bacon, a very competent judge, of whom
we shall presently have occasion to speak, to have
spent much of his time, for nearly forty years, in
the study ofgeometry, astronomy, optics, and other
branches of mathematical learning, in all of which
he much excelled. So that, as we are informed
from the same authority, this same Robert of Lin.
coin, and his friend, Friar Adam de Marisco, were
the two most learned men in the world, and ex.
celled the rest of mankind in both human and
divine knowledge.
This great man especially distinguished himself
by his firm and undaunted opposition to the cor.
ruptions of the court of Rome. Pope Innocent IV,
who filled the papal chair upwards of eleven years,
from 1248 to 1254, appears to have exceeded all
his predecessors in the shamelessness of his abuses.
I
We are told, that the hierarchy of the church of
England was overwhelmed like a flood with an in.
undation of foreign dignitaries, of whom not a few
were mere boys, for the most part without learn-
ing, ignorant of the language of the island, and
incapable of benefiting the people nominally under
their care, the more especially as they continued
to dwell in their own countries, and scarcely once
in their lives visited the sees to which they had
MICHAI!.'L ·SCOT.
been appointeda. GrossetM:e lifted up his voice
against these scandals. He said that it was impos-
sible the genuine apostolic see, which received its
authority from the Lord Jesus for edification, and
not for destruction, could be guilty ofsuch a crime,
for that would forfeit all its glory, and plunge it
into the pains of·hell. He did not scruple there-
fore among his most intimate friends to pronounce
the reigning pope to be the true Antichrist ; and
he addressed the pontiff himself in ·scar-cely more
measured tt-.rms.
Among the other accomplishments· of bishop
he is said to have beeu profoundly
skilled in the art of magic : and the old poet Gower
relates of him that he iniule a head of. ex-
pressly constructed in such a manner as to be able
to answer such questions as were· propounded to
it, and to foretel future events;
MICHAEL SCOT.
Michael Scot of Balwirie in· the county of Fife,
was nearly contemporary wi th bishop
He was eminent ·for his knowledge of the Greek
and Arabic languages. He ·was patronised by the
emperor Frederic II, who ·encouraged him to un-
dertake a translation of the works of Aristotle into
Latin. He addicted. himse]f to ·astrology, che-
• Godwin, Pnesulibus, art. Gronthead.
THE DEAN OF BADA10Z.
mistry, and the still more frivolous sciences of
chiromancy and physiognomy. It does not ap-
pear that he made any pretences to magic ; but
the vulgar, we are told, generally regarded him as
a sorcerer, and are said to have carried their super-
stition so far as to have conceived a terror of so
much as touching his works.
THE DEAN OF BADAJOZ.
There is a story related by this accomplished
scholar, in a collection of aphorisms and anecdotes.
entitled Mema Philosophica, which deserves to be
cited as illustrating the ideas then current on the
subject of sorcery. "A certain great necromancer,
or nigromancer, had once a pupil of considerable
rank, who professed himself extreme1y desirous for
once to have the gratification of believing -himself
an emperor. The necromancer, tired with his im-
portunities, at length assented to his prayer. He
took measures accordingly, and by his potent art
caused his scholar to believe that one ·province and
dignity fell to him after another, till at length his
utmost desires became satisfied. The magician
bowever appeared to be still at his elbow ; and
one day, when the scholar was in the highest ex.;.
ultation at his good fortune, the master humbly
1equested him to bestow upon him some landed
possession, as a reward for the .extraordinary be-
nefit he had conferred. The imaginary emperor
THE DEAN OF BADAJOZ.
cast upon the necromancer a glance of the utmost
disdain and contempt. " Who are you ?" said he,
" I really have not the smallest acquaintance with
you." " I am he," replied the magician, with
withering severity of countenance and tone, " that
gave you all these things, and will take them
away." And, saying this, the illusion with which
the poor scholar had been inebriated, immediately
vanished ; and he bec.ame what he had before been,
and no more.
The story thus briefly told by Michael Scot.
afterwards passed through many hands, and was
greatly dilated. In its last form by the abbe
Blanchet, it constituted the well known and agree-
able tale of the dean of Badajoz. This reverend
divine comes to a sorcerer, and intreats a specimen
of his art. The magician replies that he had met
with so many specimens of ingratitude, that he
was resolved to be deluded no more. The dean
persists, and at length overcomes the reluctance of
the master. He invites his guest into the parlour,
and orders his cook to put two partridges to the
fire, for that the dean of Badajoz will sup with
him. Presently he begins his incantations ; and
the dean becomes in imagination by turns a bishop,.
a cardinal, and a pope. The magician then claims
his reward. Meanwhile the dean, inflated with his
supposed elevation, turns to his benefactor, and
says, " I have learned with grief that, under pre-
tence of secret science, you correspond with the
------
MIRACLE OF THE TUB OF WATER. '/l57
prince of darkness. I command you to repent and
abjure; and in the mean time I order you to quit
the territory of the' church in three days, under
pain of being delivered to the secular arm, and the
rigour of the flames." The sorcerer, having been
thus treated, presently dissolves the incantation,
and calls aloud to his cook, " Put down but one
partridge, the dean of Badajoz does not sup with
me to-night."
MIRACLE OF THE TUB OF WATER.
This story affords an additional example of the
affinity between the ancient Asiatic and European
legends, so as to convince us that it is nearly im-
possible that the one should not be in some way
borrowed from the other. There is, in a compila-
tion called the Turkish Tales, a story of an infidel
sultan of Egypt, who took the liberty before a
learned Mahometan doctor, of ridiculing some of
the miracles ascribed to the prophet, as for ex-
ample his transportation into the seventh heaven,
and having ninety thousand conferences with God,
while in the mean time a pitcher of water, which
had been thrown down in the first step of his as-
cent, was found with the water not all spilled at
his return.
The doctor, who had the gift of working
miracle.'!, told the sultan that, with his consent, he
would give him a practical proof of the possibility
2.18 :MIRACLE OF THE TUB OF WATEJl.
of the circumstance related of Mahomet. The
sultan agreed. The .doctor therefore directed that
·a huge tub of water should be brought in, and,
while the prince stood before it with his courtiers
around, the holy man bade him plunge his head
into the water, and draw it out again. The sultan
immersed his head, and had no sooner done so,
than he found himself alone at the foot of a moun-
tain on a desert shore. The prince first began to
rave against the doctor for this piece of treachery
and witchcraft. Perceiving however that all his
rage was vain, and submitting himself to the
imperiousness of his situation, he began to seek
for some habitable tract. By and by he dis-
covered people cutting down wood in a forest,
and, having no remedy, he was glad to have
recourse to the same employment. In process
of time he was brought to a town ; and there
by great good fortune, after other adventures, he
married a woman of beauty and wealth, and lived
long enough with her, for her to bear him seven
sons and seven daughters. He was afterwards re-
duced to want, so .as to be obliged to. ply in the
streets as a porter for his livelihood. One day, as
he walked alone on the sea-shore, ruminating on
his hard fate, he was seized with a fit of devotion,
and threw off his clothes, that he might wash him-
self, agreeably to the Mahometan custom, pre·
viously to saying his prayers. He had no sooner
however plunged into the sea, and raised his head
INSTITUTION OF FRIARS. !t59
again above water, than he found himself standing
by the side of the tub that had been brought in,
with all the great persons of his court round him,
and the holy man close at his side. He found
that the long series of imaginary adventures he had
passed through, had in reality occupied but one
minute of time.
INSTITUTION OF FRIARS.
About this time a great revolution took place in
the state of literature in Europe. The monks,
who at one period considerably contributed to pre-
serve the monuments of ancient learning, me-
morably fell offin reputation and industry. Their
communities by the ·donations of the pious grew
wealthy ; and· the monks themselves inhabited
splendid palaces, and became luxurious, dissipated
and idle. Upon the ruins of their good fame rose
a very extraordinary race of men, called Friars.
The monks professed celibacy, and to have no in-
dividual property; but the friars abjured all pro-
perty, both private and in common. They had
no place where to lay their heads, and subsisted
as mendicants upon the alms of their contempora-
ries. · They did not hide themselves in refectories
and dormitories, but lived perpetually before the
public. In the sequel indeed they built Friaries
for their residence ; but these were no less distin-
guished for the simplicity and humbleness of their
260 ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
appearance, than the monasteries were for their
grandeur and almost regal magnificence. The
Friars were incessant in preaching and praying,
voluntarily exposed themselves to the severest
hardships, and were distinguished by a fervour
of devotion and charitable activity that knew no
bounds. We might figure them to ourselves as
swallowed up in these duties. But they added to
their merits an incessant eamt>stness in learning
and science. A new era in intellect and subtlety
of mind began with them ; and a set of the most
wonderful men in depth of application, logical
acuteness. and discoveries in science distinguished
this period. They were few indeed, in comparison
of the world of ignorance that every where sur-
rounded them ; but they were for that reason only
the more conspicuous. They divided themselves
principally into two orders, the Dominicans and
Franciscans. And all that was most illustrious in
intellect at this period belonged either to the one
or the other.
ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
Albertus Magnus, a Dominican, was one of the
most famous of these. He was born according to
some accounts in the year 1198, and according to
others in 120.5. It is reported of him, that he was
naturally very dull, and so incapable of instruction,
that he was on the point of quitting the cloister
ALBERTUS .MAGNUS. 261
from despair of learning what his \'Ocation requir-
ed, when the blessed virgin appeared to him in a
vision, and enquired of him in which he desired to
excel, philosophy or divinity. He chose philoso-
phy ; and the virgin assured him that he should
become incomparable in that, but, as a punish-
ment for not having chosen divinity, he should
sink, before he died, into his former stupidity. It
is added that, after this apparition, he had an in-
finite deal of wit, and advanced in science with so
rapid a progress as utterly to astonish the masters.
He afterwards became bishop of Ratisbon.
It is related of Albertns, that he made an entii·e
man of brass, putting together its limbs under
various constellations, and occupying no less than
thirty years in its formation. This man would an-
swer all sorts of questions, and was even employed
by its maker as a domestic. But what is more ex-
traordinary, this machine is said to have become at
length so garrulous, that Thomas Aquinas, being
a pupil of Albertus, and finding himself perpetu-
ally disturbed in his abstrusest speculations by its
uncontrolable loquacity, in a rage caught up a
hammer, and beat it to pieces. According to other
accounts the man of Albertus Magnus was com-
posed, not of metal, but of flesh and bones like
other men; but this being afterwards judged to be
impossible, and the virtue of images, rings, and
planetary sigils being in great vogue, it was con-
ceived that this figure was formed of brass, and in-
ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
debted for its virtue to certain conjunctions and
aspects ofthe planets•.
A further extraordinary .story is told ofAlbertus
Magnus, well calculated to exemplify the ideas of
magic with which these ages abounded. William,
earl of Holland, and king of the Romans, was ex-
pected at a certain time to pass through Cologne.
Albertus had set his heart upon obtaining from
this prince the cession of a certain tr.act of land
upon which to erect a convent. The better to
. succeed in his application be conceived the follow-
ing scheme. He invited the prince on his jour-
ney to partake of a magnificent entertainment.
To the surprise of every body, when the prince
arrived, he found the preparations for the banquet
spread in the open air. It was in the depth of
winter, when the earth was bound up in frost, and
the whole face of things was covered with snow.
The attendants of the court were mortified, and
began to express their discontent in loud murmurs.
No sooner however was the king with Albertus
and his courtiers seated at table, than the snow in-
stantly disappeared, the temperature of summer
shewed itself, and the sun burst forth with a
dazzling splendour. The ground became covered
with the richest verdure ; the trees were clothed
at once with foliage, flowers and fruits : and a vin.
tage of the richest grapes, accompanied with a
ravishing odour, invited the spectators to partake.
• Naude, c. 18.
ROGER BACON•. 268
A thousand birds sang on every branch. A train
of pages shewed themselves, fresh and graceful in
person and attire, and were ready diligently to
supply the wants·of all, while every one was struck
with astonishment as· to who they were and from
whence they came. · The guests were obliged to
throw off their upper garments the better to cool
themselves. The whole assembly was delighted
with their entertainment, and Albertus easily gain4
ed his suit of the king. Presently after, the ban-
quet disappeared ; all was wintry and solitary as
before ; the snow lay thick upon the ground ; and
the guests in all haste snatched up the garments
they had laid aside, and hurried into the apart-
ments, that by numerous fires on the blazing hearth
they might counteract the dangerous chill which
threatened to seize on their
ROGER BACON.
Roger Bacon, of whom extraordinary stories of
magic have been told, and who was about twenty
years younger than Albertus, was one of the rarest
geniuses that have existed on earth. He was a
Franciscan friar. He wrote grammars of the Latin,
Greek and Hebrew languages. He was profound
in the science of optics. He explained the nature
of burning-glasses, and of glasses which
and diminish, the microscope and the telescope.
b Johannes de Becka, apud Trithemii Chronica, ann. 1254.
ROGER BACON.
He discovered the composition ofgunpowder. He
ascertained the true length of the solar year ; and
his theory was afterwards brought into general use,
but upon a narrow scale, ·by Pope Gregory XIII,
nearly three hundred years after his death•.
But for all these discoveries he underwent a
series of the most bitter persecutions. It was im-
puted to him by the superiors of his order that
the improvements he suggested in natural philoso-
phy were the effects of magic, and were suggested
to him through an intercourse with infernal spirits.
They forbade him to communicate any of his spe-
culations. They wasted his frame with rigorous
fasting, often restricting him to a diet of bread and
water, and prohibited all strangers to have access
to him. Yet he went on indefatigably in pursuit
of the secrets of natureh. At length Clement IV,
to whom he appealed, procured him a considera-
ble degree of liberty. But, after the death of that
pontiff, he was again put under confinement, and
continued in that state for a further period of ten
years. He was liberated but a short time before
his death.
Freind that, among other ingenious con-
trivances, he put statues in motion, and drew arti-
culate sounds from a brazen head, not however by
magic, but by an artificial application of the prin-
ciples of natural philosophy. This probably fur-
• Freind, History of Physick, Vol. II, p. 234 to 239.
b Bacon, Epist. ad Clement. IV. c Ubi supra.
ROGER BACON.
nished a foundation for the tale of Friar Bacon and
Friar Bungy, which was one of the earliest pro-
ductions to which the art of printing was applied
in England. These two persons are said to have
entertained the project of inclosing England with
a wall, so as to render it inaccessible to any in-
vader. They accordingly raised the devil, as the
person best able to inform them how this was to be
done. The devil advised them to make a brazen
head, with all the internal structure and organs of
a human head. The construction would cost them
much time; and they must then wait with patience
till the faculty of speech descended upon it. It
would finally however become an oracle, and, if
the question were propounded to it, would teach
them the solution of their problem. The friars
spent seven years in bringing the structure to per-
fection, and then waited day after day, in expec-
tation that it would utter articulate sounds. At
length nature became exhausted in them, and they
lay down to sleep, having first given it strictly in
charge to a servant of theirs, clownish in nature,
but of strict fidelity, that he should awaken them
the moment the image began to speak. That pe-
riod arrived. The head uttered sounds, but such
as the clown judged unworthy of notice. "Time
is!" it said. No notice was taken ; and a long
pause ensued. "Time was !" A similar pause,
and no notice. " Time is passed!" And the mo-
ment these words were uttered, a tremendous
THOMAS AQUINAS.
storm ensued, with thunder and lightning, and the
head was shivered into a thousand pieces. Thus
the experiment of fii.ar Bacon and friar Bungy
came. to. nothing.
THOMAS AQUINAS.
Thomas Aquinas, who has likewise been brought
under the imputation of magic, was one of the pro-
foundest scholars and subtlest logicians of his day.
He also furnishes a remarkable instance of the as-
cendant which the friars at that time obtained over
the minds of ingenuous young men smitten with
the thirst of knowledge. He was a youth of illus-
trious. birth, and received the rudiments of his
education under the monks of Monte Cassino, and
in the .university of Naples. But, not contented
with these advantages, he secretly entered himself
into the society ofPreaching Friars, or Dominicans,
at seventeen years of age. His mother, being in-
dignant that he should thus take the vow of po-
verty, and sequester himself from the world for
life, employed every means in her power to induce
hi111 to alter his purpose, but in vain. The friars,
to deliver him from her importunities, removed
him from Naples to Terracina, from Terracina to
Anagnia, and from Anagnia to Rome. His mo-
ther followed him in all these changes of residence,
but was not permitted so much as to see him. At
length she spirited up his two elder brothers to
THOMAS AQ.UlNAS.
seize him by force. They waylaid him in his road
to Paris, whither he was sent to complete his course
of instruction, and carried him off to the castle of
Aquino where he bad been born. Here he was
confined for two years ; but he found a way to
correspond with the superiors of his order, and
finally escaped from a window in the castle. St.
Thomas Aquinas (for he was canonised after his
death) exceeded perhaps all men that ever existed
in the severity and strictness of his metaphysical
disquisitions, and thus acquired the name of the
Seraphic Doctor.
It was to be expected that a man, who thus im-
mersed himself in the depths of thought, should be
an inexorable enemy to noise and interruption.
We have seen that he dashed to pieces the arti-
ficial man of brass, that Albertus Magnus, who
was his tutor, had spent thirty years in bringing to
perfection, being impelled to this violence by its
perpetual and unceasing garrulitya. It is further
said, that his study being placed in a great tho-
roughfare, where the grooms were all day long ex-
ercising their horses, he found it necessary to apply
a remedy to this nuisance. He made by the laws
of magic a small horse of brass, which he buried
two or three feet under ground in the midst of this
highway; and, having done so, no horse would
any longer pass along the road. It was in vain
that the grooms with whip and spur sought to con-
• See page 261.
PETER OF APONO.
quer their repugnance. They were finally com-
pelled to give up the attempt, and to choose an-
other place for their daily exercise".
It has further. been sought to fix the imputation
of magic upon Thomas Aquinas by imputing to
him certain books written on that science; but
these are now acknowledged to be spuriousd.
PETER OF APONO.
Peter of Apono, so called from a village of that
name in the vicinity of Padua, where he was born
in the year was an eminent philosopher, ma-
thematician and astrologer, but especially excelled
in physic. Finding that science at a low ebb in
his native country, he resorted to Paris, where it
especially flourished ; and after a time returning
home, exercised his art with extraordinary success,
and by this means accumulated great wealth.
But all his fame and attainments were poisoned
to him by the accusation of magic. Among other
things he was said to possess seven spirits, each of
them inclosed in a crystal vessel, from whom he
received every information he desired in the seven
liberal arts. He was further reported to have had
the extraordinary faculty of causing the money he
expended in his disbursements, immediately to
come back into his own purse. He was besides of
a hasty and revengeful temper. In consequence of
c Naude, Cap. 17. d Ibid.
ENGLISH LAW OF HIGH TREASON. 2ti!J
this it happened to him, that, having a neighbour,
who had an admirable spring of water in his garden,
and who was accustomed to suffer the physician to
send for a daily supply, but who for some displea-
sure or inconvenience withdrew his permission,
Peter d'Apono, by the aid of the devil, removed
the spring from the garden in which it had flowed,
and turned it to waste in the public street. For
some of these accusations he was called to account
by the tribunal of the inquisition. While he was
upon his trial however, the unfortunate man died.
But so unfavourable was the judgment of the in-
quisitors respecting him, that they decreed that his
bones should be dug up, and publicly burned.
Some ofhis friends got intimation of this, and saved
him from the impending disgrace by removing his
remains. Disappointed in this, the inquisitors pro-
ceeded to burn him in effigy.
ENGLISH LAW OF HIGH TREASON.
It may seem strange that in a treatise concerning
necromancy we should have occasion to speak of
the English law of high treason. But on reflection
perhaps it may appear not altogether alien to the
subject. This crime is ordinarily considered by
our lawyers as limited and defined by the statute of
W Edward III. As Blackstone has _observed, "By
the ancient common law there was a great latitude
left in the breast of the judges, to determine what
9:'/0 ENGLISH LAW OF HIGH TREASON.
was treason, or not so: whereby the creatures of
tyrannical power had opportunity to create .abun-
dance of constructive treasons; that is, to raise,
by forced and arbitrary constructions, offences
into the crime and punishment of treason, which
were never suspected to be such. To prevent
these inconveniences, the statute of 25 Edward III
was made"." This statute divides treason into
seven distinct branches ; and the first and chief of
these is, "when a man doth compass or imagine
the death of our lord the king."
Now the first circumstance that strikes us in this
affair is, why the crime was not expressed in more
perspicuous and appropriate language? Why, for
example, was it not said, that the first and chief
branch of treason was to "kill the king?" Or, if
that limitation was not held to be sufficiently ample,
could it not have been added, it is treason to " at-
tempt, intend, or contrive to kill the king?" We
are apt to make much too large an allowance for
what is considered as the vague and obsolete lan-
guage of our ancestors. Logic was the element in
which the scholars of what are called the dark agea
were especially at home. It was at that period
that the description of human geniuses, called the
Schoolmen, principally flourished. The writers
who preceded the Christian era, possessed in an
extraordinary degree the gift of imagination and
invention. But they had little to boast on the
• Commentaries, Book IV. chap. vi.
ENGLISH LAW OF HIGH TREASON.
score of arrangement, and discovered little· skill in
the strictness of an accurate deduction. Mean-
while the Schoolmen had a surprising subtlety in
weaving the web of an argument, and arriving by
a close deduction, through a multitude of steps, to
a sound and irre&istible conclusion. Our lawyers
to a certain degree formed themselves on the dis-
cipline of the Schoolmen. Nothing can be more
forcibly contrasted, than the mode of pleading
among the ancients, and that which has charac-
terised the processes of the moderns. The plead-
ings of the ancients were praxises of the art of
oratorical persuasion ; the pleadings ofthe moderns
sometimes, though rarely, deviate into oratory, but
principally consist in dextrous subtleties upon
words, or a nice series of deductions, the whole
contexture of which is endeavoured to be woven
into one indissoluble substance. Several striking
examples have been preserved of the mode of
pleac;ling in the reign of Edward II, in which the
exceptions taken for the defendant, and the replies
supporting the mode of proceeding on behalf of
th,e plaintiff, in no respect fall short of the most
adntired shifts, quirks and subtleties of the great
lawyers. of later timesb.
It would be certainly wrong therefore to con-
sider the legal phrase, to " compass or imagine the
death of the king," as meaning the same thing as
to "kill, or intend to kill" him. At all events we
may take it for granted, that to " compass" does not
Life of Chaucer, c. xviii.
9)]2 ENGLISH LAW OF HIGH TRIUSON.
mean to accomplish ; but rather to " take in hand,
to go about to effect." There is therefore no form
of words here forbidding to " kill the king." The
phrase, to " imagine," does not appear less start-
ling. What is, to a proverb, more lawless than
imagination ?
Evil into the mind of God or man
May come and go, so unapproved, and leave
No spot or blame behind.
What can be more tyrannical, than an inquisition
into the sports and freaks of fancy ? What more
unsusceptible of detection or evidence? How
many imperceptible shades of distinction between
the guilt and innocence that characterise them !-
Meanwhile the force and propriety of these terms
will strikingly appear, if we refer them to the
popular ideas of witchcraft. Witches were under-
stood to have the power of destroying life, without
the necessity of approaching the person whose life
was to be destroyed, or producing any conscious-
ness in him of the crime about to be perpetrated.
One method was by exposing an image of wax to
the action of fire ; while, in proportion as the
image wasted away, the life of the individual who
was the object contrived against, was undermined
and destroyed. Another was by incantations
and spells. Either of these might fitly be called
the " compassing or imagining the death." Ima-
gination is, beside this, the peculiar province of
witchcraft. And in these pretended hags the
faculty is no longer desultory and erratic. Con-
ZIITO.
scions of their power, they are supposed to have
subjected it to system and discipline. They apply
its secret and trackless energy with an intentness
and a vigour, which ordinary mortals may in vain
attempt to emulate in an application of the force
of inert matter, or of the different physical powers
by means of which such stupendous effects have
often been produced.-How universal and familiar
then must we consider the ideas of witchcraft to
have been before language which properly de-
scribes the secret practices of such persons, and is
not appropriate to any other, could have been
found to insinuate itself into the structure of the
most solemn act of our legislature, that act which
beyond all others was intended to narrow or shut
out the subtle and dangerous inroads of arbitrary
power!
ZIITO.
Very extraordinary things are related of Ziito,
a sorcerer, in the court of Wenceslaus, king of
Bohemia and afterwards emperor of Germany, in
the latter part of the fourteenth century. This is
perhaps, all things considered, the most wonderful
specimen of magical power any where to be found·
It is gravely recorded by Dubravius, bishop of
Olmutz, in his History of Bohemia. It was pub-
licly exhibited on occasion of the marriage of
Wenceslaus with Sophia, daughter of the elector
T
ZIITO,
Palatine of Bavaria, before a vast assembled multi-
tude.
The father-in-law of the king, well aware of the
bridegroom's known predilection for theatrical ex-
hibitions and magical illusions, brought with him
\ .
to Prague, the capital of Wenceslaus, a whole
waggon-load of morrice-dancers and jugglers, who
made their appearance among the royal retinue.
Meanwhile Ziito, the favourite magician of the
king, took his place obscurely among the ordinary
spectators. He however immediately arrested the
attention of the strangers, being remarked for his
extraordinary deformity, and a mouth that stretched
completely from ear to ear. Ziito was for some
time engaged in quietly observing the tricks and
sleights that were exhibited. At length, while
the chief magician of the elector Palatine was
still busily employed in shewing some of the most
admired specimens of his art, the Bohemian, in-
dignant at what appeared to him the bungling
exhibitions of his brother-artist, came forward, and
reproached him with the unskilfulness of his per-
formances. The two professors presently fell into
warm debate. Ziito, provoked at the insolence ofhis
rival, made no more ado but swallowed him whole
before the multitude, attired as he was, all but his
shoes, which he objected to because they were
dirty. He then retired for a short while to a
doset, and presently returned, leading the magi-
cian along with him.
ZIITO.
·Having thus disposed of his rival, Ziito pro-·
ceeded to exhibit the wonders of his art. He
shewed himself first in his proper shape, and then
in those of different persons successively, with
countenances and a stature totally dissimilar to his
own ; at one time splendidly attired in robes of
purple and silk, and then in the twinkling of an
eye in coarse linen and a clownish coat of frieze.
He would proceed along the field with a smooth
and undulating motion without changing the pos-
ture of a limb, for all the world as ifhe were carried
along in a ship. He would keep pace· with the
king's chariot, in a car drawn by barn-door fowls.
He also amused the king's guests as they sat at
table, by causing, when they stretched out their
hands to the different dishes, sometimes their
hands to turn into the cloven feet of an ox, and at
other times into the hoofs of a horse. He would
clap on them the antlers of a deer, so that, when
they put their heads out at window to see some
sight that was going by, they ·could by no means
draw them back again ; while he in the meari.
time feasted on the savoury cates that had been
spread before them, at his leisure.
At one time he pretended to be in want of
money, and to task his to devise the means to
procure it. On such an occasion he took up a
handful of grains ofcorn, and presently gave them
the form and appearance of thirty hogs well fatted
for the market. He drove these hogs to the re-
T2
ZIITO.
sidence of one Michael, a rich dealer, but who was
remarked for being penurious and thrifty in his
bargains. He offered them to Michael for what-
ever price he should judge reasonable. The bargain
was presently struck, Ziito at the same time warn-
ing the purchaser, that he should on no account
drive them to the river to drink. Michael how-
ever paid no attention to this advice; and the
hogs no sooner arrived at the river, than they
turned into grains of corn as before. The dealer,
greatly enraged at this trick, sought high and
low for the seller that he might be revenged on
him. At length he found him in a vintner·s shop
seemingly in a gloomy and absent frame of mind,
reposing himself, with his legs stretched out on a
form. The dealer called out to him, but he
seemed not to hear. Finally he seized Ziito by one
foot, plucking at it with all his might. The foot
came away with the leg and thigh ; and Ziito
screamed out, apparently in great agony. He:
seized Michael by the nape of the neck, and
dragged him before ajudge. Here the two set up
their separate complaints, Michael for the fraud
that had been committed on him, and Ziito for the
irreparable injury he had suffered in his person.
From this adventure came.the proverb, frequent in
the days of the historian, speaking of a person
who had made an improvident bargain, " He has
made just such a purchase as Michael did with his
hogs."
TllANSMUTATION OF METALS. '1,77
TRANSMUTATION OF METALS.
Among the different pursuits, which engaged
the curiosity ofactive minds in these unenlightened
ages, was that of the transmutation of the more
ordinary metals into gold and silver. This art,
though not properly of necromantic nature, was
however elevated by its professors, by means of an
imaginary connection between it and astrology, and
even between it and an intercourse with invisible
spirits. They believed, that their investigations
could not be successfully prosecuted but under fa-
vourable aspects of the planets, and that it was even
indispensible to them to obtain supernatural aid.
In proportion as the pursuit of transmutation,
and the search after the elixir of immortality grew
into vogue, the adepts became desirous of invest-
ing them with the venerable garb of antiquity.
They endeavoured to carry up the study to the
time of Solomon; and there were not wanting some
who imputed it to the first father of mankind.
They were desirous to track its footsteps in An-
cient Egypt ; and they found a mythological re-
presentation of it in the expedition of Jason after
the golden fleece, and in the cauldron by which
Medea restored the father of Jason to his original
youth•. But, as has already been saidr the first
unquestionable mention of the subject is to be re-
ferred to the time of Dioclesianb. From that pe-
• Wotton, Reflections on Learning, Chap. X.
b See above, p. 29.
RAYMOND LULLI.
irod traces of the studies of the alchemists from
time to time regularly discover themselves.
The study of chemistry and its supposed invalu-
able results was aasiduously cultivated by Geber
.and the Arabians.
ARTEPHIUS.
Artephius is one of the earliest names that
occur. among the students who sought the
sopher's stone. Of him extraordinary thiaga are
t<>ld. He lived about the year 1180, and wrote a
book of the Art of Prolonging Human Life, in
which he professes to have already attained the age
of one thousand and twenty-five years•. He must
by this account have been born. about one hundred
ye3rs after our Saviour. He professed to
ed the infernal region,s, and there to have seen Tan-
talus seated on a throne of gold. He is. also said
by some to be the same person, whose life has been
.written by Philostratus under the name ofApoJ...
lonius of Tyanab, He wrote a book on the philo-
sopher's stone,. which was published in Latin and
French at Paris in the year 1612.
RAYMOND LULL!.
Among the European students of these interest-
ing secrets a foremost place ia to be assigned to
Raymond Lulli and Arnold of Villeneuve.
• Biographie Univenelle. b Naude.
RAYMOND LULLI.
Lulli was undoubtedly a man endowed in a very
eminent degree with the powers of intellect. He
was a native of the island of Majorca, and was
born in the year l!l34. He is said to have passed
his early years in profligacy and dissipation, but to
have been reclaimed by the accident of falling in
love with a young woman afHicted with a cancer.
This circumstance induced him to apply himself
intently to the study of chemistry and medicine,
with a view to discover a cure for her complaint,
in which he succeeded. He afterwards entered
into the community of Franciscan friars.
Edward the First was one of the most extraor-
dinary princes that ever sat on a throne. He re-
vived the study of the Roman civil law with such
success as to have merited the title of the Eng-
lish Justinian. He was no less distinguished as
the patron of arts and letters. He invited to
England Guido dalla Colonna, the author of the
Troy Book, and Raymond Lulli. This latter was
believed in his time to have prosecuted his studies
with such success as to have discovered the elixir
vita, by means of which he could keep off the
assaults of old age, at least for centuries, and
the philosopher's stone. He is affirmed by these
means to have supplied to Edward the First six
millions of money, to enable him to carry on war
against the Turks.
But he was not only indefatigable in the pursuit
of natural science. He was also seized with an in-
f.!SO RAYMOND LULLI.
vincible desire' to convert the Mahometans to the
Christian faith. For this purpose he entered ear-
nestly upon the study of the Oriental languages.
He endeavoured to prevail on different princes of
Europe to concur in his plan, and to erect colleges
for the purpose, but without success. He at length
set out alone upon his enterprise, but met with
small encouragement. He penetrated into Africa
and Asia. He made few converts, and was with
difficulty suffered to depart, under a solemn injunc-
tion that he should not return. But Lulli chose to
obey God rather than man, and ventured a second
time. The Mahometans became exasperated with
his obstinacy, and are said to have stoned him
to death at the age of eighty years. His body
was however transported to his native place ; and
miracles are reported to have been worked at his
tomb\
Raymond Lulli is beside famous for what he was
pleased to style his Great Art. The ordinary ac-
counts however that are given of this art assume
a style of burlesque, rather than of philosophy.
He is said to have boasted that by means of it he
could enable any one to argue logically on any
subject for a whole day together, independently
ofany previous study ofthe subject in debate. To
the details of the process Swift seems to have been
indebted for one of the humorous projects describ-
ed by him in his voyage to Laputa. Lulli recom-
• Moreri.
'ARNOLD OF VILLENEUVE. 281
mended that certain general terms of logic, meta-
physics, ethics or theology should first be collected.
These were to be inscribed separately upon square
pieces ofparchment. They were then to be placed
on a frame so constructed that by turning a handle
they might revolve freely, and form endless com-
binations. One term would stand for a subject,
and another for a predicate. The student was then
diligently to inspect the different combinations
that fortuitously arose, and exercising the subtlety
ofhis faculties to select such as he should find best
calculated for his purposes. He would thus carry
on the process of his debate ; and an extraordi-
nary felicity would occasionally arise, suggesting
the most ingenious hints, and leading on to the
most important discoveries\-If a man with the
eminent faculties which Lulli otherwise appeared
to have possessed really laid down the rules of
such an art, all he intended by it must have been
to satirize the gravity with which the learned doc-
tors of his time carried on their grave disputa-
tions in mood and figure, having regard only to
the severity of the rule by which they debated,
and holding themselves totally indifferent whether
they made any real advances in the discovery of
truth.
ARNOLD OF VILLENEUVE.
Arnold of Villeneuve, who lived about the same
time, was a man of eminent attainments. He
b Enfield, History of Philosophy, Book VIII, chapter i.
LAWS RESPECTING TRANSMUTATION.
made a great proficiency in Greek, Hebrew, and
Arabic. He.devoted himself in a high degree to
astrology, and was so confident in his art, as to
venture to predict that the end of the world would
occur in a few years; but he lived to witness the
fallaciousness of his prophecy. He had much re-
putation as a physician. He appears to have been
a bold thinker. He maintained that deeds of
charity were of more avail than the sacrifice of the
mass, and that no one would be damned hereafter,
but such as were proved to afford an example of
immoral conduct. Like all the men of these times
who were distinguished by the profoundness of
their studies, he was accused ofmagic. For this,
or upon a charge of heresy, he was brought un-
der the prosecution of the inquisition. But he
was alarmed by the fate of Peter of Apono, and
by recantation or some other mode ofprudent con-
trivance was fortunate enough to escape. He is
one of the persons to whom the writing of the
book, De Tribus Impostoribus, Of the Three Im-
postors (Moses, Jesus Christ and Mahomet) was
imputed r·
ENGLISH LAWS RESPECTING TRANSMUTATION.
So great an alarm was conceived about this time
respecting the art of transmutation, that an act of
parliament was passed in the fifth year of Henry
IV, 1404, which lord Coke states as the shortest
• Moreri.
LAWS RESPECTING TRANSMUTATION.
of our statutes, determining that the making of
gold or silver shall be deemed felony. This law
is said to have resulted from the fear at that time
entertained by the houses of lords and commons,
lest the executive power, finding itself by these
means enabled to increase the revenue ofthe crown
to any degree it pleased, should disdain to ask aid
from. the legislature; and in consequence should.
degenerate into tyranny and arbitrary power-.
George Ripley, of Ripley in the county of
York, is mentioned, towards the latter part of the
fifteenth century, as having discovered the philoso-
pher's stone, and by its means contributed one
hundred thousand pounds to the knights ofRhodes,
the better to enable them to carry on their war
against the Turksh.
About this time however the tide appears to
have turned, and the alarm respecting the multi-
plication of the precious metals so greatly to have
abated, that patents were issued in the thirty-6fth
year of Henry VI, for the encouragement of such
as were disposed to seek the universal medicine,
and to endeavour the transmutation of inferior
metals into gold•.
• Watson, Chemical Essays, Vol. I.
b Fuller, Worthies of England.
• Watson, ubi aupra.
285
REVIVAL OF LETTERS.
WHILE these things were going on in Europe,
the period was gradually approaching, when the
energies of the human mind were to loosen its
shackles, and its independence was ultimately to
extinguish those delusions and that superstition
which had so long enslaved it. Petrarch, born in
the year 1804, was deeply impregnated with a pas-
sion for classical lore, was smitten with the love of
republican institutions, and especially distinguished
himself for an adoration of Homer. Dante, a more
sublime and original genius than Petrarch, was hia
contemporary. About the same time Boccaccio in
his Decamerone gave at once to Italian prose that
purity and grace, which none of his successors in
the career of literature have ever been able to
excel. And in our own island Chaucer with a
daring hand redeemed his native tongue from the
disuse and ignominy into which it had fallen, and
poured out the immortal strains that the genuine
lovers of the English tongue have ever since pe-
rused with delight, while those who are discou-
raged by its apparent crabbedness, have yet grown
familiar with his thoughts in the smoother and more
modern versification of Dryden and Pope. From
that time the principles of true taste have
JOAN OF ARC.
more or less cultivated, while with equal career
independence of thought and an ardent spirit of
discovery have continually proceeded, and made a
rapid advance towards the perfect day.
But the dawn of literature and intellectual free-
dom were still a long time ere they produced
their full effect. The remnant of the old woman
clung to the heart with a tenacious embrace. Three
or four centuries elapsed, while yet· the belief in
sorcery and witchcraft was alive in certain classes
of society. And then, as is apt to occur in such
cases, the expiring folly occasionally gave tokens
of its existence with a convulsive vehemence, and
became only the more picturesque and impressive
through the strong contrast of lights and shadows
that attended its manifestations.
JOAN OF ARC.
One of the most memorable stories on record is
that of Joan of Arc, commonly called the Maid of
Orleans. Henry the Fifth of England won the
decisive battle of Agincourt in the year 1415, and
some time after concluded a treaty with the reign..
ing king of France, by which he was recognised,
in case of that king's death, as heir to the throne.
Henry V died in th'e year 1422, and Charles VI
of France in less than two months after. Henry
VI was only nine months old at the time of his
father's death ; but such was the deplorable state
JOAN OF ARC.
of France, that he was in the same year proclaiined
king in Paris, and for some years seemed to have
every prospect of a fortunate reign. John duke
of Bedford, the king's uncle, was declared regent
ofFrance : the son of Charles VI was reduced to
the last extremity ; Orleans was the last strong
town in the heart of the kingdom which held out
in his favour ; and that place seemed on the point
to surrender to the conqueror.
In this fearful crisis appeared Joan of Arc, and
in the most incredible manner turned the whole
tide of affairs. She was a servant in a poor inn at
Domremi, and was accustomed to perform the
coarsest offices, and in particular to ride the horses
to a neighbouring stream to water. Of course the
situation of France and her hereditary king formed
the universal subject of conversation ; and Joan
became deeply impressed with the lamentable state
of her country and the misfortunes of her king.
By dint of perpetual meditation, and feeling in her
breast the promptings of energy and enterprise,
she conceived the idea that she was destined by
heaven to be the deliverer of France. Agreeably
to the state of intellectual knowledge at that period,
she persuaded herself that she saw visions, and
held communication with the saints. She had con-
versations with St. Margaret, and St. Catherine of
Fierbois. They told her that she was commissioned
by God to raise the siege of Orleans, and to con·
duct ·charles VII to his coronation at Rheims.
JOAN OF ARC.
St. Catherine commanded her to demand a swotd
which was in her church at Fierbois, which the
Maid described by particular tokens, though she
had never seen it. She then presented herself to
Baudricourt, governor of the neighbouring town
of Vaucouleurs, telling him her commission, and
requiring him to send her to the king at Chinon.
Baudricourt at first made light of her application ;
but her importunity and the ardour she expressed
at length excited him. He put on her a man's
attire, gave her arms, and sent her under an escort
of two gentlemen and their attendants to Chinon.
Here she immediately addressed the king in per-
son, who had purposely hid himself behind his
courtiers that she might not know him. She then
delivered her message, and offered in the name of
the Most High to ra\se the siege of Orleans, and
conduct king Charles to Rheims to be anointed.
As a further confirmation she is said to have re.
vealed to the king before a few select friends, a
secret, which nothing but divine inspiration could
have discovered to her.
Desperate as was then the state of affairs, Charles
and his ministers immediately resolved to seize the
occasion that offered, and put forward Joan as an
instrument to revive the prostrate courage of his
subjects. He had no sooner determined on this,
than he pretended to submit the truth of her
mission to the most rigorous trial. He called to-
gether an assembly of theologians and doctors,
JOAN OF ARC.
who rigorously examined Joan, and pronounced
in her favour. He referred the question to the
parliament of Poitiers ; and they, who met per-
suaded that she was an impostor, became con-
vinced of her inspiration. She was mounted on a
high-bred steed, furnished with a consecrated ban-.
ner, and marched, escorted by a body of five thou-
sand men, to the relief of Orleans. The French,
strongly convinced by so plain an interposition of
heaven, resumed the courage to which they had
long been strangers. Such a phenomenon was
exactly suited to the superstition and credulity of
the age. The English were staggered with the
rumours that every where went before her, and
struck with a degree of apprehension and terror
that they could not shake off. The garrison, in-
formed of her approach, made a sally on the other
side of the town; and Joan and her convoy entered
without opposition. She displayed her standard
in the market-place, and was received as a celestial
deliverer.
She appears to have been endowed with a pru-
dence, not inferior to her courage and spirit of
enterprise. With great docility she caught the
hints of the commanders by whom she was sur-
rounded ; and, convinced of her own want of ex-
perience and skill, delivered them to the forces as
the dictates of heaven. Thus the knowledge and
discernment of the generals were brought into
play, at the same time that their suggestions ac-
u
JOAN OF ARC.
quired new weight, when falling from the lips of
the heaven-instructed heroine., A second convoy
arrived; the waggons and troops passed between
the redoubts of the English ; while a dead silence
and astonishment reigned among the forces, so
lately enterprising and resistless. Joan now called
on the garrison no longer to stand upon the defen,.
sive, but boldlyto attack the army of the besiegers.
She took one redoubt and then another. The
English, overwhelmed with amazement, scarcely
dared to lift a hand against her. Their veteran
generals became spell-bound and powerless ; and
their soldiers were driven before the prophetess
like a flock of sheep. The siege was raised.
Joan followed the English garrison to a fortified
town which they fixed on as their place of retreat.
The siege lasted ten days ; the place was taken;
and all the' English within it made prisoners. The
late victorious forces now concentred themselves
at Patay in the Orleanois ; Joan adyanced to meet
them. The battle lasted not a moment; it was
a flight than a combat ; Fastolfe, one of the
bravest of our commanders, threw down his arms,
and ran for his life ; Talbot and Scales, the other
generals, were made prisoners. The siege of Or-
leans was raised on the eighth of May, 142!) ;
the battle of Patay was fought on the tenth of the
following month. Joan was at this time twenty-
two years of age.
This extraordinary turn having been given to
JOAN OF ARC.
the affairs of the kingdom, Joan next insisted
that the king should march to Rheims, in order to
his being crowned. Rheims lay in a direction eK-
pressly through the midst of the enemies' garri-
sons. But every thing yielded to the marvellous
fortune that attended upon the heroine. Troyes
opened its gates ; Chalons followed the example ;
Rheims sent a deputation with the keys of the
city, which met Charles on his march. The pro-
posed solemnity took place amidst the extacies and
enthusiastic shouts of his people. It was no sooner
over, than Joan stept forward. She said, she had
now performed the whole of what God had com-
missioned her to do ; she was satisfied ; she in-
treated the king to dismiss her to the obscurity
from which she had sprung.
The ministers and generals of France however
found Joan too useful an instrument, to be willing
to part with her thus early ; and she yielded to
their earnest expostulations. Under her guidance
they assailed Laon, Soissons, Chateau Thierry,
Provins, and many other places, and took them
one after another. She threw herself into Com-
piegne, which was besieged by the Duke of Bur-
gundy in conjunction with certain English com-
manders. The day after her arrival she headed a
sally against the enemy ; twice she repelled them;
but, finding their numbers increase every moment
with fresh reinforcements, she directed a retreat.
Twice she returned upon her pursuers, and made
u !2
JOAN OF ARC.
them recoil, the third time she was less fortunate.
She found herself alone, surrounded with the ene-
my ; and after having enacted prodigies of valour,
she was compelled to surrender a prisoner. This
happened on the twenty-fifth of May, 1430.
1t remained to be determined what should be
the fate of this admirable woman. Both friends
and enemies agreed that her career had been at-
tended with a supernatural power. The French,
who were so infinitely indebted to her achieve-
ments, and who owed the sudden and glorious re-
verse of their affairs to her alone, were convinced
that she was immediately commissioned by God,
and vied with each other in reciting the miracu-
lous phenomena which marked every step in her
progress. The English, who saw all the victorious
acquisitions of Henry V crumbling from their
grasp, were equally impressed with the manifest
miracle, but imputed all her good-fortune to a
league with the prince of darkness. They said
that her boasted visions were so many delusions of
the devil. They determined to bring her to trial
for the tremendous crimes of sorcery and witch-
craft. They believed that, if she were once con-
victed and led out to execution, the prowess and
valour which had hitherto marked their progress
would return to them, and that they should obtain
the same superiority over their disheartened foes.
The devil, who had hitherto been her constant
ally, terrified at the spectacle of the flames that
JOAN OF ARC.
consumed her, would instantly return to the in-
fernal regious, and leave the field open to English
enterprise and energy, and to the interposition of
God and his saints.
An accusation was prepared against her, and all
the solemnities of a public trial were observed.
But the proofs were so weak and unsatisfactory,
and Joan, though oppressed and treated with the
utmost severity, displayed so much acuteness and
presence of mind, that the court, not venturing to
proceed to the last extremity, contented them-
selves with sentencing her to perpetual imprison-
ment, and to be allowed no other nourishment than
bread and water for life. Before they yielded to
this mitigation of punishment, they caused her to
sign with her mark a recantation of her offences.
She acknowledged that the enthusiasm that had
guided her was an illusion, and promised never
more to listen to its suggestions.
The hatred of her enemies however was not yet
appeased. They determined in some way to en-
trap her. They had clothed her in a female garb;
they insidiously laid in her way the habiliments of
a man. The fire smothered in the bosom of the
maid, revived at the sight ; she was alone ; she
caught up the garments, and one by one adjusted
them to her person. Spies were set upon her to
watch for this event ; they burst into the apart-
ment. What she had done was construed into no
less offence than that of a relapsed heretic ; there
ELEANOR COBHAl\1.
was no more pardon for such confirmed delin-
quency ; she was brought out to be burned alive
in the market-place of Rouen, and she died, em-
bracing a crucifix, and in her last moments calling
upon the name of Jesus. A few days more than
twelve months, had elapsed between the period of
her first captivity and her execution.
ELEANOR COBHAM, DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER.
This was a period in which the ideas of witch-
craft had caught fast hold of the minds of man-
kind ; and those accusations, which by the en-
lightened part ofthe species would now be regarded
as worthy only of contempt,. were then considered
as charges of the most nature. While
"
John, duke of Bedford, the eldest uncle of king
Henry VI, was regent of France, Humphrey of
Gloucester, next brother to Bedford, was lord pro-
tector of the realm of England. Though Henry
was now nineteen years of age, yet, as he was a
prince of slender capacity, Humphrey still con-
tinued to discharge the functions of sovereignty.
He 'was eminently endowed with popular. quali-
ties, and was a favourite with the majority of the
nation. He had however many enemies, one of the
chief of whom was Henry Beaufort, great-uncle
to the king, and cardinal of Winchester. One of
the means employed by this prelate to undermine
the power of Humphrey, consisted in a charge
ELEANOR COBHAM.
of Witchcraft brought against Eleanor Cobham, his
wife.
This woman had probably yielded to the delu-
sions, which artful persons, who saw into the weak-
ness of her character, sought to practise upon her.
She was the second wife of Humphrey, and he was
suspected to have indulged in undue familiarity
with her, before he was a widower. His present
duchess was reported to have had recourse to
witchcraft in the first instance, by way of securing
his wayward inclinations. The duke of Bedford
had died in 1485 ; and Humphrey now, in addi-
tion to the actual exercise of the powers of sove-
reigny, was next heir to the crown in case of the
king's decease. This weak and licentious woman,
being now duchess of Gloucester, and wife to the
lord protector, directed her ambition to the higher
title and prerogatives of a queen, and by way of
feeding her evil passions, called to her counsels Mar-
gery Jourdain, commonly called the witch of Eye,
Roger Bolingbroke, an astrologer and supposed
magician, Thomas Southwel, canon of St. Ste-
phen's, and one John Hume, or Hun, a priest.
These persons frequently met the duchess in secret
cabal. They were accused of calling up spirits
from the infernal world ; and they made an image
of wax, which they slowly-consumed before a fire,
expecting that, as jmage gradual!y wasted away,
so the constitution and life of the poor king would
decay and finally perish.
ELEANOR COBHAM.
Hume, or Hun, is supposed to have turned in-
former, and upon his information several of these
persons were taken into custody. After previous
examination, on the twenty-fifth of July, 1441,
Bolingbroke was placed upon a scaffold before the
cross of St. Paul's, with a chair curiously painted,
which was supposed to be one of his implements
of necromancy, and dressed in mystical attire, and
there, before the archbishop of Canterbury, the
cardinal of Winchester, and several other bishops,
made abjuration of all his unlawful arts.
A short time after, the duchess of Gloucester,
having fled to the sanctuary atWestminster, her case
was referred to the same high persons, and Boling-
broke was brought forth to give evidence against
her. She was ofconsequence committed to custody
in the castle of Leeds near Maidstone, to take her
trial in the month of October. A commission was
directed to the lord treasurer, several noblemen,
and certain judges of both benches, to enquire into
all manner of treasons, sorceries, and other things
that might be hurtful to the king's person, and
Bolingbroke and Southwel as principals, and the
duchess of Gloucester as accessory, were brought
before them. Margery Jourdain was arraigned at
the same time; and she, as a witch and relapsed
heretic, was condemned to be burned in Smithfield.
The duchess of Gloucester was sentenced to do
penance on three several days, walking through
the streets of London, with a lighted taper in her
RICHARD III. 297
hand, attended by the lord mayor, the sheriffs, and
a select body of the livery, and then to be banished
for life to the isle of Man. Thomas Southwel died
in prison ; and Bolingbroke was hanged at Tyburn
on the eighteenth of November.
RICHARD III.
An event occurred not very long after this,
which deserves to be mentioned, as being well cal-
culated to shew how deep an impression ideas of
witchcraft had made on the public mind even in
the gravest affairs and the counsels of a nation.
Richard duke of Gloucester, afterwards Richard
III, shortly before his usurpation of the crown in
1488, had recourse to this expedient for disarming
the power of his enemies, which he feared as an
obstacle to his project. Being lord protector, he
came abruptly into the assembly of the council
that he had left but just before, and suddenly
asked, what punishment they deserved who should
be found to have plotted against his life, being the
person, as nearest akin to the young king, in-
trusted in chief with the affairs of the nation ?
And, a suitable answer being returned, he said the
persons he accused were the queen-dowager, and
Jane Shore, the favourite concubine of the ]ate
king, who by witchcraft and forbidden arts had
sought to destroy him. And, while he spoke, he
]aid bare his ]eft arm up to the elbow, which ap-
RICHARD III.
peared shrivelled and wasted in a pitiable maimer.
" To this condition," said he, " have these aban-
doned women reduced me."-The historian adds,
that it was well known that his arm had been thus
wasted from his birth.
In January 1484 the parliament met which re-
cognised the title of Richard, and pronounced the
marriage of Edward IV null, and its issue il1egi-
timate. The same parliament passed an act of
tainder against Henry earl ofRichmond, afterwards
Henry VII, the countess ofRichmond, his
and a great number of other persons, many of them
the most considerable adherents of the house of
Lancaster. Among these persons are enumerated
Thomas Nandick and Wil1iam Knivet, necro-
mancers. In the first parliament of Henry VII
this attainder was reversed, and Thomas Nandick
of Cambridge, conjurer, is specially nominated as
an object offree pardonb.
• Sir Thomas More, History of Edward the Fifth.
b Buck, Life and Reign of Richard III.
SANGUINARY PROCEEDINGS AGAINST WITCH-
CRAFT.
I AM now led to the most painful part of my
-subject, but which does not the less constitute one
of its integral members, and which, though pain-
ful, is deeply instructive, and constitutes a most
essential branch in the science of human nature.
Wherever I could, I have endeavoured to render
the topics which offered themselves to my exami-
natic;m, entertaining. When men pretended to
invert the known laws of nature, " murdering im-
possibility; to make what cannot be, slight work ;"
I have been willing to consider the whole as an
ingenious fiction, and merely serving as an ex-
ample how far credulity could go in setting aside
the deductions of our reason, and the evidence of
sense. The artists in these cases did not fail to
excite admiration, and gain some sort of applause
from their contemporaries, though still with a
tingling feeling that all was not exactly as it
should be, and with a confession that the profes-
sors were exercising unhallowed arts. It was like
what has been known of the art of acting ; those
who employed it were caressed and made every
where welcome, but were not allowed the dis-
tinction of Christian burial.
But, particularly in the fifteenth century, things
800 SANGUINARY PROCEEDINGS
took a new turn. In the dawn of the day of good
sense, and when historical evidence at length
began to be weighed in the scales of judgment,
men became less careless of truth, and regarded
prodigies and miracles with a different temper.
And, as it often happens, the crisis, the precise
passage from ill to better, shewed itself more cala-
mitous, and more full of enormities and atrocity,
than the period when the understanding was com-
pletely hood-winked, and men digested absurdities
and impossibility with as much ease as their every
day food. T,hey would not now forgive the tam-
pering with the axioms of eternal truth ; they re-
garded cheat and imposture with a very different
eye ; and they had recourse to the stake and the
faggot, for the purpose of proving that they would
no longer be trifled with. They treated the of-
fenders as the most atrocious of criminals, and
thus, though by a very indirect and circuitous
method, led the way to the total dispersion of
those clouds, which hung, with most uneasy opera-
tion, on the human understanding.
The university of Paris in the year 1898 pro-
mulgated an edict, in which they complained that
the practice of witchcraft was become more fre-
quent and general than at any former period•.
A stratagem was at this time framed by the
ecclesiastical persecutors, of confounding together
the crimes of heresy and witchcraft. The first of
• Hutchinson on Witchcraft.
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT. SOl
these might seem to be enough in the days of
bigotry and implicit faith, to excite the horror of
the vulgar; but the advocates of religious unifor-
mity held that they should be still more secure of
their object, if they could combine the sin of
holding cheap the authority of the recognised
heads of Christian faith, with that of men's en-
listing under the banners of Satan, and becoming
the avowed and sworn vassals of his infernal em-
pire. They accordingly seem to have invented
the ideas of a sabbath of witches, a numerous as-
sembly of persons who had cast off all sense of
shame, and all regard for those things which the
rest of the human species held most sacred, where
the devil appeared among them in his most for-
bidding form, and, by rites equally ridiculous and
obscene, the persons present acknowledged them-
selves his subjects. And, having invented this
scene, these cunning and mischievous persecutors
found means, as we shall presently see, ofcompelling
their unfortunate victims to conft!ss that they had
personally assisted at the ceremony, and performed
all the degrading offices which should consign them
in the world to come to everlasting fire.
While I express myself thus, I by no means in-
tend to encourage the idea that the ecclesiastical
authorities of these times were generally hypo-
crites. They fully partook of the narrowness of
thought of the period in which they lived. They
believed that the sin of heretical pravity was " as
SAN'GUINARY PROCUDINSS
the sin of witchcraftb ;" they regarded them alike
with horror, and were persuaded that there was a
natural consent and alliance between them. Fully
impressed with this conception, they employed
means from which our genuine and undebauched
nature revolts, to extort from their deluded victims
a confession of what their examiners apprehended
to be true ; they asked them leading questions ;
they suggested the answers they desired to re-
ceive; and led the ignorant and friendless to ima-
gine that, if these answers were adopted, they
might expect immediately to be relieved from in-
supportable tortures. The delusion went round.
These unhappy wretches, finding themselves the
objects of universal abhorrence, and the hatred of
mankind, at length many of them believed that
they had entered into a league with the devil, that
they had been transported by him through the air
to an assembly of souls consigned to everlasting
reprobation, that they had bound themselves in
acts of fealty to their infernal taskmaster$, and had
received from him in return the gift of performing
superhuman and supernatural feats. This is a
tremendous state of degradation of what Milton
called the " the faultless proprieties of
which cooler thinking and more enlightened times
would lead us to regard as impossible, but to which
the uncontradicted and authentic voice of history
compels us to subscribe.
b 1 Samuel, xv, 23. • Doctrine of Divorce, Preface.
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT, 308 /
The Albigenses and Waldenses were a set of
men, who, in the flourishing provinces of Langue-
doc, in the darkest ages, and when the understand-
ings of human creatures by a force not less me-
morable than that of Procrustes were reduced to
an uniform stature, shook off by some strange and
unaccountable freak, the chains that were univer-
sally imposed, and arrived at a boldness of think-
ing similar to that which Luther and Calvin
after a lapse of centuries advocated with happier
auspices. With these manly and generous senti-
ments however they combined a considerable
portion of wild enthusiasm. They preached the
necessity of a community of goods, taught that it
was necessary to wear sandals, because sandals
only had been worn by the apostles, and devoted
themselves to lives of rigorous abstinence and the
most severe self-denial.
'The Catholic church knew no other way in
those days of converting heretics, but by fire and
sword ; and accordingly pope Innocent the Third
published a crusade against them. The inquisition
was expressly appointed in its origin to bring back
these stray sheep into the flock of Christ ; and, to
support this institution in its operations, Simon
Montfort marched a numerous army for the exter-
mination of the offenders. One hundred thousand
are said to have perished. They disappeared from
the country which had witnessed their commence-
ment, and dispersed themselves in the vallies of
'
804 SANGUINARY PROCEEDINGS
l
Piedmont, in Artois, and in various other places.
This crusade occurred in the commencement of
the thirteenth century ; and they do not .again
attract the notice of history till the middle of the
fifteenth.
Monstrelet, in his Chronicle, gives one of the
earliest accounts of the proceedings at this time
instituted against these unfortunate people, under
the date of the year 1459. " In this year," says
he, " in the town of Arras, there occurred a
miserable and inhuman scene, to which, I know
' not why, was given the name of Vaudoisie. There
were taken up and imprisoned a number of consi-
1 derable persons inhabitants ofthis town, and others
r\
, of a very inferior class. These latter were so
cruelly put to the tortu.re, that they confessed,
1
that they had been transported by supernatural
' means to a solitary place among woods, where the
·devil appeared before them in the form of a man,
though they saw not his face. He instructed them
in the way in which they should do his bidding, and
exacted from them acts of homage and obedience.
He feasted them, and after, having put out the
lights, they proceeded to acts of the grossest licen-
tiousness." These according to Mon-
strelet, were dictated to the victims by their tor-
mentors ; and they then added, under the same
suggestion, the names of divers lords, prelates, and
governors of towns and bailliages, whom they
affirmed they had seen at these meetings, and who
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT. 305
joined in the same unholy ceremonies. The his-
torian adds, that it cannot be concealed that these
accusations were brought by certain malicious per-
sons, either to gratify an ancient hatred, or to
extort from the rich sums of money, by means of
which they might purchase their escape from
further prosecution. The persons apprehended
were many of them put to the torture so severely,
and for so long a time, and were tortured again
and again, that they were obliged to confess what
was laid to their charge. Some however shewed
so great constancy, that they could by no means
be induced to depart from the protestation of
their innocence. In fine, many of the poorer
victims were inhumanly burned ; while the richer
with great sums of mopey procured their dis-
charge, but at the same time were compelled to
banish themselves to distant places, remote from
the scene of this cruel outrage.-Balduinus of
Artois gives a similar account, and adds that the
sentence of the judges was brought by appeal
under the revision of the parliament of Paris, and
was reversed by that judicature in the year 1491d,
I have not succeeded in tracing to my satisfac-
tion from the original authorities the dates of the
following examples, and therefore shall refer them
to the periods assigned them in Hutchinson on
Witchcraft. The facts themselves rest for the
most part on the most unquestionable authority.
d Delrio, Disquisitiones Magir:c, p. 746.
X
806 SANGUINARY PROCEEDINGS
( .
Innocent VIII published about the year 1484
bull, in which he affirms: " It has come to our
ears, that numbers of both sexes do not avoid to
have intercourse with the infernal fiends, and that
by their sorceries they afflict both man and beast ;
they blight the marriage-bed, destroy the births of
women, and the increase of cattle ; they blast the
corn on the ground, the grapes of the vineyard,
the fruits of the trees, and the grass and herbs of
the field." For these reasons he arms the inquisi-
tors with apostolic power to " imprison, convict
and punish'' all such as may be charged with these
offences.-The consequences of this edict were
dreadful all over the continent, particularly in
1
Italy, Germany and France.
' - - j Alciatus, an eminent Jawyer of this period, re-
lates, that a certain inquisitor came about this time
into the vallies of the Alps, being commissioned to
enquire out and proceed against heretical women
with whom those parts were infested. He accord-
ingly consigned more than one hundred to the
flames, every day, like a new holocaust, sacrificing
such persons to Vulcan, as, in thejudgment of the
historian, were subjects demanding rather helle- .
bore than fire; till at length the peasl:!-ntrY of the
vicinity rose in arms, and droye the merciless
judge out of the country. The culprits were ac-
cused of having dishonoured the crucifix, and de-
nying Christ for their God. They were asserted
to have solemnised after a detestable way the
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT. 807
devil's sabbath, in which the fiend appeared per-
sonally among them, and instructed them in the
ceremonies of his worship. Meanwhile a question
was raised whether they personally assisted on the
occasion, or only saw the solemnities in a vision,
credible witnesses having sworn that they were at
home in their beds, at the very time that they were
accused of having taken part in these
In 1.51.5, more than five hundred persons are
said to have suffered capitally for the crime of
witchcraft in the city of Geneva in the course of
three months'.
In one thousand persons were burned on
this accusation in the territory of Como, and one
hundred per annum for several year
· Danreus commences his Dialogue of Witches
with this observation. " Within three months of
the present time (1.57.5) an almost infinite num-
ber of witches have been taken, on whom the par-
liament of Paris has passed judgment : and the
same tribunal fails not to sit daily, as malefactors
accused of this crime are continually brought be-
fore them out of all the provinces."
In the year 1.59.5 Nicholas Remi, otherwise Re-
migius, printed a very curious work, entitled De-
monolatreia, in which he elaborately expounds the
principles of the compact into which the devil en-
• Alciatua, Parergw• Juris, L. VIII, cap. 22.
' Danama, apud Delrio, Proloquium.
g Bartbolomreua de Spina, De Strigibus, c. 13.
SOB SANGUINARY PROCEEDINGS
ters with his mortal allies, and the modes of con-
duct specially observed by both parties. He boasts
that his exposition is founded on an exact obser-
vation of thejudicial proceedings which had taken
place under his eye in the duchy of Lorraine,
where for the preceding fifteen years nine hundred
persons, more or less, had suffered the extreme
penalty of the law for the crime of sorcery. Most
of the persons tried seem to have been sufficiently
communicative as to the different kinds of menace
and compulsion by which the devil had brought
them into his terms, and the various appearances
he had exhibited, and feats he had performed :
but others, says the author, had, " by preserving
an obstinate silence, shewn themselves invincible
to every species of torture that could be inflicted
on them."
But the most memorable record that remains to
us on the subject of witchcraft, is contained in an
ample quarto volume, entitled A Representation
(Tableau) of the Ill Faith of Evil Spirits and De-
mons, by Pierre De Lancre, Royal Counsellor
in the Parliament of Bordeaux. This man was
appointed with one coadjutor, to enquire into cer-
tain acts of sorcery, reported to have been com-
mitted in the district of Labourt, near the foot of
the Pyrenees ; and his commission bears date in
May, 1609, and by consequence twelve months
before the death of Henry the Fourth.
The book is dedicated to M. de Silleri, chan.
AGAINST WITCHCRAFT. 809
cellor ofFrance ; and in the dedication the au'thor
observes, that formerly those who practised sor-
cery were well known for persons of obscure sta-
tion and narrow intellect ; but that now the sor-
cerers who confess their misdemeanours, depose,
that there are seen in the customary meetings held
by such persons a great number of individuals of
quality, whom Satan keeps veiled from ordinary
gaze, and who are allowed to approach near to
him, while those of a poorer and more vulgar class
are thrust back to the furthest part of the assem-
bly. The whole narrative assumes the form of'a
regular warfare between Satan on the one side,
and the royal commissioners on the other.
At first the devil endeavoured to supply the
accused with strength to support the tortures by
which it was sought to extort confession from
them, insomuch that, in an intermission of the
torture, the wretches declared that, presently fall-
ing asleep, they seemed to be in paradise, and to
enjoy the most beautiful visions. The commis-
sioners however, observing this, took care to grant
them scarcely any remission, tiii they had drawn
from them, if possible, an ample confession. The
devil next proceeded to stop the mouths of the
accused that they might not confess. He leaped
on their throats, and evidently caused an obstruc-
tion of the organs of speech, so that in vain they
endeavoured to relieve themselves by disclosing all
that was demanded of them.
310 PROCEEDINGS AGAINST WITCHCRAFT,
The historian proceeds to say that, at these
sacrilegious assemblings, they now began to mur-
mur against the devil, as wanting power to re-
lieve them in their extremity. The children, the
daughters, and other relatives of the victims re-
proached him, not scrupling to say, "Out upon
you t you promised that our mothers who were
prisoners should not die ; and look how you have
kept your word with us t They have been burned,
and are a heap of ashes." In answer to this charge
the devil stoutly affirmed, that their who
seemed to have suffered, were not dead, but were
safe in a foreign country, assuring the
that, if they called on them, they would receive
an answer. The children called accordingly, and
by an infernal illusion an answer came, exactly in
the several voices of the deceased, declaring that
they were in a state of happiness and security.
Further to satisfy the complainers, the devil
produced illusory fires, and encouraged the dissa-
tisfied to walk through them, assuring them that
the fires lighted by a judicial decree were as harm-
less and inoffensive as these. The demon further
threatened that he would cause the prosecutors to
be burned in their own fire, and even proceeded
to make them in semblance hover and alight
on the branches of the neighbouring trees. He
further caused a swarm of toads to appear like
a garland to crown the heads of the sufferers, at
which when in one instance the bystanders threw
SAVONAROLA. 811
stones to drive them away, one monstrous black
toad remained to the last uninjured, and finally
mounted aloft, and vanished from sight. De
Lancre goes on to describe the ceremonies of the
sabbath of the devil ; and a plate is inserted, pre-
senting the assembly in the midst of their solemni-
ties. He describes in several chapters sort of
contract entered into between the devil and the sor-
cerers, the marks by which they may be known,
the feast with which the demon regaled them, their
distorted and monstrous dance, the copulation be.
tween the fiend and the witch, and its issue.-It
is easy to imagine with what sort of fairness the
trials were conducted, when such is the descrip-
tion the judge affords us of what passed at these
assemblies. Six hundred were burned under this
prosecution.
The last chapter is devoted to an accurate ac-
count of what took place at an auto da fe in the
month of November 1610 at Logrogno on the
Ebro in Spain, the victims being for the greater
part the unhappy wretches, who had escaped
through the Pyrenees from the merciless prose-
cution that had been exercised against them by
the historian of the whole.
SAVONAROLA.
Jerome Savonarola was one of the most remark.
able men of his time, and his fortunes are well
312 SAVONAROLA,
adapted to illustrate the peculiarities of that period.
He was born in the year 1452 at :Ferrara in Italy.
He became a Dominican Friar at Bologna without
the knowledge of his parents in the twenty-second
year of his age. He was first employed by his
superiors in elucidating the principles of physics
and metaphysics. But, after having occupied some
years in this way, he professed to take a lasting
leave of these subtleties, and to devote himself ex-
clusively to the study of the Scriptures. In no
long time he became an eminent preacher, by the
elegance and purity of his style acquiring the ap-
plause of hearers of taste, and by the unequalled
fervour of his eloquence securing the hearts of the
many. It was soon obvious, that, by his power
gained in this mode, he could do any thing he
pleased with the people of Florence among whom
he resided. Possessed of such an ascendancy, he
was not contented to be the spiritual guide of the
souls ofmen, but further devoted himselfto the tem-
poral prosperity and grandeur ofhis country. The
house of Medici was at this time masters of the
state, and the celebrated Lorenzo de Medici pos-
sessed the administration of affairs. But the poli-
tical maxims of Lorenzo were in discord with those
of our preacher. Lorenzo sought to concentre all
authority in the opulent few ; but Savonarola, pro-
ceeding on the model of the best times of ancient
Rome, endeavoured to vest the sovereign power in
the hands of the people.
SAVON AHOLA. 313
He had settled at Florence in the thirty-fourth
year of his age, being invited to become prior of
the convent of St. Mark in that city : and such
was his popularity, that, four years after, Lorenzo
on his death-bed sent for Savonarola to administer
to him spiritual consolation. Meanwhile, so stem
did this republican shew himself, that he insisted on
Lorenzo's renunciation of his absolute power, before
he would administer to him the sacrament and abso-
lution : and Lorenzo complied with these terms.
The prince being dead, Savonarola stepped im-
mediately into the highest authority. He recon-
stituted the state upon pure republican principles,
and enjoined four things especially in all his public
preachings, the fear of God, the love of the re-
public, oblivion of all past injuries, and equal rights
to all for the future.
But Savonarola was not contented with the de-
livery of Florence, where he is said to have pro-
duced a total revolution of manners, from liberti-
nism to the most exemplary purity and integrity ;
he likewise aspired to produce an equal effect on
the entire of Italy. Alexander VI, the most pro-
fligate of popes, then filled the chair at Rome; and
Savonarola thundered against him in the cathedral
at Florence the most fearful denunciations. The
pope did not hesitate a moment to proceed to ex-
tremities against the friar. He cited him to Rome,
under pain, if disobeyed, of excommunication to
the priest, and an interdict to the republic that har-
814 SAVONAROLA.
boured him. The Florentines several times suc-
ceeded in causing the citation to be revoked, and,
making terms with the sovereign pontiff, Jerome
. again and again suspending his preachings, which
were however continued by other friars, his col-
leagues and confederates. Savonarola meanwhile
could not long be silent ; he resumed his philippics
as fiercely as ever.
At this time faction raged strongly at Florence.
Jerome had many partisans; all the Dominicans,
and the greater part of the populace. But he had
various enemies leagued against him; the adher-
ents of the house of Medici, those of the pope, the
libertines, and all orders of monks and friars ex-
cept the Dominicans. The violence proceeded so
far, that the preacher was not unfrequently insulted
in his pulpit, and the cathedral echoed with the
dissentions of the parties. At length a conspiracy
was organized against Savonarola; and, his ad-
herents having got the better, the friar did not
dare to trust the punishment of his enemies to the
general assembly, where the question would have
led to a scene of warfare, but referred it to a more
limited tribunal, and finally proceeded to the in-
fliction of death on its sole authority.
This extremity rendered his enemies more fu-
rious against him. The pope directed absolution,
the communion, and the rites of sepulture, to be
refused to his followers. He was now expelled
from the cathedral at Florence, and removed his
SAVONAROLA. 315
preachings to the chapel of his convent, which
was enlarged in its accommodations to adapt itself
to his numerous auditors. In this interim a most
extraordinary scene took place. One Francis de
Pouille offered himself to the trial of fire, in favour
of the validity of the excommunication of the pope
against the pretended inspiration and miracles of
the prophet. He said he did not doubt to perish
in the experiment, but that he should have the
satisfaction of seeing Savonarola perish along with
him. Dominic de Pescia however and another
Dominican presented themselves to the flames in-
stead of Jerome, alledging that he was reserved for
higher things. De Pouille at first declined the
substitution, but was afterwards prevailed on to
submit. A vast fire was lighted in the market-
place for the trial ; and a low and narrow gallery
of iron passed over the middle, on which the chal-
lenger and the challenged were to attempt to effect
their passage. But a furious deluge of rain was
said to have occurred at the instant every thing
was ready ; the fire was extinguished ; and the trial
for the present was thus rendered impossible.
Savonarola in the earnestness of his preachings
pretended to turn prophet, and confidently to pre-
dict future events. He spoke of Char1es VIII of
France as the Cyrus who should deliver Italy, and
subdue the nations before him ; and even named
the spring of the year 1498 as the period that
should see all these things performed.
816 SAVONAROLA.
But it was not in prophecy alone that Savona-
rola laid claim to supernatural aid. He described
various contests that he had maintained against a
multitude of devils at once in his convent. They
tormented in different ways the friars of St. Mark,
but ever shrank with awe from his personal inter-
position. They attempted to call upon him by
name ; but the spirit of God overruled them, so
that they could never pronounce his name aright,
but still misplaced syllables and letters in a ludi-
crous fashion. They uttered terrific threatenings
against him, but immediately after shrank away with
fear, awed by the holy words and warnings which
, he denounced against them. Savonarola besides
undertook to expel them by night, by sprinkling
holy water, and the singing of hymns in a solemn
chorus. While however he was engaged in these
sacred offices, and pacing the cloister of his con-
vent, the devils would arrest his steps, and sud-
denly render the air before him so thick, that it
was impossible for him to advance further. On
another occasion one of his colleagues assured
Francis Picus of Mirandola, the writer of his Life,
that he had himself seen the Holy Ghost in the
form of a dove more than once, sitting on Savona-
rola's shoulder, fluttering his feathers, which were
sprinkled with silver and gold, and, putting his
beak to his ear, whispering to him his divine sug-
gestions. The prior besides relates in a book of
his own composition at great length a dialogue that
---
SAVONAROLA, 317
he held with the devil, appearing like, and having
been mistaken by the writer for, a hermit.
The life of Savonarola however came to a speedy
and tragical close. The multitude, who are always
fickle in their impulses, conceiving an unfavour-
able impression in consequence of his personally
declining the trial by fire, turned against him.
The same evening they besieged the convent
where he resided, and in which he had taken re-
fuge. The signory, seeing the urgency of the
case, sent to the brotherhood, commanding them
to surrender the prior, and the two Dominicans
who had presented themselves in his stead to the
trial by fire. The pope sent two judges to try
them on the spot. They were presently put to
the torture. Savonarola, who we are told was of
a delicate habit of body, speedily confessed and ex-
pressed contrition for what he had done. But no
sooner was he delivered from the strappado, than
he retracted all that he had before confessed. The
experiment was repeated several times, and always
with the same success.
At length he and the other two were adjudged
to perish in the flames. This sentence was no
sooner pronounced than Savonarola resumed all
the constancy of a martyr. He advanced to the
place of execution with a steady pace and a serene
countenance, and in the midst of the flames re-
signedly commended his soul into the hands of his
maker. His adherents regarded him as a witness
818 TRITHEMIUS.
to the truth, and piously collected his relics; but
his judges, to counteract this defiance of authority,
commanded his remains and his ashes to be cast
into the river-.
TRITHEMIUS.
A name that has in some way become famous
in the annals of magic, is that of John Trithemius,
abbot of Spanheim, or Sponheim, in the circle of
the Upper Rhine. He was hom in the year 146!l.
He early distinguished himself by his devotion to
literature ; insomuch that, according to the com-
mon chronology, he was chosen in the year 148!1,
being about twenty years of age, abbot of the
Benedictine monastery of St. Martin at Spanheim.
He has written a great number of works, and has
left some memorials of his life. Learning was at
a low ebb when he was chosen to this dignity.
The library of the convent consisted of little more
than forty volumes. But, shortly after, under his
superintendence it amounted to many hundreds.
He insisted upon his monks diligently employing
themselves in the multiplication of manuscript:B.
The monks, who had hitherto spent their days in
luxurious idleness, were greatly dissatisfied with
this revolution, and led their abbot a very uneasy
life. He was in consequence removed to preside
over the abbey of St. Jacques in Wurtzburg m
• Biographie Universelle.
TRITHEMJUS, 819
1.506, where he died in tranquillity and peace in
1-'16.
Trithemius has been accused of necromancy
and a commerce with demons. The principal
ground of this accusation lies in a story that has
been told of his intercourse with the emperor
Maximilian. Maximilian's first wife was Mary of
Burgundy, whom he lost in the prime of her life.
The emperor was inconsolable upon the occasion ;
and Trithemius, who was called in as singularly
qualified to comfort him, having tried all other
expedients in vain, at length told Maximilian that
he would undertake to place his late consort before
him precisely in the state in which she had lived.
After suitable preparations, Mary of Burgundy
accordingly appeared. The emperor was struck
with astonishment. He found the figure before
him in all respects like the consort he had lost.
At length he exclaimed, " There is one mark by
which I shall infallibly know whether this is the
same person. Mary, my wife, had a wart in the nape
of her neck, to the existence of which no one was
privy but myself." He examined, and found the
wart there, in all respects as it had been during
her life. The story goes on to say, that Maximi-
lian was so disgusted and shocked with what he saw,
that he banished Trithemius his presence for ever.
This tale has been discredited, partly on the
score of the period of the death of Mary of Bur-
gundy, which happened in 1481, when Trithemius
SQO LUTHER.
was only nineteen years of age. He himself ex-
pressly disclaims all imputation of sorcery. One
ground of the charge has been placed upon the
existence of a work of his, entitled Steganographia,
or the art, by means of a secret writing, of commu-
nicating our thoughts to a person absent. He
says however, that in this work he had merely
used the language of magic, without in any degree
having had recourse to their modes of proceeding.
Trithemius appears to have been the first writer
who has made mention of the extraordinary feats
of John Faust of Wittenburg, and that in a way
that shews he considered these enchantments as
the work of a supernatural power\
LUTHER.
It is particularly proper to introduce some men-
tion of Luther in this place ; not that he is in any
way implicated in the question of necromancy,
but that there are passages in his writings in which
he talks of the devil in what we should now think
a very extraordinary way. And it is curious, and
not a little instructive, to see how a person of so
masculine an intellect, and who in many respects
so far outran the illumination of his age, was ac-
customed to judge respecting the intercourse of
mortals with the inhabitants of the infernal world.
Luther was born in t\le year 1488.
b Biographie Universelle.
LUTHER. 321'.
It appears from his Treatise on the Abuses at-
tendant on Private Masses, that he had a confer-
ence with the devil on the subject. He says, that
this supernatural personage caused him by his
visits " many bitter nights and much restless and
wearisome repose." Once in particular he came
to Luther, "in the dead of the night, when he
was just awaked out of sleep. The devil," he goes
on to say, "knows well how to construct his ar-
guments, and to urge them with the skill of a
master. He delivers himself with a grave, and yet
a shrill voice. Nor does he use circumlocutions,
and beat about the bush, but excels in forcible
statements and quick rejoinders. I no longer
wonder," he adds, " that the persons whom he
assails in this way, are occasionally found dead in
their beds. He is able to compress and throttle,
and more than once he has so assaulted me and
driven my soul into a corner, that I felt as if the
next moment it must leave my body. I am of
opinion that Gesner and Oecolampadius and others
in that manner came by their deaths. The devil's
manner of opening a debate is pleasant enough;
but he urges things so peremptorily, that the re-
spondent in a short time knows not how to acquit
himself"." He elsewhere says, "The reasons why
the sacramentarians understood so little of the
Scriptures, is that they do not encounter the true
opponent, that is, the devil, who presently drives
Hospinian, Historia Sacramcntaria, Part II, fol. 131.
y
CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
one up in a corner, and thus makes one perceive
the just interpretation. For my part I am tho-
roughly acquainted with him, and have eaten a
bushel of salt with him. He sleeps with me more
frequently, and lies nearer to me in bed, than my
own wife doesb."
CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
Henry Cornelius Agrippa was born in the year
1486. He was one of the most celebrated men of
his time. His talents were remarkably great; and
he had a surprising facility in the acquisition of
languages. He is spoken of with the highest
commendations by Trithemius, Erasmus, Melanc-
thon, and others, the greatest men of his times.
But he was a man of thP. most violent passions,
and of great instability of temper. He was of
consequence exposed to memorable vicissitudes.
He had great reputation as an astrologer, and
was assiduous in the cultivation of chemistry. He
had the reputation of possessing the philosopher's
stone, and was incessantly experiencing the pri-
vations of poverty. He was subject to great per-
secutions, and was repeatedly imprisoned. He
teceived invitations at the same time from Henry
VIII, from the chancellor of the emperor, from a
distinguished Italian marquis, and from Margaret
of Austria, governess of the Low Countries. He
b Bayle.
CORNELIUS AORlPPA.
made his election in favour of the last, and could
find no way so obvious of showing his gratitude
for her patronage, as composing an elaborate trea-
tise on the Superiority of the Female Sex, which
he dedicated to her. Shortly after, he produced a
work not less remarkable, to demonstrate theVanity
and Emptiness of Scientifical Acquirements. Mar-
garet of Austria being dead, he was subsequently
appointed physician to Louisa of Savoy, mother
to Francis I. This lady however ha\'ing assigned
him a task disagreeable to his inclination, a calcu-
lation according to the rules of astrology, he made
no scruple of turning against her, and affirming
that he should henceforth hold her for a cruel and
perfidious Jezebel. After a life of storms and per-
petual vicissitude, he died in 1584, aged 48 years.
He enters however into the work I am writing,
principally on account of the extraordinary stories
that have been told of him on the subject of magic.
He says of himself, in his Treatise on the Vanity
of Sciences, " Being then a very young man, I
wrote in three books of a considerable size Disqui-
sitions concerning Magic."
The first of the stories I am about to relate is
chiefly interesting, inasmuch as it is connected with
the history of one of the most illustrious ornaments
of our early English poetry, Henry Howard earl
of Surrey, who suffered death at the close of the
reign of King Henry VIII. The earl of Surrey,
we are told, became acquainted with Cornelius
y2
CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
Agrippa at the court of John ·George elector of
Saxony. On this occasion were present, beside the
English nobleman, Erasmus, andmanyother persons
eminent in the republic of letters. These persons
shewed themselves enamoured of the reports that
had been spread of Agrippa, and desired him be-
fore the elector to exhibit something memorable.
One intreated him to call up Plautus, and shew
him as he appeared in garb and countenance, when
he ground corn in the mill. Another before all
things desired to see Ovid. But Erasmus earnestly
requested to behold Tully in the act of delivering
his oration for Roscius. This proposal carried the
most votes. And, after marshalling the concourse
of spectators, Tully appeared, at the command of
Agrippa, and from the rostrum pronounced the
oration, precisely in the words in which it has
been handed down to us, " with such astonishing
animation, so fervent an exaltation of spirit, and
such soul-stirring gestures, that all the persons
present were ready, like the Romans of old, to
pronounce his client innocent of every charge that
had been brought against him." The story adds,
that, when sir Thomas More was at the same
place, Agrippa shewed him the whole destruction
of Troy in a dream. To Thomas Lord Cromwel
he exhibited in a perspective glass King Henry
VIII and all his lords hunting in his forest at
Windsor. To Charles V he shewed David, Solo-
mon, Gideon, and the rest, with the Nine Wor-
CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
thies, in their habits and similitude as they had
lived.
Lord Surrey, in the mean time having gotten
into familiarity with Agrippa, requested him by
the way side as they travelled, to set before him
his mistress, the fair Geraldine, shewing at the
same time what she did, and with whom she
talked. Agrippa accordingly exhibited his magic
glass, in which the noble poet saw this beautiful
dame, sick, weeping upon her bed, and incon-
solable for the absence of her admirer.-It is now
known, that the sole authority for this tale is
Thomas Nash, the dramatist, in his Adventures of
Jack Wilton, printed in the year 1593.
Paulus J ovius relates that Agrippa always kept
a devil attendant upon him, who accompanied him
in all his travels in the shape of a black dog. When
he lay on his death-bed, he was earnestly exhorted
to repent of his sins. Being in consequence struck
with a deep contrition, he took hold of the dog,
and removed from him a collar studded with nails,
which formed a necromantic inscription, at the
same time saying to him, " Begone, wretched ani-
mal, which hast been the cause of my entire de-
struction 1"-It is added, that the dog immediately
ran away, and plunged itself in the river Soane,
after which it was seen no more'. It is further
related of Agrippa, as of many other magicians,
that he was in the habit, when he regaled himself
• Paulus Jovius, Elogia Doctorum Virorum, c. 101.
826 CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
at an inn, of paying his bill in counterfeit money,
which at the time of payment appeared of sterling
value, but in a few days after became pieces of
horn and worthless shellsb.
But the most extraordinary story of Agrippa is
told by Delrio, and is as follows. Agrippa had
occasion one time to be absent for a few days from
his residence at Louvain. During his absence he in-
trusted his wife withthekeyofhis Museum, but with
an earnest injunction that no one on any account
should be allowed to enter. Agrippa happened at
that time to have a boarder in his house, a young
fellow of insatiable curiosity, who would never give
over importuning his hostess, till at length he ob-
tained from her the key. The first thing
in the Museum that attracted his attention, was a
book of spells and incantations. He spread this
book upon a desk, and, thinking no harm, began
to read aloud. He had not long continued this
occupation, when a knock was heard at the door
of the chamber. The youth took no notice, but
continued reading. Presently followed a second
knock, which somewhat alarmed the reader. The
space of a minute having elapsed, and no answer
made, the door was opened, and a demon en-
tered. " For what purpose am I called?" said
the stranger sternly. " What is it you demand to
have done ?" The youth was seized with the
greatest alarm, and struck speechless. The de-
b Delrio, Disquisitiones Magicre, Lib. II, Qurestio xi, § 18.
CORNELIUS AGRJPPA. 327
mon advanced towards him, seized him by the
throat, and strangled him, indignant that his pre-
sence should thus be invoked from pure thought-
lessness and presumption.
At the expected time Agrippa came home,and to
his great surprise found a number ofdevils capering
and playing strange antics about, and on the roof
of his house. By his art he caused them to desist
from their sport, and with authority demanded
what was the cause of this novel appearance. The
chief of them answered. He told how they had
been invoked, and insulted, and what revenge they
had taken. Agrippa became exceedingly alarmed
for the consequences to himself ofthis unfortunate
adventure. He ordered the demon without loss
of time to reanimate the body of his victim, then
to go forth, and to walk the boarder three or four
times up and down the market-place in the sight
of the people. The infernal spirit did as he was
ordered, shewed the student publicly alive, and
having done this, suffered the body to fall down,
the marks of conscious existence being plainly no
more. For a time it was thought that the student
had been killed by a sudden attack of disease.
But, presently after, the marks of strangulation
were plainly discerned, and the truth came out.
Agrippa was then obliged suddenly to withdraw
himself, and to take up his residence in a distant
province<,
c Delrio, Lib. II, Qurestio xxix, § 7.
828 COUNELIUS AGRIPPA.
Wierus in his well known book, De
Demonum, informs us that he had lived for years
in daily attendance on Cornelius Agrippa, and
that the black dog respecting which such strange
surmises had been circulated, was a perfectly in-
nocent animal that he had often led in a string.
He adds, that the sole foundation for the story lay
in the fact, that Agrippa had been much attached
to the dog, which he was accustomed to permit
to eat off the table with its master, and even to lie
of nights in his bed. He further remarks, that
Agrippa was accustomed often not to go out of
his room for a week together, and that people ac-
cordingly wondered that he could have such accu-
rate information of what was going on in all parts
of the world, and would have it that his intelli-
gence wa-, communicated to him by his dog. He
subjoins howevu, that Agrippa had in fact corre-
spondents in every quarter of the globe, and re-
ceived letters from them daily, and that this was
the real source of his extraordinary intelligenced.
Naude, in his Apology for Great Men accused
of Magic, mentions, that Agrippa composed a
book of the Rules and Precepts of the Art of
Magic, and that, if such a work could entitle a
man to the character of a magician, Agrippa in-
deed well deserved it. But he gives it as his opi-
nion that this was the only ground for fastening
the imputation ou this illustrious character.
'
1
Wicrus, Lib. II, c. v, § 11, 12.
CORNELIUS AltRll'PA. 3fl9
Without believing however any of the tales of
the magic practices of Cornelius Agrippa, and even
perhaps without supposing that he seriously pre-
tended to such arts, we are here presented with a
striking picture of the temper and credulity of the
times in which he lived. We plainly see from the
contemporary evidence of Wierus, that such things
were believed of him by his neighbours ; and at
that period it was sufficiently common for any
man of deep study, of recluse habits, and a certain
sententious and air to undergo these
imputations. It is more than probable that Agrippa
was willing by a general silence and mystery to
give encouragement to the wonder of the vulgar
mind. He was flattered by the terror and awe
which his appearance inspired. He did not wish
to come down to the ordinary level. And if to
this we add his pursuits of alchemy and astrology,
with the formidable and various apparatus sup-
posed to be required in these pursuits, we shall no
longer wonder at the results which followed. He
loved to wander on the brink of danger, and was
contented to take his chance of being molested,
rather than not possess that ascendancy over the
ordinary race of mankind which was evidently
gratifying to his vanity.
380 FAUSTUS.
FAUSTUS.
Next in respect of time to Cornelius Agrippa
comes the celebrated Dr. Faustus. Little in point
of £1.ct is known respecting this eminent personage
in the annals of necromancy. His pretended his-
tory does not seem to have been written till
about the year 1587, perhaps half a century after
his death. This work is apparently in its prin-
cipal features altogether fictitious. We have no
reason however to deny the early statements as to
his life. He is asserted by Camerarius and Wierus
to have been born at Cundling near Cracow in the
kingdom of Poland, and is understood to have
passed the principal part of his life at the univer-
sity of Wittenberg. He was probably well known
to Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus. Melancthon
mentions him in his Letters; and Conrad Gessner
refers to him as a contemporary. The author of
his Life cites the opinions entertained respecting
him by Luther. Philip Camerarius speaks of him
in his Horre Subsecivre as a celebrated name
among magicians, apparently without reference to
the Life that has come down to us•; and Wierus
does the same thingb. He was probably nothing
more than an accomplished juggler, who appears
to have practised his art with great success in
several towns of Germany. He was also no doubt
a pretender to necromancy.
Cent. I, cap. iO.
b De Prrestigiis Dcmonum, Lib. II, cap. iv, sect. 8.
FAUSTUS. 831
On this basis the well known History of his
Life ha.r'l been built. The author has with great
art expanded very slender materials, and rendered
his work in a striking degree a code and receptacle
of all the most approved ideas respecting necro-
mancy and a profane and sacrilegious dealing with
the devil. He has woven into it with much skill the
pretended arts of the sorcerers, and has transcribed
or closely imitated the stories that have been
handed down to us of many of the extraordinary
feats they were said to have performed. It is
therefore suitable to our purpose to dwell at some
length upon the successive features of this history.
The life has been said to have been originally
written in Spain by Franciscus Schottus of Tole-
do, in the Latin languagec. But this biographical
work is assigned to the date of 1594, previously
to which the Life is known to have existed in Ger-
man. It is improbable that a Spanish writer should
have chosen a German for the hero of his romance,
whereas nothing can be more natural than for a
German to have conceived the idea of giving fame
and notoriety to his countryman. The mistake
seems to be the same, though for an opposite rea-
son, as that which appears to have been made in
representing the Gil Bias ofLe Sage as a translation.
The biographical account professes to have been
begun by Faustus himself, though written in the
c Durrius, apud Schelhorn, Amoenitates Literaril£, Tom. V,
p. 50, et seqq.
FAUSTUS.
third person, and to have been continued by Wag-
ner, his confidential servant, to whom the doctor
is affirmed to have bequeathed his memoirs, letters
and manuscripts, together with his house and its
furniture.
Faustus then, according to his history, was the
son of a peasant, residing on the banks of the Roda
in the duchy of Weimar, and was early adopted by
an uncle, dwelling in the city of Wittenberg, who
had no children. Here he was sent to college,
and was soon distinguished by the greatness of his
talents, and the rapid progress he made in every
species of learning that was put before him. He
was destined by his relative to the profession of
theology. But singularly enough, considering that
he ·is represented as furnishing materia1s for his
own Memoirs, he is said ungraciously to have set
at nought his uncle's pious intentions by deriding
God's word, and thus to have resembled Cain,
Reuben and Absalom, who, having sprung from
godly parents, afflicted their fathers' hearts by their
apostasy. He went through his examinations with
applause, and carried off all the first prizes among
sixteen competitors. He therefore obtained the
degree of doctor in divinity ; but his success only
made him the more proud and headstrong. He
disdained his theological eminence, and sighed for
distinction as a man of the world. He took his
degree as a doctor of medicine, and aspired to
celebrity as a practitioner of physic. About the
FAUSTUS.
same time he fell in with certain contemporaries,
of tastes similar to his own, and associated with
them in the study of Chaldean, Greek and Arabic
science, of strange incantations and supernatural
influences, in short, of all the arts of a sorcerer.
Having made such progress as he could by dint
of study and intense application, he at length re-
solved to prosecute his purposes still further by
actually raising the devil. He happened one
evening to walk in a thick, dark wood, within
a short distance from 'Vittenberg, when it oc-
curred to him that that was a fit place for execut-
ing his design. He stopped at a solitary spot
where four roads met, and made use of his wand
to mark out a large circle, and then two small ones
within the larger. In one of these he fixed
himself, appropriating the other for the use of
his expected visitor. He went over the precise
range ofcharms and incantations, omitting nothing.
It was now dark night between the ninth and
tenth hour. The devil manifested himself by the
usual signs of his appearance. " Wherefore am I
called ?'' said he, "and what is it that you de-
mand?" " I require," rejoined Faustus, "that
you should sedulously attend upon me, answer my
enquiries, and fulfil my behests."
upon Faustus pronouncing these
words, there followed a tumult over head, as if
heaven and earth were coming together. The
trees in their topmost branches bended to their
884 FAUSTUS.
very roots. It seemed as if the whole forest were
peopled with devils, making a crash like a thousand
waggons, hunying to the right and the left, before
and behind, in every possible direction, with thun-
der and lightning, and the continual discharge of
great cannon. Hell appeared to have emptied it-
self, to have furnished the din. There succeeded
the most charming music from all sorts of instru-
ments, and sounds of hilarity and dancing. Next
came a report as of a tournament, and the clashing
of innumerable lances. This lasted so long, that
Faustus was many times about to rush out of the
circle in which he had inclosed himself, and to
abandon his preparations. His courage and reso-
lution however got the better; and he remained
immoveable. He pursued his incantations without
intermission. Then came to the very edge of the
circle a griffin first, and next a dragon, which in
the midst of his enchantments grinned at him hor-
ribly with his teeth, but finally fell down at his
feet, and extended his length to many a rood.
Faustus persisted. Then succeeded a sort of fire-
works, a pillar of fire, and a man on fire at the
top, who leaped clown; and there immediately
appeared a number of globes here and there reel-
hot, while the man on fire went and came to every
part of the circle for a quarter of an hour. At
length the devil came forward in the shape of
a grey monk, and asked Faustus what he want-
ed. Faustus adjourned their further conference,
FAUSTUS. 335
and appointed the devil to come to him at his
lodgings.
He in the mean time busied himself in the ne-
cessary preparations. He entered his study at the
appointed time, and found the devil waiting for
him. Faustus told him thathe had prepared cer-
tain articles, to which it was necessary that the
demon should fully accord,-that he should attend
him at all times, when required, for all the days of
his life, that he llhould bring him every thing he
wanted, that he should come to him in any shape
that Faustus required, or be invisible, and Faustus
should be invisible too, whenever he desired it;
that he should deny him nothing, and answer him
with perfect veracity to every thing he demanded.
To some of these requisitions the spirit could not
consent, without authority from his master, the
chief of devils. At length all these concessions
were adjusted. The devil on his part also pre-
scribed his conditions. That Faustus should abjure
the Christian religion and all reverence for the su-
preme God ; that he should enjoy the entire com-
mand of his attendant demon for a certain term of
years, and that at the end of that period the devil
should dispose of him body and soul at his plea-
sure [the term was fixed for twenty-four years];
that he should at all times stedfastly refuse to lis-
ten to any one who should desire to convert him,
or convince him of the error of his ways, and lead
him to repentance ; that Faustus should rlraw up
886 FAUSTUS.
a writing containing these particulars, and sign it
with his blood, that he should deliver this writing
to the devil, and keep a duplicate of it for him-
self, that so there might be no misunderstanding.
It was further appointed by Faustus that the devil
should usually attend him in the habit of cordelier,
with a pleasing countenance and an insinuating
demeanour. Faustus also asked the devil his name,
who answered that he was usually called Mephos-
tophiles (perhaps more accurately Nephostophiles,
a lover of clouds).
Previously to this deplorable transaction, in
which Faustus sold himself, soul and body, to the
devil, he had consumed his inheritance, and was
reduced to great poverty. But he was now no
longer subjected to any straits. The establish-
ments of the prince of Chutz, the duke ofBavaria,
and the archbishop of Saltzburgh were daily put
under contribution for his more convenient sup-
ply. By the diligence of Mephostophiles provi-
sions ofall kinds continually flew in at his windows;
and the choicest wines were perpetually found
at his board to the annoyance and discredit of
the cellarers and butlers of these eminent per-
sonages, who were extremely blamed for defalca-
tions in which they had no share. He also brought
him a monthly supply of money, sufficient for the
support of his establishment. Besides, he sup-
plied him with a succession of mistresses, such as
his heart desired, which were in truth nothing but
FAUSTUS. 887
devils disguised under the semblance of beautiful
women. He further gave to Faustus a book, in
which were amply detailed the processes of sor-
cery and witchcraft, by means of which the doctor
could obtain whatever he desired.
One of the earliest indulgences which Faustus
proposed to himself from the command he pos-
sessed over his servant-demon, was the gratifica-
tion of his curiosity in surveying the various
nations of the world. Accordingly Mephosto-
philes converted himself into a horse, with two
hunches on his back like a dromedary, between
which he conveyed Faustus through the air where-
ever he desired. They consumed fifteen months
in their travels. Among the countries they visited
the history mentions Pannonia, Austria, Germany,
Bohemia, Silesia, Saxony, Misnia, Thuringia,
Franconia, Suabia, Bavaria, Lithuania, Livonia,
Prussia, Muscovy, Friseland, Holland, Westphalia,
Zealand, Brabant, Flanders, France, Spain, Italy,
Poland, and Hungary; and afterwards Turkey,
Egypt, England, Sweden, Denmark, India, Africa
and Persia. In most of these countries Mephosto-
philes points out to his fellow-traveller their prin-
cipal curiosities and antiquities. In Rome they
sojourned three days and three nights, and, being
themselves invisible, visited the residence of the
pope and the other principal palaces.
At Constantinople Faustus visited the emperor
of the Turks, assuming to himself the figure of
z
338 FAUSTUS,
the prophet Mahomet. His approach was pre-
ceded by a splendid illumination, not less than
that of the sun in all his glory. He said to the
emperor, " Happy art thou, oh sultan, who art
found worthy to be visited by the great prophet."
And the emperor in return fell prostrate before
him, thanking Mahomet for his condescension in
this visit. The doctor also entered the seraglio,
where he remained six days under the same figure,
the building and its gardens being all the time
environed with a thick darkness, so that no one,
not the emperor himself, dared to enter. At the
end of this time the doctor, still under the figure
of Mahomet, was publicly seen, ascending, as it
seemed, to heaven. The sultan afterwards en-
quired of the women of his seraglio what had oc-
curred to them during the period ofthe darkness;
and they answered, that the God Mahomet had
been with them, that he had enjoyed them cor-
poreally, and had told them that from his seed
should arise a great people, capable uf irresistible
exploits.
Faustus had conceived a plan of making his
way into the terrestrial paradise, without awaken-
ing suspicion in his demon-conductor. For this
purpose he ordered him to ascend the highest
mountains of Asia. At length they came so near,
that they saw the angel with the flaming sword for-
bidding approach to the garden. Faustus, per-
ceiving this, asked Mephostophiles what it meant.
FAUSTUS. 889
His conductor told him, but added that it was in
vain for them, or any one but the angels of the
Lord, to think of entering within.
Having gratified his curiosity in other ways,
Faustus was seized with a vehement desire to visit
the infernal regions. He proposed the question
to Mephostophiles, who told him that this was a
matter out of his department, and that on that
journey he could have no other conductor than
Beelzebub. Accordingly, every thing being pre-
viously arranged, one day at midnight Beelzebub
appeared, being already equipped with a saddle
made of dead men's bones. Faustus speedily
mounted. They in a short time came to an abyss,
and encountered a multitude of enormous ser-
pents ; but a bear with wings came to their aid,
and drove the serpents away. A flying bull next
came with a hideous roar, so fierce that Beelzebub
appeared to give way, and Faustus tumbled at
once heels-over-head into the pit. After having
faJlen to a considerable depth, two dragons with a
chariot came to his aid, and an ape helped him to
get into the vehicle. Presently however came on
a stonn with thunder and lightning, so dreadful
that the doctor was thrown out, and sunk in a
tempestuous sea to a vast depth. He contrived
however to lay hold of a rock, and here to secure
himself a footing. He looked down, and perceiTed
a great gulph, in which lay floating many of the
vulgar, and not a few emperors, kings, princes, and
z 2
840 FAUSTUS,
such as had been mighty lords. Faustus with a
sudden impulse cast himself into the midst of the
flames with which they were surrounded, with the
desire to snatch one of the damned souls from the
pit. But, just as he thought he had caught him
by the hand, the miserable wretch slided from be-
tween his fingers, and sank again.
At length the doctor became wholly exhausted
with the fatigue he had undergone, with the smoke
and the fog, with the stifling, sulphureous air, with
the tempestuous blasts, with the alternate extremes
of heat and cold, and with the clamours, the la-
mentations, the agonies, and the howlings of the
damned every where around him,-when, just in
the nick of time, Beelzebub appeared to him again,
and invited him once more to ascend the saddle,
which he bad occupied during his infernal journey.
Here he fell asleep, and, when he awoke, found
himself in his own bed in his house. He then set
himself seriously to reflect on what had passed.
At one time he believed that he had been really
in hell, and had witnessed all its secrets. At
another he became persuaded that he had been
subject to an illusion only, and that the devil had
led him through an imaginary scene, which was
truly the case ; for the devil had taken care not
to shew him the real hell, fearing that it might
have caused too great a terror, and have induced
him to repent him of his misdeeds perhaps before
it was too late.
FAUSTUS. 841
It so happened that, once upon a time, the em-
peror Charles V was at Inspruck, at a time when
Faustus also resided there. His courtiers informed
the emperor that Faustus was in the town, and
Charles expressed a desire to see him. He was
introduced. Charles asked him whether he could
really perform such wondrous feats as were re-
ported of him. Faustus modestly replied, inviting
the emperor to make trial of his skill. " Then,"
said Charles, " of all the eminent personages I
have ever read of, Alexander the Great is the man
who most excites my curiosity, and whom it would
most gratify my wishes to see in the very form in
which he lived." Faustus rejoined, that it was out
of his power truly to raise the dead, but that he
had spirits at his command who had often seen
that great conqueror, and that Faustus would will-
ingly place him before the emperor as he tequired.
He conditioned that Charles should not speak to
him, nor attempt to touch him. The emperor
promised compliance. After a few ceremonies
therefore, Faustus opened a door, and brought in
Alexander exactly in the form in which he had
lived, with the same garments, and every circum-
stance corresponding. Alexander made his obei-
sance to the emperor, and walked several times
round him. The queen of Alexander was then
introduced in the same manner. Charles just then
recollected, he had read that Alexander had a wart
on the nape of his neck ; and with proper pre-
FAUSTUS.
cautions Faustus allowed the emperor to examine
the apparition by this test. Alexander then va.
nished.
As doctor Fauatta waited in court, be perceived
a certain knight, who had fallen asleep in a bow-
window, with his head out at window. The whim
took the doctor, to fasten on his brow the antlers
of a atag. Presently the knight was roused from
his nap, when with all his efforts he could not draw
in his head on account of the antlers which grew
upon it. The courtiers laughed exceedingly at
the distress of the knight, and, when they had
sufficiently diverted themselves, Faustus took off
his conjuration, and set the knight at liberty.
Soon after Faustus retired from Inspruck. Mean-
while the knight, having conceived a high resent-
ment against the conjuror, waylaid him with seven
horsemen on the road by which he had to pass.
Faustus however perceived them, and immediately
made himself invisible. Meanwhile the knight
s-pied on every Hide to discover the conjuror; but,
.as he was thus employed, he heard a sudden noise
of drums and trumpets and cymbals, and saw a
regiment of horse advancing against him. He im-
mediately turned off in another direction ; but was
encountered by a second regiment of horse. This
occurred no less than six times ; and the knight
and his companions were compelled to surrender
at discretion. These regiments were so many
devils ; and Faustus now appeared in a new fonn
FAUSTUS. 848
as the general of this army. He obliged the knight
and his party to dismount, and give up their swords.
Then with a seeming generosity he gave them
new horses and new swords. But this was all en-
chantment. The swords presently turned into
switches ; and the horses, plunging into a river on
their road, vanished from beneath their riders,
who were thoroughly drenched in the stream, and
scarcely escaped with their lives. .
Many of Faustus's delusions are rather remark-
able as tricks of merry vexation, than as partaking
of those serious injuries which we might look for
in an implement of hell. In one instance he in-
quired of a countryman who was driving a load of
hay, what compensation he would judge reason-
able for the doctor's eating as much of his hay as
he should be inclined to. The waggoner replied,
that for half a stiver (one farthing) he should be
welcome to eat as much as he pleased. The doctor
presently fell to, and ate at such a rate, that the
peasant was frightened lest his whole load should
be consumed. He therefore offered Faustus a
gold coin, value twenty-seven shillings, to be off
his bargain. The doctor took it; and, when the
countryman came to his journey's end, he found
his cargo undiminished even by a single blade.
Another time, as Faustus was walking along the
road near Brunswick, the whim took him ofasking
a waggoner who was driving by, to treat him with
a ride in his vehicle. " No, I will not,'' replied
344 FAUSTUS.
the boor ; " my horses will have enough to do to
drag their proper load." " You churl," said the
doctor, "since you will not let your wheels carry
me, you shall carry them yourself as far as from
the gates ofthe city.'' The wheels then detached
themselves, and flew through the air, to the gates
of the town from which they came. At the same
time the horses fell to the ground, and were utterly
unable to raise themselves up. The countryman,
frightened, fell on his knees to the doctor, and pro-
mised, if he would forgive him, never to offend in
like manner again. Faustus now, relenting a little,
bade the waggoner take a handful of sand from the
road, and scatter on his horses, and they would be
well. At the same time he directed the man to go
to the four gates of Brunswick, and he would find
his wheels, one at each gate.
In another instance, Faustus went into a fair,
mounted on a noble beast, richly caparisoned, the
sight of which presently brought all the horse-
fanciers about him. After considerable haggling,
he at last disposed of his horse to a dealer for a
handsome price, only cautioning him at parting,
how he rode the horse to water. The dealer,
despising the caution that had been given him,
turned his horse the first thing towards the river.
He had however no sooner plunged in, than the
horse vanished, and the rider found himself seated
on a saddle of straw, in the middle of the stream.
With difficulty he waded t.o the shore, and imme-
FAUSTUS. 84.5
diately, enquiring out the doctor's inn, went to him
to complain of the cheat. He was directed to
Faustus·s room, and entering found the conjuror
on his bed, apparently asleep. He called to him
lustily, but the doctor took no notice. Worked up
beyond his patience, he next laid hold of Faustus's
foot, that he might rouse him the more effectually.
What was his surprise, to find the doctor's leg and
foot come off in his hand I Faustus screamed, ap-
parently in agony of pain, and the dealer ran out
of the room as fast as he could, thinking that he
had the devil behind him.
In one instance three young noblemen applied
to Faustus, having been very desirous to be present
at the marriage of the son of the duke of Bavaria
at Mentz, but having overstaid the time, in which
it would have been possible by human means to
accomplish the journey, Faustus, to oblige them,
led them into his garden, and, spreading a large
mantle upon a grass-plot, desired them to step on
it, and placed himself in the midst. He then re-
cited a certain form of conjuration. At the same
time he conditioned with them, that they should
on no account speak to any one at the marriage,
and, if spoken to, should not answer again. They
were carried invisibly through the air, and arrived
in excellent time. At a certain moment they be-
came visible, but were still bound to silence. One
of them however broke the injunction, and amused
himself with the courtiers. The consequence was
846 FAUSTUS.
that, when the other two were summoned by the
doctor to return, he was left behind. There was
something so extraordinary in their sudden ap-
pearance, and the subsequent disappearance of
the others, that he who remained was put in
prison, and threatened with the torture the next
day, if he would not make a full disclosure.
Faustus however returned before break of day,
opened the gates of the prison, laid all the guards
asleep, and carried off the delinquent in tri-
umph.
On one occasion Faustus, having resolved to
pass a jovial evening, took some of his old college-
companions, and invited them to make free with
the archbishop of Saltzburgh's cellar. They took
a ladder, and scaled the wall. They seated them-
selves round, and placed a three-legged stool, with
bottles and glasses in the middie. They were in
the heart of their mirth, when the butler made his
appearance, and began to cry thieves with all his
might. The doctor at once conjured him, so that
he could neither speak nor move. There he was
obliged to sit, while Faustus and his companions
tapped every vat in the cellar. They then carried
him along with them in triumph. At length they
came to a lofty tree, where Faustus ordered them
to stop ; and the butler was in the greatest fright,
apprehending that- they would do no less than
hang him. The doctor however was contented,
by his art to place him on the topmost branch,
FAUSTUS, 847
where he was obliged to remain trembling and
almost dead with the cold, till certain peasants
came out to their work, whom he hailed, and finally
with great difficulty they rescued him from his
painful eminence, and placed him safely on the
ground.
On another occasion Faustus entertained several
of the junior members of the university of Wit-
tenberg at his chambers. One of them, referring
to the exhibition the doctor had made ofAlexander
the Great to the emperor Charles V, said it would
gratify him above all things, if he could once be-
hold the famous Helen of Greece, whose beauty
was so great as to have roused all the princes of
her country to arms, and to have occasioned a ten
years' war. Faustus consented to indulge his cu-
riosity, provided all the company would engage to
be merely mute spectators of the scene. This
being promised, he left the room, and presently
brought in Helen. She was precisely as Homer
has described her, when she stood by the side of
Priam on the walls of Troy, looking on the Grecian
chiefs. Her features were irresistibly attractive;
and her full, moist lips were redder than the sum-
mer cherries. Faustus shortly after obliged his
guests with her bust in marble, from which several
copies were taken, no one knowing the name of
the original artist.
No long time elapsed after this, when the doctor
was engaged in delivering a course of lectures on
848 FAUSTUS.
Homer at Erfurth, one of the principal cities of
Germany. It having been suggested to him that
it would very much enhance the interest of his
lectures, if he would exhibit to the company the
heroes of Greece exactly as they appeared to their
contemporaries, Faustus obligingly yielded to the
proposal. The heroes of the Trojan war walked
in procession before the astonished auditors, no
less lively in the representation than Helen had
been shewn before, and each of them with some
characteristic attitude and striking expression of
countenance.
When the doctor happened to be at Frankfor4
there came there four conjurors, who obtained
vast applause by the trick of cutting off one an-
other's heads, and fastening them on again. ,Faus-
tus was exasperated at this proceeding, and re-
garded them as laying claim to a skill superior to
his own. He went, and was invisibly present at
their exhibition. They placed beside them a vessel
with liquor which they pretended was the elixir of
life, into which at each time they threw a plant
resembling the lily, which no sooner touched the
liquor than its buds began to unfold, and shortly
it appeared in full blossom. The chief conjuror
watched his opportunity; and, when the charm
was complete, made no more ado but struck oft'
the head of his fellow that was next to him, and
dipping it in the liquor, adjusted it to the shoul-
ders, where it became as securely fixed as before
FAUSTUS. 349
the operation. This was repeated a second and a
third time. At length it came to the turn of the
chief conjuror to have his head smitten off. Faus-
tus stood by invisibly, and at the proper time broke
off the flower of the lily without any one being
aware of it. The head therefore of the ·principal
conjuror was struck off; but in vain was it steeped
in the liquor. The other conjurors were at a loss
to account for the disappearance of the lily, and
fumbled for a long time with the old sorcerer's
head, which would not stick on in any position in
which it could be placed.
Faustus was in great favour with the Prince of
Anhalt. On one occasion, after residing some
days in his court, he said to the prince, " Will
your highness do me the favour to partake of a
small collation at a castle which belongs to me out
at your city-gates?" The priuce graciously con-
sented. The prince and princess accompanied the
doctor, and found a castle which Faustus had
erected by magic during the preceding night.
The castle, with five lofty towers, and two great
gates, inclosing a spacious court, stood in the
midst of a beautiful lake, stocked with all kinds of
fish, and every variety of water-fowl. The court
exhibited all sorts of animals, beside birds of
every colour and song, which flitted from tree to
tree. The doctor then ushered his guests into the
hall, with an ample suite of apartments, branching
off on each side. In one of the largest they found
3.50 FAUSTUS.
a banquet prepared, with the pope's plate ofgold,
which Mephostophiles had borrowed for the day.
The viands were of the most delicious nature, with
the choicest wines in the world. The banquet
being over, Faustus conducted the prince and
princess back to the palace. But, before they had
gone far, happening to turn their heads, they saw
the whole castle blown up, and all that had been
prepared for the occasion vanish at once in a vast
volume of fire.
One Christmas-time Faustus gave a grand en-
tertainment to certain distinguished persons of
both sexes at Wittenberg. To render the scene
more splendid, he contrived to exhibit a memO-
rable inversion of the seasons. As the company
approached the doctor's house, they were surprised
to find, though there was a heavy snow through
the neighbouring fields, that Faustus's court and
garden bore not the least marks of the season, but
on the contrary were green and blooming as in the
height of summer. There was an appearance of
the freshest vegetation, together with a beautiful
vineyard, abounding with grapes, figs, raspberries,
and an exuberance of the finest fruits. The large,
red Provence roses, were as sweet to the scent as
the eye, and looked perfectly fresh and sparkling
with dew.
As Faustus was now approaching the last year
of his term, he seemed to resolve to pamper his
appetite with every species of luxury. He care-
FAUSTUS. 851
fully accumulated all the materials of voluptu-
ousness and magnificence. He was particularly
anxious in the selection of women who should serve
for his pleasures. He had one Englishwoman, one
Hungarian, one French, two of Germany, and two
from different parts of Italy, all of them eminent
for the perfections which characterised their dif-
ferent countries.
As Faustus's demeanour was particularly en-
gaging, there were many respectable persons in
the city in which he lived, that became interested
in his welfare. These applied to a certain monk
of exemplary purity of life and devotion, and urged
him to do every thing he could to rescue the doc-
tor from impending destruction. The monk began
with him with tender and pathetic remonstrances.
He then drew a fearful picture ofthe wrath ofGod,
and the eternal damnation which would certainly
ensue. He reminded the doctor of his extraordi-
nary gifts and graces, and told him how different
an issue might reasonably have been expected from
him. Faustus listened attentively to all the good
monk said, but replied mournfully that it was too
late, that he had despised and insulted the Lord,
that he had deliberately sealed a solemn compact
to the devil, and that there was no possibility of
going back. The monk answered, " You are mis-
taken. Cry to the Lord for grace; and it shall
still be given. Shew true remorse; confess your
sins; abstain for the future from all acts of sorcery
8.52 FAUSTUS.
and diabolical interference; and you may rely on
final salvation." The doctor however felt that all
endeavours would be hopeless. He found in him-
self an incapacity for true repentance. And finally
the devil came to him, reproached him for breach
of contract in listening to the pious expostulations
.of a saint, threatened that in case of infidelity he
would take him away to hell even before his time,
and frightened the doctor into the act of signing a
fresh contract in ratification of that which he had
signed before.
At length Faustus ultimately arrived at the
end of the term for which he had contracted
with the devil. For two or three years before it
expired, his character gradually altered. He be-
came subject to fits of despondency, was no longer
susceptible of mirth and amusement, and reflected
with bitter agony on the close in which the whole
must terminate. During the last month of his
period, he no longer sought the services of his
infernal ally, but with the utmost unwillingness
saw his arrival. But Mephostophiles now attended
him unbidden, and treated him with biting scoffs
and reproaches. " You have well studied the Scrip-
tures," he said, "and ought to have known that
your safety lay in worshipping God alone. You
sinned with your eyes open, and can by no means
plead ignorance. You thought that twenty-four
years was a term that would have no end ; and
you now see how rapidly it is flitting away. The
FAUSTUS.
term for which you sold yourself to the devil is a.
very different thing ; and, after the lapse of thou-
sands of ages, the prospect before you will be sti11
as unbounded as ever. You were warned; you
were earnestly pressed to repent; but now it is
too late."
After the demon, Mephostophiles, had long tor-
mented Faustus in this manner, he suddenly dis-
appeared, consigning him over to wretchedness,
vexation and despair.
The whole twenty-four years were now expired.
The day before, Mephostophiles again made his
appearance, holding in his hand the bond which
the doctor had signed with his blood, giving him
notice that the next day, the devil, his master,
would come for him, and advising him to hold
himself in readiness. Faustus, it seems, had earned
himself much good will among the younger mem-
bers of the university by his agreeable manners, by
his willingness to oblige them, and by the extra-
ordinary spectacles with which he occasionally di-
verted them. This day he resolved to pass in a
friendly farewel. He invited a number of them
to meet him at a house of public reception, in a
hamlet adjoining to the city. He bespoke a large
room in the house for a banqueting room, another
apartment overhead for his guests to sleep in, and
a smaller chamber at a little distance for himself.
He furnished his table with abundance of delica-
cies and wines. He endeavoured to appear among
S54 FAUSTUS.
them in high spirits ; but his heart was inwardly
sad.
When the entertainment was over, Faustus ad.
dressed them, telling them that this was the last
day of his life, reminding them of the wonders
with which he had frequently astonished them, and
informing them of the condition upon which he
had held this power. They, one and all, expressed
the deepest sorrow at the intelligence. They had
had the idea of something unlawful in his proceed-
ings ; but their notions had been very far from
coming up to the truth. They regretted exceed-
ingly that he had not been unreserved in his com-
munications at an earlier period. They would have
had recourse in his behalf to the means of religion,
and have applied to pious men, desiring them to
employ their power to intercede with heaven in his
favour. Prayer and penitence might have done
much for him; and the mercy of heaven was un-
bounded. They advised him still to call upon
God, and endeavour to secure an interest in the
merits of the Saviour.
Faustus assured them that it was all in vain,
and that his tragical fate was inevitable. He led
them to their sleeping apartment, and recom-
mended to them to pass the night as they could,
but by no means, whatever they might happen to
hear, to come out of it; as their interference could
in ito way be beneficial to him, and might be at-
tend.ed with the most serious injury to themselves.
FAUSTUS.
They lay still aa he had enjoined them i
but not one of them could close his eyes.
Between twelve and one in the night they heard
first a furious storm of wind round all sides of the
house, as if it would have torn away the walls froni
their foundations. This no sooner somewhat
abated, than a noise was heard of discordant and
violent hissing, as if the house was full of all sorts
of venomous reptiles, but which plainly proceeded
from Faustus's chamber. Next they heard the
doctor's room-door vehemently· burst open; and
cries for help uttered with dreadful agony, but a
half-suppressed voice, which presently grew fuinter
and fainter. Then every thing became still, as if
the everlasting motion of the world was suspended.
When at length it broad day, the stu-
dents went in a body into the docto1"s apartment,
But he was no where to be seen. Only the walls
were found smeared with his blood, and marks as
if his brains had been dashed out. His body was
finally discovered at some distance from the house,
his limbs dismembered, and marks ofgreat violence
about the features of his face. The studentS
gathered up the mutilated parts of his body, and
afforded them private burial at the temple of Mars
in the village where he died.
A ludicrous confusion of ideas has been pro-
duced by some persons from the similarity of
names of Faustus, the supposed magician of Wit-
.tenberg, and Faust or Fust of Mentz, the inventor,
!l A !l
FAUSTUS.
or first establisher of the art of printing. It has
been alleged that the exact resembl4nce of the
copies of books published by the latter, when no
other mode of multiplying copies was known but
by the act of transcribing, was found to be such,
as could no way be accounted for by natural means.
and that therefore it was imputed to the person
who presented these copies, that he must necessa-
rily be assisted by the devil. It has further been
stated, that Faust, the printer, swore the craftsmen
he employed at his press to inviolable secrecy, that
he might the more securely keep up the price of
his books. But this notion of the identity of the
two persons is entirely groundless. Faustus, the
magician, is described in the romance as having
been born in 1491, twenty-five years after the
period at which the printer is understood to have
died, and there is no one coincidence between the
histories of the two persons, beyond the similarity
of names, and a certain mystery (or magical appear-
ance) that inevitably adheres to the practice of an
art hitherto unknown. If any secret reference
had been intended in the romance to the real cha-
racter of the illustrious introducer of an art which
bas been productive of such incalculable benefits
to mankind, it would be impossible to account for
such a marvellous inconsistence in the chronology.
Others have carried their scepticism so far, as to
have started a doubt whether there was ever really
such a person as Faustus of Wittenberg, the al-
FAUSTUS, 857
leged magtctan. But the testimony of Wierus,
Philip Camerarius, Melancthon and others, his
contemporaries, sufficiently refutes this supposition.
The fact is, that there was undoubtedly such a
man, who, by sleights of dexterity, made himself
a reputation as if there was something superna-
tural in his performances, and that he was probably
also regarded with a degree of terror and abhor-
rence by the superstitious. On this theme was
constructed a romance, which once possessed the
highest popularity, and furnished a subject to the
dramatical genius of Marlow, Lessing, Goethe, and
others.-lt is sufficiently remarkable, that the
notoriety of this romance seems to have suggested
to Shakespear the idea of sending the grand con-
ception of his brain, Hamlet, prince of Denmark,
to finish his education at the university of Wit-
tenberg.
And here it may not be uninstructive to remark
the different tone of the record ofthe acts of Ziito,
the Bohemian, and Fanstus of Wittenburg, though
little more than half a century elapsed between
the periods at which they were written. Dubra-
vius, bishop of Olmutz in Moravia, to whose pen
we are indebted for what we know ofZiito, died in
the year 1558. He has deemed it not unbecom-
ing to record in his national history of Bohemia,
.the achievements of this magician, who, he says,
exhibited them before Wenceslaus, king of the
.country, at the celebration of his marriage. A
SAB£LLICUS.
waggon-load of sorcerers arrived at Prague on that
occasion fur the entertainment of the company.
Bllt, at the close of that century, the exploits of
Faustus :were no longer deemed entitled to a place
in Rational history, but were more appropriately
taken .for the theme of a romance. Faustus and
hJs performances were certainly contemplated with
at least as much horror as the deeds of Ziito. But
popular credulity was no longer .wound to so high
a pitch: the marvels effected by Faustus are not
represented as challenging the observation of thou-
sands at a public court, and on the occasion of a
royal festival. They "hid their diminished heads,"
and were performed comparatively in a corner.
SABELLICUS.
A pretended magician is recorded by Naude, as
living about this time, named Georgius Sabellicus,
who, he says, ifloftiness and arrogance of assump-
tion were enough to establish a claim to the pos-
session ofsupernatural gifts, would beyond all con-
troversy be recognised for a chiefand consummate
sorcerer. It was his ambition by the most sound-
ing. appellations of this nature to advance his c1aim
to immortal reputation. He called himself, "The
most accomplished Georgius Sabellicus, a second
Faustus, the spring and centre of necromantic art,
an astrologer, a magician, consummate in chiro-
mancy, and in agromancy, pyromancy and. hydro-
.PARACELSUS. 859
rnancy inferior to none that ever lived.'' l men-
tion this the rather, as affording an additional
proof how highly Faustus was rated at the.time in
which he is said to have flourished.
It is specially worthy of notice, that Naude,
whose book is a sort of register of all the most dis-
tinguished names in the annals of. necromancy,
drawn up for the purpose of vindicating their
honour, now,:}lere mentions Faustus, except once
in this slight and cursory way.
PARACELSUS.
Paracelsus, or, as he styled himself, Philippus
Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus Paracelsus de
Hohenheim, was a· man of great notoriety and emi-
nence, about the same time as Dr. Faustus. He
was born in the year 1498, and died in 1541. His
father is said to have lived in some repute ; but
the son early became a wanderer in the world,
passing his youth in the occupation of foretelling
future events by the stars and by chiromancy, in-
voking the dead, and performing various operations
of alchemy and magic. He states Trithemius to
have been his instructor in the science of metals.
He was superficial in literature, and says of him-
self that at one time he did not open a book for
ten years together. He visited the mines ofBo-
hemia, Sweden and the East to petfect himself in
metallic knowledge. He travelled through Prussia,
860 l'ARACELSUS,
Lithuania, Poland, Transylvania and Illyria, con.
versing indifferently with physicians and old wo-
men, that he might extract from them the practical
secrets of their art. He visited Egypt, Tartary
and Constantinople, at which last place, as he says,
he learned the transmutation of metals and the
philosopher's stone. He boasts also of the elixir
of life, by means of which he could prolong the
life of man to the age of the antediluvians. He
certainly possessed considerable sagacity and a
happy spirit of daring, which induced him to have
recourse to the application of mercury and opium
in the cure of diseases, when the regular physi.
cians did not venture on the use of them. He
therefore was successfully employed by certain
eminent persons in desperate cases, and was
consulted by Erasmus. He gradually increased
in fame, and in the year 1.5fl6 was chosen profes-
sor of natural philosophy and surgery in the uni-
versity of Bale. Here he delivered lectures in a
very bold and presumptuous style. He proclaimed
himself the monarch of medicine, and publicly
burned the writings of Galen and Avicenna as
pretenders and impostors.
This however was the acme of his prosperity.
His system was extremely popular for one year;
but then he lost himself by brutality and intem-
perance. He had drunk water only for the first
five-and-twenty years of his life ; but now indulged
himself in beastly cr&pulence with the dregs of
-==--=----------- - - ---·
PARACELSUS. 361
society, ami scarcely ever took off his clothes by
day or night. After one year therefore spent at
Bale, he resumed his former vagabond life, and,
having passed through many vicissitudes, some of
them of the most abject poverty, he died at the
age of forty-eight.
Paracelsus in fact exhibited in his person the
union of a quack, a boastful and impudent pre-
tender, with a considerable degree of natural saga-
city and shrewdness. Such an union is not un-
common in the present day; but it was more
properly in its place, when the cultivation of the
faculties of the mind was more restricted than
now, and the law of criticism of facts and evi-
dence was nearly unknown. He took advantage
of the credulity and love of wonder incident to the
generality of our species ; and, by dint of imposing
on others, succeeded in no small degree in im-
posing on himself. His intemperance and arro-
gance of demeanour gave the suitable finish to his
character. He therefore carefully cherished in
those ·about him the idea that there was in him a
kind of supernatural virtue, and that he had the
agents of an invisible world at his command. In
particular he gave out that he held conferences
with a familiar or demon, whom for the conveni-
ence of consulting he was in the habitof carry-
ing about with him in the hilt of his sword.
86i CARDAN.
CARDAN.
Jerome Cardan, who was· only a few years
younger than Paracelsus, was a man of a very dif-
ferent character. He had considerable refinement
and discrimination, and ranked among the first
scholars of -his day. He is however most of all
distinguished for the Memoirs he has left us of bis
life, which are characterised by a frankness and
unreserve ·which are ·almost without a parallel.
He had undoubtedly -a considerable spice of mad-
ness in his composition. He says of himself, that
he was liable to extraordinary fits of abstraction
and elevation of mind, which by their intenseness
became so intolerable, that he gladly had recourse
to very severe bodily pain by way of getting rid of
them. That in such cases he would bite his lips
till they bled, twist .his fingers almost to disloca-
tion, and whip his legs with rods, which he found
a great relief to him. That he would talk pur-
posely of subjects which he knew were particu-
larly offensive to· the company he was in; that
he argued on any side of a subject, without
caring whether he was right or wrong ; and that he
would spend whole nights in gaming, often ven-
turing as the stake he played for, the furniture of
his house, and his wife's jewels.
Cardan describes thiee things of himself, which
he habitually experienced, but respecting which
he had never unbosomed himself to any of his
C£.RDAN. S6S
friends. The was, a capacity which he felt in
elf of.abandoaing his body in a sort of extacy
he pleased. He felt in these cases a
sort of splitting of the heart, as if his soul was
about to w.ithdraw, the sensation spreading over
his whole.frame, like the opening of a door for the
dismissal of its His apprehension was, that
he was out of his body, and that by an energetic
-exertion he still retained a small hold of his
poreal figure. The second of his peculiarities was,
that he saw, when he pleased, whatever he desired
to see, not through the force of imagination, but
.with his material organs : he saw groves, animals,
orbs, as he willed. When he was a child, he saw
these things, as they occurred, without any pre-
.vious volition or anticipation that such a thing
was ·about to happen. But, after he had arrived
at years of maturity, he saw them only when he
desired, and such things as he desired. These
images were in perpetual succession, one after an-
other. The thing incidental to him which he men-
tions in the third place was, that he could not
recollect any thing that ever happened to him,
whether good, ill, or indifferent, of which he had
not been admonished, and that a very short time
before, in a dream. These things serve to shew
1)f what importance he was in his own eyes, and
also, which is the matter he principally brings it
to prove, the subtlety and delicacy of his animal
nature.
864 QUACKS WHO SOUGHT TO CHEAT MANKIND.
Cardan speaks uncertaic.ly and contradictorily as
to his having a genius or demon perpetually at-
tending him, advising him of what was to happen,
and forewarning him of sinister events. He con-
cludes that he had no such attendant,
but that it was the excellence of his nature,
proaching to immortality. He was much addicted
to the study of astrology, and laid claim to great
skill as a physician. He visited the court of Lon-
don, and calculated the nativity of king Edward
VI. He was sent for as a physician by cardinal
Beaton, archbishop of St Andrews, whom,
ing to Melvile, he recovered to speech and health,
and the historian appears to attribute the cure to
magic. He calculated the nativity of Jesus Christ,
which was imputed to him as an impious
taking, inasmuch as it supposed the creator of the
world to be subject to the influence of the stars.
He also predicted his own death, and is supposed
by some to have forwarded that event, by absti-
nence from food at the age of seventy-five, that he
might not bely his prediction.
QUACKS, WHO IN COOL BLOOD UNDERTOOK TO
OVERREACH MANKIND.
' Hitherto we have principally passed such per-
in .review, as seem to have been in part at
· . ··least the victims of their own delusions. But ·
• Memoirs, p. 14.
BENVENUTO CELLINI. 365
side these there has always been a numerous class
of men, who, with minds perfectly disengaged and
free, have applied themselves to concert the means
of overreaching the simplicity, or baffling the pene-
tration, of those who were merely spectators, and
uninitiated in the mystery of the arts that were
practised upon them. Such was no rloubt the case
with the speaking heads and statues, which were.
sometimes exhibited in the ancient oracles. Such
was the case with certain optical delusions, which
were practised on the unsuspecting, and were con-
trived to produce on them the effect of superna-
tural revelations. Such is the story of Bel and
the Dragon in the book of Apocrypha, where the
priests daily placed before the idol twelve measures
of flour, and forty sheep, and six vessels of wine,
pretending -that the idol consumed all these provi-
sions, when in fact they entered the temple by
night, by a door under the altar, and removed
them.
BENVENUTO CELLINI.
We have a story minutely related by Benvenuto
Cellini in his Life, which it is now known was
produced by optical delusion, but which was im-
posed upon the artist and his companions as ·
gether supernatural. It occurred a very sh<?rt .:
time before the death of pope Clement the Seventh. ·
in 1534, and is thus detailed. It took place in the ·
Coliseum at Rome.
..
866· BENVENUTO CELLINI.:
" It came to pass· through a variety of.oddacci...
dents, that I made acquaintance with a Sicil.i:m
priest, who was a man of genius, and well versed
in the Greek and Latin languages. Happening
one day to have some conversation with him;
where the subject turned upon the art of necro-
mancy, I, who had a great desire to know some-
thing of the matter, told him, that I had all my
life had a curiosity to be acquainted with the mys.
teries of this art. The priest made answer, that
the man must be of a resolute and steady temper,
who entered on that study. I replied, that I had
fortitude and resolution enough to desire to be
initiated in it. The priest subjoined, 'If you think
you have the heart to venture, I will give you all
the satisfaction you can desire.' Thus we agreed
to enter upon a scheme of necromancy.
" The priest one evening prepared to satisfy me,
and desired me to look for a companion or two.
I invited one Vincenzio Romoli, who was my in·
timate acquaintance, and he brought with him a
native of Pistoia who cultivated the art of necro-
mancy himself. We repaired to the Coliseum ;
and the priest, according to the custom of
jurors, began to draw circles on the ground, with
the most impressive ceremonies imaginable. He
likewise brought with him all sorts of precious per-
fumes and fire, with some compositions which
fused noisome and bad odours. As soon as he was
in readiness, he made an opening to the circle, and
BENVENUTO CELLINI.
took us by the hand; and ordered the other necro-
mancer, his partner, to throw perfumes into the
fire at a proper time, intrusting the care of the fire
and the perfumes to the rest ; and then he began
his incantations.
" This ceremony lasted above an hour and a
half, when there appeared several legions of devils,
so that the amphitheatre was quite filled with them.
I was busy about the perfumes, when the priest,
who knew that there was a sufficient number of
infernal spirits, turned about to me, and said, 'Ben-
venuto, ask them something.' I answered, 'Let
them bring me into company with my Sicilian
mistress, Angelica.' That night we obtained no
answer of any sort; but I received great satis-
faction in having my curiosity so far indulged.
" The necromancer told me that it was requisite
we should go a second time, assuring me that I
should be satisfied in whatever I asked ; but that
I must bring with me a boy that had never known
woman. I took with me my apprentice, who was
about twelve years of age; with the same Vin..
cenzio Romoli, who had been my companion the
first time, and one Agnolino Gaddi, an intimate
acquaintance, whom I likewise prevailed on to
assist at the ceremony. When we came to the
place appointed, the priest, having made ·his pre-
parations as before with the same and even more
striking ceremonies, placed us within the circle;
which he had drawn wi.th a more wonderful art
868 BENVENUTO CELLINI,
and in a more solemn manner, than at our former
meeting. Thus having committed the care of the
perfumes and the fire to my friend Vincenzio, who
was assisted by Gaddi, he put into my hands a
pintacolo, or magical chart. and bid me turn it
towards the places to which he should direct me ;
and under the pintacolo I held my apprentice.
The necromancer, having begun to make his most
tremendous invocations, called by their names a
multitude of demons who were the leaders of the
several legions, and questioned them, by the virtue
and power of the eternal, uncreated God, who lives
for ever, in the Hebrewlanguage, as also inLatin and
Greek; insomuch that the amphitheatre was filled,
almost in an instant, with demons a hundred times
more numerous than at the former conjuration.
Vincenzio meanwhile was busied in making a fire
with the assistance of Gaddi, and burning a great
quantity of precious perfumes. I, by the direction
of the necromancer, again desired to be in com-
pany with my Angelica. He then turning upon
me said, ' Know, they have declared that in the
space of a month you shall be in her company.'
" He then requested me to stand by him reso-
lutely, because the legions were now above a
thousand more in number than he had designed ;
and besides these were the most dangerous ; so
that, after they had answered my question, it be-
hoved him to be civil to them, and dismiss them
quietly. At the same time the boy under the
BENVENUTO CELLINI. 869
pintacolo was in a terrible fright, saying, that
there were in the place a million of·fierce men
who threatened to destroy us; and besides,
there were foUT armed giants of enormous stature,.
who endeavoured to break into our circle. During
this time, while the necromancer, trembling with
fear, endeavoured by mild means to dismiss them
in the best way he could, Vincenzio, who quivered
like an aspen -leaf, took care of the perfumes.
Though I was as much afraid as any of them, I
did my utmost to conceal it ; so that I greatly
contributed to· inspire the rest with resolution:
but the truth is,I gave myself over for a dead man,
seeing the horrid fright the necromancer was in.
" The boy had pL1.eed his head between his
knees ; and said, ' In this attitq.de .will I die ; for
we shall all surely perish.' I told him that those
demons were nnder us, and what he saw was
smoke and shadow ; so bid him hold up his head
and take courage. No sooner did he look up,
than he cried out, 'The whole amphitheatre is burn..
ing, and the fire is just falling on us.' So, covering
his eyes with his hands, he again exclaimed, that
destruction was inevitable, and he desired to see
no more. The necromancer intreated me to have
a good heart, and to take care to burn proper per-
fumes ; upon which I turned to Vincenzio, and
bade him burn all the most precious perfumes he
had. At the same time I cast my eyes upon Gaddi,
who was terrified to such a degree, that he could
flB
870 BENVENUTO CELLINI.
scarcely distinguish objects, and seemed to be half
dead. Seeing him in this condition, I said to him,
' Gaddi, upon these occasions a man should not
yield to fear, but stir about to give some assist-
ance ; -so come directly, and put on more of these
perfumes.' Gaddi accordingly attempted to move;
but the effect was annoying both to our sense of
hearing and smell, and overcame the perfumes.
" The boy perceiving this, once more ventured
to raise his head, and, seeing me laugh, began to
take courage, -and said, 'The devils are flying
away with a vengeance.' In this condition we
staid, .till the bell rang for morning prayers. The
boy again told us, that there remained but few
devils, and those were at a great distance. When
the magician had performed the rest of his cere-
monies, he stripped off his gown, and took up 11
wallet full of books, which he had brought with
him. We all went out of the circle · together,
keeping as close to each other as we possibly could,
especially the boy, who placed himself in the
middle, holding the necromancer by the coat, and
me by the cloak.
"As we were going.to our houses in the quarter
of Banchi, the boy told us, that two of the de-
mons whom we had seen at the amphitheatre,
went on before us leaping and skipping, some-
times running upon the roofs of the houses, and
sometimes on the ground. The priest declared
that, .as often as he had entered magic circles,
-- ___...
BENVENUTO CELLINI. 871
nothing so extraordinary had ever happened to
him. As we went along, he would fain have per-
suaded me to assist at the consecrating a book,
from which he said we should derive immense
riches. We should then ask the demons to dis-
cover to us the various treasures with which the
earth which would raise us to opulence
and power : but that those love-affairs were mere
follies from which no good could be expected. I
made answer, that I would readily have accepted
his proposal if I had understood Latin. He as-
sured me that the knowledge of Latin was nowise
material ; but that he could never meet with a
partner of resolution and intrepidity equal to mine,
and that that would be to him an invaluable ac-
quisition." Immediately subsequent to this scene,
Cellini got into one of those scrapes, in which
he was so frequently involved by his own violence
and ferocity ; and the connection was never again
renewed.
The first remark that arises out of this narrative
is, that nothing is actually done by the superna-
tural personages which are exhibited. The ma-
gician reports certain answers as given by the
demons ; but these answers do not appear to have
been heard from any lips but those of him who was
the creator or cause of the scene. . The whole of
the demons therefore were merely figures, produced
by the magic lantern (which is said· to have been
invented by Roger Bacon), or by something of
2B2
NOSTRADAMUS.
that nature. The burning of the perfumes served
to produce a dense atmosphere, that was
lated to exaggerate, and render more formidable
and terrific, the figures which were exhibited.
The magic lantern, which is now the amusement
only of servant-maids, and boys at school in their
holidays, served at this remote period, and when
the power of optical delusions was unknown, to
terrify men of wisdom and penetration, and make
them believe that legions of devils from the infer-
nal regions were come among them, to produce the
most horrible effects, and suspend and invett the
laws of nature. It is probable, taat the magician,
who carried home with him :, " wallet full of
books," also carried at the same time the magic
lantern or mirror, with its lights, which had served
him for his exhibition, and that this was the cause
of the phenomenon, that they observed two of the
demons which they bad seen at the amphitheatre.
going before them on their return, " leaping and
skipping, sometimes running on the roofs of the
houses, and sometimes on the ground ."
NOSTRADAMUS.
Michael Nostradamus, a celebrated astrologer,
was born at St. Remi in Provence in the year
1508. He published a Century of Prophecies in
obscure and oracular terms and barbarous verse,
• Brewster, Letters on Natural Magic, Letter IV.
DOCTOR DEE. 373
and other works. In the period in which he
lived the pretended art of astrological prediction
was in the highest repute ; and its professors were
sought for by emperors and kings, and entertained
with the greatest distinction and honour. Henry
the Second ofFrance, moved with his great renown,
sent for Nostradamus to court, received much gra-
tification from his visit, and afterward ordered him
to Blois, that he might see the princes, his sons,
calculate their horoscopes, and predict their future
fortunes. He was no less in favour afterwards with
Charles the Ninth. He died in the year 1566.
DOCTOR DEE.
Dr. John Dee was a man who made a conspicu-
ous figure in the sixteenth century. He was born
at London in the year 1527. He was an eminent
mathematician, and an indefatigable scholar. He
says of himself, that, having been sent to Cam-
bridge when he was fifteen, he persisted for several
years in allowing himself only four hours for sleep
in the twenty-four, and two for food and refresh-
ment, and that he constantly occupied the remain-
ing eighteen (the time for divine service only ex-
cepted) in study. At Cambridge he superintended
the exhibition of a Greek play of Aristophanes,
among the machinery of which he introduced an
artificial scarabreus, or beetle, which flew up to
the palace ofJupiter, with a man on his back, and
374 DOCTOR DEE.
a basket of provisions. The ignorant and asto-
nished spectators ascribed this feat to the arts of
the magician ; and Dee, annoyed by these sus-
picions, found it expedient to withdraw to the
continent. Here he resided first at the university
of Louvaine, at which place, his acquaintance was
courted by the dukes of Mantua and Medina, and
from thence proceeded to Paris, where he gave
lectures on Euclid with singular applause.
In 1551 he returned to England, and was re-
ceived with distinction by sir John Cheek, and
introduced to secretary Cecil, and even to king
Edward, from whom he received a pension of one
hundred crowns per annum, which he speedily
after exchanged for a small living in the church.
In the reign of queen Mary he was for some
time kindly treated ; but afterwards came into
great trouble, and even into danger of his life. He
entered into correspondence with several of the
servants of queen Elizabeth at Woodstock, and
was charged with practising against Mary's life by
enchantments. Upon this accusation, he was seized
and confined ; and, being ·after several examina-
tions discharged of the indictment, was turned
over to bishop Bonner to see if any heresy could
be found in him. After a tedious persecution he
was set at liberty in 1555, and was so little sub-
dued by what he had suffered, that in the follow-
ing year he presented a petition to the queen, re-
questing her co-operation in a plat.t for preserying
DOCTOR DEE.
and recovering certain monuments of classical an-
tiquity.
The principal study of Dee however at this
time lay in astrology; and accordingly, upon the
accession of Elizabeth, Robert Dudley, her chief
favourite, was sent to consult the doctor as to the
a8pect of the stars, that they might fix on an aus-
picious day for celebrating her coronation. Some
years after we find him again on the continent; and
in 1571, being taken ill at Louvaine, we are told
the queen sent over two physicians to accomplish
his cure. Elizabeth afterwards visited him at his
house at Mortlake, that she might view his maga-
zine of mathematical instruments and curiosities ;
and about this time employed him to defend her
title to countries discovered in different parts of
the globe. He says of himself, that he received
the most advantageous offers from Charles V, Fer-
dinand, Maximilian II, and Rodolph II, emperors
ofGermany, and from the czar of Muscovy an of.
fer of £2000 sterling per annum, upon condition
that he would reside in his dominions. All these
circumstances were solemnly attested by Dee in· a
Compendious Rehearsal of his Life and Studies for
half-a-century, composed at a later period, and
read by him at his house at Mortlake to two com-
missioners appointed by Elizabeth to enquire into
his circumstances, accompanied with evidences
and documents to the particulars .
• Appendix to Johannes Glastoniensis, edited by Hearne.
S76 DOCTOR DEE.
Had Dee gone no further than this, he would
undoubtedly have ranked among the profoundest
scholars and most eminent geniuses that adorned
the reign of the maiden queen. But he was un-
fortunately cursed with an ambition that nothing·
could satisfy ; and, his mind
to the :wildest reveries, and wrought himself up to
an ex,travagant pitch of enthusiasm, he pursued a
course that involved him in much calamity, and
clouded all his latter days with misery and ruin.
He dreamed perpetually ofthe philosopher's stone,
and was haunted with the belief of intercourse of a
supramundane character. It is almost impossible
to decide among these things, how much was illu-
sion, and how much was forgery. Both were inex-
tricably mixed in his proceedings; and this extraor-
dinary victim probably could not in his most dis-
passionate moments precisely distinguish what be-
longed to the one, and what to the other.
As Dee was an enthusiast, so he perpetually in-
terposed in his meditations prayers of the great-
est emphasis and fervour. As he was one day
in November 1582, engaged in these devout ex-
ercises, he says that there appeared to him the
angel Uriel at the west window of his Museum,
who gave him a translucent stone, or chrystal, of
a convex form, that had the quality, when in-
tently surveyed, of presenting apparitions, and
even emitting sounds, in consequence of which
the observer could hold conversations, ask ques-
DOCTOR DEE. 877
tions and receive answer&from the figures he saw
in the mirror. It was often necessary that the
stone should be turned one way and another in dif-
ferent po.qitions, before the person who consulted
it gained the right focus; and then the objects to
be observed would sometimes shew themselves on
the surface of the stone, and sometime in differ-
ent parts of the room by virtue of the action of the
stone. It had also this peculiarity, that only one
person, having been named as seer, could see the
figures exhibited, and hear the voices that spoke,
though there might be various persons in the room.
It appears that the person who discerned these
visions must have his eyes and his ears uninterrupt-
edly engaged in the affair, so that, as Dee experi-
enced, to render the communication effectual, there
must be two human beings concerned in the scene,
one of them to describe what he saw, and to recite
the dialogue that took place, and the other im-
mediately to commit to paper all that his partner
dictated. Dee for some reason chose for himself
the part of the amanuensis, and had to seek for a
companion, who was to watch the stone, andre-
peat to him whatever he saw and heard.
It happened opportunely that, a short time be-
fore Dee received this gift from on high, he con-
tracted a familiar intercourse with one Edward
Kelly of Worcestershire, whom he found specially
qualified to perform the part which it was neces-
sary to Dee to have adequately filled. Kelly was
878 DOCTOR DEE.
an extraordinary character, and in some respects
exactly such a person as Dee wanted. He was
just twenty-eight years younger than the memo-
rable personage, who now received him as an in-
mate, and was engaged in his service at a stipu-
lated- salary of fifty pounds a year.
Kelly entered upon life with a somewhat unfor-
tunate adventure. He was accused, when a young
man, of forgery, brought to trial, convicted, and
lost his ears in the pillory. This misfortune how-
ever by no means daunted him. He was assidu-
ously engaged in the search for the philosopher's
stone. He had an active mind, great enterprise,
and a very domineering temper. Another adven•
ture in which he had been engaged previously to
his knowledge of Dee, was in digging up the body
of a man, who had been buried only the day be-
fore, that he might compel him by incantations,
to answel' questions, and discover future events.
There was this difference therefore between the
two persons previously to their league. Dee was
a man of regular manners and unspotted life, ho-
noured by the great, and favourably noticed by
crowned heads in different parts of the world;
while Kelly was a notorious profligate, accustomed
to the most licentious actions, and under no re-
straint from morals or principle.
One circumstance that occurred early in the
acquaintance of Kelly and Dee it is necessary to
mention. It serves strikingly to illustrate the as..
DOCTOR DU. 879
cendancy of the junior and impetuous party over
his more gifted senior. Kelly led Dee, we are not
told under what pretence, to visit the celebrated
ruins of Glastonbury Abbey in Somersetshire.
Here, as these curious travellers searched into every
corner of the scene, they met by some rare acci-
dent with a vase containing a certain portion of
the actual eli.rir vita, that rare and precious liquid,
so much sought after, which has the virtue of con-
verting the baser metals into gold and silver. It
had remained here perhaps ever since the time of
the highly-gifted St. Dunstan in the tenth century.
This they carried off in triumph : but we are not
told of any special use to which they applied it,
till a few years after, when they were both on the
continent.
The first record of their consultations with the
supramundane spirits, was of the date of December
2, 1581, at Lexden Heath in the county of Es-
sex; and from this time they went on in a regular
series of consultations with and enquiries from
these miraculous visitors, a great part of which
will appear to the uninitiated extremely puerile
and ludicrous, but which were committed to writ-
ing with the most scrupulous exactness by Dee,
the first part still existing in manuscript, but the
greater portion from 28 May 1588 to 1608, with
some interruptions, having been committed to the
press by Dr. Meric Casaubon in a well-sized folio
in 1659, under the title of "A True and Faithful
380 DOCTOR DEE.
Relation of what passed between Dr. John Dee
and some Spirits, tending, had it succeeded, to a
general alteration of most states and kingdoms of
the world."
Kelly and Dee had not long been engaged in
these supernatural colloquies, before an event oc-
curred which gave an entirely new tum to their
proceedings. Albert Alaski, a Polish nobleman,
lord palatine of the principality of Siradia, came
over at this time into England, urged, as he
said, by a desire personally to acquaint himself
with the glories of the reign of Elizabeth, and the
evidences of her unrivalled talents. The queen
and her favourite, the earl of Leicester, received
him with every mark of courtesy and attention,
and, having shewn him all the wonders of her
court at Westminster and Greenwich, sent him to
Oxford, with a command to the dignitaries and
heads of colleges, to pay him every attention, and
to lay open to his view all their rarest curiosi-
ties. Among other things worthy of notice, Alas-
ki enquired for the celebrated Dr. Dee, and ex-
pressed the greatest impatience to be acquainted
with him.
Just at this juncture the earl of Leicester hap-
pened to spy Dr. Dee among the crowd who at-
tended at a royal levee. The earl immediately
advanced towards him ; and, in his frank manner,
having introduced him to Alaski, expressed his
intention of bringing the Pole to dine with the
DOCTOR DEE. 881'
doctor at his house· at Mortlake. ·Embarrassed
with this unexpected honour, Dee no sooner got
home, than he dispatched an express to the earl,
honestly confessing that he should be .tinable to
entertain such guests in a suitable manner, with.
out being reduced to the expedient of selling or
pawning his plate, to procure him the means of
doing. so. Leicester communicated the doctor's
perplexity to Elizabeth ; and the queen immedi.
ately dispatched a messenger with a present offorty
angels, or twenty pounds, to enable him to receive
his guests as became him.
A great intimacy immediately commenced be-.
tween Dee and the stranger. Alaski, though pos-
sessing an extensive territory, was reduced by the
prodigality of himself or his ancestors to much
embarrassment; and on the other hand this noble-.
man appeared to Dee an instrument well qualified
to accomplish his ambitious purposes. Alaski was
extremely desirous to look into the womb of time;
and Dee, it is likely, suggested repeated hints of
his extraordinary power from his possession ofthe.
philosopher's stone. After two or three interviews,
and much seeming importunity on the part of the
. Pole, Dee and Kelly graciously condescended to
admit Alaski as a third party to their secret meet;..
ings with their supernatural visitors, from which
the rest of the world were carefully excluded. Here
the two Englishmen made use of the vulgar arti-
fice, of promising extraordinary good fortune to
88!! DOCTOR DEE.
the person of whom they purposed to make use.
By the intervention of the miraculous stone they
told the wondering traveller, that he should shortly
become king of Poland, with the accession of se-
veral other kingdoms, that he should overcome
many armies of Saracens and Paynims, and prove
a mighty conqueror. Dee at the same time com-
plained of the disagreeable condition in which be
was at home., and that Burleigh and Walsingham
were his malicious enemies. At length they con-
certed among themselves, that they, Alaski, and
Dee and Kelly with their wives and families,
should clandestinely withdraw out of England, and
proceed with all practicable rapidity to Alaski's
territory in the kingdom of Poland. They em-
barked on this voyage 21 September, an.d arrived
at Siradia the third of February following.
At this place however the strangers remained
little more than a month. Alaski found his finances
in such disorder, that it was scarcely possible for
him to feed the numerous guests he had brought
along with him. The promises of splendid con-
quests which Dee and Kelly profusely heaped upon
him, were of no avail to supply the deficiency of
his present income. And the elixir they brought
from Glastonbury was, as they said, ·so incredibly
rich in virtue, that they were compelled to lose
much time in making projection by way of trial,
before they conld hope to arrive at the proper tem-
perament for producing the effect they desired.
DOCTOR DEE. 888
In the following month Alaski with his visitors
passed to Cracow, the residence of the kings of Po-
land. Here they remained five months, Dee and
Kelly perpetually amusing the Pole with the extra-
ordinary virtue of the stone, which had. been
brought from heaven by an angel, and busied in a
thousand experiments with the elixir, and many
tedious preparations which they pronounced to
be necessary, before the compound could have
the proper effect. The prophecies were uttered
with extreme confidence; but no external indi-
cations were afforded, to shew that in any way
they were likely to be realised. The experiments
and exertions of the laboratory were incessant ;
but no transmutation was produced. At length
Alaski found himself unable to sustain the train of
followers he had brought out of England. With
mountains of wealth, the treasures of the world
promised, they were reduced to the most grievous
straits for the means of daily subsistence. Finally
the zeal of Alaski diminished ; he had no longer
the same faith in the projectors that had deluded
him ; and he devised a way of sending them for-
ward with letters ofrecommendation to Rodolph II,
emperor ofGennany, at his imperial seat of Prague,
where they arrived on the ninth of August.
Rodolph was a man, whose character and habits
of life they judged excellently adapted to their.pur-
pose. Dee had a long conference with the empe-
ror, in which he explained to hitn what wonderful
S84o DOCTOR DEE.
things the spirits promised. to this prince, in case
he proved exemplary of life, and obedient to their
suggestions, that he should be the greatest con-
queror in the world, and should take captive the
Turk in his city of Constantinople. Rodolph wu
extremely courteous in his reception, and sent away
Dee with the highest hopes that he had at length
found a personage with whom he should infallibly
su<;ceed to the extent of his wishes. He sought
however a second interview, .and was At
one time the emperor was going to his country
palace near Prague, and at another was engaged in
the pleasures of the chace.
He also complained that he was not sufficiently
familiar with the Latin tongue, to the con-
ferencl's with Dee in a satisfactory manner in
person. He therefore deputed Curtzius, a man
high in his confidence, to enter into the necessary
details with his learned visitor. Dee also contrived
to have Spinola, the ambassador from Madrid to
the court of the emperor, to urge his suit. The
final result was that Rodolph declined any further
intercourse with Dee. He turned a deaf ear to
his prophecies, and professed to be altogether void
of faith as to his promises respecting the philoso-
pher's stone. Dee however was led on perpetually
with hopes of better things from the emperor, till
the spring of the year 1.585. At length he was
obliged to fly from Prague, the bishop of Placentia.
the nuncio, having it in command from his
DOCTOR DEE. 88.5
holiness to represent to Rodolph how discreditable
it was for him to harbour English magicians, he-
retics, at his court.
From Prague Dee and his followers proceeded to
Cracow. Here he found means of introduction to
Stephen, king of Poland, to whom immediately he
insinuated as intelligence from heaven, that Ro-
dolph, the emperor, would speedily be assassinated,
and that Stephen would succeed him in the throne
of Germany. Stephen appears to have received
Dee with more condescension than Rodolph had
done, and was once present at his incantation
and interview with the invisible spirits. Dee
also lured him on with promises respecting the
philosopher's stone. Meanwhile the magician was
himself reduced to the strangest expedients for
subsistence. He appears to have daily expected
great riches from the transmutation of metaJs, and
was unwilling to confess that he and his family were
in the mean time almost starving.
When king Stephen at length became wearied
with fruitless expectation, Deewas fortunate enough
to meet with another and more patient dupe in
Rosenburg, a nobleman of considerable wealth at
Trebona in the kingdom of Bohemia. Here Dee
appears to have remained till 1.589, when he was
sent for home by Elizabeth. In what manner he
proceeded during this interval, and from whence
he drew. his supplies, we are only left to conjecture.
He lured on his victim with the usual temptation,
9l c
886 DOCTOR DEE.
promising him that he should be king of Poland.
In the mean time it is recorded by him, that, on
the ninth of December, 1586, he arrived at the
point of projection, having cut a piece of metal out
of a brass warming-pan ; and merely heating it by
the fire, and pouring on it a portion of the elixir,
it was presently converted into pure silver. We
are told that he sent the warming-pan and the piece
of silver to queen Elizabeth, that she might be
convinced by her own eyes how exactly they tallied,
and that the one had unquestionably been a portion
of the other. About the same time it is said,
that Dee and his associate became more free
in their expenditure; and in one instance it is
stated as an example, that Kelly gave away to the
value of four thousand pounds sterling in gold rings
on occasion of the celebration of the marriage of
one of his maid-servants. On the twenty-seventh
and thirtieth of July, 1587, Dee has recorded in
his journal his gratitude to God for his unspeakable
mercies on those days imparted, which has been
interpreted to mean further acquisitions of wealth
by means of the elixir.
Meanwhile perpetual occasions of dissention
occurred between the two great confederates,
Kelly and Dee. They were in many respects
unfitted for each other's society. Dee was a man,
who from his youth upward had been indefa-
tigable in study and research, had the conscious-
ness of great talents and intellect, and had been
DOCTOR DEE. 887
universally recognised as such, ·and had possessed
a high character for fervent piety and blameless
morals. Kelly was an impudent adventurer, a
man of no principles and of blasted reputation ;
yet fertile in resources, full of self-confidence, and
of no small degree of ingenuity. In their mutual
intercourse the audacious adventurer often had
the upper hand of the man who had lately pos-
sessed a well-earned .reputation. Kelly frequently
professed himself tired of enacting the character of
interpreter of the Gods under Dee. He found Dee
in all cases running away with the superior conside-:-
ration ; while he in his own opinion best deserved
to possess it. The straitness of their circum-
stances, and the misery they were occasionally
called on to endure, we may be sure did not im-
prove their good understanding. Kelly once and
again threatened to abandon his leader. Dee
continually soothed him, and prevailed on him to
stay.
Kelly at length started a very extraordinary
proposition. Kelly, as interpreter to the spirits,
and being the only person who heard and saw any
thing, we may presume made them say whatever
he pleased. Kelly and Dee had both of them
wives. Kelly did not always live harmoniously
with the partner of his bed. He sometimes went
so far as to say that he hated her. Dee was
more fortunate. His wife was a person of good
family, and had hitherto been irreproachable in
888 DOCTOR
her demeanour. The spirits one day revealed to
Kelly, that they must henceforth have their wives
in common. The wife of Kelly was barren, and
this curse could no otherwise be removed. Having
started the proposition, Kelly played the reluctant
party. Dee, who was pious and enthusiastic, in-
clined to submit. He first indeed started the
notion, that it could only be meant that they
should live in mutual harmony and good under-
standing. The spirits protested against this, and
insisted upon the literal interpretation. Dee
yielded, and compared his case to that of Abra-
ham, who at the divine command consented to
sacrifice his son Isaac. Kelly alleged that these
spirits, which Dee had hitherto regarded as mes-
sengers from God, could be no other than servants
of Satan. He persisted in his disobedience ; and
the spirits declared that he was no longer worthy
to be their interpreter, and that another mediator
must be found.
They named Arthur Dee, the son of the pos-
sessor of the stone, a promising and well-disposed
boy of only eight years of age. Dee consecrated
the youth accordingly to his high function by
prayers and rites for several days together.
Kelly took horse and rode away, protesting that
they should meet no more. Arthur entered upon
his office, April 15, 1587. The experiment proved
abortive. He saw something ; but not to the pur-
pose. He heard no voices. At length Kelly, on
DOCTOR DEE. 889
the third day, entered the room unexpectedly,
" by miraculous fortune," as Dee says, " or a
divine fate,, sate down between them, and imme-
diately saw figures, and heard voices, which the
little Arthur was not enabled to perceive. In par-
ticular he saw four· heads inclosed in an obelisk,
which he perceived to represent the two magicians
and their wives, and interpreted to signify that
unlimited communion in which they were destined
to engage. The matter however being still an
occasion of scruple, a spirit appeared, who by the
language he used was plainly no other than the
Saviour of the world, and took away from them
the larger stone ; for now it appears there were
two stones. This miracle at length induced all
parties to submit ; and the divine command was
no sooner obeyed, than the stone which had been
abstracted, was found again under the pillow of
the wife of Dee.
It is not easy to imagine a state of greater de-
gradation than that into which this person had now
fallen. During all the prime and vigour of his in-
tellect, he had sustained an eminent part among
the learned and the great, distinguished and ho-
noured by Elizabeth and her favourite. But his
unbounded arrogance and self-opinion could never
be satisfied. And seduced, partly by his own
weakness, and partly by the insinuations of a
crafty adventurer, he became a mystic of the most
dishonourable sort. He was induced to believe in
890 DOCTOR DEE.
a series of miraculous communications without
common sense, engaged in the pursuit of the philo-
sopher's stone, and no doubt imagined that he was
possessed of the great secret. Stirred up by these
conceptions, he left his native country, and became
a wanderer, preying upon the credulity of one
prince and eminent man after another, and no
sooner was he discarded by one victim of credulity,
than he sought another, a vagabond on the earth,
reduced from time to time to the greatest distress,
persecuted, dishonoured and despised by every
party in their tm-n. At length by incessant de-
grees he became dead to all moral distinctions,
and all sense of honour and self-respect. " Profess-
ing himself to be wise he became a fool, walked in
the vanity of his imagination," and had his under-
standing under total eclipse. The immoral system
of conduct in which he engaged, and the strange
and shocking blasphemy that he mixed with it,
render him at this time a sort of character that it
is painful to contemplate.
Led on as Dee at this time was by the ascend-
ancy and consummate art of Kelly, there was far
from existing any genuine harmony between them ;
and, after many squabbles and heart-burnings, they
appear finally to have parted in January 1.589, Dee
having, according to his own account, at that time
delivered up to Kelly, the elixir and the different
implements by which the transmutation of metals
was to be effected.
DOCTOR DEE, 391
Various overtures appear to have passed now
for some years between Dee and queen Elizabeth,
intended to lead to his restoration to his native
country. Dee had upon different occasions ex-
pressed a wish to that effect; and Elizabeth in the
spring of 1.589 sent him a message, that removed
from him all further thought of hesitation and de-
lay. He set out from Trebona with three coaches,
and a baggage train correspondent, and had an
audience of the queen at Richmond towards the
close of that year. Upon the whole it is impos-
sible perhaps not to believe, that Elizabeth was in-
fluenced in this proceeding by the ,·arious reports
that had reached her of his extraordinary success
with the philosopher's stone, and the boundless
wealth he had it in his power to bestow. Many
princes at this time contended with each other, as
to who should be happy enough by fair means or
by force to have under his control the fortunate
possessor of the great secret, and thus to have in
his possession the means of inexhaustible wealth.
Shortly after this time the emperor Rodolph seized
and committed to prison Kelly, the partner of Dee
in this inestimable faculty, and, having once en-
larged him, placed him in custody a second time.
Meanwhile Elizabeth is said to have made him
pressing overtures of so flattering a nature that
he determined to escape and return to his native
country. For this purpose he is said to have torn
the sheets of his bed, and twisted them into a rope.
DOCTOR DEE.
that by that means he might descend from the
tower in which he was confined. But, being a
corpulent man of considerable weight, the rope
broke with him before he was half way down, and,
having fractured one or both his legs, and being
otherwise considerably bruised, he died shortly
afterwards. This happened in the year 1595.
Dee (according to his own account, delivered to
commissioners appointed by queen Elizabeth to
enquire into his circumstances) carne from Tre-
bona to England in a state little inferior to that of
an ambassador. He had three coaches, with four
horses harnessed to each coach, two or three loaded
waggons, and a guard, sometimes of six, and some-
times of twenty-four soldiers, to defend him from
enemies, who were supposed to lie in wait to in-
tercept his passage. Immediately on his arrival he
had an audience of the queen at Richmond, by
whom he was most graciously received. She gave
special orders, that he should do-what he would in
chemistry and philosophy, and that no one should
on any account molest him.
But here end the prosperity and greatness of
this extraordinary man. If he possessed the power
of turning all baser metals into gold, he certainly
acted unadvisedly in surrendering this power to
his confederate, immediately before his return to
his native country. He parted at the same time
with his gift ofprophecy, since, though he brought
away with him his miraculous stone, and at one
DOCTOR DEE. 898
time appointed one Bartholomew, and another one
Hickman, his interpreters to look into the stone,
to see the marvellous sights it was expected to dis-
close, and to hear the voices and report the words
that issued from it, the experiments proved in both
instances abortive. They wanted the finer sense,
or the unparalleled effrontery and inexhaustible in-
vention, which Kelly alone possessed.
The remainder of the voyage of the life of Dee
was " bound in shallows and in miseries." Queen
Elizabeth we may suppose soon found that her
dreams of immense wealth to be obtained through
his intervention were nugatory. Yet would she
not desert the favourite of her former years. He
presently began to complain of poverty and diffi-
culties. He represented that the revenue of two
livings he held in the church had been withheld
from him from the time of his going abroad. He
stated that, shortly after that period, his house had
been broken into and spoiled by a lawless mob, in-
stigated by his ill fame as a dealer in prohibited
and unlawful arts. They destroyed or dispersed
his library, consisting of four thousand volumes,
seven hundred of which were manuscripts, and of
inestimable rarity. They ravaged his collection of
curious implements and machines. He enume-
rated the expences of his journey home by Eliza-
beth's command, for which he seemed to consider
the queen as his debtor. Elizabeth in consequence
ordered him at several times two or three small
394 DOCTOR DEE.
sums. But this being insufficient, she was pre-
vailed upon in 1592 to appoint two members
of her privy council to repair to his house at
Mortlake to enquire into particulars, to whom he
made a Compendious Rehearsal of half a hundred
years of his life, accompanied with documents and
vouchers.
It is remarkable that in this Rehearsal no men-
tion occurs of the miraculous stone brought down
to him by an angel, or of his pretensions respect-
ing the transmutation of metals. He merely rests
his claims to public support upon his literary la-
bours, and the acknowledged eminence of his in-
tellectual faculties. He passes over the years he
had lately spent in foreign countries, in entire
silence, unless we except his account of the parti-
culars of his journey home. His representation
to Elizabeth not being immediately productive of
all the effects he expected, he wrote a letter to
archbishop Whitgift two years after, lamenting
the delay of the expected relief, and complaining
of the "untrue reports, opinions and fables, which
had for so many years been spread of his studies."
He represents these studies purely as literary,
frank, and wholly divested of mystery. If the
"True Relation of what passed for many years
between Dr. Dee and certain Spirits" had not been
preserved, and afterwards printed, we might have
been disposed to consider all that was said on this
subject as a calumny.
--- ---
DOCTOR DEE. 895
The promotion which Dee had set his heart on,
was to the ottiee of master of St. Cross's Hospital
near Winchester, which the queen had promised
him when the present holder should be made a
bishop. But this never happened. He obtained
however in lieu of it the chancellorship of St.
Paul's cathedral, 8 December 1594, which in the
following year he exchanged for the wardenship
of the college at Manchester. In this last office
he continued till the year 1602 (according to
other accounts 1604), during which time he com-
plained of great dissentions and refractoriness on
the part of the fellows; though it may perhaps be
doubted whether equal blame may not fairly be
imputed to the arrogance and restlessness of the
warden. At length he receded altogether from
public life, and retired to his ancient domicile at
Mortlake. He made one attempt to propitiate
the favour of king James; but it was ineffectual.
Elizabeth had known him in the flower and vigour
ofhis days; he had boasted the uniform patronage
ofher chief favourite ; he had been recognised by
the philosophical and the learned as inferior to none
of their body; and he had finally excited the regard
ofhis ancient mistress by his pretence to revelations,
and the promises he held out of the philosopher's
stone. She could not shake off her ingrafted preju-
dice in his favour ; she could not find in her heart
to cast him aside in his old age and decay. But
then came a king, to whom in his prosperityandsun-
396 DOCTOR DEE.
shine he had been a stranger. He wasted his
latter days in dotage, obscurity and universal
neglect. No one has told us how he contrived to
subsist. We may be sure that his constant com-
panions were mortification and the most humili-
ating privations. He lingered on till the year
1608; and the ancient people in the time of An-
tony Wood, nearly a century afterwards, pointed
to his grave in the chancel of the church at Mort-
lake, and professed to know the very spot where
his remains were desposited.
The history of Dee is exceedingly interesting,
not only on its own account ; not only for the
eminence of his talents and attainments, and the
incredible sottishness and blindness of understand-
ing which marked his maturer years ; but as strik-
ingly illustrative of the credulity and superstitious
faith of the time in which he lived. At a later
period his miraculous stone which displayed such
wonders, and was attended with so long a series
of supernatural vocal communications would have
deceived nobody: it was scarcely more ingenious
than the idle tricks of the most ordinary conjurer.
But at this period the crust of long ages of dark-
ness had not yet been fully worn away. Men did
not trust to the powers of human understanding,
and were not familiarised with the main canons of
evidence and belief. Dee passed six years on the
continent, proceeding from the court of one prince
or potent nobleman to another, listened to for a
· DOCTOR DEE. 897
time by each, each regarding his oracular commu-
nications with astonishment and alarm, and at
length irresolutely casting him off, when he found
little or no difficulty in running a like career with
another.
It is not the least curious circumstance respect-
ing the life of Dee, that in 1659, half a century
after his death, there remained still such an in-
terest respecting practices of this sort, as to autho-
rise the printing a folio volume, in a complex and
elaborate form, of his communications with spirits.
The book was brought out by Dr. Meric Casaubon,
no contemptible name in .the republic of letters.
The editor observes respecting the hero and his
achievements in the Preface, that, " though his
carriage in certain respects seemed to lay in works
of darkness, yet all was tendered by him to kings
and princes, and by all (England alone excepted)
was listened to for a good while with good respect,
and by some for a long time embraced and enter-
tained." He goes on to say, that "the fame of it
made the pope bestir himself, and filled all, both
learned and unlearned, with great wonder and
astonishment." He adds, that, " as a whole it is
undoubtedly not to be paralleled in its kind in any
age or country." In a word the editor, though
disavowing an entire belief in Dee's pretensions,
yet plainly considers them with some degree of
deference, and insinuates to how much more re-
gard such undue and exaggerated pretensions are
898 EARL OF DERBY.
entitled, than the impious incredulity of certain
modem Sadducees, who say that" there is no re-
surrection ; neither angel, nor spirit." The be-
lief in witchcraft and sorcery has undoutedly met
with some degree of favour from this considera-
tion, inasmuch as, by recognising the correspon-
dence of human beings with the invisible world ,it
has one principle in common with the believers in
revelation, of which the more daring infidel is
destitute.
EARL OF DERBY.
The circumstances of the death of Ferdinand,
fifth earl of Derby, in 1594, have particularly en-
gaged the attention of the contemporary historians.
Hesket, an emissary of the Jesuits and English
Catholics abroad, was importunate with this noble-
man to press his title to the crown, as the legal
representative of his great-grandmother Mary,
youngest daughter to king Henry the Seventh.
But the earl, fearing, as it is said, that this was
only a trap to ensnare him, gave information against
Hesket to the government, in consequence ofwhich
he was apprehended, tried and executed. Hcsket
had threatened the earl that, if he did not comply
with his suggestion, he should live only a short
time. Accordingly, four months afterwards, the
earl was seized with a very uncommon disease.
A waxen image was at the same time found in his
KING JAMES'S VOYAGE TO NORWAY. 899
chamber with hairs in its belly exactly of the same
colour as those of the earl,.. The image was, }ly
some zealous friend of lord Derby, burned; but
the earl grew worse. He was himself thoroughly
persuaded that he was bewitched. Stow has in-
serted in his Annals a minute account of his dis-
ease from day to day, with a description of all the
symptoms.
KING JAMES'S VOYAGE TO NORWAY.
While Elizabeth amused herself with the super-
natural gifts to which Dee advanced his claim,
and consoled the adversity and destitution to which
the old man, once so extensively honoured, was
now reduced, a scene of a very different com-
plexion was played in the northern part of the
island. Trials for sorcery were numerous in the
reign of Mary queen of Scots ; the comparative
darkness and ignorance of the sister kingdom ren-
dered it a soil still more favourable than England
to the growth of these gloomy superstitions. But
the mind of James, at once inquisitive, pedantic
and self-sufficient, peculiarly fitted him for the
pursuit of these narrow-minded and obscure spe-
culations. One combination of circumstances
wrought up this propensity within him to the
greatest height.
James was born in the year 1.566. He was the
a Camden, anno 1693, 1694.
40() KING JAMES'S VOYAGE TO NORWAY.
only direct heir to the crown of Scotland ; and
he was in near prospect of succession to that of
England. The zeal of the Protestant Reformation
had wrought up the anxiety of men's minds to a
fever of anticipation and forecast. Consequently,
towards the end of the reign of Elizabeth, a point
which greatly arrested the general attention was
the expected marriage of the king of Scotland.
Elizabeth, with that petty jealousy which obscured
the otherwise noble qualities of her spirit, sought
to countermine this marriage, that her rival and
expected successor might not be additionally graced
with the honours of offspring. James fixed his
mind upon a daughter of the king of Denmark.
By the successful cabals of Elizabeth he was baffied
in this suit; and the lady was finally married to
the duke of Bavaria. The king of Denmark had
another daughter; and James made proposals to
this princess. Still he was counteracted; till at
length he sent a splendid embassy, with ample
powers and instructions, and the treaty was con-
cluded. The princess embarked; but, when she
had now for some time been expected in Scotland,
news was brought instead, that she had been driven
back by tempests on the coast of Norway. The
young king felt keenly his disappointment, and
gallantly resolved to sail in person for the port,
where his intended consort was detained by the
shattered condition of her fleet. James arrived
on the twenty-second of October 1589, and having
z- r .- ·
KING JAMES's VOYAGE TO NORWAY, 401
consummated his marriage, was induced by the
invitation of his father-in-law to pass the winter at
Copenhagen, from whence he did not sail till the
spring, and, after having encountered a variety of
contrary winds and some danger, reached Edin-
burgh on the first of May in the following year.
It was to be expected that variable weather and
storms should characterise the winter-season in
these seas. But the storms were of longer con-
tinuance and of more frequent succession, than was
usually known. And at this period, when the
proposed consort of James first, then the king
himself, and finally both of them, and the hope of
Protestant succession, were committed to the
mercy of the waves, it is not wonderful that the
process of the seasons should be accurately marked,
and that those varieties, which are commonly as-
cribed to second causes, should have been imputed
to extraordinary and supernatural interference. It
was affirmed that, in the king's return from Den-
mark, his ship was impelled by a different wind
from that which acted on the rest of his fleet.
It happened that, soon after James's return to
Scotland, one Geillis Duncan, a servant-maid, for
the extraordinary circumstances that attended cer-
tain cures which she performed, became suspected
of witchcraft. Her master questioned her on the
subject; but she would own nothing. Perceiving
her obstinacy, the master took upon himself of his
own authority, to extort confession from her by
2o
40!l KING JAMES'S VOYAGE TO NORWAY,
torture. In this he succeeded ; and, having re-
lated divers particulars of witchcraft of herself, she
proceeded to accuse others. The persons she ac-
cused were cast into the public prison.
One of these, Agnes Sampson by name, at first
stoutly resisted the torture. But, it being more stre-
nuously applied, she by and by became extremely
communicative. It was at this period that James
personally engaged in the examinations. We are
told that he "took great delight in being present,"
and putting the proper questions. The unhappy
victim was introduced into a room plentifully fur-
nished with implements of torture, while the king
waited in an apartment at a convenient distance,
till the patient was found to be in a suitable frame
of mind to make the desired communications. No
sooner did he or she signify that they were ready,
and should no longer refuse to answer, than they
were introduced, fainting, sinking under recent
sufferings which they had no longer strength to
resist, into the royal presence. And here sat
James, in envied ease and conscious "delight,''
wrapped up in the thought of his own sagacity,
framing the enquiries that might best extort the
desired evidence, and calculating with a judg-
ment by no means to be despised, from the bear-
ing, the turn of features, and the complexion of
, the victim, the probability whether he was making
a frank and artless confession, or had still the
secret desire to impose on the royal examiner, or
KING JAMEs's VOYAGE TO NORWAY. 408
from a different motive was disposed to make use
of the treacherous authority which the situation
afforded, to gratify his revenge upon some person
towards whom he might be inspired with latent
hatred and malice.
Agnes Sampson related with what solicitude
she had sought to possess some fragment of the
linen belonging to the king. If he had worn it,
and. it had contracted any soil from his royal per-
son, this would be enough: she would infallibly,
by applying her incantations to this fragment,
have been able to undermine the life of the sove-
reign. She told how she with two hundred other
witches had sailed in sieves from Leith to North
Berwick church, how they had there encountered
the devil in person, how they had feasted with him,
and what obscenities had been practised. She re-
lated that in this voyage they had drowned a cat,
having first baptised him, and that immediately
a dreadful storm had arisen, and in this very
storm the king's ship had been separated from the
rest of his fleet. She took James aside, and, the
better to convince him, undertook to repeat to
him the conversation, the dialogue which had
passed from the one to the other, between the
king and queen in their bedchamber on the wed-
ding-night. Agnes Sampson was condemned to
the flames.
404 JOHN FIAN.
JOHN FIAN.
Another of the miserable victims on this occa-
sion was John Fian, a schoolmaster at Tranent
near Edinburgh, a young man, whom the ignorant
populace had decorated with the style of doctor.
He was tortured by means of a rope strongly
twisted about his head, and by the boots. He
was at length brought to confession. He told of
a young girl, the sister of one of his scholars, with
whom he had been deeply enamoured. He had
proposed to the boy to bring him three hairs from
the most secret part of his sister's body, possessing
which he should be enabled by certain incantations
to procure himself the love of the girl. The boy
at his mother's instigation brought to Fian three
hairs from a virgin heifer instead; and, applying
his conjuration to them, the consequence had been
that the heifer forced her way into his school,
leaped upon him in amorous fashion, and would
not be restrained from following him about the
neighbourhood.
This same Fian acted an important part in the
scene at North Berwick church. As being best
fitted for the office, he was appointed recorder or
clerk to the devil, to write down the names, and
administer the oaths to the witches. He was ac-
tively concerned in the enchantment, by means of
which the king's ship had nearly been lost on his
return from Denmark. This part of his proceed-
KING JAMES'S DEMONOLOGY. 40.5
ing however does not appear in his own confession,
but in that of the witches who were his fellow-
conspirators.
He further said, that, the night after he made
his confession, the devil appeared to him, and
was in a furious rage against him for his disloyalty
to his service, telling him that he should severely
repent his infidelity. Acccording to his own ac-
count, he stood firm, and defied the devil to do
his worst. Meanwhile the next night he ,escaped
out of prison, and was with some difficulty retaken.
He however finally denied all his former confes-
sions, said that they were falshoods forced from
him by mere dint oftorture, and, though he was now
once more subjected to the same treatment to such
an excess as must necessarily have crippled him of
his limbs for ever, he proved inflexible to the last.
At length by the king's order he was strangled,
and his body cast into the flames. Multitudes of
unhappy men and women perished in this cruel
persecution•.
KING JAMES'S DEMONOLOGY.
It was by a train of observations and experience
like this, that James was prompted seven years
after to compose and publish his Dialogues on
Demonology in Three. Books. In the Preface to
this book he says, " The fearfull abounding at this
• Pitcairn, Trials in Scotland in Five Volumes, 4to.
.·
406 KING JAMES'S DEMONOLOGY.
time in this countrey, of these detestable slaves of
the Diuel, the Witches or enchaunters, hath moved
me (beloued Reader) to dispatch in post this fol-
lowing Treatise of mine, not in any wise (as I pro-
test) to serue for a shew of my learning and in-
gine, but onely (moued of conscience) to preasse
thereby, so farre as I can, to resolue the doubtin¥
hearts of many, both that such assaults of Satan
are most certainely practised, and that the instru-
ments thereofmerits most seuerely to be punished."
In the course of the treatise he affirms, " that
barnes, or wiues, or neuer so diffamed persons,
may serue for sufficient witnesses and proofes in
such triaUs ; for who but Witches can be prooves,
and so witnesses of the doings of Witches• ?" But,
lest innocent persons should be accused, and suffer
falsely, he tells us, " There are two other goo!l
helps that may be used for their trial: the one is,
the finding of their marke [a mark that the devil
was supposed to impress upon some part of their
persons], and the trying the insensibleness thereof:
the other is their fleeting on the water: for, as in
a secret murthcr, if the dead carkasse be at any
time thereafter handled by the murtherer, it will
gt.ish cit1t .of bloud, as if the bloud were crying to
the. ·heauen for revenge of the murtherer, God
hauirig .appointed that secret supernaturall signe,
fot·triall of that secret unnaturall crime, so it ap-
that God hath appointed·(for a supernaturall
• King lames's Works, p. 135•
-. _..._...
STATUTE, 1 JAMES I. 407
signe of the monstrous impietie of Witches) that
the water shall refuse to receiue them in her bo-
some, that haue shaken off them the sacred water
of Baptisme, and wilfully refused the benefite
thereof: No, not so much as their eyes are able to
shed teares (threaten and torture them as ye please)
willie first they repent (God not permitting them
to dissemble their obstinacie in so horrible a
crime".)"
STATUTE, 1 JAMES I.
In consequence of the strong conviction James
entertained on the subject, the English parliament
.was induced, in the first year of his reign, to su-
persede the milder proceedings of Elizabeth, and
to enact that "if any person shall use, practice, or
exercise any invocation or conjuration of any evil
and wicked spirit, or shall consult, covenant with,
entertain, employ, feed or reward any evil and
wicked spirit, to or for any intent and purpose;
or take up any dead man, woman, or child out of
·their grave, or the skin, bone, or any part of any
dead person, to be used in any manner of
craft, sorcery or enchantment, or shall. .any
witchcraft, sorcery or enchantment," ·any.
person shall be killed, destroyed, waste_d,·
sumed, pined or lamed in his or her body,. ?r 3ny ·
part thereof; that then every such offender,
b King James's Works, p. 135, 136•.
·..-. ·.
408 FORMAN AND OTHERS.
aiders, abettors and counsellors shall suffer the
pains of death." And upon this statute great num-
bers were condemned and executed.
FORMAN AND OTHERS.
There is a story of necromancy which unfortu-
nately makes too prominent a figure in the history
of the court and character of king James the First.
Robert earl of Essex, son of queen Elizabeth's
favourite, and who afterwards became commander
in chief of the parliamentary forces in the civil
wars, married lady Frances Howard, a younger
daughter of the earl of Suffolk, the bride and bride-
groom being the one thirteen, the other fourteen
years old at the time of the marriage. The rela-
tives of the countess however, who had brought
about the match, thought it most decorous to se-
parate them for some time, and, while she remained
at home with her friends, the bridegroom travelled
for three or four years on the continent. The lady
proved the greatest beauty of her time, but along
with this had the most libertine and unprincipled
dispositions.
The very circumstance that she had vowed her
faith at the altar when she was not properly capa-
ble of choice, inspired into the wayward mind of
the countess a repugnance to her husband. He
came from the continent, replete with accomplish-
ments ; and we may conclude, from the figure he
FORMAN AND OTHERS. 409
afterwards made in the most perilous times, not
without a competent share of intellectuaf abilities.
But the countess shrank from all advances on his
part. He loved retirement, and woed the lady to
scenes most favourable to the development of the
affections : she had been bred in court, and was me-
lancholy and repined in any other scene. So capri-
cious was her temper, that she is said at the same
time to have repelled the overtures of the accom-
plished and popular prince Henry, the heir to the
throne.
It happened about this period that a beautiful
young man, twenty years of age, and full of all
martial graces, appeared on the stage. King James
was singularly partial to young men who were dis-
tinguished for personal attractions. By an extra-
ordinary accident this person, Robert Carr by
name, in the midst of a court-spectacle, just when
it was his cue to present a buckler with a device
to the king, was thrown from his horse, and broke
his leg. This was enough : James naturally be-
came interested in the misfortune, attached him-
self to Carr, and even favoured him again and
again with a royal visit during his cure. Presently
the young man became an exclusive favourite ; and
no honours and graces could be obtained of the
sovereign but by his interference.
This circumstance fixed the wavering mind of
the countess of Essex. Voluptuous and self-willed
in her disposition, she would hear of no one but
410 FORMAN AND OTHERS.
Carr. But her opportunities of seeing him were
both short and rare. In this emergency she ap-
plied to Mrs. Turner, a woman whose profession
it was to study and to accommodate the fancies of
such persons as the countess. Mrs. Turner intro-
duced her to Dr. Forman, a noted astrologer and
magician, and he, by images made of wax, and
various uncouth figures and devices, undertook to
procure the love of Carr to the lady. At the same
time he practised against the earl, that he might
become impotent, at least towards his wife. This
however did not satisfy the lady ; and having gone
the utmost lengths towards her innamorato, she
insisted on a divorce in all the forms, and a legal
marriage with the youth she loved. Carr appears
originally to have had good dispositions ; and,
while that the case, had assiduously culti-
vated the friendship of Sir Thomas Overbury, one
of the most promising young courtiers of the time.
Sir Thomas earnestly sought to break off the in-
timacy ofCarr with lady Essex, and told him how
utterly ruinous to his reputation and prospects it
would prove, if he married her. But Carr, instead
of feeling how much obliged he was to Overbury
for this example of disinterested friendship, went
immediately and told the countess what the young
man said.
From this time the destruction ofOverbury was
resolved on between them. He was first com-
mitted to· the Tower by an arbitrary mandate of
FOR:l\IAN AND OTHERS. 411
James for refhsing an embassage to Russia, next
sequestered from all visitors, and finally attacked
with poison, which, after several abortive attempts,
was at length brought to effect. Meanwhile a
divorce was sued for by the countess upon an alle-
gation of impotence ; and another female was said
to have been substituted in her room, to be sub-
jected to the inspection of a jury of matrons in
proof of her virginity. After a lapse of two years
the murder was brought to light, the inferior
criminals, Mrs. Turner and the rest, convicted
and executed, and Carr, now earl of Somerset, and
his countess, found guilty, but received 'the royal
pardon.-It is proper to add, in order to give a
just idea of the state of human credulity at this
period, that, Forman having died at the time that
his services were deemed most necessary, one
Gresham first, and then a third astrologer and en-
chanter were brought forward, to consummate the
atrocious projects of the infamous countess. It is
said that she and her second husband were ulti-
mately so thoroughly alienated from each other,
that they resided for years under the same roof,
with the most careful precautions that they might
not by any chance come into each other's pre-
sence•.
• Truth brought to Light by Time. Wilson, History of James I.
412 LANCASHIRE WITCHES.
LATEST IDEAS OF JAMES ON THE SUBJECT.
It is worthy of remark however that king James
lived to alter his mind extremely on the question
of witchcraft. He was active in his observations
on the subject; and we are told that "the fre-
quency of forged possessions which were detected
by him wrought such an alteration in his judgment,
that he, receding from what he had written in his
early life, grew first diffident of, and then flatly to
deny, the working of witches and devils, as but
falshoods and delusions•."
LANCASHIRE WITCHES.
A more melancholy tale does not occur in the
annals of necromancy than that of the Lancashire
witches in 16Hl. The scene of this story is in
Pendlebury },orest, four or five miles from Man-
a Fuller, Church History of Britain, Book X, p. 74. See also
Osborn's Works, Essay I: where the author says, he "gave
charge to his judges, to be circumspect in condemning those,
eommitted by ignorant justices for diabolical compacts. Nor
had he concluded his advice in a narrower circle, as I have heard,
than the denial of any such operations, but out of reason of
state, and to gratify the church, which hath in no age th_ought fit
to explode out of the common people's minds an apprehension
of witchcraft." The author adds, that he " must confess James
to have been the promptest man living in his dexterity to dis-
cover an imposture," and subjoins a remarkable story in con-
firmation of this assertion.
LANCASHIRE WITCHES.
chester, remarkable for its picturesque and gloomy
situation. Such places were not sought then as
now, that they might afford food for the imagina-
tion, and gratify the refined taste of the traveller.
They were rather shunned as infamous for scenes
of depredation and murder, or as the consecrated
haunts of diabolical intercourse. Pendlebury had
been long of ill repute on this latter account, when
a country magistrate, Roger Nowel by name, con-
ceived about this time that he should do a public
service, by rooting out a nest of witches, who ren-
dered the place a terror to all the neighbouring
vulgar. The first persons he seized on were Eliza-
beth Demdike and Ann Chattox, the former of
whom was eighty of age, and had for some
years been blind, who subsisted principally by
begging, though she had a miserable hovel on the
spot, which she called her own. Ann Chattox
was of the same age, and had for some time been
threatened with the calamity of blindness. Dem-
dike was held to be so hardened a witch, that she
had trained all her family to the mystery; namely,
Elizabeth Device, her daughter, and James and
Alison Device, her grandchildren. In the accu.
sation of Chattox was also involved Ann Redferne,
her daughter. These, together with John Bulcock,
and Jane his mother, Alice Nutter, Catherine
Hewit, and Isabel Roby, were successively appre-
hended by the diligence of Nowel and one or two
neighbouring magistrates, and were all of them by
414 LANCASHIRE WITCHES.
some means induced, some to make a more liberal,
and others a more restricted confession of their
misdeeds in witchcraft, and were afterwards hur-
ried away to Lancaster Castle, fifty miles off, to
prison. Their crimes were said to have universally
proceeded. from malignity and resentment; and. it
was reported to have repeatedly happened for poor
old Demdike to be led by night from her habita-
tion into the open air by some member of her
family, when she was left alone for an hour to
curse her victim, and pursue her unholy incan-
tations, and was then sought, and brought again to
her hovel. Her curses never failed to produce the
desired effect.
These poor wretches had been but a short time
in prison, when information was given, that a
meeting of witches was held on Good Friday, at
Malkin's Tower, the habitation of Elizabeth De-
vice, to the number of twenty persons, to consult
how by infernal machinations to kill one Covel,
an officer, to blow up Lancaster Castle, and deliver
the prisoners, and to kill another man of the name
of Lister. The last was effected. The other plans
by some means, we are not told how, were pre-
vented.
The prisoners were kept in jail till the summer
assizes ; and in the mean time it fortunately hap-
pened that the poor blind Demdike died in con-
finement, and was never brought up to trial.
The other prisoners were severally indicted for
LANCASHIRE. WITCHES, 415
killing by witchcraft certain persons who were
named, and were all found guilty. The principal
witnesses against Elizabeth Device were James
Device and Jennet Device, her grandchildren, the
latter only nine years of age. When this girl was
put into the witness-box, the grandmother, on
seeing her, set up so dreadful a yell, intermixed
with bitter curses, that the child declared that she
could not go on with h.er evidence, unless the pri-
soner was removed. This was agreed to ; and
both brother and sister swore, that they had been
present, when the devil came to their grandmother
in the shape of a black uog, and asked her what
she desired. She said, the death ofJohn Robinson;
when the dog told her to make an image of Robin-
son in clay, and after crumble it into dust, and as
fast as the image perished, the life of the victim
should waste away, and in conclusion the man
should die. This evidence was received; and
upon such testimony, and testimony like this, ten
persons were led to the gallows, on the twentieth
of August, Ann Chattox of eighty years of age
among the rest, the day after the trials, which
lasted two days, were finished. The judges who
presided on these trials were sir James Altham and
sir Edward Bromley, barons of the exchequera.
From the whole of this story it is fair to infer,
that these old women had played at the game of
• Discovery of the Witches, 1612, printed by order of the
Court.
416 LANCASHIRE WITCHES.
commerce with the devil. It had flattered their
vanity, to make their simpler neighbours afraid of
them. To observe the symptoms of their rustic
terror, even of their hatred and detestation, had
been gratifying to them. They played the game
so long, that in an imperfect degree they deceived
themselves. Human passions are always to a cer-
tain degree infectious. Perceiving the hatred of
their neighbours, they began to think that they were
worthy objects of detestation and terror, that their
imprecations had a real effect, and their curses
killed. The brown horrors of the forest were
favourable to visions ; and they sometimes almost
believed, that they met the foe of mankind in the
night.-But, when Elizabeth Device actually saw
her grandchild of nine years old placed in the wit-
ness-box, with the intention of consigning her to
a public and an ignominious end, then the reveries
of the imagination vanished, and she deeply felt
the reality, that, where she had been somewhat
imposing on the child in devilish sport, she had
been whetting the dagger that was to take her own
life, and digging her own grave. It was then no
wonder that she uttered a preternatural yell, and
poured curses from the bottom of her heart. It
must have been almost beyond human endurance,
to hear the cry of her despair, and to witness the
curses and the agony in which it vented itself.
Twenty-two years elapsed after this scene, when
a wretched man, ofthe name of Ec.lmunc.l Robinson,
LANCASHIRE WITCHES. 417
conceived on the· same spot the scheme of making
himself a profitable speculation from a similar
source. He trained his son, eleven years of age,
and furnished him with the necessary instructions.
He taught him to say that one day in the fields he
had met with two dogs, which he urged on to
hunt a hare. They would not budge ; and he
in revenge tied them to a bush and whipped
them; when suddenly one of them was transformed
into an old woman and the other into a child, a
witch and her imp. This story succeeded so well,
that the father soon after gave out that his son had
an eye that could distinguish a witch by sight, and
took him round to the neighbouring churches,
where he placed him standing on a bench after
liervice, and bade him look round and see what he
could observe. The device, however clumsy, suc-
ceeded, and no less than seventeen persons were
apprehended at the boy's selection, and conducted
to Lancaster Castle. These seventeen persons
were tried at the assizes, and found guilty ; but
the judge, whose name has unfortunately been
lost, unlike sir James Altham and sir Edward
Bromley, saw something in the case that excited
his suspicion, and, though the juries had not hesi-
tated in any one instance, respited the convicts,
and sent up a report of the affair to the govern-
ment. Twenty-two years on this occasion had not
elapsed in vain. Four of the prisoners were by
the judge's recommendation sent for to the metro-
418 LADY DAVIES.
polis, and were examined first by the king's phy-
sicians, and then by Charles the First in person.
'J'Ire boy's story was strictly scrutinised. In fine
he confessed that it was all an imposture ; and the
_whole seventeen received the royal pardonb.
LADY DAVIES.
Eleanor Tuchet, daughter of George lord And-
ley, married sir John Davies, an eminent lawyer iii
the time of James the First, and author of a poem
of considerable merit on the Immortality of the
Soul. This lady was a person of no contemptible
talents ; but what she seems most to have valued
herself upon, was her gift of prophecy ; and she
accordingly printed a book of Strange and Wonder-
ful Predictions. She professed to receive her pro-
phecies from a spirit, who communicated to her
audibly things about to come to pass, though the
voice could be heard by no other Sir John
Davies was nominated lord chief justice of the
ki.ng's bench in 16fl6. Before he was inducted
irulo the office, lady Eleanor, sitting with him on
Sunday at dinner, suddenly burst into a passion of
tears. Sir John asked her what made her weep.
To which she replied, "These are your funeral
tears.'' Sir John turned off the prediction with a
merry answer. But in a very few days he was
seized an apoplexy, of which he presently
b History of Whalley, by Thomas Dunham Whitaker, p. 215.
DOCTOR LAMB. 4cl9
di.ed•.-She also predicted the death of the duke
ofBuckingham in the same year. For thiB assump-
tion of the gift of prophecy, she was cited before
the high-commission-court and examined in 1684b.
EDWARD FAIRFAX.
It is a painful task to record, that Edward Fair-
fax, the harmonious and elegant translator of Tasso,
prosecuted six of his neighbours at York assizes in
the year for witchcraft on his children.
"The common facts ofimps, fits, and the apparition
of the witches, were deposed against the prisoners."
The grand jury found the bill, and the accused
were arraigned. But, we are told, "the judge,
having a certificate of the sober behaviour of the
prisoners, directed the jury so well as to induce
them to bring in a verdict ofacquittala." The poet
afterwards drew up a bulky argument and narrative
in vindication of his conduct.
DOCTOR LAMB.
Dr. Lamb waa a noted sorcerer in the time of
Charles the First. The famous Richard Baxter, in
hisCertainty oftheWorld ofSpirits, printed in 1691,
has recorded an appropriate instance of the mira·
• Wood, Athenll! Oxonienses, Vol. II, p. 110'1.
b Heylyn, Life ·of Laud.
a Hutehineon on Witeheraf't.
DOCTOR LAMB.
culous performances of this man. Meeting two
of his acquaintance in the street, and they having
intimated a desire to witness some example of
his skill, he invited them home with him. · He
then conducted them into an inner room, when
presently, to their no small surprise, they saw a
tree spring up in the middle of the apartment.
They had scarcely ceased wondering at this phe-
nomenon, when in a moment there appeared three
diminutive men, with little axes in their hands for
the purpose of c':ltting down this tree. The tree
was felled ; and the doctor dismissed his guests,
fully satisfied of the solidity of his pretensions.
That.very night however a tremendous hurricane
arose, causing the house of one of the guests to
rock from side to side, with every appearance that
the building would come down, and bury him and
his wife in the ruins. The wife in great terror
asked, "Were you not at Dr. Lamb's to-day?"
The husband confessed it was true. '' And _did
you not bring away something from his house?"
The husband owned that, when the little men felled
the tree, he had been idle enough to pick up some
of the chips, and put them in his pocket. Nothing
now remained to be done, but to produce the
chips, and get rid of them as fast as they could.
This ceremony performed, the whirlwind immedie
ately ceased, and the remainder ofthe night became
perfectly calm and serene.
Dr. Lamb at length became so odious by his
URBAIN GRANDIER. 4!ll
reputation for these infernal practices, that the
populace rose upon him in 1640, and tore him to
pieces in the streets.-Nor did the effects of his
ill fame terminate here. Thirteen years after, a
woman, who had been his servant-maid, was appre-
hended on a charge of witchcraft, was tried, and in
expiation of her crime was executed at Tyburn.
URBAIN GRANDIER.
A few years previously to the catastrophe of
Dr. Lamb, there occurred a scene in France which
it is eminently to the purpose of this work to re-
cord. Urbain Grandier, a canon of the church,
and a popular preacher of the town of Loudun
in the district of Poitiers, was in the year 1684
brought to trial upon the accusation of magic•
.The first cause of his being thus called in ques-
tion was the envy of his rival preachers, whose
fame was eclipsed by his superior talents. The
second cause was a libel falsely imputed to him
upon cardinal Richelieu, who with all his emi-
nent qualities had the infirmity of being inex-
orable upon the question of any personal attack
that was made upon him. Grandier, beside his
eloquence, was distinguished for his courage and
resolution, for the gracefulness of his figure, and
the extraordinary attention he paid to the neatness
of his dress and the decoration of his person, which
last circumstance brought upon him the imputation
llRBAIN GKANDIER.
of being too much devoted to the service of the
fair.
About this time certain nuns of the convent of
Ursulines at Loudun were attacked with a disease
which manifested itselfby very extraordinary symp-
toms, suggesting to many the idea that they were
possessed with devils. A rumour was immediately
spread that Grandier, urged by some offence he
had conceived against these nuns, was the author,
by the skill he had in the arts of sorcery, of these
possessions. It unfortunately happened, that the
same capuchin friar who assured cardinal Richelieu
that Grandier was the writer of the libel against
him, also communicated to him the story of the
possessed nuns, and the suspicion which had fallen
on the priest on their account. The cardinal seized
with avidity on this occasion of private vengeance,
wrote to a counsellor of state at Loudun, one of
his creatures, to cause a strict investigation to be
made into the charge, and in such terms as plainly
implied that what he aimed at was the destruction
of Grandier.
The trial took place in the month of August
1684; and, according to the authorised copy
of the trial, Grandier was convicted upon the
evidence of Astaroth, a devil of the order of
Seraphims, and chief of the possessing devils,
ofEasas, of Celsus, of Acaos, of Cedon, of Asmo-
deus of the order of thrones, of Alex, of Za-
bulon, of Naphthalim, of Cham, of Uriel, and of
ASTROLOGY. 428
Achas of the order of principalities, and sentenced
to be burned alive. In other words, he was con-
victed upon the evidence of twelve nuns, who,
being asked who they were, gave in these names,
and professed to be devils, that, compelled by the
order of the court, delivered a constrained testi-
mony. The sentence was accordingly executed,
and Grandier met his fate with heroic constancy..
At his death an enormous drone fly was seen buz-
zing about his head; and a monk, who was pre-
sent at the execution, attested that, whereas the
devils are accustomed to present themselves in the
article of death to tempt men to deny God their
Saviour, this was Beelzebub, which in Hebrew
signifies the God of flies, come to carry away to
hell the soul of the victim•.
ASTROLOGY.
The supposed science of astrology is of a nature
less tremendous, and less appalling to the imagi-
nation, than the commerce with devils and evil
spirits, or the raising of the dead from the peace
of the tomb to effect certain magical operatiom,
or to instruct the living as to the events that are
speedily to befal them. Yet it is well worthy of
attention in a work of this sort, iffor no other rea.
son, because it has prevailed in a1most all nations
and ages of the world, and bas been assiduously
• • Menagiana, Tom. II, p. !52, e11eqq.
ASTROLOGY.
cultivated by men, frequently of great talent, and
who were otherwise distinguished for the sound-
ness of their reasoning powers, and for the steadi-
ness and perseverance of their application to the
pursuits in which they engaged.
The whole of the question was built upon the
supposed necessary connection of certain aspects
and conjunctions or oppositions of the stars and
heavenly bodies, with the events of the world and
the characters and actions of men. The human
mind has ever confessed an anxiety to pry into
the future, and to deal in omens and prophetic
suggestions, and, certain coincidences having oc-
curred however fortuitously, to deduce from them
rules and maxims upon which to build an anticipa-
tion of things to come.
Add to which, it is Battering to the pride of
man, to suppose all nature concerned with and in-
terested in what is ofimportance to ourselves. Of
this we have an early example in the song of De-
borah in the Old Testament, where, in a fit of
pious fervour and exaltation, the poet exclaims,
" They fought from heaven ; the stars in their
courses fought against Sisera'."
'fhe general belief in astrology had a memorable
effect on the history of the human mind. All men
in the first instance have an intuitive feeling of
freedom in the acts they perform, and of conse-
quence of praise or blame due to them in just pro-
• Judges, v, 20.
ASTROLOGY.
portion to the integrity or baseness of the motives
by which they are actuated. This is in reality
the most precious endowment of man. Hence
it comes that the good man feels a pride and
self-complacency in acts of virtue, takes credit to
himself for the independence of his mind, and is
conscious of the worth and honour to which he
feels that he has a rightful claim. But, if all our
acts are predetermined by something out of our-
selves, if, however virtuous and honourable are our
dispositions, we are overruled by our stars, and
compelled to the acts, which, left to ourselves, we
should most resolutely disapprove, our condition
becomes slavery, and we are left in a state the
most abject and hopeless. And, though our situa-
tion in this respect is merely imaginary, it does
not the less fail to have very pernicious results
to our characters. Men, so far as they are be-
lievers in astrology, look to the stars, and not to
themselves, for an account of what they shall do,
and resign themselves to the omnipotence of a fate
which they feel it in vain to resist. Of conse-
quence, a belief in astrology has the most unfa-
vourable tendency as to the morality of man ; and,
were it not that the sense of the liberty of our
actions is so strong that all the reasonings in the
world cannot subvert it, there would be a fatal close
to all human dignity and all human virtue.
WILLIAM LILLY.
WILLIAM LILLY.
One of the most striking examples of the ascen-
dancy of astrological faith is in the instance of
William Lilly. This man has fortunately left us a
narrative of his own life; and he comes sufficiently
near to our time, to give us a feeling of reality in
the transactions in which he was engaged, and to
bring the scenes home to our business and bosoms.
Before he enters expressly upon the history of
his life, he gives us incidentally an anecdote which
merits our attention, as tending strongly to illus-
trate the credulity of man at the periods of which
we treat.
Lilly was born in the year 1602. When certain
circumstances led his yet undetermined thoughts
to the study of astrology as his principal pur-
suit, he put himself in the year 168!l under the
tuition of one Evans, whom he describes as poor,
ignorant, drunken, presumptuous and knavish,
but who had a character, as the phrase was, for
erecting a figure, predicting future events, disco-
vering secrets, restoring stolen goods, and even
for raising a spirit when he pleased. Sir Kenelm
Digby was one of the most promising characters
of these times, extremely handsome and graceful
in his person, accomplished in all military ex-
ercises, endowed with high inteJlectual powers,
and indefatigably inquisitive after knowledge.
To render him the more remarkable, he was the
WILLIAM LILLY.
eldest son of Everard Digby, who was the most
eminent sufferer for the conspiracy of the Gun-
powder Treason.
It was, as it seems, some time before Lilly be-
came acquainted with Evans, that lord Bothwel
and sir Kenelm Digby .came to Evans at his lodg-
ings in the Minories, for the express purpose of
desiring him to shew them a spirit. Sir Kenelm
was born in the year 1603 ; he must have been
therefore at this time a young man, but sufficiently
old to know what he sought, and to choose the
subjects of his enquiry with a certain discretion.
Evans consented to gratify the curiosity of his
illustrious visitors. He drew a circle, and placed
himself and the two strangers within the circle.
He began his invocations. On a sudden, Evans
was taken away from the others, and found him-
self, he knew not how, in Battersea Fields near
the Thames. The next morning a countryman
discovered him asleep, and, having awaked him, in
answer to his enquiries told him where he was.
Evans in the afternoon sent a messenger to his
wife, to inform her of his safety, and to calm the
apprehensions she might reasonably entertain.
Just as the messenger arrived, sir Kenelm Digby
came to the house, curious to enquire respecting
the issue of the adventure of yesterday. Lilly re-
ceived this story from Evans ; and, having asked
him how such an event came to attend on the ex..
periment, was answered that, in practising the in-
WILLIAM LILLY.
vocation, he had heedlessly omitted the necessary
sutfumigation, at which omission the spirit had
taken offence
Lilly made some progress in astrology under
Evans, and practised the art in minor matters with
a certain success ; but his ambition led him to
aspire to the highest place in his profession. He
made an experiment to discover a hidden treasure
in Westminster Abbey; and, having obtained leave
for that purpose from the bishop of Lincoln, dean
of Westminster, he resorted to the spot with about
thirty persons more, with divining rods. He
fixed on the place according to the rules, and
began to dig ; but he had not proceeded far, be-·
fore a furious storm came on, and he judged it
advisable to "dismiss the demons," and desist.
These supernatural assistants, he says, had taken
offence at the number and levity of the persons
present; and, if he had not left off when he did,
he had no doubt that the storm would have grown
more and more violent, till the whole structure
would have been laid level with the ground.
He purchased himself a house to which to re-
tire in 163() at Hersham near Walton on Thames,
having, though originally bred in the lowest ob-
scurity, twice enriched himself in some degree by
marriage. He came to London with a view to
practise his favourite art in 1641; but, having re-
ceived a secret monition warning him that he was
·not yet sufficiently an adept, he retired again into
WILLI.\ 1\I LILLY,
the country for two years, and did not finally com-
mence his career till 1644, when he published a
Prophetical Almanac, which he continued to do till
about the time of his death. He then immediately
began to rise into considerable notice. Mrs. Lis]e,
the wife of one of the commissioners of the great
seal, took to him the urine of Whitlocke, one of
the most eminent lawyers of the time, to consult
him respecting the health of the party, when he
informed the lady that the person would recover
from his present disease, but about a month after
would be very dangerously ill of a surfeit, which
accordingly happened. He was protected by the
great Selden, who interested himself in his favour;
and he tells us that Lenthal, speaker of the house
of commons, was at all times his friend. He fur-
ther says of himself that he was originally partial
to king Charles and to monarchy: but, when the
parliament had apparently the upper hand, he had
the skill to play his cards accordingly, and secured
his favour with the ruling powers. Whitlocke,
in his Memorials of Affairs in his Own Times,
takes repeated notice of him, says that, meeting
him in the street in the spring of 1645, he en-
quired of Lilly as to what was likely speedily to
happen, who predicted to him the battle of Naseby,
and notes in 1648 that some of his prognostications
" fell out very strangely, particular1y as to the king's
fall from his horse about this time." Lilly applied
to Whitlocke in favour of his rival, Wharton, the
WILLIAM LILLY,
astrologer, and his prayer was granted, and again
in behalf of Oughtred, the celebrated mathema-
tician.
Lilly and Booker, a brother-astrologer, were sent
for in great fonn, with a coach and four horses, to
the head-quarters of Fairfax at Windsor, towards
the end of the year 1647, when they told the
general, that they were " confident that God would
go along with him and his anny, till the great
work for which they were ordained was perfected,
which they hoped would be the conquering their
and the parliament's enemies, and a quiet settle-
ment and firm peace over the whole nation." The
two astrologers were sent for in the same state in
the following year to the siege of Colchester,
which they predicted would soon fall into posses-
sion of the parliament.
LiUy in the mean while retained in secret his
partiality to Charles the First. Mrs. Whorwood,
a lady who was fully in the king's confidence, came
to consult him, as to the place to which Charles
should retire when he escaped from Hampton
Court. Lilly prescribed accordingly ; but Ash-
burnham disconcerted all his measures, and the
king made his inauspiciou8 retreat to the isle of
Wight. Afterwards he was consulted by the same
lady, as to the way in which Charles should pro-
ceed respecting the negociatioos with the parlia-
mentary commissioners at Newport, when Lilly
advised that the king should sign all the propo-
WILLIAM LILLY. -4.81
sitions, and come up immediately with the com-
missioners to London, in which case Lilly did not
doubt that the popular tide would tum in his
favour, and the royal cause prove triumphant.
Finally, he tells us that he furnished the saw and
aqua fortis, with which the king had nearly re-
moved the bars of the window of his prison in
Carisbrook Castle, and escaped. But Charles ma-
nifested the same irresolution at the critical moment
in this case, which had before proved fatal to his
success. In the year 1649 Lilly received a pen-
sion of one hundred pounds per annum from the
council of state, which, after having been paid him
fur two years, he declined to accept any longer.
In 165U he received a present of a gold chain and
medal from Charles X king of Sweden, in ac-
knowledgment of the respectful mention he had
made of that monarch in his almanacs.
Lilly lived to a considerable age, not having
died till the year 1681. In the year 1666 he was
summoned before a committee of the house of
commons, on the frivolous ground that, in his
Monarchy or No Monarchy published fifteen years
before, he had introduced sixteen plates, among
which was one, the eighth, representing persons
digging graves, with coffins, and other emblems
significative of mortality, and, in the thirteenth, a
city in flames. He was asked whether these things
referred to the late plague and fire of London.
Lilly replied in a manner to intimate that they
MATTHEW HOPKINS.
did ; but he ingenuously confessed that he had
not known in what year they would happen. He
said, that he had given these emb1ematical repre-
sentations without any comment, that those who
were competent might apprehend their meaning,
whilst the rest of the world remained in the igno-
rance which was their appointed portion.
MATTHEW HOPKINS.
Nothing can place the credulity of the English
nation on the subject of witchcraft about this
time, in a more striking point of view, than the
history of Matthew Hopkins, who, in a pamphlet
published in 1647 in his own vindication, assumes
to himself the surname of the Witch-finder. He
fell. by accident, in his native county of Suffolk,
into contact.with one or two reputed witches, and,
being a man of an observing turn and an ingenious
invention, struck out for himself a trade, which
brought him such moderate returns as sufficed to
maintain him, and at the same time gratified his
ambition by making him a terror to many, and the
object of admiration and gratitude to more, who
felt themselves indebted to him for ridding them
of secret and intestine enemies, against whom, ·as
long as they proceeded in ways that left no foot-
steps behind, they felt they had no possibility of
guarding themselves. Hopkins's career was some-
thing like that of Titus Oates in the following
MATTHEW HOPKINS. 433
reign, but apparently much safer for the adven-
turer, since Oates armed against himself a very
formidable party, while Hopkins seemed to assail
a few only here and there, who were poor, debili-
tated, impotent and helpless.
After two or three successful experiments, Hop-
kins engaged in a regular tour of the counties. of
Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex and Huntingdonshire. He
united to him two confederates, a man ·named
John Stern, and a woman whose name has not
been handed down to us. They visited every
town in their route that invited them, and secured
to them the moderate remuneration of twenty
shillings and their expences, leaving what was
more than this to the spontaneous gratitude of
those who should deem themselves indebted to
the exertions of Hopkins and his party. By this
expedient they secured to themselves a favourable
reception, and a set of credulous persons who
would listen to their dictates as so many oracles.
Being three of them, they were enabled to play
the game into one another's hands, and were suf-
ficiently strong to overawe all timid and irresolute
opposition. In every town to which they came,
they enquired for reputed witches, and having
taken them into custody, were secure for the most
part of a certain number of zealous abettors, who
took care that they should have a clear stage for
their experiments. They overawed their helpless
victims with a certain air of authority, as if they
2 F
484 MATTHEW HOPKINS.
had received a commission from heaven for the
discovery of misdeeds. They assailed the poor
creatures with a multitude ofquestions constructed
in the most artful manner. They stripped them
naked, in search for the devil's marks in different
parts of their bodies, which were ascertained by
running pins to the head into those parts, that, if'
they were genuine marks, would prove themselves
such by their insensibility. They swam their vic-
tims in rivers and ponds, it being an undoubted
fact, that, if the persons accused were true witches,
the water, which was the symbol of admission into
the Christian church, would not receive them into
its bosom. If the persons examined continued ob-
stinate, they seated them in constrained and uneasy
attitudes, occasionally binding them with cords,
and compelling them to remain so without food or
sleep for twenty-four hours. They walked them up
and down the room, two taking them under each
arm, till they dropped down with fatigue. They
carefully swept the room in which the experiment
was made, that they might keep away spiders and
flies, which were supposed to be devils or their
imps in that disguise.
The most plentiful inquisition of Hopkins and
his confederates was in the years 1644, 164.5 and
1646. At length there were so many persons
committed to prison upon suspicion of witchcraft,
that the government was compelled to take in
hand the affair. The rural magistrates before
MATTHEW HOPKINS.
whom Hopkins and his confederates brought their
victims, were obliged, willingly or unwillingly, to
commit them for trial. A commission was granted
to the earl of Warwick and others to hoJd a ses-
sions of jail-delivery against them for Essex at
Chelmsford. Lord Warwick was at this time the
most popular nob1eman in Eng1and. He was ap-
pointed by the parliament Jord high admiral during
the civil war. He was much courted by the in-
dependent clergy, was shrewd, penetrating and
active, and exhibited a singu]ar mixture of pious
demeanour with a vein of facetiousness and jocu-
larity. With him was sent Dr. Calamy, the most
eminent divine of the period ofthe Commonwealth,
to see (says Baxter•) that no fraud was committed,
or wrong done to the parties accused. It may welJ
be doubted however whether the presence of this
clergyman did not operate unfavourably to the per-
sons suspected. He preached before the judges. It
may readily be believed, considering the temper
of the times, that he insisted much upon the
horrible nature of the sin of witchcraft, which
cou]d expect no pardon, either in this world or the
world to come. He sat on the bench with the
judges, and participated in their deliberations. In
the result of this inquisition sixteen persons were
banged at Yarmouth in Norfolk, fifteen at Chelms..
ford, and sixty at various places in the county of
Suffolk.
• Certainty of the World of Spirits.
2 F 2
486 MATTHEW HOPKINS.
Whitlocke in his Memorials of English Affairs;
under the date of .1649, speaks of many witches
being apprehended about Newcastle, upon the in-
fonnation of a person whom he calls the Witch-
finder, wh(), as his experiments were nearly the
same, though he is not named, we may reasonably
suppose to be Hopkins ; and in the following year
about Boston in Lincolnshire. In 16.52 and 1658
the same author speaks of women in Scotland, who
were put to incredible torture to extort from them
a confession of what their adversaries imputed to
them.
The fate of Hopkins was such as might be ex-
pected in similar cases. The multitude are at first
impressed with horror at the monstrous charges
that are advanced. They are seized, as by con-
tagion, with terror at the mischiefs which seem to
impend over them, and from whiclt no innocence
and no precaution appear to afford them sufficient
protection. They hasten, as with an unanimous
effort, to avenge themselves upon these malignant
enemies, whom God and man alike combine to
expel from society. But, after a time, they begin
to reflect, and to apprehend that they have acted
with too much precipitation, that they have been
led on with uncertain appearances. They see one
victim led to the gallows after another, without
stint or limitation. They see one dying with the
most solemn asseverations of innocence, and mo-
ther confessing apparently she knows not what,
CRO)IWEL, 487
what is put into her mouth by her relentless per-
secutors. They see these victims, old, crazy and
impotent, harassed beyond endurance by the in-
genious cruelties that are practised against them.
They were first urged on by implacable hostility
and fury, to be satisfied with nothing but blood.
But humanity and remorse also have their turn.
Dissatisfied with themselves, they are glad to point
their resentment against another. The man that
at first they hailed as a public benefactor, they
presently come to regard with jealous eyes, and
begin to consider as a cunning impostor, dealing
in cool blood with the lives of his fellow-creatures
for a paltry gain, and, still more horrible, for the
lure of a perishable and short-lived fame. The
multitude, we are told, after a few seasons, rose
upon Hopkins, and resolved to subject him to
one of his own criterions. They dragged him to
a pond, and threw him into the water for a witch.
It seems he floated on the surface, as a witch
ought to do. They then pursued him with hoot-
ings and revilings, and drove him for ever into
that obscurity and ignominy which he had amply
merited.
CROMWEL.
There is.a story ofCromwel recorded by Echard,
the historian, which well deserves to be mentioned,
as strikingly illustrative of the credulity which pre-
vailed about this period. It takes its date from the
488 CROMWEL.
morning of the third of September, 1651, when
Cromwel gained the battle of Worcester against
Charles the Second, which he was accustomed to
call by a name sufficiently significant, his " crown-
ing victory." It is told on the authority of a co-
lonel Lindsey, who is said to have been an intimate
friend of the usurper, and to have been commonly
known by that name, as being in reality the senior
captain in Cromwel's own regiment. " On this
memorable morning the general,'' it seems, "took
this officer with him to a woodside not far from the
army, and bade him alight, and follow him into
that wood, and to take particular notice of what
he saw and heard. After having alighted, and se-
cured their horses, and walked some little way
into the wood, Lindsey began to tum pale, and to
be seized with horror from some unknown cause.
Upon which Cromwel asked him how he did, or
how he felt himself. He answered, that he was
in such a trembling and consternation, that he had
never felt the like in all the conflicts and battles he
,had ever been engaged in : but whether it pro-
ceeded from the gloominess of the place, or the
temperature of his body, he knew not. 'How
now?' said Cromwel, 'What, troubled with the
vapours ? Come forward, man.' They had not
gone above twenty yards further, before Lindsey
on a sudden stood still, and cried out, 'By all that
is good I am seized with such unaccountable ter-
ror and astonishment, that it is impossible for me
CROMWEL. 489
to stir one step further.' Upon which Cromwel
called him, ' Faint-hearted fool!' and bade him,
' stand there, and observe, or be witness.' And
then the general, advancing to some distance from
him? met a grave, elderly man with a roll of parch-
ment in his hand, who delivered it to Cromwel,
and he eagerly perused it. Lindsey, a little re-
covered from his fear, heard several loud words
between them : particularly Cromwel said, ' This
is but for seven years; I was to have had it for
one-and-twenty ; and it must, and shall be so.'
The other told him positively, it could not be for
more than seven. Upon which Cromwel cried
with great fierceness, 'It shall however be for
fourteen years.' But the other peremptorily de-
clared, ' It could not possibly be for any longer
time ; and, if he would not take it so, there were
others that would.' Upon which Cromwel at last
took the parchment : and, returning to Lindsey
with great joy in his countenance, he cried, 'Now,
Lindsey, the battle is our own! I long to be en-
gaged.' Returning out of the wood, they rode to
the army, Cromwel with a resolution to engage as
soon as possible, and the other with a design to
leave the army as soon. After the first charge,
Lindsey deserted his post, and rode away with all
possible speed day and night, till he carne into the
county of Norfolk, to the house of an intimate
friend, one Mr. Thoroughgood, minister of the
parish of Grimstorie. Cromwel, as soon as he
440 DOROTHY MATELEY.
missed him, sent all ways after him, with a pro-
mise of a great reward to any that should bring
him alive or dead. When Mr. Thoroughgood saw
his friend . Lindsey come into his yard, his horse
and himself much tired. in a sort of a maze, he
said, ' How now, colonel? We hear there is likely
to be a battle shortly : what, fled from your co-
lours ?' ' A battle,' said the other ; ' yes there
has been a battle, and I am sure the king is beaten.
But, if ever I strike a stroke for Cromwel again,
may I perish eternally I For I am sure he has
made a league with the devil, and the devil will
have him in due time.' Then, desiring his pro-
tection from Cromwel's inquisitors, he went in,
and related to him the story in all .its circum-
stances." It is scarcely necessary to remind the
reader, that Cromwel died on that day seven years,
September the third, 1658.
Echard adds, to prove his impartiality as an his-
torian, " How far Lindsey is to be believed, and
how far the story is to be accounted incredible, is
left to the reader's faith and judgment, and not to
any determination of our own."
DOROTHY MATELEY.
I find a story ·dated about this period, which,
though it does not strictly belong to the subject of
necromancy or dealings with the devil, seems well
to deserve to be inserted in this work. The topic
DOROTHY MATELEY. 441
of which 1 treat is properly of human credulity ;
and this infirmity ·of our nature can scarcely be
more forcibly illustrated than in the following ex-
ample. It is recorded by the well-known John
Bunyan, in a fugitive tract of his, entitled the Life
and Death of Mr. Badman, but which has since
been inserted in the works of the author in two
v.olumes folio. In minuteness of particularity and
detail it may vie with almost any story which hu-
man industry has collected, and human simplicity
has ever placed upon record.
"There was," says my author, "a poor woman,
by name Dorothy Mateley, who lived at a small
village, called Ashover, in the county of Derby4
The way in which she earned her subsistence,
was by washing the rubbish that came from the
lead-mines in that neighbourhood through a sieve,
which labour she perfonned till the earth had
passed the sieve, and what remained was particles
and small portions of genuine ore. This woman
was of exceedingly low and coarse habits, and
was noted to be a profane swearer, curser, liar and
t.hief; and her usual way of asserting things was
with an imprecation, .as, ' I would I might sink
into the earth, if it.be not so/ or, ' I would that
God would make the earth open and swallow me
up, if I tell an untruth.'
it happened on the fl8rd of March, 1660,
[according to our computation 1661], that she was
washing ore on the top ofa steep hill about a quar-
DOROTHY MATELEY.
ter of a mile from Ashover, when a lad who was
working on the spot missed two-pence out of his
pocket, and immediately bethought himself of
charging Dorothy with the theft. He had thrown
off his breeches, and was working in his drawers.
Dorothy with much seeming indignation denied
the charge, and added, as was usual with her, that
she wished the ground might open and swallow
her up, if she had the boy's money.
" One George Hopkinson, a man of good re-
port in Ashover, happened to pass at no great dis-
tance at the time. He stood a while to talk to
the woman. There stood also near the tub a little
child, who was ca11ed to by her elder sister to come
away. Hopkinson therefore took the little girl by
the hand to lead her to her that called her. But
he had not gone ten yards from Dorothy, when he
heard her crying out for help, and turning back,
to his great astonishment he saw the woman, with
her tub and her sieve, twirling round and round,
and sinking at the same time in the earth. She
sunk about three yards, and then stopped, at the
same time calling lustily for assistance. But at
that very moment a great stone fell upon 4er
head, and broke her skull, and the earth fell in
and covered her. She was afterwards digged up,
and found about four yards under ground, and
the boy's two pennies were discovered on her
person, but the tub and the sieve had altogether
disappeared."
WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW HALE. 448
WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW
HALE.
One of the most remarkable trials that occur in
the history of criminal jurisprudence, was that of
Amy Duny and Rose Cullender at Bury St. Ed-
mund's in the year 1664. Not for the circum-
stances that occasioned it; for they were of the
coarsest and most vulgar materials. The victims
were two poor, solitary women of the town of
Lowestoft in Suffolk, who had by temper and
demeanour rendered themse]ves particularly ob-
noxious to their whole neighbourhood. Whenever
they were offended with any one, and this fre-
quent1y happened, they vented their wrath in curses
and ill language, muttered between their teeth, and
the sense of which could scarcely be collected;
and ever and anon they proceeded to utter dark
predictions of evil, which should happen in re-
venge for the ill treatment they received. The
fishermen would not sell them fish ; and the boys
in the street were taught to fly from them with
horror, or to pursue them with hootings and scur-
rilous abuse. The principal charges against them
were, that the children of two families were many
times seized with fits, in which they exclaimed
that they saw Amy Duny and Rose Cullender
coming to torment them. They vomited, and in
their vomit were often found pins, and once or
twice a two-penny nail. One or two of the chil-
444 WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW HALE.
dren died ; for the accusations spread over a period
of eight years, from 1656 to the time of the trial.
To back these allegations, a waggoner appeared,
whose wa.ggon had been twice overturned in one
morning, in consequence of the curses of one of
the the waggon having first run against
her hovel, and materialIy injured it. Another
time the waggon stuck fast in a gate-way, though
the posts on neither side came in contact with the
wheels ; and, one of the posts being cut down,
the waggon passed easily along.
This trial, as I have said, was no way memora-
ble for the circumstances that occasioned it, but
for the importance of the persons who were pre-
sent, and had a share in the conduct of it. The
judge who presided was sir Matthew Hale, then
chief baron of the exchequer, and who had before
rendered himself remarkable for his undaunted re-
sistance to one of the arbitrary mandates of Crom-
wel, then in the height of his power, which Wll$
addressed to Hale in his capacity of judge. Hale
was also an eminent author, who had treated upon
the subjects, and was equally distin-
guished for his piety and inflexible integrity. An-
other person, who was present, and accidentally
took part in the proceedings, was sir Thomas
Browne, the superlatively eloquent and able author
of the Religio Medici. (He likewise took a part
on the side of superstition in the trial of the Lan-
cashire witches in 1634.) A judge also. who as-
WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW HALE, 445
sisted at the trial was Keeling, who afterwards oc-
cupied the seat of chiefjustice.
Sir Matthew Hale apparently paid deep atten-
tion to the trial, and felt much perplexed by the
evidence. Seeing sir Thomas Browne in court,
and knowing him for a man of extensive infonna-
tion and vast powers of intellt'Ct, Hale appealed
to him, somewhat extrajudicially, for his thoughts
on what had transpired. Sir Thomas gave it as h;s
opinion that the children were bewitched, and in-
forced his position by something that had lately oc.
cured in Denmark. Keeling dissented from this, and
inclined to the belief that it might all be practice,
and that there was nothing supernatural in the affair.
The chiefjudge was cautious in his proceeding.
He even refused to sum up the evidence, lest he
might unawares put a gloss of his own upon any
thing that had been sworn, but left it all to the
jury, He told them that the Scriptures left no
doubt that there was such a thing as witchcraft,
and instructed them that all they had to do was,
first, to consider whether the children were really
bewitched, and secondly, whether the witchcraft
was· sufficiently brought home to the prisoners at
the bar. The jury returned a verdict of guilty;
and the two women were hanged on· the seven-
teenth of ·March 1664, one week after their trial.
The women shewed very little activity during the
trial, and died protesting their innocencea.
• Trial of the Witches executed Rt Bury St. Edmund's.
446 WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW HALE.
This trial is particularly memorable for the cir-
cumstances that attended it. It has none of the
rust of ages : no obscurity arises from a long vista
of years interposed between. Sir Matthew Hale
and sir Thomas Browne are eminent authors ; and
there is something in such men, that in a manner
renders them the contemporaries of all times, the
living acquaintance of successive ages of the world.
Names generally stand on the page of history as
mere abstract idealities ; but in the case of these
men we are familiar with their tempers and pre-
judices, their virtues and vices, their strength and
their weakness.
They proceed in the first place upon the assump-
tion that there is such a thing as witchcraft, and
therefore have nothing to do but with the cogency
or weakness of evidence as applied to this particu-
lar case. Now what are the premises on which
they proceed in this question ? They believe in
a God, omniscient, all wise, all powerful, and
whose " tender mercies are over all his works.''
They believe in a devil, awful almost as God him-
self, for he has power nearly unlimited, and a will
to work all evil, with subtlety, deep reach of
thought, vigilant, " walking about, seeking whom
he may devour." This they believe, for they refer
to " the Scriptures, as confirming beyond doubt
that there is such a thing as witchcraft." Now
what office do they assign to the devil, "the prince
of the power of the air," at whose mighty attri-
WITCHES HANGED BY SIR MATTHEW HALE. 447
butes, combined with his insatiable malignity, the
wisest of us might well stand aghast? It is the
first law of sound sense and just judgment,
- - - - - - - servetur ad imum,
Qualis ab incoepto processerit, et sibi constet ;
that every character which we place on the scene
of things should demean himself as his beginning
promises, and preserve a consistency that, to a
mind sufficiently sagacious, should almost serve us
in lieu of the gift of prophecy. And how is this
devil employed according to sir Matthew Hale and
sir Thomas Browne? Why in proffering himself
as the willing tool of the malice of two doting old
women. In afflicting with fits, in causing them to
vomit pins and nails, the children of the parents
who had treated the old women with barbarity and
cruelty. In judgment upon these women sit two
men, in some respects the most enlightened of an
age that produced Paradise Lost, and in confirma-
tion of this blessed creed two women are executed
in cool blood, in a country which hadjust achieved
its liberties under the and the virtues of
Hampden.
What right we have in any case to take away
the life of a human being already in our power, and
under the forms ofjustice, is a problem, one of the
hardest that can be proposed for the wit of man to
solve. But to see some of the wisest of men,
ting in judgment upon the lives of two human
creatures in consequence of the forgery and tricks
448 WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN.
of a set of malicious children, as in this case un-
doubtedly it was, is beyond conception deplorable.
Let us think for a moment of the inexpressible
evils which a man encounters when dragged from
his peaceful home under a capital accusation, of
his arraignment in open court, of the orderly
course of the evidence, and of the sentence
awarded against him, of the "damned minutes
and days he counts over" from that time to his ex-
ecution, of his being finaHy brought forth before a
multitude exasperated by his supposed crimes,
and his being cast out from off the earth as un-
worthy so much as to, exist among men, and all
this being wholly innocent. The consciousness of
innocence a hundred fold embitters the pang.
And, if these poor women were too obtuse of soul
entirely to feel the pang, did that give their supe-
riors a right to overwhelm and to crush them ?
WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN.
The story of witchcraft, as it is reported to have
passed in Sweden in the year 1670, and has many
times been reprinted in this country, is on several
accounts one of the most interesting and deplorable
that has ever been recorded. The scene lies in
Dalecarlia, a country for ever memorable as hav-
ing witnessed some of the earliest adventures of
Gustavus Vasa, his deepest humiliation, and the
first commencement ·of his prosperous fortune.
WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN. 449
The Dalecarlians are represented to us as the sim-
plest, the most faithful, and the bravest of the sons
of men, men undebauched and unsuspicious, but
who devoted themselves in the most disinterested
manner for a cause that appeared to them worthy
of support, the cause of liberty and independence
against the cruelest of tyrants. At least such they
were in l5QO, one hundred and fifty years before
the date of the story we are going to recount.
--The site of these events was at Mohra and Elf-
dale in the province that has just been mentioned.
The Dalecarlians, simple and ignorant, but of
exemplary integrity and honesty, who dwelt amidst
impracticable mountains and spacious mines of
copper and iron, were distinguished for supersti-
tion among the countries of the north, where all
were superstitious. They were probably subject
at intervals to the periodical visitation of alarms of
witches, when whole races of men became wild
with the infection without any one's being well
able to account for it.
In the year 1670, and one or two preceding
years, there was a great alarm of witches in the
town of Mohra. There were always two or three
witches existing in some of the obscure quarters
of this place. But now they increased in number,
and shewed their faces with the utmost audacity.
Their mode on the present occasion was to make
a journey through the air to Blockula, an ima-
ginary scene of retirement, which none but the
G
450 WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN.
witches and their dupes had ever seen. Here
they met with feasts and various entertainments,
which it seems had particular charms for the per-
sons who partook of them. The witches used to
go into a field in the environs of Mohra, and cry
aloud to the devil in a peculiar sort of recitation,
" Antecessor, come and carry us to Blockula!"
Then appeared a multitude of strange beasts, men,
spits, posts, and goats with spits run through their
entrails and projecting behind that all might have
room. The witches mounted these beasts of bur-
then or vehicles, and were conveyed through the
air over high walls and mountains, and through
churches and chimneys, without perceptible impe-
diment, till they arrived at the place of their des-
tination. Here the devil feasted them with various
compounds and confections, and, having eaten to
their hearts' content, they danced, and then fought.
The devil made them ride on spits, from which
they were thrown; and the devil beat them with
the spits, and laughed at them. He then caused
them to build a house to protect them against the
day of judgment, and presently overturned the
walls of the house, and derided them again. All
sorts of obscenities were reported to follow upon
these scenes. The devil begot on the witches
sons and daughters : this new generation inter-
married again, and the issue of this further con-
junction appears to have been toads and serpents.
How all this pedigree proceeded in the two or
WiTCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN. 451
three years in which Blockula had ever been heard
of, I know not that the witches were ever called
on to explain.
But what was most of all to be deplored, the
devil was not content with seducing the witches
to go and celebrate this infernal sabbath ; he fur-
ther insisted that they should bring the children
of Mohra along with them. At first he was satis-
fied, if each witch brought one ; but now he de-
manded that each witch should bring six or seven
for her quota. How the witches managed with
the minds of the children we are at a loss to guess.
These poor, harmless innocents, steeped to the
very lips in ignorance and superstition, were by
some means kept in continual alarm by the wicked,
or, to speak more truly, the insane old women,
and said as their prompters said. It does not ap-
pear that the children ever left their beds, at the
time they reported they had been to Blockula.
Their parents watched them with fearful anxiety.
At a certain time of the night the children were
seized with a strange shuddering, their limbs were
agitated, and their skins covered with a profuse
perspiration. When they came to themselves,
they related that they had been to Blockula, and
the strange things they had seen, similar to what '
had already been described by the women. Three
hundred children of various ages are said to have
been seized with this epidemic.
The whole town of Mohra became subject to
2 G 2
452 WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN.
the infection, and were overcome with the deepeSt
affliction. They consulted together, and drew up
a petition to the royal council at Stockholm, in-
treating that they would discover some remedy,
and that the government would interpose its au-
thority to put an end to a calamity to which other-
wise they could find no limit. The king of Sweden
was at that time Charles the Eleventh, father of
Charles the Twelfth, and was only fourteen years
of age. His council in their wisdom deputed two
commissioners to Molua, and furnished them with
powers to examine witnesses, and to take what-
ever proceedings they might judge necessary to
put an end to so unspeakable a calamity.
They entered on the business oftheir commission
on the thirteenth of August, the ceremony having
been begun with two sermons in the great church
of Mohra, in which we may be sure the damnable
sin of witchcraft was fully dilated on, and con-
cluding with prayers to Almighty God that in his
mercy he would speedily bring to an end the tre-
mendous misfortune, with which for their sins he
had seen fit to afflict the poor people of Molua.
The next day they opened their commission. Se-
venty witches were brought before them. They
' were all at first stedfust in their denial, alleging
that the charges were wantonly brought against
them, solely from malice and ill will. But the
judges were earnest in pressing them, till at length
first one, and then another, burst into tears, and
WITCHCRAFT IN SWEDEN. 4.58
confessed all. Twenty-three were prevailed on
thus to disburthen their consciences ; but nearly
the whole, as well those who owned the justice of
their sentence, as those who protested their inno-
cence to the last, were executed. Fifteen children
confessed their guilt, and were also executed.
Thirty-six other children (who we may infer did
not confess), between the ages of nine and sixteen,
were condemned to run the gauntlet, and to be
whipped on their hands at the church-door every
Sunday for a year together. Twenty others were
whipped on their hands for three Sundaysa.
This is certainly a very deplorable scene, and is
made the more so by the previous character which
history has impressed on us, of the simplicity, in-
tegrity, and generous love of liberty of the Dale-
carlians. For the children and their parents we
. can feel nothing but unmingled pity. The case
of the witches is different. That three hundred
children should have been made the victims of this
imaginary witchcraft is doubtless a grievous cala-
mity. And that a number of women should have
been found so depraved and so barbarous, as by
their incessant suggestions to have practised on
the minds of these children, so as to have robbed
them of sober sense, to have frightened them into
fits and disease, and made them believe the most
odious impossibilities, argued a most degenerate
• Narrative translated by Dr. Horneck, apud Satan's Invisible
World by Sinclair, and Sadducismus Triumphatus by Glanvme.
454 WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND.
character, and well merited severe reprobation, but
not death. Add to which, many of these women
may be believed innocent, otherwise a great ma-
jority of those who were executed, would not have
died protesting their entire freedom from what was
imputed to them. Some of the parents no doubt,
trom folly and ill judgment, aided the alienation of
mind in their children which they afterwards so
deeply deplored, and gratified their senseless aver-
sion to the old women, when they were themselves
in many cases more the real authors of the evil
than those who suffered.
WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND.
As a story of witchcraft, without any poetry in
it, without any thing to amuse the imagination, or
interest the fancy, but hard, prosy, and accom-
panied with all that is wretched, pitiful and wither-
ing, perhaps the well known story of the New
England witchcraft surpasses every thing else upon
record. The New Englanders were at this time,
towards the close of the seventeenth century, rigo-
rous Calvinists, with long sermons and tedious mo-
notonous prayers, with hell before them for ever
on one side, and a tyrannical, sour and austere God
on the other, jealous of an arbitrary sovereignty,
who hath " mercy on whom he will have mercy,
and whom he will he hardeneth." These men,
with long and melancholy faces, with a drawlinp:
WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND. 455
and sanctified tone, and a carriage that would " at
once make the most severely disposed merry, and
the most cheerful spectators sad," constituted
nearly the entire population of the province of
Massachuset's Bay.
The prosecutions for witchcraft continued with
little intermission principally at Salem, during the
greater part of the year 1692. The aCcusations
were of the most vulgar and contemptible sort,
invisible pinchings and blows, fits, with the blast-
ings and mortality of cattle, and wains stuck fast
in the ground. or losing their wheels. A con-
spicuous feature in nearly the whole ofthese stories
was what they named the " spectral sight;" in
other words, that the profligate accusers first
feigned for the most part the injuries they received,
and next saw the figures and action of the personli
who inflicted them, when they were invisible to
every one else. Hence the miserable prosecutors
gained the power of gratifying the wantonness of
their "?alice, by pretending that they suffered by
the hand of any one whose name first presented
itself, or against whom they bore an ill will. The
persons so charged, though unseen by any but the
accuser, and who in their corporal presence were
at a distance of miles, and were doubtless wholly
unconscious of the mischief that was hatching
against them, were immediately taken up, and cast
into prison. And what was more monstrous anrl
incredible, there stood at the bar the prisoner on
456 WITCHCRAFT IN NI!:W ENGLAND.
trial for his life, while the witnesses were permitted
to swear that his spectre had haunted them, and
afflicted them with all manner of injuries. That
the poor prosecuted wretch stood astonished at
what was alleged against him, was utterly over-
whelmed with the charges, and knew not what to
answer, was all of it interpreted as so many pre-
sumptions of his guilt. Ignorant as they were,
they were unhappy and unskilful in their defence;
and, if they spoke of the devil, as was but natural,
it was instantly caught at as a proof how familiar
they were with the fiend that had seduced them
to their damnation.
The first specimen of this sort of accusation in
the present instance was given by one Paris, minis-
ter of a church at Salem, in the end of the year
1691, who had two daughters, one nine years old,
the other eleven, that were afflicted with fits and
convulsions. The first person fixed on as the mys-
terious author of what was seen, was Tituba, a
female slave in the family, and she was harassed
by her master into a confession of unlawful prac-
tices and spells. The girls then fixed on Sarah
Good, a female known to be the victim of a mor-
bid melancholy, and Osborne, a poor man that
had for a considerable time been bed-rid, as persons
whose spectres had perpetually haunted and tor-
mented them : and Good was twelve months after
hanged on this accusation.
A person, who was one of the first to fall under
WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND. 457
the imputation, was one George Burroughs, also a
minister of Salem. He had, it seems, burierl two
wives, both of whom the busy gossips said he had
used ill in their life-time, and consequently, it was
whispered, had murdered them. This man was
accustomed foolishly to vaunt that he knew what
people said of him in his absence ; and this was
brought as a proof that he dealt with the devil.
Two women, who were witnesses against him, in-
terrupted their testimony with exclaiming that
they saw the ghosts of the murdered wives present
(who had promised them they would come), though
no one else in the court saw them ; and this was
taken in evidence. Burroughs conducted himself
in a very injudicious way on his trial; but, when
he came to be hanged, made so impressive a speech
on the ladder, with fervent protestations of inno-
cence, as melted many of the spectators into tears.
The nature of accusations of this sort is ever
found to operate like an epidemic. Fits and con-
vulsions are communicated from one subject to
another. The " spectral sight," as it was called,
is obviously a theme for the vanity of ignorance.
"Love of fame," as the poet teaches, is an " uni-
versal passion." Fame is placed indeerl on a height
beyond the hope of ordinary mortals. But in oc-
casional instances it is brought unexpectedly within
the reach of persons of the coarsest mould ; and
many times they will be apt to seize it with pro-
portionable avidity. When too such things are
458 WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND.
talked of, when the devil and spirits of hell are
made familiar conversation, when stories of this
sort are among the daily news, and one person and
another, who had a little before nothing extra_ordi·
nary about them, subjects ofwonder, these
topics enter into the thoughts of mariy, s.leeping
and :. " their young men see and
their old men dream dreams."
lit a town as Salem, the secona in point of
importance in the colony, such accusations
\f()nderful rapidity. Many seized
fits, exhibited f!ightful contortions ottheir limbs
I •
and features, and became a fearful $pectacle to the
bystander. They were .asked to assisn tJie ca':lse
of all this ; an<;I they Supposed; or· pretende,d·to
suppose,· som.e . alread'y solitary and
affiicted, and on account -in ill odour with the
. townspeople, scowling threatening, and ...
menting them. Presently persoos, specially gifted
with the "spectral formed' a by them-·
selves, anti were sent about at public expence
. from place to place, that they what no.
one else could see. The priii.(>ns were filled with
the persons accused. The. utmost horror was en-
tertained, as of a calamity which in such a degree
had never visited that part of the world. It hap.
pened, most unfortn.nately, that &xter's Certainty
·ofthe World of Spirits had been ppblished but the
year before, and a aumbe; copies had been sent ..
out to New England. ·'fhere seemed a strange
..
WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGLAND. 459
coincidence and sympathy between vital Chris-
tianity in its most honourable sense, and the fear
of the devil, who appeared to be "come down
unto. them, with great wrath." Mr. Increase
Mather, and Mr. Cotton Mather, his son, two
clergymen of highest reputation in the neighbour-
hood, by the solemnity and awe with. which they
treated the subject,· and the earnestness an(zeal
which" they displayed, gave a sanction to the .- .
and·virulence of the ignorant. · · ..
. All the 'forms· of· justice were brought fq,rward
on There was no lack of judges,
and grand juries., and peftyjuri8S, and executioners,
anq stili .Jese "'f prosecutors and witnesses. The
6rs't .person that was hanged was .on the tenth of
June,.five more on the ninetee9th. of July, five on
the nineteenth of Augu'st, and eight oo the twenty-
of September.'· confessed that ·
'. :·. · they 'Ye:e ·for._this appeared t1ie only way
. . · for the accusea to 'Save their lives. Husbands and
children fell down on their knees, and implored
.their wives mothers to own. their guilt. Many .
were· tortured by .baing tied neck and heels to-
gether, till they conressed whatever was suggested
to them. It is remarkable however that not one.
persisted i1i her confession at the place of execu-
tion. ..,
The most story 'that occurred in this ·
· : affair was of Giles (_4ory, and• Martha, his wife.
The woman w.as tried on. the ninth of September,
..
•
460 . WITCHCRAFT IN NEW •.
and han.ged on the twenty-.second. In the interval,
on the sixteenth, the husband was brought up for
trial. He said, qe was not guilty ; but, being
asked how he wotild be tried ? he to go
through the customary form, and say, God
and my country." · He observed that, Qf all that
had been tried, not one had as yet been pronounced
not guilty; and he resolute1y'refused in that mode
to undergo a trial. 'fhe judge directed therefore
that, according to the barbarous mode prescribed
in the mother-country, he should ·be laid on his
back, and pressed to death with weights gradually
accumulated on the upper surface of his body, a
proceeding which had never yet been resorted to
by the English in North America. The man per-
sisted in his resolution, and remained mute till he
expired.
The whole of this dreadful tragedy was kept
together by a thread. The spectre-seers for a con-
siderable time prudently restricted their accusa-
tions to persons of ill repute, or otherwise of no
conse'quence in the community. By and by how-
• e\·er they lost sight of this caution, and pretended
they saw the figures of some persons weB con-
nected, and of unquestioned honour and reputa-
tion, engaged in acts of witchcraft. Immediately
the whole feU through in a moment. The leading
inhabitants presently saw how unsafe it would be
to trust their reputations and their lives to the
mercy of these profligate accusers. Of fifty-six
WITCHCRAFT IN NEW ENGL.AND. ' 461
bills of indictment that.were offered to th·e grand-
jury on the third of January, 1698, twenty-six
only were found true bills, and thirty thrown out.
On the· twe!lty-six bills that!were found, three
only were ·guilty by the petty
jury, these three their pardon from
the government: The prisons were thrown open ;
fifty confessed together with two hundred
persons imprisoned on suspicion, were •set at li-
berty, and no more accusations were heard of.
The "affiicted/' .as they were technically termed,
recovered their health ; the " spectral sight" was
universally scouted; and men began to wonder
how they could ever have been the victims of so
horrible a delusionR.
• Cotton Mather, Wonders of the Invisible World; Calef,
More Wondersofthe Invisible World; Neal, History of New
England.
• •
...
. '
1· ..:·.
.,; .
-,
.:
...
...;. :
.....· '
..
- -- ....... .......,j
.·. 468
..
CONCLUSION.
volume of records 'of supposed necroinaricy
and witchcraft is sufficiently copious, without its
being in any way necessary to it, thJ:ough
its latest relics and fragments. Superstition is so
congenial to the mind of man, that, eveq ·hJ. the
early years of the of the present volurne,..
scarcely a village was. unfurnished with an·. old
man or woman who. laboured under an ill re-
pute on this score ; and I doubt not many remain
to this very day. I remembei, when a child, that
I had an old woman pointed· out to· me by .an
ignorant servant-maid: as being. unquestionabjy·
possessed of the ominous gift of the·" evil eye,"
and that my impulse was to remove myself as
quickly as might be from the .range df her obser-
vation.
But witchcraft, as it appears to me, is.: by .no.;
means so desirable a subject as to· ma;ke '<1ne.un-
willing to drop it. It has its USt:S· lt is perhaps
right that we should be acquainted with
this repulsive chapter in the anJ!als·of human' DR·
ture. As the wise man says in the·Bible, " It is-
good for us to resort to the -house of those that.
mo:urn ;" for there is i melancholy which is at-
tended with beneficial effects, -and " by the sad-
.-.
....
CONCLUSION,
ness· qf the countenance the heart is made better."
But I feel no propensity to linger in these dreary
abodes, and would rather make a speedy exchange
for the dwellings of healthfulness and a certain
hilarity. We will therefore with the reader's per-
mission at length shut the book, and say, "Lo, it
is enough."
There is no time perhaps at which we can ·more
fairly quit the subject, than when the more en-
lightened governments of Europe have called f'or
the code of their laws, and have obliterated the
statute which annexed the penalty qf death to this
imaginary crime.
So early as the year 1672, Louis :X:IV promul-
gated an order of the council of state: forbidding
the tribunals from proceeding to judgment in cases
where the accusation was of sorcery only\
In England we paid a m1,1ch later tribute to
the progress of illumination an9. knowledge ; and
it was not till the year 1786 that a statute was
passed, repealing the law made in the first year of
James I, and enacting that no capital prosecution
should for the future take place for conjuration,
sorcery and enchantment, but restricting the pu-
nishment ofpersons pretending to tell fortunes and
discover stolen goods by witchcraft, to that apper-
taining to a misdemeanour.
As long as death could by law be awarded
Menagiana, Tom II, p•.264. Voltaire, Siecle de Louis
XIV, Chap. xxxi.
CONCLUSION. 4fl5
against those who were charged with a commerce
with evil spirits, and by their means inflicting
mischief on their species,_ it is a subject not un-
worthy of grave argument and true philanthropy,
to endeavour to detect the fallacy of such pre-
. tences, and expose the incalculable evils and the
d;eadflll tragedies that have grown out of accusa-
tions and prosecutions for such imaginary crimes.
But the effect of perpetuating the silly and super-
stitious tales that have survived this mortal blow,
is exactly .opposite. It only serves to keep alive
the lingering folly of imbecile minds, and still to
feed with p,estiferous clouds the thoughts of the
ignorant. Let us rather hail with heart-felt glad-
ness the light which has, though late, broken in
upon us, and weep over the calamity of our fore-
fathers, who, iri addition to the inevitable ills of
our sublunary state, were harassed with imagi-
nary terrors, and .haunted by suggestions,
Whose horrid image did unfix their hair,
And make their seated hearts knock at their ribs,
Against the use of nature.
THE END.
I.Oii'DON:
RAVLIS AND LEIGHTON, JOHNJION'8 COURT, FLEET-STREET.
ERRATA.
Page 27, line 14, read "for the most part."
100, note b, dele Pliniua.
Ill, line penult. read" himself."
129, line 8, dele and.
143, line 14, read "Cerberus."
243, line 11, read" adherent."
294, line 14, read "flagitious."
302, line 21, read " taskmaster."
359, line 9, read" no where.''
