{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1944__barbanell___rogues_and_vagabonds____partial.pdf","mytitle":"Rogues And Vagabonds","mylang":"de"}
R O G U E S
A N D V A G A B O N D S
By
MAURICE BARBANELL
(Editor of “ Psychic News” )
P r i ce
Distributed by
THE NATIONAL SPIRITUALIST
765 Oakwood Boulevard
Chicago 15, Illinois
—
“ W E A L W A Y S ST O L E T O G E T H E R ”
Here are the two crooks on whose evidence Stella Hughes, a well-known medium, was
convicted under the Vagrancy Act. Sergeant Jean Stratton and Constable Margaretta
Gibson Low turn their backs on the camera when they were photographed on their'way
to the West London Police Court where they were sentencedfor systematic thefts. Yet
Herbert Morrison refused to grant the medium a King’s Pardon!
i
ROGUES
AND VAGABONDS
By
MAURICE BARBANELL
(Editor of “Psychic News”)
When this booklet was written, no one could have
foreseen that in the year 1944the might and majesty of
the law would be invoked to initiate a prosecutionunder
the Witchcraft Act of 1735, as was done in the Helen
Duncan case. The references, therefore, to theWitch
craft Act, on page 60, are nolongerrelevant. When the
Helen Duncan case has been finally decided, fresh
consideration will have to be given to its effect on
Spiritualism.
PSY CH I C PRESS L I M I TED
144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.1
First P
ublishe
d . . • '944
BOOK
PRODUCTION
WAR ECONOMY
S
TANDARD
THIS BOOK IS PRODUCED IN COMPLETE
CONFORMITY WITH THE AUTHORISED
ECONOMY STANDARDS
MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
HBBNBZER BAYLIS AND SON, LTD., THE
TRINITY PRESS, WORCESTER, AND LONDON
INTRODUCTION
I 'HIS is the story of an attempt to obtain simple justice for a
J- body of Britons, men and women who, although they are in
every other respect regarded as decent members of the com
munity, are stigmatised as rogues and vagabonds and deprived of
their fundamental liberties.
“I want justice for the German people,” said the Rt. Hon.
Herbert Morrison, Home Secretary, in a speech made during
the war—one that caused a furore. Yet he denies justice and
rights regarded by Britons as sacred since Magna Charta to the
Spiritualists of this land.
In Britain, which has boasted for centuries of its toleration and
its love of liberty, there are tens of thousands of people who have
no freedom to practise their religion according to die dictates of
their conscience. They are at the mercy of an obsolete Act of
Parliament, placed on the Statute Book 120 years ago, which
makes their activities illegal, is responsible for their mediums
being arrested, fined and imprisoned, and compels the police to
be the tools of sectarian bigots who are often animated by spite
and jealousy. The identity of these bigots is never disclosed.
They are able to strike and to wound from the shelter of their
anonymity. .
Because of this Act the police use that loathsome creature, the
agent provocateur, whose activities in tempting law-abiding
citizens to become rogues and vagabonds is an affront to every
canon o fjustice, decency and morality.
The truth is that this Act was never designed to apply to
Spiritualism, or to Spiritualists. As its name implies—the
Vagrancy Act—it was framed to protect the illiterate and the
ignorant from the wiles of vagrant gipsies. Yet, because it has
never been repealed, every time Sir Oliver Lodge went to a
seance, he could have been prosecuted for breaking the law!
Whether you agree with Spiritualists or not, you cannot deny
that robbing them of their religious freedom makes a mockery
o f all our war aims. The whole trouble is contained in these
words which form part of Section 4 of the Vagrancy Act:
“Everypersonpretendingorprofessingtotellfortunes, orusingany
3
subtle craft, means or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive
andimposeonanyofHisMajesty’ssubjects... shallbedeemedarom
andavagabondwithin thetrueintent andmeaningofthisAct” *
Because o f these words, the courts have gone so far as to
declare that the mere practice o f mediumship, irrespective of
whether any attempt is made to foretell the future, is illegal!
Whether mediums are paid or not makes no difference—they are
still offenders in the eyes o f the law.
Mediumship is the unique contribution made by Spiritualism.
It is the foundation upon which the whole of Spiritualism rests-
it is our supreme contribution to modem knowledge. To be a
medium, you have to be sensitive to vibrations which others are
unable to register; mediumship is a psychic sensitiveness. Yet
these are the people who have to practice their gifts with the
threat o f prosecution hanging over their heads.
Every seance is automatically an illegal activity; every Spirit
ualist religious service at which mediumship is demonstrated is
illegal. Bequests left for the training of mediums have been
declared invalid. The Government has refused to recognise that
Spiritualist ministers are ministers o f religion. And all this has
happened in so-called free Britain.
The climax of a long fight to obtain relieffrom the operations
o f the Vagrancy Act was reached in January, 1944, when
Morrison rejected the pleas made by a deptuation of Spiritualists,
which he had refused to meet. His rebuffdoes not end the cam
paign, for Spiritualists will continue to work for the freedom
which is their inalienable right.
This booklet will tell you the story of what we have tried to
achieve.
4 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
THE GOVERNMENT’S PRETEXT
O
NE of the excuses offered by the Government for refusing to
amend the Vagrancy Act is that it protects the public from
fraud. The truth is that the law does not differentiate between
genuine mediums and charlatans. All mediumship, says the law,
must be regarded on the same level. It is all a pretence.
There is very little fraud in Spiritualism, no more and no less
than exists in any department of human activity. The fraud has
been exaggerated by our detractors. Until quite recently news
papers were hostile to Spiritualism. The only references to it
that they would print were so-called exposures of fraud, many of
which merely revealed the stupidity of the exposers.
The normal activities of the Spiritualist movement, the tens of
thousands of messages from the “dead” received in public—and
in private—seldom were regarded as news by newspapers. As a
result the idea began to grow that Spiritualism was all fraudu
lent.
Then, unlike other religions, Spiritualists have refusedto main
tain a discreet silence about charlatans.
Incidentally, because of their long experience, they are the only
ones capable ofjudging the difference between genuine psychic
phenomena and the attempts to simulate them. Spiritualists have
been ruthless wherever chicanery has been discovered. They
have insisted that the widest possible publicity be given to those
harpies who have preyed on the bereaved for the sole purpose of
extracting money from diem.
Given the power, the Spiritualist movement is quite capable
of dealing with this very small proportion of frauds. Yet what
happens when we expose frauds? Years ago I caught a man,
claiming to be a medium, cheating at a seance. I applied to the
Stratford Police Court in East London for a warrant for his
arrest. After glancing at my desposition, the magistrate, with a
smile, refused my application. I appealed to the Home Office to
intervene, and after a month’s delay, received its refusaL
How then can there be anyjustification for the Home Secret
ary’s statement that one reason for refusing to amend the Vag-
5
rancy Act is that his department must protect the public against
frsud
r Here are the landmarks in the history o f our campaign to
amend the unfair Vagrancy Act. First the petition method was
tried Thousands of signatures—I believe the figure was 40,000
—were collected in 1928 by enthusiastic Spiritualists, and these
weighty parcels were deposited in the House o f Commons. And
that w s that! What happened to them, I do not know. I hope
they were used for salvage.
ROGUES a n d v a g a bo n d s
THE FIR ST DEPUTATION
T
HEN, in 1930, nearly all the sections of the Spiritualist move
ment combined to form a deputation to J. R . Clynes,
Herbert Morrison’s predecessor. The deputation was headed by
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, that doughty warrior for our cause,
then a dying man, who rose from a sick bed to go to London
for the purpose. It was his last public effort, for shortly after
wards he passed on. Many people think that his death was
hastened by the exertions caused by this action.
“The real medium and the honest medium is in an enormous
majority,” the famous author said to Clynes. “These people
are decent citizens who shed around them such an atmosphere of
human comfort and consolation, and also a religious assurance,
as no other body in the whole community does. I do not think
that the most busy medical man or the finest workman can
succeed in giving more happiness to the human race than a
competent medium.
“These people, who are very delicate and sensitive creatures,
are living always under the shadow o f the police. I would ask
you to consider the administrative way in which the police act
in these matters.
“They send to the medium disguised policemen and police
women who pretend to be in trouble and ask for consolation,
and then they take out a summons against the medium. That is
being an agent provocateur, and the act, like the word, is not
English; it is against all our feelings and traditions.
’hat the effect on thepublic would be if therewas
<
a
rk, andit wasshown thatthepolicehadconnived
that would be an exactparallel with what occurs
“If you were to send word to the different chief constables
asking them m future to let the public who are aggrieved take
action, but not the police to lay traps in this questionable manner,
we think that you would go a long way towards alleviating the
grievances from which these people suffer.”
« ®rnes^Oaten, as spokesman for the deputation, submitted that
since Spiritualism and psychical research in this country date
from 1850, an Act of 1824 could not possibly have contemplated
the psychical activities against which the Act is so frequently used.
It is obviousfrom the very title, the ‘VagrancyAct’ that it was
intendedto apply to the vagrantgipsy who wentfrom door to door
(veryoftenbackdoors) imposingupontheignorantclasses,servantsand
such like, andoften instillingintothemsuperstitiousfears.
It must not be forgotten that these were times when the
education of the masses was an unknown thing, and when pre
tenders who claimed strange powers struck terror into the hearts
of the credulous. We are living in different times. To apply the
term vagrant and vagabond to an individual who has a per
manent residence and is often the owner of the house in which
he lives is an anomaly which surely speaks for itself.
The Act is intended to protect the public, but we would
stress the fact that the Act is never put into operation save by the
police, and then only through agents provocateurs. A careful
reading of the Act suggests that me police take action on the
complaint o f the common informer, but we ask you to notethat
therehasnever, toourknowledge, beenacaseinwhichanymemberof
thegeneralpublichasgone intocourt andsaidthat he was eitherin
jured, deceivedorcheated.
“We have no evidence that there have ever been bonafide
complaints by the general public, although we have heard state
ments to that effect. No witnesses have ever been put into the
box other than agents provocateurs employed by the police.
Without such, presumably at the instigation of unnamed persons
in the background, agentsprovocateurs, we are certain the author
ities would have no case.
“Sittings are often held in private and no one is present but the
ROG
U
ES A
N
D VAG
A
BO
N
D
S n
‘
Just consider u
criminalityin thej
at the immorality;
withus.
police agent and the medium. There is generally a total denial
by the medium of the evidence given, but the evidence of the
paid police agent is always taken, generally without corrobor-
ation. .
“ Wehaveresaott tobelievethat insomecasesagents provocateurs
havevisitedmediumstenoradozen times, and,failingtofind evidence
inhisordinarypractice, have deliberatelyput leadingquestionstosuch
mediumsfor the purpose of extorting replies to questions, and other
information which wouldbringthem within the law. This inpractice
isadistinct incitementto break the law.
“Spiritualism, to many o f us, has deep and sacred religious
implications. It goes without saying that such a movement
which is building up a religious organisation, has excited—I do
not want to be offensive—but shall I say the antagonism, even
the enmity of certain other churches. It is no secret that a ‘Papal
Bull’ has been issued by the Roman Catholic Church against
its practice.
“We have every reason to believe that, if and when complaints
have been received by the police, such complaints have often
emanated from one particular church, which has been able thus
to oppress others, while itself remaining unseen.
“We submit that any Act which lends itselfto exploitation by one
religious communityfor the persecution of another is an unfair Act,
which needs drastic revision.
“The exercise o f mediumship is claimed by Spiritualists as a
means of getting into contact with deceased friends and relatives.
It must be obvious that when one enters into communication
with such deceased persons, the conversation is bound to deal
with either the past, the present or the future.
“It is unthinkable, for instance, that a man could converse
with his deceased father without the father in some degree refer-
ing to incidents in the life and prospects o f his son. Such con
versations, whether relating to the past or to the future, have
been held to be fortune-telling, no matter how great may be the
evidence o f the identity of the spirit one is communicating
with.
As in biblical n'mes there were priests and prophets, so we
claim that our mediums are the prophets o f the modem church,
and without them the spiritual voice is silenced. The very
phenomena of the Old and New Testaments, upon which the
s
o r o g u es a n d v a g a bo n d s
religion of this country is based, are of exactly the same nature as
that of modem psychical phenomena.
“Yet whilewearetrainedtobelievethatsuchphenomenaaresacred
when locatedin thepast, they becomeillegal when indulgedin inthe
present.
“There is scarcely a phase of mediumship, whether clair
voyance, psychometry, prophecy, healing, writing, or spirit
messages of any description, which has not been held to be
illegal, with the result that every medium who practices is liable
to prosecution, however honest, however conscientious, or
however genuine.”
Oaten pointed out that in 1923 a gift by will for the purpose
of training mediums was held not to be a valid charitable gift,
because mediumship was illegal. As a result, Spiritualists could
not receive any legacy bequeathed to them if one of the objects
was the training of mediums.
The Charity Commissioners had refused to recognise as a
charity a Spiritualist body which had then been established for
over 30 years. The refusal was based on the fact that the training
of mediums was one pf the objects of its trust deed.
“Our legal advisers,” he added, “are still in a position of
uncertainty as to whether we as a body have the power to hold
churches which have been bought, built and paid for by Spirit
ualists, upon religious and charitable trusts.”
Cases had arisen in which the right of interment of Spiritualists
in a churchyard had been disputed under the Burials Act of
1880.
Speaking from the “point of view of an ordinary man of the
world, who finds himself impelled to join the Spiritualist move
ment,” Hannen Swaffer said that he had received that morning
in his ordinary post-bag three letters from bereaved people.
“Sometimes, after addressing a meeting, I receive as many as
20 in the course of a day,” he said. “Sir Arthur will tell you that
after' his long crusades on behalf of our movement, he has
received hundreds of letters.
“People to-day are demanding proofof things which formerly
they were content to believe. I could be of great service to
people in this troubled age but for the fact that owing to a stupid
and ridiculous and old-fashioned law, mediumship, which we
consider sacred, is still illegal.”
RO
G
U
ES A
N
D V
A
G
A
BO
N
D
S 9
3
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, a Spiritualist and a Methodist
declared: “Mediumship is Heaven’s gift. Where that gift has
been duly trained, and is being discreetly used, we have a hnm1n
instrument by which God can bring to earth something which
society deeply needs.
“There is reason for believing that o f the numerous suicides
committed every day that passes in these islands of ours, several
of them result immediately from hopeless depression following
bereavement, and this is often combined unfortunately with an
entire disbelief in any future life.
“Halfanhourwith agiftedmediumwouldhavesavedthosepeople,
and the assertion isfounded on several years ofpersonal work with
mediums, duringwhich I haveseenpossiblesuicidessaved.
“The question is one which touches the religious convictions
of great multitudes at the present day. They are people who
know from experience that mediumship provides present-day
evidence for the reality of life beyond death.
“IfI maysaysoI mean nodisrespect tothecloth; it ismyprofound
conviction that oneheaven-giftedmedium is ofmore value than many
bishops.
“We believe that Spiritualism has a great contribution to make
towards the moral and spiritual uplift o f society. W e are equally
convinced that mediumship is an absolutely indispensable in
strument by which that movement must advance.”
J. R . Clynes in his reply said he had listened “with the deepest
sympathy as regards your consciousness o f grievance. As to the
evidence o f grievance under which you are labouring you have
left me in no doubt.”
Then he referred to the vexed question o f agentsprovocateurs
by saying: “While technically, as head o f the Metropolitan
Police, I would not like to be under the stigma o f employing
agents to procure breaches o f the law, at the same time it is the
obligation resting upon the police to see that the law is enforced.
“Do I understand under this head that your case is that, so far
as prosecution ever might arise, it should arise only where some
member of the public takes the initiative, and that the police
ought not, within the law, to have any right themselves to act
in initiating proceedings?”
“That is my own feeling,” replied Conan Doyle.
Continuing, Clynes said: “The deputation is all the more
I0 r o g u es a n d v a g a bo n d s
welcome because personally I want to see the most complete
tolerance of freedom towards every tendency and every dis
position of either individual or organised religion.
“I want to see the most complete freedom, and there isnothing
more hateful to me than any kind of interference with people s
tendencies of conscience in these matters. But the law is what it
is, and the duty of the poor Home Secretary is to administer the
law; at any rate, he is technically responsible for many aspects
of its administration.”
He suggestedthe introduction ofaprivate Bill. “Ifyou takethat
step," hesaid, “I can only say,for thepresent G
overnment, that we
would meet you with every sympathy and see that, sofar as the
Government can, nodifficultywasplacedinyourway ofhavingyour
casefully ventilatedin theHouseofCommons."
Clynes gave the official attitude of the Home Office in these
words: “It is quite inconceivable that the law would ever be
invoked for the purpose of interfering with scientific research
into psychical phenomena. The sole function of the Govern
ment in this matter is to protect the public against fraud, im
posture, and mental terrorisation.
“In every large community there are numbers of ignorant and
credulous people who would be willing to part with their money
in order to have their fortunes read, and would place implicit
reliance on what was revealed.
“Parliament has not yet been seized of the various matters to
which the Spiritualists have called attention. It seems to be the
duty o f the Spiritualists themselves, who alone have any real
knowledge of the organisation of Spiritualists, their needs and
difficulties, to prepare a Bill, as they have been invited to do
several times, which would:
“Define the qualification of mediums;
“Provide rules for the governance of their conduct; and
“Indicate specific immunities which Spiritualists would
wish to see conferred upon them.
“If such a Bill were prepared and introduced into Parliament,
the Government would give sympathatic consideration to it.”
The Home Secretary’s advice was followed. A Bill was
drafted on the lines he suggested. It was introduced into the
House by Alderman W. T. Kelly, curiously enough, himself a
RO
G
U
ES ANDVA
G
A
BO
N
D
S II
Roman Catholic. The Labour Government of that day, despite
Clynes’s promise, instead o f leaving it to the free vote of the
House, put the Whips on, thus forcing the votes against it. The
Bill was “talked out” at its second reading!
„ ROGUES a n d v a g a bo n d s
TACKLING THE CANDIDATES
I
N 1935, advantage was taken o f the general election to submit
a questionnaire to every candidate. These were the questions
candidates were asked to answer:
“ Wouldyou, if returned, beprepared togrant to Spiritualists the
righttoteachandpractisetheirreligiousbeliefswithout interference?
“Wouldyou bepreparedto support a Bill which providesfor the
removal ofsuch interference, andtheother legal disabilities outlinedby
which Spiritualists arehandicappedin their religious observances?
“ Wouldyou beprepared to (a) take an activepart in introducing
suchaBill intoParliament, (b) assist it throughthelegislature?"
A copy of the Bill which Spiritualists had prepared, at Clynes’s
advice, was sent to every candidate. It consisted of these few
sentences:
“After thepassingofthis Act noperson shall beprosecutedorcon
victedunderthestatutesrelatingto witchcraft or vagrancyorotherwise
in respect ofany act done or wordsspoken in thepromulgation orex
position oftheteachings of Spiritualism, or in thepursuit ofpsychical
research, oranysimilar investigation, at any service, seance, meeting,
or interview, whether in the capacity of (a) promoter, chairman, or
other official, (b) lecturer orspeaker, (c) clairvoyant, or (d) medium;
notwithstanding that messages or warnings begiven thereat as to the
future.
Providedalways that theforegoing immunityshall not apply w
here
intention todefraudisproved.
“For thepurpose ofthis Act the words ‘medium and ‘clairvoyant’
shall mean aperson holdingacertificateor licenceoffitness topractise
eitheras amediumorclairvoyant, or in both capacities, suchcertificate
or licenceto be issued by registered orproperly constituted Spiritual
istic or psychical societies, or a joint committee representing such
societies, orsuchothercertifyingorlicensingbodyasmaybeapproved
by His Majesty’s SecretaryofStatefor HomeAffairs."
One pledge of support came from Clement R . Attlee, then
Leader of the Labour. Party and now Deputy Prime Minister.
He announced that he was “in favour of freeing Spiritualists
from restrictions on their liberty, and of repealing obsolete Acts.
I am in general agreement with the purpose expressed in the
Bill, and would support legislation designed to give freedom
under proper conditions to those engaged in psychic research.”
Yes, Adee made that pledge in 1935. In 1944, Herbert
Morrison, his colleague in the Government and in the Labour
Party, refused to grant the jusdce for which Adee had pledged
his support!
Five hundred replies were received in answer to the question-
aire; only two of the candidates declared themselves against
relief being granted to Spiritualists. In the new Parliament 114
members had pledged their support.
JtO
G
U
B
S ANDV
A
GABONDS 13
SUPPORT FROM AN UNEXPECTED QUARTER
U
'NEXPECTED support for our campaign came in an article
published in the “Policewoman’s Review,” of all papers, in
the following year. Seeing that policewomen, often disguised
in widows’ weeds, have been responsible for prosecuting
mediums, the appearance of this article was all the more striking.
The author referred to a book recendy written by a former
member o f the C.I.D., who told how the police had used
mediums for detecting crimes. “It would seem to an unbiased
observer,” he wrote, “curiously illogical that on the one hand
the law may make use of the powers ofa clairvoyant or medium,
and on the other that the same individual is liable to prosecution
and fine under the Vagrancy Act of 1824.”
He pungendy commented on the fact that obscure fortune
tellers were frequendy prosecuted, while those who conducted
their business on a large scale in the West-end of London, were
seldom brought to court.
Eloquent support to his argument comes from the fact that
there is one psychic, who describes herself as “a well-known
society clairvoyant,” whose clients have included crowned
heads, and who has been received at St. James’s Palace. She has
never been prosecuted under the Vagrancy Act, which she
flagrantly violates.
Again and again, there has been proof of this discrimination.
The rich and the powerful, the newspaper barons who encourage
fortune-telling on a wide scale with alleged astrological fore
casts, have all escaped scot-free, but the medium, who consoles
the stricken mourner, has been fined and made a “rogue and a
vagabond.”
Soabsurdisthelawthat onemediumwho has beenfinedunderthe
Vagrancyand Witchcraft Acts—the latter isseldomused—wasableto
declare: “I have been calledforjury serviceas oneofthe ‘twelvegood
menandtrue’tosit inthesamecourt whereI havebeentwiceconvicted
as‘arogueandavagabond, avagrantandawitch’."
None o f the managing directors o f the large London stores
has been convicted under the Vagrancy Act for selling fortune
telling teacups, special packs o f cards, or all the other impedi
menta of fortune-telling.
j- KOGUBS AND VAGABONDS
I T U R N COM M ON IN FO R M ER
I
N an attempt to arouse the public conscience in this matter,
in 1936 I turned “common informer”—except that I refused to
remain anonymous—and had proceedings instituted against
R . H. Naylor for his “What the Stars Foretell” feature in the
“Sunday Express,” and the Editor o f the paper for aiding and
abetting. The case created a furore when it was heard at the
Mansion House. So nervous was the newspaper about these
proceedings that for a fortnight Naylor’s feature was dropped.
For the purpose of a prosecution, one particular article had to
be cited. The magistrate dismissed the case on the grounds that
the statements in Naylor’s article were “o f such a vague and
general character that there is nothing that can clearly be said
to amount to the telling or pretending or professing to tell any
person’s future so as to come within the terms o f Section 4. of
the Vagrancy Act.”
ROGUES A
N
D V
A
G
A
BO
N
D
S
Asked to give costs against me, the magistrate refused. “I am
rather reluctant to give costs in this case,” he said, “because I
think it is of public interest. I think these articles might induce
weak-minded people to do and think things that it is not in
tended they should. It is not for their benefit that they should do
these things. The case is brought in the public interest and no
costs should be allowed.”
I appealed, but I lost again. Lord Hewart, then Lord Chief
Justice, described Naylor’s astrological forecasts in this article in
the “Sunday Express” as a “collection of imbecile and repulsive
twaddle.”
“There should be a second heading to ‘What the Stars Fore
tell’,” he said, “ ‘Merely Vague Suggestions as to the Possibility
of Certain Events’.”
He added that if the question had been whether Naylor’s
articles were imbecile and repulsive twaddle, there could be only
one answer; the question was whether the article came within
the “mischief” ofthe Act.
Not long afterwards, the “Times,” for years consistendy
hostile to Spiritualism, published a vigorous plea for the
repeal or amendment of tne Vagrancy Act. Not many people
know that some years ago the “Times” was foolish enough to
declare that it would be interested in Spiritualism when mediums
could foretell the winners in horse races.
The plea was published in the “Times” on the occasion of the
bi-centenary ofuie abolition ofsomelaws againstwitchcraft. The
writer suggested that one useful way of celebrating this bi
centenary would be to amend or repeal Section 4 ofthe Vagrancy
Act. After citing examples to prove how unfair this Act was,
the writer said:
“Successivejudicial interpretations o f‘any subde craft, means
or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on
any of His Majesty’s subjects’ have made it practically impos
sible for any bonafide medium who happens to be summoned
(generally as the result of a visit from an agent provocateur) to
avoid conviction, especially since the common-sense decision of
the late Lord D arl ing and the present Lord Sankey, in Davis v.
Curry in 1918 that an intention to deceive was a necessary
ingredient of the offence was overruled in Stonehouse v
.Masson
three^years later.”
IS
I was tempted, a few years ago, to turn common informer
again, this time against the B.B.C and Stuart H.bberd, its chief
announcer. After a palmist had broadcast, Hibberd disclosed
that he had been given a reading, and broadcast one or two
details But I considered I had done enough with my action
against Naylor and the Editor of the “Sunday Express.” Still,
it might have caused a sensation!
g ROGUES a n d v a g a bo n d s
MEDIUMS TREA TED W O R SE THAN PROSTITUTES
T
HE punishment for those charged under this antiquated
piece of legislation seems to depend upon the whim, ignor
ance or knowledge of the magistrate. A few years ago, Sir
Robert Gower heard a case at Tunbridge Wells. He refused to
impose a fine and dismissed the person summoned on payment
of 9s costs. He said from the Bench that the Vagrancy Act
ought to be amended. He knows something about Spiritualism,
for he has attended several seances.
Other magistrates have imposed fines ranging from £ 5 to
S25. The figures seem to be arbitrary. Kenneth Marshall, the
Marylebone magistrate, fined one medium .£10 which, he said,
was the maximum penalty, and five guineas costs. But one
medium has been fined £ 2 5 for two “offences.”
An examination of the Vagrancy Act reveals that mediums
are regarded as worse than prostitutes! Whilst those who are
said to have exercised psychic powers can be imprisoned up to
three months for the first offence, the maximum imprisonment
for prostitutes under the same Act is only one month!
For a second offence the medium, after being recorded as a
“rogue and vagabond,” is now officially described as an incor
rigible rogue.” The punishment becomes more severe.
First, the offender must be “detained in the House of Cor
rection until the next General or Quarter Sessions o f the Peace,
being “kept to hard Labour during the Period of his of her
Imprisonment”.
Then, at the Sessions, “it shall be lawful for theJusticesof the
Peace. . . to order, if they think fit, that such Offender be further
imprisoned in the House of Correction, and be there kept to hard
Labour for any Time not exceeding One Year from the time of
making such Order, and to order further that such Offender (not
emg a female) be punished by Whipping, at such Time during
nis Imprisonment, and at such Place within theirJurisdiction as
according to the Nature of the Offence they in their Discretion
snail deem to be expedient.
So, if you are convicted twice under the Vagrancy Act and
you are not a woman, you can be flogged!
The Act encourages people to “denounce” alleged offenders.
By one provision, it is laid down that the police are bound to
take action when a medium has been “denounced!”
Ifapoliceofficerrefusestotakeanallegedoffenderintocustody itis
deemedaneglect ofduty, andhecanbefineduptofsfor everysuch
neglect. Ifthefine isnotpaid, theojjicer’sgoodscanbedistrainedon
and, if the money isstill not realised, hecan besent tojail for three
months. J J
RO
G
U
ES A
N
D V
A
G
A
BO
N
D
S in
The Act gives power to Justices of the Peace, on information
*ng<
< d before them, to authorise any person to enter at any
time “any House kept or purporting to be kept for the Re
ception, Lodging, or Entertainment of Travellers’ ’ to apprehend
any offender under the Act who is suspected of being there.
In plain English this means that a medium is liable to be
dragged out of his bed, if he is staying at a hotel, and sent to
prison for three months. For a second offence, he could be sent
to prison for a year, as well as being in jail while waiting for the
Quarter Sessions, and given as many whippings as the magis
trates think are deserved!
A few years ago it was announced by one newspaper that the
Statute Law Revision Committee, “a learned body which has
been sitting for several months, will recommend the abolition of
some silly old laws.” The newspaper added that one ofthese was
Section 4 of the Vagrancy Act Nothing of the kind ever hap
pened. Instead a new menace was introduced.
InJuly, 1940, in prosecutions at Birmingham and Birkenhead,
Section 4 was cited as usual, but these words were added as part
of the offence, “pretending to communicate with spirits.” All
references to the pretending or professing to tell fortunes was
deleted. It was a direct attack on mediumship, making a pretence
of communicating with spirits an offence.
3
E
SSO
R
A 1
5
It is primarily, as a grand priority, a heralding of know
ledge, world-embracing knowledge, of the indwelling Light.
D o w e not realise that Man is a complexity of expression
of that indwelling, of that immanence? Firstly, he is
endowed b y his Maker with the five fundamental senses,
hearing taste, smell, sight and touch. B y virtue of the
mind, part of the All Mind within him does he use those
senses. B y the mind, yes, for it is only by a sound mind in
a sound body that the full use of those senses can be appre
ciated. B ut Man has another gift, most precious, from the
A lm ighty. It is sometimes latent, but mostly active in
some degree or other ; and that gift is of paramount import
ance. It is the sixth sense of intuition or apperception.
Perception is an outcome of the normal, developed mind ;
but apperception is that faculty which enables Man, as
Shakespeare says: “ To perceive sermons in streams,books
in running brooks, and God in everything.’1
T ruly does he hear the Creator’s Voice in the moaning
wind and the song of the birds ; the babble of falling water
and the rustling whisper of falling leaves; the cry of the
suffering— the gurgle of delight of the happy babe.
The scent of flowers and aromatic herbs are Nature’s
call to him to commune with his Maker. The vista of
sunlit scenes and shady nooks— moonlight upon snow-capped
mountains— give him promise of the planes of Spirit from
whence all these originated. All the senses convey many
messages to him who has that wonderful sixth sense in
course of development.
Moreover, the gift of apperception becomes stimulated
and enhanced in another way by the inflow of Light, and
that is through the psychic centres. The undifferentiated
Light inflows through the solar plexus centre, and becomes
Om in manifestation within the etheric body, and the inner
petals of that lotus body of light. Through these seven
lotuses does it stream, differentiating, qualifying, as it
passes through first one and then another. In our deepest
contemplations the coronal chakra, or lotus, expresses that
Light in highest illumination. Seen clairvoyantly, its
m ulti-petalled flower revolves in beauty once it has been
awakened to the inner wisdom. Its transcendental qualities
induce the deeper trance states, and it is then that the Voice
is heard in the innermost recesses of the soul. It is in
moments such as these that that wisdom comes which
Roman Catholic. The Labour Government o f that day, despite
Clynes’s promise, instead o f leaving it to the free vote o f the
House, put the W hips on, thus forcing the votes against it. The
Bill was “ talked out” at its second reading!
12 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
T A C K X IN G TH E C A N D ID A T E S
I
N 193$, advantage was taken o f the general election to submit
a questionnaire to every candidate. These were the questions
candidates were asked to answer:
“ Would you, if returned, be prepared to grant to Spiritualists the
right to teach andpractise their religious beliefs without interference?
“ Would you be prepared to support a B ill which provides for the
removal o fsuch interference, and the other legal disabilities outlined by
which Spiritualists are handicapped in their religious observances?
“ Would you be prepared to (a) take an active part in introducing
such a B ill into Parliament, (b) assist it through the legislature?"
A copy o f the Bill which Spiritualists had prepared, at Clynes’s
advice, was sent to every candidate. It consisted o f these few
sentences:
“ After the passing o f this Act no person shall be prosecuted or con­
victed under the statutes relating to witchcraft or vagrancy or otherwise
in respect o f any act done or words spoken in the promulgation or ex­
position of the teachings o f Spiritualism, or in the pursuit o fpsychical
research, or any similar investigation, at any service, seance, meeting,
or interview, whether in the capacity o f (a) promoter, chairman, or
other official, (b) lecturer or speaker, (c) clairvoyant, or (d) medium;
notwithstanding that messages or warnings be given thereat as to the
future.
Provided always that theforegoing immunity shall not apply where
intention to defraud is proved.
“For the purpose o f this Act the words ‘medium’ and ‘clairvoyant’
shall mean a person holding a certificate or licence o ffitness to practise
either as a medium or clairvoyant, or in both capacities, such certificate
or licence to be issued by registered or properly constituted Spiritual­
istic or psychical societies, or a joint committee representing such
societies, or such other certifying or licensing body as may be approved
by His Majesty’s Secretary of Statefor Home Affairs."
One pledge o f support came from Clement R . Attlee, then
Leader o f the Labour. Party and now Deputy Prime Minister.
He announced that he was “ in favour o f freeing Spiritualists
from restrictions on their liberty, and o f repealing obsolete Acts.
I am in general agreement with the purpose expressed in the
Bill, and would support legislation designed to give freedom
under proper conditions to those engaged in psychic research.”
Yes, Adee made that pledge in 1935. In 1944, Herbert
Morrison, his colleague in the Government and in the Labour
Party, refused to grant the jusdce for which Adee had pledged
his support!
Five hundred replies were received in answer to the question-
aire; only two o f the candidates declared themselves against
relief being granted to Spiritualists. In the new Parliament 114
members had pledged their support.
JtOGUBS AND VAGABONDS 13
SU PP O R T FR O M A N U N EXPECTED Q U A R T E R
U
N EX PECTED support for our campaign came in an article
published in the “ Policewoman’s Review,” o f all papers, in
the following year. Seeing that policewomen, often disguised
in widows’ weeds, have been responsible for prosecuting
mediums, the appearance o f this article was all the more striking.
The author referred to a book recendy written by a former
member o f the C.I.D., who told how the police had used
mediums for detecting crimes. “ It would seem to an unbiased
observer,” he wrote, “ curiously illogical that on the one hand
the law may make use o f the powers o f a clairvoyant or medium,
and on the other that the same individual is liable to prosecution
and fine under the Vagrancy Act o f 1824.”
He pungendy commented on the fact that obscure fortune­
tellers were frequendy prosecuted, while those who conducted
their business on a large scale in the West-end o f London, were
seldom brought to court.
Eloquent support to his argument comes from the fact that
ROGUBS AND VAGABONDS
there is one psychic, who describes herself as “ a well-known
society clairvoyant,” whose clients have included crowned
heads, and who has been received at St. James’s Palace. She has
never been prosecuted under the Vagrancy Act, which she
flagrantly violates.
Again and again, there has been proof o f this discrimination.
The rich and the powerful, the newspaper barons w ho encourage
fortune-telling on a wide scale with alleged astrological fore­
casts, have all escaped scot-free, but the medium, who consoles
the stricken mourner, has been fined and made a “ rogue and a
vagabond.”
So absurd is the law that one medium who has beenfined under the
Vagrancy and Witchcraft Acts— the latter is seldom used— was able to
declare: “ I have been calledforjury service as one o f the ‘twelve good
men and true’ to sit in the same court where I have been twice convicted
as 'a rogue and a vagabond, a vagrant and a witch’ .
None o f the managing directors o f the large London stores
has been convicted under the Vagrancy A ct for selling fortune­
telling teacups, special packs o f cards, or all the other impedi­
menta o f fortune-telling.
14
I T U R N C O M M O N IN F O R M E R
I
N an attempt to arouse the public conscience in this matter,
in 1936 I turned “ common informer” — except that I refused to
remain anonymous— and had proceedings instituted against
R . H. Naylor for his “ W hat the Stars Foretell” feature in the
“ Sunday Express,” and the Editor o f the paper for aiding and
abetting. The case created a furore when it was heard at the
Mansion House. So nervous was the newspaper about these
proceedings that for a fortnight N aylor’s feature was dropped.
For the purpose o f a prosecution, one particular article had to
be cited. The magistrate dismissed the case on the grounds that
the statements in N aylor’s article were “ o f such a vague and
general character that there is nothing that can clearly be said
to amount to the telling or pretending or professing to tell any
person’s future so as to come within the terms o f Section 4 of
the Vagrancy Act.”
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
Asked to give costs against me, the magistrate refused. “ I am
rather reluctant to give costs in this case,” he said, “ because I
think it is o f public interest. I think these articles might induce
weak-minded people to do and think things that it is not in­
tended they should. It is not for their benefit that they should do
these things. The case is brought in the public interest and no
costs should be allowed.”
I appealed, but I lost again. Lord Hewart, then Lord Chief
Justice, described Naylor’s astrological forecasts in this article in
the “ Sunday Express” as a “ collection o f imbecile and repulsive
twaddle.”
“ There should be a second heading to ‘What the Stars Fore­
tell’,” he said, “ ‘Merely Vague Suggestions as to the Possibility
o f Certain Events’.”
He added that if the question had been whether Naylor’s
articles were imbecile and repulsive twaddle, there could be only
one answer; the question was whether the article came within
the “ mischief” ofth e Act.
N ot long afterwards, the “ Times,” for years consistendy
hostile to Spiritualism, published a vigorous plea for the
repeal or amendment o f tne Vagrancy Act. Not many people
know that some years ago the “ Times” was foolish enough to
declare that it would be interested in Spiritualism when mediums
could foretell the winners in horse races.
The plea was published in the “ Times” on the occasion o f the
bi-centenary o fuie abolition o fsome laws againstwitchcraft. The
writer suggested that one useful way o f celebrating this bi­
centenary would be to amend or repeal Section 4 o fthe Vagrancy
Act. After citing examples to prove how unfair this Act was,
the writer said:
“ Successive judicial interpretations o f ‘any subde craft, means
or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on
any o f His Majesty’s subjects’ have made it practically impos­
sible for any bonafide medium who happens to be summoned
(generally as the result o f a visit from an agent provocateur) to
avoid conviction, especially since the common-sense decision o f
the late Lord Darling and the present Lord Sankey, in Davis v.
Curry in 1918 that an intention to deceive was a necessary
ingredient o f the offence was overruled in Stonehouse v. Masson
three^years later.”
IS
I was tempted, a few years ago, to turn common informer
again, this time against the B .B .C . and Stuart Hibberd, its chief
announcer. After a palmist had broadcast, Hibberd disclosed
that he had been given a reading, and broadcast one or two
details. But I considered I had done enough with m y action
against Naylor and the Editor o f the “ Sunday Express.” Still,
it might have caused a sensation!
l 6 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
M EDIUM S T R E A T E D W O R S E T H A N PR O STITU TE S
T
HE punishment for those charged under this antiquated
piece o f legislation seems to depend upon the whim, ignor­
ance or knowledge o f the magistrate. A few years ago, Sir
Robert Gower heard a case at Tunbridge W ells. He refused to
impose a fine and dismissed the person summoned on payment
o f 9s. costs. He said from the Bench that the Vagrancy Act
ought to be amended. He knows something about Spiritualism,
for he has attended several seances.
Other magistrates have imposed fines ranging front ^ 5 to
,£25. The figures seem to be arbitrary. Kenneth Marshall, the
Marylebone magistrate, fined one medium .£10 which, he said,
was the maximum penalty, and five guineas costs. But one
medium has been fined £25 for tw o “ offences.”
An examination o f the Vagrancy A ct reveals that mediums
are regarded as worse than prostitutes! W hilst those who are
said to have exercised psychic powers can be imprisoned up to
three months for the first offence, the maximum imprisonment
for prostitutes under the same A ct is only one month!
For a second offence the medium, after being recorded as a
“ rogue and vagabond,” is now officially described as an “ incor­
rigible rogue.” The punishment becomes more severe.
First, the offender must be “ detained in the House o f Cor­
rection until the next General or Quarter Sessions o f the Peace,”
being “ kept to hard Labour during the Period o f his o f her
Imprisonment” .
Then, at the Sessions, “ it shall be lawful for the Justices o f the
Peace. . . to order, if they think fit, that such Offender be further
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
imprisoned in the House o f Correction, and be there kept to hard
Labour for any Time not exceeding One Year from the time o f
making such Order, and to order further that such Offender (not
being a female) be punished by Whipping, at such Time during
his Imprisonment, and at such Place within their Jurisdiction, as
according to the Nature o f the Offence they in their Discretion
shall deem to be expedient.”
So, if you are convicted twice under the Vagrancy Act, and
you are not a woman, you can be flogged!
The Act encourages people'to “ denounce” alleged offenders.
B y one provision, it is laid down that the police are bound to
take action when a medium has been “ denounced!”
I f a police officer refuses to take an alleged offender into custody, it is
deemed a neglect o f duty, and he can befined up to £ 5 for every such
neglect. I f thefine is not paid, the officer s goods can be distrained on
and, if the money is still not realised, he can be sent to jail for three
months.
The Act gives power to Justices o f the Peace, on information
being laid before them, to authorise any person to enter at any
time “ any House kept or purporting to be kept for the Re­
ception, Lodging, or Entertainment o f Travellers1’ to apprehend
any offender under the Act who is suspected o f being there.
In plain English this means that a medium is liable to be
dragged out o f his bed, if he is staying at a hotel, and sent to
prison for three months. For a second offence, he could be sent
to prison for a year, as well as being in jail while waiting for the
Quarter Sessions, and given as many whippings as the magis­
trates think are deserved!
A few years ago it was announced by one newspaper that the
Statute Law Revision Committee, “ a learned body which has
been sitting for several months, will recommend the abolition o f
some silly old laws.” The newspaper added that one o f these was
Section 4 o f the Vagrancy Act. Nothing o f the kind ever hap­
pened. Instead a new menace was introduced.
In July, 1940, in prosecutions at Birmingham and Birkenhead,
Section 4 was cited as usual, but these words were added as part
o f the offence, “pretending to communicate with spirits.” All
references to the pretending or professing to tell fortunes was
deleted. It was a direct attack on mediumship, making a pretence
o f communicating with spirits an offence.
H 17
3
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
W hoever was responsible was behaving with great subtlety.
As the law has never recognised the fact o f spirit communication,
every seance is a “ pretence” in its eyes, and every medium liable
to prosecution, although his genuineness has been proved a
thousand times.
In three other towns the “ offence” later became “ pretending
to hold communication with the spirits o f deceased persons.”
H ow far, I wonder, would the police be prepared to carry the
logic o f this “ offence” ? W ould they arrest every bishop and
every priest? In churches throughout the land they regularly
“ pretend to hold communication with the spirit o f a deceased
person” — the founder o f Christianity!
Let me make the position quite clear. W e Spiritualists would
never complain if only charlatans were prosecuted. Indeed, you
will remember I have told you how I failed to get such a fraud
charged at Stratford. O ur complaint is that mediums, whose
powers have been w ell tried and tested throughout the land,
are haled before the magistrates on the statements made by
policewomen, and the wives o f police officers, w ho ask the kind
o f leading questions which, when answered, make the medium
a law-breaker, and automatically transforms her into a “ rogue
and a vagabond.”
W hen there is a conflict o f testimony between the police
witnesses and the medium, inevitably the magistrate believes
the police officer.
I must quote one exception. M r. Justice Cassels said in an
appeal case at Lewes: “ I would not trust a policeman to write
down accurately anything that has been said to him, for I know
how often they are incorrect: and I do not hesitate to make this
statement.” Unfortunately, magistrates who dealt with Vag­
rancy A ct cases have not been o f the same opinion.
18
“ C R E D IB LE W ITN E SSE S”
T
HE Vagrancy A ct lays it down that the offender can be
convicted only on the testimony o f “ credible witnesses.”
What is a “ credible witness?”
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
In May, 1942, in the midst o f the war for freedom, Scotland
Yard staged a psychic blitzkreig by a prosecution that spread
alarm and despondency among the Spiritualists o f this land.
Acting as usual on the information o f an unnamed common
informer, the might and majesty o f the law was set in motion
against Stella Hughes, one o f our best-known mediums.
T w o policewomen, Sergeant Jean Stratton and Constable
Margaretta Gibson Low, described at the Marylebone Police
Court how they had disguised themselves in plain clothes and
visited the medium’s home. Both admitted that, on instructions
from Scotland Yard, they deceived the medium. Jean Stratton,
who is attached to Scotland Yard, though a spinster, deliberately
wore a wedding ring to deceive the medium into thinking that
she was married.
As part o f her evidence, she described how she had told Stella
Hughes that she was “recommended by afriend!” Hertestimony,
though she was supposed to be a “ credible witness,” was con­
tradictory.
“ I have been to agood many Spiritualist meetings" she said. Later
this became: “ I have been to one or two meetings." Then, explaining
why she was half an hour late for her appointment with the medium,
she spoke o f her difficulty in getting to the house, saying: “ I did not
know the way.” Yet, earlier, she had declared: “ I had kept observation
on her place?’
The magistrate, Kenneth Marshall, was confronted with con­
flicting versions o f what had transpired in the medium’s house,
for Stella Hughes flatly contradicted the police evidence. He said
he preferred to accept the testimony o f the policewomen because
he round it difficult to believe that they were not telling the truth.
A year later, these two policewomen, whose testimony was respon­
sible for convicting Stella Hughes, were sentenced at West London
Police Court to 12 months’ imprisonmentfor systematic thefts. Both
pleaded guilty to the stealing ofpropertyfor two yearsfrom empty or
unoccupied houses.
It was stated in court that Stratton had stolen 260 articles and
Low 230 articles. These women, who lived in the same street,
entered the houses from which they stole while working together
in their duties o f special observation. The prosecuting counsel
said that both women frankly admitted that for two years they
had persistently abused their position as trusted police officers.
I 19
Sometimes they had keys to the houses, which they obtained by
storing they were keeping special observation. Some o f the
stolen property was o f considerable value, which nobody could
possibly have thought was abandoned.
r Counsel told o f investigations made by a detective which
revealed that Low lied when first confronted with some o f the
stolen articles. Later she began to confess. I cite one example of
her lying. W hen the detective pointed to three cut-glass goblets,
Low said these were the property o f her landlady. The next day
she confessed she had stolen them from one o f the houses under
observation.
She admitted to the detective: “ The property you have token
possession o f is all stolen,” and added that she had never done any
stealing on her own— “ only when I was with Jean.”
W hen Jean Stratton made her statements she declared: “ W e
always stole together.
In sending them to prison, the magistrate was forthright in his
denunciation. The two wom en left the dock without uttering a
word throughout the entire proceedings. Low suddenly pitched
forward into the arms o f the jailer and was carried out o f court.
Stratton had been commended by the Commissioner of
Police on 33 occasions for “ good w ork,” and Low on seven
occasions-. It was later revealed that Stratton, w ho was the first
woman member o f the C.I.D ., had often disguised herself in
various coloured wigs and make-up. Both wom en were in
possession o f a wardrobe full o f disguises provided by the police
to be used for police purposes. Instead, they were used to cover
up a number o f crimes.
These are the two “ credible witnesses” whom the-magistrate
preferred to believe rather than Stella Hughes, and on whose
testimony he fined the medium £ 10 and five guineas costs.
In this connection I must tell you a story. Just before these
tw o policewomen were convicted, the Spiritualist movement
was startled by the possibility o f a new kind o f menace. Gladys
Spearman, a medium well known in London, had given a sitting
to two wom en on the premises o f the Balham Spiritualist Society.
After the sitting the wom en revealed that they were police
officers. A detective later told the medium that she would be
charged under the Vagrancy Act. Had this case come to court,
it would have been the first in which a medium would have been
a0 r o g u b s a n d v a g a b o n d s
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 21
prosecuted as a result o f a seance given on church premises. But
the case never came to court. The two women were Stratton
and Low, and after they had visited Gladys Spearman, they had
been sent to prison.
Scotland Yard, in its wisdom, decided not to bring two
criminals from prison to testify against Mrs. Spearman. Scotland
Yard must have decided that no magistrate would regard
Stratton and Low as “ credible witnesses.”
SW AFFER APPEALS T O M O R R ISO N
Y
ET Herbert Morrison, when appealed to even by his old
friend Hannen Swaffer, refused to grant Stella Hughes a
King’s Pardon. Swaffer sent the following letter to Morrison
in May, 194.3:
“ My D ear Herbert,— The conviction this week o ftwo police­
women for systematic robbery from unoccupied houses— they
were both sent to prison for 12 months— makes it necessary for
me to call your attention to what is becoming a national scandal.
“ I mean the use o f women police as agents provocateurs for the
trapping and conviction o f mediums who are accused o f telling
fortunes when, week after week, and month after month, million­
aire newspaper proprietors are allowed to do it on a wholesale
scale.
“ Stella Hughes, a friend o f mine, a well-known Spiritualist
medium and the wife o f a Hampstead borough councillor, was
fined at the Marylebone Police Court, last May, under the
Vagrancy Act. Her conviction was obtained because the magis­
trate preferred to take the evidence o f two policewomen who
had gone disguised to her home to that o f the medium. He
accepted this notwithstanding the fact that one o f the women,
whose verbatim evidence is before me, contradicted herself.
“ Having to deal with a conflict o f evidence, Kenneth Marshall,
the magistrate, said: ‘These two women give on oath, in detail,
what happened, and it would be a most serious case, had it ever
happened, if the account which the defendant has given were
true and thatthe officers should deliberately concoct apack o f lies.’
22 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ W hereupon, he imposed the maximum penalty.
“ N o w , this w eek these same tw o policewomen have been
convicted o f systematic robbery, o f crimes, indeed, which they
were com m itting at the time when their evidence was accepted
b y a London magistrate in preference to that o f a most respect­
able wom an!
“ W h en sending the policewom en to prison, Paul Bennett,
another London magistrate, said: ‘ O ur police force is held in such
high regard that it is a shock to me and for all o f us to see two
police officers in the dock pleading guilty to these serious charges.
T he facts o f this case have been described as terrible and I would
add the w ord “ disgraceful.” Y o u have betrayed your oath, for
the property yo u w ere there to guard you have stolen. I wish to
give the fullest possible consideration to your excellent services
in the past, but, at the same time in m y view, no police officer
w ho betrays his trust as you have done can expect leniency in
this court, or any other.’
“ A m ong these ‘excellent services,’ I have no doubt was the
obtaining o f a conviction, b y means o f a trick, o f a Spiritualist
m edium o f the highest character.
“ N o w this raises a very important issue. H ow long are you, as
H om e Secretary, going to continue to be a party to the police
practice o f obtaining convictions for so called fortune-telling by
the use o f agents provocateurs o f this type?
“ For over a year now , as a result, w e suspect, o f Roman
Catholic pressure— not m any years ago, the Pope declared, in an
encyclical, ‘Spiritualism is the enemy’— policewomen have been
em ployed in all parts o f the country to obtain convictions against i
mediums.
“ H ugh Dalton, the President o f the Board o f Trade, recently
promised not to use agents provocateurs for the obtaining of con­
victions in regard to matters o f trade. Lord Woolton, Minister
o f Food, made a similar promise in regard to his department
“ Y e t the H om e Office still tolerates the misuse of agents
provocateurs in regard only to one offence— so-called fortune­
telling.
“ In regard to offences against food and trading regulations,
accused people have a chance o f putting forward a defence. Yet,
in the case o f a medium, her only defence is that she is a medium.
As, under the W itchcraft A ct, mcdiumship is in itselfillegal, she
could only acquit herself in regard to the Vagrancy Act by
proving that she had broken the Witchcraft Act.
“ Here are we— at least you and I, if no one else— waging a war
for liberty, and yet all the time Spiritualists, who really believe
that they can comfort the bereaved by giving them evidence of
Survival, are made rogues and vagabonds.
“ N ow we discover that, in one case at least, the connivers are
habitual criminals.
“ One o f these agentsprovocateurs had misrepresented herself to
Stella Hughes as a married woman when she was a spinster. She
was not doing anything unusual.
“ In fact, while on detective work for which she has been
promoted, and commended on 33 occasions, she often disguised
herself, according to a police statement, in various coloured wigs
and make-up.
“ Stella Hughes was not pretending to turn bread into flesh, or
wine into blood.
“ She is a medium o f the type who recendy convinced the last
Bishop o f Bath and Wells, the Master o f the Temple, the Dean of
St. Paul’s, and all the other distinguished members o f a com­
mittee appointed by the present Primate, and adopted by his
predecessor, that the evidence for communication with the dead
had been established.
“ Although their report was suppressed, all these members
have admitted that Survival has been proved through medium-
ship.
“ There are in this country hundreds o f thousands of-Spirit-
ualists, and there are over 1,000 Spiritualist churches.
“ Yet, Spiritualists are the only religious body who are subject
to habitual and continual persecution.
“ ‘I am in favour o f freeing Spiritualists from restrictions on
their liberty and o f repealing obsolete Acts,’ declared Clement
Atlee, now the Deputy Prime Minister, at the time o f the last
election.
“ One o f these, the Witchcraft Act, was passed by James I
because, when he was crossing the North Sea to bring Anne of
Denmark, his bride, the sea was rough and it was officially
decided that the waves had been made rough by witchcraft. As
for the Vagrancy Act, it makes ‘rogues and vagabonds’ o f most
respectable householders whenever policewomen dress them-
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 23
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
selves up, pretend to be mourners and connive at the offence for
which they drag mediums into court.
“ Incidentally, it is also true that, for the purpose o f raising
funds for their ow n charities, the police have themselves engaged
fortune-tellers!
“ Similar contradictions in the application o f the law against
so-called fortune-tellers are to be found almost everywhere.
“ Some seaside boroughs w ill not allow it; others rent to
fortune-tellers booths on the piers, and then either never prose­
cute them or do it only occasionally.
“ Almanacs whose sales depend entirely on predictions have
circulations o f millions. These are published with no police
interference.
“ Indeed, the abuse, misuse and non-use o f the law is so para­
doxical that it w ould be ajoke if it were not a crying scandal.
“ W ill you, as Hom e Secretary, obtain a King’s Pardon for
Stella Hughes, an honest wom an w ho was convicted merely on
the testimony o f tw o habitual crooks?
“ And will you, as Hom e Secretary, give instructions that at
least in London, where you are the head o f the police, this per­
nicious practice— I hesitate, as one Socialist to another, to say it is
‘un-English’— o f em ploying as stooges, stool-pigeons and in­
citers to law-breaking, policewom en w ho, in these days of
labour shortage, m ight be more profitably employed?
“ If you believe in human liberty, you must immediately do
what I am urging.
“ W h y should one religion be persecuted at a time when we
are urged on the air, and even in a wireless speech by the Queen,
that only a return to religion can save us?
“ It has long been whispered that there is Rom an Catholic
influence in the Home Office. W hether that is true or not, I do
not know.
“ But if, after promises from the Board o f Trade and the
Ministry o f Food that agents provocateurs are no longer to be used
to encourage the breaking o f the law, I shall have to conclude
that this is true, unless your department acts as do those over
which Hugh Dalton and Lord W oolton preside.
“ Believe me,
“ Yours sincerely,
“ Hannen Swaffer.”
24
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 2J
H OM E SE C R E T A R Y SAYS “ N O ”
MO R R IS O N replied a few weeks later:
“ I have carefully considered your representations and have
had full inquiries made, but I regret that I have been unable to
find any grounds on which I should bejustified in recommending
any interference with Mrs. Hughes’ conviction. Whatever may
be one’s opinion o f any particular provision o f the law, it is the
duty o f the police to enforce it as it stands and it would clearly
not be proper for me to interfere became a section o f the public
disapproved o f any particular enactment.
“ I can readily give you an assurance that no Home Secretary
would tolerate the use o f agents provocateurs by the police. But
there is every difference between inciting a person, whom there
is no reason to suspect o f previous offences, to commit a crime,
and arranging for a police officer to disguise his identity for the
purpose o f detecting a person who is systematically carrying on
illegal activities.”
“ LIKE A N O BSTIN ATE B U R E A U C R A T ”
T
HIS led Swafler to reply:
“ M y D ear Herbert,— In refusing to arrange, because o f
m y appeal to you, a King’s Pardon for Stella Hughes, you are be­
having, for once, like an obstinate bureaucrat.
“ The Vagrancy Act, under which she was convicted, demands
— I quote the exact words— ‘the evidence on oath o f one or more
credible witness or witnesses.’
“ The only witnesses called in this case were two policewomen
who, a year later, confessed that for two years— that is, at the
time they were considered ‘credible witnesses’— they had been
guilty o f systematic stealing. For those crimes— all told they
stole more than 300 articles— they are now injail.
4
“ W here, then, are w e to find the Freedom from Fear about
which there has been so much boasting in the Atlantic Charter?
H ow can there be any freedom if a respectable woman is to
remain ‘a rogue and a vagabond’ on the testimony o f two wit­
nesses w ho, self-confessed crooks, were prosecuted by the same
police w ho sent them out as agents provocateurs?
“ Far from admitting that the police blundered, you make
matters worse by im plying that Stella Hughes was ‘systematic­
ally carrying on illegal activities.’ O f this there was no evidence
offered in court.
“ Stella Hughes only consented to give a seance to the two
crooks because they pleaded, telling lies, o f course, that they
were in distress. She felt sorry for them, not imagining, in her
innocence, that they were lying cheats.
“ A nd so they were the instigators o f her so-called offence
which, but for them, w ould never have been committed.
“ Y et now you say, despite the grave scandal o f the criminal
habits o f her accusers, that you can find no grounds for inter­
fering w ith the conviction. §
“ B u t it is not only the Stella Hughes case that raises the whole
question o f ‘freedom for every person to worship God in his
ow n w ay,’ to quote President Roosevelt.
“ A ll over the country mediums are now being harried and
haled before magistrates. A nd mediumship is an essential part of
the religion o f Spiritualism.
“ Recently, in four towns far distant from each other— Cardiff
Birmingham, Birkenhead and Yarm outh— an entirely new
offence has been manufactured, lh a t is, ‘pretending to com­
municate w ith the spirits o f dead persons.’
“ W hen this was made a crime, 1 do not know. It is not so
named in the Vagrancy A ct, w hich obviously was aimed against
fortune-telling gypsies, or in the W itchcraft Act. These are the
only tw o statutes ever cited in such proceedings.
“ W h y is it that, suddenly, w e find this phrase ‘pretending to
communicate w ith the spirits o f dead persons’ spring up in
different parts o f the country?
“ It can only have been sponsored by the Home Office, or by
some cunning R om an Catholic, or other religious bigot It
cannot have been spontaneous in the minds o f four different
chief constables.
26 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ I can only assume this is the thin end o f the wedge which
someone intends to drive, before long, into the Spiritualist
movement itself!
(“ I was wondering, when realising this, the other night,
whether it should be called the Home Office or the Rome
Office.)
“ N ow if, as you assert, it is the duty o f the police to enforce
the law as it stands, it means that you are in favour ofencouraging
religious persecution. For old-fashioned laws load the dice
against Spiritualism.
“ If you seriously intend to carry out your expressed deter­
mination to enforce the law, which means all the law, you must
immediately have me arrested.
“ I, at m y own home circle, which is held regularly every
week, ‘pretend to communicate with the spirits o f dead persons.’
If you persist, you can yourself come along next Saturday, with
or without disguised policewomen, ‘detect’ me, and then prose­
cute me for ‘systematically carrying on illegal activities.’
“ M ore than that, you must arrest Air Chief Marshal Lord
Dowding, who tells, in this week’s ‘Sunday Pictorial’— the fact
that he is seeking to comfort the war bereaved would aggravate
his offence in orthodox eyes— how he has been communicating
with the spirits o f dead persons. The fact that, as chief o f
Fighter C ommand, he won the Battle o f Britain, would be no
excuse.
“ I am not sine whether the Editor should not be charged with
being an accessory and whether his paper should be suppressed.
Y ou are held to be an expert on that sort o f thing.
“ Then there is the Archbishop’s committee which, during two
years o f inquiry into Spiritualism at the request o f the present
Primate, who was backed by his predecessor, so successfully
‘pretended to communicate with the spirits o f dead persons’ that
they persuaded even themselves that it was not a pretence but a
reality.
“ They started an investigation which, pure and honest though
were their motives, might be held to have broken the law.
They themselves would be most surprised to discover that their
inquiry could possibly have the effect o f making them ‘rogues
and vagabonds.’ For that surely is the logic o f the law.
“ There are probably nearly 1,000,000 people in Britain who.
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 27
ROGUES AND VAG ABO ND S
regularly or occasionally, are, or have been, present during
a ‘pretence’ o f communicating with the spirits of dead
persons.
“ I will tell you in private, if you like, the names o f two o f the
present crowned heads o f Europe who, in the last few years have
connived at such practices; the names o f two members of our
own royal family; and the name o f at least one member o f the
W ar Cabinet.
“ W hy, even the Prime Minister himself tells in his auto­
biography, ‘M y Early Life,’ how he experimented with a
planchette, thus making him guilty o f this same offence.
“ Then, Dr. Sidney J. Peters, M .P. for Huntingdonshire, must
be arrested. He regularly uses spirit communication for the
purpose o f doing healing which, apart from the two Acts 1have
mentioned, is in itself an offence. Y ou ask him !
“ Then 1 have evidence o f how this ‘pretence’ is being carried
on on warships, in military and R..A.F. camps, and on vessels in
the Merchant N avy, and how even during the Battle of Africa
seances were held in the front line!
“ W hy, my dear Herbert, you w ill have to build, if you carry
out the law, a prison as large as all the concentration camps in
Germany.
“ You know, as well as I do, that if all the out-of-date laws
were to be enforced business could not go on.
“ If, seriously, you are to pursue your determination to enforce
the law, you must see that all the clauses o f the Sunday Ob­
servance A ct o f 1677 are obeyed. If that is done, every factory
w ill have to stop on Sunday. A ll buses must remain in their
garages. N o trains can run. For that Act provides that no trades­
man, artificer, workman, labourer or other person shall do or
exercise any worldly labour, business or w ork of his ordinary
calling upon the Lord’s Day.
“ The Prevention o f Corruption Act o f 1806 makes Christmas-
boxes illegal, and the Profane Oath Act o f 174s makes it a pun­
ishable offence for ‘a labourer, soldier or sailor to swear or curse
profanely.’
“ But— I am quoting a legal authority— that is not alL
“ If a fireman, seaman, servant, apprentice or fisherman plays
football, tennis, bowls, ninepins, dice or cricket on the Sabbath
he can be prosecuted under an A ct o f Henry VIII.
28
ROGUES AN D V A G A B O N D S
“ I f a person washes a shop window except between the hours
o f midnight and nine a.m. he commits an offence.
“ Y ou must be pleased to know in these days o f food shortage
that eating more than three courses o f a meal has long been a
criminal offence.
“ It is unlawful to make ‘or to be concerned in the making of*
a mince pie, for that delicacy ‘is an abominable and idolatrous
thing.’
“ N o r can anyone without breaking the law eat sweets or
chocolate ‘in any public place’ ; nor can he buy or sell a lobster
o f a shorter length than eight inches from ‘beak to tail.’
“ It is also an offence to eat meat on a Wednesday. An Act for
the Keeping o f Holidays and Fasting Days o f 1552 ordains that
the King’s subjects shall abstain from all bodily labour on Saints’
days so that they can fast.
“ Other musty laws declare it to be illegal for a Rom an
Catholic priest to appear in public in his clerical dress, or for any
person to carry a lighted cigar— I tremble to think what you will
do to W inston about this— or cigarette in any public place. N o
person must fail to go to church on Sunday, and, if he uses a
carriage to go to church, a constable can seize it and sell it ‘for the
benefit o f the indigent o f the parish.’
“ As I believe you do not yourself go to church every Sunday,
you must, indeed, summon yourself to court.
“ I implore you to show that better side o f your nature which
makes you one o f the most competent Ministers this country has
known and to side, not with prejudice and reaction, but with
tolerance and freedom.
“ Lord W oolton has promised not to use agents provocateurs in
regard to Ministry o f Food offences. Hugh Dalton has given a
similar pledge in regard to the Board o f Trade. W h y don’t you
do the same?
“ Surely nothing that even a fraudulent medium could do is
worse than conducting a black market in wartime, or than deal­
ing illegally with goods o f which there is a shortage.
“ Clement Atdee, your ow n chief, pledged himself, during the
last election, to help free Spiritualists from the restrictions im­
posed on their liberty by obsolete Acts.
“ ‘The Labour Party stands for the complete freedom and
equality o f all religious bodies,’ he wrote.
29
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ M y last tw o speeches in the 1935 election were made at the
eve-of-the-poll meetings, at which I was the chief speaker, held
b y yourself and Attlee. I addressed them because I believed that
you and he were champions o f that liberty for which half the
world is now bleeding.
The Vagrancy A ct is an out-of-date relic o f the stupid reign
o f George IV. If you remember, a w it wrote, when he died:
George the First was always reckoned
Vile, but viler George the Second;
And what mortal ever heard
Any good o f George the Third?
Whenfrom earth the Fourth descended
God be praised, the Georges ended!
“ Although subsequent events, fortunately, have falsified the
last line o f this verse, there should surely be an end to all that the
first four Georges and their foolish reigns stood for.
“ I know that the w ork o f Parliament cannot now be inter­
rupted while the Acts which oppress us are repealed. But at
least they can be allowed to remain obsolescent.
“ I do not ask you to do more than leave them in the obscurity
o f your Home Office museum. Leave us alone— and get on with
the w ar!”
T o this there was no reply, except that I learned that Morrison
was displeased because Swaffer’s letters had been printed in
Psychic News.
30
O FFICIAL E X C U S E IS LAM E
M
O R R IS O N ’S earlier defence o f police practice— curiously
enough he is the son o f a policeman— raises the whole
question o f the use b y the police o f agents provocateurs. His
justification is very weak, and he is obviously equivocating.
Surely, police officials w ho disguise themselves in widows
weeds, for example, and incite people to break the law, are agents
provocateurs, that is, they are acting as agents who provoke
people to become law-breakers. In one case where male agents
provocateurs were used, these police officers went so far as to dis­
guise themselves in the hospital blue uniforms reserved for
wounded soldiers.
Morrison, constrained to find some justification, declares that
the function o f these police officials, whom he will not have
dubbed as agents provocateurs, is to “ detect” a person “systemat­
ically carrying on illegal activities.” W hy then, all the police
disguises— all the paraphernalia to try and make a policewoman
not look like a policewoman?
Every week in Spiritualist newspapers, there are advertised
public meetings and private seances, where mediumship is
regularly practised. All these mediums, and the officials o f the
churches and societies where they demonstrate their powers are
“ systematically carrying on illegal activities.” The newspapers
which publish the advertisements are aiding and abetting them.
There is no need to “ detect” these “ offenders.” They should all
be arrested, including the editors and staffs o f the newspapers!
Morrison, in fact, ought to get busy, if he is to be consistent, and
build jails all over the country to accommodate all the Spirit­
ualists who are “ systematically carrying on illegal activities.”
But the Home Secretary obviously is afraid o f the logic o f his
own statement. The use, by varying Government departments,
o f agents provocateurs has been denounced many times in this war.
W hen one scandal followed their employment by the Board
o f Trade, there was such an outcry that Hugh Dalton, its Presi­
dent, announced in the House o f Commons that he had issued
“ strict instructions to his enforcement officers not to entice
traders to break the law. It was necessary sometimes for officers
to make test purchases, but he disapproved o f his representatives
acting as agents provocateurs.”
Another scandal arose in connection with the use o f agents
provocateurs by the Ministry o f Food, and this led to Lord
W oolton, then Minister o f Food, declaring that the inspectors
attached to his department had been instructed not to tempt
traders to break the law.
This police practice was condemned by the National Council
o f Civil Liberties, which stated: "O ur executive committee
takes the view that the use o f agents provocateurs by a Govern-
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 31
ment department is an utterly unsuitable method and should
never be used except in circumstances o f an astonishing kind. It
is, however, difficult to think o f any circumstances in which there
could be any justification for the use o f an agent provocateur.”
The “ Daily M ail,” in a leading article, described it as “ an evil
practice.”
The “Daily Sketch,” also in an editorial, declared: “ It violates
the Briton’s conception o f the law and his notion o f decency.
The agent provocateur by inciting anybody to break the law is
himself breaking it, for incitement to a crime is a crime.”
“ The agent provocateur should have no place in our system of
law,” said a leading article in the London “ Evening Standard.”
The London “ Star” was fierce in its denunciation, also in a
leading article. “ In Britain, justly reputed to be about the most
law abiding country on earth,” said this newspaper, “ the agent
provocateur should have no place. Signs are growing that Gov­
ernment departments are descending to one method o f the
Gestapo or the O vra in order either to find w ork for all their vast
staffs or else to get publicised convictions, as a warning to others
to stay within the law. There can be no real justification for such
tactics. They are unnecessary, and wasteful. They are also dis­
tinctly un-English. O ur legislation is neither framed on Hider
lines nor intended to be Himmler-enforced.”
F. O . Langley, the O ld Street, London, magistrate, refused to
convict in connection w ith one o f these Board o f Trade cases.
In dismissing summonses against tw o people, he said: “ Our law
regards the evidence o f detective and preventive agents acting as
such agentsprovocateurs w ith suspicion.”
His comment inspired the “ Star” to return to the subject in
another leading article, in which it said: “ This disclosure, that
official servants are instructed to provoke suspected traders into
illegal acts, b y themselves breaking the regulations, is as offensive
to the law as it is to the British sense o f fair play. The method of
hidden denunciation, and the trapping o f the unwary by quasi­
policemen, can be left to those countries where the Gestapo
reigns,”
32 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 33
“ ALIEN T O BRITISH L A W ”
T
HE fiercest condemnation o f this police practice was made
by Daniel Hopkin, North London magistrate, when he dis­
missed the charges against a doctor, and gave ten guineas costs
against the Director o f Public Prosecutions. This was a case in
which it was alleged that the doctor had given certificates, stating
that they were unfit, to three fit aircraft workers.
In reply to the magistrate’s questions, a Scotland Yard detective
stated that the three men had acted as agents provocateurs.
“ The methods which were employed in this case are quite alien to the
spirit o f British law and ought to he condemned,” said the magistrate.
“ Not only are such methods not to he encouraged, butfor my own part
I hope no such case will be brought into this court again where such
methods are employed.
“ The three men said that they were told what to say by the
police officer, and each says that the stories put to the doctor
were wholly untrue. I say that kind o f thing is wrong.”
It was stated for the prosecution that the three men were sent
to the doctor on police instructions. One man said that the police
told him to give a false name and address. Another said that the
detective instructed him to feign sickness when he saw the
doctor.
This N orth London case was discussed in the House o f Com­
mons, but none o f the M.P.s who questioned the Home Office
could get beyond the stone-walling tactics adopted by Osbert
Peake, Morrison’s second-in-command. He contented himself
with repeating the same formula that his chief had used in his
reply to Swaffer.
Peake referred M.P.s to the “ Report o f the Royal Commission
on Police Powers and Procedure,” made in 1928, in which the
whole code o f police conduct is set out. This report speaks of
the difficulty in trying to justify the use o f agentsprovocateurs. It
says: “ The use o f a foreign phrase for which there is no exact
English equivalent indicates that the practice is regarded as alien
to our habits and traditions. W e assume that an agentprovocateur
may be taken to mean a person who entices another to commit
an express breach o f the law which he would not have otherwise
committed, and then proceeds or informs against him in respect
o f such offence.”
The report goes on to refer to the differences o f opinion held
by the police themselves on this practice. It says: “ One school
holds that the duty o f the police should be strictly confined to
observation only, and that they should not participate in the
offences committed. It was said by one responsible supporter of
this view that it must be a poor case if the police cannot obtain
evidence by observation only, and that there was a danger that a
policeman who participated in the offence might unconsciously
induce others to participate who would not otherwise have done
so.
“ The other school holds that it is necessary that the police
should participate in offences, although they should not in any
event initiate them. This view is held by a number of chief
constables.
“ It w ill be observed that neither o f these two schools o fthought lends
any countenance whatever to the practice o f initiating offences with a
view to enticing or entrapping members o f the public into committing
breaches o f the law. A ny such action would at once meet with the
strongest disapprovalfrom all responsible police officers. W e do not
believe that a prosecution would ever be instituted on evidence obtained
in such circumstances, or that a prosecution thus instituted would result
in a conviction."
Unfortunately those words have been belied on many occas­
ions, as Spiritualists can prove.
The report gives these directions in dealing with fortune­
tellers, and it should be noted that it confines itself to fortune­
tellers who obtain “ money from ignorant girls” :
“ N o precise regulation can be laid down to deal with the
problem, but we recommend that, as a general rule and subject
to the exception referred to below, the police should observe
only without participating in the offence.
“ The exception which we would make to this general rule
arises in a certain type o f case in which observation, without
participation, is from the nature o f the case impossible. For
example, it is not unusual for information to reach the police that
a certain person is acting as a fortune-teller and thereby obtaining
money from ignorant girls by prophecies o f the kind which
might be expected to be well received.
34 ROGUES AN D VAGABONDS
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ It is impossible for any policeman or policewoman to be
present, as a third party, when these fortunes are told, and the
only w ay in which the evidence necessary to institute a prosecu­
tion can be obtained is by sending a constable in plain clothes, or
an agent on their behalf, to the fortune-teller to have his or her
fortune told. In such a case it may be said that the police initiate
the actual offence in respect o f which the prosecution is instituted,
but we understand that they never take this action until they
have reliable information that the offence is being habitually
committed.”
Unfortunately the people who drafted this report overlooked thefact
that the Vagrancy Act makes it compulsory for the police to initiate
proceedings after one “ complaint” is made by a common informer, and
therefore the question o f “ the offence being habitually committed does
not arise.”
3S
M A G IST R A T E SAYS: “ STUFF A N D NONSENSE”
C
O N F R O N T E D with the growing menace o f the Vagrancy
Act to Spiritualistm, the Spiritualists’ National Union, our
largest organised body, took steps to meet the threat It opened a
Freedom Fund, with the object o f securing adequate legal aid for
mediums prosecuted under the Vagrancy Act.
W ith the help o f M.P.S who are either convinced or sympath­
etic to Spiritualism, a deputation was arranged to visit the Home
Office. The date fixed wasJuly 27,1943, but Morrison refused to
see this deputation and delegated the task to Osbert Peake.
Meanwhile Spiritualists were incensed by another prosecution,
this time o f a well-known medium, Ann Novak, which occurred
a few days before the deputation visited the Home Office.
This case followed the usual lines, and it was distinguished by
the fact that the magistrate, John Harris, delivered this gratuitous
observation: “ I think myself that this Spiritualism is very largely
stuffand nonsense.” Then he must have remembered that it was
no part o f magisterial function to express opinions outside his
views on law, for he added: “ But it does not matter what I think
about it.” Unfortunately, it does matter what magistrates think
about Spiritualism, for their opinions affect their decisions.
3« ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
TH E SE C O N D D E P U T A T IO N
A
F T E R three months delay, the report o f what transpired
when the deputation o f Spiritualists visited the Home Office,
was released. The reason given by the Spiritualists’ National
Union, for the delay, was that the Home Office had to approve
the report before it could be published. Here are the observations
made by members o f the deputation.
The legal case for the amendment o f the Vagrancy Act was
admirably stated by C . E. Loseby, a barrister with considerable
experience in psychic matters. He said:
“ I have for a long time been a humble but industrious student
o f psychic matters. I was chairman o f the Leicester Psychical
Research Society for some years, and m yself fought the case
through which and under which they were relieved from rates
upon the grounds that they were a scientific body working, o f
course, with mediums.
“ M ore than that, I have been privileged for many years now
to defend mediums in courts o f law, and on that matter I have
expressed the opinion that Spiritualist mediums are almost com­
pletely at the m ercy o f any ill-disposed person.
“ I know o f no other group o f persons similarly penalised. I
have expressed the view that it is quite idle to pay lawyers to
defend mem unless a m ove is made in several other directions at
the same time. One most important direction is the matter o f the
alteration o f the law. M y predecessors, I understand, advised to
the same effect.
“ N o w I think it only right and only fair to commence with
this: that our opposition to the Vagrancy Act, 1824, Section 4,
which is the main cause o f trouble, admits o f no compromise.
“ It is, in our submission, the embodiment o f ignorance, intol­
erance and injustice. It must go. Those o f us who either know or
think w e know the facts o f the matter must not and cannot rest
until it is removed in toto— that particular section— from the
Statute Book.
“ I should like to commence b y a reference to the Vagrancy
A ct as a whole. Y o u w ill find it in the Volum e o f Collected
Statutes and Textbooks under the heading o f Poor Law Admin­
istration.
“ From the first page to the last you will find that the Act
breathes the spirit o f the Poor Law administrators o f 1824. Upon
the day that uie House o f Lords and King George the Fourth o f
pious memory gave their assent to it, Mr. Bumble was com­
mencing his career as a Poor Law administrator. It was the
charter under which he worked so faithfully that is still in being
to-day.
“ N o w the material words o f Section 4 are these: ‘Any person
professing to tell fortunes or using any subde means or device by
palmistry or otherwise’ commits an offence and is liable to pun­
ishment.
O sbert Peake: “ It goes on, does it not, ‘to deceive and impose
on His Majesty’s subjects’?”
Loseby: “ Yes, and it has been held in a court o f law that these
words are not o f any importance, because the mere fact o f a per­
son using ‘subde means or device’— in this case to be a Spirit­
ualist medium— o f itself and ipso facto shows that the person
intends to deceive.
“ The effect o f the words has been established by judicial
decision. The words ‘by palmistry or otherwise’ cover the case
o f any person professing to hold communication with departed
spirits. A Spiritualist medium is such a person.
“ I refer you to the case o f Monk v. Hilton, 1877, in which it
was held that it was not necessary to prove fraud, as I have stated,
The allegation o f itself carries with it the presumption of fraud.
“ Section 4, therefore, in m y submission, as judicially inter­
preted and established, reads as follows: ‘Any person professing
to tell fortunes or professing to be a Spiritualist medium commits
an offence and is liable to the penalties under this Act.’
“ N o w here is the list o f persons with whom Spiritualist
mediums are classified. I want you to note the people inter alia
who are listed and stand in the dock with these persons some­
times called sensitives, and not inappropriately so called:
“ N o. 4: A woman deserting her bastard child.
“ N o. 8: A person in a public place exposing indecent prints or
exhibitions.
“ N o. 9: A person lewdly and obscenely in a public place exposing
his person with intent to insult a female.
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 37
“ N o. io: A male person w ho lives on the proceeds o f prostitution
or in a public place importunes for immoral purposes.
“ Fortune-tellers and mediums come under N o. n .
“ This is the list o f people w ho are placed in the same category
as Spiritualist mediums.
“ I am reading from the Act. I ask you, M r. Peake, to consider
for a moment— with what is this wom an charged? W hat is the
seriousness o f the offence in law o f this person who stands in the
dock charged alongside the wom an w ho has deserted her
bastard child, and the man w ho has exposed his person in a
public pla£e, and the male person who lives on prostitution,
whose offence is deemed to be ejusdem generis (of the same kind),
and such that if she is found guilty she is liable to the same
handling?
38 HOGUES AND VAGABONDS
S O C R A T E S A L S O A R O G U E !
S
HE is a person w ho has been heard to speak, no more— (like
Socrates) ‘A voice not m y ow n speaks through me.’ (Like
Joan o f Arc) ‘Spirits from another world use me.’ (Like Luther)
‘Here stand I, I can do no other.’
“ Let her but admit such words and she must be told by counsel
defending her that she has no defence in law. They are the words
however, that every medium, if she is honest, must say. Every
medium does not say them because o f the law, and because every
medium is not honest.
“ I have said that every medium is at the mercy o f any ill-
disposed person. I repeat that. I m ight have added ‘and a medium
is a person w ho from the very nature o f things excites and must
excite hostility in the minds o f certain persons.’
“ Under the Vagrancy A ct, 1824, any person may arrest a
professing medium without a warrant. A policeman refusing
to arrest, when requested to do so, is himself liable to penalties.
Is that fair to the police?
“ In fact, it is the practice for the police to proceed by arrest
rather than by summons. W orse than that, in many cases the
police arrest upon request.
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ I am satisfied that many mediums are only safe from per­
sistent persecution under the above powers by reason o f one
thing and one thing only; namely, that these powers given by
law to officious and unofficial perople are not widely known.
“ A veritable spate o f attacks, however, might come at any
time. They will come if mediums prove their value to the com­
munity in the way we hope and think they will.
“ I have never been at a case in which I have defended a medium
in which 1 have felt I have earned my fee, or in a case in which I
have not left the court feeling depressed and rather ashamed, in
which I have not felt that I have been taking part in a sorry farce,
in which I have not felt that in the bustle and scurry of a court of
petty sessions neither hasjustice been done nor has the appearance
o fjustice been given.
“ The reasons are two-fold. Firstly, the muddled state o f the
law; secondly, the fact that under Section 4 the right o f trial by
indictment and by jury is not given.
“ The matter o f amending the law could be dealt with simply
if some member o f the Government initiated some such amend­
ment as this: ‘N o proceeding under this Section shall lie against
any person claiming to be a Spiritualist medium and proved to
be acting at the time as a representative o f a recognised religious
or scientific society or body.’
“ O f course, I visualise that the onus would be on the person
accused to prove that she was acting at the time as a representa­
tive o f a recognised religious or scientific body when it had once
been established that she claimed to be a Spiritualist medium.
“ Secondly, the fact that under Section 4 the right to trial by
ju ry is not given. A one-line amendment would put that right:
‘A ny person charged under this Section shall be entitled to trial
by jury.’
39
N O T R IA L B Y J U R Y
N
O W how do we establish that claim? I am quite satisfied
that the present unsatisfactory trial method is due to an
oversight and nothing but an oversight.
“ It is, o f course, a fundamental principle o f English law (dating
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
back as far as M agna Charta) that any person placed in grave
peril on a criminal charge is entitled to trial by jury.
“ The extent o f the trial is dogmatically fixed by the rule that
any person liable to imprisonment for more than three months is
endued to trial by jury. A Spiritualist medium is imperilled to a
m uch greater extent than three months’ imprisonment.
“ Is it really true, this assertion that trial by jury ensures any­
thing? The answer is— ‘It is true.’ Trial by ju ry is the only known
m ethod calculated to ensure justice at every stage. It enables the
accused to examine the evidence o f hostile witnesses, reduced to
w riting, and to protect him self against unscrupulous evidence
and surprise— a vital point for mediums.
“ It is the only system that enables a person in peril to prepare
his defence know ing what the evidence against him is and ensur­
ing that he can prepare his defence, having examined it with his
legal adviser; it is the only system which ensures careful direction
o f the presiding judge on the facts, the law and the admissible
evidence— the judge works throughout in a public court with a
fierce glare upon him the whole time, and is liable to have his
directions and decisions examined by the Court o f Criminal
Appeal.
“ This form o f trial carries with it the right o f appeal to the
Courts o f Crim inal Appeal, w ho w ill unhesitatingly quash con­
viction i f there is any irregularity proved at any stage. Is this
important? I say it is o f vital importance.
‘ W h at is the punishment that I say is greater than three
months’ imprisonment? I have given you a list o f the rather
odious people w ith w hom mediums are classified. No differ­
entiation is made between them.
“ For the first offence a medium is liable to three months’ im­
prisonment, and to be put on a certain black list known as the
List o f R ogues and Vagabonds.
“ A n y practising lawyer w ill tell you that being put upon this
list is rather a terrible punishment. Y ou are on the list for all
time. W hatever you do, you cannot be removed from that list
A t the top o f it— I think it is hardly an exaggeration to say this
— m ight w ell be written the words: ‘Abandon hope all ye whose
names are written here.’
“ The penalty o f being black-listed is such that I would under­
take to destroy any medium as a medium, however valuable to
40
science, within a short period. I know o f one case in which a
medium this year, as a medium, has been destroyed— and
through this list.
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 41
A N D A B LA C K E R LIST
F
O R the second offence a person goes to trial knowing that
the court is told as she is being tried: ‘This is a person who
has been condemned o f using subtle means to deceive and
impose.’
“ For the second offence, on conviction, the punishment is
one year’s imprisonment, a whipping, and her name is placed on
a different black list, namely, a List o f Incorribible Rogues.
“ B y a subtle gesture, under the Vagrancy Act, 1824, things
were so manipulated that there was no right to trial by jury in
this case either.
“ The conviction only is established by the court o f summary
jurisdiction, and then the person is committed to prison to await
trial and sentence by quarter sessions.
“ If being put upon the black list were equivalent to one day's
imprisonment only, then the right to trial by indictment and by
ju ry would become automatic.
“ I repeat m y view that this is a matter o f oversight only. The
legislature have overlooked a peculiar and quite extraordinary
penalty— rather a barbaric and terrible penalty— which is tucked
away into an Act o f Parliament passed when Charles Dickens
was a boy.
“ B y one o f the law’s vagaries, a medium convicted and sen­
tenced to imprisonment has it recorded not only that she has been
sentenced to imprisonment, but also that she has been found
guilty o f using ‘subtle craft to deceive and impose,’ although she
will not be allowed to submit in evidence that she was in truth
■ and in fact a genuine medium.
“ The mere fact o f holding yourself out to be a medium has
been held, by the court o f 1877, o f itself to prove that you are a
fraud.
“ That might do for the year 1877, but who is there who would
be heard to-day to say that from such facts such a conclusion and
such a deduction is an inevitable and right conclusion in the year
1943?
“ N ow , if nothing is done in the matter quickly, will great
harm be done? The answer is that great harm may be done.
Nothing was done by M r. Clynes 13 years ago, and great harm
was done.
“ The wrongness o f inactivity is made plain b y a consideration
o f the qualities and nature o f these people under discussion—
these people who are treated by the legislature as coming natur­
ally under the Poor Law administration, who are being treated
not as gifted persons o f high potential value, but as being odious.
“ The quality and nature o f them was w ell described by the
last deputation, all o f w hom had mediums under observation
for many years.
“ I should like to add a description o f m y own which I base on
actual personal experience. I w ould describe them as:
“ ‘People who in the matter o f scientific research in all fields
relating to the cause o f alleviation o f human suffering and disease
have a value and importance that can hardly be overestimated.’
“ I have coldly weighed m y words in the matter o f this last
description, and used them after deliberation.
“ These are the people w ho are treated by the legislature as
being odious, who, in the words o f Alderman T. J. Brooks,
M .P., to the Home Secretary in his letter o f June 30, 1943, are
described as people to whom fundamental elementary justice is
denied. It is m y submission that these words are not too severe.
They are words that simply cannot be challenged.
“ There is not a person in this room w ho would not wish to
dissociate himself from me and repudiate me if I were to suggest
by implication or otherwise that the Home Office had been a
conscious party to injustice. N o such suggestion, o f course, is
made. The suggestion and submission is that the Home Office
could help to rectify matters.
42 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
TH ESE W E R E TH E PR O P O SA L S
N
O W for m y precise proposals. These are the proposals
which I must respectfully put forward for your considers-
tion, and I prefer to do so without argument. I attach the greatest
importance to N o. 4.
“ O f one thing in regard to this committee I am sure. You
would discover a surprising consensus o f opinion by the Home
Office representatives and the representatives of ourselves as to
what is desirable and could be done.
“ Y o u would certainly find no desire on the part of any repre­
sentatives o f Spiritualist organisations to weaken the machinery
o f government regarding fraud or chicanery. Anything in the
nature o f fraud or chicanery, is, o f course, deadly to the cause
we are representing.
“ I w ill but read the proposals:
“ 1.— The Home Secretary is asked to secure the amendment of
Section 4 o f the Vagrancy Act, 1824, through the following
amendments:
“ A t the end o f Section 4 and add the words following:
“ (a) N o proceedings under this section shall lie against any
person claiming to be a Spiritualist medium proved to be acting
at the time as a servant o f a recognised religious or scientific
society or body.
“ (b) A ny person charged under this section shall be liable to
trial by jury.
“ 2.— T o advise the Police.
“ In the matter o f proceedings against Spiritualist mediums to
proceed under the Common Law and to avoid the use of
machinery provided under the Vagrancy Act, 1824, Section 4.
(And any advices from the Home Office I have no doubt are of
the greatest possible value.)
“ 3.— T o advise the Magistracy.
“ To frown upon any unfair use o f the Vagrancy Act, 1824,
Section 4, in so far as it relates to Spiritualist mediums; for
example, in such cases as when fraud is alleged and there are
alternative methods provided under the above Act and under the
Com m on Law.
“ 4.— The Home Secretary is asked to set up a small committee
consisting o f representatives o f the Home Secretary and repre­
sentatives o f Spiritualist and psychic research organisations and
kindred bodies, to consider the Vagrancy Act, 1824, Section 4,
and the machinery provided under it in so far as it affects Spirit­
ualist mediums— and to report
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 43
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ 5.— T o move for the appointment o f a Select Committee of
Members o f Parliament to consider the Vagrancy Act, 1824,
Section 4, o f the said A ct in particular. This committee, I submit,
should be set up as well as the Home Office committee.”
44
“ P R O S E C U T IO N S A R E LA M E N T A B LE ”
A
IR C hief Marshal Lord D ow ding spoke as one w ho is facing
the problem o f comforting those w ho mourn for the war
“ dead.” He said:
“ I have no right to speak for anyone but m yselfand, therefore,
perhaps I should confine what I have to say to m y own very
limited experience o f this movement, because I regard myselfnot
as a religious pundit, but as an earnest seeker after truth and one
who has, so far, gone only a very short distance along the
way.
“ If I may refer to the only practical contribution which I have
to offer, it has been to secure the publication o f a small number of
messages in the Press which have been for the very elementary
purpose o f bringing to the minds o f people who have never
thought about those things, or, at any rate, who have never
thought clearly about them, a conviction o f the continuous
existence o f the individual.
“ And the primary object o f that was to bring comfort and con­
solation to the many thousands o f people w ho have suffered
bereavement in the course o f this war.
“ I have had abundant evidence in the correspondence which I
have personally undertaken that these efforts have not been
without success.
“ I have had a very large number o f letters and I have tried to
answer them all. I have had a small but very gratifying number
o f responses showing that in many cases the little contribution
which I have tried to make has indeed brought comfort and hope
and conviction to a number o f people in this country.
“ I want to say that whatever I have been able to do has only
been possible owing to the existence o f the operation o f medium-
ship, and I regard any attempt to oppress and stamp out medium-
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
ship— and there is no other lesson to be drawn from the history of
recent prosecutions than that— as being most lamentable, in the
interests o f the public, and in every other interest.
“ The basic objection o f the police and authorities is ‘pretend­
ing to communicate with spirits.’ That word ‘pretending’ is an
implication that communication is not possible, and that die
whole o f the operation o f mediumship is fraudulent and deceitful.
“ And it is this aspect o f die case which every right-thinking
man and every man w ho has at heart the liberty of die subject to
follow his intellect into the religious paths where it must lead
him must deprecate in the strongest terms.
“ God is a spirit; Christ is a spirit. Every time a religious
service is held in this country the object is to communicate with
spirits. W here are you going to draw the line?”
45
C H U R C H E S C A N N O T HELP M OU RN ERS
T
HE case for our religious freedom was stated by Alderman
T . J. Brooks, M .P. (Rothwell, Yorks), who said:
“ It has been known publicly that I am a Spiritualist and that
has been something that needed courage in the district where I
live.
“ One o f the things that we are fighting for is religious freedom
and surely it is part o f the Atlantic Charter that we should have
religious freedom.
“ I was brought up in the Church, sang in the choir and was a
teacher in the Sunday School, but to-day I say the Churches are
out o f date. W hat can the Church do for the bereaved? Only
ask them to believe and have faith.
“ I was one o f a large family. As m y father was killed when I
was only a boy, I helped to bring up the family. I have had
described in evidence to me at public meetings things which
happened between m y parents and me and which were beyond
doubt.
“ M y Sunday School teacher was a very lovely woman,
beautiful in the true sense o f the word. For many years she
taught us, both in the Church and at meetings at her own home,
HOGUES AND VAGABONDS
training us for life. I have had that woman and her work des­
cribed to me beyond a shadow o f doubt. I think even to-day I
am still influenced b y her great and noble soul.
“ As one w ho has been trained in religious matters, I want to
say what a greatjo y and help Spiritualism is to me. It gives you a
new outlook on life, a new happiness, a better understanding of
man and the people you meet in this world, and prepares you for
the w orld to be. This life is only the first step. W e shall go
on.
“ I said to M r. M orrison in the House privately that this intol­
erance had got to go and that he had to help us. There is not a
journey I make to and from London in which I do not get into
touch w ith som ebody w ho has some understanding o f psychic
matters.
“ W h en the curtain goes up for you and for me it will not be
w hat w e believe, but w hat w e have done, what service we have
given that w ill count.
“ The people w ho have passed on are coming back to prove
they are still alive; I, m yself, have had wonderful prooffrom my
parents and m y ow n children w ho have passed on. W e are try­
ing to lift people up to this knowledge.”
Brooks told this story:
“ The first day I came to the House o f Commons I had a thrilL
M r. Churchill, m oving a resolution on the death o f the Duke of
Kent, said: ‘H e has gone to join a happy family.’ How did he
know? I saw M r. Churchill afterwards and told him: ‘I was
thrilled b y your w ords.’
“ ‘O h , w h y was that?’ he asked. I repeated his sentence and
said: ‘D o you believe that?’
“ H e replied: ‘I do.’ I asked: ‘Is it true, then?’ He answered:
‘There is no doubt about it in m y mind.’ ”
46
“ L A W Y E R , P R E A C H E R A N D R O G U E ”
D
R . Sidney J. Peters, w ho described himself as a “lawyer,
local preacher, incorrigible rogue and medium,” said:
“ I have been asked to address many meetings throughout the
country and if this intolerance goes on there will be such a com­
motion that the Government will have to listen to it. The time
has come when something has got to be done by the Home
Office and the Government.
“ I think I have a perfect right to the attitude I take, as one who
has had practical experience o f seeing suffering humanity brought
to whole life again. W e are not going to stand down in a demo­
cratic country that has the name before all others for its tolerance
towards religious and political refugees.
“ I have heard it said that you are sending your agents provo­
cateurs, a method which stinks in my nostrils, not only into the
rooms where mediums are working, but into the churches,
places o f worship. I say this is a very low thing to do and that it
must stop.”
John M . Stewart, an S.N.U. official, speaking as one who
attended the previous deputation 13 years ago, said:
“ The position has worsened since then. W e hope you will
convey to M r. Morrison a sense o f our determination to go
forward in this matter so that we can gain some relieffrom these
restrictions.
“ One thing which has hurt us immensely is the interference
with mediums not only in their homes but in our churches.
“ In your letters from the Home Office to M.P.s you say that
the S.N .U . has acknowledged there are many frauds practised on
members o f the public. W e should like some reference as to your
authority for this statement, because we are not aware that we
have admitted this at all.”
H. L. Vigurs, S.N .U . president, said:
“ W e seek but the privilege o f other religious bodies in this
country— freedom to express our religious convictions and to
worship God in our own way without let or hindrance. In the
spirit o f the Atlantic Charter we ask that our approved mediums
should be exempt from prosecution under the onerous provisions
o f the Vagrancy Act.”
O sbert Peake: “ Can you give me any example as to whether
any medium approved by the S.N.U . has been prosecuted other
than in a case where money has been accepted? ’
C . E. L oseby: “ N o, I know o f no such case. I say that the
money taken in this case is taken under the auspices o f a church,
for the purpose o f the upkeep o f the church. If that were the
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 47
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
objection in the minds o f the legislature, equally strong would be
the objection o f the payment o f ministers o f other religions.
“ As I see the position, we have to advise that on these questions
it does not matter a bit whether they receive or do not receive
money. There is no question in the A ct as to whether the person
has obtained or attempted to obtain anything o f value; it isjust
the fact that he is guilty immediately o f a false pretence, the
pretence o f getting into touch with spirits. It seems to me that
the legislation was passed for the purpose o f preventing itinerant
gypsies from frightening servant girls at the back doors and
obtaining m oney from them under false pretences.”
Peake: “ I have listened carefully and with interest to every­
thing that you have said. I notice that a shorthand report is being
taken and I feel sure that in due course I shall receive a copy of the
transcript. That w ill be carefully studied in the Home Office in
order that w e m ay form our view as to whether anything could
or should be undertaken at the present time.
“ I shall report to the Hom e Secretary not only what the dep­
utation has said, but also the general feeling o f uneasiness which
the deputation has conveyed to me.”
48
M .P.s M A K E T H E IR PR O TE STS
M
O R R IS O N kept the S.N .U . waiting for four months
before he gave his considered reply. Meanwhile, Spirit­
ualists protested to their M .P.s about the scandal o f this Act
They, in turn, approached Morrison. Each received this stereo­
typed reply about the Vagrancy Act:
’ “Although die issue m ay seem clear to spiritualists, it is highly
controversial in the minds o f a large number o f people as is
evidenced by the fate o f the Private Members’ Bill, introduced in
N ovem ber, 1930.
“ M oreover, although no one wishes to interfere with the
legitimate activities o f spiritualists, the Spiritualists’ National
U nion admits that there are many frauds practised on ignorant
and credulous members o f the public, and it is particularly
important in wartime to protect these persons against the mental
distress caused by impostors.
“ Apart therefore from the difficulty o f devising an appropriate
amendment to the particular Act, it would not be possible to
introduce in wartime controversial legislation which is not
related directly to the war effort or to post-war social and econ­
omic problems.”
This reply rubbed the salt into the wounds of Spiritualists.
The fate o f the Bill introduced in 1930 gave no evidence that the
subject o f Spiritualism was highly controversial in the minds o f a
large number o f people. After all, his predecessor, J. R . Clynes,
told a previous deputation: “ As to the evidence o f grievance
under which you are labouring, you have left me in no
doubt.”
It was at the suggestion o f Clynes that Spiritualists intro­
duced the Bill couched in the terms indicated by him. Clynes
made this promise: “ If such a Bill were prepared and introduced
into Parliament the Government would give sympathetic con­
sideration to it.”
I do not know whence Morrison obtained his information
that the S.N .U . admitted there were many ftauds practiced on
ignorant and credulous members o f the public. N o Spiritualist
has ever denied that there exists some fraud, but its proportion is
very small, and is certainly no larger than that which exists, say,
within the Church o f England, or the medical and legal pro­
fessions. Besides, the object o f the Bill was to license recognised
mediums o f quality and integrity, so that no others could
practice.
W hen the deputation visited the Home Office on July 27, this
point was dealt with by John M. Stewart, who asked Peake to
give him Morrison’s authority for this statement on fraud,
because the Union had made no such admission. Peake was
unable to supply the information.
O f course the obvious reply to Morrison is that, if he is so
concerned about the “ ignorant and credulous members o f the
public” — are they really so ignorant and credulous?— why
did he not initiate prosecutions against the wealthy newspaper
proprietors who, week after week, contravene the Vagrancy
Act by publishing fortune-telling features? His excuse would
have sounded more plausible if he had put Lords Rothermere,
HOGUES AND VAGABONDS 49
Beaverbrook, Southwood and Kemsley in the box rather than
single out humble mediums.
It is strange that Morrison should refer to the difficulty of
devising an appropriate amendment to the Vagrancy Act, in
view o f his reputation for being an able administrator. Clynes,
his predecessor, had no such difficulty, for he outlined the main
clauses o f the Bill!
I am also surprised to discover that Morrison is afraid to intro­
duce controversial legislation, a problem which does not seem
to have troubled the W ar Cabinet. Besides, Morrison showed he
was not afraid o f controversy when a few months after making
that statement he released Sir Oswald Mosley from jail, despite
a national outcry!
And what about the Education Bill sponsored by the Govern­
ment? It has aroused violent controversy, and is in no way
related to the war effort.
50 ROGUES AN D VAGABONDS
M O R R ISO N TU R N S US D O W N
A
FTER thinking for four months, Morrison replied with a
rejection o f the proposals made by the deputation, although
he offered what at first sight appeared to be a concession. He
began by saying that he had “ given very careful consideration to
the representations”— this is the official jargon— “made by the
deputation,” and then added:
“ As was recognised b y the members o f the deputation, there
can be no question o f introducing legislation in war-time to
amend Section 4 o f the V agrancy A ct, 1824. In any case, I fear
that it w ould prove extrem ely difficult to frame an amendment
o f the law w hich, w hile meeting the aspirations o f spiritualists,
w ou ld not open the door w ide to frauds and grave abuses.
“ I have considered the suggestion that a committee should be
appointed, consisting o f representatives o f the Home Office and
o f spiritualist and psychical research organisations, to consider
this question, but I have com e to the conclusion that the appoint­
ment o f such a committee w ould not be an appropriate method
o f dealing w ith the problem.
“ I appreciate, how ever, the feelings o f spiritualists on this
subject, and I have made inquiries as to prosecutions underthisAct
“I understand that it is the practice in some police forces in
cases o f this kind to institute proceedings only against persons
whose activities have been the subject o f complaint by members
o f the public, and where there is evidence that the person is an
impostor and taking money or other valuable consideration.
“ Although I have no power to issue any directions to the
police as to the manner in which they should enforce the law, I
have asked chief constables to consider the adoption o f this
practice in their forces.
“ Further than this, I cannot go, but, if the practice I have
described is generally adopted, persons bonafide engaged in the
ministrations o f the spiritualist churches and in psychical research
should not find themselves hampered by the provisions o f the
law.”
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS $1
“JU STICE IS DENIED T O M EDIUM S”
T
HE S.N .U . replied in this letter signed by J. B. Mclndoe,
chairman o f its parliamentary committee, who did not mince
his words:
“ Your reply has been read b y us with feelings o f astonishment
and even indignation.
“ In approaching you, the responsible Minister o f a Govern­
ment pledged to the principles o f religious freedom embodied in
the Atlantic Charter, w e had felt convinced that it would only
be necessary to draw your attention to the indignities and in­
justices inflicted on Spiritualists in order to secure, as the very
least possible response from you, the appointment o f a com­
mittee to advise how these grievances could be most quickly and
effectively remedied.
“ W e stressed that mediums are important and valuable mem­
bers o f the com m unity. W e did not ask that they should be
specially privileged, but m erely that the law should cease to
discriminate against them, that they should have elementary
justice, the right o f trial b y jury when accused. That is a funda­
mental right o f every British citizen. But it is denied to mediums
charged under Section 4 o f the Vagrancy Act, 1824, the harsh
penalties o f which entail grievous peril to those involved.
"Is it seriously contended that there is in the House of Com-
52 R O G U E S A N D V A G A B O N D S
mons one single M em ber whose ideals o f justice are so lo w that
he w ould describe as ‘controversial’ our plea for trial b y ju ry?
“ H o w can it be that granting this to m edium s— or anyone
else— w ould, to quote your o w n w ords, ‘open the door w ide to
fraud and grave abuses’ ? N oth in g in you r letter deals w ith, or
even begins to touch, this entirely reasonable request.
“ That y o u have suggested to all ch ief constables that they
should ‘consider’ adopting the procedure w hich som e n o w fo llo w
has no bearing upon it.
“ To say that you can go no further than that to remedy our griev­
ances seems to us to savour almost o f insult. In plain language, it means
that you prefer to let our mediums remain the victims o f the whims and
prejudices o f the less enlightened o f the police in their administration o f
an antiquated A ct o f Parliament; toforce on them the ordeal o fa trial in
which Mr. Loseby, speaking as a practising barrister with many years’
experience, says the scales o fjustice are heavily weighted against the
defence; and with the knowledge that penalties evolved during the dark
ages may be inflicted upon them.
“ Y o u refer to the ‘aspirations o f spiritualists’ and say that you
appreciate their feelings. B u t it seems that y o u fail to realise that
Spiritualism is the religion o f m any thousands o f you r fellow -
citizens.
“ O u r m edium s, b y the exercise o f their psychic gifts, have
proved that m en live on after physical death, and thus, as well as
in other w ays, provide an incentive and a stimulus to higher
ethical standards o f life.
“ W e dem and fo r them respect and even-handed justice.
“ It is intolerable to us that they shall any longer remain liable to
street arrest, even in any one single town, at the whim o f a prejudiced
ch iefconstable. It is intolerable that when brought to court they should
be denied afair trial with adequate right o f appeal. It is intolerable that
they should be subject, on conviction, to barbaric penalties, including
their listing as rogues and vagabonds along with the ten categories of
wretched, disreputable, or odious persons thus stigmatised by the
Vagrancy Act.
“ W e have w aited fou r m onths fo r this very unsatisfactory
reply, and w e feel strongly that w e had a right to expect better
treatm ent from the H om e Secretary o f this free nation.
“ W e appear n o w to have no alternative but to go back to our
people, and to the public at large, and to tell them that we have
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
no hope for justice, even elementary justice, or for fair hearing
from the Home Office.
“ Nevertheless, we trust that even at this eleventh hour you
will still find it possible, on a further review o f our case, to grant
at least our request for a full inquiry by a representative com­
mittee.”
T o this Morrison replied, in a letter to Brooks:
“ I have considered the suggestion that persons charged with
an offence under Section 4 o f the Vagrancy Act should be given
the right o f trial by jury, but there would be no justification for
giving the persons charged under this particular section a special
right which the law does not give to persons charged under
numerous other provisions relating to offences for which the
maximum penalty is not more than three months’ imprison­
ment.
“I could not in any event accept the suggestion that persons
charged w ith offences under this section do not receive a fair
trial from magistrates’ courts, nor can I accept the argument that
the law discriminates against mediums. Section 4 o f the Act o f
1824 punishes certain conduct therein described and it applies to
all alike, irrespective o f their calling, profession or religion.
“ As regards enforcement o f the law, I must repeat that I have
no authority to give any directions to the police, hut I have done
what I can to secure uniformity throughout the country and I
have no doubt that the advice which I have given to chief
constables w ill be generally followed.
“ M r. M clndoe’s statement that mediums ‘remain the victims
o f the whims and prejudices o f the less enlightened o f the police’
appears to be w holly misconceived, since the power to convict
does not rest w ith the police and a person charged with an offence
o f this kind has every opportunity to state his defence before the
court.
“ As regards M r. M clndoe’s statement that spiritualists are
‘liable to street arrest,’ the power to arrest without a warrant a
person committing an offence against the Vagrancy A ct is a
necessary provision, since offenders against the A ct are often
persons o f no fixed abode, who could not otherwise be brought
to justice. It is not, however, the practice o f the police to use
this power unless there is reason to think that the summons
would be ineffective.”
| S 3
ROGUBS A N D V A G A B O N D S
H e ended by turning dow n the request for the appointing of
a committee.
Brooks, in his reply, enclosed a letter written by Loseby, deal­
ing w ith the more important o f the legal points raised in Mor­
rison’s statement. “ It seems to me as a layman,” Brooks said,
“ that Air. Loseby gives an answer to every one o f the legal
arguments your advisers have put forward; and that his case For
a fuller inquiry into the iniquities o f the Vagrancy A ct is so
strong as to be irresistible.
“ Y ou have ever been such a champion o f freedom and justice
that I cannot help but think that if only you w ould allow your­
self to become fully informed o f our case, you must, for your
ow n conscience’s sake, do everything you can to meet our
entirely reasonable requests.”
5 4
B A R R IST E R TRIES A G A IN
H
E R E is the letter Loseby sent:
“ As I accepted the responsibility for the case, involving
serious allegations o f fact and law, relating to Section 4 o f the
Vagrancy A ct, 1824, and also for the specific appeals made to you
as Hom e Secretary, I ask to be allowed to support it by a final
letter and appeal. The subject is so important and involves con­
sequences so far reaching that misunderstanding is not excusable.
“ It was m y main purpose originally to make good the proposi­
tion o f M r. Brooks, contained in his letter to you, dated June 30,
1943, that a certain section o f the community is being denied
fundamental elementary justice and that this denial involved
others and constituted a present and immediate danger.
“ I laid m yself out to make good these propositions in a mini­
mum o f words and to avoid, if possible, any incautious phrase
that could not be justified. I have now re-examined the case as it
was originally stated and reaffirm m y view that there is not a
line in it that can be rightly challenged.
“ There are, o f course, matters that can be and should be more
fully explained and stressed. It was for this reason that a com­
mittee to inquire and report was asked for.
“ The value and importance o f mediums requires to be more
fully explained and stressed. It is, for example, not generally
known and realised that experiments are at this moment being
conducted that seem to justify hopes that yield to none in their
value and importance. W ithout mediums o f a high order these
experiments could not be continued.
“ It is not fully understood how great is the harm that has been
done, and is being done, by degrading mediums, and the extent
to which work, full as I have said o f hope, has been impeded. It
is not understood that the State, out o f ignorance rather than
malice, has been the main offender.
“ The law itself, and the machinery operated under it, are not
generally understood. Y ou yourself, with great respect, still give
the impression that you do not appreciate it. The infamy o f it
and the complete folly o f it you certainly have not yet fully
realised.
“ The State cannot be allowed to remain, even out o fignorance,
the champion o f oppression, injustice and evil. Do you realise
that this is what w e are saying and must— if we keep faith—
continue to say? O f course w e know that you do not stand for
any o f these things.
“ In your letter to M r. Brooks you say that the members o f the
deputation said they fully appreciated that you could not under­
take in wartime to introduce legislation to amend the provisions
o f the Vagrancy Act. W ith respect they said nothing o f the kind.
O n the contrary they asked you, quite unanimously, to do so by
initiating a one-line amendment, giving to mediums the right
‘to elect to go to trial’— that is the right phrase.
“ They understand, o f course, that you cannot, in wartime,
initiate controversial legislation. They believe, however, that not
a Member could be found to object to a move in the direction o f
securing for any person accused a right o f trial easily demon­
strable to be in accordance with every rule and principle regulat­
ing trial and justice.
“ Y ou suggest that w e are asking for a special right for
mediums. If you w ill verify the references that we gave you, you
will see that die contrary is the case. W e ask for no special right.
W e ask for such rights only as have been accorded from time
immemorial to persons accused o f offences. The right we ask
for is the right o f trial commonly called trial by jury. The value
and importance o f this w e explained in detail.
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 55
ROGUBS AND VAGABONDS
“ A n y person charged with an offence and liable to more than
three months’ imprisonment has the right ‘to elect to go to trial.’
Persons charged under Section 4. o f the Vagrancy Act are liable
to much more than three months’ imprisonment. In the interests
o f justice, for example they have, inter alia, to be branded for
future reference. They are, however, denied the ‘R ight o f Trial.’
U pon what principle?
‘If any think that mediums are odious, the answer is that they
are so treated in the matter o f punishment and that it is in such
cases that the law normally safeguards the method o f trial.
“ It is true that certain other persons are similarly penalised,
only, however, those persons who are classed and ranked with
mediums in the Section complained of. I am not anxious to con­
stitute m yself a champion o f male persons importuning for im­
moral purpose in public places. For the purpose o f clarity,
however, I w ill do so and say immediately that there is no justi­
fication for denying to them either when so charged the ‘Right
o f Trial.’ The punishment involved should carry with it the
right o f trial.
“ Y o u say that you cannot accept the argument that ‘the law
discriminates against mediums.’ W ith great respect it is not a
question o f argument but o f hard fact. N o other persons (except
those classed w ith them under the same Section) are first o f all
insulted and stigmatised, thereafter subjected to pre-trial in­
dignities which are exceptional and, finally (contrary to rule and
principle), denied the protection o f a normal trial. They are
differentiated against in that the methods adopted towards them
are throughout exceptional.
“ Y o u object to M r. M clndoe’s statement that mediums
‘remain the victims o f the whims and prejudices o f the less en­
lightened members o f the police.’ The phrase is not mine. It is,
however, true and just. The more enlightened members o f the
police do not proceed against mediums charged with fraud under
the Vagrancy A ct at all. There is no need to do so.
“ The Com m on Law procedure, which is fair andjust and safe­
guards the rights o f accused persons at every stage, provides
ample remedies. The fact remains, nevertheless, that prosecu­
tions under the A ct continue. As far as mediums are concerned
the Vagrancy A ct serves no purpose but that o f oppression. It
provides no safeguard against fraud.
5<S
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
Y o u say: ‘The power to convict does not rest with the
police.’ This, o f course, is true. The contrary has not at any time
been suggested. It is suggested that the police have the power to
ensure conviction and do ensure conviction by proceeding under
the Vagrancy Act, which bars our defence, rather than under the
Com m on Law, which is just and ensures a fair and adequate
trial.
It is suggested also that (under machinery provided under the
Act) the police may be compelled to act at the instance o f any
interested, malicious or ill-disposed person. I myself used the
phrase, ‘mediums are placed at the mercy o f any malicious or
ill-disposed person.’ This, too, is true.
“ Y o u say further: ‘Mediums . . . have every opportunity to
state their defence before the court.’ I endeavoured to make
plain the fact that mediums are denied this opportunity. You
appear to agree that the point is vital.
“ The liability to street arrest— at the instance, incidentally, o f
any ill-disposed person— is perhaps not a very serious matter. It
is, o f course, degrading and humiliating. A legislature, however,
that ranks mediums with ‘male persons importuning for im­
morality in public places’ can hardly be expected to be unduly
delicate in its methods. Reference to this right and power placed
in the hands o f any ill-disposed person is made only to illustrate
the contention that the A ct in so far as it relates to mediums is
contemptible.
“ I have written again at length, firstly, because I wish to keep
precise m y ow n allegations and, secondly, because I have a strong
feeling that you would help if you felt that you could. I wish to
repeat m y ow n view that you might help very greatly if you
would set up a committee to inquire and report. That at the
moment is the sole request.
“ In his letter to you I note that Mr. Mclndoe asked for a
representative committee. Is any difficulty constituted by the
word representative?
“If there is such a difficulty, m ay I ask you i f it is possible for
you to set up a small committee, not professing to be representa­
tive, and let me enter the den o f lions quite alone? I would gladly
do so. I am convinced that a solution could be found and I offer
m y services towards that end. I know the case and I know or
think I know the solution.
5 7
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
“ A committee set up by you would represent a step forward
and would be so regarded. Could anyharm come from the attempt?
“ The alternative is an embittered struggle between people on
the one side who are right and know that they are right and
know, too, that they must fight for light, if they have any sense
o f trust, honour or gratitude; upon the other side would be the
Government, with no excuse other than that o f ignorance, com­
mitted to fight in darkness, and for darkness in defence o f the
indefensible.”
J8
IT H A D N O EFFECT
L
O S E B Y ’S letter apparently had no effect on Morrison, for
he sent this answer to Brooks:
“ I have read Mr. Loseby’s letter with care, but I cannot find
that it adds anything material to the representations already put
forward by the deputation from the Spiritualists’ National Union,
and in the previous correspondence on this subject.
“ He appears entirely to overlook the effect o f the advice which
I have given to the police will— I hope— be to limit action to
cases where there has been complaint by members o f the public
and where there is evidence that the person is an impostor taking
money, or other valuable consideration. I take it that neither you
nor M r. Loseby would wish to defend a medium who is an
impostor.
“ I have again considered the request that a committee should
be appointed to consider Section 4 o f the Vagrancy A ct so far as
it applies to Spiritualist mediums, but I regret that I remain o f
opinion that such a committee o f inquiry would serve no useful
purpose.”
Then Brooks wrote one more letter to Morrison onJanuary 14:
“ I have consulted the Spiritualists’ National Union on your
reply to Mr. Loseby’s letter.
“ They have asked me to let you know that they consider that
you have not even dealt with the main issue, which is whether or
not a Spiritualist medium charged, fairly or unfairly, with an
offence, should be entided to defend himself or herself according
to the ordinary process o f law.
“ They do not accept the implication in your letter that the
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
police w ill not m ove unless invited to do so and that, therefore,
such matters as fair trial and defence are formalities only.
“In order to make their position plain, beyond all possibility o f
misunderstanding, they n ow form ally ask you to initiate a one-
line amendment to Section 4 o f the Vagrancy A ct increasing the
maximum penalty o f imprisonment from three months to four
months.
“ Such an amendment w ould carry w ith it automatically the
right to trial b y ju ry and, whilst bettering the position, w ould
not favour the accused, w ould be non-controversial, and w ould
take up but a few moments o f Parliamentary time— certainly not
so much as the Bill relating to outlaws w hich w e see yo u are to
introduce this session.
“The Spiritualists’ National U nion note that you are unwilling
to have the matter inquired into b y any committee, representa­
tive or otherwise, and however small. T hey wish m e to say that
they regard this as a plain indication that you realise that every
contention they have made is just and w ould upon inquiry be so
found.”
Morrison’s reply was “ N o ” once more.
5 9
T H E A C T H A S B E E N A M E N D E D !
N
O W , I want to point out that although M orrison hides
behind the poor excuse that it is difficult to amend the Vag­
rancy Act, it has in fact been amended five times in the past few
years!
The most recent was the amendment enacted in the Fire Arms
Act o f 1937, which provides for increased punishment for
certain Vagrancy A ct offences where firearms or imitation fire­
arms are carried.
In 193s the same Section 4 o f the Vagrancy A ct which has been
used against mediums was amended. The penalties relating to
persons wandering abroad and lodging in bams and outhouses
were considerably modified.
In 1930 there were several amendments relating to Poor Law.
In 1927 officers o f the Forestry Commission were given
authority to remove persons offending against the Vagrancy A ct
from the Commissioners’ territory.
In 1925 the Criminal Justice A ct made several minor amend­
ments to the Vagrancy Act.
Make no mistake about it, our campaign is only just beginning.
However fierce any language I have used m ay seem, it is sur­
passed by the statements made by Dr. Sidney J. Peters, M.P.
‘W e Spiritualists are not even treated as refugees,” he said.
“ W e are treated more like evacuees w ho come from lousy
homes.” W e were looked upon “ as the very dirt o f the gutter,
and regarded by the Home Office as individuals who had been
pitchforked out o f hell on witches’ brooms.”
It is the Vagrancy A ct which w e are determined to have
amended. W e do not fear the operations o f the W itchcraft Act
o f 1735, for it is very rarely invoked. Apparently the minions of
the law realise that to accuse anybody o f witchcraft in the 20th
century might sound just a little ridiculous.
Besides, common informers do not make their anonymous
complaints and cite the W itchcraft Act, for mediums charged
under its provision are entitled to trial by jury.
Amazingly enough, Morrison has denounced common
informers. In the House o f Commons on February 3, 1944, he
said: “ The common informer is an antiquated and undesirable
device for enforcing the law.” That was part o f his condemna­
tion o f “individuals w ho have exploited” the Lord’s Day
Observance A ct o f 1781.
But how can Morrison have it both ways? He is incensed by
the common informer who exploits an A ct o f 1781. and stops
Sunday shows for the troops, but he justifies the common
informer who exploits the Vagrancy A ct o f 1824! If the common
informer is an “ antiquated and undesirable device” — and I agree
— the Government should end his activities.
60 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
O U R P O S T -W A R C A M P A IG N
W
H EN the war is over, Spiritualists w ill expose the stupidity
and absurdities in the Vagrancy A ct by turning common
informers— yes, against the police when they use so-called
fortune-tellers for their own fetes! W e will invoke all the other
_____
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
outmoded Acts that have never been repealed and initiate such a
spate o f prosecutions that Parliament w ill be compelled to give
us our freedom. A fter all, i f the Suffragettes could do it, so can
we! And Spiritualists are as entitled to their freedom as w om en
were entitled to their suffrage.
As it is, Spiritualists are in a most paradoxical position. Though
we are regarded as illegal, though Ernest Bevin has refused to
accept our ministers o f religion as ministers o f religion, the
Passport Office accepts the signatures o f some 50 people, all
Spiritualists, as competent to sign passports! These same jo
signatories are competent to sign, as ministers o f religion, forms
in connection w ith lost ration books, and, in fact, all documents
that other ministers o f other religions can sign.
Our ministers are allowed to visit Spiritualists in prison.
The W ar Office declares that it w ould have arranged for
Spiritualists to be chaplains in the Forces, were-it not for the fact
that, according to its statement, there are not enough Spirit­
ualists in the Services.
O ur churches are registered as places o f religious worship.
Yes, in many respects our status as a religion is granted, until it
comes to the Vagrancy A ct, and then w e are all “ rogues and
vagabonds.”
I turn to the “ O xford Dictionary” for definitions. A “ rogue”
is defined as: “ an idle vagrant (archaic)” — this is a clear con­
demnation o f the Vagrancy A ct— “ knave, rascal, swindler (often
playfully o f mischievous child or waggish or arch-mannered
person).” H aving spent nearly a quarter o f a century in the
movement, I see nothing in Spiritualism’s religious practices to
justify any o f these definitions being applied to its members.
Still, perhaps Morrison, w ho I believe is an agnostic, takes
refuge from the added definition o f a rogue: “ w ild beast,
especially elephant, driven or living apart from the herd and o f
savage temper.”
The definition o f a “ vagabond” doesn’t help the Hom e Office.
He is defined as: “ having no fixed habitation, wandering;
driven, drifting, to and fro.” N early all the prosecuted mediums
have been householders and ratepayers! T hey obviously do not
qualify for this definition.
61
62 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
W O U L D M O R R IS O N TAIL W IN ST O N ?
I
T may surprise Morrison and his associates at the Home
Office to know that, had the law been invoked, Winston
Churchill would have become a rogue and a vagabond! In his
biography, “ M y Early Life,” Churchill tells o f the time when he
escaped from a detention camp during the Boer W ar. He was
stranded in unknown territory, w ith a price on his head, sus­
picious o f every voice he heard from his hiding place. He was
guided by psychic means to the only friendly house in the neigh­
bourhood, where he received help which enabled him to rejoin
the British forces.
He had been taken prisoner while acting as war correspondent
for the “ M orning Post.” He escaped alone, with only some
chocolate for food. He “jum ped” a luggage train and dropped
down into absolutely unknown country.
“ I found no com fort in any o f the philosophical ideas which
some men parade in their hours o f ease and strength and safety,
writes the Prime Minister. “ They seemed only fair-weather
friends.
“ I realised with awful force that no exercise o f m y own feeble
w it and strength could save m e from m y enemies, and that
without the assistance o f that High Power which interferes in the
eternal sequence o f cause and effect, more often than we are
always prone to admit, I could never succeed!
“ I prayed long and earnestly for help and guidance. M y
prayer, as it seemed to me, was simply and wonderfully answered.
. . . Suddenly, without the slightest reason, all m y doubts dis­
appeared. It was certainly by no process o f logic that they were
dispelled. I just felt quite clear that I would go to the Kaffir
kraal.”
Then W inston revealed that in former years he had experi­
mented with a planchette— an offence under the Vagrancy Act
— and “ written while others had touched m y wrist or hand. I
acted in exactly the same unconscious or subconscious manner
now.”
This psychic impulse directed him towards the kraal, where he
found some miners’ huts, and was admitted to one o f them. A t
first he said he was a burgher w h o had fallen o ff a train. H e was
not believed, and eventually confessed to his identity, w ondering
whether he would be delivered up to the Boers. H e learned later
that there was a reward offered for his capture, “ dead or alive.”
The miner, on hearing that he was an escaped prisoner, rose
from the table at w hich they w ere seated and slow ly locked the
door.
“ After this act,” wrote W inston, “ w hich struck m e as un­
promising and certainly ambiguous, he advanced upon m e and
held out his hand. ‘Thank G od yo u have com e here! It is the
only house for twenty miles w here you w ou ld not have been
handed over. B ut w e are all British here and w e w ill see you
through.’ ”
And here is the Prime M inister’s com m ent: “ It is easier to
recall across the g u lf o f years the spasm o f reliefw hich swept over
me, than it is to describe it. A m om ent before I had thought
myself trapped; and now friends, food, resources, aid, were all
at m y disposal. I felt like a drow ning man pulled out o f the
water and informed he had w on the D erby!”
The same psychic pow er is used b y our mediums w ho are
convicted under the Vagrancy A ct. W hen he experimented
with a planchette, and w hen this psychic pow er saved him in the
Boer W ar, W inston was just as m uch a “ rogue and a vagabond”
■ a
sany o f our mediums w ho have been held up to public obloquy
in our courts. Could there be a clearer denunciation o f the
stupidity o f the Vagrancy Act?
ROGUES AND VAGABONDS 63
F O R F R E E D O M
T
HE world has been stirred during this w ar b y the A tlantic
Charter and also by the eloquent speech on the Four Free­
doms delivered by President Roosevelt.
These declarations have put heart into the members o f our
fighting forces everywhere. It has given them a shining ideal and
a sanctified purpose for our w ar against tryanny. The Atlantic
Charter proclaims as one o f our post-war aims “ that all die men
in all the lands m ay live out their lives in freedom from fear.”
This does not apply to mediums or to Spiritualists. The fear of
prosecution hangs over every medium.
Roosevelt included among his Four Freedoms, “ freedom for
every person to worship God in his ow n way— everywhere in
the world.” N o Spiritualist possesses that freedom, and it is
unlikely that he w ill possess it when the war ends.
W hat a m ockery o f all our claims to be fighting for liberty!
W hat does the Spiritualist, in any o f the three Forces, think o f all
the exhortations to sacrifice when he recalls that though he may
be designated a Spiritualist in the Service records, he is a “ rogue
and a vagabond,” a member o f an illegal body, denied simple
justice in his ow n land. The Spiritualists in the Services who have
given their earthly lives in this w ar which, w e are told, is being
waged for freedom from tyranny, now realise that so far their
sacrifice has been in vain. Morrison’s rejection mocks both the
living and the dead!
And what o f other members o f the W ar Cabinet, some of
w hom are no strangers to Spiritualism, and who have attended
seances? T hey are equally guilty in the refusal to grant Spirit­
ualists their elementary justice.
The Spiritualist m ovem ent is preparing its plans for this abuse
and inequality to com e to an end. It has suffered for too long.
The presence on the Statute B ook o f this law is a scandal.
W hen the w ar ends, w e shall demand our rights. W e will not
go, cap in hand, to the Government o f the day. W e shall insist
that w e receive the justice which is our due as citizens of this
country. For toQ long w e have been the victims o f spite, malice,
ignorance, superstition and bigotry. For too long we have
been the only body denied religious freedom in this country]
Let those “ religious” people w ho have been foolish enough to
oppose us ponder on this fact. If Jesus o f Nazareth were to re­
appear in Britain, and to repeat some o f the acts with which he
is credited in the Bible, he, too, w ould be guilty o f breaking the
Vagrancy A ct, and w ould be dubbed a “ rogue and a vagabond.”
64 ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
