{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1943__white___the_betty_book.pdf","mytitle":"The Betty Book","mylang":"de"}
‘:Der»ceTecl
copwucnr, 1937, BY
1'-:. P." DUTTON & co., INC.
ALL moms RESERVED
PRINTED in nu: U. s. A.
First Printing ..... ..
Second Printing .
Third Printing
INTRODUCTION
WHILE considering the most effective introduction to
thematerialcomprisedin thisbook, I submitted thepuzzle
to a friendwhose judgmentI value. His letter so fittingly
and completelyanswered my problem that I feel I can do
no better than to set it down here.
“I should begin, in effect, somewhat as follows”: he
wrote me. “This book is the record, condensed, of the
excursions of ‘Betty,’ a psychic intimatelyknown to me
and of absolute integrity, into the world of ‘other-
consciousness’ and of communications received by her
from forces which I have ventured to call ‘the invisibles’.
These excursions, made in a condition of trance or other-
wise, began in the year 1919 and have continued ever
since. They are recorded in the following pages with no
idea of addingto theexistingliterature of automaticwrit-
ing and kindred phenomena;but in the beliefthat,as em-
bodying a workable philosophyof life, they may be of
aid to seekers after spiritual light.”
THE AUTHOR
0171 933,5
S8 9835
621 932d
61 I afieg
gol 938d
zox 982d
£6
-’-8
31.
IL
65
:5
H7
zi
zz
#1
11
93nd
afied
93nd
931:5
93nd
9335
afied
9835
9323
93nd
93nd
xuvwwns
umvua :-muomusxoo
snmawx
NOI.I.d'5IZ)}I3d
}\l'IV§I‘tI 1vn.mnas sun
A0011 1vn.Ln11as am.
1; MON .11 0a
NOI.LVNIINX'IC{ .~Io smomnocu. EH-LI.
.LH9f1OH.I. so aanvxsuns mu.
NOI.I.VNIWI"I3
mvov :-1:)x:-Ixuaaxa uvmosusm
.L:~I’JIAId0'I'EIA3(I }IELLV’I
sdsus Auvlnziwsrxz
Noxmoaoua
L.I..I.§IE[ .-Io .LN’.E{IAIdO"I3AC-Id mu
(mm:-xmsiaxa '1v:~1osu'.-1.1
NOIJ.VZI.I.’II1DDO-'EI(I
J2IO.LD[1CI
OELLNI
I .L}1Vd
S afied
NOIJDOGOXLNI
SLNCELLNOC)
6
8
L
'9 'dvq3
-s
9
2
0;
-L 1 -deqg
'51 'dzq3
"bx -deqf)
-£1 'deq:)
'21 'deq3
-1 I 'deLD
-o1 -deqg
-deqg
-deqg
'dzq3
'dcqQ
‘dens
'deq3
'deq3
'1 'deq:)
Chap. 18.
Chap. 19.
Chap. 20.
Chap. 21.
Chap. 22.
Chap. 23.
Chap. 24.
Chap. 2 5.
Chap. 26.
Chap. 27.
Chap. 28.
PART II
OUR RELATIONS WITH THE
WORLD WITHOUT
LEVELS
ASSIMILATION
PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY
SUMMARY
SPIRITUAL CIRCULATION
THE RETURN FLOW
THE CHANNEL BACK
INSULATION
SYMPATHY
MEETING NON-RECEPTIVITY
CONFLICT
PART III
APPENDICES
Page 147
Page 151
Page 16:
Page 172
Page 173
Page 178
Page x8 5
Page 193
Page 199
Page 204
Page 211
Appen. 1. THE TECHNIQUE OF COMMUNICATION Page 221
Appcn. 2. EXPERIMENTS WITH THE SPIRITUAL Page 243
BODY
PART I
INTRODUCTORY
CHAPTER I
De—Occultization
THE history of all progress in knowledgeis a “de-occult-
ization.” Fullyhalf of the thingswe do dailyas a matter
of course would, even as recently as two centuries ago,
have been considered magic, without explanationexcept
as theproduct of occult forces and knowledge.The con-
tinuityof history is unbrokenin thatrespect. If we should
learn anythingat all from the past, that one thingshould
stand out for us as invariable.The superstition of the past
is the science of the present, the proverb of the future.
The order of events is alwaysthesame. first afifewupegpgle
observed or did thingswhich weremd__emnied_,,ordenounced.
vehemently [Sky tfifold scihfoolfas crazy or maleficent or
supernatural.Exactknowledge_ove_r_t_ookth_e_seVtJhi1_1_gsWand
found them to be haririonious eztarnples of naturallaw.
I I
De-Occultization
The uses of____al_)§orbedt_h_e_n_;__and they became
commonplaces of existence, thoroughly de—occultized,
adopted into thebody of_u.sua1 m§I.1.§al l_i_f_e._ This has hap-
pened over and over and over again with unvarying
regularity. One of the most fascinatingof scientific by-
plays is to backtrackthrough history picking up at ran-
dom marvels and miracles, stripping them of warping
legend, and explaining themin the light of what we now
know. They became not the less marvels and miracles,if
you please, but de-occultized. It should be added that all
cannot be so explained. The unsolved residue is not the
more—or less—improbable for that. Perhaps our grand-
children’s progress will show this unexplained residue as
simple as We have found some of the miracles that dum-
founded our ancestors.
There are two thingsthatthis history of de-occuldza-
tion, as I have called it, has taughtus. One is, the extraor-
dinary initial opposition that always meets the process.
A combination of man’s conservatism, dislike of being
jarred loose once he has settled down to his satisfaction,a
greater dislike of being proved mistaken, an intellectual
pridein his achievementsso far, and a rooted suspicion of
the one who walks apart, have all contributed to this at-
titude. The principle of the telescope is so much a com-
monplaceof todaythatthevery childrencatch and accept
theidea; yet Galileowas branded as a madman,imprison-
ed, and onlyjustescaped martyrdom. So certain were the
scientists of his time of theirreasoningaccordingto “im-
mutable physicallaw,” that theyrefused to look through
I2
De—Occultization
the telescope! They knew already what theywould see!
Joseph Thompsonreported a mountain withsnow under
theequator, and died of a broken heart under the weight
of scientificridicule heaped upon him. Scienceproved by
the “immutable law of physics”—
as then understood —
that,no matter what the altitude, snow could not exist at
such a latitude: only it does! Darwin was fought with
savage ferocity. Langleywas laughedto death. Why the
bitterness? If these things,and all the others were not so,
why rend and tear in attackingthem? Answer thatas you
will, it is the history of progress; just as de—occultization
is theinvariableresult.
The other thingwhich this history has taughtus is the
very human tendency to ascribe the unexplained to
“spirits.” And again we may well ask, why? Just because
a table moves, or a strange light shows, or a pencilwrites
under our hand, surely there is no need of invoking the
ghostlyor the supernatural. These are facts, perhaps, and
some of themmay be due to the activitiesof spirits, for all
we know. But if so, we can rest completely assured that
theywill eventuallybe found workingalong the lines of
natural law, and not by means of the supernatural, in the
literal meaningof thatword.
In the meantime, even if some of these thingsare the
results of spirit activity—astheymay or may not be-we
need not treat them as either spooky or sacred. After all,
theyare just natural phenomena,and some day theywill
bede-occultized,likeall therest. Thenall at once theywill
seem as normal and commonplaceas—well, as radio.
13
CHAPTER II
Personal Experience
I.
THE significanceof this book is going to be its content.
On the value of thatit willstand or fall, bothas a claim to
interest and as a practical primer of spiritual hygiene.
From that point of view it does not matter how it was
produced, or what its origin.
But from anotherpoint of view it must present its cre-
dentials. Most of its teachings will be found, I think,
acceptable by ordinary common sense; but occasionally
certain thingsare stated on authority.What is the nature ‘
of thatauthority,and why do we feel thatwe may credit
it?
2.
In the early nineteen-twenties a great many popular
“psychic” books were published. A numberof them had
real value. A regrettablemajoritywere more or lex feeble
and undigested accounts of alleged personal “communi-
cations.” These evidenced an extraordinary credulity on
the one side, and an equally extraordinary ineptitude on
the other,—-providing one accepted their major premise
of origin. Most of them beganwitha ouija board.
The procedure was almost standard. Two people—or a
group—foolingwiththethingas a Iarkor out of curiosity.
It moves. It becomescoherent. It spells out “messages.”
14
Personal Experience
Thatwas thestart, the“take-ofi.”What happened after
that depended on the people involved. The subsequent
proceedings ranged from the “communications” of pure
spiritualismto speculativephilosophy.Nine in ten of them
were spoiledfor any serious consideration by what might
be called theawed approach thatinhibited any common-
sense editorial appraisal. This was a pity. After a time
even those especiallyinterested in such thingsbecame in-
clined to shyoff from “anotherouija board book.” Never-
theless, I am inclined to believethat the ouija board may
take honorable place with Sir Isaac Newton’s apple,
Watt’s teakettle, Benjamin Franklin's kite and other his-
toric playthingswhich have led to many great results.
This is such a book. It too started with a ouija board,
but it does not linger on that phase. The first experience
with it followed standard lines. It would not be worth
telling had it not an integral connection with Betty’s
cominginto the picture.
3.
In any research workit is alwaysimportant to know the
equipment of the experimenter. Before March 17, 1919,
my own-“occult” backgroundmight, I suppose, have been
called averagefor a man who had lived an activelife. That
is to say,I had paid such matters very little attention; and
had formed no considered opinions on them one way or
another. By way of unconsidered opinion I suppose I
would, if called upon to express myself, have taken my
I5
Personal Experience
stand on theside of scepticism.This was because,like the
average man, I referred all “occult” or “psychic” matters
to spiritualism; which is also the savage’s method. And
spiritualismmeant to me either hysteria or clever conjur-
ing or a blend of both. I knew thatit had been “exposed.”
The literature on the subject was totally unknown to
me, except for Hudson's Law of Psychic Phenomena,
which I had read in college twenty-five years before. A
few “queer” thingshad happened to me, as to most. I had
had some experience with such phenomena as the swift
transmission of news by savages across wide wastes of
sparselyinhabited country. These incidents, and especial-
lythis transmission of news, I had been unable to explain
by any theorythatcovered thewhole circumstances. But
I did not try very hard to explain. I was too busy. Such
things did not especially concern me. I did not have to
explain them; any more than I had to insist on a detailed
understandingof a trolleycar beforeI would ride in it, or
a chemical analysis of a cloud of saffron smoke just be-
cause I happened by and saw it. Nothinghad happened
reallyto catch my interest.
4.
As with numerous others, our interest in the ouija
board beganquite casually.On the date I have mentioned,
some friends_,c_alledon us bringingone of thesewiththem.
Theyhad boughtit as a toy,to try out, Withoutbeliefthat
anythingin particular would happen to it. Somebody
I6
Personal Experience
suggested that the heart-shaped indicator was a clumsy
affair, so we substituted a small whiskey glass, upside
down.
The occasion was derisive and gay,—and pretty mud»
dled. It did not impress me much, but I agreed to try my
turn providedmy opposite would agree not to fake.
The little glass moved, and without the slightest con-
scious volition on my part. That much I could determine.
How far unconscious muscular action went, I could not
for the moment decide. After a time whenever the glass
moved awayfrom me I let my fingersgo limpand allowed
themechanism to pull them after it. It did so; and once or
twice dragged the glass from under them. This was in-
teresting. The force that moved thatglass‘away from me
was either an outside force, or my vi:-a-vis. It certainly
was not myself.
Here was a peculiar unanalyzablemovement of an in-
animateobjectbeneathour fingers. The factthatit spelled
out simplesentences of whose purport we none of us had
any conscious inkling was an entirely secondary con-
sideration. For my part my main attention was concen-
trated on the feel of the thingunder my fingers. It had, it
seemed to me, a peculiar thrillof vitality; but I fully
acknowledgedto myself that such an effect might well
have been imaginative, following a strained attention. It
also seemed to me that its movements preceded rather
thanfollowed even the slight unconscious muscular pres-
sures; but thattoo could not be certain.
I am settingdown thusminutelythedetails,not because
I7
,
Personal Experience
theywere unusual—for I suspect them of beingabout the
average—nor because of any serious experimental value,
but merely to convey a sense of background of what
later developed, and to indicate our own mental attitude.
The “messages,”as I say, did not seem to me of any im-
portance whatever; and for their origin I did not search
beyond Hudson’s Subconscious. A few of them were
pertinent and sensible enough, provided we were willing
to admit the claim of outside intelligences; but theycon-
tributed nothingtoward probabilityof theseintelligences,
let alone proof. There was not a scrap of “evidential.”But
once, in the middle of our laughter and buffooning, the
glassmoved with a sharp quick decision as though irnpa—
tient,in strikingcontrast to its customary fumbling.
“Why do you ask foolish questions?”it spelled.
Those sitting at the board denied having anythingto
do with this: it was too apropos! Nevertheless we sus—
pected them,and theysuspected each other.
Next our attention was caughtby the repeated spelling
out of the name Betty. Now there was present a young
woman nicknamedBetty. She was standingin front of the
fireplaceafter a very brief trial at the board—and a some-
what scornful trial at that.We insisted thatshe was being
paged and that she must try again. She was reluctant,
thinkingthismerelyan attempt of thosesitting to lure her
backinto thegame, but finallyyielded and took her place.
Immediatelyher fingers touched the glass it began to
move in circles. "Around and around it went, faster and
faster until she and her partner could hardly keep their
18
Personal Experience
fingerson it. So comicallylikea dog friskingin delightwas
it thatwe all burst into laughter.
“It’s glad to get Betty,”said we.
If any of us expected great thingsbecauseit had what
it wanted, we were disappointed. Under her fingers the
glassmoved witha little more precision, but the so-called
“messages”were much thesame, theusual ouija experience
of what might or might not be our own unconscious
action: a jumbleof unintelligences,a few trivial messages
purporting to come from deceased relatives and friends.
However, just as the word “Betty” had recurred before,
now an interpolated sentence was repeated from time to
time, withoutrelevance.
“Get a pencil,” it spelled, “Get a pencil,” insistently,
over and over.
3'.
Bettyhad heard thattherewas such a thingas automatic
writing, though she had no knowledge of it beyond the
mere fact of its existence. Some days later, privately,she
did, “get a pencil,” and sat with it poised on a sheet of
paper, her hand resting inert and her mental activity re-
duced to a mere question mark.The pencilbeganto move
just as the whiskey glass had moved on the ouija board.
After some hesitation she came to me about it, probably
encouraged by my more analyticalinterest in the other
evening’s foolery.
The pencilmoved very slowly,and it wrote curiously
I9
Personal Experience
formed script, without capitals or punctuation, or even
spacings,like one long continuous word. It was necessary
to go over it painstakingly,dividingthewords by vertical
marks—when we had determined them. Sometimes we
interlined more plainly,in our own hand, what we made
themout to be. The result made sense.
Betty assured me thatshe had, consciously,nothingto
do withmoving thepencil.Furthermore,she said thatshe
did not know the sense of what had been written until
we had puzzledit out. As I knew Betty’s completehonesty
I believedher.
Now here was a new phaseof interest added to thefirst.
Here also, apparently,was manipulationby force outside
of consciousness. Furthermore, it was a reliable field of
experiment.Nobody could be certain of the bona fides of
a mixed lot of people out for a good time, but I was abso-
lutely certain of Betty. There was no question as to one
thing: that her hand was seized and used; and that the
seizing and using was not of her conscious brain.
We agreed on a numberof thingsbesidesthis.The seiz-
ing and using was by a force outside her own conscious-
ness;* no questionof that.The force might be directed by
her subconscious. Or it might be by some outside intelli-
gence.Thatwas whatpurported. It would besillyto adopt
such a theory merely because of that claim. It would
be equallysillyto rejectit without further experiment. It
would be worse than silly to shy off from the whole
subjectmerelybecauseit was “uncanny”or “unnatural.”
‘
Not necessarilyoutside her own self, of course.
20
Personal Experience
Similarlyas to the content of the writing. It might Well
be Betty’s own. Or it might, as it purported, come from
outside. How could we tell unless we gave it a chance?
An arbitrary refusal seemed to us just as “superstitious”
as a blind acceptance. Furthermore we could neither of
us see how we could come to any harm, mental or other-
wise, by such an examination, provided we kept our feet
on the ground.
“Let’s give it a sporting chance,” said Betty,“Let’s give
‘them’a chance to say what ‘they’want to withoutcross-
examining like shyster lawyers.”
21
CHAPTER III
The Developmentof Betty
1.
WE worked,then,togetherat frequent intervals: I as the
recorder and observer, Betty as the“station.”The writing
itself became easier. Aftera time the words were divided
one from theother.Betty blindfolded her eyes, or looked
away from the paper so thatshe might separate herself as
faras possiblefrom what was to come next. I tried to keep
close watch of her attitude and reactions;withtheresolve
to call the whole thingoff if, physicallyor mentally,this
experimentseemed to affect her undesirably.
“Wemust keep open minded,” I warned her, “not only
about the thingitself, but also about its effects. If at any
time it seems to tire you or to affect your healthor nerves,
or make you fuzzy—minded, or any of the thingsevery-
body is always warning about, we’ll drop it. And we’ll
quit cold if what it seems to lead to gets visionary, or
doesn’t keep human, or tries to take us off our jobs in any
way.”
We had, as I see it, one commandingadvantage over
average experience. We neither of us approached all this
from an emotional angle. Most people do. The customary
lure is that of hoped-for communication with the dead.
We had no such desire. VVe had suffered no recent be-
reavements. Our interest was of exploration.We wanted
to find out, if we could, what it was all about—and why.
22
The Developmentof Betty
Up to this time the phenomenonitself had held our in-
terest, but now thecontent as well beganto attractour at-
tention. I had heard and subscribed to the thoughtless
statement that“spirits”never uttered anythingof sense or
consequence. The product of this first automaticwriting,
while often fragmentary, often diflicult, often groping,
was never silly;and even in its incoherence it seemed to
hold fast to a few central ideas. And these ideas were
sensible.
For instance, therewas a steadfastrefusal to give advice
or opinion on matters of our everyday lives. The argu-
ment seemed to be that everyday life is a series of oppor-
tunities for making decisions; that those decisions form
character; that making another man’s decisions for him
deprives him unwarrantedlyof opportunity. That looked
to us like sound common sense.
Anotherbitof common sense—or at leastit seemed com-
mon sense to me——was the direct statement thatthe object
T
was not primarilythe developmentuof“psychic” power in
Betty. That was to be of secondary importance. The
main objective was, first, the development of an easier
and surer methodof communication;and, second, an ex-
pansion of her consciousness to a capacityof understand-
ing thingsto be communicated.
That was a program to enlist any one’s intelligent inter-
est. It was worth the formulation of what, in scientific
procedure, is known as a provisional hypothesis, and its
adoption “withoutprejudice,” as thelawyers have it. The
provisional hypothesis must be the existence of invisible
23
The Developmentof Betty
intelligences.Their actualitymust await, for belief,on the
outcome.
2.
The automatic writing continued for several months,
improving steadilyin facilityand coherence. Fresh ma-
terial was supplemented each day by a brief review of
principles. This, we were told, was to facilitate their
absorption into our mental structure. Also certain simple
exercises in bodily,mental and spiritual control were pre-
scribed. In Septemberwe were told thatsoon the writing
would cease. It did so.
Shortlyafterward I was called away on a business trip.
During this absence I happened to read a book entitled
Our Unseen Guest, and on my return I suggested trying
the method used by its authors. AccordinglyBetty lay
withbandaged eyes, and I placedmy fingers on her wrist.
At once she slipped easilyinto a kind of freed or double
consciousness. From it she reported various experiences.
Her speech was at first haltingand stumbling,her phrases
fragmentary,as thoughshe were having great difliculty.
Apparentlythiswas due to the necessity for running two
consciousnesses at once. The normal, from which she
spoke, was subordinate, it seemed; her real awareness be-
ing centered in a deeper consciousness, from which she
reported back.
For a long time thatdiflicultywas so great as almost to
obscure coherence. It seemed to me that the automatic
24
The Developmentof Betty
writinghad beenmuch better.Why abandonit just when
it was gettinggood? But we followed on, as we had agreed
between ourselves that we would, and by keeping at it,
in due time—justas had theautomaticwriting——itjustified
itself.
The idea seemed to be thatBetty was to be brought in
touch, =
through the superconsciousness, with realities
whichshe absorbeddirect; and withideas conveyedsome-
times in words heard with the “inner ear,” sometimes by
mental impression. These thingsshe transferred down to
her habitual consciousness, which then reported them to
me.
She constantly complained of the dilution caused by
this transfer. What reached the paper was, according to
her, but an unsatisfactorypale shadow of the actuality.
3.
Possiblythehandicapof this difficultywas also felt by
these Invisibles. Along in February,—nearlya year after
the beginningswith the ouija board—they began to ex-
perimentwitha third technique.
Betty’s voice quite altered in quality and timbre. Her
phraseology, too, changed. Some third personality pur-
ported to bespeakingdirectlythroughher.
Progress was exasperatinglyslow. After long struggle
a single word, sometimes a single syllable, would be ex-
plosively enunciated. Often an hour would be consumed
25
The Developmentof Betty
in the delivery of a few short sentences. But, as in the
othertwo phases, facilitydid follow a long patience.
That, in brief,is the story of Betty’s training in tech-
nique. In theappendixwill be found what we have been
told, and what we have guessed, of the way it operates.
At present thereis often considerablefluency,so that I
have trouble keeping up with the transcription; on other
occasions there seems to be difficulty. Sometimes the
direct voice speaks, at others Betty herself reports word
by word as though taking dictation, and again she de-
scribes her impressions and experiencesin her own way.
Sometimes if difficultyarises all three methods are tried.
I mightadd as an interestingsmallitem thatoften, when
Imakea mistake in writingdown a word I have mis-heard,
I am instantly corrected, althoughBetty herself is lying
belowthe level of the writing table, on the side opposite
my pencilhand, and withher eyes blindfolded. “Attitude
of mind” I once wrote down, and was instantlystopped in
mid-sentence. “No, no!” interrupted Betty, “Altitude of
mind.”
Of course we realized thatthe choice of these methods
probably depended on what was to be got over. Yet we
must have some curiosity as to why the elaborate pains
and patience?
“What we want is, not merelyfacility,but a trained in-
telligent co-operation,”theytold us in effect, “Onlythus
can we command invariable reliability.”
Nevertheless,we argued, others have succeeded at this
26
The Developmentof Betty
sort of thingwithoutsuch training. We instanced several
~
«examples.Theyagreed.
“But attested phenomenaof a spontaneous or sporadic
character,”said they,‘_‘are produced, or made possible at
all, by a condition of extreme flexibility.The flexibility,
and utility,of unconsciousness is soon lost. It is diflicult
to stress this sufficiently. Plasticity and pliabilityare
essential, splicing both the higher and lower conscious-
nesses. Rigiditypermits no impress. Therefore, one of two
things is necessary; either unconscious* manipulation, or
trained intelligent co—operation. Between the two lie all
thefailures.”
Thiswas satisfactoryas a generalproposition.
So therewe were, apparentlyready to set sail. We had
begunto understand what was meant by “intelligent co-
operation.”Betty was to be fitted for an introductioninto
the realities of another consciousness, —- that of these in-
visibleintelligences.She was to go to them,instead of their
comingto her. It was describedas a “lesseningof density,”
a “changeof specificgravity.”The matter was more com-
plicatedthanthat,but thestatement expresses thegist of it.
Basic concepts were to be added to her’s, new perceptions
were to be developed. In a word, her equipment was to
be expanded. And as intelligent co-operation presupposes
participation, her consciousness was not taken from her
in the customary deep trance. That does not mean she
remained conscious as you and I are conscious. She was
unaware of her physicalsurroundings,—she went “some-
’
i. e., invisible manipulationof a totally unconscious station.
27
The Developmentof Betty
where else.” But in thatsomewhere else she retained her
faculties of thought. She was not put out, drugged, put
asleep. She was transferred.
Even in what we have called direct communicationshe
was merelyplaced one side. She expressed thisin various
ways, “I must not listen”: “I must carry thisacross with-
out looking at it.” Occasionally,but rarely and only for
certain exact accuracies, she goes so “far away”——as it
seems to her—that apparentlythereremains to her only a
shred of consciousness. But thatshred is alwaysthere, and
through it the approach to “intelligent co-operation” is
alwayspossible.
4.
By thistime our originalinterest in the mere mechanics
of thethinghad givenway to an increasingrespect for the
teachingitself. It was forward moving and logical. It was
systematic.It possessed a depthof kindlywisdom. Above
all its suitabilityto our own needs was uncannilyaccurate.
In general it was clear and consistent. Occasionally,to be
sure, some of the fragments of indirect approach to a
large subject were vague to us for a time; but always we
foundthat,sooner or later, theyfitted together.Gradually
we came to have confidence that this would come about
Wheneverwe ran into mists, and invariablytheconfidence
was justified.
Indeed, so profoundlysatisfyingwas thematerialitself,
that while of course, the question of its origin remained
important, thatimportancebecamesecondary. It was con-
28
The Developmentof Betty
ceivable thatall this might be a product of Betty’s “sub-
conscious.” If so, this experimentwas bringingto light21
‘End Of thoughtdistinctlyforeignto her usual conscious-
ness, and outside her rememberedexperience. If thiswere
so, and if by thissimple technique we could make thisun-
suspected part of herself available, why then we would
bevery foolish not to use it.
In thesucceedingpages I shall speak of the Invisibles as
distinct individuals, though discarnate. This seems to be
the easiest thingto do, and it has the merit of expressing .
my present belief. I do not insist on this view for others;
nor even urge it. The value of the thingoffered must lie
in itself, regardless of its source. It may originate in Betty
(in which case she is more of a wonder than I had sup-
posed): Betty may by this mechanism tap some wide
source of wisdom, some reservoir, some “universalmind”:
or in this state of divided consciousness she may fall into
harmony with the stored or accumulated experience of
humankind.I do not know; and anybodyis free and wel-
come to adopt any hypothesisthat appeals. But here the
thing is. It did not exist before as a formulated whole,
eitherin our minds or in any of our reading: it came—and
is coming——in the manner before set down. Those are the
facts. They may be explained as you will, but theyexist.
5'.
The following pages were assembled about a year and
a half after the beginningof the whole experience. The
29
The Developmentof Betty
good. The later material has indeed the profounder
significanceand illumination.In thelight of thatillumina-
tion it would be possible to rewrite my earlier compila-
tion. We comprehend better now what the beginnings
were about, how they fit into the whole scheme, which
is even yet slowly disclosing itself. But would that be
wise? These first four hundred pages brought us
to a
certain point from which we passed to an understanding
of the rest. Our progress was wisely conducted. It seems
reasonablethatthesame steppingstones, in thesamevorder,
that offered us a footholdmay serve others as well.
It is wonderful exploration,a Whole new country. The
trails are dim. Perhaps sometimeswe must back track.But
they seem to be leading somewhere pretty definite. A.
shout across to those on other tracks encourages us to be-
lieve that theyall converge.
The Development of Betty
material that had come by then comprised a little over
four hundred typewritten pages. This was by no means
all teaching.A great deal of it was personal; and a great
deal more of it was devoted to experiments in acquiring
technique and in Betty’s development. Consequently for
general consumptionit was becomingincreasinglyneces-
sary to separate the teaching and correlate what we had
into some sort of logical sequence. We realized perfectly
thatit was onlya beginning,and a fragmentarybeginning
v
at that;but we had found thateven thatmuch had given
us a new outlookand a fresh grip on life. Furthermore,the
few friends who had followed the experiment also ap-
peared to have found it strengtheningand inspiring.
And now was thetime to do it. One thingat least I had
learned in a life of explorations in strange countries: if
first impressions are not set down while they are fresh,
theyare lost. Striking things become familiar common-
places.The old timer no more thinksof mentioningthem
than he would think of mentioning the fact that houses
have doors. All thisfirst stuff mightbetentative and onlya
beginning. Still, beginningsmust be made; and for those
approachingthe subject anew, as we had approached it,
precisely the beginning that helped us would probably
help them. It might be, as our Invisibles said, only pre-
liminary; only a Primer. We have to have primers in a
primaryschool.
That was over fifteen years ago. Since then we have
added nearly fifteen hundred pages to the record. And
i
from this perspective we can see that our judgment was
30
J
/
/
/ CHAPTER IV
Proportion
1.
WHEN first Igconfronted the task of putting those four
hundred pages in some sort of logical sequence, I’ was
appalled.There was no logical sequence. The methodhad
been,apparently,to deal with a dozen different subjects
simultaneously,addingto each haphazardand at intervals.
That,at thetime, seemed unnecessarilybaflling.Later we
gathered that this had a reason. It must be remembered
thattheideal was of “intelligentco-operation,”and to this
end Betty’s own mind was never placed completely in
abeyance. Consequently, if the interest of the subject
under discussion sufficiently aroused its attention, then
g
therewas alwaysdangerof its runningoff on a tangent of
its own, adding its own ideas or conclusions. This we
called “coloring.”To avoid that,a subject would be car-
ried on for a time, and thenabruptlydropped. Later, per-
haps weeks later, it would be resumed. In the meantime a
Anvnn nrknrc l-marl lnonn :'\.'I'l\f“l‘I\fi1J
anal ..........'_II-.. -_._..!-J , ,_
Proportion
of therightproportionwe shall in one way or anothergain
all thethingsworthwhilein thislife and the next. In fact,
the whole problem of successful living can be expressed
in thatone simple formula: attain activelytheproportions
of life. “The roundingout of proportion is the foundation
of everything”theytold us. As a general proposition that
sounds broad and simple enough. But when we approach
the problem in search of detail, then we find ourselves in
face of the greater mysteries. How is the proportion
wrong, as to the world; how is it wrong as to me? How
is the balance to be struck?
“You have enfeebledtheword ‘God,’ ”
theysaid. “The
world has grown ashamed of thespirit. It mortifies it just
as the old ascetics used to mortify thebody.”
This thoughtis not new, perhaps, but it needs freshen-
ingand interpretation.The balance happens to betiltedon
one side now: but it was tiltedon the other, and it may be
so again. “Religion too often ignores the material and so
repels the vigorouslyhuman. That balance should be re-
stored, for the proportion is wrong there too. Weld lov-'
able, humorous, vigorously practical human life with
spiritualdictatorship,an inward sense of proportion. Wel-,
come and acceptall natural human instincts, all the savor-
ingof life,ta:;_ps£91e_at¢Ebsm.YZi.Eh_I:1.1§YiF.§l.1,i.I3)l.9,f..I;l;xs:..spitita.
Those who savor évéfithe highest forms of life without
thispermeationof thespirit willstagnate, sink backward,
imprison themselves in matter. With them the spiritual
sense becomes atrophied.”
There is no doubt, to epitomize their further remarks
33
Proportion
on thissubject, thatthemain trouble withus now, in this
age of science and what we call har_d;h_ea_ded_thinkin _,
is
just that lack of proportion which atrophies,“o1.1_i,'~,'spii'1tual_
awareness, And thereis equally no doubt, knowing man-
kind’s tendency always to overdo in reaction, that our
main future dangeris likelyto be a swingbackto thenar-
row, ungodlike,inhuman “spirituality”thatmortifies the
flesh, passes blue laws, neglectsplain business, and lets the
world go hang.
Thereforewhileour Invisibleslaythemost stress where
it belongs, on the present spiritual inertness of the world;
theyare also continuallywarningus thatonlyby a hearty
mingling in all worldly ma_t_t_e_r_s, a gomplgtggiafing of
Ehygicallife, a whole-souledattention to our own business
a-.-‘.........._.__...._._......‘,,._y..._._.._.—...._.,_ V.-.......——.—...—......'...———-r
3_E}.‘L‘1‘1£_£.°.1a.?i9¥15F9.P¢9P1¢,.\Yi.11.Y!?1_9r.8!1Xb2Ei}L§J§.‘Z»31¢!
get.a_r_;¥yvh§_1:;e;._Overand over, in many variationsof form,
they repeat this injunction. “Take u more and wider
‘interests. Grasp the joy of living. Minglemore with peo-
ple,” theyadmonish again and again. I must confess that
the common sense of this, coupled with their refusal to
direct or advise on any detail, went far toward enlisting
my attention in the beginning.
So then the first proposition of all is very simple: the
balance, the proportion of spiritual and material is out,
withtheoveremphasisat present on thematerial.But what
are we going to do about it? It is all very well to say “let
us be more spiritual,” but how are we to accomplishit?
A vague, expansive, indefinite resolve to be a source of
light never got anybody anywhere. All life is a practical
34-
Proportion
affair to be gone at in a practicalfashion. That is just as
true of the spiritual as of the material. Day dreaming or
vague enthusiastic mysticism gets us nowhere. That is
somethingwe must come to realize;thatis what repels the
average human work-a-dayman when you say spiritual
to him. He is instinctivelya practicalman, dealing with
lifein a practicalway,and his intuitions as to thatare per-
ifectlysound. If spirituality is in reality an integral part 5
‘of life, as the Invisibles tell us so definitely, then its de-
lvelopmentand use must be a practicalmatter thatcan be
{workedon just like any other desirable ingredientof life.
With this the Invisibles agree:
“Keep the emphasis on the usabilityand practicalap—
plicationof theteaching,”theysaid. “Necessarilyin order
to redress the balance we have to stimulate the spiritual
side;but theaim is not thedevelopmentof psychicpowers.
To theworld the interest will reside in practicalapplica-
tion to everyday life; a thingit doubts as to the most of
spiritual development. The natural g_ten.den_cy,i_s to seek
psychic powers rather than»practice human. living. All
trulyspiritual teachingshave beenacknowledgedas truth,
have carried within themselves the conviction of truth;
but always theyhave been put aside as unattainable. We
are trying to give a commonplaceworking plan to make
themattainable.The gap has grownwiderand wider be-
tween ideal and achievementbecauseof one—sided educa-
tion, lack of cultivation, and even lack of acknowledg-
ment, of the spiritual being.We try to give a graded in-
struction from kindergarten up, to convey a method of
35
Proportion
arousing and stimulatingand strengtheningspiritual fac-
ulties dormantthroughgenerationsof neglect.”
2. MAKE IT SO.
Before proceeding with this graded instruction, how-
ever, it is absolutely essential that we realize one thing
fully: the necessity of something besides intellectual
recognition of truth. Let us consider thiscarefully,for its
applicationis on every page of what is to follow.
We must not only read and understand: we must do
until we absorb into the substance of ourselves. There is
in thatthe difference between the athleteand the person
who has read the rules of the game, the art critic and the
.-painter who has struggled with pigments. We must not
only see that it is so: we must make it so. This is not
knowledge: it is development.
“Do not merelyfiletheletters we send withinstructions
and advice,” went some of the earliest automaticwriting.
“Read themover and ask if you are actingon them.” “Put
most of your energy into doing a few simple thingsad-
vised, instead of tryingto grasptoo much at a time. Do not
get the attitude of ‘yours received and placedon file.’We
want you to go onlyas fast as you can develop. Otherwise
we would be taking you from useful thingsof theworld
into a no man’s land of idle speculative dreaming. This
is far from our purpose. Your surface mind would go
throughsurface evolutionswhich would have no growth
36
‘what is revealed. We say again, revelation must be mani- '
Proportion
or correspondingdemand from within.You must_use and
exercise our teachings, not merely acknowledgethem as
interesting. Mankindhas alwaysacceptedso comfortably if
the revelations of the chosen prophets of the world, and
has as lightly fulfilled its obligations by acknowledging
their truth and dismissing them; ever looking for some-
thingnew before theyhave acquiredor digested the old.”
“Your progress is in your own hands. We can do little
but watch you gain necessary strength before we can
help you further. That is the law. VVe can onlyact as the
complementto the act. Of yourself you must drag your-
self at least near your idea, so that you can reach it in
moments, before you go further. Otherwise it is just a
shallow intellectual thing.There is no substance at all in
pure intellect. It is just a very fine shadow. The simplest
achievementis so much more important. Pure intellect is
aloof, unrelated.”
“Mere intellectual recognition of a truth is merely the
empty vein; the real force is the volition, the pulsing life-
giving fluid of utilization.”
“We can widen your vision, we can -give you the im-
petus, but then we must leave you to manifest or retro-
gress. If you could know how anxiously we watch the
seed, how yeaminglywe strive to continue the stimula-
tion! Eut w,e,a,re,no_t permitted to carry theg_rowth..itself.
I_h,§t.isin your hands. Trjithmust manifestitself in action.
Proportion
side. Slow growthis theonlyreality.All otherrecognition
is but the intellectual acknowledgment.Your wealth, as
we measure it, is the power you gain to become in solid
realitywhatat firstyou have beenmerelyexperimentally.”
- “We repeat: we cannot emphasizetoo frequently the
factthatmere recognitionof occasional truth is not good
enough. You must soak it up, live in it, let it permeate you,
let it control you before it is yours. Nothing can be
achieved merely by conception. This book is absolutely
useless if taken merelyintellectually.”
“It must be done, not under our manipulation, as it
were, but in full strength and purpose of your human
faculties.These alone can act successfullyon your physi-
cal world.”
3. THE NECESSITY OF EFFORT.
The thingwe are to strive for, then,is a recognition of
the spiritual forces about us; a contact with them; and
throughthatcontacttheestablishmentof a more balanced
proportion between the material and the spiritual. Does
thatsound mysticand vague and fuzzy? It is onlya general
proposition; and we can lay it aside and come back to it
withwhat willbefullerunderstanding.It is just a point to
take off from.
The first step in this process, we were told, consists in
establishing conscious contact with the spiritual forces
about us. And, like all first steps, it is themost difficult. It
38
Proportion
has the disadvantage of being somethingnew and unac-
customed. It has the handicap of seeming to be groping
and intangibleuntilwe have found for ourselves a handle
by which to seize it. And above all, the “first dead lift,”
as theycall it, must be accomplishedunaided. Once the
process is started we will get help in abundance accord-
ing to our capacityto receive, but we must by our own
effort break through.
“In everythingyou do the amount of success depends
on theamount of energy you put into it,” said theInvisi-
bles. “The force we bringinto theworld, let us call it in-
spirational force for the sake of giving it a name, comes
from a combinationof conditions created by the person
himself. We can onlytake advantageof thatcombination.
Once a person of his own force establishes it, we can act
on it. The initialstep is your work.This force is, roughly
speaking, emanations from you which meet complemen-
tary forces from this side. We utilize what you uncon-
sciouslypossess. You were born with wings: why prefer f
to crawl throughlife? You acquire exactlyin proportion’
as you arouse yourself to take.”
“It is just by determination and faiththatyou accom-
plish the first dead lift. That manifestationwith’yourself
and by yourself,'you must get before you will gain any
response. That is what people do not realize. They don’t
putanystrengthinto it, andwhen it willnot workat once,
they go the other way. You must get that strength for
yourself.”
39
Proportion
4. CONTACT.
The thingat which we are aiming—accessto the great
ocean of spiritual influence—must, for lack of a better
term, becalled spiritualcontact and permeation.The term
is inadequate.But assume for the moment thishypothesis,
simply as a working basis: that we are living in, sur-
rounded by, a finer more powerful substance. You can
call it what you please—ether, electric field, or spiritual
vibrations. When we are pervious we are permeated by
it and obtain from it various elements of expansion and
growth.But ordinarilyin our world-absorbed conscious-
ness is no chinkor cranny bywhich its influencecan enter.
We are like peopleswimmingin a sea completelyencased
in divingsuits thatadmit no drop of thelife-givingwater.
Only on comparativelyrare occasions when we are off
our guard, so to speak, do we permit ourselves even un-
consciouslyto bereached by it.
But thiscontactor permeationcan bebroughtabout by
aidefinite process of personal volition. Consider this care-
fully,forit is most irnportant~thisidea thatwe are capable
of enlargihg our voluntary capacityto receive.
The first essential of this volition must be a genuine
energy of desire. We must want to reach out in harmony
with spiritual forces. That want, that desire is essential,
and it is all thatis essential, as a pointof departure. We are
perhaps at first doing this only with our heads, but later
4.0
Proportion
it willunite withtherest of our beings,what we vaguely
call our hearts, our souls.
However, themere undefined desire is only thetaking
off place.If it is to send us anywhere we must have some
indicationof thedirection in which we are to go. What is
thisspiritual contact like, and how are we to reachfor it?
Possibly a faint notion of the process may be obtained
from analogy. Most people proceed through life “busy
with their own thoughts.” That is the way, ninety-nine
times out of a hundred, you will find yourself if you go
out for a walk. The teeming inner life of your mental
activitiesholds you, so thatyou are cramped withinyour-
self and things outside are half noticed or perhaps not
noticed at all. Now stop short and let thingsabout you
into your consciousness. You willbesurprised to find how
many actuallyhave had no existence in you. Birds’ singing
for example: a moment ago you literallydid not hear them.
The line of trees on thehill: you sensed vaguelythatthey
were there because you were staring straight at them,
but thecast of themagainst thepale green skybehind,the
light on their leaves, the curious molten look of their
foliagein mass, thosethingssimplywere not. You saw the
fields perhaps, but you did not sense them. The efiect of
the landscape, whatever it might be, was shut out because
you were occupied within the narrow confines of your-
self. Untilyou voluntarilythrewopen your spirit to wider
influences than those of yourself, they could not claim
you. By this shift of attention I do not mean a detailed
intellectual appraising of the surroundings, a cataloging,
4.I
Proportion
an enumeratingof features and species and lines of com-
position. Thatis another,a special job. I mean simply the
expansionthatis theresult of theshift from a busy mental
concentrationwithinto a voluntary wide opening to in-
fluence from without. That in itself is a form, a simple
form, of spiritual contact.
The appreciationof beauty,in thesense of a surrender
to its influencerather than a critical analysis, is another
examplebothof what I mean and of a simplespiritualcon-
tact. “Itis thebiggestupliftingmaterialthingyou possess,”
said the Invisibles. “Some may find the hidden spark in a
jewel, others in a temple drum or a Buddha. Beautyis a
great and quiet teacher.” But what I am asking here is
thatin your response to beautyyou notice the difference
betweenthe out-going expanded feel of you, and the in-
drawn close-huddled concentrationof ordinary affairs.
Another example you can find, perhaps, if you are a
loverof dogs. Sometimewhen you are walkingwiththem,
you look up at themwaggingbusilyalong down the trail
ahead, and for a moment you stop thinkingabout things.
“Good old pups,” you say to yourself, and with that
phrase is a distinct out-expanding feeling beyond your
ordinaryboundaries.Thatis a minor instance; and I throw
it in as one casts a flyon blank water. It may convey a
glimpse to somebody.
Please note, I am not trying as yet to give any complete
formula or directions for spiritual contact; I am merely
trying to convey the feeling of expansion and wide-
heartedness, of getting outside one’s self. Once one has
4.2
Proportion
recognizedthefeeling I mean, one goes after it conscious-
lyfor the joy thereis in it.
If this analogy is clear, then we are ready to beginthe
kindergarten.
4-3
CHAPTER V
Elementary Steps
1. RELAXING.
MOST so—called occult instruction seems to begin with
relaxing. It is good practice, whether one believes in the
ultimateresult or not, and one findsit surprisinglydiflicult
to cease all tension, not only in the body, but in every
thought of the brain. It is at first a man-size job; and
paradoxically enough, one is likely to find one’s self
shortly in a state of tension trying to get rid of tension!
Nothingmarvelous immediatelyfollows. But it is essen-
tial, and is thefirst simpleexercise toward thecontrol that
will eventuallyresult in the spiritual contact and absorp-
tion. Betty’s first instructions, throughautomaticwriting,
were concerned onlywiththis point.
“Contraction,” they pointed out, “results in concen-
trating and condensing on the physical.”
The job becomesmuch simplerif you just bearin mind
one thing: the key to it is imagination,not will. Nobody
ever successfullywilledhimself free from tension. Rather
picture to yourself the condition as though it already
existed. For instance try thinkingof your legs as heavy,
and then successively your arms and your head. Picture
your faceas smilingfaintly,but do not actuallysmile.See
thatyour breathingis regularand slow, and witheach ex-
halation thinkof your body as sinking heavy and inert.
“You must let go absolutely,”said the Invisibles, “as
4-4-
Elementary Steps
though you were falling through space. After relaxing
absolutely, hold the condition as long as possible; but as
soon as itibecomesa strained condition of mind, abandon
the effort and start over again. By degrees you can hold
it longer and longer.”~
At first all this should be practicedlying down; later
you will find yourself able to do it anywhere and at any
time. It is rathera fascinatinggame—and disconcertingto
find how your left shoulder willtighten up just as you get
your right leg straightened out! It is, incidentally,of im~
mediate practicalvalue in thatit is physicallyrefreshing.
The removal of mental tension might seem more ab-
stract and difficult, but actuallythe technique is just as
simple. In factwe applyit a thousandtimes a day without
knowing it. For every time we turn our full attention
upon sense impressions, merely as such and without re-
gard to theirsignificance,our intellect pauses.
“Empty the foreground of your mind,” said the In-
visibles. And the first step in doing this is to replaceour
usual intent intellectual foregroundwith a casual sensory
one. Little discontinuous sounds, passive and placidvistas,
—anythingnot too activelystimulating—theseare ideal for
our purpose. Under their influence our usual headlong
intellectual and emotional impetus quicklysubsides, leav-
ing themind like a calm lake.
Once the mental rush is checked in this way, space is
created in which to take the next step. We must now
reach out,—spread out is more descriptive—not yet with
any definite idea of contact with the spiritual world, but
4-5
_,;n-uh nfln...aIII-In
Elementary Steps
toward that wide-hearted, expansive, outside-yourself
feelingof which I have tried to give a glimpse.
“It is not easy to gain a perception of this process; nor,
after we have got the hang of how it feels, is it easy to go
on with it faithfullyand with conviction.” The results
grow in us from so feeble a beginningthat they do not
reach even our watchful consciousness for a long time.
Thatis a period of faith.If we are not convincedthatit is
going to work, we can at least refrain from a conviction
thatit is not going to work. We must foredetermine suc-
cess, but above all we must not expect anything.Our job
is to thrustout thebusy thoughtsof the world we live in,
to relax physically,and to strive witha real desire for that
wide—hearted receptivityof which we have had a glimpse.
At this oint two warnin should beem hasized. First,
.
P .3‘ .
P .
it must be thorou hl realizedthatthisrelaxation does not
.
5 V
mean utter passivity. “Now thatyou have learnedto relax,
you must study the degree of relaxation,” said they.
“There is such a thin as too much abandon. Your force
. .
3 . . .
becomesinactive. The thingto strive for is a subtle com-
bination of relaxation and a certain subconscious will
power or determination. Keep in mind subconsciouslyall
your faculties, but empty the foreground of your mind.
The assivi is not thatof thes irit but is entirel h si-
P _ _ _
P Y P Y
cal and intellectual. Maintain yourself forcefully,not to
combat but to have strength to receive. What you con-
tribute of s iritual readiness measures the stren th ou
_
P ,
.
3 Y
gain by contact. ’
The second warnin is, do not strain. The moment
3
/
Elementary Steps
stress, or expectancy is allowed, that moment the doors
swingshut. Instead of absorbingthesubtle effect of your
landscape, you are cataloging, or analyzingor hunting.
When you find yourself in this condition, cease from all
effort and allow your attention to drift to other things.
Let the traffic of your mind proceed for a few moments.
Then beginanew.
“Keep the body relaxed, but free, and stimulate the
spirit to respondwitha great and rising wonder similarto
that inspired by the overwhelming beauties of nature.
Unstopper your imprisoned spirit; let it rise blithelyand
naturally.Enjoyyourself.”
2. ASPIRATION.
When we have gainedtheabilityto do thesetwo simple
things,without strain, without effort, above all Without
stiff concentration of mind—thatis, relax physicallyand
mentallybut witha spiritual alertness beneaththatmakes
our inner selves feel wide open, as theyfeel wide open
when we consciously and absorbentlyand uncritically
look at somethingbeautiful—thenwe can go on to the
conscious reachingfor spiritual contact, or “The absorp-
tion into your heart of thereality.”
Thisis so foreignto our everydayhabitof thinkingthat
it is a little diflicult to express. It is one of those things
we understand only after we have worked into it. The
essential beginning is that we must desire a fuller life,
4-7
'
get. It is not so much theenergy of demandas the
:b0wing/
Elementary Steps
whetherwe know what it is or not. The practicalbegin-
ning is to get our machineryassembled, as we have de-
scribed, and then to experimentwithit untilit works—as
it surely willif our desire is genuine.
It took more than a year of hammering away at this
desire concept beforewe felt we had reallygrasped it and
could use it. They described it in a hundred different
ways. “Itis a genuineaspiration,not an intellectual curios-
ity,” theytold us, “a yearning aspiration, almost like the
attraction of needle and magnet; somethingabove that
can almost be recognized as a complementof what exists
below. When this recognition, this genuine aspiration is
established, then you have your spiritual impetus. It is
humble but unwavering,not an arrogant demand. It is in
reality a great natural instinct which life there generally
inhibits. It is just a law. When you liberate certain gases
chemically,theyseek their chemical affinities. Just so you
liberate your spirit and it automaticallyfollows the law.
Do you see the difference betweenthis and letting go all
holds and waitingfor somebody to lift you up? The latter V
is enervatingand quite useless.” “The energy withwhich “
you demand of us will be the measure of what you will }1
of a force that calls its complement. It is the energy of]
zmeasure for measure, given and received!”
“Do this continually, hourly; when possible, even
momentlyliftingyour thoughtsout of and holding them
free. We use the phrase ‘lift your thoughts’ convention-
ally. In reality ‘spread your thoughts’ would have been
4.8
Elementary Steps
«' more accurate. Thispermeatingspiritis not so much above‘.
you as outside you; but near you, surroundingyou, within:
touch if you would but believe it. Reach out, not up...
When you expand thuswithyour heart, or thinkhorizon-
tally,or whateveryou want to call it, you come in contact
withthisspiritual substance, for thereason thatif you go‘
beyond your boundaries you must enter it. If you find:
this hard to grasp, just make a mixture of energy, feelings
of desire to get on, of the intense happiness and outgoing‘
that beautygives you.”
This is a slow process, and many times it will seem
foolish to you, and the hope for any results will appear
fantastic. Remember that it must be not only a gradual
natural growth, but also often requires stimulation to
overcome arrested development of dormant faculties. Do
not anticipateresults. Take therewards as theycome; and
thereare such rewards at every step. The first mere physi-
cal relaxation brings physical rest that can be got in no
other way; the open—hearted feeling when acquired is a
pleasureand a mental and nerve refreshmentin itself. For
the moment be satisfied with that; and get the habit. In
time you will be able to do it “hourly, and even mo-
mently.”
O_ne more warning repeated before going on to the
first effect of establishing this spiritual contact. Do not
strain. “The moment you try to create, to pump up, to
reach for definite things, you are in grave danger. You
may get almost anything. Better to stay asleep on earth,
far better. You will never get anywhere if you are think-
4-9
Elementary Steps
ing of what you are going to get. In thatcase you would
be just a curiosity seeker. It is deadlyhopeless to try that.
You will be led into a blind alley and left there. That is
done withso many people!”
“Belief in the attainabilityof higher powers is a legiti-
mate ambition, but theymust be grown into faithfully.
The amateur methodof seeking growthor spiritual free-
dom is by a terrible concentrationof mind, but thismust
be replacedby expansion of the heart.”
“How can I bring to you strongly enough this first
principle? It is to expand in spirit, not intellectually.The
spiritis usuallylike a desiccated fruit inside thebrain. Let
your spirit soak up in a simple and pleasant fashion until
it is a fittingmate for your brain. Lay bare your problems
to the influence of the great expansion which will bring
your solution. This is the only real channel which will
bring permanent wholesome psychic influence. It is the
safe and open highroad. There are other ways, of course,
but theyare exploration.”
3. AUTOMATIC ACTION.
But if we are not to strive for any definite results, I hear
you say, what can we expect to happen?
Take it on faith for a moment that from the world of
the spiritual that is part of us, and should be a balanced
part of us, comes an instant almost automaticresponse to
any genuine contact. This seems to be a law of wide ap-
50
Elementary Steps
plication. It might be described as spontaneous action of
the spiritual functions, as theyare developed, very much
like theactionof theheart in our physicalbodies. “When
once you get hold of anythingof this sort so it is inside
you, at once it beginsto work automatically,so you don’t
have to fuss with it. There is, pertaining to each level of
life, what might be called involuntary action. It is like
digestionin thatit works automaticallyto produce results
withinits particularsphereof influenceor zone of action.”
Incidentally this automatic action seems to be a law
that follows all effort, putting forth of volition. When-
ever a thingis desired enough to cause an outgoing of de-
termination, automatic action begins. Thus on each act
of will depend many things.That is outside the scope of
our present discussion: but later in these pages the work-
ing of thatlaw will recur many times: so it is just as well
to get theidea now.
'
At this particular point we are concerned with it only
as it assures us that the moment we succeed, however
feebly,in gainingspiritual awareness or contact, a kind of
chemical actiontakes place;we are getting results of some
'.SOI'C, growthhas begun.
"
As to what, definitely,this automatic action produces
must be left until later. For the moment it is enough to
know that,whilethe first dead lift is ours, we are sure of
aid in accordance with our effort once the first small
establishment is made.
SI
CHAPTER VI
Later Development
1. HABITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
EVEN if we practice spiritual contact only once in a
whileit can becomea wonderful experience—onethatwill
bringa unique peace and understanding.And in the crises
of life it can give support and illuminationunimaginable.
And thatis not the complete picture.
To catch a glimpse of greater possibilitieslet us return
to our illustrativecountry walk. You will recall the feel-
ing of expansion, of getting outside one's self, of widened
being, when we stopped to include in our consciousness
theinfluenceof a beautyhitherto held outside by our pre-
occupationwithin.There is no doubt thatthepleasureand
benefitof our walk would be greatlyenhanced could we
maintain that outreaching expansion, could we contmue
to see and admit within ourselves the influences outside.
But we don’t. We hold it for a minute, and then some-
thingreminds us of somethingand our busy brains are off
like dogs on a scent. The trouble is that our established
habitis againstus.
When we paused at my suggestion on the hilltop we
opened ourselves to the outside by a conscious effort.
VVhenthateffort was withdrawnwe dropped back auto-
matically.We did not have the habit of keeping open to
the outside. This we must acquire if we are to admit
naturally, continuously an influence we have enjoyed
only for a moment. Otherwise the instant we relax vigi-
52
Later Development
lance our thoughtsand emotions will seize on us and drag
us backwiththeminto their busy little cozy lair.
And exactlythesame is true of themore completecon-
tact we have been talkingabout. If we are satisfied with
justtryingit on once in a while,most of the possiblebene-
fit will be lost.
“Itis an babitualspiritual consciousness theyare after,”
Betty reported at one time. “The gaining of this does not
mean straining or striving; it is more a matter of how
frequently‘you thinkof it. Just live it calmly and com-
fortably. Walk through your days as a creature with
folded wings, conscious of the possession of another ele-
ment and theabilityto enter it. When worries and world
annoyancescome, you can rise stronglyand determinedly,
spend a few moments in calm, and at once descend rein-
forced to the object in hand.”
“The thingis not to settle down into yourself,but to be #3»
always dependent on the companionship of your spirit,
Later Development
“The only way to build it,” said they,“is to make it a
workadayordinary kind of affair of which you are aware
all the time about your business. If you want to get any-
where, you have to take this philosophyhome with you,
and dress it, and eat it, and breatheit, and motor down
town withit. When you are able to do thatyou are ready
for somethingmore. At present anythingmore thanwhat
you have would overflow into merely an intellectual ap-
preciation.”
In otherwords, to sum up, we must not onlyunderstand
intellectuallywhat spiritual contactis, but we must “make
it so.” We must not only “make it so” occasionally,but
we must gradually learn to make it a more and more
consistent habit.
But there is another, and very essential, consideration.
We must not only make a growing habit of spiritual
contact: we must also keep it natural and vital. Such
things have a fatal tendency to slump into a kind of
mechanical ritual, conscientiously and laboriously per-
formed for thegood of thesoul. Better far to seek contact
less often and keep its eager and spontaneous freshness.
“The moment you beginto thinkabout it too onesided—
ly,”said they,“you becomeself-conscious. What are you
going to do about it? Why, go where you can’t be self-
conscious; or else get another idea of some sort in your
head. Nature is one way: sunsets, stars, moonlight, frogs
at night. You can’t be self-conscious then. Snap go the
bonds,and you are all right.Thereis anotherway: through
a thingyou love, even if it is only a horse or a dog or a
54-
Later Development
plant. But it can’t be done by justsayingyou are going to
do it; any more than you can just tell a man to talk
French.”
As time goes on we will be able to reach for contact
more and more often without“disciplining”ourselves too
much. But at first “it is not easy to be loose-skinned‘ and
natural. There comes a reaction—a danger.”
And above all we must dodge theidea thatthistraining
is going to make Superior Beings of us over night.
“Months of successful effort must elapse, until you are
steeped, saturated, permeated with the fluid strength of
spiritual contact. At first you are strugglingin a kind of
blind instinct to gatherstrength,but without beingable
to see what you have achieved. Keep your faith in the
vitalityof effort. It requires masteringbeforeyou feel the
repose, the assurance of strengthand progress.”
“The only relaxation is in accustomedness.”
2. STABILITY.
Little by little, as we succeed in making spiritual con-
tact habitual,we may expect to come into possession of a
quality theysometimes called stability.
Stability, as a word, seems to have been accepted
through lack of a better. As used by them, it connotes
somethingmore than the usual meaning of steadfastness.
It represents, rather, a definite positive quality within,
which forms a constant to which we can refer ourselves;
55
Later Development
a core around which our activelives can be organized; an
anchor to windward in times of stress. Betty’s approach
to this idea was by the usual roundabout method of sym-
bolic experiences.
“I’ve got to climb and to work—a ladder—-steep, hard
work,” ran one of her early reports, “and it’s got to be
done enthusiasticallyand lightlyand vigorouslyand with
steadfast purpose. I feel like a hod carrier climbinga lad-
der. As longas I don’t feel theweight and theclimb—what
is it when you feel adequate to a thing: you have a tre-
mendous load, but your enthusiasmmakes you unaware
of it, so you don’t feel it and are eager to do it? I know
what it is like: it’s like the reason the pressure of the at-
mosphere does not crush your body. That is what you
have to be if you are not to cave in, get crushed.
“Such curious work, such queer work. Certain pro-
cesses that are like exercises, unproductive in themselves
but necessary for strengthening.Thatis what I am doing:
acquiringI don’t know what. This is an effort at sustain-
ing a condition. You don’t know how much steadfastness
of effort it takes. I explained how you had to keep up a
certain pressure in order not to collapse. That’s what I
have to do. It must be done or we’ll never get anywhere,
we’ll alwaysbe dabblers. It is like the stakes you drive to
keep plants from being blown around and broken. That
is what theywant us to make. Untilwe have it to support
us, it is all too unstable and uncertain.
“I drove a bigimmovable iron stake. That was my con-
tact. Having secured myself to that, I built around it,
56
Later Development
quite wide and loose, a thingwhich concealed its rigidity.
It seemed to symbolize stabilitywith malleability.We
seem to have to playlittle games like that.You must have
somethingto which to refer yourself: first as a stake in
water swirlingabout; thenas planted in sand; and thenas
a fixed pointin space. It doesn’t matter how you symbolize
it, but you must have somethingconstant in yourself.”
“They’re all trying to break it down,” she cried on
anotheroccasion, “and I can't hold it together. It’s like a
reservoir alwaysin danger of beingbroken down by pres-
sure from without. If it were to break down you would
lose everythingin it, and it would be almost impossibleto
rebuild. Failures are very bad. Just when I was thinking
about strengthening the walls and feeling full of con-
fidence in my abilityto keep it from caving in, pressure
was put on it from without;and in spite of the factthat I
ran around shovinghere and shovingthereit all crumbled
in. It was heartbreaking. It all crumbled in and all the
annoying things, the destructive things, the detrimental
thingscame whoopingin. The reason it caved in was be-
cause I was workingwithlittle materials instead of main-
taininga tremendouspressure inside thereservoir. If I had
done that Ircould have more than equalized. Instead of
holdingup thewalls withmy feebleearthstrength,I ought
to have concentrated on filling with my own spiritual
inflow.You cannot hold against pressure from withoutin
detail or in spots. You must maintain thewhole level. This
is an attempt in various ways to make me realize thatthe
pressure must be from within outwards. What we must
57
Later Development
workfor is thefeelingof inward force and pressure which
is what we call the inward spiritual consciousness. Until
theyare perfectly sure of stabilitythey are afraid to go
on.”
The applications and uses of this quality spread out
fanwise in every direction. It is through them that this
philosophyattains much of its significanceand value. But
that is a large subject, and one which must be left until
later.
CHAPTER VII
Personal Experience Again
I.
ENOUGH of the text has been given in the preceding
chapters to convince the reader that the stuff is direct,
simpleand logicalin expression. Take thesection I called
Make It So. I have set down its sentences withoutchange,
and in exactlythe order theywere given. But those sen-
tences came to us almost literally one at a time over a
period of a year and a half. Theywere scattered here and
therein a mass of materialon a dozen othersubjects. They
had to be dug out and placedone after the otherin juxta-
position;and when thatwas done, we had a completeshort
essay, properlyformed and proportioned!
Mind you, there was no juggling in all this. On each
occasion I put down on its appropriate card in a card in-
dex the factthatsomethinghad beensaid on themake—it-
so idea, withthepage number. Or on automaticaction,or
the substance of thought or whatever. Then when the
time arrived for compilationI simplyextractedeachrefer-
ence, in its originalorder, from themain body,and copied
it down. I did thismechanically,withouteditingor “inter-
pretation”;and I confess I was amazedthatwhat had here-
tofore seemed to bebrilliantfragmentsmade so considered
a whole. This make-it-so section represents twenty-five
entries on thecard index, rangingfrom page 1 to page 390
of the record!
59
Personal Experience Again
This method, of carrying forward a great many sub-
jects at thesame time withoutclearlydefiningany one of
them, was rather confusing.Just as we began to glimpse
some sort of sense in what at the moment was under con-
sideration, that subject would be dropped flat. The ap-
parent inconsequence was maddening: the fragments
!were interesting and inspiring. “Virtue,” we were told
//
{one day, “is not an end in itself, but a measure of growth,",
"
which remarkcondenses a great deal of wisdom in a few
‘-.WOI'dS. Sometimes theywere beautifulin phrasing, “de-
prived of the brooding beatitude of country-hearted
things,”for example.But for a longtime we groped. Only
after it occurred to us to assemble togetheron one sheet
of paper all the scattered entries on one card, did we find
that we were in possession of a series of interrupted
sequences. Then the basic logic of the whole beganto re-
veal itself as througha thinningfog."“
This was in itself a remarkablephenomenon;or at least
so it appeared to me. But as a methodit was baflling,and
laborious. Sometimes, pretty impatiently,I asked myself
the question you will ask yourselves: why did theynot
state what theywere drivingat, in logical order and in so
many words?
One reason I have already touched upon. It is worth
repeating. They wanted to state what they were driving
at. Theywanted no contributionsor dilutionsfrom Betty.
Such contributions-unconsciousof course—were inevit-
‘
In the delicate job of extracting the sequences from the mass of
material, and in keeping them in logical order, my brother, Harwood
White, of Santa Barbara, has been of great assistance.
60
PersonalExperience Again
able if a subjectwas defined enough to arouse her interest.
Then it would beimpossibleto determine what was origi-
nal matter and what resulted from association of ideas in
thestation’s own subconscious.We called this “coloring.”
It could be best avoided, it seemed, by attackingthe sub-
jectin these brief darting raids from different angles.For
a fuller discussion I must again refer you to the appendix.
Parenthetically,that portion of our experiences that
had to do withdevelopment,as distinct from theteaching,
was largelyaimed at the eliminationof this coloring. The
mind of the ordinarysensitive is, by thevery factof sensi-
tivity, peculiarly prone, under almost any stimulus, to
seize upon a content of its storehouse mind and gallop off
withit down to its logical conclusion. If one is naturally
“psychic” one may easily and promptly get something
extra-normal. But there will be withit an awful amount
of chaff for a few grains of wheat. The better and more
rugged the physical health, the easier the contact; the
better the nervous and spiritual control, the less likely a
runawayinto irrelevancies. The effort withBetty seemed
directed toward these things,and not toward the develop-
ment of “psychic power.” The thesis appeared to be that
only by an emphasis on everyday living could anything
approachinghabitual reliabilitybe attained.
In this effort, interestinglyenough, the “Invisibles” as-
serted that theywere groping, were experimenting,just
as much as we were! They tried several schemes which
theyabandonedafter short trials. This necessityof experi-
ment, it is worthrepeating,was becauseher technique was
61
Personal Experience Again
to be exactlythe opposite of the usual procedure. Ordin-
arily,you will recall that we were told, the communi-
cating intelligences came all the way to the translator,
and so became more or less dulled and confused by the
“denser” earth conditions.The idea was to reverse this,to
train in Betty an abilityto go all theway to them,to enter
their conditions; but at the same time to function in her
own suflicientlyto report back, as translator, what she
there acquired.
“We do not want to be very strong on this side,” said
some of the very earliest automaticWriting,“becauseit is
part of our schemefor you to doyourshare. It is an experi-
ment to avoid the difficulties of relayingmessages so far.
The idea is constantlyto decrease thedensity between us
to be penetrated, instead of trying so hard and so uncer-
tainlyto penetrate it. We are now near your element, but
must slowlyand painfully lead you to ours in order to
hold uninterrupted and trustworthy communication.”
The process was groping and consumed months. It was
fascinatingto me, as a bystander. Much of the time they
seemed frankly puzzled themselves as to what next to
attempt. “The variations we try,” theytold us, “are like
thecombinationsof a camera withits focus, stops, speeds,
time of day, and so forth.”
“The thingsBetty sees and experiencesjust now seem
foolish,” they explained certain incoherences, “but she is
being used at random in experiment on many different
kinds of forces.” “I had a feeling of being experimented
on,” said Betty herself another time. “The whole feeling
62
Personal Experience Again
was of preparation,like an empty house thatpeople were
moving into.”
“Sometimeswe almostfeel as if thissystem had insuper-
able difficulties and thatyou willnever have the patience
to continue,” they confessed on another occasion, “Its
suitability,however, seems to balance the objections.”
“What’s thetrouble?” I asked.
“Weneed more force,” theystated withgreat emphasis.
“The forces which we generate seem to dissipate, owing
to some lack of proper conditions or attraction at your
end. Leave us to experiment.We need more careful diag-
nosis.”
“You seem discouraged,” I remarked.
“We are not discouraged: only puzzled,” they dis-
claimed. “It is like any problem. Don't get discouraged:
we will find a new angleof approach.”
“You thinkwe are all—powerful,” they told us again,
“but we are not. We have to grope as much as you do, and
can onlyhopein thegroping toward each otherto meet.”
“I have read of other stations who do not seem to have
all these troubles,”said I.
“Involuntarymediums are good only as long as condi-
tions suit them,” they answered this. “A voluntary me-
dium withcontrol of her own mental condition would be
invaluable. This is the hardest possible way, but it is the
surest, most permanent and trustworthy. The others are
brilliantexperiments,flashes.Theysucceed now and then,
and are very spectacular,but theyhave awful failures to
nullify them. They are hazardous things. You may get
63
Personal Experience Again
something,or you may become a nervous wreck. This is
a steep way but a safe way. We do not mean to say that
other methodsmay not get more brilliantor even better
results occasionally.But there is no methodthatcan give
you quite thesame splendidfeelingof power and stability;
becauseonlywiththis do you tap something.In thisstate
you get the actual condition of the thingfirst, and then
slowlythe commonplaceword that fits it. When we fi-
nally succeed, our progress will have certain mechanical
conveniences thathave alwaysbeen lackingin spasmodic
communications.”
I called attention to the authorsof The Seven Purpose:
and Our Unseen Guest as examples of great fluency,co-
herence and apparent accuracy,but “spasmodic”in the
sense of spontaneous. Theyagreed but continued to main-
tain theirpoint.
“Their experiences were in the nature of phenomena,”
theysaid, “We want with you to demonstrate the possi-
bilityof communicationas a sort of laboratorywork that
can be done by anybodythroughpatientexperiment;just
as electricity or any other natural force may be used.
They had the requisite character, training and mating.
Then in addition theconnectionson thisside interested in
the work made their selection a natural one. They came
nearest the requirements. The phenomenal method is
possible to manyif thereis sufficientconcentrationon this
- side. However, the law of action and reaction indicated
that there should be an equal effort on both sides. Great
concentrationon one side onlyis possiblefor but a limited
64
Personal Experience Again
amount of time. It could beindefinitelysustained could it
be equally distributed on both. As yet we have been de-
pendent on a phenomenal and rather untrained gift, in-
stead of an understood and carefully regulated mechan-
ism.”
“Why,”I asked, “did you not tell us all this in thebe-
ginning? We could have assisted with so much more
intelligence.”
“If some of thesemethodshad beenstated in the begin-
ning,” said they, “they would have made you self-
conscious and inflexible.Your clamoring for intellectual
satisfactionwas at times very hard to resist, so we dodged
you and evaded you. Onlyby blindfoldingyou could we
lead you our way.”
Another angle of the same subject was well expressed
much later, and thoughit is a bit of a digression, it seems
worthinsertion here. It was one of thefew instances when
a definite personality named himself as the source of the
philosophicalmaterial. I will transcribeliterally,-asa fur-
thermatter of interest as to the form in which we record
these things.
BETTY: Some one named Willard (fictitiousname here).
WILLARD: I am working for the whole scheme, and am
interested in its followers,too.
MYSELF: We are interested, too, but we are greatly in
the dark as to what it is all about.
WILLARD: Curious thing,that: and a great drawback in
getting the most desirable intelligent workers. The stiff-
65
Personal Experience Again
ness of the humanlyeducated mind is a great problem to
overcome. It is likea spoiledchild.The constant humoring
of this self—assertive side, the keeping it quiet enough to
communicate with the real person withinis what makes
the whole thingso difficult.
That is thecrux of the whole difficulty.Heaven forbid
thatI should decry the human brain, but it should be pro-
portioned. The eternal self must be developed as a fit con-
trolling power. In trying to act directly on the highest—
call it organ —
possessed by man, his eternal spirit, we are
constantly interfered with by the more developed, the
more easilydeveloped side of him which clamors, insists
on translating every instinct into its own language and
limitingit to its own experience and comprehension; in-
sists we shall go no farther than the facileready-made
symbolsits world education sanctions. We have to ignore
it as much as possible, keeping it quiet by systematically
baffling its efforts at restriction. Meanwhile, under this
anaestheticwe work directly, stimulating the enduring
part, trying to developit. It should be thedominatingpart
of man.
When thishas been developed to its proper proportion,
then the intelligence will have its innings again. The in-
telligence is an essential part of the whole, but it simply
must bequieted down and made flexiblein any way possi-
ble, in order that we may give insight beyond its com-
prehension.
I am trying to give thisside of it in order to satisfy your
natural intelligence as to this thwartingprocess. Let the
66
Personal Experience Again
big organ develop naturallyand take control. See if the
whole man will not be better proportioned.
I justhad a notion I mightbeable to get thisover to you
a little more clearly.Get it?
MYSELF: As I understand you, for a time you purposely
thwart the curiosities and workingsof the mind in order
to apply development work directly. When the eternal
side has been developed up in proportion to an equality
withthe intelligence, then the latter will be turned loose
again for the purpose of understanding what it is about.
VVILLARD: Yes; but expressed in terms of your substance
ratherthanmine.
The main idea of the whole thingis thatthe thwarting
process is in order to develop beyondthe comprehension
of the brain, not to bring the enduring organs merely up
to an equality with the brain: to work away beyondit,
assuming at last control of the brain. The brain then be-
comes a functioningpart of thegeneral organ, which then
enables comprehension. When it is adjustedto its proper
proportion, thenit will,later, be thechannel for manifest-
ing the level of developmentto others.We over here can-
not workthroughthe brain very well becauseof its great
educational and perceptional restrictions. . . .
Don’t be so
offendedin your intellect. Give us a chance. We won’t do
more harm thanpresent your precious intellect something
for it to work on for therest of its natural life. Leave it in
soak and keep it flexible,and we can go on. It’s bound to
be satisfied later. When this becomes the leader of your
intellect, it must immediatelyreact on it; it must, just as
67
Personal Experience Again
theblood goes throughyour body to nourish all theparts.
I thoughtmaybe I could make you see the point; it’s
alwaysa great stickler.That’s why I came.
Working only in the limited knowledge of the brain
is slow business. It takes generations to develop new re-
spectable symbols.
BETTY: They let him in because they thought he knew
how you felt.
WILLARD: Do you get the idea now? Beyond what you
can understand, explain by the brain. If that is what we
want to get to you first, how could we get it throughyour
brain withouttheslowest of evolution?
MYSELF: I can see that as to the individual. How about
getting it to the world? You have to use written symbols
of the brain for that.
WILLARD: To get some things to the world you must
yourselfget thethingmany times multiplied.No strength
otherwise. There must be a large submerged foundation
for the lighthouse. It is too puny at present to give out;
too puny to be bountiful.
MYSELF: That all sounds reasonable and satisfying. But
how can we best co-operate, if for a time our intelligence
is supposed to go stand in a corner? Is it a matter of con-
tact alone?
WILLARD: Let it go for the present withthe development
of your region of feelings, susceptibility,—
aggressive
feeling. Let it go at that. That is the other side of the
scale from the brain function. But there is a difference
between the sloppy, sentimental, emotional thing com-
68
‘Personal Experience Again
monlyknown as feeling, and the feeling of strengthand
stabilitythatis absorbent of wisdom.
BETTY: (confidentially)You see, We haven’t any words
around here for it. Maybethere are some, but theydon’t
come. I'm very bad on words, because they get so far
away.
WILLARD: The more you live in abandonmentof theheart,
the nearer you come to it.
2.
But thereis anotherreason, besidethedangerof “color-
ing,”why thesesubjects were approachedsimultaneously
and bewilderingly—fromso many different angles. This
has to do withthedifferencebetweenour way of master-
ing a subject and theirs. That difference is summed up in
a single statement. Betty was reporting, as is often her
custom, instead of beingused directly as a translator.
“I said to them,”said she, “thatprogress must be easy
for them because they could see things and the reasons
for them, and what it is all about; but theyanswered that
I was wrong. The way of our senses is first of all to see
clearlywhat we are going to strive for. But the way of
the perception of the spirit, the way theygo at things,IS
first of all always a struggle toward a clear perception of
what has been but dimlysensed. What theystruggle for
is only seen clearlyafter it is attained. Each attainment
thenprovidesthestrengthfor furthereffort toward some-
69
Personal Experience Again
thingagain dimlysensed. That is the difference between
theirway of progress and ours.”
“Nevermind your clarityof perception of it,” theysaid
on another occasion. “That necessarilycomes after you
have maintained conditions for a long enough time to
establish them.”
This method of keeping the logic of a subject obscure
until one by one the details and component parts have
been absorbed into the system of life is very well sub-
served by the fragmentary kind of communication. It is
in reality again a part of the “make it so” idea, without
which there seems to be no value.
70
CHAPTER VIII
Elimination
1.
TWO thingscannot occupy. the same place at the same
time. If we are to take in somethingnew, we must make
room for it.
That is self evident. We make room by putting some-
thingout. And thatsomethingat once tries to come back
in. Which means conflict.
We find thatall along the line. Even the simple matter
of physicalrelaxation is full of it. We are forced to vigi-
lance in excludingsmalltensions of themuscles. As fast as
we make one behave, another is on the strain. And that
keeps our attention anxious, which is not a state of relaxa-
tion at all. The situation is emphasized when we attempt
mental detachment.Vagrantfancies snatch at us, and be-
fore we know it we are galloping off down a side alley of
speculation thathas nothingto do withwhat we are after.
We are forced to a process of selection and elimination.
There is nothingespeciallystartling about this. We are
doingit, more or less, every hour of our lives. We are con-
tinuallyselectingwhat we want to do, or must do, from all
the things we might do. But we do it, mostly, without
either due thought or skill. We have of it little under-
standing or technique.
Such a haphazard muddling throughperhaps does well
enough for ordinary affairs. But when we embark on a
program of expanding consciousness, we were told, we
71
Elimination
should have somethingmore definite. Our job is to take
in spiritual awareness, and somehow we must make room
for it. Otherwise it will have a hard time bucking the
competition of well-established habits.
“You must free yourself in order to become aware of
the self above yourself,” said they. “This is gained by
dailybreathingspace of association withthe spirit.”
“It does seem,” ran one of our earliest automaticwrit-
ings, “as if you on earth scramble so much. Cannot you
move serenely about your affairs? It is an engulfing
quicksand,your world. Do not mistake me: I am not ap-
proving of herrnits. I only ask for an effort to live in the
world and of the world with a free soul and sensitive
spirit.”
“There is no use trying to do anythingif you have a
lot of little fishhooks in you all around that keep pulling
at you,” said they,much later. “There is no use trying to
do anythinguntil you get rid of themand assert your in-
dependence; it is hard to get these barbed thingsout.”
“There’s so much leisure of mind and soul and time for
your attitude toward people,” explained Betty, “none at
all for getting thingstwo cents cheaper at anotherstore,
and all those dinky-dinks.It’s like the difference in size
between the figures on a moving picture screen and the
human beingsin the front row. I argue thatI can't live in
a material world without doing many little things; and
they argue thatthatis just what we are sent here for, to
find out what thingsare worth doing and what are not.
They have great respect for material labor and neces-
72
Elimination
sities and such things; but they are only so important.
They are not askingme to do what the bigidealists have
done, like Buddha or Confucius; throw humanity aside
and walk with fixed gaze; but theyare askingme to ap-
proximate that freedom. It’s a case of focus as near as I
can come to it. You must change your focus so that all
the little things near you will not look sharp and im-
portant.”
2.
We were willingto agree as to the desirabilityof this,
but evidentlythe Invisibles were not satisfied with that.
Theywanted us to realize not onlyits desirability,but its
importance, and theyheld Betty to thesubject.Againand
again they showed her symbols of_
various kinds that
stressed this.Here is one.
“The way theyare showing me seems so difficult and
painful—theskeleton dragged from the living body,” it
was Betty reporting, “Theyare showingit to me and say-
ing, thisis the real structure. All the rest, your flesh, your
clothes,your belongings,the motor you ride in——but they
said carriage—youjustpileon yourself. But after all there’s
your real structure that has to carry all the unnecessary
stufl. Yet nobody wants to walk around in his skeleton.
But you can entirely clothe it in somethingbetter than
all thatsmotheringstufl. Funny way to explain it! They
keep saying: here’s your skeleton. How are you going to
clotheit? They seem to thinkthey’vefreed me from the
73
Elimination
old stuff, and thatnow what I’m to do is put on my new
bodyappropriateto my new life. My,thatotherstuff looks
clumsy,piledup all around,lookslikeMrs. Tanner's‘stuff.
It’s repellant. It positivelynauseates me. Iwouldn’t like to
get back into that! As theytake it away I feel so naked
and cold. It is ratherterrible to have it taken away; almost
acute suffering.Oh, wait! I don’t know what I’m goingto
do. I don’t know where to begin. Oh, my!—there’sa little
somethinggatheringabout me, ratherthinand filmy,not
formed and finished. I don’t thinkthatwas a nice symbol.
I don’t feel as much at home as I did in all thatnice warm
cozy Tannerstuff. I’m all new and self—conscious and still
a little cold. —Yes, I see what you mean. —These strange
exercises just separate me before my eyes; take out parts
of me and set themaside; and discard therest. I don’tsup-
pose in this life I’d ever free myself withoutall this play
and mumming———
“I slipped back. I alwaysget back into those smothery
things.Theyshow it first in one form and thenin another.
But these smothery things are all so warm and human.
—You can go on livingin thesmotherythingsif you want
to; and there’s no direct harm and no judgment held
against you for it. Then why all this effort in this life?
The answer is: it is inexorablytrue that it has got to be
done sometime, thatgreat passionateshove has to be done
sometime. Each one must struggle and free himself; there
is no escape; it is thelaw; and thelongeryou procrastinate
and delay, the harder thatstruggle is going to be and the
‘
A very wealthyacquisitive woman.
74-
Elimination
softer and more unfit for it you are going to be. It willbe
a terrible state, suffering, discouragement, blackness if
you delay. Delaybears too heavy interest. Thatis whyall
ithis exhortation for this life, why they don’t wait until
we go over there. This life is that tearing out of your
skeleton, and when we are not doing it here, now, we are
makingit so much harder for ourselves later. This is our
crucial moment of struggle right now. How blind and
stupid to say wait for such thingsuntil we get over! That
is what your incarnation here is——your test. That is what
they have been trying to tell us for nearly a year now.
We can take the easier way, but it delays the game and
makes it harder. Use every ounce in you,,for you are
bound to slump and get soft again. Go into it with the
idea thatyou willnever relax. So important alwaysto try!
Theykeep going back to the skeleton again. All this de-
terminationand effort is your skeleton; and your body is
thenice kind lovingrelations withpeople, and the beauty
of life. That is plentysoft enoughWithoutthe satin stuffy
things.I wonder what I thoughtI was here for, anyway!
Here’s theremarkablepart: in spite of all theaustere spine
stiffening, right along with that, there’s a blithenessthat
is marvelous. There is a wrackingintensity;but when you
have received it and acknowledged it, they just come
right up—it’s jolly, so jolly and cheerful and vigorous.
Theywrackyou, and at the same time give you strength»
gaily,so gailyyou could crack jokes about it. All thegood
peopleon thisside who preachat you depress you without
giving you strength. That’s the difference. I’ll take my
75
Elimination
struggle now, thankyou. It is hard enough right now. I
don't wonder theyare anxious to come backand tell us. It
must be ghastly to be over there and see the people you
love here sinking down, down, putting off the struggle,
laying up all kinds of trouble (laughs). I’m so puzzled
myself,you see. I’m groping toward activities—Ijust take
all these activities—myold smotherybody, and by taking
it off and standingin my skeleton and feeling the need of
a new body and taking the substance of a new body and
putting it on—why, I’ve created that thing,I've made it
come to pass. Thatis thekind of thingyou do over there.
You do not merelytalk about things;you thinkof themin
substance and create—I don’t know where I’m at, which is‘
substance, which is shadow. Here I am buildingout of this
substance; it’s so much more real than the consciousness I
have every day. All I know is thatthebody is like a yappy
little dog, very insistent about itself. —I’m getting very
tired; it is so hard to get it back to you.—I’lllie stilland re-
view it. I don’t like these records you write. I have my
records here. Theyare just droppingme backin theirim-
polite fashion. (Laughs) I begin to like my body better
when I get near it; I don’t call it names at all. It’s got a little
poisonoak on it, but otherwiseit is not so bad. I’d bepretty
darn sorry to come backand findit wasn’there. You don’t
know how pifllingwords are when you workin substance
instead. Theyshowed me so plainlytheseriatim process in
their symbol. First the physical pain of extracting the
skeleton,thentheremovalof thesmotherythingswithmy
longing and regret for them; then the positive nausea at
76
Elimination
them; then the chill and need of a new body; then the
growing interest in the substance of thought, and in the
eager planningof the details of thenew body. Then came
the knowledge that the new body cannot be built per-
fectly all at once, that you can go on improvingit from
planeto plane.”
In this manner, then, was built our acknowledgement
that elimination was very much an integral factorin the
new job we had undertaken; as much of a job in its way
as “proportion” or “contact,” or the “dead lift,” or the
“stability.”And, it was borne in on us, it also had a definite
technique. Haphazard and rule of thumb would not do.
Naturallywe wanted to know what it was; and its pre-
scriptionwas promised us; but before it could begiven we
must first comprehend an entirely new concept.
77
CHAPTER IX
The Substance of Thought
THE concept we were to understand before we were to
be instructed in a workable technique of elimination
proved to have an importance far beyondthat. Its influ-
ence was to be basic. Once fullyaccepted,as an actuality,
—
or as a provisionalhypothesis— its influencemust per-
meate all that follows.
And now, for the first time we must take theword of
our invisible intelligences for a categorical statement.
Heretofore the philosophyhas been a reasoning and a
reasonable one. Now we must be prepared to accept or
rejectex catbedrautterances; as one would acceptor deny
a traveller’s statement thatin Utopia are beasts withpur-
ple wings. We can believe or not believe, but we shall
have no basis for choice, except our confidence in those
communicating, and the coherence of what they com-
municate.
Yet that is hardly a fair statement. Ordinary physical
science postulates certain hypothesesin order to explain
facts. Said hypothesesare pure assumptions, without an
atom of proof,reasoned out as probable, and adopted pro-
visionallybecause facts fit them. They furnish a taking
off platform.
In thatspirit let themost skepticalof us follow the In-
visibles in theirstatement thatthoughtworks in and on a
definite material substance. ‘
“Withoutfussing about explanations,”theystated em-
78
The Substance of Thought
phatically,“keep in mind substance of thought, definite,e.‘
tangible substance. You know the power of thought in
your world. Now extend, magnify, give a greater scope,
to its actions.The law is the reality of thissubstance, The‘:7
great power thatis in your hands is therecognitionof this,.é
and the setting in action,—settingin chemical action———of?.
the thought substances, which are bound to create ac-{
cording to theirspecies, theirkinds.”
Theyurged us earnestlyto accustom our minds to this
idea, using a varietyof figures to emphasizeit. They told
us thattheworkingsof created life as we know them are
in realityparts of thissubstance workingin different com-
binations.
“You are capable of creating,” they went on. “The
practicalapplication of this in everyday life is to watch
carefully,guard your thoughtchambers.Allow full scope
in all directions until they begin to create undesirable,
draggingor belittlingthings.Then destroythesemisbegot-
ten things without looking at them by flooding them,
overwhelming them withthe raw material for a new and
better structure. At once, without delay, replacethe un-
desirable combination.Repeat thisoperation continuously
whenever barnaclescollect. '
“This confused halting account contains a mighty
formula for growthand beautyof mind.”
That first statement interested me at once, and I pro-
ceeded to sidetrackthediscussion. This generallyhappens
when I beginto ask questions. The Invisiblesseem to have
prepared very carefullywhat theyare trying to get over;
79
The Substance of Thought
and questions mix up theplans. Especiallyas theytend to
attract the translator’s attention and so are likelyto arouse
her storehouse mind, with the attendant danger of color-
ing.
“In order to clarify,” I asked, “Is the sort of work by
way of construction a fiction writer performs actually
dealingwith thistangiblesubstance of thought?”
“Yes,exactly,”repliedtheInvisible,“Onlysuppose you
could breathesomethingmore powerfulinto your charac-
ters and actuallymake them live. Thatwould be thought
from a higher plane.”
That seemed a little too extraordinary, so I went on.
“Assuming that I could do so,” said I, “do I understand
that such entities created from the substance of thought
would be independent beings, with power of even lim-
ited free will, for example?”
“Mysentence was misleading,not satisfactory,”was the
answer. “I am fearful of making misstatements by frag-
mentary revelation. What you create does most certainly
go out; but remember; not unobstructedly. Others are
creating too. It is a very complicated subject.”
“Has the result of this creative thought, this combin-
ing of thought substances, then, an objective reality on
thatside?” I asked.
“Some are so weak they hardly live and move,” ex-
plained the Invisible. “I see all sorts of them. The lowest
kind is thesheerforce kind, thatspends itself like a rocket
and falls dead. It lives only a brief stimulated career.
80
The Substance of Thought
Other kinds of construction, that you build with lots of
flame, and by thinking also with your heart, are self-
sustained and have real life and live on.”
I was still a little fuzzy on the main issue; so I asked a
leading question: “Then it might be possible for a human
being of the highest genius to create such a thing, ‘that
lives on,’ and it might becomeeventuallyan entity with
a free will?”
“No,” said the Invisible. “You are getting ambitious.
It is too difficult and involved to give you a satisfactory
fragment. But we wish we could talk on your ambitious
question. That touches the wonder of immortality. Be
convinced that the flame you utilize in constructive‘:-.
thought_doesnot die. It does go on.”
The Substance of Thought
“There is an envelopingsubstance you can attract and
surround a person with.He cannot feel it and he is power-
less against it in the sense of breaking away from it or
getting out of it or thwarting. . .
I couldn’t understand
what I was puttingon you, and the moment I clamored to
understand I got frightened. It is a great power of some
kind. It seems as if first you are enveloped with it, and
after thatI could magnetizeit withthought.For instance,
havingenvelopedyou withit, I could say: ‘Thissubstance
will gradually seep into you, permeate you, relax your
nervous system.’ And by replenishmentI could keep you
from ever shutting out—being impervious, nerve bound.
In thatcase it would be a healingkind of thing—Ithinkit
is possible to direct it in otherways. First you envelope in
it; and thenyou put any kind of thoughtyou want into it.
It would have to be very carefully handled —
a terrible
power! The strange part is, it looks as thoughI might be
able to smotherevilwithit.
“It is a very powerful thing;you can’t fight against it,
your resistance is almost negative. That part worries me.
There must be some resistance possible in some way;
ther.e’ssome modifying law . . . Perhaps I’d better leave
it today.”
That was all. By this dme I had learned that when a
subjectwas dropped, theabandonmentwas deliberateand
in order to avoid the danger of coloring.The next attack
was by a symbolicexample of actual creation in the sub-
stance of thought.Theyshowed Betty—-or symbolizedin
pictures to her,— a tract of land (representing,perhaps, a
82
The Substance of Thought
field of potential effort and development). Here is her
running.report:
“It’s wilderness work; conquering natural forces,” she
said after some preliminary description, “It is chaotic and
wildand purposeless, great wasted dormant strength,and
I am to do somethingabout it . . .
I am beginningto see
things: flowers and things.
“Itis building,and I don’t understand it . . .
Wait — It’s
too diflicultto tell you . . .
This is very, very hard. Oh, I
feel so helpless. . .
I don’t understandit, it’s too difficult. . . .
“They’retrying to make me know how to go to work
at this continent, and I don’t understand it . . .
It’s the
labor question I can’t understand. I can’t do all the work
there myself, any more than I alone could build this
place. .
.‘ .
It’s a tough nut! . . .
I’ve got to find out about
that,it is big.’All my relations withotherpeople are there
somehow . . . Up to now it’s been solitary.
“VVell,suppose I have a grand big plan, granting that
I’ve had a dream and made a scheme, and called ‘out the
thoughtsubstance; how am I going to form it? . . .
Too
important to get thiswrong . . .
You can’t justsit backand
get labor to do it . . .
But you’d have to! . . .
“I’mmakingit out of myselfsomehow. It feels like hard
physicalwork thatis done by sweat and toil and energy.
It’s like breaking down cells in your body, pouring them
out of you, making a deposit of concrete construction.
Then you rest and accumulatemore force, and then you
make anotherprojectionand deposit of work. . . .
“It isn’t such hard work after all . . .
It becomes a satis-
83
The Substance of Thought
fying function. It is very painful now; almost anguish.
That's the way it goes. It is analogous to physical toil.
Worlds are all built thatway, physicaland spiritual. Get
rid of any idea of ‘Let there be’ stuff. There isn’t any let-
there-beprocess of creation or building.I should say not!
. . . They.put me to work all right! Theysay I’ll get used
to it. . . Theykeep pulling it throughyou, thissubstance,
as throughtheeye of a needle . . .
You transmute it.
“That’s funny,that’s very funny! I’ve made a start on
thatcontinent! I’ve got some work done. I can see it.
“I can’t see why I do it alone. I can’t see why somebody
can’t help . . .
There’ssomethingI’ve got to do first before
I can get help. . . .
What is it?
“It’s much easier now, much easier. I can draw it down
and get hold of it and shape it, and then step outside of it.
Oh, yes, it’s quite nice now. It’s a pleasureto do it now.
“Here’s anotherdiflicultpoint: There are a number of
peoplehanging around me as if theymight help, if I only
knew What to do. I’ve got to figure that out . . .
It looks
more like calling out than hiring labor. Depends on your
abilityto summon, inspire, coagulate, . . .
there’s a bigger
word for it; leadershipidea; an attractingpower witha big
altruistic idea. That’s construction over there: that’s how
you get people to help you.
“It was so hard at the beginningbecauseit served only
individual purpose. It seemed to have been quarried by
brute force for individual purpose. There’s a lot easier
materialI can use when I can rise to obeyingsome law . . .
. 84
The Substance of Thought
Pioneers are necessary; you’ve got to have them;theydo
bigwork just fightingtheir way. . . .
’
“That is progress. The main thingis to get the feeling
of work, hard labor spiritually. It is especially hard as I
am combiningtwo elements; I suffer physicallyfrom the
spiritual effort.
“I never thoughtabout toilover there. Of -course, that’s
the first principle of construction. But how you do toil
spiritually: and if you don't toil; you’re no good. You
render yourself somehow . . .
It’s too new to me; I’ll say it
better next time.
“It seems, vaguely,as if you have to begin on the rock
pile,the hardest kind of work,what correspondsto actual
physicaltoil.You exhaustyourself on it; but as you go on,
learn how, —I hate to use words so foolishly,but I can’t
find others. — As you go on, harmony lifts all the hard
part, and you workjust as hard withoutthesufferingpart
of it.
“My continent was all wild and woolly.I saw it like a
map, saw it big. There were masses of stuff that I knew
were forests, and big wild rivers with snags. It seemed
such a hopelessmass for me alone. I felt so puny. I saw lots
of lovelyflowers. Theysaid: go ahead and make some sort
of plan about it, no matter how poor to start with. That
is your measure. I said: the first thingI’ll do is to shape
myselfup a home site, just one little piece that I can man-
age out of thewilderness.And thenI grunted and groaned
and felt as though I was being torn asunder; and then it
goteasier,and Ifoundthata sort of clearinghad beenmade
85
,
.'.. ,
_._..___., -..___:n,..._.._4.¢¢
The Substance of Thought
in one little comer. On my piece a sort of right-angled
fence was made, an impression of boundary. It surprised
me, I didn’t know I was doing it. It wasn’t an interesting
thingto do; but I had to start somewhere.
“I saw my continent from above as from an airplane, a
chaotic, powerful, untamed thing.”
Thisstrikingfiguretheyleftwithus for some time; and
when next they took up the Substance of Thought the
applicationwas in a direction we are not now prepared to
follow. What we wish to emphasizehere is the help this
concept gives us in visualizing the necessity for elirnin—
atxon.
86
CHAPTER X
The Technique of Elimination
1. ALTITUDEOF MIND.
THIS conception of the Substance of Thought gives us
quite a new pointof Viewas to thenecessityof elimination
in the mental world, as well as in theworld of actionand
the world of material possessions. We agree readilythat
in the latter we ought to pick and choose.and reject. But
the mental world is not so defined. Thoughts are so im—
palpable,so fleeting,thatit is hardlyworthbotheringabout
them. Presentlytheywillvanish of theirown accord; and
nothingwillremain.
But if thoughtsare actual things,more or less enduring;
workingin an actual substance; why then the matter be-
comes too tangibleto be lightlydismissed. We are forced
to some action,immediateand definite, to keep our mental
premises from becoming all cluttered up with undesir-
able thought—forms as unpleasant in atmosphere as any
other garbage or offal. We are eliminating substantial
things—-thingsof substance——in whatever medium.
How to do? Let me repeat a passage before quoted:
“Carefullyguard your thought chambers. Allow full
scope in all directions until theybeginto create undesir-
able, dragging or belittling things. Then destroy these
misbegottenthingswithout looking at them, by flooding
them, overwhelming them with the raw material for a
new and better structure.”
87
The Techniqueof Elimination
Often when we gird up our loins to fight a thingwe
lend it strength by the very opposition put into it. The
floodingout idea is one to get. “It is very like any growth
in theworld,” say they,“Peoplespend theirtime fighting
things,when if theywould onlyspend theirtime growing
they would just naturallyshove these thingsto one side.
There is onlyso much room in a given space. If you grow
and fill it up, everythingautomaticallygives way. That
is theway plants fight.”
Theyelaborated theidea a little further,on anotheroc-
casion, by means of a symbol, as is often theirhabit.
“Thisis it,” said they.“The lower forms of even human
life allow bodilydirt, decay, even vermin; and sanction
them as a necessary part of living. But we know better;
we’ve got beyondthatand willnot tolerate them. But we
are in thesame state spiritually.We allow all these blood-
sucking thoughts, all these waste-matter things to share
our spirits with us, simply because we think theyare a
necessary part of living. But theyare not. As soon as we
are strong enough to cleanse ourselves and keep ourselves
cleansed of them, we can stay on the higher phase as a
matter of course. It is just decent living.
“In keeping physicallyclean we do not worry about
vermin, nor even thinkabout them. VVe get rid of them
simply by living a certain kind of life. They don’t exist
for us. There is no set opposition in them;we simplyact
in a certain way and theyare not. Likewiseit is not a case
of avoiding consciously any specific thoughts. It is an
attitude of mind.”
88
The Technique of Elimination
That is theway I wrote it: but the words were hardly
down on the paper before I was corrected. It must be
rememberedthatBetty, throughwhose mouththewords
came, was lyingblindfolded on my otherside.
“No, theyset me right, ‘altitude’ of mind. It is keeping
yourself on that level, and rememberingall the things
that belongto it and practicingthem.”
2. ATTENTION.
“The whole thingis a matter of Attention. All sorts of
thingsare alwaysswarmingaroundyou as thickas can be, .
but unlessyou give themyour attention, theycan have no 3
point of contact with you. Anythingyou give your at-
The Techniqueof Elimination
“They’renot askingme to give up all the lime dinky—
dinks I have to do,” said Betty at one time. “They don’t
care what we do, it’s how we do it.”
“The thingyou do does not matter,” theyagreed. ‘-‘If
it is humanlydesirable to cut up bitsof paper or do any-
thingsmallandsilly,go ahead and do it in themost eflicient
way you know how; but in doing it keep full sail ahead.
The trouble withyou is you try to haul down your sails
and use them as floor cloths. You put draghooks in your
spiritualpart, too. It is out of all proportion, it’s thewrong
.
way round;it’s a nuisance. Thatis how you damageyour-
selves: not by the thingsyou do but by the way you do
them.Why hitch up a great bigpowerful machine
The Techniqueof Elimination
“Everythingyou turn Attention to, you spend on; pay a
tax on. You go in for lots and.lots of little things.It is like
having all your fortune in five and ten cent pieces. You
ought to have more beautyof proportion to it. Thatis not
saying the five and ten cent pieces are not all right: the
world is full of interesting little things.Spend as much as 2.‘
as you want on them, don’t stint yourself on them in the 3
least; but first you must have the big thingsassured. Get 3
your proportions and thensee what you can afford in the
way of little things. It is just a case of what you can
afford.”
“Theyshow me the bigthingsand the little things,the
bigthingsand thelittle things,over and over,” said Betty,
“Imustn’t cut up all thebigthingsinto little things.That’s
the freedom thatis ahead. First be rich and generous with
the bigthings,thenplaywiththelittle things.
“Theyshow it to me in so many different ways. Now
they are making confetti out of some such beautiful
material, and you lose all thelovelydesign. . . .
It’s such a
pity! I long to piece it togetheragain. . .
.”
“Oh, theyjustmade a terriblepictureof the tax-paying
thing.. . .
I know what hell is; it’s beingforced to look at
mistakes! Oh!
“You see this tax business . . .
Oh, dear! (distress) Pm
trying to tell you about it, but I am so miserable! They
just drew out my life blood, a little bit from each thingI
am, a little bitfrom eachthingI do. . . .
Horrible! I won’t
forget that! . . . Bloodsuckinglittle things.”
“Now we show you the condition,” they concluded,
91
The Techniqueof Elimination
“take hold of it. Construct your plan of action.Take hold
withboldness. Fortify against yourself, your weaker self.
Breathelife,determination,enthusiasminto thisplan.Hold
your forces cleanly vibrant, not enervated with diluting
thoughts. The main danger is apt to be loss of stamina.
Maintain your vigor. ¥_our_gaugeo_fstrengthis your con-
E‘?Il§r.%t.i_9.11.on your Sparkof .¢n1i8h.t.¢n!11.6I.1t-Fan it”'1f1't‘<??
flame. That is what you work with. You cannot let that
die» or Smoulden 1.<£e£..,f9nniI3g_iF5_..th3P._.5P3E1§ is.->:2I1£
CHAPTER XI
Do It Now!
THE customary trend, in the great majority of such ex-
periments as ours,.is toward eitherstraight spiritualismor
the development of so-called “psychic powers.” But in
our case both these aspects were ignored. Basically our;
effort was to be directed, theytold us, toward an awaken-ii
ing of consciousness. “The nature of it,” said they,“is the
abolition of barriers, the breaking down of the walls
obstructing spiritual vision.” They had no time for won-
ders or personalidentifications.Certain “psychicpowers”
might develop; but if so, theywould be as incidental to
the main job. So pointed was this refusal to concern us
withwhat, after all, is themost natural of curiosities, that
I broke throughthe programmed trend to ask a question;
and, what was even more unusual, I got a reply.
“Are merely personal communications deterrent to
your scheme?” I asked.
“They only develop a certain futility,if continuous,”
was the reply. “The conditions on both sides are so
inexplicablethatsatisfactorycommunicationseems some-
times to decrease instead of progress, owingto discourage-
ment, or dissipation——scattering——ofconcentrationon real-
ly important subjects. There is great diflicultyat best.
Discretion must be used, and it must be in the hands of
masters, experts. Much trouble and muddlingresults from
indiscriminatecommunication.”
93
Do It Now!
All this was taking place, you will remember,during
thewave of popularinterest in psychicsjustafter theclose
of the war. This, our Invisibles acknowledged,was help-
ful, but its aspects were not entirelysatisfactory.
“There is too much emphasis on the ‘Spirit’ aspect,”
theytold us, “and too little on the individual application
of whatit all means. Thereis too much interest in themere
factthatfriendsstilllive about us; overlookingwhat they
come to tell us. Your own growthis what matters. We
cannot hope to touch each otheroften; any more thancan
any friendslivingin differentplaces.The thingthatcounts
is our dailyaspiration.”
“The point is that the natural tendency is to seek
psychic powers ratherthanpracticehuman living. There
has been an over-balance of attention on mere personal
identification,which is necessary if balanced by stability
and direction of effort toward spiritualperception. Other-
wise, if spiritual perception is not developed, nothingcan
be given after identification is established. Do you see
more clearlythepracticalapplicationof our instructions?”
“Your cautious skepticism dragging back on your in-
tuitive recognition of the truth was your main attitude in
the beginning.A certain attitude of fair play in allowing
us an uninterrupted voice to develop our argument led to
the success of the communication. Fearlessness and con-
fidence in your own power to reject if the communica-
tions becameless convincingalso aided in success, in hap-
py combination with the interest of both of you in
exploration.”
94-
Do It Now]
2.
Satisfactoryand sensible, we thought;as far as it went.
But I had anotherquestion, and it seemed to me legitimate
and natural.
“Agreed as to the importance of all this,” I stated, for
thesake of argument. “Whythehurry? We are supposed
to have all eternity beforeus. Why should we ‘fash’ our-
selves with it now? It takes considerable of a sustained
effort, if it is to amount to anything.It involves a radical
change in the point of view. Life is full. For the average
man, of suflicient maturity to take this"in, routine and
habit are pretty well established. He is fairlywell content
with thingsas theyare. That is his natural life on earth.
On the otherhand thespirituallife is the natural life after
he dies. Why not postpone all this development to what
would seem to be its natural season and environment?”
For once I must have hit upon a vital question. It
brought not merely a reply: it opened up a whole new
subject for most emphatic insistance. And, like all other
cardinal subjects, it was presented to us recurrently, at
odd times, untilit was molded into the main body of the
teaching.
The gist of it was this: that this spiritual quickening,
this conscious contact, must take place at some point in
our evolution. The sooner we attain it, the better. It can
never be entirelypostponedto “its natural season and en-
vironment” (myidea). In one form or another,to one de-
gree or another, every human creature must and does,
95
Do It Now!
during his normal earth life, attain somethingof spiritual
contact. Otherwise he is completely sidetracked; “lost,”
I suppose it might be called, in the old Biblicalsense. That
is most often merely an unconscious function of living.
But if he can get it consciously and voluntarily,it is in-
finitelymore effective.
Furthermore,— and here is the real answer to my ques-
tion — the“naturalseason and environment”is not wholly
in our next state of existence. There are in thisvery earth
life certain facilitiesfor beginning which are lackingin
thenext state of existence. We can beginthen,if we want ,,
to postpone, but it is going to be much harder. Failuretoe:
take advantage of our opportunity here means diflicultyfl
and bitterness later. “Delay,”said theystrikingly,“bears ‘,
compound interest, which you must pay.”
The urgingof thispoint became at times almost frantic.
“Arouse yourself)” they insisted, “It is worth your
greatest e ort. (Tricestarted you cannot choose: you must
take all or nothing.You willget as far as your own yearn-
ings carry you. You must not fail.VVecannot let you now.
We -are mightily and intensely pledged to your success.
All of my strength goes into this plea tonight to arouse
you from your world lethargy.Fix firmly in your mind
the thingsto cling to in times of danger threateningyour
purpose. The rst is grim deterr_nination to succeed; and
thesecond is a gieatheart unger which is thecall of love.
These wil_l__l3€_}’_0L1.lT_§E£s2ngholds.Could I lash you to my
own frenzy of purpose, I would for your own salvation.
We cannot always come with the force of this evening,
96
Do It Now!
and I want these words to burn into your soul, to be your
obsession and your ruling passion. A tremendous stimula-
tion it should be to you. Power wanes, and I want to leave
you at my highest pitch of urgency, calling to the deeps
of you to answer the great duty you have been chosen
for.”
Evidentlytheynow appreciated theimportance of giv-
ingus some rationale,some notion of what it was all about.
“I will try to tell you somethingabout the aim of all our
efforts,” we were told a few days later, “Imagineif you
can a world in which truth is one general and something
we will call blindness is the opposing general. These two
simple factors one must choose between. There are no
neutrals. We are franklyfor or against and hold our posi-
tions by the force of the effort we put forth. The great
struggle is not only to conquer our opposing forces, but
to reclaim and form theminto fighters for the truth. It is
more of a game than the mere overcoming, for we are
after the plunder of human souls to salvage, This, of ,,
cw5T11r~sc7youknow,is theA B C of o"ur”_w_ork.
“Now what I want to tell you is thatwhen you come
here it is more diflicultto make the voluntarychoice than
you can imagine. It seems thatyou would unhesitatingly
choose the side of truth, but it will be almost impossible
for you to do so unless you have made yourself an agent
or disciple whileon earth.
“Why are you all so afraid of the truth? Why do you
not look it squarelyin theface? You want samplesof what
I see to illustrateyour fear; well then,'—have you thought
97
Do It Now!
out or taken stock of your first principles? VVhatare your
most valued possessions? Begin there: love, health, time,
etc., to mention a few. Decide which they are and ob-
serve how you are guarding them, cultivating them and
acknowledgingthem your treasures. You throw your
pearls beforeswine. It is theusual procedure.
“What I am trying to lead up to is thatwe are striving
to make you aware in your present life of what you really
desire. The free choice is yours, onlychoose; do not mud-
dle along until unconsciouslyyou have fashioned habits
which are your paste jewels. The time will come when
you must abide for awhile by your choice, and your
treasures will be ashes in your hands.
“This is the best I can do tonight to show you why I
insist on preachingto you. I should like to be able to say
it better,but themain thingin any form is to have it reach
you.”
“Your life is more selective than ours,” theyexplained
another time, “and so you have a greater chance to waste
yourselves,” as well, of course, as a greater chance to
develop ourselves alongcertain specified lines.
“We grievemost over the poor in spirit who close their
hearts to our life. Theyfear effort and struggle, when all
-‘
you have really to fear in your life is blindness and stag-
Do It Now!
trying’! The ones who look black are the hermetically
sealed type who are not trying.” .
I pointed out again that in reality the great bulk of
mankind does not consciouslyreach for spiritual associa-
tion; but that a spontaneous and indirect growth never-
theless does take place.
“it does, slowly,by processes of which we are uncon-
scious,” assented the Invisibles, “but it is conscious utiliza-
tion thatmakes awakened, whole and livingbeingsof us.
“Do not mistake the idea,” they went on. “You can
fight through the incentives of world ambitions,through
all the lower order of things to the attainment, and thus
to the comprehension of the futilityof that attainment.
But it is a slow and laborious method.It is a terrible way,
for there is so much danger of quenching your spark
completely. But still it is a way of fighting through. It is
for one type of mind: some have to go thatway. Egoists
always have to go that way, people undeveloped on the
spiritual side. Thus theygain insight.” '
“Interesting,”put in Betty, “I can see the long line of
world thingsthey accomplish.”
“They are quite useful,” pursued our friends, “if you
grant that that form of life is the most desirable! That’s
the point.”
“I can see the egoists,” said Betty, after a moment,
“Some of them are living in a world of self-delusion,
satisfied because they’ve almost stifled their inner spark
of freedom; others force their way through to a heart of
bitterness;some stay at a curdled stage; in othersa power-
99
Do It Now!
ful kind of chemical separationtakes placein preparation
for the throwingoff of poison. These are the most hope-
ful, —
theyre on their way. . . .
I should say the others
would have to do it over again. They’ll have another
chance; but a harder one. Next time they’llhave the self-
delusion, but the effort will be withoutgratification.. . .
I’m not sure about that.
“Iwonderwhat thecurdled ones willget? I don’tknow.
I’m coming out, and I would like to know, too. I’m so
sorry for them.”
There is generally no necessity of working from the
earth end up instead of from the spiritual contact down.
they agreed "later, though it can be done, and usually is
done. Theprocess is bothslow and imperfect. It is spiritual
contactthatdoes thework in eithercase. Onlybyspiritual‘
contact,howeverslight, does anybodyever get anywhere.
“It is your personal participationin the whole scheme of
things,your heritageof responsibility.Peoplewho do just
that,but in simple faith,get a kind of contact, an uncon-
scious adjustment.It is not of a very high order, not very
activeor productive, but it has a simplekind of guardian-
ship. It is better to struggle and strive, and get the power
of your effort. However, that's where you start, by con-
tact with the spiritual, an outpouring of faith, worship,
demand, indulged in as often as possible. Then, you must
strive to create an image of what you were intended to
be. And these two, even in your most disconnected mo-
ments, should maintain your life. That contact, when
gained, puts all your machineryin motion.”
I00
Do It Now!
“It is strange how we alwayswork from this end” (the
earth end) was Betty’s comment, “The whole of theuni-
verse is written with clues of the other way. That is the
reason for beautyand grandeur; theyare just a clue as to
where to go for your instruction, as to what to do with
life. Instead, we set up our own little standards. Theyare
all right; but we leave out the supreme.” ”
“We can beginthere, and work down throughlaws;-or
we can begindown here and workup throughfailuresand
misfortunes. Some people have to do it that way. The
danger of workingfrom thisend upwardsis thatyou shut
out thepossibilityof lookingbeyondyour own standards.”
Conscious, voluntary spiritual contact, then, simplifies
our problems and speeds us on the road of progress —
and not only in the future life, but also right here and
now. Every day that we delay we are both laying up
trouble for ourselves later on, and diminishingour present
efficiencyand happiness. So from every point of view it
would seem betterto make thestart now.
“
It would besuch a pityif we didn’t,”Betty concluded
a talk on this subject, “so stupid if we didn’t! It is the
differencebetweena very ignorant person and a cultured
and spiritually educated one. I want to be spiritually
educated.”
IOI
CHAPTER XII_
The Spiritual Body
I HAD still anotherquestion, which was considered per-
tment.
“What,” I wanted to know, “are the definite results-
aside from refreshment and expansion—to be expected
from thissystem of spiritual hygiene?”
This evoked another concept of the sort I have called
ex cathedra. Like the substance of thoughtidea: and like
thatit can at least be accepted as workinghypothesis. It
is of therealityof the spiritual body.
There is, of course, nothingnew in thatidea, in and of
itself. Many systems of religion or philosophypostulate
an “etheric,”or “astral,” or “prototype.”
Like most other people I had accepted the notion as a
more or less fancifulsymbol.
But our Invisibles apparently did not take it this way.
Theyspoke of it as an actuality.
That, in brief,is thethesis presented to us in answer to
my question. I asked another.
“I may be literal-minded,” said I, “but I am going to
ask whetherthisspiritual body as you describeit is a sym-
bolical statement meant to convey a concept, or whether
you mean it literallyas you describeit, as a materialthing.”
“It is actually materially that,” returned the Invisible
emphatically,“inits own conditionof healthand develop-
I02
The Spiritual Body .
ment. It is fleshand it is blood. It maynot bethesame kind,
but it is as real, as warm, as livingas your own.”
Afterabout half an hour of silenceone day later, Betty
answered my unspoken question as ‘to what it was all
about. .
“I am trying to perceive and understand bodily sub-
stance over here,” said she. “It is fibreless, but definitely
cellular. . . .
I don’t know what thosewords mean: I don’t
know enough about construction. . . .
I have a definite
body and not a vaporous or fuzzy one either. It is a finer-E
grained substance than flesh. It is not fluid,but mobile.It‘
is more sensitive, more easilyacted upon; and at the samel
time more indestructible, more durable, more self-pro—l
‘
tecting. You would recognizein it a refinementof matter,§
a little understood etheric combination.. . .
I’m getting[ .
dizzy.”
“Abandonin faith,”The Invisible helped her out with
a formula of theirown.
“Fibrous separation,” began Betty, then gasped and
choked.
“Careful,” warned the Invisible.
“It isa ulsin ,livin body urified of or anic frail ,”
she began again, urable, flexible, susceptible of more
powerful action throughsusceptibilityof sense.”
“Now hold fast! Press on! I want to carry this
through!” urged the Invisible.
“The sense radius is greatly extended. It is a definite
entirety, onlyunfinished, like a nucleus open onlyat the
top.”
IO3
The Spiritual Body
“Tetheredby bodilysense, thisis thebest we can do to
give you a perception of the spiritual body,”theInvisible
concluded.
“It is a perfectlygood body,” put in Betty, “but it is so
uncomfortablynew. I’m a little cold, too. It didn’t seem
that way before, but now I seem so unclothed. My flesh
is like a garmentaround me now,”she said, stirringto life,
“I don’t see what I could do withoutit. Before it seemed
all right, so I guess I must be coming back. I know I’m
coming back. I feel fibrous; was thatit?
“I don’t understand cells; that’s just a name to me; but
the other body had definite construction. It seemed to
contain somethingin cells that were a different material,
a different combinationthanwhat was outside thebody.
But I can't tell that very well. I just know I was com-
pletelyorganizedwith a body.
“What material should you say will power is made of?
That is stronger and more durable than matter. It grows
in strength. How is it constructed? Goodness! How
limited science is! It looks so kindergarteny from here!
There are all these different substances, definite sub-
stances, and nobody recognizes them except as abstrac-
tions. They are just as real as theycan be: I see them dis-
tinctly. I wish I had a little better equipment to Work
them. If I knew physical laws scientificallyin my own
world of matter, they say, it would be much easier to
make symbols of thespirituallaw. I am so ignorant and
they have to circumlocute; and that makes it inaccurate
and vague.”
I04.
The Spiritual Body
Atanothertime we were givena glimpseas to theessen-
tial nature of thisspiritualbody. The talk had beenon the
subject of its development.
“So few people have any ground plan,” said the Invis-
ible, “They can’t make any form for you because they
haven’t any. That is what characteris, shape.”
“So many people moving slowlyby,” Betty reported,
“how curious! how very funny! Theylook like a double
kind of image, with faint outlines——like X my pictures.
Theyhave translucent bodies, shadows of bodies, as their
human bodies; and I see them plainlyonly according to
the cores theyhave grown. Oh, poor things! poor things!
It is like an X ray photograph,and some of them are just
gelatinous; they haven’t anything in them; almost no
skeleton. VVhatan awful Way to see people! You do pity
themso! It must be so despairing to be withoutit!
“I call thingsall Wrong, get them all mixed up. I don't
know what to call it,—I called it a skeletonbut it is a shape,
a structure, a body. It is terrible to be withoutit.
“These people are so painful to me; I just suffer for
them;it is like thephysicaltension of watchingparalytics
shuffle, a kind of anguish to your own health;so thatyou
must help. What do I do to help? If everybody could see
how theylook, these poor things.A few pictureslike that
would help people so! Why aren’t you taught this way
when you are young? Why aren’t you shown like thisthe
reality of the spiritual body? Spiritual body to most peo-
ple is just an ecclesiastical term.
“This way of seeing people is like those confusing
105
The Spiritual Body
maps* where they color the water and leave the land
blank. It is reversed. The intangible unfleshed things,
honor, character, confidence, all such things, should be
visualized with a shape, a substance.”
“I should like to ask,” I interposed, “whetherthis is an
illustrativepicturemerely,or is thattheway you normal-
lysee human beingsfrom thatside?”
“That is the way our lenses actually perceive you,”
answered they,“we cannot see you, as you see yourselves,
withoutyour physicaleyes. Our eyes are for theenduring
different kind of body. Our eyes make real to you. the
intangiblequalities which you call spiritual. Only strain-
inglydo we perceive the material.”
“You have said thatyou could see the materialwhen it
was worththe effort,” I reminded them, “Do you do that
by some sort of external mechanism analagous to our
microscope; or by an effort withinyourselves?”
“Very nearly as you make the effort to perceive
spiritually,”said they,“bysympatheticallyenteringyour
environmentaided by memory records. Verybadlysaid.”
“I get a notion,” I resumed, “but once having thus
entered our environment,do you see clearlyphysicalhap-
penings, as a ball rollingacross a floor, for example?”
“The fartheryou get away from a sound, thefainter it
becomes.Some of us can still reshape ourselves actuallyto
participate in your lives. Much can be done by practice
and comprehensionof law. Others have no further desire
to repeat experience, and even fail in communicationbe-
‘Charts.
I06
The Spiritual Body
cause of inabilityto co—operate —— I don't get the words
right—fail in communication because they disregard the
proportionin which you live, thesuperior visibilityof the
flesh, of theworld.”
“Now pleaselet me get backto my emplacement,”said
Betty,who was getting tired.
“Remember there are shapeless people and structural
people,”said theInvisible.
“I’ll never forget the gelatinous lot,” Betty assured
them.
NOTE: See appendix for record of experiments demonstrating_the
actualityof the spiritual body. '
107
CHAPTER XIII
The Spiritual Realm
BEFORE proceeding to take up more in detail the results
we may expect from conscious spiritual contact, let us
pause a moment to fill in a little background for this
spiritual body idea.
Apparently some part of Betty, call it whatever you
like, has left thebody lyingon the couch and has visited
and reported back from otherstates of being. I am pick-
ing my words carefully in order to keep within what
appear to be indisputablefacts.That some part of her has
left the body has been sufficientlyproved to us by her
reports of distant actual physical things of this world. I
say some part of her; and you can call it her clairvoyant
sense; or her acuter consciousness; or herself; or whatever
you please.
The possibilityof this having been proved in verifiable
fashion by her reports of distant and physicalthings,it is
but a step further to postulate that some part of her did
leave her body and enter another level of consciousness.
It does not matter much what the theoryis, provided the
reported experiences fit accepted truth.
In entering this higher level of consciousness she has
been held, up to now, rigidly to two purposes; develop-
ment of accurate reporting ability;and perception of the
specificscheme of truth the Invisibles have determined to
impart. Seemingly,it is not part of their purpose, or at
least of theirpresent purpose, to try to give us knowledge
of their method of life. The idea, the insistent idea, is to
I08
The Spiritual Realm
giveus a knowledgeof whatshould be our own methodof
life. Questions as to conditions over there they answer
sketchilyand a little impatiently.Theytell us we are not
yet enough educated to comprehend fully what they
might tell us, and thatwe would interpret it into our own
earthconcepts. The result would be a distortion: and they
prefer not to distort. Nevertheless,in some directions, we
are slowlygettinga faint conceptionof theirstate of being.
In spite of the experiencethatit is better to let the In-
visibles make their communications in their own way,
without throwingquery across the current, it was some-
times impossibleto resist the temptation to ask questions.
“Was ycsterday’s surmise that Betty was to beginlife
therewhilestilllivingthis,correct?” I asked one day.
“Most assuredly,”replied the Invisible, “There is cer-
tainly truth in it. Do not separate the two lives in your
mind. Realize thatthe power to overlap is yours. The ex-
pansion of her spirit will enable her to live increasingly
our wider freer life, while still retaining her outgrown
body. This body we will utilizeas a funnel to pour into
the world more life-givingperception.” ,
“To what extent will she live your life?” I persisted.
“She willbecomeincreasinglyaware of our life, but not
part of it,” was the reply. “As we have said, she has her
own part to perform. Until released from that she will
not be free to enter our life, as you seem to mean it.”
“I’m aware of it withouttakingpart in it,” put in Betty,
“becauseI’m tethered.”
“She will approach and comprehend our conditions,”
109
The Spiritual Realm
went on the Invisibles, “as she acquires strengthto do so.
There is no limit set, but our conditions must be grown
into, not merelylooked at withany degree of understand-
ing. It is all gradual acquisitionand growth.”
“It is very simple,” said Betty, “I couldn’t understand
anythingunless I’d grown to it, for the reason that I’d
be blind to it: exactlyas a baby is blind to thingsit does
not comprehend, even though it is looking straight at
them.”
“Well, will she be able to see and recognize you?” I
insisted.
“Cannotsay how much profitthere’dbein reproducing
our former selves. Rather it seems more pertinent to let
her feel our companionship until she assumes our form
and recognizesus as we are now,” was the reply.
“That’s what I mean,” said I, “Will she be able to see
your present and real forms before her own death?”
“Impossible!”said the Invisible emphatically,“She will
see the border, — how clearly we cannot yet say; but
further than that it would be too boundless and incom-
prehensible.”
“What do you mean by theborder?”
“The border is thefarthestpoint of explorationpossible
for humans to reach. She may extend it. It is not a definite
boundary.”
“I don’t see any spheres,” said Betty after a moment,
“But an open country withoutroads. You go as far as you
want to make roads for yourself. Some people sit down
and don’t go any fartherbecausetheydon’t want to make
IIO
The Spiritual Realm
roads. They’re there because they want to stay there.
That’s all I know. I’m tired and puzzled and stirred up,
and I’m coming out.”
In the course of this developmentshe made various ex-
cursions, apparently, which had to do solely with the
developmentand on which her commentswere haphazard.
They were not intended to convey anything coherent;
nevertheless I took them down. There are quantities of
them;but I will quote a few almost at random, not with
theexpectationthatthroughthemyou willgain a definite
outlook, but thattheymay afford you glimpses, carrying
inspiration.
“The place seems to be a placeyou enter after certain
eliminations,”she said suddenlyone day, “It doesn’t seem
to matter how small, naked or empty-handedyou are: it’s
just a matter of getting rid of thingsand makinga start. I
can’t get there yet. It’s anplaceof unencumberedyitality
a.tI,<_1.s1ss.i5,,<é.,,,.?’
“It’s theworld in which one deliberatelyand conscious-
ly acts upon substances and forces about which we only
dimly speculate and realize on earth,” she said again, “I
am on a level withthem,same level . . .
I can only feel it
now; everythinghas been put out of focus for me. They
say I mustn’t look at it today.”
“Theyare showingme how to combinethetwo worlds.
This is the thresholdwhere theymeet. I must live on this
level a great deal to get used to it. It’s perfectlyreal, only
I’m not at home, not very comfortable. Theytouched me
then.” -
'
I I I
The Spiritual Realm
“It’s like organ music,” she reported on another occa-
sion, “I don’t hear it exactly,but it is like a rhythmrising
in a great crescendo. I want to rise to it. It’s all swinging.
I should thinkyou could feel it. Funnyto hear music with-
out any sound. It’s dyingaway as throughthebranches of
a tree. It was very beautiful.”
"
“Where are you when you are ‘upthere’?” I asked her
duringone of her earliest experiences.
“I am in a nicer, more comfortable atmospherewhere I
._can see things.”
“What sort of things?”I inquired.
“I see what is important and what is not, mainly,”she
replied. “I onlyfeel conditions, not my friends, yet. I am
in a wonderful atmosphere, and it is teemingwithlife, and
it is plasticsomehow,and thereis such an urge back of me
to go forward withwide open heart and arms.”
“Itis no longera spooky,way-off,celestial sort of state,"
she remarkedsomewhatlater. “Itis a commonplaceevery-
day placeI go into as into my own house. I feel quite at
home now. It is a definite state. Can you imagine air that
is very activeinstead of passive? Sort of like thedifference
between still and boilingwater. It is like that all around
me in this state, just vibrant of life. The state is definite
and recognizable and the same, without changing as it
used to do. It is a very definite place full of a different
atmosphere, a different consciousness than that I live in.
It’s a sense of beingbroken up and diffused from a dense,
fixed substance.”
II2
The Spiritual Realm
“They are giving me a very solemn warning,” Betty
announced one day,“I was going too fast.”
“The only wholesome method of entering our con-
sciousness,” the Invisibles took her up in the changed
voice I learnedto distinguishas not her own report, “is by
careful, the most careful, disassociation with the body.
We guardits nervous reflexes.Irritationof themwould be
very harmful.”
“Allrightnow,”Bettyassured, “Let me go on. . . .
Butl
can’t help getting excited. . . .
I feel as though 1 were
keepingmy hand on the top of my head and holdingmy-
self down. . . .
It’s a much bigger,nicer place.. .
It’s so real
and fascinating,so far above anythingyet. I want to open
my eyes; but theywon’t let me.”
“Blindnessis concentration,”said they.
There came a time at least when, apparently,from a
mere perception of a state of being, she progressed to a
more definite realizationof her spiritual body.
Afterpassinginto thedisassociatedstate and lyingquite
immobilefor some time, she suddenly remarked:
“I don’t mind; I’m not afraid! . . . My bodyis going. I’m
dead; temporarily. . .
I’m in my new body. . . .
I wonder
if I can move? I’ll try . . . Oh, dear, it’s so puzzling! I’m
going through somethingso queer! . . .
I’m struggling
through somethingnew and confusing. . . .
It will clear
up by and bye; it always does. I don’t know what to do.
I’d like to be bold and start off, but I can’t work it. . . .
Guess I’ll keep still and stop struggling. . . . People are
talking over me, fussing over me just the way they do
113
The Spiritual Realm
over a baby, and I haven’t thewit to respond. . . .
I don’t
dare letgo to tell you about it. . . .
I can wanderaround. . . .
I feel more like a wobble-headed baby than ever. . . .
It’s
rather awful to be a baby again! This is a new phase; I
don’t co-ordinate.”
“In time, it takes time,” the Invisiblereassured her.
“Oh, this is going to be great,” she said, “I can just
dimly recognize people. . . Oh, I’ve got to stop. I don’t
know where I am nor what I am.”
“It’s hard at first, we know,”said the Invisible.
“If I could onlystop worrying about it, it would be all
right. How can I!” said Betty.
“Todayis just a start,” said they.
“It worries me to be a baby, when I’m grown up!”
Betty complained, "I’m so baflled and puzzled. It is en-
tirely new. There is no doubt of it; I passed throughmy
earthbabyhoodin
The Spiritual Realm
bettergo now. . . .
Now I’m seepingbackinto myself,and
they’rehelping me.”
At first the mere recognition of this body in the other
consciousness seemed to be all. Then slowlyBetty began
to experiencethe simple first functions of it. ‘
“What a curious methodof progression!” she said sud-
denly,“I don’t walk; that’s a bodilymethod. I press for-
ward, or something,by a kind of intermittent force on my
own volition. I go becauseI want to go. . . .
It is smoother
than spurts; but it is no more continuous than steps are.
When you thinkof it, it is a current of thoughtthatmakes
your steps go; well, here there’s a current of thoughtthat
sends you forward, —
waves of pressure instead of steps.
That is what steps are; only here you don’t have to have
feet for it.
“Now I understand movement. It's the first thingthey
teach when you go over.”
“. . .
But I want so much to practice!”she expostulated
after a pause, “It’s such fun to go around just pulsing
yourself forward that way. Breathingis a lot more dif-
ficult; I don’t quite understand that. It is a much wider
fuller breath, I can see that; not the little, short, panting,
smotherythingwe do now.
“. . .
Now go slowly.Let me follow step by step. This
is fun! Lots of fun!”
“Suppose,”_ suggested the Invisible, “you started ex-
perimentallypulsing yourself around and you knew how
to breathebig,almost achingbreaths-,you’d soon beginto
change, wouldn’t you? You couldn’t stay quite thesame,
115
The Spiritual Realm
could you? After having so many different experiences?
You have had two already.”
“I want to see what happens to me next; leave me
alone,” said Betty. “The next thingI want . . .
These big
almost achingbreathsand this movement combineinto a
feeling as if I were hunting for something.I’m groping
for somethingI want very much; very much. . . .
I want
nourishment.’It is an instinct toward substance of growth.
Curious, thatsort of nourishment;you don’t seem to take
it and give it up again. It is like atoms of power. You add
it to thesum of your substance. I don't know how you do
it. It seems to be a matter of the proportion. Proportions
act on each other in a creative way, the way foods do on
cells. . . . Oh, dear! I don’t know what I’m talkingabout.”
“This goes on quite a while, thiscollectingsubstance,”
interposed the Invisible, “Some day you’ll get yourself
assembled and beginto function.”
“Wouldn’t that be fun!” cried Betty, “Wonder what
I could do? If I could come over and reallyfunction. . . .
Now sight. What is sight?” she speculated. “Our sight is
such a definitely limited thing,like our touch. It has a
radius. If you want to reach farther you move along: if
you want to see farther you move along. It seems to be
here a question of your candle-power,not of any definite
radius (laughs). Horse power for the physical, candle-
power for thespiritual.”
‘.‘Thinkof a room with one candle,” said the Invisible,
“Each one added multiplies the strength of illumination
116
The Spiritual Realm
and enables you to see more, makes more reality visible.
Thinkof peopleaccordingto theircandle—power.”
“NexttimeI’lltry to co-ordinateand see what happens,”
Bettypromised herself. “Iwonderif I could workthemall
together?”
“Go slow,” warned the Invisible.
“This free-movingbody has to be graduallyacquired,
like the writing and direct voice,” the Invisible told us
some weeks later.
“It has wonderful possibilitieswhen I grow accustomed
to it,” added Betty. “I’m not used to thiskind of conscious-
ness. It’s so free and different a feeling;but I’m not enough
settled in it or accustomed to it to start out. It is too new
and feeble and tender. I don’t dare push myself along
yet . . .
I want to keep quiet for a while.
“Pretty soon I’ll start out and radiate more strongly,
pulse myself along. I feel like a baby that must wonder
how peoplemove aroundso fast and surely. I wonder how
theydare do it.
“I can go quite fast when I make myself that channel.
What makes the channel that I’ve got to travel on? . . .
Some force growing within us that overcomes, forces a
way through the surrounding element. Then I renew it
and I go on again; that’s the wave or pulse. But I don’t
move a step unless I grow that impulse. It is all the same
whether it is a wave lengthor a will-power lengthor a
radius of consciousness.
“Are you very fussy about it? Do you want it ex-
plained? Or can I go on and just do it?”
117
The Spiritual Realm
“Go ahead and do it,” said I.
Those excerpts from abundant but scattered records,
as I said, give glimpsesratherthandefinite ideas. It is quite
reasonable,if your mind runs thatway, to take it all sym-
bolically.The statements are not provable, and are cred-
ible only,as any non-provablestatements are credible, on
the faithyou have in the ones who make them. And per-
haps it would be well in this connection to repeat that —
again if your mind runs that way—you may logically
ascribe the source of all this philosophyto the subcon-
scious, the tapping of the universal mind, or anything
beside those whom I call the Invisibles. The real point is.
by whatever mechanism it is produced, here is a philos-
ophy of living that is reasonable, logical, and that bears
results. Such minutiaeas the actual nature of the spiritual
body, or any other little glimpses we may get of the de-
tails of the further consciouness are extras, frills, whose
interpretation does not affect the main argument. Take
What appeals to you.
118
I
CHAPTER XIV
Perception
I.
THE spiritualbody has, as we have said, senses of its own.
They develop with its development. They must not be
sought for themselves.They are not thespecificobject of
our quest; and if theyare made so, their pursuit may be-
come detrimental,or even dangerous, — a form of jag,like
taking drugs.
In a manner, I think,we should also bewareof any am-
bitionto duplicateBetty’s experienceor powers. The idea
is to fit us for a more enriching life right here where we
are.
B_utthede_velopment,,an_dthe“use, in our own environ-
ment, o_l:the__§_p_iritu3l;_s§n_s§§__a§__c_oncornitant to a more
EEJEEX. 5l§.i—.5.ii.E}.1=.*.1.'..‘.l?m.<?£1>:._i§i.==‘__m1_:‘3_<°—
itiE1m3......Lf»5i“73?5[i"W55l:
specifically,theyare has not been described. What the
Invisibles call perception is one of them.That word, too,
like stability,theyhave used for lack of a better.
Its exact nature seems difficult to describe. Possibly it
cannot be readilyunderstood until it is acquired, as is the
case with many other things even in this world. VVhen
first theyapproachedit, theirmain care was to make clear
to us its distinction from intellectual understanding.
“We will not write you much,” said they,almost at the
first, “but we willmake you feel thatwe are therehelping
to discipline and strengthenyour spiritual mind. You in
the world set great store by brains, which are not to be
119
Perception
despised, but which often offer an insurmountableobstacle
to the real mind, which is a kind of spiritual perception,
given to the uneducated sometimes more freely than_t_o
the hidebound, mapped-out, more developed man. This
is why the poor and humble so much oftener communi-
cate withus.”
“I see what is important and what is not, mainly,”you
rememberBetty gave as her first impression of what was
in realitytheworkingof thissense. At anothertime in de-
scribing an experience she gave me indirectly another
glimpse. She was trying to tell how she was meetingpeo-
plein theotherconsciousness.
“I dimly feel people all around me,” she said, “as one
feels people about one in a darkenedroom. Theyare act-
ing on each other chemically—justlike chemical action,
onlyit is spiritual. We laugh at the auras but the idea of
themis quite realin a way. You go near a fire, and thathas
an aura of heat; so has ice, of cold._Withpeopleit extends
just a certain radius around. VVhenpeople approachwith-
in that radius these influences intermingle and at once
that chemical action begins. Barbed wire entanglements
are as nothingcompared to the protection that could be
built in thisway. It is not a selfish protection, either, but
rathera harmonizerthatkills antagonism.”
“I seem to become conscious over here,” she reported
again, “more by this permeating than by the physical
senses of sight and touch—theyseem like mud-turtle sen-
ses. This is a new sense; much finer. There is more com-
prehension about it. Can’t you imagine a state in which,
instead of lookingat thingsor feelingof them,you would
I20
Perception
. . .
looks like growing into them, growing around them.
That’s the reason theydon’t let me see yet. Seeing is an
inferior sense; they want me to develop the other first.
Don’t you see, when we ask them to tell us what it’s like
over there, why it’s so hard to answer?”
This idea of growing into, growing around the thing
perceived, so thatyou are for themoment not onlyaware
of, but a part of the essence of that thing,was often in-
sisted on. Apparentlyit states the process most accurately
of all, though many other analogies give glimpses of its
attributes.
“It is like thetelephoneor wireless,” said the Invisibles
anothertime.“Supposeyou could see througha telephone
— could perceive with your ears as you concentrated on
distant placesyou wished to communicatewith.Does not
thatdimlygive you an idea of entering a wider field? Of
course it would not be sight you would use — but we find
it easier to name one of your senses that most nearlyap-
proaches to perception. You can see only what actually
comes withinthe range of your retina; but supposing you
could see as you telephone,at a distance. Would not this
eliminate your boundaries enormously? You must believe
that these boundaries can be eliminated by means of this
sense; that it can bring a clear sight and sound of reality.
In dealingwithcamate and discamate it can wipe out the
line of division, blend the two. Speech with fellow men
can carry by means of this;when tuned to thisvibrationit
will do far more than the words you utter.
“You have experienced this in knowing what a man
I2I
Perception
reallymeans or is. Thisis thelaw of thatfact,presented to
you to utilize.”
“It’s very hard to get thatinward seeing-over—the—tele-
phone idea,” commented Betty. “Seems to be a direct,
unobstructed sort of force that carries intelligence from
one to the other. Before, it always had to keep going
throughvarious filters and reducers and transformers to
change its force and adapt it. Now it’s going to come
sliding over! But you’ve got to stay up there, above the
earthlysenses. If you get back into your senses, it’s going
to go right over your head.”
“See if I get a glimpse,” I interposed. “As I understand
it, in order to get this,a man has first of all to rise to your
level.”
“The level above your consciousness; not our level,”
disclaimed the Invisible.
“They're hunting to find concrete cases,” said Betty.
“It seems to be in the army, or perhaps in Africa—
your
dealing with some of the men; how you know when to
jump them,and when to go light on the offense. It seems
to be a matter of theamount of integritytheycan register
on thesilentguage — it’s very hard to say. . . .
Thatis what
you feel a man’s integrityby,no matter what he says; and
makes you doubt another no matter what he does. That
is an exampleof thisnew sense.”
“We don’t want to confuse you too much today with
elaborate explanations,” warned the Invisible. “You are
always so eager. Concentrate and economize your atten-
I22
.1-..L..4.....n_.,¢; _ - A.-. .4-»
Perception
tion on a single aspect until enough of it comes to you
throughthis sense to explain itself.” '
“You see,” interposed Betty, “theygive you an idea,
and you can thinkabout it a little, and then all the time
you are not thinkingabout it, it is fillingout. It is a lot
easier than a lot of little discussions.” '
“When you say something to a person,” they con
tinued, “is it the words that actuallyinfluencehim, or is
it the current your thought travels on, the force that
comes out of you and takes it to him? Some people’swords
mean so little, and the same words from other people
mean so much. That is an example of a dilutedform.”
“IfWhileyou are talkingto him,”Bettytookit up, “you
can unbatten your hatches or just get above your senses,
tapithisthing,you can say all kinds of thingssilentlyto
him. He will know thatyou like him or sympathizewith
him or want to upholdhim in what he is doing. I told you
how when We meet over here we minglein some sort of
way. That is how sometimes we can mingle here. When
in the world we catch each other’s eyes and laughat the
same joke is a simple example. It is the opposite of knock-
ing your shells togetherlike two old tortoises meeting.”
“It isn’t very clear yet,” confessed the Invisible, “but
never mind about your clarity of perception of it. That
necessarilycomes after you have maintained conditions
for a time long enough to establish it.”
Before leavingthissubjectof perception one more point
must be emphasized: the necessity for acquiringits use,
not merely in the secondary state which Betty used for
123
Perception
experimentation,but in full possession of our normal con-
seiousness.
“Each thingI acquire, like perception,” stated Betty,
“I have to bring down with me with great effort; and I
have to naturalize it, transplant it, so that it becomes an
earthful thing.I have to arrange so that I don't have to
get into any supernaturalstate to perceive and use it.”
“We are so anxious to make an impression on you with
this idea,” added the Invisible, “that we will give you
fnothingelse today.‘1f£i;cepti__o_nis not to occur merely in a
gsolitaryor trance-likecondition;it is to enter your every-
ékdayworkadayworld as soon as possible.”
2.
An excellent example of the working of this spiritual
sense in everyday life is the way a creative artist goes at
his job. How does he get his basic idea? If he is a man of
insight, he willfreelyacknowledgethatit is not by work-
ing his intellect. That comes later; when he assembles and
arranges his materials. But theinceptionis somethingdif-
ferent. Thingscome to him.
Hismethodof encouragingthingsto come to him varies
accordingto his temperament. He may get them through
an associationwithnature. Or throughlisteningto music.
Or fromstaringat a blankwall. Or he wakes up withthem
after a good night’s sleep. A basic idea —
or inspiration;
onlyI am afraid of thatword's connotations—
must derive
124
Perception
from this subconscious source. If it is an intellect thing;
synthesized;constructed; thenyou have your hackwriter
for the “pulps,” or your mill—run painter of kind-faced
cows or what-not, or your tin—pan-alley maker of tunes.
The same principleapplies withthe inventor; withthe .
research scientist; with the creative business man. Such a
man studies his problem intellectually; he assembles as
much backgroundas possible. In otherwords, he gets to-
getherhis materials. Sometimes—-
perhaps most often — he
worries away at themwithhis intellectual teeth. But only
rarely does he “figure out” a solution to anythingthatis '
new in a creative sense. That comes to him “in a flash”;
and often when he is absorbed in somethingtrivial and A
unrelated—likeshaving.If you questionhim, he willprob-
ably say he had a hunch; a bright idea struck him all at
once. But he did not actuallythinkit out. Afterwards he
will, undoubtedly,thinkout the details. That is what the
intellect is for.
This is inspiration. According to the Invisibles it is a
workingof perception; in theirdefinitionone of thesenses
of the spiritual body. There are other routes by which it
may reach one. But theyare cruder, less reliable, and may
in certain circumstances becomeactuallydangerous. Per-
ception can be developed, with security. It will then al-
ways direct dependably.
Its workingis most clearlydescribablein creative work,
but its usefulness appliesto all problemsof life. When we ‘
are hopelessly confused and no amount of study brings a 1
solution, if then we but still our thoughtsand listen, we
1 2 5
Perception
willinstantlyknow in our heart of hearts what course to
4
follow. And the facultythatspeaks to us then is percep-
\ tion.
Naturallya deliberateand conscious use of thissense is
thesurest. Nevertheless,in even theman who is the least
bitdeveloped,it is alwaysto some extent in action.Gener-
allyhe is unaware of it; or perhaps he ignores it as a “mere
emotional reaction,” if he is of the intellectual type. But
it is capable of dependenceas practicalguidance.
“Considertheuse of your body.” said theInvisibles. “It
tells you when you are hungry,and when you are thirsty,
and when you are hot or cold and also what to do to
remedyit. Your physicalsenses take you throughphysical
life pretty well.
“In thesame way your spiritual sense, once developed,
has a hunger for service, a thirst for harmony,a percep-
tion of the heat and cold of human hearts. And it auto-
maticallyfulfills its function of giving and maintaining
spiritual life, just as the physicalsenses automaticallyful-
fill theirfunctions.”
“Thespiritualsense,” theywent on later, “is our model-
lingsense. It dictates our needs for rounded, constructive,
progressive existence, just as our appetites, when unper-
verted, dictate the needs of our bodies. If you leave that ‘
side of you undevelopedyou get out of shape; you lose the
power of harmonizing.You have no instinct by which to
apprehend your needs; you grasp almost at random; your
beingbecomesdiffused, scattered, instead of whole. Your
126
Perception
component parts are pulling at random, instead of to-
gether as a good team should.
“It is like a pharrnacist’sshop: there are all kinds of
spiritual ingredients. If you mix them in the proper pro-
portion, theybeginworking;withoutthatmixingtheydo
not work. There is truth in them, yes; but they do not
work becausetheydo not bearthe right relation, possess
the proper proportion, the right mixture.”
At best we use this faculty in a spasmodic and frag-
mentary manner. But eventually, we were told, in the
longlast of evolution,-all of life willbe brought withinits
control!
An animal dwells in his equipmentof instinct,sensation,
emotion and habit; with fragmentaryins ursions into an
adumbrated faculty of reason. Man uses these also; but
he has moved thecenter of his beingmore into the mental
field, so that, as he develops, more and more intellect
dominates his life.
Perception
mally,without forcing, without strain, we may astonish
ourselves. Mistakes? Of course! But, the Invisible: per-
tinentlyreminded us, what is our batting average of cor-
rect decisions of pure intellect?
128
CHAPTER XV
Impetus
I.
THE force that carries you along they called impetus.
I_r_npetus you originatewithinyourself. It is based on desire.
You get nowhere at all unless you desire. You do "not
move your little fingerunless you have a definite wish to
do so; you do not swallow, look, shift position, speak,
understand, perform any activitywhatever, physical or
mental, unless you have first sent out from withinyourself
a self-originated impulse that starts the machinery.The
force used, the mechanism employed may be altogether
an outside thing.It is possiblefor a child’s hand on a lever
to accomplish mighty results. But the origin of it all is
desire for something,on the part of one man or many.
That is the thing that IS born within the human being,
mysteriously,out of nothing.
Now according to this philosophyevery desire, when
it is a definite outgoing desire, produces an impetus. This
is true whether or not thatdesire produces any apparent
effect. Before it can result in actionit may be inhibited,or
it may encounter opposingforces thatnullify it. But in the
substance of thought—
an idea we have examined —
an
impetus is produced thatproceeds on in its own direction
and accordingto its own laws untilits force is exhausted
or until it is destroyed or deflected by otherinfluences.It
might be likened to a child’s mechanical toy that runs
when you place it on the floor, until the power of its
129
aunasv"
.
..«.,.
.u..-nw«.
..
Impetus
mainspringis exhausted: or to theripplesfrom a stone cast
into water. The strengthand vitality of thatimpetus de-
pend on the intensity and vitality of the desire and the
clarityof theperception.
That proposition, then, is simple enough in its initial
statement. In its ultimate results it becomes complicated
beyond present human understanding. The -billions of
crosscurrents thus set up of impetuses, old and nearly
spent or new and vigorous; feeble in their inception or
powerful; solitary or united; running with or counter to
one another,make for a bewilderingtangle.The ultimate
effect is probablyunder some law, but thatlaw we do not
at present know. Still,it is not difiicultto visualizethe rise
and fall of movements, ideals, ambitions, and the fate of
dynastiesand races if we thinkof theimpetuses great and
small started on their way by the desires great and small,
collective and individual, earnest or ephemeral that arise
in thebreasts of men.
3.
Each person has his own individual spiritual impetus
which he makes from whatever genuine aspirations and
desires he may possess. “The_yv_ill”theytold us, trying to
define this out-reachingdesire that results in impetus, “is 1
separate from either the mind or the brain. It is the driv-pi
ing force of the being, that makes you decide for or}
against. It is what you build with. It is the conscious partf
of your soul. Will is a poor name for it, but we have no‘
130
Impetus
better. You measure growth against it as you measure a
child backed against a door. It is like a number you are
labelled with, what you amount to, your measure.” By
thisinner and individualthing,thatis yours personallyand
can be set in motion by no one else, you build your per-
sonal impetus. “¥o_11__get’_A
yourself a certain individual
power_formula: it produces a certain result. That is im-
petus. Unless somethinghappens to stop that impetus or
deflectit, it willcarry you along its appointed route until
its force is spent.”
V
Thus a very large percentage of your present life is
made up of unspent impetus brought into being by the
desires of your past life. Only a small percent is fresh im-
petus. In thatfashion you are increasinglya slave of your
past, unless by new and strong desire you create new im-
petus thatshall override theold.
“But,” say they,“youcan change the formula you have
made for yourself. The development quality it can put
forth in new impetus is exactlyaccordingto the inspira-
tion withwhich you combineit.”
3.
A
Therein lies man’s control over what he calls destiny.
,/ “Destiny,”they define it, “is the spending of impetus
'\_i1narrested by spiritual consciousness.”
This was rathertoo condensed a statement to be readily
understood. _
“Most people,” they went on, “travel along logical
I31
Impetus
routes of action, on half spent impetus. Unless deflected
bysome effort of thespiritualconsciousness theycontinue
to thelogical end of thatimpetus. To thatextent theyare
destined to a certain thing.”
“I will explain that,” put in Betty, as often happened
when I was puzzled,“Most peoplewalkalone, not coupled
to any divine contact, travellingon impetus. Theycollect
and set in motion certain qualities.These run theircourses
to their natural conclusions, good or bad. They are like
machinerythat runs until the gasoline gives out; that is,
theimpetus. Theyare chug-chugging all around us, some
nearly run down, some just standing. You can see just
where theyare going if let alone. On the other hand, if
you can apply the complementaryforce—which is divine
regulation, or inspiration, or consciousness,—
you can
check that machineryand turn it in quite another direc-
tion. Or you can keep it going in its direction, without
running down. That’s where your selective powers come
in.
“Itis very nice. In thatway you can help otherpeople.
All Fate, Kismet,Allah’s will-be-done,is just this passive
spending of impetus. . . .
It looks as though one larger
more vitalized contact could veto another . . .
It is very
complicatedin people’slives.”
Thatis not all of destiny,all of free willby a great deal.
The subject is too complicatedto go furtherwith.But it
is a glimpse: and it shows how man can master his destiny
by capturing his soul; and points how we might help
others.
132
CHAPTER XVI
Constructive Prayer
THEinception,and theconstant revision of one’s impetus,
is one of the important jobs in life. We are broadcasting
even with our most secret thoughts and desires. We are
accountable for what we send out. Our desire does not
die in our breasts. It goes out as something we have
launched, to run straight ahead on its appointed course
until the force of its projection is exhausted, or until it
meets a more powerful or deflectingforce. It may be go-
ing and fulfillingits destiny long after we have forgotten
it. That is part of our responsibility:to send out, as far as
human frailtywill permit, only Wholesome impetus into
the intricate crosscurrents of world life.
At that point we touch the subject of individual re-
sponsibility,into which we will go more fullywhen cer-
tain other needed concepts are attained. For the moment
we willleave it.
Now of course impetus is beingstarted all about us at
every split second of the day. It is part of the automatic
function of life, just as is spiritual contact. Without the
one there can be no movement, no actionin the world at
all: without the other there could be no continued good
thing.They must function, just as the heart must func-
tion, or life ceases. But thatis not to say thatin thepresent
state of thingstheyfunction easilyor well, nor thatthey
cannot to greater advantage be directed consciously. We
133
Constructive Prayer
have seen that,as respects spiritual contact, our perform-
ance is ineflicient.As respects the production of impetus,
also, our sources are haphazard.
The deliberate dailyproduction of individual impetus
comes, as we have hinted, from the individual “formula”;
which we can take to mean, roughly,the character. This
varies with each. One may lack stability,another must
overcome inertia, and so on. The formula carried into
practice produces impetus. If this impetus is to be con-
scious and intelligent,we must know our lacksand govern
ourselves accordingly.That much, I think,is clear. But
how are we to arrive at an adequate knowledge of these
lacksand an effective desire to fillthem?
In discussing that we are fairly forced to use an ec-
clesiasticalword whose connotationshave so thicklyover-'
spread themeaningwe wish to convey as to make it almost
useless. Yet there is no other. I refer to the word prayer.
Please discard from your mind all stilted conventional
meaningit may have for you now. It has becomelargely,
and to many, a childhoodceremony almost abandoned as
life engulfs us; to others an unconvincingact; a petition
for favors from an overlord; a ritual; a paean of personal
praise. Forget all that. Start over again without precon-
ception. Let the Invisibles have the word “free and un-
sullied,” as theyexpressed it to the authorof The Seven
Purposesx
Next, as the first contribution to its meaning,assembled“
under it all that you have come to understand as the
process of seeking spiritual contact and permeation. This
134-
Constructive Prayer
process constitutes the first step in all constructive prayer.
“In thatphase,”said the Invisible, “it is an assemblingand
offering up of your best self for union with the Over-
strength.”Onlywhen thishas been made habitualare we“
ready to proceed further.
“It is onlyby thestrengthof this contact thatyou gain
courage for the second step; to plumb the depths and
know yourself. It is the inspiration that quickens your
perception. You cannot plunge all at once into a knowl-
edge of your spiritual lacks, because that must come
gradually.”
“These two levels of prayer we must learn to perceive
and use before theycan give us more,” Betty ended.
When the subject of prayer was first presented to us
as such, the first step — the spiritual contact step ——
was
re~expressed in terms which it might be illuminatingta
quote here. In essence, theytold us, it is merelya spiritual "1,
association approached with human warmth of desire;
Constructive Prayer
back. Deliciouslyfree! I want to start out that way, too,
withmy head thrownback,in faith,facingtheunknown!
I want to be poised like that,too!”
That was all for the first day. A little later the subject
was taken up again, and theyrepeated in thisnew termin-
ology the old warning against the enfeeblingtype of re-
laxation, the letting go all holds and waiting to be lifted
up. It cannot be repeated too often.
[' “Weak prayer does not fulfill its part because it just
1 calls down, instead of rising to meet. This is still all part
i of the chemistry of prayer. You can conceive a spiritual
‘! being by the strength of your direct desire for contact.
‘:\You do it by calling for spiritual companionship or as-
isociation. It amounts to very little unless somethingarises
;within you to enlarge your capacity to receive it and
blendwithit. Somethingwithinyou must rise continually
{to meet the spiritual association. You cannot just wait for
lit to come to you.”
So much for the first step of constructive prayer: that
of spiritual contact a_nd_perrneation,the reachingfor the
heights. Now let us consider furtherwhat was told us of
the second: thatof plumbingthedepths.
—'
“Prayer is the projection of your spiritual being,heart
and soul,” theydefined, “It is the conscious assemblingof
your highest self. In offering up the spirit, you lay bare
your own soul. It is the only way you can recognizeyour
own proportions. You face the sum total of yourself. It
pierces all your coverings and trappings as an X ray
pierces the body. There is a terrible reality to it. This is
136
Constructive Prayer
its zone of action,thiscompulsion_tg_f_a_c§_yourfli1._1S§d5aul.
“From dread of this people use only the surface of
Constructive Prayer
“so eager for released action; and I didn’t know why it
was held back. It was held back for today’s perception of
the depthof self-truth.
“. . .
That’s queer! I can’t get to the top again at all!
. . . Theysay, untilI can visualizemy needs, I am bogged
down. . . .
There is no hurrying over this;got to stay right
here untilI can see my naked soul and start my impetus. I
can’t start it until I see myself,my fragmentaryself. It is
very hard to do; I am used to myself.”
“Then this constructivepgrayergconsistsin the visualiz-
.=..—,...._.c \...«~——--
ing of spiritual needs?” I asked. \_i
“No,” was thereply.“It’s a visualizing“of spirituallacks
ratherhthanneeds.” T’
“If you need a thing,you lack it.” I objected to the
curious distinction.
“You don’t gain thesame impetus from one as from the
other,” they answered. “A mere need does not create a
vacuum that sucks in; it doesn’t set the same force in
action.”
“Distinctionstillnot clear,”said I, glimpsingthatit was
an effort to get a vital word.
“A lack looks like a hole,” Betty helped us, “a sort of
physicalthingthatyou fillup witha rush, once you create
it by recognition. A need is a kind of mentallydesirable
thing—
not a bigelemental thing.The creation by visual-
ization or recognition of spiritual lacks is the depth we
talked of.”
/’ Constructive prayer, then, considered in its entirety,
lmakesus aware of these lacks.From thisawareness springs
I38
Constructive Prayer
,/ that defined, understanding impetus which thencefor-
ward must guide our destiny.
In conclusionit might be inspiring to quote an example
of approach to constructive prayer as reported one day
by Betty.
“It’s a beautifulform, a grand rhythm. In utter obliv-
CHAPTER XVII
Summary
1.
WE have at last come to a breathingspace or pause before
taking up the second aspect of our teaching by the In-
visibles. All that has gone before, you have noticed, has
dealt withour relations to ourselves. Next we were called
upon to examine our relationswiththeworld outside our-
selves. Before we do so it might be a good idea to sum-
marizein very brief review. '
2.
We are out of proportion: thespiritual and thematerial
do not bearto each othertheharmonious proportion. This
is a materialistic age. We are not in possession of the full-
ness of life.
We gain our proper proportions by achievingspiritual a
contact and stabilizingit, in the sense that it becomes a
function of our dailylives, like eating or sleeping.
This stabilizedwider consciousness graduallydevelops
in us a spiritual body whose senses advise us of our needs.
We gain our impetus to attain this wider consciousness
from desire. Desire is best regulated by thissame habitual
spiritual association. By the strength of this contact we
quickenand develop a perception which gives us strength
14.0
Summary
and courage of ourselves and discernment of our spiritual
lacks,the thingswe haven’t got; as distinct from spiritual
needs, theordinary sustenance of life.
i
The recognitionof these lacksbrings an understanding
desire for wholeness. From this enlightened desire comes
our individualimpetus.
3.
Supplementing this skeleton of the teaching itself, it
might be as well to pass on two bits of practicaladvice
givenus by theInvisibles.
The first of theseis thatas soon as we have got the ma-
chinery workingwe should not continue to emphasizeits
details. The small complicated devices-relaxation,elim~
ination, aspiration, etc. —- should be simplified into an
attitude’,of mind.
i A"
“All thisshould becomea subordinate machinery,like a
digestive tract. You direct it from above by a selection of
what is to feed it. Up to this point all has been spiritually
organic, making somethingthatwill function. You need
to pay justtheattention to it to keep it runningsmoothly.
You should now use your perception or spiritual intelli-
gence. Blend your ideas. Instead of being little pointed
efforts, little mountainpeak things,rub them togetherin
a mass, without detail. It makes a shaded band colored
withtheidea of prayer and capacitywhich generates the
force to act on your physicalworld. That shaded band is j
the coloringof your mind; but do not particularizeon it. ‘
14.1
Summary
Forget thetechnique of it, and have it merelyas thecolor-
ing of your thought. By making this a coloring of the
mind you do it withoutthinkingof how you do it. Your
attention is freed for somethingelse.”
Nevertheless it should not be forgotten for a moment
that once in a while first steps must be consciously re-
peated. They should by now be more or less automatic,
but sometimes theyneed thought. The steps of our feet
are largely automatic;yet we take thought to lift them
high when we cross ploughed land.
a
"The second pointer is, that if we start in on this at all,
we are enlisted for the duration. We cannot make up our
minds that we have done enough, and quit.
“It is a funny thing,”observed Betty, apropos of this,
“but you can’t do that, you’ve got to keep going when
once you start. It’s as if you were to decide that your
heart had beatlong enough, and you thoughtyou’d stop
it awhile.”
And we must continually “make it so”; constantly
animate,vitalizewhat we have acquired.We alwayscome
back to that. Unless it is alive it is not valuable even as a
museum specimen.
“Keep fresh and vital what you have alreadyreceived,”
the Invisibles told us, “Do not let it lapse to a mere col-
lector’s interest. Your success is measured solely by your
vitalizirzg quality. The attitude of mind in keeping vital-
ized is to keep moving, not to let yourself get static . .
.”
And Betty added: “Theyshowed a picture, a bird over a
1 4.2
Summary
blue ocean, but he did not try to lighton it, to stop moving
——he knew better.”
4.
Rounding out the whole is an aspect of promise and
hope.
The spiritual body, we are assured, is indestructible.
It may be, as Betty saw it, crippled, embryonic, incom-
plete; but such as it is, it endures. Furthermore, whatever
we may add to it in the way of development is an ever-
lastingpossession.We maygo our ways deliberatelyblind,
deliberatelyneglectful,wilfullyprocrastinating,self cen-
tered, even antagonistic.These thingsmay form over our
real selves a crust that will stop growth.They may act
on us, and on others about us, in unguessed ways through
longvistas of time. Their effects we willhave to liquidate,
withcompoundinterest. Their iron construction we will
have to dissolve before again we can expand. But they
cannot destroy. Whatever of the spiritual body is in our-
selves —
even in crudest embryo — is ours forever, on
which sometime or other, when we have resolved our-
selves free, we shall build.
14-3
PART II
OUR RELATIONS WITH
THE WORLD WITHOUT
CHAPTER XVIII
Levels
WE may define experience, for our present purpose, as
our principal points of contact in our meetings with the
outside world. This experience is the raw material that
life offers; but what we make of it is strictlyup to us. If
we handle it well we make somethingfine, and our ad-
vance is speeded on the road to progress. So it is a good
thingto know how to meet experience.
Furthermore,the degree of our abilityto deal withit is
a pretty good indicator of how far we have already
travelled. For we have by no means all come thesame dis:
tance. In evolutionwe do not advance in company front}.
but string out irregularly like a crowd going to a bal
game.
“I
“You all live togetheron earthat different levels—levels
of consciousness, we mean,” the Invisible expressed this.
“Certain prerogatives pertain to each level of capacity.
Your voluntary capacity,or the level you attain, contains
certain growths, senses or prerogatives peculiar to that
element, altitude, substance or level. This of yours is the
level of dawningperception.”
In the course of our development, they went on, we
progress from one level to another, like going up stairs.
And each step must be lived out to thefull beforewe can
i
go on to the next.
“The onlyway you go from one level to another,”said
they,“is to get your breadthin thislevel. When height has
14-7
Levels
been reached, suflicient breadth in proportion must be
gained. It is like layers. You must grow to the first layer,
fillout all its breadth,before you can lay another over it.
“And when you reach a level, you contain, and are re-
sponsible for, all below thatlevel. Therefore you cannot
skipa grade. If you did not go throughthe whole process,
you could not contain all thelevels belowyou.”
There was a pause while Betty explored.
“I was on a higher level,” she reported at last. “I trav-
elled horizontally,but I seemed to contain sympathetical-
ly, consciously,-all that was below me that I had come
through. I contained them in a curious way, as though I
was responsible for them. They were all part of me in
some humanlymagneticway.”
“The responsibilitiesof each level must be understood,”
said they, “or you are not partakers of the life of that
level.”
This system of levels apparentlyis not confined to life
as we know it. Beyond the range of our ordinary human
consciousness extends anotherregion, likewise with levels
of awareness.
“The highest level there,” they explained, “connects
withthe lowest level here.”
This is the region into which Betty has been led - the
“higher level” of which she speaks. And this is the level
~. which we enter when we reach for spiritual contact. In
fact the Invisible often spoke of contact as “centering
. . 9 '
the consciousness in the level above.”
14.8
Levels
“This meetinggroundof the two consciousnesses is not
only feasible, but desirable; strengtheningto all contigu-
ous life,” said they.“Constantlytry to overrun and merge
at the boundaries.This union of theborderlands is a great
and satisfying achievement.”
-
In thecourse of our development,theywent on, we can
expect to progress farther and farther into these upper
regions. But at first we must be content to establish our-
selves on thethreshold.Earlyin thegame Bettywas warn-
ed against trying to push ahead too far and too fast. The
elevationalreadygained must be made sure of before new
heights are attempted.
“It can no longerbe an upward growth,”said theyone
day, “except as you condense and assimilate each phase
into structure which penetrates to the next range of
vision.”
“That doesn’t make sense,” complained Betty, “but I
know, and theyalways elaborate later. . . . Yes, theysay
theywill.”
“You have been holding your thoughts and aspirations
into a kind of shaft, penetrating,rising above your normal
restricted—self senses,” theycontinued. “Now, having at-
tained a certain degree of light and freedom, you must,
like a tree, beginthe expansion and utilization.But do not
complicate your struggles at present by trying to get a
sequence further than you have attained. Merely occupy
yourself withexpandingto your greatest breadthof acute
cons<':idusness.”
I4-9
Levels
This is onlya glimpseof how evolution proceeds on its
way; but it is a boundary-eliminatingglimpse. First step
up: then expand to occupy the whole area to which that
step has raised you.
150
CHAPTER XIX
Assimilation
1. UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THE tremendous importance of filling out our levels
eflicientlywas brought home to us in a varietyof ways.
At one period, though we continued to sit together, no
spoken teaching was given. I ventured to ask What we
were supposed to be doing.
“You are engaged at present in spiritual absorption of
yourself,”theInvisiblesreplied.
“Could you elaborate?” I suggested.
“There stillremains in you a strongholdof earth inertia
which must be overcome before we can proceed freely
and satisfactorily,”said they.“This barrieris in thenature
of a wall builtof years of despositingweighty thingsthat
should have been disembodied by spiritual application.
Everybody builds this wall. It_ must be disembodied be-
fore we can proceed, or you willbe continuallyreturning
to it. It is a kind of a world dump of unassimilatedexperi-
ences, merelyrecognized mentally,but not lived up to.”
This seemed to me an illuminatingthought as to our
relations with life—that the experiences we encounter
must be lived out and assimilated. If they are not, they
become,as in the case of physicaldigestion, an actual clog
and detriment,a source of spiritual ill—health.Here was an
incentive to meet life squarely,withoutdodging.
151
Assimilation
“I want to ask them how to recognizethese low-order
unvitalized-progress things,”said Betty.’ “Oh, that’s the
searchlight they spoke of a time ago. You keep your
spiritual powers so active that you can illumine earthly
thingsand so discern true character. We can all get it if
we want it.
“You can dimlyfeel how it would go on and on. First
you'd be able to clean up or dispel the simple obvious ob-
structions. There is no particularly unhealthy material.
It is not so much diseased as it is unawakenedor of a lower
order, all this earth material. . . . Wait, this is so vague.
You can dissolveit witha stronginfusionof lifeor spiritual
force so that it isn't so dead and dense. That’s the first
step, theseobvious things.
“Asyou go on — I can’t see very well — but as you go on
you could always be rearranging better and better. . . .
Thatwould be creation. . . .
I’d better not go any farther;
it's too difficult.”
At anothertime theInvisiblesgave us a strikingsymbol
to illustratehow we should go about thisabsorption.
“You must absorb with the spirit all that you call into
being with your attention,” they warned us. “You can-
not leave unabsorbed stufl lying around. You must stay
and fix it.”
“I'm alwaysgoing throughsomethingthatdrags on me
and tries to pull me back,” complained Betty, “or points
out interesting thingsand tries to deflect my attention. It
is diabolically ingenious in knowing my interests and
weaknesses. It is my own unabsorbedself.
152
Assimilation
“Funny,” she continued after a few moments, “they
show me thestatue of Laocoon and thesnakes.
“Your own emanationsand misconceptions,fostered by
an effortless, miasmatic sort of spiritual lassitucle, create
these snakes until they hold you fast. You could absorb
them by spiritual strength; but you don’t. Just as your
blood is oxygenatedand destroys poisons.
“Thus you are held fast by your own misconceptions.
What can be done?
“You must stop thinkingabout the snakes and reach
out, all your attention concentrated on leavingyour body
to the snakes and freeing your spirit. Gradually,after go-
ing over it againand again and again—for you cannot hold
it very long at first — and by persistently renewing the
spiritual contact, graduallythat contact will be so strong
that it will react on the body. Then you will begin to
absorb. The permeation, the transmutation will start.
“The snakes lose their vitality. You are stepping on
them, freeing an arm to pull themofl’. . . .
But if you start
thinkingabout themmuch it livens them up! Your atten-
tion must be kept on the othercontact. Stretch your arms
and make your plan and take care theystay under your
feet.”
2. THE DISSOLVING OF SPIRITUAL FORCE.
We ingest experience as the sustaining nutriment of
life. That nutriment is assimilated as food is assimilated
by the body. By means of it we are empoweredto fillout
153
Assimilation
one level of consciousness so thatwe may rise to thenext.
Unassimilated,it, again like food, is a lump in the throat,
a clog, a detriment, a disturbing thing. In one respect
however, the analogy breaks down. Unlike the automat-
ism of absorptionby digestion, thisprocess may besubject
to intelligence.It goes on, whetherwe realizeit or not, but
it goes on much surer and fasterif we use thatintelligence.
At first glanceit might seem again to strain analogy to
postulate a spiritual gastric juice. And yet the thingwe
have beenreachingfor in what we have called permeation,
or contact, is in a way just that. Over and over, from the
very start, such a concept was impressed on us. At first we
took it as a figure of speech, but later discovered that it
was meant to be taken literally.
“It is a matter—of-fact law,” said Betty positively. “I
don’t see anything‘psychic’ about it. I am just studying
the law; and little by little I am demonstrating.The big-
gest thingyou can study is this,and how much of it you
can take. I lie here and strive accordingto the poor little
rules I have discovered already, and somethinglike slight
chemical change takes place.”
“These forces we call spirit dissolve and enter in if they
have a chance,” she said another time. “They change
the particles and penetrate and establish connection.
That’s what they do to me. It’s so easy to see — and so
hard to tell! The world is full of chemical changes like
that — it’s the same in the spirit world. I’m permeated
now, and you are not. That’s the reason you look so hard
to me. I see so clearlythe action of thisthingI am trying
154-
Assimilation
to understand. I know the secret of it —— it’s the same old
thing: keep in touch, keep it near us all thetime. It works
when we are not thinkingof it if we will onlythinkof it
once in a while. Reach out and touch it, and it stays with
you—that’s the secret. I’m looking at it now, a great big
sea of spirit; and some are wearingdivingsuits and it can-
not touch them,and others are swimmingaround in it and
are so happy.”
This was early in the experience, when these things
were conveyedin simple pictorialforms. Here is another:
“I am pushing with great strength and purpose, tre-
mendous force,” Betty reported. “But it is not destructive
force — constructive force. There is a dense mass before
me; ordinarilyI would say it was impenetrable.I couldn’t
get through.I’d stop where I was. But I can get through
by means of thisspiritual force. It finds the little channels
between and widens them. Yes, I know: it’s the world. I
am going throughwhat looks like theimpervious world of
matter.
“It is very curious how that force works between the
atoms untilit makes a way. It is most interestingto watch
that.Those atoms couldn’t possiblybepackedany tighter,
and there is no room to push them out of the way. But I
start working among the little interstices between them
until I have widened them and made a way through;and
then somehow I absorb the matter. It is like a saturated
solution of matter in spirit; I take up what I have strength
for. Then I come to a stop untilI gain more strength.The’
155
Assimilation
absorbingpower of thespirit transmutes. That is theway
thewhole world will be absorbed some day.”
“Iam graduallygettinghold of thisspiritualsubstance,”
Betty ventured another time. “When you have acquired
a little of it, it seems to have definite uses you can put it to.
That's what they are trying to get over. A consuming
power. Things seem to disappear under it, like ice under
the sun. It seems as though no material thing can stand
long against it. It gives you the feeling that if you had
enough of it, and you were behind an iron or a concrete
door, the thing would — that sounds queer — but it be-
comes so recharged or vitalized thatit seems to have dis-
solved into its component parts. . . .
Could thatbe done to
iron or concrete? . . . Why,it looksthatway! . . .
“This wonderful transmuting, absorbing substance is
what you set in action by spiritual contact. Once set in
action,you cannot stop it. It is bound to act, to consume.
The more faithyou have in it, the more powerful it is. It
would be terriblewere it not used for good. . .
.”
“Oh, well, you could never fullyutilizethis power un-
tilyou had first destroyed all your own earth conventions
and limitations. If they were really destroyed, so they
could not dilutewithdoubt, thenyou could utilizethefull
power of the spirit. That is what it is to be made in the
Image. You see, we really were made in the Image, but
we’ve got to earn, to deserve our heritage.”
“One of themost useful thin s to han onto for s iritual
. . .
3 3 . .
P .
imagination purposes,” supplemented the Invisibles, “is
that dissolving power of spirit on the iron and concrete.
I56
Assimilation
The world is beingcreated over and over again, each time
with a greater and greater spiritual infusion. That is
progress. At last it willabsorbed by thespirit.”
“If you once get thatidea,” Betty concluded, ”you can
start absorbing things. It makes the whole solid world
soluble in spirit. To you it looks as though nothingcould
destroy Mount Diabolo, but from here it seems as though
suflicientspiritual power could actuallydissolve it.
“And far beyond,I can dimly sense the power to put
togetheragain.”
That was an inspiring glimpse, the working over and
over of stubborn material, as a sculptor kneads his clay,
until it becomes through creation and re-creation more
and more capable of expressing the spirit. That, as they
said, is progress; the power to dissolve and put together
again. And it applies, apparently, even to our physical
bodies.
“Spirit dissolves the natural so curiously!” commented
Betty one time. “Its substance seems to have a dematerial-
izing effect on the body—it gets not so solid, more flexi-
ble. It makes it easy to be acted on by the thought. It’s
the first step in something,the preparatory work.”
Several days later in the midst of other work she un-
expectedlyreturned to the subject.
“There must be some definite relation you should have
with your body,” she exclaimed, puzzled. “The outside
alliance is your real life.”
Afterthe usual pausewhen such a point is raised, she
resumed:
157
Assimilation
“I am livingin a body. I must fill the body until it be-
comes just a thin clothingfor the spirit. The bodilyself
is produced by bodilylimitations. As soon as you know
your spiritual self, you can begin absorbingyour bodily
self. You do not destroy thesewalls; you must have them;
theybecome translucent so you can shine throughthem.
Nor is it a developmentof the body,for it does not bring
it upward, but reduces it by the contact of spirit. It is
something of the oil-on—paper idea. That makes paper
translucent. Thus at the last it comes again to relaxingthe
bodilyself, but fillingwiththespiritualself.”
The more we succeed in doing this, the less resistance
there will be to our progress. In her super-physical de-
velopment thiswas symbolizedto Betty.
“Somehow I’ve worn thina dense material that has al-
ways been around me and kept me in a little narrow
space,” she announced one day. “And now I have onlyto
keep on stretching myself and pushing throughthe thin
stufl‘, thevery slight resistance. I can advance throughthis
substance with very little effort, like a tide coming in,
feelingits way up the shore. I can spread thatway, com-
prehending,having contact, advancing. It is endless, just
endless!”
3. THE GENERAL ANSWER.
This is a wonderful, a thrillingpicture. But for most of
us it is undeniablyof the future, at least in its complete-
ness. We must pass throughmany intervening stages be-
158
Assimilation
fore we shall attain such freedom and such power. Never-‘
theless at whatever stage we may be the formula for
advancement remains the same. Experience must be met
Assimilation
provincial, of course. I hadn’t thoughtof that for a long
time. Theyare arousingmy ambitionto travel beyondthe
commonplaceof my ‘home town’.”
“Do not mistake us,” resumed theInvisible, “we do not
worry about your applicationto little necessary things—
it is theunbrokenapplication.That’s thethingthatmakes
you commonplace. If you stop work, even drudgery,
often enough to switch your center of consciousness to
bigspiritual proportions,you can accomplishordinarylife
withoutgetting commonplace.You must get outside of a
thing,always, to recognize it. So keep alternating your
centers of consciousness frequentlyenough to get a proper
proportion.”
I60
CHAPTER XX
Personal Responsibility
SUPPOSE one acknowledgesall this. Still it is conceiv-
able thatone might decide just to let thingsslide.
“Afterall, it is my affair,” one might imagine such a
person saying. “As long as I so conduct myselfas to harm
none of those about me, as long as I live a sociallydecent
life, it is nobody’s business but my own whether I live up
to my opportunities or perce tions, or whether I refer
to postpone my effort. I undepistand fully that thisPpost-
ponementmeans more effort when the time comes; but I
am willingto pay that price for the sake of my present
peace, or enjoyment, or freedom from struggle, or what
not. That is my concern alone.”
But unfortunatelyfor him thisis not true.
We approached the subject indirectly,as was so often
the case. Or, at least, indirectly as far as we were con-
cerned. These Invisiblesseem to keep in mind where they
are going, and refuse to be deflected. I ask a question; one
that interests me, but does not belongto themain scheme,
or is unripe for it. I am answered quite often; but in that
very answer they manage most ingeniously to include
somethingthatfurthers their own discussion.
Thus, one day I had harked backto an old statement —
“your world is more selective than ours” 4 and was try-
ing to get their idea of what our world is meant for,
anyhow.
I61
Personal Responsibility
“Your world is a vast storehouse of all sorts of things
and experiences,” they told me in effect, “and must be
considered, in one aspect as a test of selection.”
“I’m in thisstorehouse,” Betty broke in, “keenlyaware
of the test I am undergoing, and I can’t bring myself to
make a selection. Perhaps I should; but I don’t want to
shut it all out and pick up just a few things.All my in-
stincts are against picking up a few things,just a few to
work with, no! no! no! It’s so full of things,every kind
of an equipment for work, every kind of tool and para-
phernalia.It represents theweight the athletepicksup to
test his strengt .”
Then after an interval: “Now there’sthesame old hor-
ror of a five and ten cent store, cheap horrid little things
thatpeoplespend theirlives in makingand selling. I don’t
want to pickthemup.
“. . .
Oh! I knowwhat I want to do! I want to eliminate
them! That’s nice work! I wouldn’t mind that! That’s
why I didn’t want to pick them up! I want to substitute.
That’s what this world is for; it’s for the substitution of
values: the real for the imitation.”
“Why the imitation in the first place?”I inquired.
There was a considerable pause, and then Betty re-
ported:
“I am taking away some painted toys that someone is
clingingto. I am trying to quicken them,make them see,
make themwant some livingthings.
Personal Responsibility
“Such a mess: I can’t separate it. Some of it is just the
debris of unabsorbed responsibilities,things people have
left clutteringthe world. Lots of it is that.That just com-
plicatesthingsterribly.And some of it is unfinished work,
—very tiresome thatunfinishedwork! — in differentstages
of evolution. People didn’t put strength enough into the
impetus and left it around; it isn’t refuse, like the other,
because it has a start. And then there is more stuff, you
see, and a lot of it is very useful, all kinds of handy little
kinks and knick-knacks,very useful each in its little bit
of a zone of action. But you pass throughthose, like the
phase of children and toys. That is why they speak so
slightinglyof the world as a man speaks of toys; they’ve
passed through that stage. But it is a necessary one in
evolution.You cannot easilyskip a grade; you alwaysmiss
the link if you do.”
“The only object these thingsfulfill,”finished the In-
visible, “is that of children’s toys; theyteach people co-
ordination. It is just thesame as resistance of the air to the
plane; it is somethingto come in contact with. You can-
not overcome nothing.That is what theWorld is for.”
“You say you cannot easilyskip a grade,” said I. “How
about those who die prematurely?”
“Can’t be sure of that,” said Betty. “Guess I’m tired;
gettinga little weak. Theylook likea higher order of half— ,
finished work. . . .
But what happens to their withered
growth?What happens to thingscut short? . . .
There’s a
sadness about that.. . .
It seems like a failurethatsomebody
is responsiblefor. .
.' .
Icannot see how it is remedied. . . .
I63
Personal Responsibility
It is retarding. . . .
I see it like any accident that retards
progress. . . .
It’s too complicated;I’ll have to leave it. . . .
So many thingshappen that are nobody’s fault. . . .
Oh!
Always some one’s fault, eh? . . .
I’m too tired to wrestle
with it.”
“Anothertime” theypromised. “All we can say now is
that any progress or work has its accidents and failures.
What compensations and faults there are, and how they
are made good we will take up again. It is alwayssome-
body’: fault!”
I broughtup thisaspect of thesubject at our next meet-
ing; for it interested me greatly. They told us that the
whole matter was too involved and complicated to at-
tempt; that the danger of getting a false idea from a
partial statement outweighed the advantages. Finallythey
gave us a figure of speech by symbolizingto Betty.
Awaybackin history,said theyin effect, conceive two
lines side by side thatare supposed to run parallel forever.
But there occurs a deflection. It may be so slight that it
could not matter in the least to them at that time. They
go on and on throughtime; but sooner or later theywill
meet. Then they will arrest each other, or one will cut
across the other. But now from the point of view of the
greater harmonious proportion, somethingmust be done
with the crisscross tangle. The remedy is in pruning the
lines back, cutting them off, cutting them short. And,
theytold us, backin thesource, in those lines before they‘
beganto deflect, lies a germ of life from which willgrow
I 64.
Personal Responsibility
other straighter lines when once the pruning has been
done.
This wasadmittedlyvague, and left many gaps; but, we
were assured, it at least contained the principle. Betty,in
her sensitized state, was much puzzled.
“There is the crooked piece I cut off,” she mused, “and
the new straight one, and they look somethingalike; and
they’vegrown on thesame livingbody. . . . Oh, somebody
help me! . . .
“Why couldn’t our root be our real life, our real be-
ing? . . .
If our root is our real being,our real source of life,
it wouldn’t matter so much if some of us were pruned
back for some reason or other, perhaps because of some
crossed growth.The life would be there to put it forth
again, perhaps with greater strength.That would explain
vaguely the lives cut short. It wouldn't be so incompre-
hensible if they had been pruned back to their source
by their own fault. And He would cut them back in
greater vision and wisdom. Now you are not so sorry for
them.Their roots are stillthere.”
“I see that much of the principle,” said I, “but how.
about the individual cut short and deprived of his earth
experience, thatyou state is necessary?”
“I don’t know,” reported Betty after a long pause.
“They seem to be getting some compensating treatment
. . .
It is likeshapinga thingyou prune back.They’rebeing
I
watched and tended. . . .
That idea of havingyour roots is
a very deep one . . .
It stands for great vitality.”
“Well, how about sheer accident,”I persisted, “as when
165
Personal Responsibility
one is run down by a train? And do I understand you use
the Gardener as a symbol, or is theresome intelligence, or
group of intelligences with power and duty to do this
pruning?”
“Oh, yes, there are terrible accidents,” agreed the In-.
visible. “Theyare like death-dealingderelicts, somebody’s
abandoned responsibility.As to the great regulation of
destiny, thatis too vast to be reduced to human terms at
present.”
“You said yesterday,” I pointed out, “thatit is always
somebody’s fault when one is cut ofl’ untimely.”
“Rememberthose deflected parallellines, away back,”
theyreminded.
“I don’t see whyB should suffer loss of his earthoppor-
tunitybecauseof an actionbyA, perhaps a thousandyears
ago, and which A himself probably did not understand,”
I objected.
Betty laughedheartilyat this.
“They are laughingat you,” she reported. “They say
thatis likethechildasking‘whatis thesun?’ ”
“VVhyis theworld run theway it is?” said theInvisible,
Betty’s voice changing drolly to the measured tone in
which theyarticulated. “Well, the world is run as it is to
demonstrate individual responsibility.”
A moment later Betty returned to the idea of avoided
responsibilities being like derelicts turned loose that
Wreck or damagethose withwhom theycome in contact.
“I can’t get high enough up to see why theywreck one
and not another,”complainedBetty.
I66
Personal Responsibility
“That’s too big for now,” they intimated. “That is
Fate.” _
“Do I gather,” said I, “that there are, roughly speak-
ing, two classes of those whose lives are cut short; those
who are pruned back, and those who die by accident in
running against these derelicts?”
“That is vaguelyit,” admitted the Invisible, “But they
are not sharp-cut little things like that; they are big
blended things.But never mind.”
And then theygave us our first glimpseof how we may
gain a measure of protection from this type of accident.
“By combinationsof harmonious force it is possible to
check an impetus even when you are headed straight for a
derelict,” said they.
“If you see it!” I pointed out.
“Or ifsomebodysees it for you!” theyamended. -
“Besides, if you accumulate enough har_monious force,
thereis an automaticaction. Your own impetus is strong
enough to fend you off. It can be. There is something
you can generate thatboth quickens your senses and sub-
consciously directs you.”
Next day theytook up the subject again.
“There are laws thatsupersede laws,” said they.“There
is the blind following of law; the unspent impetuses we
see in all nature. In our study of these natural laws we
find we can direct and harness them. Now the world is
full of unfulfilled responsibilities.They go hither and
thitherlike atoms in theair. It seems blind chance whether
they hit you or somebody else; but part of the time they
I67
Personal Responsibility
hit one or the otherbecausethereis no superseding law.”
“Iseek for a controllingforce in all thisrandom action,”
said Betty. “Somethingin me tells me thereis a controlling,
superseding force.”
“Your spiritual instinct prompts your questioning of
seeminglyrandom impulses. Union of your volition with
spiritual force (our old friend spiritual contact) governs
those random impulses; just as understanding of the law
harnesses the forces of nature.”
I asked whether one with highly developed and long
continued spiritual contact would be able to avoid these
“accidents”and so be exempt from untimelydeath.
“Not exempt, but greatly ordered,” was the reply.
“Often sorrow is a quickening agent, one of the gates of
wisdom; and it may be necessitated by individual need.
Then there are spots, torpid spots, that have to be sur-
gically treated._ You must remember that collision with
these derelicts thathave been turned loose does not neces-
sarilymean death.It may mean merelyobstructed tenden-
cies or desires.”
“I referred to deprivation of chance for earth experi-
ence,” I pointed out, and received the following partial
explanation:
“Those with unfulfilledresponsibilitiessap other peo-
ple’s output. They are like parasites. Sometimes that in-
volves a crime that terminates some healthy existence,
without fault of the person attacked. You want to know
about the innocent person who gets in the crossed line of
growth. If this crossed line had come in contact with a
168
Personal Responsibility
line of superior force, it could not have crossed it. There-
fore, it can harm only those of depleted vitality. This
depleted vitality, which is depleted spiritual force, may
be from inheritance. That again, you see, is unfulfilled
responsibility.”
“VVheelswithinwheels!” cried Betty in despair.
“There is a seemingly innocent victim, isn’t there?”
pursued the Invisible, “But he wouldn’t have been a vic-
tim if he had possessed superior spiritual force. So that
was a good deal his part, too.
“Now let us further consider the seemingly innocent
but weak victim. He is pruned back becauseof weakness
rather than because of misdirected strength. Some are
pruned back from rank growth;but this one from weak
growth. There IS a compensating care that starts him
anew. You can see a visible example of it in the poor
crooked fir thatwillgrow straight on top. The impulse of
every living being is the primal instinct to renew itself.
It is thelaw of its being,like the pointingof themagnetic
needle. So thesoul has its formula for rowth,'ust as a tree
h‘ h'lf lf hgIh]flfill'
as ltS c emrca ormu a or growt .
t as to u its
law. The compensatingtreatment is in theroots of its life.”
“Is this new growthmade here or there?” I asked.
“Thatis accordingto thestrengthof its core, its degree
of spiritual development: the size of its root, if you prefer
that. It is easy enough to see how it is with those of
strength;theygo on over here, witha little compensating
care, and grow by the law of their being.”
I69
v
.
......_.-
up
....-
.-1.-p.-.
Personal Responsibility
“Well, how about theweaklingswho have little care?”
I asked.
“There«is alwaysan automaticactionaside from especial
action.This weak thingis beingself-doctored. It is stimu-
lated in proportion to its response. It alwayshas its chance
to germinate. It can be dormant for countless time until
some overflowing strength can imbue it with desire to
repeat the struggle. Then it can reincamate. It is like a
suspended sentence.
“That is the Work of the greater proportion, taking
charge of the weak things, suspending sentences, giving
them a chance. That is the source of the overflowing
strengththatimbues themwith desire to repeat thestrug-
gle. What would be the object of getting a core, if there
were not some necessary workfor each?”
Therewas a short silencewhileBetty contemplatedone
of her illustrativevisions.
“I am actingto raise thewhole,” she reported presently.
“I take my bit of force and I act. I try out my strength
throughthisleaveningprocess on all thelower stratum of
weak things.That stratum must be lifted to raise thelevel
of thewhole.Itmust bedone.’Thatis one’s responsibility.”
“There is a terrible responsibilityin entering this con-
sciousness,” concluded the Invisible. “You then have to
do more thanyour share to make up for the accumulated
wrongness. There is such an awful lot of this wrongness
to be absorbed! And you can never go back. When once
170
,._-_AA _. _,..
_.__l'-L., ,_
'
Personal Responsibility
you’ve seen clearly all the mess men have made, — the
folly,stupidity,misunderstanding—
you’vegot to become
a sympatheticworkman.You have entered an ordered and
harmonious consciousness which must act back on a mess
like that.”
171
CHAPTER XXI
Summary
IN the preceding pages we have been occupied largely
with our relations with experience. Now we must con-
sider our relations with people. Before doing so, let us
sum up.
In the course of our evolution we progress through a
series of levels. No grade can be skipped, and each level
must be filled out before it is left. We fill out our levels
by the assimilationof experience, and in this process our
greatest ally is the force which we gain from spiritual
contact.
For thisassimilationwe are responsiblenot onlyto our-
selves but to our neighbor; not onlyto our neighborbut to
all that make up our world of being down through the
perspectives of time. If we shirk what is placedbefore us,
thenwe turn loose a derelict thatmay wreck or destroy.
If we would avoid damage or destruction ourselves, we
must developto thepointof acquiringprotection.And our
responsibilityis more than our share becausethe past has
bequeathedits heritage of fault and failure.
“The world is run as it is to demonstrate individual
responsibility!”
172
CHAPTER XXII
Spiritual Circulation
CIRCULATION is one of the great fundamental laws
that run obviously through all nature. Water evaporates
in mist from the sea; is condensed into clouds, falls as rain,
and flows in rivers back to thesea. The seed springs from
the soil; grows to maturity;sinks back into the soil again.
We evoke the power of electricityfrom the earth’s mag-
netic field; use it to turn the wheels and illuminate the
nights of a city,and return it grounded to its origin. One
could multiply examples indefinitely.
And just as a blockade in the bodilycirculation is sure
to bringtrouble, so any interference in the perfect round-
ing of the circle always spells disaster. Drought, famine,
deathfollow the non-functioningof nature’s circulations.
Similar calamities attend stoppage in the free flow of
spiritual forces. .
When the Invisibles first took up this subject theybe-
gan it with a sidelight on the spiritual body. It amounts,
said theyin essence, really to theforce thatlittle by little
you manage to segregate from the_great universal reser-
voir and make your own. By your own volitionyou pains-
takinglysegregate from the vast forces all around you.
“This is your own bitof force; you have surrounded and
contained it, it belongsto you. By getting these bits and
weldingthem together,and workinghard, and capturing
another bit—pretty soon it grows into a real thing. It
works just feebly,but after the manner of the whole big
POWCI. ’
I 73
Spiritual Circulation
“I am going to see if I can make out how thesegregated
bitshould fit into the whole,” said Betty, “and theaction
of each on each.
“Over and over a pitcher and a bowl,” she reported
after a few moments, “over and over a pitcherand a bowl.
You fill the pitcher to your measure, and you empty it
into theworld, the bowl. There’s a rhythmover and over
again, filling and emptying, filling and emptying, a
rhythmlike a great pulse.
“When some one fails,what happens? It is like a cylin-
der missing, the pulsation skippinga beat. The fillingand
emptying process is disturbed. There’s a sucking void
created becauseof thatunfulfilledresponsibility.”
We fillour pitchers, to epitomize the further teaching,
by spiritual contact; making from thatsource greater or
lesser personal gain according to the voluntary capacity
we develop. Next, theseadvantagesmust be passed on; the
spiritual circulation must flow unimpeded. If it is check-
ed: then Withoutfail, disaster follows.
In the ictures ue hrase of theInvisibles,s iritual con-
_
P ‘l P P
tact gives us “sure-footedness” so that we can tread the
diflicult aths of life in confidence. E uall im rtant is
. .
P .
‘1 .
Y 9° .
its twin and balance, “bountifulness,”which makes it pos-
sible for us, as surelyand accuratelyas the human heart, to
pass on what we have received. They must go together;
or the are neitherof them effective.
Y
“If you are bountiful Without sure-footedness,” said
they,“you willbe just Irishlysympathetic;expansive but
174-
Spiritual Circulation
unconvincing.But if you are sure-footed without being
bountiful, you are merely ascetic.”
Presentlytheyshowed Betty a picture illustratingthis.
“I don’t like to look at it; it makes me so uncomfort-
able!” said she. “. . . Theysay I have to look at it until I
tell you about it. . . . Very uncomfortable, a kind of in-
digestion. . . .
If you justtake, and don’t function naturally
by giving,you get all clogged up and poisoned. Self-con-
rained virtue soon corrodes. Lots of these hit and miss im-
,
pulsive people do more good, even withtheirlackof sure-
footedness.”
It does not in the least matter, then, how godly a life
we may lead, in the sense of committing no positive evil,
in thesense of self-discipline,in theold ecclesiasticalpuri-
tanical conceptionof “savingour souls.” If we fail to give
out, we have still missed the most important job of all,
and are stilldue for trouble of theworst kind. If we do not
draw off water from our reservoir, soon we shall have no
room for fresh to flow in: we shall become stagnant and
dead.
“All thephysicallaws work in the same Way,”the In-
visible took it up, “even thelowest forms, theurges of the
bodilyfunctions. You must give out or you poison your-
self. If you take in a differentspiritualsubstance, you must
beable also to throwoff, in order to get theideal of simple
normal action. This is rhythmand harmony. Move with
it; do not obstruct it. Call it anythingyou please. There
are plentyof names for it, all dependingupon what plane
you are dealing with, or what level: constipation, nerve
I75
Spiritual Circulation
tension, rniserliness, any kind of stagnation depending
upon what level it works. They are all alike. The same
law works in wider and more ascendingways.”
“The minute you share, it doesn’t all run away and dis-
sipate and get weak,” said Betty. “It keeps its depth, and
yet is ever so much wider —
a feeling of overflowing.”
“Giving back is more important than taking,” said the
Invisible.
“I can see thebeesover thehoneyin the hives,” pursued
Betty, “and the ants: just full of this. They have sure-
footedness and bountifulness; they act in their limited
way withinthe Law. If you just travel directly,without
producing or givingout, you lose your healthand dry up,
and you will at last have no power to attract the spirit.”
“Rememberthatthe first point of health,”theyadded,
“is theactive life thatmeans constant inflowingand out-
flowing.You must not forget to be constantlygiving out.
Watch out for that,or you’llget hardeningof thearteries.”
“Theforcingthroughis thenext thing,getting it back,”
said Betty, “straining it through the earth consciousness.
Spiritual consciousness strained through the earth-con-
sciousness is what we are after.”
She went on to elaborate the figure of a sort of double
funnel, one end widening toward the source of spiritual
power, the other toward the world.
“It wouldn’t make any sense if I told you that it fun-
nelled in and funnelled out,” said she, “but that’s what
theysay. It starts from an infinite expansion, condenses
throughtheself, and thenmust be distributed out. Behind
I 76
Spiritual Circulation
you and in front of you are limitless expanses, but mostly
behindyou. The free exit is almost as difficult as the get-
ting through.It is an expansion of what is given. It some-
times comes through,but thenstops. There is not enough
impetus to bringit throughand spread it.”
“In summary,”theyconcluded, “first of all you stimu-
late your consciousness to partake of thehigher conscious-
ness. Then you prepare for a still higher comprehension
by fillingout your level. You fill out your level by pro-
ducingyourself, ‘makingit so’; which means thematerial-
izinginto the physical world of your new and vitalized
consciousness.”
I77
CHAPTER XXIII
The Return Flow
1. AUTOMATIC ACTION AGAIN.
ALL thisis very well, I hear you say, and it may be true
enough. It forms a logical picture, and withinthispicture
makes pretty good sense. But how do you go about mak-
ing it work in an ordinary busy life? After all, the final
test of anythingis its practical application. You tell us
to “materializeinto thephysicalworld thisnew and vital-
ized consciousness,” but that is pretty abstract. What we
would like is some sort of definite handle by which to
grab hold of the job.
Betty in her superphysical development met the same
difficulty. It seemed to her that entering this new con-
sciousness was like strikingout blind into a stronglyflow-
ing nver.
“Ifeel it justas a vast current!” she exclaimed. “I am in
connection with it. Little nerve-scattering things cannot
hurt me. But this is not enough. How can I arrest and
deflect it, this mighty force? How can I handle it? It
sweeps throughme and by me, partakingof me. How can
I partake of it? Suppose you found yourself in a mighty
thing like this; what would you do? I’ve got to decide.
“One thingis sure: it is easier to work withit from this
end. I workedfrom theotherend before.Now I am work-
ing from strengthback.The force is alwayseager for new
outlets; it helps me. I’ve got that strength to help force
through.”
178
The Return Flow
Later we found out thatpart of what we are lookingfor
comes as an automaticresult, a by-product, of our efforts
at contact: if we practicethisit tends to give us a quality
of mind and heart thatradiates even withoutour meaning
it to.
“The thingis mathematical,”theytold us.
“I hate mathematics,”put in Betty promptly;thenafter
a moment, and a little doubtfully,“Well, I suppose they
are nice and tidy.” '
“Just as two and two must inevitablymake four,” they
went on in their explanation,“so we, or the combination
of qualities we have managed to assemble, by which we
have attained our level, or the formula we have made for’
ourselves—or whatever you please to call it—has its auto-
matic action. And just as two plus two make four, that
automaticaction produces certain results on the physical
world. The mere factthatwe are what We are, emanating
A
our thoughts, our desires, our spiritual quality, produces
its effect, irrespective of conscious intention on our part.”
“You are distinctly spreading something!”Betty ex-
claimed. “That’s the automaticresult. What I am inter-
ested in is the laws that govern it. I call them laws; but
they are harmonious workings. Now I’ve got to find
out. . . .
“It doesn’t do any good to look at the earth end and
get a technique. You must go to the source of things,and
thentheworksout of itself — Too bigfor me; I’m not sure
of it . .
.” she gave thatup.
“I’ll tell you what I’m trying to understand: the re-
I79
The Return Flow
versal in order of theway we work,”she concluded. “We
pay attention to theminute details in order to be success-
ful. That is all right; details must be attended to, but . . .
I want to get thisright. I must be careful. It has to do with
the‘take no thought’and ‘considerthelilies’idea.”
“Your main effort must go into union withthesupreme
force or intelligence,” the Invisibles helped out, “not by
just calling it down and isolating yourself in it, but by
calling for it and uniting with it in such a manner as to
transmuteit into an availableearthforce. Thatis thesecret
of it.”
“How could you make that practical in business?”
Betty wondered. “. . .
It’s having a tremendous effect; I
can see it. . . .
It changes the order of thingswhen you
followit into an oflice. I can’t follow it very well, because
I can’t apply it to any definite problem. But just as it has
changedthewhole backgroundof my life, so it acts in the
business world. . . .
In some cases it looks as thoughit were
changingthebusiness and substitutingsomethingelse. But
the point is that instead of being a chaotic and strained
machine you become a powerful and orderly machine.
Things around you shift into different relationships. If
you can get the inspiration to generate this force within
you, thereis no question about its actingon things.”
“Here,” theInvisiblestook it up in theirtones, “youget
back to the automaticactionof theforce you have gained
by.your contact. lf you truly get that, and pay your
main attention to it, it brings somethingapproximating
inspiration, insight, that carries over so that when you
180
The Return Flow
come to the details theybecome concentrated, essential,
more successful instead of beingstrained and confused.”
It is the differencebetweenhaving spiritual capital and
trying to run your business on a spiritual shoestring. One
is harmony; the other discord. That is what the “take no
thought”idea is. You will have the strengthto take care
of details abundantly,if you give your major attention to
thespiritualassociation. “When you are rested and fit you
‘play better than you can,’ you ‘work better than you
can,’ ”
said they. “This association is how you get rested
and fit spiritually;that’sall. '
“Attentionis existence.
“In other words, choose where you are going to live.
People are afraid to leave their own plan, to relax their
attention to the details, in order to go back to theirsource
of inspiration.But if theyhad the courage to try it!
“There is certainly an automatic action to harmony.
The man goes to his ofliceso full of renewed vitalityand
freedom of thought, courage, that his trained faculties
work more efliciently.He doesn’t in the least lessen his
attention to detail; but it has become automatic action.
That automaticaction springs from the power he gener-
ates from his habitualexistence, his habitual attention.
“A man who has no spiritual alliance, no source of
vitalityrenewal,whose existence is concentrationon busi-
ness details,gets business adhesions.He eitheroverreaches
himself by‘establishinga hagglingstandard ofbusiness, or
he bankrupts his own soul. The otherman. . .
.”
“Lookslike an intermittent current,” Betty interrupted.
I81
The Return Flow
“The other man keeps himself replenished and his
vision raised above his work. He creates a different order
of business. I grant you he’s not alwaysas_ successful by the
same standards; but he doesn’t want to be. He’s of a higher
type of development.His business has a life-givingquality
instead of a blood-suckingquality.”
“Could you give illustrations?”I suggested.
“We don’t know,” they replied quaintly. “We don’t
belong to business. It is just the Law. Work it out your-
self.”
“If you do not know business,” I suggested, “how do
you know thiswould workin modern business?”
“I look at the action, theLaw. I can’t follow it out, but
I know it is the Law,” replied the Invisible, a little im-
patiently. “It works in all other thingsso I know it will
work here.”
2. SENDING OUT.
Butthisautomaticactionis not enough. As withspiritual
contact, the effect can be very much increased if we give
it intelligent support. And this means the gaining of an-
other inner attitude that is not easy to grasp. Betty was
led to it gradually through the usual variety of symbols.
“It sounds sillyto say ‘thinkhorizontally,’doesn’t it?”
she remarkedone time. “But thatis it. It is as thoughthe
spiritual force were fluid, and by thinkinghorizontallyit
could bemade to flowin all directions about you, reaching
182
The Return Flow
othersand bringingothersto you in a singleall—embracing
exchangeof vitality.”
Anothertime the Invisibleswere discussingthesubject.
“There is an open-hearted feeling hard to describe,”
said they. “It is not just making yourself charitably dis—
posed toward people;that’san imitation,awkward, paltry,
blundering. You don’t try to please people; that’s silly.
You just proceed on your way, but the emanations from
an open heart spread around you, working accordingto
theirlaw, and bringingreturn of rich reaction.”
“The thing I do,” acknowledged Betty, “is to shut
down on people and retire into myself—thatis, my lower
level. I must try to be more open-hearted until I can stay
thatway. Everythinggoes wrong theminute I shut down.
It is like a trap thatis alwaysfallingon me. One moment I
am walkingalong all right in theopen, and all of a sudden
thetrap falls and I am shut in by thewalls of myself. Now
I have recognized it, so maybe I can keep from getting
into it—or at least I can crawl out again.”
“In your relations to people,” continued the Invisible,
“it isn’t at all this everything-to-everybody,hand-grasp
idea. That’s the cheap imitation; very cheap! There is
dignity and reserve and depth to the real thing.It is just
a quiet feeling,a silentfeeling of kinship and sympathetic
response, instead of the usual indifference we feel. It
should be the first point of contact when you meet each
person. If you send him thatwhen you first meet, thenyou
can begin to talk without tensions or contractions. Only
thendo you get real intercourse withpeople.”
183
The Return Flow
VVhen two people meet, both of whom are thus open-
hearted toward one another,thenyou see genuine friend-
ship and love; on one level or another. There is nothing
miraculous about it, nor anythingmore intangible than
chemistry.
“You can findanywherein thisordinaryworldsamples,
fragments,thathave been brought down and left. They
have had their growthstopped, or theyhave been aban-
doned. But theydon’t die out, and they are here. They
pop out in various generations.You see some of it in peo-
ple who give fellowship generously,who inspire you and
stimulate your heart. You recognizethe quality,but you
don’t say: that’sa good sample, we must have more of it.
You just think it's a happen-chance, an eccentricity of
one person, somethingbelonging to another, instead of
an ingredientof the whole thatWe are workingtowar ."
Perhaps these hints will give a glimpse of the attitude
we are after. If it still seems obscure, try to get the idea
of thatwide-hearted feeling of our first attempts at con-
tact; and add to it theidea of gatheringothersinto it. It is
the feeling of spiritual contact plus a sendingout feeling.
If we do this, we were assured, the details will take care
of themselves.
184.
CHAPTER XXIV
The Channel Back
I. SERVICE.
PERHAPS by now we had some comprehension of this
ebb and flow,thisspiritual circulation. But we knew little
of the more exact details of mechanism. Here is a strong
force, a strong current. But a strong current, of any kind,
presupposes a definite channel in which it can flow. Blood
circulates in veins, rivers have beds, electricityfollows its
conductors. What is the channel here?
We got our glimpsebywhat littlewe were able to elicit
as to the state-of-life of our Invisibles themselves.
Curiosity as to particulars of the life “over there” is
natural. In thebeginningwe questionedthemeagerly.We
got little satisfaction;thoughwe received answers, some-
times. Most often, however,we were told flatlythatit was
not our present business. And, anyway, they added, its
details are often so unlike anythingwe know about, or
can conceive, that even a try at an approximationwould
merelyconveyfalse images.
This was not impolite: it was no snub. Theydid tell us
certain simple and basic things. They have form. They
can see our physicalworld as we see it, but onlywhen the
occasion was important enough to justify the effort. And
so on. But no geographicaldescriptions, so to speak, such
as a traveller would bringfrom a far country. That man-
ner of life is not our manner of life: we are not ready for
185
The Channel Back
it; we should remainin thiswithoutunsettlingconceptions
untilwe have finished withit; distractionis useless.
“Ifwe gave detailed specificationsof our life over here,
it would be impossible thereafter to concentrate your at-
tention on broad general principles,”theytold us plainly,
“on the few simple lines of your effort. It is painfully
diflicultto eliminate and economize your attention. Only
byshroudingotherthingsin mystery can we occupyyour
minds in due proportion to the importance of the things
we select. You do not agree withus, but the same method
is successfully employed on earth to develop men of
genius. We protect them, we shroud them,we amputate
from them. Be content to look where we point. Time
enough for details later when we show you around. Take
my word for it; impossible to explain.”
But though we have not been given geographical de-
tails,inevitablyin the course of many discussions we have
glimpsed here and there certain conditions of that state.
Some of them you have gatheredin these pages. Among
other things, we learned that their world is a world of
development,of workto thatend; and thatit contains the
resistance to effort which is necessary to development.In
fact, theyhave at times used the word resistance inter-
changeably with the word work. Our first hint as to the
nature of this work was given Betty in a symbolical
experience.
“I’m face to face with this vast level of consciousness
thatis backof human consciousness,”she reported. “They
show me a great rope twisted of many strands. . . .
I don’t
I86
The Channel Back
understand it. It runs throughus all. . . .
It is the connect-
ing link. It is the connection through which we act on
each other on this level. When we touch it, it is charged
withlife and vitality,an open way of wisdom and under-
standing. Our invisible friends use it; theydon’t create it.
If you had no invisible friends and you touched, reached
thislevel, somebodywould answer somewhere if you had
a real need theycould supply.It is theuniversal conductor
in some way. It is what people feebly recognize as the
sub-conscious——onlyit is super, not sub.
“The pointis thaton thislevel theremust be an answer
to an actual need: if you reach this level you are sure of
an answer to your need. I don’t understand it very well.
It is a universal thingthatcould reachanybody in theuni-
verse who had something you needed, or who needed
somethingyou had.
“On this level there is always somethingyou are at-
tracted to in this way——somebody you want to work on.
And the only way you can work is to get somethingto
workwith.That is thefirst incentivehere. It is a fine busy
world!”
“All human processes must have an incentive in order
to get themaccomplished,”explainedthe Invisible. “Your
first incentive over here is to seek eagerly for strengthin
order to aid some one whom your superior perception -
shows to be in dire need. It is so simple. You get almost
frantic about renderingfirst aid of some kind.
“It is a very strong instinct. One of the strongest of
yours is the sex instinct which carries on the physical
I87
The Channel Back
world. This is the great strong instinct thatcarries on the
spiritualWorld. You must get somethingto put in thevoid
beneathyou. It is thefirst bigurge: get busy! fix thismess
you see under you; and when you realize how useless and
futile you are, you try hard and experiment until you
acquiresomethingwithwhich to work.”
“That seems to be my dominant instinct, the thing I
feel strongest,” said Betty, “thatidea of reachingup for
something,not with the idea of collecting it for myself,
but withthe idea of using it as a tool to work with. It is a
way of furnishingmyself for the business of living.”
“We all move upward by what we build under us,”
concludedtheInvisible. “It is the fillingout of your level,
but a step higher. This shows the foundation of actual
accomplishmentyou must put under you.”
2. THE NATURE OF SERVICE.
Here is the rock on which many religions and many
systems of ethics have split wide open. By logical steps
theyreach the point where the rendering of service ap-
pears as thespiritual fulfillment.So at that point themore
consecrated of their devotees go forth to render service.
But right here is where most of us get off. We are
probably leading normal busy lives, with famiyas and
other responsibilities.To become a professional philan-
thropist would mean the disruption of our entire es-
tablished order. Very likely, too, we have a healthy
I88
The Channel Back
prejudice against any dilettante Going Down to Call on
the Poor, furnished out with a brisk, cheerful manner, a
form card, and a determination to Do Some Good in the
World. And so we acknowledge the problem intellec-
tually,but do little or nothingabout it.
Much the same thingis true of any kind of missionary
or reform activity.Most people have an instinctive aver-
sion to Carrying Sweetness and Light to DarkenedSouls.
And those who try it on anyhow, generallydo little but
get in wrong withtheirfriends.
The trouble is, we have not realized the possibilityof
anotherkind of service—one thatis open to us all.
“It is a quickening, awakening process,” Betty ex-
plained.“I am not bigenough for it yet — I haven’tenough
heart—containing qualityto manage it. And I don’t under-
stand it. I onlyknow I’ve got to go among people every
day,experimentingwithi1~/~\’_
“This,”theInvisibletold her, “willgive you dailyprac-
tice for some time to come: this experimental work, the
first application of principles that have been imparted.”
“Itis hard to know justhow to go about it,” complained
Betty.
“Experiment! Experiment! . . .
And live in constant as-
sociation of mind withthe tremendous power of spiritual
force untilit becomesthebackboneof your consciousness.
Its life-givingqualityis therichest gift you can pass on. It
is second-handinspiration. The main thingis to help peo-
ple to get it first hand. But sometimesyou can’t — it is too
unaccustomed.”
189
The Channel Back
“I can’t just dump it on them,” Betty objected. “I've
got to get some sort of technique for administeringit.”
“When you want to germinate people,” said the In-
visible, “you admit them to a companionship in your
spiritual contact. It is like takingthemin out of the cold.”
“Any practicalhints?” I ventured.
“I’lltry to find out how you do it,” said Betty,and then
was gone for some time.
“He’s thawingout,” she said at last, “but I don’t know
how I did it — It seems to be the superiorforce of my own
warmthof conviction. . . .
That’s how you do it: by your
demonstrated stability?‘You see, everybody reallywants
stability;and theyalways recognize a person who has it.
If you have somethingtheyhaven’t, but want, they’llpay
attention to you. And if theyhaven’t it and do7z’t want: it,
but you make them feel it, then they’llbeginto want it.
You make your stabilityby spiritual contact. Then some-
how theresponse to thatcontact must be shared.”
“Unfolding: that’s the way of it,” interjected the In-
visible. “You unfold people in a certain atmosphere until
it soaks into them.”
‘
“You must do it so they’llthinkthey’redoing it them-
!’ ll '
selves, Betty went on, —
as theyWill be. You must be
only an agent to arouse their own active forces, silently,
very carefully,almost secretly. It is too vague to go into
yet. I’ll know in time how to do it.”
She paused to consider what theyoffered.
“To show people to themselves seems to be the only
‘
See Part I, Chapter VI, Section 2.
I 90
The Channel Back
way,”she resumed. “Not theirfaults;but theirbestselves,
theirreal selves. That is the only handle to take hold of.
That is what theyare doing to me.”
The silentinstruction went on for a few moments, then
she continued:
“I remember—
was it Richard Coeur de Lion? He was
in prison, and his friendsused to whistle or sing under all
the dungeons until theygot an answer. The onlyway to
get at people is to call out encouragement to their im-
risoned self. After a while ou can stimulate it to stir
P .
7 . .
itself and take possession. No use pointing out people’s
faultsand attackin them.Thatis sill .
If ou arouse their
.
3. Y. 3'
inner selves, theywilltake care of theirown faults.”
Which last remark seems to me the very essence of
common sense.
“Whatever you do,” concluded the Invisible, “avoid
the holier-than-thouattitude toward people. That is far
from what we want. The worst ones often are thenarrow
and virtuous ones; theyblind the trail. Nobody wants to
be like them,so theygo off in the wrong direction. They
are very harmful people, very harmful. They would
be surprised to know that often they are really worse
thanmany in the penitentiary. Narrow and uncharitable
virtue!
“The way to counteract this tendency and yet main-
tain your ideals is to thinkof yourself alwaysas an agent.
Then therewillbe no tinge of superiority or self-satisfac-
tion in your attitude. Why are you beinggiven light? To
191
The Channel Back
distribute so quietly and unobtrusivelythatit will arouse
no resentment or resistance, but will graduallysink into
others unawares. That is the way of influence——bad,un-
fortunately,as well as good; so yours must bethestronger
of the two.”
192
CHAPTER XXV
lnsulation
1. THE VORTEX.
VVE experimentedas instructed, and soon found that the
technique of this new kind ofservice was a pretty com-
plicated thing. With congenial people it seemed to be
easy enough. But unfortunatelymany of our dailycon-
tacts must be with dragging, non-receptive, aggravating,
non-comprehendingand uncongenialpersonalities. Ordi-
narily,perhaps, insuch cases we are inclinedto take refuge
in indifference that amounts to a separating gulf. If not
indifferent,thenwe are contemptuous of them;or active-
ly in conflict with them; or even, if we are of nervous
sensitive temperaments, theydrive us crazy. And usually
we are ourselves more or less affected, more or less nagged
into deterioratingemotions. Dailycontact withsuch peo-
ple is one of the first thingswe must learn to manage.
“Do not let your newlyacquired freedom and energy
be sucked into the vortex,” said the Invisible unexpected-
ly one day.
“It is just out of reach, but perilously near,” supple-
mented Betty. “Imust keep my energy lifted up, insulated.
The minute it rests without insulation it gets into the
vortex.” .
“What is the vortex?” I asked, for it was a new figure
and meant nothingto me.
“I’ll go down and look at it. Wait,” promised Betty,
after which ensued a pause.
193
Insulation
“Iam watchingsomebodygo intoit as a demonstration,”
she went on. “It is the zone of action of lower forms of
life. You see, when I get withinthepower of thatzone its
action begins on me in spite of myself. It is like getting
into quicksand; that acts on you, and you can’t help it.
That’s a zone of action of a certain kind. It takes great,
almost superhuman, spiritualityto go into thatlower form
of life and hold your own. You can do it, if you have the
right insulation. They are trying to get me out of it, and
I
keep me in another zone of action so I can acquire the
superior force.
“It is the antithesis of spiritual. It is theimpetus to nul-
lify,to deaden your life~containingpowers. It is analogous
to thewaya certain actiontakes placeand a tree is petrified;
or if you stay out in the cold, you freeze. Certain action
takes place, a certain impetus is unchecked, and you are
reduced to a helpless state and can't do anythingabout it.
It has a great drawing power toward its own. When you
get in thevortex it beginsto workon you unless you have
a strong insulation.”
2. MAINTAINING OURSELVES.
If you want to help someone, first of all you must some-
how be better off than he is. Then in your effort to lend
a hand you must be careful not to lose your advantage. If
you want to pull someone out of the mud you must first
get a
Insulation
But when the need is an intangiblemental or emotional
one, instead of a perfectly plain physical one, we gener-
ally act as though this principle no longer obtained. We
get angry, or we weep on the other person’s neck, or we
indulge in sympatheticrecriminations, or whatever. Cir-
cumstances differ, but in every case the process is the
same: we abandon our own equilibriumin favor of the
other’s turmoil.
This is the vortex. Clearly,if we are to be of any use,
we must not approachit undefended;must not get drawn
in by its almost irresistible zone of action. If we do, one of
two thingsmust happen: either we must enter into con-
flict, use violence, in order to retain our very mastership
of ourselves; or else that mastership will be warped, bent
aside, modified by the influence of conflictingand dis-
integrating forces. That meeting of the other influence,
or the other man, on his home ground is where most of
the trouble begins.
“VVhen dealing with non—receptive people,” theysaid,
“youmust first of all protect yourself from getting in their
zone of action. It is an insulation. You must first insulate
yourself. Insulation is not unsympathetic! It is just the
precaution the doctor takes against infection. That is
done by quicklyraising your thought above the disease-
level and concentratingon the cure, so thatnone of your
attentionis taxed by gettinginto theirmorass. If you meet
the opposition in its own manner, it entangles you. You
must not let it obscure thestrengthof your desire to serve.
It is human to oppose opposition, so watch out!”
195
prettycloselyknit together,”she reminded thernifl
“That’s just my point,” said the Invisible. “Disconnect
them,like the telephone, temporarilyand deliberately.It
can’t be done when the vibrations between you are once
set up. It must be done beforehand. Foredeterminationis
a powerful weapon, little appreciated. You’d be surprised
to see how it would work. Use it more.”
“They’retrying to show me how you can protect your-
self—” put in Betty. “That’s all very well, but you’re not
definite enough. . . .
How can you leave your conscious-
ness on one level and walk around in another? (complain-
ingly).That doesn’t make sense!”
“Leave your consciousness in repose on a higher level
than your physical functions,” said the Invisible. “The
interveningspace absorbs deterioratingvibrat1ons—vibra-
I97
203
lnsulation
“It's like being immune,” Betty reported. “Curious!
They hurl themselves on me, bite me-—it looks like biting
me—but theycan’t inject any poison. It is impossible for
for them to hurt me because all my attention, my con-
sciousness, my nerve centers, my existence is centered
above them where they can’t get at them. If they could
draw down my attention, if they could make me hate
them, if they could get me to work on their level, then
theycould poison me.”
This, then, is the secret of maintaining our integrity:
we must meet the problems of our world and the people
of our world, not in theirzone of action, but in ours. We
must not go to them;we must get them to come to us.
“When a child enters the room he at once establishes
himself, brings with him his child’s world which at once
you strive to enter,” theyillustrated the idea.
And our world must be one we have constructed for
ourselves byspiritualcontact—_bycentering our conscious-
Sympathy
more you can identify yourself with it and command it
and utilizeit, themore you can furtherits ends of becom-
ing whole and absorbingthe spot of disharmony.”
“It is so important alwaysto run and get help instead of
just sitting and feeling sorry,” added Betty. “And it is
not selfish to have your life centered in that greater pro-
portion. . . .
That’s queer; you seem to have to pass that
sorrow stage somehow into the other in order to contain
it sympathetically.. . . Funnyhow now you can beactive-
lysolicitousfor them—
somethingmore activethanbeing
sorry - withoutlettingthemenfeebleyou. It is insulation
again, so you can act upon them.There is a feelingof con-
victionin ultimatewholeness;thatby time and your eager
efforts you can harmonize the whole and eliminate the
spot.
“Oh, dear!” she said suddenly. “I don't want to go! But
VI .-u 1 -
I1 I 1
Meeting Non—Receptivity
cess willstart you. It does not matter, though,how firmly
you hold to your combinationwith the greater force; it
will not do you much good if you let go each time. Just
hold on; and make one little success, one pathetic little
success. It counts; helps so much!”
2. THE BIRD’S-EYE VIEW.
Another useful suggestion was that we should try, as
far as it was possible, to look on deterrent personalitiesnot
as individuals but as belongingto a unit, a whole, a level
of consciousness: and when you do thinkof them as in-
dividuals, think of them as warped, out of proportion,
wrong-headed, if you must; but as beingso not because
of theirpersonal malice or intent, but becauseof this dis-
torting element in which theyhave their spiritual being.
To put it another way, theysee things wronglynot be-
cause theysquint deliberately,but because their lack of
developmentfurnishes them thatsort of a lens.
7
“The consciousness I look down on,’ said Betty, ex-
amining this, “is a kind of formation, a mass, that has be-
come a unit, like one pervasive element. And the effect
thatsingleelement has is to make earth problems all look
the same way. So I am never dealing with a cranky or a
dull or an irresponsible individual, but with them as a
struggling whole, with tendencies instead of little idio-
syncrasies.I am sensitive to theunderlyingstruggle, where
all fl'|n lifflp cI1rFar‘n nlfioronforicrincare nnf an nl-\ct-1-I11-tiny-u,
lnsulation
“Don’t take dragging personalities to heart,” said they.
“Let them hang as heavilyas theyplease on your body,
but not on your spirit. That is drafted for other work.
Thinkof them as onlyscratchingthesurface. It willkeep
you inmeasurablyfreer and will conserve your strength.
Separateyourself deliberatelybeforeyou encounter them.
Give themyour body to playwith.Tryit.”
“I have tried it.” said our friend.
“Yes,you have. But you must alwaysdeliberatelypre-
pare yourself in advance, because otherwise it is difficult
for one side of you not to be influencedby the exhaustion
of the other.”
“You forget that on earth our spirits and our flesh are
pretty closelyknit together,”she reminded them.
“That’s just my point,” said the Invisible. “Disconnect
them, like the telephone, temporarilyand deliberately.It
can’t be done when the vibrations between you are once
set up. It must be done before hand. Foredetermination is
a powerful weapon, little appreciated. You’d be surprised
to see how it would work. Use it more.”
“They’retrying to show me how you can protect your-
self—” put in Betty. “That’s all very well, but you’re not
definite enough. . . .
How can you leave your conscious-
ness on one level and walk around in another? (complain-
ingly).That doesn’t make sense!”
“Leave your consciousness in repose on a higher level
than your physical functions,” said the Invisible. “The
intervening space absorbs deteriorating vibrat1ons——vibra—
197
Insulation
tions will do—actingas a kind of vacuum, like a thermos
bottle.”
“There’s a good idea there, but it’s vague,” said I. “Let
us be definite. Let us postulate Mrs. B., a bore, a depletor
of your vitality; but nevertheless some one you are mor-
ally bound to help.”
“Takeit theotherway around,”suggested theInvisible.
“The effect of your attitude will be to react on Mrs. B.”
“I can see Mrs. B.,” said Betty. “She’s forgotten every-
thingshe wanted to say, lost her power over you .
‘. .
She’s
gone into theshock absorber, the vacuum part.”
“In effect it is a weapon of defense, a superiority of
arms which you must experimentwithin order to believe
it can be demonstrated. Tryit. Do not contemplate your
end of it in relation to her; occupy yourself maintaining
your shock absorber.
“And watch your foredeterminations. Bad days must
not be bad before theybegin. Put your consciousness on
theshelf—the level above—before you start out every day.
You need more preparedness for yourself.”
198
CHAPTER XXVI
Sympathy
WHILEthe foregoing is certainly true, we must watch
our interpretation of it. Its practicemight easilyturn to—
ward an egotistical self—centering, a lack of sympathy
with the other fellow’s point of view, — what might be
called a spiritual Toryism. Beware of such an interpreta-
tion. It is simplythatwhen we step out to meet theworld,
after havingmore or less developmentin solitude through
spiritual contact, connection with the greater forces, we
must be able to protect ourselves. Otherwise we would
soon fall back into the old turmoil. We have laid off our
old turtle shell of indifference,of antagonism,of clannish-
ness, and all theotherworld protections: we must in com-
pensation command this other safeguard or we shall be
torn to PICCCS.
But there is in mere insulation no construction in the
way of service, spiritual circulation. There is not even
the consolidation of “make-it—so.” Insulation is merely a
means to an end, a tool to use, a self-preserving thing.It is
often very necessary. But it is nevermore thana beginning.
“Your first insulation process should become auto-
matic,” they advised us, “so your attention will not be
engrossed by it, but willbe entirely free to focus on your
faithgenuinelyto give of all spiritual first aid, sympathiz-
ing with your heart and not judging with your mind.
There is a very wrong way to do it: that is to insulate
199
..
.-__.......
.....~-
«-.-w.,...—uwuq Sympathy
yourself and just stay there. That is irritating and selfish
and very aggravating to the trouble. Nothing could be
worse.”
With this any of us will agree who have encountered
thebland, blank superioritythatseems to say: we willnot
discuss this becauseof course you would not understand.
The antidote is sympathy.Unfortunately,sympathyis
one of those mildewed words —
or at least it has spots of
mildew. Nothingis more annoyingto the average of hu-
manity than the false sort of sympathy,even when it is
whollysincere: the sort of sympathythat is sentimental-
lymaudlinor voluble, or ostentatiously“Christian.” And
no betteris thekindthattries to “share your trials and sor-
rows”: thatso completelyenters your annoyance or per-
plexity or grief as to_adopt‘it; to strengthen it; — and
perhaps to end by leaningagainst you for comfort!
Real sympathy— the useful kind — is an entirely dif-
ferent thing. When it was first shown to Betty she did
not recognize it.
“I don’t understand the way this sorrow looks,” said
she. “From here suffering looks like just an ingredient of
life. . . .
I don’t thinkI can get that. . . .
I don’t know what
to compare it to. . . .
I am so afraid of gettingit wrong. . . .
It looks like an undilutedacid.
“From where I am, sufferinglooks like just a great mass
of workyou've got to force yourself to attackand bit by
bitlessen, transmute, consume, — I can’t understand why
it doesn’t make me any sorrier. It is so different from the '
way I have always felt before. I feel deeply responsible
200
Sympathy
and solicitous, but the feeling has a curious proportion. I
am spendingmy energy in a givenratio. In placeof spend-
ing my attention in being sorry over unharmonized in-
gredients; I associate myself, I join forces with the vastly.
greater proportion, the greater harmony.Wait, wait! I’ve
got to investigate this! It's so different from the way I've
always felt; I’ve spent my life being sorry for people.”
“Ifyou do onlythat,”said the Invisible,“it is like sitting
withand sympathizingwitha sick person intead of getting
the Great Doctor who could cure him.”
“I don’t like it — it’s so puzzling,” complained Betty.
“Being right down among them and being sorry doesn’t
get me anywhere; and it doesn’t get them anywhere.”
“There is a whole,” the Invisibletook up theargument.
“There is in it a little spot of discord, call it sorrow. Then
thereis all therest, the greater proportion of harmony. If
you can get out of thezone of actionof thatlittlespot into
thegreater hannony,you do not become alooflysuperior
and unsympathetic—— theattitude of you don’t understand;
it’s your own fault — but you get deeply responsible, and
you acquire power to act, power to transmute. It is a
necessity. You act upon it and flyto it eagerlywithsome-
thingbigger than ordinary sorry-sympathy,becauseit is
a life-givingsympathy,a reinforcing sympathy.You act
almost hungrily on that sorrow, absorbing it with the
greater proportion of harmony. But you must get out of
that smallerzone of action in order to be any good. It is
the ratio in which you can give. The more you live and
allyyourself withthegreater proportion of harmony,the
2OI
Sympathy
more you can identify yourself with it and command it
and utilizeit, themore you can furtherits ends of becom-
ing whole and absorbingthe spot of disharmony.”
“It is so important alwaysto run and get help instead of
just sitting and feeling sorry,” added Betty. “And it is
not selfish to have your life centered in that greater pro-
portion. . . .
That’s queer; you seem to have to pass that
sorrow stage somehow into the otherin order to contain
it sympathetically.. . . Funnyhow now you can beactive-
lysolicitousfor them—
somethingmore activethanbeing
sorry — withoutlettingthemenfeebleyou. It is insulation
again, so you can act upon them.There is a feelingof con-
victionin ultimatewholeness;thatby time and your eager
efforts you can harmonize the whole and eliminate the
spot.
“Oh, dear!” she said suddenly. “I don’t want to go! But
I’ve got to! I’m dropping down so suddenly!
“That’s the new element they gradually led me into
without my recognizing it. I haven’t begun to tap the
power of alliance. I’ve just got to get perception enough
to want to live in it.”
“It's so simple,” assured theInvisible. “Anyatmosphere
you put yourself in you unconsciously absorb, whether
it’s musical or artistic or what. If you live in thisspiritually
harmonious atmosphere, this greater proportion, if you
develop thecapacityto live in it, it beginsto react on you,
to strengthenyou, and gives you scope beyondanything
you ever dreamed of. So, while you are sorry, you are
stronglysorry, not weepy sorry.”
202
Sympathy
And in this glimpse we see the unity of ideas that runs
back of it all, the insulation, the centering of conscious-
ness on the higher level, the keeping out of the zone of
action in order to be free-handed, and wide-hearted in
helpfulness.
“Sympathyis thekey to it all,” theyadded. “Sympathy
is not -pity: but understanding,and then caring about it.”
203
CHAPTER XXVII
_
Meeting Non—Receptivity
1. A VOIDING CAPTURE.
THE thingswe have been consideringare simple enough
in theory;but far from easy of accomplishment.No mat-
ter what our good will, it is sometimes almost impossible
to avoidirritation,anger, even obstinatehostility.Tryas we
may,we find ourselves —
our whole consciousness— down
in the other fellow’s zone of action, scufllingwith him in
the dust, using the old weapons, and coming forth victor
or vanquished accordingto the brute strengthof us. But,
whether victor or vanquished, shaken in our finer parts!
Even after we can work it fairly well in the ordinary
business of every-daylife, “duty”or affection trips us up.
It is not easy. We will be licked about as often as we will
win out; but thatis no reason why we should not keep on
trying. Avoidanceis even worse thanfailure.There is no
use in acquiringthese thingsunless theycan stand the test
of living. Indeed, they are worse than useless, for they
will have merely made us sensitive without having made
us strong. -
“Every time I meet a diflicult person,” said Betty, “the
need arises for using that combinationwith the spiritual.
But when annoyance, due to what you might call my
near-sightedness,takes possession of me, Ishut out deliber-
ately at the time of need; just when I ought to use the
combinationto grapple with the problem —
to supersede
204.
Meeting Non—Receptivity
the old near-sighted way. At the moment of test I give
myself over to the human mechanism part, I sink myself
entirely in that,let go all hold of the other. I say to my-
self: this is a case for such and such definite action;
what can spiritual expansion or consciousness have to do
with it?”
She was manifestlyimpatientat some failureof the day
before: annoyedat thefactthata petty complicationwith
a petty person had upset her.
“Every time I feel annoyed or deflected or crossed,”
she resolved, “I’ll thinkof myself as in danger of capture
by an inferior force. Instead of cutting myself off from
my reinforcements, I’ll try to utilize them in common-
placemoments like that,and not keep themfor big,noble
occasions.”
“Tryingto combinethe ideal withthe practicalmech-
anism is very difiicult, for they have always been de-
veloped separately,” observed the Invisible. “It is useful,
whenever provoking things happen, to look at yourself
thatway: as in.dangerof beingthe vanquished instead of
the victor, the captured instead of the captor. Each time
you score, it is a definite count; it is not erased. It is like
acquiringsomething;makes What you are doing easier. It
is a great help each time you hold fast and don’t get
captured. _
“But when you look at the defeat side, it is like com-
pound interest. The next time you will have to overcome
this time, and the failure that went before, and the one
before that. No wonder you get caught! One little suc-
205
Meeting Non-Receptivity
cess willstart you. It does not matter, though,how firmly
you hold to your combinationwith the greater force; it
will not do you much good if you let go each time. Just
hold on-, and make one little success, one pathetic little
success. It counts; helps so much!”
2. THE BIRD’S—EYE VIEW.
Another useful suggestion was that we should try, as
far as it was possible, to look on deterrent personalitiesnot
as individuals but as belongingto a unit, a whole, a level
of consciousness: and when you do thinkof them as in-
dividuals, think of them as warped, out of proportion,
wrong—headed, if you must; but as being so not because
of theirpersonal malice or intent, but becauseof this dis-
torting element in which they have their spiritual being.
To put it another way, theysee things wronglynot be-
cause they squint deliberately,but because their lack of
developmentfurnishes them thatsort of a lens.
I
“The consciousness I look down on,’ said Betty, ex-
amining this, “is a kind of formation, a mass, thathas be-
come a unit, like one pervasive element. And the effect
thatsingle element has is to make earth problems all look
the same way. So I am never dealing with a cranky or a
dull or an irresponsible individual, but with them as a
struggling whole, with tendencies instead of little idio-
syncrasies.I am sensitiveto theunderlyingstruggle, where
all thelittle surface characteristicsare not so obstruction-
206
Meeting Non—Receptivity
ary as theyusuallyare. I have brokendown thatsurfaceto
a kind of dematerializing;it has disappeared and I can see
what is below. That I could do because I looked at it in
thisbiggermassed way,instead of individually.. . .
I can’t
translateit.”
“Study causes, not effects,” concluded the Invisible.
“Give understandingto those who suffer from poverty of
vision. Do not concern yourself with the symptoms of
their disease, however annoying or obstructional. Each
time habitdrags you down to focus onlyon results, symp-
toms, efiects, instead of deeper, higher perception, you
are retardingyour own developmentas well as actingthe
part of themiser.”
3. OVERFLOWING.
The importance of actuallylivingall this,makingit so,
one time was brought home to us most forcibly.‘For some
dayswe could get in touch withnobody;we seemed quite
deserted.
“When we do not come,” they explained finally,“it is
a signal to turn backand consider somethingthathas been
left uncertain. The flow of your stream is obstructed.
Great responsibilityis now on you; increasinglyheavy as
your perception grows. Unless you harmonizetheweight,
thatis, carry onlyyour share of it, and lift the rest up to
us; you ‘are not succeeding. Carry your share and re-
sponsibility.”
207
‘vu
Meeting Non—Receptivity
Betty paused for some time to contemplate what they
offered.
“The unassimilatedpart that set me back,” she said at
last, “was my just merely recognizingpeople’s depressing
weight of blindness, without any strength of desire to
serve, without any attempt mentallyto encircle them, to
unite them to a higher strength, to work upon them
throughspiritual laws. In my thoughts I passed them by
unaided. UntilI get thisall cleared up, I can’t do anything
else.
“There they are: Y., whose life gave me the horrors,
and X., who hurt my feelings,and theold Worm——they’re
all there, and I shrank from them. I thought of them as
‘stopping the flow of my stream. That was all my own
pointof view. I ought to have overflowed."
She considered thisfurther.
“But,” she objected, “all my admiration is gone, all
sentiment of that kind. What is it I should give them?
What is there I can give them?”
“Give bountifully of your spiritual vitality,” said the
Invisible. “That is what they are starving for. It enters
the consciousness somehow, and gives them a faint per-
ception. Don’t shut down or turn away. Indifferenceis so
terrible. It closes in on you like a fog. You grope and
struggle. You make constantlyrenewed efforts. You fight
your way out into thesun againwhere you can see clearly
once more and thereis some joy in the doing. Then when
the quick and ready resentment comes toward people,
remember what it was like when you were in that fog.
208
Meeting Non—Receptivity
Your whole heart will be set on helping people. That is
hardest of all when there is no response. But it must be
done in spite of the lackof visible accomplishment.”
“I am looking at it,” said Betty, “to see how you go
about liftingthis dead weight.”
“It is done by chemical action again. You can’t just
say: Poor thing I have faith she’s going to get help. I’ll
lift her up in my thoughts.That’s no good; that’soutside
you. There’s got to be strengthenough in you to send out
somethingto the person, somethingthat overflows from
your own conviction, has vitality enough to reach them.
If it isn't big and strong enough, it only gets half way,
and then is turned back by the other person’s non—re-
ceptivity. It must be a battering-ram sort of thing.You
must make them feel, not any critical virtue on your part,
but faithin theirown strength.It is theidea of expanding
somethingfrom theirown strengthto the Great Strength
over all.”
“I know,” Betty admitted, “but you’ve got to make it
practical.Imaginemy trying to expand ——!”
“Your attention is all concentrated on what he can’t do.
If it were concentratedon what he could do, it might help.
Watch yourself,” admonished the Invisible.
“That’s the point,” Betty agreed. “We let these non-
receptive, unbalanced personalities obstruct our streams,
instead of developing a superior vitality and overflowing
on them. It is very hard to do when you are sensitive to
people. Non-receptivityand lackof balance look so ugly!
209
Meeting Non—Receptivity
Ugh! Like a sort of petrifiedmalformation! It seems to be
hopeless to hurl yourself on those!”
“If you really believe in the chemical-transmuting
power of the spirit, it can be done,” assured they. “But
you can’t believe it without using it. You can’t keep it
shut up in a treasure cabinetof themind. It must beput to
its intended use: re-creation.”
“That’s all very well, but ——” Betty began.
“If you expect to spread our teachings,” the Invisible,
interrupted, “theremust be thisnext step, this acquisition
« of power to overcome not onlyyourself but others, by the
same method.You are not doingit alone if you utilizethe
spiritual law.”
2IO
CHAPTER XXVIII
Conflict
1. TURNING ON THE PRESSURE.
NINE times out of ten themethodswe have been consid-
ering will prove effective. But sometimes they are not
enough. Every once in a while the opposition will prove
too strong, and we will have to resort to more drastic
measures.
“People don't go far enough against non—receptivity,”-
said the lnvisibles. “They have little spiritual courage.
You must have the strength both to overcome it and to
register your own conviction—andthatmust be a genuine
conviction or it will not carry. The strengthwith which
you give determines what theywill receive, for theycan
get only a small percent of what is sent.
“This never can be done perfunctorily,for you have
twice the pressure to meet as when dealing only with
yourselves. You must double thepressure when you work
with others.”
Betty lapsedinto a silenceso long continued thatI asked
what was doing.
“I am hard at work-,leave me alone,” she objected. “I
am studying how to overcome the opposition we encoun-
ter, which they spoke of as non—receptivity. You will
always be turned back on yourself if you do not know
how to overcome it.”
“Double the pressure,” repeated the Invisible. “In non-
receptivity you fight also your own thwarted thought.
2 I I
Conflict
Your own thwarted impulse must be revitalized to pene-
trate the resistance theyoffer.”
“I can see them busily erecting a defense, as though
fearful of being stormed,” reported Betty. “All their
strengthis in thatdefense; all theirattentionis on it. There
is nothingto receive an impression from you. What can
you do? You can fight to a finish if you want to; but it’s
such a waste. You merely arouse to greater defensive
actionalongthelines of least resistance. You’re justclash-
ingto no purpose.
“This is hard to get. Let me try. . . .
“Here I am. I want to influencehim. I’m trying, but
the resistance is too great; it is impervious. . . . Oh, I’m
changingWeapons!”
“Oppose at first with all your strength,” struck in the
Invisible. “That first rush of opposing strength is very
important because it preserves your own impulse, keeps
it from getting into the zone of action of the opposing
strength. That follows the natural law of self-preserva-
non.”
“That certainly is very important,” agreed Betty. “It
is establishingyourown standard in order to get through
theirzone of actionquicklyand forcefully,beforeyou get
involved in it.”
“But then you must convert your weapons to spiritual
ones,” Warned theInvisible.
Therewas a pause whileBettystudied theproblem.
“Theirmethodis so differentfrom ours! ”
she exclaimed
at last. “They don’t
Conflict
it doggedly face to face. They use a kind of mental re-
lease —
theyunstopper themselves,increasetheircapacity.
There is in this not the idea of striking loose and being
superior and unsympathetic; they always keep sympa-
thetic contact with the opposing force. But the idea is of
generatingsomethingso much biggerand superior, a kind
of reflected or borrowed something,thattheycan return
and overwhelm it.
“Thatis theway theyconquer a thing,workon it, over
there.It is quite a thrillingly
fascinatingway becausethere
is so much zest to it; it’s the grandest hunting in the
world.” a
“just unstopper yourself,” concluded the Invisible,
“and somethingwithinevaporates, so to speak—returns to
its source. It is a simple, normal action. Just don’t keep
yourself corked up. Remember: open at the top!”
2. SIMPLIFICATION.
Once we have got a start in this way, our next care
must be not to get caughtin an argument over non-essen-
tial details.
“Hold on tight,” advised the Invisibles, “and don’t say
much; for words confuse them, and they have to start
combatting them. Say just enough to direct their atten-
tion. Make them feel your attitude of mind, and especial-
ly convince them of your lack of antagonism, your
conviction that harmony is possible between you. Lured
213
Conflict
from their own base, meeting no opposition or antagon-
ism of the kind theyexpect, there is a chance of enough
uncertaintyand receptivity to enable you to awaken new
perception.
“Now state with all the force of your convictions the
simplifiedproblem as you see it. Force and simplification
are necessary to recreate your vision to others.You’ve got
to raise up thelevel of the whole thingby thestrengthof
your own wider vision, which you have acquired by the
eliminationof thevery thingsunder dispute. Never weak-
en or scatter yourself at thispoint by giving heed to their
distorted view. It is an attracting of attention from the
perverted to the healthyfor which you must try. Bring
forward in plain statements your attitude of mind, ap-
proachingtheirs only after definitelyshaping and stating
your own. You then have made a contrasting picture,
form of mind, and can safelyapproachtheirs for the pur-
pose of reproportioningit.
“In any small application try sympatheticallystating
the two contrasting forms of mind, shapes of thought;
statingthe other’sfirst, perhaps, as you see it, followed by
a whole-hearted creation of your own. And always,in the
contrastingform of treatment, the leaveningof sympathy
and encouragementwhich will make it work. It will not
otherwise. Incomplete, it becomes merely antagonistic,
and fails. Coupled with sympathetic encircling action,
minus anger, it willwork.Thegreattroubleis half-recipes,
half-truths.
“And don’t dispute. State the purity of your aims,
214
Conflict
which will recur at their calmer moments and sink in.
Theyremembernow onlythe irritated words of dispute.
Make your own form of lifeto presentin contrast to theirs.
That is the onlyway. The force of your vision must get
in. It must have strengthand energy and beauty.
“Concentrate on two points: reality in creating your
form, and encircling action that surrounds with a har-
monious atmosphere in attacking theirs. Be unmindful
of therest.
“The world and all these spiritual powers are drawn
up like two sides of a great game, and when you face all
thatseethingside thatis theworld, you wonder how you
can go into it and not bedragged down and lost. And then
thisgreat weapon is placedin your hands, thissimplifica-
tion process, which keeps you on the chair above the
crowd, touching them for a moment by attractingtheir
attention.”
3. THE CONSTRUCTIVEFIGHT.
In the last analysis it is the nature of our own inner
attitude that will determine the value of our efforts. As
we all know, our dailylife is normallya struggle, a series
of oppositions. But a persistent attitude of service can
almost miraculouslytransform the conflict.
“If you fight to win people,” declared the Invisible,
“instead of to win results at theirexpense, it must become
a fight of acquisition.”
“Isn’t that strange!” cried Betty. “You don’t fight to
215
Conflict
repel or subdue — that’s just a temporary half-won vic-
tory. This way you go round acquiring people. It’s an
absorbent, acquisitive, releasing sort of fight. It would
belike takingprisonersand settingthemfree. . . .
You cer-
tainly make an effort to get them; you do fight for
them. . . .
That’s very amusing, going round the world
absorbingpeople for your side. It’s a funny way of fight-
ing. But it is a fight, a distinct fight. Yes,it is a grand, big
fight. It takes so much superior strengthon your part.
“It is so important to get rid of theidea of destruction
connected withthefight; and to substitute a constructive
fight, doubling the force and manliness of it, eliminating
all theantagonisms.That’s a curious thingto do!”
“It is like thefightingto rescue some one from drown-
ing,” explained the Invisible. “You fight them with
strength but without antagonism. Often people fail in
good fights because they cut themselves off from re-
inforcements by antagonism.”
“Hold on,” I begged. “How about righteous indigna-
tion? Christ and themoney changers?”
“Certainly,” acknowledged the Invisible. “It was a
cleansing force. That is necessary; very necessary. But
thereis a difference between having your driving power
one of hatred or small antagonisms,and having your driv-
ing power a bigconstructive thingwhich requires cleans-
ing destruction.
“Not longago we stated thatin meetingnon—receptivity
the first reactionsometimes must be a quickly generated
opposition to being included in its zone of action. Well
216
Conflict
thatoften works out in what you call righteous indigna-
tion. It is an instantaneous exposition of your own stand—
ards in opposition to those of a lower and destructive
order. That is part of the big fight and it is a real fight!
But the whole of your attention, the source of your
strength,is in reconstruction, not on the money changers
themselves. They just represent the resistance you are to
overcome.”
“I can see the clash,” added Betty, “but the big idea
hovers about and does not demand the petty gratification
thatother clashes do.”
“Make no mistake about the fight,” warned the In-
visible. “It is the great conflictwithout antagonism. The
big things of your war were done more with attention
fixed on the freedom of the world, than by the strength
of hatred of the Germans. There is a difference in the
strengthyou tap and the channels you open up to carry it
when you fight for a cause, primarily,and not against a
people.”
4. THE GREAT FORMULA.
“Do not forget how you do it: through strength of
desire to serve, through vigorous encircling action,
through overflowing faith, through vision of“ reality,
through union with spiritual law and purpose, through
understandingof temptationand resistance, throughmag-
nifying to each his own soul. Through all these you find
your way to the comprehensionof the divine life.”
217
PART III
APPENDICES
APPENDIX I
The Technique of Communication
WE must premise that the source of all this material is a
matter for each to decide for himself. It may originate in
Betty—inwhich case she is more of a wonder than any of
us had supposed. She may, by this mechanism, tap some
wide source of wisdom, some reservoir, some “universal
mind.” Or, in this state of divided consciousness she may
come into touch with “race consciousness,” the stored or
accumulated experience of humankind. Or, finally,the
source may be what it purports to be, distinct discarnate
intelligences. Each is free and welcome to adopt any
hypothesisthatappeals to him.
But the material is here: it did not exist before as a
formulated thing,either in our minds or in our reading.
It came to us—and still cornes—in the manner I have set
down. That much is indubitablefact.
2.
Assuming the source as from invisibleintelligences, the
technique of the communicationis a fascinatingspecula-
tion. Earlyin thegame it becameabundantlyevident that
221
The Techniqueof Communication
it is not so simple as talking into a telephone. In the
beginning were inconsistencies in statement; sometimes
direct mistatements and contradictions. There were ir-
relevant trivialities or absurdities. There were blank fail-
ures to give simple replies to simple questions. It was
almost impossible to get any adequate explanation for
these things. It took considerable faith and perseverance
not to have quit in disgust.
As time went on, we came to various conclusions of our
own; and stilllater were told a little.
Before taking them up I want to repeat what was said
in themain body of the book: thatthiswhole question of
communication seems to be still in a highly experimental
state, on both sides. We have been repeatedly assured of
this by the Invisibles themselves, and we have seen them
many times begin,try out, and abandon different methods
and expedients.In answer to direct questionwe have been
told again and again: “We know little more about this
than you do: we are experimenting.”Just as onlycertain
people here are sensitives, so apparently only certain
specialists there have the knowledge, training or especial
equipment to manipulate the process. Those less skilled,
less conservative, more inclined to try it on anyway, are
likelyto blunder both in methodand content.
When one sees the pencilmoving in automaticwriting,
or hears the voice in spoken communication, one asks
questions in the expectationof receivingsimpleand direct
answer, as thoughthe discamate intelligencewere actual-
222
The Techniqueof Communication
lyholdingthe pencilin full control, or were talkingas one
talks througha telephone.Except as to the simplestideas,
such accuracyrarelyoccurs.* Ordinarily,when one pres-
ses for a concrete statement of fact,or a detailed descrip-
tion of conditions, he gets either evasion, a flat assurance
thatthe thingis too complicatedor difficult to be told, or
else the required details are given but are awkward, ab-
surd, or Contradictory to what has been given elsewhere
throughotherstations withat least equal authority.Even
a simpleyes or no is difficult to elicit.
This is especially true of the personal type of thing;
which is the usual approachto these super—normal ——
not
supernatural—matters. If the seeker sticks at that,he is up
a blind alley. It may be all right as a start: but only as a
start.
But if some one appears to be manipulatinga pencil,or
speaking directly through another’s voice, and if that
some one claims identity as a friend; our first demand is
that he prove thatidentity. How can that best be done?
Naturally by asking him to recall something we both
know. If he is what he purports to be, he ought to be able
to remember—— and describe — the old mill by the pond
where you used to go swimmingtogether.And as you are
interested in him, you will probablywant to know some-
thingabout his present conditions and surroundings. So
you ask him that.
What do you get? As to the old mill, indirection, half-
hints, small bits, sidelong approaches. Rarely anything
“ I am writingof average experience.
223
The Techniqueof Communication
direct and satisfactory. The records of the various so-
cieties for psychical research are full of these slow,
painstaking, fumbling efforts to get across “evidential”
messages. Their synthesisto anythingthatcan be even an
approachto satisfactionis a business for experts. As to your
desire to know somethingof your supposed friend’s con-
ditions of existence, one of two things: either a vague
statement thattheyare so different from your’s thatthey
cannot be described; or a rash attempt at a picture that
is flatlyinconsistent withwhat somebody else is supposed
to have told throughsome other station.
Even if some of thisstrikes ou as be ond coincidence;
_
Y Y
if you are encouraged to go on becausethere seems to be
the cm of “somethin in it,” wh all the fuss and stru -
E _ . _
8 Y _
3
gle and indirection? Why not say so, in so many words?
It is all pretty tough on the common sense. And if, as
often happens, you suddenly find yourself an object of
personal attention by Julius Caesar or Napoleon or Wil-
liam James —— he’s a favorite —— then your innate modesty
is quite likely to join hands with your skepticism. You
stop dead in your traclm. You are fair. There may be
somethingin it, you acknowledge.There is a residue you
cannot explain. But even if it is genuine, it is too un-
reliable. How can you tell what to accept and what not
to accept? How can you have any assurance of thevalue
of what is passed out to you? And if thatis Iobn talking,
he must have gone off fearfullyin his mind.
That, I think,is the reaction of any man who has not
already the will to believe. It would most certainly have
224.
s
The Technique of Communication
beenmy own, had it not been for thefactthat,even in the
earliest days of the actual teaching,part of what we got
was straightforward, logical, progressive, and with pur-
pose. This carried us through until the confusions disap-
peared.
3:
But since they did disappear, and the genuineness did
establish itself —
at least to us — then it was a logical
thought that similar difficulties, which had caused aban-
donmentin othercases, might besimilarlya maskto some-
thingreal. If so, it was worth whileto speculate on them.
I thoughtabout them a great deal; and I observed Betty
in action; and I evolved a tentative theory that fits well
enough the factsin our own case. It will probablyneed a
lot of modificationin detail; but I still believeit basically
sound in principle.
This is what I conceive happens:
The Invisibles have no direct power to manipulate our
physical substance, though at times theymay appear to
do so. Their abilityto levitate tables, for instance; or to
move a pencilin automaticwriting; or to jerkour limbs
about; or to appear to speak by direct control of another
all depend on their abilityto impress an idea on a portion
of the station’s mind. That portion of the station’s mind,
in turn, so manipulates the necessary physicalmechanism
as to approximatethe result desired. This rule I conceive
to beinvariable.
225
The Techniqueof Communication
Now the physicalmechanism which is so manipulated
by a portion of thestation's mind in accordance—moreor
less—with the idea impressed on it, is not necessarilythe
familiarmuscular system. Take the common case of table
tipping or ordinary levitation. The experimentsof Craw-
ford,Schrenck-Notzing,De Rochas,Crookes,Flammarion,
Gustave Geley and others show thatthis is accomplished
by a projection of what they have named ectoplasm, a
physicalemanation from the body of the station, capable
of considerable extension and rigidity,perhaps capable of
carrying force as a wire conducts electricity.By means of
this ectoplasmthe manifestations occur. I may hasten to
add that their occurrence implies per Se no intervention
of any other personality that that of the station, or—tele-
pathically—theby—standers. Neither does common writ-
ing or speech. Merely it is a physical mechanism, like
writingor speech, thoughnot as familiarto us. It is avail-
able, like them, for use by that portion of the station’s
mind which receives the intention of theInvisible. It can-
not be manipulated directly by the Invisible, any more
thancan a pencilor the organs of speech.
The portion of the station’s mind with which we are
dealing we will have to call the subconscious.‘That has
become a sort of wastebasketword into which we dump
everythingwe do not understand, but it will have to do.
It is not a distinctlyseparate mind from the conscious in-
tellect. They are both one Mind. It is the submerged
portion, the part below the threshold. In some the
threshold is higher or lower than in others; and likewise
226
The Technique of Communication
the threshold can be raised or lowered by effort and de-
velopment. This subconscious portion, broadlyspeaking,
receives impression, idea, emotion, inspiration, which it
lifts to the conscious intellect to be fitted into expression.
It does just thatconstantlyin everydaylife. For example,
it is theseat of our “instincts”as we call them.That aspect
of the subject has been so thoroughlytreated in so many
works on psychology that elaboration is unnecessary
here.
Now this subconscious mind is the only point of con-
tact with the Invisibles. They cannot affect our physical
selves nor our physical environment except throughit. I
make this statement in full appreciation of many phe-
nomena in apparent contradiction. And as they cannot
intervene directly on us physically,so theycannot inter-
vene directlyon us as to our consciouslyintellectual part.
They must impress what they want on the submerged
subconscious of the station, which in turn reports that
impression to the conscious intellect for expression.
At just thatpoint the diflicultylies.
Let us assume a specificcase of a sort apparentlyat vari-
ance with this theory. An Invisible desires to communi-
cate in direct words. The subject matter, the details, of
that communication, are “prepared” in such a manner as
to make an impression on the station’s subconscious as
accuratelyas possible.The methodof impression is a trifle
obscure. We have been told of it in various ways.
1
“Recording my thought on your brain,’ was one at-
227
The Techniqueof Communication
tempt, “How I reach you. The clearer you understand it,
thebetteryou can co-operate. Reckon first on receptivity.
Presuppose receptivity. Without that there is the merest
chance of succeeding. Reckon next on desire from both
ends. Registrationis accomplishedby means of themating
of sensitized consciousnesses superimposed-, something
like the makingof a color print.
“Roughlyspeaking, the general preparationwhich you
make throughadmittingthe possibilityof communication
is the sensitizing which admits of the impress from this
end. For this reason systematic preparation or seeking is
almost certain to insure results. The preparation of the
platesis your part.”
After the impression is received, it must be translated.
This is done by thatpart of the mind which we use con-
stantlyin everyday life, the intellectual part. (But not, of
course, with the conscious knowledgeof the station.) In
the case of both automaticwriting and spoken communi-
cation it is more or less divorced temporarilyfrom con-
scious active thinking,so that the words seem, and are,
independentof the station’s will. Nevertheless,thatis the
part thatdoes the translating.It must do so in accordance
withits equipment. If the equipment is limited, the trans-
lation is limited. One cannot strike typewriter keys that
do not exist. It should be added thatin most human beings
there exists vastly more equipment than is ever under
conscious control at any one time. Hypnotismproves this.
But nothingbeyondthat equipment can be expressed. If
an idea totally outside it is offered, it can either be
228
The Techniqueof Communication
conveyed only partially and by analogy, or it cannot be
conveyedat all.
Consider thecase of an absolutelyunlettered, untraVell-
ed solitary cast away as a childon a desert island. Bring to
his subconscious mind an accurate impression if, say the
essence of modern rapid transportation —-
motors, loco-
motives, airplanes — and demand of his intellect a report
of that impression. He must translate it in terms of the
birds of the air, the beasts of the field, the fish of the sea,
or his own two feet. If any one were present to receive that
report, he might get a highly poetic analogy,but hardly
much idea of the reality. And if he had just come from
anotherisland where bullock carts — and nothingelse -
were known; with his head full of an authentic“revela-
tion” of winged carts, or bullocks of incredible swiftness
breathingfire and smoke, he would be justifiedin throw-
ing up bothhands and callingit all bunk. ’
This matter of translation may be conceived to be one
of basic difliculty. A great deal of distortion also comes
in bywhat we call “coloring,”—— the arbitrarythoughun-
intentional intervention of the station’s own thinking
mind. That is fairly common, and is pretty well recog-
nized. The mind seizes a fragmentof the genuineimpres-
sion and, by associationof ideas, goes galloping off withit
in thegrooves of habit,constructingout of past experience
a more or less coherent statement thatis genuine only in
a fragmentat inception.At its worst it results in complete
falsity.At its bestit modifiesand distorts.
229
The Techniqueof Communication
4.
Let us now examine the apparent method by which
theseimpressedideas are translated bythestation.
Everbody is familiarwith the type of mind thatreacts
in conventionalphraseto. any common sentiment.We call
them “bromides.” It is like touching a button: one knows *
exactlywhat to expect. That is the simplest possible ex-
ample of what takes place.Certain ideas automaticallyat-
tract certain forms of expression. Present theidea and the
expression follows. Betty once said; “Queer how I hunt
for words. I have a magnet and the proper word climbs
up.” Often she will snap her fingers and cry impatiently;
“Word wanted! Word wanted! ”
In the unicellular rudimentary mind — if such can be
imagined—theremight beonlyone expression-response,so
that the translation of any certain ideas would be in-
variable, even thoughinadequate. But as a matter of fact
even the most simple-minded station has in store at least
a dozen words any one of which might fit, and all of
which report for duty,so to speak. Thathappensin every-
day life. When it does so happen we have, we say, to
“make a choice of words.” It is the same thinghere, only
there is not only a choice of words to be made, but also
what might be called a choice of concepts.
In ordinary circumstances this choice is left by the In-
visibles almost entirelyto thestation. Sometimesit is done
deliberately,I believe,in order to get thegist of themat-
23o
The Techniqueof Communication
ter over witha minimum of difliculty.In nine cases in ten,
however, in my opinion, the Invisibles cannot help them-
selves. The human habit of expression is too strong for
them. They can make the impression, but then the thing
runs away from them. This is especially true with un-
developed or partially developed. stations, —people who
suddenly discover a pencil writing for them, and who
promptly take all as gospel that comes to them. The
sequence is a premature rushing into print, with more
“basic discrepancies” and attendant bewilderment and
disbelief. For when the matter of translation is whollyor
partiallyleftto thestation, it necessarilyis tingedwiththe
station’s habitof thought.It becomesecclestiasticthrough
the formallyreligious; or fuzzythroughthe emotional;or
highfalutin’ through the sentimental; or even ungram-
maticalthroughtheilliterate.
Parenthetically,I see no objectionthatoften thesemes-
sages are cast in the first person, as though the Invisible
were actuallytalking directly. That, too, is a matter of
impression. Do not forget thatin thischoice of which we
are speaking the station takes no conscious part, in the
wakingsense of usingthewill.The choice is made and put
into action by what we call loosely the conscious part of
the mind as differing from the subconscious; but the
personalityof thestation is for themoment more or less in
abeyance. That is what makes the person a station;the
facultyof stepping aside. Here is where our impersona-
tions come in.Weare toldsolemnlyof long and fluent—and
ordinarilycommonplace—conversationswithJuliusCaesar
231
The Techniqueof Communication
and Plato and Nero and Judas, all of whom seem to be
dwellinginbliss as a HappyFamily,and all of whom seem
franticallyeager to rush into conference at any hour of
of the day or night with any Tom, Dick or Harry who
calls themup. WilliamJames must be eitherubiquitousor
must possess a large corps of secretaries to get around at
all. All a matter of the translation of the impression on
the subconscious. Some little thingreminds the station’s
mind of Caesar or Plato or Nero or James: it seizes and
personifies that idea, and is off on a tangent of its own.
The subconscioushas received from thestation himself an
impression deeper than any that can be given from an
outside source. Even a direct denial of identityon thepart
.
of theInvisible,we can conceive, would not even get over
against an idea fixe.
Our own Invisibles were constantly lamenting this
tendencyof the human mind to gallop ofl’ on its own.
“That,roughlyspeaking,is all we can say today,”they
ended a rathersketchyexpositionof somethingwe wanted
to know one day. “The trouble is, we might give you
more; but once hinted at or wrongly accepted or con-
ceived, you would start going withgrim determinationin
some direction from which we could not divert you. That
increases our difficulties and makes us very cautious how
we start your consciousness —
your earth consciousness —
in any given direction.”
Even when the source of impression is from without,
how can one besure to whom one is talking? One cannot;
except through painstaking, wearisome, minute, eviden-
232
The Techniqueof Communication
tial work,such as Dr. Hyslop did, and such as the physi-
cal research societies are always busy on. Except of
course a moral certainty when personality is marked and
strong. That is why, except to those who need evidence
of survival, personal communication is so nearly futile.
That is why our Invisibles have so insisted on anonymity,
and have so stressed the content of what theyhave to say.
The case of proved identity is not hopeless, but it is dif-
ficult.
We have said thatthe “choice of Words” was generally
perforce or intentionallyleft to the station. We have dis-
cussed the perforce. It has seemed to me also thatmuch of
the time the Invisibles have deliberatelyrefrained from
much, if any,supervision. This happens when thestation’s
equipmentis sufficientlyadequateto theimpression, either
because his habit of mind fits the subject matter, or be-
cause he is suflicientlyin harmonywiththeInvisible to be
exquisitely sensitive to refinements of meaning. That re-
sults in great fluency. It is a method most often allowed
when the subject is very general, or of no especial impor-
tance, or in ordinary conversational exchange. What dif-
ference, when the impression of “affectionate paternity”
is made, whether that conveys to the station, and is so
translated, Dad or Papa or Governor or whatever? Or
whether the station says, “Well done, thou good and
faithfulservant,” or “Bullywork,old man!”?
But, again, the form of translation may make a great
deal of difference.Then from theflock of words thatrises
to the magnet of the idea impressed, the Invisibie may
233
r
,
‘us
..-...,...
..,..,..,,,..g,........,...,....,,,..._.,,,..,.,
,.,,...i,...
..
.._..a
i
..,.
The Techniqueof Communication
make a choice. In Betty’scase thatchoice is made by elim-
ination,by negationof one after the otherthatshe would
select until thesuitableone presents itself. I imaginethat
is alwaysthecase. The result is more accurate, but it is also
_
more halting. When an absolutely literal statement is in
order, — what we call dictation— it is very slow. It is slow
when Betty reports in her own person what is supplied
her. It is slow when the Invisibles, apparentlyspeaking in
their own persons, desire to make a measured statement.
The whole equipment of the station is at their disposal
—vocabulary,experience,intellectual ideas, habitsof mind
and phrase, mental reactions,beliefs,wisdom and knowl-
edge —
as the words in a dictionaryare at the disposal of
those who would write. These materials are capable of
being arranged in any pattern or sequence, to express
in their combination,perhaps, ideas entirely unknown to
the station. But theycan be so arranged only by the re-
jectionof those not desired from that portion of them
that automaticallyrises to meet the stimulus of the im-
pression.
To go back to our simple illustration.Let us suppose
thatin life a son called his fatherDaddy,and thatfor pur-
poses of identificationhe desires that this precise diminu-
tive begot over. But thestation used to call his own father
Dad. That would first present itself as a suitable transla-
tion of the impression. It would be inhibited by the In-
visibles; as would, in turn, Papa, Father, Governor, Old
Man, etc. Then would ensue what the records call “dif-
ficulty.” If the station’s conscious attention were roused,
234-
The Technique of Communication
failure would result. Yet to the son seeking communica-
tion with his fatherit would seem an absurdly easy test.
How much more diflicultto get over a pet name entirely
personal to those who used it: or, for thatmatter, names
or dates at all! Yetthatis a “test” commonlyrequested.
A moment’s thoughtwillshow how thissame reasoning
applies to other “tests,” —
as a request to know “what we
did togetherMay first,” or “describethe house we used to
live in,” or the like. The Invisible may impress on the
station’s subconscious an entirely adequate conception;
but nothing may rise to it that can express accurately
necessary details. It seems thatit should be easy to say in
so many words that it was a White colonial house by a
millpond. But suppose white houses habitually mean
Italian villas to the station, and water implies a sea or a
harbor by the sea. The matter must be gone into bit by
bit from the beginning, working from generalities to
particulars, and resulting at last after much stumblingin a
patchwork,with — if lucky ——
a few recognizablesalient
features.
In all of the foregoing I have purposely instanced the
simplest types of communication. There are many. The
most striking and rapid is that in which the station seems
“possessed” by the Invisible, using gestures, turns of
phrase,even tones of voice not his own. It is sometimesim-
possible to believe,in spite of the evidence of one’s eyes,
that another personality is not before one. Joan, of Our
Unseen Guest, is wonderful thatway.
Nevertheless, as I see it such apparent “possession” is
235
The Techniqueof Communication
not incompatiblewith the hypothesis.Description of the
process—irnpression on the subconscious; a rising of ap-
posite material for translation to the conscious; a selecdon
by suppression of all but the exact form desired —
may be
likened to a slowed—down moving picture. All the move-
ments of the actionstand out singlyand painfully.But in
some cases it is possiblethatthestation may be far enough
developed, or so sympatheticallyen rapport with the In-
visible, thatthe filmis speeded up. The mechanism moves
as smoothlyand promptly as the parts of an engine. The
impress is formed, made, translated, almost in one move-
ment, as it were; and with that major impression come
minor impressions —
perhaps intentionally,perhaps in-
voluntarily—— of personality and mannerism. These, too,
the station seizes and translates into speech or action.We
have the impersonation. Yet I believe if ]oan’s process
could beslowed down for inspection,—
as themovingpic-
ture is slowed down — it would be found to comprise the
sequence I have outlined in my hypothesis.And even Joan
does slow down at times to thepointof themost deliberate
and tentative dictation when some technical matter re-
quiring absolute verbal accuracyis to besaid.
Or take another type, that of the station who pro-
nounces words unknownto him. Cases have beenreported
of communications in foreign languages with which the
station was allegedto beunacquainted.*Thereis no reason
whysound: should not beimpressed and translated as well
'
As in the celebrated case of Dr. Whynant conversing through an
illiterate station with a purported Chinese sage in an ancient dialect
known only to a few scholars.
236
The Techniqueof Communication
as words; and a proper combinationof those sounds as
syllableswould form words unknownto thestation. That
would imply an extremely delicate process, and the de-
velopmentof enormous skill,control, sensitivenessand re-
ceptivity. In principleit should be possible.We are yet at
very crude beginnings.Certainly the little group around
Bell, jubilantover distinguishing faintlya single jumbled
sentence across thespaceof two rooms, could have had no
vision of hearing a whisper four thousand miles.
5’.
That brings us back to the specific instance: the de-
velopment of Betty as a station. You rememberthe ex-
planation of theslow and difficult progress as an attempt
to get away from “spontaneousor spasmodic”phenomena
to an “intelligentco-operation.” If, on the basis of seven-
teen years’ experience, I were to indulge in prophecy I
should say thatthe future of both fluencyand accuracy
would depend on: (a) developmentof the station’s sym-
patheticreceptivity so that he will catch the impressions
as rapidlyas an enginereceives the two or three thousand
sparks a minute that drive it so smoothlyand untiringly;
(b) the extension of the station's equipment so that the
translation will be both instantaneous and accurate; (c)
the strengtheningof the Invisible’s veto power, so thatit,
too, willactinstantlyand smoothlyto depressall thewords
that rise to the magnet of the idea save the one desired.
Then we should have true communication.The Invisible
237
The Techniqueof Communication
maythenbesaid to control directly,in thesame sense that
we control directly the forming of words with a pencil.
We do not drive the pencil: the hand does it, controlled
by and obedientto ourselves.
Of the points mentioned above, the receptivity is per-
haps a matter of personal equipment. Stations seem to be
naturally “sensitive” —
to a greater or smaller degree —
while other people are not. But I am not sure that the
potentialitydoes not exist latent in mankindas a race: and
it is indubitable that a natural sensitive may develop to
greater and greater efficiency.The thirdconsideration,of
course, is not in our hands.
But the second deserves a moment’s attention. The de-
velopment of the station is one of the big things of the
future. A preponderance of the results we have attained
have been by means of theraw material,so to speak.
Part of the intelligent co—operation lies in our second
point — the equipment of the station. It grows not only
by the fullness of the life he leads on earth, includinghis
education, his reading, and his experience of wisdom, but
also it grows tremendously by the very translation he
makes and by his experience with the Invisibles -—
pro-
vided thatis intelligentand co—operative.Thenew patterns
theyturn out of old thingsbecomemagicallynew things
that may in turn be used for fresh patterns. That is the
essence of what we call “psychic development,” and it is
capable of an extension without limit, infinitely‘beyond
the expansions of life as we know it. It is in this that our
hope lies for the future, our hope of reachingout into a
238
The Technique of Communication
fullness of knowledge we can never attain through the
contacts and experiencesprovidedus by theworld we see
and hear and touch and taste and smell.
6. i
That, in brief,is my workinghypothesis. I do not de-
lude myself with the idea that it is in any way a finished
one, or thatit covers completelyall the variationsof deli-
cate adjustment.But at present I do believe that it repre-
sents the root of the matter; and that those variations
spring from it; that it is the focal point from which the
whole subject spreads fanwise. I offer it as a glimpse, in
thehope thatthevigorous, exploring,new young era that
beganwiththe close of thewar willfind it at least a scaf-
folding from which to construct.
Since formulatingit, some time in 1920, I have observed
nothingto cause me to change its essentials. Indeed those
essentials have beencorroborated by direct statements, too
voluminous to include here. One alone I shall quote, be-
cause it was addressed to beginners.
We were discussing first “messages,” and were wonder-
ing why —
assumingin them some genuine content, they
were generallyso inconsequential.
“The content of first messages, throughnew stations,”
we were told, “is important only as it serves to retain
interest and does not discourage by too complete ir-
relevancy. We are rarely at first attempting to say any-
thing.We are merelytrying to get a reactionto stimulus.
239
The Techniqueof Communication
If this could be fullyunderstood, it would be as effective
to convey a single irrelevant word, —
or, indeed, mere
meaninglesssounds. From our point of viewthewhole im-
portance of a considerably extended period of first work
is in the reaction to any impression on the part of the
station. Often in a long alleged message a small phrase, a
singleword, or even a solitary syllableor sound is all that
that actuallyemanates from us. The rest of the message,
so—called, is a mere carrying out of what the station him-
self unconsciouslyimaginesto be the purport. That min-
ute response is, however, completely satisfactory to us,
as it indicatessuccess in actuallyimpingingupon our neo-
phyte’s receptivity. We have no particular concern with
.
the rest of it, unless, as I said at first, it may affect the
robabilit of an abandonmentof theex eriments because
P Y .
P . .
of nonsense or discrepancy or contradiction. Since our
ma'or interest is thus fixed u on the ocess while our
.
J .
P ’. Y
interest is naturall fixed on the content our aims must at
.
Y .
’
first be diver ent. And since at first we see the trend of
.3
progress, whileyou do not, we are naturallyreluctant to
divert our purpose any more thanis absolutelynecessary.
“Thereforewe give our attention and force to complete
accuracyor to_ the production of what you call evidential
onlywhen our hand on thepulse of your interest or belief
indicates a slowing down, below the danger point. Our
object, you see, is to develop an instrument of receptivity
capable of somethingmore worth while than could be
possiblein crude beginnings.
“Nowwe try to start, naturally,withtheapparatusthat
24.0
The Technique of Communication
is most simple, bothin manipulationand in range, thatit is
possible to devise. The simplest of all is of course a single
reaction, a single impulse, resulting in a single phenom-
enon. We tip a table accordingto an almost childish pre-
arrangement, or cause you to thrust a thing about in a
limited numberof directions, like the ouija board. These
manipulationsrequire, as one might say,a mere touch on a
button.
“Generally the next stage is coherent language, gener-
ally through automatic writing. This requires, however
rapid it may seem, the choice among onlytwenty‘-sixdif-
ferent things.* You will notice, if you remember your
experience, that after a little and at times, you occasion-
allyanticipated a whole word in your own minds, a frac-
tion of a second before it was put down. That was a
merginginto thenext step. But thefirst of automaticwrit-
ingwas — in process slowed down —
an impression of one
out of twenty-six things only.
“This,you can understand,was quite a difl"erentmatter
and a much easier matter than selecting one out of the
several thousand things which constitutes your vocabu-
lary equipment. The latter is what must be done in the
case of even fairlydeveloped spoken communication.
“There is a curious reciprocity about this relationship.
We can only reach -— take advantage of effort, and you
have to supply the effort. We generallyin the beginning
have to snatch at chance effort. You happen to be at a
friend’shouse tippinga table. There is our chance. Butwe
"
The letters of the alphabet.
24.1
The Techniqueof Communication
might shout at you ten years. Try every technique you
hear about, provided that if it does not seem promptly
to work,you willnot becomediscouragedwiththewhole
business. There are no two thingsin the universe absol-
utely alike. In coarser adjustments wider dissimilarities
will respond to identical method. As the adjustmentbe-
comes finer the individual differences exercise more in-
fluence,and themethodmust cease to be standard and it-
self becomeindividual. When this is the case, careful and
slow experiment is necessary, on both sides, until the
methodis determined.”
APPENDIX II
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
BETTY’S“mediumship”has never emphasizedphysical
phenomena. That is something else, apparently, with
which we have little or nothingto do. Onlyonce, in our
seventeen years’ experiencehave we even assisted, active-
ly,in theirproduction. And even thenour inclusionhad a
direct connection with the teaching,in that it seemed to
be directed toward some sort of proof of the actuality
of thespiritual body. '
It happened that, in the early part of 1922, wehad a
rather unusual opportunity. _From various parts of the
country happened to be gathered in New York, for a
month,a group of peopleknown to each otheras personal
friends, three of whom were gifted, like Betty, as sensi-
tives; and the rest interested, like myself, from an unemo-
tional standpoint. Strangely enough none of us had at
that time read much concerning the physicalphenomena
of psychics. We had little knowledge of what had been
done; and no preconceived notions of what to expect.
After the show was all over we were surprised that cer-
tain trained investigators found some of our results so
remarkable.We had found them exciting and interesting,
and loads of fun! But at the end of our month I thinkour
predominant feeling was of regret that we could not go
on and reallyget somewhere!
We had, then,a newspaper man and his wife: Iwillcall
themMr. and Mrs. Gaines. Also a business man in foreign
243
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
trade and his wife: I will call him Cass. Then there was
still another couple, both of them active in professional
life. And, of course, Betty.
Mrs. Gaines, we had discovered in the course of our
friendship with them, was possessed of a considerable
degree of thispeculiar sensitivity.
Cass’s wife was Margaret Cameron, whose book The
Seven Purposeswas at thattime in its height of popularity.
The professional couple were the anonymous authors
of Our Unseen Guest —
so deeply anonymous that even
their closest friends did not know of their identity. In
their book theycalled themselves “Darby and Joan,” so
we will do so here.
Now here were eight people, all of whom by tem-
perament and training were practical, hard-headed, and
known to each other as of unquestioned integrity; and
four of them had demonstrated this peculiar power, each
in a different fashion. The extraordinary content of The
Seven Purposes had been conveyed largely in huge auto-
maticwritingin full consciousness. Mrs. Gaines, also con-
scious, spoke from a revery-like condition of a rather
lovelysensitivity.Joan, in contrast, fell into a trance state
so deep that she had no consciousness whatever of what
went on; no subsequent recollection of it; and no sense of
time. So far as she knew, she might have been “out” four
minutes or four hours. Betty’s methodhas been described.
We all had these thingsin common; we were much in-
terested in this new exploration; we took it “lightly,”in
the sense thatwe did not stand in awe of it, nor conm'der
244
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
any of its aspects “sacred,”and were able to have a lot of
fun with it; we knew each other, and had complete con-
fidence in each otheras friends; we had no axes to grind,
emotionally,in theway of publicity,or in any otherman-
ner. Curiously enough we were at that time singularly
innocent of any connection, mental or practical, with
organized research; we knew nothing of professional
mediums!
The whole combinationwas so unique that we could
not fail to take advantage of it.
“Four —
count ’em —— four under one tent!” cried some-
one. “Let’s work them tandem. I wonder if it’s ever been
done?”
In thatspirit we tried themtandem. At once it was evi-
dent thatsomethinginteresting was going to come out of
it. As MargaretCameron lived in New York,we arranged
to get together as often as we could at her house on
EleventhStreet.
There we met, generally in the evening, sometimes in
the afternoons, eleven times in all, between the dates of
December 31 and January 28, when it was necessary to
scatter to our various homes. From the first the lnvisibles
took definite and purposeful charge. We had no faintest
hint or preconceptionof what to expect. The actualwork
was done sometimes by one of our stations, sometimes by
another, sometimes by various combinationsof the four.
GenerallyJoan and Betty were the leadingperformers —
the “positive poles,” theywere called; with Margaret and
Mrs. Gaines assisting as the “negativepoles.”
24-5
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
The locale was an ordinary drawing room. From first
to last no especial apparatus was used, except a dull-
finished dark cloth over a screen as a background;and an
ordinary Brownie dark room lantern. From the latter we
removed thered slide, and substituted for its electric light,
globesof from fifteen to twentyfive watts in various tints.
By a process of elimination the Invisibles finallyhit on a
lilacglassas the most useful. At all times therewas plenty
of illuminationso thatevery detailof theroom was plainly
visible. Indeed, as will be seen, some of the experiments
were repeated in daylight. However, white light did not
seem the most favorable.
Most of the phenomena were observed by all those
present not activelyengagedin theirproduction, and were
checked off by comparison both at the time and after-
wards. Those actively engaged in the production, as a
general thing, saw nothing, or got merely fragmentary
glimpses. There was no emotional excitement. Even sur-
prise soon Wore itself thin. The human mind is remark-
ably adaptable thatway. Afterthe first ten minutes even
thesight of thefirst airplanesin flightbecamealmost com-
monplace. As the experiments extended over so long a
period of time we came very shortly to examine their
results in a mood of almost hypercriticism.
The principal operators from the other side were the
Doctor and Stephen, who gave the philosophy of Our
Unseen Guest; Anne, a Scotchwoman;and Joe, theson of
thenewspaperman before-mentionedas one of our group.
There were apparently many others busy and interested,
24.6
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
but the aforementioned appeared to be in charge. All of
the sessions were alike in that the serious experimental
work was lightened by much rapid interchange and by
some intentionally amusing interludes. In my account,
however, I am for the sake of brevity focussing on the
object in hand.
The first and second meetings were devoted to pre-
liminaryexplanationswhich can be epitomizedas follows:
Both mind and body are the human manifestations of
one reality, the human consciousness. The body is the
material manifestation of the sort of consciousness thatis '
human. The mind is the link betweenthe body and what
we call the spirit, or cosmic germ. The spirit or cosmic
germ, theactualI am of theindividual,itself has a definite
body,withweight, form, color, substance.
We have, of course, demonstrated the existence of the
mind and thephysicalbody. It remains to demonstrate the
actual existence of this other, or Beta, body as a tangible
and definite, not merelya symbolicalthing.That demon-
stration, we were told was the intention of the projected
experiments.
2. THE THIRD MEETING
We found that the best we could do was a bi—weekly
meeting. On the occasion of thenext (third),we natural-
ly expected a continuation of the explanations,and were
somewhat puzzled by an apparent hitch in the proceed-
24.7 .
Experiments With the Spiritual Body
ings. When Joan and Betty were put under,‘ Betty re-
markedthatshe felt confident “We’llget a long way to-
night”But thereseemed no start. Finally]oansaid:
“It is cold around my ankles.”
Bettyadvised her to “prancearound a little.”
“It’s not that”;said Joan, “It’: somethinggone out.”
A long pause ensued.
“Perfectlytremendous, the current throughmy arm,”
observed Betty at last (the two clasped hands when
“out”),“like a tremendous force going through. Not a
word: but it's terrific.”
Joan made motions as thoughwriting. We offered her
pencil and paper but nothingimportant came. Finally I
askedwhetherwe should try to get speech, or should let it
alone.
“I thinkit is too stron ,” returned Bert .
“Got to let
. .
g V
it alone. The force 1S very strong.”
Suddenly, after another long and silent interval Joan
cried out sharply:
“Pinch it! Feel the cold stratum."
The cold stratum was readilydistinguished, extending
some inches above the floor. It was so unmistakablycold
thatit struck throughour shoes. The effect was not unlike
thatof a wintry draughtalongthefloorof an old fashioned
house. In threethingsit differed: it had not beenapparent
five minutes before;it ceased to be apparent five minutes
thence;its upper limits were sharply defined.
‘
Throughoutall these experimentsboth were heavilyand thorough-
ly blindfolded.
24.8
Experimentswith the Spiritual Body
Betty was evidentlyalso involved in the production of
this —
as indeed all subsequent phenomena,—forat this
point she said:
“Have to take it slowly because I’m just a little sick.
I’m doingworkfor two, and it makes me justa little sick.”
“Pinchit,”re eated oan,s eakin with rear diflicul .
_ _
P P 8 3
We did not instantly understand, “Me,” she repeated,
“Me away; me, out therewhere it’s cold.”
Darby caughttheidea of what was wanted, and pinch-
ed the air about four feet from Joan‘, but a little to her
right.
“Not there. In front of me,” stammered Joan, “Not so
high; I’m not so high.”
Darby again pinched the air; this time in front of her
A
and about on a level with her knee. Instantlyher left leg
winced back as thoughit had itself been pinched. He re-
peated the experiment at the level of her waist: her hand
flew to her head. Successive trials seemed to show that
‘points of sensitiveness existed at a distance from ]oan’s
physicalbody correspondingin location to theparts of the
physicalbody;but apparentlyon a somewhatsmallerscale.
That is to say, when one pinched theair at the floor, the
reactionwas in her ankles;at the waist level, the reaction
was in the head; and at various points between, the
shoulder, hand, knee or other part jerkedback as though
in pain. When thesepoints had beensuflicientlydetermin-
ed, Joan sighed and said in a relieved voice:
“Now I can go back!”
24-9
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
TheProfessor * —
throughJoan—
next attemptedto re-
sume the discussion; but Joan was not in tune as yet after
her effort at what we concluded was an actual projection
of the Beta —
herself. He made, however, one statement
thatwas important.
“The subconscious,” said he, “is to the Beta what the
conscious is to thephysical.”
The difficultyfor a time seemed insurmountable.
“Please ask questions,” spoke up Stephen* suddenly,
“Diflicultywiththis form of communication. Cannot get
a clear channel, but thinkwe can interest this brain if you
will stimulate from outside.”
“Father,ask her some questions —
anything,”struck in
Joe
“What is the Beta?” accordinglyasked Gaines.
“The actual invisible substance which you have for
long termed soul or spirit,” replied Joe promptly.
“Does it weigh anything?”
“Yes.”
“Are there scales fine enough to weigh it?”
“Yes. If you had had her on a scales tonight, you could
have had the weight of the Beta. It would have been the
’
difference between the weight of the normal body, and
that body after the cold had gone out into the room.
Darby pinched the Beta.”
“VVhat is the cold I often feel near or about me?” asked
Margaret Cameron.
‘
Our designation of one of the invisible entities.
25o
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“Itis your own Beta going out in respcjise to a magnetic
call of another consciousness to your own.”
“But it often happens when I am alone,” objected Mar-
garet.
“There is always another consciousness present,” Joe
assured her.
“Don’t forget,” he continued, “themain thingwe want
to get over to you while you are all together is an actual
physicaldemonstration of the existence of the Beta. You
remember the other day she told you what my body
looked like: she described the type of substance. We are
not sure we can show you a Beta, becauseit requires a con-
densing of her Beta, and perhaps of our’s and also a
strengtheningof your retinas. But we want to tell you our
hopes so you can help us. Faitha thingis going to ‘happen
helps.”
That was all of importance for that evening. In ex-
planationof Joe’s remarkwe must here record thatat the
first session Joan broke into the discussion by wandering
off, and was with some difliculty brought back to the
point. During that excursion she apparentlysaw someone
withwhom she insisted on talking.
“Protoplasm?” she remarked then, “This substance,
you say, is a step beyond?”She turned and spoke to us,
“Now this man I’m talking to; he has a perfectly good
body. You can’t see throughit. It seems to be more or less
illuminated from within though not with the effect of
phosphorescence~— He says the nearest thingto it on our
plane of manifestation is a microscopic analysis of proto-
251
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
plasm. This is stronger, fighter, more plaistic. It is
Experiments
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
from the rapid evaporation of menthol, and seemed to
have sharply defined limits. That is, the line of change
from the tepid air of the room to the cold area could be
detected Withinan inch or so.
“Why is thecold everywhere aboout theroom?” asked
Darby.
“It is not all from the same source.” Joe replied, “It is
all of us, an intensification.There are fiftyor so here: like
sardines. It is her and us. She is playingaround withus and
havinga good time. She may tell you about it later, if you
want her to. Just now she is completely out, and I am
using her material body; not as fluently as the Lady
Anne.*— Watch her right arm. A cord is attached there.
It is not a muscular motion at all. Somebody examine it.”
During all this, ]oan’s forearm had been resting along
the arm of her chair. The hand, partly open, hung inside
the chair arm. It was now agitated by a quiveringso rapid
as to be almost a vibration. The physicalimpossibilityof
producing so rapid a motion by an effort of the will we
immediately demonstrated by trying it ourselves. Darby
and Gaines, after examination,reported thatall themuscles
of the arm were absolutely flaccid,without the slightest
tension. Furthermore,theydiscovered under the palm of
the hand a thincold streak. When theypinched this,Joan
shrank as thoughin pain.
“You rememberthat verse about ‘The golden cord is
loosed’? That is the golden cord,” said Joe. “We could
take her anywherewhilethatcord is attached.”
'
The Scotswoman.
254-
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
We were not quite sure we understood this.
“Do you mean that attachmentwould stretch enough
to permit of her beingtaken to California, for example?”
asked Mrs. Gaines. t
“Anywhere. Anywhere in the universe,” assured Joe,
“That cord could be loosed by no human agency, except
through a vital organ. It can be loosed only when the
time comes.”
“Then nothingwe might do, no clumsiness could break
it?” queried Darby.
“No. No human agency could possiblyloose thatcord.
“We want to get this Beta. Tonight we are working
more withthetwo stations thanwithyou. Itis to get them
out and teach them to release completely, not to hold
back. It is a purely physical,thoughinternal thing.”
“Can you chat withus at the same time, and not inter-
fere with that work?” I asked.
“Sure,” said Joe, “talk ahead.” "“
“As I understand it,” said I, “This physicalproof of the
Beta is to bemade not onlyto us on one occasion, but is to
be repeatable at will, so it can be examined scientifically
and at leisure?”
“That is what we are after, absolutely.”said he. “One
of the first proofs will be a very delicate thermometerto
determine the cold.”
“How prove that this repeatable demonstration of the
Beta is not merely physiological?”objected Darby. 1
“In thisway,”he replied, “The Beta emanatingfrom a
*
It should perhaps have been stated before that the report of all
these discussions is absolutely verbatim.
255
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
physical body on your plane brings with it a quality of
magnetism which we on our plane have passed beyond.
This Beta, coming out, intensifies ours. Like voltage; you
can intensify a current. This body coming out with its
physical magnetism intensifies the others about it. Now
we want to produce several Betas. Indeed we have already
done so here. You have found three distinct personalities
of intense coldness;one by Margaret,one by Stewart, and
one near Cass. If we could get themsuflicientlyintensified,
you could see, in addition to a nimbus around Joan, three
other pillarsor nimbuses. Would not you then be reason-
ably satisfied that there were three otherBetas present?”
“How would we know thatthese threeothernimbuses
did not emanate from oan?” ersisted Darb .
P Y
“Because when you pinch the Beta of Joan you get a
physical reaction from her: and if you pinch the other
Betas from now to doomsday you will get no physical
jerksfrom anybody. It would then be reasonable to sup-
pose thatthoseBetas belongto someone discarnate.”
“Would this affect a compass?” asked Gaines.
“Probably: I am not sure. It would possibly whirl it.”
“A radiometer?”
“Yes.”
“And how about the test for weight?”
“There are two procedures. Weigh Joan before going
under and after the Beta is out,—before and after taking.
Then perhaps you can find some scales delicate enough to
set themin the cold spots.”
“How delicate?”
256
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“Fairlyso. But you might try it with common scales.
We do not know ourselves, simply because we haven’t
done it either. It willbe a differencein ounces ratherthan
pounds.
“Next I want you to get a very dull darkroom lantern,
one thatgives a very smallamount of light. Certain colors
are intensified by red, and others by blue or green. Get
three sets of slides for the lantern, red, blue and green, to
help your human vision so you can see the spots of cold.”
Soon after he again asked us to test the cold around
Joan. Darby and Gaines, after some search reported a
clearlydefined cold stratum, or thread,apparently onlya
few inches wide, extendingfromJoan'sright hand straight
out into the room.
“Tryto find theother end of this cord of cold.” urged
Joe.
The cord was traced about eight feet in Margaret’s
direction.
“It is not a connection to Margaret,” said he, “It is
simply that Joan's body is out, and the cord goes to it. I
want to establish the cord.”
“Here is theProfessor,”said Joan.
“If thisBeta is physicallyproved,” I asked, “would not
that as a corollary be a strong proof of communication;
better than the personal identificationmethod?”
“Yes; but not quite in the way you think,”replied the
Professor, “It is going to be a dovetailingprocess rather
thana straight line. The thingthatwe have to establish is
257
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
not onlythe existence of the Beta as a part of the human
physiology,but theexistence of my Beta.”
“The Beta has been demonstrated before, has it not?”
asked Darby.
“Not demonstrated in modern science, and only in
isolated cases. It has beendemonstrated,surely;but not by
such abnormallynormalpeople,”concludedtheProfessor.
Under advice the two stations were now brought out
for a short recess. When theywere again put under, Joe
resumed theexplanation.
“Let’s get thediscussion back to therelation of theBeta
to thephysicaland theeffect you, throughyour wills,can
have on it,” he began, “We are doing two thingsat once
here now, and it would help if you would ask questions.”
“Ingoingaroundtheindicatedseries of conscious mind,
subconscious mind, physical body, and Beta,” suggested
Darby, “why not go direct from physical to mental and
bedone withit? The Beta is beingpostulated.”
“Because," replied Joe, “there is more to it than from
themental to thephysical.You are disturbedbecauseyou
have never actuallygiventhespirituala placein existence,
and it has a place.It is a thing.Can you imaginethe dif-
ference between your being, your animation and your
physicalbody? There’s a distinct difference.”
“The body,thebrain and theMe are all distinct, but—”
beganDarby.
“You haven’t defined themproperly,”Joe interrupted,
“You are in the dark because you have not known that
theME is a body,too.”
2 58
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“The me has a body; it isn’t a body,”countered Darby.
“Theme as a Beta, thatME goes on,” insisted Joe, “You
havean awareness of the me that many human persons
haven’t. You have developed that peculiar attitude. You
glimpsed the me, and you consciously developed the me.
‘
Your above and below the threshold are not so far above
or below as most. That is why you consciously are so
definitelyaware of the me.”
“Admittingthereasonablenessof theBeta,” said Darby,
“in thephilosophyit is postulated; but it is quite a postula-
tion, and you are trying to give us a sense perception of it.
But why communicationwith the reservoir, the oversoul
should have to come throughtheBeta is too much for me.
Why not through our real inner self direct, instead of
througha mere attribute?”
“You don’t. You get it throughthesubconscious,which
is to the Beta what the conscious is to the physical. Can
your mind communicatewithanyone about it withoutthe
intervention of your body, through the physical forma-
tion and expulsion of words or symbols? All are more
closely linked up than you have thought. All conscious-
ness has form just as you have form.”
“So we actuallyget in touch with a discarnate through
a body?” was Darby'squestion. _
“Exactly.We have form, weight, color, and more senses
thanyou have.”
“Isn’t it necessary to have a notion of the force basis of
all matter?” suggested Gaines.
“Matter is onlya ganglionof stress points,” stated Joe.
259
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“Then my Beta is my individual bunch of that con-
sciousness,” added Gaines.
“The Beta is the form attribute of the consciousness
which is you. The subconscious is to the Beta what the
conscious mind is to the physical. It is the everlasting.It
is thatform attribute thatgoes on. The spirit is reallythe
subconscious,if you want to get down to fine points.
“Suppose it were possibleto take your Beta and stand it
alongside you. Then there would be you as you know
yourself; your Beta; the conscious mind; and thesubcon-
scious mind. They are all actual things. To be sure, as I
am now, the Beta and the subconscious mind are more
real to me thantheconscious mind and the physicalbody
are to you now.”
“Let us take the Beta out. Here it stands and here the
physical. Connected with the Beta is the subconscious;
with the physical the conscious. Where is the person?”
asked Darby.
“In theBeta,” replied Joe.
“But it isn't the Beta though?”persisted Darby, “The
Beta is also theshell of thereal person?”
“The Beta is the form attribute,” was the answer, “All
consciousness has form. The physicalis the form attribute °
that comes with physical birth only. There are many
worlds, but onlyone earth.”
“Is there any difference between the essential me and
my Beta?” put in Margaret.
“No, not really,”Joe assured her.
“Is the Beta an agglomerationof stress points in the
260
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
force which is the me?” was Gaines’ next contributionto
the discussion.
“Not in the same sense as the physical.There is a dif-
ference in kind. You have thesame body as I have, and an
outer covering which I have discarded as a disintegrating
shell. The difficulty is in words. For instance, I have a
hand. You could not separate my hand from me and have
me go on living.You have a physicalhand thatyou could
separate from you and stillgo on living.
“Don’t forget the subconsciousmind.
“The physicalbody is made up of atoms. Each of these
atoms is an individual consciousness, and each of themhas
a form. The Beta is not made up of any such; not in the
way the physical is made up. The Beta is elemental;
atomic, but not infinitesimal.”
“The physical body is not our form in any sense?”
queried Darby.
“Your Beta is the form of you. Get the difference be-
tween form and shape,” answered Joe. “I have to tell you
things in terms you know. It would do no good to tell
you in Sanskrit. Our terminology we use here would do
no good. We have to do as well as we can in thesubstance
in which we have to work.
“The Beta influences physical form. Have you never
heard the phrase, ‘The eyes are thewindows of thesoul?’
The shape of your face, or your nose or lips would not be
governed by your Beta; but the expression of your eyes,
your own expression, the atmosphereradiatingfrom you,
the personality are controlled by the Beta.”
2.61
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
4. THE FIFTH MEETING
Havingthus given us a fairlyclear idea of what was to
be attempted, the fifthsession was largely devoted to ex-
periment.The two stations, after beingput under, talked
a moment or so to each other. Joan said to hurry up, that
she had a longway to go; and thatshe felt a strong breeze
blowing.Betty asked for time to make arrangements; said
she had to get her feet planted firmly. Then they fell
silent and we waited.
SuddenlyJoan held her right hand up flatand vertical.
“I can’t turn my hand over,” she said; then with an
effort turnedit to thehorizontal. “I can’t hold it thisway,”
she added, “I’ve got to put it back”;and returned it to the
vertical.
Then for nearly ten minutes she wriggled the fingers
of that hand, sometimes very rapidly,but generallyvery
slowly;sometimes all together, sometimes one at a time.
“There’s a question of procedure,” Betty broke the
silence, “Isn’t settled yet.— There are two things unset-
tled. Don’t be impatient. I’m getting strength for some-
thin .”
“l%Vhatwe are trying to do is to get her to allow the
Beta to go out at each of her fingers so you can see the
emanau'ons.—Ithinkyou can see it now, if you squinch
your eyes,” suddenlysaid an Invisible,probablyJoe.
We squinched our eyes, and saw a faint smoke-like
emanationfrom the ends of the fingers. This increased in
262
Experiments with the Spiritual l3ody
density so thatshortly everyone in the room could see it
plainlywith the eyes normal. It was a fine bluish smoke,
much like cigarette smoke, but with apparently a slight
phosphorescent tinge. The ordinary electric lights were
on in the room. This and the succeeding phenomenon
were seen by everybody, and in most cases from several
angles; at distances of, from six to eight feet, to a close
examination within a few inches. After everybody had
determined this, a forearm began to form parallel to and
about five or six inches above ]oan’s physical forearm.
This was much of the visual character of the secondary
image one sees when looking closely into a mirror — the
surface glass reflection supplemental to the brilliantmir-
ror reflection.For perhaps threeor four seconds thewrist
and hand were also visibleto some of us. All present, how-
ever, saw theforearm, which lasted for perhaps two min-
utes or so.
“This test,” Joe told us, after the emanationhad gone,
“is the best possible because it took place under normal
light and conditions.”He paused.
“Wait for directions,” said Betty,“Wait a minute; this
is expert work. Spaceis beingmade.”
“Now remember,”Joe urged, “thatanythingthatmay
happen is normal and natural. No matter what happens
don’t be frightened or astonished. Trythe red light.”
The ordinaryelectrics were turned out and a darkroom
globeturned on. There was considerable difficultyin get-
tingthisadjustedso thelightwas properlycast, and much
talk and movingto and fro. There seemed to be difliculty
263
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
as to some one thing,for Bettykept makingremarksto the
effect that an element was lacking.At length we were
instructed to look at Joan'sknees. The effect observed was
of voluminous tenuous clouds of rising vapor or smoke.
This was not seen at all by Darby,and in varyingdegrees
by the others. Gaines and I apparentlygot it the strong-
est. It was as indubitableand physicalin appearance as was
thesmoke of thefirst experiment, to thosewho saw it. At
the conclusion of the experiment Joe said that different
people’s eyes reacted differently to different colors of
light. That, for example, Darby was evidently blind to
theseemanationsin red light.
It was somewhat analagous to color-blindness.
“We have at leastshown,” Joe continued, “thatwe can
produce theBeta on thephysicalplanefor your investiga-
tion. The next time I want a dead, dense, shadowless,dark
screen; and I want her to sit in a blackchair. Get various
colored lights, not higher than twenty-fives.”
“The thingwas so successful in ordinary light, why
confuse our eyes withthese colors?” asked Margaret.
“The violet ray has an intensifying quality,”explained
Joe, “andyou can get thesame results from a smallvoltage
throughpurple paper. Get red, green, blue and white. An
orange lightmight produce black.Might try that: it might
do. By George, Dad, I’d try that,I believe!”
Somebody said we could drape the foldingscreen that
stood in the other corner for the next experiment.
“How many panels has your screen?” Joe enquired,
264.
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
(Somebodysaid four) “Place it around on three sides of
her, so as partlyto enclose her. Let’s try it now.”
This was done under the blue light. Again we thought
to discern a luminosity at the indicated point, but not
distinctlyor indubitablyenough to make the observation
of any value.
“Weel, guid eveningto ye all!” Anne unexp.ectedlyap-
peared, “It was a grand party. Ye did na see much, but it
was a guid start in mair ways thanone.”
“Did you not tell us, Anne, sometime ago, that people
at ‘materializations’ really saw the Beta of the medium,
shaped by her thoughtto resemble someone else?” asked
Darby.
“That,” replied Anne, “is ordinarily true. But I didna
tell ye it were impossible to see the Beta of the other
person. It depends on the conditions; on the receiving
station, the strength of the current; on many thingswe
willtalkover together.”
“Is theemanationfrom the tips of thefingers an emana-
tion goingon withus all thetime?” enquired Gaines.
“No,” was Anne’s answer. “It were the Beta which we
showed ye.”
5. THE SIXTH MEETING
For thesixthmeetingthefour-panelledscreen had been
covered witha dead blackmaterial, as were also thechairs
in which the stations were to sit. We had also procured
265
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
electric globesof from ten to twenty~fivewatts, colored
red, green, lilacand orange, respectively.Mrs. Gaines was
unableto bepresent.
Aftersome waiting,and withthe same manipulationof
the hand, the smoke-likesubstance ‘rose again, first from
]oan’s thumb,then from all her fingers. At lengtha coma
plete outline of a dim double hand was visible. This was
about four inches above and to the left of the physical
hand. '
“Anysensation?”Bettythendemanded. ,
Darbyapproachedand touched the double; but not the
physical hand. Joan winced and cried out.
This was evidently considered satisfactory for this
phase of the experiment; for we were now told to try
the different colored lights. The experimentthus far had
been under the ordinary white lights of the room. Ac-
cordinglywe inserted the various colored globesone at a
time. Betty described the green light as “sharp and acid”;
theorange light as “glarey”;but seemed content withthe
lilac, which she said was “soothing and plenishing.”"'
When we went on with the other colors, she insistently
demanded the lilac back again. We ended by using it
customarily.It was of twenty-fivewatt power, very light
in shade, and gave a good strong illuminationin which
every detail in the large room could be distinguished.
The outline of _Ioan’s forearm now began to lose its
sharpness. It became hazy, much in the effect of a soft-
"
It must not be forgotten that both stations were always heavily
blindfolded.
266
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
focus lens. Shortlyan even emanationor nimbus beganto
form along the entire forearm, radiating perhaps two
inches from the flesh. Its appearance in substance was‘
like a greenish-bluishglowof phosphorescence;but had a
depthand softness thatphosphorescencedoes not possess.
It is probable that the color was influenced by the lilac
light. This nimbus defined itself to produce a double of
theforearm, as in theprevioussession.
Joan now asked Margaret to draw nearer. Margaret
took her position about four feet from Joan, and slightly
to her right and in front of her. After a few moments
Margaret extended both hands toward Joan. Afterwards
she said thatshe was impelledto do so by the same recog-
nizable force thatused to move her hand in theautomatic
writing. She also reported thatshe attempted to lean for-
ward in her chair, but was pushed back by the same type
of force to lean against the back. Her hands and arm had
thesensationof beingupheld,not by any support beneath,
nor suspension from above, but by drawing force at the
ends of the fingers, as thoughcords were attached there.
Thatthissupport had physicalvalue was amplyprovedby
thelengthof time she held botharms fullyextended with-
out fatigue. The same nimbus-likephenomenon, though
in a lesser degree, was now observed about her hand. Anne
began to talk, and give brief directions. Between Joan’s
hand and Margaret’s two hands a band of thesame lucent
fog formed, about four to six inches wide, a sort of lumin-
ous connection betweenthe two. Then Anne urged “the
lasses to shake hands for the lads.” The lucence in more
267
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
condensed form emerged about threeor four inches from
Margaret'shand, and about a foot and a half from Joan's,
but not suflicientlyto span thespace between.Anneurged
Margaretsharplyand repeatedlyto “letit go.” Finallyshe
gave thatup, and told themto “play ball.” First Margaret,
then Joan, turn about, made the motion of tossing some-
thingto the other. This caused a flash (the word is in-
tended to express the speed, not the appearance; which
had none of thebrightqualityof a true flash) of thissame
lucence to pass between them. The effect was much that
of the light from an automobile’sspot light crossing a
room, provided again the element of hard brilliancywere
eliminated. It is to be noted thatthiswas not to be seen at
every tossing motion. We caught it distinctlyabout once
in three. '
Next an indeterminatebut voluminousmass of thesame
material slowlyformed above ]oan’s forearm, or near to
her right side. Betty said that an attempt would be made
to show ]oan’s Beta, or a manifestationof one phase of it.
The generalshape of a form becamevisible, but thewhole
thingwas more a mass in certain proportion than a form.
The head was not defined. About this stage Anne in-
structed us to bring them out and take a rest.
After about ten minutes both were put under again.
Anne instructed Joan to stand up, still holding Betty’s
hand. She did so, and the chair was removed. Slowlythe
right side of her body became indistinct in outline, al-
thoughapparentlythere was more reflected light behind
on therightside thanon theleft. The body blended in the
268
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
usual lucence. This also showed abundantly above her
head. It spread until practicallythe whole area surround-
ing her was filledwith it. A darkness next formed about
two feet away to her right, similar in appearance to the
“coal hole’’ in themilkyway. At first it made a streak per-
haps thirty inches broad right through the lucence, but
shortened until the top of it was level with Joan’s head.
The entire figureof the body followingthe outline of the
right side, including head and forearm, now formed, ex-
actlyin appearance like the forearm second image of the
first night of these experiments. Cass, Darby and I re-
marked at the same instant that the face was slightly in
profile.The figure was constant, but the profilewas out
and in; that is to say, it appeared and disappeared mo-
mently. Anne instructed someone to “pinch her.” I
pinched thissecond body at various points, and got quick
and strong reactions from Joan’s physical body (about
eighteen inches distant) from correspondingpoints—knee,
arm, shoulder, head.
The Beta was strongly drawn toward Margaret, and
Joan swayed to follow it, causingBetty to hang onto her
tight. Joan next swayedtoward Betty. The Beta stayedin
position,so theeffect was of Joan’s drawingaway from it,
and furtherexposingit.
Now Joan was reseated in thechair, and thewhite lights
turned up.
These results seemed to us wonderful and satisfying;
but Anne told us she was not satisfied.
269
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“Can you tell me what is happeningto my right hand?”
asked Margaret suddenly.
She said thatfor sometime, beginningwith the thumb,
and extendingto her whole hand, she had felt as though
it had beentaken and drawn outward. Anne chuckled.
“It’s coming out,” she explained, “It tingles on the
hand, and feels a bitcold, eh? Put your hand an inch from
her fingers, and you’llfeel thespark.”
We then perceived the emanation,as a sort of elonga-
tion of the fingers. This was in the white light. Gaines
passedhishand about an inch and a half from theends of
her fingers. She shook themviolently,as thoughtheyhad
been sensitive and had been touched. This was repeated
several times. It ‘required considerable assurance to per-
suade her that Gaines had not touched her physical
fingers; but myself, Darby and Gaines could attest posi-
tively thatthis was not the case. Cass saw the secondary
fingers, or prolongation, so distinctlythat he could per-
ceive Gaines’ hand comingin contactwiththem. She was
in her normal consciousness; though afterwards she told
us that she had tried a short time before to join in our
discussion — which accompaniedfreely all these experi-
ments -— and found herself unable to speak.
“I wish ”
sheconcluded,“I had some othername for the
7
Beta.”
“Yewillcall it theBeta,” stated Anne, f‘It has form and
shape and is materialand has all theattributes of your own
body intensified. You maun not feel it in a vaporish thing.
270
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
The truer thingis what we know, and thatis the human
body withall its attributes. You are onlyreflections.”
“In case of disease in the physicalbody,is there a reflex
in the Beta?”, asked Darby.
“To a certain extent,” she told us, “The illnessis in the
physical body becauseit disintegrates, and the Beta does
not. The Beta is a whole thing,and the physicalis many
bits.”
6. THE SEVENTH MEETING
The seventh session began in afternoon daylight. The
smokyemanationscommenced almost immediatelyto rise
from Joan’s finger tips, and were promptlyfollowed by
the nimbus blurring of the forearm__. Evidently practice
was bringingfacilitybut for some time the phenomenon
did not progress beyondthispoint.
“These are bold experiments,” at length remarked
Betty,as thoughin explanation,“Carryingon beyondthis
point takes more preparation. Oh, poor child, they are
stimulatingher body to make it more visible. -— It is very
experimental— Kindof a frictioningprocess as you would
rub color into your skin. —
Maybeonlya flash willcome.
Do not look constantly,but intermittently. — You see,
naturallyher Beta is not very vigorous, is not born, as it
were. It must be stimulated; made more visible.”
_]oan’s face seemed to become pearl gray and a little
blurred. We all got this, and mentioned it, but were not
271
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
sure that the effect might not be retinal. In view of later
developments it was probablynot retinal, but after a few
moments this phase of the experiment was apparently
abandoned, as indicated by Betty’s next remarks.
“Theytried to stimulate it to thepoint of visibility,and
now somethingelse is going on,” she said. “—There is
great confidence; so do not get discouraged. It is neces-
sary. The more this experimentingis done, the more sure
the results for repetition. We are on the right track; it’s
all right.”
“Who is thiswho is so certain?” asked Gaines.
“I am; reflecting,”returned Betty.
Under detailed instruction through Betty, Margaret
and Mrs. Gaines —~ the “negative poles,” as the Invisibles
called them—
were seated in frontof and a little to theleft
of Joan and Betty. They were in normal consciousness.
Streams of the lucence or “smoke” came to Joan from
their hands, which they were both impelled to extend
toward her. We tried a militaryprismaticcompass in the
line of this emanation and in three trials obtained in each
case a west variation of fifteen degrees. Joan was facing
magnetic north; and the “negative poles” were twenty
degrees east of north of her. Anne now instructed Mar-
garet and Mrs. Gaines to take Joan’s and Betty’s hands,
alternatingthepositiveand negativepoles. The first mani-
festation withthisarrangementappeared to be thatJoan’s
skin becameself-luminous,shiningwitha soft white. This
seemed evident to all of us, especially in contrast to the
flesh tones of the others who sat beside her; but in order
272
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
to make sure that it was not a reflectionwe arranged by
means of screens to throw a strong shadow on Joan, so
thatin contrast with the rest of the room she sat in twi-
light. The luminosity persisted.
We reseated ourselves. ]oan’s features became indis-
tinct, as in the first and unsuccessful experiment of the
afternoon. It seemed to become a mere mass, without
recognizable detail. *""
Graduallya luminous mist-like mask appeared to form
in front of her face,at first intermittent in character,then
continuous. It was at first formless, but in a waveringsort
of fashion took a kind of rough shape. Soon it became
very evident thatan attempt was beingmade to form an-
other facein front of Joan’s, using this fog-likeluminous
material as the plaistic medium. The bandage around
Joan's eyes had disappeared entirely, and shortly we all
distinctlysaw eyes. The shaping is hard to describe, as it
was slow, intermittent, wavering and a little uncertain.
By a strong effort of concentrationit was alwayspossible
to look through this mask and see ]oan’s face with the
white bandage around the eyes, but at once the concen-
tration was in the least relaxed the mask face reappeared.
The final result was a woman withhair high off her fore-
head, a ratherround face, ——
or, more accurately,a plump
oval, — short nose, long upper lip and wide mouth. This
face was not clear and steady, like a physical face, or a
photograph.Its features as describedabove did not change
at any time into features of any other character,but they
did wax and wane in distinctness, so that at no time was
273
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
there a completely correlated single image. It had no
color.
This disappearedinto thesame unformedmass of lurnin-
ous mist in frontof Joan’sface.Next a man was attempted.
This did not get as far in formation. All that could be
determined was that he had a square lean face, square
forehead, firm jaw, and (probably) rather high cheek
bones. Anne said thiswas Stephen.
“Now,” said Anne, “I will show you how bright the
lass is, and thenyou shall take her out.”
Joan’s luminous quality increased, first on the exposed
flesh, thenon her garments, untilagainst the blackscreen
she appeared to be self luminous. Her blackgown, which
had blendedwiththescreen, was now plainlyoutlined. By
way of test we cast a completeshadow across her feet and
ankles by means of a hand screen, but the same degree of
luminosityseemed to persist, even on a close examination.
Twicecrinklybrighter lights showed themselvesbriefly,
once across her forehead, and once around her waist. At
last her eyes became luminouslyvisible to us throughthe
bandage she wore about them.
All thiswas done by daylight,leisurely,Withoutexcite-
ment on our part, and with every precaution we could
thinkof to avoid retinal strain. We did not stare fixedly,
we rested our eyes often. We refused to accept many
small phaseswe could not be sure we saw; thatwere not
in a way forced on us.
We now broughtthestationsbackto normal conscious-
ness and adjournedfor dinner.
274-
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
The session resumed about nine o'clock. The violet
light was used, as having been the most successful. This,
by the way, was on the left and a little in front of the
stations, and so arranged thattheycast no shadow on the
screen background. The Negative Poles were seated as
before,i.e., alternatingwiththetwo Positives.
The first attempt was only partially successful. The
cloud of mist formed above Joan, and as time went on we
distinguished a vertical shaft of it to her right. This, how-
ever, attained no furtherdefinition. The experimentwith
themask-likefaceswas thenresumed. The procedure was
as in the afternoon. Margaret described the impression»as
like that of being at considerable distance from people,
as in an opera house, and seeing the faces as masses, with
features half defined or momentarilyglimpsed. To me it
was like lookingdown throughclear water at a face just
at the limit of visibilitybecauseof the depth.The quality
of the glow, mist, emanation we have called phosphores-
cent was more thequalityof thelightone gets throughthe
water of theusual aquarium.
Six different faces were formed one after the other.
Some were recognized by one or another of us. We
adoptedtheidea of checkingoff thesalientfeatures against
each other. It must be rememberedthat the members of
this group came from widely separated sections of the
continent, and possessed few mutual acquaintances on
thisearth,and none on theotherside. So Cass, for example,
would say:
“Irecognizethisone.”
2 75
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
Whereupon I, who had never seen the original of the
portrait, would describe the features. In all cases these
comparisonstallied perfectly.
This is a good time to note one impression. These
images or masks gave the emotion naturallyaccorded to
portraits rather than personalities. The observers were
pleased at recognizingthem, but experiencednone of the
intense welcoming emotion that would naturallyfollow
the appearance of actual personalities. Indeed there was
not the inner feeling of personality that so often accom-
panies the spoken word. They were, what Anne called
them, pictures. It should further be noted that these pic-
tures were, in themajorityof cases, of persons withwhose
features Joan was unfamiliar.She had never heard of some
of them,had certainly never seen them,not a photograph
of them.
It should also be noted thatwith the possibleexception
of the time when Anne showed “how bright the lass is,”
there is nothing up to now positively to connect these
phenomenawiththeBeta idea. Theywere extraordinarily
interesting, but did not go beyondthe ectoplasmhypoth-
esis. Indeed, Anne expressed somethingof this thought.
“We did not get so far the night as we had hoped,” said
she. “I do na thinkit is arrangedquite right yet. It is better
withoutthe touching of the pulse; without Margaret and
Lucy touchingJoan and Betty,but just sittingnear so the
spark can jump across. We are a bit disappointed about
tonight. We had a bigprogram planned.”
“Werethosemaskswe saw made of Joan's Beta,” asked g
276
Experiments with the Spiritual Body T
Darby, “or the Betas of the people who showed their
portraits? In other words, were those people actually
there?”
“That is a bit diflicult,” was the reply, “They were
here and theywere not. It was their own Beta that was
revealed. If it had beenwhollysuccessful, thenyou would
have had no doubt becauseyou would have known them.
You, however,saw themplainerthanyou saw ]oan’s own
Beta. Ye ken that your difficulty is in your own minds.
Theyclose down and refuse. You see, and you know that
you see, and yet you doubt. Jackdid see Joe, and he knows
he saw Joe.”
“No,” denied Gaines, “I saw a form, but I saw no face
there nor anythingresemblinghim. I am willingto admit
thatit was Joe, if you say so; but I could not see thatit was
he. VVhyare these faces represented as of a certain age in
life?”
“They chose what is most recognizable,” Anne told
him, “Now bring out Betty and I will try to show her
something.”
Betty was brought out. The Negative Poles also came
backinto thebody of theroom so thatJoan was left alone.
Under Anne’s direction she stood up, and the chair was
removed. The succeeding phenomenaare interesting not
only because of their especial features, but also because
theyproved thatJoan has now so progressed thatshe can
get along withoutBetty’s help on the other side.
They started again with the “masks.” The first head
was a goodroughportrait of someone known to two of us.
277
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
Betty could not distinguishthe features, but saw onlythe
changein ]oan’sface.Mary K. came next. The facewas as
before, but now a strong, big framed, square shouldered
body was in some manner suggested so plainlythatwe all
got it, except Betty,who stillseemed to be seeing the first
phases.Whilewe watched, thefaceand bust turned to the
left squarely into a profile, well-marked and unmistaka-
able. I crossed the room rapidlyand found that Joan had
not stirred, and was still facingstraight out into theroom.
Anne came againwitha portrait of herself thatshe had
shown in the afternoon. There was also here a suggestion
of body, with a long sort of waist and flaring full skirts
thatreachedto thefloor. (_Ioan’s costume was themodern
close fittinggown, thenin style,withshort skirts).
“You are vain, Anne,” joked Gaines, “to show yourself
so young. You were an old woman when you died.”
Immediatelythe face began to change until it had be-
come thatof a very old woman. Then it took on a middle
age; and afterwards returned to youth. This took place
slowly.
Themost vividportraits now followed;thoseof Joe and
Lee. The likeness of Joe was perfect, stronglymarked,
and steadier than the others. He wore a sailor suit, and
held his hands, so Gaines said, in a characteristicattitude.
Lee appeared as a very pure young face, of great beauty,
withan apparent age of about sixteen. V
Anne announced thatshe would try to show themboth
at once, adding that she did not know how to do it; and
was doubtful of success. She apparentlyproduced two of
278
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
the misty shadows, one either side of Joan, but theydid
not take human shape. This closed the session.
I will add as a matter of interest thatearlier in the eve—'
ning crystal gazinghad been tried. Joan, Lucy‘ and Mar-
garet saw several little scenes carrying inconclusive
action,—a prospector making camp, 21 boat trip down a
tropical river, an episode in the street of a foreign city,
etc. These scenes were said to be sharp cut, clearer thana
photograph.The interesting pointwas thatall threecould
see the same thingat the same time. This would obviate
the subjective selfhypnosisltheory unless an hypothesis
of accurate telepathywere adopted.
7. THE EIGHTH MEETING
“The next step,” remarkedAnne, “is to have more and
more of theBeta come out, togetherwithmore and more
of our’s to assimilateit, so as to have theappearance strong
enough to examine and to analyze.So have patience, and
continue along the same lines, thoughthis time, with the
free force — current — it is not a good word — it will go
further out. You will take note thatthe first action is al-
ways the same.”
This was true. The usual milkyemanations took place
around Joan. We expected further manifestations about
the face, so we were much surprised to see that ]oan’s
right hand was to be the field of operation. It lengthened
‘*
Mrs. Gaines.
279
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
to almost twice its normal length. Sometimes it had a
deeplycloven aspect, again it was filledin solid. First one
finger thentheotherwould instantaneouslyappear of an
inordinate length.It would not shoot out, but would sud-
denly show and as suddenly disappear, though the con-
tinuance of the appearance would extend to eight or ten
seconds. The hand and the fingers at times seemed to be
in motion, though both Gaines and I approached near
enough to attest thatJoan’s physical hand was immobile.
Indeed on trial we found we could not possiblyhold our
hands as completelystill. At times the ends of these Beta
fingers, as one might call them, were a deep red, and
looked not unlikeflame;at all times theyhad a pinktone.
It was noted thatJoan's flesh, either on the arms, face or
neck, had none of the usual luminous greenish—bluish
effect. At one time, for some seconds, thehand folded into
thelikenessof a lily—likeflower.On near examinationsthe
fingers of ]oan’s own hand glowed in a phosphorescence
of a reddish tinge, and the extensions to the fingers were
not unlike in appearance to a Chinaman’s nails that had
beenpermitted to grow long. This could be distinguished
even as close as three feet. Closer examination showed
merelythenatural hand surrounded by the “smoke.”
This phenomenonfinished, there ensued a short pause.
Gaines arose from his chair to examine more closely. At a
distance of five or six feet from Joan, he placed his foot
on thecarpet in stepping forward. Joan cried out sharply,
saying: “Get off me! You are stepping on me!” Gaines
hastilyresumed his chair! Almost immediatelyafterward
280
Experiments with the SpiritualBody
he complainedof thecold and continued to do so at inter-
vals. The cold was remarkedhere and there. ]oan’s figure .
seemed to become larger and slightlyluminous.
“Why we don't exist except -” cried Betty suddenly,
“I’mout in theroom! —— We’re bothspreadover theroom!
— Now we are down over Margaret’s des .”
“Let’s pull them back a little,” suggested ]oan, “We
can’t do anythingwhen theygo out so far.”
Betty afterwards said thatfrom her vantage pointof the
other consciousness she watched the process in Joan. The
mist came out from her, rolled over and over like a ball,
and finallybecame detached. Then to her astonishment
she found herself also out in the room, and the two to-
getherseemed to fillit. She wanted to go awayoutside the
room withJoan but was forbidden.She had an impression
of “putting pressure,” “spreading waves of influence,”
and got the idea thatthiswas theirmethodof influencing
us. She said thatit seemed to her intended more as a de-
velopment work for the two of them than an attempt to
do anything for us; and at one time remarked: “They
have freed us bothtogetherfor future wor .”
Anne thenremarkedbrieflythatshewouldshowus some
pictures. The procedure did not differ from yesterday’s.
Joe was unmistakeablein his sailor suit, seated. Before this
last portrait came out thereseemed to be an obvious con-
fusion of feature, showing first one way, then another.
Betty remarked: “Stephen and Joe fought over it. That
wasn’t very good. Stephen started it and Joe ended.”
281
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“I want Betty to see something,so I willsend her out,”
said Anne.
Betty came back very slowlyand reluctantly,and the
same type of experiments were repeated with what
seemed to therest of us signal success. To her great disap-
pointment, however, Betty could see little beyond the
fact that ]oan’s features disappeared, that there was a
luminous mist, and that something— almost formless to
her, —
was superimposed over _]oan’s face. The rest of us,
with the exception of Margaret, had seen not only the
same thing,but apparently the same degree of the same
thing.Margaret had lapses when she saw nothing.
Now while we had no doubt that certain phenomena
were actuallytaking place, outside the possibilityof de-
lusion, thisaspect disturbed us somewhat. We discussed it
at length.Twopreviousstatements were recalled. Joe had
told us thatpart of thenecessary preparationfor these ex-
periments was the tuning of our retinas to see; and that
when on one occasion Gaines had not seen when we had
seen, it was becausehe was “beingused.” The first state-
ment seems to have a very good analogyin the necessary
adjustmentof the pupils when one comes from brilliant
sunshine into a darkroom. The influenceof color in light
toward making certain objects more or less visible is also
apposite. Motion picture camera men, for example, have
colored screens, to determine actinic values, which will
completelyeliminatefrom visibilitycertain colored bright
flowers in a field of grass, or will throwinto strong relief
otherobjects which to the naked eye are in indistinguish-
282
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
able monotone withtheirsurroundings.Thus theespecial
preparationof theaudience,as one might call it, should be
considered a legitimatepart of such experimentsas these.
Nevertheless we appreciated perfectly that to have
generallyconvincingvalue it should be possible for any
person to see these things clearlyat any time. It is com-
parativelyuseless from a scientific point of view to bring
about results of which only certain persons can be aware,
and of which certain other persons then present will see
nothingat all. If especialpreparationof theretinais needed,
thenthatpreparationmust become as standardized as the
cameraman’s color filters. Acknowledged that the color
filteris necessary; acknowledgedthatit is absurd to hope
to see with the naked eye, so to speak, what requires
especial apparatus, nevertheless that especial apparatus
must be universally applicable. Otherwise a certain pro-
portion of scientifictest must at certain times provenega-
tive, dependingentirelyon the personal equipment of the
investigator or his susceptibilityto necessary adjustment.
It is perhaps too much to expect at this stage of the
subject’s development that this standardization should
have taken place.Therefore, exact scientific proof is not
yet possible. We are stillin the empiricalstage of investi-
gation, the accumulation of testimony, which must be
examined and weighed on the credibility,the balance and
the judgment of the witnesses.
“Betty,” Anne answered her complaint, “cannot see
becauseshe is not her normal self. She has not come clear
back. There is an unconscious tenacity.It is not Marget’s
283
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
fault (thatshe sometimes sees imperfectly).We use her a
great deal with the lass (Joan).”
“Could you even vaguely give us a glimpse as to the
direction the work is to take?” I asked.
“We shall try to get the Beta entirelyout and clear so
I
thatit is tangible.Thisis experimentalwithus as withyou,
and we cannot tell exactly.”
8. THE NINTH MEETING
On the occasion of the ninth meetingwhat was said to
be Joan’s actual Beta was shown, as distinct from the
moulded materialsthathad made the “pictures” or masks.
Darby and Joan were a little later than the rest in at-
riving,so we tried Margaretalone againsttheblackscreen.
We perceived thesmokyemanationsfrom theends of the
fingers and very successfully repeated the experiment of
touchingthe air from one to about three inches from the
ends of thefingersand gettingan instant physicalreaction.
Margaretreported thatwhereas theotherdayit felt defin-
itely as though her finger were touched, today she re-
ceived rathera sharp semi-painfulshock, almost as though
from an electric current. Darby and Joan now came in,
and Betty was put under with Margaret in order to give
Joan a chance to see something,if possible. The demon-
stration was entirelysuccessful. The peculiar lengthening
of Margaretlsfingers, thecloud of lucence, and finallythe
formation of masks followed customary lines. The mere
284.
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
fact that well-defined portraits could be obtained before
Margaret as well as,Joan was interesting. Three portraits
were shown. The last was themost distinct and unwaver-
ingof anywe have had yet. A man withgray or lightVan-
dyke beard, deep eyes, considerable hair, with a cowlick
justoff thecenter line of the forehead. Joan identifiedthis
as her father.Betty coughed in a hackingfashion just as
this mask formed: and Joan said this was characteristic.
Somebody through Betty, probably Joan’s father, said,
“Very very gratifying.” Betty instructed us that Mrs.
Gaines was now to work at this, after Margaret, and be-
fore Joan, “In order to harmonize.”
Accordinglyshe took Margaret's place for some time.
The phenomena centered on her right hand. The fingers
elongated and returned to normal, the hand stellated or
_
became.a solid bunch, and the fingers writhedand moved
-
thoughthephysicalhand was motionless, —
just as had
Joan’s the otherday. A new aspect was furnished by the
pulsing aurora —— like rays of lucence thatshot from the
extended palm of her hand toward the floor. These were
quite the most vivid of anythingwe had yet seen. There
were also brief but bright flashesacross her breast.
Now Joanwas put under, and theoriginalteam went to
work. The upheld hand went through its changes as
before.
“We are coming out again. Wait for us,” stated Betty.
Joan’s ankles began to show as luminous. We had par-
ticularlynoticed previouslythattheywere in almost com-
plete shadow, and without shine. Now, however, they
285
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
beganto glow. The luminosity extended upward to just
below the waist. The same effect began at the shoulders
and extended downward, tendingto meet thatbelow,eat-
ing steadilyinto the dark area thatpersisted longest about
her waist. We tried moving the lamp standard to throw
more and less light, but without effect in altering either
the extent or entirety of the luminosity.
“Joan is melting away like a piece of ice,” said Betty.
The ankles now began to dim, followed in reverse
order bya dimmingof therest of theluminosity,untilher
appearance was again normal.
“Now,” said Betty, “we are out all overthe room.”
The cold was felt, especially near the floor. The self-
registering thermometer showed a drop of about four
degrees, but as a door had been opened at one time for a
few minutes, the record was not conclusive. It should be
noted, however,thatwe were unable to bringabout a like
drop later by opening the same door.
Gaines was the first to note a feelingof pressure in the
room, as if the air pressure had been increased. This was
noticed by all, and was mentioned by Betty.
“Now it’s all right,”said she, “Ithas filledtheroom. We
are in a differentfluidsubstance.”
To what extent thatwhich followed was objective, in
the usual acceptanceof those terms, it is useless to specu-
late on now; nor to what extent it was self-induced or
brought about. The facts must be recorded as carefully
as possible, and explanationsleft for fuller development.
Darby and I saw the same things,practicallyto the same
286
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
extent, and at thesame time. Gaines saw them sometimes.
When he did not see them he was conscious of a strong
current of some sort. Cass saw the same things,but less
often, and sometimesnot so completely.He also was con-
scious of a current. Mrs. Gaines and Margaret saw less,
but were almost continuously conscious of the current.
Darbyand I were at no time conscious of currents. Some
daysago Anne, throughJoan, told Darby thatGaines was
a good “feeder,” and thatwhileon thatjob he would see
nothing. Darby did not tell Gaines this until after the
latter had reported thefactmentionedabove.
The usual mask, or shell was thrownin front of Joan’s
face. She then raised her hand to her physicalface. The
hand showed plainly through the mask; and it became
evident thatthe physicalface had vanished entirely.That
is, the hand, plainlyvisible, was shown throughthemask,
against an apparentlyempty background;thoughin real-
ity it rested against her physical chin. This was repeated
on request, and was seen plainlyfor some time by every-
body.
I was seated withinabout four or five feet of Joan, who
was more distinctlyvisibleto me thanto anyoneelse in the
room. VVhileI watched, not stared, —
removingmy eyes
every moment or so to avoid strain, — first theoutlines of
her body merged with the black background, leaving
boldly prominent the white of her arms, neck and face.
Then swiftlythe blackseemed to close over these. Joan
had vanished utterly, leaving only the black screen. She
reappeared as swiftly at the end of three seconds. I re-
287
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
marked on this, but suspected it as perhaps the blurring
efiect of too attentivelooking.I thereforetried,by staring
intently, by blurring my eyes, and similar devices, to
repeat this blotting out effect, but in vain. The most I
could accomplishwas a doubling of the white areas, or a
blurringof their outlines. When I had fullysatisfied my-
self as to this,thephenomenonautomaticallyresumed. At
first this initial vanishment was the only complete one.
The subsequent trials obliterated only parts. The fore-
arm would disappear, or the face, or the neck. Darby
beganto get the same effects shortly after myself. In the
leisure of the repetitions we were both enabled to notice
thefactthatall the details of the room remained clear. In
other words, it was not as though Joan had been blotted
out by fog or smoke.
“She will be replaced by somethingthat can only be
completed in this sort of substance. It is like making an
aquarium,” commented Betty.
The complete obliteration was repeated a number of
times, each occasion lasting a little longer than the last,
until Joan was invisible to upwards of half a minute at a
time. Thenin thiscompleteblacknessa head and shoulders
would come, smallerin sizethanJoan, sometimesfull face,
sometimes in profile, sometimes half face. It was illu-
minated, but not in thesurface phosphorescentmanner of
the masks; rather more after the fashion of a frosted
incandescent globe, from within. This appearance was
clearlydefined, but, —
as far as I saw, — withoutfeatures;
in relief; as a silhouette. It was unlike themasks in thatit
288
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
seemed to give theimpression of a livingentity,a person-
ality. The guess was hazarded that this might be Joan’s
actualBeta, which was later brieflycorroborated byAnne
when she resumed vocal control.
Betty,herself still in the other consciousness, now took
charge of Joan’s coming out. She warned us to sit still,not
to make sudden movements; sayingthatshe had to “pack
Joan back in neatly.”She said we should not try to take
her out untilAnne spoke. This did not happen untilafter
some moments.
“We demonstrated,” said Anne, faintly.
9. THE TENTH MEETING
UnfortunatelyMrs. Gaines was unable to be present at
the tenth meeting. VVhen the two stations had been put
under, someone directed throughJoan thatBetty was to
lie flatbetweenherself and Margaret.As a mattress had to
be procured and cushions‘ arranged, the stations were
brought back. They had been out perhaps a minute. Jok-
ingly,Darby told Joan the session had lasted four hours.
It was interesting to observe how unquestioningly she
accepted this. She was much perturbed over thethought
of havingmissed a suburban train! The arrangementsper-
fected, the session was resumed.
The first thingnoticed was a cloud of palpitatingmist
above Betty’s face. Then Joan’s upheld hand melted and
contorted as usual. Both her features and Marga;-et’sbe-
came indistinguishable, though they had been plainly
289
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
visible, especially to myself, as I was sitting within five
feet of Margaret. Darby, much interested, took a chair
within two feet of Joan. Even when that near he could
see flashes of illuminationplaying over her face in the
manner of phosphorus on fingers that have handled the
heads of matches, and also at one time a similarlight on the
back of her neck, which was in deep shadow.
“Margaret and I are to form a bridge over Betty, and
thentheywillwalkon it.” said Joan.
For the next few moments bands and patches of the
lucent mist played between Joan and Margaret. Then
Betty’sbare arms beganto lose theiroutlineand get fuzzy.
The effect was much as thoughthearms had beenencased
in a loose chiffon sleeve. A band of lucence, more brilliant
thanthe usual glow, ran across and followed the curve of
her breast. The fuzzychiffon effect graduallyspread over
the whole figure.
Anne now began to coax her in a very pretty manner:
“Coom now, lass dear; coom wi’ Anne,” and the like.
Betty complained that she was paralyzed, felt like cast
iron. Afterconsiderable coaxing the chiffon effect of the
whole figure seemed to have risen perhaps eight or ten
inches above Betty, and to heave gently, like a ground
swell. Under orders from Anne, Joan, movingwoodenly,
like an automaton, left her chair, half knelt, and thrust
forward her hand over Betty.
“Tryto put your hand betweenher Beta and thelass,”
instructed Anne.
As Joan’s hand and arm were extended over and close
290
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
to Betty’s physical body, we could see that they were -
partly obscured by the mistlike chiffon. Anne com-
manded Joan to lift Betty up. Joan put bothhands below
the Beta and lifted strongly,raising the Beta perhaps six
inches above its first position. While doing so she panted
heavily,as though in great exertion; and after‘ resuming
her seat continued to breathpantinglyfor some moments.
Betty’s physical body, including the folds of the gown,
now began to sharpen. It is to be noted that during this
experiment both ]oan’s and Margaret’s features, which
had been lost before, were again clearlydefined.
While this experiment was going on, both Gaines and
Cass remarked on an outpouring sensation from their
hands. Examining them at close range, we saw the thin
smoky emanations coming off their fingers.
The first phenomenonof the next experiment showed
as a broad ray, or series of rays, extendingupward from
Betty’s head. This band was broad and indeterminate.
“Gather yourself together, lass,” urged Anne sharply,
“you’re all over the place. Make yourself pretty now for
the gentlemen.”
In thecenter of thisshaft Darby,Gaines, and to a much
less degree Cass and I, thought to make out an upright
form of about human proportions. Betty announced her-
self as standing up. It was neither well—defined nor dis-
tinct. Betty said afterwards that the lack of force on the
“negative pole” side had somethingto do with the fact
thatsuccess was only partial. Mrs. Gaines absence threw
thewhole burden on Margaret.
291
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“When this is successful,” said Anne, “You will see
Betty standingthere. The shaft thingaround heris Mar-
garet and Joan. When Betty is in thather image becomes
intensifiedbyit. Thatis themethod.”
The central vague image now began to fade, but the
band or shaft persisted for a few moments after it had dis-
appeared. Once Anne admonished sharply: “Don’t go
backtoo quickly,Marget,”she cried, “Let Betty go first!”
“I was so heavy,” complainedBetty, “It was like being
in a diver’s suit and havingto get up.”
“Next we will do somewhat with Marget,” announced
Anne.
With fairly startling speed a mask formed in front of
Margaret. It was one of the steadiest and themost detailed
yet shown: a man with a closs-cropped white beard, a
straight nose, dark well marked eye-brows ending ab-
ruptly next the nose, with a square effect, a high brow,
and with an arching tuft or cowlick just to the right of
center; the same as had been identified as Joan’s father
the other night.
A second clearmaskwas shown, and a thirdstarted, but
did not get far. Anne said Margaretwas getting tired, and
abandoned it. Margaret was conscious throughout. By
direction Betty came out. Anne said she wanted to try
Joan alone. Anne was very particularas to the elimination
of shadows, and that we should notice carefully what
shadows could not be eliminated.
She started the experiment by causing Joan to disap-
pear, as on the other evening. While she was visible, her
292
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
arms to the shoulder were discernible as through gauze,
althoughthestuff of which her sleeves were made was of
thick opaque material. After Joan had been blotted out
thus threetimes, I againsaw her Beta glowingwiththein-
ner incandescence. She was now standing.The others also
saw it, but intermittently. To me the phenomenoncon-
tinued uninterrupted. The screen and the woodwork of
the room, etc., were at all times plainly visible. In other
words, it was not as if a fog had been drawn or formed
before the whole vision. Anne explained thatJoan’s Beta
stepped in front of a screen formed to hide her physical
body. The Beta turned in profileto the west, head and
bust and arms, although Margaret, who was seated next
Joan, reported thatJoan herself had not stirred. It showed
thus plainlythe profilefeatures, chin, nose, brow (with-
out the eye bandage), thoughfull—face features were in-
distinguishable. I requested that she turn to the east. This
was done about three-quarters, again without movement
of Joan’s physical body. Anne next announced that she
would try to have Joan’s Beta step entirelyaway from the
physical. For sometime the Beta swayed slowlytoward
thewest, seemingalmost to break away,but alwayssway-
ing back again to position. Then theBeta faded, and Joan
reappeared.
“I would have you notice,” requested Anne, “thatthe
lass has stood in an impossible position for twenty min-
utes, knees and heels together, and hands clasped. It has
not tired her becausewe have held her up. Now watch
and I will let her down into her chair.”
Joan, witharms rigidlyextended downwards,and body
293
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
erect, sank very slowlyto a sittingposition. Thiswas done
without any compensating, balancing flexionsor leaning
of thebody. Subsequent experimentsbysome of us plain-
lyshowed thatthiswould have beento a conscious person
a remarkable feat of strength and balance, if indeed it
could have been done at all. I requested the repetition of
an experimentI had been told of. Joan extended her arms
and clasped her hands in front of her at the level of her
face. I exerted considerable strengthin trying to press the
hands downward to her lap, but without success. At the
same time I, and the others, felt of the muscles of her
upper arms and shoulders. They remained loose and
flaccid.
“I justwant ye to ken how it is,” said Anne, “In a book,
an ancientbook, not much read these days, it was written
that your hands are upheld. Underneaththe lass’s hands
are other hands. The miracles are not miracles; they are
Law.”
10. OUR FINAL MEETING
Our final meeting began about half past three in the
afternoon, and at the request of the Invisibles Joan sat
alone beforethescreen.
A mask of Anne was shown, withrecognizablefeatures
as before. All but Betty saw this. She saw that the face
was not Joan’s; but thatwas as far as she got. Anne finally
told Betty, who had been complaining of drowsiness, to
sit next Joan. Almost immediatelyshe went out, without
294-
Experiments With the Spiritual Body
the usual holding of the wrist, and without an eye band-
age. The mask of Anne clarifiedand strengthened.I,who
was on ]oan’s right, saw toward the back of her head a
puff shape of gray that looked like the back part of a
Tudor cape, or an outstanding roll of white hair. Anne’s
hair was black, and parted a little to one. side. Asking
what this might be, I got the reply: “It is theBeta of the
lass coomin’ over.” At the fading of Anne’s mask, Mar-
garet was called for, and took ]oan’s otherwrist. For some
time nothing happened except the smoky emanations.
“Watch the carpet,” advised Anne.
We did so, and saw a bright spot form around ]oan’s
feet. It gradually enlarged to a circle of which, roughly
speaking,]oan’s feet were the center, but which was wide
enough to include the feet of the other two who sat next
her. A cool breeze or feeling of evaporationwas discerni-
ble about two feet above the floor. This afterwards con-
centrated around ]oan’s feet and rose in a cloud to about
the height of her knee. Anne said the intention was to
show a mist out in the room and standing; but that the
lilacelectric light was better for this than the daylight.
Darby suggested putting the operators behindthe screen
instead of in front of it. Anne assented a little doubtfully,
but said we might try it, onlyto “wait for the blue light.”
Accordinglywe took an hour’s recess until the daylight
should fade.
The session was resumed at 5:30. Joan, Betty and Mar-
garet were placedbehindthe blackscreen.
295
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“Ye will be watching the bottom next the carpet,”
Anne instructed.
Almost immediatelythe typical luminous fog beganto
seep through below the screen, until the sharp line of
demarcation betweenthe bottom of the blackscreen and
thelightermg was blurred. Shortlywe all noticed thatthe
center panel of the screen appeared to bulge outward a
little; and this bulge seemed to palpitate or waver. There
were some quite sharp folds in the blackstuff thatdraped
thescreen (whichitself was stretched tightand “unbulge-
able”).These folds over the bulging portion were com-
pletely obscured by the luminous fog, which was about
in theproportionatedimensionsof a standinghumanfigure
directly in front of the place where we knew Joan to
be seated behind the screen. After a few moments this
appearance moved about two feet to our left along the
screen. The folds that had been obscured again came
sharply into sight, while those to the left that had been
clearlydefined,now disappeared.Atthismoment thetele-
phone rang. In answering it, I passed behind the screen.
To my surprise I found that Joan was no longer seated,
nor even directly in front of her chair; but erect, and
exactlybehind the point at which the latest obscuration
was taking placeon the other side of the screen. In other
words, the shifts of position and location were following
exactlyJoan’s to us unknownmovements.
“Ye’llno betellin’ all ye know!” cried Anne, callingme
by name.
Anne seemed quite jubilantover this much of success.
296
Experiments with the Spiritual Body ,
She remarkedthatit had beenno light feat to get theBeta
out so far and throughthethickstuff of which the screen
was made.
The three now resumed their places in front of the
screen. Under direction we completelycovered Joanwith
apieceof blackcloththrownover her head and fallingto
thefloor.The materialwas thickand impervious; so much
so, indeed, thatDarbyratherobjected on thegroundthat
Joan might be smothered.
“We will take care of the lass,” Anne assured him.
Throughthisformless thickblackdrapery Joan’s figure
was several times made distinctlyvisible in ratherblurred
outline as a glowing lucence, and then allowed to fade
until merely the dark mass of the drapery remained. At
first this luminosityextended above Joan’s head; so thatit
seemed to us probable that an attempt was beingmade to
show her standing figure while physicallyshe remained
seated.
Aftersome interval, Anne directed us to fix our atten-
tion at a point about two feet in front of Joan. Gradually
there formed a wraith-likethinmist, of about human pro-
portions as to length and breadth, but without definite
shape. It was very thin,and the eye lost it easily.By itself
it would have been a very dubious demonstration, but in
connection with the extremely distinct phenomena we
had been observing, we felt justifiedin recording it. The
most convincingtest of it was to look at some one through
it. Then theobscuration thoughslight, seemed unmistake-
able.
2 97
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
“I hae actuallythelass’s Beta standingtwo feet in front
of her.” said Anne, “She is not so tall as she is.” (i.e. in the
physical) “She is a verra good fit in hersel’.”
Darbystarted to put his hand out toward the mist.
“Dinna touch it!” commanded Anne sharply.
“Why?” asked Darby,“Would it injure her?”
“Na,” repliedAnne, “Butye haeseen her start when ye
touch her, and the jerk would disturb the ither twa
lasses.”
The blackdrape was removed.
“Ihad her hands aroundthewrists of some of ye,” Anne
told us, “but you did not know it. How can I make you
feel when you are so stupid! The feel of the Beta is like
cold and like evaporating.Come now, lad, sit on the floor
in front of thelass and we’ll make you pretty.”
I did so. Mysensations were thatof sitting in an ice box
with a tricklingcold shower coming down from above. I
noted afterward that this, however, did not cause me to
shiver. The others reported that a mask was made on my
face. I had no sensations other than the cold, except a
strong impulse to suck in my cheeks.
Anne announced anotherrecess until after dinner. She
said thatshe would send out Betty herself withoutaid.
We resumed at 9: ooo P. M. Margaret sat in the center,
with Mrs. Gaines and Betty on either side. Joan made
part of the audience.
A numberof most excellent masks were produced for
]oan’sbenefit.The most remarkableand novel was a very
brief one of Margaret herself. This was not located as
298
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
usual in front of her own face, but about a foot to the
left of it, and between her and Mrs. Gaines. It endured
as a luminous spot or globe about the size of a head for
some time, but showed as a facefor only an instant.
Joan was now put under, and by Anne’s direction
Gaines sat on the floor in front of her. Joan extended her
hands, with Betty and Margaret still holding her wrists, ‘
passing them in a weaving motion over Gaines’s head.
Now Gaines is a round-facedman with a nose to match.
He became a sharp—nosed person with a thin face and
heavy blackeyebrows. Darby and I were actuallywithin
three feet of him when thischange took place.Anne kept
up a running comment in a facetious vein. Gaines re-
ported the same cold and shower bath effect that I had
experienced.
Anne now called for Betty. She took Gaines’s placeon
the floor in front of Joan. Darby and I drew closer until
we were so near as almost to touch her. Her faceseemed to
change in feature and shape until we saw her before us
as a child of about eight years, with square—banged dark
hair. I tried to focus my gaze to penetrate through the
mask to distinguish the real Betty, but was unable -to do
so. The appearance of thisnew faceseemed to all of us as
of flesh and blood, and not of the luminous monotone of
the usual masks. It was precisely as though the actual
flesh had been manipulated.
“Now we willplay a joke on Betty; she will na mind,”
said Anne. ’
Betty’s face lengthened; the brow b.ecame wide and
299
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
low; high cheek bones came into prominence.The result
was a grotesque. ,
“Now she’s a comic valentine,”quothAnne.
Joan waved her arm with a sudden motion and Betty
instantly reappeared.
This was a most astonishing performance of “magic,”
considering the illumination,the close proximity of the
observers, the complete change of appearance, and the
fact that the result seemed more living than the portrait
masks. No explanationwas given. It seemed simply to be
done as an amusing thing.
1 1. CONCLUSION
This was the last meeting of us eight. The sessions had
extended nearlysix weeks, and those of us who lived at
a distance could stay no longer. It is evident that the
original program was only partly carried out. This was,
it will be remembered,to demonstrate and prove the ex-
istence of the Beta. The demonstration was given to our
own complete satisfaction; and is invaluable in linking
up the philosophicalstatements in The Seven Purposes,
Our Unseen Guest, and Betty’s teachings,of which this
book is merelythe A B C. It was not carried to the point
of scientific proof. Things went more slowly than had
been anticipated. The phenomena were produced in in-
creasing perfection, but it did not strike me thattheyhad
become certainly standardized so that theycould be in-
variablyrepeated for scientific analysis. That is only an
goo
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
impression; I may b.e wrong there. At any rate, the group
was forced to separate before the stage of scientific
analysis was reached.
The Invisibles did not seem to be whollydissatisfied.
“You have gone a long way; much farther than you
realize now,” theytold us at thelast. “However, you will
realize how far you have gone in this short time when I
tell you that the results you have yourselves seen are as
nothing compared with the results we are able to see
here.”
“We’ve all done bully work together, haven’t we?”
Joe expressed it, “It’s been worth while and we are well
on the road over here, becausewe have a start on a new
manipulation. We have done much mor.e here than you
have there. You see we have more or less to do the work
here before we can give it to you.”
“How much difference is there between this physical
workwe have done, and what is generallycalled material-
ization?” queried Margaret.
“Not much, except that it is more sensible, and you
know what you are doing. It is being consciously com-
bined with the teaching. It has been done before after a
fashion, but not from a scientific standpoint. There is no
particular value in merely seeing these masks, or the
Beta, the stripped soul, except as it has scientific value.
There have always been those who could do this, in a
way. We are not readyfor scientistsyet.”
Such is a record of these,to me, extraordinarymeetings.
Anyoneis, of course, at entire libertyto interpret it as he
301
Experiments with the Spiritual Body
pleases. The onlythingI vouch for is theaccuracyof the
report. The reader is at libertyto question anythingbut
the absolute and entire good faith of the experimenters.
Eitherthese thingshappened, or we unanimouslythought
they did. On the most skeptical interpretation possible,
the whole thingwould be a remarkable example of col-
lective hallucination. Personally,any but the simple and
direct interpretation involves me in so many logical
fallacies and intricaciesthat I have ended by taking the
matter at its facevalue.
302
