{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1834__macnish___philosophy_of_sleep.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of Sleep","mylang":"de"}
THE
PHILOSOPHY
OF
SLEEP.
BY
ROBERT MACNISII,
AUTHOR OF 11 THE ANATO)lY OF DRUNKEN!"ES~," A~D 'TE~IBER m·
T HE FACULTY OF PHYSICIA~5 A..~D SURGEONS OF GLASt,OW.
FIRST A:MEltiC.llN EDlTION
NEW YORK:
D APPLE T 0 N & C 0., 20 0, B R 0 A 0 'VAY .
AND FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSEl.I.RR~.
111 DCCC XX.'OV.
WlLLlAK V.A.K NORDii:N, l'RlHT·
f
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.
1,nE present Edition of THE PHILosoPHY oF
SLEEP is so different from its predecessor, that it
tnay ahnost be regarded as a new treatise. The
work has been, in a great measure, re-written, the
arrangement altered, and a great accession made
to the number of facts and cases: the latter, many
of which are now published for the first time, will,
I hope, add much to its value. Some of them have
occurred in my own practice ; and for others, I
an1 indebted to the kindness of several ingenious
friends. Notwithstanding every care, the work is
far fro1n being what it ought to be, and what I
could have wished ; but, imperfect as it is, it may,
perhaps, stimulate some other inquirer to investi-
gate the subject more deeply, and thus give rise to
an abler disquisition. So far as I know, this is the
only treatise in which an attempt is made to give
a complete account of Sleep. The subject is not
IV PREFACE.
an easy one; and, in the present state of our
kno\vledge, moderate success is probably all that
can be looked for.
In the first Edition, Dr. Gall's theory, that the
brain is composed of a plurality of organs, each
organ being the seat of a particular mental facul-
ty, was had recourse to for the purpose of explain-
ing the different pheno1nena of Sleep ; in the
present Edition, this doctrine is 1nore pron1inently
brought forward. The great objection to the pre-
vailing n1etaphysical syste1ns is, that none of their
posi6ons can be proved ; and that scarcely two
Wl'iters agree upon any particular point. The
disciples of Gall, on the other hand, assume that
his system, having ascertainable facts to illustrate
it, is at all times susceptible of demonstration-
that nothing is taken for granted ; and that the
inquirer has only to make an appeal to nature to
ascertain its fallacy or its truth. The science is
entire!y one of observation : by that it n1ust stand
or fall, and by that alone ought it to be tested.
The phrenological system appears to 111e the only
one capable of affording a rational and easy ex-
planation of all the pheno1nena of mind. It is
impossible to account for dreaming, idiocy, spec-
PREFACE. v
tral illusions, mono1nania, and partial gcn1us 1n
any other way. For these reasons, and for the
much stronger one, that having studied the
science for several years with a mind rather
hostile than otherwise to its doctrines, and found
that nature invariably vindicated their truth, I
could con1e to no other conclusion than that of
adopting thmn as a matter of belief, and employ-
ing then1 for the explanation of pheno1nena \vhich
they alone seem calculated to elucidate satisfacto-
rily. The system of Gall js gaining ground
rapidly among scientific men, both in Europe and
America. Son1e of the ablest physiologists in both
quarters of the globe have admitted its accordance
with nature; and, at this moment, it boasts a
greater number of proselytes than at any previcus
period of its career. The prejudices still existing
against it, result from ignorance of its real cha-
racter. As people get better acquainted with the
science, and the formidable evidence by which it
is supported, they will think differently.
Many persons who deny the possibility of esti-
mating individual character, with any thing like
accuracy, by the shape of the head, , admit the
great phrenological principle that the brain is
Vl PREFACE.
composed of a plurality of organs. To them, as
well as to those who go a step farther, the doctrine
laid down in the present work will appear satis-
factory. An admission that the brain is the mate-
rial apparatus by which the mind manifests itself,
and that each mental faculty is displayed through
the medium of a particular part of the brain, is all
that is demanded in considering the philosophy of
the science. These points are only to be ascer-
tained by an appeal to nature. No man can
wisely reject phrenology without making such an
appeal.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
Introduction,
CHAPTER II .
Sleep in General,
CHAPTER III.
Dreaming,
CHAPTER IV.
Prophetic Power of Dreams,
CHAPTER V .
Nightmare,
CHAPTER VI.
Daymare, .
C II A P T E R V I I.
Sleep-Walking,
CHAPTER VIII.
PAGE
9
15
43
. . 102
. . 122
• • 0 142
l45
Sleep-Talking, . . . . . . . . . 0 • 172
Vlll CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IX.
Sleeplessness, . . 174
CHAPTER X.
Drowsiness, . . . 183
CHAPTER XI.
Protracted Sleep, . . . 186
CHAPTER XII.
Sleep From Cold, . . . . 192
CHAPTER XIII.
Trance, . . 200
CHAPTER XIV .
Voluntary Waking Dreams, . . 211
CI-IAPTER XV .
Spectral Illusions, . . 214
CHAPTER XVI.
Reverie, I I I I • • I 1 • t . . 244
CHAPTER XVII.
Abstraction, . . . . . . . . 251
CHAPTER XVIII.
Sleep of Plants, . . . . . . . . . . . 263
C H A P T E R X I X.
General Management of Sleep, .. 267
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF S L EEP.
r-;fiAPTER l.
IXTRODUCTION.
. LEEP 1s the intenncdiate state bet\veen \vake-
fulness and death : \vakefulness being regarded as
the active state of all tlte anunal and intellectual
functions, and death as that of their total su~pen­
sion.
Sleep exists in t\vo states ; in the con1plete and
incon1plete. The fonucr is characterized by a
torpor of the various organs ,.d1ich con1posc the
brain, and by that of the externn1 senses and vol-
untary n1otion. Jncotnplcte sleep, or drea1ning, is
the active state of one or n1ore of the C(·n·hral
organs \vhile the re1nainder are in repose : the
senses and the volition being either suc.;pended or
1n action according to the circtnnstances of the
case. Co1nplete sleep is a temporary metaphysic-
al death, though Eot an organic one-the heart
and lunrrs pcrformino- their offices \vith their ac-
...., :>
custo1ned regularity under the control of the
involuntary tnuscles.
2
JO PHILOSOPHY
Sleep is variously morufied, as we shall fully
explain hereafter, by health and disease. The sleep
of health is full of tranquillity. In snch a state
we remain for hours at a time in unbroken repose,
nature banqueting on its s\vcets, renewing its lost
energies, and laying in a fresh store for the suc-
ceeding day. This accon1plished, sltunber van-
ishes like a vapor before the rising sun ; languor
has been succeeded by strength; and all the facul-
ties, mental and corporeal, are recruited. In this
delightful state, man assi1nilates n1ost with that
in which Adam sprang fro1n his Creator's hands,
fresh, buoyant, and vigorous; rejoicing as a racer
to run his course, \Vith all his appetencies of enjoy-
ment on edge, and all his feelings and faculties
prepared for exertion.
Reverse the picture, and \Ve have the sleep of
disease. It is short, feverish, and unrefreshing,
disturbed by frightful or Inelancholy dre~uns. The
pulse is agitated, and, fron1 nervous excitation,
there are frequent startings and t\Y"itchiugs of the
muscles. Nightn1are pres~es like an incarnation
of misery upon the fnune-i1naf5ination, distem-
pered by its connexion \Vith physical disorder,
ranging along the gloon1y confines of terror, hold-
ing co1n1nunication with hell aud the grave, and
throwing a discoloring shade over ht1111an life.
Night is the tin1e for sleep; and assuredly the
hush of darkness as naturally courts to repose
as n1eridian splendor flashes on us the necessity
of our being up at our labor. In fact, there exists
OF SLEEP. 11
a strange, but certain sympathy bct,veen the
periods o[ day and night, and the pcrfonnance of
particular functions durin~ these period~. Tltat this
is not the 1nere effect of custon1, n1ight be readily
de1nonstrated. All nature a'vakc<3 with the rising
sun. rrhe birtis begin to siug; the bees to fly about
with lllUnnnrons ch.:li(rht. The fto\vrrs 'vhich shut
~
under the e1nbrace of darkness, unfold 1hen1selYes
to the light. Tlte <'nttle arise to crop tl1e dewy
herbage ; and "nutn goeth forth to lJ is labor nntil
the e\·ening.;; At close of day, the reverse of all
this nctiYitv aud n1otion is obseryecl. 1,he songs of
. ~
the 'voo<.llaud choir,oneafter another, beco1ne hush-
ed, till at length t\\·il i~ht is left to silencP, w·ith her
own star and her fa1ling de,vs. Action is succeed-
ed by listlessness, e1wrgy by langnor, the desire of
exertion by the inclination for repose. Sleep, 'vhich
shuns the light. e1nbraces darkness, and they lie
dO\\rn tog-ether under the sceptre of tnidnight.
J:.~ro1n the po!'ition of n1an in society, toil or
einployinent of son1e kind or other is an ahnost
necessary conconlitaut of his nature-bei11g essen-
tial to healthy sleep; and consequently to the reno-
vation of our bodilv orgaus and n1ental faculties.
. '-
But as no ,g-eneral rule can be laid down as to the
quality aud quantity of labor best (H.ln pted to par-
ticular te1npcnunents, so neither can it he positive-
ly said ho\v 1nany hours of sleep arc necessary for
the ani1nal fnunc. ,\-hen the body ic:; in a state of
1ncrease, as in the ad vance fro1n inlaucy to boy-
hood; so n1uch sJcep is required, that the greater
12 PHILOSOPH'\
portion of existence 1nay be fairly stated to be ab-
sorbed in this \\'av. It is not 1nere repoq fron1
action that is Cll.J;ahie of recruiting the w·rt... ted
po\Yers, or restorint..r the ne1-von~ energy. Along
with this js required that ob]i,rion of feeling and
ima(rination which IS essential to. and "-]lich in a
~ - I
great n1casure constitutes; sleep. But if in n1ature
yearc:; the hody is aclcling to Hs bulk by the accu-
mulation of adipose 1natter. a greater tendency to
son1notency occur:.:; than w·hcn the po,,-ers of the
absorbent~ and exhalents are so balatH·ed as to
pre·n.~ut such accession of bulk. It is during the
complete t~c1nipoise of these aui1nal functions that
health is enjoyed in !!l'Catest perfection ; for such
a state presupposes exercise, tcn1perance: and a
tone of the st01nach quite equal to the process of
digestion.
Sleep and stupor have been frequently treated
of by physiological "~riters as if the t\-ro states -urere
synonyu1ons. This is not the case. In both there
is inscnsi bility; hut it is easy to a-urake the person
fron1 sl0cp, and ui1licult, if not in1possible. to arouse
him fr0111 Stupor. rrhe fonner is a neces~ary law
of the ani tnal econon1y; the latter is the result of
diseased action.
Birth aud death are the .l\.lpha and 01nega of
existence; and life, to use tbe language of Shak-
speare, "is rounded by a slePp."
'Vhcn 've contcrnplate the hun1an fra1ne in a
state of vigor, an itnpression is 111ade on the nund
that it is culculated to last forever. One set of
OF SLEEP. 13
organs 1s laying do\vn particles and another
taking then1 up, ''rith such exquisite nicety, that for
the continual 1110n1entary \Vaste there is continual
mo1nentary repair ; and this is capable of going
on with the strictest equality for half a century.
"\"\...hat is life'! Those bodies are called living
in \Vhich an appropriation of foreign 1natter is
going on; death is where this process is at an
end. \Yhen w·e find blood in n1otion, the process
of appropriation is going on. The circulation is
the surest sign of life. lVIuscles retain irritability
for an hour or t\vo after circulation ceases, but
irritability is not life. Death is O\Ving to the
absence of this process of appropriation.
Bichnt has divided life into two varieties, the
orgltnic and the anhnal. The first is coiumon to
both vegetables and ani1nals, the last is peculiar to
anin1als alone. Organic life applies to the func-
tions which nourish and sustain the object-ani-
tnal life to those \vhich 1nake it a sentient being;
\Vhich giyc it thought, feeling, and n1otion; and
bring it into con1n1unication \Vith the surrounding
world. The processes of assin1ilation and excretion
exist both in anin1als and vegetables : the other
vital processes are restricted solely to anin1als.
The digestive organs, the kidneys, the heart, and
the lungs, are the apparatus which carry into
effect the organic life of animals. Those \\~hich
manjfest aninml life are the brain, the organs of
the senses, and the voluntary po\vers. Sleep is
the suspension of animal life ; and during its con-
2*
14 PH I L 0 S 0 PH Y 0 F SLEEP·
tinuance the creature is under the influence of
organic life alone.
Not\vithstanding the renovating influence of
sleep, ·which apparently brings up the lost vigor
of the frame to a particular standard, there is a
po\ver in animal life \vhich leads it aln1ost imper-
ceptibly on from infancy to second childhood, or
that of old age. This power, sleep, however
healthy, is incapable of counteractin~. The skin
\Vrinldes, and everywhere shows marks of the
ploughshare of Saturn; the adipose structure dis-
solves; the bones becon1e brittle; the teeth decay
or drop out ; the eye loses its exquisite sensibility
to sight ; the ear to sound ; and the hair is bleach-
ed to "rhiteness. These are accon1panied with a
general decay of the intellectual faculties ; there
is a loss of mmnory, and less sensibility to e1notion;
the iris hues of fancy subside to twilight; and the
sphere of thought and action is narro,ved. The
principle of decay is in1planted in our nature, and
cannot be counteracted. Few people, ho,vever,
die of 1uere decay, for death is generally accele-
ratetl by disease. Fro111 sleep \Ve a\vake to exertion
-frotn death not at all, at least on this side of
time. lVIethuselah in ancient, and Thon1as Parr
in n1odern times, ate \v·ell, digested 'vell, and slept
'vell ; but at length they each died. Death is
omnivorous. The wonn \vhich era\VJ s on the
highway and the n1onarch on his couch of state
'
are alike subjected to the sa1ne stern and inexor--
able law· ; they alike become the victims of the
universal tyrant.
•
CI-IAPTER II.
SLEEP IN GE~ER.AL
EvERY ani1nal passes some portion of its til11e in
sleep. This is a rule to \Vhich there is no excep-
tion ; although the kind of slnn1ber and the degree
of profoundness in which it exists in the different
classes aTe extren1ely various. Some physiologists
lay it do\\rn as a general rule, that the larger the
brain of an animal the greater is the necessity for
a considerable proportion of sleep. This, ho\vever,
I suspect is not borne out by facts. J
.\1an, for in-
stance, and son1e birds, such as the sparrow, have
the largest brains in propor6on to their size, and
yet it is probable that they do not sleep so 1nueh as
some other anitnals \vith n1uch smaller brains.
The serpent tribe, unless \Vhen ~ti1nulated by
hunger, (in which case they ·will ren1ain awake
for days at a time \vaiting for their prey,) sleep
much 1nore than men or birds, and yet their
brains are proportionally greatly inferior in size:
the boa, after dining on a stag or goat, will con-
tinue in profound sleep for several days. Fishes,*
* As a proof that fishes sleep, Aristotle, who seems to have
paid more attention to their habits than any modern author, states,
16 PHILOSOPHY
indeed, whose brains are s1nall, require little sleep ;
but the s<nne remark applies to birds,* \vhich have
large brains, and ·whose slun1ber is neither pro-
found nor of long continuance. The assertion,
therefore, that the quantu1n of sleep has any refer-
ence to the size of the brain may be safely looked
upon as unfounded. That it has reference to the
quality of the brain is 1nore likely, for we find that
carnivorous ani1nals sleep 1nore than such as are
herbivorous; and it is probable that the texture,
as \vell as fonn, of the brains of these two classes
is 1naterially different. This re1nark, ·with regard
to the causes of the various proportions of sleep
required lJy the carnivorous and herbiYorous
tribes, I thro\v out not as a matter of certainty,
but n1erely as a sunnise \vhich see1ns to have
considerable foundation in truth.
In proportion as n1an exceeds all other anhnals
in the excellency of his physical org-anization, and
in intellectual capability, \ve shall find ~hat in him
that ·while in this condition they remain motionless, with the excep-
tion of a. gentle movement of the tail- that they may then be
readily taken by the hand, and that, if suddenly touched, they in-
stantly start. The tunny, he adds. are surprised and surrounded
by nets \vhilP asleep, which is known by their showmg the white
of their eyes.
* The sleep of some birds is amozingly light. Such is the case
with the goose, which is disturbed l>y the slightest nojse, and more
useful than any watch-dog for giving warning of danger. It was
the cackling of the sacred geese that saved the capitol of Rome
from the soldiers of Brennus, when the watch-dogs failed to
discover the approach of an enemy.
OF SLEEP. 17
the rarious phenon1ena of sleep are exhibited in
greater rezularity aud perfection. Sleep seenls-
tnore iudi~peusably requisite to 1nan tlwn to any
other crc;.Jture, if there can be supposed to exist
any dillercuce where its indispen aLility is nniYer-
sal, an<.I where every ani1nal n1ust, in son1e degree
or other, partake of it; but, as regards 1nan, it i~
certain that he sustains any violation of the law
ordaiuill!! regular periods of repose \vith less indif-
ference tl1an tlle lower grndes of creation- tltat a
'-'
certain proportion of sleep i':l n1ore essential to hi.
existcuce than theirs- that he has less po,ver of
endurjng protracted wakefulnes~, or continuing in
protracted sleep-and that he is n1ore refreshed
by repo e o.uc.l n1orc exhausted hy the \vaut of it
than they. The sleep of 1uan, therefore, becotnes
a subject of deeper interest and curiosity than that
of any other anin1aJ, both on account of the 1nore
di,·ersifiec.l. 1nanner in which it displays itself, and
the superior opportunity 'vhich exists of ascer-
taining the various pheno1nena, \vhi<.;h in the in-
ferior aninw1s can only be conjectured or darkl)
guessed at.
Sleep, being a natural process, takes place in
general \\ ithout any very apparent cause. It be·
co1nes, as it were, a habit, into \Vhich \VC insensibly
fall at stated periods, as \Ve fall into other natura]
or acquired habits. But it differs fro1n the latter
in this, that it cannot in any case be entirely dis
pensed \vith, although by custon1 \Ve 1nay bring
ourselves to do \Vith a much s1naller portion thuu
lS PH ILO SOPHY
\Ve are usually in the practice of indulging in. In
this respect it bears a strong analogy to the appe-
tite for food or drink. It has a natnral tendency
to recnr every t\venty-four hours, and the periods
of its accession coincide 'vith the return of night.
But though sleep beco1
nes a habh into ·which
\Ve 'vould naturally drop without any obvious, or
very easily discovered cause, still \Ve can often
trace the origin of our shunbers ; and ''re are all
acquainted,vith 1nany circun1stances \vhich either
produce or heighten then1. I shall1nention a fe\\r
of these causes.
I-Ieat has a strong tendency to produce sleep.
"'\Ve often \vitness this in the sunnuer season:
son1eti1ue~ in the open air, but n1ore frequently at
hon1e, and above all in a crow·ded n1eeting. In
the latter case the soporific tendency is greatly
increased by the in1purity of the air. A vitiated
atn1osphere is strongly narcotic, and \vhen con1-
bined \\rith heat and n1onotony, is apt to induce
sltunber, not less retnarkable for the rapidity of its
accessiot1 than its overpowering character. In
such a situation, the n1ind in a fe,v 1ninutes ceases
to act, and sinks into a state of oy·erno\Yerincr obli-
• b
vion. The shunber, however, not being a natural
one, and seldon1 occurring at the usual period, is
generally short: it nnely exceeds an hour; and
when the person a\vakes fron1 it, so far fro1u being-
refreshed, he is unusually dull, thirsty, and fever-
ish, and finds n1ore than con1n1on difficulty in o·et-
• b
ing his 1nental po\vers into their usual state of
activity.
OF SLEEP. 19
A heated church and a dull sermon are almost
sure to provoke sleep. There are fe\v rnen whose
powers are equal to the task of opposing the joint
operation of two such potent influences. They
act on the spirit like narcotics, and the person
seems as if involved in a cloud of aconite or bella-
donna. The heat of the church might be resisted,
but the sermon is irresi~tible. Its rnonotouy falls
in leaden accents upon the ear, and soon subdues
the most po\verful attention. Variety, whether of
sight or sound, prevents sleep, while rnonotony of
all kinds is apt to induce it. The murnnuing of
a river, the sound of the Eolian harp; the echo of
a distant cascade, the ticking of a clock, the hum
of bees under a burning sun, and the pealing of
a rernote bell, all exercise the same influence. So
conscious \vas Boerhaave of the po\ver of mono-
tony, that in order to procure sleep for a patient,
he directed \Vater to be placed in such a situation
as to drop continually on a brass pan. 'Vhen there
is no excitement, sleep is sure to follo,v. "\Ye are
all kept a·wake hy some mental or bodily stimulus,
and 'vhen that is removed our \vakefulnflss is at
an end. vVant of stin1ulus, especially jn a heated
at1nosphere, produces powerful effects; but ·where
sufficient stin1ulus exists, \Ve overcon1e the effects
of the heat, and keep awake in spite of it. Thus,
in a cro\vcled church, \\rhere a dull, inanjmate
preacher ·would throw the congregation into a deep
slurnber, such a man as lVIassilon, or Chalmers,
'\Vonld keep them in a state of keen excitement.
II
20 PUTLOSOPHY
He \Vould arrest their attention, and counteract
whatever tendency to sleep "
Would other,vise have
existed. In like n1anner, a prosing, n1onotonous,
lon2;-\vinded acquaintance is apt to 1nake us doze,
while another of a lively, energetic couversatjon
keeps us brisk and awake. It will generally be
found that the reasonino- faculties are those which
~
are soonest prostrated by slnn1ber, and the ilnagi-
nati\re the least so. A person \Vonld 1nore readily
fall asleep if hstening to a profound piece of argu-
nlentation, than to a hun1orous or fanciful story ;
and probably n1ore have shunbered over the
pages of Bacon and Locke, than over those of
Shakspeare and 1\Iilton.
Cold produces sleep as well as heat, but to do so
a very lo\v temperature is necessary, particularly
\vith regard to the htunan race; for, \vhen cold is
not excessive, it prevents, instead of occasioning
shunber : in illustration of \vhich, I may n1ention
the case of several unfortunate \von1en, w·ho lived
thirty-four days in a s1nall roon1 over\vheln1ed ''?ith
the sno\\..., and who scarcely slept during the whole
of that period. In very northern and southern la-
titudes, persons often lose their Jiyes by lying down
in a state of dro·wsiness, occasioned by intense
cold. The winter sleep, or hybernation of ani-
n1als, arises fron1 cold; but as this species of shun-
her is of a very peculiar description; I have dis-
cussed it separately in another part of the 'vork.
The finished grati.fication of all ardent desires
has the effect of inducing slumber ; hence, after
OF SLEEP~ 21
nny keen excitement, the n1ind becomes exhaust-
ed, and speedily relapses into this state. Attention
to a single sensation has the same effect. This has
been exemplified in the case of all kinds of mono-
tony, \vhere there is a \vant of variety to stimulate
the ideas, and keep thmn on the alert. " If the
n1ind," says Cullen, "is attached to a sino-le sensa-
tion, it is brought very nearly to the state of the
total absence of impression;" or, in other \Vordt'),
to the state most closely bordering upon sleep. Re-
nlove those sti1nuli \vhich keep it employed, and
sleep ensues at any time.
Any thing \vhich mechanically determines the
blood to the brain, acts in a sinlilar manner, such
as \vhirling round for a gTeat length of time, as-
cending a lofty mountain, or s\vinging to and fro.
The first and last of these actions give rise to
much giddiness, follo,ved by intense slumber, and
at last by death, if they be continued very long.
By lying fiat upon a 1nillstone while performing its
evolutions, sleep is soon produced, and death, \Vith~
out pain, would be the result, if the experiment
\Vere greatly protracted. Apoplexy, \Vhich con-
sists of a turgid state of the cerebral vessels, pro-
duces perhaps the Inost complete sleep that is
lcno,vn, in so far that, \vhile it continues, it is ut-
terly impossible to ·waken the individual: no sti-
mulus, however po\verfu], has any influence in
arousing his dormant faculties. "'\Vhen the circu-
lating mass in the brain is diminished beyond a
certain extent, it has the same effect on the oppo-
3
22 PHILOSOPHY
site state; whence excessive loss of blood excites
sleep.
Opium, hyoscyamus, aconite, belladonna, and
the whole tribe of narcotics, induce sleep, partly by
a specific po\-ver vvhich they exert on the nerves ~~
the stomach, and partly by inducing an apoplectic
state of the brain. The former effect is occasion
ed by a moderate-the latter by an over dose.
A heavy 1neal, especially if the stomach is at the
same time weak, is apt to induce sleep. In ordi-
nary circumstances, the nervous energy or senso-
rial power of this viscus is sufficient to carry on
its functions; but when an excess of food is thrown
upon it, it is then unable to furnish, from its own
resources, the powers requisite for digestion. In
such a case it draws upon the whole body- upon
the chest, the limbs, &c., fron1 \Vhence it is sup·
plied with the sensorial po·wer of which it is defi-
cient; and is thus enabled to perform that \vhich
by its own unassisted means it never could have
accomplished. But mark the consequences of such
accommodation ! Those parts, by co1nmunicating
vigor to the stomach, become thmnselves debilitat-
ed in a corresponding ratio, and get into a state
analogous to that fron1 which they had extricated
this viscus. The extremities become cold, the re-
spiration heavy and stertorol!ls, and the brain tor-
pid. In consequence of the torpor of the brain,
F:iecp ensues. It had parted with that portion of
sensorial energy which kept it awake, and by sup-
plying another organ is itself thrown into the state
OF SLEEP. 23
of sleep. It is a curious fact, that the feeling of
sleep is most strong \vhile the food retnains on the
stomach, shortly after the accession of the digest-
Ive process, and before that operation which con-
verts the nourishment into chyle has taken place.
'Vhen, therefore, the sensorial po\ver is suffi-
ciently exhausted, \Ve naturally fall asleep. As
this exhaustion, however, is a gradual process, so
is that of slumber. Previous to its accession, a
feeling of universal lassitude prevails) and exhibits
itself in yawning,* peevishness, heaviness, and
weakness of the eyes; indifference to surrounding
objects, and all the characteristics of fatigue. If
the person be seated, his head nods and droops :
the muscles become relaxed; and, \vhcn circum-
stances admit of it, the limbs are thro\vn into the
recumbent position, or that most favorable for com-
plete inaction. The senses then become uncon-
scious of i1npressions, and, one after the other, part
with sensation; the sight first, then taste, smell,
hearing, and touch, all in regular order. The
* 'Ve yawn before falling asleep and when we wake; yawn-
ing, therefore, precedes and follows sleep. It seems an effort of
nature to restore the just equilibrium between the flexor and ex-
tensor muscles. The former have a natural predominancy in the
system ; and on their being fatigued, we, by an effort of the will,
or rather by a species of instinct, put the latter into action for the
purpose of redressing the balance, and poising the respective mus·
cular powers. We do the same thing on awaking, or even on get-
ting up from a recumbent posture- the flexors in such circum-
stances having prevailed over the extensors, which u·ere in a great
measure inert.
•
PHILOSOPHY
brain does not all at once glide into repose = its dif-
ferent organs being successively thrown into this
state; one dropping asleep, then another, then a
third, till the whole are locked up in the fetters of
slumber. Tills gradual process of intellectual ob-
literation is a sort of confused droom-a mild de-
lirium \vhich al\Vays precedes sleep. The ideas
have no resting-place, but float about in the con-
fused tabernacle of the mind, giving rise to images
of the most perplexing description. In this state
they continue for some tin1e, until, as sleep be-
conles more profound, the brain is left to thorough
repose, and they disappear altogether.
Sleep produces other ilnportant changes in the
system. The rapidity of the circulation is din1i-
nished, and, as a natural consequence, that of res-
piration : the force of neither function, however,
is impaired; but, on the contrary, rather increas-
ed. Vascular action is diminished in the brain and
organs of volition, while digestion and absorption
all proceed \vith increased energy. The truth of
most of these propositions it is not difficult to
establish.
The din1inished quickness of the circulation is
sho,vn in the pulse, which is slo\ver and fuller than
in the \vaking state ; that of respiration in the more
deliberate breathing \vmch accompanies sleep. Di-
minished action of the brain is evident from the
abolition of its functions, as well as direct evidence.
A case is related by Blumenbach, of a person who
had been trepanned, and whose brain was observ-
OF SLEEP. 25
ed to sink when he \vas asleep, and s\vell out \vhen
he \Vas awake. As for the lessened vascular ac-
tion in the voluntary powers, this is rendered ob-
vious by the lo\ver temperature on the surface
\Vhich takes place during the slumbering state.
Moreover, in low typhus, cynanche maligna, and
other affections attended \vith a putrid diathesis,
the petechire usually appear during sleep when the
general circulation is least vigorous, while the pa-
roxystns of reaction or delirium take place, for the
most part, in the 1norning \vhen it is in greater
strength and activity.
In some individuals the strong-er and n1ore la-
- ~
borious respiration of sleep is made manifest by
that stertorous sound comn1olliy denonunated snor-
ing. Stout apoplectic people-those \vho snuff
much or sleep with their n1ouths open, are most
given to this habit. It seems to arise principally
fron1 the force \vith \Vhich the air is dra,vn into
the lungs in sleep. 'I'he respjratory muscles be-
ing less easily excited during this state do not act
so readily, and the air is consequently admitted in-
to the chest with some degree of effort. This,
combined with the relaxed state of the fauces,
gives rise to the stertorous noise. Snuffing, by ob-
structing the nasal passages and thus rendering
breathing 1nore difficult, has the sa1ne effect; con-
sequently snuffers are very often great snorers.
The less rapidly the blood is propelled through the
lungs, the slower is the respuation, and the louder
the stertor becomes. Apoplexy, by in1pairing the
3*
26 PHILOSOPHY
sensibility of the respiratory organs, and thus re-
ducing the frequency of breathing, produces snor-
ing to a great extent ; and all cerebral congestions
have, to a greater or lesser degree, the same effect..
That sleep increases absorption is sho\Vl.l in the
disappearance or diminution of 1nany swellings1
especially redmna of the cxtren1ities, which often
disappears in the night and recurs in the daytime,
even when the patient keeps his bed, a proof that
its disappearance does not always depend on the
position of the body: that it increases digestion,
and, as a natural consequence, nutrition, is ren-
dered probable by n1any circu1nstanccs: hence it
is the period in \vhich the regeneration of the body
chiefly takes place. Were there even no augnlent-
ation given to the assi1nilatiye function, as i
1naintained by Broussais and son1e other physiolo-
gists, It is clear that the body \Vould be more tho-
roughly nourished than \\'"hen a\vake: for all those
actions \vhich exhaust it in the latter condition are
quiescent, and it ren1ains in a state of rest, silently
accumulating po·wer, without expending any.
Sleep lessens all the secretions, 'vith one excep-
tion-that of the skin. The urinary, saliYary,
and bronchial discharges, the secretions fro1n the
nose, eyes, and cars, are all fon11ed less copiously
than 1n the waking state. The same rule holds
with regard to other secretions--hence diarrhren
. '
n1enorrhagw., (.~c., are checked during the intervals
of slumber.
From the din1iuished vascular action go1ng 011
OF SLEEP. 27
upon the surface, we would be apt to expect a de-
crease of perspiration, but the reverse is the case.
SleBp relaxes the cutaneous vessels, and they se-
crete more copiously than in the waking state. Ac-
cording to Sanctorius, a person sleeping some
hours tmdisturbed, will perspire il1sensibly twice
as much as one a\vake. This tendency of sleep to
produce perspiration is strikingly exhibited in dis-
eases of debility; whence the nocturnal s\veats so
prevailing and so destructive in all cachectic affec-
tions. Sanctorius farther states, that the insen-
sible perspiration is not only more abundant, but
less acrimonious during sleep than in the waking
state ; that, if diminished during the day, the suc-
ceeding sleep is disturbed and broken, and that the
di1ninution in consequence of too short a sleep,
disposes to fever, unless the equilibrium is esta-
blished, on the following day, by a more copious
perspiration.
Sleep produces peculiar effects upon the organs
of vision. A pTiori, we might expect that, during
this state, the pupil would be largely dilated in
consequence of the light being shut out. On
opening the eyelids cautiously it is seen to be con-
tracted ; it then quivers \vith an irregular motion,
as if disposed to dilate, but at length ceases to
move, and remains in a contracted state till the
person a\vakes. This fact I have often verified
by inspecting the eyes of children. Sleep also
communicates to these organs a great accession of
sensibility, so much so, that they are extre1nely
28 PHILOSOPHY
dazzled by a clear light. This, it is true, happens
on coming out of a dark into a light room, or
opening our eyes upon the sunshine even \Vhen
we are a\vake, but the effect is much stronger
when we have previously been in deep slumber.
Sleep n1ay be natural or diseased-the former
arising from such causes as exhaust the sensorial
po\ver, such as fatigue, pain, or protracted anxiety
of mind ; the latter from cerebral congestion, such
as apoplexy or plethora. The great distinction be-
tween these varieties is, that the one can be broken
by moderate stimuli, \vhile the other requires
either excessive stin1uli, or the rmnoval of the par-
ticular cause which gave rise to it.
During complete sleep no sensation \Vhatever is
experienced by the individual: he neither feels
pain, hunger, thiTst, nor the ordinary desires of
nature. He may be a\vakened to a sense of such
feelings, but during perfect repose he has no con-
sciousness \vhatever of their existence-if they
can indeed be said to exist "rhere they are not
felt. For the sa1ne reason, \Ve may touch him
without his feeling it; neither is he sensible to
sounds, to light, or to odors. \Vhen, however,
the slun1ber is not very profound, he may hear
1nusic or conversation, and have a sense of pain,
hunger, and thirst; and. although not a\vakened
by such circun1stances, n1ay recollect them after-
wards. These impressions. caught by the senses,
often give rise to the n1ost extraordinary mental
co1nbinations, and forn1 1he groundwork of the
most elaborate drean1s.
OF SLEEP. 29
I an1 of opinion that \ve rarely pass the \vhole
of any one night in a state of perfect slun1ber.
My reason for this supposition is, that \Ve very
seldom remain during the \vhole of that period in
the position in \Vhich \Ve fall asleep. This change
of posture must have been occasioned by so1ne
emotion, however obscure, affecting the 1nind, and
through it the organs of volition, \vhcreas in com-
plete sleep \Ve experience no emotion whatever.
The position usually asstuned in sleep has been
1nentioned; but sleep may ensue in any posture of
the body; persons fall asleep on horseback, and
continue riding in this state for a long time \vith-
out being awakened. Horses someti1nes sleep for
hours in the standing posture; and the circum-
stance of somnan1bulis1n shows that the same
thing may occur in the hun1an race.
So1ne animals, such as the hare, sleep \vith their
eyes open; and I have kno\vn similar instances in
the lnunan subject. But the organ is dead to the
ordinary stimulus of light, and sees no 1nore than
if completely shut.
Animals which prey by night, such as the cat,
hyena, &c.; pass the greater part of their ti1ne in
sleep; \vhile those that do not, continue longer
a\vake than asleep. The latter slu1nber part of
the night and continue awake so long as the sun
continues above the horizon. 'rhe propensity of
the former to sleep in the daytime seems to pro-
ceed from the structure of their eyes ; as they see
much better in darkness than in light, and conse-
30 PHILOSOPHY
quently pass in slumber that period in which their
vision is of least avail to them. It is a very curi-
ous fact, however, that these animals, when kept
in captivity, reverse the order of their nature, and
remain awake by day while they sleep by night.
This fact has been ascertained in the menagerie
at Paris. In such cases I apprehend that some
corresponding change must take place in the
structure of the eyes, assimilating them to those
of animals \vhich naturally sleep by night.
M. Castel observes,* that the greater part of an-
ilnals sleep longer in -vvinter than in summer. It
is precisely on account of perspiration that in the
first of these seasons sleep is more necessary than
in the second. In winter, the \vant of perspiration
during day is furnished in sleep; in sumn1er, the
diurnal sweat supplies that of the night, and ren-
ders much sleep less necessary. In other words,
during summer the perspiration is so much ex-
cited by atmospheric temperature, that a shorter
time is sufficient to give issue to the :fluids ·which
have to be expelled by this means. For the same
reason, the inhabitants of very cold climates sleep
1nore than those who live in the \varmer latitudes.
The profoundness of sleep differs greatly in
different individuals. The repose of son1e is ex-
tremely deep ; that of others quite the reverse.
One will scarcely obey the roar of a cannon; an-
other will start at the chirping of a cricket or the
faintest dazzling of the moonbeams. Heavy-
* "Journal Complementaire.''
OF SLEEP. 31
minded, phlegmatic people generally belong to
the former class ; the irritable, the nervous, and
the hypochondriac to the latter, although \Ve shall
at tin1es find the cases reversed with regard to the
nature of sleep enjoyed by these different temper-
aments. Man is almost the only animal in whom
much variety is to be found in this respect. The
lo\ver grades are distinguished by a certain char-
acter, so far as their slumber is concerned, and
this character n1ns through the \vhole race: thus,
all hares, cats, &c., are light sleepers ; all bears,
turtles, badgers, &c., are the reverse. In man, the
varieties are infinite. Much of this depends upon
the age and temperament of the individual, and
much upon custon1.
The profoundness of sleep differs also during
the same night. For the first four or five hours,
the slumber is much heavier than to\vards morn-
ing. The cause of such difference is obvious; for
we go to bed exhausted by previous fatigue, and
consequently enjoy sound repose, but, in the
course of a few hours, the necessity for this grad-
ually abates, and the slumber naturally becon1es
lighter.
That sleep from \vhich we are easily roused is
the healthiest: very profound slumber partakes of
the nature of apoplexy.
On being suddenly awakened from a profound
sleep our ideas are exceedingly confused; and it
is sometime before \ve can be 1nade to comprehend
what is said to us. For some moments, we neither
PHILOSOPHY
see, nor hear, nor think \vith our usual distinct..
ness, and are, in fact, in a state of temporary
revene.
When there is a necessity for our getting up at
a certain hour, the anxiety ofmind thus produced
not only prevents the sleep from being very pro-
found, but retards its accession ; and even after it
does take place, \Ve very seldo1n oversleep our·
selves, and are alrnost sure to be awake at, or
before, the stipulated time.
Shortly after falling asleep, \ve often a\vake
with a sudden start, having the mind :filled 'vith
painful impressions; although we often find it
impossible to say to what subject they refer.
Some persons do this regularly every night, and
there can be no doubt that it proceeds fron1 the
tnind being tortured by sotne distressing vision ;
which, ho\vever, has faded away "'"ithout leaving
behind it any feeling, save one of undefinable
1nela.ncholy. There are son1e persons who are
. sure to be aroused in this startl1ng and painful
1nanner jf they happen to fall asleep in the position
in ·which they at first lay do"rn, 'vho nevertheless
escape if they turn themselves once or t\vice be-
fore falling into repose. This fact we must take
as we find it: any explanation as to its proxitnate
cause see1ns quite in1practicable.
Disease exerc]ses a po,verful influence upon
sleep. All affections attended with act1te pain
prevent it, in consequence of the undue acctunula-
tion which they occasion of sensorial power. This
OF SLEEP. 33
is especially the case where there is much active
deternunation of blood to the head, as in phrenetic
affections, and fevers in general.
Sleep is always much disturbed in hydrothorax;
and almost every disease affects it, more or less ;
some preventing it altogether, some limiting the
natural proportion, some inducing fearful drea1ns,
and all acting with a power proportioned to the di-
rect or indirect influence which they exercise upon
the sensorium.
From the increased irritability of the frame and
relaxed state ofthe cutaneous vessels during sleep,
the system at that time is peculiarly apt to be acted
upon by all impressions, especially of cold ; and
those who fall asleep exposed to a current of air are
far more apt to feel the consequences thereof than
ifthey were broad awake. By a law of nature the
sensibility of the system is increased by any sus-
pension of the mental or voluntary po\vers, for the
same reason that it is diminished, while these po\v-
ers resume their action. In drunkenness, for in-
stance, where the mind is vehemently excited, we
are far less susceptible of cold than in a state of
sobriety.
Sleep is much modified by habit. Thus, an old
artillery-man often enjoys tranquil repose, \vhile the
cannon are thundering around hiin ; an engineer
has been known to fall asleep within a boiler, \Vhile
his fellows were beating it on the outside with their
'-
ponderous hammers ; and the repose of a miller is
nowise incommoded by the noise of his milL
4
34 PHILOSOPHY
Sound ceases to be a stimulus to such 1neu, and
\Vhat would have proved an inexpressible annoy-
ance to others, is by thmn altogether unheeded. It
is co1nmon for carriers to sleep on horseback, and
coachmen on their coaches. During the battle of
the Nile, some boys were so exhausted, that they
fell asleep on the deck amid the deafening thunder
of that dreadful engage1nent. Nay, silence itself
may become a stimulus, \vbile sound ceases to be
so. Thus, a miller being very ill, his 1nil1 was
stopped that he might not be disturbed by its noise;
but this so far from inducing sleep, prevented it
altogether ; and it did not take place till the 1nill
\Vas set a-going again. For the san1e reason, the
manager of some vast iron-·works, who slept close to
them amid the incessant din of hamn1ers, forges,
and blast furnaces, would awake if there was any
cessation of the noise during the night. To carry
the illustration still farther, 1t has been noticed,
that a person who falls asleep near a chnrch, the
bell of which is ringing, 1nay hear the sound during
the \Vhole of his slun1ber, and be nevertheless
aroused by its sudden cessation. Here the sleep
must have been imperfect, otherwise he wou1d
have been insensible to the sound: the noise of the
bell was no stimulus; it \Vas its cessation which,
by breaking the monotony, became so, and caused
the sleeper to a\Vake.
The effects of habit may be illustrated in various
\vays. "If a person, for instance, is accustomed to
go to rest exactly at nine o'clock in the evening,
OF SLEEP. 35
and to rise again at six in the morning, though the
time of going to sleep be occasionally protracted till
twelve, he 'vill yet awake at his usual hour of six;
or, if his sleep be continued by darkness, quietude,
or other causes, till the day be farther advanced,
the desire of sleep will return in the evening at
nine."
Persons who are much in the habit of having
their repose broken, seldom sleep either long or
profoundly, however much they may be left undis-
turbed. This is shown in the cases of soldiers and
sea1nen, nurses, mothers, and keepers.
Seamen and soldiers on duty can, from habit,
sleep \vhen they \Vill, and wake when they will.
The Emperor Napoleon \Vas a striking instance of
this fact. Captain Barclay, w·hen performing his
extraordinary feat of walking a mile an hour for a
thousand successive hours, obtained at last such
a mastery over himself, that he fell asleep the in-
stant he lay down. Some persons cannot sleep
from home, or on a different bed from their usual
one : some cannot sleep on a hard, others on a soft
bed. A low pillow prevents sleep in some, a high
one in others. The faculty of remaining asleep
for a great length of time, is possessed by some in-
dividuals. Such was the case with Quin, the cele-
brated player, who could slumber for twenty-four
hours successively-with Elizabeth Orvin, who
spent three-fourths of her life in sleep-with Eliz-
abeth Perkins, \vho slept for a \Veek or a fortnight
at a time-with Mary Lyall, who did the same for
36 PHILOSOPHY
six successive weeks-and with many others, 111ore
or less remarkable. In Bowyer's life of Beattie, a
curious anecdote is related of Dr. Reid, viz., that
he could take as much food and immediately after-
\vards as much sleep as ·were sufficient for two
days.
A phenomenon of an opposite character is also
son1eti1nes observed, for there are individuals \vho
can subsist upon a surprisingly small portion n[
sleep. The celebrated General Elliot was an in-
stance of this kind : he never slept n1ore than four
hours out of the twenty-four. In all other respects
he was strikingly abstinent; his food consisting
\Vhol1y of bread, water, and vegetables. In a letter
communicated to Sir John Sinclair, by John Gor-
don, Esq. of S\viney, Caithness, mention is made of
a person, named James Mackay, of Skerray, \vho
died in Strathnaver in the year 1797, aged ninety-
one : he only slept, on an average, four hours in
the t\venty-fonr, and \vas a remarkably robust and
healthy man. Frederick the Great, ofPrussia, and
the illustrious surgeon, John Hunter, only slept
five hours in the same period; and the sleep of the
active-minded is ahvays much less than that of the
listless and indolent. The celebrated French
General Pichegru, informed Sir Gilbert Blane, that
during a whole year's campaigns, he had not above
one hour's sleep in the twenty-four. I kno\v a lady
\vho never sleeps above half an hour at a tin1e, and
the \vhole period of \vhose sleep does not exceed
three or four hours in the twenty-four; and y(\t
OF SLEEP. 37
she is in the enjoyment of excellent health. Gooch
gives an instance of a man who slept only for fif-
teen minutes out of the twenty-four hours, and
even this was only a kind of dozing, and not a per-
fect sleep: notwithstanding which, he enjoyed good
health, and reached his seventy-third year. I
strongly suspect there n1ust he some mistake in
this case, for it is not conceivable that human
nature could subsist upon such a limited portion
of repose. Instances have been related of persons
who never slept/ but these must be regarded as
purely fabulous.
The period of life modifies sleep materially.
When a man is about his grand climateric, or a
fe\v years beyond it, he slumbers less than at any
former period of life; but very young children al-
'vays sleep a\vay the most of their time. At this
early period, the nerves being extremely sensitive
and unaccustomed to impreRsions, becon1e easily
fatigued. As the children get older, the brain be-
sides becoming habituated to impre~sions, acquires
an accession ofsensorial power, 'vhich tends to keep
it longer awake. For the first two or three years,
children sleep more than once in the t\venty-four
hours. The state of the fretus has been denomi-
nated, by some 'vriters, a continued sleep, but the
propriety of this definition may be doubted; for
the mind having never yet manifested itself, and
the voluntary organs never having been exercised,
can hardly be said to exist in slumber, a condition
which supposes a previous waking state of the
4*
38 PHILOSOPHY
functions. Middle-aged persons who lead an ac-
tive life, seldom sleep above eight or nine hours in
the twenty-four, however much longer they may
lie in bed ; while a rich, lazy, and gormandizing
citizen will sleep twelve or thirteen hours at a
t.ime.
Sleep is greatly modified in old people. They
usually slumber little, and not at all profoundly.
Son1etimes, however, when they get into a state of
dotage, ju consequence of extren1e old age, the
phenomena of childhood once 1nore appear, and
they pass the greater part of their time in sleep.
The repose of the aged is most apt to take place
immediately after taking food, while they often
solicit it in vain at that period at which, during
the former years of their lives, they had been ac-
customed to enjoy it. The celebrated de Moivra
slept twenty hours out of the twenty-four, and
Thomas Parr latterly slept away by far the greater·
part of his existence.
Those 'vho eat heartHy, and have strong diges~
tive powers, usually sleep n1uch. The great por-
tion of sleep required by infants is owing, in part,
to the prodigious activity of their digestive powers.
The n1ajority of animals sleep after eating, and
man has a strong tendency to do the same thin()"
~,
especial]y ·when oppressed ·with heat. In the
sutnmer season, a strong inclination is often felt,
to sleep after dinner, when the weather is very
warrn.
OF Sl.E.f!:P. 39
A heavy meal, 'vhich produces no uneasy feel·
ing while the person is awake, will often do so if
he fall asleep. According to Dr. Darwin, this pro-
ceeds from the sensorial actions being increased,
when the volition is suspended. The digestion
from this circumstance goes on with increased ra-
pidity. " Heat is produced in the system faster
than it is expended; and, operating on the sensi-
tive actions, carries them beyond the limitations of
pleasure, producing, as is common in such cases,
increased frequency ofpulse." In this case, incom-
plete sleep is supposed, for, when the slumber is
perfect, no sensation whatever, either painful or
the reverse, can be experienced.
In recovering from long protracted illness, ac-
companied with great want of rest, we generally
sleep much- far more, indeed, than during the
most perfect health. This seems to be a provision
of nature for restoring the vigor which had been
lost during disease, and bringing back the body to
its former state. So cotnpletely does this appear
to be the case, that as soon as a thorough restora-
tion to health takes place, the portion of sleep di-
minishes till it is brought to the standard at ·which
it originally stood before the accession of illness.
After continuing a certain time asleep, 've awake,
stretch ourselves, open our eyes, rub therr1, and
yawn several times. At the n1oment of awaking,
there is some confusion of ideas, but this immedi-
ately \Vears a\vay. The mental faculties from
40 PHILOSOPRY
being in utter torpor, begin to act one after the •
other;* the senses do the same. At last, the mind,
the senses, and the locomotion being completely re-
stored what are our sensations? Instead of the
'
listlessness, lassitude, and general fatigue experi-
enced on lying down, we feel vigorous and refresh-
ed. The body is stronger, the thoughts clearer
and more composed ; we think coolly, clearly, ra-
tionally, and can often comprehend with ease what
baffled us on the previous night.
One or two other points remain to be noticed.
On a\vaking, the eyes are painfully affected by the
light~ but this shortly \Vears a\vay, and \Ve then
feel them stronger than when \ve went to bed. The
muscular power, also, for a few seconds, is affect-
ed. \Ve totter \Vhen we get up; and if \Ve lay
hold of any thing, the hand lacks its wonted
strength. This, however, as the current of ner-
vous energy is restored throughout the Inuscles,
immediately disappears; and \Ve straight\vay pos-
sess redoubled vigor. On examining the urine,
\Ve find that it is higher in its color than \vhen we
* "In the gradual progress from intense sleep, when there can
be no dream, to the moment of perfect vtgilance, see what occur~.
The first cerebral organ that awakes enters into the tram ofthink-
ing connected with its faculty: some kind of DREAM is the result·
)
as organ after organ awakes, the dre:tm becomes more viv1d; and
as the number ofactn•c organs increases, so does the complication
of dreams; and if all the internal or,gans arc a\vake, the man is
still asleep until his awakemng senses bring him into direct com-
munication with the wodd."
Carmichael's .Memoir of Spurzheim, p. 92.
OF SLEEP. 41
lay do,vn. The saliva is more viscid, the phlegm
harder and tougher, the eyes glutinous, and the
nostrils dry. If we betake ourselves to the scale,
've find that our 'veight has diminished in conse-
quence of the nocturnal perspirations ; 'vhile, by
subjecting our stature to measurement, we shall
see that we are taller by nearly an inch than on
the preceding night. This fact was correctly as-
certained in a great variety of instances by Mr.
Wasse, Rector of Aynho in Northumberland; and
is sufficiently accounted for by the intervertebral
cartilages recovering their elasticity, in conse-
quence of the bodily weight being taken off th~m
during the recumbent posture of sleep.
Such are the leading phenomena of sleep. With
regard to the purposes which it serves in the eco-
nomy, these are too obvious to require much de-
tail. Its main object is to restore the strength ex-
pended during wakefulness; to recruit the body
by pro1noting nutrition and giving rest to the mus-
cles ; and to renovate the mind by the repose
which it affords the brain. Action is necessarily
follo\ved by exhaustion ; sleep by checking the
one restrains the other, and keeps the anin1al ma-
chine in due vigor. 1\lr. Carmichael supposes
sleep to be the period when assimilation goes on
in the brain. In this respect, I believe that the
brain is not differently situated from the rest of the
body. There, as elsewhere, the assim.ilative pro-
cess proceeds both in the slumbering and in the
waking state ; but that it is only at work in the
42 P H I L 0 S 0 P B Y 0 F S L E E P ·
brain during sleep analogy forbids us to admit. So
long as circulation continues, a deposition of mat-
ter is going on ; and circulation, we all know, is
at work in the brain as in other organs, whether
we be asleep or awake. According to Richerand,
one of the great purposes served by sleep, is to di-
minish the activity of the circulation, which a state
of wakefulness has the invariable effect of increas-
ing. " The exciting causes," he observes, "to
which our organs are subject during the day, tend
progressively to increase their action. The throb·
bings of the heart, for instance, are more frequent
at night than in the morning ; and this action,
gradually accelerated, 'vould soon be carried to
such a degree of activity as to be inconsistent with
lifei if its velocity were not moderated at intervals
by the recurrence of sleep."
To detail the beneficent purposes served by
sleep in the cure of diseases, as well as in health,
would be a work of supererogation. They are felt
and recognised by mankind as so indispensable to
strength, to happiness, and to life itself, that he
who dispenses with that portion of repose required
by the wants of nature, is in reality curtailing the
duration of his O\Vn existence.
CHAPTER III.
DREAMING.
IN perfect sleep, as we have elsewhere stated, there
is a quiescence of all the organs \Vhich compose
the brain; but when, in consequence of some in-
\vard excitement, one organ or more continues
awake, while the remainder are in repose, a state
of incomplete sleep is the result, and we have the
phenomena of dreaming. If, for instance, any ir-
ritation, such as pain, fever, drunkenness, or a
heavy meal, should throw the perceptive organs
into a state of action while the reflecting ones con·
tinue asleep, we have a consciousness of objects,
colors, or sounds being presented to us, just as if
the former organs \Vere actually sti1nulated by hav-
ing such impressions communicated to then1 by the
external senses;* while in consequence of the re-
pose of the reflecting organs, we are unable to rec-
tify the il1usions, and conceive that the scenes
passing before us, or the sounds that \Ve hear, have
*This internal stimulation ofparticular organs without the con•
currence of outward impressions by the senses, is more fully stated
under the head of Spectrallllusions.
44 PHILOSOPHY
a real existence. This want of mutual co-opera-
tion between the different organs of the brain
accounts for the disjointed nature, the absurdities,
and incoherencies of dreams.
Many other doctrines have been started by phi-
losophers, but I am not aware of any which can
lay claim even to plausibility; some, indeed, are
so chimerical, and so totally unsupported by evi-
dence, that it is difficult to conceive how they ever
entered into the imaginations of their founders.
Baxter, for instance, in his ''Treatise on the Im-
mortality of the Soul,'' endeavors to show that
dreams are produced by the agency of some spirit-
ual beings, who either amuse, or employ themselves
seriously, in engaging 1nankind in all those ima-
ginary transactions -with which they are en1ployed
in dreatning. The theory of De1nocritus and Lu-
cretius is equally ·whimsical. They accountedfor
dreams by supposing that spectres, and simulacra
of corporeal things constantly emitted from them,
and floating up and down in the air, come and as-
sault the soul in sleep. The most prevailing doc-
trine is that of the Cartesians, who supposed that
the mind 'vas continually active in sleep; in other
'vords, that during this state we were ahvays
dreaming. Hazlitt, in his "Round Table," has
taken the same view of the subject, and alleges,
that if a person is awakened at any given time and
asked what he has been dreaming about, he will
at once be recalled to a train of associations with
which his mind had been busied previously. . Un-
OP SLEEP. 45
fortunately for this theory, it is not sustained by
facts ; experiments 1nade on purpose having shown
that, though in some fe\v instances, the individual
had such a consciousness of dreaming a3 is de-
scribed, yet in the great n1ajority he had no con-
sciousness of any thina- of the kind. The doctrine)
therefore, so far as direct evidence is concerned,
must fall to the ground ; and yet, unsupported as
it is either by proofor analogy, this is the fashion-
able hypothesis of the schools, and the one most
in vogue among our best metaphysical 'vriters.
There is a strong analogy between dreatning
and insanity. Dr. Abercrombie defines the differ-
ence bet\veen the t\vo states to be, that in the latter
the erroneous impression, being pennanent, affects
the conduct ; \Vhereas in dreaming, no influence
on the conduct is produced, because the vision is
dissipated on awaking. This definition is nearly,
but not wholly correct; for in so1nna1nbulism and
sleep-talking, the conduct is inflnenccd Ly the pre-
vailing dream. Dr. Rush has, \Vith great slHe\vd-
ness, r01narked, that a dream may be considered as
a transient paroxysm of delirium, and deli ritun as
a pennaneut dream.
l\'Ian is not the only animal subject to dreaming.
\Vc have every reason to believe that tnany of the
lo\ver animals do the same. Horses neigh and
rear, and dogs bark and growl in their sleep. Prob-
ably, at such times, the remembrance of the chase
or the combat was passing through the minds of
these creatures; and they also not unfrcquently
5
4G PHILOSOPHY
n1anifest signs of fear, joy, playfulness, and almost
every other passion.* Run1inating animals, such
as the sheep and co\\r) dream less; but even they
are so1netin1es so a:trected, especially at the period
of rearing their young. The parrot is said to
drea1u, and I should suppose some other birds do
the sa1ne. Indeed the more intellectual the animal
is, the more likely it is to be sul>ject to dreaming.
Whether fishes drcan1 it is impossible to conjecture:
nor can it be guessed, with any thing like certain-
ty, at what point in the scale of anin1al intellect,
the capability of drean1ing ceases, although it is
very certain there is such Ct point. I apprehend
that dreaming is a n1nch raore general Jaw than is
commonly snpposed; and that n1any anin1als drea1n
\vhich are never suspected of doing so.
Some n1en are said never to drearn, and others
only \vhen their health is disordered: Dr. Beattie
1nentions a case of the ]utter descriptiou. For
many years before his death, Dr. Reid had no con-
sciousness of ever having drean1ed; and 1\Ir. Locke
takes notice of a person 'vho ncvf'r did so till his
twenty-sixth year, ·when he began to drean1 in
consequence of having had a fevf\r. It is not
impossihlc, ho\\-ever, btl t that, in these cases, the
individuals 1nay have had drea1ns fro1n the same
* ''The stag-hollnd~, weary with the chase,
Lay stretched upon tbc rusL) floor,
And utged in dreams the forest race
From Teviot-stone to Esl<dnle moor."
Lay ofthe Last .Minstrel.
OF SLEEP. 47
age as other people, and under the same circum-
stances, although probably they \vere of so vague
a nature, as to nave soon faded away from the
memory.
Drean1s occur n1ore frequently in the morning
than in the early part of the night ; a proof that
the sleep is n1uch 1nore profound in the latter pe-
riod than in the forn1er. To\vards n1orning, the
faculties, being refreshed by sleep, are n1ore dis-
posed to enter into activity: a11d this explains \vhy,
as \Ve approach the hours of \vaking, our drea1ns
are 1nore fresh and Yi\icl. Owing to the compa-
ratively actiT"e state of the faculties, 1noruing
drean1s are the n1ore rational- \vhence the old
adage, that such dreams are true.
Children drean1 almost fron1 their birth; and if
\Ve may judge from \vhat, on 1nany occasions, they
endure during sleep, \Ve must suppose that the
visions \vhich haunt their young minds are often
of a very frj~·h tful kind. Children, from many
causes, are tnore apt to have drea1ns of terror than
adults. L1 the first place, they are peculiarly sub-
ject to various diseases, such as teething, convul-
sions, and bo\vel con1plaints, those fertile sources
of mental terror in sleep; and, in the second place,
their n1inds are exceedingly susceptible of dread in
all its forrn~, and prone to be acted on by it, what-
ever shape it assumes. Nfany of the dreams ex-
perienced at this early period, leave an indelible
impression upon the n1ind. They are remembered
in after-years with .feelings of pain; and, blending
48 PHILOSOPHY
with the n1oredelightful reminiscencesofchildhood,
demonstrate that this era, which \VC are apt to
consider one varied scene of sunshine and happi-
ness, had, as \veil as future life, its shado\VS of
Inelancholy, nnd was not nntinged \vith hues of
sorrow and care. The sleep of infancy, there-
fore, is far fron1 being that ideal state of felicity
\vhich is con1n1only supposed. It is haunted \vith
its own terrors, even n1ore than that of adults ;
and, if 1nany of the visions \vhich people it are
equally delightful, there can be little doubt that it
is also tortured by drean1s of a 1norc painful cha-
racter than often fall to the share of after-life.
In health, \\'hen the n1ind is at rase, \Ye seldom
drcan1; and \vhen \VC do so our visions are gener-
ally of a pleasing character. In disease, especially
of the brain, livf'r, and ston1ach, drea1ns are both
common and of a very distressing kind.
Son1e \vriters itnagine, that as \\~e grow older,
our dreams becon1e less absurd and inconsistent,
but this is extre1nely doubtful. Probably, as \VC
advance in life, \VC are less troubled \Yith these
phenon1ena than at the period of youth, ·when inl-
agination is full of activity, and the 1niud peculiarly
liable to i1npres:::>ions of every kind ; but \vhen they
do tal\e place, \Ve shall find thern equally prepos-
terous, unphilosophical, and crude, \vith those
which haunted our early years. Old people
dream more, however, than the n1iddle-ao-ed
0 '
O\ving doubtless to the n1ore broken and disturbed
nature of their repose.
OF SLEEP. 49
I believe that drean1s are uniformly the resusci-
tation or re-embodiment of thoughts which have
formerly, in son1e shape or other, occupied the
mind. They are old ideas revived either in an
entire state, or heterogeneously mingled together.
I doubt if it be possible for a person to have, in
a dream, any idea whose elements did not, in some
form, strike hin1 at a previous period. If the8e
break loo...e frorr1 their connecting chain, and be-
COlne jun1bled together incoherently, as is often
the case, they give rise to absurd combinations;
but the elements still subsist, and only n1ani-
fest themselves in a ne·w a1~d unconnected shape.
..:.t s this is an importaut point, and one which has
never been properly insisted upon, I shall illus-
trate it by an example. I lately drean1ed that I
walked upon the banks of the great canal in the
neighborhood of Glasgo,v. On the side opposite
to that on wrllich I \\ras, and within a [e\V feet of
the water, stootl the splendid portico of the Royal
I·~xehange. A_ gentlen1an, 'vhom I knew, 'vas
standing npon one of the steps, and we spoke to
each other. I then lifted a large stone, and poised
it in tny hancl, ·when he said that he \vas certain
I could not thro\v it to a certain spot which he
pointed out. I n1ade the atternpt, and fell short of
the n1ark. At this 1110nlent, a \Yell kno\Vll friend
ca1ne up, 'vhon1 I knew to excel at putting the
stone ; but, strange to say, he had lost both his
legs, and \Valkcd upon wooden substitutes. This
strllck tne as exceedingly curious; for my ilnpres-
5*
50 PHILOSOPHY
siou was that he had only lost one leg, and had
but a single wooden one. At my desire he took
up the stone, and, without difficulty, thre'v it be-
yond the point indicated by the gentleman upon
the opposite side of the canal. The absurdity of
this drea1n is extremely glaring ; and yet, on
strictly analyzing jt, I find it to be wholly com-
posed of ideas which passed through my mind on
the previous day, assuming a new and ridiculous
arrangement. I can compare it to nothing but to
cross readings in the ne·wspapers, or to that well
known amusement which consists in putting a
number of sentences, each written on a separate
piece of paper, into a hat, shaking the whole, then
taking them out one by one as they come, and see-
ing what kind of n1edley the heterogeneous com-
pound \Yill make, when thus fortuitously put to-
gether. For instance, I had, on the above day,
taken a walk to the canal, along with a friend.
On returning; fron1 it, I pointed out to him a spot
':vhere a ne\v road \vas forn1ing, and "T
here, a few
days before, one of the workn1en had been over-
\Vhelmed by a quantity of rubbish falling upon
him, \vhich fairly chopped off one of his leo-s and
5'
so much da1nagcd the other that it \Vas feared
a1nputation \vonld be necessaTy. Near this very
spot there is a parki in 'vhich, about a 1nonth pre-
viously, I practised thro\ving the stone. On pass-
ing the Exchange on my way home, I expressed
regret at the lowness of its situation, and remark-
ed what a fine effect the portico \Vould have were
OF SLEEP. 51
it placed upon more elevated ground. Such \veTe
the previous circu1nstances, and. let. us see how·
they bear upon the dream. In the first place, the
canal appeared before me. 2. Its situation is an
elevated one. 3. The portico of the exchange,
occurring to 1ny mind as being placed too low,
became associated 'vith the elevation of the canal,
and I placed it close by on a sitnilar altitude. 4.
The gentlen1an I had been \Yalking \vith, was the
sa1ne \vhom) in the dream, I sa'v standing upon
the steps of the portico. 5. Having related to him
the story of the man ·who lost one lin1b: and had
a chance of losing another, this idea brings before
1ne a friend ·with a brace of 'vooden legs, 'vho,
InoreoYer, appears in connexion with putting the
stone, as I know hitn to excel at that exercise.
There is only one other ele1nent in the dream
\vhich the preceding events will not account for,
and that is:, the surprise at the individual referred
to having 1nore than one wooden leg. But wby
should he have even oue, seeing that in reality
he is hn1bed like other people? This also, I can
account for. So1ne years ago he slightly iujurP-d
his knee while leaping a ditch, and I rmnen1ber oi
jocularly advising hin1 to get it cut off. I am par-
ticular in illustrating this point vvith regard to
dreams, for I hold, that if it were possible to ana-
lyze thcn1 all, they 'vould invariably he found to
stand in the san1e relation to the waking state as
the above specimen. The more diYersified and
incongruous the character of a dremu, and tbe
52 PHILOSOPHY
more remote frorn the period of its occurrence the
circumstances which suggest it, the more difficult
does its analysis become; and, in point of fact,
this process may be impossible, so totally are the
ele1nents of the dream often dissevered from their
original source, and so ludicrously huddled toge-
ther. This subject shall be 1nore fully demon-
strated in speaking of the rmnote causes of dreams.
Drean1s generally arise \vithont any assignable
cause, but someti1nes \Ve can very readily discover
their origin. vVhatever has Innch interested us
during the day, is apt to resolve itself into a
dream; and this will generally be pleasurable, or
the reverse, according to the nature of the excit-
ing cause. If, for instance, our reading or con-
versation be of horrible subject~, such as spectres,
murders, or conflagrations, they will appear before
us magnified and heightened in our dreams. Or
if \Ve have been previously sailing upon a rough
sea, \ve are apt to suppose ourselves undergoing
the perils of shipwreck. Pleasurable sen~ations
during the day are also apt to asstune a still more
pleasurable aspect in drea1n~. In like n1anner,
if \Ve have a Ionging for any thing, \Ve arc apt to
suppose that \Ve possess it. Even objects altoge-
ther unattainable are placed within our reach:
\Ve achieve i1npossibilities, and tritm1ph \Vith ease
over the invincible laws of nature.
.l\.. disordered state of the ston1ach and liver ,vill
often produce drea1ns. Persons of bad digestion,
especially hypochondriacs, are harassed ,vith
OF SLEEP. 53
VlSions of the most frightful nature. This fact
\:vas well known to the celebrated Mrs. Radcliffe,
who, for the purpose of filling her sleep \vith those
phantotns of horror \vhich she has so forcibly
embodied in the "Mysteries of Udolpho," and
"Romance of the Forest," is said to have supped
upon the 1nost indigestible substances ; while
Dryden and Fnseli, \vith the opposite view of
obtaining splendid drea1ns, are reported to have
eaten ra\v flesh. Diseases of the chest, where the
breathing is in1peded, also give rise to horrible
visions, and constitute the frequent causes of that
tnost frightful modification of dreaming-night-
mare.
The usual intoxicating agents have all the
power of exciting dreams. The n1ost exquisite
visions, as well as the 1nost frightful, are perhaps
those occasioned by narcotics. These differences
depend on the dose and the particular state of the
system at the tin1e of taking it. DTea1ns also may
arise from the deprivation of custon1ary stimuli,
such as spirits, or supper before going to bed.
More frequently, ho,vever, they originate fro1n in-
dulging in such excitations.
A change of bed \vill son1etimes induce drean1s;
and, general!y speaking, they are more apt to occur
in a strange bed than in the one to which \Ve are
accustomed.
Drea1ns often arise from the impressions made
upon the senses during sleep. Dr. Beattie speaks
54 PHILOSOPHY
of a man on 'vhon1 any kind of drean1 could be
induced, by his friends gently speaking in his pres-
ence upon the particular subject which they wished
hin1 to dream about. I have often tried this experi-
lnent upon persons asleep, and n1ore than once
with a like result. I apprehend, that \Yhen this
takes place, the slumber n1ust have been very im-
perfect. With regard to the possibility of dreams
being produced by bodily in1pressions, Dr. Gregory
relates that having occasion to apply a bottle of
hot water to his feet ·when he ·went to bed, he
dreamed that he was n1aking a journey to the top
of 11ount Etna, and that he found the heat of the
ground almost insufferable. Another person hav-
ing a blister applied to his head, in1agined that he
was scalped by a party of Indians: "-hile a friend
of1nine hn ppening to sleep in dan1p sheets, drea1ned
that he ·was dragged through a strean1. A parox-
ysn1 of gout during sleep, has given rise to the per-
son snppo..,iug hi1nselfunder the po,ver of theInqui-
sition, and undergoing the torn1ents of the rack.
Thebladderis son1etin1es mnptied during sleep, from
the dreruning jdeu being directed (in consequence
of the unpleasant fullness of the viscus) to this
particular \Vant of uature. These results are not
unifonn, but such js the path in which particular
bodily states are opt t:>lead the in1ao·ination · and
":'l '
drea1ns, occuring in these states, \vill 1uore fre.
quently possess a character analogous to then1 than
to any othcr-n1odified, of course, by the streno-th
of the individual cause, and fertility of the fan~y.
OF SLEEP. (j!J
Some curious experiments in regard to this point,
were made by l\1. Giron de Buzarein.sues, \vhich
seem to establish the practicauility of a person de-
ternlining at \vill the nature of his dreams. By
leaving his knees uncovered, he drean1ed that he
travelled dnring night in a dilligence: travellers, he
observes, being a'\vare that in a coach it is the
k~1ees that get cold during the night. On another
occasion, having left the posterior part of his head
uncovered, he dreamed that he \vas present at a
religious ceretnony perfonned in the open air. It
\vas the custoa1 of the country in \Yhich he lived to
have the head constantly coycred, except on par-
ticular occasions, such as the above. On a\vaking,
he felt the back of his neck cold, as he had often
experienced during the real scenes, the representa-
tion of which had been conjured np by his fancy.
Having repeated this experitnent at the end of sev-
eral days, to assure himself that the result \Vas not
the effect of chance, the second vision turned out
precisely the same as the :first. Even 'vithout
making experiments, \Ye have frequent evidence of
similar facts; thus, if the clothes chance to fall off
us, we are 1iable to suppose that 've are parading
the streets in a state of nakedness, and feel all the
shame and inconvenience which such a condition
would in reality produce. \Ye see crowds of peo-
ple following after us and moc~dng our nudity; and
we wander from place to place, seeking a refuge
under this ideal misfortune. Fancy, in truth,
heightens every circumstance, and inspires us with
56 PHILOSOPHY
greater vexation than we \Vould feel if actually la-
boring under such an annoyance. The streets in
\Vhich \Ve wander are depicted with the force of re-
ality; \Ve see their windings, their avenues, their
d\velling-places, \vith intense tr11th. Even the in-
habitants \vho follow :us are exposed to vie\V in all
their various dresses and endless diversities of
countenance. Sometimes we behold our intimate
friends gazjng upon us with indifference, or tortur-
ing \vith annoying i1npertinence. Sometimes we
see multitudes whom we never beheld before; and
each individual is exposed so vividly, that \Ve could
describe or even paint his aspect.
In like 1nanner, if we lie a\vry, or if our feet slip
over the side of the bed, \Ve often i1nagine ourselves
standing upon the brink of a fearfnl precipice, or
falling from its beetUng summit into the abyss be-
neath.* If the rain or hail patter against our win-
do\v, we have often the idea of a hundred cataracts
pouring fro1n the rocks; if the wind ho,vl \vithout,
we are suddenly \Vrapt up in a thnnclerstorm, \Vith
all its terrible associations; if the head happen to
slip under the pillow, a huge rock is hanging over
us, and ready to crush us beneath its ponderous
bulle Should the heat of the body chance to he
*Dr. Currie, in allusion to the visions of the hypochondriac ob-
serves, that if he dream of falling into the sea, he awakes just as
the waters close over him, and is sensible of tbo precise uuruling
sound which those experience who actually sink under w:ter~ In
falling from heights, during dreams, we always awake before
reaching the ground.
OF SLEEP. 57
increased by febrile irritation or the temperature
of the room, we may suppose ourselves basking
under the fiery sun of Africa; or if, fro1n any
circun1stance, we labor under a chill, \Ve may
then be careering and foundering atnong the
iceberg-s of the pole, \Vhilc the n1orse and the
fanlished bear are pro\vling around us, and
claitning us for their prey. Dr. Beattie infonns us,
that once, after riding thirty miles in a hjgh wind,
he passed the night iu visions terrible beyond de-
scription. The extent, in short, to \vhich the
mind is capable of being carried in such cases, 1s
ahnost iucredible. ~tupendous events anse fro1n
the n1ost insignificant causes-so contpletely .does
leep magnify and distort every thing placed
within its influence. The province of dreams is
one of intense exag-geration-exaggeration be_
yond even the \vildest conceptions of Oriental
ron1auce.
A s1noky chamber, for instance, has given nse
to the idea of a city in tlan1es. 'l'he conflagrations
of Ro1ne and l\'Io&co\V 1uay then pass iu terrific
splendor before the <lrea1ner:s fancy. l-Ie 1nay see
Nero ::,tanding- afar off, surrounded by his lictors
and guards, gazing upon the in1perial city \Vrapt
1n ft.atnes: or the sanguinary fight of Bororuno,
followed by the burning of the ancient capital of
Russia, rnay be presented before him \vith all the
intenseness of reality. Under these circun1stances,
his \vhole being 1nay undergo a change. He is no
}onger a denizen of hi& native country, but of that
6
58 P HI LOSOPIIY
land to which his visions have transported him.
All the events of his own existence fade away ;
and he becotnes a native of Ron1c or Russia, gaz-
ing n pon the appalling spectacle.
On the other hand, the nlind may be filled with
in1agery equally exaggerated, but of a 1nore pleas-
ing character. The sound of a flute in the neigh-
bo~·hood may invoke a thousand beautiful and de-
]io·htful associations. The air is, perhaps, filled
~
\Yith the tones of harps, and all other varieties of
mnsi.c-nay, the perfonners then1sclves are visi-
ble; and while the cause of this strange scene is
one trivjal instrument, \VC n1ay be regaled with a
rich and tnelodions concert. :For the sa1ne reason
a ilo\ver being applied to the nostrils 1
nay, by af-
fecting the sense of sn1ell, excite po\verfnlly the
in1agination, and give the dreatner the idea of
\Yalking in a garden.
There is one fact connected \\rith dreams which
i~ highly rc1narknble. "\Yhen "~e are suddenly
awaked fro1
n a profound shunber by a loud knock
at, or by the rapid opening ot~ the door, a train of
actions \Vhich it \Vould take hours, or days, or even
\\·ceks to accon1plish, son1eti1nes passes through the
1
11iud. Tin1e, in fact, scctn~ to be in a g reat nlea-
snre annihilated. An extensive period is reduced,
as it 'vere, to a single point, or rather a single point
is n1ade to e1nbrace an extensive period. In one
insta11t, \Ve puss through n1any ad \~cntures, see
1nany strange sights, and hear n1auy strange
sounds. If \Ve are a\vaked by a loud knock, \Ve
have perhaps the idea of a tLunult passing before
OF SLEEP. 59
us, and kno\v all the characters engaged in it-
their aspects, and even their very nan1es. If the
door open violently, the flood-gates of a canal may
appear to be eA.llanding, and \Ve 1nay see the indi-
viduals employed in the process, and hear their
conversation, \vhich n1ay seen1 an hour in length.
If a light be brought into the room, the notion of
the house being in flames perhaps invades us, and
we are witnesses to the whole conflagration from
its comn1encen1ent till it be finally extinguished.
The thoughts \vhich arise in such situations are
P-ndless, and asstune an jn.finite variety of aspects.
The whole, iudeed, constitutes one of the strang-
est pheno1nena of the htunan 1nind, and calls to
recollection the story of the Eastern monarch, \vho,
on dipping his head into the magician's \Vater-pail;
fancied he had travelled for years in various na-
tions, although he \vas only in11nersed for a single
instant. This curious psychological fact, though
occurring under some\vhat different circutnstances,
has not escaped the notice of :1\ir. De Quincey,
better kno,vn as the " English Opium-Eater."
"The sense of space," says he, "and, in the end,
the sense of ti11~e were both powerfully affected.
Buildings, landscapes, &c., were exhibited in pro-
portions so vast as the bodily eye is not fitted to
receive. Space S\\relled, and \Vas a1nplified to an
extent of unutterable infinity. This, ho,vever, did
not disturb me so 1nuch as the expansion of ti1ne.
I son1etirnes see1ned to have lived for seventy or a
hundred years in one night; nay, sometimes had
60 PHILOSOPHY
feelings representative of a 1nillenuium passed in
that titnc, or, ho\vever, of a duration far beyond
the limits of any hutnan experience." It is n1ore
easy to state the fact of this apparent expansion of
tin1e in drea1ns than to give any theory ·which \vill
satisfactorily account for it. I believe that, \Vhen-
ever it occurs, the drf!anl has abounded in events
and circun1stances \Vllich, had they occurred in re-
ality, \vould have required a long period for their
acco1nplish1nent. For instauce, I lately drean1ed
that I 1nade a voyage to India-rcn1ained son1e
days in Calcutta-then took ship for Egypt, \vhere
I visited the cataracts of the Xile, and the Pyra-
mids: alld, to cro\vn the \vhole, had the honor of
an intervie\v w·ith l\Iehen1et Ali, Cleopatra, and the
Sultan Saladin. All this 'vas the \Vork of a sin-
gle ni~ht, probably of a single hour, or even a fe\v
nunutes ; and yet it appeared to occupy many
months.
I 1nust also 1uention another circtunstance of a
sotne\vhat sj1nilar kind, \vhicb, though it occur in
the \Vaking condition, is pToduced by the peculiar
effect o[ previous sleep upon the 1nind. 'Thus,
\vhen \Ve awake in a 1nelancholy n1ood, the result
probably of so1ne distressing dre[un, the retnenl-
brance of all our fonner actions, especially those
of an evil character, often ru hes upon us as from
a dark and troubled sea.• 'fhey do not appear in...
* Something similar occurs in drowning. Persons recovered
from this state have mentioned that, in the course of a sinule mi~
b
nute, almost every event of theU' life has been brought to their re.
collection.
OF SLEEP. 61
dividually, one by one, but con1e linked together
in a close phalanx) as if to take the conscience by
stonn, and crush it beneath their imposing front.
The 1vhole span of our existence, fro1n childhood
do,vn·wards, sends thetn on ; oblivion opens its
gulphs and in1pcls them forwards; and the n1ind
is robed in a cloud of \vretchedness, without one
ray of hope to l>righten up its gloom. In conuHoll
circumstances, \Ve possess no such po"rer of group-
ing so instantaneously the Inost distant and proxi-
nlate events of life: the spell of men1ory is invok·
ed to call them successively frmn the past; and.
they glide before us like shadows, n1ore or less dis-
tinct according to their ren1otencss, or the force of
their itnpress upon the mind. But in the case of
\Vhich I speak, they start abruptly forth fron1 the
bosom of titne) and ovenvheln1 the spirit \vith a
cro\vcl of n1ost sad and appal]ing re1niniscences.
In the crucible of our distorted in1agination, every
thing is exaggerated and invested with a Llacker
gloon1 than belongs to it ; \Ve see, at one glance,
do\V11 the \vhole vista of titne ; and each event of
our life is \Vritten there in gloon1y and distre~sing
characters. Hence the 1nental depression occur-
ring under these circun1stances, and even the re
n1orse 'vhich falls, like bitter and unrefreshiug
de\\rs, upon the heart.
\Ye have seldon1 any idea of past events in
drean1s; if such are called forth, they generally
seem to be present and in the process of actual
occurrence. \Ve n1ay drea1n of Alexander the
6*
l
62 PHILOSOPHY
great, but it is as of a person who is co-existent
\Vith ourselves.
Dreams being produced by the active state of
such organs as are dissociated fron1, or have not
syrnpathised in, the general slumbeT, partake of
the character of those whose powers are in greatest
vigor, or farthest removed from the somnolent
state. A person's natural character, therefore, or
his pursuits in lifei by strengthening one faculty,
make it less susceptible, than such as are \veaker,
of being overcome by complete sleep; or, if it be
overco1ne, it a\Vakes more rapidly from its dormant
state, and exhibits its proper characteristics in
dreams. Thus, the miser drean1.s of wealth, the
lover of his mistress, the musician of melody, the
philosopher of science, the merchant of trade, and
the debtor of duns and bailiffs. In like 1nanner, a
choleric man is often passionate in his sleep; a
vicious man's mind is filled "rith \vicked actions :
'
a virtuous man's with deeds of beueYolence; a
humorisfs \vith ludicrous ideas. Pucrnacious
b
people often fight on such occasions, and do them-
selves serious injury by striking against the posts
of the bed; \vhile persons addicted to lying, fre-
quently dream of exercising their favor)te vocation.
For such reasons persons \vho have a stroncr
:0
Passion for music often dream of sinrrinrr and com-
o b
posing melodies; and the ideas of some of our
finest pieces are said to have been communicated
to the musician in his sleep. Tartini, a celebrated
violin player, is said to have composed his famous
\
OF SLEEl'. 63
Devil's Sonata from the inspiration of a dream, in
which the Devil appeared to him and challenged
him to a tr1al of skill upon his o'vn fiddle. A
tnathematician, in like manner, is often engaged
]n the solution of proble1ns, and has his brain full
of Newton, Euler, Euclid, and Laplace: "rhile a
poet is occupied 111 'vriting verse~, or in deliberat-
ing upon the strains of such bards as are n1ost fa-
n1iliar to his spirit ; it "'as thus in a dream that
Mr. Coleridge con1posed his splendid fragment of
l{ubla !{han.* To speak phrenologically: if the
* The following is the account he himself gives of the circum-
stance: - "In the summer of the year 1797, the author, then in
ill health, had retired to a lonely farm-house between Porlock and
Linton, on lhe Exmoor confines of Somerset and Devonshire. In
f'Onsequence of a slight indiRposition, an anodyne had been pre-
scribed, from the effects of which he fell as]eep in his chair at the
moment that he was reading the following sentence, or words of
the same substance, in 'Purchas's Pilgrimage:'-' Here the
Khan Kubla commanded a palace to be built, and a stately garden
thereunto. And thus ten miles of fertile ground were enclosed
with a wall.' The author continued for about three hours in a pro-
found sleep, at least of the external senses, during which time he
had the most vivid confidence, that he could not have composed
less than from two to three hundred lines; if that indeed can be
called composition in which all the images rose up before him as
things, with a parallel production of the correspondent expressions,
without any sensation or consciousness of effort. On awaking, he
appeared to hin1self to have a distinct recollection of the whole;
and taking his pen, ink, and paper instantly and eagerly wrote
down the Jines that are here preserved. At this moment he was
unfortunately called out by a person on business from Porlock, and
detained by him above an hour; and on his return to his room,
found, to his no small surprise and mortification, that though he
still retained some vague and dim recollection of the general pur-
64 PHILOSOPHY
organ of,size be large, then 1naterial images more
than sounds or abstractions possess the n1ind, and
every thing may be magnified to unnatural di-
tnensions ; if color be fully developed, \vhatever is
presented to the n1ental eye is brilliant and gaudy,
and the person has probably the idea of rich paint-
ings, shining tlo\vers, or varied landscapes ; should
locality predo1ninate, he is carried a\vay to distant
lands, and beholds 1nore extraordinary sights than
Cook, Ross, or Franklin ever described. An ex-
cess of cautiousness will inspire bin1 with terror ;
an excess of self-esteem cause hi1n to be placed in
dignified situatjons; ''rhile i11zitation n1ay render
him a 1nilnic or a player; language, a wrangler
or philologist; secTetiveness, a deceiver; acquisitit'e-
ness, a thief. Occasjonally, indeed, the reverse is
the case, and those trains of thought in ·which \ve
mostly indulge are seldon or never the subjects of
our drean1s. Son1e authors even assert that when
the mind has been strongly in1prcssed \Yith any
peculiar ideas, such are less likely to occur in
drean1s than their opposites ; but this is takin~r tbe
<-
exception for the general rule, and is directly at
variance \vith both experience and analogy. In
fact, \vhatever propensities or talents aro strongest
'-'
in the 1nincl of the individual, \vill, in n1ost cases,
manifest the1nselves 'vith greatest readiness and
port of the vision ; yet, with the exception of some eight or ten
scattered lines and images, all the rest had passed away like the
images on thr ~urface of a stream into which a stone had been
cast, bu~ alas ! without the after restoration ofthe latter."
OF SLEEP. 65
force in dreams; and where a faculty is very weak
it will scarcely n1anifest itself at all. Thus, one
p0rson \Vho has large tune and s1nall causality
\vill indulge i.n 111usic, but seldotn in ascertaining
the nature of cause and effect; while another, with
a contrary disposition of organs, n1ay attempt to
reason upon abstract truths, ..while 1nusic will
rarely intrude into the ternple of his thoughts. It
is but fair to state, however, that the compositions)
the reasonings and the poen1s ,v·hich \Ve concoct
in sleep; though occasionally superior to those of
our waking hours,-~~- are generally of a very absurd
description ; and, how admirable soeYer they may
have appeared, their futility is abundantly evident
when \Ve awake. To use the ·words of Dr. Parr,
"In dreams \.Ve seen1 to reason, to argue, to com-
pose ; and iu ail these circtnnstances, during sleep,
\ve are highly gratified, and think that \Ve excel.
If, however. \Ve re1ne1nber our drcan1s, our reason-
ings we find to be "Teak, our arguments we find to
be inconclush·e, and our compositions trifling and
absurd.'' The truth of these re1narks is undenia-
ble; but the Vf ry circun1stance of a 1nan's dreams
turning habitually upon a particular subject-
however ridiclllously he n1ay meditate thereupon
-is a strong presurnption that that subject is the
.t: Such was the case with Cabanis, who often, during dreams,
saw clearly into the bearings of political events which had baffled
him when awake; and with Condorcet, '' ho, when engaged in
some deep and complicated calculations, was frequently obliged to
leave them in an unfirushed state, and retire to rest, when the re-
sults to which they led were at once unfolded in his Jreams.
66 PHILOSOPHY
one \vhich n1ost frequently engrosses his faculties
in the waking state · in a word, that the po,ver
-==' '
most energetic in the latter condition is that also
n1ost active in dreams.
Dreams are so1netimes useful in affording prog-
nostics of the probable termination of several dis-
eases. Violent and impetuous drean1s occurring
in fevers generally indicate approaching delirium;
those of a gloomy, terrific nature give strong
grounds to apprehend danger; while drea1ns of a
pleasant cast 1naybe looked upon as harbingers of
approaching recovery. The visions, indeed, \vhich
occur in a state of fever are highly distressing; the
nlind is vchen1ently hurried on fron1 one train of
ideas to another, and participates in the painful
activity of the system. Those generated by hypo-
chondria or indigestion are equally a:ffi.icting, but
more confined to one unpleasant idea-the intellect
being overpo\vered, as it were, under the pressure
of a ponderous load, from \vhich it experiences an
utter incapacity to relieYe itself. The febrile
drean1 has a fiery, volatile, fugitive character : the
other partakes ofthe nature of nightn1are, in \Yhich
the faculties seen1 frozen to torpor, by the presence
of a loathsome and indolent fiend.
Other diseases and feelings besides feYer O'ive a
- 0
character to dremns. 'rhe dropsical subject often
has the idea of fountains, and r]vers, and seas, in
his sleep ; jaundice tinges the objects beheld \vith
its own yellow and sickly hue; hunger induces
drea1ns of eating agreeable food ; an attack of in-
OF SLEEP. 67
fia1nn1ation disposes us to see all things of the
color of blood ; excessive thirst presents us ·with
visions of dried up streams, burning sand-plains,
and immitigable heat ; a bad taste in the mouth,
with every thing bitter and nauseous in the vege-
table \Vorld.
If, from any cause, we chance to be relieved
fro1n the physical suffering occasioning such
drea1ns, the dreams then1Selves also \vear away,
or are succeeded by others of a 1
nore pleasing de-
scription. Thus, if perspiration succeed to fever-
ish heat, the person "'ho, during the continuance
of the latter, fancied himself on the brink of a vol-
cano, or broiled beneath an African sun, is trans-
ported to so1ne refreshing stream, and enjoys pre-
cisely the pleasure which such a transition \Vould
produce did it actually take place.
So1ne authors i1nagine that we never dream of
objects which we have not seen; but the absurdity
of this notion is so glaring as to carry its O\Vl1 re-
futation along with it. I have a thousand times
dreamed of such objects.
"\Vhen a person has a strong desire to see any
place or object ·which he has never seen before, he
is apt to dream about it; while, as soon as his
desire is gratified, he often ceases so to dream. I
rerr1en1ber of hearing a great deal of the beauty of
Rouen Cathedral, and in one form or other it was
constantly presented before my imagination in
drea1ns; but having at last seen the cathedral I
never again dreamed about it. This is not the
68 PHILOSOPHY
invariable result of a gratified wish ; but it hap-
pens so often that it n1ay be considered a general
rule.
Sometimes we a'\vake fro1n dreams in a pleasing
at other ti1ues in a 1nelancboly n1ood, without
being able to recollect thmn. They leave a plea-
surable or disagreeable in1pression upon the nlind,
according doubtless to their nature; and yet \Ve
cannot properly reme1nber '\Vhat we '\vere dreaming
about. Son1eti1nes, though baffled at the time, we
can recall then1 afterwards, but this seldom hap-
pens.
It often happens that the urea1ner, under the in-
fluence of a frightful vision, leaps fron1his bed and
calls aloud in a paroxystn of terror. T hjs is very
frequently the case '\vith children and persons of
\veak nerves ; Lut it 1nay happen even \vith the
strongest 1lll11dcd. There is son1ething peculiarly
horrible anJ paralyzing in the terror of sleep. It
lays the energies of the soul prostrate before it,
crushes tht:.tli to the earth as beneath the w·eight of
an euorn1ous van1pyre, and equalizes for a tin1e
the courage of the hero and the child. No firm-
ness of 1nind can at all tin1es \vithstand the influ-
ence of these deadly terrors. The person awakes
panic-struck fron1 so1nc hideous vision ; and even
after reason returns and convinces him of the un-
real nature of his apprehensions, the panic for
some tin1e continues, his heart throbs violently, he
is covered 'v1th cold perspiration, and hides his
head beneath the bed-clothes, afraid to look around
OF SLEEP. 69
him, lest some dreadful object of alarm should
start up before his affrighted vision. Courage and
philosophy are frequently opposed in vain to these
appalling terrors. The latter dreads what it dis-
believes ; and spectral forms, sepulchral voices,
and all the other horrid superstitions of sleep arise
to vindicate their power over that mind, 'vhich,
under the fancied protection of reason and science,
conceived itself shielded fro1n all such attacks, but
\vhich, in the hour of trial, often sinks beneath
their influence as completely as the ignorant and
unreflecting hind, who never en1ployed a. thought
as to the real nature of these fantastic and illusive
sources of terror. The alarm of a frightful dream
is sometimes so overpowering, that persons under
the impression thus generated, of being pursued
by some imminent danger, have actually leaped
out of the window to the great danger and even
loss of their lives. In the 9th volume of the "Phi-
losophical Transactions of the Royal Society of
London," a curious case is given by Archdeacon
Squire, of a person who, after having been duffi;b
for years, recovered the use of his speech by means
of a dream of this description : "One day, in the
year 1741, he got very much in liquor, so much
so, that on his return home at night to the Devi-
zes, he fell from his horse three or four times, and
was at last taken up by a neighbor>and put to bed
in a house on the road. He soon fell asleep ;
when, drean1ing that he was falling into a furnace
of boiling wort, it put him into so great an agony
7
70 PHILOSOPHY
of fright, that, struggling with all his might to
call out for help, he actually did call out aloud, and
recovered the use of his tongue that mon1ent, as
effectually as he ever had it in his life, without the
least hoarseness or alteration in the old sound of
his voice."
There have been instances where the terror of
a frightful dream has been so great as even to pro-
duce insanity. Many years ago, a woman in the
West Highlauds1 in consequence of a dream of this
• kind, after being newly brought to bed, became de-
ranged, and soon after made her escape to the
1nountains, where for seven years, she herded with
the deer, and became so fleet that the shepherds
and others, by whom she \vas occasionally seen,
could never arrest her. At the end of this term, a
very severe storm brought her and her associates
to the valley, \Vhen she was surrounded, caught,
and conveyed to her husband, by whom she was
cordially received and treated with the utmost
kindness. In the course of three months, she re-
gained her reason, and had afterwards several
children. When caught, her body is said to have
been covered with hair, thus giving a color to the
story of Orson and other wild men of the wood.
Instances have not been \vanting where, under
the panic of a frightful vision, persons have act-
ually committed 1nurder. They awake fro1n such
a drean1-they see some person standing in the
room, whom they mistake for an assassin, or dread-
ful apparition : driven to desperation by terror, they
OF SLEEP. 71
seize the first \veapon that occurs, and inflict a
fatal \Vound upon the object of their alann. Hoff-
bauer, in his Treatise on Legal J\1edicine, relates
a case of this kind. Although he does not state
that the circumstances \\Thich occasioned the panic
was a previous drea1n of terror. I do not doubt that
such, in reality, 1nust have been the case. "A
report," says he, "of the murder co1nn1itted by
Bernard Schidmaizig \Vas made by the Cri1ninal
College of Silesia. Schidmaizig a\vokc suddenly
at midnight: at the mon1ent of a\vaking, he beheld
a frightful phantom (at least his in1a~ination so
depicted it) standing ncar hi1n, (in consequence of
the heat of the \Veather he slept in an open coach-
house). Fear, and the obscurity of the night,
prevented him from recognising any thing dis-
tinctly, and the object which struck his vision
appeared to hin1 an actual spectre. In a tren1ulous
tone, he t\vice called out, who goes there ?- he
received no answer, and imagined that the appa-
rition \Vas approaching him. Frightened out of
his judg1nent, he sprung from his bed, seized a
hatchet \vhich he generally kept close by hi1n, and
\vith this \veapon assaulted the i1naginary spectre.
To see the apparition, to call out 'Who goes there l
and to seize the hatchet \vere the work ofa rnoment:
he had not an instant for reflection, and \vith one
blo\v the phanto1n was felled to the ground. Schid-
rnaizig uttered a deep groan. This, and the
noise occasioned by the fall of the phantom, com-
pletely restored him to his senses ; and all at once
•
72 PHILOSOPHY
the idea flashed across his mind that he must have
struck do·wn his wife, \vho slept in the same coach-
house. Falling instantly upon his knees, he raised
the head of the \vounded person, saw the wound
which he had made, and the blood that flowed
from .it · and in a voice full of anQUish exclaimed
' 0
Susannah, Susannah, con~e to yourself! He then
called his eldest daughter, aged eight years, ordered
her to see if her n1other was recovering, and to
inform her grandmother that he had killed her.
In fact, it "\Vas his unhappy wife who received the
blow, and she died the next day."*
The passion of horror is more frequently felt in
dreams than at any other period. Horror is in-
tense dread, produced by some unknown or super-
latively disgusting object. The visions of sleep,
therefore, being frequently undefined, and of the
most revolting description, are apt to produce this
emotion, as they are to occasion simple fear.
Under its influence, "\Ve may suppose that fiends are
lowering upon us ; that dismal voices, as fron1 the
bottomless pit, or from the tomb, are floating around
* This case is highly important in a legal point of view ; and to
punish a man for acting similarly in such a state would be as UD·
just as to inflict punishment. for deeds committed under the influ-
ence of insanity or somZ!ambulism. "This man," as Hoffbauer
properly remarks, " did not enjoy the free use of his senses : he
knew not \l'bat he saw: he believed that be was repulsing an
unlooked-for attack. He soon recognized the place where he
\lsually slept: it was natural that he should seize the hatchet since
he had taken the precaution to place it beside him; but the idea of
his wife and the possibility of ltilling her were the last things thnt
occurred to him."
OF SLEEP. 73
us; that \Ve are haunted by apparitions ; or that
serpents, scorpions and den1ons are our bed-fellows.
Such sensations are strongly akin to those of
nightmare ; but between this complaint and a
mere dreatn of terror, there is a considerable differ-
ence. In incubus, the individual feels as if his
po,vers of volition \vere totally paralyzed ; and as
if he 'vcre altogether unable to tnove a hmb in his
.._
o'vn behalf, or utter a cry expressive of his agony.
When these feelings exist, we may consider the
case to he one of nighttnare : when they do not,
and \vhcn notwithstanding his terror, he seems
to hin1self to possess unrestrained muscular motion,
to run 'vith ease, breathe freely, and enjoy the full
capability of exertion, it n1ust be regarded as a
simple dream.
Dr. Elliotson has ren1arked, with great acute-
ness, that dreams, in ·which the perceptive faculties
alone are concerned, are more incoherent, and
subject to tnore rapid transitions than those in
\vhich one or more of the organs of the feelings are
also in a state of activity. "Thus, in our dreams)
've may \valk on the brink of a precipice, or see
ourselves doomed to immediate destruction by the
weapon of a foe, or the fury of a te1npestuous sea,
and yet feel not the slightest emotion of fear,
though, during the perfect activity of the brain, ·we
may be naturally disposed to the strong rnanifes·
tation of this feeling; again \Ve may see the most
extraordinary object or event without surprise,
perform the most ruthless crime 'vithout compunc-
7*
74 PHILOSOPHY
tion, and see what, in our waking hours, would
cause us unmitigated grief, without the smallest
feeling of sorrow."
Persons are to be found, who, when they speak
much during sleep, are unable to remember their
dreatns on awaking, yet recollect them perfectly if
they do not speak. This fact is not very easily
accounted for. Probably when we are silent, the
mind is more directed upon the subject of the
dream, and not so likely to be distracted fro1n it.
There is perhaps another explanation. When we
dream of speaking, or actually speak, the necessity
of using language infers the exercise of some de-
gree of reason ; and, thus the incongruities of the
drean1 being diminished, its nature becon1es less
striking, and consequently less likely to be remem-
bered. Though we often dream of performing
impossibilities, \Ve seldon1 imagine that we are
relating them to others.
When we dream of visible objects, the sensibility
of the eyes is diminished in a most re1narkable
manner ; and on opening them, they are much
less dazzled by the light than if we awoke from
a slumber altogether unvisited by such dreams.
A fact equally curious is noticed by Dr. Darwin,
in his "Zoonornia ,"-"If we sleep in the day-
time, and endeavour to see some object in our
drean1s, the light is exceedingly painful to our
eyes ; and, after repeated struggles, we la1nent in
our sleep that we cannot see it. In this case I
'
apprehend, the eyelid is in some measure opened
OF SLEEP. 75
by the vehemence of our sensations ; and the
iris being dilated, shows as great, or greater sensi-
bility than in our \vaking hours."
There are some persons to whom the objects of
their dreams are always represented in a soft,
mellow lustre, similar to twilight. They never
seem to behold any thing in the broad glare of
sunshine ; and, in general, the atmosphere of our
vision is less brilliant than that through which we
are accustomed to see things while awake.
The most vivid dreams are certainly those
which have reference to sight. With regard to
hearing, they are less distinctly impressed upon
the mind, and still more feebly as regards smell, or
taste. Indeed, some authors are of opinion that
we never dream of sounds, unless when a sound
takes place to provoke the dream : and the same
with regard to smell and taste; but this doctrine
is against analogy, and unsupported by proof.
There are, beyond doubt, certain parts of the
brain which take cognizance of tastes, odors, and
sounds, for the same reason that there are others
which recognise forms, dimensions, and colors.
As the organs of the three latter sensations are
capable of inward excitement, without any com-
munication, by means of the senses, with the
external world, it is no more than analogical to
infer that, with the three former, the same thing
may take place. In fever, although the individ-
ual is ever so well protected against the excite-
ment of external sounds, the internal organ is often
7G PHILOSOPHY
violently stimulated, and he is harassed with
tumultuous noises. For such reasons, it is
evident that there may be in dreams a conscious-
ness of sounds, of tastes, and of odors, where such
have no real existence from \vithout.
Dreams are sometimes exceedingly obscure,
and float like faint clouds over the spirit. We
can then resolve them into nothing like shape or
consistence, but have an idea of our n1inds being
filled \Vith dim, in1palpable imagery, \vhich is so
feebly in1pressed upon the tablet of metnory, that
we are unable to mnbody it in language, or
comtnunicate its likeness to others.
At other tj1nes, the objects of sleep are stamped
\vith a] most supernatural energy. The dead, or
the absent, \vhose appearance to our \vaking
faculties had become faint and obscure, are
depicted \vith intense truth and reality; and e,,.en
their voices, \Vhich had become like the echo of a
forgotten song, are recalled from the depths of obli-
vion, and speak to us as in fonner titnes. Dreatns,
therefore, have the po\ver of brightening up the
ditn regions of the past, and presenting them with
a force \vhich the mere effects of unassisted
remembrance could never have accon1plished in
our \vaking- hours.
This property of reviving past 1n1ages, is one of
the most retnarkable possessed by sleep. It even
goes the length, in some cases, of recalling circum-
stances which had been entirely forgotten, and
presenting them to the mind with more than the
OF SLEEP. 71
force of their original i1npression. This I conceive
to depend upon a particular part of the brain-
that, for instance, which refers to the memory of the
event-being preternaturally excited ; hence for-
gotten tongues are sometimes brought back to the
men1ory in dreams, owing doubtless to so1ne pecu-
liar excitement of the organ of Language. The
dreamer sometimes converses in a language of
which he has no knowledge whatever \vhen he
awakes, bu~ with \vhich he must at one period
have been acquainted. Phenomena of a similar
kind occasionally occur in n1adness, delirium, or
intoxication, all of which states have an analogy
to dreaming. It is not uncommon, for instance,
to witness in the insane an unexpected and aston-
ishing resuscitation of knowledge-an intimacy
with events and languages of which they were
entirely ignorant in the sound state of their minds.
In like manner, in the delirium attendant upon
fevers, people sometimes speak in a tongue* they
* A girl was seized with a dangerous fever, and, in the deliri-
ous paroxysm accompanying it, was observed to speak in a strange
language which, for some time, no one could understand. At
last it was ascertained to be Welsh-a tongue she was wholly
ignorant of at the time she was taken ill, and of which she
could not speak a single syllable after her recovery. For some time
the circumstance was U:laccoulliable, till, on inquiry, it was found
she was a native of Vvrales, and had been familiar with the lan-
guage of that country in her childhood, but had wholly forgotten
it afterwards. During the delirium of fever, the obliterated im·
pressions ofinfancy were brought to her mind, and continued to
operate there so Jong as she remained under the mental excitation
78 PHILOSOPHY
know nothing of in health ; and in drunkenness
events are brought to the memory which desert it
in a state of sobriety.* Analogous peculiarities
occur in dreams. Forgotten facts are restored to
the mind. Sometimes those adhere to it and are
reme1nbered when we a\vake: at other times-as
can be proved in cases of sleep-talking-they
vanish ·with the dream which called them into
existence, and aTe recollected no more.
I believe that the dreams of the aged, like their
1ne1nory, relate chiefly to the events of early life,
and less to those of more recent occurrence. My
friend, Dr. Cumin, has mentioned to 1ne the case
of one of his patients, a middle-aged man, whose
visions assumed this character in consequence of
severe mental anxiety. Owing to misforttu1es in
trade, his mind had been greatly depressed : he
lost his appetite, became restless, nervous, and
dejected; such sleep as he had \vas filled with
incessant dreams, \vhich at first were entirely of
events connected with the earliest period of his
life, so far as he recollected it, and neveT by any
occasioned by the disease, but no longer; for so soon as the state
of mind which recalled these impressiens was removed, they also
disappeared, and she was as ignorant ofWelsh as before she was
taken ill.
* Mr. Combe mentions the case of an Irish porter to a ware·
house, who, in one of his drunke~ fils, left a parcel at the wrong
house, and when sober could not recollect what he had done with
it; but the next time he got drunl{, he recollected where he had
left it, and went and recovered it.
OF SLEEP. 79
chance of late events. In proportion as he reco-
vered from this state, the dreams changed their
character, and referred to circumstances farther on
in life ; and so regular was the progression, that,
with the march of his recovery, so \Vas the on,vard
march of his dreams. During the worst period of
his illness, he dreamed of occurrences which hap-
pened in boyhood : no sooner was convalescence
established than his visions had reference to man-
hood; and on complete recovery they were of
those recent circumstances "\Vbich had throvvn
him into bad health. In this curious case, one
lateral half of the head \Vas much warmer than
the other. This was so remarkable as to attract
the notice of the barber who shaved it.
One of the most ren1arkable phenomena of
dreams is the absence of surprise. 'rhis, indeed,
is not invariable, as every one must occasionally
have felt the sensation of surprise, and been not a
little puzzled in his visions to account for the
pheno1nena which present thetnselves ; but, as a
general rule, its absence is so exceedingly com-
mon, that, when surprise does occur, it is looked
upon as an event out of the common order, and
remarked accordingly. Scarcely any event, how-
ever incredible, impossible, or absurd, gives rise to
this sensation. We see circumstances at utter
variance \Vith the laws of nature, and yet their
discordancy, impracticability, and oddness, seldom
strike us as at all out of the usual course of
things. This is one of the strongest proofs that
so PHILOSOPHY
can be alleged in support of the dorn1ant condition
of the reflecting faculties. Had these powers been
awake, and in full activity, they would have
pointed out the erroneous nature of the in1pres-
sions conjured into existence by fancy: and shown
us truly that the visions passing before us were
tnerely the chimeras of excited imagination-the
airy phanton1s of imperfect sleep.
In visions of the dead, we have a striking
instance of the absence of surprise. We almost
never wonder at beholding individuals whom we
yet know, in our dreams, to have even been buried
for years. We see them among us) and hear then1
talk, and associate \vith them on the footing of
fond companionship. Still the circumstance sel-
dom strikes us with wonder, nor do we attempt to
acconnt for it. They still seem alive as when
they were on earth, only all their qualities, whe-
ther good or bad, are exaggerated by sleep. If
we hated them while in life, our animosity is no'v
exaggerated to a double degree. If \Ve loved
them, our affection becomes more passionate and
intense than ever. Under these circumstances,
many scenes of most exquisite pleasure often take
place. The slumberer supposes himself enjoying
the co1nmunionship of those who were dearer to
him than life, and has far 1nore intense delight
than he could have experienced, had these indivi-
duals been in reality alive, and at his side.
"I he\\r thy voice in dr('ams
Upon me softly call,
OF SLEEP.
Like echo ofthe mountain streams
In sportive waterfall :
I sec thy form, as when
Thou wert a living thing,
And blossomed in the eyes of men
Like any flower of spring."
81
Nor is the passion of love, '\vhen experienced in
dreams, less vivid than any other emotion, or the
sensations to which it gives rise less pleasurable.
I do not here allude to the passion in its physical
sense, but to that more moral and intellectual feel-
ing, the result of deep sensibility and attach1nent.
Men '\vho never loved before, have conceived a
deep affection to some particular \Voman in their
dreams, \vhich, continuing to operate upon then1
after they awoke, has actually terminated in a
sincere and lasting fondness for the object of their
visionary love. Men, again, 'vho actually are in
love, dream n1ore frequently of this subject than
of any thing else--fancying themselves in the
society of their mistresses, and enjoying a happi-
ness n1ore exquisite than is compatible \vith the
waking state-a happiness, in short, little removed
fro1n celestial. Such feelings are not confined to
men; they pervade the female breast with equal
intensity; and the young maiden, stretched upon
the couch of sleep, may have her spi.Tit filled 'vith
the image of her lover, \vhile her whole being
S\vjms in the ecstacies of impassioned, yet virtuous
attachment. At other tin1es, this pure passion
may, 111 both sexes, be blended with one of a
8
PHILOSOPHY
grosser character; which also may acquire an
increase of pleasurable sensation: to such an
extent is every circumstance, whether of delight
or suffering, exaggerated by sleep.
For the same reason that the lover dreams of
love, does the newly married woman dream of
children. They, especially if she have a natural
fondness for the1n- if she herself be pregnant, or
possess an arilent longing for offspring-are often
the subject of her sleeping thoughts ; and she con-
ceives herself to be encircled by thern, and expe-
riencing intense pleasure in their innocent society.
Men \\rho are very fond of children often experi-
ence the same sensations; and both men and wo1nen
who are naturally indifferent in this respect, seldom
drean1 about them, and never 'vith any feelings of
peculiar delight.
During the actual process of any particular
dream, we are never conscious that we are really
dreaming : but it sometimes happens that a second
dream takes place, during which we have a con-
sciousness,or a suspicion,that theevents which took
place in the first dream 'vere n1erely visionary, and
not real. People, for instance, sometin1es fancy
in sleep, that they have acquired wealth: this may
be called the first dream ; and during its progress
they never for a moment doubt the reality of their
irnpressions ; but a second one supervenes upon
this, and they then begin to wonder whether their
riches be real or imaginary-in other words, they
tly to ascertain whether they had been previous1y
OF SLEEP.
,
83
dreaming or not. But even in the second dream
we are unconscious of drea1ning. We still seem
to ourselves to be broad awake-a proof that in
dreams we are never aware of being asleep. This
unconsciousness of being asleep during the dream-
ing state, is referrible to the quiescent condition of
the reasoning powers. The mind is wholly subject
to the sceptre of other faculties ; and \vhatever
emotions or images they invoke, seem to be real,
for want of a controlling power to point out their
true character.
"You stood before me like a thought,
A dream remembered in a dream."
'rhose troubled with deafness do not hear dis-
tinctly such sounds as they conceive to be uttered
during sleep. Dr. Darwin speaks of a gentleman
who, for thirty years, had enthely lost his hearing,
and who in his dreams never seemed to converse
with any per~on except by the fingers or in wTit-
ing : he never had the impression of hearing them
speak. In like manner, a blind man seldon1
dreams of visible objects, and never if he has been
blind from his birth. Dr. Blacklock, indeed, who
became blind in early infancy, may seem an ex-
ception to this rule. While asleep, he \vas con-
scious of a sense which he did not possess in the
waking state, and which bears some analogy to
sight. He imagined that he was united to objects
by a sort of distant contact, which \vas effected by
84 PH I LOSOPHY
threads or strings passing fron1 their bodies to his
own.
The illusion of dreams is much more con1plete
than that of the most exquisite plays. We pass.
in a second of ti1ne, from one country to another ;
and persons \Vho lived in the most difi~rent ages
of the \vorld arc brought together in strange and
incongruous confusion. It is not nncormnon to
:-;ee, at the san1e 1noment, Robert the Bruce, Julius
Cresar. and Marlborough in close conversation.
Nothing, in short, ho\vever n1onstrous, incredible,
or i1npossible, seen1s absurd. Equally striking
exa1nples ofillusion occur " rhen the person a\Yakes
fro1n a drearn, and in1ngines that he hears voices
or beholds persons in the roon1 beside hiln. In
the first cases \Ve are convinced, on a\vaking, of
the deceptive nature of our Yi:sions, fro1n the utter
in1}JOssil.>ility of their occurrence ; they are at
variance \Vith natural la,vs; and a single effort of
reason is suilicicut to point out their absolute
futility. But 'vhen the circu1nstances which scc1n
to take place nrc not in then1schres conceiYed inl-
possiblP, however unlikely they 1nay he, it is often
a 1uattcr of the utn1ost difficulty for us to be con-
,..inced of their real character. On a\vaking, ''te
are seldon1 a\vnrc that, \vhen they took place, \VC
labored under a drean1. Such is their deccptiYe
nature, and such the vividness \Vith \Vhich they
appear to strike our senses, that \VC ilnagine then1
real; and ac<'ordingly often start up in a paro.xysn1
of terror, having the idea that our chaznber is Jn-
OF SLEEP. 85
vaded by thieves, that strange voices are calling
upon us, or that we are haunted by the dead.
When there is no way of confuting these in1pres-
sions, they often remain ineradicably fixed in the
mind, and are regarded as actual events, instead
of the 1nere chimeras of sleep. This is particularly
the case with the \Veak-tninded and superstitious,
whose feelings are ahvays stronger than their
judgn1ents ; hence the thousand stories of ghosts
and \varnings with \vhich the in1aginations of
these persons are haunted-hence the frequent
occurrence of nocturnal screaming and terror in
children, \vhose reflecting faculties are naturally
too ·weak to correct the i1npressions of drean1S, and
point out their true nature-hence the painful
illusions occurring even to persons of strong intel-
lect, when they are debilitated by watchfulness,
long-continued mental suffering, or protracted dis-
ease. These impressions often arise without any
apparent cause: at other times, the most trivial
circumstances will produce them. A voice, for
Instance, in a neighboring street, may seem to pro-
ceed from our O\vn apartment, and rnay asstune a
character of the most appalling description ; while
the tread of footsteps, or the knocking of a ha1nmer
over-head, may resolve itself into a frightful figure
stalking before us.
"I know," says Mr. Waller, "a gentleman, who
ts living at this moment a needless slave to terror,
which arises fron1 a circumstance which admits
easily of explanation. He was lying in his bed
s•
86 PIIILOSOPHY
with his \vife, and, as he supposed, quite awake,
when he felt distinctly the i1npression of some per-
son's hand upon his right shoulder, which created
snch a decrree of alarn1 that he dared not to move
0
hin1self in bed, and indeed could not, if he had
possessed the courage. It "\vas some ti1ne before
he had it in his po,ver to a\vake his \vife, and
com1nunicate to her the subject of his terror. The
shoulder which had felt the impression of the
hand, continued to feel benumbed and unconlfort-
able for son1e tin1e. It had been uncovered, and,
1nost probably, the cold to \vhich it \vas exposed
\Vas the cause of the phenon1enon.'·~
An attack of drea1ning illusion, not, however.
acco1npanied \vith any unpleasant feeling, occur
red to 1nyself lately. I had fallen accidentally
asleep upon an ann-chair. and \vas suddenly
a·wakcd by hearing, as I supposed, t\vo of n1y bro-
thers talking and laughing at the door of the
roorn, \vhich stood \vide open. The itnpressions
were so forcible, that I could not believe then1 fal-
lacious, yet I ascertained that they were so entire-
1y ; for 1ny brothers had gone to the country an
hour before, anu did not return for a couple of
hours afterwards.
There are fe\v dreams involving 1nany circum-
stances. \vhich are, from beginning to end, perfect-
ly philosophical and harn1onious : there is usually
so1ne absurd violation of the la\VS of consistency,
~ 'Valier's "Treatise on the Incubus or N1ghtmarc."
OF SLEEP. 87
a want of congruity, a deficiency in the due rela-
tions of cause and effect, and a string of conclu-
sions altogether unwarranted by the premises. Mr.
Hood, in his "Whims and Oddities," gives a curi-
ous illustration of the above facts. "It occurred,'1
says he, "when I \vas on the eve of marriage, a
season when, if lovers sleep sparingly, they dream
profusely. A very brief shunber sufficed to carry
me, in the night coach, to Bogner. It had been
concerted between Honoria and myself that we
should pass the honey-moon at some such place
upon the coast. The purpose of my solitary jour-
ney was to procure an appropriate dwelling, and
which, \Ve had agreed upon, should be a little plea-
sant house, with an indispensable look-out upon
the sea. I chose one accordingly, a pretty villa,
with bo\v windows, and a prospect delightfully
marine. The ocean murmur sotmded incessantly
fro1n the beach. A decent elderly body, in decay-
ed sables, undertook on her part to promote the
co1nfoTt of the occupants by every suitable atten-
tion, and, as she assured me, at a very reasonable
rate. So far the nocturnal faculty had served me
truly: a day dream could not have proceeded more
orderly: but) alas ! just here, when the dwelling
\Vas selected, the sea-view was secured, the rent
agreed upon, \vhen every thing was plausible,
consistent, and rational, the incoherent fancy crept
in, and confounded all-by 1narrying me to the
old woman of the house!"
There are no limits to the extravagancies of
88 PHILOSOPHY
those visions sometimes called into birth by the
vivid exercise of the imagination. Contrasted
with them the wildest fictions of Rabelais, Arios
'
to, or Dante, sink into absolute probabilities. I
remember of dreaming on one occasion that I pos-
sessed ubiquity, twenty rese1nblances of myself ap-
pearing in as many different places, in the same
room ; and each being so thoroughly possessed by
my o\vn mind, that I could not ascertain '\vhich of
them was myself, and 'vhich my double, &c. On
this occasion, fancy so far travelled into there-
gions of absurdity, that I conceived myself riding
upon my o\vn back-one of the resemblances be-
ing mounted upon another, and both animated
with the soul appertaining to myself, in such a
manner that I knew not whether I was the caTrier
or the carried. At another time, I dreamed that I
was converted into a mighty pillar of stone, ·which
reared its head in the midst of a desert, where it
stood for ages, till generation after generation
melted a\vay before it. Even in this state, though
unconscious of possessing any organs of sense, or
being else than a 1nass of lifeless stone, I sa\\' eve-
ry object around -the mountains growing bald
with age-the forest trees drooping in decay ; and
I heard whatever sounds nature is in the custom
of .producing, such as the thunder-peal breaking
over my naked head, the ·winds howling past me,
or the ceaseless murmur of streams. At last I also
waxed old, and began to crumble into dust, while
the moss and ivy accumulated upon me, and
OF SLEEP. 89
sta1nped me with the aspect of hoar antiquity. The
first of these visions n1ay have arisen fron1 read-
ing Iloffman's "Devil's E ljxir," \vhere there is an
account of a n1an \Vho supposed he had a double,
or, in other words, \vas both hin1self and not him-
self; and the seconu had perhaps its origin in the
IIeathen 1\Iythology, a subject to \vhich I an1 ex-
tretnely partial, and \vhich abounds in stories of
metan1orphosis.
Snch dreams as occur in a state of drunkenness
are re1narkable for their extravagance. ~Exa2"ger­
ation beyond linrits ic:; u very general attendant up-
on then1; and they are usually of a nwre airy
and fugitive character than those proceeding from
ahnost any other source. The person see1ns as if
he possessed unusual lightness, and could n1ount
into tl1e air, or float upon the clouds, \vhile every
object around hin1 reels and staggers \vith en1otion.
But of all dreams, there are none \vhich, for unli-
nlited \Vildness, equal those produced by narcotics.
An c1ninent artist, nuder the influence of opium,
fancied the ghastly figures in Holbein's " Dance of
Death" to become vivified-each grj1n skeleton
being endo,ved \vith life and motion, and dancing
and grinning with an aspect of hideous reality.
The '~English Opium E~ater;" in his ''Confessions,"
has given a great variety of eloquent and appall-
ing descriptions of the effects produced by this
drug npon the imagination during sleep. Listen
to one of them:-
'·Southern Asia is, and has been for thousands
90 PHILOSOPHY
of years, the part of the earth most s\vanning with
hun1an life; the great officina gentiun~. Man is a
weed in those regions. The vast empires, also,
into ·which the enorn1ous population of Asia has
always been cast, give a farther sublimity to the
feelings associated with all Oriental nan1es or ima-
ges. In China, over and above \vhat it has in
comn1o11 with the rest of Southern Asia, I am ter-
rified by the modes of life, by the manners, and the
barrier of utter abhorrence and 'vant of sympathy
placed bet\veen us by feelings deeper than I can
analyze. I could sooner live with lunatics or brute
ani1nals. All this, and much 1nore than I can say,
or have time to say, the reader 1nust enter into be-
fore he can comprehend the unimaginable horror
which these drea1ns of Oriental imagery and my-
thological tortures impressed upon 111e. Under the
connecting feeling of tropical heat and vertical sun-
lights, I brought together all creatures, birds, beasts,
reptiles, all trees and plants, usa~es and appearan-
ces, that are found in all tropical regions, and as-
sembled them together in China or Indostan. From
kindred feelings I soon brought Egypt and all her
gods under the sa1ne law. I 'vas stared at, hooted
at, grinned at, chattered at, by 1nonkeys, by paro-
quets, by cockatoos. I ran into pagodas: and was
flXed for centuries at the sun1mit, or in the secret
rooms; I was the iuol; I was the priest; I ,vas \Vor-
shipped; I 'vas sacrificed. I fled from the wrath of
Brama through a1l the forests of Asia: Vishnu hat-
ed me: Seeva laid in wait for n1c. I came sudden-
OF SLEEP. 91
ly upon Isis and Osiris: I had done a deed, they
said, which the ibis and the crocodile trembled at.
I was buried for a thousand years, in stone coffins,
with mununies and spinxes, in narro'v chambers,
at the heart ofeternal pyramids. I was kissed, ,vith
cancerous kisses, by crocodiles, and laid confound-
ed \Vith all unutterable slimy things, amongst reeds
and Nilotic mud."
Again : " Hitherto the human face had n1ixed
often in my dreams, but not so despotically, nor
with any special po,ver of tormenting. But now
that which I have called the tyranny of the hu-
man face began to unfold itself. Perhaps some
part of my London life might be answerable for
this. Be that as it may, no\v it was that, upon
the rocking waters of the ocean, the human face
began to appear ; the sea appeared paved \vith
innumerable faces, upturned to the heavens: faces
implonng, \Vrathfnl, despairing, surged upwards
by thousands, by myriads, by generations, by cen-
turies :- my agitation \vas infinite-my n1ind
to~sed and surged with the ocean."
I have already spoken of the analogy subsisting
bet\veen dreaming and insanity, and shall now
mention a circurnstance \vhich occurs in both
states, and points out a very marked similitude of
mental condition. '"rhe same thing also occasion-
ally, or rather frequently, takes place in drunken-
ness, which is, to all intents and purposes, a tem-
porary paroxysm of madness. It often happens,
for instance, that such objects or persons as we
92 PHILOSOPHY
have seen before and are familiar w·ith, become
utter}y changed in dreams, and bear not the slight-
est resetnblance to their real aspect. It n1ight be
thought that such a circutnstance would so com-
pletely annihilate their identity as to prevent us
frotn believing the1n to be what, by us, they are
conceived; but such is not the case. "\Ve never
doubt that the particular object or person presented
to our eyes appears in its true character. In illus-
tration of this fact, I may 1nention, that I lately
visited the magnificent palace of Versailles in a
dream, but that deserted abode of kings stood not
before me as when I have gazed upon it broad
a\vake; it was not only magnified beyond even its
stupendous dimensions, and its countless splendors
imtneasurably increased, but the very aspect itself
of the mighty pile was changed ; and instead of
stretching its huge Corinthian front along the
entire breadth of an elaborate and richly fantastic
garden, adorned to lJrofusion with alcoves, foun-
tains, vvaterfalls, statues, and terraces, it stood
alone in a boundless wilderness-an inn11ense
architectural creation of the Gothic ages, \vith a
hundred spires and ten thousand n1inarets sprout-
ing up, and piercing \Vith their pointed pinnacles
the sky. The \vhole \Vas as different as possible
fro1n the reality, but this never once occurred to
my 1nind; and, \Vhile gazing upon the visionary
fabric, I never doubted for an instant that it then
appeared as it had ever done, and \vas in no
degree different from \Vhat I had often previously
beheld.
OF SLEEP. 93
Another drean1 I shall relate In illustration of
this point. It was related to me by a young
lady, and, independent of its illustrative value, is
well \Vorthy of being preserved as a speci1nen of
fine imagj nation._(, I dreamed," said she, "that
I stood alone upon the brink of a dreadful preci-
pice, at the bottom of w·hich rolled a great river.
While gazing awe-struck upon the gnlph below,
some one frorn behind laid a hand upon rny shoul-
der, and, on looking back, I sa\v a tall, venerable
:figure with a long, flowing, silvery beard, and
clothed in white garments, ·whom I at once kne\v
to be the Saviour of the world. 'Do you see,'
he inquired, 'the great river that ·washes the foun-
dation of the rock upon which you no"r stand?
I shall dry it up, so that not a drop of its \Vaters
shall re1nain, and all the fishes that are in it shall
perish.' He then \Vaved his hand, and the river
was instantly dried up; and I saw the fishes ·
gasping and \Vrithing in the channel, where they
all straight\vay died. 'No\v,' said he, 'the river
is dried up and the fishes are dead; but to give
you a farther testimony of 1ny po·wer, I shall bring
back the flood, and every creature that was wont
to inhabit it shall Jive again.' And he \Vaved his
hand a second time, and the river 'vas instantly
restored, its dry bed filled ·with volurr1es of water,
and all the dead fishes brought back unto life. On
looking round to express to him my astonjshment
at those extraordinary 1niracles, and to fall do"\vn
and worship him, he was gone; and I stood by
9
94 PHILOSOPHY
1nyself upon the precipice, gazing \Vith astonish--
ment at the river \vhich rolled a thousand feet be--
neath me." In this :fine vision, the difference
bet\veen the aspect of Christ as he appeared in it,
and as he is represented 111 the sacred writings,
as \vell as in paintings, did not suggest itself to
the 1nind of the drea1ner. He can1e in the guise of
an aged 1nan, which is dia1nctncally opposite to our
habitual itnpressions of his aspect. If it be asked
\vhat produces such differences between the reality
and the representation, I apprehend \Ve must
refer it to so1ne sudden second drean1 or flash of
thought breaking in upon the first and confusing
its character. For instance, I haYe a dream of
an im1nense Gothic pile, \vhen so1nething about
Versailles, someho\v, occurs to 1ny 1niud, and this
I in11nediatel) associate \vith the object betore n1e.
The lady has the idea of an old 1nan in her dream.
and the thought of Christ happening to con1e
across her at the in tant, she identifie;:) it involun-
tarily \Yith the object of her vision. There is yet
another explanation of the latter. Tlte old man
has the po\ver of \\rorking a great 1niracle ; so had
Christ, and she is thus led to confound the t\vo
together. She, it is true, irnagines she kno\VS the
old 1nan at once to be the SaYion1. \Yithont any
PreYious inti1nation of his n1iraculons o·ifts · bnt
b l
this, very possibly, n1ay be a 1uistake; and the
kno,vledg-e \Vhich she only acquires after "\vitness-
jng his power, she may, by the confusion attend-
ant on dreams, suppose to have occurred to her in
OP SLEEP. 95
the first instance. These facts, combined \vith the
dormant state of the reflecting faculties, \vhich do
not rectify the erroneous impressions, render the
explanation of such dreams sufficiently easy,
however puzzling, and unaccountable at first sight.
In some cases, the illusion is not merely confined
to sleep, but extends itself to the waking state.
To illustrate this I may state the follo·wing cir-
cumstance :-Some years ago, my impressions
concerning the aspect and localities of Inverness,
were strangely confused by a drearr1 '\vhich I had
of that town, taking so strong a hold upon my
fancy as to be mistaken for a reality. I had been
there before, and was perfectly familiar with the
appearance of the town, but this was presented in
so different a light, and with so much force by the
drea1n, that I, at last, became unable to say \Vhich
of the two aspects "vas the real one. h1deed, the
visionary panorama exhibited to my nlind, took
the strongest hold upon it; and I rather felt in-
clined to believe that this was the veritable
appearance of the to·wn, and that the one ·which I
had actually beheld, w·as merely the illusion of the
dream. This uncertainty continued for several
years, till, being again in that quarter, I satisfied
myself on the real state of the case. On this
occasion, the dream must have occurred to my
mind son1e time after it happened, and taken such
a firm hold upon it as to dethrone the reality, and
take its place. I remember distinctly of fancying
that the little woody hill of Tomnachurich was in
96 PHILOSOPHY
the centre of the to\vn, although it stands at some
distance from it; that the principal steeple was on
the opposite side of the street to that on which it
stands· and that the crreat n1ountain ofBen-Wevis,
' 5
n1any 1niles off, was in the immediate neighbor-
hood.
'rhe power of imagination is perhaps never so
vividly displayed, as in those dreams which haunt
the guilty n1ind. 'Vhen any crjn1e of an infamous
character has been perpetrat~d, and when the
person is not so utterly hardened as to be insensi-
ble of his iniquity, the \vide storehonse of retri-
butive vengeance is opened up, and its appalling
horrors poured upon him. In Yain does he
endeavour to expel the dreadful ren1embrance of
his deeds, and bury them in forgetfulness ; from
the abyss of slun1ber they start forth, as the
vampyres start fro1n their sepulchres, and hover
around hin1 like the furies that pursued the foot-
steps of Orestes; while the 'Toice of conscience
stuns his ears ·with 1uurmurs of judgment and
eternity. Such is the punishment reserved for the
guilty in sleep. During the busy stir of active
existence, they rnay contdvc to evade the 1nen1ory
of their 'vickedness- to silence the \Vhispers of
the "still stnall voice'' within then1, and cheat
themselves with a se1nblance of happiness; but
when their heads are laid upon the pi1low, the
fiin1sy veil which hung bet\veen them and crime,
melts a\vay like an i11usive vapour, and displays
the latter in naked and horrid deformity. Then,
OF SLEEP. 97
in the silence of night, the "still small voice" 1s
heard like an echo from the tomb; then, a crowd
of doleful remetnbrances rush in upon the crimi-
nal, no longer to be debarred fron1 visiting the
depths of his spirit; and when dreams succeed to
such broken and n1iserable repose, it is only to
aggravate his previous horrors, and present them
in a character of still more over\vhelming dread."'f
"Thongh thy slumber may be deep,
Yet thy spirit shall not sleep;
There are shades which will not vanish,
There are thoughts thou canst not banish;
By a power to thee unknown,
Thou canst never be alone ;
Thou art wrapt as with a shroud,
Thou art gathered in a cloud ;
And forever shalt thou dwell
In the spirit of tbls spell.''
* "No fiction of romance presents so awful a picture ofthe ideal
tyrant as that of Caligula by Suetonius. His palace-radiant
wilh purple and gold, but murder every where lurking beneath
flowers; his smiles and echoing laughter, masking (yet hardly
meant to mask) his foul treachery of heart ; his hideous and
tumultuous dreams ; his baffled sleep, and his sleepless nights,
compose the picture of an .£schylus. What a master's sketch
lies in those few lines : -' Incitabatur insomnia maxime; neque
enim plus tribus boris noctumis quiescebat ; ac ne his placida
quiete, at pavidi m1ris rerum imaginibus: ut qui inter ceteras
pelagi quondam speciem colloquentem secum videre visus sit.
Ideoqne magna parte noctis, vigilire cubandique tredio, nunc toro
residens, nunc per longissimas porticus vagus, invocare identidem
atque cxpectare lucem consueverat ;' -i. e. But above all, he was
tormented with nervous irritation, by sleeplessness; for he enjoyed
not more than three hours of nocturnal repose; nor even these in
g~
98 PHILOSOPHY
Such are the principal pheno1nena of drea1ns;
and fron1 the1n it \vill naturally be deduced, that
dreatning n1ay occur under a great variety of cir-
cums1anccs ; that it may result from the actual
state ofthe body or 1nind, previous to falling asleep;
or exist as a train of c1notions \vhich can be refer-
red to no apparent external cause. The fonns it
assu1ncs are also as various as the causes g1ving
rise to it, and much more striking in their nature.
In dreams, i1nagination unfolds, 1nost gorgeously,
the an1ple stores of its richly decorated en1pire;
and in proportion to the splendor ofthat faculty in
any individual, arc the visions \vhich pass before
hin1 in sleep. But even the rnost dull and passion-
less, \vhile under the drean1ing influence, frequently
enjoy a ten1porary inspiration : their torpid facul-
ties are aroused from the benumbing spell \vhich
hung over thmn in the \vaking state, and lighted
up ·with the Promethean fire of genius and ro1nance;
the prose of their frigid spirits is converted into
magnificent poetry; the atn1osphere around them
peopled \vith ne\v and unheard-of imagery ; and
they \valk in a region to which the proudest flights
pure, untroubled re5t, hnt agitated by phantasmata of portentous
augury ; as, for example, upon one occasion he fancied that he
saw the sea, under some definite impersonation, conversing with
himself. Hence it was, and from this incapacity of sleeping, and
from weariness of lying awake, that he had fallen into habits of
rangingall the night long through the palace, sometimes throwing
himselfon a couch, sometimes wandering along the vast corridors
-watching for the earliest dawn, and anxiously invoking its
approach.''-Blackwood's J\1agazine, Vol. XXXIII. p. 59.
OF SLEEP. 9!)
of their limited energies could never otherwise
have attained.
I shall conclude this chapter with a few 'vords
on the manage1nent of drea1ns.
'--'
When drea1ns are ofa pleasing character, no one
cares any thing about their ren1oval: it is only
when they get distressing and threaten to injure
the health ofthe individual, by frequent recurrence,
that this becomes an important object. 'Vhen
drea1ns assutne the character of nightn1are, they
1nust be 1nanaged according to the n1ethods laid
down for the cure of that affection. In all cases,
the condition of the digestive organs must be at-
tended to, as any disordered state of these parts is
apt to induce visions of a very painful character.
For this purpose, mild laxatives may become use-
ful; and if the person js subject to heartburn, he
should use a little magnesia, chalk, or carbonate
of soda, occasionally. Attention, also, 1nust be
paid to the diet; and as suppersj with some people,
have a tendency to generate dreams of all kinds,
these meals should, in such cases, be carefully
avoided. At the same time, great care should be
taken not to brood over any subject upon lying
down, but to dispel, as soon as possible, all intru-
sive ideas, especially ifthey are of a painful nature.
If there is any unpleasant circumstance, such as
ha1·dness, irregularity, &c., connected with the bed,
which tends to affect sleep, and thus induce dreamsi
it 1nust be removed. Late reading, the use of tea
or coffee shortly hefore going to rest, or any thing
100 PHILOSOPHY
which may stimulate the brain, ought like\vise to
be avoided.
If dreaming seems to arise from any fulness of
the system, blooding and lo1-v diet will sometimes
effect a cure. Mr. Ste\vart, the celebrated pedes-
trian traveller, states that he never dreamed when
he lived exclusively upon vegetable food. This,
however, may not hold true ·with every one.
"When dreams arise from a diminution of cus-
tomary stimuli, a light supper, a draught of porte1·,
a glass of wine, or a dose of opium, generally pre-
vent them. Habitual noises, when suspended,
should be restored."*
In speaking of dreams representative of danger,
I may 1nention that there are instances of persons,
who, having determined to Temember that the
perils seen in them are fallacious) have actua1ly
succeeded in doing so, while asleep; and have thus
escaped the terrors which those imaginary dan-
gers would other\vise have produced. Haller re-
lates a case of this kind; and Mr. Dugald Ste\\Tart
mentions that the plan was successfully adopted
by Dr. Reid to get rid of the distress of those fear-
ful visions by 'vhich he was frequently annoyed.
Whenever, in a dream, the Doctor supposed him-
self on the brink of a precipice, or any other dan-
gerous situation, it was his custom to thro\v himself
over, and thus destroy the illusion. Dr. Beattie
also relates, that at one time he found himself in a
* Rush's Medical Inquiries.
OF SLEEP. 101
dangerous situation upon the parapet of a bridge.
Reflecting that he was not subject to pranks of
this nature, he began to fancy that it migbt be a
dream, and determined to pitch hin1self over, ·with
the conviction that this would restore him to his
senses, which accordingly took place.* I could
never u1anage to carry this system into'effect in an
ordinary dream of terror, but I have sometin1es
succeeded in doing so during an attack of night-
mare ; and have thus veTy materially 1nitigated the
alarm produced by that distressing sensation.
This intellectual operation 1nay also be success--
fully e1nployed to dispel the lo\vness of spirits
under ·which \ve often awake from unpleasant vis-
ions, by teaching us that the depression we ex-
perience is merely the result of son1e unnatural
excitement in the brain. Indeed, all kinds of me-
lancholy, not based upon some obvious foundation,
might be mitigated or dispelled altogether, could
we only oppose our feelings with the \veapons of
reason, and see things as they really are, and not
as they only seem to be.
* These facts do not controvert what is elsewhere stated ofa
person never being aware, during the actual process ofa dream,
that he was dreaming. While the above dreams werein progress,
the individuals never doubted lhat they were dreamin~: the doubt,
and the actions consequent npon it, were after-operations.
CHAPTER IV.
PROPHETIC POWER OF DREAMS.
DREAMS have been looked upon by some, as the
occasional n1eans of giving- us an insight into
futurity. This opinion is so singularly unphilo-
sophical, that I 'vould not have noticed it, were it
not advacated even by persons of good sense and
education. In ancient ti1nes, it was so common
as to obtain universal belief; and the greatest men
placed as implicit faith in it as in any fact of
which their own senses afforded them cogni-
zance. That it is wholly erroneous, ho\vever, can-
not be doubted; and any person who examines the
nature of the hun1an 1nind, and the manner in
\vhich it operates in drean1s, 1nust be convinced,
that under no circumstances, except those of ami-
racle, in which the ordinary la·ws of nature are
tritu11phed over, can such an event ever take place.
The Sacred vVritings testify that Iniracles were
comn1on in former times ; but I believe no 111an of
sane mind will contend that they ever occur in the
P B I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P . 103
present state of the \Vorld. In judging of things
as no'v constituted, ·we must discard supernatural
influence altogether, and estimate events according
to the gcneralla,vs \vhich the Great Ruler of Na-
ture has appointed for the guidance of the uni-
verse. If, in the present day, it \Vere possible to
conceive a suspension of these l'nvs, it n1ust, as
in fonner ages, be in reference to son1e great event,
and to serve son1c 1nighty purpose connected \Vith
the general interests of the hu1nau race; but if
faith is to be placed in n1odern n1iracles, \Ye must
suppose that God suspended the above hl\vs for the
most trivial and useless of purposes-as, for in-
stance, to inti1nate to a n1an that his grandmother
will die on a particular day, that a favorite n1are
has broke her neck, that he has recejved a present
of a brace of gan1e, or that a certain friend will
step in and take pot-luck \Vith him on the morrow.
At the san1e tin1e, there can be no doubt that
many circumstances occurring in our dreams have
been actually verified; but this 1nnst be regarded
as altogether the effect of chance ; and for one
dream \Vhich turns out to be true, at least a thou-
sand are false. In fact, it is only \vhen they are
of the fonner description, that \.Ve take any notice
of the1n; the latter are looked upon as mere idle
vagaries, and speedily forgotten. If a man, for in-
stance, dreams that he has gained a la\v-suit in
\Vhich he is engaged, and if this circumstance ac-
tually takes place, there is nothing at all extraor·
dinary in the coincidence: his mind was full of
104 PHILOSOPHY
the subject, and, in sleep, naturally resolved itself
into that train of ideas in ·which it \Vas 1nost deep-
ly interested. Or if \Ve have a friend engaged in
war, our fears for his safety \vill lead us to dream
of death or captivity, and "'\\,.e 1nay see him pent up
in a hostile prison-house, or lying dead upon the
battle plain. ..Ancl should these n1elancholy catas-
trophies ensue \VC call our vision to n1e1nory ; and,
in the excited state of mind into \vhich \Ve are
thrown, are apt to consider it as a prophetic warn-
ing, indicative of disaster. The follo,ving is a
very good illustration of tllis particular point.
l\liss )1 , a young lady, a native of Ross-
shire, \\:'"aS deeply in love with an oificer who ac-
cotnpanied Sir John l\Toore in the Peninsular \Var.
The constant danger to \Vhich he \Vas exposed,
had an evident effect upon her spirits. She becan1e
pale and 1nelancholy in perpetually brooding over
his fortunes; and, in spite of all that reason could
do, felt a certain conviction, that ·when she last
parted \Vith her lover, she had parted \Vith him for-
ever. In vain \Vas every schen1c tried to dispel
fro1n her n1ind the a\vful idea; in vain \Vere all
the ~ights \vbich opulence could con1n1and, unfold-
ed before her eyes. In the 1nid t of pon1p and
gaiety, when mnsic and laughter echoed around
her, she ·walked as a pensive phantonJ, over \vhose
head son1e drradfnl and 1nysterions influence hung.
She was brought by her affectionate parents to
Edinburgh, and introduced into all the gaiety of
that tnetropolis, but nothing could restore her, or
OF SLEEP. lOa
ban1sh from her mind the insupportable load 'vhich
oppressed it. The song and the dance were tried
in vain: they only aggravated her distress, and
1nade the bitterness of despair 1nore poignant. In
a surprisingly short period, her graceful form de-
clined into all the appalling characteristics of a fa-
tal illness; and she seen1ed rapidly hastening to
the gra\re, \vhen a dream con:fin11ed the horrors
she had long anticip::tted, and gave the finishing
stroke to her sorro\:VS. One night, after falling
asleep, she i1uagined she saw her lover, pale,
bloody; and \Vonnded in the breast, enter her
apartlnent. He dre\v aside the curtains of the bed,
and \vith a look of tl1e uttnost mildness, informed
her that he had been slain in battle, desiring her,
at the san1e ti1ne, to comfort herself, and not take
his death too seriously to heart. It is needless to
say \:vhat influence this vision had upon a n1ind so
replete \vith woe. It \:vithered it entirely, and the
unfortunate girl died a fe\v days thereafter, but not
\Yithout desiring her parents to note do\vn the day
of the n1onth on which it happened, and see if it
"Nould be confirmed, as she confidently declared it
\\"Ould. Her anticipation was correct, for accounts
w·ere ·shortly after received that the young man
\Vas slain at the battle of Corunna, \vhich was
fou~ht on the very day, on the night of \:vhich his
mistress had beheld the vision.
This relation, which may be confidently relied
upon, is one of the most striking examples of iden-
tity between the dream and the real circumstances
10
106 PHILOSOPHY
with which I am acquainted, but it must be looked
upon as merely accidental. The lady's mind \Vas
deeply interested in the fate of her lover, and full
of that event which she n1ost deeply dreaded-
his death. The time of this occurrence, as coin~
ciding \Vith her dream, is certainly curious; but
still there is nothing in it which can justify us in
referring it to any other origin than chance. The
follo\ving events, \vhich occurred to n1yself, in
August 1821, are almost equally remarkable, and
are imputable to the same fortuitous cause.
I was then in Caithness, when I dreamed that
a near relation of my O\vn, residing three hundred
nnles off, had suddenly died: and inunediately
thereafter a\\roke in a state of inconceivable terror,
similar to that produced by a paroxysm of night-
lnare. The same day, happening to be \Vriting
home, I mentioned the circu1nstance in a half-jest-
Ing, half-earnest \vay. To tell the truth, I \Vas
afraid to be serious, lest I should be laughed at
for putting any faith in dreams. However, in the
interval between ·writing and receiving an answer,
I remained in a state of most unpleasant suspense.
I felt a presentiment that something dreadful had
happened, or would happen ; and although I could
not help bla1ning n1yself for a childish \veakness
in so feeling, I \vas unable to get rid of the pain-
ful idea \Vhich had taken such rooted possession
of my n1ind. Three days after sending a\vay the
letter, \vhat was my astonishment \Vhen I received
one written the day subsequent to mine, and stat-
OF SLEEP. 107
ing that the relative of \Vhom I had dreamed, had
been struck \vith a fatal shock of palsy the day
before-viz. the very day on the morning of
which I had beheld the appearance in n1y drean1!
My friends received my letter two days after send-
ing their O\VD away, and were naturally astonish-
ed at the circumstance. I n1ay state that 1ny re-
lation was in perfect health before the fatal event
took place. It ca1ne upon hi1n like a thunderbolt,
at a period when no one could have the slightest
anticipation of danger.
The following case \vill interest the reader, both
on its own accotmt, and fro1n the remarkable co-
incidence bet\veen the drea1n and the succeeding
calamity; but, like all other instances of the kind,
this also 1nust be referred to chance.
"Being in company the other day, when the
conversation turned upon dreams, 1 related one,
which, as it happened to my O\Vll father, I can an-
S\Ver for the perfect truth of it. About the year
1731, my father, Mr. D. of K , in the County
of Cumberland, came to Edinburgh to attend the
classes, having the advantage of an uncle in the
regiment then in the Castle, and re1nained under
the protection of his uncle and aunt, ~1ajor and
Mrs. Griffiths, during the wjnter. vVhen spring
arrived, Mr. D. and three or four young gentlemen
from England, (his intimates,) made parties to vi-
sit all the neighboring places about Edinburgh,
Roslin, Arthur's Seat, Craig-lVIillar, &c., &c. Com-
ing home one evening from some of those places,
108 PHILOSOPHY
Mr. D. said, 'We have made a party to go a-fish-
ing to Inch-Keith to-morrow, if the morning is
fine, and haYe bespoke our boat; \ve shall be off
at six ;' no objection being made, they separated
for the night.
"Mrs. Griffiths, had not been long asleep, till she
screa1ned out in the most violent agitated n1anner,
The boat is sinking; save, oh, save thetn !' The
Major awaked her, und said, 'Were yo1:1 uneasy
about the fishing party?' 'Oh no,' said she, 'I had
not once thought of it.' She then co1nposed her-
self, and soon fell asleep again: in about an hour,
she cried out in a dreadful fright, ' I see the boat is
going do\vn.' The Major again a\voke her, and
she said, ' It has been owing to the other drean1 I
had; for I feel no uneasiness about it.' After so1ne
conversation, they both fell sound asleep, but no
rest could be obtained for her ; in the n1ost extren1e
agony, she again screa1ned, ' They are gone ; the
boat is sunk !' "\Vhen the lVIajor a\vakened her,
she said, 'No\v I cannot rest; lVIr. D. n1ust not go,
for I feel, should he go, I "'ould be miserable till
his return ; the thoughts of it ·would almost kill
me.'
"She tnstantly arose, threw on her "\vrapping-
gown, \vent to his bed-side, for his room was next
their O"\vn, and with great difficulty she got his
promise to remain at home. ' But what am I to
say to my young friends whom I was to meet at
Leith at six o'clock? 'With great truth you may
say your aunt is ill, fru· I am so at present ; consider)
OF SLEEP. 109
you are an only son, under our· protection, and
should any thing happen to you, it would be my
death.' Mr. D. immediately wrote a note to his
friends, saying he \vas prevented from joining them,
and sent his servant with it to Leith. The n1orn-
ing came in most beautifully, and continued so till
three o'clock, ·when a violent storm arose, and in
an instant the boat, and all that were in it, "rent to
the botton1, and were never heard of, nor was any
part of it ever seen."*
Equally singular is the following case, fron1 the
"l\ie1noirs of Lady Fanshawe."
"My mother being sick to death of a fever, three
n1.onthsafter I \vas born, \vhich was the occasion she
gave 1ne suck no longer, her friends and servants
thought to all outward appearance she was dead,
and so lay aln1ost t\vo days and a night; but Dr.
Winston corning to comfort my father, went into
my mother's room, and looking earnestly on her
face, said, <She was so handsome, and no\v looks
so lovely, I cannot think she is dead;' and sud-
denly took a lancet out of his pocket, and \vith it
cut the sole of her foot, which bled. Upon this, he
immediately caused her to be laid upon the bed
again, and to be rubbed, and such means, as she
came to life, and opening her eyes, saw t\vo of her
kinswomen stand by her, my Lady Knollys and
my Lady Russell, both with great wide sleeves, as
the fashion then was, and said, ' Did not you
* "Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine," vol. xix. p. 73.
10*
110 PHILOSOPHY
promise me fifteen years, and are you come again1'
which they not understanding, persuaded her to-
keep her spirits quiet in that great weakness
wherein she then \vas; but so1nc hours after, she
desired my father and Dr. lio,vls,vorth might be
left alone \vith her, to '.vhon1 she said. ' I will ac-
quaint you, that during the tin1e of n1y trance I
'vas in great quiet, but in a place I could neither
distinguish nor describe ; but the sense of leaving
1ny girl, \vho is d0arer to 1ne than aU 1ny children,
ren1ained a trouble upon my spirits. Suddenly I
sa\v two by 1ne, clothed in long ·white garments,
and n1ethought I fell do\vn upon n1y face upon the
dust; and they asked why I \vas so troubled
in so great happiness. I replied, 0 let me have
the san1e grant given to Hezekiah, that I may liYc
fifteen years to see 1ny daughter a \VOlnan : to
which they answered: It is done : and then, at that
instant, I a\voke out of my trance!' and Dr. Ho,Yls-
worth did there affinn, that that day she died
made just fifteen years fro1n that tin1c."
A sufficiently striking instance of such coinci-
dence occurs in the case of Dr. Donne, the Ineta-
physical poet; but I believe that, in this case, it
\vas a spectral illusion rather than a co1nmon
dream. T\vo days after he had arrived in Paris,
he was left alone in a roon1 \vhcre he had been
dining \vith Sir Robert Drury and a fe\v con1pan-
ions. "Sir Robert returned about an hour after-
wards. He found his friend in a state of ecstacy,
and so altered in his countenance>that he could
OF SLEEP. 111
not look upon him \Vithout amazen1ent. The
Doctor was not able for some time to answer the
question, u·hat !tad befallen hin~ ?-·but after a
long and perplexed pause, at last said, ' I have seen
a dreadful vision since I saw you; I have seen
n1y dear "rife pass t\vice by me through this room1
\Vith her hair hanging about her shoulders; and a
dead child in her anns. This I have seen since I
SR\V you.' To \vhich Sir Robert ans\vered, 'Sure,
Sir, you have slept since I went out ; and this is
the result of son1e n1elancholy dream, \vhich I de-
sire you to forget, for you are no\v a\vakc.' Donne
replied, 'I cannot be n1ore sure that I llO\V liYe.
than that I have not slept since I sa\V you : and
an1 as sure that at her second appearing she stoppeJ7
looked me in the face and vanished."'* It is cer-
tainly very curious that 1\irs. Donne, \Vho \vas then
in England, '\\Tas at this tin1e sick in bed, and had
been delivered of a dead child, on the sa1ne day,
and about the sa1ne hour, that the vision occurred.
There \vere distressing circumstances in the mar-
riage of Dr. Donne ·which account for his n1ind
<;;;
being strongly impressed with the image of his
\Vife, to w·hon1 he \vas exceedingly attached: but
these do not render the coincidence above related
less ren1arkable.
I do not doubt that the apparition of Julius
Coosar, ·which appeared to Brutus, and declared it
\vould meet hin1 at Philippi, was either a drean1
'i< Hibbert's Philosophy ofApparitions, p. 354.
112 PHILOSOPHY
or a spectral illusion-probably the latter. Brutus,
in all likelihood, had some idea that the battle
which \vas to decide his fate would be fought at
Philippi : probably it was a good rrulitary position,
which he had fixed upon as a :fit place to make a
final stand; and he had done enough to Cresar to
account for his O\vn mind being painfully and con-
stantly engrossed \vith the image of the assassi-
n ated Dictator. Hence the verification of this
supposed "\Varning -hence the easy explanation
of a supposed supernatural event.
At Newark-upon-Trent, a curious custom,found-
ed upon the preservation of _.L\..ldennan Clay and
his fan1ily by a drea1n, has prevailed since the days
of CronTwe.ll. On the 11th March, every year,
penny loaves are given away to any one who
chooses to appear at the town hall and apply for
them, in com1nen1oration of the alderman's deli-
verance, dtuing the siege of Ne\vark by the parlia-
mentary forces. This gentleman, by \Vill, dated
11th December, 1694, gave to the mayor and
aldermen one hundred pounds, the interest of
\Vhich was to be given to the vicar yearly, on
condition of his preaching an annual sermon.
Another hundred pounds \vere also appropriated for
the behoof of the poor, in the \vay above men-
tioned. The origin of this bequest is singular.
During the b01nbardment of Newark by Oliver
Cromwell's forces, the alderman dreamed three
nights successively that his house had taken fire,
which produced such a vivid impression upon his
..
OF SLEEP. 113
mind, that he and his fan1ily left it; and in a few
days the circumstances of his vision actually took
place, by the house being burned down by the
besiegers.
Dr. Abercrombie relates the case of a gentleman
in Edinburgh, \Vho was affected with an aneurisn1
of the popliteal artery, for which he was under
the care of two en1inent surgeons. About two
days before the tin1e appointed for the operation,
his wife drean1ed that a change had taken place
in the disease, in consequence of which an opera-
tion "ronld not be required. "On examining the
tun1or in the morning-, the gentlen1an was asto-
nished to find that the pulsation had entirely
ceased ; and, in short, this turned out to be a
spontaneous cure. To persons not professional,
it may be right to mention that the cure of popli-
teal aneurism, without an operation, is a very un-
con11non occurrence, not happening, perhaps, in
one out of numerous instances, and never to be
looked upon as probable in any individual case.
It is likely, however, that the lady had heard of
the possibility of such a termination, and that her
anxiety had very naturally e1nbodied this into a
dream: the fulfilment of it, at the very time when
the event took place, is certainly a very remarkable
coincidence."*
Persons are said to have had the period of their
.. Abercrombie'd Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powers,
p. 282, ls~ edit.
114 PHILOSOPHY
O\Vn death pointed out to them in dreams. I have
often heard the case of the late Mr. M. of D --
related in support of this statement. It is certainly
\Vorth telling, not on account of any supernatural
character belonging to it, but simply from the ex-
traordinary coincidence bet\veen the drean1 and
the subsequent event. Thjs gentleman dreamed
one night that he was out riding, \vhen he stopped
at an inn on the road side for refreshment, where
he sa\v several people whon1 he had known some
years before, but \vho \Vere all dead. He was
receiYed kindly by them, and de~ired to sit do\vn
and drink, \vhich he accordingly did. On quitting
this strange con1pany, they exacted a promise from
hi1n that he \vould visit then1 that day six weeks.
This he pro1nised faithfully to do; and, bidding
them fare\vell, he rode home,vards. Such wa~
the substance of his dream, \vhich he related in a
jocular way to his friends, but thought no 1nore
about it, for he \\ras a person above all kind of
superst1t1on. The event, ho·wcver, \vas certainly
curious enough, as \vell as n1elancholy; for on
that very day six \veeks on which he had engaged
to meet his friends at the inn, he was killed in
attempting to spring his horse over a five-barred
gate. The falnous case of Lord Lyttletonif is also
* "Of late it has been said and published, that the unfortunate
nobleman had previously determined to take poison, and of course,
had it in his own power to ascertain the execution of the prediction
It was, no doubt, singular that a man, who meditated his exitfrom
the world, should have chosen to play such a trick upon his friends.
OF SLEEP. 115
cited as an example of a sitnilar kind, but with less
show of reason, for this case is now very generally
supposed to be an imposition; and so \vill almost
every other of the same kind, if narro,vly investi..:
gated. At the same time, I do not 1nean to doubt
that such an event, foretold in a dream, may oc-
casionally come to pass ; but I would refer the
whole to fortuitous coincidence. Men dream,
every now and then, that they will die on a cer-
tain day, yet how seldom do \Ve see those predic-
tions fulfilled by the result ! In very delicate peo-
ple, indeed, such a visionary comn1unication, by
acting fatally upon the 1nind, might be the means
of occasioning its own ful.fihnent. In such cases, it
has been customary for the friends ofthe individual
to put back the clock an hour or two, so as to let
the fatal period pass by ·without his being aware of
it; and as soon as it \Vas fairly passed, to inform
hitn of the circumstance, and laugh hi1n out of his
apprehension.
There is another ·way in which the apparent
fulfilment of a dream may be brought about. A
good illustration in point is given by lVIr. Combe.
The subject of it \Vas one Scott, executed in 1823,
at Jedburg, for murder. " It is stated in his life,
that, some years before the fatal event, he had
dreamed that he had committed a murder, and
But it is stiJl more credible that a whimsical man should do so wild
a thing, than that a messenger should be sent from the dead, to tell
a libertine at what precise hour he should expire." Scott's Letters
on Demonology, p. 361.
ll6 PHILOSOPHY
was greatly impressed with the idea. He fre"'
quently spoke of it, and recurred to it as something
ominous, till at last it \vas realized. The organ of
Destructiveness was large in his head, and so
active that he was an enthusiast in poaching, and
prone to outrage and violence in his habitual con-
duct. This activity of the organ 1night take
place during sleep, and then it would inspire his
mind with destructive feelings, and the drea1n of
murder ·would be the consequence. From the
great natural strength of the propensity, he pro-
bably may have felt, when a\vake, an inward
tendency to this crime ; and, joining this and the
dream together, we can easily account for the
strong i1npression left by the latter on his 1nind."*
One n1ethod in \vhich death may appear to be
foretold is, by the accession of frightful visions
i1nmediately before the fatal illnesses. This, ho\v-
ever~ goes for nothing in the \vay of argtnnent, .
for it was the state of the systen1 shortly before
the attack of disease wl'Uch induced such dreams.
According to Silitnachus, the epidenuc feyer which
prevailed at Rome \Vas ushered in by attacks of
nightmare; and Sylvius Deleboe, \vho describes
the epidemic \vhich raged at Leyden in 1669,
states, tl1at previous to each paroxysn1 of the fever,
the patient fell asleep, and suffered a se\·ere attack
of nightmare. The vulgar belief, therefore1 that
unpleasant dreams are o1ninous of death, is not
~ Combe's System of Phrenology, p. 511, 3d edit.
OF SLEEP. 117
destitute of foundation ; but the cause \vhy they
should be so is perfectly natural. It is the inci-
pient disease which produces the dreams, and the
fatal event which often follows, is a natural
consequence of that disease.
.It is undoubtedly o\ving to the faculty possessed
by sleep, of rene\ving long-forgotten ideas, that
persons have had important facts commlmicated
to them in dreams. There have been instances,
for example, where valuable documents, sums of
money, &c., have been concealed, and where
either the person who secreted them, or he who
had the place of their concealment communicated
to him, may have forgotten every thing therewith
connected. He may then torture his mind in vain,
during the waking state, to recollect the event ;
and it may be brought to his remembrance, at
once, in a dream. In such cases, an apparition is
generally the medium through which the seem-
ingly mysterious kno\vledge is communicated.
The imagination conjures up son1e phantom that
discloses the secret; which circumstance, pro-
ceeding, in reality, from a simple operation of the
mind, is straightway converted into something
supernatural, and invested with all the attributes
of wonder and awe. When such spectral forms
appear, and communicate some fact which turns
out to be founded on truth, the person is notalways
aware that the whole occurred in a dream, but
often fancies that he was broad awake when the
apparition appeared to him and communicated the
11
118 PHILOSOPHY
particular intelljgence. When we hear, therefore,
of hidden treasures, wills, &c., being disclosed in
such a manner, we are not ahvays to scout the
report as faLse. The spectre divulging the intelli·
gence \vas certainly the mere chimera of the
dreamer's brain, but the facts revealed, apparently
by this phantom, may, from the above circunl-
stance, be substantially true. The following
curious case is strjkingly in point, and is given by
Sir Walter Scott in his notes to the ne\v edition of
"The Antiquary."
"Mr. R d of Bowland, a gentlen1an of
landed property in the Vale of Gala, was prosecuted
for a very considerable sum, the accumulated ar-
rears of tiend, (or tithe,) for ·which he was said to
be indebted to a noble fan1ily, the titulars (lay
impropriators of the tithes.) lVIr. R d \vas
strongly impressed with the belief that his father
had, by a form of procAss peculiar to the law of
Scotland, purchased these lands from the titular,
and, therefore, that the present prosecution \Vas
groundless. But after an industrious search
among his father's papers, an investigation of the
public records, and a careful inquiry among all
persons who had transacted law business for his
father, no evidence could be recovered to support
his defence. The period \Vas no\v near at hand
when he conceived the loss of his lawsuit to be
inevitable, and he had formed the determination
to ride to Edinburgh next day, and make the best
bargain he could in the way of compromise. He
OF SLEEP. 119
went to bed with this resolution, and, with an the
circumstances of the case floating upon his nrind,
had a dream to the following purpose. His father,
who had been many years dead, appeared to him,
he thought, and asked him why he was disturbed
in his mind. In dreams, men are not surprised at
such apparitions. Mr. R d ~ought that he
informed his father of the cause of his distress,
adding, that the payment of a considerable sum of
money was the 1nore unpleasant to him, because
he had a strong consciousness that it was not due,
though he was unable to recover any evidence in
support of his belief. 'You are right, my son,'
replied the paternal shade; 'I did acquire right to
these tiends, for payment of which you are now
prosecuted. The papP-rs relating to the transaction
are in the hands of Mr. , a writer, (or
attorney,) who is now retired from professional
business, and resides at Inveresk, near Edinburgh.
He was a person whom I employed on that occa-
sion for a particular reason, but ·who never on any
other occasion transacted business on my account.
It is very possible,' pursued the vision, 'that Mr.
--- may have forgotten a matter which is now
of a very old date ; but you may call it to his
recollection by this token, that when I came to
pay his account, there was difficulty in getting
change for a Portugal piece of gold, and 've \Vere
forced to drink out the balance at a tavern.'
"Mr. R d a\voke in the morning with all
the words of the vision imprinted on his mind, and
120 PHILOSOPHY
thought it \vorth while to walk across the country
to lveresk, instead of going straight to Edinburgh.
When he came there, he waited on the gentlen1an
n1cntioned in the dream, a very old man. With-
out saying anything of the vision, he inquired
whether he retnembered having conducted such a
matter for his di4eased father. The old gentleman
could not at .first bring the circumstance to his
recollection, but on mention of the Portugal piece
of gold, the w·holc returned upon his me1nory ; he
n1ade an im1nediate search for the papers, and re-
covered then1- so that l\'Ir. R d carried to
Edinburgh the documents necessary to gain the
cause \vhich he was on the verge of losing.
"The author has oftP.n heard this story told by
persons who had the best access to kno\v the facts,
'vho \vere not likely themselves to be deceived, and
were certainly incapable of deception. l-Ie cannot,
therefore, refuse to give it credit, ho\vever extraor-
dinary the circtunstances 1nay appear. The cir-
cumstantial character of the information given in
the dream, takes it out of the general class of inl-
pressions of the kind, \vhich are occasioned by the
fortuitous coincidence of actual events 'vith our
sleeping thoughts. On the other hand. fe\v will
suppose that tho la\vs of nature \vere suspended,
and a special cotnn1unication fron1 the dead to the
living permitted, for the purpose of saving Mr.
R d a certain nun1ber of hundred pounds.
The author's theory is, that the dreatn was only
the rrcapitulation ofinformation \vhich 1\lr. R d
OF SLEEP. 121
had really received from his father while in life,
but which at first he merely recalled as a general
impression that the claim was settled. It is not
uncommon for persons to recover, during sleep,
the thread of ideas which they have lost during
their waking hours. It may be added, that this
remarkable circumstance \Vas attended with bad
consequences to Mr. R d ; whose health and
spirits were afterwards impaired, by the attention
which he thought himself obliged to pay to the
visions of the night." This result is a melancholy
proof of the effect sometimes produced by igno-
rance of natural laws. Had Mr. R d been
acquainted with the nature of the brain, and of the
manner in which it is affected in sleep, the cir-
cumstance above related \vould have given him no
annoyance. He would have traced the whole
chain of events to their true source ; but, being
ignorant of this, he becan1e the victim of supersti-
tion, and his life \Vas rendered miserable.
CHAPTER V.
NIG liT}}[ARE.
NIGHTMARE may be defined a painful dream,
accon1panied \vith diflicult respiratory action, and
a torpor in the powers of volition. The reflecting
organs are generally n1ore or less awake ; and,
in this respect, nightlnare diilers from . in1ple
dreanung, \Vhere they are n1ostly quiescent.
This affection, the EPHIALTES of the Greeks,
and I~cuBus of the Ron1ans, is one of the 1nost
distressing to \vhich hun1an nature is subject.
I1nagination cannot conceive the horrors it fre-
quently gives rise to, or language describe then1 in
adequate tenns. 'I'hey are a thousand ti1nes more
frightful than the visions conjured up by necro-
mancy or riiablerP ; and far transcend every thing
in history or romance, fron1 the fable of the \vrith-
ing and asp-encircled Laocoon to Dante's appalling
picture of Ugolino and his fa1nished offspring, or
the hidden tortures of the Spanish Inqui~1tion.
The whole 1nind, during the paroxysn1, is 'vrought
up to a pitch of unutterable despair: a spell is laid
upon the faculties, which freezes the1n into inac-
P H [ L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P • 123
tion; and the wretched victim feels as if pent alive
in his coffin, or overpo·wered by resistless and
immitigable pressure.
The modifications which nightmare assumes
are infinite; but one passion is almost never
absent-that of utter and incomprehensible dread.
Son1etimes the sufferer is buried beneath over-
\vhelming rocks, which crush him on all sides,
but still leave him 1.vith a 1niserable consciousness
of his situation. Sometimes he is involved in the
coils of a horrid, slimy monster, whose eyes have
the phosphorescent glare of the sepulchre, and
whose breath is poisonous as the marsh of Lerna.
Every thing horrible, disgusting, or terrific in the
physical or moral world, is brought before him in
fearful array; he is hissed at by serpents, tortured
by de1nons, stunned by the hollow voices and
cold touch of apparitions. A mighty stone is laid
upon his breast, and crushes him to the ground
in helpless agony: mad bulls and tigers pursue
his palsied footsteps : the unearthly shrieks and
gibberish of hags, ·witches, and fiends float around
hirn. In whatever situation he may be placed, he
feels superlatively ·wretched: he is Ixion 'vorking
for ages at his \vheel : he is Sisyphus rolling his
eternal stone : he is stretched upon the iron bed of
Procrnstes : he is prostrated by inevitable destiny
beneath the approaching \Vheels of the car of
Juggernaut. At one moment, he may have the
consciousness of a malignant demon being at his
side : then to shun the sight of so appalling an
124 PHILOSOPHY
object, he will close his eyes, but still the fearful
being makes its presence known ; for its icy
breath is felt diffusing itself over his visage, and
he kno\vs that he is face to face with a fiend.
Then, if he look up, he beholds horrid eyes glaring
upon him, and an aspect of hell grinning at him
\vith even more than hellish malice. Or, he may
have the idea of a monstrous hag squatted upon
his breast-mute, motionless, and malignant; an
incarnation of the Evil Spirit-whose intolerable
weight crushes the breath out of his body, and
\vhose fixed, deadly, incessant stare petrifies him
with horror and makes his very existence in-
sufferable.
In every instance, there is a sense of oppression
and helplessness ; and the extent to which these
are carried, varies according to the violence of the
paroxysm. The individual never feels himself a
free agent; on the contrary he is spell-bound by
son1e enchantment, and re1nains an unresisting
victin1 for malice to ·work its will upon. He can
neither breathe, nor walk, nor run, with his
wonted facility. If pursued by any itnminent
danger, he can hardly drag one limb after an-
other ; if engaged in combat, his blows are
utterly ineffective; if involved in the fangs of any
animal, or in the grasp of an enemy, extrication is
impossible. He struggles, he pants, he toils, but
it is all in vain: his muscles are rebels to the will
'
and refuse to obey its calls. In no case is there
a sense of co1nplete freedom: the benumbing
OF SLEEP. 1!5
stupor never departs from hi1n; and his whole
being is locked up in one mighty spasm. Some-
times he is forcing hin1self thr0ugh an aperture
too sn1all for the reception of his body, and is there
arrested and tortured by the pangs of suffocation
produced by the pressure to ·which he is exposed ;
or he loses his way in a nai-row labyrinth, and
gets involved in its contracted and inextricable
mazes; or he is entombed alive in a sepulchre,
beside the monldering dead. There is, in most
cases, an intense reality in all that he sees, or
hears, or feels. The aspects of the hideous phan-
tonls which harass his imagination are bold and
defined; the sounds which greet his ear appall-
ingly distinct; and when any dimness or confu-
sion of i1nagery does prevail, it is of the most
fearful kind, leavlng nothjng but dreary and
miserable imprpssions behind it.
Much of the horror experienced in nightmare
will depend upon the natural activity of the ima-
gination, upon the condition of the body, and up-
on the state of mental exertion before going to
sleep. If, for instance, we have been engaged in
the perusal of such vvorks as "The lVIonk," "The
Mysteries of Udolpho,~' or "Satan's Invisible World
Discovered;'' and if an attack of nightmare should
supervene, it will be aggravated into sevenfold
horror by the spectral phantoms with \Vhich our
n1inds have been thereby filled. We \vill enter into
all the fearful mysteries of these writings, which,
instead of being mitigated by slumber, acquire an
126 PHILOSOPHY
intensity which they never could have possessed in
the waking state. The apparitions of murdered
victims, like the forn1 of Banquo, \vhich \vrung the
guilty conscience of ]Hacbeth, 'vill stalk before us ;
we are surrounded by sheeted ghosts, which glare
upon us with their cold sepulchral eyes; our habi-
tation is atnono- the vaults of ancient cathedrals, or
;:,
a1nong the dungeons of ruined monasteries, and
our companions are the dead.
At other times, an association of 1udicrous iln-
ages passes throug-h the nund: every thing becoines
incongruous ridiculous, and absurd. But even in
the midst of such preposterous fancies, the passion
of 1nirth is never for one mon1ent excited: the
satne blank despair, the same freezing inertia, the
same stifling tortures, still harass us; and so far
from being a1nused by the laughable dra1na enact-
ing before us, we behold it ·with sensations of un·
defined horror and disgust.
'-'
In general, during an attack, the person has the
consciousness of an utter inability to express his
horror by cries. lie feels that his voice is half
choked by itnpending suffocation, and that any
exertion of it, farther than a deep sigh or groan, is
impossible. Sometin1es, however, he conceives that
he is bellovving w-ith prodigious energy, and won-
ders that the household are not alanned by his
noise. But this is an illusion: those outcries \Vhich
he fancies himself uttering, are merely obscure
moans, forced with difficulty and pain frotn the
stifled pcnetralia of his boso1n.
OF SLEEP. 127
Nightmare takes place under various circumstan-
ces. Son1etimes, from a state of perfect sleep, \Ve
glide into it, and feel ourselves unconciously over-
taken by its attendant horrors: at other times, \Ve
experience it stealing upon us like a thief, at a
period \vhen we are all but awake, and a\vare of its
approach. We have then our senses about us,
only, perhaps a little deadened and confused by
incipient shunber; and we feel the gradual advance
of the fiend, without arousing ourselves, and scar-
ing him a\vay, although we appear to possess the
full ability of doing so. Son1e persons, immedi-
ately previous to an attack, have sensations of
vertigo and ringing in the ears.
At one tilne, nightn1are n1elts into unbroken
sleep or pleasing dreams; and 've awake in the
morning \vith merely the reme1nbrance of having
had one of its attacks; at another, it arouses us by
its violence, and we start out of it \vith a convul-
sive shudder. At the 1noment of throwing off
the tit, we seem to turn round upon the side \Vith
a mighty effort, as if from beneath the pressure of
a superincumbent \veight; and, the more tho-
roughly to awake ourselves, \Ve generally kick
violently, beat the breast, rise up in bed, and cry
out once or twice. As soon as we are able to ex-
ercise the voice or voluntary muscles with freedon1,
the paroxysm is at an end; but for some tilne after,
\Ve experience extreme terror, aud often cold shiv-
ering, while the heart throbs violently, and the res-
piration is hurried. These two latter circumstan-
128 PHILOSOPHY
cesare doubted by Dr. Darwin, but I am convinc-
ed of their existence, both from what I have ex-
perienced in my o\vn person, and from what I
have been told by others: indeed, anology would
irresistibly lead us to conclude that they must
exist; and whoever carefully investigates the sub-
ject; will find that they do almost universally.
An opinion prevails, that during incubus the
person is always upon his back; and the circum-
stance of his usually feeling as if in that posture,
together with the relief which he experiences on
turning round upon his side, are ceTtainly strong
presumptions in favor of its accuracy. The sensa-
tions, however, which occur, in this state, are falla-
cious in the highest degree. We have seldom any
evidence either that he \vas on his back, or that he
turned round at all. The fact, that he supposed
hi1nself in the above position during the fit, and
the other fact, that, on recovering from it, he was
lying on his side, may have produced the illusion;
and, where he never 1noved a single tnuscle, he
may conceive that he turned round after a prodi-
gious effort. I havc had an attack of this disor-
der 'vhile sitting in an ann-chair, or \Vith my head
leaning against a table. In fact, these are the 1nost
likely positions to bring it on, the lungs being then
more completely compressed than in ahnost any
other posture. I have also had it most distinctly
while lying on the side, and I know many cases of
a similar descrjption in others. Although, there-
fore, nightmare may take place more frequently
OF SLEEP. 129
upon the back than upon the side, the opinion
that it occurs only in the former of these postures,
is altogether incorrect; and where ·we are much
addicted to its attacks, no posture whatever will
protect us.
Persons not particularly subject to incubus, feel
no inconvenience, save tmnporary terror or fatigue,
fro1n any occasional attack ·which they may have;
but those with \vhom it is habitual, are apt to ex-
perience a certain degree of giddiness, ringing in
the ears, tension of the forehead, flashing of light
before the eyes, and other symptoms of cerebral
congestion. A bad taste in the mouth, and n1ore or
less fulness about the pit of the stomach, are some-
times experienced after an attack.
The illusions \vhich occur, are perhaps the most
extraordinary pheno1nena of nightmare ; and so
strongly are they often in1pressed upon the 1nind,
that, even on awaking, we find it impossible not to
believe them real. vVe n1ay, for exan1ple, be sen-
sible of knockings at the door of our apartment,
hear familiar voices calling upon us, and see indi-
viduals passing through the chamber. In many
cases, no arguments, no efforts of the understand-
ino- \vill convince us that these are merely the chi-
o
meras of sleep. We regard the1n as events of
actual occurrence, and \Vill not be persuaded to
the contrary. With so1ne, such a belief has gone
down to the grave: and others have maintained
it strenuously for years, till a recurrence of the
illusions, under circumstances which rendered
12
130 PHILOSOPHY
their real existence impossible, has sho\vn them
that the whole was a dream. 1\lany a good
ghost story has had its source in the illusions of
nightn1are.
The follo\ving case related by 1\ir. 'Valier,
gives a good idea of the strength of such illusive
feelings.
"In the month of February1 1814, I \vas living
in the sa1ne house \vith a youug gentlernan, the
son of a peer of the United J\.ingdon1, \vho \Vas at
that time under n1y care, in a very alanning state
of health; and ·who had been, for several dnys, in
a state of violent delirium. The cloRe attcntion
which his case required fron1 n1e, together \Vith a
degree of personal attaclnnent to hitn, had render-
ed n1e cxtren1.ely anxious about him~ and as my
usual hours of sleep suffered a great degree of in-
terruption from the attendance given to ltin1, I \Vas,
from that cause alone, rendered 1nore than usually
liable to the attacks of nightlnarc; \Vhich conse-
quently intruded itself every night upon 1ny slum-
bers. The young gentleman in question, from the
violence of hjs deliriun1. was \vith great difficulty
kept in bed ; and had once or t\vice eluded the Yi-
gilance of his attendants, and jun1ped out of bed;
an accident of \vhicll I \vas every mon1cnt dread-
ing a repetition. I rnvoke fro1n n1y sleep one lnorn-
ing about four o'clock - at least it appeared to me
that I a\voke-and heard distinctly the voice of
this young gentlen1nn, who seemed to be coming
hastily up the stairs leading to my apartment, call-
OF SLEEP. 131
ing tne by nan1e, in the manner he \vas accustom-
ed to do in his delirium; and i1nn1ediately after, I
saw him standing by 1ny bedside, holding the cur-
tains open, expressing all that \vildness in his looks
\vhich accompanies violent delirium. At the same
moment, I heard the voices of his hvo attendau ts
co1ning up tl1e stairs in search of him, \Vho like-
\vise can1e into the rootn and took hi1n a\vay.
During all this scene I \vas attempting to speak,
but could not articulate ; I thought, ho\vever, that
I succeeded in atten1pting to get out of bed, and
assisting his attendants in re1novin~· hi1n out of the
room ; after which, I returned to bed, and instant-
ly fell asleep. "'\Vhen I w·aited upon tny patient in
the morning, I \\ras not a little surprised to find that
he \vas asleep; and was utterly confounded on be-
ng told that he had been so all night; and as this
was the first sleep he had enjoyed for three or four
days, the attendants '''ere Yery 1ninute in detailing
the wbole particulars of it. .AJlhouO'h this acconnt
appeared inconsistent with what I conceived I had
seen, and \vith \vhat I concluded they kne\v as
\Vell as 1nyself, I did not, for sotne ti1ne, perceiYe
the error into \Vhich I had been led, till I observed
that some of 1ny questions and retna.rks \Vere not
intellig-ible : then I began to su~pect the true source
of the error, \vhich I should never have discovered
had not experience rendered these hallucination~
fatniliar to n1e. But the whole of 1his transaction
had so rnuch consistency and probability in it,
that I might, under different circumstances, haYe
132 PHILOSOPHY
.
remained forever ignorant of having been Impos-
ed upon in this instance, by my senses."*
During nightn1arc, the deepness of the slumber
varies much at different times. Sometitnes \ve are
in a state closely approxin1ating upon perfect sleep ;
at other ti1nes \VC are almost completely a\vake ;
and it \vill be retnarked. that the tnore a\vake we
,
are, the greater is the violence of the paroxysm.
I have experienced the affection stealing upon n1e
\vhile in perfect possession of n1y faculties, and
have undergone the greatest tortures, being haunt-
ed by spectres, hags, and every sort of phantom-
having, at the san1e tin1e, a full consciousness that
I \vas laboring under incubus, and that all the ter-
rifying objects around 1ne were the creations of
n1y O\Vll brain. This shows that the judgn1ent is
often only very partially affected, and proves also
that nightmare is not 1nerely a disagreeable dream,
but a painful bodily affection. 'Vere it nothing
1nore than the fonner, we could rarely possess a
knowledge of our condition; for, in sin1ple visions,
the reflecting organs are ahuost unifonnly quies-
cent, and we scarcely ever, for a n1on1ent, doubt
the reality of our i1nprcssions. In night1nare, this
is often, perhaps general1y, the case; but "re fre-
quently meet \vith instances, in \Vhich, during the
\vorst periods of the fit, consciousness ren1ains al-
most unimpaired.
There are great differences in the duration of
the paroxysm, and also in the facility \vith \vhich
*'Valler's Treatise.
OF SLEEP. 133
it is broken. I knovv not of any method by 'vhich
the period to which it extends can be estimated,
for the sufferer has no data to go by, and tjn1e, as
in all modifications of dreaming, is subjected to the
most capricious la-ws-an actual n1inute often
appearing to embrace a "\vhole hour. Of this
point, therefore, \Ve n1ust be contented to re1nain
in ignorance; but it may be conceived that the at-
tack will be as various in its duration, as in the
characters which it assumes-in one case being
ten times as long as in another. With regard to
the breaking of the fit, the differences are equally
great. At one time, the slightest agitation of the
body, the opening of the chamber door, or calling
softly to the sufferer, ·will arouse him; at another,
he requires to be shaken violently, and called upon
long and loudly, before he is released.
Some people are much more prone to incubus
than others. Those whose digestion is healthy;
whose minds are at ease, and who go supperless
to bed, will seldom be troubled with it. Those,
again, who keep late hours, study hard, eat heavy
suppers, and are subject to bile, acid, or hypochon-
dria, are ahnost sure to be more or less its victims.
There are particular kinds of food, which pretty
constantly lead to the same result, such as cheese,
cucumbers, almonds, and whatever is hard to be
digested. Hildesheim, in his "De A.ffectibus Ca-
pitis," justly remarks, that "he who wishes to
know what nightmare is, let him eat chestnuts
12*
134 PHILOSOPHY
before going to sleep, and drink feculent \vine after
then1."
Certain diseases, also, are apt to induce it, such
as asthn1a, hydrothorax, angina pectoris, and
other varieties of dyspncea. Men are more subject
to it than \Von1en, probably from their stomachs
being n1ore frequently disordered by intmnperance,
and their 1ninds more closely occupied. Sailors,
o'ving to the hard and indigestible nature of their
food, are very frequently its victin1s ; and it is a
general remark that it oftener occurs at sea than
on shore. It seems probable that 1nuch of the
superstitions belief of these men, in apparitions,
proceeds fro1n the phantoms which nightmare
calls into existence. Un1narried ·women are more
annoyed by it than those who are married ; and
the latter, \Vhen pregnant, have it oftener than at
other tin1es. Persons who \vere extremely subject
to the co1nplaint in their youth, son1etin1es get rid
of it ·when they reach the age of puberty, owing,
probably, to so1ne change in the constitution \Vhich
occurs at this period.
There have been different opinions \Vith re-
gard to the proximate cause of incubus, and au-
thors have generally looked upon it as involved in
considerable obscurity. An in1peded circulation
of blood in the pulmonary arteries, compression of
the diaphragtn by a full stomach, and torpor of the
intercostal muscles, are all mentioned as contri-
buting \vholly, or partially, to the event. I am of
opinion that either of these states may cause night-
OF SLEEP. 135
mare, but that, in most cases, they are all com-
bined. Any thing, in fact, 'vhich impedes respi-
ration, may give rise to the disorder, 'vhether it be
asthma, hydrothorax, djstended stomach, muscular
torpor, or external compression. The causes,
then, are various, but it 'vill be found that, 'vhat-
ever they may be; their ultimate operation is upon
the lungs.
We have already seen that, in ordinary sleep,
particular states of the body are apt to induce
visions: it is, therefore, easily conceivable that a
sense of suffocation, such as occurs in nightmare~
may give birth to all the horrid phanton1s seen in
that distemper. The physical suffering in such a
case, exalts the i1nagination to its utmost pitch :
fills it \vith spectres and chin1eras ; and plants an
imtnovable weight or malignant fiend upon the
bosom to crush us into agony. Let us see how
such physical suffering is brought about.
Any disordered state of the ston1ach may pro-
duce it. First.-This organ n1ay be so distend-
ed 'vith food or wind as to press upon the dia-
phragm, lessen the di1nensions of the chest,
obstruct the movements of the heart, and thereby
impede respiration. Circtunstances like these
alone are sufficient to produce nightmare ; and the
cause from the first is purely 1nechanical.
Secondly.-The state of the stomach may call
forth incubus by means more circuitous or indi-
rect. In this case, the viscus is unequal to the task
imposed upon it of digesting the food, either from
136 PHILOSOPHY
an unusual quantity being thrown upon it, front
the food being of an indigestible nature, or fron1
actual weakness. Here the sensorial po\ver latent
in this organ, is insufficient to carry it through
\Vith its operations, and it is obliged to draw upon
the rest of the body- upon the brain, the respira-
tory muscles, &c., for the supply of \Vhich it is
deficient. The muscles of respiration, in giving
their portion, reduce thetnselves to a state of tem-
porary debility, and do not retain a sufficient share
to execute their o'vn actions 'vith due vig;or. The
pectorals, the intercostals, and the diaphra~m be-
come thus paralyzed; and, the chest not being
sufficiently dilated for perfect breathing, a feeling
of suffocation inevitably ensues. In like n1anner,
the muscles of volition, rendered inert by the sub-
traction of their quota of sensorial power, are un-
able to exercise their functions, and re1nain, during
the paroxysm, in a state of immovable torpor.
This unequal distribution of nervous energy con-
tinues till, by producing some excessive uneasiness.
it stin1u1ates the will to a violent effort, and breaks
the fit ; and so soon as this takes place, the balance
becomes redressed, and the sensorial equilibrium
restored.
Physical suffering of that kind which impedes
breathing, 1nay also be occasioned by many other
causes-by pneumonia, by empyema, by aneurism
of the aorta, by laryngitis, by croup, by external
pressure ; and, accordingly, either of these may
give rise to nightmare. If we chance to lie down
OF SLEEP. 137
with a pillo\v or heavy cloak upon the breast, or
to sleep \Vith the body bent forward, and the head
supported upon a table, as already mentioned, \Ve
may be seized \vith it; and, in truth, ·whatever,
either directly or indirect!y, acts up0n the respira-
tory 1nuscles, and in1pedes their operation, is pretty
sure to bring it on. Even a \Veak or disordered
sto1nach, in which there is no food, by attracting
to itself a portion of their sensorial po·wer to aid its
O\vn inadequacies, may induce it. The disorder,
therefore, takes place under various circu1nstances
-either by direct pressure upon the lungs, as in
distended ston1ach, or hydrothorax; or by partial
torpor of the ston1ach or muscles of respiration)
owing to a deficiency of nervous energy. These
physical impediments coexisting \vith, or giving
rise to a distempered state of the brain, sufficiently
account for the horrors of nightmare.
Why are hard students, deep thinkers, and hypo-
chondriacs unusually subject to incubus? The
cause is obvious. Such individuals have often a
bad digestion: their sto1nachs are subject to acidity,
and other functional derangements, and therefore,
peculiarly apt to generate the cotnplaint. The
sedentary life, and habits of intellectual or melan-
choly reflection in \vhich they indulge, have a ten-
dency not merely to disturb the digestive apparatus,
but to act upon the whole cerebral systen1: hence,
they are far more liable to dreams of every kind
than other people, in so far as their minds are
more intently employed; and when, in sleep, they
138 PHILOSOPHY
are pained by any physical endurance, the activity
of their mental po,vers ·will naturally associate the
most horrible ideas 'vith such suffering, and pro-
duce incubus, and all its frightful accompaniments.
Nightmare is sometimes attended with danger,
·when it becotnes habitual. It may then give rise
to apoplexy, and destroy life; or, in very nervous
subjects, may occasion epileptic and hysterical
affections, ·which prove extren1ely harassing. Ac-
cording to Ccelius Aurelianus, many people die of
this con1plaint. Probably some of those \Vho are
found dead in bed have lost their lives in a fit of
incubus, the circumstance being itnputed to some
other cause. Nightn1are is thus, in some cases
dangerous: and in all, when it becon1es habitual,
is such a source of 1nisery, that sleep, instead of
being courted as a period of blissful repose, is looked
upon 'vith horror, as the appointed season of inex-
pressible suffering and dread. It becomes, on this
account, a matter of importance to contri\re some
method for preventing the attacks of so distressful
a 1nalady. The cause, whati3T"er it may be, n1ust,
if practicable, be ren1oved, and the sympton1s thence
arising will naturally disappear. If the disorder
proceed frotn heavy suppers, or indigestible food,
these things ought to be given up, and the person
should either go supperless to bed, or 'vith such a
light n1en.l as \vilL not hurt his digestion. Salted
provisions of all kinds 1nust be abandoned, nor
should he taste any thing 'vhich will lie heavily
upon the ston1ach, or run into fermentation. F Ol'
OF SLEEP. 139
this reason, nuts, cucutnbers, cheese, han1, and
fruits arc all prejud1cial. If he be subject to heart...
burn, flatulence, and other dysprptic syn1ptoms,
he should make use of occasional doses of n1agne-
sia, or carbonate of potash or soda. I have kno\vn
a tea-spoonful of either of the two latter; or three
times that quantity of the forn1er, taken before step-
ping into bed, prevent an attack, \vhere, fron1 the
previous state of the ston1ach, I a1n convinced it
would have taken place, had those 1nedicines not
been used. Great attention 1nnst be paid to the
state of the bow·els. For this purpose, the colo-
cynth, the con1pound rhubarb, or the co1nmon
aloetic pill, should be made use of, in doses of one,
two, or three, according to circumstances, till the
digestive organs are brought into proper play.
The comrnon blue pill, used with proper caution,
is al~o an excellent medicine. In all cases, the
patienLshould take abundaut exercise, shun late
hours, or too n1uch study, and keep his mind in as
cheerful a state as possible. Thebed he lieson ought
to be hard, and the pillo\v not very high. "\Vhen
the attacks are frequent, and extren1ely severe, Dr.
Dar,vin recon11nends that an alann clock might be
hung up in the room, so that the repose 1nay be
interrupted at short intervals. It is a good plan
to have another person to sleep in the san1e bed,
who might arouse him from the paroxysm ; and he
should be directed to lie as little as possible upon
the back.
These points comprehend the principal treat-
140 PHILOSOPHY
1nent, and \vhen persevered in, will rarely fail to
mitigate or remove the disease. Son1etimes, how-
ever, owing to certain peculiarities of constitution,
it 1nay be necessary to adopt a different plan, or
combine other means along ·w1th the above: thus,
vVhytt, \vho was subject to night1nare, could only
insure hitnselfagainst an attack, by taking a small
glassful of brandy, just before going to bed ; and
some individuals .find that a light supper prevents
the fit, \vhile it is sure to occur if no supper at all
be taken. But these are rare exceptions to the
general rule, and, when they do occur, must be
treated in that manner which experience proves
most effectual, without being bound too nicely by
the ordinary modes of cure. Blood-letting, which
so1ne writers recormnend, is useless or hurtful,
except in cases where there is reason to suppose
that the affection is brought on by plethora.
With regard to the other causes of uightmare,
such as asthma, hydrothorax, &c., these tnust be
treated on general principles, and it, as one of
their syn1ptoms, \vill depart so soon as they are
removed.
So1ne persons recomtnend opium for the cure of
nightn1are, but this medicine I should think more
likely to aggravate than relieve the con1plaint.
The late Dr. Polydori, author of" The Van1pyre,"
and of an "Essay on Positive Pleasure," was
much subject to incubus, and in the habit of using
opiutn for its removal. One morning he was found
dead, and on a table beside him stood a glass,
OF SLEEP . 141
'vhich had evidently contained laudanun1 and
water. From this, jt was supposed he had killed
himself by his own treatment; but \Vhether the
quantity of laudanum taken hy him \Vould have
destroyed life in ordinary circumstances, has
never been ascertained.
13
CHAPTER VI.
DAY1\IARE .
I HAVE strong doubts as to the propriety of con...
sidering this affection in any \vay different frotn
the incubus, or nightmare. It seems merely a
modification of the latter, only accompanied by no
aberration of the judg1nent. The person endures
precisely many of the same feelings, such as dif-
ficult respiration, torpor of the voluntary muscles,
deep sighing, extreme terror, and inability to speak.
The only difference which see1ns to exist between
the two states is, that, in daymare, the reason
is alu;ays unclouded- \vhereas in incubus it is
generally 1nore or less disturbed.
Dr. Mason Good, in his "Study of Medicine,"
takes notice of a case, recorded by Forestus, "that
returned periodically every third day, like an inter-
mittent fever. The patient was a girl, nine years
of age, and at these tin1es \vas suddenly attacked
with great terror, a constriction of both the lower
and upper belly, with urgent difficulty of breath-
ing. Her eyes· continued open, and \Vere perma-
nently continued to one spot; with her hands she
P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F b L E E P • 143
forcibly grasped hold of things, that she 1night
breathe the more easily. When spoken to, she re-
turned no ans,ver. In the n1eantin1e, the 1nind
·eemed to be collected; she \vas \vithout sleep ;
sighed repeatedly; the abdon1en "\vas elevated, the
thorax still violently contracted, and oppressed
with laborious respiration ancl heavy panting:
she \Vas incapable of utterance.''
During the intensely hot sutnn1er of 1825, I
experienced an attack of dayn1are. l1n1nediately
after dining, I threw tnyself on my back upon a
sofa, and, before I \Yas a"rare, \Vas seized ·with dif-
ficult respiration, extretne dread, and utter incapa-
bility of motion or speech. I could neither move
nor cry, while the breath can1e from n1y chest iu
broken and suffocating paroxysms. During all
this time, I was perfectly awake: I saw the light
~laring in at the windows in broad sultry streams;
I felt the intense heat of the day pervading n1y
frame ; and heard distinctly the different noises in
the street, and even the ticking of n1y O\vn \vatch,
\vhich I had placed on the cushion beside me. I
had, at the same time, the consciousness of flies
buzzing around, and .settling with annoying perti-
nacity upon my face. During the whole fit, judg-
ment was never for a moment suspended. I felt
assured that I labored under a species of incubus.
I even endeavored to reason myself out of the feel-
ing of dread which filled my mind, and longed
'\Vith insufferable ardor for some one to open the
door, and dissolve the spell which bound me in its
144 P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P.
fetters. The fit did not continue above five nun
utes: by degrees I recovered the use of speech and
1notion : and as soon as they were so far restored
as to enable n1e to call out and move my limbs, it
wore insensibly away.
Upon the 'vhole, I consider dayn1are and night-
mare identical. They proceed fron1 the sanlC
causes, and 1nust be treated in a similar Inanner_
C I·I A P T E R V I I .
SLEEP-WALK IN G.
iN simple dreaming, as I have already stated, some
of the cerebral organs are awake, while others con-
tinue in the quiescence of sleep. Such; also, is
the case in somnambulism; but \vith this addition,
that the drea1n ]s of so forcible a nature as to sti-
mulate into action the muscular systmn as \veil
as, in most cases, one or tnoTe of the organs of the
senses. If \\re drea1n that \Ve arc \valking. and
the vision possec;;ses such a degree of vividness
and exciting energy as to arouse the n1uscles of
loco1notion, \Ve naturally get np and \valk. Should
\Ve dream that we hear or see, and the impression
be so vivid as to stimulate the eyes and ears, or,
1nore properly speaking, those parts of the brain
\vhich take cognizance of sights and sounds, then
\Ve both see any objects, or hear any sounds, \Vhich
may occur, just as if we were awake. In some
cases, the muscles only are excited, and then we
simply walk, without either seeing or hearing. In
others, both the muscles and organs of sight are
stimulated, and we not only \va!k, but have the
13*
146 PHILOSOPHY
use of our eyes. In a third variety, the activity
of hearing is added, and we both \valk, and see,
and hear. Should the senses of sn1ell, taste, and
touch be sti1nulated into activity, and relieved
from the torpor into which they ·were thrown by
sleep, \Ve have then1 also brought into operation.
If; to all this, \Ve add an active state of the organs
of speech, inducing us to talk, we are then brought
as nearly as the slu1nbering state adn1its, into the
condition of perfect wakefulness. The following
passage fron1 Dr. lVIason Good \vill illustrate so1ne
of the foregoing points n1ore fully.
"If," observes he~ "the external organ of sense
thus stimulated be that of sight, the drean1er may
perceive objects around him, and be able to dis-
tinguish them; and if the tenor of the drean1ing
ideas should as poweTfully operate upon the lnus-
cles of locon1otion, these also n1ay be thro\vn into
their accnsto1ned state of action, and he 1nay rise
from his bed, and n1ake his way to \vhateYer place
the drift of his drean1 n1ay direct hin1, "rith per-
fect ease, and free fro1n danger. l-Ie \vill see more
or less distinctly, in proportion as the organ of
sight is n1ore or less a\vake : yet, fron1 the increas-
ed ex.haustiou, and, of course, increased torpor of
the other organs, in consequence of an increased
demand of sensorial po,ver fro1n the con1mon
stock, to supply the action of the sense and lnus-
cles in1tncdiately engaged, every other sense will
probably be thro\vn into a deeper sleep or torpor
than if the whole had been quiescent. Hence,
OF SLEEP. 147
the ears may not be roused even by a sound that
n1ight othcr\vise a\vake the sleeper. He n1ay be
insensible not only to a slight touch, but a se-
vere shaking of the Jimbs; and may even cough
violently, \Vithout being recalled fro1n his drea1n .
lfaving acco1npli heel the object of his visionary
pursuit, he n1ay safely return, even over the n1ost
dangerous precipices-for he sees then1 distinctly-
to his bed: and the organ of sjght being no\v quite
exhausted, or there being no longer any occasion
for its use, it 1uay once 1nore associate in the ge-
neral inactivity, and the dream take a new turn,
and consist of a new cotnbination of inmges.''*
I suspect that :slcep-\valking is so1neti1nes here-
ditary, at leust I have kno,vn instances \vhich gave
countenance to such a supposition. Its victims nrc
generally pale, nervous, irritable persons ; and it is
re1narked that they are subject, 'vithout any appa-
rent cause, to freqncnt attacks of cold perspiration.
So1nnatnbnlisn1, I have had occasion to re1nark, is
very con1mon an1ong children ; and I believe that
it 1nore frequently affects childhood than any other
age. In females, it so1neti1neR arises fron1 alne-
norrhrea; and any source of bodily or 1nental ir-
ritation 1nay produce it. It is a curjous1 and not
easily explained fact, that the aged, though they
drean1 n1ore than the tniddle-Dged, are Jess addict-
ed to so1nnainbuhs1n and sleep-talking. Indeed,
these pheno1nena are seldo1n noticed in old people.
It has been matter of surprise to 1nany, that
Good's Stu<ly of l\1cdicine, vol. iv. p. 175, 3d edit.
148 PHILOSO.PHY
somnambulists often get into the n1ost dangerous
situations without experiencing terror. But the
explanation of this ought not to be attended with
any real difficulty; for we n1ust reflect, that alann
cannot be felt unless we apprehend danger, and
that the latter, however great it tnay be, cannot ex-
cite emotion of any kind, so long as we are igno-
rant of its existence. This is 1he situation in
\vhich sleep-\valkers, in a great 1najority of cases,
stand. The reasoning faculties, which point out
the existence of danger, are generally in a state of
complete slun1ber, and unable to produce cor-
respouding emotions in the n1ind. And even if
danger should be perceived by a sleep-·walker and
avoided, as is so1netimes the case, his ·want of ter-
ror is to be imputed to a quiescent state of the or-
gan of Cautiousness; the sense of fear originating
in high excite1nent of this particular part of the
brain. That the reasoning faculties, however, are
son1eth11es only very partially suspended \Ve have
abundant evidence, in the fact of the individual
not only now and then studiously avoiding dan-
ger, but perforn1ing offices \vhich require no small
degree of judgn1ent. In the higher kinds of som-
nambulism, so n1any of the organs of the brain
are in activity, and there is such perfect \Vakeful-
ness of the external senses and locomotive powers,
that the person tnay ahnost be said to be awake.
Somnambulis1n bears a closer analogy than a
common dream to madness. " Like n1adness, it is
accompanied with muscular action, \Vith coherent
OF SLEEP. 1·19
and incoherent conduct, and \vith that con1plete
oblivion (in most cases) of both, which takes place
in the \vorst grade of n1adness."*
Son1narnbulists generally vvalk \vith their eyes
open, but these organs are1 neyertheless frequently
asleep, and do not exercise their functions. This
fact \Vas well known to Shakspeare, as is apparent
in the fearful inst:tnce of Lady 1\lacbcth:
" Doctar. You see her eyes are open.
Gentleman. Ay, but their sense is shut.''
The following is a ren1arkable instance 111 point,
and sho\vs that though the po\ver of vision \Vas
suspended, that of hearing continued in full ope-
ration.
A fe1nale servant in the town of Chehnsford,
surprised the fa1nily, at four o'clock one n1orning,
by \valking do\vn a flight of stairs in her sleep,
and rapping at the..bed-roon1 door of her n1aster,
who inquired what she \.vanted? when, in her
usual tone of voice, she requested so1ne cotton,
saying that she had torn her go\vlli but hoped that
her 1nistress would forgive her : at the sa1ne time
bursting into tears. Her fellow-servant, \Vith " rhon1
she had been conversing for sotuc tiinc, observed
her get out of bed, and quickly follo,vcd her,
but not before she had related the pitiful story..
She then returned to her rootn, and a Jight having
been procured, she 'vas found groping to fiud her
:+. Rush's l\ledical lnquirieE.
150 PHILOSOPHY
cotton-box. Another person \.vent to her, when,
perceiving a difference in the voice, she called out,
"That is a different voice, that is my n1istress,"
\Vhich was not thecase-thus clearlysho\ving, that
she clid not see the object before her, although her
eyes were wide open. Upon inquiry as to \vhat was
the 1natter, she only said that she \vanted son1e cot-
ton, but that her fellow-servant had been to her
master and mistress, making a fuss about it. It \vas
now thought prudent that she should be allo·wed
to remain quiet for some short tin1e, and she was
persuaded to lie do\vn with her fello\v-servant, m1-
til the usual hour of rising, thinking that she
might then awake in her accustomed n1anner.
This failing in effect, her mistress went up to her
room, and rather angrily desired her to get up, and
go to her \\rorlc, as it was now six o,clock ; this
she refused, telling her 1nistress that if she did not
please her, she n1ight look out for another servant,
aL the same tin1e saying, that she would not rise
up at t\vo o'clock, (pointing to the windo\v,) to in-
jure her health for any one. For the sake of a
joke, she was told to pack up her things, and start
off imn1ediately, but to this she n1ade no reply.
She rebuked her fellow-servant for not ren1aining
longer in bed, and shortly after this beca1ne quiet.
She was afterwards shaken violently, and a\voke.
She then rose, and seeing the cotton-box disturbed,
demanded to know \.vhy it had been Ineddled \Vith,
not lu1owing that she alone was the cause of it. In
the course of the day, several questions were put
OF SLEEP. 151
to her in order to try her recollection, but the real
fact of her \Valking, vvas not 1nade known to her;
and she is still quite unconscious of \vhat has
transpired.
Thfl next case is of a different description, and
exhibits a donnant state of the sense of hearing,
\Vhile sight appears, throughout, to have been in
active operation.
A young man na1ned Johns, who \vorks ai
Cardre\v, near Redruth, being asleep in the sump-
house of that mine, was observed by t\vo boys to
rise and \Valk to the door, against \Vhich he leaned;
shortly after, quitting that position, he walked to
the engine-shaft, and safely descended to the depth
of twenty fatho1ns, \vhere he was found by his
co1nrades soon after, \Vith his back resting on the
ladder. They called to him, to apprize him of the
perilous situation in which he was, but he did not
hear them, and they were obliged to shake him
roughly till he a\voke, \vhen he appeared totally
at a loss to account for his being so situated.
In Lodge's "I-Iistorical Portraits," there is a like-
ness, by Sir Peter Lely, of Lord Culpepper's
brother, so famous as a drea1ner. In 1686, he \vas
indicted at the Old Baileyi for shooting one of the
Guards, and his horse to boot. He pleaded som-
nanlbnlistn, and \Vas acquitted on producing
nearly fifty \Vitnesses, to prove the extraordinary
things he did in his sleep.
A very curious circumstance is related of Dr.
Franklin, in the memoirs of that eminent philoso-
152 PHILOSOPHY
pher, published by his grandson. "I \Vent out/'
said the Doctor "to bathe in Martin's salt \Vater
,
hot bath, in Southa1npton, anti, floating on my
back, fell asleep, and slept nearly an hour, by my
\Vatch, without sinking or turning-a thing I
never did before, and should hardly have thought
possible.;,
A case still 1nore extraordinary occurred some
time ago in one of the towns on the coast of Ire-
land. About two o'clock in the morning, the
\vatchmen on the Revenue quay, were much
surprised at descrying a man disporting hi1nself
in the \Vater, about a hundred yards from the
shore. Intinwtion having been given to the
Revenue boat's crc\v, they pushed off and suc-
ceeded in picking him up, but strange to say, he
had no idea \vhatever of his perilous situation :
and it \vas ·with the uhnost difficulty they could
persuade hi1n he was not still in bed. But the
most singular part of this novel adventure, and
which \Vas aftcr\vards ascertained, \Vas that the
man had left his house at t\vclve o'clock that
night, and \valkcd through a difficult, and, to him,
dangerous road, a distance of nearly t\VO miles,
and had actually S\VUtn one mile and a half when
he \vas fortunately discovered and picked up.
Not very long ago a boy was seen fishing off
Brest, up to the middle in water. On con1ing up
to hin1, he \Vas found to be fast asleep.
I know a gentleman who, in consequence of
dreaming that the house was broken into by
OF SLEEI>. 153
thieves, got out of bed, dropped from the \vindow
(fortunately a low one) into the street ; and was a
considerable distance on his \Vay to w·arn the
police, when he \Vas discovered by one of them,
\vho a\voke him, and conducted him hon1e.
A case is related of an English clergyman who
used to get up in the night, light his candle, write
sermons, correct thmn \Vith interlineations, and re-
tire to bed again ; being all the tin1e asleep. The
Archbishop of Bourdeaux mentions a si1nilar case
of a student, \vho got up to compose a sermon
\vhile asleep, \Vrote it correctly, read it over from
one end to the other, or at least appeared to read
it, made corrections on it, scratched out lines, and
substituted others, put in its place a word \Vhich
had been omitted, co1nposed n1usic, wrote it accu-
rately down, anu porformed other things equally
surpns1ng. Dr. Gall takes notice of a nliller who
\vas in the habit of getting up every night and at-
tending to his usual avocations at the mill, then
returning to bed: on a\vaking in the morning, he
recollected nothing of \vhat passed during night.
Martinet speaks of a saddler who was accuston1ed
to rise in his sleep and \Vork at his trade; and Dr.
Pritchard of a fanner who got out of bed, dressed
himself, saddled his horse, and rode to the market,
being all the while asleep. Dr. Blacklock, on one
occasion, rose from bed, to \vhich he had retired
at an early hour, catne into the room where his
family were assembled, eonversed \Vith them, and
after\vards entertained them with a pleasant song,
14
154 PHILOSOPHY
without any of them suspecting he was asleep, and
\Vithout his retaining after he awoke, the least re-
collection of what he had done. It is a singular,
yet \Vell authenticated fact, that in the disastrous
retreat of Sir. John Moore, many of the soldiers
fell asleep, yet continued to march along \Vith their
comrades.
The stories related of sleep-\valkers are, indeed,
of so extraordinary a kind, that they would almost
seen1 :fictitious, \Vere they not supported by the
1nost incontrovertible evidence. To walk on the
house-top, to scale precipices, and descend to the
botto1n of frightful ravines, are common exploits
with the son1nan1bulist; and he performs them
with a facility far beyond the po,ver of any n1an
who is co1npletely a\vake. A story is told of a boy,
\vho dreamed that he got out of bed1 and ascended
to the su1runit of an enormus rock. \vhere he found
an eagle's nest, \vhich he brought a\vay with him,
and placed beneath his bed. No\v, the whole of
these events actually took place; and what he
conceived, on awaking, to be a 1nere vision, was
proved to have had an actual existence)by the nest
being found in the precise spot \vhere he i1nagined
he had put it, and by the evidence of spectators
\Vho beheld his perilous adventure. The precipice
which he ascended, \Vas of a nature that must have
baffled the most expert mountaineer, and such as,
at other times, he never could have scaled. In this
instance, the individual \Vas as nearly as possible,
without actually being so, awake. All his bodily,
OF SLEEP. 155
and almost the whole of his mental powers, appear
to have been in full activity. So far as the latter
are concerned, 've can only conceive a partial de-
fect of the judgment to have existed, for that it
\Vas not altogether abolished is pretty evident from
the fact of his proceeding to \vork precisely as he
'vould have done, had he, in his \Vaking hours,
seriously resolved to make such an attempt: the
defect lay in making the attempt at all; and still
more in getting out of bed to do so in the middle
of the night.
Somnambulism, as well as lunacy, so1netimes
besto,vs supernatural strength upon the individual.
Mr. Dubrie, a musician in Bath, affords an instance
of this kind. One Sunday, 'vhile awake, he at-
tempted in vain to force open the windo-vv of his
bed-room, which chanced to be nailed down; but
having got up in his sleep, he repeated the attempt
successfully, and thre'v himself out, by which he
unfortunately broke his leg.
Sleep-\valking is sometimes periodical. Marti-
net describes the case of a watchmaker's appren-
tice who had an attack of it every fortnight. In
this state, though insensible to all external impres-
sions, he would perfonn his work with his usual
accuracy, and \vas ahvays astonished, on awaking,
at the progress he had made. The paroxysm be-
gan \vith a sense of heat in the epigastrium extend-
ing to the head, followed by confusion of ideas and
complete insensibility, the eyes remaining open
with a fixed and vacant stare. This case, which
156 PHILOSOPHY
undoubtedly originated in some diseased state of
the brain, terminated in epilepsy. Dr. GallTelates
that he saw at Berlin a young man, sixteen years of
age, who had, fro1n time to time, very extraordi-
nary fits. He moved about unconsciously in bed,
and had no perception of any thing that was done
to him; at last he would jump out of bed, and
walk with rapid steps about the room, his eyes be-
ing fixed and open. Several obstacles which \vere
placed by Dr. Gall in his way, he either removed
or cautiously avoided. He then threw himself
suddenly again upon bed, moved about for so1ne
tin1e, and finished by jumping up awake, not a
little surprised at the number of curious people
about him.
The facility with which somnambu]jsts are
a\vakened from the paroxysm, differs extre1nely in
different cases. One man is aroused by being
gently touched or called upon, by a :flash of light,
by stumbling in his peregrinations, or by setting
his foot in water. Another remains so heavily
asleep, that it is necessary to shout loudly, to
shake hi1n \vith violence, and n1ake use of other
excitations equally powerful. In this condition,
when the sense of vision chances to be dorn1ant.I
it is curious to look at his eyes. Son1etin1es they
arc shut; at other tin1es wide open; and \vhen
the latter is the case, they are observed to be
fixed and inexpressive, " ·without speculation,'' or
energy, \vhile the pupil, is coutracted, as h1 the
case of perfect sleep.
OF SLEEP . 157
It is not always safe to arouse a sleep-\valker;
and many cases of the fatal effects thence arising
have been detailed by authors. Nor is it at all
unlikely that a person, even of strong nerves,
might be violently agitated by ;:nvaking in a situ-
ation so different from that in \vhich he lay do,vn.
Among other examples, that of a young lady, who
\vas addicted to this affection, may be mentioned.
Kno\ving her failing, her friends 1nade a point of
locking the door, and securing the \vindow of her
chatnber in such a manner that she could not pos-
sibly get out. One night, these precautions were,
unfortunately overlooked; and, in a paroxysm of
somnambulism, she \valked into the garden behind
the house. While there, she \Vas recognised by
some of the family, \vho \vere warned by the noise
she n1ade on opening the door, and they follo\ved
and awoke her; but such \Vas the effect produced
upon her nervous system, that she almost instantly
expired.
The remote causes of sleep-\valking are so ob-
scure, that it is seldom we are able to ascertain
them. General irritability of frame, a nervous
temperament, and bad digestion, \vill dispose to the
affection. Being a modification of dreaming, those
who are much troubled with the latter will, conse-
quently, be most prone to its attacks. The causes)
however, are, in a great majority of cases, so com-
pletely unknown, that any attempt to investigate
them would be fruitless ; and we are compelled
14*
158 PHILOSOPHY
to refer the complaint to some idiosyncracy of con-
stitution beyond the reach of human knowledge.
According to the report made by a Committee
of the Royal Acadetny of Sciences in Paris, ani-
mal magnetisn1 appears to have the po\ver of mduc-
ing a peculiar species of sonma1nbulism. The
circun1stances seen1 so curious, that, even authen-
ticated as they are by men of undoubted integrity
and talent1 it is extremely difficult to place reliance
upon them. The person who is thro\vn into the
rnagnetic sleep is said to acquire a ne\v concious-
uess, and entirely to forget all the events of his
ordinary life. 'Vhen this sleep is dissolved, he gets
into his usual state of feeling and recollection,
but forgets eveJy thing that happened during the
sleep; being again magnetized, ho\vever, the re-
mmnbrance of all that occurred in the previous
sleep is brought back to his 1nind. In one of the
cases above related, the patient, a lady of sixty-four
years, had an ulcerated cancer in the right breast.
She had been 1nagnctized for the purpose of dis-
solving the tun1or, but no other effect \vas produc-
ed than that of thro\ving her into a species of
sotnnambulic sleep, in \vhich sensibility was anni-
hilated, while her ideas retained all their clearness.
In this state, her surgeon, l\1. Chapelain, disposed
her to submit to an operation, the idea of which
she rejected \vith horror v;lwn awake. Having
fonnally given her consent, she undressed herself,
sat do\vn upon a chair, and the diseased glands
\vere carefully and deliberately dissected out, the
OF SLEEP. 159
patient conversing all the time and being perfectly
insensible of pain. On awaking, she had no con-
sciousness \vhatever of having been operated upon;
but being informed of the circumstance, and see-
ing her children around her, she experienced the
1nost lively e1notion, \vhich the 1nagnetizer instant·
ly checked by again setting her asleep. These
facts appear startling and incredible. I can give
no opinion upon the subject from any thing I have
seen n1yself; but the testimony of such men as
Cloquet, Georget, and Itard, is not to be received
Jjghtly on any phisiological point; and they all
concur in bearing \vitness to such facts as the
above. In the present state of knowledge and
opinion, vvith regard to anin1al magnetism, and
the sleep occasioned by it, I shall not say more at
present, but refer the reader to the ample details
contained in the Parisian Report; an able transla-
tion of which into English has been made by Mr.
Colquhoun.
When a person is addicted to somnambulism,
great care should be taken to have the door and
\Vindows of his sleeping aparttnent secured, so as
to prevent the possibility of egress, as he sometimes
forces his way through the panes of glass: this
should be put out of his power, by having the
shutters closed, and bolted, in such a way that they
cannot be opened without the aid of a key or screw,
or some such instrument, \vhich should never be
left in the room where he sleeps, but carried away,
while the door is secured on the outside. Some
160 PHILOSOPHY
have recommended that a tub of water should be
put by the bedside, that, on getting out, he might
step into it, and be a\vakened by·the cold; but this-
from the suddenness of its operation, n1ight be at-
tended with bad consequences in very nervous and
delicate subjects. It is a good plan to fix a cord to
the bedpost, and tic the other end of it securely
round the person's ·wrist. This \v-ill effectually
prevent mischief if he attetnpt to get up. vVhen-
ever it can be managed, it \vill be prudent for an-
other person to sleep along \VIth him. In all ca-
ses, care should be taken not to arouse hin1 sud-
denly. This 1nust be done as gently as possible;
and \vhen he can be conducted to bed \vithout be-
ing a\vakened at all, it is still better. Should he be
perceived in any dangerous situation, as 011 the
house-top, or the brink of a precipice, the utn1ost
caution is requisite; for, if we call loudly upon
him, his dread, on recovering, at flnding hin1self
in such a predican1ent, may actually occasion hun
to fall, \vhcre, if he had been left to hin1self, he
would have escaped \Vithout injury.
To prevent a recurrence of son1n~nnbulistn, we
should re1nove, if possjble, the cause \Yhich g:a\re
~
rise to it. Thus, if it proceed from a disordered
state of the st01nach, or hi1iary syste1n, we 1nust
employ the various 1ncdicines used in such cases.
Plenty of exercise should be taken. and late hours
and much study avoided. Ifit anses from plethora,
he must be blooded, and live lo'v; should hysteria
OF SLEEP. 161
produce it, antispasmodics, such as valerian, an1~
mania, a~safretida, and opiutn tnay be necessary.
But, unfortunately, \ve can often refer sleep-
walking to no con1plaint whatever. In this case,
all that can be done is to carry the individual as
safely as possible through the paroxysn1, and pre
vent hin1 fron1 injury by the 1ncans \Ve have n1en-
tioned. In many instances, the affection \viii
\vear spontaneously <.nvay: in others, it will con--
tinue in spite of every remedy.
CHAPTER VIII.
SLEEP-XALKING.
THIS closely resembles somnambulism, and pro-
ceeds from similar causes. In somnan1bulism,
those parts of the brain \Vhich are awake call the
muscles of the limbs into activity; while, in sleep-
talking, it is the muscles necessary for the produc-
tion of speech which are animated by the waking
cerebral organs. During sleep, the organ of Lan-
guage may be active, either singly or in combina-
tion with other parts of the brain ; and of this ac-
tivity sleep-talking is the result.* If, while 've
* Among the insane, the organ just mentioned is occasionally
excited to such a degree that even, in the waking state, the pa-
tient, however desirous, is literally unable to refrain from speaking.
Mr. 1lf. A. F. Browne has reported two cases of this nature in the
37th No. of the Phrenological Journal. The first is that of a wo-
man in the hospital of La Salpetriere in Paris. "\Vhencver she
encounters the physician or other of the attendants, she bursts
forth into an address which is delivered with incredible rapidity
and vehemence, and is generally an abusive or ironical declama-
tion against the tyranny, cruelty, and injustice to which she is ex-
posed. In the midst of her harangues, however, she introduces
P II I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P. 163
dream that we are conversing with some one, the
organ of Language is in such a high state of ac-
tivity as to rouse the muscles of speech, we are
sure to talk. It often happens, however, that the
cerebral parts, though sufficiently active to make
us drea1n that v.re are speaking, are not excited so
much as to 1nake us actually speak. We only sup-
pose \Ve are carrying on a conversation, while, in
reality, we are con1pletely silent. To produce
sleep-talking, therefore, the brain, in some of its
functions, must be so much awake as to put into
action the voluntary muscles by which speech is
produced.
The conversation in this state, is of such sub-
jects as our thoughts are most ilnmediately occu-
pied with ; and its consistency or incongruity de-
pends upon that of the prevailing ideas- being
so1netimes perfectly rational and coherent;· at other
times, ful1 of absurdity. The voice is seldom the
same as in the waking state. This I would im-
pute to the organs of hearing being mostly dor-
lnant, and consequently unable to guide the mo-
frequent and earnest parenthetical declarations "that she does not
mean what she says; that though she vows vengeance and
showers imprecations on her medical attendant, she loves him, and
feels grateful for his kindness and forbearance; and that, though
anxious to e\T
ince her gratitude and obedience by silence, she is
constrained by an invisible agency to speak." In the other case,
the individual speaks constantly: "sleep itself does not yield an
intermission ; and there is strong reason to believe that a part, at
least, of his waking orations is delivered either without the cogni-
zance of the other powers, or without consciousness on the part of
the speaker.''
164 PHILOSOPHY
dulations of sound. The same fact is obsetvable
in very deaf persons, whose speech is usually
harsh, unvaried, and monotonous. Sometimes the
faculties are so far awake, that we can n1anage to
converse with the individual, and extract from
him the most hidden secrets of his soul: circum-
stances have thus been ascertained which would
other\vise have remained in perpetual obscurity.
By a little address in this way, a gentle1nan lately
detected the infidelity of his wife from so1ne ex-
pressions which escaped her w·hile asleep, and suc-
ceeded in finding out that she had a n1eeting ar-
ranged with her paramour for the following day.
Lord Byron describes a similar scene in his " Pa-
risina :"
"And Hugo is gone to his lonely bed,
To covet there another's bride;
But she must lay her conscious head
A husband's trusting heart beside.
But fever'd in her sleep she seems,
And red her cheek with troubled dreams,
And mutters she in her unrest
A name she dare not breathe by day,
And clasps her lord unto her breast
Which pants for one away."
From what has been said of somnambulisn1, the
reader 'vill be prepared for phenomena equally cu-
rious as regards sleep-talking. Persons have been
known, for instance, 'vho delivered sermons and
prayers during sleep; among others, Dr. Haycock,
Professor of Medicine in Oxford. He 'vould give
out a text in his sleep, and deliver a good sennon
OF SLEEP. 165
upon it ; nor could all the pinching and pulling of
his friends prevent him. "One of the 1nost re-
markable cases of speaking during sleep," observes
a writer in Frazer's Magazine, " is that of an Ame-
rican lady, now (we believe) alive, \vho preached
during her sleep, performing regularly every part
of the Presbyterian service, frorn the psahn to the
blessing. This lady was the daughter of re~pect­
able and even wealthy parents; she fell into bad
health, and, tmder its influence, she disturbed and
annoyed her family by her nocturnal eloquence.
Her unhappy parents, though at first surprised,
and perhaps flattered by the exhibition in their
family of so extraordinary a gift, were at last con-
vinced that it \vas the result of disease; and, in
the expectation that their daughter might derive
benefit from change of scene, as \vell as from me-
dical skill, they made a tour \vith her of some
length, and visited N-ew York and so1ne of the
other great cities of the Union. We know indi-
viduals \vho have heard her preach during the
night in steam-boats ; and it was custo1nary, at tea
parties in Ne\v York, (in the houses of medical
practitioners,) to put the lady to bed in a room ad-
jacent to the dra·wing-room, in order that the dil-
letanti might \Vitness so extraordinary a phenome-
non. We have been told by ear-,vituesses, that
her sermons, though they had the appearance of
connected discourses, consisted chiefly of texts of
Scripture strung together. It is strongly ilnpress-
15
166 PlliLOSOPHY
ed upon our memory that so1ne of her sermons
were published in America."
In the Edinburgh Journal of Science, a lady
\Vho "'as subject to spectral illusions, is described
as being subject to talk in her sleep \Vith great flu-
enc) , to repeat great portious of poetry, especially
\Vhl'n utnvell, and even to cop ver..es for half an
hour at a tin1e, neYer failing to quote lines begin-
ning 'vith the final letter of the preceding till her
1nenwry 'vas cxhau~ted.
Dr. Dyce, in the Edinburgh Philosophical
Transactions, relates the case of 1\Iaria C ,
'vho, <luring one paroxysn1 of son1non1bulism, re-
collected what took place in a preceding one, 'vith-
ont having anysuch recol1ection during theinterval
of ''rakcfnlness. One of the occasions in which
this young 'von1an manifested the po"rer in ques-
tion, \\Tas of a very 1nelancholy nature. Her fel-
lo\v-seryant, a fen1ale of abandoned character, hav-
ing found out that, on a'vaking, she entirely forgot
every thing 'vhich occurred during the fit, intro-
duced by stealth into the house, a young 1nan of
her acquaintance, and obtained for hin1 an oppor-
tnnhy of treating l\iaria. in the 1nost brutal and
treacherous manner. The wretches succeeded in
their object by stopping her n1outh '\'ith the bed-
clothes, by 'vhich and other means, they overcame
the vigorous resistance she was enahlcd to make
tn their villany, even in her son1nolent state. On
awaking, she had no consciousness \vhatever of
the outrag-e; but so1ne days after\vards, having
OF SLEEP. 167
fallen into the same state, it recurred to her me-
mory, and she related to her mother al1 the revolt-
ing particulars. The state of mind in this case
\vas perfectly analogous to that which is said to
occur in the magnetic sleep; but the particular
state of the brain \Vhich induces such conditions
will, I believe, ever rcn1ain a n1ystery.*
* A case, in some respects similar, ,.,-as published in the Medi-
cal Repository, by Dr. l\1itchcll, who received the particulars of it
from Major Ellicot, Profec:_or of ~lathematics in the United States
Military Academy at \Vest Point. The subject was a young lady,
of a good constitution, excellent capacity, and well educated.
"Her memory was capacious and well stored with a copious
stock of ideas. Unexpectedly, and without any fore"varning-, she
fell into :1. profound sle<'p, wh1ch continued several hours beyond
the ordinary term. On wakmg-, she was discovered to have lost
every trait of acquired knowledge. Her memory was tabula rasa
-all ve$tiges, both of word.5 and things were obliterated and
gone. It was found necessary for her to learn every thing again.
She even acquired, by new efforts, the art of spellm~, reading,
writing, and calculatm~, and gradually became acquamted with
the persons and obJects around, like a being for the first time
brought into the world. In these exercises she made considerable
proficiency. But after a few months, another fit of somnolency
invaded her. On rousing from it, she found herself restored to the
state she was in before the tir3t paroxysm ; but was wholly igno-
rant of every event and occurrence that had befallen her after-
wards. The former condition of ber existence she now calls the
Old State, and the latter the New State ; and she is as unconscious
of her double character as two distinct persons are of their re-
spective natures. For example, in her old state, she possesses all
the original knowledge; in her new state, only what she acquired
since. If a lady or gentleman be introduced to her in the old
state, and vice versa, (and so of all other matters) to know them
satisfactorily, she must learn them in both states. In the old state,
she possesses fine powers of penmanship, while in the new, she
.
168 PHILOSOPHY
The following singular case of sleep-talking,
corr1bined with somnambulis1n, will prove interest-
ing to the reader:-
"A very ingenious and elegant young lady,
\vith light eyes and hair, about the age of seven-
teen, in other respects \vell, \vas suddenly seized
\Vith this very \vonderful malady. The disease
began with violent convulsions of almost every
muscle of her body, \vith great, but vain efforts to
vo1nit: and the most vio]ent hiccoughs that can be
conceived : these \vere succeeded in about an hour
\vith a fixed spas1n; iu \vhich, one hand \vas ap-
plied to her head. and the other to support it : in
about half an hour these ceased, and the reverie
began suddenly, and \vas at first manifest by the
look of her eyes and countenance, \Vhich seemed
to express attention. Then she conversed aloud
\Vith in1aginary persons, w-ith her eyes open, and
cou1d not, for about an hour. be brought to attend
to the stin1ulus of external object by any kind
of violence \vhich it \vas possible to use: these
syrnpton1s returned in this order every day for :five
or six w'eeks.
"'l'bese conversations \vere quite consistent, and
writes a poor, awkward hand, having not had time or means to
become expert. During four years and upwards, she has had pe-
riodical transitions from one of these states to the other. The alter-
ations are always conscC')uent upon a long and sound sleep. Both
the lady and her family are now capable of conducting the affair
without embarrassment. By simply knowing v.·hethcr she is in
the old or new state, they regulate the intercourse and goveru
themselves accordingly."
OF SLEEP. 169
\Ve could understand what she supposed her ima-
ginary companions to answer, by the continuation
of her part of the discourse. Sometimes she was
angry, at other times showed much wit and viva-
city, but vvas most frequently inclined to melan-
choly. In these reveries, she son1etimes sung over
some music \vith accuracy, and repeated whole
passages from the English Poets. In repeating
some lines from Mr. Pope's ·works, she had forgot
one ·word, and began again, endeavoring to re-
collect it; when she came to the forgotten word, it
was shouted aloud in her ears, and this repeatedly,
to no purpose; but by 1nany trials she at length
regained it herself.
"Those paroxysms were tenninated with the
appearance of inexpressible surprise and great fear,
from which she was some minutes in recovering
herself, calling on her sister \Vith great agitation,
and very frequently undenvent a repetition of con-
vuJsions, apparently from the pain of fear.
"After having thus returned for about an hour
a-day, for t"ro or three \veeks, the reveries seen1ed
to becon1e less con1plete, and some of the circum-
stances varied, so that she could walk about the
room in them, without running against any of the
furniture ; though these n1otions \verc at first very
unsteady and tottering. And afterwards, she once
drank a dish of tea, when the whole apparatus of
the tea-table was set before her, and expressed
some suspic]on that a medicine \Vas put into ]t; and
once seemed to smell at a tuberose, wh]ch was in
15*
170 PHILOSOPHY
flower in her chamber, and deliberated aloud about
breaking it from the stem, saying, ' It would make
her sister so charmingly angry.' At another time,
in her melancholy moments, she heard the bell,
and then taking off one of her shoes as she sat
upon the bed, 'I love the color black,' says she; 'a
little \vider and a little longer, and even this might
1nake 1ne a coffin !' Yet it is evident she was not
sensible at this tilne, any 1nore than formerly, of
seeing or hearing any person about her; indeed,
'vhen great light was thro·wn upon her by opening
the shutters of the wind?w, she seemed less n1elan-
choly: and when I have forcibly held her hands,
or covered her eyes, she appeared to grow impa-
tient, and would say, she could not tell what to do,
for she could neither see nor n1ove. In all these
circumstances, her pulse continued unaffected, as
in health. And when the paroxysm was over, she
could never recollect a single idea of what had
passed.":+
Equally extraordinary is the follo,ving instance
of co1nbined sleep-talking and somnambulism :
"A remarkable instance of this affection occur-
red to a lad natned George David, sixteen years
and a half old, in the service of Mr. Hewson,
butcher, of Bridge-Road, Lambeth. At about
twenty minutes after nine o'clock, the lad bent for-
ward in his chair, and rested his forehead on his
hands, and in ten n1inutes started up, went for his
*Darwin's " Zoonomia.''
OF SLEEP. 171
whip, put on his one spur, and went thence to the
stable; not finding his own saddle in the proper
place, he returned to the house and asked for it.
Being asked \Vhat he \Vanted with it, he replied, to
go his rounds. He returned to the stable, got on
the horse without the saddle, and was proceeding
to leave the stable: it \Vas vvith much difficulty
and force that 1\ir. I-Ie\vson, junior, assisted by the
other ladj could remove him from the horse; his
strength was great, and it was ·with difficulty he
\Vas brought in doors. Mr. Hewson, senior, com-
ing home at this tiu1e, sent for Mr. Benjamin Ridge,.
an etuinent practitioner, in Bridge-Road, \Vho
stood by hi1n for a quarter of an hour, during
which ti1ne the lad cousidered himself as stopped
at the turnpike-gate, and took sixpence out of his
pocket to be changed ; and holding out his hand
for the change, the sixpence \Vas returned to him.
He immediately observed, 'None of your nonsense
-that is the sixpeuce again ; give me my change;'
when t\VO pence halfpenny was given to him, he
counted it over, and said, 'None ofyour gammon;
that is not right; I \Vanta penny more;' making
the three pence halfpenny, which was his proper
change. He then said, 'Give me my castor,
(meaning his hat,) \vhich slang termhe had been in
the habit of using, and then began to whip and
:spur to get his horse on. His pulse at this titne was
136, full and hard; no change of countenance
could be observed, nor any spasmodic affection of
the muscles, the eyes remaining close the \vhole of
172 PHILOSOPHY
the time. His coat was taken off his ann, shirt-
sleeves tucked up, and Mr. Ridge bled him to 32
ounces; no alteration had taken place in him
during the first part of the time the blood \Vas flow-
ing; at about 24 ounces, the pulse began to de-
crease; and when the full quantity named aboye
had been taken, it \\7as at 80-a slight perspiration
on the forehead. During the time of bleeding,
Mr. He\vson related a circumstance of a 1\Tr. Har-
ris, optician, in llolborn} \vhose son, some years
since, \valked out on the parapet of the house in
his sleep. The boy joined the conversation. and
observed, 'He lived at the corner of Bro\vnlow-
Street.' .After the arm \Yas tie-d up; he unlaced
one boot, and said he \vould go to bed : in three
minutes fro1n this tin1e, he a"roke, got np, and
asked \vhat \Vas the 1natter, (having then been one
hour in the trance,) not having the slightest recol-
lection of any thing that had passed, and \vondered
at his ann being tied up, and at the blood, &c. A
strong aperient 1nedicine was then ad1ninistered :
he \Vent to bed, slept \veil, and the next day ap-
peared perfectly \vell, excepting debility fron1 the
bleeding, and operation of the medicine, and has
no recollection \vhatever of what had taken place.
None of his fan1ily or hitnself \Vere ever affected
in this way before."*
Sleep-talking is generally such a trivial affection
as not to require any treatment \vhatcver. In
*"Lancet," vol. 1.
OF SLEEP. 173
every case the digestive organs must be attended
to, and, if disordered, put to rights by suitable
medicines. And should the affection procef\.d, or
be supposed to proceed from hypochondria, hyste-
ria, or the prevalence ofany strong mental emotion,
these states must be treated according to general
principles. 'Vhen it arises fron1 idiosyncrasy, and
becomes habitual, I believe that no means which
can be adopted \vill be of much avail. As, in the
case of son1na1nbulism, it very frequently happens
that the affection, after continuing for a long time
and baffiing every species of treatlnent, disappears
spontaneously.
CHAPTER I X.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
SLEEP takes place as soon as the sensorial power
that keeps the brain a\vake is expended, \vhich,
undrr comtnon circumstances, occurs at our ordi-
nary hour of going to rest, or even sooner, if any
soporific cause sufficiently strong should chance
to operate. But the above po,ver may be increased
by various means, as in cases of physical suffering,
or excited imagination, and, consequently, is not
expended at the usual time. In this case, the
person retnains awake, and continues so till the
period of its expenditure, \vhich n1ay not happen
for several hours after he lies do\vn, or e\ren not
at all, during the \vhole of that night. Now,
whatever increases the sensorial power. \Vhether
it be balls, concerts, grief, joy, or bodily pain, is
prejudicial to repose. By them the tnind is exalt-
ed to a pitch of unnatural action, fro1u \vhich it is
necessary it should descend before it can roll into
the calm channel of sleep.
vVhatever stimulates the external senses, how-
ever slio-htly, may prevent sleep. Thus, the tick-
PH I L 0 S 0 PH Y 0 F SLEEP . 175
ing of a clock has this effect with very sensitive
people ; and a candle burning in the chamber is
attended with the same result. Even 'vhen the
eyes are shut this 1nay take place, for the eye-lids
are sufficiently transparent to transn1it a sense of
liQ'ht to the retina. For the sa1ne reason. the lio-ht
<...J I 0
of day peering in at the "rindo\v n1ay a\vake us
fron1 or prevent slumber. It is said that Napoleon
could never sleep if exposed to the influence of
light, although, in other circun1stances, sltnnber
appeared at hi bidding with surprising readiness.
A constitutional restlessness is son1eti1nes brought
on by habitually neglecting to solicit sleep when
we lie down, by which means the brain is brought
into such a state of irritability, that \VC can hardly
sleep at all. Chronic "rakefulness, originating
from any n1ental or bodily affection, s01netilnes
deg-enerates into a habit, in \Vhich the sufferer will
retnain for weeks, months, or even years. if authors
are to he believed, a\vake. In the disease cal1ed
deliritun tremens, \Vakefulness is a constant symp-
toin, and frequently continues for many successive
days and nights. It is also an attendant upon all
disorders accon1panied by acute suffering, espe-
cially \vhen the brain is affected, as in phrenitis,
or fever. Maniacs, from the excited state of their
sensorium, are remarkably subject to want of sleep ;
and this symptom is often so obstinate as to resist
the 1nost powerful re1nedies 've can venture to
prescribe.
Certain stimulating agents, such as tea or coffee.
176 PHILOSOPHY
taken shortly before going to bed, have often the
effect of preventing sleep. I would irnpute this to
their irritative properties, which, by supplying the
brain with fresh sensorial power, enable it to carry
on uninterrupted}y all its functions longer than it
would other\vise do, and consequently prevent it
from relapsing into slumber at the usual period.
Any uneasy bodily feeling has the sa1ne effect-
hath preventing the accession of sleep, and arous-
ing us from it when it has fairly taken place.
Thus, \vhile moderate fatigue provokes slumber,
excessive fatigue, O\ving to the pain and irritation
it necessarily occasions. drives it a\vay. Sickness,
cold, heat, pregnancy, the ordinary calls of nature,
a disagreeable bed, the want of an accustomed
supper, too heavy a supper, or uneasiness of any
kind, have the san1e result. Cold is rnost apt to
induce sleeplessness, \vhen partial, especially if it
be confined to the feet; for \vhen general and suffi-
ciently intense, it has the opposite effect, and gives
d se to drowsiness. Certain diseases, such as he-
Inicrania, tic doloureux, &c., have actually kept
the person awake for three successive months;
and all painful affections prevent sleep more or
less. But the n1ost violent tortures cannot altoge-
ther banish, ho\vever much they 1nay retard it.
Sooner or later the fatigue, ·which a \vant of it
occasions, prevails, and slumber ultitnately ensues.
Sleeples:::;ness is sometin1es produced by a sense
of burning heat in the soles of the feet and pahns
of the hands, to \Vhich certain individuals are sub-
OF SLEEP. 177
}eet some time after lying down. This seems to
proceed from a want of perspiration in these parts ;
O\ving generally to impaired digestion.
Mental emotions, of every description, are un-
favorable to repose. If a man, as soon as he lays
his head upon the pillow, can banish thinking, he
is morally certain to fall asleep. There are n1any
individuals so constituted, that they can do this
'vithout effort, and the consequence is, they are
excellent sleepers. It is very different \Vith those
'vhose minds are oppressed by care, or over-stimu-
lated by excessive study. The sorro\vful man,
above all others, has the most need of sleep ; but,
far fro1n shedding its benignant influence over him,
it flies away, and leaves him to the commuuwn-
ship of his own sad thoughts :
"Elis slumbers-if he slumber-are not sleep,
But a contmuance of endnring thought."
It is the same \Vith the man of vivid ilnagina-
tion. His fancy, instead of being subdued by the
spell of sleep, becomes more active than ever.
Thoughts in a thousand fantastic forms - myriads
of waking dreams-pass through his mind, whose
excessive activity spurns at repose, and mocks all
his endeavors to reduce it to quiescence. Great
joy \vill often scare away sleep for many nights;
but, in this respect, it is far inferior to grief, a :fixed
attack of which has been kno\vn to keep the suf-
ferer awake for several months. Those who me-
ditate much, seldom sleep well in the early part
J6
178 PHILOSOPHY
of the night= they lie awake, for perhaps two or
three hours, after going to bed, and do not fall
into slumber till towards morning. Persons of
this description often lie long, and are reputed lazy
by early risers, although, it is probable, they actu-
ally sleep less than these early risers tbe1nselves.
Long continued study is highly prejudicial to re-
pose. Boerhaave mentions that, on one occasion,
owing to this circumstance, he did not close his
eyes for six \Veeks.
Nothing is so hurtful both to the mind and body
as want of sleep. Deprived of the necessary por-
tion, the person gets wan, emaciated and listless,
and very soon falls into bad health ; the spirit be-
comes entirely broken, and the :fire of even the
1nost ardent dispositions is quenched. Nor is this
law peculiar to the human racei for it operates
with similar power upon the lo,ver animals, and
deprives then1 of much of their natural ferocity.
An il1ustration of this fact is afforded in the tam-
ing of \vild elephants. ThP-se animals, when first
caught, are studiously prevented fron1 sleeping;
in consequence of which, they become, in a few
days; comparatively mild and harmless. Restless-
ness, when long protracted, n1ay terminate in deli-
riunl, or confirmed insanity ; and, in many dis-
eases, it is the most obstinate symptom we have to
struggle against. By it alone, all the existing bad
sympto1ns are aggravated ; and as soon as we can
succeed in overcoming it, every thing disagreea-
ble and dangerous frequently \Vears away, and the
person is restored to health.
OF SLEEP. 179
In restlessness, both the perspiration and urina-
nary secretions are usually much increased; there
is also an accession of heat in the system, and a
general feverish tendency, unless the want of sleep
should proceed from cold.
With regard to the treatment of sleeplessness, a
very few words 'vill suffice: in fact, upon this
head little more can be said, than a recommenda-
tion to obviate the causes from whence it proceeds,
and it will naturally disappear. I 1nay mention,
however, that vvhen there is no specific disease,
either of body or mind, to vvhich the 'vant of sleep
can be imputed, the person should keep himself
in as cheerful a mood as possible-should rise
early, if his strength permits it, and take such ex-
ercise as to fatigue hilnself 1noderately; and if
all these means fail, that he ought to make use of
opium. In all cases of restlessness, indeed, this
medicine must be had recourse to} if the affection
resists every other remedy, and continues so long
as to endanger health. Those preparations of
opium, the acetate and muriate of morphia, have
latterly been a good deal used, and with excellent
effect, for the same purpose. When neither opium
nor its preparations agrees with the constitution,
it becon1es necessary to employ other narcotics,
especially hyosciamus or hop. A pillow of hops
sometimes succeeds in inducing sleep when other
means fail. Such was the case with his late ma-
jesty, George Ill, who, by this contrivance, was
relieved from the protracted wakefulness under
180 PHILOSOPHY
which he labored for so long a time. In giving
medicines to produce sleep, great attention must
he paid to the disease which occasions the restless-
ness; for, in phrenitis, high fever, and some other
disorders, it would be most injurious to administer
anodynes of any kind. In such cases, as the rest-
lessness is merely a symptom of the general dis-
ease, its ren1.ovaJ vvill depend upon that of the lat-
ter. When, ho\vever, the acute symptoms have
been overco1ne, and nothing but chronic wakeful-
ness, the result of debility, ren1ains behind, it then
becomes necessary to have recourse to opium, or
such other remedies as n1ay be considered appli-
cable to the particular case. Studious n1.en ought
to avoid late reading; and, on going to bed, en-
deavor to abstract their minds from all intrusive
ideas. They should try to circun'lScribe their
thoughts 'vithin the narrowest possible circle, and
prevent then1 from beconung Tan1bling or excur-
siYe. I have often coaxed myself asleep by inter·
nally repeating half a dozen of times, any \Veil
known rhyme. vVhile doing so, the ideas mus~
be strictly directed to this particular theme, and
prevented from \Vandering; for son1etimes, dnring
the process of repetition, the 1nind takes a strange
turn, aud perforn1s two offices at the same tin1e7
being directed to the 1·hy1ne on the one hand, and
to so1nething else on the other; and it will be
found that the hold it has of the former, is often-
times much weaker than of the latter. The great
secret is, by a strong effort of the will to compel
OF SLEEP. 181
the mind to depart from the favorite train of
thought into whlch it has run, and address itself
solely to the internal repetition of what is substi-
tuted in its place. If this is persevered in, it \viii
generally be found to succeed ; and I would re-
commend all those who are prevented from sleep-
ing, in consequence of too active a flow of ideas,
to try the experiment. As has been already re-
marked, the n1ore the mind is brought to turn upon
a single impression, the more closely it is n1ade to
approach to the state of sleep, \Vhich is the total
absence of all impressions. People should never
go to bed inm1ediately after studying hard, as the
brain is precisely in that state of exciten1ent \vhich
must prevent sleep. The mind ought previously
to be relaxed by light conversation, music, or any
thing which requires little thought.
ln so1ne cases of restlessness, sleep may be pro-
cured by the person getting up, and ·walking for a
few minutes about the room. It is not easy to ex-
plain on ·what principle th1s acts, but it is certain,
that by such n1eans sleep sometimes follows,
where previously it had been solicited in vain. It
is custo1nary with some people to read themselves
into slumber, but dangerous accidents have arisen
from this habit, in consequence of the lighted can-
dle setting fire to the bed curtains. A safer and
more effectual \vay is to get another person to read ;
in which case, sleep wilJ very generally take place,
especially if the subject in question is not one of
much interest, or read in a dry monotonous man·
16*
182 P H 1 L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P •
ner. When sleeplessness proceeds from the heat
of the weather, the person should lie very lightly
covered, and let the air circulate freely through
his room. A cold bath taken shortly before going
to bed, or sponging the body with cold water, will
often ensure a comfortable night's rest in the hot
season of the year. When it arises from heat in
the soles or pahns, these parts should be bathed
·with cold vinegar and water, before lying down,
and, if necessary, occasionally aftenvards till the
heat abates, which usually occurs in two or three
hours. Attention must also be paid to the stomach
and bowels.
An easy mind, a good digestion, and plenty of
exercise in the open air, are the grand conducives
to sound sleep ;-and, accordingly, every n1an
whose repose is indifferent, should endeavor to
make then1 his O\Vn as soon as possible. W...hen
sleeplessness becon1es habitual, the utmost care
ought to be taken to overcotne the habit, by the
removal of every thing that has a tendency to
cherish it.
CI-IAPTER X.
DROWSINESS.
DRo\VSINEss 1s symptomatic ofapoplexy and somt
other diseases, but sometitnes it exists as an idio-
pathic affection. There are persons \vho have a
disposition to sleep on every occasion. They do
so at all times, and in all places. They sleep after
dinner ; they sleep in the theatre ; they sleep in
church. It is the same to them in what situation
they may be placed: sleep is the great end of their
existence -their occupation-their sole employ-
nlent. l\Iorpheus is the deity at \Vhose shrine
they \vorship-the only god \Vhose influence over
them is omnipotent. Let them be placed in almost
any circutnstances, and their constitutional failing
prevails. It falls upon then1 in the midst of mirth;
it assails them when travelling. Let thmn sail, or
ride, or sit, or lie, or walk, sleep overtakes them-
binds their faculties in torpor ; and 1nakes them
dead to all that is passing around. Such are our
dull, heavy-headed, drowsy mortals, those sons
and daughters of phlegm-with passions as inert
as a Dutch fog, and intellects as sluggish as the
184 PHILOSOPHY
movements of the hippopotamus or leviathan. No
class of society is so insufferable as this. There
is a torpor and obtuseness about their faculties,
which render them dead to every impression.
They have eyes and ears, yet they neither see nor
hear; and the most exhilarating scenes may be
passing before them without once attracting their
notice. It is not uncon1mon for persons of this
stamp to fall asleep in the midst of a party to which
they have been invited; Mr. Mackenzie, in one of
his papers, speaks of an honest farmer having
done so alongside of a young lady, who \Vas play-
ing on the harp for his amusement. The cause
of this constitutional disposition to doze upon
every occasion, seems to be a certain want of ac-
tivity in the brain, the result of which is, that the
individual is singularly void of fire, energy, and
passion. He is of a phleg1natic temperament, ge-
nerally a great eater, and very destitute of in1agi-
nation. Such are the general characteristics of
those who are predisposed to drowsiness: the
cases ·where such a state coexists with intellectual
energy are few in number.
Boerhaave speaks of an eccentric physician \vho
took it into his head that sleep was the natural
state of man, and accordingly slept eighteen hours
out of the t\venty-four- till he died of apoplexy, a
disease which is always apt to be produced by
excessive sleep.
Cases of constitutional drowsiness are in a great
measure \Vithout remedy7 for the soporific tendency
OF SLEEP. 185
springs from some natural defect,'which no medi-
cinal means can overcome.
Equally impossible of cure is the affection when
it arises, as it very often does, from old age. Even
long before this period of life, as at the age of fifty
or sixty, people very often get into somnolent
habits, and are pretty sure to fall asleep if they
atternpt to read, or even if they place themselves
in an easy chair before the fire. I know of no
cure for this indolent propensity, unless indeed the
habits arise, as it sometimes does, from corpulency,
in which case it is n1ore 1nanageable, in so far as
its cause is occasionally capable of being re1noved.
Dro\vsiness son1etin1es proceeds from a fulness
of blood in the head, or a disordered state of the
digestive organs. When it originates fron1 the
fonner cause, it beco1nes necessary to have re-
course to general or local blood-letting. The per-
son, like,vise, should use, fron1 tinlC to tin1e: 1nild
laxatives, live ten1perately, and take abundance of
exercise. Medicines of a sin1ilar kind are neces-
sary \vhen the affection arises from the state of th(\
~tomach and bo,vels: so soon as these organs arc
restored to health, the sympton1atic dro\vsiness \viii
naturally disappear.
Persons who feel the disposition to drowsines~
gaining upon them, should strugg1e vigorously
against it ; for when once the hahjt is fairly estab~
lished, its eradication is very difficult. Exercise
of body and mind, early rising and the cold bath,
are an1ong the best means for this purpose
CHAPTER XI.
PROTRACTED SLEEP.
I HAvE already mentionAd a few instances of indi-
viduals remaining for days or \veeks in a state of
profound sleep. The nature of this extraordinary
affection is in a great n1easure, unknown ; it arises,
in most cases, \vithout any obvious cause, generally
resists every 1nethod that can be adopted for re-
moving it, and disappears of its O\vn accord.
The case of lVIary Lyall, related in the 8th
volume of the "Transactions of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh," is one of the most remarkable in-
stances of excessive somnolency on record. This
\:voman fell asleep on the morning of thP- 27th of
June, and continued jn that state till the evening
of the 30th of the sa1ne 1nonth, \Vhen she awoke,
and remained in her usual way till the 1st of July,
when she again fell asleep, and continued so till
the 8th of August. She \vas bled, blistered, im-
n1ersed in the hot and cold bath, and stimulated in
almost every possible \vay, \Vithout having any
consciousness of what was going on. For the
first seven days she continued motionless, and ex-
P H L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P . J87
hibited no inclination to eat. At 'the end of this
time she began to move her left hand; and, by
pointing to her mouth, signified a wish for food.
She took readily what was given to her; still she
discovered no symptoms of heariug, and 1nade no
other kind of bodily movement than of her left
hand. Her right hand and arm, particularly, ap-
peared completely dead, and bereft of feeling; and
even \Vhen pricked with a pin, so as to dra\v blood,
never shrunk in the least degree. At the san1e
time, she instantly drew back her left arn1 'vhen-
ever it was touched by the point of the pin. She
continued to take food whenever it " 'aS offered to
her. Por the first hvo weeks, her pulse generally
stood at 50, during the third aud fourth week,
about 60; and, on the day before her recovery, at
70 or 72. Her breathing \Vas soft and aln1ost im-
preceptible, but during the night-tilne she occasion-
ally drc\v it more strongly, like a person who has
first fallen asleep. She evinced no syn1ptom of
hearing, till about four days before her recovery.
On being interrogated, after this event, upon her
extraordinary state, she mentioned that she had no
kno·wledge of any thing that had happened- that
she had never been conscious of either having
needed or reccived food, or of having been blister-
ed; and expressed much surprise on finding her
head shaved. She had merely the idea of having
passed a long night in sleep.
The case of Elizabeth Perkins is also remark-
able. In the year 1788, she fell into a profound
lSS PHttosOPitY
slumber, from which nothing could arouse herf
and remained in this state for between eleven and
twelve days, when she awoke of her own accord,
to the great joy of her relatives, and wonder of the
neighborhood. On recovering, she went about
her usual business; but this was only for a short
period, for in a week after she relapsed again into
a sleep which lasted some days. She continued1
with occasional jntervals of wakefulness, in a doz-
ing state for several months, when she expired.
There was lately at ICirkheaton a ren1arkable
instance of excessive sleep. A poor paralytic,
twenty years of age, \vas seldom, for the period of
t\velve months, a\Vake 1nore than three hours in
the twenty-four. On one occasion, he slept for
three weeks ; he took not a particle of either food
or drink ; nothing could rouse hin1, even for a
moment ; yet his sleep appeared to be cahn and
natural.
The case of Elizabeth Armitage of Woocl11ouse,
:near Leeds, may also be mentioned. The age of
this person \Vas sixty-nine years. She had been for
several months in a decline, during \vhich she had
taken very little sustenance, \Vhen she fell into a
state of lethargic stupor, on the morning of the 1st
of July, 1827, in ·which condition she remained,
\vithout uttering one word, receiving any food, or
showing any signs of life, except breathing, which
was at times almost imperceptible. In this state
she continued for eight days, when she expired
\Vithout a groan.
•
OF SLEEP. 189
Excessively protracted sleep may ensue from
the injudicious use of narcotics. A very strik-
ing instance of this kind occurred on 17th F~bru­
ary, 1816, near Lymington. In consequence of a
complaint with which a child had been painfully
afH.icted for so1ne time previous, its mother gave it
an anodyne, (probably laudanum,) for the purpose
of procuring it rest. The consequence was, that
is fell into a profound sleep, \Vhich continued for
three weeks. In this case, in addition to an ex-
cessive dose, the child n1ust have possessed some
constitutional idiosyncrasy, vrhich favored the ope-
ration of the medicine in a very po\verful 1nanner.
One of the most extraordinary instances of
excessive sleep, is that of the lady of Nis1nes, pub-
lished in 1777, in the "lV[e1noirs of the Royal Aca-
demy of Sciences at Berlin." Her attacks of sleep
took place periodically, at sunrise and about noon.
The first continued till within a short tin1e of the
accession of the second, and the second till between
seven and eight in the evening-when she awoke,
and continued so till the next sunrise. The most
extraordinary fact connected with this case is, that
the first attack commenced always at day-break,
whatever might be the season of the year, and the
other always immediately after twelve o'cloc]c
During the brief interval of \vakefulness which
ensued shortly before noon, she took a little broth,
\vhich she had only time to do, when the second
attack returned upon her, and kept her asleep till
the evening. Her sleep was remarkably profound,
17
190 PHILOSOPHY
and had all the characters of complete insensi-
bility, with the exception of a feeble respiration,
and a weak but regular movement of the pulse.
The most singular fact connected with her re-
tnains to be mentioned. When the disorder had
lasted six months, and then ceased, she had an
interval of perfect health for the same length of
time. When it lasted one year, the subsequent
interval was of equal duration. The affection at
last \vore gradually away; and she lived, entirely
free of it, for many years after. She died in the
eighty-first year of her age, of dropsy, a complaint
which had no connexion with her preceding
disorder.
There are a good many varieties in the pheno-
mena of protracted sleep. In some cases, the indi-
vidual remains for many days \Vithout eating or
drinking; in others, the necessity for these natural
wants arouses hi1n for a short time from his slum-
ber, which time he employs in satisfying hunger
and thirst, and then instantly gets into his usual
state of lethargy. The latter kind of somnolency
is sometimes feigned by impostors for the purpose
of extorting charity; on this account, when an
instance of the kind occurs, it should be narrowly
looked into, to see that there is no deception.
The power possessed by the body of subsisting
for such a length of time in protracted sleep, is
most remarkable, and bears some analogy to the
abstinence of the polar bear in the winter season.
It is to be observed, however, that during slumber,
OF SLEEP. 191
life can be supported by a much smaller portion of
food than when we are awake, in consequence
of the diminished expenditure of the vital energy
which takes place in the former state.
All that can be done for the cure of protracted
somnolency, is to attempt to rouse the person by
the use of stimuli, such as blistering, pinching, the
warm or cold bath, the application of sternutatories
to the nose, &c. Blooding should be had recourse
to, if we suspect any apoplectic tendency to exist.
Every means must be employed to get nourish-
ment introduced into the stomach ; for this pur-
pose, if the sleeper cannot swallow, nutritious
fluids should be forced, from time to time, into this
organ by means of Jukes' pump; which answers
the purpose of filling as well as evacuating it.
CHAPTER XII.
SLEEP FROI\1 COLD.
THrs kind of sleep is so peculiar, that it requires
be considered separately. The power of cold in
occasioning slun1ber; is not confined to 1nan, but
pervades a very extensive class of animals. The
hybernation, or "rinter torpitude ofthe brown and
Polar bear, results fro1n this cause. Those ani-
mals continue asleep for months; and do not
a'vake from their apathy till revived by the genial
ten1perature of spring. The sa1ne is the case with
the hedgehog, the badger, the squirrel, and several
species of the n1ouse and rat tribes, such as the
dorn1ouse and 1narn1ot : as also ·with the land tor-
toise, the frog, and ahnost all the individuals of the
lizard, insect, and serpent tribes. Fishes are often
found imbedded in the ice, and, though in a state
of apparent death, becon1e at once lively and ani-
mated on being exposed to heat. '· The fish froze;'
says Captain Franklin, "as fast as they were taken
out of the nets, and in a short time becan1e a solid
mass of ice, and by a blow or hvo of the hatchet
were easily split open, \vhen the intestines might
PH I L 0 S 0 PH Y 0 F SLEEP . }g3
be removed in one lump. If, in this completely
frozen state, they were thawed before the fire, they
recovered their animation." Sheep sometimes re-
main for several weeks in a state of torpitude,
buried beneath wreaths of snow. Swallows are
occasionally in the same state, being found torpid
and insensible in the hollows of trees, and among
the ruins of old houses during the winter season ;
but with birds this more rarely happens, owing,
probably, to the temperature of their blood being
higher than that of other animals, and thereby
better enabling them to resist the cold. Almost all
insects sle~p in winter. This is particularly the
case with the crysalis, and such grubs as cannot,
at that ~eason, procure their food. In hybernat-
ing animals, it is impossible to trace any peculi-
arity of structure which disposes them to hyber·
nate, and enables life to be sustain~d during that
period. So far the subject is involved in deep
obscurity. According to Dr. Edwards, the tem-
perature of such animals sinks considerably during
sleep, even in summer.
Want of moisture produces torpor in some ani-
mals. This is the case with the garden snail,
which revives if a little water is thrown on it.
Snails, indeed, have revived after being dried for
fifteen years. Mr. Baucer has restored the vibris
tritici (a species of worm) after perfect torpitude
and apparent death for five years and eight
months, by merely soaking it in \Vater. The fur-
cularia anostobea, a small microscopic animal,
17*
194 PHILOSOPIIY
tnay be killed and revived a dozen ti1nes by drying
it and then applyino- moisture. According to Spal-
lanzani,animalculi have beenrecovered bytnoisture
after a torpor of twenty-seven years. Larger ani-
mals are thrown into the sa1ne state fro1n want of
n1oisture. Such, according to Hun1boldt, is the
case \Vith the alligator and boa constrictor during
the dry season in the plains of Venezuela, and with
the centenes solosus, a species of hedge-hog found
in Madagascar; so that dryness as \veil as cold,
produces hybernation, if, in such a case, we n1ay
use that tern1.
The po·wer of intense cold in producing sleep,
is very great in the hu1nan subject, and nothing in
the winter season is 1nore conunon than to find
people lying dead in fields and on the highways
fron1 such a cause. An overpowering dro\vsiness
steals upon thcn1, and if they yield to its influence,
death is aln1ost inevitable. This is particularly
the case in sno\v-storms, in \vhich it is often im-
possible to get a place of shelter.
This state of torpor, with the exception perhaps
of catalepsy, is the most perfect sleep that can be
imagined : it approaches aln1ost to death in its ap-
parent annihilation of the ani1nal functions. Di-
gestion is at an end, and the secretions and excre-
tions suspended: nothiug seems to go on but cir-
culation, respiration, and absorption. The t\vo
fonner are extremely languid,* but the latter
* The extremely languid, or almost suspended state of these
two functions, ts dcmon~trated by the fact, that an animal in 3
OF SLEEP. 195
tolerably vigorous, if we may judge from the quan-
tity of fat which the anima Hoses during its torpid
state. The bear, for exa1nple, on going to its win-
try rest, is re1narkably corpulent; on awaking fron1
it, quite emaciated; in which state, inspired by the
pangs of hunger, it sallies forth \vith redoubled
fury upon its prey. Life is sustained by the ab-
sorption of this fat, which for months serves the
anin1al as provision. Such emaciation, however,
IS not co1nmon to all hybcrnating animals, some
of who1n lose little or nothing by their \vinter
torpitude.
Hybernation may be prevented. Thus the polar
bear in the menagerie at Paris never hybernated ;
and in the marmot and hedge-hog hybernation is
prevented if the animals be kept in a higher tem-
perature. It is also a curious fact, that an animal,
if exposed to a more intense cold, while hybernat-
ing, is awaked fro1n its lethargy. Exposing a
hybernating animal to light has also, in many
cases, the same effect.
Some writers, and Buffon among the rest, deny
that such a state of torpor as \Ve have here describ-
ed, can be looked upon as sleep. This is a ques-
tion into which it is not necessary at present to
enter. All I contend for, is, that the state of the
mind js preciseIy the sa1ne here as in ordinary
sleep-that, in both cases, the organs ofthe senses
and ofvolition are eqnally inert; and that tho·ugh
state of hybernation may be placed for an hour ia a jar of hydro-
gen without auffering death.
•
196 PHILOSOPHY
the conditions ofthe secretive and circulating sys-
tems are different, so many circumstances are
nevertheless identical, that we become justified in
considering the one in a work which professes to
treat of the other.
In Captain Cook's first voyage, a memorable
instance is given of the power of intense cold in
producing sleep. It occurred in the island of Ter-
ra-del-Fuego. Dr. Solander, Mr. Banks, and seve-
ral other gentlemen had ascended the mountains
of that cold region, for the purpose of botanizing
and exploring the country. " Dr. Selander, who
had more than once crossed the mountains which
divide S\veden from Norway, well knew that ex-
treme cold, especially \Vhen joined with fatigue,
produces a torpor and sleepiness that are almost
irresistible. He, therefore, conjured the company
to keep moving whatever pain it might cost them,
and whatever relief they might be promised by an
inclination to rest. 'Whoever sits down,' said he,
' will sleep; and whoever sleeps1 will wake no
more.' Thus at once admonished and alarmed,
they set forward; but while they were still upon
the naked rock, and before they had got among
the bushes, the cold became suddenly so entense
as to produce the effects that had been most dread-
ed. Dr. Solander hi1nself \vas the first who felt
the inclination, against which he had warned
others, irrasistible; and insisted upon being suf-
fered to lie down. Mr. Banks entreated and re-
monstrated in vain; down he lay upon the ground,
OF SLEEP. 197
although it was covered with sno\v, and it was
\Vith great difficulty that his friend kept him from
sleeping. Richtnond, also, one of the black ser-
vants, began to linger, having suffered from the
cold in the same manner as the Doctor. Mr. Banks,
therefore, sent five of the con1pany, a1nong whom
\vas ~Ir. Buchan, forward, to get a fire ready at the
first convenient place they could find; and himself,
\vith four others ren1ained with the Doctor and
Richmond, who1n, partly by persuasion and entrea-
ty, and partly by force, they brought on; but when
they had got throuo-h the greatest part of the birch
and S\vamp, they both declared they could go no
farther. ilir. Banks again had recourse to entreaty
and expostulation, but they produced no effect.
vVhen Richmond \Vas told that, if he did not go on,
he 'Would in a short time be frozen to death, he
ans\vered, that he desired nothjng but to lie down
and die. The Doctor did not so explicitly re-
nounce J1is life; he said he was \villing to go on,
but that he must first take..son1e sleep, though he
had before told the company, to sleep was to perish.
Mr. Banks and the rest found it impossible to carry
then1 ; and there being no rmnedy, they were both
suffered to sit do\vn, being partly supported by the
bushes ; and in a fe\v minutes they fell into a pro-
found sleep. Soon after, some of the people who
had been sent for\vard, returned, with the welcome
ue,vs that a .fire \vas kindled about a quarter of a
1nile farther on the way. Mr. Banks then endeav-
ored to awake Dr. Solander, and happily succeed,
198 PHILOSOPHY
ed. But though he had not slept five minutes, he
had almost lost the use of his limbs, and the mus-
cles were so shrunk, that the shoes fell from his
feet : he consented to go forward with such assist-
ance as could be given him, but no attempts to
relieve poor Richmond were successful."
It is hardly necessary to say any thing about
the treatment of such cases. If a person is found
in a state of torpor from cold, common sense points
out the necessity of bringing him within the influ-
ence of warmth. When] however, the limbs, &c.,
are frost-bitten, heat must be very cautiously ap-
plied, lest reaction, ensuing in such debilitated
parts, might induce gangrene. Brisk friction with
a co]d towel, or even with snow, as is the custom
in Russia, should, in the first instance, be had re-
course to. When by this means the circulation
is restored, and motion and feeling communicated
to the parts, the heat may be gradually increased,
and the person wrapped in blankets, and allowed
some stimulus internally, such as a little negus, or
spirits and water. This practice should be adopt-
ed from the very first, when the parts are not
frost-bitten ; but when such is the case, the stimu-
lating system requires to be used with great cau-
tion, and we must proceed carefully, proportioning
the stimulus to the particular circumstances of
the case.
If a person is unfortunate enough to be over-
taken in a snow storm, and has no immediate
prospect of extrication, he should, if the cold is.
OF SLEEP. 199
very great, and the snow deep, sink his body as
much as possible in the latter, leaving only room
for respiration. By this plan, the heat of the body
is much better preserved than when exposed to
the influence of the atmosphere, and life has a
greater chance of being saved ; for the temperature
of the snow is not lower than that of the surround-
ing air, while its power of absorbing caloric is
much less. It is on this principle that sheep
live for such a length of time enveloped in snow
wreaths, while, had they been openly exposed, for
a much less period, to a similar degree of cold,
death would inevitably have ensued.
One of the best methods to prevent the limbs
from being frost-bitten in intensely cold weather,
is to keep them continually in motion. Such was
the method recommended by Xenophon to the
Greek troops, in the memorable "Retreat of the
Ten Thousand,'' conducted by that distinguished
soldier and histonan.
CHAPTER XIII.
TRANCE.
THERE is some analogy between suspended ani·
mation and sleep. It is not so striking, ho\vever,
as to require any thing like a lengthened discus-
sion of the fanner, which I shall only consider in
so far as the resemblance holds good bet\veen it
and sleep. I have already spoken of that suspen-
sion of the mind~ and of some of the vital functions,
'vhich occurs in consequence of intense cold; but
there are other varieties, not less singular in their
nature. The principal of these arc, fainting, apo-
plexy, hanging, suffocation, drowning, and. espe-
cially, trance. vVhcn co1nplete fainting takes place,
it has 1nany of the characters of death- the coun-
tenance being pale, moist, and clatnmy; the body
cold; the respiration extremely feeble ; the pulsa-
tion of the heart apparently at an end ; \vhile the
nund is in a state of utter abeyance. It is in the
latter respect only, that the resen1blance exists
bet,veen syncope and sleep ; jn every other they
are widely different. The same rule holds ·with
regard to apoplexy, in \Vhich a total insensibility,
P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P. 201
even to the strongest stimuli, takes place, accom-
panied also \Vith mental torpor. In recoverable
cases of drowning, hanging, and suffocation, a
sin1ilar analogy prevails, only in a much feebler
degree ; the faculties of the n1incl being for the
time suspended, and the actual existence of the
vital spark only proved by the subsequent restora-
tion of the individual to consciousness and feeling.
The 1nost singular species, however, of suspend-
ed animation is that denominated catalepsy, or
trance. No affection, to \vhich the ani1nal frame
is subject, is n1ore remarkable than this. During
its continuance, the whole body is cold, rjgid, and
inflexible; the countenance w-ithout color; the
eyes .fixed and motionless ; while breathing and
the pulsation of the heart are, to all appearance, at
an end. The 1nental po\vers, also, are gP-nerally
suspended, and participate in the universal torpor
which pervades the frame. In this extraordinary
condition, the person may retnain for several days,
having all, or nearly a11, the characteristics ofdeath
in1pressed upon hi1n. Such \vas the case with the
celebrated Lady Russel, \Vho only escaped prema-
ture intern1ent by the affectionate prudence of her
husband; aucl other \veil authenticated instances
of sitnilar preservation from burying alive have
been recorded.
The nature of this peculiar species of suspend-
ed animation, seems to be totally unknown; for
there is such an apparent extinction of every fa-
culty essential to life, that it is inconceivable how
18
202 PHILOSOPHY
existence should go on during the continuance of
the fit. There can be no doubt, however, that the
suspension of the heart and lungs is more appa-
rent than real. It is quite certain that the func-
tions of these organs must continue, so as to sus-
tain life, although in so feeble a 1nanner as not to
con1e under the cognizance of our senses. The
respiration, in particular, is exceedingly s11ght; for
a n1irror, held to the mouth of the individual, re-
ceives no tarnish whatever from his breath. One
fact see1ns certain, that the functions of the ner-
vous syste1n are \Vholly suspended, 'vith the excep-
tion of such a faint portion of energy, as to keep
up the circulatory and respiratory phenomena:
conscionsness, in a great n1ajority of cases, is abo-
lished; and there is nothing \Vanting to indicate
the unquestionable presence of death, but that de-
cornposition of the body which invariably follows
this state, and \Vhich never attends the presence of
vitality.
The remote causes of trance are hidden in much
obscurity; and, generally, we are unable to trace
the affection to any external circumstance. It has
been kno·wn to follow a fit of terror. So1netimes
it ensues after hysteria, epilepsy, or other spasn1o-
dic diseases, and is occasionally an accon1pani-
n1ent of menorrhagia and intestinal worn1s. Nei·-
vous and hypochondriac patients are the n1ost
subject to its attacks; but so1netimes it occurs
\vhen there is no disposition of the kind, and when
OF S LE EP. 203
the person is in a state of the most seeming good
health.
c: A girl named Shorigny) ahout t\venty-five
years old, residing at Paris, had been for two years
past subject to hysteria. On the t"renty-eighth day
after she \vas first attacked, the physician \vho
ca1ne to visit her \vas informed that she had died
during the night, \vhich n1uch surpri ed hi1n, as
\vhen he had left her the night before, she ·was het-
ter than usual. lie \vent to sec her, in order to
con-vince hi1nself of the fact: and, on raising- the
cloth \vith \Vhich she was covered, he perceived
that though her face \vas very pale, and her lips
discolored, her features \Vere not other,vise in the
least altered. Her n1outh was open, her eyes shut,
and the pllpils very 1
nuch dilated ; the light of the
candle made no i1npression on them. There \vas no
sensible heat in her body ; but it \vas not cold and
flabby like corpses in general. The physician re-
turned the next day, determined to sec her again
before she \vas buried; ancli finding that she had
not becon1e cold, he gave orders that the coffin
should not be soldered down until putrefaction had
comn1enced. He continued to observe her during
five days, and at the end of that period, a slight
movement \vas observed in the cloth which co,·er-
ed her. In two hours, it \Vas found that the arn1
had contracted itself; she began to n1ove; aud it
was clear that it had only been an apparent death.
The eyes soon after \vere seen opened, the senses
retnrned, and the girl began gradually to recover.
!04 PHILOSOPHY
This is an extraordinary, but incontestible fact:
the girl is still alive, and a great tnany persons
who saw her while she was in the state of apathy
described, are ready to satisfy the doubts of any
one \Vho \vill take the trouble to inquire.'i*
The case which follows is from the Canton
Gazette, and is not less curious :-
" On the \vestern suburbs of Canton, a person
named Le, bought as a slave-woman a girl named
Leaning. At the age of t\venty-one, he sold her
to be a concubine to a man named "\Vong. She
had lived \Vith hin1 three years. About six months
ago she beca1ne ill, in consequence of a large im-
posthume on her side, an<l on the 25th of the
present moon died. She was placed in a coffin,
the lid of \vhich remained unfastened, to \Vait for
her parents to come and see the corpse} that they
nright be satisfied she died a natural death. On
the 28th, while carryjng the re1nains to be interred
in the north side of Canton, a noise or voice \vas
heard proceeding from the coffin; and, on re-
lnoving the covering, it \Vas found the \VOinan had
co1ne to life again. She had been supposed dead
for three days."
The case of Colonel To,vnsend, ho,vever, is
1nuch tnore extraordinary than either of the above
mentioned. This gentleman possessed the re-
markable faculty of thro\ving himself into a trance
at pleasure. The heart ceased, apparently, to
*Mentor.
OF SLEEP. 205
throb at his bidding, respiration seemed at an end,
his ·whole frame assu1ned the icy chill and rigidity
of death ; \Vhile his face became colorless and
shrunk, and his eye fixed, glazed, and ghastly:
even his 1nind ceased to manifest itself; for during
the trance it was as utterly devoid of conscious-
ness as his body of anin1ation. In this state he
\vould ren1ain for hours, \vhen these singular phe-
nomena \vore away, and he returned to his usual
condition. Medical annals furnish no parallel to
this extraordinary case. CQllsidered \Vhether in a
physiological or metaphysical point of vie,v, it is
equally astonishing and inexplicable.
A variety of stories are related of people having
had circumstances revealed to them in a trance, of
\Vhich they were ignorant when awake: n1ost of
these tales have their origin in fiction, although
there is no reason why they 1nay not be occasion-
ally true ; as the mind, instead of being in torpor,
as is very generally the case, may exist in a state
analogous to that of dreami11g7
and n1ay thus, as
in a common dream, have long forgotten events
i1npressed upon it.
The following case exhibits a very singular in-
stance, in which the usual characteristic-a sus-
pension of the mental faculties-\vas wanting. It
seems to have been a most complete instance of
suspended volition, wherein the mind was active,
'\vhile the body refused to obey its impulses, and
continued in a state of apparent death.
"A young lady, an attendant on the Princess
18*
!06 PHILOSOPHY
--, after having been confined to her bed1 for
a great length of time, \vith a violent nervous dis-
order, was at last, to all appearance, deprived of
life. Her lips were quite pale, her face resembled
the countenance of a dead person, and the body
grew cold.
"She was rmnoved from the room in which she
died, was laid in a coffin, and the day of her
funeral fixed on. The day arrived, and, according
to the custom of the country, funeral songs and
hymns were sung before the door. Just as the
people were about to nail on the lid of the coffin,
a kind of perspiration was observed to appear on
the surface of her body. It gre\v greater every
moment; and at last a kind of convulsive motion
'vas observed in the hands and feet of the corpse.
A few minutes after; during \vhich tin1e fresh
signs of returning life appeared, she at once open-
ed her eyes and uttered a most pitiable shriek.
Physicians were quickly procured, and in the
course of a few days she \Vas considerably
restored, and is probably alive at this day.
" The description which she gave of her situa-
tion is extren1ely re1narkable, and forn1s a curious
and authentic addition to psychology.
"She said it seemed to her, as if in a dream,
that she \Vas really dead ; yet she was perfectly
conscious of all that happened around her in this
dreadful state. She distinctly heard her friends
speaking and lamenting her death, at the side of
her coffin. She felt thetn pull on the dead-clothes,
/
OF SLEEP. 207
and lay her in it. This feeling produced a men-
tal anxiety, which is indescribable. She tried to
cry, but her soul vvas without power, and could
not act on her body. She had the contradictory
feeling- as if she were in her body, and yet not in
it, at one and the same time. It was equally in1-
possible for her to stretch out her arm, or to open
her eyes, or to cry, although she continuaJly en-
deavored to do so. The internal anguish of her
1nind \vas, ho\vever, at its utmost height \Vhen the
the funeral hyn1ns began to be sung, and when
the lid ofthe coffin was about to be nailed on. The
thought that she \Vas to be buried alive, was the
one that gave activity to her sou1
, and caused it to
operate on her corporeal frame."*
The follo\ving is different from either of the
foregoing; I have given it on account of its singu-
larity, although it docs not altogether come under
the denomination of trance.
" George Grokatzhi, a Polish soldier, deserted
from his regiment in the harvest of the year 1677.
He was discovered, a fe\v days after, drinking and
making merry in a common ale-house. The mo-
ment he was apprehended, he was so much ten·ifi-
ed, that he gave a loud shriek, and was immediate-
ly deprived of the po\ver of speech. When
brought to a court martial, it was impossible to
make him articulate a word ; nay, he then became
as immovable as a statue, and appeared not to be
* "Psychological Magazine," vol. v. part iii. page 15.
~08 PHILOSOPHY
conscious of any thing that \Vas going for\vard.
In the prison, to \vhich he \Vas conducted, he neither
ate uor drank. rrhe officers and priests at first
threatened him, and afterwards endeavored to
soothe and calm hhn, but all their efforts were in
vain. He remained senseless and in1n1ovable.
His irons 'vere struck off, and he was taken out of
the prison, but he did not move. Twenty days
and nights \vere passed in this way, during which
he took no kind of nourishment: he then gradual-
ly sunk and died."*
It \Vould be out of place to enter here into a de-
tail of the medical 1nanagen1ent of the first n1en-
tioned varieties of suspended animation, such as
dTo\vning, strangulation, &c., &c.; and \vith regard
to the treatment of trance, properly so called, a
very few words will suffice.
If \Ve have reason to suppose that \Ve know the
cause of the affection, that, of course, n1ust be re-
moved whenever practicable. We must then eln-
ploy stimuli to arouse the person fro1n his torpor,
such as friction, the application of sternutatories
and volatile agents to the nostrils, and electricity.
The latter remedy is likely to prove a very po,ver-
ful one, and should always be ~had recource to
\vhen other n1eans fail. I should think the warm
bath 1night be advantageously employed. \Vhen
even these remedies do not succeed, \Ve must trust
to time. So long as the body does not run into
*Bonetus, ".Medic Septentri011." Jib. i. sec. xvi. cap. 6.
'
OF SLEBP. 209
decay, after a case of suspended ani1nation arising
\vithout any very obvious cause, interment should
not take place; for it is possible that life may exist,
although, for the tin1e being, there is every appear-
ance of its utter extinction. By neglecting this
rule, a person 1nay be interred alive; nor can there
be a doubt that such dreadful n1istakes have occa-
sionally been cotnnutted, especially in France,
where it is custornary to inter the body t\venty-
four hours after death. Deeomposition is the only
infallible n1ark that existence is at an end, and
that the grave has triun1phed.
C:HAPTER XIV.
VOLUNTARY WAKING DREA~IS.
THE young and the imaginative are those 'vho
indulge most fTequently in w·aking drean1s. The
scenes 'vhich life presents do not cotne up to the
desires of the heart; and the pencil of fancy is ac-
cordingly employed in depicting others n1ore in
hannony '\vith its own designs. A~ray into the
gloomy back-ground goes reality with its stern and
forbidding hues, and fonvard, in colors n1ore daz-
~ling than those of the rainbo,v, start the bright
and airy phantoms of imagination. "llo\v often,"
observes Dr. Good,* "'vaking to the roar of the
1nidnight ten1pest, while dull and gluttonous indo-
lence snores on in happy forgetfulness, does the
in1agination of those \Vho are thus divinely gifted
n1ount the dizzy chariot of the ·whirlwind, and pic-
ture evils that have no real existence ; no\v figur-
ing to herself s01ne neat and thrifty cottage where
virtue delights to reside, she sees it s'vept away in
*Book of Nature, vol. iii. p. 422.
PH I L 0 S 0 PH Y 0 F SLEEP. 211
a mo1nent by the torrent, and despoiled of the little
harvest just gathered in ; no\v following the lone
traveller in sotne narro\v and venturous path\vay,
over the edge of the Alpine precipices, \Vhere a
single slip is instant de truction, she tracks hin1
alone by .fitful flashes of lightning; and at length~
struck by the flash, she beholds hin1 ttnnbling
headlong from rock to rock, to the botton1 of the
dread abyss, the victin1 of a double death. Or
possib1y she takes her stand on the jutting fore-
land of some bold terrific coa<;t, and eyes the foun-
dering vessel straight belo\v; she mixes \vith the
spent and despairing cre\v; she dives into the
cabin, and singles out, perhaps frotn the rest, some
lovely maid, \Vho, in all the blootn of recovered
beauty, is voyaging back to her native land from
the healing airs of a foreign clin1ate, in thought
just bounding over the scenes of her youth, or
panting in the \varn1 en1braces of a father's anns."
Such are waking dreams ; and there are fe\v \Vho,
at sotne happy tnoment or other, have not yielded
to their influence. Often under the burning clilne
of India, or upon the lonely banks of the 1\Tis~is­
sippi, has the stranger let loose the reins of his
i1nagination, calling up before him the mountains
of his O\Vll beloved country, his native strea1ns,
and rocks, and valleys, so vividly, that he \vas
transported back into the midst of them, and lived
over again the days of his youth. Or the waking
dream may assume a more selfish character. If
the individual pines after wealth, his mind 1nay
212 FHILOSOPHY
be filled with visions of future opulence. If he is
young and unmarried) he may conjtue up the form
of a lovely female, may place her in a beautiful
cottage by the banks of some romantic stream,
may love her with unfathomable affection, and
become the fondest and most happy of husbands.
The more completely a person is left to solitude,
the more likely is his imagination to indulge in
such fancies. We seldo1n build castles in the air
in the n1idst of bustle, or when we have any thing
else to think of. Waking dreams are the luxuries
of an otherwise unemployed mind-the aristo-
cratic indulgences of the intellect. As people get
older and more conversant with life in all its
diversified features, they are little inclined to in-
dulge in such visions. They survey events \vith
the eye of severe truth, a1nuse then1selves 'vith no
impracticable notions of fancied happiness, and are
inclined to take a gloo1ny, rather than a flattering,
view of the future. With youthful and poetical
minds, however, the case is widely different.
Much of that portion of their existence, not devoted
to occupation, is a constant dream. They lull
themselves into te1nporary happiness \\rhh scenes
which they know only to exist in their o-nrn ima-
gination; but which are nevertheless so beautiful,
and so n1uch in harmony \vith every thing their
souls desire, that they fondly clasp at the illusion,
and subtnit themselves unhesitatingly to its spell.
These curious states of n1ind may occur at any
time ; but the n1ost co1nmon periods of their acces-
OF SLEEP. 213
'
S1on are shortly after lying down, and shortly
before getting up. 1\Ien, especially young men, of
vivid, sang-nine, in1aginative tentpcrarnents, have
drca1ns of this kind almost every n1orning and
night. Instead of ubn1itting to the sceptre of
~leep, they an1use then1selves \vith creating a
thousand visionary scenes. Though broad a\vakc,
their judg1nent does not exercise the slightest
sway, and fancy is allow·ed to becmne lord of the
ascendant. Ports are notorious castle-builders, and
poen1s are, in fact, merely \\·aking dreams-at
least their authors \Vere under the hallucination
of such drea1ns \Vhile co1nposing. 1\lilton's mind,
during the co1nposition of Paradise Lost, must
have existed chiefly in the state of a sublime \Vak-
ing dream; so must Raphael's, \vhile painting the
Sistine Chapel ; and, Thonvaldson's, \vhile design-
ing the tritunphs of Alexander. In \Vaking
dreams, whateYer emotion prevails has a character
of exaggeration, at least jn reference to the existing
condition of the individual. He sees every thing
through the serene atn1osphere of imagination, and
imbues the most trite circumstances 'vith poetjcal
coloring. The aspect, in short, \Vhich things
asstune, bears a strong resemblance to that im-
pressed upon the1n by ordinary dreams, and differs
chiefly in this, that, though verging continually
on the limits of extravagance, they seldom trans-
cend possibility.
19
CHAPTER XV.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
OF the various faculties with which n1an is en-
dowed, those 'vhich bring him into communication
w·ith the material \Vorld, constitute an important
class. 'fhe organs of these faculties-termed
perceptive-are situated in the middle and lower
parts of the forehead. Their function is to per-
ceive and re1nen1ber the existence, phenomena,
qualities, and relations of external objects. Indi-
viduality takes cognizance of the existence of ma-
terial bodies ; Eventuality, of their n1otions or
actions ; Fo1·m, of their shape; Size, of their
magnitude and proportions; TVeight, of the resist-
ance which they offer to a moving or restraining
po,ver ; Coloring, of their colors; and Locality,
of their relative position. Ti'rne and Number per-
ceive and ren1ember duration and numbers;
Language takes cognizance of artificial signs of
feeling and thought; and Order delights in regu-
larity and arrangement. In ordinary circumstan-
ces, the mode of action of these organs is this. If
any object-a horse for exa1nple-be placed be-
PH I L 0 S 0 P II Y 0 F S l. E E P. 215
fore us, the rays of light reflected from its surface
to our eye, form a picture of the ani1nal upon the
retina or back part of that organ. This picture
gives rise to what, for \vant of tuore precise lan-
guage, is called an i1npression, \Vhich is conveyed
by the optic nerve to the cerebral organs already
mentioned; and by then1. in reality, the horse is
perceived. The eye and optic nerve, it \Vill be
observed, do no n1ore than transu1it the in1pression
from without, so as to produce that state of the
internal organs \\'hich 1s accotnpanied by \Vhat is
termed perception or SUISation. vVhen the horse
is 'vithdra\vn, the in1pression still retnains, to a
certain extent, in the brain; and though the ani-
mal is not actua1ly perceived, "'e still remCinber
its appeaTance, and can almo. t inwgine that it is
before us. This faint sen1i-perccption is called an
idea, and differs fron1 sensation only in beiug less
vivid. The brain is more hio-hly excited \Vhen
it perceives a sensation, than \Vhen an idea only is
present ; because, in the fanner case, there is ap-
plied, through the n1e<liu1n of the senses, a stimu-
lus frotn 'vithout, which, in the lntter case, is not
present. If~ ho,\-ever, the brain be brouo-ht by
internal causes to a degree of excitctnent, \vhich,
in general, is the result only of external in1pres-
sions, ideas not less vivid than sensations ensue;
and the individual has the san1e consciousness as
if an itnpression 'verc transn1ittcd fro1n an actual
object through the senses. In other \vords, the
brain, in a certain state, perceiv~s external bodies ;
216 PHILOSOPHY
and any cause which induces that state; giyes rise
to a like perception, independently of the usual
cau~c - the presence ofexternal bodies themselves.
The chief of these internal causes is infian1mation
of the brain ; and \vhen the organs of the percep-
tive faculties arc so excited -put into a state sim-
ilar to that \vhich follo"rs actual impressions from
without-the result is a series of false itnages or
sounds, \Vhich are often so vivid as to be 111istaken
for realities. J)urjng sleep, the preceptive organs
seen1 to be peculiarly susceptible of such excite-
ment. In drean1ing, for instance, the external
\vorld, is inwardly represented to onr minds \Vith
all the force of reality: ·we speak and hear as if
we wer~ in conununication \Vith actual cxi~tcnces.
Spectral illustons are phenon1ena strictly analo-
gous; indeed, they arc literally nothing else than
involuntary \Vaking dreams.
In addition to the occasional canse of excite-
ment of the perceptive organs above alluded to,
thet·c is auother, the existence of which is proved
by numerous facts, though its Inode of action
is somewhat obscure. I allude to a large de-
veloprnent of the organ of Tronder. Individuals
with such a dcvelopn1ent are both strongly inclin-
ed to believe in the supernaturality of ghosts. and
peculiarly liable to be visited by thetn. This or-
gan is large in the head of Earl Grey, and he is
said to he haunted by the apparition of a bloody
head. Dr. Gall 1nentions, that in the head of Dr.
Jung Stilling, who saw visions, the organ \vas very
OF SLEEP . 217
large1y developed. A gentleman who moves in the
best society in Paris, once asked Gall to exa1nine
his head. The doctor's first remark was, "You
sotnetimes see visions, and believe in apparitions."
The gentleman started from his chair in astonish-
nlent, and said that he had frequent visions: but
never till that n1o1nent had he spoken on the sub-
ject to any human being, through fear of being
set down as absurdly credulous. How a large
development of lVonder produces the necessary
excite1nent of the perceptive organs is unknown,
but the fact seen1s indisputable.
In fonner times, individuals \Vho beheld visions,
instead of ascrjbing them to a disordered state of
the brain, referred them to outward impressions,
and had a false conviction of the presence of su-
pernatural beings. l-Ienee the universal belief in
ghosts which in these periods prevailed, even
among the learned, and fron1 which the illiterate
are not yet entirely exempt.
We read in history of people being attended by
familiar spirits ; such \Vas the case with Socrates
in ancient, and \Vith the poet Tasso, in modern
times: their fan1iliar spirits \Vere merely spectral
illusions. " At Bisaccio, near Naples," says lVIr.
Hoole, in his account of the illustrious author of
the Jerusalen1 Delivered, "Manso had an opportu-
nity of examining the singular effects of Tasso's
melancholy, and often disputed him concerning a
familiar spirit \vhich he pretended conversed with
him: l\ianso endeavored in vain to persuade his
J !)ool:
218 PIIILOSOPHY
friend that the whole vras the illusion of a disturb-
ed imagination; but the latter was strenuous in
maintaining the reality of what he asserted, and to
convince Manso, desired hi1n to be present at one
of the 1nysterious conversations. Manso had the
complaisance to meet him next day, and while
they were engaged in discourse, on a sudden he
observed that Tasso kept his eyes fixed on a win-
dow, and ren1ained in a 1nanner i1nmovable : he
called him by his nan1e, but received no ans\ver;
at last Tasso cried out, 'There js the friendly spirit
that is come to converse with me; look ! and you
'vill be convinced of all I have said.'
Manso heard him '-Vith surprise; he looked, but
saw nothing except the sunbeau1s darting through
the window ; he cast his eyes all over the room,
but could perceive nothing; and "ras just going to
ask where the pretended spirit was, when he heard
Tasso speak with great earnestness, someti1nes
putting questions to the spirit, sometin1es giving
answers ; delivering the whole in such a pleasing
manner, and in such elevated expressions, that he
listened with adrniration, and had not the least
inclination to interrupt hin1. At last the uncom-
mon conversation ended with the departure of the
spirit, as arpeared by Tasso's 0\Vn words, \Vho,
turning to Manso, asked him if his doubts were
removed. Manso was n1ore amazed than ever ;
he scarce knew what to think of his friend's situ-
ation, and waived any farther conversation on the
subject,"
OF SLEEP. 219
The visions of angels, and the co1nn1unications
from above, '\Vith which religious enthusiasts are
often impressed, arise from the operation of spec-
tral illusions. They see forms and hear sounds
'vhich have no existence ; and, believing in the
reality of such impressions, consider themselves
highly favored by the Ahnighty. These feelings
prevailed very much during the persecutions in
Scotland. Nothing '\vas more common than for
the Covenanter by the lonely hill side to have
'\Vhat he supposed a special message from God,
and even to see the_
angel who brought it, standing·
before hitn, and encouraging him to steadfastness
in his religious principles. lVIuch of the crazy
fanaticism exhibited by the disciples of Campbell
and Irving, undoubtedly arises from a similar
cause ; and it is probable that both of these indi-
viduals see visions and hear supernatural voices,
as well as 1nany of their infatuated followers.
Various causes rnay so excite the brain as to
produce these phantasmata, such as great mental
distress, sleeplessness) nervous irritation, religious
excitement, fever, epilepsy, opium, delirium tre-
mens, excessive study, and dyspepsia. I have
known them to arise without the apparent concur-
renee of any mental or bodily distemper. I say
apparent, for it is very evident there must be some
functional derangement, ho,vever 1nuch it may be
hidden from observation. An ingenious friend has
related to me a case of this kind which occurred
in his own person. One morning, while lying in
!20 PIIILOSOPIIY
bed broad a"rake, and, as he supposed, in perfect
health, the wall opposite to him appeared to open
at its junction ·with the ceiling, and out of the
aperture came a little uncouth, outlandish :figure,
\vhich descended from the roof, squatted upon his
breast, grinned at hin1 rr1aliciously, and seen1ed as
if pinching and pun1melling his sides. This illu-
sion continued for sotne time, and \Vith a timorous
subject 1night have been attended \Vith bad conse-
quences ; but he referred it at once to some disor-
dered state of the sto1nach under \vhich he ima-
gined he must have labored at the tin1e, although
he had no direct consciousness of any such de-
rangement of this organ. The same gentleman
has related to n1e the case of one of his friends
which attracted tnuch notice at the time it hap-
pened, fro1n the 1nelancholy circu1nstances that at-
tended it. It is an equally marked instance of
hallucination arising \vithout the individual being
conscious of any physical cause by which it 1night
be occasioned. It is as follo\vs:-
Mr. H. \Vas one day 'valking along the street,
apparently in perfect health, when he saw, or sup-
posed he saw his acquaintance, 1\lr. C., "ralking
before him. lie called aloud to the latter, who,
however, did not seern to hear him, but continued
moving on. Mr. H. then quickened his pace for
the purpose of overtaking hitn ; the other increas-
ed his also, as if to keep ahead of his pursuer, and
proceeded at such a rate that Mr. H. found it im-
possible to make up to hi1n. This continued for
OF SLEEP. 221
some time, till, on Mr. C. coming to a gate he
opened it, passed in, and slan1n1ed it violently in
Mr. H.'s face. Confounded at such treatment, the
latter instantly opened the gate, looked do\vn the
long lane into ·which it led, and, to his astonish-
ment, no one was visible. Detennined to unravel
the mystery, he went to 1\'fr. C.'s house; and what
was his surprise when he learned that he was con-
fined to bed, and had been so for several days. A
week or two afterwards, these gentlemen chanced
to 111eet in the house of a cotn1non friend, when
Mr. H. mentioned the circun1stance, and told Mr.
C. jocularly that he had seen his 'trraith, and that,
as a natural consequence, he would soon be a dead
man. The person adJressed laughed heartily, as
did the rest of the co1npany, but the result turned
out to be no laughing 1natter ; for, in a very few
days, :JYir. C. was attacked \Vith putrid sore throat,
and died ; and within a very short period of his
death Mr. H. was also in the grave.
Some of the most vivid instances of spectral
illusi JU are those induced by opitun. Several of
the "English Opium-Eater's" visions were doubt-
less of this nature. Dr. Abercrombie relates a strik-
ing instance of the kind which occurred to the late
Dr. Gregory. " He had gone to the north coun-
try by sea to visit a lady, a near relation, in whom
he felt deeply interested, and 'vho was in an ad-
vanced state of co11sumption. In returning from
the visit, he had taken a moderate dose of lauda-
num, with the vie"r of preventing sea-sickness,
222 PHILO SO PHY
and was lying on a couch in the cabin, when the
figure of the lady appeared before him in so dis-
tinct a manner that her actual presence could not
have been 1nore vivid. He \Vas quite a\vake, and
fully sensible that it was a phantasm produced by
the opiate, along with his intense 1neutal feeling ;
but he \vas unable by any effort to banish the
vision."* Indeed, any thing on which the mind
dwells excessively may, by exciting the perceptive
organs, give ris~ to spectral iJlusions. It is to this
circumstance that the bereaved husband sees the
in1age of a departed wife, to who1n he \Vas fondly
attached - that the n1urderer is haunted by the
apparition of his victi1n-and that the living \Vith
whom we are familiar, seem to be presented before
our eyes, although at a distance from us. Dr.
Conolly relates the ca~e of a gentleman, who,
\vhen in danger of being \vrecked near the Eddy-
stone lighthouse, sa\v the images of his whole
family.
These illusive appearances son1eti1nes occur
during convalescence from diseases. In the sum-
mer of 1832, a gentleman in Glasgow, ofdissipated
habits, \vas seized \vith cholera, fron1 which he
recovered. His recovery \Vas unattended with
any thing particular, except the presence of phan-
taemata--consisting of hnn1an figures about three
feet high, neatly dressed in pea-green jackets, and
knee-breeches of the sa1ne color. Being a person
"' Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powers, p. 357.
OF SLEEP. 223
of a superior mind. and knowino- the cause of the
' 0
illusions, they gave hin1 no alarm, although he
was very often haunted by them. As he advanced
in strength the phanton1s appeared less frequently,
and diminished in size, till at last they \vere not
taller than his finger. One njght, \vhile seated
alone, a multitude of these Lilliputian gentlemen
made their appearance on his table, and favored
him with a dance ; but being at the tin1e other-
wise engaged, and in no mood to enjoy such an
amusement, he lost ten1per at the unwelcome in-
trusion of his pigmy visiters, and striking his fist
violently upon the table, he cxclain1ed in a vio-
lent passion, "Get about your business you little
impertinent rascals ! 'Vhat the devil are you
doing here?" \vhen the \vhole assembly instantly
vanished, and he \vas never troubled \vith them
more.
It generally happens that the figures are no
less visible when the eyes are closed than when
they are open. An individual in the west of Scot-
land, whose case is related in the Phrenological
Journal,* whenever he shut his eyes or was in
darkness, sa\v a procession move before his mind
as distinctly as it had previously done before his
eyes. Some years ago, a farmer from the neigh-
borhood of Hamilton, informed me, with feelings
of great horror, that he had frequently the vision
of a hearse drawn by four black horses, which
*Vol. ii. p. 111.
224 PHILOSOPHY
•
were driven by a black driver. Not knowing the
source of this illusion he \vas rendered extre1nely
miserable by it ; and, to aggravate his unhappiness,
was regarded by the ignorant country people, to
whom he told his story, as having been guilty of
some grievous crime. This visiou was apparent
to him chiefly by night, and the effect was the
same \vhether his eyes were open or shut. Indeed,
so little are these illusions dependant on sight,
that the blind are frequently subject to them. A
respected elderly gentlmnan, a patient of 1ny own,
who was afflicted with loss of sight, accon1panied
by violent headaches, and severe dispeptic symp·
toms, used to have the image of a black cat pre-
sented before him, as distinctly as he could have
seen it before he became blind. He \vas troubled
with various other spectral appearances, besides
being subject to illusions of sound equally reinark-
able ; for he had often the consciousness of hear-
ing music so strongly impressed upon him, that it
was with difficulty his friends could convince him
it \Vas pure!y ideal.
Considering the age in \vhich Bayle lived, his
notions of the true nature of spectral illusions
were \vonderfully acute and philosophical. In-
deed, he has so '\vell described the theory of appa-
ritions, that the n1odern phrenological doctrine on
this point seems little more than an expanded ver-
sion of his own. " A man," says he, " 'vould not
only be very rash, but also very extravagant, who
should pretend to prove that there never \vas any
OF SLEEP. 225
person that imagined he saw a spectre; and I
do not think that the most obstinate and extra-
vagant unbelievers have maintained this. All
they say, comes to this: that the persons who have
thought themselves eye-witnessPs of the apparition
of spirits had a disturbed imagination. They con-
fess that there are certain places in our brain
that, being affected in a certain manner, excite
tlte image of an object which has no real existence
out of ourselves, and make the 1nan, \vhose brain
is thus modified, believe he sees, at t\vo paces dis-
tant, a frightful spectre, a hobgoblin, a threatening
phantom. The like happens in the heads of the
most incredulous, either in their sleep, or in the
paroxysms of a violent fever. Will they maintain
after this) that it is in'lpossible for a man awake,
and not in a delirium, to receiv~ in certain places
of !tis brain, an impression almost like that which,
by the la\v of nature, is connected \Vith the appear
ance of a phantom." In one of Shcnstone's Essays,
entitled "An Opinion of Ghosts," the same theory
is clearly enunciated.
It is worthy of remark, that the phenomena of
apparitions are inconsistent \Vith the prevalent
theory that the brain is a single organ, \vith every
part of which each faculty is connected. Were this
theory sound, the same cause that vivifies the
perceptive faculties must a]so vivify, or excite to
increased action, the propensities, sentiments, and
reflecting powers. This, however, is by no means
the case.
20
226 PHILOSOPHY
The case of Nicolai, the Prussian bookseller,
which occurred in the beginning of 1791, is one of
the most remarkable instances of spectral illusion
on record. "I saw," says he, "in a state of mind
co1npletely sound, and-after the first terror \Vas
over-with perfect calmness, for nearly two
months, almost constantly and involuntarily, a vast
nurnber of human and other forms, and even heard
their voices, though all this was 1nerely the conse-
quence of a diseased state of the nerves, and an
irregular circulation of the blood." " When I shut
n1y eyes, these phantasms would sometimes vanish
entirely, though there were instances when I be-
held them ·with my eyes closed; yet when they
disappeared on such occasions, they generally re-
turned when I opened my eyes. I conversed
sometimes with my physician and rny wife of the
phantasms which at the n1oment surrounded n1e ;
they appeared more frequently walking than at
rest; nor \vere they constantly present. They fre-
quently did not come for some time, but always re-
appeared for a longer or shorter period either singly
or in company, the latter, however, being most
frequently the case. I generally saw hu1nan forms
ofboth sexes; but theyusuallyseemed notto takethe
smallest notice ofeach other, moving as in a mar-
ket-place, where all are eager to press through the
crowd; at times, however, they seemed to be trans-
acting business with each oth~I-. I also saw,
several times, people on horseback, dogs, and birds.
All these phantasms appeared to 1ne in their naural
OF SLEEP. 227
s1ze, and as distinct as if alive, exhibiting different
shades of carnation in the uncovered parts, as 'vell
as in different colors and fashions in their dresses.
though the colors seemed sotnewhat paler than in
real nature; none of the figure appeared particu-
larly terrible, cotnical, or disgusting, n1ost of them
being of an indifferent ~hape, and son1e presenting
a pleasing aspect."
Perhaps the 111ost remarkable visionary, of whom
\Ve have any detailed account, \Vas Blake the
painter. This extraordinary n1an not only be-
lieved in his visions, but could often call up at
pleasure whatever phantasms he \vished to see :
and so far frotn their being objects of annoyance,
he rather solicited than wished to avoid their pres-
ence. He was in the habit of couversing with an-
gels, demons, and heroes, and taking their likenes-
ses; for they proved 1nost obedient sitters, and
never showed any aversion to allo\v him to transfer
thetn to paper. "His mind;" says lVIr. Cunning-
ham, "could convert the most ordinary occurren-
ces into something mystical and supernatural.''
"'Did you ever see a fairy's funeral, Madam?' he
once said to a lady \vho happened to sit by him in
company, 'Never, Sir !' was the ans,ver. 'I have.'
said Blake, cbut not before last night. I was
\Valking alone in my garden, there \vas great still-
ness among the branches and flowers, and more
than common sweetness in the air; I heard a low
and pleasant sound, and kne\v not \Vhence it came.
At last I sa\v the broad leaf of a :fio\ver move, and
!28 PHILOSOPHY
underneath I sa\v a procession of creatures of the
size and color of green and grey grasshoppers1
bearing a body laid out on a rose leaf, which they
buri~d \Vith songs, and then disappeared. It \vas
a fairy funeral.~" On being asked to dra\v the
hkeness of Sir Willian1 \Vallace, that hero inlmedi-
ately stood beforehitn,and he com1nencedtakinghis
portrait. " Having dra\vn for son1e tin1e \Vith the
satne care of hand and steadiness of eye, as if a
living sitter had been before hjm, Blake stopped
suddenly and said, 'I cannot .finish hitn-Edward
the First has stepped in bet\veen him and me.'
'That's lucky,' f:aid his friend~ 'for I \vant the por-
trait of Ed\vard too.' Blake took another sheet of
paper and sketched the features of Plantagenet;
upon ·which his tnajcsty politely vanished, and the
artist finished thP hnacl of \Vallare."* The greater
part ofhis life \vas passed in beholdingvisions and
in drawing then1. On one occasion he sa\v the
ghost of a flea and took a sketch of it. No con-
ception was too strange or incongruous for his
·wild ilnaginatiou, \Vhich totally ovennastered his
judgment, and 1nake him 1nistakc the chimeras of
an excited brain for realities.
What is called the Second Sight originated, in
lU03t cases, fron1 spectral illusions; and the seers
of who1n we so often read, \Vere merely individ-
uals visited by these phanton1s. The Highland
*Cunningham's Lives of the British Painters, Sculptors, and
Architects, vol. ii., Life of Blake.
OF SLEEP. 229
i.nountains, and the wild la\vless habits of those
\vho inhabited them, were peculiarly adapted to
foster the gro\vth of such i1npressions in ilnagina-
tive minds ; and, accordingly, nothing \vas 1nore
common than to meet \Vith persons who not only
fancied they sa\V visions, but, on the strength of
this belief, laid claim to the gift of prophecy. The
more con1pletely the mind is abstracted from the
bustle of life; the more solitary the district in
which the indivjdual resides; and the more ro-
mantic and a\ve-inspiring the scenes that pass be-
fore his eyes, the greater is his tendency to see
visions, and to place faith in \Vhat he sees. A man:
for instance, \vith the peculiar temperament which
predisposes to see, and believe in, spectral illusions,
is informed that his chieftain and clan have set
out on a dangerous expedition. Full of the sub-
ject, he forces their images before hi1n-sees them
engaged in fight-beholds his chieftain cut down
by the claymore of an enemy-the clansmen
routed and dispersed, their houses destroyed, their
cattle carried off. This vision he relates to certain
individuals. If, as is not unlikely, it is borne out
by the event, his prophecy is spread far and wide,
and looked upon as an instance of the second sight;
while, should nothing happen, the story is no more
thought of by those to who1n it was communicat-
ed. In some instances, it is probable that the
accidental fulfilrrJent of an ordinary dream was
regarded as Second Sight.
The belief in fairies, no doubt, had also its ori-
20*
230 PHILOSOPHY
gin in spectral illn~ions. In the days of ignorance
and superstition nothing was more easy than for
an excited brain to conjure up those tiny forms,
and see them perfonn their gambols upon the
greensward beneath the light of the moon.
The di1nensions of the figures which are exhi-
bited in spectral illusions vary exceedingly. Some-
times they appear as 1niniatures, sometimes of the
size of life, at other ti1nes of colossal proportions.
The sa1ne differences apply to their color. In one
case they are pale, 1nisty, transparent ; in another
black, red, blue, or green. Sometin1es w·e have
them fantastically clothed in the costume of a for-
mer age, sometitnes in that of our o'vn. No\\r
they are represented grinning, now weeping, no\v
in smiles. "'i\TI1ite or grey ghosts/' says Mr. Simp-
son, "result fr01n excited FoT1n, \vith quiescent
ColoTing, the transparent cobweb effect being co-
lorless. Pale spectres, and shado·wy yet colored
forms, are the effect of partially excited Coloring.
Tall ghosts and d\varf goblins, are the illusions of
over-excited Size." The jabbering of apparitions
arises from an excited state of that part of the
brain which gives us cognizance of sounds. This
explanation seems highly probable, or rather quite
satisfactory. There are points, ho\vever, \vhich it
is likely no one will ever be able to explain. 'Vhy,
for instance, should the disordered brain conjure
up persons and faces rather than trees and houses?
why should a ghost be dressed in red rather than
blue,. and why should it snz·
ile rather than gTin ?-
OF SLEEP.
'Fhese are minutioo beyond the reach·of investiga
tion, at least in the present state of our kno'v
ledge.
Mr. Simpson, in the second volume of the Phre-
nological Journal, has published a case of spectral
illusion, which, for singularity and interest, equals
any thing of the same kind which has hitherto.
been recorded. The subject of it was a young
lady under twenty years of age, of good fa1nily,.
\vell educated, free fron1 any superstitious fears, in
perfect bodily health and of sound mind. She
was early subject to occasional attacks of such il-
lusions, and the first she ren1e1nbered was that of
a carpet \vhich descended in the air before her, then
vanished away. After an interval of some years,.
she began to see hun1an figures in her room as she
lay wide awake in bed. These figures were whit-
ish or rather grey, and transpaTent like cobweb,
and generally above the size of life. At this time
she had acute headaches, very singularly confined
to one small spot of the head. On being asked
to indicate the spot, she touched, with her fore-fin-
ger and thnmh, each side of the root of the nose,.
the commence1nent of the eyebrows, and the spot
immediately over the top of the nose, the ascer-
tained seats of Form, Size, and Lower Individu-
ality. On being asked lf the pain was confined
to these spots, she answered that some time after-
wards it extended to the right and left, along the
eyebrows, and a little above them, and completely
tound the eyes, which felt as if they would burst
232 PHILOSOPHY
from their sockets. On this taking place the vi-
sions varied. The organs of Weight, Coloring,
Order, Number, and Locality, \Vere affected, and
the phantastnata assumed a change corresponding
to the irritated condition of these parts. " The
whitish or cob\veb spectres assumed the natural
color of the objects, but they continued often to
present themselves, though not ahvays, above the
size of life." " Coloring being over-excited, began
to occasion its specific and fantastical illusions.
Bright spots, like stars on a back ground, filled the
room in the dark, and even in day-light; and sud-
den, and sometin1es gradual, illumination of the
room during the night took place, so that the fur-
niture in it became visible. Innumerable balls of
fire seemed one day to pour like a torrent out of
one of the rooms of the house do"rn the staircase.
On one occasion, the pain between the eyes, and
along the lower ridge of the bro\v, struck her sud-
denly with great violence-\vhen, instantly, the
room filled \vith stars and bright spots. On at-
tempting, on that occasion, to go to bed, she said
she \vas conscious of an inability to balance her-
self, as if she had been tipsy, and she fell, having
made repeated efforts to seize the bed-post; which,
in the most unaccountable manner eluded her
grasp by shifting its place, and also by presenting
her with a nurnber of bed-posts instead of one.
If the organ of lVeight, situated between Size
and Coloring, be the organ of the instinct to pre·
serve, and po\ver of preserving equilibrium, it
0 F SLEEp·. 2331
must be the necessary consequence of the derange-
ment of that organ to overset the balance of the
person. Over-excited Number \Ve should expect
to produce multiplication of objects, and the first
experience she had of this illusion, \vas the Inulti-
plication of the bed-posts, and subscqueutly of any
inanimate object she looked at."
c: For near1y two years, 1\liss S. L. \Vas free from
her frontal headaches, a11d-n1ark the coincidence
-untroubled by visions or any other illusive per-
ceptions. Some 1nonths ago, howevcr,.all her dis-
tressing sympton1s returned in great aggravation,
when she \Vas conRcious of a \Yant of health. The
pain was n1ore Dcute than before along the frontal
bone, and round aud in the eyeballs ; and all the
organs there situated recommenced their gan1e of
illusion. SinglP figures of absent and deceased
friends were terrihly real to her, both in the day
and in the night, sometimes cobu·eb, but generally
colored. She sornetitnes saw friends on the street,
who proved phantoms '\Vhen slte approached to
speak to them; and instances occurred, ·where,
from not having thus satisfied herself of the illu-
sion, she affirmed to such friends that she had seen
thcrn in certain places; at certain tirnes, \vhen they
proved to her the clearest alibi. The confusion
of her spectral forms now distressed her.-( Order
affected.) The oppression and perplexity were in-.
tolerable, \vhcn figures presented themselves before-
her in inextricable disorder and still n1ore when
I
they changed-as \vith Kicolai -from whole fi...
234 PHILOSOPHY
gures to parts of figures-faces and half faces,
and limbs-sometimes ()[ inordinate size and
dreadful deformity. One instance of illusive Dis-
order, which she mentioned, is curious; and has
the farther effect of exhibiting (what cannot be put
in terms except those of) the derangement of the
just perception of gravitation or equilibrium.
( lVeight.) One night as she sat in her bed-room,
and was about to go to bed, a stTeam of spectres,
persons' faces, limbs, in the most shocking confu-
sion, seemed to her to pour into her room from the
window, in the manner of a cascade ! Although
the cascade continued, apparently, in rapid de-
scending motion ; there was no accumulation of
figures in the roon1, the supply unaccountably va-
nishing, after having formed the cascade. Colos-
sal figures are her frequent visiters. c~..~ize.)"
In the fifth volume of the Phrenological Journal,
page 319, a case is mentioned where the patient
\Vas tortured 'vith horrid faces glaring at her, and
approaching close to her in every possible aggra-
vation of horror. " She 'vas 1naking a tedious re-
covery in child-bed when these sytnptom~ troubled
her. Besides the forms, which were of natural
color, though often bloody, she was perplexed by
their variation in size, fron1 co1ossal to minute.
She saw also entire human figures, but they were
ahvays as n1inute as pins, or even pin-heads, and
were in great confusion and ntunbers." "She de-
scribed the pain 'vhich acco;npanied her illusionsi
viz. acute pain in the upper part or root of the
0 F SLEEP. 235
nose, the seat of the organ of Form, and all along
the eyebrows, which takes in Individuality, Form,
Size, Weight, Coloring, Order and Number."
In the same volume, page 430, Mr. Levison relates,
that on asking an individual ·who saw apparitions,
\vhether or not he felt pain at any part of his head,
he ans\vered, '(that every tin1e before he experi-
enced this peculiar po\ver of seeing figures, he in-
variably felt pain in and between his eyes, and, in
short, all over the eyebro\vs." lt does not appear,
however, that pain is universally felt in such cases
in the lower part of the forehead. Dr. Andrew
Combe informs me that, so far as he has observed,
the pain, when it does exist, is 1nore frequently in
the exciting organ, generally Wonder.
Spectral illusions constitute the great pathogno-
monic sign of delirium tremens. In this disease
they are usually of a horrible, a disgusting, or a
frightful nature; the person being irresistibly im-
pressed with the notion that reptiles, insects, and
all n1anner of vermin are cra,vling upon him,
which he is constantly endeavoring· to pick off-
that he is haunted by hideous apparitions-that
people are in the room preparing to murder and
rob him, and so forth. In the follo,ving case, with
which I have been favored by Dr. Combe, the
illusive appearances were of a more pleasing kind
than generally happen. "In a case," says he, "of
delirium tremens in an inn-keeper, about whom I
was consulted, the spectral illusions continued sev-
eral days, and had a distinct reference to a large
PHILOSOPHY
nnd active cerebellum, (the organ of Antativeness)
conjoined with Wonder. The man refused to al..
low me to look at a blister \Vhich had been placed
between his shoulders, ., because he could not take
off his coat before the ladies who were in the room!
When I assured him that there \vas nobody in the
room, he smiled at the joke, as he conceived it to be,
.and, in ans\ver to my questions, described them as
several in number, \vell dressed, and good-looking.
At 1ny request he rose up to shake hands \Vilh
them, and \vas astonished at finding them elude
his grasp, and his hand strike the wall. This,
however, convinced him that it was an illusion,
and he forthwith took off his coat, but was un-
\Villing to converse longer on the subject. In a
few days the ladies vanished from his sight."
Spectral illusions are more frequently induced
hy fever than by any other cause. Indeed, the
premonitory stages of 1nost fevers arc accompanied
by illusive appearances of one kind or another,
such as luminous bodies, especially when the eyes
are shut, hideous faces, streaks of fire, &c.; and
in the advanced stages, they are not uncomn1on.
...-\ medical friend has informed me, that when ill
of fever in Portugal, he \Vas terribly harrassed by
the vision of a soldier, \vhose picture \vas hanging
in the room. Removing the picture failed to dis-
sipate the illusion, which did not disappear till he.
\Vas conveyed to another apartment. Dr. Bostock~
while under a febrile attack, \Vas visited by spec-
tral illusions of an unusual kind. The following
0 F S LEE}\,. 237
are the particulars of his case·, as described by
himself:-
" I was laboring," says he, ''under a fever, at-
tended \Vith symptotns of general debility, especial-
ly of the nervous system, and \Vith a severe pain
of the head, which \Vas confined to a sn1all spot
situated above the right ten1ple. After having
passed a sleepless night, and being reduced to a
state of considerable exhaustion, I first perceived
figures presenting themselves before me, \vhich I
in1mediately recognised as si1nilar tothosedescribed
by Nicolai, and upon \vhich, as I was free fron1 de-
liriunl, and as they \vere visible about three days
and nights \Vith little intermission, I was able to
1nake n1y obsen,-ations. There were t\vo circum-
stances \vhich appeared to me very remarkable ~
first, that the spectral appearances ahvays follo\ved
the motion of the eyes ; and, secondly, that the
objects \Vhich were the best defined and remained
the longest visible, were such as I had no recol-
lection of e\?er having previously seen. For about
twenty-four hours I had constantly before me a
human figure, the features and dress of which
\vere as distinctly visible as that of any real exist-
ence, and of which, after an interval of many
years, I still retain the n1ost lively irnpression ; yet,
neither at the tin1e nor since have I been able to
discover any person whom I had previously seen
\vho resembled it.
" During one part of this disease, after the dis-
appearance of this stationary phantom, I had a
21
238 PHILOSOPHY
very singular and amusing imagery presented to
1ne. It appeared as if a nutnber of objects, prin~
cipally human faces or figures on a small scale,
\Vere placed before me, and gradually removed like
a succession of medallions. They were all of the
same size, and appeared to be all situated at the
san1e distance from the face. After one had been
seen for a fe\v minutes, it became fainter, and then
another, which was more vivid, seen1ed to be laid
upon it or substituted in its place, which, in its
turn, was superseded by a new appearance. Du-
ring all this succession of scenery, I do not recol-
lect that, in a single instance, I saw any object with
·which I had been previously acquainted, nor, as
far as I am a\vare, were the representations of any
of those objects, \Vith w·hich 1ny 1nind was the
1nost occupied at other times, presented to me ;
they appeared to be invariably new· creations, or.
at least, new combinations of ·which I could not
trace the original materials."*
The following very curious instance, is not less
interesting: the subject of it was a member of the
English bar.
" In Decetnber, 1823, A. \Vas confined to his bed
by inflamn1ation of the chest, and was supposed
by his n1edical attendant to be in considerable dan-
ger. One night, while unable to sleep from pain
and fever, he saw, sitting on a chair, on the left
side of his bed, a female figure which he imme-
*Bostock's Physiology, voJ. iii. p. 204.
OF SLEEP. 239
diately recognised to be that of a young lady who
died about two years before. His first feeling was
surprise, and perhaps a little alarm; his second,
that he was suffering from delirium. With this
impression, he put his head under the bed-clothes,
and, after trying in vain to sleep, as a test of the
soundness of his nnnd, he went through a long
and complicated process of metaphysical reason-
ing. He then peeped out and saw the figure in
the same situation and position. He had a fire,
but would not allow a candle or nurse in the
room. A stick \vas kept by his side to knock for
the nurse when he required her attendance. Be-
tng too weak to move his body, he endeavored
to touch the figure \vith the stick, but, on a real
object being put upon the chair, the imaginary
one disappeared, and was not visible again that
night.
c! The next day he thought of little but the vi-
sion, and expected its return \Vithout alarm, and
with some pleasure. He was not disappointed.
It took the san1e place as before, and he etnployed
himself in observations. When he shut his eyes
or turned his head, he ceased to see the figure; by
interposing his hand he could hide part of it ; and
it was shown, like any mere material substance,
by the rays of the fire which fell upon and were
reflected from it. As the fire declined it became
less perceptible, and as it went out, invisible. A
similar appearance took place on several other
240 PHILOSOPHY
nights; but it became less perceptible, and its vis-
its less frequent, as jthe patient recovered from his
fever.
"He says the impressions on his mind were
al\vays pleasing, as the spectre looked at him ·with
caln1ness and regard. He never supposed it real;
but \vas unable to account for it on any philoso-
phical principles \vithin his kno,vledge.
"In the autumn of 1825, A.'s health was per-
fectly restored, and he had been free frorn any
waking vision for nearly eighteen n1onths. Sotne
cucunlStances occurred \Vhich produced in hin1
great 1nental excitetnent. One n1orning be dreain-
ed of the .figure, \Vhich stood by his side in an
angry posture, and asked for a locket which he
usually wore. lie a\voke and sa\v it at the toilet,
with the locket in its hand. lie rn&hcd out of bed
and it instantly disappeared, During t~e next six
\veeks its visits \vhere incessant, and the sensations
which they produced where invariably horrible.
Sotne years before, he had attended the dissection
of a woman iu a state of rapid deco1nposition.
Though much disgusted at the tin1e, the subject
had been long forgotten; but \vas recalled by the
union of its putrescent body \Vith the spectre's
features. The visits \Vhere not confined tn the
night, but frequently occurred \vhile several per~
sons where in the same room. They were re-
peated at intervals during the winter ; but he \vas
able to get rid of then1 by moving or sitting in an
OF SLEEP. 241
erect position. Though well, his pulse was hard,
and generally from 90 to 100."•
In March, 1829, during an attack of fever, ac-
companied with violent action in the brain, I ex-
perienced illusions of a very peculiar kind. They
did not appear except when the eyes \vere shut or
the room perfectly dark; and this \Vas one of the
most distressino- things connected \vith my illness;
for it obliged me either to keep my eyes open or
to admit more light into the chamber than they
could well tolerate. I had the consciousness of
shining and hideous faces grinning at me in the
midst of profouud darkness, from \Vhich they
glared forth in horrid and diabolical relief. They
\vcre never stationary, but kept moving in the
gloomy back ground : sometimes they approached
\Vithin an inch or hvo of my face : at other times,
they receded several feet or yards fron1 it. They
\vould frequently break into fragments, which after
floating about \vould unite-portions of one face
coalescing with those of another, and thus fanning
still more uncouth and abominable images. The
only \vay I could get rid of those phantoms was
by admitting more light into the chamber and
opening the eyes, 'vhen they instantly vanished;
but only to reappear when the room \Vas darkened
or the eyes closed. One night, when the fever
was at its height, I had a splendid vjsion of a the-
atn~, in the arena of which Ducro\v, the celebrated
Phrenolo~ical Joutnal, voJ. v. p. 210,
2\..
242 PHILOSOPHY
equestrian, was performing. On this occasion, I
had no consicousness of a dark back ground like
to that on which the monstrous images floated ;
but every thing was gay, bright, and beautiful. I
was broad awake, my eyes were closed, and yet I
saw \vith perfect distinctness the whole scene
going on in the theatre-Ducrow performing his
wonders of horsemanship-a:nd the assembled
multitude, among \vhom I recognized several inti-
mate friends ; in short, the whole process of the
entertainment as clearly as if I \vere present at it.
When I opened my eyes, the 'vhole scene vanished
like the enchanted palace of the necromancer ;
when I closed them, it as instantly returned.
But though I could thus dissipate the spectacle, I
found it impossible to get rid of the accompanying
1nusic. This was the grand march in the Opera
of Aladdin, and was performed by the orchestra
·with more superb and in1posing effect, and with
greater loudness, than I ever heard it before; it
'vas executed, indeed, ·with tremendous energy.
This air I tried every effort to dissipate, by forcibly
endeavoring to ca1l other tunes to mind, but it was
in vain. However completely the vision might
be dispelled, the music re1nained in spite of every
effort to banish it. During the whole of this sin-
gular state, I was perfectly aware of the illusive-
ness of my feelings, and, though laboring ·under
violent headache, could not help speculating upon
them and endeavoring to trace them to their pro-
per cause. This theatrical vision continued for
OF SLEEP.
about five hours; the previous delusions for a
couple of days. The whole evidently proceeded
from such an excited state of some parts of the
brain, as I have already alluded to. Ideality,
Wonder, Form, Color, and Size, were all in in-
tensely active operation, while the state of the
reflecting organs was unchanged. Had the latter
part]cipated in the general excitement, to such an
extent as to be unable to rectify the false impres-
sions of the other organs, the case would have
been one of pure delirium.
Spectral illusions can only be cured by remov-
ing the causes which give rise to them. If they
proceed from the state of the stomach, this must
be rectified by means of purgatives and alterative
medicines. Should plethora induce them, local
or general blood-letting and other ant1phlogistic
means are requ1s1te. If they accompany fever or
deliriun1 tremens, their removal will, of course,
depend upon that of these diseaes. Arising from
sleeplessness, they wi11 so1netimes be cured by
anodynes ; and fJom nervous irritation, by the
shower-bath and tonics. Where they seen1 to arise
without any apparent cause, our attention should
be directed to the state of the bowels, and blood-
letting had recourse to.
CHAPTER XVI .
REVERIE.
A STATE of nund somewhat analogous to that
\Vhich prevails in dreaming, also takes place dur-
tng reverie. There is the same "rant of balance
in the faculties, \Vhich are ahnost equally ill regu-
lated, and disposed to indulge in sin1ilar extrava-
gancies. Reverie proceeds fron1 an unusual
quiescence of the brain, and inab11ity of the mind
to direct itself strongly to any one point : it is often
the prelude of sleep. There is a defect in the
attention, which, instead of being fixed on one
subject, wanders over a thousand, and even on
these is feebly and iueffectively directed. "'\Ve
sometimes see this while read1ng, or, rather, while
attempting to read. 'Ve get over page after page,
but the ideas take no hold \Vhatever upon us; we
are in truth ignorant of what we peruse, and the
mind is either an absolute blank, or vaguely ad-
dressed to something else. This feeling every
person must have occasionally noticed in taking
out his watch, looking at it, and replacing it without
knowing \vhat the hour was. ln like manner he
P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P. 245
may hear what is said to him without attaching
any meaning to the words, \vhich strike his ear,
yet communicate no definite idea to the sensorium.
Persons in this mood n1ay, from some ludicrous
ideas flashing across them, burst into a loud fit of
laughter during sermon or at a funeral, and thus
get the reputation of being either gros~ly irreverent
or deranged. That kind of reverie in \vhich the
1nind is nearly divested of all ideas, and approxi-
Inates closely to the state of sleep, I have somctitnes
experienced \vbile gazing long and intently upon
a river. The thoughts seem to glide a\vay, one
by one, upon the surface of the stream, till the
mind is mnptied of them altogether. In this state
\Ve see the glassy volun1e of the \Vater tnoving
past us, and hear its tnurnltH, but lose all po,ver
of fixing our attention definitively upon any sub-
ject: and either fall asleep, or arc aroused by solnc-
spontancous reaction of the 1nind, or by so1ne ap-
peal to th~ senses sufficiently strong to startle us
from our reverie. Grave, monotonous, slo,vly-re-
peated sounds-as of a mill, a \Vaterfall, an Eolian
harp, or the voice of a dull orator, have the effect
of lulling the brain into repose, and giving rise to
a pleasing n1elancholy, and to caln1ncss and inani-
ty of mind. Uniform gentle motions have a ten-
dency to produce a similar state of reverie, \Vhich
is also very apt to ensue in the midst of perfect
silence: hence, in walking alone in the country,
where there is no sound to distract our meditations,
we frequently ge~ into this st.ate. It is also apt to.
~46 PHILOSOPHY
take place when we are seated 'vithout books,
companions, or amusement of any kind, by the
hearth on a winter evening, especially when the
fire is beginning to burn out, when the candles are
becoming faint for want of topping, and a dim re-
ligious light, like that filling a hermit's cell from
his solitary lamp, is diffused over the apartment.
This is the situation most favorable for reveries,
waking dreams, and all kinds of bro'vn study.
abstraction, ennui, and hypochondria.
Reverie has been known to arise from the mind
sustaining temporary weakness; in consequence of
long and excessive application to one subject. It
is also, I believe, frequently induced by forcing
young people to learn what they dislike. In this
case, the 1nind, finding it i1npossible to direct itself
to the hated task, goes ·wandering off in another
direction, and thus acquires a habit of inattention,
which, in extreme cases, may terminate in imbe-
cility. So1netimes reverie arises from peculiarity
of tetnperament, either natural or induced by men-
tal or bodily \Veakness. The best regulated 1ninds
and strongest bodies, may, how·ever, and, in fact,
often have, occasional attacks: but 'vhen the feel-
ing gro\vs into a habit, and is too much indulged
in, it is apt to injure the usefulness of the individ-
ual, and impair the whole fabric of his under-
standing. "It is," says Dr. Good, "upon the
faculty of attention that every other faculty is
dependent for its vigor and expansion : without it,
.the perception ~:x;~rcises itself in vain; the memory
OF SLEEP. 241
can lay up no store of ideas; the judgment draw
forth no comparisons ; rthe imagination 1nust be-
come blighted and barren ; and where there is no
attention whatever, the case must necessarily
verge upon fatuity." I conceive that persons in
whom the organ of Concentrativeness is very
small, are peculiarly apt to fall into reverie.
The following is a remarkable instance of
reverie arising from excessive application :- The
subject of it was Mr. Spalding, a gentleman vvell
kno,vn as an eminent literary character in Ger-
many, and much respected by those who lmew
him. The case \Vas dra\Vn up by hi1nself, and
published in the Psychological Magazine.
"I was this morning engaged with a great num-
ber of people who follo,ved each other quickly, and
to each of "\vhom I was obliged to give 1ny atten-
tion. I was also under the necessity of writing
much; but the subjects, \vhich were various and
of a trivial and uninteresting nature, had no con-
nexion the one with the other ; 1ny attention,
therefore, \vas constantly kept on the stretch, and
was continually shifting from one subject to an..,
other. At last it beca1ne necessary that I should
\Vrite a receipt for some money I had received on
account of the poor. I seated myself and -vvrote
the two first words, but in a moment found that I
\vas incapable of proceeding, for I could not
recollect the words which belonged to the ideas
that were present in my mind. I strained my
attention as much as possible, and tried to vvrite
248 PHILOSOPHY
one letter slowly after the other, always having an
eye to the preceding one, in order to observe
\vhether they had the usual relationship to each
other; but I remarked, and said to myself at the
ti1ne, that the characters I was writing \vere not
those \Vhjch I \vished to write, and yet I could not
discover where the fault lay. I therefore desisted,
and partly by broken words and syllables, and
partly by gesture, I made the person who wait-
ed for the receipt understand he should leave
me. For about half an hour there reigned a kind
of tumultuary disorder in my senses, in which I
was incapable of re1narking any thing very parti-
cular, except that one series of ideas forced them-
selves involuntarily on my n1ind. The trifling
nature of these thoughts I was perfectly aware of,
and \vas also conscious that I 1nade several
efforts to get rid of them, and supply their place
by better ones, which lay at the botton1 of my
soul. I endeavored as 1nuch as lay in my
po\ver) considering the great cro\vd of confused
images ·\Vhich presented themselves to 1ny 1nind,
to recall my principles of religion, of conscience,
and of future expectation; these I found equally
correct, and fixed as before. There \Vas no decep-
tion in 1ny external senses, for I sa-\v and knew
every thing around 1ne; but I could not free my-
self from the strange ideas ·which existed in my
head. I endeavored to speak in order to discover
whether I was capable of saying any thing that
was connected ; but although I made the greatest
OF S L EEP. 249
efforts of attention, and proceeded, \Vith the utmost
caution, I perceived that I uniformly spoke other
\Vords than those I intended. My soul \vas at
present as little master of the organs of speech, as
it had been before of my hand in writing. Thank
God, this state did not continue very long, for, in
about half an hour, 1ny head began to grow
clearer, the strange and tires01ne ideas became less
vivid and turbulent, and I could command n1y
own thoughts \vith less interruption.
" I no\v wished to ring for 1ny servant, and de-
sire him to inform my wife to con1e to me ; but I
found it still necessary to \vait a little longer to
exercise myself in the right pronunciation of the
few words I had to say: and the first half hour·s
conversation I had ,vjth her \Vas, on my part, pre-
served with a slow and anxious circumspection,
until at last I gradually found myself as dear
and serene as in the beginning of the day, all
that no\v remained was a slight headache. I
recollected the receipt I had begun to write, and
in which I knew I had blundered ; and upon ex-
amining it, I observed to my great astonishment,
that instead of the words fifty dollars, being one
half year's rate, which I ought to have written,
the words \vere fifty dollars tla·ough the salvation
of Bra-, with a break after it, for the word Bra
\Vas at the end of a line. I cannot recollect any
perception, or business \vhich I had to transact,
that could, by means of an obscure influence~
have produced this phenomenon."
22
!50 P H I L 0 S 0 F H Y 0 F S L E E P.
Reverie, when proceeding, as in this case, from
excessive application, will seldom be difficult of
cure : the ren1oval of the exciting cause will of
itself naturally constitute the remedy. When it
arises from such a defect in education as that
already mentioned, the cure will be more difficult,
although even then it is not always imprac-
ticable. In such a case, the person should be
strongly directed to those subjects in which he
feels most interest, and never be made to study
what he has not a positive liking for. Active em-
ployment and gay and pleasant society, may effect
much in restoring the intellectual balance. In all
cases, whatever, he should never be left long alone ;
as nothing has such a tendency to foster this state
ofmind as solitude.
CHAPTER XVII.
ABSTRACTION.
ABSTRACTION, or absence of mind, has been con-
founded with reverie, but it is, in reality, a differ-
ent intellectual operation ; for as in the latter a
difficulty is experienced in making the n1ind bear
strongly on any one point, in the former its whole
energies are concentrated towards a single focus,
and every other circumstance is, for the time, ut-
terly forgotten. Such was the case with Sir Isaac
Newton when, in a fit of absence, he made a
tobacco stopper of the lady's finger, and 'vith
Archimedes, who ren1ained unconscious and un-
moved during the noise and slaughter of captured
Syracuse. Though, in general, abstraction is
easily broken by outward impressionsJ there have
been instances where it has been so powerful as to
render the individuals laboring under it insensible
to pain. Pinel in his Nosographie Philosopltique
speaks of a priest who in a fit of mental absence
was unconscious of the pain of burning; and
252 PHILOSOPHY
Cardan brought hi1nself into such a state as to be
insensible to all external impression.
Son1e men are naturally very absent; others ac-
quire this halJit frorn particular pursuits, such as
1nathe1natics, and other studies demanding much
caJculation. Indeed, all studies which require deep
thin ~i:ing, are apt to induce mental absence, in con-
sequence of the sensorial power being drained fron1
the general circumference of the 1nind, and direct-
ed strongly to a certain point. This draining,
\vhile it invigorates the organ of the particular fa-
culty to·ward~ which the sensorial energy is con-
centrated, leaves the others in an inanin1ate state1
aud incapacitates the1n fro1n perforn1ing their pro-
per functions ; hence persons subject to abstraction
are apt to commit a thousand ludicrous errors; they
aJe perpetually blundering -committing a nlulti-
tude ofpetty, yetharmless offencesagainstestablish-
ed rules, and forever getting into scrapes and ab-
~urd situations. :Kothing is n1ore conunon than for
an absent man to take the hat of another person
instead of his o\\rn, to give away a guinea for a
shilling, to 1nistake his lodgings, forget invitations,
and so forth. When the fit of abstraction is very
strong, he neither hears \vhat is said to hin1, nor
sees what is passing around. "'Vhile you fancy,"
says Bndgell, in thB 77th No. of the Spectator, " he
is ad1Y1iring a beautiful \VOnlan, it is an even \Va-
ger that he is solving a proposition in Euclid ; and
while you imagine he is reading the Paris Ga-
zette, it is far from being impossible that he is
OF SLEEP. 253
pulling down and rebuilding his country house."
In son1e cases the individual requires to be shaken
before he can be brought to take notice of any
occurrence ; and it is often difficult to make him
comprehend even the simplest proposition. Ab-
straction, therefore, bears an analogy to dreaming;
inasmuch as, in each of these states, some facul-
ties are active, while others are at rest. In dream-
ing, however, the organs of the quiescent facul-
ties are in a much deeper slumber, and less easily
roused into activity than in abstraction; hence in
the great majority of cases, abstraction is broken
with greater facility than sleep.
It appears from the observations of the Edin-
burgh phrenologists, that individuals who have a
large development of the organ of Concentrative-
ness are peculiarly liable to fall into a state of ab-
straction. The effect of such a development is
fixity of ideas- the power and tendency to think
consecutively and steadily upon one subject. "In
conversing \vith some individuals," says Mr.
Combe,* ""\Ve find them fall naturally into a con-
nected train of thinking; either dwelling on a
subject which interests them, till they have placed
it clearly before the mind, or passing naturally
and gracefully to a connected topic. Such per-
sons uniformly have this organ large. We meet
with others, who in similar circumstances, never
pursue one idea for two consecutive seconds, \vho
*System of Phrenology, p. 135.
22*
254 PHILOSOPHY
shift from topic to topic, w-ithout regard to natural
connexion, and leave no distinct impression on
the n1ind of the listener; and this happens even
w-ith individuals in \vhon1 reflection is not deficient;
but this organ (Concentrativeness) is, in such per-
sons; unifornliy sJ.nall.., A good endo\vment of the
power in question adds very n1uch to the efficiency
of the intellect, by enabling its possessor to apply
his mind continuonsly to a particular inv·cstigation,
unanuoyecl by the intrnsion of foreign and irrele-
vant ideas. It scmus to have been -very strong in
Sir Isaac Ne\vton, \vhose liability to abstraction
has already been alluded to. "During the t\VO
years," says Biot, " \vhich he spent in preparing
and ueveloping his iUll110rtal \VOrk, Philosophim
Naturalis Principia illathenzatica, he lived only
to calculate and to think. Oftentin1es lo::>t in the
contemplation of these grand objects, he acted un-
consciously; his thoughts appearing to preserve
no conncxion with the ordinary affairs of life. It
is said, that frequent} y, on rising in the 1norning,
he \vould sit do,vn on his bedside, arrested by
so1ne nc\v conception, and would re1nain for hours
together engaged in tracing it out, without dress-
ing hin1sclf." "To one who asked hin1, on some
occasion, by what 1neans he had arrived at his
discoveries, he replied, 'By ahvays thinking tulto
the1n.' And at another titne, he thus expressed
his method of proceeding,-' I keep the subject
constantly before me, and wait till the first da,vn-
iug opens slo\vly, by little and little, into a full and
OF SLEEP. 255
clear light.' Again, in a letter to Dr. Bentley, he
says, ' If I have done the public any service this
\vay, it is due to nothing but industry and patient
thought.' " Biot n1entions further, that, "in gene-
ral; the intensity of thinking \Vas with hin1 so
great that it entirely abstracted his attention from
other 1natters, and confined hin1 exclusively to
one object. Thus, \Ve see that he never was oc-
cupied at the sa1ne tilne \Vith two different scien-
tific investigatj ons."
The instances of abstraction upon record are so
lHlnlerous that a volun1e n1ight ea~ily he filled with
thein. Hogarth, the illu"trious painter, affords a
good specimen. Having got a ne\v carriage, he
\Vent in it to the l\iansion-Honse, for the purpose of
pay1ng a visit to the Lord Mayor. On leaving the
house he went out by a different door fron1 that by
\vhich he entered, and found that it rained hard
Notwithstanding- this, he walked ho1ne,vards, and
reached his O\Vn d\velling drenched to the skin.
I-Iis \vife seeing hi1n in this state, asked him how
it happened, and what had become of his carriage
since he had not returned hon1e in it. The truth
\Vas, that he had actually forgotten he had a car-
riage, or had gone in one at alL
The follo\ving case, from the pleasant style in
which it is told, \vill amuse the reader.
"It is a case of one of the n1ost profound and
clear-headed philosoph1cal thinkers, and one of
the most amiable of men, beco1n1ng so completely
absorbed in his own reflections, as to lose the per-
25G PHILOSOPHY
ception of external things, and almost that of his
own identity and existence. There are few that
have paid any attention to the finance of this
country, but must have heard of Dr. Robert Ham-
ilton's 'Essay on the National Debt,' which fell
upon the Houses of Parliament like a bombshell,
or1 rather, which rose and ilhuninated their dark-
ness like an orient sun. There are other writings
of his in which one knows not \vhich n1ost to ad-
mire-the profound and accurate science, the
beautiful arrangetnent, or the clear expression.
Yct, in public, the man was a shado\v; pulled off
his hat to his o\vn wife in the streets, and apolo-
gized for not having the pleasure of her acquaint-
ance; \\rent to his classes in the college on the
dark mornings, \Vith one of her white stockings on
the one Leg, and one ofhis O\Vn black ones on the
other; often spent the ·whole ti1ne of the meeting
in 1noving fro1n the table the hats of the students,
which they as constantly returned; sometitnes
invited them to call on hin1, and then fined then1
for coming to insult him. He \Vould run against
a CO\V in the roltd, turn, round beg her pardon,
'~Iadam,' and hope she \Vas not hurt. At other
tj rnes he would run again...t posts. and chide them
for not getting out ofhis way; and yet his conver-
sation at the san1c tjme, if any body happened to
be \vith hi1n, \vas perfect logic and perfect music.
"\Vere it not that there n1ay be a little poetic license
in Aberdeen story-telling, a volutnc n1ight be filled
\vith anecdotes of this atniable and excellent n1an,
OF SLEEP. 257
all tending, to prove how wide the distinction is
bet\veen first rate thought and that merely animal
use of the organs of sense which prevents ungifted
tnortals from \Valking into wells. The fishmar-
ket at Aberdeen, if still where it used to be, is near
the Dee, and has a strea1n passing through it that
falls into that river. The fish \VOlnen expose their
wares in large baskets. The Doctor one day
n1archcd into that place, where his attention \vas
attr[lcted by a curiously figured stone in a stack of
chimneys. lie advanced to\vards it, till he was
interrupted by one of the benches, ii·otn \Vhich,
ho\YCver, he tnn1bled one of the baskets into the
stremn; which \Vas bearing the fish to their native
ele1ncnt. The visage of the lady was instantly
in lightning, and her voice in thunder; but the
object of her \vrath \\Tas deaf to the loudest sounds,
and blind to the n1ost alanuing colors. She
sta1npcd, gesticulated, scolded, brought a cro\vd
that ti1led the place; but the philosopher turned not
fro1n his eager gaze and his itnvard n1editations on
the stone. 'Vhile the \VOinan's breath held good,
~L.e did not semn to heed, but \vhen that began to
fail, and the vjo]euce of the act moved not one
muscle of the object, her rage fcl t no hounds : she
siezed hjm by the breast, and yelling, in an effort
of dec:pair, 'Spagh ta Ina, or ru burst,' sank do\Vn
among the r01nnant of her fish in a state of com-
plete exhaustion ; and before she had recovered,
the Doctor's reverie \vas over, and he had taken his
departure."*
J< " N ew Monthly ~bgn.zine,'' vol. :t:u:viii. p. 510.
258 PH I LOSOPHY
Many curious anecdotes of a similar kind are
related of the Rev. Dr. George Harvest, one of the
ministers of Thames Ditton. So confused on
· some occasions, were the ideas of this singular
man, that he has been known to write a letter to
one person, address it to a second, and send it to a
third. He was once on the eve of being married
to the bishop's daughter, when, having gone a
gudgeon-fishing, he forgot the circumstance, and
overstaid the canonical hour, which so offended the
lady, that she indignantly broke off the 1natch. If
a beggar happened to take off his hat to him on the
streets, in hopes ofreceiving alms, he would make
him a bow, tell him he \vas his most humble ser-
vant, and walk on. He has been known on Sun-
day to forget the days on which he was to officiate,
and would \valk into church \vith his gun under
his arn1; to ascertain what the people ·wanted there.
Once, when he was playing at backgammon, he
poured out a glass of \vine, and it being his turn
to throw, having the box in one hand and the
glass in the other, and being extre1nely dry, and
un\villing to lose any time, he swallo\ved dov.rn
both the dice, and discharged the wine upon the
dice-board. "Another time," says the a1nusing
narrative which has been published of his pecu-
liarities, in one of his abseut fits, he mistook his
friend's house, and went into another, the door of
which happened to stand open; and no servant
being in the way, he rambled all over the house,
till, coming into a middle room, where there was
OF SLEEP. 259
an old lady ill in bed of a quincy, he stumbled
over the night-stool, thre\v a clothes-horse down,
and might not have ended there, had not the af·
frighted patient n1ade a noise at his intrusion,
\vhich brought up the servants, \Vho, finding Dr.
Ilarvest in the roon1, instead of the apothecary that
\Vas mon1entarily expected, quieted the lady's fears,
\vho by this time was taken \Vith such an immode-
rate fit of laughter at his confusion, that it broke
the quincy in her throat, and she lived many years
after\vards to thank Dr. Harvest for his unlucky
mistake." "His notorious heedlessness \vas so
apparent, that no one would lend him a horse, as
he frequently lost his beast fro1n under him, or, at
least from out of his hands, it being his frequent
practice to dismount and lead the horse, putting
the bridle under his arm, \vhich the horse some-
times shook off, or the intervention of a post occa-
sioned it to fall; someti1nes it \vas taken off by the
boys, when the parson \Vas seen dra\ving his bridle
after hi1n; and if any one asked him after the
animal, he could not give the least account of it,
or how he had lost it." In short the blunders
which he co1nmitted \vere endless, and would be
considered incredible, were they not authenticated
by incontestible evidence. Yet, notwithstanding
all this, Harvest \vas a man of uncommon abilities,
and an excellent scholar.
Bacon, the celebrated sculptor, exhibited, on one
occasion, a laughable instance of absence of mind.
"Bacon was remarkably neat in his dress, and, ac-
260 PHILOSOPHY
cording to the costume of the old school, wore,
in fine weather, a powdered \vig, ruffles, silver
buckles, \vith silk stockings, &c., and walked with
his gold-headed cane. Thus attired, he one day
called at St. Paul's, shortly after having erected
the statue of the benevolent Iro\vard, and before
the boarding which enclosed the statue had been
removed. One of his sons \vas en1ployed, at this
time, in fil?.i.shing the statue. After remaining a
short time, he con1plained of feeling some\vhat
cold, on \vhich the son proposed, as no one could
overlook them, that he should put on, as a kind of
temporary spencer, an old torn, green shag \vaist-
coat, with a red stuff back, which had been left
there by one of the \Vorkmen. He said it \vas a
'good thought,' and accordingly buttoned the
waistcoat over his handsome ne\v coat. Shortly
afterwards, he \vas missing, but returned in about
an hour, stating that he had been to call on a gen-
tleman in Doctor's Co1nn1ons, and had sat chatting
with his \vife and daughters, \vhon1 he had never
seen before; that he found them to be exceedingly
pleasant w·omen, though perhaps a little disposed
to laugh and titter about he kne\v not "~hat. 'Sir,'
said the son, ' I an1 afraid I can explain their mys-
terious behaviour; surely yon have not kept on
that waistcoat all the tin1e ?' 'But, as sure as I am
a living man, I have,' said he, laughing heartily,
'and I can now account not only for the strange
behaviour of the ladies, but for all the jokes that
have been cracked about 1ne as I \valked along the
QF SLEEP. 261
~treet-son1e crying let him alone, he docs it for
a \vager, '-\:c. &c.; all 'vhjcll, fron1 being quite un-
conscious of 1ny appcaralJcc, I thought "ras level-
led at so1ne other quiz that n11ght be follo,ving
near n1e; and I 110\V recollect that, \t·hcncver l
1ooked ronnd for the object of their pleasantry, the
people laughed, au<l the n1ore so, a~, hy the 1nerry
force of sy1npathy, I laughed also, although I could
not con1prehend \vhat it all1neant.' ;,
I shall conclude by tuentiou ing an anecdote of
~'Ir. vVarton. the accomplbhed Profccs"or of Poetry
in the niversity of Oxford. c! This good diYine,
haYing dined \Vith so1ne jolly COlllpany at a gentle-
man's house in that city, passing througll the
streets to the church, it being snn1n1er-ti1ne his
ears \Yerc loudly saluted "~ith the cry of 'Live
mackerel !' This so n1uch d\velt upon the Doc-
tor's 111i11d, that after a nap \vhj le the psahn \Vas
perfonniu~, as soon as the organ ceased playing,
he got np to the pulpit; and, 'vith eyes half open,
cried out; 'All aliYe, aliYe oh !' thus inach·ertcntly
keeping up the reputation of a Latin proverb,
which is trnnslated in the follo,vino- lines:-
'Gn~at \t'its to madne:,s nearly arc allicn,
And thin partitions do their hounds divide.'
cc The Professor of Poetry perhaps supposed
hilnself yet \vith his con1panions at the convivial
table."
l\iental ahsence is generally incurable. In stout
subjects, depletion, purging, and lo\v diet, will
so1netin1es be of use. \ Vhere the affection scen1s
23
262 P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F S L E E P .
to arise from torpor of the nervous system, blister-
ing the head and internal stimuli afford the 1nost
probable means of relief. The person should as-
sociate as much as possible \Vith noisy, bustling
people, and shun solitude and all such studies as
have a tendency to produce abstraction.
CHAPTER XVIII.
SLEEP OF PLAXTS.
DuRI:\G night, plants seen1 to exist in a state ana-
logon to :-.leep. A.t this period they get relaxed,
\Vhile their leaves droop and beco1ne folded toge-
ther. Such is peculiarly the case \vith the talna-
rind trPP. nnd the lP.gnnlinons pbnts with pinnated
leayes ; bnt \Vith altnost all plants it takes place in a
~Teater or ler·. er de~reei although in son1e thechange
is 1nuch 1nore striking than in others. 'rhe trefoil,
the O.J.:alis; and other herbs \Vith ternate leaves,
sleep ,,..ith their leaflets folded tog0ther in the erect
posture. rfhe CUllSC of the diffen ·nt stateS lll \Vhich
plauts cx1st dnriug the Jay and night hn.s never
heen correctly ascertained-solHC attributing it to
the influence of li~ht, so1ue to the vicissitudes of
te1nperatnrc, and others to atnlo5phericallnuuidity.
Probably the \\·hole of these influences arc con-
cerned. It is very evident that the presence of
certain sti1nuli during the day puts the leave~ in a
state of activity, and excites their developtuent ;
,vhile the \Vant of such sti1nuli in the night titne
thrO\VS them into repose, relaxes them, and occa-
264 PHILOSOPHY
sions then1 to he \veighed do,vn, as if the sustain·
ing principle \vhich kept them in energy \vas sus·
pended in the torpor of sleep. 'rhc principal of
these stinulli is unquestionably light; indeed, Lin-
nrens, fro1n the observation of stove plants, seen1s
to have den1onstrated that it is the withdrawing of
lig-ht, and not of heat, w·hich produces the relaxa-
tion or J-S1
leep of ].Jlants, as it is connnonly deno-
Ininated. The effect of light upon the leaves of
the Acacia is pecnliarly striking. At sunrise they
spread thctnsclves out horizontally; as the heat
increases they bcco1ne eleYated, and at noon shoot
vertically up\,·ards: but as soon as the sun de-
clines they get lanu-uid. and droop, and during night
are quite pendent and relaxed. During day, the
]eaves of n1ost plants are spread out and display-
ed, and at the smuc tirne. jnclined to\vards the sun.
Those of the Ht'lianthus aunuus, the Hclianthe-
'!Junn an1nturn, and ()rotan tinctorhun follow the
course of the snn in their position; and 1nost buds
and flowers have a tendency to turn their heads ]n
the direction of the great huninary of day. As
an instance of this, let us look at the sun-flower,
\vhich confronts the source of light wlth its broad
yellow· expansion of aspect, and hang~ its gorgeous
head droopingly so soon as the object of its wor·
ship declines. 'rhe leaves of a great ntunber of
vegetables present changes in their position cor-
responding to the different hours of the day.
"'Vho does not kno\v,'' says "\Villdcno\v1
"that the
species of Lupinus. cspecialJy Lupinus luteus,
OF SLEEP. 2i
turn, in the open air, their leaves and stalks to-
\vards the sun, and follo\v its course in so steady
a 1nanner, as to enable us to specify tltc hour of
the day frmn their direction." Such phenon1ena
were not unkno,vn to Pliny and Theophrastus.
The analogy between anin1al and vegetable Life
is still farther demonstrated by the \vell known
fact, that \vl11lc son1c creatures, such as the cat
and O\vl, ~lPep during the day, and continue
a\\'akc at night, certain plants do the san1c thing.
Such is the case with the Tragopo[[on luteutn,
\Vhich becotnPs closed, or in other \vords, goes to
sleep at nine in the n1orninQ", and opens at night.
Every hour of the day, indeed, has &Oule particu-
lar plant \vhich then shuts itbelf up : hence the
idea of the .F'lo,ver Dial by nwans of \vhich the
hour of the uay can be told \Vith tolerable aCCU-
racy. Son1c plants, \vhich shut then1schres up in
the day ti1ne, flower at night. The ll ight-flo,ver-
ing Uereu..,·, a species of cactus, is a beautiful in-
stance of the ktnu; and there are other plauts
which exhibit the san1e interesting phcno1nenon.
Nothing, indeed, can be n1ore beautiful than the
nocturnal flowerinrr of certain n1embers of the ve-
o
getable \'Jor1d. Linnreus used to go out at night
\Vith a lantern into his garden to have an opportu-
nity of witnessing this remarkable peculiarity in
the plants by \vhich it is exhibited.
The analogy between the two kingdon1s is ren-
dered yet more striking, when it is recollected that,
(\vith such exceptions as the above,) plants in·
266 P H I L 0 S 0 P I-I Y 0 F S L E E P.
crease much more rapidly during night, \Vhich is
their time of sleep, than in the day-time, \vhich
may be considered the period of their active or
\Vaking existence.
The state in ·which plants exist in the winter
season, rese1nbles the hybernation of anin1als :
there is the same torpor and apparent extinction
of vitality. Heat and light have the po\ver of both
reviving plants and putting an end to hyberna-
tion. Between plants and ani1nals, however, there
is this difference : that while 1nost plants become
torpid in winter, only a s1nall n~nnber of animals
get into that state; but even in such dissimilitude
\Ve can trace an analogy ; for as there are ani1nals
upon which winter has no torpifying influence, so
are there like,vise plants. The Helleborus hye'lna-
lis or christn1as rose, flowers at the end of Decem-
ber, and the Galanthus nivilis, or sno\v-drop, 111
the month of February.
CHAPTER XIX.
GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF SLEEP.
IN the foregoing pages, I have detailed at length
all the principal phenon1ena of sleep ; and it now
only remains to state such circumstances as affect
the comfort and healthfulness of the individual
\vhile in that condition. The first I shall mention
is the nature of the chan1ber in \Vhich we sleep;
this should be ahvays large and airy. In modern
houses, these requisites are too much overlooked;
and,while the public roo1ns are ofgreat dimensions,
those appropriated for sleeping are little better than
closets. This error is exceedingly detrimental
to health. The apartments wherein so great a por-
tion of life is passed, should ahvays be roomy,
and, if possible, not placed upon the ground-floor,
because such a situation is more apt to be damp
and ill ventilated than hjgher up.
The next consideration applies to the bed itself,
\vhich ought to be large, and not placed close to the
wall, but at some distance from it, both to avoid
any dampness which may exist in the wall, and
268 PHILOSOPHY
admit a freer circulation of air. The curtains
should never be dra·wn closely together, even in
the coldest \Veather; and w·hen the season is not
severe, it is a good plan to ren1ove them altogether.
The bed or tnattress ought to be rather hard. No-
thing is more injurious to health than soft beds ;
they effeminate the individual, render his flesh
soft aud flabby, and incapacitate him from under-
going any privation. The texture of which the
couch is 1nade,is not of n1nch consequence, provid-
ed it is not too soft: hence, feather-beds, or n1at-
tresses of hair or stra\v are ahnost equally good, .if
suitable in this particular. I 1nay n1ention, ho\v-
ever, that the hair 1nattress, fro1n being cooler, and
less apt to imbibe 1noisture, is preferable during
the su1nmer season, to a bed of feathers. Those
soft yielding feather-beds, in which the body sinks
deeply, are highly itnproper, fro1n the unnatural
heat and perspiration \vhich they are surc to in-
duce. Air-beds have been lately reconunended,
but I can assert, from personal experience, that
they are the worst that can possibly be en1ployed.
They become very soon heated to such an unplea-
sant degree as to render it in1possible to repose
upon them with any comfort. For bed-ridden
persons, 'vhose skin has become irritated by long
lying, the hydrostatic bed, lately brought into use
in so1ne of the public hospitals, is the best.
The pillo':v as well as the bed, should be pretty
hard. When very soft, the head soon sinks in it,
and becomes lPlpieasantly heated. The objection
OF SLEEP. 269
made to air-beds applies with equal force to air-
pillo,vs, \vhich I several times attempted to use,
but was compelled to abandon, owing to the dis-
agreeable heat that \Vas generated in a fe,v 1ninutes.
With regard to the covering, there can be no
doubt that it is 1nore who1esotne to lie between
sheets than blankets. For the same reason, people
should avoid sleeping in flannel nightshirts. Such
a degree of warn1th as is communicated by those
1neans is only justifiable in infancy and chtldhood,
or \vhen there is actual disease or weakness of con-
stitution. Parents often commit a great error in
bringing up their young people under so effemi-
nate a systen1.
A co1n1non cust01n prevails of \vanning the bed
before going to sleep. This enervating practice
should be abandoned except \Vith delicate people,
or when the cold is very intense. It is far better
to ]et the bed be chafed by the natural heat of the
body, \vhich, even in severe weather, will be suffi-
cient for the purpose, provided the clothing is
abundant.
1\,-e ought never to sleep overloaded with clothes,
but have 1nerely \Vhat is sufficient to mahltain a
comfortable warmth.
When a person is in health, the atmosphere of
his apartment sho1lld be cool ; on this account,
fires are exceedingly hurtful, and should never be
had recourse to, except when the individual is
delicate, or the weather intolerably severe. When
they become requisite, smoke must be carefully
270 PHILOSOPHY
guarded against, as fatal accidents have ansen
fron1 this cause.
The \Vindo\v-shutters ought never to be entirely
closed, neither ought they to be kept altogether
open. In the first case, we are apt to oversleep
ourselves, O\ving to the prevailing darkness \Vith
\vhich \Ve are surrounded ; and in the secoud, the
light \vhich fills the aparn1ent, especially ifit be in
the sn1n1ner season, may disturb our repose, and
\Vaken us at an earlier hour than there is any oc-
casion for. Under both circun1stances, the eyes
arc liable to snffer ; the darkness in the one in-
stance. disposes then1 to be painfully affected, on ex-
posure to the brilliant 1ight of da_l, Le,ides directly
delJiJjtating thern -- Jor, in rPnHtiniug too 1nuch in
the gloon1, \vhether \Ve he asleep or a\vake, these
organs an' sure to be n1ore or less \Yeakened. In
the other case, the .fierce glare of the n1orning ..,un
acting: upon thcn1, perhaps for scycral hours before
\VC get np. docs equal injury, 1naking then1 tender
and easily a1lectPc1 by the light. 'rhe extren1es of
too n1nch aud too little light n1u<::t, therefore, be
avoided; and such a 1noderatc portion adn1itted
into the clnuuber as not to hurt the eye . or net as
too strong a stinullns in breaking our shunbcrc,.
During tltc 5lll11lller heats. the co,Terjng require.
to be dituinishccl, so as to suit the atlnospheric
tcmperntnre; aud a sn1all portion of the \vindo'v
draw·n down fi·on1 the top, to pron1ote a circulation
of air; but this nu1st be done cantiou!:ily, and the
current prevented f.ro1u co1ning directly upon the
OF SLEEP. 271
sleeper, as it might give rise to colds, and other bad
consequences. The late Dr. Gregory ,vas in the
habit of sleeping- \vith the nrindo\V drawn slig-htly
down during the ·whole year : and there can he no
doubt that a gentle current pervading our sleeping
apartn1cnts, is ill the highest degree essential to
health.
Nothing- is so injurious as dan1p beds. It be-
comes every person, \Vhether at home or abroad,
to look to this n1atter, and see that the bedding on
which he lies is thoroughly dry, and free from even
the slightest 1noisture. By neglecting such a pre-
caution, rheumatis1n, colds, infia1nmations, and
death itself may ensue. Indeed these calamities
are very frequently traced to sleeping incautiously
upon dan1p beds. :F'or the satne reason, the \valls
and floor should be dry, and \Vet clothes never
hung up in the room.
vYe should avoid sleeping in a bed that has been
occupied by the sick, till the bedding has been
cleansed and thoroughly aired. 'Vhen a person
has died of any infectious disease, not only the
clothes in which he lay, but the couch it~elf ought
to be burned. Even the bed-stead should be care-
fully \vashed and fumigated.
Delicate persons \vho have been accustomed to
sleep upon feather-beds, must be cautions not to
exchang-e them rashly for any other.
On going to sleep, all sorts of restraints must be
ren1oved. from the body ; the collar of the night-
shilt should be unbuttoned and the neckcloth
272 PHILOSOPHY.
taken off. 'Vith regard to the head, the 1nore
light]y it is covered the better: on this account,
\Ve should wear a thin cotton or silk night-cap ;
and this is still better i [ 1nade of net-work. Some
persons \Vear worsted, or flannel caps, but these
are never proper, except in old or rheumatic sub-
jects. The grand rule of health is to keep the
head cool, and the feet \varm; hence, the night-cap
cannot be too thin. In fart, the chief use of this
piece of clothing is to preserve the hair, and pre-
serve it fro1n being disordered and matted together.
Sleeping in stockings is a bad and uncleanly
habit. By accustoming ourselves to do v;ithout
any covering upon the feet, \ve shall seldo1n expe-
rience cold in these parts, if we have clothing
enough to keep the rest of the systen1 comfortable;
and should they still ren1nin cold, this can easily
be obviated by wrapping a \Varm flannel cloth
around thAm, or by applying to then1, for a few
n1inutes, a heated iron, or a bottle of \Vann \Yater.
The posture of the body must be attended to.
The head should be tolerably elevated, especially
in plethoric subjects; and the position, fron1 the
neck do\vn\vards, as nearly ns po sible horizontal.
The half-sitting posture, \Vith the shoulders con-
siderably raised, is injurious, as the thoracic and
abdon1inal viscera are thereby compressed, and
respiration, digestion, and circulation, n1aterially
impeded. Lying upon the back is also improper,
in consequence of its tendency to produce night-
mare. Most people pass the greater part of the
OF SLEEP. 273
night upon the side, \vhich is certainly the most
comfortable position that can be assumed in sleep.
According to Dr. A. Hunter, wo1nen ·who love
their husbands generally lie upon the right side.
This interesting point I have no means of ascer-
taining, although, doubtless, the ladies are quali-
fied to speak decidedly upon the subject. I have
known individuals \vho could not sleep except
upon the back ; but these are rare cases.
I have n1entioned the necessity of a free circula-
tion of air. On this account, it is 1nore wholesome
to sleep single, than double, for there is then less
destruction of oxygen; and the atmosphere is
much purer and cooler. For the san1e reason,
the practice, so co1nn1on in public schools, of
having several beds in one roon1, and two or
three individnals in each bed, n1ust be deleterious.
When more than one sleep in a single bed, they
should take care to place then1selves in such a
position as not to breathe in each other's faces.
Son1e persons have a dangerous custom of cover-
.i.IJO" their heads with the bedclothes. The absur-
o
dity of tllis practice needs no con1ment.
Before going to bed, the body should be brought
into that state which gives us the surest chance of
dropping speedily asleep. If too hot, its tempera-
ture ought to be reduced by cooling drinks, expo-
sure to the open air, sponging, or even the cold
bath; if too cold, it must be brought into a com-
fortable state by wannth; for both cold and heat act
as stimuli1
and their removal is necessary before
24
274 PHILOSOPHY
slumber can ensue. A full stomach, also, though
it son1etimes promotes, generally prevents sleep ;
consequently, supper ought to be dispensed ·with,
except by those \vho, having been long used to
this meal, cannot sleep \Vithout it. As a general
rule, the person who eats nothing for t\vo or three
hours before going to rest, will sleep better than he
who does. His sleep will also be more refreshing,
and his sensations upon awaking 1nuch n1ore
gratifying. The Chinese reconnnendcd brushing
the teeth previous to lying do\vn : this is a good
custo1n.
Sleeping after dinner is pernicious. On a\vak-
ing from such indulgence, there is gencrally some
degree of febrile excitement, in consequence of the
latter stages of digestion being hurried on: it is
only useful in old people, and in son1e cases of
disease.
The weak, and those recovering from protracted
illnesses, must be indulged \vith n1ore sleep than
such as are vigorous. Sleep, in them, supplies, in
solne measure, the place of nourish1nent, and thus
beco1nes a most powerful auxiliary for restoring
them to health. Much repose is likewise neces-
sary to enable the systen1 to recover fro1n the
effects of dissipation.
Too little and too much sleep are equally in-
jurious. Excessive wakefulness, according to
Hippocrates, prevent~ the aliment from being di-
gested, and generates crude hun1ors. Too much
sleep produces lassitude and corpulency, and
OF SLEEP. 275
utterly debases and stupifies the mind. Corpu-
lent people being apt to indulge in excessive sleep,
they should break this habit at once, as, in their
case, it is peculiarly un,vholesome. They ought
to sleep little, and that little upon hard beds.
The practice of sleeping in the open air, cannot
be too strongly reprobated. It is at all tilnes dan-
gerous, especially 'vhen carried into effect under a
burning sun, or amid the damps of night. In
tropical climates, where this custom is indulged in
during the day, it is not unusual for the person to
be struck ·with a coup-de-soleil, or so1ne violent
fever ; audi in our own country, nothing is more
conunon than inflammations, rheumatisms, and
dangerous colds, originating from sleeping upon
the ground, either during the heat of the day, or
\Vhen the evening has set in with its attendant
de\vs and vapors.
As respects the repose of children it rnay be re-
marked that the custo1n of rocking them asleep in
the cradle, is not to be recomn1ended, sanctioned
though it be by the voice of ages. This method
of procuring slumber, not only heats the infant un-
necessarily, but, in some cases, disorders the diges-
tive organs, and, in most, produces a sort of arti-
ficial sleep, far less c;onducive to health, than that
brought on by more natural means. According to
some \Vriters, it has also a tendency to induce
water in the head, a circumstance which I think
possible, although I never kne'v a case of that dis-
ease \vhich could be traced to such a source. The
cradle, then, should be abandoned, so far as the
276 PHILOSOPHY
rocking is concerned, and the child simply IuTled
to repose in the nurse's arms, and thea deposited
quietly in bed. Sleep 'vill often be induced by
gently scratching or rubbing the top of the child's
head. This fact is \vell known to some nurses,
by \vho1n the practcie is had recourse to for the
purpose of provoking slumber in restless children.
For the first month of their existence. children
sleep ahnost continually, and they should be per-
n1itted to do so, for at this early age they rannot
slutnber too 1nuch: cahn and long-continued sleep
is a favorable syn1ptom, anu ought to be cherish-
ed rather than prevented, during the \vhole period
of infancy. "\Vhen, ho\vever, a child attains the
age of three or four n1onths, \Ve should endeavor
to tnanage so that its periods of \vakefnlness 1nay
occur in the day-ti1ne, instead of at night. By
proper care, a child 1uay be made to sleep at al-
1110St any hour; and, as this is always an object of
importance, it should be sedulously attended to in
the rearin~ of children. l:ntil about the third
year, they n~quire a little sleep in the middle of the
day, and pass half their tin1c in s1eep. Every suc-
ceeding year, till they attain the age of seven, the
period allotted to repose should be shortened one
hour, so that a child of that age n1ay pass nine
hours or thereabouts, out of the t'venty-four, in a
state of sleep. Children should never be awaken-
ed suddenly, or ''rith a noise, in consequence of
the terror and starting which such a 1nethod of
arousing them produces : neither should they be
brought all at once from a dark roon1 into a strong
OF SLEEP. 277
glare of light, lest their eyes be weakened, and
permanent injury inflicted upon these organs.
The position in which children sleep requires to
be carefully attended to. Sir Charles Bell men-
tions that the eneuresis infantum, with which
they are so often affected, frequently arises from
lying upon the back, and that it will be removed
or prevented by accustoming them to lie on the
side. It is also of the greatest importance, that
they be kept sufficiently warm. I believe that
many infantile diseases arise from the neglect of
this precaution. Children have little po\ver of
evolving heat; on this account, when delicate
they should never be permitted to sleep alone, but
made to lie \vith the nurse, that they 1nay receive
\vannth from her body.
At whatever period we go to sleep, one fact is
certain, that \ve can never with impunity convert
day into night. Even in the most scorching sea-
sons of the year, it is better to travel under the
burning sunshine, than in the cool of the evening,
\Vhen the dews are falling and the air is damp. A
case in support of this statement, is given by Va-
lano-in in his work on Diet. T\vo Colonels in the
0
French army had a dispute whether it was Inost
safe to march in the heat of the day, or in the
evening. To ascertain this point, they got per-
mission from the commanding officer to put their
respective plans into execution. Accordingly, the
one with his division marched during the day, al-
though it was in the heat of su1nmer, and rested
24*
278 PHILOSOPHY
all night-the other slept in the day-time, and
marched during the evening and part of the night.
The result \vas that the first performed a journey
of six hundred miles, without losing a single man
or horse, \vhile the latter lost most of his horses,
and several of his men.
It no'v becotncs a question at what hour we
should l'etire to rest, ho\v long our rest ought to
continue, and \vhen it should be broken in the
n1orning. These points I shall briefly discuss, in
the order in which they stand.
It is not very easy to ascertain the most appro-
priate honr for going to bed, as this depends very
tnuch upon the habits and occupation of the indi-
vidual. Laborers and all hard \vrought people]
'vho are obliged to get up beti1nes, require to go to
rest early ; and, in their case, nine o'clock may be
the best hotn·. Those who are not obliged to ri. e
early, 1nay delay the peTiod of retiring to rest for
an honr or t\vo longer; and may thus go to bed at
ten or eleven. These are the usual periods allot-
ted. a1nong the middle ranks of life for this pur-
pose ; and it n1ay be laid do,vn as a rule, that to
1nake a custon1 of rmnaining up for a later period
than eleven must be prejudicial. Those, therefore,
\vho habitually delay going to bed till hvelYe. or
one, or two, are acting in direct opposition to the
la,vs of health, in so far as they arc compelled to
pass in sleep a portion of the ensuing day, 'vhich
ought to be appropriated to \Vakefulness and exer-
tion. Late hours are in every respect hurtful,
OJr SLEEP· 279
whether they be employed in study or amusement.
A fresh supply of stimulus is thrown upon the
mind, which prevents it from sinking into slumber
at the proper period, and restlessness, dreaming,
and disturbed repose inevitably ensue. Among
other things, the eyes are injured, those organs
suffering much more from the candle-light, to
which they are necessarily exposed, than from the
natural light of day.
With regard to the necessary quantity of sleep,
so n1uch depends upon age, constitution, and em-
ploytnent, that it is impossible to lay do\vn any
fixed rule \vhich will apply to all cases. Jeremy
Taylor states that three hours only in the hventy-
four should be devoted to sleep. Baxter extends
the perio<.l to four hours, Wesley to six,Lord Coke
and Sir William Jones to seven, and Sir John
Sinclair to eight. With the latter I am disposed
to coincide. Taking the average of mankind, \Ve
shall cotne as nearly as possible to the truth \Vhen
we say that nearly one-third part of life ought to
be spent in sleep : in some cases, even more may
be necessary, and in fe\v can a much smaller por-
tion be safely dispensed with. When a person is
young, strong, and healthy, an hour or t\VO less
1nay be sufficient; but childhood and extreme old
age require a still greater portion. No person ·who
passes only eight hours in bed, can be said to
,vaste his time in sleep. If, however, he exceeds
this, and is, at the same time, in possession of vi-
fTOr and youth, he lays himself open to the charge
~f slumbering a\vay those hours which should be
280 PHILOSOPHY
devoted to some other purpose. According to
Georget, women should sleep a couple of hours
longer than men. For the former he allows six
or seven hours, for the latter eight or nine. I
doubt, however, if the female constitution, gene-
rally speaking, requires more sleep than the n1ale;
at least it is certain that ·women endure protracted
wakefulness better than men, but \vhether this may
result from custom is a question worthy of being
considered.
Barry, in his work on Digestion, has made an
ingenious, but somewhat whimsical, calculation on
the tendency of sleep to prolong life. He asserts,
that the duration of human life n1ay be ascertain-
ed by the number of pulsations which the indivi-
dual is able to perform. Thus, if a n1an's life ex-
tends to 70 years, and his heart throbs 60 times
each minute, the \vhole nnn1her of its pulsations
\vill amount to 2,207,520,000 ; but if, by inten1per-
ance, or any other cause~ he raises the pulse to 75
in the minute, the san1e ntunber of pulsations
would be con1pleted in 56 years, and the duration
of life abbreviated 14 years. Arguing fron1 these
data, he alleges, that sleep has a tendency to pro-
long life, as, during its continuance, the pulsations
are less numerous than in the \\7aking state.
There is a sort of theoretical truth in this state-
ment, but it is liable to be n1odified by so many
circumstances, that its application can never be-
come general. If this \vere not the case, it \vould
be natural to infer that the length of a man's life
~v-ould correspond with that of his slumbers ;
OF SLEEP. 281
whereas it is well known, that too much sleep de-
bilitates the frame, and lays the foundation of va-
rious diseases, which tend to shorten rather than
extend the duration of life.
Those who indulge most in sleep, generally re-
quire the least of it. Such are the \Vealthy and
luxurious, who pass nearly the half of their ex-
istence in shunber, \vhilc the lw.rcl-\vorking peasant
and 111echanic, "'ho "'ould seem, at first sight, to
require n1ore than any other class of society, are
contented \Vith seven or eight hours of repose- a
period brief in proportion to that expended by
then1 in toil, yet sufficiently long for the \Vants of
nature, as is proved by the strength and health
\Vhich they ahnost uniformly enjoy.
For reasons already stated, n1ore sleep is requisite
in winter than in stun1ner. Were there even no
constitutional can es for this difference, \Ve should
be disposed to sleep longer in the one than in the
other, as some of the circun1stanccs \vhich induce
us to sit up late and rise early in sumn1er, are-
\Vanting during \Vinter ; and vve consequently feel
disposed to lie longer in bed during the latter sea-
son of the year.
The hour of getting up in the tnorning is not of
less i1nportance than that at \vhich \Ve ought to lie
down at night. There can be no doubt that one
of the n1ost admirable conducives to health is early
ns1ng. "Let us," says Solomon, "go forth into
the fields ; let us lodge in the villages ; let us get
up early to the vineyards ; let us see if the vine
282 PHILOSOPHY
flourish-if the tender grape appear-if the pome-
granates bud forth."
Almost all men who have distinguished them-
selves in science, literature, and the arts, have been
early risers. The industrious, the active-minded,
the enthusiast in the pursuit of knowledge or
gain, are up betimes at their respective occupa-
tions; \Vhile the sluggard wastes the 1nost beauti-
ful period of life in pernicious slun1ber. Ho1ner,
Virgil, and Horace are all represented as early
risers: the same was the case ·with Paley, Frank-
lin, Priestly, Parkhurst) and Buffon, the latter of
\Vhom ordered his valet-de-charnber to awaken
hin1 every morning, and compel hin1 to get up by
force if he evinced any reluctance: for this service
the va]et \vas rewarded 'vith a crown each day,
\.vhich reco1npense he forfeited if he did not oblige
his master to get out of bed before the clock struck
six. Bishops Jewel and Burnet rose regularly
every 1norning at four o'clock. Sir Thomas More
did the same thing; and so convinced was he of
the beneficial effects of getting up betin1es, that, in
his "Utopia," he represented the inhabitants at-
tending lectures before sunrise. Napoleon 'vas an
early riser ; so was Frederick the Great and
Charles XII.; so is the Duke of We1lington ; and
so, in truth, is almost every one distinguished for
energy and indefatigability of nund.
Every circun1stance contributes to render early
rising advisable to those who are in the enjoyment
of health. 'rhere is no time equal in beauty and
OF SLEEP. 283
freshness to the morning, when nature has just
parted with the gloomy mantle \vhich night had
flung over her, and stands before us like a youncr
.d 0
bn e, from whose aspect the veil which covered
her loveliness, has been withdrawn. The \Vhole
n1aterial \vorld has a vivifying appearance. The
husbandtnan is up at his labor, the forest leaves
sparkle \Vith drops of crystal de,v, the flo\vers raise
their rejojciug heads to\vards the sun, the birds
pour forth their anthems of gladness ; and the \vide
face of creation itself seen1s as if awakened and
refreshed from a mighty slumber. All these things,
ho\vever, are hid fron1 the eyes of the sluggard;
natun~, in her most glorious aspect, is, to him, a
sealed book; and \Vhile every scene around him
1s full of beauty, interest, and ani1nation, he alone
is passionless and uninspired. Behold hi1n stretch-
ed upon his couch of rest ! In vain does the clock
proclailn that the reign of day has con11nenced'
In vain does the morning light stream fiercely in
by the chinks of his windo,v, as if to startle him
from his repose! He he:trs not- he sees not, for
blindness and deafness rule over him with despotic
S\vay, and lay a deadening spell upon his faculties.
And \vhen he does at length a\vake-far on in the
day-from the torpor of this benumbing sleep, he
is not refreshed. He does not start at once into
new life-an altered man, \Vith joy in his mind,
and vigor in his frame. On the contrary, he is
dull lang-uid, and stupid, as if half recovered from
' -
a paroxysm of drunkenness. He yawns, stretches
284 PHILOSOPHY
hi1nself, and stalks into the breakfast parlor, to
partake in solitude, and ·without appetite, of his
unrefreshing n1eal - while his eyes are red and
gummy, his beard unshorn, his face un\vashed,
and his clothes disorderly, and ill put on. Un-
cleanliness and sluggishness generally go hand in
hand ; for the obtuseness of 1nind whjch disposes
a man to waste the most precious hours of exist-
ence in debasing sleep, will naturally make him
neglect his person.
The character of the early riser is the very re..
verse of the sloven's. His countenance is ruddy,
his eye joyous and serene, and his fran1e full of
vigor and activity. His tnind, also, is clear and
unclouded, and free from that oppressive languor
which \Veighs like a nightn1are upon the spirit of
the sluggard. The rnan who rises bethnes, is in
the fair \vay of laying in both health and \Vealth ;
while he \Vho dozes rnvay his existence in un-
necessary sleep, will acquire neither. On the con-
trary, he runs every chance of losing \vhatever
portion of the1n he n1ay yet be in possession of,
and of sinking fast in the grade of society-a
bankrupt both in person and in purse....
>~- In the wil1 of the late Mr. James Sergeant of the borough of
Leicester, is the following clause relative to early rising: -"As
my nephews are fond of indulging in bed in a morning, and as I
wish them to improve tbe time while they are young, I direct that
they shall prove to the satisfaction of my executors, that they
have got out of bed in the morning, and either employed them-
selves in business, or taken exercise in the open air, from five
o'elock every morning, from the 5th of April, to the lOth of Octo-
OF SLEEP. 285
The most striking instances of the good effects of
early rising, are to be found in our peasantry and
farmers, whose hale complexions, good appetites,
and vigorous persons, are evidences of the benefit
derived fro1n this custon1, conjoined \vith labor ;
while the wan, unhealthy countenances and en-
feebled frames of those ·who keep late hours, lie
long in bed, and pass the night in dissipation,
study, or pleasure, are equally conclusive proofs
of the pernicious consequences resulting from an
opposite practice.
Early rising, therefore, is highly beneficial; but
care should be taken not to carry it to excess. It
can never be healthful to rise till the sun has been
for some time above the horizon ; for until this is
the case, there is a dan1pness in the air \vhich
must prove injurious to the constitution, especially
when it is not naturally very strong. Owing to
this, early rising is injurious to 1nost delicate people;
and, in all cases, the heat of the sun should be
allowed to have acquired some strength before \Ve
think of getting out of doors. No healthy man in
the su1n1ner, should lie longer in bed than six
o'clock. If he does so, he loses·the most valuable
ber, being three hours each day, and from seven o'clock in the
morninu from the lOth of October to the 5th of April, being two
e.
hours every morning for two whole years: this to be done for
some two years during the first seven years, to the satisfaction of
my executors, who may excuse them in case of illness, but the
task must be made up when they are well, and if they will not do
this, they shall not receive any share of my property.''
25
286 PHILOSOPHY
part of the day, and injures his own constitution.
Persons subject to gout, should always go to sleep
early, and rise early. The former mitigates the
viol cnce of the evening paroxysm, which is always
increased by wakefulness; and the latter lessens
the tendency to plethora, which is favored by
long protracted sleep.
It is common in son1e of the foreign universities
to go to bed at eight, and rise at three or four in
the n1orning; and this plan is recommended by
Willich in his "Lectures on Diet and Regin1en."
Sir John Sinclair, in allusion to it, judiciously
observes, "I have no doubt of the superior healthi-
ness, in the winter ti1ne, of rising by day-light, and
using candle-llght at the close of the day, thnn
rising by candle-light, and using it some hours
before day-light approaches. It remains to be
ascertained by ·which system the eyes are least
likely to be affected."
Dr. Franklin in one of his ingenious Essays.
has so1ne fine observations on early rising ; n.nd
makes an amusing calculation of the saving that
might be made in the city of Paris alone, by using
the sunshine instead of candles. This saving he
estin1ates at 96,000,000 of livres, or £4,000,000
sterling. This is mentioned in a satirical vein,
but probably there is a great deal of truth in thA
state1nent. Indeed, if people \vere to go sooner to
bed, aud get up earlier, it is inconceivable 'vhat
surns might be saved; but according to the absurd
custom of polished society, day is, in a great mea-
OF SLEEP. 287
sure, converted into night, and the order of things
reversed in a manner at once capricious and
hurtful.
To conclude. 'rhe same la'v which regulates
our desirc for food, also governs sleep. As 've
indulge Ill sleep to moderation or excess, it be-
comes a blessing or a curse-in the one case re-
cruitillg the energies ofnature, and diffusing vigor
alike over the mind and fn:unc : in the other, de-
basing the character of n1an, stupifying his intel-
lect, enf~;ebling his body, and rcudcring hin1 u~eless
alike to others and hitnself. 'fhe glutton, the
drunkard, and the sloven bear the strictest alii nity
to each other. both in the violation of nature's
la'\vs. and in the con equenccs thence entailed
upon thc1nselves. 'Vhat in 1noc.lcration is harm-
less or h(lneficial, in excess is a curse; anc.l sleep
carried to the latter extreme, 1nay be pronounced
an act of intemperance almost as n1uch as exces-
sive eating or drinkiug.
INDEX.
PAGE
Abercrombie, Dr., case related by, of the verification of
a dream. . 113
--------, his distinction between dreaming and
insanity, . 45
Absorption increased by sleep 26
Animallife, 13
--- magnetism,
Anstotle, his account of the sleep of fishes, .
Armitage, Elizabeth, a great sleeper,
Awaking, phenomena of,
Bacon the sculptor, anecdote of,
Barclay, Captain, anecdote of,
Barry, curious calculation by,
Baxter, his theory of dreaming
Bayle, his account of spectral illusions, .
Beattie, Dr., facts concerning,
Bed, directions with regard to the,
Bell, Sir Charles, on the ent"uresis infantum, .
Bichat, his division of life,
Birds, sleep of,
Blacklocli, Dr., the peculiarity of his dreams,
- -----, curious anecdote of,
Blake the painter, extraordinary case of,
Blindness, dreams modified by,
Boerhaave, anecdote of,
- - -, case spoken of by,
• 158
15
188
40
259
35
280
44
224
53-57
267
277
13
16
83
153
227
83
19
1!4
!90 INDEX.
Bostock, Dr., his case,
Bourdeau_x, Archbishop of, case of somnambulism re-
lated by .
Brain, effects ofits size in reference to sleep, •
--,determination of blood to the, induces sleep,
Browne, Mr. W. A. F., cases by, .
Buffon denies any aflinity between hybemation and
sleep,
Buzarcingucz, l\1. Giron de, experiments by, to produce
dreams at will,
Byron, Lord, scene described by, in his "ParaEina,"
Cab::mis, fact concerning,
Cresart Juliuc::, the apparition of, which appeared to Bru-
tu?, accounted for, •
Ca.ligula tormented by frightful dreams,
Cardan, fact concerning,
Carmichael, 1\h., his c:xplanativn of the process of
waking, •
--------,supposes sleep to be the period when
as.-imilation goes on in the brain,
Castel, 1\Ir., observation by, •
Catalepsy,
Chapclain, :\I., operation performed by, upon a lady un·
dcr the magnetic influence,
Children, dreams of,
----, sleep of,
----, dm:·ctions regarding the sleep of, •
PAGE
236
153
15
21
162
195
55
164
65
111
9i
252
40
41
30
201
15S
4i
37
275
24
Circulation, its rapidity diminished by sleep, •
Cold produces -.Jeep, . 20- 192
-,sleep frou, . 192
Coleridge, 1\lr., account by, of the origin of Kubla
Khan, 63
159
Colquhoun, l\Ir., the Parisian report translated by,
Combe, l\lr., cases mentioned by, ,
---, Ius rem::~.rks on Concentrativeness,
Combe, Dr., case ofspectral illllsion by,
. 78-116
253
235
INDEX.
Concentrativeness, effect of a large development of, in
inducing abstraction,
Condorcet, fact concerning, •
Conolly, Dr., case related by, •
Cook, Captain, case extracted from his " Voyages,"
Cullen, his remark on the effect of monotony,
Culpepper, L ord, trial ofhis brother,
Cumin, Dr., case related by,
Currie Dr., his remarks on the visions of hypochondria,
Darwin, Dr., fact noticed by,
- - - - -, method recommended by, to prevent at-
tacks of ntghtmare,
------,case of sleep-talking described by,
Daymare,
Dead, visions of the,
Deafness dreams modified by,
Democritus. his theory of dreaming,
Dogs, dreams of,
Donne, Dr., his case ofspectral illusion,
Dreaming,
Dreams, causes of,
---, management of,
---, prophetic power of,
Drowning,
Drowsiness, .
•
Drunkenness, analogy between it and dreaming,
------, nature of the dreams induced by,
Dubrie, l\:lr., anecdote of,
Dull sermon, the effect of a, in inducing sleep,
Dumbnes~, case of, rured by a frightful dream,
Dyce, Dr., remarkable case of somnambulism, related by,
Early rising, benefits of,
Edwards, Dr., fact by, concerning hybernating animals,
Ellicot, Major, remarkable case related by,
Fairies, beliefin, accounted for, •
391
FAGE
253
65
222
196
21
151
78
56
74
139
168
142
80
83
44
46
110
43
52
99
102
60
183
78-91
89
155
19
69
166
281
193
167
229
392 INDEX.
Familiar spirits,
Fanshawe, Lady, case from her "Memoirs,"
Fish, sleep of,
Forestus, case ofdaymarc related by,
F cetus, state of,
Franklin, Dr., his case ofsomnambulism,
-----, amusing calculation by, •
•
PAGE
217
109
16
143
37
151
286
------,Captain, fact stated by, concerning the
freezing offish,
Gall, Dr., cases ofsomnambulism related by,
----, on spectral illusions,
George III., method employed to procure him sleep,
Gem·get on the sleep ofwoman,
Goorb, cmions case rolatrd by,
Good, Dr., his remarks on sleep-walking,
- - - -
1 his description of waking dreams,
Goose, the, a very light sleeper,
Gordon, John, Esq., case mentioned by,
Gregory, Dr., case of,
Grey Earl, haunted by a bloody head,
GritTith's Mrs., verification ofher dreams,
Grokatzhi, George, case of,
Guilty, dreams ofthe,
Habit, sleep modified by,
Hamilton, Dr. Robert, anecdote of,
Ho.re sleeps with its eyes open,
Harvest, Dr. George, anecdotes of,
Haycock, Dr., delivered sermons and prayers in his
sleep,
H azlitt, his opinion, that in sleep we are always thinking,
disputed,
Heat produces sleep,
Hildesheim, his remark concerning nightmare,
I-Ioffbauer, case related by him ofmurder occasioned by
a frightful dream,
Hogarth, anecdote of, • • •
192
. 153-156
217
179
280
37
146
210
16
36
221
216
108
207
96
33
256
31
258
164
44
18
133
71
25i
INDEX.
Hood, Mr., incongruous dream related by, . .
Hoole, Mr., his account ofTasso's familiar spirit,
Horror, a frequent accompaniment ofdreams,
Horses dream, . • • • . . .
Hunter, Dr. A., his remark on the position of women,
Hybernation, • • • • • . •
Hypochondriac, visions of the,
393
PACE
87
217
72
45
273
192
57
Illusion ofdreams, . . • . .
Insanity, curious case of, occasioned by a frightful dream,
----, analogy between it and dreaming,
84
70
45-9~
78
Irish porter, case of,
Kubla Khan composed by Mr. Coleridge in a dream,
Lady ofNismes, extraordinary case of,
Levison, l\Ir., caseofspectral illusion uj,
Life definition of,
LoYe as e.xpenenced in dreams,
Lucretius, his theory ofdreaming,
Lyall, .:\lary, a great sleeper,
Lyttleton, Lord, case of,
M--, 1\1iss, verification ofher dream,
Mackay, James, anecdote of,
Martinet, cases of somnambulism described by,
Meal, a heavy, induces sleep,
Moisture, torpor produced by a want of,
Moivre, De, a sleepP.r, ,
Murder, case of, occasioned by a frightful dream,
Narcotics, the manner in which they induce sleep,
----,nature ofthc visionsinduced by,
Nervous energy, how its distribution occasions sleep,
Newton, Sir Isaac, anecdotes of,
Nicolai, case of,
Night, the time for sleep,
63
189
2~5
12
81
44
. 35-186
114
104
36
• 153-155
22
193
38
71
22
53-89
22
• 251-254
226
10
394 INDEX.
Nightmare,
Old a,ge, sleep greatly modified in, .
"Opium Eater," extracts from his "Confessions,"
Orgamc life,
Orvin, Elizabeth, a great sleeper,
Parr, Dr., remarks on dreaming by,
P arrot, the, said to dream,
P ast and forgotten events renewed by dreams,
P erkin-., Elizabeth, a great slE>eper,
Per~pirntion increased hy sleep,
Piclw~ru, General, curiou fact concerning,
P illow, directions with regard to the,
P lants, sleep of,
P olydori, Dr., subject to nightmaie,
P osit10ns assumed in sleep,
Pritchard, Or., case of somnambuhsm spoken of by,
P rofoundnec:s of sleep, varieties of,
Protracted sleep,
Pulse, state of the, in sleep, •
Q.uin, the celebrated player, fact concerning, .
PAGE
122
37-48
59-89
13
35
65
46
77
. 35-187
27
36
268
263
140
23-29-272
153
31
186
24
35
R eid, Dr., curious facts concernmg, 35-47
R everie, 244
R--d of Bowland, case of, 118
Rush, Dr., his distinction between dreaming and de-
linum, 45
Russel, Lady, narrowly escaped premature interment, 201
Sanctorius, his remarks on perspiration, 27
Schidrnaizig, Bernard, case of, 71
Scott, 'ir vValter, remarks by, on the case ofLord Lyt-
tleton, 114
---·-----, curious case of a verified dream
related by him in the Antiquary, 118
Scott executed for murder, case of, 115
IN DE :X:.
Seargeant, James, Mr., his will,
Second Sight accounted for, .
Secretions, effect of sleep on the, .
Sensorial power, the,
Shorigny, case of, . . . •
Simpson, l\Ir., case of spectral illusion related by, •
Sinclair. Sir John, his remarks on early rising, .
Sleep of plants,
Sleep, general management of,
Sleep-wallting,
Sleep in general,
Sleep-talkin{!.,
Sleeplessness,
Sleep from cold,
Sluggard, picture of the,
Snoring,
Somnambulism, analogy between it and madness,
Spalding, l\lr., his case,
Spectral Illusions,
Squire, Archdeacon, case related by,
Stewart, Dugald, Mr., facts related by,
Stewart, 1\lr., the pedestrian, statement by, .
Stilling, J ung, Dr., saw v1sions,
Stupor, difference between it and sleep,
Suetonius, his picture of the tyrant Caligula,
Surprise, absence of, in dreams,
Tasso, his fam!liar spirit,
Time, perception of, curiously affected by dreaming,
Townsend, Colonel, extraordinary case of,
Trance,
Vision, effect of sleep on the organs of, •
Voluntary waking dreams,
'Valier, Mr., cases of dreammg illusion related by,
Warton, Mr., anecdote of,
Wasse, Mr., on the effect of rest upon the stature, •
395
PAGE
284
228
26
22
203
231
286
263
267
145
15
172
174
192
283
25
148
247
214
69
54
100
217
12
97
79
217
58
204
200
27
2ll
• 85-130
261
41
296 INDEX.
Welsh girl, curious case of a,
JVonder, effect ofa large development of, in inducmg ap-
paritions,
Xenophon, his recommendation to the Greek troops,
Yawning,
Young lady, dream related by a, •
WtLLIJ.M VAN NORDEN1 PR1NTER1 111 NASSAti·STRE~T, N. \".
PAGE
77
216
199
23
93
