{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1943__curtiss___the_pattern_life.pdf","mytitle":"The Pattern Life","mylang":"de"}
THE
PATTERN LIFE
By
F. HOMER C1JRTISS, M3).
President, Th. Uiuv.raai R.IÍ9ÍOII, F.ikwsMp, I,..
SECOND EDITION
TIlE C DISTRIBUTED BY )OK Co.
WILLING PUBLISHING Co.
Box 98. S.tio. M, Lou Axg.I.0 32 CaIi.
Copyright, 1943, by
THE UNIvsAx. RElIGious FElLOWSHU', INC.
Translation and all other rights rese,ved
LONDON ACINTS
L N. FOWLER & CO..
29 Ludgate Hill
LONDON. E. C. 4. ENGLAND
Prizsted jig the Uaited State: of America
I
THE MASTER JESUS
Of course there were no pictures of the Master made during His Earthlife.
All the pictures now in existence are but the various artists' conceptions.
This picture was precipitated for the author directly from the invisible. The
discarnate artist stated that the radiance of the Master was so glorious that
it almost blinded him.
This sketch was the best he could do under the circumstances. When it
was finished he precipitated it into the physical for our use. The face is
sensitive and kind without being effeminate; strong, positive and masculine
without being stern.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CEAPTF2 PAGE
PREFACE vii
INTRODUCTION XV
L INTERPRETATION OF THE GOSPELS . . 1
THE ANNUNCIATIONS 12
THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION . . 23
THE BIRTH OF THE CHRIST 39
THE WISE MEM AND THE STAR. . 57
THE SHEPHERDS AND THE SuERP . . 70
VIL THE MANGER AND THE SWADDLING
CLOTHES 82
THE GIFTS OF THE WISE MEN. . . 87
HEROD AND THE WISE MEN 98
Tus FLIGHT AND MASSACRE . . 105
XL TwivE YEARS OF AGE 117
THE BmIsM, JOHN 127
THE BAPTISM, THE CHRIST 139
THE BAPTISM, THE JORDAN 146
THE TEMPTATION, THE FAST . 154
THE TEMPTATION, THE TEMPTER 164
THE MARRIAGE FEAST IN CANA . 175
THE BETRAYAl. 185
THE CRUCIFIXION 191
THE THREE DAYS IN THE TOMB . 208
THE RESURRECTION 219
V
vi Table of Contents
CHAPT PAGE
XXII. THE ASCENSION 232
APPENDIX A. THE ASTRONOMICAL EVENTS 245
APPENDIX B: SYMBOLICAL INTERPRETA-
TION 256
APPENDIX C. BIIrH DATES . . . 259
APPENrnX D. INACCURAcIES AND CONTRA-
DICTIONS 266
THE INDEx 273
PREFACE
The life of Jesus has been studied from many angles and
has been given many interpretations, but never, as far as
we know, from the scientific standpoint of its analogy with
other expressions of life, and especially in connection with
the astronomical events in the heavens. It is from this
standpoint that we shall attempt to treat it.
Modern scientific research in atomic physics, also in
psychical research, has shown that the world which we
contact with our physical senses is not the only world.
Worlds have been proven to exist composed of substances
and forces whose rates of vibration are far too high for
our sense-organs to register. The external phenomena
which our senses report are, therefore, but the physical
and materialized manifestations of causes generated in the
super-physical worlds which can be contacted only by our
psychic and spiritual senses. And it is with these super-
physical worlds, and their relation to the material world
and man, that all scriptures largely deal.
The archetype or ideal of all manifested forms must
have pre-existed in the super-physical realms as a pattern-
ideal, etheric double or model, or there would be nothing
to guide the forces of Nature to produce symmetrical and
thoroughly organized forms.
As we have pointed out elsewhere: "This doctrine of
the pre-existence of all things before their physical mani-
festation is illustrated in many biblical passages. Not only
was 'every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and
every herb before it grew' (Genesis, ii, 5), but, 'Verily,
verily I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.' 'And
now, 0 Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with
the glory which I had with thee before the world was.'
viii Preface
(St. John, xvii, 5). And this same doctrine is the basis
of all great religions and is implicit in most philosophies."1
We must remember that anything which changes, as all
material things do, does not belong to the Realms of the
Eternal, but to the realms of the temporal and transitory.
The Eternal Reality is therefore found only in the super-
physical realms, where the prototypes or pattern-ideals
exist, and not in their imperfect physical materialization.
Therefore Reality does not depend upon having "spatio-
temporal location" as some materialistically minded modern
philosophers daim.
The only things upon which we can rely absolutely are
therefore the spiritual pattern-ideals as the only true ex-
pressions of the one Reality, God. For God manifests as
an objectively existing Cosmic Power, an independently
existing Reality, which is directly presented and revealed
to some extent, within the normal range of our perceptual
experience. Hence, His existence, and something of what
He is, has been discovered and made known. As St. Paul
tells us, to understand the truth about the manifested
universe: "We look not at the things which are seen, but
at the things which are not seen: for the things which are
seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are
eternal." (II Corinthians, iv, 4). 2
The universe, therefore, sprang into physical manifesta-
tion not out of nothing nor by accident, but because of the
creative ideals originated in the Consciousness and formu-
lated by the Mind, and projected into manifestation by the
Will of the Creator (Father), and then taken up, cherished,
nourished and brought forth by the feminine aspect of the
Creator (the Divine Mother).
1See Why Are We Here!, Curtiss, 3, 4.
2The theory that there exists the expression of Cosmic Energy
called Life, which has certain vital and psychical qualities which,
by contracting or materializing the universal into the particular,
are the responsible cause of all diversilkd forms, and hence are
competent to produce Reality, is called Hylozouns. It provides
for a kind of Mcnism which includes both material and immaterial
Reality
Preface ix
The fact that the pie-existing etheric patterns of all
forms are invisible is no proof that such patternsare only
imaginary or are only mental concepts, and have no actual
existence. The air we breathe, an odor, a colorless gas or
an atom is invisible, yet they all actually exist and affect
our lives. A field of force, such as surrounds the ends of
a magnet, has both form and extension, yet it is invisible.
We are so accustomed to think of matter as being some-
thing that is coarsely molecular, that we fail to remember
that it is also atomic, etheric and ralionic, and that a large
part of the universe is invisible to our unaided sight.
Since all forms of life originate from eggs or modified
eggs, such as seeds, spores, etc. which at first are identical
in substance and structure, there must be a pie-existing
pattern for their detailed and specific unfoldment. For,
as the great naturalist, Louis Agassiz, rightly says: "Na-
ture is the work of thought, the product of intelligence,
carried out according to plan, therefore is premeditated I"
He is also correct in saying that: "All things had their
origin in Spirit."4 For the involution of the pattern must
have preceded its evolution in matter or there would have
been no pattern to unfold into an organized form.
It therefore follows logically that since man is the most
highly evolved form in Nature, he also must have a super-
physical archetype or pattern which the forces of Nature
are trying to unfold and materialize in ever greater per-
fection through the slow, upward processes of evolu-
tion.5
But man is far more than an animal body. The Real
Self of man is a Spiritual Being striving to manifest tem-
porarily through a human animal body. Since this truth
is obvious, it is the spiritual archetype or invisible pattern
that he is seeking to manifest on earth. And it is the stages
in the unfoldment of this spiritual pattern which we shall
Methods of Study, 14.
4Principles of Zoology, 154.
5For details see The Truth About Evolution and the Bible,
Curtiss
x Preface
endeavor to show is exemplified in the successive incidents
recorded in the life-story of Jesus. Even though we are
told by standard authorities that: "It is now recognized
that the Gospels are in no sense 'lives' of Jesus, and do not
provide the material for a 'life,' merely a portrait,"6 it is
that "portrait" which we shall endeavor to darify and
enlarge.
Symbolically interpreted, the Gospel story relates to the
individualized Ray of the Cosmic Christ which is latent in
each human heart. In the events of Jesus' life we see this
Christ-consciousness conceived, come to birth, grow in
power, overcome the lower nature, master all its forces and
make them willing servants, and finally triumph over death
itself.
In this volume we do not intend to present a new
theology or a new exegesis of the old theology, but merely
to point out that the events relatedr in the Gospel story
were not first enacted in the life of Jesus, but have recurred
cyclidy since the beginning of time. This was well known
to the early church historian St. Augustine. He plainly
tells us that: "The thing itself which is now called the
Christian religion, really was known to the ancients, nor
was it wanting from the beginning of the human race, until
the time when Christ came in the flesh, from whence true
religion, which had previously exirted, began to be called
Christian; and this in our days is the Christian religion, not
as having been wanting in former times, but as having in
later times received this name."1 "There is a strildng
passage in the homily known as IL Clement, chapter xiv.
'And the books of the apostles plainly declare that
the Church existeth not now for the first time, but lzath
been from the beginning."1 -
That the essence of the teachings did not originate with
Jesus is no reflection on Him; in fact, it proves that He
was a true expression of the ageless cosmic truths as to the
relation of God to man. And in spite of its many historical
'Encyclopedio Britannica, 13th Ed., Vol.1, 310.
TOpera Auguaini, 1,12. Studies in Mystwal Religion, Jones, 80.
Preface
inaccuracies, and even flat contradictions,8 the story is
essentially and spiritually true when properly interpreted.
Instead of following the usual orthodox interpretation of
this age-old story, our spiritual interpretation seeks to
illumine it by pointing out its spiritual meaning, and to
apply it to our daily progress in spiritual unfoldment.
We hope that this symbolic and spiritual interpretation'
will do much to counteract the destructive effects of, and
help to rescue the Master's teachings from, the historical,
materialistic, so-called "rational" or "higher criticism."
For those materialists and higher critics who refuse to
believe that God reveals Himself to man periodically, it
will be impossible for them to explain the persistence
through the ages of the universal traditions relating to a
Virgin Mother and her immaculately conceived Son
which are found in nearly all religions until they are
willing to admit that there is a divine element of universal
truth, and the same truth, in all religions, however overlaid
by ignorance and distorted by superstition they may be.
We also wish to point out that by getting the cosmic
concept of the teachings we can look through and beyond
the letter of the Gospels and discover in them the cosmic
laws governing the manifestation of Christhood through
the human personality. Thus we may learn better how to
manifest that spark of Christhood which is latent in every
human heart. For by seeldng to know the cosmic concept
back of Jesus' teachings we can enter more and more into
His thought and life and begin to demonstrate it in our
own lives. For it is a psychological law that we react to
and tend to express, even unconsciously, whatever ideas
engage our active interest and focus our attention. And by
knowing more of what He thought and meant we can train
our minds to think somewhat after the fashion of His
thought, and thus attune our minds more responsively to
His mind. Thus will our minds tend to shape our lives
more dosely after His Pattern Life.
$ See Amndiz D.
'See 4»e,idis B.
xii Preface
And because we see the universal, cosmic Law of Math-
festation thus expressed in the story of Jesus' life, we claim
that His life is the Pattern Life which the Spiritual Selves
of all humanity must ultimately follow until they too can
manifest the Divine through the human. They will thus
prove that they are truly Sons and Daughters of God, the
universal Father of all.
Because of the Gospels' many inaccuracies and contra-
dictions,1° many intellectuals and the worldy-wise have
ridiculed the Bible. They say it is so inaccurate that it is
wholly unreliable. And so they have deprived themselves
of its spiritual message for the inspiration, comfort and
guidance of their personal lives. But while we must neces-
sarily accept the proven facts discovered by the higher
critics as to the historical accuracy of certain names, places
nd dates, the actual sequence of events, and the objective
leality of the miracles and other phenomena as related in
the story, we shall nevertheless endeavor to discount, ex-
plain and refute their well-meant conclusions. Such con-
siderations as they bring forward do not materially affect
our thesis.
And that thesis is that the events in the life-story of
Jesus as a manifestation of the Spiritual Sun follow
the same steps or stages of unfoldment, and in the same
order, as are followed by the physical Sun manifesting in
Nature, as it makes its annual circuit through the twelve
signs of the zodiac. While the incidents thus outpictured
in the zodiac do not point to any one isolated historical
event, however important and sacred that event may be
considered by a particular people, religion or sect, they do
point to the ever-recurring, periodic expressions of the
Law of Manifestation of the Creator alike in Nature and
humanity.
With this cosmic concept of the Gospel story in mind,
we are not disturbed either by the ridicule of the Gospels
by the agnostics and infidels, or even by either present or
10See AppewKr D.
Preface xiii
future discoveries of the scholars. In fact, we can turn the
tables on them and laugh at them for their lack of spiritual
understanding of a deeply religious book. We can join the
Psalmist when he says: "He that sitteth in the heavens (or
in the cosmic concept or higher, spiritual understanding)
shall laugh; the Lord shall have them in derision?'
(Psalms, iii, 4).
The sequence of solar events set forth herein is called
the Universal Solar Myth because these events take place
continually in a regular cyclic manner among the stars in
heaven. And the record of these cyclic events has been
preserved and handed down age after age in many lan-
guages and religions, so that all who were capable of more
fully understanding it, and were ready to accept its higher
implications, might have an esoteric and symbolic explana-
tion of the fundamental Law of Manifestation of God,
both in the Cosmos and in man.
With this cosmic concept in mind we can see a new
significance in the well-known passage: "The heavens
declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his
handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto
night sheweth knowledge." (Psalms, xir, 1,2).
The object in publishing this volume is three-fold. First
and foremost, to apply the spiritual meaning of the uni-
versal incidents of The Pattern Life to help us to master
and make the best use of the similar incidents in our own
lives. Second, to refute the destructive conclusions of the
Higher Critics, and eliminate further controversy over the
many historical inaccuracies and flat contradictions in the
Gospels. And thirdly, to recapture and revive the interest
of that great company of still spiritually hungry, and there--
fore dissatisfied and unhappy, Souls who have turned
away from the help, comfort and Soul-satisfaction the
Gospels can give, because of a lack of understanding of
those very inaccuracies and contradictions.
Since the various incidents and their interpretation over-
lap so closely, we trust that we will be pardoned for a
certain amount of repetition. But we trust that such repeti-
xiv Preface
tion will serve to fix our interpretation more firmly in the
mind of the thoughtful reader.
No doubt some literalists will criticise our symbolic,
universal and spiritual interpretation of the Gospel story
in an effort to discredit our thesis, and we welcome all
enlightening and constructive criticis&' But unless they
can give a more satisfactory explanation of the historical
inaccuracies and fiat contradictions discussed herein, criti-
dsm of other matters is beside the point.
are ncJined to agree with Prof. Arthur Drews when
he says that: "Whoever, though not a speciahst, invades the
province of any science, and ventures to express an opinion op..
posed to its official representatives, must be prepared to be rejected
by them with anger, to be accused of a lack of scholarship, 'duet-
tantism,' or 'want of method,' and to be treated as a complete ig.
noramus. This has been the experience of all up to now who,
while not theologians, have expressed themselves on the subject
of an historical Jesus.... lie has been accused of lack of
historical training,' 'bias,' 'incapacity for any real historical way
of thinking,' etc The Christ Myth, Drews, 13.
INTRODUCTION
THE UNIVERSAL SOLAR MYTH
Bisic PRINCIPLES
"There is no religion higher than Truth." Ancient APIIO-
YùnL
"We maintain that instead of the life stry of Jesus' and
other Saviors' being a mere personification of the natural phe-
nemena occurring during the Sun's cycle of the year, both are
exemplifications of one and the same universal law, i.e. the
law of Cyclic Manifestation. In other words, because the
Sun is the Light Bearer and self-sacrificing Savior in Nature1
it exemplifies the same unfoldment in the phjsical life of the
universe that every divine Light Bearer or Savior of man
exemplifies in the unfoldment of man's spiritual life" The
Key of Destiny, Curtiss, 119.
There is but one Law of Manifestation, for the basic
law is one, not many. This law is that all manifestation
comes from above downward, from within outwsrd and
from center to circumference. And this law applies not
only to the life-forms in Nature, but to life and conscious-
ness on all planes.
Following this law our physical Sun radiates its life-
giving forces from the center to the circumference of our
solar system. In other words, it is the focal point through
which the One Life of the Cosmos is poured forth to
supply all the physical life-forms in Nature.
Since everywhere in Nature we see plan, purpose, design
and the will-to-manifest from the organization of cosmic
systems down to the beautifully executed organization of
the tiniest insect or the electrons in the atom it is now
generally accepted that there must be a supreme Cosmic
xv
xvi Introduction
Intelligence or Great Architect commonly called God
whose consciousness is so vast that it embraces all that we
know of the manifested cosmos, which in turn is but the
result of His Will-to-manifest. The projection of this
Divine Will produces the cosmic force which causes all
manifestation.
The universe has no explanation or meaning without
postulating a Cosmic Intelligence, a cosmic power and a
cosmic substance which together are able to create and
preserve it until its inherent purpose toward a predeter-
mined end is accomplished. In fact, no one whose mind
can run the gamut from micro-millimeters to light-years,
who can recognize a universe in both an atom and a solar
system, who can recognize a manifestation of conscious-
ness in the amoeba as well as in the inspirations of genius
and the ecstasies of a mystic, can fail to recognize the
workings of a Cosmic Intelligence back of all manifesta-
tion.
This primordial, universal cosmic force is called Fohat
in Eastern Philosophy, and in Christian terminology is
called the Cosmic Christ-force. All manifestations of life
are therefore animated by greater or lesser currents of
this One Life of the Cosmos.
It is called the Christ-force because it is the "only
begotten son of the Father," or the primordial outgoing
current of the Cosmic Life-force sent down into all the
myriad forms in the manifested universe to animate them
with the current of life necessary to enable theni to unfold
their pattern-form and fulfill their destined place in the
Grand Plan of the Cosmos. Some aspect of this Divine
Life-force must therefore be present as the energy of every
atom and everything brought forth on earth.
Since we have seen that the Sun is the source of all
physical light, life and force to all Nature, its Cosmic
Life-force we call the Cosmic Christ-force to our solar
system. Hence it may rightly be regarded as the Sun of
God to the material universe.
It is a fundamental postulate in the philosophy of Cosmic
Introduction xvii
Soul Science that the spiritual Sun the radiant source of
the Cosmic Christ-force stands in a similar relation to
mankind as the physical Sun does to the physical universe,
namely, the source of all light, life and spiritual power to
all humanity.
Since the Law of Manifestation is One, the method by
which spiritual light, life and power is radiated by the
Spiritual Sun will naturally be exemplified by the physical
Suti, its material offspring. And since this same method
of radiation is exemplified in the events of Jesus' life, it is
from thi cosmic standpoint that we shall interpret this
miraculous story, rather than from the literal, materialistic
and historical. It will thus be seen thaf every event, how-
ever miraculous and seemingly impossible, is positively true
as an inner spiritual experience in the life of every Soul
whose spiritual development has reached the stage where
the Annunciation has been made and the Christ-conscious-
ness (cosmic consciousness) has begun to unfold and the
Path to Christhood has been entered.
It is necessary to grasp this cosmic concept of Jesus' life
to understand fully its significance as the universal Pattern
Life for all mankind. For in it we find practically the
same list of events as in the life story of nearly every
Savior and Redeemer presented by former religions down
through the ages.
These events from the miraculous birth from a virgin,
the flight, the baptism, the crucifixion, the rock tomb, the
descent into the nether regions, the resurrection and the
appearance afterward all find a parallel in the lives of
the other Saviors or Lightbringers, all of whom held the
same exalted place in the minds and hearts of their wor-
shippers as Jesus holds among Christians.
If these events were found in but one or two instances
they might be attributed to coincidence. But since they
are found in each care, there must be some profound
reason, some fundamental law, back of these strange events
which are so astonishingly repeated in the same order.
This uniformity, far from belittling Jesus or represent-
xviii Introduction
ing Him as "just another Savior," in reality exalts Him,
for it proves that He was a divine personification of the
Law of God the Law of Manifestation to man, as is
so plainly written in the heavens for our learning by the
annual Cycle of the Sun as it passes through the 12 signs
of the zodiac. Each event follows the same Pattern Life,
the one in the physical world, the other in the spiritual
world. Since the Law of Manifestation is one, it finds
expression in and governs all worlds.
The presence in the Bible of the universal cosmic
symbolism established by the Cycle of the Sun, is proof
either of directly inspired writing, such as St. Paul refers
to as coming through direct revelation (Galatians, 1,
12-13), or else that the writers had been initiated into
the Mystery Schools to which Jesus referred when He
told His disciples that: "Unto you it is given to know the
mysteries of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are
without (i.e., uninitiated), all these things are done in
parables," (St. Mark, iv, 11). In either case the syin-
bolism used shows the comprehension of the definite and
universal stages of unfoldment governed by the Law of
Manifestation and outpictured by the events in the uni-
versal story of the Pattern Life of its exponent in all
great religions age after age.
We therefore know that the events in the life-story of
Jesus contain a far deeper meaning and significance than
appears on the surface. In fact, when properly inter-
preted they reveal the mystery of all manifestation, from
the physical Sun in the solar system to the Son of God
n the heart ofman. But to understand this mystery we
must grasp the cosmic concept of it. We are warned
against being satisfied with the literal meaning of the
words. "Who also bath made us able ministers of the
New Testament: not of the letter, but of the spirit: for
the letter Idileth, but the spirit giveth life."1
The learned Fathers of the early Christian church taught
111 Cori*thiaus. ill. 6.
Introduction xix
that we should make little of events themselves in com-
parison with the truths they conveyed. One of the greatest
of these authorities, Frater Origen (185-2S4 A.ft), held
that in most cases the allegorical and mystical interpreta-
tions are used to explain the spiritual meaning of actual
facts. But in other cases they were the only interpreta-
tions to be accepted. As St. Paul tells us: "The natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for
they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them,
because they are spiritually discerned." (I Corinthians,
ii, 14).
We shall therefore regard each incident in the life of
Jesus as being a symbol or parable which contains an
inner universal meaning applicable to the stages of unfold-
ment of the Christ-consciousness in the heart of each of
us. "But without a parable spoke he not unto them."
In simple words, our thesis is that just as the successive
events in the passage of the Sun through the heavens
govern the expressions of physical life in Nature, so in a
corresponding manner, and following the same Law of
Manifestation, the successive events in the life of Jesus
exemplify the expression of the spiritual life in man.
We therefore repeat that the various events of the Sun
in manifesting through the twelve signs of the zodiac
during the cyde of the year are in reality an expression
of the Divine Life-force the Cosmic Christ-force-- as
individualized and embodied in the Sun, manifesting
through the physical events of Naturc. It is only natural
then that when the cyclic period arrives for the renewed
manifestation of the Spiritual Sun to humanity indi-
vidualized and embodied in the appearance on Earth of a
spiritual Lightbringer, a Divine Being, an Avatar or Son
of God the events of His life should follow the same
order as the eventS of the physical Sun in passing through
the twelve signs of the zodiac. This cosmic outpouring
takes place not only around us in the heavens (the macro-
St. Mark. iv. 34
xx Introduction
cosmos), but also within us (the microcosmos). It is a.
drama in which the whole cosmos takes part.
In earlier ages these events were usually outpictured in
the religious dramas of the various Mystery Schools of
antiquity. Recent archeological discoveries have revealed
the complete program of these events as witnessed by the
people of Babylon more than 4000 years ago. Instead of
being recorded on manuscripts or papyri which could fade
or be altered, these records were made in cuneiform writ-
ing on baked clay tablets, so they have come down to us
unaltered. Hence there can be no argument as to their
accuracy or their priority thousands of years before the
Christian era. Also the Chinese Trigrams show that they
had a well-developed science of the stars 20,000 years B.C.
It is this regular cycle of events, repeated in a definite
order, that is called "The Universal Solar Myth" or the
life-story of the Mythic Christ, and which we find exem--
plified in the apparent histories of all great spiritual
teachers or Lightbringers. It is also exemplified as the
Mystic Christ in each heart in the spiritual events through
which each Soul passes after the birth of the Christ-
consciousness takes place in the heart until the final ii-
lumination and Mastery is achieved. This identity of
events results not because each Teacher adopts or pla-
giarizes the legends of previous Teachers or because he
copies the events of the Sun-cycle, but because both are
expressions of the same Divine Life-force the Cosmic
Christ-force of the Spiritual Sun, the one in the physical
universe in terms of physical life, light and warmth, and
the other to hnminity in terms of spiritual Life, Light
and Love.
Since all religions are based upon the manifestation of
a Lightbringer whose life exemplifies the events of the
Universal Solar Myth, the actual astronomical events8 in
the heavens give us a solid and scientific basis to guide
our study as we take up the detailed explanation and
details see Appendix A.
Introduction xxi
spiritual interpretation of each event in the following
chapters. With the aid of a star-map3 it will be easy to
follow the path of the Sun through the zodiac and note
the marvelous succession of events.
Aitho in the following chapters we shall dearly and
irrefutably show that the events of the cosmic Sun-cycle
are fully depicted in the life-story of Jesus, those who seek
in that story of many contradictions only the literal in-
terpretation of historical events as applied to the life of a
single personality, will find only the outer garments; only
the grave clothes and an empty tomb. But if their inner
spiritual ears are open they can hear the Angel of the
Tomb say to all who will listen and are ready to under-
stand: "Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is
not here, but is risen."
That these teachings are far older than the Christian
era is testified to by St. Paul when he exhorted the Cobs-
sians (i, 23) to: "Be not moved away from the hope of the
Gospel, which ye have heard, and which was preached to
every creature which is under heaven; whereof I Paul
am made a minister."
Lest the uniform coincidence of the events in the
Pattern Life with those of the cycle of the Sun lead some
to conclude that Jesus was just another mythological char-
acter, we can assure them that in spite of the coincidence,
our years of research have corroborated our original belief
and that of Christendom that Jesus of Nazareth was
undoubtedly a physically historical personality.4 Around
Him the events of the Sun-cycle gradually gathered, just
as they did around other historical characters such as
Gotama, Cyrus, Alexander, Aesculapius, Appolonius, Con-
fucius and many others.
As Mrs. Annie Besant very properly says: "The his-
torical Christ, then, is a glorious Being belonging to the
great spiritual hierarchy that guides the spiritual evolution
4In spite of such books as The Christ Myth, Pagan Christs,
Jesus, a Myth, Christianity and Mythology, Paganism in Our
Christianity, etc.
xxii Introduction
of humanity.... Round this glorious figure gathered
the myths which united Him to the long array of His
predecessors, the myths telling in allegory the story of all
such lives, as they symbolize the work of the Logos in
the Kosmos and the higher evolution of the human Soul."5
5Esoteric Chrittianity, Besant 139-40.
No-rE. It is hoped that the student will refer frequently to
the astronomical events listed in Appendir A as to the order of
those events as the details are interpreted in the following chapters.
Follow them also on the star map in the Appendtr.
Chapter I
INTERPRETATION OF THE GOSPELS
"Who that has understanding will suppose that the first and
second and third day, and the evening and the morning, were
without sun and moon and stars, or that the first day was with-
out sky?... I do not suppose that anyone doubts that these
things are said figuratively by means of a history which is
external and. is not literally told.... Those who are not
wholly blind can collect countless such instances recorded as
if they had happened, but which did not literally happen."
Dc Principiiz, Origea, IV, iii, 1.
"In the narrative of events which have happened, we en-
quire whether all things are to be accepted only in a figurative
sense or whether they are also to be asserted and defended as
literal occurrences." Dc Genesir ad Lit., St Augustine, XI, 1
The sacred scriptures of all religions have one and the
same general three-fold aim, i.e., (a) a description of the
relation of God to man and the universe: (b) the process
by which the individual may become aware of the Ray of
God within himself; and (c) the changes which must
necessarilý take place in the personality as a result of that
realization. These changes include changes in the animal
instincts, in the mind and in the heart, as the correlation
is made between the Christ within and the universal
Cosmic Christ.
All these miraculous changes are uniformly described
in terms of such physical objects and incidents as are well
known and easily understood by the people to whom they
are given. This applies to all scriptures whether de-
scribing the events of a war between the Kurus and the
I
2 The Pattern Life
Pandavas, as related in the sacred gospel of the Hindus
The Bliagavad Gita or to the events in the life of a
carpenter's son, as related in the Christian Gospelc.
"There is one body, and one Spirit . . . one Lord, one
faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is
above all, and through all and in you alL"1
In each case the allegorical nature of the tale and the
mystical nature of the forces operating are well known to
all but the unenlightened and materially minded multitude.
And it is to enlighten and inspire this multitude that
priests, preachers and teachers who understand the inner
meaning of the allegory are needed. "And he gave some
to be apostles; and some prophets; and some evangelists;
and some pastors and teachers; for the perfecting of the
saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of
the body of Christ: till we all come in the unity of faith,
and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect
man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of
Christ; that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to
and fro, and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by
the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they
lie in wait to deceive; but speaking the truth in love, may
grow up into him in all things; which is the head, even
Christ." (Ephesians, iv, 11-15).
Therefore, the universal esoteric or spiritual interpreta-
tion, instead of the literal, is just as necessary for the
Christian scriptures as for any other. For the worship
of a mere symbol without a realization of its true meaning,
of that which it symbolizes, is mere fetish-worship.
In studying the life of Jesus as set forth in the Gospris
it is therefore wise to consider carefully all the circuni-
stances, and in the order in which they are related, which
gather around His miraculous birth and life. Such a
study makes plain that the events are purposely intended
to be of a miraculous character. And those who try to
ignore or explain away the miraculous elements in re-
1Ephesians, lv. 4-6.
Interpretation of the Gospels 3
ligion, and refuse to admit their super-physical character,
empty it of its chief and essential contents.
Miraculous means something which while true, is ex-
tremely exceptional; something performed according to a
law which we do not understand, and whose real meaning
can be grasped directly only by the higher or super-
physical consciousness. To reach the lower consciousness
of the everyday life its inner meaning can be grasped only
through an understanding of its spiritual symbology or
significance. For, like most events in our lives which
profoundly affect our inner trend of thought and action,
they are the result of some mysterious cause of action.
This is usually expressed symbolically to us in the depths
of our consciousness in dream, vision or strongly corn-
pelling impression, which only later takes form and is
expressed in a far more imperfect, limited and common-
place way in our lives.
While there will naturally be differences in the expres-.
sion of the same truths, according to the different types
of minds, schools of thought, and stages of civilization,
nevertheless they should agree in the main facts. The
differences should lead, not to conflict and antagonism or
to the conceit that only one can be right and all the others
wrong and "heathenish," but to a careful study and in-
terpretation of all the facts in the light of their universal
symbology. -
It is therefore useless for Bible critics merely to prove
that there is no authentic external contemporaneous his-
torical proof 2 that Jesus lived at the time indicated or
2The foremost Hebrew historian, Josephus, has much to say
about John the Baptist (Antiquities of the Jews, Book xviii, Chap-
ter v), about Pilate and a false Messiah who led the Saniaritans
up Mt. Gerizim to find the sacred vessels Moses is said to have
buried there, also about a false prophet, Thuedas, and about the
Essenes, but nothmg about Jesus, except a few hues (Book xviii,
Chapter iii) which scholars now universally admit was a medieval
interpolation. Among other writers of the period Tacitus gives
only a few lines to the persecution of the Christians: "Who had
their denomination from Christus," but nothmg about Jesus. Plu-
tarch does not mention Him. And Phdo. who is said to have been
4 The Pattern Life
actually passed through the miraculous events related,
without their gilring an adequate explanation for the sur-
vival of such a story. For it requires far more than the
mere example of an historical life to revolutionize the
thought of the whole western world and produce such
lasting results.
Only some higher power, actual currents of spiritual
force eternally broadcasted from centers of spiritual truth
in the spiritual realms, could sustain the early Christians
in their terrible sufferings as they calmly walked to the
stake, faced the wild beasts or boldly met the horrors of
the Inquisition. It was this Christ-force which actually
brought light to the eyes and smiles to the lips of the mar-
tyrs during their torture and cruel death. This same
power comes as a benison from on high to the countless
millions who have received comfort and surcease from
suffering by contemplating those sublime ideals.
We must admit the dual nature of the mind higher or
spiritual and lower or rational and recognize that the
higher mind is intuitive and godlike in nature, while the
lower mind is but its rational, imperfect and limited reflec-
tion in the human personality. During moments of in-
spiration the higher mind can and does penetrate into and
respond to the Cosmic Consciousness or Divine Mind
above. It is thus able to transmit Its eternal truths to the
lower human consciousness. Thus only can the marvelous
results of such a miraculous story be explained.
As we have outlined in the Infroduction, there are three
lines of internal evidence inherent in the Gospel story
which prove its essential and universal truth when sym-
bolically and spiritually interpreted, no matter how con-
flicting the evidence may be from literal or historical
standpoint. Firstly, the events of the entire story are out-
a friend of St Luke and to have met St Peter and St Paul in
Rome makes no mention of Jesus. Among other authorities of
the time who fail to mention Jesus are Pliny the younger, Seneca,
Diogenes Laeritius, Pausanias, and many authorities on the Tal-
mud. etc.
Interpretation of the Gospels 5
pictured in the signs of the zodiac. Secondly, the same
order of events is followed in the life-stories of all pre-
vious Saviors and Lightbriugers, such as Agni, Krishna,
Horus, Heraldes, Dionysus, Apollo, Mithras, Osiris, etc.
And thirdly, this same order of events is experienced in
the spiritual unfoldment of every Soul who has been spir-
itually awakened and has begun the long climb up the
Mount of Attainment to Christhood. The stories all deal
with facts, and the same facts, but facts of the inner spir-
itual life. They are all symbols of realities, but the real-
ities are not of the outer objective life. They are actual
facts, but of Soul unfoldment, even though physical and
astronomical events are used to illustrate and explain the
universal symbology and the laws involved in the process
of that unfoldment.
The symbolical and mystical interpretation is therefore
the only unassailable and completely satisfying explana-
tion of The Pattern Life, both in the Gospel story and as
applied to the stages of unfoldment of the Christ-con-
sciousness within each heart and life.
It is this symbolical and mystical interpretation' which
we will endeavor to present and explain in some detail in
this volume. For a mere recital of facts or of historical
events is of little value unless it broadens our minds, ex-
pands our consciousness and gives us a greater under-
standing of the miracle of our incarnation in the flesh and
of our mission here in the material world.4 And so must
it be with the events in the life-story of Jesus. Unless we
can apply the lessons of these events to our own experi-
ences and react to them they will have little effect on our
'lives.
As to the record of these events, modern scholars tell
us that even the earliest manuscripts now in existence are
only late copies of the originals, for no originals of the
entire first and second centuries are known. Most of
them are said to have been destroyed after the canon was
'See Append&r B.
'For details see Why Are We Here? Curtiss.
6 The Pattern Life
fixed at the Synod of Damascus in 382 , which canon
was ratified by several later Synods.
It is probable that the four Gospels were not written by
the disciples whose names they bear, for all the titles are
prefaced by the qualifying words: "The Gospel accord-
ing to7 as though to signify that they were written either
from memory or from notes taken from the disciples'
talks, or from traditions.
But even the original manuscripts were written many
years after the events. As we have pointed out elsewhere:
"Since The Encyclopedia ru Ic5 tells us that, 'the
first piece of Christian literature (I Thessalonians) which
has an independent existence and to which we can fix a
date. . . was written some twenty years after the cruci-
fixion,' (about 50 A.r.) and the first of the four GospeLs
(St. Mark) was written fifteen years later than that
(about 65 &.D.), how can we be sure that the writers cor-
rectly reported the circumstances after so great a lapse of
time and without any documentary evidence or records?
The only records are those written from memory
thirty-five and even ninety years after the events are sup-
posed to have taken place !" Also our King James ver-
sion omits many passages found in the earliest manu-
scripts.
"We hold, nevertheless, that those records were not
pious fictions, but were allegories written, not through
'automatic writing' or any form of subjective medium-
ship, but by Disciples who were trained, independent
Seers (Gnostics or 'knowers'), inspired by the Master
Himself after His withdrawal to the higher realms, just
as other sacred scriptures in other ages were inspired and
given to mankind in the same way." In fact, this is one
fulfillment of the promise of the descent of the Holy
Ghost "whom the Father will send in my name, he shall
teach you all things, and bring all things to your remem-
'VoL XV, 318. 11th Edition.
'See lesson. The Lord Jesus Christ. Curtiss. 3.1.
Interpretation of the Gospels 7
brance, whatsoever I have said unto you," i.e., that they
might have a permanent record of His teaching.
It is a significant fact that all religions are founded
upon a multiplicity of miracles and psychic phenomena,
or physical manifestations of unseen intelligences and
super-physical forces. That this is as true of the Chris-
tian religion as of all others is further evidence of their
importance and universality. No explanation of these
astounding phenomena is given in the Bible, as it is as-
sumed that the causes, the methods and the reasons for
them were well known and understood by all students of
the Mysteries in those days. It is only in these later days
of psychic research and scientific, laboratory investiga-
tions of super-normal phenomena that physical science
and the public at large are beginning to understand the
truth of such phenomena, although this knowledge was
possessed by the initiated priests and by advanced stu-
dents of the Mysteries in all ages.
The beautiful story of the Annunciation assumes the
existence of hierarchies of spiritual Beings known as an-
gels the meaning of the word being "messengers"
who bring to mankind various directions from still higher
Beings varying from the planetary and zodiacal Rulers to
the many grades of Masters and other super-physical spir-
itual Teachers of mankind. It also assumes that under
certain conditions which are scientifically necessary
these various types of Beings can and do appear to and
are heard by those mortals who have unfolded their inner
faculties so as to respond to super-physical rates of vibra-
tion and who have been specially trained to receive, un-
derstand and record such messages. And the possibility
of such communications has been amply scientifically con-
'firmed by controlled experimentsT in the laboratories of
some of the great universities and elsewhere.
Any system of science or philosophy which treats the
universe as a dosed system of physical materials and
details see Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss.
8 The Pattern Life
forces only, and interprets it only in materialistic terms,
never rises above the rationalistic and personal plane.
And since it ignores the super-physical planes of matter
and consciousness, it thereby proves that it is unscientific.
For just as the laws of radiant energy and thermody-
narnics permit the penetration of the atom and the trans-
mutation of matter both once thought by science to be
wholly illusory so do the laws of the super-physical
worlds and consciousness prove that the universe is not a
dosed system but permits their penetration into the physi-
cal world by spiritual Beings as a divine intercession to
produce physical manifestations.
This doctrine has been believed in, not merely by the
ignorant masses of mankind, but has been confirmed and
testified unto by the greatest minds of all races, the sages,
philosophers and spiritual teachers in all ages. By this
method many of the more important events of the Bible
are represented as being especially announced either by
angels, a voice, a burning bush or some other super-
physical and metaphysical manifestation. And the truth
of such manifestations is witnessed to, not merely by the
sages and trained seers, but by every Soul who is suffi-
ciently advanced in spiritual unfoldment to recognize an
Inner Guidance of some kind, even if not an actual voice
or vision.
We are all more or less impressed, warned and guided
by our own divine Spiritual Self from within, even though
we so often disregard it. For each step in our spiritual
advance is announced by the angel of our Spiritual Self
or by our Initiator, in a way which the world the mate-
rially mindedcannot see, hear or understand, but which
afterwards works out in our lives.
The beautiful doctrine of angelic beings and Divine
Teachers (Initiators) in the invisible or heavenly worlds
who have the power to communicate with humanity
through chosen prophets and seers, is as old as recorded
8For examples see chapter "The Cloud on the Mountain," in
WIi, Are We Here, Curtiss, 90.
Interpretation of the Gospels 9
history, and has been a source of comfort, inspiration and
guidance to countless millions in all ages and in all reli-
gious beliefs. Altho invisible to physical sight, angelic
beings are visible to the psychic sight, just as some things
are visible in ultra-violet or infra-red light that are not
visible in normal white light. And their reality was un-
questioningly accepted by most of the ancient world, and
by the early Christian church, as actual beings living in a
fourth-dimensional or spiritual world. This almost uni-
versal acceptance is not because such a doctrine is a mere
survival of folk-lore and tribal myths, but because it is a
fact in Nature; a spiritual experience universally testified
to by the spiritually advanced Souls throughout the ages.
And it is physically proved by scientific psychic research
through photographs, materialization, precipitated hand-
writing, recordings of phenomenal independent voices,
and other physical proofs.
This universal method of angelic manifestation is em-
phasized in many places throughout the Bible, but most
conspicuously in Acts, ii, 5, where "devout men (Initiates)
out of every nation under heaven" (wider every sign of
the zodiac) are represented as being gathered together
"with one accord" or in perfect harmony, purpose and
aspiration. It is stated (i, 15) that the number present
was 120. This indicates that every sign of the zodiac was
represented, hence all mankind. Twelve is the number of
the zodiac and the extra 0 indicates a multiplication of
that number, or many of each sign being present.
The point which most clearly confirms the character of
the inspiration is that although they were of every lan-
guage under heaven they all heard "in their own tongue
wherein they were born." This testifies as to the true
nature of the angelic and divine inspiration (from inspiro,
"to breathe in") in which the idea is "breathed into" and
recorded by the spiritual consciousness. Hence it is natu-
rally expressed in the language of the one recording it.
The descent of the Holy Ghost, or the divine inspira-
tion, was not an isolated occurrence which took place ages
10 The Pattern Life
ago only, for it comes to mankind continually today as in
the past. And it always will come to those who are "de-
vout" or who are spiritually unfolded. For we are always
inspired when we touch the Cosmic Consciousness of God,
according to the degree that we respond. Thus will the
Holy Ghost ever bring to our remembrance or explain all
things whatsoever the Christ has revealed unto mankind.
(St. John, xiv, 26).
The word Gospel means, "good news" or the inner guid-
ance such as is given to all aspirants, often in symbol and
allegory. In the Gospel story the four common or fixed
signs of the zodiac or the four ends of the fixed cross
Aquarius, Leo, Taurus, Scorpio are represented by
the four different versions of the story, those of Matthew
(Aquarius), Mark (Leo), Luke (Taurus) and John
(Scorpio). Each version is presented from the charac-
teristic viewpoint of the zodiacal sign which it represents,
St. Luke representing the sign Taurus, the Bull, or Ox,
the power to do, also called the Physician.9 The words
"according to St. Luke" indicate a mystical presentation
of the story as viewed from the great Healing Hierarchy
which St. Luke, the Physician, represents. An under-
standing of the words of the angel from this standpoint
will help us to gain the power to do or to accomplish that
for which we are striving, namely, to bring to birth the
Christ-consciousness in our lives.
St. Luke begins with a preface which must be very dis-
concerting to those who take the Gospel story literally,
yet which is very satisfactory to those who see in it a
series of mystical and spiritual events arranged in the
form of a legend which is handed down from mouth to
mouth. For St. Luke plainly states thathe is merely set-
ting forth those things "which are most surely believed
among us" but which he had not personally witnessed,
although he had been taught them in the "Mysteries of
the Kingdom of God."
'See The Key to the Unvuerse, Curtiss, 147.
Interpretation of the Gospels 11
This Gospel is addressed to one Theophilus, whose
name means "the beloved of God." The use of this name
indicates that the tradition is handed down not merely to
one person, but to all who have awakened to a realization
that they are "beloved of God." This preface also gives
assurance to all who are seeking to understand and follow
the Pattern Life that all these events are essentially true
and necessary in their inner mystical meaning. It also
indicates that the narrator perfectly understood the sense
in which they were delivered to him by those who were
"eye witnesses" or Initiates who had actually experienced
these mystical events in themselves and who were there-
fore qualified to teach their true meaning or be true "min-
isters of the word." Such were the leaders of the many
mystical Brotherhoods Essenes, Nazarites, Gnostics,
etc. who had been trained to enter the Silence, commune
with the Divine and receive inspiration and instruction
from their Spiritual Teachers in the Higher Realms and
from their own Spiritual Selves, or that which is immor-
tal in man.
Since the Gospel according to St. Lu7th contains more
incidents in the life story of Jesus than any of the others,
let us follow this version in general in our interpretation,
although the versions and incidents given in other Gos-
pels will be drawn upon from time to time when found
most appropriate. But in all our subsequent interpreta-
tions we wish our readers to bear in mind that our effort
will be not to detract from their faith in and reliance upon
the true meaning of the Gospel story, but to add to it by
broadening and deepening their comprehension of this
stupendous subject.
Chapter II
THE ANNUNCIATIONS
PART 1. To ZACIARIAS AND ELIZAIETII
"And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord stand-
ing on the right side of the altar .. . the angel said unto him,
Fear not Zacharias; for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife
Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name
John .. . I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God,
and I am sent to speak unto thee .. . thou shalt be dumb
until the day that these things shalt be performed, because
thou believeth not my words." St. Luke, 1, 11, 13, 19, 20.
"In the zodiac the Annunciation indicates the time when the
Sun enters the sign Virgo, August 22nd, where it foreshadows
the 'birth' in Capricorn, the manger." APPendU? A.
After the introductory verses of St. Luke's narrative
the genealogy of Zachanas and his wife are given to show
that both of them were descendents of a long line of mi-
tiates the Priesthood, and the Daughters of Aaron
and that both were trained and devout occultists, "right-
eous before God, walking in all the commandments and
ordinances of the Lord." In other words, they complied
with all the rules of the Lord pertaining to inspiration and
divine communion with the higher realms. Now Jehovah
is the great angel and guide of the Hebrew people, hence
was the one with whom Zacharias was accustomed to corn-
mime, so when the mighty Archangel Gabriel appeared to
him as he "executed the priest's office before God" he
hesitated to accept the message until he could be sure of
its source.
12 -
The Annunciation: 13
Here Zacharias proved his training, for notwithstand-
ing the overpowering glory of Archangel's presence, he
obeyed the universal law as taught to the neophytes of all
occult and mystic Brotherhoods, namely, that all who re-
ceive any form of communication from the invisible must
see that the manifestation takes place on their right hand,
and nuut demand proof of its truth or it cannot be trusted.
For there are many earth-bound discarnate mortals in the
astral world who try to impersonate angels or any other
personage whose presence might be expected to flatter and
impress the sensitive who receives such a manifestation or
message.'
Zacharias was, therefore, not overawed even by so ce-
lestial a visitant, but boldly demanded: "Whereby shall
I know these things?" St. Paul recognized the necessity
of this rule to challenge all such communications when he
warned his followers of the danger. "Beloved, believe
not every spirit (i.e., only those who pass the test) but
try the spirits whether they be of God." (I John, IV, 1)
We are also told to: "Prove all things; hold fast that
which is good," (I Thessalonians, V. 21) even when re-
ceived from tested spirits.
In response to his challenge Zacharias was then given
a sign, as everyone has a right to demand. Moreover, his
whole being was so illumined with the celestial radiance
of Gabriel's aura that all, "perceived that he had seen a
vision in the temple."
Since Zacharias was so unbelieving, the sign he was
given was that he was to remain dumb until the event
prophesied had transpired. This may seem to us to be a
severe test, but it simply meant that because of his lack of
understanding of the message he was not allowed to say
anything more about it until the event proved the correct-
ness of the prophecy. Thus are we often prevented from
discussing intuitive messages from within which we doubt
or do not understand.
'For details see Reahns of the Living Dead, Curtiss 227. Also
look up "Communications" in the other Curtiss Books.
14 The Pattern Life
It is in just these little technical details, seemingly so
trivial that many wonder why the trouble was taken to
record them, which prove to oult students not only the
essential truth of the narrative, but also the importance of
the little practical details that are taught them in connec-
tion with their psychic and spiritual training. This story
of Zacharias is but another version of the fundamental
truth that some day, as we reach up into the spiritual con-
sciousness (the "temple of the Lord") and strive to bring
down to our intellectual comprehension the realities of
the spiritual world, we will receive the Annunciation of
the coming birth of the Christ-consciousness within our
hearts. But we must guard ourselves against self-decep-
tion and the many illusions of the astral world by follow-
ing the age-old technical rules concerning such communi-
cations.
Zacharias and Elizabeth symbolize the advanced Soul
whose masculine and feminine aspects (intellect and
heart) are so balanced and so devout that the Soul is
about ready to give birth to that intellectual comprehen-
sion (John) which must precede and become the fore-
runner and announcer of the coming Divine Birth, the
Christ within. For only when the balanced intellect
(Zacharias) and the intuition (Elizabeth) have matured
or "grown old" "walking in all the commandments and
ordinances of the Lord (Law) blameless," is their illu-
mined child (John) ready to be born and receive and bap-
tize the Christ-consciousness.
Pir II. To JosEPa AND Mit
"And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent forth
from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth, to a virgin
espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of
David; and the virgin's name was Mary.... And the angel
said unto her.... Behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb,
and bring forth a son, and shall call his name Jesus." St.
Luke. i., 26-7. 30-1.
The Arnzunciationc 15
"In the zodiac the Annunciation indicates the time when the
Sun enters the sign Virgo, August 22nd, where it foreshadows
the 1»rtW in Capricorn, the manger." Appendix A.
The second Annunciation caine to Mary, whose name
as we have explained in Appendix A signified snare,
the sea, the Great Deep or the Divine Mother-force,
through which all things are brought forth. The sixth
month is specified as the time when the Annunciation is
made to the Virgin because Virgo (the Virgin) is the
sixth sign of the zodiac.
According to some numerologists number six is the
number of the Christ-force, the Universal Urge to Per-
fection which pushes us on toward our ultimate destiny
and perfection. Also, according to Eastern terminology,
the Sixth Principle in man is Buddhi or the Spiritual Con-
sciousness. Therefore it is quite correct for the sixth
month to be specified, for the Annunciation cannot take
place until the Soul has reached a stage of unfoldment
wherein it is possible for the Spiritual Consciousness to
become more than a mere overshadowipg; where its Bud-
dic Ray begins to penetrate into the consciousness of the
personality in which, in the fulness of time, it will bring
to birth the fully formed Christ-consciousness.
It is only natural that the mighty Archangel Gabriel
should make the Annunciation to Mary as well as to Zach-
arias, for Gabriel is the cosmic deity who presides as the
Regent of Mercury, commonly called "the messenger of
the Gods," which planet is closely connected with the evo-
lution of mankind.
While each planet has its own Regent, Gabriel is one of
the four Overlords2 who embody both Divine Love and
Divine Wisdom, and is responsible for the part each
planet plays in man's unfoldment and perfection.3 Under
the guidance of the Divine Mother, King Anael, the Ruler
of Venus who manifests through two complementary
2The Key lathe Universe, Curtiss, 195-6, 144.
The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 380, 349.
16 The Pattern Life
subrulers, Lucifer and Uriel. gives to man the dual prin-
ciple of mind and also Divine Love. Therefore it was
necessary for Gabriel to be the one to make the Annuncia-
lion of the coming of the fructifying Ray of the Christ-
consciousness: that "true Light which lighteth every man
that cometh into the world."
The Annunciation is the first incident that is widely
found in the birth-story of many Lightbringers.' Since
this incident is found so universally in the birth-story it
must have some universal significance which can easily be
understood when spiritually interpreted. Applying the
symbology to the individual, the father (Joseph) repre-
sents the intellect, which is masculine in its nature, while
the mother (Mary) represents the intuition, the heart or
love-nature, which is feminine in essence. Since Mary is
represented as not yet married only espoused to
Joseph, this indicates that the intellect, no matter how
highly developed, is not "married" or completely joined
to the Spiritual Consciousness until toward the advanced
stages of Mastery, when union with the Divine, or spir-
itual illumination, is attained.
While we are passing through the lower stages of Un-
foldinent the Spiritual Consciousness is scarcely more
than a vague overshadowing, but after many incarnations
we reach a stage where our minds are willing to recognize
and admit that there is a Consciousness which transcends
the ordinary human intellect. This is the Spiritual Con-
sciousness which, when contacted through prayer, mcdi-
4The annunciation that the Hindu savior, Krishna, was to be an
incarnation of Vishnu was made to his mother, De'valci, by Vishnu
himself. The coming birth of Hercules was announced by Zeus
to his mother, Allanen; Queen of Thebes. The birth of the
Egyptian King, 4,nenhokp 1!!, was announced to the maiden
Queen, Mautmes, by the messenger-god, Thoth. The birth of
Kung-foo-fzse (Confucius) was announced by a giant dragon
called Xe-Un. An angel from Orion announced to Sochiquetze,
the mother of Quetzakoatle, that she would bear a child who would
be the savior of his people. Even Plato's birth is said to have been
announced by Apoflo, to his father Axis, to whom his mother was
only espoused.
The Annunciations 17
tation, aspiration etc. fills us with light, life and love.
We then realize that a closer union with Spiritual Con-
sciousness is worth striving for. Only then does the mind
become "espoused" to the heart. Still later a stage of
development is reached when our heart realizes through
intuition that a definite illumination is possible: the birth
of a new consciousness, a new power, a new conception of
Divine Love, the Christ-consciousness.
But ere this new birth can take place we must pass
through the stages and experiences corresponding to the
nine months necessary for physical gestation. Nine is
the number of Initiation,' and it may require not merely
nine months to prepare for this Initiation into the new
life, but many years or even many incarnations nine
periods of unfoldment, according to our rate of growth
to accomplish our spiritual gestation before the spiritual
possibilities we have glimpsed at the time of the Annun-
ciation can be brought down to earth and be born into the
waking consciousness and we can bring them forth in the
outer life.
The desire of Joseph to put Mary away privily when
she was seemingly illegitimately "found with child...
before they came together" (St. Matthew, 1, 18) was
perfectly natural reaction. Joseph knew that he was no(
the father of the child, so it is no wonder that he was so
worried about it that he thought of jilting Mary. But
this was prevented supernaturally by an angel's appearing
to him and explaining the mystery. Likewise our finite
intellect is suspicious of and often distrusts and seeks to
put away privily that which comes to it from the heart
through intuition, until it is enlightened by a ray (angel
or messenger) from our Spiritual Consciousness. For
"The natural man (intellect) receiveth not the things of
the spirit of God: for they are foolishness (seemingly
without logic or reason) unto him: neither can he know
them (since they do not come through the head), because
'The Key to the Universe, Curtiss. 306-8.
18 The Pattern Life
they are spiritually discerned (through the heart)."8 "A
brutish man knoweth not: neither doth a fool understand
thi'
The message of the angel to Joseph was also meant to
assure all whose intellects at first refuse to believe the
revelations of the heart, that the inner divine life-story
thus symbolized was intended to be the story of God in
human form, no matter how historically inaccurate, illogi.-
cal and confusing the literal interpretation may seem to
be. For no truly enlightened mind will dare to put it
away privily as illegitimate.
Soon after the Annunciation, since all the birth stories
follow the cosmic events in the zodiac, the mothers are
always represented as being on a journey and having been
riding on an ass when the birth takes place.8 Considered
as a physical journey, it is highly improbable that Joseph
would set out on a journey of some seventy miles in the
midst of winter with his wife near the term of her delivery
in her enceinte condition, knowing that the ass would have
to walk all the way to avoid jarring, and at the slow pace
of two or three miles per hour. -
In the zodiac this period corresponds to the journey of
1 Corinthians, ii, 14.
'Psalms. xcii, 6.
8ris has to flee to the swamps of the Delta to bear Horns.
Devoid was on a journey to Kansa when Krishna was born.
Maha-Maya was on a similar journey when Buddha was born.
Myrrha had to flee afar to bear Adonis. Hen went "far away"
to bear Tyj'hon or Dionysus. Rhea went to Crete to bear Zeus.
Latona wandered far to bring forth Apollo. Aupa, after her
amour with Herakles, fled from home to bear Telephos. Cyrene
was carried to Libya to give birth to Anirtaeus. The virgin mother
of Lao-tsze was away from home when he was born. Mandane
went from Persia to Media to give birth to Cyrus. Ewdue goes
away secretly to bear Apollo's child, lomos. Rhoec was cast on
the island of Delos to bear Apollo's son, Anios. Apollonius of
Tyana was born after his mother iad been warned in a dream to
flee to a meadow. The mother of Confucius, warned by a vision,
went to a cave on Mount Ne to give him birth. Zeus conveys the
daughter of Opus to Locrus to bear lopetos. And so we find the
same incident through the whole list of virgin mothers. In all
cases it is the Sun-child or Son of God who is to be born.
The Annunciations 19
the Sun southward from the time of the Annunciation in
Virgo (Aug. 22 to Sept. 23) until the Sun is "born" in
Capricorn, the Manger (Dec. 25th). Also the great star
Spica rises in the constellation Virgo which rules Beth-
lehem and with her companion, Joseppe, in the constel-
lation Boõtes, travels southward to a position correspond-
ing to the journey from Nazareth to Bethlehem. Hence
the birth of all the Lightbringers is announced by a great-
star.
Since the cyclic journey of the Sun has already begun
before it is "born" in Capricorn, in the universal story it
is only natural that the mother is represented as being on
a journey, usually to pay taxes, and riding on an ass.
This symbolizes that we must have consciously started
out and been well along the Path of Attainment before
the spiritual birth can take place. In this we must not
shut ourselves off from the world and lead an ascetic life,
but must be actively on our journey through earth condi-
tions. We must be ready to meet and satisfy the natural
demands of our position in the world, or pay the "taxes"
the world demands, yet without letting them interfere
with our spiritual ongoing. While we must "render unto
Caesar the things that are Caesar's," we must not forget
to "render unto God the things that are God's."
Since the ass is the symbol of our animal nature, its use
by Mary indicates that through love (Mary) and con-
sideration, assisted by the mind (Joseph), we must so
subdue and train the animal nature that it will become a
willing and obedient servant to carry us on to the attain-
ment of our highest ideals.
From an historical standpoint many consider it most
unfortunate that St. Luke should represent Joseph and
Mary as making the journey front Galilee to Judea for
the purpose of being taxed, aitho the taxing incident is
also connected with many other birth journeys.S The
symbolic character of this journey is shown first, by the
fact that such a trifling and historically unimportant inci-
dent is carefully recorded while many whole years of
20 The Pattern Life
Jesus' life-story are not even mentioned; and second, by
the fact that competent historical research by many au-
thorities has shown that there was no such custom as the
census actually in operation in the whole of Palestine until
ten years after the journey is said to have taken place!
Rome had but one census of Palestine taken. That was
during the reign of Quirinius in 6 .D., some ten years
after the death of Herod, when the districts of Judea and
Samaria were thrown into one province. Hence the jour-
ney could not have been made during that census. And
even when it was instituted the census applied only to
Judea and Samaria and not to Galilee. Hence Joseph's
household would not have been affected had there been a
census at the time of his journey. "Under the reign of
Herod, nothing of the kind (census) took place."
Another historical discrepancy is the statement by St.
Luke (ii, 2) that the taxing was made "when Cyrenius
was governor of Syria." As a matter of history, Cyrenius
was not appointed governor of Syria until ten years after
the death of Herod! From the standpoint of the mate-
rialistic critic these historical inaccuracies are serious
enough to discredit the whole story, but if we take them
symbolically instead of literally the discrepancies vanish;
for again we find the incident universal, and historical
names, dates and places are used simply to give local color
and verisimilitude to the story, so it is not necessary that
they be historically accurate.
During our period of espousal, conditions on our spir-
itual journey through the outer life, put upon us a heavy
tax. Not only must we recognize our duty to our fellow
men and the world, as well as to our own personal devel-
opment, and pay their tax, but we must go out from our
"cave" or spiritual retreat and our self-contemplation
our mystical journey from Nazareth to Bethlehem
in order that we may "render unto Caesar the things which
-
The Bible for Learners, Hooykaas, hi, 56.
The Annunciation: 21
be Caesar's" and thus do our full duty in the world while
still maintiining our newly awakened spiritual life within.
For Joseph (intellect) the tax or testing is whether he
should believe the miraculous story which Mary (intui-
tion) has told him as to the visit of the angel and the won-
derful Annunciation he had given her. How can he be-
lieve that such marvelous things can possibly come to such
humble persons as they were? And if accepted, how will
it affect his standing among his fellows? Just so does
our intellect find it difficult to believe the revelations of
our divine possibilities and spiritual destiny which come
to us through the heart (intuition). Yet they come with
such spiritual power, such conviction and such assurance,
as of an angel, that we know theý will come true in the
course of our unfoldment, although we dare not proclaim
them to the world.
For Mary the tax is the struggle between her knowledge
that she is to bring forth a manifestation of the Christ
and her love for Joseph. Hence her temptation is to sub-
serviate her intuitive realization of Truth and her spiritual
advance to the lesser spiritual comprehension of Joseph.
Thus ever does intuition tend to be ove.rpowered by the
more positive assurance of the intellect. After the An-
nunciation this taxing involves a long journey which the
enlightened Soul must take while in the throes of this mo-
mentous decision crc the Spiritual Consciousness can be
born.
The birth can take place only after the great decision
to follow the Divine Guidance has been made and our sin-
cerity has been tested by. great trials, only too often de-
ciding between what seems to be expedient in the outer
life and what the Inner Voice has announced. Yet, like
Mary, we find that if we follow our Guidance in trust and
confidence, the Great Law will work out the miraculous
result, just as it does in Nature, to bring about the-miracle
of physical birth in due season. In Nature the taxing
symbolizes the toll that is taken of what the season has
22 The Pattern Life
brought forth, the grains that are reaped, the crops that
are harvested, etc., as the Sun journeys toward its rebirth
in December.
Among the four Gospels, which we have already shown
represent the four Cardinal Signs of the zodiac,1° St. Mat-
thew represents the sign Aquarius, "the man from the
East" or the power to know. St. Matthew is therefore
represented as the Publican or the Tax-gatherer, and his
Gospel expresses the events in the life of Jesus from the
standpoint of the sign Aquarius. This Gospel begins with
a long supposed genealogy of Jesus, which does riot apply
historically at all, because it relates to Joseph, and Joseph
does not pretend to be the father of Jesus, hence Jesus
could not inherit Joseph's genealogy or the "throne of
David." This glaring and unepIained discrepancy is eas-
ily understood symbolically, because the Christ-conscious-
ness, although not born of the intellect (Joseph), does
inherit the throne of David, or rules through Divine Love.
The angel told both Mary and Joseph that the child's
name should be Jesus, meaning the physician or healer,
but in private they were told to call him Emmanuel or
"God with us" or "God in human form." In other words,
while the Christ-consciousness comes as the harmonizer
and healer of conditions in the outer life, interiorly we
know it to be far more. It is literally "God with us," giv-
ing us a spiritually illumined understanding of the great
spiritual mystery which the story of Jesus' life was meant
to teach all men.
Happy is he who receives the Annunciation.
'°Scc The Key so the Universe, Curtiss. 146-7.
Chapter III
THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION
"Behold, a 'virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth
a son, and they shall call his name Fmminuel, which, being
interpreted is, God with us." S& Matthew, , 23.
"In the Cycle of the Sun as a Lightbringer, the advent of
its new cyde of light is announced in the sign Capricorn, with-
out blemish, blot or stain. Hence its conception is immacu-
late that is, without blemish." Appendix A.
The paradoxes and flat contradictions of the Bible are
often its salvation from the destructive criticism of the
so-called "higher critics." For those very inconsistencies
and contradictions only go to prove that the incidents so
differently described in the different GospeLv are not
meant to be taken in the materialistic snse as being his-
torically or literally true, as we have said before, yet they
are spiritually absolutely true when interpreted symboli-
cally and applied to the events in our spiritual lives.
The doctrine of the Immaculate Conception, as com-
monly understood, is a mere theological dogma, originat-
ing in the minds of speculative men in the early ages in
an effort to give a physical explanation to a spiritual mys-
tery. This is shown by the fact that the subject was not
even brought up for discussion in the Church Councils
for the first 400 years!
Soon after Nestorius was made Patriarch of Constan-
tinople in 428 A.D. he caused a storm of controversy by
his opposition to the custom of referring to Mary as "the
Mother of God." Aitho the Council of Ephesus was
called in 431 A.D. to settle the controversy between the fol-
23
24 The Pattern Life
lowers of Nestorius and those of Cyril, Bishop of Alex-
andria, its decision did not become the official doctrine of
the Church. So the controversy still raged on more or
less actively and still unsettled for the next 1400 years!
The fact that it took the Church 1854 years to make up
its mind as to the actuality of the doctrine shows that
there is still axijiie room for sincere difference of opinion
and interpretation of the incident, for it is by no means
universally accepted by all the Christian churches today.
It is rejected by the independent Jansenist Church of Hol-
land and by the Universalists' and the Unitarians in this
country, also by the Nestorians of the Near East.
There is perhaps no doctrine of the Christian religion
which so imperatively requires the spiritual and mystical
interpretation, instead of the literal and materialistic, as
that of the Immaculate Conception; for the actual dogma
is far from what it is popularly supposed to be. In fact,
aitho discussed for centuries, the dogma is quite a modern
one, as it did not become an official Article of Faith until
the Papal bull, "Ineffebillis Deus," of Pope Pius IX was
issued on the comparatively recent date of December 8th,
1854.
Until that date our researches show that it was estab-
lished only "by tradition, by the writings of the Fathers,
by feasts observed in honor of this prerogative, by the
general belief of the faithfuL"3 But as far back as 1546
the Council of Treat had exempted Mary's mother, Anna,
by "the forseen merits of her future grandson, Jesus,"
from the stain of "original sin."
While the Festival of the Conception, as distinguished
from that of the Nativity was celebrated by the Greek
Catholic Church as early as the seventh century, and was
"Universalists are free to differ from one another about the
natural birth, miracles and all other questions raised by criticism.'
The Universalist Church Commiacon on Literature. See also Uni-
tarian Answers, &
The New Catholic Dictionary (1929), 470-1.
The Immaculate Conception 25
introduced into England in the twelfth century, becoming
widely adopted by the Church in 1708 A.1., the doctrine
itself remained the subject of bitter controversy for many
centuries. For centuries it was espoused at a belief by
the Franciscans and Carmelites, but was as vigorously
denied by the Dominicans under St. Thomas Aquinas and
St. Bonaventura.1' It was largely to settle this bitter age-
old controversy that Pope Pius IX in 1854 elevated the
doctrine from a mere pious belief into a definite dogma or
official Article of Faith.
The astonishing thing, however, is that the Pope's bull
makes no mention of a miraculous generation of Jesus
without a physical father as constituting the Immaculate
Conception, which miracle most Christians think consti-
tutes the doctine I In fact, the doctrine does not deal with
Jesus or His birth at all! It deals exdusively with Mary
and her mother, Anna. The miracle was that Mary was
absolved from the stain of "original sin." As stated in
the papal bull, the doctrine of the Immaculate Concep-
tion is: "The doctrine which holds that the blessed Vir-
gin Mary was preserved from the stain of original sin in
the first instant of her conception in the womb of her
mother (Anna). This was a singular privilege and grace
of God, granted in view of the future merits of Jesus
Christ. By her conception is meant not the act or part of
her parents in it, nor the formation of her body, nor the
conception of Christ later in her womb.... Her Soul
was never stained by original sin, nor by the depraved
emotions, passions and weaknesses consequent on that
sin, but created in a state of original sanctity, innocence
and justice."2 In other words, the miraculous exemption
applied to Mary and not to Jesus, except by inheritance.
$ Ut Thomas Aquinas, the greatest of the medieval scholastics,
refused to admit the Immaculate Conception.... St. -Bonaven..
tura, second only to St. Thomas in his influence on the Christian
schools of his day, hesitated to accept it." Encyclopedia Britannica,
xiv. 334.
26 The Pattern Life
Here we have the Catholic Church officially stating that
the doctrine does not apply to "the conception of Christ
later in her (Mary's) womb."
From a strictly scientific and physiological standpoint,
while there are many examples of reproduction without
the aid of a male parent called parthenogenesis among
the lower classes of animal life below the grade of verte-
brates, once the dass of vertebrates to which class man
belongs is reached in evolution, no exception to the
need of a male parent called gameogenesis or sexual
reproduction is known in the annals of science.
The misunderstanding of this doctrine which is so com-
mon in the minds of most Christians has arisen largely
through a misunderstanding of the meaning of the word
inunaculate. Immaculate comes from the root word
,naculatus, meaning spot or stain. Hence im-maculate
simply means "not spotted" or without stain, hence pure,
unblemished. Naturally this has nothing to do with par-
thenogenesis or conception without a father, as so many
think.
As to the Soul being stained from birth with "original
sin," since we have treated the so-called "fall of man"
somewhat extensively elsewhere,4 herein we can give only
briefly our interpretation of the doctrine of "original sin."
The controversy as to whether or not all mankind was
tainted with sin from birth because of Adams fall is
not a peculiarly Christian one, for it has raged among
theologians as far back as Mencius and Hsun Tzu in
China in the third century s.c., ages before the Christian
era. But it was brought into prominence again in the fifth
century &u. by the great controversy between Pelagius
and St. Augustine, and again centuries later by Calvin.
As we have already pointed out: "This was a mere
theological speculation which in time has become a dogma
among many sects. But it is essentially ridiculous in view
of modern scientific investigation, even if we take Adam
4See The Truth About Evolution and the Bible. Curtiss. 62.
The Immaculate Conception 27
to represent all humanity or even the first physical
race and not one man. We are, indeed, all under the
bondage of sin, but of our own making individually and
collectively in this life and in the pat'
"Through the Church's postulate of original sin the
devil is given greater power than the Christ in that he is
given power to blast every Soul born into physical life,
while the Christ can redeem only those who seek salvation,
and that with difficulty. Hence, from this postulate we
might deduce that the devil was the original king of the
world, instead of but the despoiler of Christ's kingdom.
Yet even today the devotee who fails to bow in abject
submission to the belief in the devil's baleful rule or who
dares to assert in Church circles that there is no devil out-
side man's perverted creations, is looked upon askance.
Since all this is a vital belief, carrying life and energy and
much creative thought-force, in fact, when we consider
the voluminous treatises of the early Church on the devil,
it is no wonder that we are suffering from its devitalizing
effects in body, mind and esta'
The original sin of man, now as in the earliest days, is
the rebellion of the will of the personal self against the
will of God, manifested through His laws and through
the will of His incarnated Ray, the Spiritual Self. As we
have explained elsewhere: "The exaltation of the intellect
and man's refusal to follow his Inner Guidance, together
with his effort to subserve the spiritual forces within to
bring temporal domination, and the gratification of the
lower senses, passions and desires, was the 'original sin'
of the race symbolized by Adam, not the use of the crea-
tive powers themselves. This is clearly shown by the fact
that the creative powers were built into mankind by his
Creator, and he was told to use them: to 'Be fruitful and
multiply and replenish the earth.' "1
Sin originates through a violation of Cosmic Law by
'The Inner Radiance, Curtis; 142.
'The Key of Desftny, Curtis; 177.
TThe Message of 4quaria, Curtis; 396.
28 The Pattern Life
the lower self. And as long as we refuse to follow the
Inner Guidance of the Spiritual Self we naturally dwell
in "original sin," or the sin which that refusal originates.
Only when we surrender the personal self to the Spiritual
Self and say: "Not my will but Thine be done on earth
even as it is in heaven," can we be purged from our own
sins and have the Christ born in us immaculately.
Returning to the fundamental Universal Solar Myth,
we have seen that the physical Sun is annually born of a
Virgin (Virgo) both without spot or blemish and also
without a father. Hence, all representatives of the Spir-
itual Sun to mankind all Lightbringers or Saviors
are universally born of a Virgin immaculately and with-
out a father. This incident, therefore, like all the others
in the Gospel story, is not peculiar to the Christian reli-
gion, but is found universally in the life-story of many
other Lightbringers hundreds of years before the Chris-
tian aa
Our researches show that the Egyptian God, Ru, was conceived
by his virgin mother, but was not engendered by a father. Also
the Egyptian Savior Horus was conceived by the virgin Isit. The
Persian savior, Zorooster, is said to have been conceived immacu-
lately by a Ray of Divine Reason. The Hindu savior, Krishna,
was conceived by the virgin Devaki, and Bud4Iuz is said to have
been conceived by a white elephant, symbol of divine Power,
Wisdom and Love entering the side of the chaste virgin Maya.
The Greek god Perseus was born imniaculately from the virgin
Danae. Romulus, the founder of Rome, was born from the virgin
Rhea-Sylvia. The Greek Apollo was unmaculately conceived by
the virgin Larota, while Mercury was born of the virgin Maia.
The virgin mother of the Siamese savior Codom was inspired from
heaven to go apart into the forest where she was impregnated by
the sunbeams.
Among the Chinese, FO-M was conceived by the coral seed of a
lotus staining the garment of his virgin mother. The Chinese hero,
Hau-ki, was born iinniaculately from a childless mother after she
had become pregnant phenomenally by stepping on a toe-print made
by a God. Lao-tw is said to have been a Divine FIn2n2tion which
incarnated in human form during the third year of the reign of
Emperor Ting-Wang (604 n.c.). Two dragons are said to have
hovered over the head of the virgin Yen-she, the mother of Kung-
foo-tzre or Confucius, and impregnated her. And so we might go
on through the whole list Hercules, Bacchus, Bet, etc., and
find the same incident, differing only in superlicial details, accord-
ing to race and language.
The Immaculate Conception 29
If so miraculous a phenomenon as the Immaculate Con-
ception had been a physical event it certainly would have
been known to the authors of the Epistles and have been
mentioned by them. But since neither they nor St. Mark
or St. John make the slightest reference to it, it is evident
that they knew nothing about it. On the contrary, St.
Paul states specifically: "Concerning his Son Jesus Christ
our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according
to the flesh." (Romans, 1, 3). Also "God sent forth his
Son, made of a woman, made under the law." (Galatians,
iv, 4).
If this is literally interpreted we must assume that St.
Paul was right rather than St. Matthew. For certainly,
in a small village like Nazareth, if Mary had become preg-
nant while only "espoused" to Joseph, it would have been
well known to the gossips of the neighborhood. And if
the conception was due to some miraculous spiritual phe-
nomenon, it would soon have been noised abroad. Even
though Mary "pondered these things in her heart," her
cousin, Elizabeth, already, knew it and quite likely many
others. Yet the simple practical villagers would scarcely
have believed Mary's tale, and she would undoubtedly
have been stoned to death according tQ the Jewish law.
And this law is still in effect today in the remote parts of
the Near East.9 So, in view of the flat contradiction be-
tween St. Matthew the traditional and St Paul the
literal we must assume that our symbolic and spiritual
interpretation of St. Matthew's account is the only cor-
rect one.
Since no two human personalities ever have identically
the same incidents, and occurring in the same order, in
their lives, how can the Immaculate Conception be found
in the life-stories of some twenty or more previous Saviors
of mankind unless it is a symbol of some universal spir-
itual truth or law connected with the repeated manifesta-
'The noted Assyrian author and authority on biblical custom_s,
George Larnsa, told us that he had witn sscd such a stoning when
he was a boy in his remote native village.
30 The Pattern Life
tion of the Divine in human form? The conception of
the Divine Babe universally symbolizes the conception of
an inner spiritual consciousness, after the outer rational
consciousness has received the Annunciation, and has been
appraised of the possibility of the coming Divine Mani-
festation. It must first be perceived through the head
before it can be brought to birth in the heart, aitho it is
already conceived by the heart's response to an influx of
Divine Love. Only so can it gestate, grow and ultimately
reach its birth into the everyday consciousness of the
outer life.
Following out the old medieval idea of there being
something impure in sex, most students have thought that
this passage indicated that there must be some mysterious
way whereby a physical child could be generated without
the use of the sex functions. But since we have seen that
this cannot be done without a physical father, it is evident
that this passage cannot refer to the generation of a physi-
cal body, but to the birth of the Christ-consciousness in
the heart of all who have reached the stage of spiritual
unfoldment where they can listen to the Annunciation of
the Inner Voice Angel and respond to the overshad-
owing of the Divine Mother.
God never made man a mere animal whose highest end
was animal gratification. Nor did God give man his nec-
essary animal functions and then prohibit their use. We
should realize that to use wisely all the powers and func-
tions given us by our Creator and to sanctify them to the
glory of God is the way by which we shall perfect our
incarnation. We must learn the great lesson that only
true love and the companionship of the ones whom God
hath joined "from the beginning of the creation" can lead
them into a full understanding of the mysterious path to
that wisdom which made them "as gods" referred to by
Job. For after Job had made this great discovery he took
unto himself a wife and enjoyed both happiness and mar-
velous prosperity.
According to the Bible story the sex function cannot be
The Immaculate Conception 31
regarded as evil, for it was built into man's body by the
Creator Himself. To think of the creative force as evil
is to belittle the wisdom and goodness of God who gave
it, and to attribute evil unto Him. Hence, God made no
mistake in providing man with this function, as many
theological "wise men" think He did. Not only did God
not make any mistake in providing man with this func-
tion, but He picked out this function for particular com-
mendation and blessed it and told men to use it normally
for its proper purposes, as we have pointed out above.
Since the use of this function is the only method by
which an immortal Soul or Spiritual Being can find incar-
nation on Earth, and since it is the only function man was
specifically told to use, and whose use was specifically
blessed, it certainly is not evil in itself, nor was its use pro-
hibited. All such ideas have arisen from misconceptions
of it due to a materialistic and unenlightened medieval
interpretation of the allegory of the Garden of Eden.1°
If we thus look into the spiritual meaning of this text
we will see that only as the Holy Ghost the Mother-
force of Divine Love comes upon or fills us, and "the
power of the Highest" the Father-force of Divine
Will overshadows us can we bring forth "that holy
thing," the Christ-consciousness, whose manifestation
within us shall truly make us sons and daughters of God.
The Immaculate Conception is, therefore, not a closed
incident which happened ages ago to one pure woman,
but takes place in all women who bear children in love and
purity of mind, as well as all others who bring forth the
Divine within them. Much less is it a mere decree de-
dared by a certain group of fallible men in the Church
Councils (no women being present) to absolve one woman
from the stain of an imagined sin by giving birth to a
God-given Soul. We repeat that since the physiological
miracle of human gestation and birth is the God-given
and only known method by which human Souls. can in-
details see The Truth About Evolution and the Bible,
Curtiss.
32 The Pattern Life
carnate on Earth, and by means of which man was told
by God to "multiply and replenish the earth," we fail to
see that it was a sin which needed a Pope's bull to set
aside.
No. The imniicu1ate Conception takes place in every
human heart when it has reached the point of unfoldment
wherein the Christ-consciousness is conceived of the Holy
Ghost, preparatory to being brought forth to redeem the
outer personality from the dominion of old ideas,
thoughts, habits and atoms of the former and more mate-
rial stages of unfoldment
This same law applies to us all, spiritually, mentally
and physically, and also to the world at large. But our
individualized Ray of the Cosmic Christ has to over-
shadow the personality, incarnation after incarnation, un-
til it can spiritualize us sufficiently for our consciousness
to respond to its illumination and give it recognition.
Until this spiritualization and expansion takes place our
minds cannot conceive of such a divine consciousness
the Consciousness of the Spiritual Self as being per-
sonally connected with us. But once this idea is con-
ceived, then a ray of that Christ-consciousness definitely
descends into our minds and incarnates in our flesh where
it fructifles the germ of a new and finer body the super-
mortal Spiritual Body which then begins to grow within
us. As this Spiritual Body begins to grow it will gradu-
ally drive out all inharmonious vibrations and impurities,
"A compromise was attempted by putting forward the sug-
gestion that the humanity of Jesus came from the flesh he a1-
sorbed from his mother, his divinity coming from the Holy Ghost,
his father, and this became the accepted explanation by those who
wanted their god to rank in every way as high as the gods of their
Pagan neighbors.
For the next few centuries Christians occupied their time specu-
lating as to how the virgin became impregnated, and various ideas
were believed at one time or another. Tertullian thought it came
about by means of a 'divine ray,' which was the explanation the
Egyptians gave to account for the miraculous birth of Apis. Au-
gustine, and other fathers of the Church, stated that the Holy
Ghost entered through her ears, and ancient Christian art depicts
this idea in various aspects." The Psychic Stream, Fmdlay, 69&
The Immaculate Conception 33
but not without a certain amount of suffering or "growing
pains," however. Thus, the radio-activity of its out-shin-
ing will transmute and spiritualize our very flesh, although
this process may be a long one if only begun in this incar-
nation. The result will be in proportion to the amount of
the Christ-force with which we correlate and express.
As we have already pointed out above, nentally, we
must perceive the possibility of a truth before we can con-
ceive of it as a definite idea and bring it forth. If the new
idea is a conception of a spiritual truth, then that idea
forms the vehicle into and through which a new vibration,
stream or current of spiritual force can flow into our
minds to bring forth an entirely new state of conscious-
ness, a new and Immaculate Conception of life and our
place and mission in it. The radio-active force of such a
new conception spiritualizes our minds, changes all our
ideas, and purifies our thoughts and cleanses them from
all stain or spot and hence brings them forth immaculate.
Just as this new and Immaculate Conception expands
our consciousness and purifies our minds by compelling
them to respond to a higher octave of vibration, so does
it sound a newer and higher key-note for the physical
body, so that the very cells of our flesh must respond to
it or be eliminated. Reacting under the law of habit, the
flesh naturally rebels at this higher vibration and claims
its right to live its old life and follow its old habits. Roe-
ognizing this universal conflict at this stage of our spir-.
itual unfoldment, St. Paul complains: "For I delight in
the law of God after the inward (or spiritual) man: but
I see another law (old habit reactions) in my members,
warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into
captivity to the law of sin (impurity) which is in my
members."2
This elimination of the old cells which were accustomed
by long habit to respond to and express our former ideas
may not be pleasant, for they are denied their former at-
'Romans. vii. 22-3.
34 The Pattern Life
tention and sustenance. Hence many of them fight to
remain and express the same old sensations and desires.
"He that is of the earth (the animal self) is earthly, and
speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven (the
Spiritual Self) is above all." "The first man is of the
earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord from heaven."14
Physically, the reaction of our bodies to the character
of the ideas we habitually hold is so definite that, as our
minds become more spiritualized through the radiant
energy of our new conceptions and these take the place of
the lusts of the flesh which formerly occupied so much
of our attention, our very flesh responds to the purifying
and spiritualizing process.
But this is a phase of the transmutation process which
must be passed through, even though it is often as distress-
ing as the physical symptoms attendant upon human
gestation. Indeed it may cause many obscure symptoms
which physicians may class as "merely nervous" because
they can find little physical cause. But in such cases it is
well to be sure that there is no physical cause added to
these symptoms of transmutation and regeneration. If
such physical causes are found, use every means, physical
as well as metaphysical, to eliminate them.
Aid this process consciously by recognizing that as the
old and wornout cells of the past cycle are being eliminated,
new cells are constantly being born. Therefore, concen-
trate upon the idea that evety new cell shall be of a finer
type, more sensitive and better able to respond readily to
the manifestation of the higher octave of vibration which
our new conceptions have set into operation. Thus will
we prepare, not only our minds, but our very flesh, for the
Immaculate Conception and the ultimate birth of the
Qirist-consciousness that is to follow in due season.
In the world at large, the Immaculate Conception should
apply to every child that is born. That is, every child has
a right to be born without the stain of a thought that
St. John, iii, 3L
141 Corinthians. xv. 47.
The Immaculate Conception 35
there is something wrong or impure connected with its
generation and birth, for such thoughts naturally over-
shadow the consciousness of the growing child and leave
their impress upon it.
During the period of gestation the thoughts of the
parents the father as well as the mother are especially
potent in their effect. Hence thoughts of peace, love,
harmony and purity should predominate rather than
thoughts of mere animal gratification. Obviously the
animal receives greater satisfaction if the thoughts are of
a high character during the exercise of its various func-
tions, for they thus bring to it the higher vibrations from
the Real or Spiritual Self, the only source of true satis-
faction.
A child conceived with the idea that there is something
sinful and impure about its generation, is to that extent
cursed for life or until that thought-force has been
counteracted. This is one of the important lessons for
humanity to learn in this connection. In fact, this is the
vital truth back of the idea meant to be impressed by the
sacrament of infant baptism.
Instead of this ceremony's being a cleansing from the
supposed "original sin" assumed to le derived from the
God-given process of birth and Soul incarnation, it should
be a ceremony of rejoicing and joyful thanksgiving that
a new life has been brought forth immaculately in love
and purity; a new Soul descended from the bosom of the
eternal Godhead to manifest Him on earth. It should,
therefore, be a sacred dedication of the child to the mani-
festation of the Highest, and of the parents to bring up
the child in the highest ideals they can conceive.
Marriage should be the union of the masculine and
feminine aspects of the same divine or Spiritual SeIf,
and their union in the flesh is the most natural, normal,
and should be the holiest and most sacred, of all functions.
Consequently there should be no thought of impurity about
'5See The Krj to the Universe, Curtiss, 107-114.
36 The Pattern Life
the conception of a physical body in which a divine Soul
can incarnate. And there is not, except to the extent that
mistaken thoughts of its impurity make it so. "I know,
and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing
unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth anything to be
unclean, to him it is undean."1
Every function of the body necessarily has its physical
organ of expression and therefore its animal aspect, but
is not confined to that lowest animal aspect. One function
of the brain is to transfer bodily sensations and physical
stimuli from the outer world to the consciousness, and
motor impulses from the consciousness to the body for
expression in action. But the brain is not confined to those
bodily functions. It is also the vehicle for the expression
of the mind, which can soar up to the highest spiritual
realms. The mind, therefore, far transcends the brain,
the brain being but its physical instrument of expression,1T
not its cause.
So it is with the functions of conception and generation.
They necessarily have their physical and animal aspect,
but they are not confined to that aspect. For back of the
bodily centers which seemingly govern the aninmi func-
tions, there are higher and more spiritual centers which are
intended to be the natural guides and helpers to raise those
functions above the plane of mere animal consciousness
and make them avenues for the manifestation of higher
forces. These higher centers are developed and brought
into play as we concentrate our attention immaculately
above the mere physical aspect of their functions and
aspire to higher ideals. All depends upon whether our
attention is focused upon the bodily sensations or upon
those spiritual ideals which it is desired to conceive and
bring forth inimaculately into our life.
There is no greater service that a couple can render to
the Race and to the advanced Souls who are seeldng the
necessary conditions of peace, harmony and purity of
LW, 14.
1?
The Key to the Universe, Curtiss,, 260-6.
The Immaculate Conception 37
thought and of body in which they can incarnate, than to
furnish pure and healthy bodies into which purity and
love have been built. Such conditions will attract ad-
vanced Souls into incarnation because of such a high type
of parents. The incarnation of such Souls brings joy,
peace, harmony and love to the family and also to the
world; for such Souls will be the ones to lead the world
in all branches of discovery, art, science and religion.
But they cannot incarnate except under conditions of an
Immaculate Conception, for without these they can remain
in incarnation but a few years. In other words, they
must be immaculately conceived, not without a father, but
without thoughts of impurity
The growing spiritual body needs the Bread of Life for
its nourishment and is poisoned by vibrations of inhar-
mony, selfishness and impurity. Hence, it continually
requires the forces generated by a continual Immaculate
Conception. We repeat, only through purity of mind and
life can this Conception take place and the spiritual birth
follow.
Only as the expectant mother of a physical child aspires
to the spiritual re1lms and makes possible such an over-
shadowing of these two aspects of God love and
purity can she attract the more spiritually evolved
Souls who are waiting for just such conditions to be
provided before they can incarnate. For if any thought
of wrongdoing, sin or impurity is held, such a thought
short-circuits the higher forces and prevents the incarna-
tion of any Soul except those undeveloped Souls who are
willing to incarnate under such lower mental and vibratory
conditions.
Therefore, if the thoughts of the parents are immaculate
or "without spot" or stain of impurity in the use of the
function of creation, the incarnating Soul is born im-
maculate and without the sense or something impure con-
cerning its generation and birth. Thus there can be
brought into incarnation a beautiful "love-child" who will
be a blessing and a joy through life. Such an immaculately
38 The Pattern Life
born child does not need the ceremony of baptism with
water to wash away the taint of something sinful or impure
about its coming into the world in the only way God has
provided for its incarnation.
As we have said elsewhere: "If the Race is to be
propagated in vileness, every child that is born must bear
the burden of a thought of something vile and impure in
connection with its birth.... For this reason the salva-
tion of the Race depends upon the pure in heart conceiving
children in love and purity, for if the perpetuation of the
Race is left to the impure and ignorant, conditions must
grow worse." ' This is one of the chief reasons for the
incarnation of the large proportion of the unfit, from
morons and the feeble-minded, to the insane.
By increasing the number of such immaculate concep-
tious we can help to shorten the days of tribulation and
prepare the Earth as a purified and happy abiding place
for the coming New Age.
Happy is he who experiences the Immaculate Concep-
tion.
"See The Voice of Isis. Curtiss, 225-6.
Chapter W
THE BIRTH OF THE CHRIST
"Md the angel said unto her The Holy Ghost shall come
upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow
thee: therefore also that holy thing that shall be born of thee
shall be called the Son of God - . . and the Lord God shall
give unto him the throne of his father David: and he shall
reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom
theresbailbenoend." St. Lukei,35,32.
"Astronomically, at the time of the birth of the Sùn the
sign Virgo, the Virgin, is rising on the eastern angle of the
planisphere. Hence all Sun Gods or Lightbringers are repro.
saited as being born of a Virgin." Appendix 4.
At the time of the winter solstice, after midnight on
December 21st, when the Sun has reached the lowest
point of its descent into the southern hemisphere and has
started on its upward journey, the whole world celebrates
the birth of a new era, the new year. In Christian
countries this astronomical event is celebrated as Christmas
or the birthday of Jesus. But before the middle of the
fifth century there was no agreement as to an historical
date for His birth. Various churches and church au-
thorities held as many as thirty-six conflicting dates, such
as January 6th, March 25th, Nov. 17th etc.1 In fact the
early Armenian and Syrian Churches accused the Roman
Church of "Sun-worship" because it finally adopted the
'See Appe,idtr C. "The first certain mention of Dec. 25th is
made by a Latin chronographer of A.n..354. It runs in English as
follows: 'The Lord Jesus Christ was born on Dec. 25th a Fri-
day and the fifteenth day of the New Moon.'" The Life of
Christ, Cain; 263.
39
40 The Pattern Life
date of the solar event which was also the birthdate of
the Sun-god Mithras, also of Tammuz and many others
namely, December 25th, as the date of Jesus' birth.
The birth day of Jesus was first celebrated by Theodore
of Antioch nearly two hundred years after the event.
And as late as 245 . the celebrated church Father and
historian, Frater Origen, understandingly and wisely
repudiated as infidel the celebrating of the literal and
physical birth of Jesus, "As if He were a King Pharaoh."
Yet there was a fundamental and scientific reason for the
Church to adopt December 25th as the date, for it is the
date of the birth of the physical Lightbringer in Nature,
the Sun. And since Jesus is the spiritual Lightbringer or
the manifestation of the Spiritual Sun to htiminity, the
day of His birth should very properly be celebrated on the
solar date of the Sun's birth, as was the case with all pre-
vious Lightbringers.
At this season of rejoicing in the renewed advent of the
spiritual light, life and love, be our station in life, our
religion or our creed and belief what it may, we can all
greet it as one of the most sacred milestones that has ever
been set upon the pathway of life. For it commemorates
an event of world-wide significance; an event which,
however much critics may question its actual historical
happening, or cavil at its illogical seeming and its scientific
and physical impossibility, is nevertheless recognized as
the most important event in the history of the Western
world.
The doctrine of the Virgin Birth was not a part of the
original apostolic message. Nor was it among the original
grounds on which belief in Jesus was demanded. The
Disciples never mention it, nor does Jesus ever refer to
it. And the greatest of the Apostles, St. Paul, apparently
never heard of it, for, as we have previously pointed out,
he says: "Concerning his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord,
which was made of the seed of David according to the
flesh." (Ronanr, i, 3). St. Paul also states specifically
that: "God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born
The Birth of the Christ 41
under the lau," (Galatianr, iv, 4), presumably the law of
human generation. And if Jesus had been born miracu-
lously, such an event would have been well known in so
small a village as Bethlehem or Nazareth, as we have
already mentioned. Yet His fellow villagers know noth-
ing about it, for they inquire: "Is this not the carpenter's
son? is not his mother called Mary? and. his brethren,
James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? And his sisters,
are they not all with us?" (St. Matthew, xiii, 55-6).
Also, if Jesus was born immaculately and without taint of
"original sin," why did He need to be circumcised when
eight days old? and why did Mary have to remain in
Bethlehem until her forty "days of purification" were
over, like any other Jewish mother? (St. Luke, ii, 21-2).
This is the first of the many flat contradictions we shall
find in the Gospels. Can both sides be true? If not,
which side shall we take? In this case both sides are true
The one concerns the immaculate birth of the Christ-
consciousness in the heart. The other concerns the body
of Jesus. From the several lines of eviden at hand we
must conclude with St. Paul that Joseph was the natural
father of Jesus. In fact, His mother publicly proclaims
Joseph as His father when she reproached Him for re-
maining behind in the temple after their party had left.
"Thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." (St.
Luke, ii, 48).
On the other hand the whole story of the ImmicuJate
Conception and the Virgin Birth is a part of the cosmic
allegory that had to be added to make the life-story con-
form to the Universal Solar Myth so that it would carry
the universal symbology of all Lighthringers and indicate
that Jesus was a true Son of God or Sun-god.2 St. Paul's
testimony is so strong as to make it quite evident that the
one old belief after another was draped round the name of
Jesus over the first four centuries of our era, so the new religion
grew up in the likeness of the old. The age-old beliefs were hung
on a new peg, called by a different name, and the educated people
were quite familiar with the sources whence they came." The
Psychic Stream, Findlay, 30&
42 The Pattern Life
miracle was not to be taken literally and historically. This
is a good example of the fact that the conflicting Gospel
stories cannot be made consistent unless they are inter-
preted according to their universal spiritual symbology.
To reconcile these glaring discrepancies and make this
beautiful story of vital importance to us, like all others in
the Gospels, it must not only be spiritually interpreted, but
its lesson must be applied to the life of each unfolding
Soul. For each can find in it a pertinent truth, an indi-
vidual lesson and a personal responsibility. In fact, this
personal application is the chief reason for the story; for
without this individual realization and application the
astronomical, historical, intellectual or materialistic inter-
pretations are but empty husks, without vital spiritual
nourishment.
Therefore, let no heart turn away and refuse to recog-
nize the birth, but let it respond to the joy of the season
and the ecstasy of the realization, even though the ma-
terialistically trained intellect may say, as do some writers:
"All this is but a part of the ancient Sun Myth, and be-
longs to the folk-lore and superstition of the early ages.
It is but a medieval dogma outgrown and left behind long
ago in these modern and enlightened days." For no
matter how literally and materialistically it has been mis-
understood or how dogmatically interpreted by the Church,
it isa great spiritual reality that is enacted again and again
perpetually, both annually in Nature and in the spiritual
experience of every awakened Soul.
All birth is a mystery. How a pre-existing, super-
physical being with a definite personality and conscious-
ness can appear from out the unseen into the seen, already
fully organized and co-ordinated, is one of the miraculous
mysteries of Nature. But it must follow certain definite
laws, and take place at a certain point in a definite cycle.
Yet because we are so familiar with its phenomena we
overlook its mystery. The birth of the Christ is even a
greater mystery, yet it follows the same laws, and passes
The Birth of the Christ 43
through the same incidents, and in the same order, as does
the birth of the Sun in the zodiac.
Astronomically the birth of the Sun takes place when
it has reached its nadir or lowest point of southern declina-
tion. The sign Capricorn, in which the birth takes place,
is symbolized by the goat, and astrologically is related to
the manger and the stables. Hence, many Sun-gods, Light.
bringers and Saviors are represented as being of lowly
origin. Their birth is represented as taking place in
Capricorn, not only because the Sun is "born" in that sign,
but also because Capricorn expresses just those forces
which will bring to humanity the experiences necessary
for its ultimate spiritual birth. For the zodiac contains
not only those newly discovered currents of force, called
"cosmic rays," but other forces which profoundly in-
fluence the processes of Nature such as growth, ter-
restrial magnetism, radio reception, etc. and other physi-
cal events, but also forces which greatly influence the
minds of men. And these forces are of vital importance
in the development of the mystical centers and faculties
in man at present little understood and yet which are
necessary for man's ultimate perfect spiritual unfoldment.
There was evidently considerable uncertainty in the
minds of the Gospel writers as to which was to be con-
sidered as Jesus' home village. St. Matthew (ii, 20-3)
says that Joseph was warned to return from Egypt to
Bethlehem, and was diverted from doing so only by fear
of Herod's son, Archelaus, who then ruled Judea. Joseph
therefore "turned aside into the parts of Galilee" only as
a second choice or after-thought. But in St. Luke (i, 26)
we are told that Jesus' parents had already made their
home in Nazareth before the Annunciation was made to
Mary.
The journey to Bethlehem was evidently made merely
to comply with the tax decree. Jesus never referred to
Bethlehem as His birthplace, and is not recorded as ever
having visited it, altho it is only about six miles from
44 The Pattern Life
JerusalernwbichHevisitedsooften. If Hewasbornin
Bethlehem and made it His home He would have been a
Judean, yet He is always referred to as a Galilcean or a
Nazarean. No such village as Nazareth is mentioned in
the Old Testament or in the Talmud. And no such
village can be traced in history before the middle of the
fourth century, altho many other villages of similar size
and of far less importance are mentioned. This inaccuracy
is but another evidence of the allegorical nature of the
entire birth story.3
As to the exact spot where Jesus' birth took place there
is also a similar conflict of testimony. St. Luke (ii, 7)
implies that He was born in a stable, while St. Matthew
(ii, 11) tells us that the Wise Men found Him in a house.
As one writer summarizes it: "According to early Chris-
tian writers, such as Justin and Origen, Jesus came into
the world in a cave, and Jerome complains (Epirt. viii)
that in his time the heathens celebrated the feast of the
birth of Tanunuz at Bethlehem in the same cave in which
Jesus was born."4
Tertullian also says He was born in a cave, while
Eusebius, the earliest Christian historian, says He was
born in the same cave over which Constantine built a
insilica in 330 ,. which is now called the Grotto of the
Nativity. This is said to be the same cave over which the
learned and travelled Emperor Hadrian earlier built a
temple to Adonis when he rebuilt Jerusalem in 130 .a
$ The celebrated author, Hall Caine, ws a very devout Chris-
tian, but after more than forty years of scholarly research, and
after many visits to Palestine, he wrote: "It is impossible to re-
prd the birth-stories in the Gos4els as records of actual happen-
ings. They are obviously conceived us the spirit of legend and
written in the language of myth. Never have they any reality.
In every incident, except one, they contradict and clash with
each other." The Life of Christ, Camej 1283. Also St. Augustine
is reported as saying: "Were it not for the authority of the
Church, I should put no faith in the Gospels."
4T1,e ChriSt Myth, Drews, IOL
'The Protewagelon by James, the brother of Jesus, says that
Jesus was born in a cave. The Egyptian, Horv, was born in the
The Birth of the Chrict 45
All Saviors are said to be born of a Virgin because as
the birth takes place in the sign Capricorn, called "the
stable," Virgo is the zodiacal sign which is rising on the
eastern ascendant at the time the Sun is born in the south-
ern hemisphere, which is so frequently called the "pit,"
"cave" or "stable." That this incident is universal and
not exclusively connected with the story of Jesus is shown
by the fact that more than twenty previous Saviors of
mankind, in other races and ages, are all represented as
being born of avirgin in a stable, crypt or cave, and inthe
presence of the domestic animals, the bull, goat, sheep,
ass, ete. This has been handed down from those ancient
days (about 3000 B.C.) when the winter solstice began
between the zodiacal signs of the Ox (Taurus) and the
Great Bear, formerly called the Ass. For this reason we
see those animalsespecially the bull and the goat, both
symbols of the procreative force in Nature represented
in nearly all pictures of the Nativity. Domestic animals
in general symbolize both the material world and the
animal world and their temptations.
This lowly place of birth indicates the universal Law of
Birth into the physical world, for the generation and
gestatiun of all forms of life take place in darkness and
stable of the holy cow" or Temple of Isis. The Cretan sun-god
Zons was born in a cavern, Milkras, Dionysus and Hermes were
all born in gloomy grottos or caves- Knshna, Adorns, Apollo,
Astir, Baccl.us and many others were born in caves.
Horus was born of the virgin Isis; Knslusa of the virgin
Devaki; Buddha of the virgin Maya; Romulus of Rhea-Sylvia;
Bacchus of Myrrha; Hermes of Mair; Adonis of Myrrha; Agni
of Maya; Milhras of Marid; Tammus of Myhtta; Allis of Nasa;
Apollo of Leto; Perseus of Danae; Dionysus of Demeter; and
the Persian Maui of the virgin Meis. Among the inese Fo-lu,
Lao-lw, Confucius and others are said to have been of virgin
birth. Cyrus the Great, who was called "Chrestos, the Annointed
One" and also "God's Messenger," was said to have been of virgin
birth. Even the Greek philosopher, Plato. was believed to have
been a Son of God by the virgin, Pericti ne, who had an imniacu-
late conception by the god Apollo Also Romeses, Zoroaster and
Qigeggokoati were said to have been born of virgins. The life-
stories of all these 'sun gods" testify to the universality of the
story and its symbology.
46 The Pattern Life
in lowly surroundings, and below the diaphragm and in
the so-called "stable" with the animal functions. In the
case of the Sun it takes place in the darlcness of winter
and in the "cave" of the southern hemisphere; in the case
of seeds in the darkness of the earth and within the "cave"
of the husk or shell; in the case of birds' eggs in the
darkness made by the setting mother-bird and within the
"cave" of the egg-shell; in all mammals, induding man, in
the darkness of the mother's body and within that par-
ticular portion (womb) which is in the nature of a cave.
A cave is said to have been the earliest form of temple
or the first place of worship among primitive humanity.
This was not only because it afforded privacy and protec-
tion, but also because it afforded secrecy, a feeling of awe,
and the silence and darkness so necessary for the mani-
festation of primitive spiritual phenomena. As the rocks
are the foundation which upholds the earth and focuses
its magnetism, so our place of worship becomes the
foundation of our spiritual life, and focuses its spiritual
forces for us. The cave also symbolizes darkness and
limitations, material conditions and materialistic thought,
birth and death, the womb and the tomb.
Just so it is with the spiritual birth. It begins within the
darkness of material conditions and within the "cave" of
the heart, near which, and looking on as it were, are as-
sembled those bodily centers which govern the "stable"
containing the animal functions of the body, so aptly
symbolized by the domestic animals.
The cave also refers to the crypt of the Chamber of
Initiation in the Schools of the Mysteries where the
Candidate receives his mystic "birth" or great spiritual
illumination.
Not understanding the solar origin of these incidents,
and hence not having the cosmic concept of them, the only
way in which the pious Church Father, Justin Martyr.
could account for the absolute uniformity of these events
was to attribute them to the devil! He says: "It having
reached the ears of the devil that the prophets had foretold
the coming of Christ (the Son of God), he set the Heathen
Poets (thousands of years B.C., Au.) to bring forward a
great many who should be called the sons of Jove. The
devil laying his scheme in this, to get men to imagine that
the true history of Christ was of the same character as the
prodigious fables related of the sons of Jove.IT But we
do not have to call upon the miraculous prognostication
of the devil to account for the uniformity, once we have
the cosmic concept and understand the personal application
of the whole story.
What is the interpretation of this universal birth of all
Lightbringers from a Virgin? Does it merely mean the
annual birth of the Sun in Nature or merely the genera-
tion of a mortal without a father? Is it merely the repeti-
tion of an age-old myth? No, it means far more. It is
a divine reality in the spiritual life of all mankind when
its cyclic time is reached. In its physical sense it does,
indeed, refer to the cydic birth of the Sun in the cyde of
the year, with the sign Virgo rising. And in the cosmic
sense it refers to the cyclic manifestation (cyde of, the
Age) of the Celestial Being known as an Avatar, who
comes as a Spiritual Lightbringer ançl hence periodically
fulfills, in the spiritual unfoldment of humanity, an office
similar to that which the Sun accomplishes periodically
in Nature. But this universal symbology has a still more
important and persønal meaning.
As we have said elsewhere: "The story of the life of
Jesus we regard not only as the spiritual history of one
Great Teacher, but as an allegory of the life of perfected
Man; the Pattern Life which all humanity must ultimately
follow; the universal experience which each Soul passes
through as the Christ-consciousness is born within and
unfolds into perfect satisfaction and at-one-ment with the
Father-in-heaven. Every incident symbolizes a step on
the Path of Attainment of Christhood.... Therefore
the story of Jesus is the story of the spiritual evolution,
TRomas 4,JiqNities. 124.
The Birth of the Christ 47
48 The Pattern Life
unfoldment and manifestation of the Christ in the flesh."
In other words, the events in the life of Jesus dramatize
not only the cosmic process by which the Divine manifests
in the material universe the Sun through the zodiac
but also the inner personal experience through which
every Soul passes on its way to its ultimate union or
at-one-meat with its. Source.
Jesus, therefore like all Lightbringers, symbolizes the
individualization and manifestation of the Christ-con-
sciousness in man. This is not an intellectual process, but
a spiritual one; the overshadowing, and finally the em-
bodiment and birth, of the spiritual consciousness of our
Real or Spiritual Self, or the Divine Man, in and through
the human personality.
As we have already pointed out: "And because this
Spiritual Self is the Ambassador of and of the same
essence as the Cosmic Christ which vitalizes all divisions
of the vast universe, through an acquaintance, realization
and correlation with this Spiritual Self we can enter into
an understanding of those cosmic centers of life, force
and consciousness which have their miniature centers and
points of contact within our bodies. The man who has
thus found himself through realization and correlation
with this Spiritual Self has found the Christ enthroned
in the midst of his universe."
St. Paul recognized that it was this mystical birth of the
Christ-consciousness in the heart that the miraculous story
symbolized when he said: "My little children, of whom
I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you."
And again "when it pleased God. . . to reveal his Son
in me, that I might preach him among the heathen."
(Galatians, iv, 19 and 1,15). "For God, who commanded
the light to shine out of darkness, bath shined in our
hearts, to give us the light of the glory of God in the face
of Jesus Christ." (II Corinthians, iv, 6). And again,
"Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove
The Mes.rage of Aq,wria, Cmtiu, 190.
The Birth of the Christ 49
your own selves (inner Spiritual Selves). Know ye not
your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye
be reprobates?. (II Corinthians, xiii, 5). And it is evi-
dent that he refers to the Cosmic Christ when he says that
the Spirit of Christ was in the ancient prophets. (I Peter,
1, 11). It is evident that it is of the mystic Christ within
to which St Paul refers in the above as in all his other
references to the Christ, and not to the historical per-
sonality of Jesus, the Teacher.
It must be dearly understood that the spiritual birth is
not due to a mere infusion into the rational mind of a new
concept of God and-His Son, but is the result of the inflow
of new currents of spiritual life, light and love; the be-
ginning of a new life-process. It involves breaking up of
the old life and its reactions, and the building of a new
life. It thus begins a never-ending reciprocity between
God and man, between the Spiritual Self and the personal
self. This results in a shifting of the field of conscious-
ness from a lower to a higher level; from "conditioned
reflexes" due to stimuli from the outer material world, to
estatic response to stimuli from the inner spiritual world.
Returning to Joseph as a symbol of the intellect, natu-
rally he is not represented as the actual father of Jesus,
for, according to the story, Mary was only "espoused,"
not yet married to him at that time. This indicates that
no amount of intellectual activity can generate spiritual
consciousness. That comes only from the spiritual world
many octaves of vibration above the mental world. It
comes from within, not from without, and is not generated
by the mind. It first overshadows, and after proper recog-
nition and response has been made, descends from the
realms of spiritual consciousness into the "cave" of the
heart of which Mary is the symbol where it must be
nurtured in Divine Love, or by the Divine Mother-prin-
ciple, crc it can be brought forth in the life and illumine
the consciousness of the personality and seemingly become
the son of Joseph.
"When the Christ-light is thus born in our hearts, our
50 The Pattern Life
consciousness is expanded and born into an entirely new
world of spiritual light, joy and freedom. The change is
even greater than that which the sprout must experience
when it is born out of the darkness and limitation of the
soil into the light and freedom of the sunlight. This new
illumination is as much greater than the old ideas we
formerly held as is the light of day to the newborn babe,
as compared to the darkness of its mother's womb.
"'If you would truly know how these things come to
pass,' says St. Bonaventura, in a passage which all students
of theology should ever keep in mind, 'ask it of Grace,
not of doctrine; of desire, not of intellect: of the ardours
of prayer, not of the teachings of the schools. . . not
of illumination, but of the fire which enflames all and
wraps us all in God with great sweetness and most ardent
love.'"'
Electricity has been known .to humanity for ages as a
great cosmic power (lightning), but only when itwas
brought down to earth or was "born" on earth and utilized
did it become effective in our lives. Likewise, the Cosmic
Christ-force has been known to humanity for ages as a
great cosmic power, but only as it is brought down from
the heaven-world and "born" in our hearts can it become
effective in our lives. To accomplish this we must say to
ourselves: "Not only have I the Christ-force within me,
but I must bring it forth to illumine my mind, warm my
heart and radiate from me in streams of loving, trans-
forming power." And we must repeat this again and
again until we feel the birth take place.
As we have already said: 'While the power of the
Christ is within us, it is not ours consciously to use until
we have realized it and endeavored to gzv'e it expression
in guiding our daily life. For no matter how much we
talk about it, nor how much we try to explain it, until
through travail of Soul it is born in our consciousness and
begins to bring forth in our life, it is not consciously ours.
'Mslwssm. Uiiderhiil. 14&
The Birth of the Christ 51
But once the birth has taken place, once the realization has
been attained, we have touched a live wire, we are standing
on the third-rail tapping a power which, if we permit it to
manifest, will bring to us whatsoever is needed protec-
tion, peace, poise and plenty plenty of mercies and
joys." 10
This new spiritual birth of the Christ-consciousness in
its miraculous, immaculate birth in a virgin-heart, because
its generation is not mortal, but Divine. According to the
angel's promise: "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee
and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee:
therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee
shall be called the Son of God." (St. Luke, i, 35). This
evidently refers not to a physical child conceived without
a father, but to the manifestation of the Spiritual Self, the
Christ within us. The intellect appears to the outer world
as the father, but is not so in reality, any more than
Joseph is represented in the story as actually being the
physical father of Jesus. This St. Luke franidy admits
when he says: "Jesus himself . . . being (as us sup-
posed) the son of Joseph." (St. Luke, iii, 23). Yet, like
Joseph, the intellect is needed to father the new-born babe,
to guard, support, protect, and prepare conditions for the
manifestation of the Christ-consciousness, hence must
grasp and understand the miracle.
As we have said elsewhere: "Once the Spiritual birth
has taken place in the heart, it must be recognized and
fathered by the mind. Our consciousness must grasp a
new idea of our Divine Source and the essential nature of
our Real or Spiritual Self. Once this new idea is recog-
nized by the mind, according to the laws of mind there is
a modification of the mind in conformity with the idea.
And if the idea is held continually or is recurred to
frequently and positively, it grows and reacts upon the
body with greater and greater power until finally the body
is modified in conformity with the new idea, just as was
1The Inner Radiance. Curtiss, 156.
52 The Pattern Life
the mind. This is true of the birth of every new concep-
tion in proportion to the power we give it." '
This universal and spiritual interpretation of the story
solves the whole problem of the conflicting genealogies
of Joseph which would seemingly deny the spiritual origin
of Jesus in spite of Jesus' own words. "Ye are from
beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not
of this world." (St. John, viii, 23). Even if the geneal-
ogies were historically accurate, Jesus would still, accord-
ing to the Gospel story, have no legal claim to the literal
throne of David, for the story claims that He was con-
ceived by the Holy Ghost and not by Joseph. So, if
Joseph was not His physical father, He could not inherit
Joseph's lineage. St. Paul even warns: "Neither give
heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister
questionings, rather than godly edifying." (I Timothy,
1,4).
Our spiritual interpretation also explains the seeming
failure of the prophecy that Jesus would occupy the throne
of His father David, and "reign over the house of Jacob
forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end."
Literally Jesus never sat on any earthly throne, hence
never reigned as king, and thus never fulfilled the proph-
ecy. But spiritually interpreted He does not need the
genealogy of Joseph; for once the Christ-consciousness is
born in the heart it does sit upon the throne of David
Divine Love and then: "Of His reign there shall be
no end" through all our future incarnations.
All spiritual prophecies have two aspects: individual and
collective. They are first fulfilled in the individual hearts
U The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 421.
ISuThe two genealogies ivcn m Matthew and Luke differ from
each other and their histoncal records. They may be said to ex-
clude each other. Both cannot be true. .. . Joseph is said to have
been only supposed to be the father of Jesus having had no part
in Him as a parent Therefore the genealogies of Joseph are on
different ground. It is of little consequence whether Joseph was or
was not descended from David if he was,not the natural father of
Jesus." The Life of Christ, Cainej 264.
The Birth of the Christ 53
and lives of the few who can grasp their inner meaning,
and then, as such individuals become more and more
numerous, they make it possible for the prophecies to be
fulfilled for a whole nation, a Race and finally for all
mankind. Thus far only individually has this spiritual
realization prophesied by the angelic host been fulfilled.
For imnkind has never yet collectively realized its common
origin in the Divine, and hence its essential spiritual
brotherhood.
Only the realization of this brotherhood can bring about
the peace and good-will so long promised by the heavenly
host. Every seeker for the Christ-consciousness therefore
has an individual responsibility in helping to bring about
this universal fulfillment of every prophecy concerning
His coming, through exemplifying peace, good-will and
brotherhood in his or her own life. And everyone who
has passed through this stage of development and realiza-
tion knows in his heart that, since the promised birth has
been fulfilled in him individually, ultimately it must be
fulfilled in all.
As the Earth, in its annual journey around the Sun,
passes through the sign Capricorn during December, so
is there a corresponding period in the spiritual zodiac of
every Seeker for Truth which must be reached and passed
ere the birth of the Christ-consciousness can take place.
And only when this personal experience has been realized
and exemplified in the lives of a majority of the worship-
ers of the Christ can the real Christ-mass be celebrated
which, age after age, the angelic hosts have been waiting
to sing, not for individuals alone, but for all mankind.
This experience is realized at various times in various
ways by different types of mind, but once experienced in
the heart it can never be forgotten.
The birth of Jesus is represented as taldng place in
Bethlehem the meaning of which is "the house of
bread," or the sign Virgo, the sixth constellation, the
harvest mansion, whose symbol is a woman with a spike
54 The Pattern Life
of corn in her hand (Ceres) because the spiritual birth
must take place in the "house of bread" or center of
spiritual nourishment, the heart.
An inn is not a home, only a place where many passing
travellers meet and sojourn for a time, and perhaps discuss
and argue over the topics of the day. It therefore fittingly
symbolizes the head or the mind where many passing
thoughts stop and sojourn for a time; where they reason
and argue and then pass on.
Naturally, there is no room in the conflicting vibrations
of such an intellectual maelstrom for the tender vibrations
of Divine Love (Mary) to find a resting place and to
bring forth the spiritual conception, the birth of the
Christ-consciousness. For were the birth to take place in
such company, the reasoning faculties would soon argue
away the possibility of such a miraculous event's ever
taking place and so convince the rational mind that we
ourselves might doubt that the birth had ever taken place.
Therefore there is no room in the mind for the Divine
Mother and she is forced to go to a center lower down in
the body, into the "cave" of the heart, where she is sur-
rounded by the lower animal centers.
But the angels know that as the Christ grows up in the
hearts of men and manifests in their lives, as He waxes
strong in by; wisdom and power, all these crucifying
conditions will be redeemed, and peace and good-will will
reign upon Earth in reality as well as in name. For we
can have true peace only as we feel good-will toward our
fellow men. This means not only refraining from even
thinking critically of our fellow travellers on the Path, but
sending out the positive current of good-will to all while
we mind our own affairs and do not interfere with other
people's way of living and expressing, even to the extent
of focusing our thought-force upon them. For we realize
that each of us has to recognize the Christ within and
work out our own problems, our own salvation, our own
Karma, no matter what others may think or say about it.
But while we thus guard our own flocks and keep hands
The Birth of the Christ 55
off others, we can send to all those we contact our positive
love and compassion.
Since the early Christian era the festival of the birth has
been celebrated as an expression of good-will, happiness
and unselfish helpfulness. But, alas, today it has become
so commercialized that it is practically a social crucifixion
to large classes of working people. Like all divine
thoughts, concepts and symbols, the instant they are swal-
lowed up in the world's misconception, they become a
focus for greed, avarice, vanity and self-indulgence, and
sink into the mire of callous selfishness. There are, how-
ever, many beautiful Souls who are sufficiently awakened
and advanced to grasp the true Christ-spirit, and whose
hearts do sing with the angels, "Peace on earth, good-will
to men."
As the Christ is born a pean of praise, the great Christ-
mass, "Glory to God in the highest" is sung by the angelic
hosts. And this in spite of what must seem to them as
the greatest crucifixion that the mind can picture, namely,
the descent of the pure, spiritual Christ-light into matter
and physical embodiment. The angels, in their enlightened
consciousness, knew full well that crc peace on Earth
could result, long cydes of war, slavery, toil and suffering
must ensue. Yet, seeing the end from the beginning,
with angelic confidence in the workings of the divine
Law of Love, they celebrated the first Christ-mass, and
have ever been singing it through the ages, while waiting
for its sure fulfillment on Earth.
In its cosmic sense the birth is the descent of the Divine
Light; the effort of Spirit to penetrate matter; that which
is inner to express outwardly. In the personality it is the
descent of the Soul into full embodiment. Mystically it is
the descent of the Christ-child the Son of God into
matter. The early church originally adopted this mystical
concept, although through the ages of darkness and ig-
norance its -mystical meaning has been lost to sight.
But the message of birth which our Cosmic Soul Science
sends forth is not merely that of the Divine Birth in the
56 The Pattern Life
heart of the individual, glorious as that is, but also of
the 1)ivine Birth for minkind as a whole, the advent of
the Christ to hnmzrnity in the person of the coming
Avatar.13 The time of this Cosmic Birth is swiftly draw-
ing near. In fact, The birth pangs of "wars and rumors
of wars," of unbrotherliness, antagonism and conflict
which are abroad in the land, and the cosmic disturbances
which fulfill the prophecy, are already taking place.
Hence, like a loving Father who sees His little children
afrighted, He sends forth the call from the lips of His
beloved Son, Jesus, the Christ, the comforting words:
"Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them
not: for of such is the kingdom of heaven." And very
soon, instead of the din of war and the cries of the
desolate, "How long, 0 Lord, how long?" we shall hear
the glad song of the Angels ring out: "Behold, I bring
you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.
For unto you is born this day a Savior, which is Christ
the Lord."
Happy is he who experiences the Birth of the Christ
within.
13See '1he Doctrine of Avatara," The Voice of Isis, Curths,
Chapter X.
Chapter V
THE WISE MEN AND THE STAR
"Behold, there came wise men from the cast to Jerusalem,
saying, where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we
have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him
and lot the star, which they saw in the east, went before
them, till it caine and stood over where the young child was."
St. Matthew, ii, 1,2,9.
"The three collinear stars of the second magnitude, known as
the Three Kings or the Three Wise Men, rise from the East
and travel West as Virgo rises in the East, until they come
to the point where the star Arciurus rises over the manger of
Jo in the constellation Boõtes.... By many the star Sirius
is called the Star of Bethlehem." 4ppendu' A.
One of the favorite passages which Rule critics delight
to ridicule as superstitious is that which relates to the
Three Wise Men and their Star. This Star is represented
as going before them first to Jerusalem, then on to Bethle-
hem and finally we are told that it "stood over" a particu-
lar stable "where the young child was."
The critics claim that a star is a self-luminous body
constituted like a sun and so nearly fixed that its displace-
ment will be perceptible only after the lapse of several
centuries. And even the moving planets have fixed orbits
in which they can be located accurately at any desired
time. And even the wandering comets have such nearly
fixed orbits that their appearance can be calculated many
years in advance. Yet ever since the early thristian era
astronomers have eagerly searched the sides for some
celestial body that would fulfill the requirements of the
Gospel story, but without success.
57
58 The Pattern Life
The critics also say that aitho new stars or novae do
suddenly blaze out in the sky, they do not travel for a
time and then stop, nor would they appear only to three
persons and not attract the attention of others. Much less
could such a star stand still over a certain country, far less
single out one little village and then a particular spot
"where the young child was" in that village.
They also claim that even if such a phenomenal star
could have stopped over a particular stable in Bethlehem,
such a marvelous phenomenon would have led Herod's
emissaries to the birthplace as easily as it is said to have
led the Wise Men. Therefore, the critics conclude that
the whole story is a fable conceived in the poetic imagi-
nation of religious enthusiasts. But we hold that it is far
snore than a myth or fable. In fact, the literal interpre-
tation of the incident is so physically impossible that it is
evident that the meaning must be symbolical.
In the life of the seeker after truth the mystical Star in
the East symbolizes that illumination which floods the
Soul whenever the heart turns in contemplation to the
Christ.
The critics claim that the Three Wise Men were nothing
more than wandering mendicants or story-tellers. As a
matter of fact the Magi were not mere "wandering mendi-
cants." Far from it.1 They were extremely learned
celebrated Persian Magus, Gjamasp called Hakim or
"the Wise One" was the confidant and chief Minister to King
Darius Hystapis, about 1000 n.c. He wrote a book Judicia
Gja,na.cpic, in which he is said to have prdicted the birth of both
Jesus and Mahonuned, and that the Magian religion would be
superseded by their teachings. "Pliny mentions three schools of
the Magi: one that he shows was founded at an unknown antiquity:
the other established by Osthenes and Zoroaster: the third by
Moses and Jambres." IsLr Unweiled, Blavatsky, ii, 261. "The an-
dent Magian astrologer, Avon Ezra, made the following predic-
tion: 'In the sphere of Persia there arieth upon the face of the
sign Virgo, a beautiful maiden.... She bringeth up a child in
Abrie (the Hebrew land), and the child's name is called Eui (or
Jesus) I'" American Journal of Astrology, Winter Number, 1937,
59.
The Wise Men and the Star 59
philosophers who were followers of the Persian prophet,
Zoroaster, and bad long anticipated the birth of another
Messiah. In fact, they were such learned astronomers
that, without the use of telescopes or other instruments,
they were quite familiar with the zodiac, the planets and
fixed stars, the precession of the equinoxes and the whole
heliocentric system over a thousand years before the in-
vention of the telescope! Astronomer Proctor has shown
that the ancient Chaldean astronomers had developed a
system of most accurate astronomy as far back as 2400
B.C., ages before the invention of the telescope by Galileo
in 1609 .n.
In view of these unquestioned facts, it is scarcely logical
for modern biblical critics, who know practically nothing
about cosmic symbology, to belittle the learning of the
Magi. We wonder how far they, or even modern astron-
omers, would get in organizing the heavens and develop-
ing such a complete astronomical and astrological science
without their telescopes, spectroscopes, solar photography,
etc., as did the Magi!
According to the Persian teaching there is one infal-
lible, ineffable and truly Cosmic Soul Science which has
always existed, but which is known only to the Elect.
This science of the secrets of the heavens and their reflec-
tion in Nature, was revealed only at the time of Initiation.
Since this science was cosmic in its nature it was far above
the heads of the populace. Hence it had to be interpreted
and adapted to the intelligence of the untutored multitudes
of those early ages. And since the uninitiated were in-
tellectually incapable of grasping the cosmic concept of
those principles they were presented to the public in
allegorical mystery-plays which the ignorant often took
to be literal and historical.
But in these days of the almost universal spread of
higher education, many of the public are now ready for
at least an outline of these cosmic principles upon which
all manifestation is based. Once these cosmic concents
60 The Pattern Life
are grasped they reconcile the seemingly opposed terms
of science and religion, reason and faith, knowledge and
belief, and authority and freedom.
As we point out in our Appendix A, astronomically the
Three Wise Men represent the three bright collinear stars
of the second magnitude Alnitake, Alnilain, Mintaka-
in the sword-belt of the Mighty Hunter in the constellation
of Orion. They travel from East to West, as the sign
Virgo rises in the East, until the great star Arcturus rises
over the manger of Jo in the constellation Boõtes. There-
fore it is only natural that the Persian Magi should be
represented as travelling westward to the country in
which they sought the birthplace of Mithras, the Savior-
son of their Queen of Heaven, Jo, or their rejuvenated
or new-born Lightbringer.
But even when the Wise Men reached Jerusalem they
found no physical star shining over a particular spot, but
had to enquire locally about the actual place of birth. Only
thus were they directed to Bethlehem, some five miles
Southwest, aitho the star is still said to go before them.
Here we find the star radically changing its course.
Whereas it formerly travelled from East to West it now
turns at right angles and travels from Jerusalem in the
North to Bethlehem in the South I Naturally this is another
astronomical impossibility.
As one prominent writer attempts to account for such
a physical star: "The famous star which appeared in
Andromeda about the time of the Nativity and which
later was seen by Albumazar, the Arabian astronomer,
in 945 ., again in 1264, and towards the end of the
sixteenth century by Kepler, is one of those stars which
have an orbit of great eccentricity with the major axis
towards the solar system, so that they appear 'end on'
when entering the field of vision, make a brief incursion,
during which they appear to grow in luminosity, and then
recede again and are lost to view for a period of many
years... . Falling as it does in the sign Capricorn...
this star holds for us portents of ingular interest...
The Wise Men and the Star 61
It may herald the birth of a new and great political leader
or the rise of a new world power.. .. That it falls in
the solar decan of the sign Capricorn is at least significant
of such a possibility."3
Others have thought that such a star might have been
an especially bright but temporary star or nova, such as
the one seen by Tycho Brahe in November 1572, which
outshone Venus in brilliancy and thus was visible in day-
light. Or it may have been like the new star Nova
Aquilae discovered in 1921 on the verge of the Milky
Way in the sign Capricorn which rules Palestine. Or it
may have been like the still more brilliant super-star, Nova
Puppis (the stern of Argo, the ship), which suddenly
blazed forth on November 4th, 1942, and within a week
increased six million times in brilliancy to become the
sixth brightest star in the heavens, only to fade rapidly
away.
But unfortunately for the nova theory, since they do
not lend themselves to mathematical calculation but sud-
denly appear and soon disappear, the uncertainty as to
their nature and periodicity makes them of little prophetic
value to the Magi. But if any such cosmic wonder had
actually occurred, the writers and historians of the day
would certainly have recorded it. But no one but St.
Matthew mentions it.
On the other hand, the Cosmic Soul Science of the
Magi taught that certain planetary conjunctions espe-
cially of Jupiter and Saturn-3 presaged great events on
earth, such as catastrophies, the birth of great men, great
religions and the like.4 Similarly today modern material
2Sepharia1 in the Briiirh Journal of Æstrology, Ju1y 1918.
3See Aj'pendis C.
4The birth of Rama was foretold when Jupiter was in Cancer.
Buddha's birth was predicted by the appearance of a "Messianic
Star" when the constellation Kwei was in conjunction with the
Sun. According to Jewish legends a brilliant star was seen by the
Magi over the birthplace of Moses. Also Abraham's birth is said
to have been heralded by the appearance of a brilliant star in the
East which devoured the four stars which were with it. When
Krishna was born his star Rohini or Aldebaran. was seen
62 The Pattern Life
science tells us that the appearance and location of certain
sun-spots definitely presages magnetic storms, radio inter-
ference, bad weather and the like.
Now, since every country is related to one particular
sign of the zodiac, when the conjunction of Jupiter and
Saturn occurred in Pisces, it is only natural that such a
brilliant event would attract the attention of the Magi
and indicate to them that the birth of their long-looked-for
Messiah was about to take place in Palestine. Hence they
would naturally be led to the capital of that country,
Jerusalem. For according to the famous astronomer,
Kepler, there actually was a conjunction of Jupiter and
Saturn in the sign Pisces,3 which rules Jerusalem, three
years before the death of Herod!
Since the origin of the Star of Bethlehem has been the
object of repeated research by both astronomers and
astrologers for ages in an effort to account for some
special star's appearing at or about the time stated, but
without result, the astrological interpretation is the only
tenable one, as it covers all the facts and answers all
scientific objections as to the literal event. The learned
Bishop Thorburn agrees with us in this statement when
he says: "There can be little doubt, indeed, that the solu-
tion of this problem must be sought in astrology rather
than in astronomy."
The learned Magi well understood that an embodiment
of the Light of the Spiritual Sun (Son of God) appears
at the beginning of every Great Age that all mankind may
have renewed spiritual life by absorbing and manifesting
the new spiritual ideals thus revealed, and which that Age
should naturally develop, just as the physical Sun shines
forth at the beginning of every lesser cycle the year
that all Nature may have renewed life by absorbing and
manifesting the life-force which it pours forth. The light
the prophet Nared. The Chinese say that a brilliant star heralded
the birth of l'is, the founder of the First Dmasty, and also at the
birth of Lao-tsse.
'MjThical Interprttation of the Gospels, Thorburn, 50.
Tue Wise Men and the Star 63
of this understanding should indicate to the spiritually
wise men where the Manifestation or "birth" is to take
place.
Such prognostication is neither psychic prevision nor
prophecy, any more than the prediction that new chemical
elements would be found at definite places in the periodic
table of atomic weights, the reappearance of a comet, or
that of a new planet, Pluto, would be discovered outside
the orbit of his brothers Jupiter and Neptune. All are
based on mathematically correct computations of phe.
nomena regularly recurring in Nature, from the infini-
tesimal atoms to the stars in heaven.
But it is not in the physical incident which we, as stu-
dents of Cosmic Soul Science, are interested. The fact
that such incidents have been recorded and handed down
to us throughout the ages, long before the Christian era,
suggests to an enquiring mind that they contain an inner
meaning and lessons of importance. And to make those
lessons useful we must seek to understand their symbology
and apply it to our personal lives. For symbology, and
even history, is of little value, except as a record of events,
unless we gain a personal lesson and experience an ex-
pansion of consciousness from the, stoiy of the events.
So is it with the life-story of Jesus. Unless we can make
such a personal application, the story is little more than
a beautiful biography filled with high ethical precepts.
But spiritually interpreted, and with the spiritual forces
symbolized actually contacted and applied, it becomes a
definite and even scientific guide toward the unfolding
of the Christ-consciousness within ourselves.
In the life of the seeker after Truth the mystical Star
in the East symbolizes that illumination which floods the
Soul whenever the heart turns in contemplation to the
Christ within. The East is represented by the sign
Aquarius the Man, or the wisdom that is able to sum up
and correlate the forces of the entire zodiac. Heúce it is
For further details see "The Qarist Star" in The Inner Radi-
ance. Curtiss. 337.
Gq
The Wise Men and the Star 65
the mystical Star in the East for spiritual guidance
and help.
As we have explained elsewhere, in the personality the
Wise Men represent the three highest of our intellectual
faculties, our three kings as it were. They symbolize
those faculties which, through experience, reason and
suffering, have evolved to the point where they have
become like Sages or Wise Men to us, and hence are ready
to recognize and follow the gleam of that Inner Light
which shall ultimately lead them to the cradle of the
Christ-consciousness.'
For when the intellect has evolved spirit-ward to the
point where it is no longer dominated by the vibrations
coming to it from the outer world, and is not only capable
but is willing to recognize and respond to the higher
vibrations coming from within, it recognizes that there
is a power and an intelligence greater than the intellect;
a power and intelligence which is back of all the manifold
manifestations of life; a consciousness that is far beyond
the mere human understanding gained through the reason-
ing faculties; the gleam of a Light that is high in the
heavens, far beyond the human mind and the mental world.
"Knowledge of the external world niay come to man
through other channels than the sense organs.... They
express a rare and almost unknown aspect of ourselves.T
This Light is the mystical Star in the East, the Star of
Initiation, which, if faithfully followed, will our con-
sciousness to the cradle of the Christ and then will become
the Star of Bethlehem or the realization of the Christ
within.
Since the East is the region in which the physical Sun
arises to illumine and vivify the physical world, it naturally
symbolizes the mystical East whence the Wise Men came,
also the source from which the Spiritual Sun arises to
illumine and vivify our spiritual lives. The mystical Star
in the East therefore, in the universal sense, symbolizes
TMa. The UukuoTmI, Carrel, 125-&
66 The Pattern Life
the periodic rise of the Spiritual Sun and the revelation
of the Cosmic Christ to humanity in each Great Age.
In the individual life this means that spiritual illmnina-
tion and glory which elevate the human consciousness into
a re2li7tion of the Light of the Christ within. For when
we turn our backs on the lusts of the flesh and the allure-
meats of the world and thereby no longer allow them to
fill our sight and dominate our consciousness, but reso-
lutely face the mystical East and deliberately open our
hearts to the Christ Star of spiritual intuition, then the
Christ Light will be revealed to us, and its slender gleam
will guide us through the darkness of all outer conditions
until we reach our Bethlehem and find that the Christ has
already been born in us.
"0 star of wonder, star of might,
Star of wondrous beauty bright,
Godward leading, still preceding,
Guide me with thy radiant light."
Also wherever we find the Hebrew word beth, or its
combinations, its root meaning always refers to some
ldnd of a "house or home," hence a birth-place. In us it
symbolizes that center in us which corresponds to the
mystical East; that center in which the Christ Light is
born, namely, the heart center. Bethlehem therefore
symbolizes that divine home, birth-place or spiritual womb
the home of Love out of which the Divine Man or
the Christ-consciousness must be born to govern our lives.
For the prophecy is: "Out of thee (Bethlehem) shall
come a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel." Out
of the heart there shall come forth the Christ-force which
shall govern our lives henceforth. For the Christ-con-
sciousness is not born from the head or from the mind
or the intellect, but from the love of the heart.
In our individual lives the Star of Bethlehem sym-
bolizes that ray of spiritual consciousness which as Wise
Men we have begun to recognize. As we have explained
elsewhere: "As the gods said over the circle of nnm2ni-
The Wist Men and the Star 67
fested world-stuff in the beginning, so must we say: 'Let
there be light.' For we have recognized the radiant Star
of Initiation as the center of our circle of Life and it is
now our task to bring into manifcstation that which we
know is within us.. . the unveiling of the Christ Star
which shines in the center."
"Just as in his earlier steps the Light shone above the
candidate as the Star of Initiation, which he had to follow
. . even though at times the dark mists of earth condi-
tions hid it from view, so it is still the Light from the
one Master, his own Immortal Self, the Christ within."8
"The first creation is that of Light, symbolizing the
Light of the Christ-consciousness which breaks into the
darkness of man's ignorance and sin and turns his allen-
tion toward the spiritual life. The light perceived in his
heart is called the Star of Initiation because the first
glimpse of its glory initiates him into a new world, and
the memory of that flash leaves him no peace until he
seeks its source."
"The light shines in the darkness of the unawakened
Soul and the darkness comprehendeth it not.... The
darkness is pregnant with potencies of all things, both
good an'd evil, which at the breaking 'forth of the light
become energized with new life and begin their slow
evolution toward perfection. . . . The instant the Star
of Initiation sends down its ray into the darkness of his
earth life, every creeping thing, not only in his heart,
but also in his environment, comes forth. . . . The loath-.
some creeping things of the darkness were not created by
the Light, but were all in the darkness simply awaiting
the energizing force of the light to reveal them. The
Light was sent into the darkness not to stir up evil, but
by the omniscient law, which recognizes that only by ful-
lulling its destiny can evil be transmuted into good....
This it does through the divine power of the Christ Light
when he says: 'Let there be light!' . . . And the first
'The Key to the Universe, Curtiss, 364, 334.
'The Voice of his, Curtiss. 321-1-5-7.
68 The Pattern Life
beams of the Christ Star penetrate the darkness of his
unawakened life."
Applied to us personally therefore the Star of Bethle-
hem symbolizes the Light of the Christ-consciousness
(intuition) which arises in the mystic East (the heart),
where the Sun of Righteousness also rises later on. If
this Star is followed it will illumine our Path through life.
It will also illumine all our faculties and lead them to
recognize, seek and ultimately find the Christ-within. In
occult terminology it also refers to the Star of Initiation,
or the glorious spiritual light which floods our whole
being when the Sahasrara center at the top of the head
is opened and our three dimensional, finite consciousness
is so expanded as to embrace something of the Cosmic
Consciousness and thus make us truly Wise Men.
The Christ Star is latent in every heart. It is not limited
to the Wise Men, for even the humblest shepherd can
see it. For when we deliberately turn and face the
mystical East, or even listen to the heavenly host, and
open our hearts to the Sun of Righteousness, the Light of
the Christ Star will gradually dawn for us. But it can
shine forth and illumine our lives only when we have
become sufficiently responsive or have become Wise Men
enough to follow the light of the Christ Star to its birth-
place in Bethlehem.
As that treasury of spiritual philosophy, The Voice of
the Silence, tells us: "Fix thy Soul's gaze upon the star
whose ray thou art, the flaming Star that shines within
the lightless depths of ever-being, the boundless fields of
the unknown."1°
Thus we must conclude that altho it was an astronomical
and physical impossibility for a physical star to have per-
formed the actions attributed to it, the Star of Bethlehem
was a spiritual reality to the consciousness of the Wise
Men. And it still is a reality to all who are spiritually
awakened sufficiently to become Wise Men enough to
'°The Voice of the Sileuce. Blavatsky, 32.
The Wise Men and the Star 69
follow the Christ Star that shines within the heart nntil
it leads them to the birth of the Christ within."
Happy is he who liar become one of the Wise Men.
"Those who wish to cultivate their response to the light of this
mystic Star should repeat some such prayer as our Prayer for
LsgIit. "0 Christ I Light Thou within my heart the Flame of
Divine Love and Wisdom, that I may dwell forever in the radiance
of Thy countenance and rest in the light of Thy sinil&' Visual-
ize the Divine Light descending upon you like the beam of a giant
searchlight above your head and flooding you with its radiance.
See it awaken in your heart a tiny, bright Flame. See it illumine
every fiber of your being with Divine Love and Compassion. Feel
an actual glow of warmth spread throughout your body, purifying,
spiritualizing and transmuting the very atoms of your flesh with
its spiritual radio-activity.
Then see it ascend and blend into the Divine Flame that is de-
scending upon you. Then ascend in consaousness within the col-
umn of that Divine Light to the realms of Divine Consciousness
where you lose yourself in oneness wth the Divine. For further
details see Proyers of the O.C.M., Curtiss, 2.
Chapter VI
THE SHEPHERDS AND THE SHEEP
"And there were in the same Countiy shepherds abiding in
the field, keeping watch over their flock by night And lo,
the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the
Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid."
St. Luke, ii, 8, 9.
"The sign Cafricon, rules shepherds and the stables, hence
the lowly origin of all Lightbringers, as they are represented
as being born in a stable in the presence of an ox, ass, goat,
etc., and laid in a manger and attended by shepherds." Ap-
pendir 4.
The age-old picture of the humble shepherds quietly
seated upon the hillside beneath the stars during the dark-
est nights of the year, surrounded by their sleeping sheep,
is one of great pastoral charm for both young and old.
Indeed, it has so often been reproduced in song, story and
art that its beauty has touched the hearts of all. But why
was so simple an incident recorded? And what does it
mean to us today?
If we apply its logical symbology to our personal lives
we will easily recognize not only its aptness, but also its
importance. It not only reveals the law of communica-
tion from the spiritual world, but it also solves a problem
which has puzzled so many generations of Bible students.
The puzzle is why the birth of the Christ was announced
to such humble and insignificant persons as the illiterate
sheepherders instead of the Priests of the Temple at
Jerusalem or to the Wise Men, or at least to someone in
authority in the spiritual affairs of the nation.
70
The Shepherds and the Sheep 71
But before we take up the spiritual interpretation of
this incident, our research shows that the story of the
shepherds' being the first to find and watch over the
Divine Babe is another well-nigh universal incident in the
life-story of all celestial Lightbringers.1
Realistically examined, the incident of the shepherds
watching their flocks by night out-of-doors on the hills in
Palestine at the end of December is another one of those
physical discrepancies which the higher critics delight to
pounce upon. For in Palestine December is the height of
the cold and rainy winter season. The nights are so cold
that the sheep are usually kept in or are at least driven
back to the sheep-fold at night, from the end of October
until Spring. Hence the shepherds would not be literally
out on the hills at night in the midst of winter.
So again the symbolic interpretation of the incident
saves it from its material inaccuracy and inconsistency.
The shepherds symbolize the simplicity, devotion, courage
and steadfastness of our heart-qualities or love-nature,
whose natural abiding place is upon the Mount of Attain-
ment, the exact height on the Mount depending upon the
stage of each Soul's spiritual unfoldment.
As we have already explained, it is flot to the mind or
the intellectual faculties the Wise Men to which the
angels the messengers of spiritual realization come,
no matter how highly developed those faculties may be,
but to the simple, trusting love-nature. While the brain
is the organ through which the intellectual consciousness
manifests, it is the heart through which the spiritual
consciousness manifests.
The reason why the Christ is first revealed to the shep-
herds is that the simple, trusting love-nature learns in a
'Krukna was first recognized as the promised Savior by the
shepherd Nanda. The virgin-born Aesculapsus was discovered and
protected by shepherds. Ro,mdus was found on the banks of the
Tiber by shepherds. Bacchus was found and educated by shep-
herds, as was also Paris, son of Priam. Many other Greek and
Roman heroes, demi-gods and Saviors were either attended or foe-
tered by or first worshipped by shepherds.
72 The Pattern Life
burst of spiritual illumination, heavenly melody and joy
where to find the Christ, while the intellectual faculties
have to search far and wide, only at last to be forced to
inquire of the heart.
Yet it is nçcessary for the Wise Men and the shep-.
herds to worship together, for without love no amount
of intellectual attainment or bead-learning can ever find
Christ. That contact and realization come only through
the heart. On the other hand, love unbalanced by wisdom
may be taken for mere mawkish sentimentality, or it may
result in more trouble than comfort and inspiration to
mankind.
Each Soul must therefore become a shepherd. And
the sheep it must watch over, guide and protect are the
flocks of appetites, passions and desires of the animal
body, and the thoughts, ambitions and emotions of the
human personality. Even though these flocks sometimes
stampede like frightened sheep and carry us away with
them into forbidden pastures, over precipitous cliffs or
into noisome swamps of evil, they are not to be killed
out or emasculated. They must be wisely led that we
may utilize all their powers and products, each in its
proper place, "to the glory of God." For all are given us
by the great Shepherd of Souls to guide, develop, perfect
and utilize, since all are necessary in their proper places
for the perfect manifestation of the Spiritual Self through
the body of flesh.
Our flocks must yield to the guidance of the true Shep-
herd, to the love, power and wisdom of the Christ within,
that He may find expression through us. We should say
to ourselves: "My sheep are all the thoughts, traits and
circumstances that are given to me to guard and bring to
perfection and utilize. Even if they are but passing
fancies and conditions and have no permanent reality,
nevertheless while I am here, living in this physical body
and reacting to them, limited by my mental capacity, in-
fluenced by my karniic environment, all these things to
which my consciousness reacts are real sheep to me and
The Shepherds and the Sheep 73
must be treated as such. Therefore there is nothing
within or around me that I am not expected to train and
direct and make the highest use of; nothing I am not to
redeem, or from which I am not to absorb the forces and
learn the lesson."
But like a good shepherd who calleth his sheep by name,
we must face ourselves, recognize and call by name every
hidden quality without deceiving ourselves. We must be
ready to fight the wolves of selfisimess and self-indulgence
and not be deceived by wolves in sheep's clothing.
From another standpoint, as we have already pointed
out, as a class: "The sheep are those gentle and docile
Souls who follow unthinkingly in flocks wherever they
are led; who must have a Shepherd and a sheep-fold
wherein they are protected from the wolves; those who
follow their shepherd lovingly, yet who will follow just
as blindly one who would lead them to the verge of a
precipice, or one who would flee and leave the sheep to
their fate when the wolves appear."2
The shepherds as a class represent those who, although
ardent and eager, are often without great learning, hence
are unable to give their flocks deep intellectual analysis
or profound metaphysical speculations. 'All they can give
them for food is the green grass of simple truths of the
plain, and afford them the clear outlook and wider view
from the hillside heights. All they can give them to drink
is the pure waters of inspiration or the intuitive knowledge
of the reality of the spiritual life.
Thus it is that direct spiritual realization comes most
often to the simple of heart, like the fishermen chosen as
Disciples by Jesus, those whose minds are not over-bur-
dened with elaborate intellectual conceptions nor crammed
with the thoughts of others, even if such are supposed to
be authorities.
The night in which the shepherds watched symbolizes
the night of ignorance1 materialism and spiritual blind-
2The Metsage of Aquaria, Curtiss, 277.
74 The Pattern Life
ness which marked the close of the Arian Age, for the
spiritual luminary or Christ-light of the then new Piscean
Age had not yet arisen. That was a period of overlapping
and transition similar to that in which we find ourselves
today as we are pacsing from the close of the Piscean
Age into the beginning of the new Aquarian Age.
The shepherds were awake, gazing in reverent awe and
wonder upon the beauty of the heaven world while their
sheep quietly slept. Thus even in the days of dense
intellectual darkness, as well as in the present days of
dense materialism and inhuman warfare, do those of hum-
ble, faithful heart find light and guidance even in the
meager rays of spiritual starlight that reach them from
afar. On these they meditate and feed until the time of
their illumination comes and the heaven of spiritual con-
sciousness opens and its glorious light floods their Souls
while their ears are ravished by the angelic melodies.
When the time is ripe, the heavens of the spiritual con-
sciousness always open at the call of spiritual aspiration
and love. But, alas, only too often the opening is delayed
or overshadowed by dark clouds of doubt and discourag-
ment of the lower mind's formation. These are but the
mists of the valley which the rising Sun lifts only that it
may dissipate them. But if we ascend to the heights of
aspiration we will find that there all is light, serene, com-
forting and inspiring. For no matter how dark the night-
period of the Soul, the light of the spiritual consciousness
and the warmth of divine love are always tenderly over-
shadowing us. It is only through our simple, trusting and
steadfast love that we learn what the Christ-child has
brought to us and to all mankind; and when and where it
manifests.
When the higher consciousness opens and the angels'
song is heard, the message seems to speak itself to the
inner consciousness, impressing the meaning upon our
minds and giving us a dear understanding of it. For the
true explanation of a thing we have prayed over and
meditated upon for a long time generally comes upon us
The Shepherds and the Sheep 75.
suddenly, just as described in the story of the shepherds.
The heavens opened, "And, to, the angel (or messenger)
of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord
shone round about them." And like many of those who
suddenly receive an illuminating understanding and ex-
planation of the problem of their prayers and meditations,
at first the shepherds were "sore afraid."
But the messenger of the Divine Law (Lord) said unto
them, "Fear not." In other words, recognition of the
Law teaches us that all divinely given messages bring to
the awakened Soul first a great joy and enthusiasm, and
then a reaction of doubt and uncertainty as to the truth,
not of the message or understanding received, but as to
its source; the possibility of their having imagined what
they so longed to hear. But an understanding of the Law
brings the deep assurance that it was really an angel of
the Lord, a messenger from the spiritual consciousness,
who spoke and brought to them the glad tidings of great
joy which they realize are not for themselves alone, but
"to all people."
On we have heard the angel's message we no longer
sit in quiet meditation, watching our contented and sleep-
ing sheep. Now there is a far higher duty, namely, to
arise out of the daily round of our customary thoughts
and activities and seek the new-born Christ-child. For
the Christ must have willing and determined shepherds
who will use wise and sensible means to awaken the world
to a realization of His birth.
Alas, only too long has the message given to the shep-
herds lost its thrill of divine realization and its personal
response. This is because it has been unwisely presented
to the world, or given without taking into consideration
the worldly duties we all must perform if we are to live in
peace and harmony. For once the Christ is born in us its
divine light, life and power bless all our worldly duties
and all we contact.
After the angel's message is received, and the time for
solitary meditation on the mountain-side is over, we must
76 The Pattern Life
arise and hasten to Bethlehem, the city of David, where
there is born a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Since
"David" symbolizes love, the "city of David" is a term
used to symbolize the abode of Divine Love or the Spirit-
ual Heart that center within us which is the focal point
of the spiritual consciousness of the "Heaven Born" or
Spiritual Self.
Once the Christ-consciovcn's is born in our hearts it
literally becomes our Savior, our Savior from all evil, sin,
doubt or false teachings. For one who has passed through
the spiritual birth has but to ask and immediately he knows
what is true and what is false; all uncertainty, doubt and
fear are swallowed up in realization. Such a Christ-
illumined one is indeed a true shepherd. Such shepherds
make no claims as to their enlightenment, but prove it by
their lives and their works.
Only the outshining of the universal Christ-light can
illumine all minds and touch all hearts and unify all
peoples. Yet to carry this message and cover this vast
field, it will require many illumined shepherds many
national and racial expressions of Divine Truth as each
nation will express it in the best way to carry conviction
to its people. Therefore the true shepherd must make
faithfulness to the duty at hand his first consideration if
he is to prepare himself to realize the glory and understand
the angel's message; for to broadcast it to all who will
listen should be his deepest desire.
If we are true shepherds we will recognize that it is our
duty to our own sheep deliberately to select pastures which
are free from the poisonous weeds of atheism, also bitter
criticism of others, and from the wolves of subversive
doctrines. We must guide them into pastures of intellec-
tual and spiritual interest where they can profitably feed
in peace and harmony on the ideals which as good shep..
herds our foresight and discrimination select for them.
For we must consciously lead them high up on the Mount
of Att2imnent, far above the dark cafions of ignorance
The Shepherds and the Sheep 77
and the dank, chilling fogs of doubt, cynicism and athe-
istic argwncnts.
This is important, for today, instead of the quiet pas-
tures of normal life, under the stars of freedom and happy
living, we have the turmoil and carnage of a world defend-
ing itself from atheism, aggression and enslavement
Hence our task as shepherds is more important because
more difficult.
For during such periods especially, the old forces of
habit, privilege and power put forth every vicious effort
to kill out our new ideals and prolong the reign of the
old. Hence the forces of the overlapping New Age are
now calling to all the shepherds who are ready for the
angel's message to put forth greater efforts to spread the
glad tidings of the new day of spiritual enlightenment and
upliftment.
As good shepherds we must not only guide our flocks,
but also protect them from wild beasts and robbers. We
must ever be alert to guard our thoughts against the raven-
ous beasts of lust and greed, which so often devour the
tender lambs of our highest aspirations and whose indul-
gence consumes us and makes us one with the beasts.
Devotion to our ideals and to the' guidance of the
Christ must also protect us from those appeals to selfish-
ness, self-indulgence and aggrandizement which rob us
of our inner peace and serenity of mind so necessary for
spiritual growth and the expression of the Christ-
consciousness which has been born in our hearts.
Our flocks must also be trained to respond to the voice
of our Spiritual Self as readily as the sheep do to the
voice of their shepherd. For we cannot hear the voice of
our Shepherd if we allow the turmoil and jangle of the
outer world's activities to deafen us to His voice or so to
enthrall our attention as to make us oblivious of His
presence.
And our own voice must be gentle, firm and quieting,
yet so positive and commanding as to secure instant
78 The Pattern Life
obedience. For it is a fundamental psychological principle
that through persistent, positive suggestions the subcon-
scious mind of our animal nature can be trained to react
constructively as desired by force of habit before we have
time to think Then if a wolf attempts to s11p in he will
be instantly scented and immediately driven out by the
strong-horned rams positive, protecting thoughts of
our flock. And just as a shepherd learns to recognize and
love his sheep, so will we learn to recognize and love,
cherish and take great comfort in shepherding our good
thoughts and desires and high ideals. If some thoughts
are wayward and wander far afield where they are subject
to attack or demoralization, like watchful shepherds we
must go forth to seek them and bring them back to the
fold, not in anger, but quietly and gently yet command-
ingly, lest they carry us even farther afield.
But we must not make the mistake of thinking that
we can accomplish this in our own strength. For there is
no sadder sight than to see a personality rejecting the
help of the Christ within because of spiritual pride or
intellectual vanity. For back of every condition in life
there stands an angel who presides over it.
There is a heavenly host divine emanations, angelic
messengers of God surrounding, guarding and strength-
ening each one of us if we will only listen to their guid-
ance. There are angels even in department stores, shops
and factories, at the elbows of the weary ones, whispering
into their ears words of cheer and comfort, and strength-
ening them with spiritual vitality. There are angels in
our places of business, in our homes, in all phases of our
lives, helping us to turn everything into good and to the
service of the Christ within.
Then let us call the flocks of our thoughts and desires
together and drive out the wolves. Let us master the
pride and selfishness and self-sufficiency of the personal-
ity that the Christ may be born in us. Let us be humble
like the shepherds, and teachable. "I can of mine own
self do nothing.. , but the father that dwelleth in me,
The Shepherds and the Sheep 79
he doeth the works" (St. John, V, 30; XIV, 10), should
be our watchword.
Let us cease our outer striving for a moment and sit
down and fix our attention upon the heaven world and
listen to the angels singing their heavenly anthems, telling
us, in language unmistakable to those who have ears to
hear, of the love and compassion and effort that is being
put forth by the angelic hosts that we may enter into
the Christ-consciousness and find safety and support and
protection from storms and disasters on all planes. Then
when the floods of changing conditions sweep over the
world, since we have been faithful shepherds, our con-
sciousness will be so uplifted that we can be guided and
guarded and carried safely through them to the cradle
of the Christ.
As we have already pointed out: "The divine Law of
Love is indeed a Shepherd of Souls. And once a Soul
has heard its voice and has followed. . . he finds this
loving guidance a deep and abiding reality. Hence that
Soul wants nothing but to follow on wherever that voice
leads. . . . We are contented to lie down at His com-
mand, no longer running to and fro bleating plaintively for
food or for worldly things, but resting q'iietly on the Law.
Then doth it lead us beside the waters of life that are
no longer turbulent; that no longer gush forth from our
eyes as tears, for the eyes now see dearly the glory of the
Shepherd who leadeth us."3 No matter how dark the
night of the Soul, the love of God is watching tenderly
over us all.
And to all faithful, humble hearts who, like the shep-
herds, have been guarding their flocks through the long
dark night-period ere their spiritual unfoldment is at-
tamed, there will surely come a time as surely as Christ-
mas comes perhaps in their darkest hour, when the
heavens of their higher consciousness will open and in a
glorious expansion of their consciousness "the angel of
$ The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 216-7.
80 The Pattern Life
the Lord" the messenger of the Law of Divine Love
will proclaim the coming birth of the Christ-consciousness
in their hearts. Then will "the glory of the Lord" shine
round about them, and they will realize that there is with
them "a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and
saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace,
good will toward men."
But if we merely wonder at the glory and do not obey
the command to go to Bethlehem and seek until we find
the Christ, the glorious experience is wasted. If it is
allowed to remain merely as an ecstatic emotional episode,
it is like "good seed that fell on stony ground." It has no
root and therefore cannot bring forth its fruit.
There are certain fundamentals, however, without an
understanding of which we will lose the lesson. Firstly,
the shepherds the loving hearts to whom the angels first
appear were seated upon the ground watching their
flocks through the longest and darkest nights of the year.
In eastern countries pupils of a teacher seat themselves
upon the ground at his feet, not only to listen to his
words of wisdom, but as a symbol of their humility and
teachableness, and also to gather the earth-forces, so
helpful in the development of their power to correlate
their consciousness with his and with the forces of Nature.
The true significance of this posture should be our con-
ception of its symbology. For now-a-days we can gain
humility and teachableness and can correlate with our
teacher and the forces of Nature without actually sitting
upon the ground.
This is the attitude of mind which must be attained if
we are ever to hear the beautiful song of the angels. For
if we have truly seated ourselves at the feet of the Christ
and are singing our Christ-mass; if we are faithfully
guarding the flocks of our thoughts, tendencies and emo-
tions, some day the heavens of our inner consciousness
will open and we will hear the heavenly chorus, even
though it seems but a whisper that disturbs the stillness
of the night.
The Shepherds and the Sheep 81
This is not a miracle, but s the natural flowering of our
continued spiritual growth. It is not a unique or isolated
phenomenon which occurred only once nearly two thousand
years ago, nor is it a mere symbol or - figure of speech.
It is a Soul reality experienced more or less consciously
by every Soul as it nears the time for its spiritual birth.
Happy is he who is a good Shepherd to his flocks.
Chapter VII
THE MANGER AND THE SWADDLING
CLOTHES
"And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him
in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger." St. Luke,
i, 7.
"The star Arcturus rises over the manger of lo in the con-
stellation Boõtcs.... The sign Capricorn rules the stables,
hence the lowly origin of all Lightbringers, as they are repre-
sented as being born in a stable, in the presence of an ox, ass,
gent, etc., and laid in a manger." Appendix A.
Careful research shows that the placing of the Savior-
babe in a manger or basket some form of basket being
the usual form of food-box in the stables in Eastern
countries where wood is scarce and connecting him with
shepherds, is another one of those universal incidents in
the lives of nearly all Lightbringers.'
There is an important distinction that should be made
between the symbology of the stable and that of the
was placed in a basket and entrusted to the Gopis or
shepherds. The infant Dionysus was wrapped in swaddling clothes
and placed in a golden likon, basket or manger on what is now
called Christmas day. At the birth of Ion he was carried by
Hermes with "cradle, swaddling clothes and all," to the temple of
his father, Apollo. Sargon was placed in a golden basket at birth.
At the birth of MiIhra at the winter solstice, be was enveloped in
a golden nimbus, and surrounded by shepherds. The infant Horns
was cradled in a lotus leaf at the winter solstice. That Egyptian
savior-babe was also worshipped in a manger or crib. Hercules,
Jupiter, and a number of other savior-babes, were similarly
wrapped in swaddling clothes and placed in a manger, crib or bas-
ket, usually with the domestic nim2ls looking on. All these testify
to the universality of the symbol
82
The Manger and the Swaddling Clothes 83
manger. Since the stable is where the domestic animals
live, as applied to the personality it refers to that region
of the body below the diaphragm the abdomen where
the vegetative organs which nourish the body are located.
These organs may be called domesticated because they
are quietly carrying on the animal functions of the body
under the control of the subconscious or animal mind.
But since the subconscious mind is extremely sensitive
and responsive to suggestion it is quite willing to respond
to and obey the influx of the higher self-conscious mind
without argument, especially when guided by love.
The manger is a feed-box to hold the grain and hay
for horses and cattle. It is elevated above the floor of the
stable and hence symbolizes that part of the body above
the diaphragm, namely the chest, where the heart the
organ of spiritual nourishment is located. Therefore
in all the nativity stories the Divine Babe is placed in a
manger or golden basket, as in Botticelli's celebrated pic-
ture of the nativity.
This indicates that while the Christ-consciousness must
be born in and make use of the "stable" of the animal
body, it is "laid in the manger" or functions through a
higher organ (heart) than those which minister to the
animal functions, instincts and desires.
For while the intellectual consciousness (Joseph) func-
tions through the head, the spiritual consciousness (Jesus)
functions through the heart (Mary). Since the spiritual
nature requires a finer kind of nourishment than does the
animal nature, those experiences which are as grain to
nourish the animal nature must be ground to flour so that
their essence may be made into nourishing bread to pro-
mote our Soul growth. Then the animal nature will no
longer find its former food in the manger, but must now
partake somewhat of the spiritualizing Christ-force.
And just as it requires the heat of the flame to trans-
mute the food of the beasts (grain) into food for man
(bread), just so does it require the flame of Divine Love
to transmute the sensations of the body and the ex-
84 The Pattern Life
periences of our outer daily lives into spiritual realization
or the Bread of Life for our spiritual growth, that we
may truly manifest those high ideals which establish our
character. And it is our rough, hard experiences in the
world which become the two millstones the positive and
negative aspects of the Rock of Truth that grind the
grain that we may learn the lessons from it or mould it
into loaves which will become as spiritual bread when
transmuted by the fire of love.
The fact that the spiritual Babe is laid in the manger
of the inin1 body should teach us that the animal instru-
ment, through which we must contact earth conditions
and express our Spiritual Self, must not be despised. It is
a necessary part of God's creation and more useful and
essential to man than the horse or the ox. Its needs
must be recognized and supplied and its legitimate wants
satisfied on its own plane. And ince it is blessed by the
presence of the Christ within, it is His will that must be
done "on earth, even as it is done in heaven," and not the
uncontrolled will of the animal self.
When this new conception has finally been brought
forth we realize that it is too sacred and holy to be exposed
to the incredulity, the arguments and the scoflings of our
worldly friends; for until they, too, have passed through
the same experience they cannot understand or compre-
hend it. Therefore, we must not publish abroad to our
friends of the outer life our sacred spiritual experiences,
especially the news of this spiritual birth. It must be
wrapped in swaddling clothes of silence, meditation and
cherishing love, both to protect it and support it until it
has grown strong enough to stand alone.
The swaddling clothes also symbolize the mystical
language of parable and allegory which surround the
sacred mysteries of the inner life, and hide them from
the curious gaze of the worldly-minded casual observer
until he is willing to follow the light of the Star of Intu-
ition and is willing to ask of the humble shepherds where
to find the inner truth about the Christ within.
The Manger and the Swaddling Clothes 85
As we have explained in previous chapters, the birth
of the Christ-consciousness in us is a great spiritual event.
But to ensure this birth we must prepare the manger of
our hearts. The love-nature is ever ready to promote the
gestation and birth, but we must prepare ourselves to
receive it.
When the Christ-babe is laid in the manger where our
animal nature has been wont to feed, we will find that
henceforth all our functions and faculties must partake
of His divine nature and be under His control. Each one
of us has all these animal traits within him. Formerly
they all strove for their own expression and satisfaction,
and often led the whole personality astray through self-
indulgence. But now that they find the Christ-child in
the manger, they must learn to "feed on Him with joy
and thanksgiving." Then they will use all their forces
for "the glory of God" so as to manifest Him in the flesh.
If you cannot understand this mystery then the babe is
still concealed from you by the swaddling clothes of ig-
norance or lack of understanding. If you hold back from
seeldng to find Him, you are wrapping the swaddling
clothes the tighter, almost smothering Him. If He can-.
not manifest through you, at least to some extent, then
you have not unwrapped Him and brought Him forth to
be seen of the shepherds and the Wise Men.
From another aspect the swaddling clothes symbolize
rigid censorship imposed by the intellect, the sophistries
of the mind and the misunderstandings and misconcep-
tions under which the Light of the Christ has been ob-
scured, but which in this new Aquarian Age must be
removed, through enlightened understanding and realiza-
tion, so that the Christ-light may shine forth to illumine
all mankind.
The awakening of those who are perfectly satisfied with
the outer life, who sleep while the shepherds watch, and
who have little conception of that which lies wrapped up
and swaddled within them, must await a later stage of
their spiritual growth. For only when they are ready
86 The Pattern Life
to become shepherds can they hear the angels' song and
be willing to set out to find the Christ.
But to all these there ultimately comes a time when
they must learn to unwrap the swaddling bands of ig-
norance and indifference and listen to and obey the inner
"voice from heaven" that speaks from the manger of the
heart within. Such an awakening often requires a period
of dire distress, because they have allowed the Babe to lie
dormant so long. But once the heart has had its first
illumination it must follow it as the day-star of its life
until it leads to the cradle of the Christ and the realization
that He is born within.
Then we must unwrap the swaddling clothes and bring
Him forth into manifestation. For if the Christ-con-
sciousness cannot manifest in our lives He is still wrapped
in swaddling clothes, incapable of expression and without
wisdom as far as our conscious outer life is concerned.
Only as we bring Him forth before the world can that
living principle of Divinity be free to use its spiritual
Light to illumine our Path through life, and its wisdom
to guide our actions. Therefore we must remove the
swaddling clothes and let every mystical power of the
Divine Babe show forth in our lives.
As we have previously pointed out: "After the Christ
has been born in the heart of man, has been laid among
the animals in the stable of his physical existence; wrapped
in swaddling bands of mind-stuff, subconsciously mani-
festing in the astral world, awakened and manifesting in
his spiritual nature, then may the Jesus-man, the Divine
Physician, the Healer, be said to have come to Earth in
our lives. For only as the personal man is taught to fol-
low the Jesus-life can the Christ manifest consciously
in him."3
Happy is he who Mr removed the Swaddling Clothes.
227W Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 180.
Chapter VIII
GIFTS OF THE WISE MEN
"Behold, there came wise men from the East... And
when they were come into the house, they saw the young
child. . . and fell down and worshipped him: And when
they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts:
gold, and frankincense and myrrh." St. Matthew, i4 1, 1L
"The three Wise Men are the three bright collinear stars of
the second magnitude Ahiitake, Alnilam, Mintaka in the
belt of the mighty htmter Orion." Appendu? A.
In the ancient days the Wise Men were those who had
spent their lives in the study of higher thought, of deep
philosophy, prophecy, esoteric truth, symbolism and the
like, and had been initiated into some one of the several
Mystery Schools.1 They all sought to follow the Light
as revealed to them until they found the Christ within.
They were, therefore, much wiser in many things than
the shepherds; for as representatives of the mighty hunter,
Orion, they had spent their lives hunting for Light instead
of tending sheep.
They had crossed the deserts of the outer material con-
ditions, had passed through the psychic swamps and
morasses of the lower astral planes through psychic re-
search, without finding the Christ. They bad dimbed the
dry, rocky mountains of intellectual attainments without
their hearts being touched with the fire of Divine Love.
And at last they were forced to come to the humble
shepherds to ascertain where they could find the Christ
that they might lay their gifts at His feet.
'Schools such as those of Zoroaster, Dionysus, Cybele, Attis
Eleusis, Orpheus, Isis, etc.
87
88 The Pattern Life
In general the three Wise Men symbolize the three
great classes of thinkers not the unthinking masses
who are supposed to be wise, or at least are seeking to
follow the Light of Truth as far as it has been revealed
to them.
First there is the philosophical type of mind which loves
to delve into the records of the past. They study the
ancient philosophies and find that there must be some
degree of truth in any system of thought which persists
throughout the ages, or it could not survive. They study
comparative religion and find that all religions have cer-
tain basic truths in common. And those who are sincere
set out to follow the Light of Truth revealed by both
philosophy and religion, and so are finally led to find the
Light of the Christ within.
As the celebrated scientist, Dr. Alexis Carrel, has
pointed out: "Men of genius, in addition to their powers
of observance and comprehension, possess other qualities,
such as intuition.... Through intuition they learn
things ignored by other men.... All great men are
endowed with intuition.... This phenomenon, in for-
mer times was called inspiration."2
The second class of Wise Men is the scientific type.
They know that everything in the universe, from the
various components of the atom to the components of a
solar system or a universe, manifests according to cosmic
laws which underlie them all. They therefore recognize
that there must be a mighty Source whence all substance,
life and intelligence emrnates. Hence all this orderly man-
ifestation must be the result of the plan, purpose and de-
sign of a mighty Cosmic-consciousness so all.embracing
that the tiniest crystal or infusoria or a blade of grass
even the structure of the atom are built on the same
engineering principles as are the planets that circle around
our Sun. And since man is the most highly evolved form
of life on Earth these Wise Men know that he too must
2Mas. tile U,sknow'ii. Carrel. 122-3.
Gifts of the Wise Men 89
embody some ray of that divine life and Cosmic-conscious-
ness, and they therefore seek its realization and ultimately
find it in the Christ within.
The third class of Wise Men are the sincere skeptics.
They have been trained in the materialistic school of hard
facts. But they have so often been astounded by the
pFiysical facts which their investigations have revealed,
that they realize that almost anything may be possible.
Hence they are too intelligent to ridicule and scoff at
anything which they have not investigated - thoroughly.
And to the degree that they are honest and sincere, to that
degree their investigation of the Source of all life and
consciousness leads them to the manger of the Christ
within. But the great mass of mankind are still living
the vegetative life, merely reacting to the stimuli of the
material world through their "conditioned reflexes."
Hence they are not yet spiritually awakened or wise
enough to see their cause.
In addition to the general classes which the Wise Men
symbolize, what do they signify in our own personality,
and what qualities do their gifts indicate? What is it
that could make us Wise Men? We know that knowledge
comes from without, but wisdom comes from within.
That which enables us to become wise from within is our
mind. Therefore our teaching is that the three Wise Men
symbolize the three chief faculties of our minds.
The first Wise Man, Mekhoir, supposed to be a sage
of 60 years symbolizes the intellect. His gift is gold,
formerly regarded as the most precious of metals and
therefore a suitable gift for a king. This indicates that
intellect is the most valuable possession of the human side
of the personality. For without it we would have to be
classed with merely intelligent brutes. But if we are
truly Wise Men we must use our wealth of intellect
to lift us above the domination of the brute instincts
of the animal nature, even as it is so often allowed to
enslave us to the 2nim1 plane.
One basic characteristic of gold is that it is incorrupt-
90 The Pattern Life
ible. Also no disease germs develop upon it. It therefore
symbolizes that precious possession, that purity of heart,
mind and life, which all truly Wise Men present to the
Christ.
The ancients teach that the more intellectual and scien-
tifically minded a race becomes, the more it is ruled by
mundane things, the more it loses its spiritual 'vision. It
becomes self-sufficient, loses touch with the higher worlds
and the divine overshadowing which can inspire and
guide it only when recognized and responded to. Hen
the more materially civilized we become, the more selfish,
materialistic and unspiritual we tend to be.
As gold must be refined by being purified of its dross
of baser elements before it can be used for its highest
purposes, even so must we purify the intellect of its pride
of learning, from its greed for power, and from its ma-
terialism, before it is fit to lay the wealth of its powers
its gold at the feet of the Christ and prove it to be
the gift of a Wise Man.
For it is often a great sacrifice for the intellect to be-
come as a little child and bow to and obey the Voice of
Intuition. But ultimately it finds that neither learning
nor physical gold can satisfy the inner craving of the
heart for spiritual food. But once the surrender has
been made, it will intelligently follow the light of the
Star. And ultimately the intellect will become the high
priest who uses all his powers to serve at the altar of
the Christ.
Since the intellect can devise ways and means to attain
the gold of this world, it has not become truly wise until
it has devised ways and means to conquer and control the
"money power," as it is called, so that the gold of the
world is used primarily for the good of humanity, instead
of being manipulated to amass a few great private for-
tunes. Its powers should be used to establish the reign
of the Christ through love, brotherhood and co-opera-
tion instead of perpetuating the reign of the Beast.
Only when the intellect puts all its treasures at the
Gifts of the Wise Men 91
service of the heart can either one fully express the Christ-
consciousness and make us truly Wise Men. Some of
those who have given of their physical gold to the Christ
and His work, often feel that because they have given of
the world's precious metal they are entitled to greater
importance, power and prestige in the eyes of the Christ.
But as long as they hold such an idea they have not
become Wise Men. For the Christ notices and rewards
only the gifts that are given in love and humility, and
without the secret desire for personal aggrandizement.
As we have said elsewhere about the first Wise Man
as a class: "He represents those whose intellect has
made them financially successful in obtaining the gold
of the world, yet whose success does not satisfy their
heart-hunger, and who are seeking how best to utilize
their wealth in His service, yet who must seek unsuccess-
fully the world over crc they are willing to ask of the
humble shepherds for final guidance. ... The testing of
the first Wise Man will be whether, having obtained much
gold, he will use it for the Christ's work as he at first
vowed he intended to do. Has he recognized that
he should use his gold to help support and spread the
teachings of the Christ."
When the intellect is truly sanctified to the service of
the Christ we will find a way to place all our gold and
worldly possessions at His feet without anticipation of
reward. Then it can no longer be said of us: "The
children of this world are in their generation wiser than
the children of light."4 Only when the intellect puts its
treasures at the service of love can either one fully ex-
press the Christ-consciousness and make us truly Wise
Men.
The gift of the second Wise Man, Baliliazar, aged
40 is frankincense. This symbolizes thought which,
when turned to the Christ, should rise like incense before
His throne. Thought seeks to dominate all the channels
3The Inner Radiance, Curtiss, 349. 350.
4St. Lüe. xvi. &
92 The Pattern Life
of expression. But before it can become one of the Wise
Men it must learn to listen to "the still small voice" of
the Christ within, and follow it.
Baltizazar represents those intellectuals who think it is
necessary to spend years delving into the musty records
of the past, through comparative religion, anthropology,
etc.; to cling to old rites and perpetuate ancient ceremonies
to find the truth (Christ), while all the time the living
inspiration of the Christ within can reveal the truth to
them here and now. His test will be whether he is willing
to be guided by intuition as to the proper interpretation
and application of new revelations of the truth as well as
the old. He must be taught to wander no longer, but to
be guided by the Light of the Christ-consciousness within.
As we have already pointed out: "The second' Wise
Man brought franldncense. This symbolizes that praise
and worship whose ingredients must be gathered, labo-
riously and with great learning, from the study of ancient
manuscripts and philosophies hermetic, theosophical,
rosicrucian, etc. and the comparative study of religions.
This group includes even some of the liberals in the
orthodox churches. And there are many teachers, schools
and centers who feel that this resurrection of the best of
the ancient teachings is their contribution to His worship.
This gift is indeed a valuable one to lay at His feet, for
through it the proof of His periodic manifestation in each
Great Age is made known and the reality of His second
coming in this Age is assured."
"The chief test of the second Wise Man will be, is
he wise enough to give a proper interpretation of the
ancient mysteries? Is he able to separate the dust of the
ages and the chaff of decayed ideas and outgrown eon-
ceptions suitable perhaps for bygone ages and condi-
lions, but outgrown today from the everlasting and
living truths which underlie former Manifestations."
If your gift is the frankincense of a well-ordered and
'The InnerRadiance. Curtiss. 350.
Gifts of the Wise Men 93
Illumined mind, one that can delve into the mysteries and
not be mystified by them, then it should cull from their
subtleties the wisdom that understanding the grand truths
of life should bring. Then you will forget the vanity of
your mental powers, for you have become wise enough
to lay them all at the feet of the Christ.
Baithazar also symbolizes those whose worship of the
outer personality obscures the realization of the inner
Presence; who worship the person but do not live the
life; who profess allegiance but fall to follow the lead;
those who sing and pray about their Savior but will have
none of His salvation. Only as these not merely talk
about but really follow the Star, will they ever find the
Christ
The third Wise Man, Gaspar or Casper a youth of
20 represents the awakened will which provides all the
youthful energy and determination necessary to follow
the Star until it finds the Christ. This is no longer the
selfish will whose goal of attainment is worldly possessions,
position and power. It has learned that none of these
outer things can bring true, inner satisfaction and happi-
ness. Ithasseenthespirituallightof the Star and has
determined to give up all else and follow it ouer all ob-
stacles until the Christ is found. And then the mighty
power of the will must become a servant of the Christ
and lay all its might at His feet.
Incense containing myrrh was offered to those who were
about to die, or was and still is burned in memory of
those who have died, for if induces melancholy, sadness
and depression.
The gift of Gaspar is said to be myrrh whose volatile,
acrid odor symbolizes the bitter experiences and suffering
we often have to undergo before we are willing to give up
our personal will to the divine will and say: "Father...
not my will, but thine, be done." Then the bitter suffering
of uncertainty and repeated disappointment is turned to
the sweet joy of realization. The will alone may express
as courage, devotion, determination and sincerity, but may
94 The Pattern Life
reap much bitterness unless tempered with the spiritual
qualities of tolerance, tenderness and love.
If we feel that we have no gifts to bring but disappoint-
ment, unhappiness, sorrow and tears, then we must be
wise enough to bring even those to the Christ, lay them at
His feet and be released from them. Kneel before Him
and say: "Here, Lord! This is all I have to give! This
is all the world has left me in life! But now I know that
they can be redeemed. Now I know that my Redeemer
liveth, for I have followed His Star and it has led me to
His feet. Take all these negative conditions of poverty,
misery and unwillingness to submit to Thee, and trans-
mute them through the fire of Thy divine love into incense
that shall ascend unto heaven and rain down upon me as
the blessings of love unspeakable, of comfort beyond
words, of peace of mind, and rest from the tensions and
inharmonies of the body."
But if your gifts are once given they cannot be taken
back. For you cannot let the peace and love of God enter
your heart and dwell there tonight, and then tomorrow
take up the old burdens and carry theni around with you
again. If you do this you have not really laid them at the
feet of the Christ, or given up your will to His and been
released from them.
We therefore repeat that: "The third Wise Man rep-
resents those who bring myrrh for their offering, the sym-
bol of sorrow, anguish, crucifixion and death. There are
many of this class today who are giving forth the doctrine
and trying to exemplify it in their lives that if the
kingdom of heaven is to manifest on Earth we must give
up all joy of life, must frown upon all innocent recrea-
tions, gaiety and happiness, must sell all we have and give
to the poor or to their society, and live a life of poverty,,
austerity and self-abnegation. Their sincerity, their cour-
age and their devotion to what they believe to be the Truth
would do much to help spread the Light of the Star, if
they were willing to lay their limited ideas at His feet.
But they must be tested as to the sincerity and the correct-
Gifts of the Wise Men 95
ness of their conceptions, also as to what extent their
teachings are tempered with loving tolerance for the views
of others, rather than condemnation and self-righteous-
6
The ages commonly assigned to the Wise Men represent
three different periods in the life of all who are wise
enough to follow the light of the Christ Star. In any pe-
riod we can find the Christ within if we are willing to be
guided by this light. We do not have to wait for old age,
although in youth the will is the hardest and last to stir-
render. Yet it is never too late to begin.
"We are told that there was still another or fourth Wise
Man, although he is not mentioned in the Gospel story.
Four being the number of the earth-plane, the story would
not be complete unless representatives of all four corners
of the Earth, and the four great types of seekers for
Light, recognize, worship and lay their gifts at His feet
The fourth Wise Man represents a large class of seekers
who start out well and with the full intention of following
the Light of the Star, and whose gift is service. There-
fore, the fourth Wise Man is represented in the legend as
being so intent upon rendering service and giving so much
of his time and substance to those in distress whom he met
upon the way, that he failed to keep up with the other
three Wise Men and so was not present when they reached
their goal. Indeed, when Herod . . . sought to destroy
the new born babe the Christ consciousness this
fourth Wise Man is said to have told an apparent untruth
in order to save the Christ-child and His mother, whom
he had hidden in his house. Even though he denied that
he had seen the Child and His mother pass by for they
had not passed by, but had stopped and stayed with him.
nevertheless the Child and His mother Divine Love
were safely hidden in his heart."
"The class represented by the fourth Wise Man are
more numerous in the world today; for never has the
world known such stupendous exhibitions of philanthropy
The Inner Radiance. Curtiss. 351-2-3.
96 The Pattern Life.
and service for the welfare of humanity; such wealth and
huge Foundations established for the education of the
people, for the eradication of disease, for social welfare
and for the promotion of the finer arts of life and the
moral uplift of humanity. Since their form of worship is
service, this class of seekers have little time for, and see
little need of meditation or the special study of spiritual
philosophy. Hence they are often considered or even con-
demned as irreligious. Yet they ultimately do recognize
the Truth and find the Christ hidden away in the love of
their hearts.
"The test of the fourth Wise Man will be as to how
wisely he has rendered service; whether from mere senti-
mental reasons, or from real compassion and a sincere de-
sire to help suffering humanity; whether personally, for
the sake of shining in the world as a philanthropist, or
impersonally for the sake of the resulting good to his fel-
low men."7
As we have previously explained: "But the Wise Men
of this Age must be scientifically sure; must. . - explore
many deceptive, misleading trails, crc they can find the
Christ. For today, although the Christ is lying in the
manger of the heart of everyone born into the world, for
many it is still wrapped in the swaddling clothes of mis-
understanding and misconception.
"Today, also, the so-called Wise Men are searching the
heavens, are exploring the atom and studying the rela-
tivity of matter, space and time in their search for Truth.
Yet ultimately. . . the truly Wise Men will find the
Christ-child and truly worship at His feet For they will
find Him manifesting where'cr they sincerely seek: in the
mystery-cradle of the atom, in relativity and in the mar-
vels of inter-planetary space."
"It must be these Wise Men who will help to teach hu-
manity to stop their childish quibbling over the literal
meaning of the words of the allegorical stories .. . spir-
itual stories to be spiritually discerned."
'The Inner Radiance. Curtiss, 351Z 218, 353
Gifts of the Wise Men 97
In this sense, "Remember that these Wise Men ar not
certain personalities or even groups or centers, but certain
dasses of seekers. And the gold that one dass has gath-
ered is greatly needed in publishing the Announcement of
the Shepherds and in advertising and spreading broadcast
the 'glad tidings' unto all people. The ancient wisdom
gathered by another dass is also needed, but darified and
made so simple that the multitude may see it rising like
frankincense before the throne."
"Even Myrrh symbol of misunderstanding, bitter
persecution, sorrow and suffering has been needed that
the Shepherds might more fully understand the suffering
of others. . . . And above all, there is needed among all
advanced seekers and followers of the Star, consecrated
service and co-operation which shall be so practical, yet so
sincere, unselfish and pure, that the world will gladly ac-
cept it and be led to the feet of the ChriT
Happy ir he who lays his gifts at the feet of the Christ.
Chapter IX
HEROD AND THE WISE MEN
"In the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise
men. - . saying, where is he that is born king of the Jews?
for we have seen his star in the east, and are come to wor-
ship him. When Herod heard these things, he was troubled,
and all Jerusalem with him.... And he sent them to Beth..
leheni, and said.. . when ye have found him, bring me word
again, that I may come and worship him." St. Matthew, ii,
1-8.
"M the constellation Druco . . . or Herodes rises in the
East, the constellation Aries the Ram or Lamb flees before
it in the West." Afpendur A.
The meeting between Herod and the Wise Men may be
but a minor incident in the Gospel story, but when sym-
bolically interpreted it gives us the key to many otherwise
unexplained experiences in our own personal lives.
The Wise Men asked Herod: 'Where is he that is
born king of the Jews ?" Upon careful consideration it is
evident that this sentence, like so much of the birth-story,
must not be taken literally, but must be interpreted ac-
cording to its spiritual symbology. Literally and histori-
cally Jesus was not "born king of the Jews," nor did He
ever attain that position, nor "sit on the throne of his
Father David." Far from it. As already explained, He
could not have inherited whatever daim He may have had
to the throne as the son of Joseph, for, according to the
Gospel story, He was not conceived through Joseph, but
through "the power of the Highest" which overshadowed
Mary. Jesus' genealogy must therefore depend upon that
98
Herod and the Wist? Men 99
of Mary alone. Both Mary and her cousin Elizabeth were
of the house of Aaron of the tribe of Levi. Hence Mary's
son could not be of the house of David, who was of the
tribe of Judah.
Therefore Jesus could not literally have inherited the
throne of David nor become king of the Jews. He could
never have been more than a pretender to that throne,
even if there had been such an office, which there was not.
Furthermore, since the story says that Joseph and Mary
were not even married, only "espoused" at the time of
Jesus' birth, the very wording of the story seems put in
such a way as to point out to the thoughtful reader the
impossibility of taking the story literally. For no one
would want to think of Jesus as a fatherless pretender to
a throne that did not exist. Thus the spiritual and syin-
bolical is the only possible interpretation for those who
have become Wise Men or who have advanced beyond the
unthinking stage where the unexplained dead-letter of the
text satisfies.
When the Jews are spoken of as the "chosen people,"
it does not refer to the small Hebrew tribe of Judah. For
surely that relatively small tribe would not alone be "cho-
sen of the Lord" above all the other tribes who were
not "Jews" but Hebrews or Semites nor above all the
other countless millions of other races and peoples who
are also God's children, and just as dear to His heart as
the little nomadic tribe of Judah, even though they never
heard of the Hebrews and their God, Jehovah.
The "chosen of the Lord" are those who have chosen
to follow the Lord God or the Law of God, symbolized by
Moses the Law-giver. Therefore all of us are "the cho--
sen people" in this symbolic sense, if we have had the di-
vine law revealed to us by some Law-giver and are being
prepared to recognize the Christ as the King and Gover-
nor of our lives. They are all who recognize and worship
the power of the Christ manifesting within them aud in
their fellowinen, and are Wise Men enough to lay their
gifts at His feet.
100 The Pattern Life
In our personal lives Herxl symbolizes our lower per-
sonality and all the selfish powers which predominate in
the outer world. He is selfish King Desire, the ruler, not
of the temple of our inner life, but of the outer life; those
outer and material desires which so dominate our lives in
the earlier stages of our spiritual unfoldment, ere we be-
come Wise Men, that we give little attention to anything
else.
Aitho the birth has been recognized by both the Shep-
herds and the Wise Men, it must still be concealed from
Herod or King Desire, who has for so long ruled our lives
and will brook no interference, and will stop at nothing to
continue his reign. Thus do the selfish desires of the per-
sonality and the animal man war against and seek to slay
the spiritual conceptions which have finally been born in
our hearts. But if we keep them wrapped in the swad-
dling dothes of reticence for a time, they are never cap-
tured or slain.
Following the gleam of their inner Star of Intuition,
the Wise Men set out to reach and pass through Jerusa-
lem, the Holy City, where all the great spiritual powers
are focused. There the Temple of the Living God is
erected. This symbolizes the advanced state of spiritual
consciousness in which we recognize just what it is that
has heretofore been ruling our outer lives (our Herod),
and what it really is that our Souls have hungered for and
have been seeking. But on their arrival the Wise Men
find the city ruled by the ruthless Herod.
The inquiries of the Wise Men greatly disturbed Herod,
"and all Jerusalem with him"; for he was familiar with
the prophecy: "And the Lord God shall give him the
throne of his father David: and he shall reign over the
house of Jacob forever." (St. Luke, i, 32-3). It is
prophesied of nearly all Sun-gods that they will ultimately
supplant the reigning monarch.1 For this reason the mon-
archs first try to prevent their birth. But always failing
in this, they try to destroy the Babe after his birth. They
1 tnples see page 1&
Herod and the Wise Men 101
also seek the help of the Wise Men to this end, but the
Wise Men are too wise to fail into the trap.
And we find this same situation in our own lives.
When we first realize that there is a higher life than
merely our physical life and a higher power than that of
our intellect, we begin to be troubled. For we do not see
how we can, or why we should desire to change our habits
and readjust our whole life to this new set of ideas that
the Wise Men have brought to our attention. All our
habits of thought and desire (Herod) rise up against such
a radical change in the rulership of our lives. And natu-
rally we are greatly troubled, and "all Jerusalem" all
our friends and acquaintances with us. For the con-
sciousness of our human personality instinctively believes
what the Wise Men have revealed to it, and recognizes
that should this new authority be set up within its king-
dom: should the Christ be found and set up as King and
Governor of our lives, the rule of animal desire and selfish
personality will come to an end.
Through the power of the Christ ruling our lives, per-
sonal desire for self-indulgence will soon be turned into
unselfish desire to do His will. That is, our lower desires
will be so transmuted as to become harmonious expres-
sions of Divine Will, so that we will do the Will of the
Father here on earth, even as it is done in heaven. Natu-
rally then, these lower desires of the personality strive to
prevent the change and do their best to kill out the new
idear which we have elevated into idealr, which already
threaten to usurp the rule of the old idear. They are so
clever about it that they present to our minds all kinds of
sophistries to deceive us, and even pretend to be interested
in and desire to worship the new-born King.
Not only Herod, but "all Jerusalem with him" are trou-
bled. The news that those who are wisest in spiritual
things were seeking their King greatly troubled both
Herod and his advisers, just as the news that we are ear-
nestly seeking a personal realization of the ChriSt within
that we may lay our gifts at His feet and make Him hence-
102 The Pattern Life
forth the ruler of our life greatly troubles all our worldly
minded relatives and friends. They are upset when they
see us determined faithfully to follow a Light which they
cannot see. They instinctively realize that with our new
ideals as the ruler of our life and its activities, their influ-
ence over us, their advice and their desires as to how we
should live which may formerly have had great weight
with us will no longer be paramount. They realize that
now we mean to follow this new Christ-light without re-
gard to the desires of Herod, or those former standards
or persons, to which or to whom we formerly looked- for
advice and guidance. Hence they try in every way to dis-
courage us in our search. Like Herod, they also try to
deceive us with pretended interest. But the only gifts
that the Ilerod-power ever gave the Christ and His fol-
lowers are misunderstanding, antagonism, persecution,
martyrdom and the sword.
We can trace this result all down through the history of
the ages. For the Herod-power represents all those forces
in the world, all those rational, literal and materialistic
ideas and teachings, which refuse to recognize anything
that does not pay tribute to them; those powers which re-
fuse to bow to any ruler or authority other than their own
desires or to which they have not given birth or sanction.
Hence they naturally seek to slay the new-born King of
Love.
And we see this same Herod-power abroad in the world
today in war, in a lack of tolerance, a lack of brotherhood,
love and compassion: all that seeks to belittle and ridicule
and kill out the higher, advanced spiritual teachings which
are being given out through so many avenues of illumina-
tion today. The Herod-power indudes all that seeks to
control and limit all independent expressions of Truth;
which seeks to deceive even those who should be the mod-
ern Wise Men, and lead them astray. But "being warned
of God in a dream" the Wise Men ever refuse to betray
the Christ. Hence in none of the many versions of this
divine birth-story throughout the ages is the Divine Babe
Herod and the Wise Men 103
ever found by His adversaries or slain.
When the forces of Herod are rampant, those who have
been Unwise Men enough to call attention to what they
believe to be the birth of the Christ within themselves are
the first to attract the attention of the critics and scoffers.
But when the Christ-child is really born He is so humble
and lowly that He does not make claims for Himself,
hence does not attract attention, and so escapes into the
protecting obscurity of "Egypt."
The truly Wise Men teach that: "It is only to those
who know how to retain, a secret that the secrets of Nature
are given; not to the babbler who is constantly calling at-
tention to his spiritual, mental and psychic powe&
Those things which the Unwise Men proclaim to be
manifestations of the Christ within are but the offspring
of vanity and seifrighteousness. They cannot stand the
inspection of Herod's soldiers, yet they cannot be hidden,
for they have already attracted attention. Hen they get
their just deserts. And so a great cry of lamentation goes
up. Some little dagger-point of worldly criticism has
killed their cherished babe. But if the Christ-child has
really been born within us it has no desire for worldly rec-
ognition and honors, but nestles quietly in 'our bosom so
that the soldiers of Herod pass it by, saying: "Surely
this humble manifestation cannot be the Christ-child, so
we will let it live."
This explains the suffering of many who have boasted
of their spiritual progress and attainments, for they have
been wounded to death by the first spear thrusts of the
world's scoffing.
Although the real Christ-child may be driven into the
sheltering obscurity of silence for a time, some day the
babe we have brought forth through pain, anguish and
travail of spirit will come forth to comfort and Illumine
our lives and confound "the doctors in the temple" with
His wisdom.
"And being warned of God in a dream that they should
2ThC Daw,i of TndIz, Barkel, 161.
104 The Pattern Life
not return to Herod, they departed into their own country
another way." So often we waste our higher intellectual
powers wandering about, following the attractive lights of
the world which seem to rule, and even the outer, intel-
lectual teachings of philosophy and occultism. Thus we
vainly strive to find that inner peace, satisfaction and hap-
piness which comes only when we correlate with some-
thing that is of divine origin. Only when we become Wise
Men enough to notice and follow the inner light of the
Star of Intuition, no matter how faintly it may be gleam-
ing in the dark night of our outer conditions, are we ready
to be led to the cradle of the Christ. But once we have
found Him we will be wise enough never to allow our
faculties to return to the rule of Herod. But they must
return to their own "country" or function "another way."
Each faculty must return to its own place and still per-
form its own function, but now under the enlightening
rule of the Christ-consciousness and not under the desires
of Herod.
Each one of us may have had some realization of the
birth of the Christ-light in our hearts. But perhaps some
may not have been Wise Men enough to recognize it or
may not have had the courage to follow it. Some may
have wrapped the Child in many, many swaddling bands
of old ideas and conceptions which have hidden Him from
view lest the world think they are peculiar or "queer."
Perhaps some have felt that the world's opinion
(Herod) demands so much of time and attention and so
much tribute from our lives that have no time to pay atten-
tion to this inner birth. Or perhaps we have thought that
to acknowledge this precious.Child would upset the current
of our lives, might disturb our business and make our lives
more difficult than they were before. Or we may not be
quite sure that which we thought was our Wise Men
would quite approve of so great a change in the allegiance
of our lives as from the outer to the inner guidance. And
so we may have failed to acknowledge the spiritual birth
and hence have neglected the Divine Child within.
Chapter X
THE FLIGHT AND MASSACRE
"The angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream,
saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and
flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word:
for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him... . And
(he) was there until the death of Herod; that it might be
fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, say-
ing, Out of Egypt have I called my son. Then Herod, when
he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding
wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in
Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old
and under." St. Matthew, ii. 13-16.
"As the constellation Draco or Ophincut the Dragon,
Hydra or Herodes armed with a cudgel, naturally rises up
over Libra in the East, the constellation Aries the Ram or
Lamb flees before it in the West and disappears below the
horizon towards Egypt or the Land of Darkness, so that the
Dragon of Night (Herodes) seems to devour all the stars in
his path. All infant Lightbringers are therefore represented
as being pursued by some vindictive ruler and fleeing to some
far-off place of safety. But in none of the stories is the child
ever caught, so the pursuer orders a slaughter of the innocents
as the stars pale and disappear at dawn." Apjiendiz 4.
Herod's "massacre of the innocents" is another of those
incidents which delight the historical critics and are the
despair of the literalists. For although we find the mci-
dent given only in St. Matthew, the whole setting is flatly
denied by the account of the birth given in St. Luke. It
is not a question of St. Luke's merely failing to record the
incident, but of his recording events which directly con.
tradict the whole story of the flight into Egypt.
105
106 The Pattern Life
According to St. Matthew, "And when they (the Wise
Men) were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord ap-
peareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the
young child and his mother and flee into Egypt....
When he arose he took the young child and his mother by
night, and departed into Egypt (presumably the same
night after the Wise Men had left). And was there (in
Egypt) until the death of Herod.... Then Herod
was exceeding wroth.. . and slew all the children that
were in Bethlehem, and all the coasts thereof, from two
years old and under." (St. Matthew, ii, 13-16). And
yet neither St. Peter nor St. Paul knew anything about
this tragedy.
On the contrary, St. Luke (in ii, 21-2) states definitely
that instead of fleeing to Egypt that same night, the par-
ents remained eight days in Bethehem, had the child cir-
cumcized and then remained there for over a month longer
until the 40 days of the mother's purification were over.
Even then, according to St. Luke, there was no flight into
Egypt, for then, "they brought him to Jerusalem, to pre-
sent him to the Lord." They had no fear of Herod or of
a massacre "of all the children that were in Bethlehem,
and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and un-
der." For "when they had performed all things according
to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, (not
into Egypt) to their own city Nazareth." Instead of
being in Egypt for some years, "his parents went to Jeru-
salem every year at the feast of the passover." (ii, 39,
41). In this account there is no mention of Herod, or a
tragedy at Bethlehem, or of a flight into Egypt. There is
no mention of a massacre or of "lamentation, and weep-
ing, and great mourning," for the children slain is so great
a holocaust.
There is the flat contradiction between the two accounts.
Which shall we accept? If we are literalists we are face
to face with an unsolvable problem. But if we are uni-
versal symbologists, we naturally accept the account that
appears in the life-story of all the other Savior-babes as
The Flight and Massacre 107
an essential part of the Universal Solar Myth, namely, the
flight and massacre. But we accept it only in its symbolic
meaning, not as an historical fact for which there is no
corroboration, either religious or secular.
The great problem for the literalists to explain is that
if such a wholesale massacre of children actually took
place, which would have aroused the indignation of the
entire race there certainly should be some record of it,
especially in Jewish if not in Roman history. Yet no such
record is to be found in either! It was supposed to have
taken place at the dose of the reign of Herod the Great.
But as he died in the year 4 s.c. it is generally supposed
that, since there is no record of the year, much less the
month and day, in which Jesus was born, He must have
been born before 4 B.C. Astrological authorities say it
was 7 B.C.
The great Jewish historian, Josephus, who gives a mi-
nute account of all the atrocities of Herod up to the day
of his death, would surely have recorded such an unheard-
of crime had such a massacre occurred, for it would have
been even more notorious than Herod's other crimes.
Yet not even a passing reference to such a thing is made
by him.' Roman history also records Herod's crimes in
detail. On his accession to the throne he ordered the mas-
sacre of all of the forty-five members of the Jewish Sanhe-
drin, and confiscated their estates. He executed all the
members of the family of the best beloved of his ten
wives Mirainne--- one the daughter of his brother, an-
other the daughter of his sister. He slew his grandfather,
Hircon; his own father, Alexander; his own mother,
Alexandra; his uncle, Anligones; his brother, Aricto-
bultis; had another brother, Pheroras, and a sister, Salome,
strangled at Sebaste, and finally killed his own beloved
wife, Mirainne. These atrocities gave rise to the saying:
"It is better to be Herod's swine than his son."
With all these personal crimes recorded in such detail,
it is hardly possible that such an atrocious public crime as
1A,sSiquy of the Jews, Josephus, Book XVIII, Cbaptcr IlL
108 The Pattern Life
the so-called "massacre of the innocents" could have gone
unrecorded if it ever took place. Not only Josephus, but
the great Roman historian, Tacitus, who so minutely re-
corded the crimes of other despots, also does not record
any such country-wide massacre.
The number of children slain is variously estimated.
The Coptic Acts of St. Matthew in Kahainot gives the
number as 14,000, and Canon Farrar as not exceeding
20,000. The date is supposed to have been about two and
a half years after the birth of Jesus. Tradition says that
the interval was occupied by Herod's journey to Rome
to secure from Caesar permission for the slaughter.
No one who is familiar with Roman history, customs
and the exactness of its laws upon which our present
common law is based could believe that such a public
holocaust could have taken place throughout a whole prov-
ince without its perpetrator's being deposed and punished.
This completes the list of miraculous events connected
with the birth and childhood of Jesus. Since St. Paul was
so anxious to prove that Jesus was the Christ and the ex-
pected Messiah, that had he ever heard of the angelic
Annunciation, the Immaculate Conception, the Virgin
Birth, the Adoration of the Wise Men, the Star of Beth-
lehem and the Flight and Mssaae, he certainly would
have made the best use possible of them to substantiate
his claim. And since the first Gospel to be written (St.
Mark) was recorded some fifteen or more years after St.
Paul's first Epistles (Thessalonians), it would seem that
St. Mark knew nothing of any of these events either.
As the Gospels which do mention these events were
written many years after that of St. Mark, it is evident
that this whole series of events was adaed after the time
of St. Mark and St. Paul by someone who was familiar
with the Universal Solar Myth.2 If we ask why they were
"Contemporary with Augustine lived Jerom; who translated
the Hebrew scriptures into Latin.... The Pope then commis-
sioned him to translate the Gospels and epistles from Greek into
Latin. To this request Jerome replied that it would be difficult to
know where to start, as there were as many different versions of
The Flight and Massacre 109
thus inserted into the story, the answer is twofold. The
only rational explanation of the use of these highly im-
probable and historically unrecorded events, and the flat
contradictions in the different Gospels' accounts of them
is, firstly, they were necessary "that it might be fulfilled
which was spoken by the prophets," (St. Matthew, ii, 23;
xxvi, 56), to show that Jesus was the expected Messiah,
for He never referred to any of these events.
In the second place, these events were a part of the uni-
versal cosmic allegory, all the events of which all of the
previous Sun-gods of history are said to have fulfilled.
They were therefore appropriated and applied to the life-
story of Jesus by the writers of St. Matthew and St. Luke
to help prove that Jesus was a divine, individualized man!-
festation of the Spiritual Sun and the spiritual Light-
bringer or vehicle of the Cosmic Christ-force to humanity
in the cycle of the Piscean Age. This is evidenced by the
fact that He fulfills all the incidents, in their proper order,
in the Universal Solar Myth, just as does the physical
Lightbringer, the Sun, to the physical world in a shorter
cycle, the year
That this is another universal incident, and does not
apply to Jesus alone, is shown by the fact that all Light-
bringers have been considered as dangerous children be-
cause of the universal prophecies that their growth and
destiny threatened the rule of the then reigning monarch.'
these in existence as there were copies in circulation. However, he
undertook the task, trusting in God to direct him as to which were
the right ones to use." The Psychic Stream, Findlay, 1116-17.
'"A heavenly voice whispered to the foster father of Krijhna
and told him to fly with the young child across the river Jwnna,
which was immediately done. This was owing to the fact that the
reigning monarch, King Kansa, sought the life of the infant Sav-
ior and sent messengers 'to kill all the infants in the neighboring
places." Life and Religion of the Hindus, Gangooly, 134. The
Egyptian Lighthringer, Horns, was obligçd to flee to the Isle of
Buto from his uncle Seth, or Typhon. Frescoes on the walls of
ancient Pompeii represent this incident, feature for feature, with
the biblical story. Hadad, another name for the Syrian Sun-god
Adonis, escaped into Egypt when Davids general, Josh, is said to
have slaughtered every male in Edosu, Astyages, king of Media,
110 The Pattern Life
Hence, they are all pursued, and as they are never cap-
tured, in most cases a general massacre of all the young
children in the region follows.
Since it is evident that this is not and has never been a
literal, historical incident in the life of any one person,
What is the spiritual interpretation of this incident of the
massacre, flight and concealment of the babe until he grew
up into a child?
From the astronomical standpoint, the Sun, after its
birth in the sign Capricorn, the sign of the manger, flees
or hides below the equator in the darkness of the southern
hemisphere symbolized by Egypt until it has so
grown in strength that it is ready to appear in the north-
ern hemisphere and begin its mission of bringing light
and giving renewed life to all Nature in the spring. The
astronomical basis of this incident is that as the constella-
tion Draco the Dragon, also Hydra or Herodes rises
in the East, the Dragon of night (Herod) seems to devour
or slay all the stars in his path as their light disappears
below the horizon.
Egypt is allegorically a symbol of darkness and obscu-
rity, but the obscurity in which something fructifies. It is
the region that is self-impregnated by the inundation of
the Nile when the Sun touches the zodiacal sign Virgo,
the Virgin.
warned in a dream that his daughter, Mondane, would give birth
to a son who would reign in his stead, sought to have the babe,
Cyru, destroyed, but never succeeded. Soothsayers informed
Nimyod, king of Babylon, that a child Abraham-- soon to be
born would become a great prince. Nunrod then issued orders that
all women with child should be guarded, and all children born of
them should be put to death. Also Zoroaster was considered a
"dangerous child." He was obliged to flee into Persia, pursued by
the King, who sought to destroy him. Buddha as a babe was per-
secuted by King Bambasara. He was placed in a copper chest and
set afloat in the river Ganges. The same incident is found carved
on the rock walls of the cave-temple in the island of Elephanta in
India. Hadad, the child King of Edoiu, fled to Egypt to escape
the terrible massacre when Solomon ordered Joab to slay every
male in Edom. (1 Kings, ii, 16, 17). And the same incident is
found in the life-stories of Perseus, Aedipus, Paris, Jason, Bacchus
Han-Id, Sali',h2n2. ArtiI2pius, etc.
The Flight and Massacre 111
The flight into the land of darkness sets forth the truth
that the light first manifests in the darkness, but the dark-
ness comprehendeth it not.
The great lesson is that allegorically Jesus was not only
taken into Egypt, but that He came out of it, thus fulfill-
ing the prophecy, "Out of Egypt have I called my son."
Thus we have the assurance that no matter how obscure
and dark conditions may be, if we realize that we have the
Christ with us we will come out safe into the Promised
Land of spiritual light and realization.
After the birth there is a reaction in which our realiza-
tion is swallowed up by the darkness of Earth conditions.
The first reaction of the outer personality and the world
(Herod) to any manifestation of spiritual forces is to
"massacre" or destroy them. And the Herod forces are
still with us today, and will be until the millennium. For
the advent of the spiritual forces in our lives so stirs up
the forces of Herod in us that they are stricken with ter-
ror lest their rule be soon at an end. This is not a terror
of physical conditions, but of the unknown, something
intangible; an unknown fate that is impending, such as
often breaks down the strongest minds. As long as the
Herod of pride and selfish desire rules in us it ever seeks
to slay the innocent ideals our heart conceives. The more
we are governed by selfish and worldly conditions, the
more we become hardened against spiritual forces, and so
become our own Herods.
The first-born in every heart is a desire to express its
joy at the birth, an overflowing enthusiasm to do great
things for the Christ, for this mighty love melts our
hearts. But soon Herod the desires of "the world, the
flesh and the devil" strives to find and kill the child,
but never succeeds. For although many of our mind-born
ideals are killed by a scoffing world, the Christ-conscious-
ness flees into the darkness of protective silence for a
time, and escapes, only to return in due season.
There are many persons of the Herod type still with us
today; the intellectually vain, the agnostics, the sophists,
112 The Pattern Life
the wiselings of scholastic reasoning, and thosct whose
highest ideals are to follow after Mammon and the lusts
of the flesh. Such will go to any atrocious length to pro-
long the rule of their self-indulgence. The slaughter of
the innocents is a continuous process until stopped by the
death of the Herod forces.
It was not without reason that Jesus was called the
"Lion of the tribe of Judah," for it required the courage
of the lion to face misunderstanding, skepticism, ridicule,
contempt, sneers, hyprocrisy, betrayal and final crud-
1idon. And His followers today have need of the same
courage in these days of materialism and atheism.
We have already pointed out4 that in the life-history of
each Soul Joseph symbolizes the intellect, which is not the
real father of the new-born Christ-consciousness, but is
only its supporter and protector. The "angel" or mes-
senger that appears to him in a dream is a message from
the Spiritual Self warning him that both the new-born
spiritual consciousness and the Divine Love (the mother)
which brought it forth must be hidden for a time from
the forces which have been ruling the outer life or they
will kill the child. He must therefore take the new-born
conception of the Christ within and the Mother-love to
which he is now wedded and flee into Egypt, or conceal
them by silence "until the death of Herod" or until the
outer opposition is over or the rule of the desires of the
flesh is ended and his reIhtion of the Christ-conscious-
ness has grown clear and strong enough to resist attack
and come forth and bless mankind.
Such Inner Guidance at first is often considered "only
a dream," yet if followed good always results. Subse-
quent events always prove that to ignore it is a mistake
for which we have to pay, often in sorrow and suffering.
This does not mean that we should blindly follow every
impulse, prompting or "hunch" that comes to us, but must
ask for guidance, and challenge "in the name of the
-
4Cliabter IlL
Th Flight and Massacre 113
Christ" everything that comes, and demand that its truth
be confirmed to us.
This journey into the land of darkness is a universal
fact and a vital necessity; for only so can the newly-born
spiritual child and its mother (Divine Love) escape being
overwhelmed by the forces of the outer world which re-
lentlessly seek to stamp out all that seems likely to inter-
fere with the indulgence of the lower self in the pleasures
of the senses.
Not only must there be a voluntary veiling of the inner
illumination in silence, but from another aspect, after one
has had the transcendant experience of a realization of
the Christ within, there comes a reaction in which all
memory of the experience seems swallowed up in the
darkness of uncertainty, and we wonder if we have not
been subjected to some form of mental illusion or psychic
delusion.
The rational mind cannot reason out or comprehend
such an experience, for it transcends reason and enters
upon the realm of intuition and direct realization. There-
fore it must be put aside until the rational mind has had
time to adjust itself to the new current of force from the
higher or Spiritual Mind,5 the mind of the Spiritual Self.
Every Soul in which the conception of Divine Truth has
taken place must, therefore, keep this new realization of
the Christ within sacredly hidden in his or her own heart,
for if it were proclaimed abroad or told even to friends,
it would either be laughed at or mocked or in some way
be belittled, and killed out and forgotten.
The new current of spiritual consciousness from the
Spiritual Self now begins the establishment of a new
highway of communication with the personality. This is
a bridge of understanding (Sattva) called Antaskarana
which must ultimately span the gulf which separates the
rational or so-called mortal mind from the Spiritual Mind
of the Real Self. This bridge is a literal thing composed
5For the divisions of the mind see The Voice of Isis, Curtiss.
167-9 or The Key to the Universe, Curtiss, 260-Z
114 The Pattern Life
of radiant light from the Spiritual Self although it is im-
penetrable darkness to the outer world. Every step we
take toward spiritual enlightenment not only strengthens
this bridge, but also shortens our journey across it and
gives the Spiritual Mind greater influence over the human
personality. This is sometimes called the "bridge of
swords" over which we must pass with naked feet; for
once we start to cross it we can never again go back or
accept conditions in life as we did before our awakening.
And our understanding (feet) may receive many sharp
cuts and bleed as we progress until our lower conceptions
and understanding of life can no longer be wounded by
or suffer from the higher ideals revealed to us by the Di-
vine Light.
Just as in Nature the seed of the future plant or tree
lies buried in the darkness of the soil until it sprouts and
grows strong enough to push up through the soil into the
light of day, so does the seed of the Christ-consciousness
lie buried in the darkness of the physical body until it has
germinated and put up its mystical sprout of divine under-
standing into the light of our outer consciousness. But
until that time the tender sprout must be concealed by the
darkness of its Egypt
If we dig a seed up to show to some horticulturist, or
to see if it is growing, or that we may find out what kind
of plant or tree it will be, we simply delay or even prevent
its growth. Just so does a babbler kill out the sacred inner
realization if he tries to display it before the world that he
may be admired for his advanced development. The law
of the outer Nature applies as well to our inner nature or
Soul-experiences. If we dig them up to show our friends
or expose them to the light of reason and ridicule we pre-
vent their growth and manifestation. The world will be-
come aware of them in due season if we let them "sojourn
in Egypt" until the time has come when we are ready to
manifest our new understanding and realization. For it
is in darkness, where God works silently His wonders to
perform, that all things germinate and are brought forth.
The Flight and Massacre 115
Egypt is commonly used as a symbol of spfritual dark-
tess, sorrow and lack of understanding, where we are
inder the bondage of ignorance and are slaves to King
)esire. It also refers to the physical body in which the
ncarnating Soul is in bondage to the senses. But to those
vho bravely "flee into Egypt" at the command of the In-
ter Voice, it has quite a different meaning. It now sym-
iolizes that inner sanctuary of the heart or the Temple of
ilence in which the newly-awakened Christ-consciousness
s hidden until we fully understand the Inner Radiance
which can and will shine forth dear and steady if we will
nit fix our gaze upon it instead of upon the tiny candle of
elf -admiration. Then will the Inner Radiance, and the
acred joy which we have found, yetdared not to speak of
mtil it grew strong enough, come forth and dispute with
he doctors in the temple.
When we pass through the thrilling Soul-experience in
which we awaken to a new realization of the Divine Pres-
ence within, we feel that something so wonderful has
ome into our lives that we must change our entire mode
f life if we are to live up to it. Because of previous
erroneous teaching, some feel that they must give up all
expressions of joy and gladness and go about their work
in the world with a long face and a solemn manner. Such
i conception of the flight into Egypt would indeed be a
punishment instead of a joy. But if we realize that for
us now Egypt is not a place of utter darkness and sorrow,
but is the silence of a sacred shrine into which we can re-
tire and worship the Christ, realize His mighty love, and
truly "feed on Him in our hearts by faith and thanksgiv-
tug," then the experience fills us with such happiness and
joyous ecstasy that we cannot help unconsciously radiat-
ing it in our lives to all we contact.
In the personal application of this incident, after our
realization of the Christ-consciousness and the reaction
which plunges us into the darkness of Egypt, where our
conscious touch with the Divine seems swallowed up and
lost, both the desires of the flesh, old habits of life and
116 The Pattern Life
doubts of the reality of our recent experience, arise in our
minds and seek to reason us out of our belief, seek to slay
or darken our memory of this beautiful experience. Thus
do our new ideals and resolutions, in fact, all the offspring
of our experience of spiritual realization, seem to flee
from our consciousness and memory.
But aitho that realization has left us for a time it can-
not be killed, but will return again in due season and rule
our lives, even though, as we said before, it may be a great
sorrow that brings it back In the meantime, like Joseph,
we must care for and guard our first-born; for it needs
both the intellect (Joseph) and the Mother-love (Mary)
to nourish it until it can take care of itself when recog-
nized and perhaps be laughed at and ridiculed by the
world.
It is significant that after their adoration of the Babe
the Wise Men "beingwarned of God inadream. . . de..
parted into their own country another way." Thus it is
that after having been brought face to face with the Christ
within, even though its manifestation is but as that of a
babe, we can never go back the way we came. We can
never submit our tender re'Ii7ation of the Christ to the
hatred of Herod. Neither can we any longer recognize
him as king and ruler of our lives. Being warned of God
we must go back to the daily routine of our lives another
way.
As this child of the Christ-consciousness grows within
us it absorbs all that is good, constructive and helpful
from both mind (Joseph) and heart (Mary). But it
must be fed by our constant recognition of the God-power
within us and the possibility of our manifesting it, which
by this time we should have proved to ourselves. It is
this idea which we must nourish by Constantly contem-
plating it, until we grow to love it as our great source of
love, comfort and help, both in our periods of silence and
devotion and as often as we can turn our minds toward it
during the day. For our great lesson to learn is that God
is love, and we must learn to know this in spirit and in
hutiL
chapter xi
TWELVE YEARS OF AGE
"And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit filled with
wisdom: and the grace of God was upon hùn.... When he
was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem. . . the
child Jesus tarried behind.. . after three days they found
him in the temple sitting in the midst of the doctors, both
bearing them, and asking questions.... And he said unto
them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must
be about my Father's business?" St. Luke, ii, 40-SO.
"When the Sun has completed its circuit through the 12
signs of the zodiac it is said to be 12 years (or cycles) old,
and is ready to be about its Father's business or ready to start
out on a new cyclic round," Appendix A.
Between the record of the flight of Jesus into Egypt'
as a babe and the next mention of Him at the ae of twel'ire
there is a long period concerning which there is no record,
although there have been many speculations as to how
those years were spent. Some authorities claim to account
for those years either from ancient records which they
claim were found in a Buddhist lamasary in Thibet,2 or
to have read the tory psychically direct from the imper-
ishable Akashic Records3 in the unseen worlds, while
'The Coptic Christian Church of Egypt claims to have actual
physical documents, rescued from the great library at Alexandria
when it was pillaged and burned by Bishop Theopholis in 389 &.n.,
which give details of three sojourns of Jesus in Egypt During
our visit to Egypt in 1938 we were present at an elaborate- bap-
tismal ceremony in the very cave or grotto in.which is is claimed
the Holy Family lived when they fled. from Herod with the infant
Jesus. The Copts claim that Jesus was trained in the school of
the Essenes by whom he was called "St Issa."
'The Unknown Life of Jesus, Notovitch.
3The Aquanan Gospel of Jesus Christ, Levi.
117
118 The Pattern Life
others have made up a more or less plausible record of
what they imagined might have taken place. But the his-
torical inaccuracies and anachronisms inherent in such
stories show that they are only human speculations. Even
though some claim to have received the details from teach-
ers in the astral world, yet such teachings are still only
the human speculations of discarnate mortals alter all, and
are without proof either in history or in symbolism, myth
or allegory.
The fact that the Gospel record is absolutely silent on
the detailsof that long period is in itself very significant.
But once we understand the allegorical and symbolical
nature of the story, i.e., as an outpicturing of the events
in the unfolding of the Christ-consciousness in each heart
when a certain stage of spiritual unfoldment is reached,
we will see the reason for the lack of details prior to that
time.
Twelve is a most important and mystical number. It
is called "The Manifested Universe,"4 because the uni-
verse requires twelve zodiacal signs to complete the circle
of its manifestation. Likewise man must incarnate in and
master the forces of all the twelve signs before he can
complete his own "manifested universe," or the manifes-
tation of his Spiritual Self which he came to earth to ex-
press. Hence we are born again and again under each of
the twelve signs until we have learned and built into our
consciousness all the lessons of the zodiac.
Usually when one is born with the gifts of a Prophet
or Seer they begin to manifest by the time he is twelve
years of age. Samuel and Daniel both prophesied at
twelve and Solomon's "wise judgements" began at twelve.
At twelve Jesus seems to have been aware of His divine
mission and had already begun to be "about his Father's
business." This His mother did not seem to understand.
She seems to have forgotten the prophecies made about
Himliy the angel before His birth, also those of Simeon
and Anna (St. Luke, ii, 32-6), the message of the shep-
See The Ke to the Universe, Curtiss, 29.
Twelve Years of Age 119
herds and the reason for the massacre and flight into
Egypt.
In the individual, the age of twelve is an important
milestone in the manifestation of the Soul. In Oriental
countries that is the average age when puberty occurs.
The fact that the power to procreate is present at that
time is evidence that the several stages by which the in-
carnating Soul takes possession of the body have been
completed. The incarnation is then attained and the Soul
is ready to "be about my Father's business" or accom-
plish the object for which it incarnated.
As we have explained dsewhere: "The age of the boy
Jesus when found by His mother in the temple expound-
ing the law to the elders also has reference to the relation
of the evolution of the Soul to the forces of the zodiac.
That this incident is but another step in the manifestation
of the Spiritual Sun is evidenced by the corresponding
accounts found elsewhere.... For according to the Sun
Myth, at the age of 12 the incarnated Sun God or Savior
has passed around and completed the cirde of the zodiac,
and aitho but a child, has attained the Light of Wisdom
which enables him to consort with the Masters in the tem-
ple, for he has demonstrated his ability to rule all 12 influ-
ences of the zodiac.
"Another significance of the Lightbringer's prophesy-
ing and teaching at the age of 12 is that when the Soul
the individualized Sun-god of its cycle has really cor-
related with the influences exerted through the 12 signs,
he is mystically 12 years old; that is, at the age of 12 the
Soul is fully incarnated. In Oriental countries a boy has
reached his majority at 12 and is initiated into his cast,
religion or tribe, according to the practice inthe various
countries. . .
5See Wily Are We Here?, Curtiss.
See The Key of Destiny, Curtiss, 54-37. "Strauss points out
the extra-Scriptural stories of Moses leaving his father's house at
twelve to play the part of an inspired teacher, and Sanmel begin-
ning to prophesy at that age.... In Strabo's account of Judea
the parents went to Delphi... while the child itself had
120 The Pattern Life
'When the evolving child has reached this period, the
Soul has taken possession of the body.... The child
must therefore take upon itself new duties and responsi-
bilities or 'be about its Father's business.' The Soul must
now take its place in the Temple of the personality as a
Lightbringer, for it has now reached a point where it has
realized the character of the lessons and recognized the
forces of each of the 12 signs and has begun consciously
to control and utilize and impress them upon the person-
ality.
"ItJs at the age of 12 physically that the child must be-
gin to assume personal responsibility, for it is only then
that the Soul has fully incarnated in the body. The in-
carnation may be said to begin at the time of conception.
Another stage is reached at the time of 'quickening'
and a third stage with the drawing of the first breath.
The possession of the body by the incarnating Soul
steadily progresses as center after center in the bodies of
the child is developed and made available for the Soul to
function through, until the age of 12 (approximately) or
when puberty is readied. The actual age of puberty varies
somewhat according to race, climate, etc., but theoretically
it should occur at 12.... The power to create, which
appears at that time and not before, is evidence that the
Soul is only then in full possession."
At this period the child usually has dreams, visions or
memories of the last incarnation, and sometimes there is
a morbid depression as though from a Soul-memory of
some great mistake or failure in the past. Usually, how-
ever, there is a great self-confidence and a realization of
an inexhaustible power to accomplish, as though from a
memory of what the Soul has already accomplished and
the great lessons learned, together with a more or less
conscious impression of its mission in this incarnation.
gone to the temple of Apollo . .. in one part of the Egyptian
ritual Isis is figured as wailing for the loss of her child, the boy
Horus,, who was afterwards found in the Temple of the Sun teach-
ing the priests." Christianity and Mythology, Robertson, 310-iL
Twelve Years of Age 121
This might be called a Soul-memory of its "manifested
universe," or that which the Soul has manifested in the
past and a prophetic vision of that which it hopes to mani-
fest in this life.
At this time children frequently make decided changes
in their disposition and character, and often make a defi-
nite choice of their life work. They realize, even if but
vaguely, that 'they must be about their Father's (the
Soul's) business. This is a period of inspiring idealism.
The child is full of zea' and takes pleasure in studying
the highest ideals he hears or reads about. If this ideal-
ism is encouraged and wisely guided at this time, a strong
character, based upon spiritual principles and realization,
can be formed which will withstand the shock of disillu-
sion which comes later in life as the selfishness and sordid
materialism of the average unenlightened person becomes
evident.
Plutarch tells us that the Egyptians understood this
vital period in the child's life, for at the age of 12 those
who were qualified were admitted to the temple to proph-
esy.1 The parents paid serious attention to the remarks,
dreams, visions and desires of children during puberty,
and tried to guide them accordingly. But, alas, few par-
exits or teachers today understand the laws back of these
things, so the child's Soul-memories and ideals are laughed
at and pushed aside as mere imagination, when they should
be carefully, sympathetically and understandingly con-
sidered, and the germ of his Inner Guidance sifted out
from what is truly only childish imagination or suggestion
from outside sources. Failure to do this often forces
children into careers for which they are totally unfitted
and which either prevent or at least retard the unfoldment
and mission they incarnated to attain.
In view of the above it is only natural that after the
T"Thm, then, although the gospel story of the abnormal wisdom
of the child Jesus represents a development alike on Pagan and
Jewish lines, the story of the finding him in the temple is a spe-
cifically Pagan Myth." Christianity anti Mythology. Robertson,
ML
122 The Pattern Life
incidents of the birth and the ffight the life-story of Jesus
is not resumed until the mystical age of 12 is reached.
And there would have been no need to specify the age
unless it was mystically important. For there is no need
for a record of the incidents of the childish growth-period.
Those who attempt to supply or 1111 them in thereby ex-
hibit their lack of understanding both of the law of incar-
nation and the meaning of the allegory as a whole.
While the Christ-consciousness is growing within us
the little incidents of its unfoldment are only of minor
importance. But when in our spiritual development we
have reached the stage mystically symbolized by 12 we
should emerge from the obscurity of our spiritual child-
hood and take our proper place in the world and become
responsible for accomplishing our part of the Father's
business. In other words, we should begin to express our
12 or "manifested universe."
The mystical age of 12 does not mean that it requires
only 12 years to unfold the Christ-consciousness to the
point where we consciously realize its presence and allow
it to rule our life. If the process has been almost com-
pleted in past lives it may take but a short time in this life,
but for most persons it may require many years or even
many incarnations. For to reach this stage we must pass
at least 12 times through all the signs of the zodiac and
learn the characteristic lesson of each sign so perfectly
that we have not merely understood it intellectually, but
have built its force into our lives. Only then can we so
embody the forces of the zodiac and its Planetary Rulers
that we truly express the mystical meaning of 12 and be-
come an expression of our "manifested universe" which
is now reflected in us for us to express to the world with
as much or as little fruitage as we have been able to bring
forth. For only then are the centers in us which connect
our consciousness with the forces of the zodiac sufficiently
developed to enable us to consciously correlate with them
and truly begin to "rule our stars." Only then can the
Christ-consciousness take complete control
Twelve Years of Age 123
Jesus is represented as being found in the temple sit-
ting in the midst of the doctors. The temple symbolizes
the human personality, while the "doctors" or learned
ones, represent our intellectual and other faculties which
have learned many valuable lessons and gained many pow-
ers through experience in the outer world. Hence, like
Jesus, we must ask them questions and thus avail our-
selves of their worldly wisdom. As St. Paul reminds us:
"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the
spirit of God dwelleth in you?. .. for the temple of
God is holy, which temple ye are." $
"And all that heard him were astonished at his under-
standing and answers." Once the center of the Christ-
consciousness unfolds and comes to the attention of our
outer faculties (the doctors) we are astonished at the un-
derstanding of the problems of daily life that it gives us.
When our intuition asserts itself the intellect recognizes
its wisdom and- marvels. When the Christ-consciousness
expounds the law, the wisdom of its guidance in answer to
our questions fully satisfies us. But this newly recog-
nized Inner Guidance has only begun its influence at this
period and must still grow and develop and prove its wis-
dom to the outer faculties before they can completely
trust it.
We are all children of the one divine Father and must
learn the Father's business by performing the daily tasks
brought to us by the law of life, and learn the lessons
from them. Previous to the age of 12 or puberty, the life
of the child has been acquisitive; everything is absorbed
and utilized for growth. But after puberty is attained
there is present the power to give out or create and pro-
create. Similarly, until the mystical age of 12 is attained
all our efforts have been for self, for our own aggrandize-
meat. But after we reach 12 we begin to be about our
Father's business; we begin to work for the Father tin-
selfishly. Previously we may have worked for the Father
a little at times but then we turned away to play. But
$1 CorùstMans. 111. 16-17.
124 The Pattern Life
now we realize the seriousness of the Father's business
and put it first in our lives. We each begin to expound
the law and the teachings through love and realization to
the best of our ability as the Father gives us understand-
ing and power. Even though we may be but children
spiritually we must now begin to take our evolution in our
own bands and be responsible for it.
In our solar system the zodiac represents the temple,
the Planetary Rulers represent the "doctors" and the Sun
in the center is the Lightbringer to the system. Similarly,
when the Christ-consciousness occupies the central place
in our lives, around which all our activities circle, and is
recognized as our source of light and life, it is able to ex-
pound to our faculties (the "doctors") all the forces of
the zodiac so that we are able to grasp and correlate with
them almost unconsciously. This is accomplished both
through the inner illumination of the Christ-light and the
deep intuitions of our hearts, and through the way we are
guided to react to the experiences of daily life and to the
karmic conditions we have brought over from past lives,
but which we now gladly assume and work out.
The Lords of Karma apportion to the Soul, in exact
justice, as much of the fruits of the causes we have set up
in the past as each Soul is strong enough to conquer and
work out. It is the Inner Guidance of the Christ-con-
sciousness, sitting in the midst of our faculties, who gives
us the light to recognize these conditions and the power
to work out and conquer them. Thus, out of bitterness
shall come sweetness, out of seeming evil shall come good,
and out of experience shall come wisdom. Thus does the
Christ within drink of the Cup of life with all mankind
in loving sympathy and compassion as we pass through
the adjustment of the inevitable results of our thoughts,
words and deeds.
This incident again connects the Gospel story of Jesus'
life with the incidents of the Universal Solar Myth, rep-
See chapter on '"The Lords of Karma" in The Inner Radiance.
Cur 129.
Twelve Years of Age 125
resenting Him as the Lightbringer and Savior to man-
kind as a whole, as the Sun is to the zodiac and as the
Christ within is the personal Lightbringer and Savior to
each personality. But when we refer to this mighty story
as the Christian version of the Universal Solar Myth,
many find it difficult to make a reality of the personal ap-
plication. And often a feeling of sadness comes over
them until they realize that the very fact that the life-
story of Jesus embodies and follows exactly and succes-
sively every incident of the Solar Myth, plainly shows
Jesus to have been a Divine Being, and that the story of
His life expresses the mightiest truth given to man. It
illustrates the steps in the unfoldment of the Christ-con-
sciousness within for the guidance of our lives.
As the Sun is the light, life and glory of the zodiac and
of all Nature, it should remind us as we see it each day
that the Spiritual Sun or the Christ within should be made
the light, life and glory of our lives and our natures.
Then we will see the doors of our temple of the higher
spiritual consciousness swing open and will feel a mighty
love fill us. Then we will hear the Still Small Voice, like
the soft sighing of a summer breeze, whisper: "I am the
herald of the dawn of a new day, a new spiritual spring-
time in your life. I bring you the Christ's message of
light, love and peace, and call upon you to awaken to your
opportunities and to the reality of your inner spiritual
life."
"You are no longer a spiritual child hidden in the dark-
ness and doubts of Egypt, but must now take your right-
ful place in the world and be about your Father's business.
Shake off the lethargy of Egypt which has for so long
benumbed your heart and darkened your understanding.
You are no longer left to fight your way up the Mount of
Attainment alone, for the ever-living, indwelling Christ is
always with you and waiting to bless you and guide you
and endow you with His power. When misunderstand-
ing, trial, fear or sorrow seem to overwhelm you, call
upon Him in your heart and He will answer and say:
126 The Pattern Life
'Pea, be stilL Fear Not. Put your feet (your under-
standing) in the footprints that I leave and follow me.
Forget the darkness of outer conditions, tread the Path
of the Christ and follow on"
Happy u he who is about his Father's business.
chapter xii
THE BAPTISM
PART I. JOHN THE BAPTIST
"In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wil-
derness of Judea, and saying. Repent ye: for the kingdom of
heaven is at hand." St. Matthew, lii, 1-2.
"When the Sun enters the Milky Way the river Jordan
that celestial river spreads apart or the 'heavens opened' and
the constellation Cygnus, the Swan, or the heavenly dove, 'de-
scends' or becomes visible directly overhead. At the same
time the Water Bearer of Aquarius pours out the water from
his urn in baptism into the mouth of the Southern Fish in the
third decanate of Capricorn, and thus causes the Baptism.
Pisces occupies 30 of the zodiac, all Sun Gods receive their
baptism of water at the mystical age of 30." Appendix A.
The sacred sacraments of all religions both symbolize
and embody certain cosmic forces which. produce corre-
sponding effects in the spiritual lives of those who partici-
pate in them. These effects have been known and their
meaning recorded in many myths and fables, while their
forces have been invoked and correlated with, through
suitable ceremonies, by the Initiates of all ages, races and
religions. For it should be remembered that the Christian
religion has added no new sacraments to the list. All are
found in more or less the same form in the so-called pagan
religions ages before the Christian era.
Among ancient peoples there were many forms of bap-
tism used for many reasons, yet all for purposes of puri-
fication, varying from sprinkling to submersion. Since
127
128 The Pattern Life
water is the universal solvent and cleansing agent, all bap-
tisms by water symbolize the washing away of the mag-
netism and influence of old mistakes, habits and former
conditions of life. The use of water also symbolizes the
downpouring of the mystical Waters of Life which pro-
mote the opening of the spiritual faculties, just as physi-
cal water promotes the opening of the buds and blossoms
in Nature. It also symbolizes the state of purification
through which the candidate is supposed to have passed
crc he becomes a member of the sect conducting the cere-
mony.
By many the purification from sin by the use of water
is supposed to be an exclusive Christian ceremony and
indispensable to salvation. But that is not the case, for
it was a common rite used for the remission of sin in many
lands long before Christianity was founded. In spite of
the injunction of Jesus (Matthew, xxviii, 19), and al-
though it was advocated by Tertullian, Bishop of Carthage
(155-222 &.ft) in De Baptisnw, it was not regularly insti-
tuted until the rule of Stephen, Bishop of Rome, about
250 A.D. Previous to that time candidates were admitted
to the Church by prayer and laying on of hands.
The Hebrews "were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud
and in the sea."1 In Mongolia and Thibet the child is
dipped three times into the water. Among the followers
of Zoroaster the children were brought to the temple to be
baptized. The rite was also celebrated by the ancient
Egyptians, Etruscans, Mexicans, Greeks, Romans and
others. Both Tertullian and Justyn Martyr claimed that
those earlier rites were invented by demons to discredit the
later true Christian Baptism.2 -
11 Corinthians, s, 2.
tells us that: "The nations who are strangers to all
spiritual powers (the heathen), ascribe to their idols (gods) the
power of impregnating the waters with the same efficacy as in
Christian Baptism.... The devil signed his soldiers in the fore-
head, in imitation of the Christians.... He baptizes his followers
he promises the remission of sins . . . and thus initiates them
into the religion of Mithra." Dc Pr.e:crq'Sione Haerehcorum,
chanter XL
The Baptism 129
Among the Brahmins several forms of baptism are
used, from sprinkling in certain ceremonies to being
plunged three times in the waters of a sacred river during
other ceremonies. Initiation into the Mithraic and Bacchic
Mysteries was marked by the baptism of the candidate,
after which his forehead was marked with the sign of the
cross. Among the Egyptians candidates for initiation
into the Mysteries of Isis were also baptized. Since
baptism was the first sacrament of initiation into the
Mysteries of practically all ancient religions ages before
the founding of Christianity it is only natural that it
should also mark the first step of initiation into the
Mysteries of Jesus.
Why has baptism thus held its place through the ages
as the first and universal sacrament? Because mankind
has universally recognized that man is prevented from
contacting and correlating his consciousness with the
Divine both by the limitations of his unillumined mind
and by the vibrations of mistakes due to ignorance and to
the domination of his sins and his animal desires. While
such desires serve a useful purpose when normal, they
must not be allowed to go to excess or to dominate, but
in the spiritual life they must be purified and controlled
through transmutation and made to subserve their normal
functions. For mastery is attained not by killing out,
but by the perfect control of all normal f*pictions.
The word baptism comes from the Greek word "pho-
tisina" which means illumination, that inner illumination
which comes only through the descent of the Spirit.
Complete baptism, therefore, consists of three stages, each
often requiring many years for its completion, namely,
(a) the purification of the body and the desires from the
lusts of the flesh; (b) the purification of the mind from
self-indulgence, misunderstandings and false conceptions,
the resulting illumination of which reveals the Path and
all that it involves, and (c) the birth of the Christ-
consciousness within which makes us truly Sons of God.
True baptism is both a mystical and a magical ceremony.
130 The Pattern Life
Through the use of an appropriate formula such as,
"Sanctify this water to the mystical washing away of
sin.. . in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and
of the Holy Ghost. Amen," the true priest has gained
the ability to speak the Word of Power and makes the
Sign of the Cross over the water. He thus invokes the
superphysical forces which give the water a property it
did not have before. This added spiritual energy rein-
forces the spiritual forces of the candidate and helps to
protect him from any evil forces from the unseen.
True baptism is therefore not a mere mechanical cere-
mony, but marks a definite preparation which must be
made by the candidate when he reaches that cycle of
unfoldment wherein he recognizes that he must put away
the childish pleasures of the self-indulgent life and prepare
to enter a new and higher life.
Just as the Earth is prepared for a new Age by a great
baptism due to extensive continental submersions or other
cleansing cataclysms of water, so must there be a definite
cleansing of the body, mind and life of man often
through catadysms of illness, sorrow and misfortune
that certain obstructions may be removed ere it is possible
for him to respond to the higher octaves of spiritual force
which wash away the desire for the old life and prepare
him for a new life. In other words, baptism marks the
first consciously recognized and voluntarily sought stage
of that purification and regeneration so necessary ere we
can be "born again"; for, "Except a man be born of
water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of
In all ancient Mysteries, as well as in the early Christian
Church, there were three definite baptisms which marked
the three major stages of bodily and spiritual regeneration
and symbolized the manifestations of the three aspects of
the Trinity, i.e., the baptism by water, the baptism by fire,
and the baptism by the Spirit or the Holy Ghost. The
baptism by fire is the invocation of the Light of the
SÇ John, iii, 5.
The Baptism 131
Shekina upon the candidate; that spiritual fire which
enters into the finer bodies of the candidate through the
seven sacred centers when the proper preparation and
purification has been completed and which results in
spiritual illumination. The baptism by the Spirit or the
Holy Ghost refers to the descent of the Divine Self into
the human personality or that at-one-ment with the Divine
which is the object of all religious endeavors and for
which all previous steps and ceremonies are but prepara-
tory. Although the Christian Church no longer celebrates
the baptism by fire, nevertheless, it is still celebrated in
India by having the candidate jump three times through
the flames of a sacred fire.
The Baptism of children is a Christian rite which arose
from the false and misleading medieval doctrine of a sup-
posed "original sin" of Adam and Eve,4 but which occultly
is unnecessary and mystically of little value. In the early
centuries the catechuman could not be baptized until he
was familiar with the requirements of the faith he was
embracing, and was willing to accept its obligations. But
with the growth of the idea that every child was born in
sin and cursed with original sin, it was thought essential
that the babe be cleansed from that stain lest it die in sin.5
Later on, this ceremony became conventionalized into
celebrating the obligation of the parents to bring the child
up with the knowledge of the tenets qf their particular
church.
The three stages of baptism are all combined and mar-
velously illustrated in the story of the baptism of Jesus.
He is represented as first (a) being baptized with the
water of Jordan. After that (b) the heavens opened and
the Light or the Spiritual Fire of the Shekina descended
upon Him with cloven tongues of flame resembling the
wings of a dove. Then (c) the Voice spake and gave
recognition to the fact of His spiritual Sonship. "This is
4 explanation see The Truth about Evolution and the Bible,
Curtis; 62-3.
5For the purity of birth see Chapter 111,3.
132 The Pattern Life
my beloved son in whom I am well pleased." These three
phenomena the opening of the heavens, the descent not
of an actual dove, but of a blazing ray of spiritual Light
"like a dove," and the Voice are recognized only by the
illuminated consciousness. They represent the three as-
pects of the Trinity which must descend upon and mani-
fest in man ere he can attain the full status of Christhood.
We see three similar stages of manifestation in Nature.
The seed must have the forces of the water, the earth and
the Sun in order to put forth its sprout into the new
world of light, air and freedom. Similarly, the Christ
seed needs the water of Divine Love to soften the protect-
ing shell of the intellect; it needs to assimilate the strength
gained from the lessons of earth conditions; and finally it
needs the fire of the Spiritual Sun to illumine its mani-
festation.
Since baptism is a universal symbol, its three stages
must apply to a sequence of changes which take place
within us, once we have reached the point in our spiritual
unfoldment where we recognize the necessity of acicnowl-
edging our failures and mistakes and of deansing our-
selves of all impurities, that our bodies and minds may no
longer be clogged by accumulated impurities but be free
to vibrate to the forces of the indwelling Spirit or Higher
Self.
In the Bible story John the Baptist symbolizes the
human intellect which has begun to respond to the inner
urge to turn away from the old life of materialism and
follow the life of inner Divine Guidance. He also repre-
sents the all-compelling call of the conscience summoning
the personality to repentance, purification and renuncia-
tion of the world's dominance, which are indispensable to
the success of the quest for spirituality and C1IriSthOOd.
As the intellect follows this higher guidance it begins
to serve us as prophet and priest. But first it must be
ready to recognize that there is a power within the
Christ-consciousness far greater than itself and to say
with John: "There cometh one after me, the latchet of
Th Baptism 133
whose shoes I am unworthy to stoop down and unloose
but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost."
John is represented as being dothed in skins and crying
in the wilderness: "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven
is at hand.... Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make
His paths straight." For the intellect is clothed in its
animal body (skin) and wanders in the wilderness of the
outer life until it is awakened to the possibility of some-
thing far greater coming to it. Then it realizes that it
must make straight the crooked paths of error and sin ere
the Christ-consciousness can flow in. Hence it cries out:
"Repent ye" until its Path through the outer life is changed
and made straight so that the influx of Divine Love can
bring forth the Christ-consciousness.
In other words, when once recognized, the intellect
readily admits the superiority of the Christ-consciousness,
and feels that it is unworthy even to unloose the coverings
(shoes) of the understanding (feet) which shall bring
about the baptism of the Holy Ghost. For when the
heart hungers for spiritual food, for the warmth of Divine
Love and the light of illumination, the giant intellect
(John) realizes its helplessness to satisfy that Soul-
hunger. It can give a cold analysis of conditions and a
mental explanation of the process and the results that
should follow, but it cannot confer the 'ower. Only the
Holy Ghost can accomplish the miracle of awakening the
Christ-consciousness, and reveal its glory.
The meaning of the word John is "the Lord graciously
gave." In other words, no matter how wise, learned and
capable the human personality may be, it can never attain
Christhood through its own unaided powers. That is at-
tained only by baptism in its three-fold aspect which "the
Lord graciously bestows from above" when the personality
prepares for it both through repentance and by making
all its powers and faculties subvervient to the Divine.
Only thus can man attain that Christhood symbolized by
the three-fold baptism.
'St. Mark. 1.7.8.
134 The Pattern Life
The first impulse of the newly awakened Soul is an
ardent desire to get away from the old life and environ-
ment: to give up the comforts and pleasures of the world
and dwell apart as in a wilderness, that he may thereby
find the Christ. This stage requires courage and the
power to dare; for like all who are truly awakened
spiritually, he dares all conventions and the criticism of
his family and friends, as well as the limitations and priva-
tions of the wilderness. In the next stage he has an over-
powering realization of the new life and of his duty to
make it known to others; his responsibility to help save
the world. To express this desire to accomplish or do
something for humanity he is eager to take the responsi-
bility for humanity on his own shoulders. He, therefore,
cries out: "Repent ye: the kingdom of heaven is at hand."
Thus he goes about his chosen work determinedly and
courageously, even if not always wisely or lovingly, and
may bring many to a realization of their need for repent-
ance and to desire the baptism of the higher illumination.
Applying this symbology to the changes which take
place within the consciousness of the awakened per-
sonality, John the Baptist represents the intellect which
has awakened to the fact that without the higher spiritual
consciousness life is but a wilderness in which it finds
itself clothed in a garment of camel's hair. This was a
cheap, coarse outer garment commonly worn by the poor
in Palestine and symbolizes the animal body with which
the intellect finds itself clothed, and whose instincts it
must learn to dominate and make subservient to the higher
ideals it has just realized.
The girdle symbolizes the orbit of the Sun and identifies
the wearer as a priest of the T such as "the curious
girdle of the ephod.. . of fine twined linen, and blue
and purple and scarlet," $ which identified Aaron and his
sons as priests of the Lord. Physiologically it refers to
the current of vital force which encircles the body just
'For details see The Key to the Universe, Curtiss, 36, .322.
szfr 5. zsziz, 29.
Th Baptism 135
below the breasts which is especially strong in those whose
centers are highly unfolded. As the Feast of St. John is
held on June 24th, as the Sun reaches the highest point
of the summer solstice in the sign Cancer symbol of
the breasts geographically the girdle symbolizes the
Tropic of Cancer which girdles the globe just below its
"breast."
A wilderness is not a desert but a confusion of over-
grown bushes, brambles and vines, a region uncultivated
and without roads, only the meandering and aimless paths
made by wandering animals seeking food and drink. Yet
a wilderness is full of possibilities for primitive human
habitation, happiness and comfort once it is cleared of its
underbrush, properly organized and cultivated.
Until the Christ-consciousness comes to it for recogni-
tion, the awakened intellect finds life just such a wilder-
ness. It strives to satisfy its hunger for spiritual food
with outer conceptions comparable to the most primitive
food, locusts and wild honey. Locusts are pestiferous
insects which completely ruin the beauty and devastate
the landscape over which they swarm. But they are made
to serve a useful purpose by many primitive people who
dry, roast and grind them into flour so that they are made,
temporarily, a chief article of diet for about four months.
Wild honey, while having a certain sweetness, is often
made bitter and acrid by the blossom nctar of certain
weeds, and in some cases it contains narcotic and even
poisonous substances. It symbolizes the sweetness of the
world's enjoyments which, although the result of the
greatest bee-like planning and industry, so often leave a
bitter taste or even unsatisfied cravings. We recognize
that this is as far as the intellect can satisfy us, so we
must feed on what food the wilderness supplies until the
Christ comes with "the bread which cometh down from
heaven."'
How truÇ a picture of the condition in which the
awakened Soul finds itself when forced to subsist on the
'St. Lüe. i'i. 50.
136 The Pattern Life
temporary, primitive and unspiritualized food of the outer
life! Its former intellectual activities, once so satisfying,
no longer appease the Soul-hunger. The intellect now
realizes that the paths by which the vibrations of the
higher consciousness can reach it, must be made straight,
that all the old mental twists, misconceptions and habits
of life which prevented the inflow of the Christ-conscious-
ness must be straightened out.
In technical training the Hindus claim that this also
refers to that stage of unfoldment wherein the positive
and negative currents of forceIda and Pingala are
no longer allowed to twine and twist around the spinal
cord, but must be blended into one and be made to pass
straight up the Sushuntna canal in the center of the cord
ere the complete Illumination of the Christ-consciousness
can be attained.
The intellect now realizes that "the kingdom of heaven
is at hand" or within, but that it cannot be attained except
through repentance. The personality must realize, face
and acknowledge the conditions it has set up through its
mistakes of ignorance and through its sins of omission and
commission, and be sincerely sorry for them and positively
determined that they shall not continue. It, therefore,
calls upon all its faculties, habits, thoughts and desires
which have not been constructive especially those which
have been most influential and which offer the greatest
resistance, like the Pharisees and Sadducees to repent
or "turn back" from the old life and begin to follow the
new; to prove their sincerity by bringing forth "fruits
meet for repentance."
We must realize that the old life was not the Way; that
it did not reveal to us the Truth nor did it lead us into the
true spiritual Life. The repentance must, therefore, be
more than a mere intellectual recognition of our sins and
mistakes, for it must be followed by the baptism or a
definite cleansing of both body and mind. This is aom-
plished only by deliberately Immersing oneself in and
correlating with the waters of Divine Love.
Th Baptism 137
In the condensed Bible story the heavens seem to open
immediately after the baptism, but in actual life it may
require a long period in which to change the habits of life
and purify the mind land body so that the Inner Light is
revealed. And it may be still longer ere the inner Voice
speaks with authority and the at-one-ment is attained.
But "the way, the truth and the life"1° has now been
recognized and actually entered upon, and it requires only
faith, courage and repeated and persistent efforts for the
goal to be attained. And every conscious effort we make
toward that end is a step up this Mount of Attainment.
Owing to ancient misconceptions the word repent
carries a fearsome meaning to certain sensitive Souls. In
medieval times to express true repentance it was thought
necessary to don sackcloth and ashes, retire into seclusion
for a time, abuse and mortify the flesh and bemoan one's
past mistakes like a worm of the dust. Hence to many
earnest and loving Souls who have searched diligently to
attain a definite realization of the Christ, such a conception
of the word repent is like a stone of stumbling in their
path; for they have not been vicious or evil and their
mistakes have been only the unwitting ones due to ig-
norance. But when we understand that to repent simply
means to recognize and turn away from wrong thoughts,
acts and habits that we may follow the .guidance of the
Inner Man instead of the outer, we see that the word
repent is really but the call of the loving Christ who said:
"Suffer the little children (i.e., the well meaning but
ignorant ones) to come unto me and forbid them not."
The intellect cries, "Repent," but the Christ cries, "Come
unto me."
From another standpoint John the Baptist represents
that class of newly awakened ones who ardently seek to
bring the worldly ones to the loving Christ by denouncing
them and picturing the disasters that will follow a con-
tinuation of the old life. Such exhorters seek to force
repentance through fear instead of inspiring it through
10See lesson The Way, the Truth and the Life, Curtiss.
138 The Pattern Life
a reaUzation of mistakes and the cleansing power of love.
Instead of teaching their followers to purify their lives
and perfect their conditions of life, such teachers often
mistakenly seek to lead their students away from their
positions and duties in the world and to live apart in re-
treats and colonies, forgetting that mere change of location
is not sufficient to produce the cleansing baptism. We do
not have to change our abode or move to another city or
live an ascetic life apart from our fellowmen to repent and
be baptized. We have only to recognize the futility and
the sorrow-producing habits of the old life and seek to
correct them through the love-power of the Christ within,
no matter where we may be.
But even such teachers, when sincere and true, are
recognized by the Christ, for only He can fully understand
what they call their mission. There are many John the
Baptists wandering in the wilderness of earth conditions
and preaching repentance today, yet their zeal is clothed
only in the most primitive ideas, almost naked or clothed
only with camel's hair and a leather girdle or only the
crudest understanding of how to save the world. Yet they
often have a true divine eagerness to "make straight the
paths" of the Christ, and there are always those to whom
such teachers and such methods appeal.
Jesus plainly recognizes both the value and the ability
of such teachers. "What went ye out for to see? A reed
shaken by the wind? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you,
and much more than a prophet."1' This recognition of
the good that such John the Baptists accomplish is most
comforting and encouraging. No matter how imperfect
the understanding and how crude the methods of such
workers for the Christ, if they be sincere and earnest and
willing to learn, the Christ will surely come to them and
recognize them and accept their efforts to make straight
the paths by which His children may come Unto Him and
be purified and baptized with the fire of the Spirit.
(To Be Continued)
"SI. Luke. vu. 26.
Chapter XIII
THE BAPTISM
Pm IL THE CHRIST
"Then cometh Jesus from Galilee unto Jorden unto John,
to be baptized of him. But John forbade him, saying, I have
need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? And
Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for
thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness." St. Matthew.
iii, 13-li.
"Ye yourselves bear me wkness, that I said, I am not the
Christ, but that I am sent before him.... He must increase,
but I must decrease." St. John, in, 28, 30.
If John the Baptist is regarded merely as an historical
personage sent forth by God as a messenger and f ore-
runner to prepare followers for the forth-cpming of Jesus,
then his mission was almost a complete failure so far as
turning over to Jesus a following of several thousand
already baptized and organized disciples was concerned.
For we are told: "Then there went out to him Jerusalem
and all Judea, and all the region round about Jordan, and
were baptized of him?' (St. Matthew, 111,5,6). There-
fore Jesus should have had thousands of John's converts
who were ready to follow Him whom John had announced
as the Messiah, and ready to acclaim Him as soon as He
appeared. But we know that was far from being the case,
for at first Jesus is represented as laboriously trying to
gather even twelve followers. It is therefore well that
we consider John the Baptist not from the historical, hut
from the allegorical standpoint. Then, as usual with all
139
140 The Pattern Life
the other incidents in the life of Jesus, we will find the
key in the Universal Solar Myth.1
The Feast of St. John the Baptist is held on the day of
the summer solstice (June 22-24) in commemoration of
his birth. At that time the Sun reaches its highest point
in the heavens as it enters the watery sign Cancer the
sign of the breasts called the Nourisher. Since Cancer
is a watery sign it is only natural that John's baptism
should be of water. Also John is but a variant spelling nf
the name of the Babylonian Water-god Oannes or
Joannes. At this time the constellation of the Southern
Fish rises as the Sun sets and disappears as the Sun rises.
Here John represents both the physical Sun and the
physical man ruled by his intellect, while Jesus represents
the Spiritual Sun and the Spiritual Man, ruled by the
Spirit.
The birth of the Spiritual Man is placed at the time of
the winter solstice (Dec. 22-5) when the Sun is born in
Capricorn. After that the days begin to lengthen until
the time of the Ascension. This increase is especially
noticeable from the time of the Resurrection (March 21st)
when the Sun crosses the equator and is thus resurrected
from the Southern hemisphere, until it reaches its zenith
at the Ascension on June 24th. Thus the Spiritual Man
continually grows in strength until the time of Baptism,
after which he takes control of the personality, instead of
allowing the physical man to dominate.
Since John is six months older than Jesus, as the days
shorten after the Baptism, naturally John is made to say:
"He must increase, but I must decrease," as the two
phases of the Sun necessarily follow each other. Thus is
it said: "He that descended (on Dec. 22nd) is the same
also that ascended up (on June 21-4) far above all
heavens, that he might fill all things," (St. Matthew, iii,
5, 6), just as theSunas itascends fills allthingsin
Nature and thus enables them to reach their zenith or
their fruition.
1Sec Appeiidfr A.
TIz Baptism 141
Jesus is represented as being 30 years of age at this
time, since the Baptism takes pla when the Sun has
entered 30° into the sign Cancer. Jesus is said to have
ended His work after only three cycles or years, for the
Sun shines undimmed in the midheaven only three days
(June 21-24) before the days begin to shorten and its
power declines.
As explained in the previous chapter, in the personal
application of the story of the Baptism, John symbolizes
the intellect after it has awakened to the rili7ation that
there is a greater consciousness than the intellectual, to be
attained, the Christ-consciousness, represented by Jesus.
John's message was an expression of that all-compelling
yearning of the awakened conscience which is so necessary
as a preparation for the coming of the Christ-conscious-
ness. This call of the conscience must be recognized and
responded to ere the Voice of the Christ can be heard or
understood. And the baptism by water must be accom-
plished ere the baptism by fire is possible.
Up until the Baptism we are told only of the babe the
young boy, and the carpenter's son, Jesus the man. Only
after the Baptism do we learn of the christened or
Christed One, Jesus the Christ. The Baptism by water
marks the entry of the Christ-consciousness into the per-
sonality, the initiation of the personality into the Christ-
life. For only when we have courageously looked within
and repented and purified ourselves are we able to look up
and see the Christ approaching. John, therefore, repre-
sents the awakened personality with all its powers purified
and at the service of the Christ, while Jesus represents the
regenerate or Spiritual Man. Not only was John's coming
foretold by the prophets (Malachi, iv, 5) and heralded by
the angels (St. Luke, 1.13) as a forerunner, but his mis-
sion was and is, and always will be1 an absolutely neces-
sary preparation for the mission of the Christ, both in
the individual and in the world as a whole.
Next there is recorded a most curious incident. Jesus
comes to John to be baptized by him. Quite naturally
142 The Pattern Life
John demurs, saying: "I have need to be baptized of thee,
and comest thou to me?" But Jesus replies, "Suffer it to
be so now; for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteous-
ness." There is no explanation given anywhere in the
Gospels as to why Jesus needed to be baptized by anyone.
Certainly He did not need to be purified, nor can we sup-
pose that John had any powers to confer on Jesus which
He did not already possess. Why then the need of bap-
thin by John? Also, John baptized sinners only, and only
after they had confessed their sins and repented. Since
Jesus had not sinned He had no sins to confess and no
need of repentance, yet He came to John for baptism.
Why? If we follow the symbolic interpretation it is so
simple that we can easily understand the law.
The law is that that which is Immortal cannot manifest
on earth except through that which is mortal. There must
be a physical vehicle. Just as the Soul cannot manifest on
earth without using the physical body as its instrument
of expression, and is limited in that expression by the
stage of development and character of the body, so must
the Christ-consciousness use the human intellect as an
avenue of expression. Yet its expression is limited by
the capacity of the intellect to recognize and understand
what is wanted and what is taldng place. For the intellect
is generally both unresponsive to the higher octaves of
force and is also easily influenced and even warped by its
preconceived opinions and habits of thought.
Aitho the River of Life (Jordan) is always flowing
through man and trying to wash away the impurities of
the lower animal instincts, nevertheless it is hidden from
his recognition until the Christ comes to be baptized by its
waters. The Christ recognizes the mission and importance
of the intellect and insists on being baptized with all its
powers. Only when the Christ-consciousness is con-
sciously recognized within and is baptized with all the
powers of the newly awakened intellect can "the fulness of
righteousness," which is man's heritage and which gives
The Baptãm 143
him dominion over the beasts of the field, be manifested.
If man denies the Christ-consciousness and refuses to
respond to it and follows only his intellectual guidance, he
is wilfully denying the Christ as did Peter. The Christ
never forces us, yet knows His lack of power to manifest
except as we recognize and give Him the use of all our
faculties.
As we have repeatedly pointed out, altho the Christ-
consciousness is born in our heart not in our head
in a moment of ecstasy, it must dwell for a long time
obscured in the Galilee of outer conditions, working
through three cycles of completion (3 x 10=30 years
of age) as a carpenter until it has prepared the "house"
or the character of the personality to receive both its outer
recognition by John and its illumination through the
Baptism. Thus it grows so strong that the intellect must
bow before it and give it recognition.
Many, many times does the Christ come to us for recog-
nition but we refuse to admit that there is a faculty or
power superior to our intellect or reason. Yet as we
emerge from the obscurity of the wilderness of the outer
life, ultimately the time comes when we recognize that
life without spiritual realization is indeed but a wilderness
and that something must be done about 'it. When we are
ready to repent or change our former mode of life and
recognize the redemptive power of the Spirit, then the
Christ comes to us for baptism. With the Baptism the
Presence is revealed. For John the baptism of Jesus was
the end of his career, for he is soon beheaded the intel-
lect is soon removed from dominating our life but for
Jesus it is the beginning of His manifestation.
Like John, the intellect at first refuses, realizing that it
is unworthy to unloose the latchets of His shoes, i.e.,
release the coverings (shoes) which have hitherto confined
the understanding (feet) of the Christ in its contact with
the outer life (earth). But the Christ points out that to
enable Him "to fulfil all righteousness" the intellect must
144 The Pattern Life
both recognize and confer all its powers on Him that He
may use them for His manifestation in the mental and
physical worlds.
While the intellect which has heretofore dominated our
lives must willingly give up its rule, or be "beheaded,"
and obediently follow the guidance of the Christ within,
yet it must not be utterly despised and cast aside. For the
intellect is no longer merely the expression of a current of
force flowing through the mental world, but is now il-
Inminated and becomes a spring of living water filled with
everlasting life, bubbling up from the Christ within. We
are not told to do this and not to do that like babies, but
must now seek deep within and ask of the Christ which
course of action will most please and serve Him.
Later on, as our illumined intellect points out to King
Desire (Herod) his illegitimate use of the creative force
(Matthew, xiv, 3-12), it is temporarily overwhelmed or
put in prison at the demand of lust (Salome) and ulti-
mately is "beheaded" or recognizes that it cannot over-
come all the former conditions in its own strength and so
gives itself up completely that the Christ alone may mani-
fest. For John can impart to his disciples no greater
wisdom than the outer Mysteries connected with the plane
of matter, of which Water is the symbol. His Gnosis is
that of the exoteric and ritualistic dogma, of dead letter
orthodoxy; while the wisdom which Jesus would reveal
is higher spiritual wisdom, the Fire Wisdom of the true
Gnosis or real Spiritual Enlightenment.2
Instead of condemning the shortcomings He may find
in us, the Christ temporarily says: "Suffer it to be so
now," but shows us how they can be corrected and re-
deemed. From this time on the disciple begins to point
out and draw others into the Path of Attainment through
love and the example of his life instead of intellectually
trying to compel them through fear that, "He will thor-
oughly purge his floor and gather his wheat into his
2The Secret Doctrine. Blayatsky. II, 59&
TIz Baptisns 145
garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable
fire." (St. Matthew, iii, 12).
To cry, "Repent ye" is a form of condemnation. To
cry, "Suffer it to be so now," is to draw to us through
compassion the hearts of mankind. Nor should we let
the intellect think it can help others by telling them of the
wonderful experiences it has passed through and the
marvelous visions given it, lest we be like the hypocrites
publishing their attainments and making great ebims as to
their powers, on the street corners, that they may have
glory of men. Only as our Soul communes with God in
secret will He reward us openly.
Happy is he who has been baptized by the Spirit.
(To Be Concluded)
chapter xiv
THE BAPTISM
PART IlL TUE JORDAN
"The Baptism in the Jordan is the Rite of Initiation, the
final purification, whether in sacred pagoda, tanlç river or
temple lake in Egypt or Mexico. The perfect Christos and
Sophia divine Wisdom and Intelligence enter the Initiate
at the moment of the mystic rite." The Secret Doctrine,
Blavatsky, iii, 159.
"The Jordan symbolizes the celestial river Eridanus, the
Milky Way." Appendix 4.
Although the river Jordan is used primarily as a mighty
symbol of the mystical inner cleansing which is essential
for crossing into the "promised land" and for the recep-
tion of the Christ-consciousness, that is not its only mean-
ing. Physically the Jordan is a swift, muddy stream,
falling 610 feet during its course of sixty miles, as it
passes through the Sea of Galilee and falls into the Dead
Sea. "It has never been navigable, no important town
has ever been built upon its banks, and it runs into an
inland sea which has no seaport and is destitute of aquatic
life . . . on the whole, it is an unpleasant, foul stream,
running between poisonous banks, and as such it seems to
have been regarded by the Jews and other Syrians."1
Ancient Hebrew authorities on the Talmud say that its
waters are so impure, because so mixed and muddy, that
1Encyclojedia Britannica, xv, 509.
146
The Baptism 147
it should never be used for baptism, not even for sprin-
kling. And yet it is this same dirty and unclean water,
which was never used by the Jews for baptism, in which
Jesus is represented as being baptized. It is, therefore,
evident that its use was symbolic, for all the people of
Palestine knew that it was never used for actual baptismal
purposes.
When John's mission has progressed to the proper
stage: that is, when in every sincere Soul the intellect has
reached the point where it recognizes the Christ, not as a
mere expectation or a logical belief which it is willing to
accept and prepare for, but as a real, vitally living force,
consciousness and power which comes into the life of
every true seeker after righteousness just where he is and
as he is, then he becomes what The Voice of the Silence
calls, "He who has entered the stream." From this stand-
point the Jordan symbolizes the pure River of Life which
flows through man's inner spiritual body and which brings
to him a realization of the purifying spiritual truths with
which he must be baptized; that Divine Stream which
separates man from the lower kingdoms as definitely as
the Jordan separates the wilderness from the Promised
Land.
In the zodiac the Sun is led for its baptism to the River
of Heaven or the Milky Way. By reference to our map of
the heavens it will be seen that as the Sun enters the sign
Cancer, the Milky Way is seen overhead at a point where
it separates into two streams, between which is revealed
the constellation Cygnus, the Swan or Dove. Therefore,
it is said: "The heavens were opened unto him, and he
saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting
upon him." As the sign Cancer is at the right hand of
Leo which is called the Throne of the Sun or where the
Sun is exalted in the midheaven naturally the allegory
tells us: "I saw the heavens opened, and the Son of Man
standing on the right hand of God."2 Also, "Hereafter
2Ss. Matthew, IU, 16.
tActs. iii, 55.
148 The Pattern Life
shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of
power, and coming in the clouds of heaven."4
The use of the river Jordan to symbolize purification
we have already explained, but it also has another im-
portant symbology to which we have alluded above. As
we have said before: "One aspect of this mystic river is
the great stream of astral force which surrounds manldnd
as the amniotic waters surround the unboru fetus." "For
the astral, being the great reflector, contains all the mud,
debris, and offscourings of earth mingled with the pure,
clear Waters of Life from the spiritual plane."
"Because in its waters the pure River of Life flowing to
hnminity from the higher worlds js mingled with the mud
and slime and debris from all the lower worlds, it is
fittingly symbolized by the river Jordan in Canaan, for its
physical features correspond most marvelously with those
of this river of astral force.... We realize that we
have reached the end of the wilderness, yet between us
and the Promised Land there flows a swift, deep, turbu-
lent, muddy and treacherous river. For just as the River
of Death (Styx) marks a definite boundary between our
mortal life and the life beyond, so does the mystical River
Jordan mark a definite boundary between the life of a
seeker which we have led as wanderers in the wilderness
to which life we must die as we cross the Jordan and
the new life into which we are born when we cross the
mystical river and begin the life of a Neophyte. At this
step our astral senses begin to unfold and we are con-
fronted with strange happenings and experiences which
we do not understand, and which often frighten us. And
because these new faculties are beginning to unfold we
are subjected to the trials and temptations of that world
of insidious desire and delusion. The swift eddies of the
astral forces toss us this way and that, often undermining
St. Masikew, i 4.
'For a fuller symbology of the Jordan see The Message of
Aquaria, Curtiss, 330-4.
Realms of Use Living Dead, Curtiu, 31.
Th Baptùm 149
our footing and carrying us beyond our depth, just as
would happen were we to attempt to wade the physical
river Jordan at the season of its flood."
As we enter this stream of astral force when our higher
faculties begin to unfold, we can maintain our footing
and emerge without being swept away only through the
power of the Christ within Who accompanies us, once our
intellect (John) has recognized Him and our power is
strengthened by the descent of the Holy Ghost For in
ourselves the Jordan symbolizes the swirling, muddy
currents of the desires of the flesh which seek to sweep
us off our feet (understanding) when we try to make our
illumined intellect sustain us in a new and upright lift.
For there comes a time in our spiritual unfoldment when
the newly recognized Christ-power within us must go
down to the lowest depths of our nature and bring the
purifying and redemptive power of the Christ-love and
light into these desires, just as Jesus descended into the
muddy waters of the Jordan. But we must not linger
there, but "straightway come up" out of those conditions
and that state of consciousness.
Just as light and water give new life and growth to all
Nature, enabling the pure white lily to rise out of the
foul muck of the swamp, so does the Light of the Christ
and the Water of Divine Love the refreshing daily
realization of our oneness with the Divine give life
and growth to our spiritual nature and enable the blossoms
of spiritual aspiration and attainment to arise out of the
lowest mire of our nature.
After we have received our Baptism and have straight-
way come up out of the stream, our higher centers will
be ready to open so that we can see the heavens of the
higher consciousness open, can see the Light descend, can
hear the Voice and recognize the coming of the Dove. Ac-
cording to the Gospel account the events of the Baptism
constituted a sp.rIwular, physical demonstration of
psychic phenomena, but we have seen that all such phe-
nomena take place within the candidate himself. That
150 The Pattern Life
"the heavens opened" may not mean that literally the
clouds in the sky parted and the Sun shone through and
a dove flew down, but that our spiritual consciousness
opens or expands so that our understanding is no longer
overshadowed by the dark clouds of materialism and
doubt, but is able to respond to the higher planes of con-
sciousness and we realize the presence of God within us.
It is this unfoldment or opening of the inner life which
brings divine realization: rIi,ttion of the Presence.
This unfoldment enables us to hear the Inner Voice which
proclaims that the Divinity within us which we have just
recognized is indeed the Christ "Thou art my beloved
Son, in whom I am well pleased" a Son or a positive
manifestation of God. And we are awed by the majesty
and are uplifted by the power of that rdfr-ition.
The Dove is the Christian symbol for the Sheidna or
Holy Ghost, also for gentleness and purity, as the Swan
is in India and the Ibis in Egypt. The Shekina descends
in cloven tongues of flame simulating the wings of a dove
and brings to the one who has reached this great initiation
the dual creative power of the Father-Mother and a full
realization of what true spiritual Sonship means, yet it
also soothes our sorrow and stills the turmoil of our re-
morse.
Although this event seems to take place immediately
after the Baptism, it must be remembered that the process
of purification inaugurated by the Baptism may take
months or even years to complete. And it is only after
we have completed it so that we can come "up straightway
out of the water" that we can expect the heavens to open
and the full illumination of the Spirit to be given us.
Previous to this great event we may have the Inner Guid-
ance of intuition and perhaps many flashes of the Divine
Light, but only when the sacred nest in our hearts is fully
completed can the Divine Dove descend to remain with
us permanently and enable us to manifest fully the fact
that we are truly Sons of God in whom the Father is well
pleased and in whom He can now find expression.
The Baptism 151
Once we truly realize this in our hearts, we feel and
know it is so sacred and so easily lost in the outer wilder-
ness of our own pride and rejoicing that we dare not
speak of it to others, but must hide it deep in our hearts,
even as we would hide a precious seed in the ground if
we wanted it to grow into a great tree that was to bring
forth its fruit for all people. For if we proclaim it to
the world we dissipate its force and it will wither and die,
for the world will not recognize or believe it until we
are strong enough to demonstrate it, and will call us
hypocrites.
Later on when John sees Jesus coming toward him he
cries: "Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the
sins of the world." The illumined intellect thus recognizes
that it requires more than mere thought power, more than
a mere change of thought, to transmute the inharmonies
and impurities created by us before our awakening, whose
vibrations and influence still saturate our minds and life.
We must realize therefore that the purification is more
than a mental process; that it cannot be accomplished in
our own mortal strength alone, but that it requires a
power higher and greater than our own, the coming of
the Christ within; the infusion of the "blood of the
Lamb" or the purifying fire of the Christ-force. For it
is only the Christ-force, recognized by us and invited to
enter and flood our entire being and purify our lives, that
can bear and transmute the sins of our world.
Even though the illumined intellect fully recognizes
and rejoices at this definite coming of the Christ-con-
sciousness, only too often it is found difficult to hold fast
to the realization at first, for the conditions of the outer
physical life are like the waves of the sea, tossed by every
wind that blows. Clouds and storms are bound to come,
and, alas, as we drop down into the trough of routine
earthly conditions, so often the memory of our spiritual
realization and Soul experience is blotted out and we grow
discouraged, and this but adds to the storm. We must
therefore learn to impress our spiritual realizations upon
152 The Pattern Life
our physical brain and write them indelibly upon our
hearts so that they will be there at all times to bring peace
and joy and realization of the nearness and power of the
Christ within, and thus turn the tide of earth conditions
and allow the spiritual life to dominate instead.
We must realize that the Christ is forever sending forth
His blessings and His help as though from a broadcasting
radio station. But only to those who "tune in" with the
receiving set within our hearts a definite work which
each must do tan the message of love, understanding
and the spiritual power-to-accomplish become a vital part
of our daily lives. Then what seemed to be but the daily
grind, shutting us away from all our higher ideals, soon
gives way to peace, satisfaction, and we are contented to
fill our allotted place and do our work in the world.
It is not those who are merely devout who receive the
real Baptism, but only the positive and actively striving
disciples of the Christ. For while John calls the attention
of the multitude thoughts, desires, and emotions of the
personality to the need for purification and baptism by
water, it is only the Christ who can baptize us with Fire
and the Holy Ghost. In other words, if we are to reach
the highest state of spiritual consciousness iUnmin.tion
and union with the Divine (Buddhi) it requires more
than intellectual understanding, more than mere passive
devotion to the forms of religion we have inherited be-
cause we happen to be born in a certain environment and
race. For the vast majority do not choose their form of
religion after careful study and a comparison with other
great religions. They passively inherit it with their na-
tionality and their family traditions.
The higher spiritual attainment, therefore, requires
more than a clean, good moral life and good citizenship.
It requires an active and persistent seeking for the Christ-
consciousness as a personal, psychological and spiritual
experience, putting aside all ideas of limitation as to the
manner in which or the religion through which that reali-
zation may come. For in the heart of every true religion
The Baptism 153
the Path of Attainment can be found if searched for
diligently. It is this voluntary seeking and recognition
of the Christ on our part that is the vital point. Like
the first two disciples who followed Jesus we must ask:
"Master, where dwdllest T And when we are told
to "Come and see" we must follow Him and dwell with
Him crc we can become His accepted disciples.
The invitation to "Come and see" and enjoy the intimate
conscious contact with the Christ ns not given to the
n&ultitude, nor to the mere orthodox follower of the letter
of the law (John), but only to those who had repented
and been purified and had taken the first steps into the
new life, the Kingdom of Christhood; those whose con-
scious recognition and following of the Christ had both
prepared and entitled them to learn the more advanced
lessons of the inner life or the "Mystery of the Kingdom
of God." "Unto you it is given to know the mystery of
the Kingdom of God: but unto them that are without
(unpurified and unitiated) all these things are done in
parables."
Therefore, let all who sincerely desire to know the
Mysteries of the Kingdom prepare themselves by re-
pentance and purification. Then the heavens of the
higher consciousness will surely open and the Dove of
spiritual illumination will descend in due season and
baptize them with the Holy Ghost.
Happy is he who ha.c received his Dove of illumination.
St. John 1,38-9.
8St. M0d. iv. 1L
Chapter XV
THE TEMPTATION IN THE
WILDERNESS
PART L THE FAST
"Then was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to
be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days
and forty nights, he was afterward an hungered." St. Mat-
thew, iv, 1-2.
"The 30 of Aquarius. together with the first 10 of Puces,
the sign of sacrifice, make up the 40 associated with the 40
days spent by Jesus in the wilderness where He is tempted by
or has to withstand the trying forces of Satan, Satar or Sat-
urn, the Tester, the co-ruler of Aquarius." Appendix A.
Since this incident is common to all versions of the
Universal Solar Myth,' let us first examine its basic as-
'Buddha was tempted by Mars, the Prince of Evil, not to adopt
a religious life, promising that if he would return to his kingdom
he would be given dominion over all the earth. "In seven days shalt
thou become the Emperor of the World, riding over the four great
continents." In the Hindu version the young "Krishna plays in the
wilderness and is assaulted by various fiends, and overcame them
all.... In the so-called Temptation of Zarathustra, the only
tempting done is an offer of Ahrinian to the prophet that if he
will renounce the good religion of Mazda he shall have a thousand
years' dominion; and Zarathustra refuses; predicting the coming
of his as yet unborn son, the Savior Saoshyant, who at the end of
time is to destroy Abriman and raise the dead." The virgin-born
Mexican Savior, Quetsalcoatle, was also tempted by the devil and
experienced a 40 day fast. In the Greek version Pan, pictured with
the horns, hoofs and tail of the devil, leads the young Sun-god,
Jove (Jupiter) to the mountain called the "pillar of heaven," from
which he is shown the lands afar off. In each case the hero passes
through a long fast
1S4
The Temptation in the Wilderness 155
tronomical significance. According to one authority:
"The whole temptation story is traceable to a Babylonian
sculpture of the Goat-God beside the Sun-God, interpreted
by the Greeks and Romans successively as an education
of Apollo or Jupiter by Pan on a mountain top."2 Pan,
the Goat-god, is usually pictured as the "terror-striker,"
(pan-ic maker), with horns, hoofs and tail like the Chris-
tian devil. Pan is another name for Saturn, the ruler of
the sign Capricorn in which the Sun begins its climb to
the heights of the northern heavens. Thus does Saturn
(Satan) test the "climber" up the Mount of Attainment
toward heaven (zenith).
But why should this astronomical symbolism be used
so universally in all ages and with only minor variations
among all peoples? We cannot repeat too often that it is
to show that the incidents in the cycle of manifestation of
the Sun in the heavens correspond to and illustrate the
stages in the manifestation of the Spiritual Sun in the
life of every aspirant for Christhood or every candidate
for the Sun Initiation or the Initiation into the Christ-
consciousness, once that Consciousness has been born in
the manger of his heart, as already explained. Neither
is a copy of the other, but both are examples of the one
universal Law of Manifestation.3
In the Christian version of this incident, the use of a
name so common among the Jews as that of Jesus, is
intended to indicate how common and universal is the
human expression of the Godhead or God-in-man; that
in the heart of even the most common of mankind there
is emplanted a replica of the Divine. Through this Image
of God within man the mighty force of the Godhead is
poured into the human personality which without it would
be but an advanced animal. For it was only when the
Soul, the pneunza, the "breath of life" or the inner Spir-
itual Man, was breathed into the nostrils of the human
2Pogon Christ:, Robertson, xiii.
* See The Key of Destiny, Curtiss, 119-122.
156 The Pattern Life
animal form that man became more than an animal, "and
man became a living Soul."4
It is to awaken this Image of God within and to unfold
and express its godlike powers in the flesh that is the
object of the Soul's incarnation on earth. And the stages
in the process of manifesting the Light of this inner
Spiritual Man or Sun of God the Christ within follow
the same stages as the manifestation of the physical Sun
during the cycle of the year. Hence, the Bible story is
but the Chrittwn version of the universal allegory and
the spiritual fact of the manifestation of that "true light,
which lighteth every man that cometh into the world."
As in so many other biblical incidents, we have conflict-
big accounts of the temptation in the different Gospels.
In St. Mark (i, 12), we are told that after the Baptism,
"immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness,"
while in St. John (i, 35-9) we are told that Jesus did not
go into the wilderness immediately, for the next day John
saw Him with two of His disciples who "came and saw
where he dwelt, and abode with him that day," presum-
ably while Jesus was selecting and testing Andrew and
Simon Peter. If Jesus went immediately into the wilder-
ness, where He is said to have remained for forty days,
He could not have been seen with Andrew and Peter the
next day. Nor could He have been seen going on into
Galilee "the day following" (i, 43). St. John further
says (iv) that after the Baptism Jesus went out of Judea
into Galilee and Samaria, implying that instead of spend-
ing forty days' in the wilderness Jesus spent the next
six weeks in those regions.
St. Luke tells us (iv, 1) that it was only after Jesus
"returned f1om Jordan" that He was "led (not driven,
for the Spirit never drives, only inspires and leads) by the
Spirit (not by the devil) into the wilderness." Yet there
4See Tue Tnith about Evolution mu! Size Bible, Curtiss, 56.
'St. John, i, 9.
'Moses fasted for 40 daysca Mt. Sinai,and Elijah40 dayson
Mt. Horeb. 1 Kings, ru, &
The Temptation in the Wilderness 157
was no wilderness nearer than Peraca or East of Mt.
Gilead, into which He could have been driven immediately.
In all the Mystery Schools the candidate for Initiation
had to be prepared by fasting and meditation to undergo
a period of testing, trial and temptation to prove his fitness
to take on the added responsibilities of the more advanced
steps. In the case of Jesus, His Baptism had conferred
on Him certain transcendental powers, and naturally He
had to be tested as to whether He would use them for
personal and selfish purposes. But who or what is this
that tests Him? Why does the Gospel story assume that
the earth and all the ldngdoms therof belonged to Satan?
and that he could give them to whomsoever he pleased?
Did he think that Jesus was so simple-minded that He
would accept such an offer? And how was Satan able
to enter the Holy City at all, much less ascend to the
pinnacle of the Temple therein? Also, how did he trans-
port Jesus from one place to another, in one case forty
miles and a hundred miles in the other? Did the devil
carry Jesus through the air as Faust was carried by
Mephistopheles on a broomstick to the Brocken? Or did
he apport Him from place to place through the fourth
dimension, as Philip was apported from Gaza in the desert,
more than twenty miles North to Azotus in Judea (Acts,
viii, 26, 40), and as the aged Simeon was apported into
the temple in Jerusalem so he could meet Jesus before
he died, as was promised him by the Lord? (St. Luke,
ii, 26-?). Only through the symbolic and spiritual in-
terpretation of this incident can the flat contradictions in
the accounts be reconciled and such questions as the above
be satisfactorily answered. And intellectual honesty can-
not ignore them.T
Th'Thus, they (the liferal interpretations) degrade -Jesus by
showing Him, at the bidding of the Devil, going here and there on
foolish and impossible errands; they present a picture of incidents
inhislifewhichcouldneveroccurinthelifeofanynian. Hence
the Temptation does not bring Jesus nearer to humanity, but re-
moves him further away. It has no recorded effect on his later
hfeoneartKandthereforeisauselcssexcresceace... Ifwehad
158 The Pattern Lij.
It is because in this biblical version of the Candidate's
testing Jesus represents the Neophyte, the spiritual As-
pirant, the OEmber, in whom the Light of the Spiritual
Sun has begun to shine, that he seeks to leave the cities
of the plain. He turns away from the attractions of the
outer dead-level, physical world, and starts to climb the
Mount of Attainment, symbolized by the climbing Goat
of Capricorn, the tenth sign. This climb begins as soon
as the Aspirant has been baptized with spiritual realization
and is filled with a fervent desire for spiritual attainment.
For few there be among sincere seekers who do not at
some time have a Baptism of the Holy Ghost or a realiza-
tion of oneness with the Divine, even though that heavenly
consciousness opens only for a moment, just long enough
for the "heavenly dove" to descend. Yet we seldom fully
understand that our consciousness has momentarily
touched or vibrated in harmony with the Christ within,
although we are filled with His great desire to manifest
through us.
The Aspirant thus often unknowingly enters upon the
mystical "Way of the Cross" upon which he must meet
and overcome all kinds of discouragements, obstacles and
temptations; for he must be tested as to his sincerity,
also as to which shall rule his life henceforth, the lusts of
the flesh and the ambitions of the mind or the Inner Guid-
ance of the Spirit.
That this period of testing or temptation is necessary
for our spiritual unfoldment and the ultimate attainment
of the Christ-consciousness is evidenced by the fact that
we are "led ufr of the Spirit into the wilderness," not
downward by the devil. This statement reveals the fact
that the experience is a universal inner spiritual one and
not an isolated historical incident. For it is inconceivable
that God would tempt us to sin or evil, but that He does
to take the story literally, in our day, we should be compelled to
think of it as a myth.... I take the view that what happened
to Jesus took place, solely and only, in the innermost recesses of
his souL" Life of CItht, Cain, 394-5.
The Temptation in the Wilderness 159
lead us up to a high state of consciousness where we can
prove our sincerity. It also indicates that the Soul thus
tested has reached that stage of unfoldment where it has
recognized the Inner Guidance and has learned to be "led
up of the Spirit," no matter how dreary or forbidding a
wilderness is seen ahead.
After even the brief uplift, joy and ecstasy of the
Baptism, the Spirit leads us back into the outer conscious-
ness of our daily life, our duties and physical affairs, and
the contrast is so great that life seems but a wilderness,
uninviting, pathless and purposeless. We are led there
not for the purpose of tempting us to fall and sin, but
that we may therein put the new-found power of our
realizations into manifestation in our lives. It is not what
we merely think of, assent to and approve of that counts,
but how much of those things we ,nanife.ct. For, "He
shall reward every man according to his works."8 like
athletes we must exercise our spiritual muscles powers
of accomplishment strengthen our minds, develop our
wills and prove our ability to face and overcome all ob-
stacles in our Path of Attainment.
As we have said elsewhere: "A wilderness is not a
desert, for it may embrace beautiful mountains, forests
and streams. It is simply a region that has been left to
Nature and is uncultivated." It may contain many
treasures intended for us, but which only the determined
and fearless Soul can find, he who persistently follows
the Inner Guidance and is "led up of the Spirit." In this
case we "fast" because we find the "fruits of the Spirit"
which nourished our spiritual growth are now lacking,
either because we have failed to cultivate them or because
they have not yet come to fruition.
The fast lasts forty days because it is composed of four
"cycles of completion" in earth conditions, 4 being the
number of the earth plane and 10 the number of cpm-
pletion (4 x 10= 40)." The same fundamental symbol-
"St. Matthew, xvi, 27. Roman:, ii, 6. Revelation, xx, 12.
"The Key to the Universe, Curtis 151, 135, 139.
160 The Pattern Life
ogy is found in the forty day fasts of Moses and Elias,
who also represented Sun-gods, and in the forty years of
wandering of the Children of Israel in the wilderness.
During these four cycles the Soul seems shut off from
the inflow of the light, life and love which it experienced
during the Baptism and must fast and be "an hungered,"
or subsist upon the spiritual food which it has already
received and built into its consciousness and life. It
thereby proves that the Baptism brought an influx of real
spiritual substance and was not merely an emotional ex-
perience or an intellectual conception of its possibility
and desirability.
The fast we must endure is not because further spir-
itual help is refused us, but because after the exaltation
of the Baptism we fall back into the consciousness of the
personality and the chilling fogs of doubt or the skepticism
and ridicule of our family and friends, through which
the Christ-light cannot penetrate. It is much like the
cloud of depression which surrounds a suicide and pre-
vents the Invisible Helpers from reaching and helping
him.'° As The Voice of the Silence U tells us: "Grey mists
will overhang its rough and stony height, and all be dark
beyond." All this creates a dense, heavy oppressive
atmosphere much like the sudden drop in the barometer
just before a storm which is very depressing to the
Soul, and really tests our attainment.
During this period of loneliness and hopelessness we
are apt to voice the complaint of St. Paul: "I find then
a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with
me." u This is ever the cry of the newly awakened Soul
that is struggling to cast off the swaddling bands of old
material conceptions and habits which have so hampered
its fuller expression. Apparently the Soul is left alone,
yet just as it is necessary that a babe be weaned and learn
to feed from a nursing bottle, so with the Soul at this
10See Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss, 152.
11Page56.
"Romans vii. 21.
The Temptation in the Wilderness 161
stage of its unfoldment No longer is the spiritual food
poured into the Aspirant like a mother's milk. The Divine
Mother has prepared plenty of food, but he must now
find and imbibe it for himself, yet never forget that the
Divine Mother is watching over him, trying to teach him
how to feed, and patiently waiting by his cradle for him
to learn this lesson.
It is only after this long and seemingly hopeless fast
that the temptation comes. Yet we should not be sur-
prised, for it is an experience common to everyone at this
stage of unfoldment. And it is consoling to know that:
"There hath no temptation taken you but such as is com-
mon to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you
to be tempted above that ye are able," to bear."
As we have already said: "Here we find the Christ-
man who has dedicated his life to humanity, driven by
the Spirit into the wilderness.... Thus, they pass 4
cycles of fasting, first trying to feed their spiritual hunger
with the joys of the material world, but finding that the
mere possession of things can never satisfy the Soul-
hunger. Then they enter upon a new day ip which they
realize the greatness of the mind and perhaps are swept
away to the extreme of declaring that 'mind is all and
all is mind.' They now seek in the intellectual conceptions
of the mental realm, in subtle philosophies and metaphysi-
cal speculations, to appease the hunger of their Souls.
But sooner or later their Souls find that they are still
feeding on the husks and still fasting from that true spir-
itual food which alone can satisfy."
"They then seek satisfaction in the psychic phenomena
which their intellectual research has brought to their at-
tention. At first perhaps their hunger is appeased by the
phenomena õf seances, in messages and platitudes from
their departed friends, in anything that will lift their
consciousness above the material and mechanistic concep-
tion of life. Later this proves to be but a mental diversion,
although it is a training which enables them to appreciate
"I Corii:hfans. z. 13.
162 The Pattern Life
the real spiritual Bread of life which must come from
the Christ within and not from without, not even from
their disembodied friends. Thus they pass the fourth
cycle in proving that none of these things bring real Soul
satisfaction. By this time they are 'an hungered' and
only then do the angels (messengers of God, not disem-
bodied mortals) come and minister unto them."14 But
only after the temptation has been passed and the tempter
has left can the angels come and minister unto him. (St.
Matthew, iv, 11).
Each of these four cycles lasts not merely ten mystical
"days," but may continue for years or until the lesson
of each stage is learned and the cycle (10) is completed.
"Many sincere students are to be found in each of these
cycles. But if they are all earnestly seeldng spiritual
food they are not to be condemned or even looked down
upon by those who have taken a step higher. Perhaps no
one Soul who has reached the fortieth day will pass
through all the phases of fasting in one life, but every
Soul will pass through either longer or shorter expres-
sions of these periods. The day-periods are those in
which enthusiasm fills the Soul and the things it feeds on
seem all-satisfying for the time being; the night-periods
are those in which the former food no longer satisfies and
the Soul is truly hungry and unsatisfied."
As we enter into this new Aquarian dispensation, the
force poured out by the Water Bearer of that sign grows
stronger and stronger and more nourishing until we feel
within us a greater realization of the Christ and the power
of love. Even if we do not fully understand it we feel
a mighty urge to find God, and a mighty love which cries
out for a closer touch with Him. For all those who look
within and analyze their inner experiences carefully and
without bias, instead of seeking as the materialists do "the
living among the dead," will surely find the answering
realization. Therefore, instead of seeking the living
Christ among the cast-off grave clothes of old ideas and
147k Key to the Unsverse. Curtiss, 152-4.
The Temptation in the Wilderness 163
former medieval misconceptions with which former ages
clothed the Christ, let us seek for Him in our hearts.
Then we must listen to His words and obey His guid-
ance, even though it comes, as is so often the case, in a
way that may seem but a shadow of spiritual realization
passing over our minds or but a half remembered dream
and we know not if it be but imagination. Yet we must
be sure that it is not mere imagination and that it is the
real Inner Guidance. When these vague questionings and
chilling doubts arise we should not try to prolong our fast,
but should cry out in our hearts: "Lord, what wouldst
Thou have me to do? Show me Thy way !"
Although soundless and often wordless, the Inner Voice
is always distinct to those who listen believingly and
lovingly, since they have learned to know His voice and
know that it comes from the Christ within. Some get
confused because what seems to come to them in the
Silence is simply a corroboration of their own desires.
To really hear the Christ thus speak within and guide
us, we must first find Him in a realization of yearning
love as the result of constant prayer and iqeditation upon
Him as abiding within our hearts, not as a far-off Deity,
but as an ever-present loving Friend, Guide and Counsel-
lor who knows and understands our every need. For not
one heart that loves Him and earnestly seeks His guidance
shall fail to receive it. This Guidance is not limited to
those who have passed "the temptation in the wilderness"
and overcome all ordinary temptations and made great
attainments, but will be given to every heart that opens
itself to Him in loving faith and confidence, no matter
what its stage of unfoldment and realization. "Him that
comtth to me I will in no wise cast out."
Happy is he who has passed through the fast.
(To Be Concluded)
Chapter XVI
THE TEMPTATION IN THE
WILDERNESS
PAST II. Tn TurnER
And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be
the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and set-
teth him on a pinnacle of the temple, and saith nato him, If
thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down.... Again the
devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and
sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of
them; and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if
thou wilt fall down and worship me." St. MattJww, in, 3-9.
lVThere bath no temptation taken you but such as is corn-
mon to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to
be tempted above that ye are able." 1 Corinlliians, x 13.
In stúdying the scriptures most people accept the state-
ments at their face value and as historically accurate, much
as children accept the story of Santa Claus and "Jack and
the Beanstalk." This is largely due to the strong mental
impressions made during chiIdhod and to the fact that
in later years they have made no serious study of the story
with the analytical faculty of a well trained adult mind.
In the story of the Temptation, if we assume it as a
physical and historical incident, we unthinkingly assume
several other things some of which, when once pointed
out, few enlightened minds are willing to accept as literal.
In the first place we rightly assume that the Spirit of
man is something apart from and superior to the physical
164
The Temptation in the Wilderness 165
man; that it can direct and guide the latter in all things,
even into a desert where he will have to fast for forty
days and nights. If we are willing to admit that this is
true of Jesus, then the same law applies to us, for He
"was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without
sin." We therefore have no excuse for not seeking the
guidance of the Spirit within and following wherever It
leadeth.
Next we find that we have also assumed that there is an
objective and physical embodiment or arch spirit of evil
called the devil, who had the entrée into the Temple in the
Holy City and could lead Jesus up "into an exceeding
high mountain." Then we also have to assume that Jesus
was willing to follow such a being without question or
challenge. Such conceptions few thinkers are ready to
accept. For even in the ordinary investigation of psychic
phenomena one of the lessons soon learned is that entities
in the invisible may be either helpful or harmful, truthful
or untruthful; may be the ones they claim to be or they
may be imposters who fraudulently impersonate persons
whom they think the inquirer will accept.
The Bible tells us that Satan himself can impersonate
an angel of light.1 Therefore all experienced scientific
investigators are taught to test and discriminate as to the
claims of the entity who is manifesting. St. Paul had
this same difficulty in contacting those in the unseen. And
the rule he laid down still holds good today. "Try the
spirits whether they are of God."2 That is, all should
be challenged "In the name of the living Chri to
answer truthfully as to their identity, as we pointed out
in Chapter II.
Why, then, if the story is literal, did not Jesus recognjze
the devil at once for what he was and refuse to have any-
thing to do with him, much less follow him blindly into
a trap? Or if He did recouize the devil, why did He
'II Corirdluans, ii, 14.
2St.Jok,i,frs,1.
$ For details see Reabns of the Lsvmg Dead, Curtiss. 226-7.
166 The Pattern Life
take such a chance in following such a being all alone
in the wilderness when He was already weakened by His
long fast? If He was the Son of God, why should Hc
submit Himself to temptation at allt Why did He not
avoid it in the first place by refusing to follow the devil?
None of these simple questions can be answered satis-
factorily from the literal interpretation of the story. But
once we understand that the whole story is an allegory of
an inner spiritual experience which every Soul must un-
dergo at a certain stage of its spiritual unfoldment, as
explained in Part I of this topic, then all the seemingly
preposterous incidents fall logically into their natural
order.
Nor should these experiences be regarded merely as
optical and auditory hallucinations induced by the excite-
ment of the psychic adventure, the darkness, the loneli-
ness and the long fast, as some modern psychologists
would have us believe.4 For they are actual and very real
psychical experiences which beset every Soul as its newly
awakened or newly realized superconscious mind or spir-
itual consciousness is besieged; when all the lower qual-
ities of the animal man are stirred into activity in the
subconscious mind and are anxious and determined to
retain their mastery over the personality and use its
newly acquired gifts for their own gratification.
Although the wilderness referred to is not an objective
acreage of ground near Nazareth or Jerusalem where
there is no wilderness it is nevertheless very real to the
consciousness of the Neophyte. For it is a mental state
into which his consciousness is plunged as it descends
from the exalted condition it experienced during the
Baptism. The Soul that has been filled with a divine
enthusiasm and is hungering and thirsting after righteous-
ness is plunged into its old habits of thought and life
which, by contrast with the illumination of the Baptism,
now seem but a moral and spiritual desolation. Then
doubt as to the reality of the Baptism arises, and despair
La folie de Jejus Biuet-Sanglc, 356.
The. Temptation in the Wilderness 167
of ever being able to manifest in the wilderness of life,
the divine realization .so recently attained. Then comes
the temptation, a wholly subjective, but very real ex-
perience. Yet we need not be discouraged if we remem-
ber the law, for the law "will not suffer you to be tempted
above that ye are able to bear."
As we have said elsewhere: "Until the pupil has
deansed his heart of self-seeking he is open to the attacks
from the first mentioned (evil) source. You are never
safe if the devil the power of all that works against
God or good can find a single vibration of personal
ambition or selfishness through which he can enter. As
the Higher Self can communicate only through 'vibrations
similar to Himself, so the devil can tempt, and can lead
astray and deceive, only over vibrations similar to his
own.... Every Neophyte is led by the Spirit the
Higher Self into a mental wilderness where, alone in
the dreary wastes of physical experience, he is tempted
by the devil of his own creation. The fasting for forty
days is that period during which he must abstain from
his old thoughts and habits, must cease to seek for out-
ward help and learn to seek within; 'must turn to his
Father-in-heaven, listen to the voice of his Higher Self
and refuse longer to be guided by physical vibrations....
When it sees that no help can reach him.... It is al-
ways here that the devil meets each Soul and tempts. In
other words, long ere he has found that perfect vibration
of love through which alone he can hear his Higher Self
speak, the evil genius, or those akin to him the Masters
of the Shadow can speak and tempt over vibrations of
selfishness and self-indulgence. This selfishness, indul-
gence and ambition often require a long time to be trans-
muted into love and service for others, for they have a
way of hiding behind all sorts of sophistries."5
"Up to this point the pupil has had to contend. with but
petty temptations and appetites, but now, having con-
sciously taken an advanced step, through prayer and fast-
'Sce The Voice of isis, Curths, 290-1-2-3.
168 The Pattern Life
ing, he has deliberately entered the wilderness to be
tempted."
In the mystery schools the candidate bad to pass the
tests of the four elements, earth, water, air and fire. And
Jesus had to pass the same tests. To assuage His hunger
after His long fast He is tempted to use his newly won
powers to transmute physical materials representing
earth and water to satisfy the elemental urge of hunger.
The second test of self-righteousness, also fear and
safety, was to be passed by invoking the spirits of the air,
"lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone."
The third test was that of ambition, which is always as-
sociated with fre, from chemical oxidation to the genera-
tion of steam and electricity.
In our interpretation it is the activities of the rational
mind of the personality, the desires of the flesh acting
through the subconscious mind' and the destructive
emotions, which constitute the Tempter, personified in
the Gospel story as the devil. In a three-fold manner
body, mind, spirit it tempts us to enter upon our spir-
itual inheritance and use our newly found spiritual attain-
ments for the exaltation of the personality without further
preparation and growth. It tempts us to satisfy our physi-
cal needs and bodily appetites, to court applause and attain
dominion, and to presume upon our spiritual protection;
While nearly all religions teach that God manifests as
a trinityT Father-Mother-Son or Father, Son and Holy
Ghost we often overlook the fact that the opposite pole
from God called the devil also manifests as a trinity.
This negative or evil trinity is commonly termed "the
World, the Flesh and the Devil." And just as the Divine
Trinity is embodied within each heart for us to respond
and react to, so is the evil trinity. The 'result in your life
depends upon which of these trinities you respond to most
frequently. Usually your life is a mixture of reactions to
both. With those who are not consciously striving for
'For further details see The Voice f Isic, Curtiss, 167-8.
'See lesson on The Trinity, also The Truth About Evolutwu
and the Bible. Curtiss. 175.
The Temptation in the Wilderness 169
spiritual attainment, the reactions to the lower trinity usu-
ally predominate.
In analyzing the lower trinity as we have the higher?
that which comprises the 'World" is made up of those
things which the great majority of mankind strive for to
attain success in the eyes of the world. Those things in-
dude wealth, position, prestige and power: all those things
which exalt the personal self.
The second phase of the negative trinity the "Flesh"
is composed of all those God-given lnim21 functions, ap-
petites, reactions and "conditioned reflexes" which so
largely control the animal organism, both for its welfare
and its reproduction. Naturally these are not evil in them-
selves. Like the things of the 'World," the things of the
"Flesh" are evil only when they are allowed to dominate
both body and mind, to the detriment of our spiritual un-
foldment.
The third phase of the negative trinity the "Devil"
is composed of all those negative thoughts, desires, acts
and emotions reinforced by the influx of similar forces
from the astral world which are definjtely destructive,
and whose results naturally produce a veritable "hell on
earth" in our lives. Therein we must "burn" as with fire
and brimstone until those disintegrating vibrations have
been burned out or else have been neutralized by the con-
structive vibrations of the Christ-force or "fire of the
Lord." Thus are we cleansed by the mystical "blood of
the Christ" or His spiritual life-force.
The unspiritualized personality is cynical and pessi-
mistic. It challenges us to demonstrate powers which we
have just glimpsed and as yet have scarce realized, much
less learned to direct and use. It says to us: "If youi
inner experience was a reality; if your divine possibilities,
your dream of Divinity, has so uplifted you and baptized
you with an added influx of spiritual power, let us see you
prove it. Command that these 'stones,' these common-
place, everyday duties which are the foundation of your
life-activities in the world, be made into bread. Command
that they exalt you above your fellow men. Demand that
170 The Pattern Life
they bring you wealth, position, power, fame or whatever
will satisfy your hunger for worldly aggrandizement and
attainment in the eyes of the world."
Such things are not evil in themselves, in fact, they are
often worthy incentives to progress and the development
of our innate talents. They become evil only when they
divert us from the further development of the spiritual
powers with which we have recently been baptized.
As we have said elsewhere: "The first temptation corn-
big from the side of evil is generally that of Power. The
devil says: 'Command and demand all that you need.
You are not sick or hungry. You are the Christ. There-
fore command that the earth (which karmic law has
bereft of Soul-nourishment and spiritual satisfaction)
shall be turned into bread to satisfy your physical wants,
even though the very eating thereof binds you tighter to
the wheel of physical existence.' "
If we are ready to meet this test with the answer that
Jesus gave "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by
every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God"
it will show that our Baptism has revealed to us one of
the most essential and fundamental of realizations. It
will prove that we have realized that nuin ic not a nsere
,nortal but is a Spiritual Being, manifesting only tempo-
rarily through a body of flesh; that while the body re--
quires physical food symbolized by bread our finer
bodies require other food, namely, mental and spiritual
food. Therefore the mere turning of stones into bread,
or the mere attainment of physical things possessions,
honors, position etc. or even the gratification of all our
physical desires, can never fully feed or satisfy us.
Our mind still craves to understand that mystical Word
or the manifested Law of God if it is to comprehend what
life on earth really means, and what life in the flesh is for
We must realize that ultimately the Spirit must master
and purify both body and mind and so uplift every earthly
condition as to bring forth and manifest on earth the
beauty and joy of heaven. To accomplish this we must
$ For details see Why Are We Here?. Curtiss.
The Temptation in the Wilderness 171
learn to tune in on the spiritual vibrations "that proceed-
eth or are broadcast out of the mouth of God."
When our illumination has revealed this basic fact, all
material things and attainments are seen in their proper
place, as merely avenues of expression or useful instru-
ments by means of which the raw materials of earth con-
ditions may be moulded and used to manifest more of the
Divine or Spiritual Self who is now gaining greater ex-
pression from within. Hence, useful and even necessary
as they may be in their proper place until man has mani-
fested his Godhood, they now have no power to tempt us
from our allegience to the Divine Guidance within.
The allegorical nature of the second temptation is
dearly evident, for, as we have said before, (a) there is
no "exceeding high mountain" in the region indicated:
and (b) there is no mountain anywhere on earth from
which Jesus could be shown "all the kingdoms of the
world," or even the various provinces of Palestine; and
(c) it would have been impossible for Jesus to have been
set upon "a pinnacle of the temple" in the populous city
of Jerusalem without having been seen by thousands, and
without having been brought down by the authorities.
Moreover, there were no pinnacles on the temple at Jeru-
salem, as it was either dome-shaped or else flat-topped
after the Egyptian style.
"The second temptation comes in the form of self-
righteousness. The devil takes the hungry Soul up into a
high place, up to the very pinnade of the Temple (body),
and there shows how the Soul has conquered the flesh,
growing holier than others by the control of the lower ap-
petites; how it has reached the gates of the Holy City and
has become a guide and example for many less holy and
less pure followers. The devil declares: 'Thou, if thou
be the Son of God (or if you be the Christ as you have
affirmed), cast thyself down, for you can do what-a lesser
'When we have been purified and blessed by the Baptism, have
heard the Voice and experienced the descent of the Heavenly Dove
(Holy Ghost), we have reached a pmnade or our first great liii-
tiation, and in the Mystery Schools are technically called a "Son of
God."
172 The Pattern Life
Soul could not do without sin. That which would be a sin
in one not placed so high on a pinnacle of the Temple is
for you but a certain license earned because of your holi-
ness.' For it is written: 'He shall give his angels charge
concerning thee lest at any time thou shalt dash thy foot
against a stone.' Therefore you can do that which would
be a sin in others."5
This temptation is also one of fear to trust the divine
protection of angelic forces promised Him. It is also a
test whether He would presume on such divine protection
while violating a physical law. The answer given by
Jesus "Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God" at
once reveals the fallacies of both aspects of this temptation.
No matter what our advancement or what pinnacle of
attainment we may have reached, we must not "tempt" or
trifle with thelaws of God; for theangels will not bear us
up from reaping the consequences dashing our foot
against a stone when we violate the law.
With this dearly in mind, such temptations to self-
indulgence lose their power, unless we should be so fool-
ish as to think that we could give way to them and not
have to pay the price. When once we realize that the
Christ abides within us and that if we trust and follow
Him He will guide us in all the manifestations of the Law
of our Good, no earthly promises of power or allurements
of the flesh can tempt us to "tempt" or trifle with the Law
of our Good. Only then are we safe.
"The third temptation is one of Ambition. This comes
only to the Soul who has climbed the mountains of spir-
itual understanding. The Neophyte has painfully climbed
the mountain, has entered the Silence, has heard the Voice
and seen with his spiritual eyes. He has gained certain
psychic powers, and lo! all the kingdoms of the world and
the glory thereof are spread before his sight. His evil
genius points out that by his awakened psychic powers he
can gain the whole world; that men will bow down to him
and give him fame and glory because he is a little in ad-
vance of the average; that he can charge large sums for
The Temptation in the Wilderness 173
interviews, psychic readings, courses, etc.; can be heralded
from place to place, be interviewed by the newspapers and
receive much public acclaim. All this is a very real and
terrible temptation, and one understood only by those who
have stood upon the 'exceeding high mountain' of attain-
ment, and in their Soul-vision have actually seen the king-
doms of the world at their feet, who have heard the
tempter say 'All these things will I give thee if thou wilt
fall down and worship me.' For this temptation cannot
come until the Neophyte has approached the mountain
top."'
The reply of Jesus: "Get thee hence, Satan: for it is
written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him
only shalt thou serve," is a complete protection from this
temptation. While at a certain stage of unfoldment we
need a certain amount of ambition to spur us on to ever
greater attainment, yet that ambition should not be for
personal aggrandizement, but ambition to become more
nearly perfect instruments through which the Spiritual
Man within can serve the Lord God or help to perfect the
expression of the Law of Love, Harqiony and Co-opera-
tion here on earth. "An understanding of these tempta-
tions should make each one judge leniently the shortcom-
ings and failures of those who have fallen, and not con-
demn them. Let everyone cultivate in his own garden the
'ftuits of the Spirit,' namely, love, joy, peace, gentleness,
goodness, faith, meekness and temperance.... The
cultivation of the fruits of the Spirit will leave you no
time to see the shortcomings of others."
The days of temptation, trial and tests are now upon us,
not only as individuals, but as nations and races. The
wars due at the dose of each Great Age are upon us and
the catadysms are long overdue. They have been held
back and held back through the ardent prayers of the
Elect'° that humanity might have a little longer time in
which to make the much needed advance in national and
'°See The Philosophy of War, Curtiss, 100-106, also Prayers of
the O.C.M.. Curtiss. 14.
174 The Pattern Life
international brotherhood, harmony and cooperation, but
they cannot be held back much longer. Any day now may
witness exceptionally great storms, quakes, tidal waves or
other disasters on land and sea. Therefore we should all
pray daily, especially during the coming few months, both
the Prayer for World Harmony'° that further wars be
avoided, and also that the coming conditions may so
awaken the hearts of humanity to a realization of their
touch with the Divine andan understanding of their de-
pendence upon God, that the readjustments of physical
conditions which are now due shall come as cleansing
blessings and not as hopeless disasters.
Pray that those who are ready for realization may be
enlightened; that those who are needed to help during the
coming conditions shall be placed in circumstances where
they can help most effectively, and that those who should
learn their needed lessons in the higher realms, those who
are a drag on civilization or who retard the reign of peace
and brotherhood, may pass on with as little suffering as
possible and be prepared to come back as helpers instead
of retarders of the public good.
Remember that wars and cataclysms do not come as a
punishment, but as an inevitable reaping in exact justice
of the conditions sown by those very Souls who are now
involved in them. It is a cleansing process which will
prepare the better and more advanced conditions which
the Aquarian Age must usher in. Those who are on the
Lord's (Law's) side; those who pass their "temptation in
the wilderness," who correlate through prayer, medita-
tion and service with the constructive currents of recon-
struction now being poured out, will be preserved and
used as instruments to help adjust subsequent conditions
and usher in the reign of peace, harmony, co-operation
and righteousness, unless their services are more needed
in the higher realms.
Happy is he who has foiled the Tempter.
Chapter XVII
THE MARRIAGE FEAST IN CANA
"And on the third day there was a marriage in Cana of
Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there: and both Jesus
was Called and his disci......And there were there
six waterpots of stone (for the purification of the Jews).
Jesus saith unto theni, Fill the waterpots with water
when the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was
made wine,... saith unto him. . . thou had kept the good
wine until now." St. John, ii,, 1-10.
The first miracle performed by Jesus was the turning
of water into wine at the marriage feast in Cana. This
marks the actual beginning of His ministry; It is there-
fore much more important than the meie record of a social
event in the life of His neighbors. And the spiritual in-
terpretation of the event reveals its importance in the
spiritual evolution of man. Dionysus, called "lord of the
Vine," performed the same miracle.
This marriage feast symbolizes the union or "mar-
riage" of the human personality with the overshadowing
Spiritual Self the Soul-marriage--- or the union of the
human and the Divine through the power of the Christ.
It also symbolizes the spiritual oneness which results when
the Christ within presides over the marriage of those who
are true spiritual mates.
The unfolding of the spiritual nature of man and his
advance toward Christhood is not achieved by the mere
mechanical process of growth and evolution. Nor is it
imposed upon us by God or by superhuman or angelic
Beings or powers in the super-physical worlds. There is
an esstntial part that we ourselves must play.
17S
176 The Pattern Life
The most essential step is that we shall consciously seek
to unfold, correlate with, and then bring into manifesta-
tion in our daily lives, the power of the Christ within to
transmute all that is low and common into that which is
high and spiritual. And it is only the miracle of the
Christ-force in action in the life that can change what
were only the Waters of Purification into the Wine of
l)ivine Life. The truth that merely cleansed and clarified
is changed into the truth that inspires.
The Lord of the Feast is the Spiritual Self. For it is
only he who recognizes that through the power of the
Christ within, the water that merely satisfied the animal
thirst has been transmuted into the wine- of exaltation
that now satisfies the spiritual thirst. The wine or spirit-
ual nourishment created by the Christ-force is far more
powerful than the ordinary wine of physical satisfaction.
It is the spiritual joy that wells up within when the water
of outer conditions has been transmuted by the Christ
into ecstasy of the Soul. Naturally this wine comes last,
after the lesser joys have been experienced and found no
longer satisfying.
It is significant that the mother of Jesus and His dis-
ciples were present at the feast. The mother is the uni-
versal symbol of mother-force of Divine Love, while the
disciples symbolize our higher faculties which have ac-
knowledged the leadership and are trying to follow and
serve the Christ within. Naturally, only when both these
powers are present under the prescribed conditions can
the first miracle of the Christ be performed.
But first the six stone waterpots must be filled with
fresh water. These represent the six major occult centers
of the body. In the unregenerate and animal man these
are lacking spiritual fire, cold as stones. They are "dead
in sin" and minister only to the animal nature. They are
the wells of physical pleasures at which the lower self
drinks and makes merry. But there comes a time when
their forces no longer satisfy. The thirsty Soul craves
something new and truly satisfying. Then the yearning
The Marriage Feast in Cana 177
mother-love appeals to the Christ within for help (St.
John, ii, 1), well-knowing that only His force can trans-
mute the pleasures of the senses and replace them with
the wine of spiritual joy that shall fully satisfy the Lord
of the Feast.
But in addition to the inner spiritual development there
is another important service which the advanced awakened
Soul can do for the Christ and the Race, not only spiritu-
ally, but to advance the Race in the arts and sciences.
That work is to make conditions in the family life so spir-
itual, harmonious and happy that spiritually advanced
Souls, who became experts in the arts and sciences in past
incarnations, will be attracted to the family and be given
incarnation immaculately or "without spot"1 or thought
of something impure connected with the physical union
necessary for their incarnation.
Only when such conditions of purity of thought, peace,
love and happiness are provided can the many advanced
Souls waiting incarnation return to carry out their mis-
sion. In Revelation (vi, 9-11) thqe advanced Souls
are represented as the martyrs and saints who have waited
for ages "under the altar" for "yet a little season." They
cry out, "How long, 0 Lord, holy and true" before they
can be given their "white robes," that is, their pure and
immaculately conceived bodies in which to incarnate that
they may accomplish their great mission of helping to up-
lift and redeem mankind and the planet.
Naturally, such immaculate conceptions can be created
only between those who are true spiritual complements
or mates; those whose marriage was indeed "made in
heaven" because they were already one in heaven before
they incarnated; those whom "from the beginning of the
creation God made them male and female." While any
man and woman may conceive a child, unless they are true
spiritual mates they will be united only on the physical
plane and will give incarnation only to such Ieser devel-
oped Souls as are willing to incarnate under conditions
details see aDter LU.
178 The Pattern Life
that are not immaculate. For the more spiritually ad-
vanced Souls or the so-called Saints, will not incarnate
unless the conditions they require are provided. These
conditions necessitate the blending of both the beliefs and
ideals and also the spiritual consciousness of the mates,
in addition to the union of their bodies.
Here we must distinguish between the spiritual force
of true love and the force of mere animal desire (pas-
sion), through which love finds bodily expression. Love
is an expression of the Spirit, while lust is a craving of
animal organism for unlimited sex gratification. Love is
unselfish and kind; lust is selfish and cruel. Lust seeks
fulfillment of sensation regardless of the other's happi-
ness. Love attains fulfillment of spirit in the oneness of
union. Lust craves excitement; love brings peace and
tranquility. Lust seeks to subordinate the Spirit; love
exalts it. In lust there is a hopeless dependence on a bod-
ily organism. In love there is dependence on Spirit. Lust
leads to domination and unhappy complications; love leads
to freedom and joy.
As we have said elsewhere: "But in striving to culti-
vate this love, care must be taken that the sensation of
mere physical attraction or magnetism shall not be culti-
vated under the false name of love. The love we refer to
is a realization of impersonal and all-embracing Divine
Love, the purest, most godiike and holy vibration to which
the Soul of man can espo2
If this law were more widely understood, and all lis-
tened to the Inner Guidance, and only true mates were
married, there would be no need for such propositions as
"companionate marriages," much less for "trial mar-
riages." These at best are but palliatives, the attempts of
well-meaning but unenlightened persons to help to remedy
the deplorable conditions that exist between the sexes to--
day because of the false teaching as to sex; because the
essentially spiritual nature of the sex function when used
immaculately, has been overlooked or misunderstood.
2The Mwage of Aquaria. Curtiss. 154.
The Marriage Feast in Cana 179
As marriage today is so often looked upon as a mere
physical union for the unlimited gratification of animal
passion, it is no wonder that the Lord of the Feast cries
out that they have no wine; that the six waterpots are
filled only with water, but made turbid and stagnant by
the impurities of mind and body with which man has dc-
filed it.
If at every marriage feast the Christ and His disciples
our higher faculties were consciously invited guests,
and if the twain who are one flesh would follow the in-
junction of the Divine Mother: "Whatsoever He saith
unto you, do it," then the waters of earthly union could be
turned into the wine of immortal, Spiritual Love. But
first the "six waterpots of stone" must be emptied of their
old water their old conceptions, ideas, and impure
thoughts and vibrations concerning the nature of the mar-
riage feast cre they can be "filled to the brim" by the
disciples and be prepared for the first miracle of the Christ
to take place in each heart, the miracle of transmutation.
When the two who are one have constuned the wine of
gladness poured out in their love and harmony during the
early ecstasies of their union, and they begin to cry for
more wine; only after they have done their best to cleanse
their waterpots, by purifying both their minds and their
bodies, and have reached up and contacted the Divine
Mother especially through the sacred process of bring-
ing a Soul into incarnation only then can they hear the
mystical command of the Christ spoken in their hearts:
"Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast,"
the Spiritual Self. Only under such conditions can the
Christ-power within them turn the waters into wine that
shall satisfy the thirst of the Soul for self-completion
through union with the Divine. For the vague memory
of the state of oneness in the higher realms still persists
and urges the Soul on to the realization of that union in
the flesh.
This miracle cannot be accomplished by the human per-
sonality alone, for the best it has is its six pots of water,
180 The Pattern Life.
even if that water be pure. The fundamental spiritual
thirst for the Divine cannot be satisfied by mere sexual
union, but only by the Wine of the Spirit which has been
blessed by the Christ. How then are we to satisfy the cry
of the guests the animal desires for more wine?
First by recognizing the power of the Christ to purify and
sanctify the water in the pots, which at best can quench
the thirst of the animal only. But through His power we
can transmute it into the Wine of the Spirit which will
not only satisfy the Soul's thirst for spiritual oneness, but
will give the animal nature greater satisfaction than it
enjoyed before, because it has partaken of a spiritual one-
ness in addition to the physical.
This realization is, indeed, an advanced step in spiritual
attainment, but it is one that is destined to be increasingly
frequent during this new Aquarian Age, the age of mir-
acles of the Christ in manifestation. We can begin to
prepare ourselves for this miracle by recognizing the spir-
itual basù of the sex relation. For in man its use should
transcend its use in animals to as great a degree as the
Soul of man transcends the animal.
As we advance in spiritual unfoldment we can reach a
point where this miracle of turning the water into wine is
possible because God has given to each Soul the inner
power of understanding and appreciating the significance
and value of those mysteries of God which can be only
spiritually discerned.
The instinctive memory of the oneness in the higher
realms of real spiritual mates is inherent in every Soul.
And it is this memory, even though vague and unrecog-
nized, that is the basis of the instinct often expressed as
jealousy for the exclusive possession, each of the other,
between mates, even among the most primitive people.
Man and woman can learn many lessons and make
great progress in spiritual unfoldment while striving
alone, but for the supreme accomplishment and final test
of the humanity of this globe each must learn the supreme
lesson of Unity in Duality, hand in hand with his or her
true spiritual mate in some incarnation.
The Marriage Feast in Cana 181
Striving alone through many incarnafion isolated per-
haps in a cave, in the forest or in a monasteiy has brought
a few to a high stage of unfoldm, although often
clouded by spiritual sdhlshne and self-righteo5
But even when such a high stage is attained it is but a one-
sided development, and the one reaching it must reincar
nate in conditions which seem far beneath him in order to
learn the lesson of Unity in Duality with his mate. Or
else he must wait for many ages in the higher realms until
his mate has reached the same stage of unfoldment as
himself ere they can go on from there hand in hand to
learn the lessons that can be learned only side by side.
Such Souls often incarnate alone and with a great distaste
for marriage, for they are closely in touch with their true
mate who is not in incarnation and so feel little need of
a physical mate.
As man absorbs the Water of Life poured out upon
him during this Aquarj Age there must be an awakening
of thousands of couples whom God hath joined "from the
beginning of creation," and a realization of what their
UnÌt in Duality signifies in their lives and the life of
humanity as a whole. These couples will constitute those
who are called on the first day of the marriage feast. And
in that day woe unto those who forget to invite the Divine
Mother and the rist to their feast and join themselves
to one who is not their true mate.
If those who are contemplating the momeflk,us step of
marriage will go into the inner sanctuary of their hearts
and pray to the Father for guidance, shutting out all
thought of sex and worldly considerations, they will re-
ceive their light and guidance Or if they wait a little
while, events will so shape themselves as clearly to point
out the way. Or if they separate from each other for a
short time and pray for guidance, if they are mates they
will hear the voice of the heart which cann() be stilled,
calling for the other, and life will be tasteless and dreary
until they are again together.
hut if they are not mates the separaty will bring a
182 The Pattern Life.
great feeling of relief, and they will look back upon their
association as but a physical attraction, a wild temptation,
or a karmic whirlwind due to mistaken relations set up in
the past, but whose tendency to repeat they automatically
feel, but need not express.
And if they are brave enough to accept the answer
when in the negative and determine not to marry, then
outer events will soon transpire in such a way as to con-
firm their decision as correct. But if they are already
married to the wrong one, they must also seek in the same
way for guidance as to how best to work out the problem
in peace and harmony for the best good of all so that
never thore will they have to go over it again. Thus they
will work out the Karma of the mistake here and now
and be free all the sooner for the Great Law to join them
to their true mates3 But if they refuse to do this they
will have to repeat it all in another life.
Those who have, not only a mental conception of the
law of Unity in Duality, but who have a clear inner reali-
zation as to their true mates, are symbolized by those who
are called on the second day of the marriage feast, while
those called on the third day are those advanced Souls
who have reached the awakening of the true spiritual illu-
mination or the opening of the Third Eye.
As Jesus, or the Christ-man, is represented as perform-
ing the first miracle at the marriage feast, so He is repre-
sented as unrolling before St. John the great panorama
of the book of RevelatiEn.. Therein is described the
woman who was "arrayed in purple and scarlet, and
decked with gold and precious stones and pearls. . . that
sitteth upon many waters,"4 and upon whose forehead
was written, "The Mother of Harlots and abominations
of the earth." To one who reads understandingly, this
horrid picture is easily recognized as the synthesized
thought-form that is the natural result of the wrong teach-
'See chapter on "Marriage aM Divorce" in Letters from she
Teacher, Curtiss, Vol. IL
4Revelation. xvii. 4-1-9-15.
The Marriage Feast in Cana 183
ings and impure and perverted use of sex, even among
those mistaken ones who think that for their own salvation
they must put it aside and call it evil. The seven moun-
tains on which she sits are the seven centers of the bodies
of those whose perverted ideas of sex nourish her and
prolong her reign. "The waters which thou sawest, where
the woman sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and na-
lions, and tongues."
Those who compose these multitudes are all who look
up to sex as something evil and vile, as a mere physical
union for the gratification of animal passion, or at best a
temptation. And as they raise their eyes to the seven hills,
or begin to be aware of their higher centers whence should
come their strength, they see only the scarlet woman and
are appalled. For they begin to realize that the great
harlot is indeed "drunken with the blood of the saints" or
the life-force which the sincere and saintly, but mistaken,
ones themselves have poured out and polluted by their
wrong thought concerning it in many incrnations.
The beast, which "was and is not" which carried the
scarlet woman and lifted her as on the highest mountains
of Earth, is the monstrous thought-form which has been
created by the basically mistaken idea taught by many that
sex is but a function of the beast and that it cannot be an
avenue for the expression of pure love and the equalizing
of the magnetic and spiritual forces which shall make the
twain one flesh. -
Once we have grasped the idea of the spiritual basis of
sex and learned to look upon it in purity of thought as a
sacred feast to which we should invite both the Divine
Mother and the Christ, then we can begin to make that
old misconception "desolate and naked and shall eat her
flesh, and burn her with fire."5 In other words, our
purified ideas shall strip the old false conception of its
girments of prudery and sanctimonious self-righteousness
and leave it naked or revealed for what it is, a vile and
beastly misconception and a parody of God. Then we
5ReveIatwu. xvii. 16.
184 The Pdttern Life
shall begin to consume it and burn it with the divine Fire
of the Lord.
Those who have grasped this basic idea and 'by the
power of the Christ within have begun to manifest it in
their lives, will be among those needed to help purify and
redeem the Earth for the New Age. Hence these will be
the ones who will pass in safety through the cleansing
catadysms now beginning on Earth. For they are the
ones who can say with St. John: "I saw a new heaven and
a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were
passed away." And they shall see "the holy city, new
Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, pre-
pareas a bride adorned for her husband."
Happy is he who has attended Ike Marriage Feßsl.
'xxi. 1-Z
Chapter XVIII
THE BETRAYAL
" forthwith he (Judas) came to Jesus and said, Hail,
master (Rabbi); and kissed him.... Then Judas, which
had betrayed him. . . repenteth himself, and brought again
the thirty pieces of silver.. . and be cast down the pieces of
silver in the temple .. . and went out and hanged himself."
St. Matthew, xxvi, 49, xxvii, 35.
"When at midnight Aries, the Lamb, reaches the nadir or
lowest point of the zodiac, the sign Leothe Lion of the
tribe of Judah or Judas is 30 above the horizon. Hence
Judas is said to give the Lamb the traitox's kiss for the 30
pieces of silver or its 30 of light. As Leo disappears it is
said to have cast down its '30 pieces of silver' or its light and
disappeared below the horizon, or is said to have ¶lung' it-
self." Appendix A.
Perhaps there is no place in the GospeLr, except the
flight and massacre, where the historical inaccuracies and
discrepances become such actual contradictions as to facts,
or are better illustrated, than in the story of Judas, and
where the symbolic interpretation is the only completely
satisfactory explanation of such contradictions.
In the first place, there was no need for the betrayal,
much less for the priests to pay Judas for it. Jesus had
gone openly to the synagogue many times (see Matthew,
xii, 9; Luke, vi, 6; xiii, 10; Mark, iii, 1) and publicly
taught therein, as well as in other public places. And
only just before the betrayal He had made a triumphal
entry into Jerusalem. In view of the above we can hardly
imagine Judas having the effrontery to ask payment for
the betrayal. Nor can we imagine the priests paying thirty
185
186 The Pattern Life
pieces of silver for the betrayal or identification of a well-
known figure who could easily have been picked up at any
of His public appearances. Jesus Himself pointed this out
when He said: 'When I was daily in the temple with you,
ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is your
hour." (St. Luke, xxii, 53).
Secondly, there was no need for Jesus' arrest so late at
night when He could as easily have been taken at any time
during the day. And thirdly, why should Jesus choose
such a character as Judas for a disciple when He knew
long beforehand that he would become a traitor? (St.
Luke, vi, 16). Or why should Jesus have given Judas a
sop, and allowed him to dip into the dish with Himself,
when He had already told His disciples that Judas was a
devil? (St. John, vi, 70). Since Jesus knew of Judas'
intention long in advance, why did He do nothing to
restrain him from such a traitorous act? It was Jesus'
failure to act on His advanced knowledge that permitted
Judas to complete the deed, aitho Jesus must.have known
also that Judas would hang himself and thus seemingly
forfeit his eternal salvation. In fact, it is difficult to
understand why such a treacherous character was intro-
duced into the story.
It is in the description of the event by the two authors
(St. Matthew and St. Paul) that the direct contradiction
occurs. In St. Matthew (xxvii, 3, 5) we are told that
when Judas repented he brought back the thirty pieces of
silver and cast them down at the feet of the priests. But
in Acts (i, 17) we are told that Judas did not bring it
back, but took the money and "purchased a field with the
reward of his iniquity." In St. Matthew (xxvii, 5) we are
told that Judas "went out and hanged himself," and that
the priests took the money and bought "the potter's field,
to bury strangers in."
In Acts (i, 18), however, we are told that Judas did not
hang himself, but died from an abdominal rupture due to
a fall. "And failing headlong, he burst asunder in the
The Betrayal 187
midst, and all his bowels gushed out. And it was known
to all the dwellers at Jerusalem."
These contradictions have caused heated controversies
among scholars for generations as to whether Judas was
an historical character or was introduced to represent the
Jewish people, which were held by the early Christian
Church to be responsible for the death of their Savior,
Jesus. To reconcile these two versions physically we must
assume that if Judas did buy the land with the silver, he
must have sold it at once for the same amount of cash,
which in an Oriental country is extremely unlikely. Also,
if the account of his death given in Acts is true we are
forced to the gruesome and altogether improbable alter-
native that his body was allowed to hang until it was so
putrified that the neck gave way and allowed the body to
"fall headlong," for there is no record of the body's hav-
ing been cut down. In such a state of disintegration it is
quite possible that when the body struck the earth the gas-
distended abdomen might easily have "burst asunder in
the midst, and all his bowels gushed opt."
Some apologists for Judas hold that he had seen Jesus
perform so many miracles that he thought that Jesus
would perform another rather than be captured. Thus
Jesus would escape and Judas would still have the silver.
The disciples looked to Jesus to fulfill the prophecies as
the Messiah. They naturally expected that He would set
up a kingdom and reign as a temporal monarch. But
Jesus had told them that was not His mission.' The dis-
ciples were naturally disappointed, especially Peter and
Judas. Judas thought that Jesus would easily prove His
Messiabship or else His false - pretensions would be re-
vealed. Only when the miracle failed to appear did he
realize what a terrible thing he had done, and tried to make
amends. Nevertheless he has come down to us in history
as the incarnation of base ingratitude, avariciousness and
treachery.
'St. Luke. w. 22.
188 The Pattern Life
But this apology for Judas and his motives fails to solve
the problems of (a) why Jesus chose one whom He knew
would be a traitor' and whom He had called a devil,
to be a disciple; (b) why one author says Judas brought
back the silver and another says he used it "to purchase a
el;' and (c) why one says he hung himself and the
other says he fell to the ground dead.' Evidently the lit-
eral interpretation cannot solve these problems, and hence
it is untenable to an honest mind.
Astronomically we have shown4 that Judas (Leo) gives
the Lamb (Aries) the traitor's kiss by bestowing its 300
of light. Also, since Leo is the House of the Sun, when
Judas plans to betray Jesus he is represented as being
with Him in the upper chamber,' the home of the Spiritual
Sun, and "dipping into the dish" with the Christ, as Leo
dips into the dish of the zodiac with Aries, the Lamb.
If we interpret this incident symbolically and apply it
to our personality all becomes clear. Judas symbolizes
that tendency of the hiimm personality to grasp every-
thing it can for itself or in some way turn everything to
its own advantage. This is a natural and normal instinct
of the animal for self-preservation. But when carried to
excess and uncontrolled by ideals it becomes greed and
avarice. And once we allow greed and avarice to rule our
lives they will lead us to betray our ideals of Christhood
for their temporary satisfaction. We know they are there,
hence must be on our guard.
In His reaction to the betrayal Jesus gave us a perfect
example of spiritual courage and fidelity to principle.
For Jesus well knew what was in store for Him. "Behold,
the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed.
behold he is at hand that doth betray me." (Matthew,
xxvi, 45-6).
He proved that "perfect love casteth out fear," for He
'St. Matthew, zvm, 22. St. Johs, vs, 70-1.
'Act.r, i, 18.
44ppendir 4.
'St. Matthew, xzvi, 23.
The Betrayal 189
was seemingly overcome by fear three times. First He
told the sons of Zebedee: "My soul is exceedingly sorrow-
ful, even unto death?' So great was His fear that "he
fell to the ground. . . his sweat was as it were great
drops of blood." But His prayer brought 'an angel unto
him from heaven, strengthening him."
"He went away again the second time and prayed....
If this cup may not pass from me, except I drink it, thy
will be done." "And he went away again, and prayed a
third time, saying the same words." (St. Matthew, xxvi,
42-4). Even then He could have left the city and escaped
had He so desired. But He returned to face Judas and
receive the ldss of infamy that has come down the cen-
turies as the epitome of treachery. This is an example of
how our lower nature will "kiss" or appear to accept our
higher nature only to betray it to better itself: how ava-
rice and greed will betray our highest ideals.
Jesus' reaction is an inspiring example of how we, when
faced with an unavoidable crisis, may also overcome fear
by absolute reliance upon the power of the Christ within.
He conquered the fear of ignominy and death to prove
that we can do likewise.
"AU the disciples forsook Him and fled." They did
not want to be mixed up in any trouble with the ruling
authorities, neither did they wish to be connected with a
failure. Thus do our intellect and our pride often repu-
diate our connection with prayer and the spiritual side of
life lest we be pointed out as a religious fanatic. And we
are tempted to deny the reality of our spiritual experiences
as Peter denied three times any connection with Jesus.
Until we have passed the test of fear our lower person-
ality is afraid of public opinion, is sensitive to criticism
and greatly desirous of public approval. But once we let
the Christ-consciousness rule, we are immune to criticism,
humiliation and suffering, even the fear of death itself.
We may have recognized the Christ-consciousness as
the ideal for us to follow, and we may have followed it as
best we could for some time, but if we have not made it
190 The Pattern Life
the ruler of our lives in all things, and thus conquered
selfishness, fear and greed, when the time of testing comes
we will fail. The Christ within knows that greed and
avarice are treacherous as long as they remain uncon-
quered, but He does not condemn us until we have been
given one last chance.
We may argue with ourselves that we shouldn't be fa-
natical, but "play the game" of life the way the unenlight-
coed rest of the world does, that is, take every advantage
for ourself, regardless of its effect on others. But when
we realize what suffering our conscience must undergo
when we betray our Inner Guidance, we endeavor to make
amends by trying to return the price. But we find it is
too late. The betrayal has taken place and the Christ in
us must suffer the result of the Karma we have created.
And our remorse is so great that we feel like saying:
"Oh! what's the use? I have failed in my test of char-
acter. I have betrayed my highest ideals. I might as well
hang myself."
But if we have truly repented and really learned our
lesson, then greed and avarice are eliminated from our
life. It is they that are really "hanged," and so bother us
no more. Our personality, of which we were formerly so
proud, falls forward to the ground and collapses in shame.
Our "bowels of compassion" are released and gush out to
all other sinners in understanding love and compassion.
The only restitution we can make is to form a "potter's
field" wherein to bury both the remembrance of our short-
comings and those of others who may come to us for corn-
fort, as we absorb the light of Leo, the heart, and allow it
to illumine our lives from within or below the horizon of
our outer life.
Happy is he who prevents the Betrayal.
Chapter XIX
THE CRUCIFIXION
"And when they were come to the place, which is called
Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactor; one on
the right hand, and the other on the left." St. Luke, xxiii,, 33.
"The equinoctial point where the ecliptic crosses the equn-
tor is called the 'cross,' .. . The drama of the crucifixion
is therefore symbolized in the heavens by the Cardinal Cross
of the zodiac, and was recognized and understood countless
ages before the Christian era.... The crucifixion therefore
takes place on the day of the autnnln2l equinox at the exact
moment when the Sun sets or dies in the West." Appendsx 4.
The greatest tragedy of the ages for the Western world
has been the crucifixion, death and burial of the Lord
Christ. The story that has shocked the minds and torn
the hearts of all who read of it is the tragic spectade of
the innocent prophet of Galilee being led away to the
agony of the crucifixion. Yet through the study of com-
parative religions we find that the Saviors of many other
ages and religions have met the same fate.1 And since
1 In the south of India at Tanjore, and in the north at Oude, the
crucified god, Bat-li, is worshipped as an incarnation of Vishnu.
Crishna was crucified to a tree by the arrows of a hunter. Pictures
of Crishna as Wittoba show the nail-holes in both feet and hands
from his crucifixion. Indra was crucified in NepauL Lactanius
says that 4jolIo of Miletus was nailed to a tree or was crucified.
Tamnus, the Syrian Adonis, was called "the crucified Savior of
,nnkI" Prometheus, the Sun Savior, was crucified by being
nailed to the rocks of Mt. Caucasus near the Caspian Straits.
Sarajii.r was called the Savior and his cross was foundm his temple
in Alexandria. The Phyrygian Allis was tied to his cross. lao
was called the crucified Savior. Adorns was crucified as a dove.
The Egyptian Savior, Osiris,, was crucified in the heavens, as was
also Horu& Samiramis was crucified by King Staurobates. The
191
192 The Pattern Life
this same tragic incident is found in all their lives it must
have some general significance and mining common to all.
The crucifixion of Jesus is a subject which, at least
among advanced students, often awakens a feeling almost
of resentment or at least impatience; for to those who
have even a superficial acquaintance with the laws of
Karma and reincarnation the questions arise, If Jesus
was in truth the Christ, the Son of God, a Divine and
Celestial Being, how could He have had such a terrible
Karma to work out? or why should He have brought
upon Himself such hopeless ignominy and suffering while
trying to enlighten humanity? Why should He have been
executed like any common felon and had His career lim-
ited to a pitiful three years, a bare beginning? As long
as this incident is taken only literally as an historical
event, these questions have no logical or satisfactory an-
swer. But if this incident is taken, as are similar incidents
in other scriptures, in its spiritual and symbolic meaning,
the purpose of the crucifixion is easily understood.
Probably most Christians who have not given the sub-
ject special study think that the cross was introduced to
the world through the crucifixion of Jesus and was the
exclusive symbol of the Christian religion. But this is
far from being the case. The Encyclopaedia Britannica
tells us that: "It has been used as a religious symbol from
the dawn of man's civilization.. . at least ten centuries
before the Christian era.. . may probably be regarded
as almost universal.. .. It was not until the time of
Constantine (288-337 A.m) that the cross was publicly
used as a symbol of the Christian religion. Under Con-
stantine it became the acknowledged symbol of Chris-
tianity, in the same way in which, long afterward, the
Mexicans and Peruvians worshipped the Savior, Quefalcootle,
crucified for the sins of mn1riivI The Indians of Cozumal repre-
sent their Son of God, Bacob, as dying on a cross. Pindar says
that Ixw,s was the Sun at noonday crucified in the heavens on his
four-spoked wheel.
211th Ed. Vol. 'vii. 506.
The Crucifixion 193
crescent was adopted as the symbol of the Mobiin,nedan
religion."
From the beginning of hnniinity the cross, or man with
his arms stretched out horizontally, typified his cosmic
origin. In fact, it is almost impossible to go back far
enough in the world's history to find a period in which
this symbol was not known.
"The cross was not first introduced in the Christian
Era, but is the most primitive of all symbols, representing
the real crucifixion or involution, or the descent of Spirit
into matter where it must be crucified upon the mundane
cross and pass along the geometrical lines of evolution.
The cross, being the fourth geometrical figure, represents
the completion of involution, the turning point where
evolution begins."
"The claim that the cross is a purely Christian symbol
introduced after our era, is strange indeed, when we find
Ezekiel (u', 4) stamping the foreheads of the men of
Judah who feared the Lord, with the signunz Than, as it
is translated in the Vulgate."
As we have already pointed out: "As the vertical line
represents the descent of the Spirit, so the horizontal line
represents matter, thus forming the cross upon which the
Divine is crucified in its efforts to express in the physical
world. The cross is, therefore, a cosmic symbol and
should not be identified exclusively with any one mani-
festation of the Divine in hmntn form." It symbolizes
"the effort of the Spirit to penetrate matter; the Light to
illumine the darkness. . . the cross upon which the Spir-
itual Self is crucified in matter until the lower self has
been lifted up and indrawn and the cross has been bal-
anced."
"The ancients represented the Divine Man crucified
within the circle of the manifested Cosmos; Hence the
Cosmic Cross represents the crucifixion which must take
'The Voice of Is Curtiss, 57.
'The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, iii, 588.
'The Key to the Universe, Curtiss, 85. 137-8.
194 The Pattern Life
place that the Deity may manifest in His creations. The
figure of the cross is, therefore, not an artificial symbol
arbitrarily chosen. For it is not only formed naturally by
the horizontal line. . . crossing the vertical axis at right
angles, but it is also naturally formed in the heavens by
the four bright stars which mark the Cardinal Cross in
the heavens.. .. The cross is universally used to sym-
bolize the outpouring of the divine, creative Life-essence
the Cosmic Christ-force---- that it may manifest within
the world of creation as the creative Christ-force
whether or not the blood (or the life-force poured out)
of a crucified man is the picture used to emphasize the
more esoteric symbology."5
.That this symbology was well known in the most ancient
times is shown by the "Evangelistic Symbols" found in
the "Zodiacal Ring on Earth' in Somerset, England.
There the figure in the East is that of the zodiacal Man,
Aquarius, also identified with St. Matthew. A line pro-
jected from the center of the circle passes through the eye
of Hercules, due East. In the South is the Lion or Leo,
identified with St. Mark In the West is the Bull, Taurus,
identified with St. Luke, the line passing through the eye
of Taurus, due West. In the North is the Eagle, Scorpio,
identified with St. John, the line passing through the
Phoenix, due North. These stone figures are said by
some to date back to the early Bronze Age, about 2000 B.C.
Astronomically, the Sun enters the sign Libra on Sep-
tember 23rd and is "crucified" upon the cross formed by
the ecliptic crossing the equator, and "dies" or passes
below the equator into the southern hemisphere as the
"spear" of the "Centurian" or the arrow of the Archer
the sign Sagittarius is thrust into its side. The Sun
continues its descent into the "nether world" where its
career is ended. It is at last overcome by its enemies.
The powers of darkness and winter, which had hitherto
sought in vain to overcome it, have at length won the vic-
tory. The bright and innocent Sun of summer is finally
slain, crucified before all mankind in the heavens. "Be-
The Crucifixion 195
fore he dies,-however, he sees all his disciples his retinue
of light, the twelve hours of the day or the twelve months
of the year disappear in the sanguinary melee of the
douds of cni6
The early Church Fathers tell us that for the first few
centuries the Christians neither adored crosses nor desired
them, although the Pagans adored a cross with a man on
it. "The crucifixion was not the subject of early Chris-
tianity.... The oldest representation of Christ Jesus
was a figure of a Lamb.... This custom subsisted up
to the year 680 A.1., until the pontificate of Agathon, dur-
ing the reign of Constantine Pogonet. By the sixth synod
of Constantinople it was ordained that instead ot. the an-
cient symbol, which had been the Lamb, the figure of a
man fastened to the cross (such as the Pagans had
adored), should be represented. All this was confirmed
by Pope Adrian I."
"Indeed, we are told that the cross was not identified
with the crucifixion of Jesus during the early centuries of
the Christian era; for no figure of a man appears upon
the cross during the first six or seven centuries!
The earliest known human figure on a cross is on the cru-
cifix presented by Pope Gregory the Great to Queen Theo-
delinda of Lombardy (about 590 &.D.), now in the church
of St. John at Monza."T It was not until the year 692
A.D. that the Quinisext Synod at Trullo forbade the pic-
tures of the lamb and required the representation to be of
the Savior's human shape. Thus n the cross we find an-
other of those universal symbols that are connected with
the life-story of so many previous Saviors of mankind.
As we have explained in Appendix A herein: "The
equinoxial point where the ecliptic crosses the equator is
called the 'cross.' Naturally there are two such crosses,
one in Aries in the Spring and one in Libra-in the Fall.
Hence there two places of crucifixion mentioned in the
Gospels, one at Golgotha or Calvary, corresponding to
Bible Myths, Doane 483, 202.
TThs Key to the Universe. Curtiss, 13&
196 The Pattern Life
Aries, and one in Egypt (Revelation, xi, 8), the Land of
Darkness, corresponding to Libra. Under the constella-
tion Centaurus lies the Southern Cross or Crux. The
drama of the Crucifixion is therefore symbolized in the
heavens by the Cardinal Cross of the northern hemisphere
and the Southern Cross of the southern hemisphere....
The four brightest stars in Cygnus form the Northern
Cross. Thus does the Baptism foreshadow the coming
tragedy of Golgotha, as the cross above casts its shadow
below.... All this was recognized and understood for
countless ages before the Christian era.
"The events preceding the crossing of the equator or
the 'crucifixion' of the Sun at the Autumnal Equinox are
explained by the decanates of Leo and Virgo. Following
the Cup, the second decanate of Leo reveals the constella-
tion Centaurus, the mounted soldier, symbol of the Cap-
tain and the soldiers who took Jesus and bound, crucified
and pierced Him. In Greek the meaning of this constella-
tion is 'the pierced' one. Similarly, the light and heat of
the Sun are 'bound' or their forces are limited after the
Autumnal Equinox.
"The Crucifixion takes place on the day of the Autum-
nal Equinox at the 'sixth hour' or at the exact moment
when the Sun sets or 'dies' in the West. 'And there was
darkness over all the land until the ninth hour 1' The
'sixth hour' when 'the Sun was darkened, and the veil of
the temple (the zodiac) was rent in the midst,' refers to
the sign Virgo, the sixth sign. The veil is rent by the pas-
sage of the Sun from Virgo to Libra which divides the
zodiac exactly in half. Thus the veil of daylight is rent
when the Sun sinks below the horizon. Then 'the saints
that slept,' that is, the stars that were obscured or 'buried'
by the light of the Sun, 'arose and came forth.'
"At the time of the Autumnal Equinox in the sign
Lil,ra, whose symbol is the Balance or Scales, the Sun's
forces and the length of the days and nights are again
balanced as they were at the Spring Equinox in Aries.
But this time, as the Sun crosses the equator, it is 'crossi-
The Crucifizion 197
fled' or crucified and dies to the northern hemisphere
where it had been giving its forces or 'life-blood' for
Nature all summer for it has entered the next sign,
Scorpio, the sign of death."
"In the Mysteries the crucifixion of the Christos repre-
sents the self-sacrifice of the higher manas, the Father,
who sends his only begotten Son into the world to take
upon him our sins." 8
When St. Paul speaks of making known to the Gentiles
"the glory of this mystery. . . which is Christ in you,
the hope of glory," (Colosslant, i, 27), it is quite evident
that he is not referring to any physical personality how-
ever exalted, but to the mystical Christ principle latent in
each heart.
"In the Mysteries the regenerated man, who by cruci-
fying the man of flesh and his passions on the Procrustean
bed of torture, became reborn as an Immortal." St. Paul
confirms this process when he tells us: "They that are
Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections (pas-
sions) and lusts.... But God 'forbid that I should
glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom
the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world."
(Galatians, v, 24; vi, 14). "But to manifest these poten-
tialities the Christ must be born in your heart, or your
spiritual consciousness must be awakened and unfold the
cross upon which the lower man must hang until spiritu-
alized and redeemed." "Knowing this, that our old man
is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be de-
stroyed (done away), that henceforth we should not serve
sin." (Ronans, vi, 6).
"This is the true meaning of redemption through love.
For the world was not redeemed by the crucifixion of one
man in any age, however much that man manifested the
Christ, and however much of the darkness was redeemed
thereby. It is by the daily and hourly crucifixion of the
conscious power of the Godhead (the Christ) in matter,
'The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky. iii, 593; ii, 592.
'The Key to Size Uiuverse. Curtiss. 138-140.
198 The Pattern Life
the living in the darkness and suffering with it until, atom
by atom, the whole is transmuted by His life-force (the
symbolic 'blood') that the redemption of the world is ac-
complished. Every earnest Soul who recognizes this prin-
ciple and takes upon himself the redemption of his own
creations, through the Christ within, thus becomes a re-
deemer to that extent, and releases the Christ from the
cross through the crucifixion of his own personality in-
stead."1°
"Therefore, if we sacrifice knowingly and willingly, the
redemption is accomplished without the suffering which
the crucifixion brings about for those who resist and re-
fuse to work with the Law. By thus working with the
Law (the Law of Jesus, the Law of Redemption through
Sacrifice), the cross is rolled up into the cube, and the
Stone of Sacrifice becomes the pure White Stone given
'to him that overcometh'; the Foundation Stone to a
newer and higher manifestation; that upon which all must
be uned.9
Down through the ages and throughout the Bible, it
has been taught that the sins of man could be redeemed
by a blood-sacrifice, either of animals or of a man. "The
new interpretation which Jesus presented to His disciples
was that, instead of the slaughter of animals and the lit-
eral shedding of blood's being used to symbolize the Mys-
tery of Sacrifice, the New Testament should bring a
deeper understanding of the world-old truth which the
slaughter of animals expressed in a crude and materialized
manner... The New Testament which Jesus gave was
that while 'It is the blood that maketh atonement for the
Soul' (Leviticus, xvii, 11) and 'Without shedding of blood
is no remission' "U (Hebrews, ix, 22), nevertheless, "It
is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should
take away sins." (Hebrews, x, 4).
"What is the meaning of this paradox? What is the
sacrifice and what is the blood that must atone? The sac-
-
'°The Voice of isis Curtiss, 326.
' The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 439-45.
The Crucifixion 199
rificé is indeed that of man, not of Jesus alone, but of the
lower man of us all, the animal self, and the personality,
to the will of the Divine. The blood that is shed is indeed
that of man, yet not the literal physical blood, but the spir-
itual life-force. The physical blood is the carrier of the
physical life-force and is, therefore, used to symbolize the
spiritual life-force the Christ-force or 'the blood of
the Christ' within man."1'
"This was symbolized in the old days by the blood of
animals, and in Jesus' time by the wine of the Eucharist.
When Jesus said of the wine: 'This is my blood of the
New Testament, which is shed for many for the reinis-
sion of sins,' (St. Matthew, xxvi, 28) He obviously re-
ferred not to His physical blood, which had not been shed,
but to the great sacrifice of the Christ-force coming down
or being 'shed' in the darkness of his outer life; the pour-
ing out of his spiritual life-force (blood) to redeem that
which was 'lost' or lacked spiritual life-force."1'
It is the spiritual significance of the crucifixion, and not
the physical fact, to which most of the mystical writings
of the early church Fathers refer. St. Paul recognized
that it was the inner, mystical Christ within that was
meant by the incident of the crucifixion instead of the lit-
eral, when he said: "I am crucified with Christ: never-
theless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me." (Gala-
tians, ii, 20).
"To symbolize this great Mystery of Sacrifice anew,
Jesus took bread and wine instead of the body and blood
of animals, and with these symbols summed up His whole
life and teaching. . . the sacrificing of the life of the
lower man to the Higher. The whole Gospel story is
focused in this ca.1'
"We wonder at the darkness of the minds of men who
could make literal the blood sacrifice of the personified
outpouring of Divine Love poured out into the hearts
of His ignorant, wilful and misguided children and be-
lieve that such a crime would be an acceptable sacrifice to
the heart of Divine Love, especially as it has proved so
200 The Pattern Life
inadequate to save the world from sin I The Redeemer
of man and the universe is indeed the mystical Christ-
force which is shed abroad like the physical sunlight that
none perish but all have eternal life; that Force whose
spiritual pressure for expression enables even the lowest
trough of the sea of hnmrnity to gain the power and mo-
mentum to rise to - its highest expression. For without
this Christ-force that is inherent in every Soul, nothing
can be accomplished. This is the Way, the Truth and the
Life; no man cometh unto the Father but by and through
this Cosmic Christ rce.'
"The sunlight is the physical redeemer of the Earth,
for without it nothing could grow and manifest; nor with-
out it could the dead forms and offscourings be fermented
and transmuted into helpful substances for future use.
-. In a similar manner the radiance of the Christos is
the redeemer and savior of mankind, for without it the
seeds of his spiritual life could not grow and manifest,
nor could the noxious weeds of his perverted forces his
selfishness, inharmony, lusts and the offscourings of his
mind be transmuted into good, even though this re-
quires the experiences of fermentation and transmutation.
Therefore, the redemption of man and the upliftment of
his lower forms of manifestation must come through the
upliftment of his mind to a realization of and correlation
with the radiance of the Christos or Christ-conscious-
ness."
"We are not to look back to and worship a crucified,
dead and buried Jesus, but a risen and ever-present Lord
of Light, Life and Love! Not a literal event, past and
gone ages ago, but a living Presence, who calls us to sup
with Him now in the 'upper chamber.'... The risen
Lord now gives to the world a New Testament, so that all
who are hungry for spiritual food, who are tired of suf-
fering, who are sick of bloodshed, may know the glorious
truth of His living Presence. As long as a literal blood-
12Th Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 215.
" The Inner Radiance. Curtiss. 244.
The Crucifuion 201
sacrifice of one man or many, is believed in as a propitia-
tion for sin, man will never wake up to the belief that war
can be abolished. For if the physical blood of one man
could wipe away the sins of the world, why might not the
blood of millions, shed for high ideals on the battle fields,
wipe away the sins of the nations? But this has not and
never will be accomplished; far from it."14
It is within man, then, that the Christ within suffers
daily as He is crucified between two thieves. In the cos-
inic symbology the two thieves are the zodiacal signs Can-
cer and Capricorn, on opposite sides of the zodiac. As
the Sun is "crucified" as it crosses the equator at the au-
tumnal equinox, each of the signs has "stolen" its light
from the Sun. Naturally, as Capricorn disappears below
the horizon that "thief" dies, while the other "thief"
Cancer rises with the Sun. Hence the promise:
"Today shalt thou be with me (the Sun) in paradise,"
that is, in the summer season of growth and fruition.
In our personality the two thieves may be likened to the
past and the future. The past, through the experiences of
our self-created suffering and sorrow, has stolen from us
the joy that realization of the Christ within could have
brought to our consciousness. The future, to which we
persistently look forward with dretms of personal suc-
cess, accomplishment and satisfaction or with gloomy
foreboding if not fear, distracts our attention from that
which the Christ should accomplish through us in the ever-
present, eternal Now. Thus both these "thieves," the
past and the future, steal from the Christ His opportunity
for recognition and expression, for we are forever look-
ing back to that which is past or anticipating that which
the future may bring instead of listening to the Voice
that is striving to guide us into accomplishing in the now.
The twelve "stations of the cross" correspond to the
twelve months of the Sun's cycle. They mark the twelve
major steps on the Path of Attainment, while the seven
sentences spoken while on the cross epitomize the qualities
'4The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 443-4.
202 The Pattern Life
manifested during the seven steps of Solar Initiations
"Father forgive them" reveals the compassion gained.
"Today shalt thou be with me in paradise" shows the
realization that all that which through faith we have con-
quered and blessed, we carry with us into the higher life.
'Woman, behold thy son" shows the recognition of
the feminine influence in the life. (4) "Why hast thou
forsaken me?" indicates the inadequacy of life without
God and the despair of the personality at being left alone.
(5) "I thirst" indicates the power old habits of life still
have over even the spiritually advanced. (6) "It is fin-
ished" shows the cessation of resistance by the person-
ality. (7) "Into thy hands" indicates the final merging
of the personality with the Divine.
Only to the extent that we teach our human personality
to follow The Pattern Life can the Christ within manifest
consciously through us. For, "Like the life-story of
Jesus, we must ultimately pass through all phases of that
life. We must be the carpenter's son, constructively doing
his duty in the lowly station in life in which he finds him-
self, striving to build his temple by compass and square;
yet through the power of the Christ he must learn that all
events that come to him are but the carpenter's tools with
which he must carve out his temple and accomplish the
work of his Father."
"He must remain in the obscurity of Egypt for a season
while Herod, who rules the personality, seeks to slay Him
who is ultimately to become the ruler of the life. He must
heal the sick, cleanse the lepers and feed the multitudes
within his own body with spiritual food. He must strive.
He must suffer. He must be misunderstood and con-
demned, yet never must he forget his real mission. He
must hang upon the cross of material conditions until, in
the very depths of his being, in the agony of the higher
consciousness that has been born within him that con-
sciousness which strives to uncover and reveal the Christ
Child to a world that cannot understand he cries out
'I thirst.'"
The Crucifixion 203
"In one aspect this is the thirst of the despairing per-
sonality for the old life of the world, and its seeming sat-
isfaction, its happiness and security." Our physical senses
(symbolized by the Roman soldiers) which formerly had
given us so much pleasure, do their best to satisfy this
thirst, but are unable to do so. We may resort to the old
habits of life, try to join old friends in the old pleasures,
but they no longer satisfy, in fact they are but "vinegar
mingled with gall."
"But in another and higher sense it is the cry of the
awakened man who thirsts for more wisdom; how best to
do the works of his Father; how best to lift up the Christ-
light that all men shall be drawn into the radiance of that
Light. He realizes the mighty power of the Christhood
within him and thirsts for the ability to manifest it with-
out crucifying it. But he finds the task too great and lays
down the burden crying: 'It is finished.... Father,
into thy hands I commend my spirit.'
As we point out in the Appendix A herein: "Astro-
nomically the first decanate of Leo the heart contains
an important constellation called the Crater or the Cup.
Around it many myths and legends are woven. Out of
this Cup the Sun must 'drink' as it passes through this
constellation. Hence Jesus as the representative of the
Sun is made to say: '0 my father, if it be possible, let
this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as
thou (cyclic law) wilt" (St. Matthew, xxvi. 39).
"Only when the awakened personality realizes that it
cannot achieve, through its own intellectual powers, the
destiny that has been glimpsed, and places all the ardor
and enthusiasm of his desire to accomplish, into the hands
symbol of the power to accomplish of the Father, the
Real Self, and ceases to struggle, is the crucifixion over.
He must be willing to be crucified, not rejoicing in
the crucifixion as a sign of his superiority over others,
but recognizing that it is only a crucifixion of the lower
man that the glory of the Christ within might hine forth
15The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 180-2-3.
204 The Pattern Life
the better. In fact, the Christ could accomplish His work
more perfectly without the distraction which .the suffering
of the personality brings upon Him, if the personality
could learn and respond without the crucifixion?'
"What is it all for? It is to awaken in intellectual man
an abiding sense of the indwelling Divinity and its power
to overcome all things, once the opposition of the person-
ality has ceased. He must realize that he is something
more than man; that there is something his cultured mind
cannot grasp, which must come as a revelation from the
heart; that he must call upon the Christ within; must
yidd up the sense of his sufficiency and superiority; for
his god, the intellect, has forsaken him, cry he never so
loud.""
"Instead of being regarded as a symbol of the descent
of the Christ into matter and the pouring forth of the
Cosmic Christ-force, the crucifixion has been so material-
ized and literally interpreted that it has been used as an
excuse for negative submission to suffering and sorrow,
so that in time, self-torture was looked upon as meritori-
ous, and a doleful countenance was a mark of sanctity.
Yet, because back of the misinterpretation of the symbols
there was a divine truth, man realized within himself that
there was something there which he had not grasped.
As he grew spiritually and expanded intellectually, there
were many who looked at the materialized idea and re-
volted at the thought of allowing another to suffer for
their sins, especially as they were told that the propitiation
was made centuries before they were born! And being
unable to accept the literal interpretation they turned away
from all religion and were lost either in a slough of in-
difference or in a mental labyrinth of speculation which
brought neither peace nor satictin.'
As long as Christendom worships the Christ crucified
it is but driving the nails more firmly; for the Christ is
crucified by being immersed in matter, not to be forever
entombed therein, but that matter may be redeemed. This
"The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss,, 442.
The Crucifixion 205
is a voluntary cosmic sacrifice to which man's disobedience
has added cruelty and suffering.
Remember that the Christ in us is nailed to the cross of
matter, is crucified and suffers, by our every failure to
recognize and follow His guidance.
The nails symbolize the ridicule, mockery and derision
with which the world strikes at those who are striving to
live The Pattern Life.' This often results so as to para-
lyze our power of accomplishment (hands) and hampers
our understanding, symbolized by the feet.
And because the Christ is crucified within us we must
continue to suffer until resurrected and our consciousness
ascends to be one with the Father. There need be no cru-
cifixion, yet we crucify ourselves as long as our personal
will crosses the Divine Will. The Will of God, manifest-
ing as the Christ-force, descends into the material world
in perpendicular line. As long as our desires and aspi-
rations ascend to heaven over that spiritual line there can
be no cross formed. But as long as our personal will
crosses that of the Divine we crucify the Christ within
and bring the suffering upon ourselves. For we suffer as
we oppose the harmonious working of the Law.
The crucifixion continues until the animal nature is
completely controlled by the Christ within, and the wilful
personality has also submitted and declared: "It is fin-
ished.... Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit."
(St. Luke, xxiii, 46). Christhood is a state of conscious-
ness which is attained through a process of crucifixion of
many things we formerly thought necessary. Hence, any-
one who tries to live the Christ-life is likely to know what
it means to be "despised and rejected of men; a man of
sorrows and acquainted with grief." (Isaiah, liii, 3).
And the suffering is very real and lasting, until we
learn through recognition of His presence and mission
within us to lift up the cross of materialism on which
we have crucified Him and hail Him as the Son of God,
henceforth seated forevermore as Ruler upon our throne
of life. There He guides us through the outshining of
206 The Pattern Life
Divine Love and Wisdom into the path of peace and bless-
edness. We will then no longer suffer and perish hope-
lessly, but will live forevermore in Him as He in us, thus
fulfilling both in ourselves and in humanity the many
promises given us by the Father.
We must look then within ourselves and realize that
our Lord Christ is still living on earth in us; still teaching,
healing, resurrecting and seeldng to draw us and all our
faculties to a higher and fuller understanding of God's
Truth. We must also realize that as we turn away from
Him we join the rabble who cry, "Crucify Him! Crucify
Him
"Therefore as we learn to know ourselves and our crea-
tions in all our worlds we will end the crucifixion by say-
ing of our personal reliance on outer conditions and
forces, 'It is finished.. . . Into the hands of my Divine
Self I commit my Spirit.' Then we will begin to open
our consciousness to the angelic forces of the spiritual
world and we will know ourselves as Sons of God in the
process of unfoldment and manifestation. Then we will
learn to manifest the Real Self as wholeheartedly and
completely as we have hitherto manifested the lower self
or personality."
The whole earth is running to and fro and staggering
like a drunken man, seeking for some principle which
shall bring a lasting peace and stability into their lives and
into the lives of nations. They are seeking to prevent a
return of pre-war conditions and establish new and more
just conditions for all mankind. Therefore this is the day
when to all who love their Lord Christ, all who have the
welfare of humanity at heart, all who will listen and learn
and follow, there comes the call to exemplify and spread
the doctrine of humanity's essential unity, and with sanity
and wisdom inculcate the necessity of peace, brotherhood,
co-operation and harmony, both among individuals and
nations. For only so can the crucifixion of humanity be
ended.
11The Message of Aquaria, Curtiss, 183.
The Crucifixion 207
We as individuals can do much to end the crucifixion
and the cruel suffering by teaching humanity, by the ex-
amples of our own lives, the necessity of listening to and
following the Voice of lhe Christ within, by taking our
stand firmly on the side of righteousness and high ideals,
by helping to bring about a greater understanding of the
spiritual truths hidden beneath the mysteries of parable
and symbol. For verily unto us who have grasped even
a little of the hidden leaven that must in time leaven the
whole world, it is given to be active agents in hastening
the day when there shall be given to the world a fuller and
more comprehensive understanding of the everlasting
Truth.
Therefore you can attune your hearts and make of them
true receiving instruments and amplifiers of the wonder-
ful message of Divine Truth that is forever broadcast
throughout the universe. Reach out your hands in loving
trust and accept the living Word that is given you. Pro-
claim the reality of the indwelling Christ. Make a prac-
tice of listening for His Voice and asking for His guid-
ance in every problem and condition that confronts you.
Declare that, "This is the great worlç, the great privilege
given unto me, to manifest the Christ in me and in my
life. I will try to do my best, knowing that nothing is
ever given to God's children to do that the strength to
accomplish is not given with it."
Happy u he who has ended the Crucifixion.
chapter xx
THREE DAYS IN THE TOMB
"And very early in the morning the first day of the week,
they came unto the sepulchure.. . ye seek Jesus of Naza-
reth. . . he is risen: he is not here." St. Mark, xvi, 2, 6.
"For Christ... . quickened by the Spirit; by which also he
went and preached to the spirits in prison . . . the gospel
preached also to them that are dead." I Peter, ii 18, 19;
is,, 6.
"After the autumnal crossing the crucifixion the Sun
enters the lowest point in the northern hemisphere where it
apparently remains stationary for three days, hence the "three
days in the tomb." AppendU? 4.
The incident of Jesus remaining three days in the tomb
is another of those well nigh universal incidents which
give us pause, and furnish a subject for deeper meditation.
The fact that nearly all the Savior-gods' of ancient times,
1J the Hindu So,na-deva Bhatta we are told that Saktider,a was
on a ship when a great storm arose. The ship went to pieces and
a great fish swallowed Saktideva whole. The fish was caught and
when opened Soktideva came out alive and unhurt. Hercules was
swallowed by a whale (Dag) near the same place (Joppa) where
Jonah was swallowed, remained in its belly three days and came
forth alive. Aording to the Persians Jainshul was devoured by
a great monster in the sea, but after three days he arose from the
sea unharmed. The Hindu Krishna descended into Hades to re--
onver certain persons from the dead. Mercury descended into Hell
to cause a cessation of suffering there. The Roman Dionysus de-
scended into Hades to rescue his mother, SemeIe and carry her
to Heaven. The Persian Zoroaster, the Egyptian O.ciris and Hors:,
the Greek AdonLc, the Roman Bacchus, the Scandinavian Baldur,
the Mexican Quetsacoail, etc.1 all descended into Hell for various
unselfish reasons and rose again on the third day. All these heroes
represented the Sun during the three days and nights of the winter
solstice.
208
Three Days in the Tomb 209
long before the Christian era, remained in tombs for ex-
actly three days, during which they "descended into hell,"
takes the incident out of the realm of coincidence and sug-
gests some common, underlying significance, aside from
its obvious connection with the Sun apparently standing
still or being "entombed" for three days.
The best known example of many other Lightbringers
who were "entombed" in one way or another is the story
of Jonah remaining for three days and nights in the
"nether regions" or the belly of the "great fish." Ob-
viously this incident was not meant to be taken literally,
for Jonah would have been smothered in a few minutes
if he was not strangled by the acid juices of the fish's
stomach. "That story is an allegory . . . as is now all
but universally admitted by scholars."2
That this incident is of symbolic significance is evi-
denced by the fact that the body of Jesus did not remain
in the tomb for three full days and nights. 'According
to the Jewish reckoning the Sabbath was over at 6
the night before. This is Sunday morning at sunrise (6
A.M) If Jesus was buried at, say, one hour before
sunset on Friday, and this was 6 &.M. on Sunday morning,
he had been one full day, and one hour of the preceding
day, and about twelve hours of a third day, in the grave
thus about 37 hours altogether," $ instead of the full 72
hours.
As we have already pointed out: "All these stories are
very similar to that of Jonah, and have precisely the same
esoteric meaning, namely, that he was 'swallowed' or re-
tired from the outer life, for the three periods the three
days in the belly of the fish of the Great Initiation into
esoteric wisdom before he was prepared to preach to the
people of Nineveh."
2Bjl,le Myths, Doane 79.
The Life of Christ, Cainej 979, 984.
4The Key of Desth,y, Curtiss, 158. See also Bible Myths,
Doane, 79. Hebrew Mythology, Goldhier, 102-3. Anacaiyp.su,
Higgins, i, 638. Primitive Culture, Taylor, i, 306 - "Come, and
let us return unto the Lord:. . . be bath smitten, and he will bind
210 The Pattern Life
The connection of this incident in the life-story of
Jesus with the Sun is easily seen. For as a Lightbringer
Jesus naturally represents the Sun, as we have shown re-
peatedly throughout this study. Therefore His entomb-
ment for three days represents the three winter months
January, February, March during which the Sun de-
cends into the "lower regions" of the southern hemisphere
or the zodiacal "hell," the "bowels of the earth" or the
"belly of the fish," and is then resurrected to renew its
career in the northern hemisphere.
The key to this universal symbology is found in the
initiation ceremonies of all the ancient Mysteries. Initia-
tion into the Mysteries has from the most remote ages
been characterized by the symbolic death, burial and res-
urrection of the Candidate. In those early days, when
education and culture were possessed by only the very
few outside the priesthood, the mysteries of birth, life and
death were outpictured in allegorical ceremonies which
were intended to impress the Candidate and also the
multitude which witnessed them the fundamental laws
of both physical and spiritual evolution. And his sym-
bolic death and burial prefigured the spiritual change that
was taking place within him, namely, the death and burial
of the lower personality or man of flesh, that the Spiritual
or Christ-man might arise and rule his life from that
time on.
In the mysteries of Isis, Attis, Dionysus, Orpheus,
Mithra, Eleusis, etc., the Candidate approached the sol-
emn sacrament of Initiation believing that he thereby be-
came "twice-born," a "new creature," and passed in a real
sense from death unto life by being brought into a mys-
sterious intimacy with the deity5 In the Eleusinian My:-
teries Apeuleius says he underwent a "voluntary death"
and approached the realm of death in order thereby to
attain his spiritual birthday.
us up. After two days will he revive us: ui the third day he will
raise us up, and we shall live in his sight" Hosea,, vi, 1-2.
5The Mystery Re!igions, Angus, 96-7.
Three Days in the Tomb 211
Among the Egyptians this symbology was enacted by
placing the Candidate in a sarcophagus or coffin which
was then placed in a dark crypt symbolizing a tomb. His
entranced body was either stretched upon a cross or a
cross was bound upon his heart. - It was so arranged that
on the thjrd day the rays of the rising Sun would fall
upon the mytic center (Ajna) in his forehead and
thereby awaken him from his trance.
There he was left, apparently alone in the darkness, in
a deep magnetic sleep, as dead to any earthly happenings
as though in very truth he were dead and placed within a
tomb. While his body was thus entranced, his conscious-
ness was rdeased from its confinement to the body and
descended into that sub-conscious region where the elemen-
tal forces are confined like spirits in prison. Thus was the
Candidate brought face to face with all normal instinctive
forces of his animal nature, together with his astral crea-
tions and all that went to make up his lower personality.
In this way the Candidate was brought to a realization
of himself and what he must do about it. For there
passed before him in panoramic view, firstly, all his faults
and failings, all his unsuspected tendencies, together with
all the previous lusts and unworthy desires which he had
created and expressed, as well as those he had suppressed;
all those things that must be 'preached to" and released
from their "prison." Secondly, his consciousness was
then expanded to recognize and respond to the glory of
his Real or Spiritual Self, the Christ within. Thus were
his godlike powers and glorious possibilities and the goal
to be reached so indelibly impressed upon his conscious-
ness that when he was released or resurrected on the third
day, he would be determined to conquer, and thus would
apply the unceasing effort necessary to attain the final vic-
tory as a "Son of God." "To them he gave power (the
right) to become the sons of God." (St. John, i, 12).
Today the seekers for the Christ-consciousness have
greatly advanced. Out of the horrors of world-wars and
their accumulated experiences, they have learned that it is
212 The Pattern Life
no longer necessary to be placed in a trance and have their
evil creations presented to their psychic vision, and have
their Path to Mastery thus revealed. In fact, for the
untrained majority such an experience would be called
but a fantastic nightmare. Today those who have expe-
rienced the crucifixion and are facing the next step may
expect to be plunged into the darkness of the "tomb" by
life itself. Thus will they have the realization of the hid-
den traits of their lower self brought home to them by the
tests and experiences of daily life so that they cannot fail
to recognize them. Then. they may "preach unto" them,
and release them from their prison in their subconscious
minds.
As we have already pointed out: "It is only the Christ-
consciousness, manifesting through the heart and cruci-
fied by the rational mind and nailed to the cross of mate-
riality, that can descend into the lower regions (the sub-
conscious) and preach t& the souls (complexes) impris-
oned there, or subjugate and control the forces of the
lower mind, and through the consciousness thus illumined,
make man, in very truth, the Lord of Creation and the
image of God the Father.
And if the Candidate refuses to recognize and "preach
unto" these traits or aspirits in prison," they will naturally
find expression again and again until he is thoroughly
aroused to the necessity of conquering or transmuting
them through the power of the Christ within. The medi-
eval mystics called such experiences or plunges into the
darkness, the "dark night of the Soul," which caused them
great mental suffering. But such periods often alternate
with periods of lofty inspiration and visions, the most
glorious heights of the Christ-consciousness that can be
attained. But, as Candidates for Christhood, if we con-
tinue to refuse to face and recognize ourselves exactly as
we are; if we turn our backs upon and ignore and refuse
to "preach unto them," we will continue to make the same
mistakes, have the same unhappy experiences and suffer
The Musage of Aq'wna, Curtiss, 220.
Three Days in the Tomb 213
from them until we are ready to recognize the cause and
let the Christ redeem them; for the Christ in us must lie
in the tomb or "hell" of our lower self until we do.
In the Christian Mysteries this inner spiritual experi-
ence is symbolized by Jesus spending the usual three days
in the tomb while He descended into the lowest or "hell"
realms of the astral world.T And the symbology differs
but little from that found in many other religions for this
event. It does not mean that those today who are passing
through this same momentous experience will literally die,
any more than did the Egyptian Candidate who passed
three days in a trance. It simply means that they are pass-
ing through three periods of spiritual darkness and dead-
ness comparable to that of a tomb.
Many advanced students who are unfolding some of
their higher faculties think that when they have attained
the spiritual Baptism and have had some realization of
the Christ-consciousness they have conquered all and that
life henceforth will be a rapid and uneventful progress
toward Christhood. In reality they are but preparing for
the great trials of the Crucifixion and the Resurrection.
The three- days in the tomb therefore, represent three
periods of long or short duration during which the life,
light and warmth of the Sun of Rightousness is eclipsed;
three distinct steps or awakenings in your spiritual life.
They are three periods during which you are conquering
the lower elemental powers upon the three planes. The
first awakening will come after a period of darkness
during which you may find springing up within you de-
sires, traits of character and thoughts of an undesirable
nature which you never dreamed were yours or which
you thought were long since conquered. These you must
recognize as yours and "preach unto them" until you can
control, purify, redeem and turn them to good.
You now begin to enter upon the long second day.
During the short first day you met your tests largely in
matters pertaining to the physical body and the physical
T
details see Realm, of the LiviNg Dcad Curtiss.
214 The Pattern Life
plane, but this second "day" is a long period of mental
darkness, during which you must gain control over your
thoughts. If necessary you must reconstruct and set in
order your entire mental world. During this day you
will be tested by doubts and fears and misunderstandings,
both as to any teachings you may be following and as to
the reality of the inner experiences through which you
may be passing.
You must conquer the tendency to intellectual aggran-
dizement, particularly the idea that you must make every-
one think as you do. You must also conquer the inclina-
tion to self-satisfaction, self-righteousness and spiritual
pride. This is a natural result of your having taken your
lower nature in hand and in a measure conquered at least
its physical expression. But the feeling that you are
superior to your companions who have not reached your
point of attainment, because your ideals are higher than
theirs, must be conquered. In other words, you must so
"preach to the spirits in prison" that you make your whole
mental world bow subservient to the Christ-consciousness,
just as you have made your physical expressions. Thus
you will no longer allow your life to be ruled by worldly
conceptions, the opinions of others, or by the plausible
arguments of the intellect, but will follow the Inner
Guidance of the resurrected Christ within.
This mental house-cleaning and readjustment will oc-
cupy a full long "day," from sunrise down through the
blackness of the second night-periodS until the Sun of
Righteousness rises on the "third day." Then you will
realize that there is a divine power consciously ruling and
guiding your mental world, even as you now rule and
guide the physical. Therefore your intellect does not have
to work alone, once it has acknowledged the light of the
Christ within, and no longer makes excuses for its mis-
takes. Only when the intellect has become a dear vehicle
for the Christ-consciousness, and will allow no amount
of misunderstanding or lack of appreciation to disturb
you, have you passed the "second day."
Three Days in the Tomb 215
Only when the Sun of Righteousness shines dearly in
your mental world and you awaken to the realization that
your chief aim must be to fix your attention upon the
Christ within and live so dose to Him that His radiance
will bring forth in you the "fruits of the Spirit," only then
have you awakened on the "third day." On the third
morning you must awaken to the divine possibilities which
must be resurrected within yourself, and within your
fellow men.
It is probable that this period will be of short duration,
for we read that it was "very early in the morning.
when it was yet dark" that the angel rolled away the stone
from the tomb. The Angel that rolls away the stone from
the tomb is the ray of spiritual light which you invoke as
the result of your consecration, devotion and aspiration.
Pray then that it be in the dawning of your third day
that the Angel of Inspiration shall roll away the stone of
materialism from the tomb of mental darkness and permit
the resurrection of the Christ-consciousness within. For
you have kept Him there wrapped in the bands of your
mental limitations and the grave clothes of literal con-
ceptions. Then when the three women, or the three
feminine aspects of the Christ-consciousness Mary, the
Mother of Jesus (love), Mary Magdalene (compassion)
and Salome (sympathy) come "very early in the morn-
ing" they will find nothing but the grave clothes of old
limitations left behind. And the Angel will proclaim:
"He is not here: for He is risen I"
At this point there comes to the Soul a subtle tempta-
tion, for the feminine principles have wept so long at the
foot of the cross and beside the tomb that they find it
difficult to rejoice at the resurrection. They cry: "They
have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we
know not where they have laid Him" (St. Luke xx, 2).
The temptation is one of self-pity which tends to hug to
youthe suffering of the crucifixion. You imagine that
you are bearing the sorrows of the world, whereas you
have been reaping only the natural results of your own
216 The Pattern Life
unconquered faults and lack of understanding. But if
you will lift your eyes to heaven, instead of fixing them
on yourself, you will see your Guardian Angel and hear
Him say: "He is risen!. . . why seek ye the living
among the dead?" You will then realize that the resur-
rection of the Christ-consciousness within you has really
taken place and is not a mere dream or an astral expe-
rience. For when that takes place all things are made
new, and the Sun of Righteousness will illumine even the
empty tomb where the limiting grave clothes have been
left behind.
As we have said elsewhere: "It is the force generated
by the mystical North Wind that shall roll away the stone
from the sepulcher of our lives. And as we find the stone
rolled away many of us may start back appalled to find
only empty graveclothes where we thought to find the
Christ. How many of us have had something we valued
above all else, that which seemed to be our Lord of Lif;
taken from us and we have laid it in a tomb and have
sealed it with a great stone! Often this stone is fashioned
from our hearts grown hard and bitter because our artifi-
cial Lord of Life has been taken from us and we know
not where they have laid him.
"There are many, many such: many who are carrying
through life the memory of such a death and burial: many
whose hearts dose the mouth of a sepulcher in which their
hopes and dearest wishes lie buried. This may be the
physical loss of a loved one who seemed so necessary for
us to lean on, but who may have been removed only to
teach our Soul to lean upon its own inner touch with Di-
vimty. Or it may be some disappointed hope or some
affliction of the body which they have sealed up in a tomb
in the mind where they go often to weep and lament or to
curse the fate that has willed it so.
"Then comes the great North Wind and sweeps theni
off their feet, tears from their lives all those things tc
which they have dung so long. By its force the stone
they thought so firm is torn from its foundations and
Three Days in the Tomb 217
rolled away. Then they find in their sepulcher no cher-
ished idol, no Lord of Life, but only the graveclothes of
that which has passed away long since. Moreover, if they
come to this sepulcher at dawn after the bitter North Wind
has blown all the night long, they will find an angel wait-
ing for them saying: 'He is not here, for he is risen.
Why seek ye the living among the dead?'
"What is the meaning of this symbol? It is this, there
is no thing that is called out by our true, unselfish love
that can rest in the grave. Its essence must rise and be-
come a part of our True Sdf, for we cannot lose anything
that is true and pure. Do not hover over the graves in
your life, for nothing can remain in the grave but the mere
outward covering which we ourselves have woven about
the thing we loved. There are no sepulchers which re-
quire the hardening of our hearts to seal up, no dark and
dismal caverns where our loved ones rest. No thing that
has awakened one living spark of Divine Love and has
then apparently been taken away from us is dead. Nor
can it rest in a grave, for it is risen, risen into the great
and mighty oneness of Divine Love, which indudes the
little things of life as well as the great
'When the bitter North Wind blows fiercely and our
lives seem chilled and going to pieces: when petty cares,
like the dust and debris cast up by the wind, are flying
about us on every hand, perhaps blinding us; when the
Sun of Righteousness and the Moon of Intuition are
darkened and the Star of Initiation seems to have with-
drawn its light, then look up to heaven, for behold our
redemption draweth nigh. For when we have looked up
we will see the lesson from the experience and go fear-
lessly into the tomb and see for ourselves that our Lord of
Life and Love has risen, for the stone of misunderstand-
ing and the hardness of heart has been rolled away by the
King of the North Wind."
Every Soul who is passing through the experiences of
the three days in the tomb is watched over by a Guardian
'The Mesgage of Aquaria, Curtiss, 13S-6.
218 The Pattern Life
Angel, the same great Teacher who in former ages sat by
the entrance to the initiation crypt and followed the Soul
down into the darkness to guide, help and protect it. If,
through your sincere efforts to help humanity, you have
proven that you have donned the livery of the Christ, you
have been recognized by the Elder Brothers of the Race.
Henceforth your path will lead ever closer to Them until
full realization is the reward of your steady conquering
and attainment.
But it must be you who draws closer to Them. The
clouds which hide Them from you are all of your own
creating. They will dissolve and disappear in the bright
beams of the Sun of Righteousness as it arises and floods
your life with its radiance and the resurrection is an
accomplished fact in your heart and life.
These three periods can be three moments, three years
or three incarnations according to your own spiritualiza-
tion and advancement, as you enter intOE your divine birth-
right. So let the stone of personality and materialism be
rolled away. Let the grave clothes of old, restricting ideas
and misconceptions fall away. Awake! Watch for the
dawning of the third day! Arise from the tomb and come
forth into the light of a new day!
Happy is he who has arisen from the Tomb.
Chapter XXI
THE RESURRECTION
"Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here,
but is risen." St. Luke, xxiv, 5,6.
"After spending three months in the 'tomb' of the south-
ern hemisphere, the Sun continues to rise until it crosses the
equator into the northern hemisphere. There it enters the
sign Aries where it is said to be 'exalted? This event is
called the vernal equinox which ushers in the beginning of
Spring, and is celebrated universally by the ceremony of
Easter. Thus the Sun pours forth its light, heat and life-
force sheds its symbolic 'blood' that all Nature may be
resurrected from the tomb of Winter and have life more
abundantly. Therefore this event is called the Resurrection."
Appendix 4.
If the greatest tragedy of the ages for the Western
World was the crucifixion, death and entombment of
Jesus, certainly His resurrection was the most inspiring
miracle of the ages. No wonder biblical authorities tell
us that: "The Christian Church would never have come
into existence without faith in the Risen Lord. His con-
quest over death is most frequently appealed to in the
apostolic teaching."1
The details of the precise manner in which Jesus was
resurrected as there were no witnesses have been the
basis of heated controversy for centuries. The literalists
insist that it was Jesus' physical body that arose from the
tomb and appeared to various persons and groups some
thirteen times. They hold that it was the physical body
that then ascended into heaven, in spite of St. Paul's
1Encyclopedia Britannica, xviii, 572.
219
220 The Pattern Life
explicit statement that: "Flesh and blood cannot inherit
the kingdom of God." (I Corinthians, xv, 50). Psychic
research authorities' claim that it must have been Jesus'
astral or etheric body that arose and materialized. The
mythologists franidy state as we have already men-
tioned that: "Such narratives as those of the rock-
burial and resurrection of the Savior-God in the Gospels
are beyond all doubt simple developments of those mourn-
ing rituals which we have seen used in so many ancient
rituals." "According to the Encydopedia Britannica,
twenty-two contradictions of the most serious character
are found. . . between the four accounts to be found
in the New Te.ctansent."1
Since the full details of the resurrection require con-
siderable explanation, we will omit many of them until
we take them up in connection with the equally miraculous
problem of the Ascension, with which it is so closely
connected, in the next Chapter.
Probably most Christians think that the Resurrection of
Jesus was a miracle that was unique in the history of the
world, and in the Christian religion only, but such is far
from being true. ,That is not the only time that death was
conquered by Resurrection and Ascension, as we s1al1
explain in the next Chapter. Our research shows that this
same miracle is recorded in the life-story of many previous
Lightbringers or Sun-gods centuries before the Christian
Era.4
'The Psychic Stream, Findlay, 909, 88Z The Psychic Life of
Jesus, Elliott. Communication with the Spirit World, Greber, 387.
'ChthIionity Mythology, Robertson, 381.
4The Hindu Savior, Krishna, rose from the dead as "a great light
enveloped the Earth and illumined the whole expanse of heaven,
amidst great rejoicing." Rama rose from the dead and iscended
into heaven to renew his divine essence. The death of Comodeo was
mourned with such lamentations that Mahadeo was moved to pity
and resurrected him into heaven, "to hell's great dread and heaven's
eternal admiration." Adonis or Tcmmu rose from the dead during
the ceremony of Adonia. His image was carried with great
solemnity to the tomb, with great lamentations. After a funeral
oration a great shout was raised: "Adonis has risen from the dead!"
The followers of Zoroaster claim that he rose from the dead and
The Resurrection 221
Since no exact date is known for the Resurrection, its
celebration at Easter is a moveable ceremony, varying
every year. And its connection with the Cycles of the
Sun and Moon is shown by the fact that it takes its name
from Eastre, the Anglo-Saxon Goddess of Spring, and is
celebrated on the Sunday after the full moon following the
Spring equinox or the Sunday which follows the calendar
moon which falls upon or next after the 21st of March.
As to why this should be so, we are again forced to
enquire into its cosmic and spiritual symbology for an
explanation.
That man is in some mysterious way akin to Nature not
even the most positive materialist will attempt to deny.
But he who understands esoteric wisdom recognizes that
the thread which binds man to Nature is something more
than aldnness; that it is the same Divine Principle, differ-
ing only in degree, that is manifesting in Nature and in
man; the same Divine Principle that moved upon the face
of the waters of Chaos, and said: "Let there be light."
It is a question of a stage of evolution, or degree of mani-
festation. That which makes man greater than the flowers
of the field is his power, consciously, by his own volition,
to obey the Law of Divinity rather than follow it blindly;
to permit the Resurrection and the life which in Nature
ascended into heaven. Aescvlapisis was called a "Son of God."
After his death he arose into heaven. Of him Ovid prophesied:
"Then shalt thou diej but from the dark abode shalt arise victorious,
and be twice a God." The virgin-born Lao-Kium also rose from
the dead and rose bodily into heaven. The Egyptian Savior, Osiris,
arose from the dead and bore the title of "The Resurrected One."
The Persian Savior, MstI,ros, whose sufferings were believed to
have caused the salvation of his followers1 arose from the dead
amidst a great burst of light. The Phrygian Savior, Ally:, also
rose from the dead. The ressurection of the Greek Savior, Bac-
chus, was celebrated"with great rejoicings. The Savior, Hercules,
arose from a funeral pyre and ascended into paradise. The Scan-
dinavian Savior, Baldur, rose from his grave to testify to his im-
mortality. Many other Savior-gods, such as Memnon, Ampinaraus,
Frey. Ties, Quelzalcoalle, Diosy.fus, etc., all rose from the dead on
the same Sun's day at the vernal equinox, now called F2frr.
222 The Pattern Life
is the blind obedience of matter to Spirit to take plate
in him as a conscious individualization of Deity.
Early in the Spring the mind of man is naturally turned
with rejoicing toward the resurrection of the Sun from
the southern hemisphere, to take its place as the Life-
bringer to the northern hemisphere. Research shows that
for ages throughout the ancient world the Resurrection of
the god So!, under different names in different ages and
among different people, was celebrated on March 25th
with elaborate ceremonies of great rejoicing. In Christian
countries this event is called Easter, and celebrates the
Resurrection of Jesus from the three days in the tomb.
In so-called heathen lands the same festival is arranged
to celebrate the advent of Spring or the bringing forth of
a new creation, the rising from the dead of the creative
potencies of Nature.
At this season of the year all Nature is performing be-
fore our eyes the mighty miracle of the Resurrection.
The cold, icy tomb of Winter the night-time of the
year, during which Nature sleeps and assimilates and
consolidates the force of growth and digests the experi-
ences of the Summer begins to feel the rejuvenating
warmth of the creative force in action, the out-breathing
of the Great Breath whose power arouses and brings
forth the life-force in dormant Nature. For just as the
inbreathing of the Great Breath indraws the life-force and
produces the deadness of Winter, the unconsciousness of
sleep and the death of the physical body, so does its out-
breathing bring about the Resurrection from these condi-
tions by sending forth a new cyclic outpouring of the
divine life-force the cosmic Christ-force which makes
all things to live.
This great event most beautifully illustrates for us the
great Law of Cyclic Manifestation. This basic Law
teaches us the inspiring lesson that out of death cometh the
Resurrection of life; out of the dark tomb of Winter
cometh the glorious Resurrection of Spring; out of the
bondage of snow and ice cometh the Resurrection of light
The Resurrection 223
and warmth; out of the darkness of night cometh the
Resurrection of dawn; out of the prison house of limita-
tion cometh the Resurrection of freedom; out of the
darkness of ignorance cometh the Resurrection of en-
lightenment and understanding; out of the darkness and
inertia of materialism cometh the Resurrection of spiritual
realization.
These illustrations should teach us the fundamental
lesson of the Resurrection, namely, the necessity for
absolute reliance upon Divine Law ultimately to resurrect
us in due season from whatever entombing condition of
darkness, discouragement and limitation we may be ex-
periencing. As St. Paul so confidently assures us:
"Therefore we are buried with him by baptism unto
death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by
the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in
newness of life. For if we have been planted together
in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness
of his resurrection." (Romanc, vi, 4, 5).
For just as the farmer relies absolutely upon the Law of
Resurrection to bring forth his seeds from the tomb of
the earth and thereby bring forth his crops, so must we
rely upon that same universal, immutable, Cosmic Law to
resurrect the seeds of spiritual realization and ideals we
have planted in the tomb of our material conditions, and
bring them forth as crops of righteousness in our lives.
All manifestations of the Divine Creative Force are
cyclic. And just as each Easter-time marks a new out-
pouring of that Creative Force to awaken all Nature and
resurrect it from the tomb of Winter, so it is with man.
Each Easter-time marks a new cycle or season for us also.
It gives us a new opportunity to learn the lessons of the
Resurrection of Nature around us. For at this season
there is an increased outpouring of spiritual life, light and
power which will help to awaken us from our winter of
spiritual indifference and inactivity. This will enable us
to put forth new buds of aspiration and unfold new
blossoms of spiritual r1tion.
224 The Pattern Life
This new wave of Cosmic Life-force makes our Resur-
rection much more possible than at other seasons. For at
this season old atoms are being sloughed off in large
numbers, like the husks from the sprouting grain, and
new atoms are being rapidly assimilated and built into all
our bodies. But just as each plant must correlate with
the forces of Spring if it is to grow and bring forth its
crop, just so is it personally operative in our lives only to
the extent that we recognize and correlate with it.
For with man, unlike Nature, there is a personal re-
sponsibility to prepare, the soil of his mind and heart, and
plant the seed, that the spiritual force that is assimilated
shall bring forth only that which has been carefully se-
lected as desirable. For without careful preparation the
weeds spring up first and grow through the same force
that makes flowers bloom. The snakes and poisonous
insects also awaken to activity through the same instinct
that brings back the birds and urges them to build their
nests and prepare to bring forth new life and to fill the
air with their glad songs.
Many earnest seekers cry out: "Why am I still held
down in the tomb of my hampering material environment,
buried under an avalanche of world conditions? Why do
I not rise with Nature and the Christ and manifest His
power to overcome ?" For many, one reason is that they
are still living within the husk or shell of personality,
focusing their attention upon the personalities and faults
of others, instead of recognizing and focusing on, and
mentioning, their good qualities. Many give their atten-
tion to, and almost bury themselves in the negative and
sordid conditions of life which they contact or even hear
about. Instead of letting all such conditions pass them
by without responding to them, or if directly in their path
of life, instead of stepping over or going around them as
they would a mud-puddle, they bury themselves in the
mud like frogs and croak out their complaints at the
hampering, sordid and evil conditions of life.
There can be no Resurrection for such until they realize
The Resurrection 225
the mental slough in which their consciousness is dwelling,
and voluntarily dimb out of the mud of criticism and
condemnation, purify their minds with the waters of com-
passion and love and learn to soar like birds in mind and
heart above the mud-puddles of life and build their nests
high up in the green branches of the Tree of Life. There,
above the pestilential miasma of the swamps of the sordid
things of life, they can see the good in their fellow men
shining through the shortcomings and imperfections of
their personalities. Then they can sing glad praises to
God for the many beauties and blessings which He pro-
vides so abundantly for their recognition, for their ac-
ceptance and for them to correlate with and absorb.
Once gain this conception and you can rise with the
risen Lord of Life, pushing up the sprouts of your purified
and expanding consciousness through the soil of material
conditions as the early bulbs do in the Spring, steadily
persisting in their unfoldment, even though late frosts and
untimely snows may come to delay their flowering. Then
you will have passed through the death pangs, will have
risen out of the tomb of old conditions, have shaken off
the grave clothes (mental limitations) and risen above the
husks of old ideas and habits.
No interpretation of the Resurrection would be com-
plete without some reference to the egg, for it is a universal
symbol of.the resurrection of life from the unmtnifested.
For the egg is the universal symbol of Easter, and its
appropriateness cannot be questioned when we remember
that the egg is the greatest mystery of creation; for all
things must pass through the egg stage before creation or
resurrection can manifest. Thus the egg is one of thç
greatest mysteries known to man, namely, the mystery
that out of that which was unorganized, unconscious,
formless, and void, a definite, organized form with its own
innate consciousness should appear from out the unseen
iùto the seen. From the earliest times and among all
nations the egg has been the universal symbol of creation,
of the origin of all things. References to this mystery are
226 The Pattern Life
found in all ancient religions, and modern religions un-
knowingly perpetuate its great truth through the use of
the Easter egg.
Back of and through this mystery a great Cosmic Law
is illustrated, for the egg symbolizes the confines within
which the divine creative or Cosmic Christ-force brings
forth, on whatever plane it may be, the ideal that is to be
manifested there. In the universe the shell of the egg
represents the "Circle of Manifestation" or the "Ring
Pass Not," within which are the "waters of the great
deep" upon which the Spirit moves.
The germ within the egg brings forth all that was con-
tained within the egg before fecundation. This may seem
mystical language, yet science has demonstrated that this
is literally true, for that which is mystically spoken of as
the "Mundane Egg" in one sense is none other than the
fire-mist of science, which first is diffuse, then coheres into
a more compact egg-shaped mass, then gradually con-
denses until it finally becomes a nebula, a globe or a
universe. This is the law of all creation, be it atom, egg
or Cosmos.
For our Earth it was the Mundane Egg in which both
the forces and the materials for manifestation were lying
latent, waiting to be brought forth when the Lord said:
"Let there be light," to fructify that which was in the
bosom of the Divine Mother waiting to be brought forth.
The thrill of that Creative Ray brought the joy of life to
the entire planet. On earth the egg symbolizes the Womb
of Nature out of which all growing things are brought
forth. And we all know the thrill of joy we feel as the
Christ-force in Nature, which has so long been buried in
the tomb of Winter, is resurrected and brings forth in the
beauty of Spring.
In each solar system the Solar Egg is the Ring Pass Not
and its contained aura within which the Solar Logos pours
the creative Christ-force that each planet may be born.
'details see the chapter on "The Mewimg of the Sea!," in
The Voice of isis, Curtiss, 413.
The Resurrection 227
At such Cosmic Easters it is said that: "The morning
stars sang together" for joy that a new manifestation of
the Cosmic Christ was coming into expression. There-
f ore, let the sight of an egg or the advent of Spring always
associate itself in your mind with the thought of joy and
a new birth.
As we have said elsewhere: "It is a scientific fact that
in Nature all eggs and most seeds, in which the future
animal, plant or man is latent, are either globular or more
or less modified spheroids in shape. . . . Our word for
cell is the Celtic name for Heaven, Ce!, and this continuous
birth from cell to cell was held identical with the mani-
festation of Deity. While the egg is the true symbol of
all physical generation, it is also the symbol of the Christ
Seed within each heart; for within the spheroidal aura
surrounding each Soul like the shell of an egg, there is a
germ-center, the Christ Seed, which like the germ-center
in the egg, gradually grows and unfolds until at last the
Christ Child emerges. He is then just as much a new
and different expression of the Lord as is the chicken
different from the egg when it emerges from the shell."
Your personal Easter Egg is your oval aura which has
been laid in the nest of earth conditions that out of it
there might hatch the ideal Christ Man of perfected
humanity. The realization of this Spiritual Self within
may be latent or unrecognized at present. But some day
the warmth of the Divine Mother-love will bring forth
that Christ Seed so long buried in the tomb of your ma-
terial consciousness, and your resurrection will take place.
As the process is out-pictured in Genesic, first there
comes the Spirit of God the Divine Light which
moves over the dark and chaotic .conditions of your life
and says, "Let there be light." This calls forth the love
of your heart, and a great inner urge springs up to bring
forth in you a new life and higher conditions; to break
through the shell of old limitations, old habits, old ideas,
and manifest that which in your heart you know you
'The Krj lo the Universe. Curtiss, 44, 40.
228 The Pattern Life
should. When this is accomplished it marks the birth of
your spiritual consciousness from the limiting shell of the
world's thought, the Resurrection of the Christ in you
from the tomb of materialism. But from this time on you
must protect and nourish this new-born realization and
allow it to grow in manifestation in your life, for unless
you consciously strive to do so you cannot hope for results.
The practical lesson to be learned at the season of
Resurrection is not only the real meaning of the symbol
of the egg, but also its practical application to our daily
lives. To each Child of the Resurrection, i.e., to him who
has consciously recognized and permitted the Christ to rise
from the deadness of his heart and life, is the opportunity
given to lend his force toward vivifying the germ of
spiritual life. And the Easter season is a great cyclic
opportunity.
Each one must resurrect and bring forth the Christ-
love in his heart individually, and then must collectively
send forth the sparks of Divine Love into the world; for
collectively we are creating new conditions for the whole
world.
Many of you have been passing through the death throes
of the old, throwing off the old husks and crucifying the
flesh, but on the Easter morn there comes to you the
assurance that "I (the Christ within you) am the resur-
rection and the life; he that believeth in me (the Divine
Life-force), though he were dead, yet shall he live: and
whosoever liveth and bdlieveth in me shall never die."
(St. John, 11, 25). This is the whole secret. It means
bringing your consciousness into absolute touch with this
force of Resurrection. It is Divine Consciousness or
Spiritual Ideality, capable of touching everything with
life, making dead matter respond to its living force.
This is the lesson the Easter season should bring to
you; that the Church services, the anthems, the prayers
should teach you. The budding trees, the songs of the
birds building their nests for the new life and preparing
to bring forth anew, the flowers, and everjr voi and
The Resurrection 229
activity of Spring should convince you that the force
which works through Nature to awaken it from its long
sleep is the same Cosmic Christ-force working in and
through you. Thus you may consciously bring forth the
Christ which has been buried under the mass of mental
debris while you have been sleeping through the long
nights of your Winter-time, with your vibrations slowed
down to the rhythm of the mere physical. All this shoukt
teach you that the same force can, and will, 1111 you with
the new pulsating life-force and that you will be able to
hear the command of the Christ: "Arise! Come forth
from the tomb."
Be determined to obey the Voice. Believe that the stone
of misconception and ignorance has been rolled away by
the Angel of Truth, and that this same stone, which has
for so long been a stone of stumbling, has now, by the
power of the risen Christ, become the head-stone of the
corner, the head of the great Universal Church of Christ,
which is built upon the everlasting Rock of Truth, through
the Resurrection of the Christ within.
Look around you in Nature and realize that the time
has come for you also to put up new shoots of life, new
expressions of your resurrected consciousness, new reali-
zations, new ideas, new joys, new unselfishness, and love
for the unfolding beauties you now see in your com-
panions and all mankind, as well as in Nature. Breathe
in the aroma of the good earth and the scents of the
unfolding flowers and trees, and realize that a higher
aspect of the same Christ-force which is manifesting in
nature to flU the air with perfume, is also pouring its
creative force through you that you may spread abroad
the perfume of happiness, the "odor of sanctity," the
beauty of holiness, if you will but stop resisting and permit
its expression.
"If the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead
dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall
also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwdlleth
in you." (Romans, viii, 11). Since the Power of the
230 The Pattern Life
Resurrection manifests through all Nature, so can it mani-
fest through you! Meditate upon the above quotation and
repeat it again and again until its inner significance is
revealed unto you in a glorious realization. Thus will you
tune-in to the Power of the Resurrection and allow it to
bring about the Resurrection in your life.
Strive to live consciously in the Power of the Resurrec-
tion. Whenever confronted by a serious problem, sit
quietly by yourself, take a few slow deep breaths and
relax. Say to yourself again and again until you feel it:
"The Power of the Resurrection is now working freely in
my body, my mind and in my affairs! And I rejoice and
give thanks that it is so! And I will wait patiently for
its manifestation in due season." Thus will you receive a
Resurrection of health in your body, enlightenment in
your mind, and peace and love in your heart.T
Breathe in, absorb, respond to and express that up-
rushing Christ-force from within as unresistingly and as
gladly as do the trees and flowers, without stopping to
argue the why and wherefore or the details of its inani-
festation, and without mental reservation or fear of im-
perfection. The trees and flowers do not have to under-
stand the process or be taught any special technique in
order to grow. When the time for their Resurrection,
their springtime, comes and the Christ-force in Nature is
uprushing and seeking expression through all forms of
life, they respond at once and do nothing to impede it.
They simply correlate with it and absorb it and allow it
to express through them and bring forth to perfection
their inner pattern.
So should your Resurrection be. Pray daily: "0
Christ! from every wild flower by the roadside, from
every plant and shrub and tree, help me to learn the great
lesson of correlation and unfoldment, that I may experi-
ence the inner Resurrection and put forth and blossom and
bring forth the 'fruits of the spirit' according to the
TFor meditation on «Tbe Prayer for Light" see Th 1w,
Radiance. Curtiss. 184.
The Resurrection 231
inner pattern of my true, Spiritual Self." Then you, too,
will partake of the renewed life and joy of the springtime,
and experience the Resurrection from the unsatisfying
life of materialism and the darkness of spiritual ignorance,
and fill the air of your environment with the perfume of
your Rose of Life.
In summarizing this chapter we cannot do better than to
repeat two stanzas of that well known hymn which we have
quoted elsewhere.
"Down from their home on high
Down through the starry sky.
Angels, descending fly,
While the Earth shaketh.
Roll they the stone away
From where the Savior lay.
Out into glorious day
His way He talceth."
"And so may the angels of inspiration and divine guid-
ance, spiritual understanding and illumination descend
upon us here and now and roll away the stone of ignorance,
of misunderstanding and miscònception, the stone of mate-
rialism, from our hearts and minds wherein we have kept
the divine Christ-consciousness entombed these many years,
that He may come forth and take His way with us in our
lives. Thus shall we be resurrected from the old life of
entombing personality and ascend into the consciousness
of that larger life of the Spirit which is our heritage and
our real home."5
Hal Py is he who has experienced the Resurrection.
$ From an address delivered by the author, before the Second
Parliment of Religions of the World Fellowship of Faiths at the
Morrison Hotel in Chicago at 8 P. M., on September 13th, 1933, and
now included in The Mystic Life, Curtiss, 32-3.
Chapter XXII
THE ASCENSION
"And it came to pass, while he blçssed them, he was parted
from them, and carried up into heaven." St. Luke, xxiv, 51.
"And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld,
he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight."
Acts, , 9.
"The Sun continues to climb until it reaches its highest
point in the heavens, in the last decanate of Gemini. This is
called the ascension or the highest point above the earth."
Appendix A.
The doctrine of the Ascension is so closely related to
that of the Resurrection that it has caused almost as much
controversy as the Resurrection itself. Also the Ascension
is found in the life-stories of almost as many Sun-gods as
the Resurrection, hence it is a universal feature of the
Universal Solar Myth.
In spite of St. Paul's statement that: "Flesh and blood
cannot inherit the kingdom of God," (I Corinthians, xv,
50),the orthodox teaching is that it was the actual physical
body of Jesus that was "carried up into heaven." What,
then, happened to that physical body to change it so that
it could disappear into thin air in the full sight of the
watching disciples as "a cloud received him out of their
sight"? (Acts, i, 9). But no explanation is given.
Those who have given serious attention to the results of
scientific psychic research know that there are ample
physical proofs of the biblical teaching that the human
personality survives the loss of its physical body in the
232
The Ascension 233
change called death. In its new and higher state the sur-
viving personality lives in a world of finer, etheric matter
which is several octaves of vibration higher than that of
the physical plane. In that higher world the person is
clothed in an astral or etheric body which is withdrawn
from the meshes of the physical body at death. The
etheric body is therefore the exact duplicate of the physical
body, but of a finer and more nearly perfect appearance.
Because of this fact the departed ones are easily recognized
when photographed or when seen materialized under test
conditions.1 Thus Moses and R1ia were easily recog-
nized by the disciples when the two appeared and talked
with Jesus at the time of His transfiguration. (St.
Matthew, xvii, 3).
It has been demonstrated countless times that the
etheric body can be so densely materialized that it can be
clearly seen and recognized by ordinary physical sight
under scientific test conditions in light sufficient for easy
recognition. Such materializations have been repeatedly
photographed2 and the picture readily identified as that
of the deceased person named. This is one of several
scientific physical proofs of the teaching of nearly all
religions that so-called death applies to the physical body
only and not to the astral or etheric body or to the mind
and consciousness of the personality.
Naturally those familiar with such materializations con-
clude that it was Jesus' materialized etheric body in which
He arose from the tomb, appeared objectively for forty
days, displaying His wounds to Thomas and others, and
finally ascending into the higher realms. Scientifically that
could have been possible. But that theory fails to account
for the disposal of Jesus' physical body. And Jesus dis-
proved that explanation when He said: "Behold my
hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see;
for a spirit bath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
details see Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss.
2See Photographing the IuvLsible, Coats, and The Phenomena of
Materialization, Schrenck-Notzmg.
234 The Pattern Life
And theygave him a piece of broiled fish, and of an
honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them."
(St. Luke, xxiv, 39, 42-3). This incident settles the
materialized etheric body theory completely, for mate-
rializeci forms have never been known to eat material
food.
Likewise the daim of the mythologists previously quoted
that: "Such narratives as those of the rock-burial and
resurrection of the Savior-God in the Gospels are beyond
all reasonable doubt simple developments of those mourn-
ing rituals which we have seen to be in use in so many
ancient systems," must also be abandoned in view of the
wealth of testimony presented and the reasonable explana-
tion presented herein.
St Paul definitely promises that some day death will be
overcome. "The last enemy that shall be destroyed is
death" (1 Corinthians, xv, 26), but he gives no explana-
tion as to how that miracle shall be accomplished. He
does give a hint, however, when he says that: "All flesh is
not the same flesh.... There are celestial bodies, and
bodies terrestrial.... It is sown in a natural body; it
is raised a spiritual body," that is, when the transmutation
is completed. "And as we have borne the image of the
earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.
The first man Adam was made a living soul; the last
Adam was made a quickening spirit.... Howbeit that
was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural:
and afterward that which is spiritual. The first man is of
the earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord of heaven,"
when the process of spiritualization is finished. "So when
this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this
,nortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be broúght
to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up
in victory." (I Corinthians, xv, 39-54).
Here St. Paul definitely tells us that in some way this
mortal body shall be so changed that: "In a moment, in
the twiniding of an eye. . . the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed." Yet there must
The Ascension 235
be a definite process by which this instantanepus change can
be made possible. And necessarily this process of the
spjritualization of the flesh must take considerable time to
complete. Yet the Gospels do not tell us how to accom-
plish this miracle only the hints quoted above for all
such advanced, esoteric technical teachings were given
secretly under the vows of Initiation to the initiated dis-
ciples only. As Jesus told them: "Unto you it is given to
know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but to them
that are without (that is, not initiated), all these things
are done in parables." (St. Mark, iv, 11). "All these
things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and
without a parable spake he not unto them." (St. Mat-
thew, xiii, 34).
As we have pointed out elsewhere: "It is certainly not
this imperfect and fallible human personality that is to
be raised up at the last day. Still less is it this incompletely
evolved and incompletely perfected animal body, but the
perfected manifestation of our Spiritual Self, that is to be
raised up at the last day.... And yet there is a body
thatistoberaisedupatthelastday. ThatistheLight
Body which we finally build up by the purification, trans-
mutation and spiritualization of the atoms of our various
bodies through 'believing on the Son,' or following and
manifesting the Christ within, until at our final incarna-
tion we have built up a spiritualized vehicle or body
through which we can manifest on any plane we wish."
But since "flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom
of God," how can the startling and miraculous phenome-
non of the Resurrection and Ascension be brought about?
Evidently some radical change must take place in the
body of flesh to prepare it to enter the higher spiritual
realms "in the twiniding of an eye" without passing
through the portal of death. The explanation is both
physical and metaphysical. The Path of Attainment may
be followed in a general way almost unconsciously by
trying to live the Christ-life without technical training, or
Why Are We Here?, Curtiss, 20-1, 126h
236 The Pattern Life
it may be followed consciously by employing a definite,
scientific technique in the use of super-physical and
spiritual forces. In either case the process involves the
mysteries of transmutation and translation. These are
profound mysteries which can be dealt with only bricfly
herein.
It is well known in phychology that every thought and
emotion generates a definite current of force in the mental
world.4 These currents are either constructive, destructive
or neutral according to the character of the thought held.
Thoughts of discouragement and failure react on the
body to depress all its vital functions, while fear can
absolutely paralyze them. Thoughts and emotions of
anger, lust, jealousy and revenge are actually degenerative
and destructive to the bodily tissues. On the other hand,
thoughts and emotions of joy, peace, love and goodwill
are stimulating, purifying and constructive. If the de-
structive thoughts predominate the body becomes inhar-
monious, irritable, toxic, acid and even diseased. But if
the constructive thoughts and emotions predominate, the
body will be harmonious, pure and full of vitality and
radiant health, because it is constantly subjected to currents
of high and constructive mental and emotional forces.
In addition to constructive mental and emotional forces,
when meditation, aspiration and prayer are consciously
used to contact the forces of the higher mental and
spiritual re2lntc, then still higher octaves of force are
involved, namely, spiritual forces. These forces have
been measured with a scientific radionic instrument and
proved to nearly double the body's 'vitality. These spiritual
forces not only increase the body's vitality, but they hasten
its purification and thus gradually transmute and spir-
itualize it atom by atom. As we have explained elsewhere:
"The true or Spiritual Self the Ego, a spark from the
Infinite incarnates again and again in the human-animal
4Dr. Hoagland Howard, of Clark University, has discovered
alpha, beta and delta brain-waves. Dr. Halloweli Davis, of liar-
yard University, has recorded them on an clectro-encephalograni.
The Ascension 237
body for the purpose of gaining experience in matter,
and, through its informing the physical atoms of an earthly
body, helps to redeem and spiritualize matter.... It
gains more experience and needs a better body from time
to time until, finally, it masters the matter which makes
up its physical garments and immortalizes it so that the
personality is swallowed up in the Individuality: the
mortal puts on immortality and becomes one with the
Father-in-heaven"5 or makes the Ascension.
"This process of transmutation begins from within and
works outward from the heart center. From there it
sends out radiations or lines of force which gradually
set up new sub-centers of radiation in various parts.
Just as a cancer sends out slender radiating filaments
which insinuate themselves into the surrounding tissues
and organs to destroy them, so the fiery lives of the Christ-
force, when directed by the consciousness of an enlight-
ened mind, manifest in an analogous way, but in a dia-
metrically opposite and constructive manner This
process of transmutation and purifying goes on through
every incarnation. In each life some cells are spiritualized,
and these are never lost, but are added to life after life.
Every cell which the Christ-force has spiritualized be-
comes immortal, and at the next earth life is built into the
new body around the sacred centers, so that little by little
we inhabit a more and more nearly perfect body, until in
some life we find it possible to complete the purification
and spiritualization of all our interbiending bodies, mental,
etheric and physical."
"Thus we can renew our life-forces, revivify and
recreate our bodies periodically little by little and not be
obliged to re-create an entire new body at a later incarna-
tion. This is the great truth back of the doctrine of Re--
generation and Immortality in the flesh."T
"To obtain the regenerating, redeeming and ilImnint-
Letter: from the Teacher, Curtiss, 1,27.
The Key of Destiny, Curtiss, 21-2,20.
t77g Key to the Universe. Curtiss. 168-9.
238 The Pattern Life
ing effects of our Christ within, we must have certain
definite periods daily when we deliberately expose our-
selves to or bathe in the inner mystical Christ-light.
- We should visualize our Spiritual Self not as a
finite mortal, but as a great and glorious immortal spiritual
Being, overshadowing us and endeavoring to find ever
greater and greater expression through us, according to
our recognition of and response to His divine guidance.
We often lose the memory of our heavenly home
and who we really are so that we manifest so little of our
Spiritual Self that we seem to be but mortals instead of
immortals."
"Immortality in the flesh is therefore a physical posi-
bility, but its attainment does not mean that the one who
has attained it will have to live on earth forever. But it
does mean that such an one can live on earth in such a
body as long as his work requires a vehicle on the earth
plane. When this is no longer necessary, the vibratory
key-note of such a body can be raised at will until it
disappears from physical sight and manifests on any
higher plane desired.... This spiritual or Nirnzanakaya
body is not a ready-made body which we will some day
inhabit after we leave our poor wornout physical body, but
is a spiritual or 'fire-body' that is builded slowly and gradu-
ally, cell by cell, within the physical throughout all our
incarnations." It is evidently this spiritualized substance
of which the "fire-body" is built to which St. Paul refers
when he tells us that: "Ye have in heaven a better and
more enduring substance." (Hebrews, x, 34). "For we
know that if our earthly house (body) of this tabernacle
were dissolved (transmuted), we have a building (or
body) of God, an house'not made with hands, eternal in
the heavens." (II Corinthians, v, 1).
"A true Nirinanakaya body, however, aitho manifesting
in the etheric world, is not an etheric or even a psychic
body (Mayavi Rupa), but is a spiritual body which is born
in the heart of the Adept while in the flesh, and which takes
$ The Inner Radiance. Curtiss. 8,9.
The Ascension 239
the form of the personality by first growing out from the
heart through the marrow of the bones, and later extending
out beyond them until it permeates the entire body of flesh
and ultimately spiritualizes all its atoms. This process re-
quires nany, many incarnations. But ultimately the body
thus spiritualized becomes no longer a mere physical
body. . . but is a redeemed and spiritualized body in
which its master can appear and disappear in any realm or
any world at will."
Since this process of spiritual transmutation is so slow
that it extends over many incarnations, there is little hope
of the average student's making his Ascension in this life
unless this is his last and culminating incarnation. If it is,
then he will have lived such a saintly life from childhood
that he can complete the process now. But even if this is
not his last incarnation, every effort he makes to respond
to and radiate the forces of the Christ within will help him
step by step toward his ultimate sainthood and finally to
his Ascension.
Since this spiritual transmutation of the flesh is such an
age-long process, it is very misleading to tell the general
public that anyone and everyone who will repeat certain
aflirmations and make certain so.called "decrees," can
make the Ascension in this life. It is also most disillusion-
ing and discouraging to find that in spite of all one's faith
and sincere and faithful efforts, only one in millions is
ready or can be prepared to make the Ascension now.
Hence, while all are urged to strive toward their ultimate
spiritnnlixation and Ascension, none should be discouraged
at his seemingly slow progress.
Just as the Sun's slow climb from the lowest to the
highest point in the physical heavens constitutes its Ascen-
sion, in like manner the slow climb of the Soul from the
'Reahns of the Living Dead, Curtiss, 239.
certain teachers have taught in recent years, but without the
slightest proof or example, the leader himself dying of "arterio-
sclerotic heart disease, and cardiac cirrhosis of the liver." Psychic
Dictatorship u,America, Bryan, 247.
240 Th& Pattern Life
lowest point of anmlisin to the highest point in its
heaven constitutes its spiritual Ascension.
Such a phenomenal transmutation of the physical body
is dearly the teaching of Jesus, for He promised that: "If
any man keep my saying (His teachings), he shall never
see death." (St. John, viii, 51). And St. Paul tells us
that: "the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath
made me free from the law of sin and death," (Ronzans,
viii, 2), even though Paul did not live to complete the trans-
mutation and make his Ascension. Paul did, however,
know a man who did make his Ascension, for he tells us:
"I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago
such an one caught up to the third heaven. . . into pára-
dise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful
to utter." (II Corinthians, xi, 2-4). It was not only tin-
lawful to utter or repeat such instructions, according to
the vows of Initiation, but it is impossible to describe in
the language of our three-dimensional world the glories of
the higher dimensional worlds.
Jesus plainly indicated that this spiritualized or Nirnzana-
kayc body, over which He naturally had perfect control,
was the kind of body He possessed when He said: "I lay
down my life, that I might take it up again. No man
taketh it from me, but I Jay it down of myself. I have the
power to lay it down, and I have the power to take it up
again." (St. John, x, 17,18).
The fact that Jesus had this absolute power over His
body long before the Crucifixion and Ascension is evi-
denced by His exercising it publicly on two occasions.
Once when a crowd was about to stone Him He "went
out through the midst of them." (St. John, viii, 59). He
used it again when a mob had led Him to the brow-of a
hill, "that they might cast him down headlong. But he
passing through the midst of them went his way." (St.
Luke, iv, 29).
That Jesus was using such a Ninnanakaya body is also
evidenced by His suddenly materializing it and walking
with two of His disciples on the way to Emmaus. After
The Ascension 241
their arrival, and while He was eating with them at the inn:
"He vanished out of their sight." (St. Luke, xxiv, 31).
Later that same evening after the two disciples had re-
turned to Jerusalem, He astonished them and the others
gathered with them by suddenly materializing before them
so quickly and unexpectedly that: "They were terrified
and aifrighted, and supposed they had seen a (material-
ized) spirit." (St. Luke, xxiv, 37).
After proving to Thomas and the others that He was no
discarnate spirit nor even a materialized etheric body, as
we have already pointed out earlier in this Chapter, and
that He was still using the same body that was crucified,
while He was on the way to Bethany with His disciples
He suddenly dematerialized His body and "was parted
from them, and carried up into heaven." (St. Luke, xxiv,
51).
From the above incidents which can be satisfactorily
explained in no other way it is clear that no other body
than a Nirmanakaya body could possibly have fulfilled all
the varied requirements and permitted the Translation and
Ascension to take place.
This brief and necessarily incomplete explanation of
the profound mystery of the transnutation and Ascension
may sound improbable at first reading, but on further study
it will be found to be the only rational and scientific ex-
planation which solves all the problems of how "the last
great enemy" the death of the physical body can be
overcome. (I Corinthians, xv, 26). "Behold, I shew you
a mystery."
If proofs of this explanation of the doctrine of the
Ascension are desired, we have only to remind you of sev-
eral well-known instances of such translation of the
spiritualized physical body into the higher invisible realms
without leaving it behind through death. In addition to the
Ascension of Jesus through this process, you will recall
that: "Elijah went up by a whirlwind (of force) into
heaven." (II Kings, ii, 11). Also "Enoch was translated
that he should not see death; and was not found, because
242 The Pattern Life
God had translated him." (Hebrews, 45. Genesis, v,
24).
Then there is the heretofore unexplained strange case of
Melchisedec, to whom even Abraham paid tithes, and who
was called "the priest of the Most high God.. . being by
interpretation King of Righteousness, and after that also
King of Salem, which is King of Peace; without father,
without mother, without descent (genealogy), having
neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like
unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually."
(Hebrews, vii, 1-3). From the above it is evident that
Melchisedec must have manifested in a Nirnwnakaya
body; for that is the only body that could have been "with-
out father, without mother, without descent." It is no
wonder then that when Jesus manifested in His Nirmana-
kayo body He was "made an high priest forever after the
order of Meichisedec." Naturally also Jesus was called
the "Prince of Peace," since Melchisedec was called the
"King of Peace."
There was also the case of the great Kabalist, Simeon
Ben Joaclial. "Many are the marvels recorded s having
taken place at his death, or we should rather say his
translation; for he did not die as others do, but having
suddenly disappeared, while a db!1ing light filled the
cavern with glory." u
And this same law holds good in modern times as well.
In India, where so much attention is given to the mysteri-
ous workings of spiritual forces, there are records of
numerous cases of translation and Ascension of the bodies
of Hindu saints. For instance, some years ago the
Mahatma Sri Rama Linga made the Ascension from his
bungalow while his chelas and followers completely sur-
rounded it all night chanting prayers. When they entered
it in the morning they found only his loin doth in the spot
where he had been sitting on the floor. As is usual in such
cases, he had been a well-known poet, prophet and God-
conscious saint of Southern India almost from childhood.
The Secret Doctrise, Blavatsky, iii. 93.
The Ascension 243
Thus he proved his right to the Ascension by his saintly
life and teachings, and the many miracles which he
wrought. In other words, he uz.s ready for the translation
and Ascension. And there are records of many others who
have thus made the Ascension. "Great saints of yore have
attained at-one-ment with the Divine and made the Ascen-
sion by worship of Nataraja with their knowledge. It was
before His presence that the Saint Maniccavaciza, and also
Saint Nanda, the Pariah Saint, disappeared bodily into the
Brahmic splendor."2 These facts are too well attested
to permit argument as to their reality. Hence they must
be accepted as veridical whether fully understood or not.
Once you have gained this cosmic concept of the As-
cension, death has no more dominion over you, -for you
have died to the mental limitations of materialism and the
sordid things of life, and have ascended into the freedom,
light and joy of the Christ-consciousness. Then the husks
of any old material conditions, thoughts or habits which
may still cling around your roots for a while will gradually
disintegrate, and their forces of good will be absorbed or
act as fertilizer, as you consciously extract their misdirected
good and use it toward your ultimate Ascension.
If you are sincere in your desire to live The Pattern Life,
and wish to apply its teachings to the mastery of your life
and the conditions of your environment, and also to your
daily steps toward your unfoldment and Ascension, so
that you may be "transformed into the same image from
glory to glory, even by the spirit of the Lord," there is
something you must do toward that great end. The more
you strive to fill out the pattern set for your life, the more
joy is manifested through you for the greater uplift and
happiness of those within the sphere of your influence,
the more you advance toward Christhood.
A life based on prayer: a life of faith and worship: of
compassionate understanding: of guided usefulness (i.e.,
encouraging and helping others to help themselves spirit-
ward), will help to manifest the pattern which your
12The Kalyana-Kalpataru Magazine, November 1935. page 709.
244 The Pattern Life
Spiritual Self incarnated to express. Contemplate your
digressions daily from this standpoint in order that you
may correct any deviation from your pattern and fill it
out wherever it may be lacking. "Be ye doers of the word,
and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.... But
whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and con-
tinueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer
of the worlc, this man shali be blessed in his deed." (St.
James, i, 22).
Thus will your understanding of The Pattern Life of
Jesus reveal to you the Way, the Truth and the Life,
whereby you also can understand and achieve the Resur-
rection and make the Ascension, and thus enter into the
glory and the satisfying joy of Christhood here and now.
"If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which
are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.
Set your affections (heart) on things above, not on things
on earth. For ye are dead, (to sin) and your life is hid
with Christ in God." (Colossians, iii, 1-3).
Happy, indeed, is he who makes the Ascension.
Appendix A
THE ASTRONOMICAL EVENTS
Astronomically the Sun is said to be "born" into its
cycle of the New Year soon after it reaches its lowest point
in the southern hemisphere the Nadir and starts on its
upward journey toward the northern hemisphere where
its light, life and warmth will bring all things into a new
expression of life in the springtime.
This "birth" takes place when the Sun is in the sign
Capricorn the Goat, from the Latin caper, a goat, and
cornus, a horn symbolizing the universal productive or
creative force in Nature, involving the creation or genesis
of all forms.
"In ancient Akkadian folklore the Sun was called 'the
Goat,' Uz, because he was par excellence the Climber, the
High One; and the same name was given in the usual
mythological way to the zodiacal constellation (Capricorn)
which marks the beginning of the Sun's upward climb in
the heavens.... The final mythological lesson is
that.. . the God, and the Mountain are all mere variants
of the one original idea of the OEmbing Sun in Capricorn,
the High One who rules the world."1
The ancients called Capricorn the "Gate of Heaven" or
the region through which the Light of Heaven (Sun) is
manifested on Earth. Hence this event marks the begin-
ning of the new cycle of the Sun as it starts out from the
Nadir or lowest point in the southern hemisphere often
called the "pit" or "cave" of the zodiac on a new era of
expression.
aNd Mythology, Robertson, 3)-4.
245
246 The Pattern Life
The Moon has its "detriment" in Capricorn, hence, as
the reflected light of the Moon wanes, the light of the Sun
can again begin to shine with more force. The sign Capri-
corn rules shepherds and the stables, hence the lowly birth-
place of all Lightbringers; for they are usually represented
as being born in a stable in the presence of an ox, ass, goat,
etc., and laid in a manger and attended by shepherds.
Astronomically, at the time of the birth of the Sun, the
sign Virgo, the Virgin, is rising on the eastern angle of
the planisphere. Hence all the Sun-gods or Lightbringers
are represented as being born of a Virgin. Another re-
markable fact is that all the Mothers have names which
mean or symbolize the sea, the Great Deep or Divine Love,
thus: Mary, Maia, Maria, Meris, Myrrh, Miriam, Marl-
tala, Mariamna, Mariankynium, etc.2 The names all be-
gin with the letter M, which is also the symbol for the sign
Virgo, R. And the fathers are all artisans of some kind,
carpenters, smiths, modellers, etc., indicating the active,
creative, fashioning power of the Sun, focussing the ruling
aspect of the Divine Will or Father-force of the Godhead
upon all Nature. "For by him were all things created."
(Colossians, i, 16). "All things were made by him; and
without him was not anything made that was made." (St.
John, i, 3).
And since Virgo is the sixth sign, the Annunciation is
made in the sixth month. The Sun is therefore born of
Virgo, and naturally without a father, except the over-
shadowing of the "highest" the vault of the sky while
the mother still remains a virgin.
In all cases the birth takes place while the mother has
been riding upon an ass while on a journey, the journey of
the Sun through the zodiac. Astronomically, the great star
Spica (Arista) arises in the constellation Virgo which
rules Bethlehem, the House of Bread with her com-
panion, Joseppe, in the constellation BoÖtes, and travels to
a position in the heavens corresponding to the journey
from Nazareth southward to Bethlehem. Hence the birth
details sec The Key of Desthiy Curtiss, 143-5.
The Astronomical Events 247
of all Lightbringers is announced by the appearance of a
great star. And they are always sought out by the Wise
Men of their age who accord them divine honors and
present gifts.
The brightest star in the constellation Canis Major is
Sirius, the Dog Star, which symbolizes the Savior himself.
For many years the beautiful Sirius has been associated
with the approach of a Savior. In Egypt when this star
appeared the people knew that the annual rise of the Nile
was near, and this increase of water meant renewed life
for them, hence it was their Savior.
Just as kings are preceded by heralds, so is the Savior-
star, Sirius, preceded by its forerunner, Procyon, the
brightest star in the constellation Canis Minor. Procyon
therefore corresponds to John the Baptist. And Procyon
is in the sign Cancer at the time of the summer solstice,
six months before the birth of the Sun at the winter
solstice. Naturally, then, since John the Baptist is six
months older than Jesus, he is made to say: "He must in-
crease, but I must decrease."
By many, Sirius is called the "Star of Bethlehem" that
led the three Wise Men, the three bright collinear stars of
the second magnitude Alniake, Atnilain, Mintaka in
the belt of the mighty hunter, Orion, the middle decanate
of Taurus. For on Christmas Eve Sirius arises at 7 P.M.
and at midnight is on the meridian and East of the stars in
Orion's belt. Thus the Wise Men see His star in the East.
These stars rise in the East and travel westward to a
point where the great star Arcturus rises over the manger
of Jo in the constellation BoÖtes, the Great Bear, Ursa
Major, as Virgo rises in the East. Jo is called the "cow-
horned maid" because of her identity with Eve, Isis and the
Moon, which are everywhere recognized as the symbols
of passive, generative force of Nature. Hence her natural
connection with the manger. The meaning of lo-seppe is
"the manger of lo."
As the constellation Draco or Oplziucus the Dragon,
Hydra, or Herodes armed with a cudgel naturally arises
248 The PaUern Life
up over Libra in the East, the constellation Aries the
Ram or Lamb flees before it in the West and disappears
below the horizon towards "Egypt" or the land of darkness,
so that the Dragon of Night (Herod) seems to devour
all the stars in his path. All infant Lightbringers are
therefore represented as being pursued by some vindictive
ruler and fleeing to some far-off place of safety. But in
none of the stories is the child ever caught, so the pursuer
orders a slaughter of the innocents, just as the stars pale
and disappear at dawn.
As the Sun leaves the 3Q0 of Capricorn it enters upon
the watery period of the year in the succeeding signs of
Aquarius the Water Bearer and Pisces the Fishes.
The Christian era marked the entry of the Sun by preces-
sion into the two thousand year cycle of the Piscean or
Fish Age. The symbol of the Fish therefore runs like an
lllnminating line of light, not only through the GospeLs,
but through the whole early Christian mysticism and
ecclesiastical art. As His representative the Pope wears
the "Fisherman's Ring," while the Bishop's mitre repre-
sents a fish's head. "The newly baptised Christians used
to be called 'fishes' (pisciculi) by Tertullian, and the bap-
tismal font is still called the piscina, or 'fish-pond.' "2
the first letters of the Greek words expressing the title of
Jesus Iesous, Christos, Theo, Uios, Soter (Jesus
Christ, Son of God, Savior) form an acrostic which
spells the word fish Ichthus in Greek.
Many of Jesus' miracles were connected with fish or
the sea, such as the two small fishes used to feed the multi-
tude, and the twelve basketfuls gathered afterward. The
disciples' miraculous draft of fish, the coin found in the
mouth of a fish, the walking on the water, stilling the
waves and so forth, all identify Jesus as the Lightbringer
for the Piscean or Fish Age.
Aitho only four of Jesus' disciples were fishermen, they
were all called "Fishers of Men," not because they all made
their living catching and peddling fish, but because they
s The WiMesses to the Historicity of Jesus, Drcws, 190.
Th Astronomical Events 249
were the twelve representatives one for each sign of the
zodiac of the Savior of the Piscean or Fish Age. Hence
no zodiacal sign could be more fitting for the Christ and
His disciples than the fish sign, Pisces. Also Pisces is a
sign that is said to overflow with sympathy, while itS as-
sociation with the maimed, the distressed and the down-
trodden is well known to all students of astrology.
Astronomically, the "shepherds" refers to a pair of
bright stars, Alpha Capricornis, of the third and fourth
magnitude each of which has a companion of the ninth
magnitude which are said to "guard the flock" of twenty-
nine stars in the constellation Capricorn, whose symbol is
the Goat.
When the Sun has completed its circuit through the 12
signs of the zodiac it is said to be 12 years (or cycles) old,
and is ready to be about its Father's business or ready to
start out on a new cyclic round.
The ancients assigned to Capricorn the constellation
Cygnus, the Swan. This is a most appropriate assignment,
for like the Sun and the bird, Cygnus travels South in the
winter and North in the summer. The river Jordan cor-
responds to the celestial river Eridanus or the Milky Way.
Hence, when the Sun enters the Milky Way, that celestial
river spreads apart or the "heavens opened" and the
constellation Cygnus the Swan or heavenly dove, "de-
scends" or becomes visible directly overhead. At the same
time the Water Bearer of Aquarius pours out the water
from his urn in baptism into the mouth of the Southern
Fish in the third decanate of Capricorn and thus causes the
Baptism.
Since Pisces occupies 300 of the zodiac, all Sun-gods
receive a baptism of water at the mystical age of 30. The
four brightest stars of Cygnus form the Northern Cross.
Thus does the Baptism foreshadow the coming tragedy of
Golgotha, as the cross above casts its shadow below.
The 30° of Aquarius, together with the first 10° of
Pisces, the sign of sacrifice make up the 40° associated
with the 40 days spent by Jesus in the wilderness where He
250 The Pattern Life
is tempted by or has to withstand the trying forces of
Satan, Satar or Saturn, the Tester, who is the co-ruler of
Aquarius.
After the autnmn2l crossingthe crucifixionthe Sun
enters the lowest point in the southern hemisphere where
it apparently remains stationary for three days, hence the
"three days in the tomb."
After spending three months in the "tomb" of the
southern hemisphere, the Sun continues to rise until it
crosses the equator into the northern hemisphere. There
it enters the sign Aries where it is said to be "exalted."
This event is called the vernal equinox which ushers in the
beginning of Spring, and is celebrated universally by the
ceremony of Easter. Thus the Sun pours forth its light,
heat and life-force sheds its symbolic "blood" that all
Nature may be resurrected from the tomb of Winter and
have life more abundantly. Therefore this event is called
the "Resurrection."
In the last decanate of Aries is found the constellation
Perseus with the uplifted sword. This symbolizes the
sword with which Peter cut off the ear of the high priest's
servant, for this decanate adjoins the sign Taurus which
rules the ears. This Sagilarrius decanate is ruled by Jupiter
which has dominion over priests and their households.
The Sun then encounters Ge,nini, the Twins (Simon and
Andrew), above the horizon, and naturally they follow
him as Simon and Andrew did Jesus. The Sun then en-
counters Argo, the Ship, containing the two fishermen
(James and John). Later on it meets Libra, or Levi the
publican with his scales the symbol of Libra who also
follows, as did Levi.
The Sun continues to climb until it reaches its highest
point in the heavens in the last decanate or the last 100 of
Gemini. This is called the "Ascension" to its highest point
above the earth. In the first decanate of Cancer the Sun
begins to fall. This seemingly backward movement gives
to Cancer the appropriate symbol of the Crab, which has a
sideward or backward motion. This point symbolizes
The Astronomical Events 251
Jesus' return to Jerusalem after reaching the zenith of His
triumphal journey.
After the Sun passes through Cancer it enters its home
sign, Leo, the Lion. It is therefore only natural that Jesus
should be called "the Lion of the tribe of Judah." For
when Jacob gave the emblems of the twelve signs of the
zodiac to his twelve sons as the emblems for the banners
of the twelve tribes of Israel, he said that Judah was Leo,
"the lion's whelp."
The first decanate of Leo the heart contains an im-
portant constellation called the Crater or the Cup. Around
it many myths and legends are woven. Out of this Cup the
Sun must "drink" as it passes through the constellation.
Hence Jesus as the representative of the Sun is made
to say: "0 my father, if it be possible, let this cup pass
from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou (cydic
law) wilt." Benjamin was detained in Egypt by this cup,
and it is also the Heavenly Cup of the legends of the Holy
Grail. In the Eucharist it is this Cup of Leo that holds
the sacrificial wine or the symbolic "blood of the heart."
The zodiac itself forms a magic ring or cup'in which all
the forces needed for the evolution of this planet and its
inhabitants are held like essences r salts in solution in
some magic potion from which our Cosmos is refreshed and
renewed, each essence being precipitated from the solution
when the proper time and conditions vibrate to its "critical
point of crystalization" or point of materialization.
The events preceding the crossing of the equator or the
"crucifixion" of the Sun at the autumnal equinox are ex-
plained by the decanates of Leo and Virgo. Following the
Cup, the second decanate of Leo reveals the constellation
Centaurus, the mounted soldier, symbol of the captain and
the soldiers who took Jesus and bound, crucified and
pierced Him. In Greek the meaning of this constellation
'Genesu, zlziz, 9.
'St. Matthew, w.'s 39.
The Inner Radiance, Curtiss,
See "Man and the Zodiac" in
36-52.
252 The Pattern Life
ia "the pierced." Similarly, the light and heat of the Sun
are "bound" or their forces are limited after the autumnal
equinox. In the third decanate of Leo we find the Raven,
symbol of the cock that crew when Peter denied the Christ.
When at midnight Aries, the Lamb, reaches the Nadir or
lowest point of the zodiac, the sign Leo, "the Lion of the
tribe of Judah" or Judas, is 30° above the horizon. Hence
Judas is said to give the Lamb (Jesus) the traitor's kiss for
30 pieces of silver or its 30° of light. As Leo disappears
from sight it is said to have cast down its 30° pieces of
silver, and is said to have "hung" itself.
Passing onward, the Sun enters three closely grouped
constellations in the sign Virgo. The first decanate is
Boõtes, the Bear-driver with his whip. The second
decanate is Hercules, with his dub, who died from wearing
the robes of the centaur Nesscus, pictured by the second
decanate of Leo. As the soldiers put the purple robe upon
Jesus and then removed it "and put his own raiment on
him,"7 so the Sun dons the purple robe of sunrise which
fades and disappears as it "puts on its own raiment" of
light. The robe is thus connected with the soldiers of the
second decanate of Leo which rules over the color purple.
The last decanate of Virgo is Corona Borealis whose rays
from above resemble a crown of spikes or thorns. Like-
wise, "They had platted a crown of thorns, they put it
upon his
The equinoxial point where the ecliptic crosses the
equator is called the "cross." Naturally there are two such
crosses, one in Aries in the Spring and one in Libra in the
Fall. Hence there are two places of crucifixion mentioned
in the Gospels, one at Golgotha or Calvary, corresponding
to Aries, and one in Egypt (Revelation, xi, 8), the Land
of Darkness, corresponding to Libra. Under the constel-
lation Centaurus lies the Southern Cross or Crux. The
drama of the Crucifixion is therefore symbolized in the
heavens by the Cardinal Cross in the northern hemisphere
and by the Southern Cross in the southern hemisphere....
TSS. Matthew, xxvii, 28, 31,29.
Th Astronomical Events 253
The four brightest stars in Cygnus form the Northern
Cross. Thus does the Baptism foreshadow the coming
tragedy of Golgotha, as the cross above casts its shadow
below.... All this was recognized and understood for
countless ages before the Chrutian era. Aries and Libra
are the Northern and Southern poles at the head and foot
of the cross, and Cancer and Capricorn at the Eastern and
Western poles.
The two thieves who are crucified on each side of the
cross are symbolized by the two signs (Cancer and Capri-
corn) on the left and right arms of the Cross. After the
balancing of the cross at the vernal equinox, when the days
and nights are of equal length, something is taken off or
"stolen" from each sign. Hence these signs are called
the two thieves. As Cancer rises in the East, this thief is
said to ascend into heaven to be with the Christ (Sun) in
Paradise, that is, in the summer season of growth and
fruition. As Capricorn disappears in the West the other
thief is said to die or sink into the grave of the nether world
of Satan or Saturn, the planet ruling Capricorn.
By some writers Boõtes is identified with Simon of
Cyrene, the man who was called upon to carry the cross up
the hill the arc of the heavens to the place of crossi-
fying or where the adfiyjOflP takes
The Crucifixion takes place on the day of the autumnal
equinox at the "sixth hour" or at the exact moment when
the Sun sets or "dies" in the West. "And there was dark-
ness over all the land until the ninth hour." The "sixth
hour" when "the Sun was darkened, and the veil of the
temple (the zodiac) was rent in the midst," refers to the
sign Virgo, the sixth sign. The veil is rent by the passage
of the Sun from Virgo to Libra which divides the zodiac
exactly in half. Thus the veil of daylight is rent when the
Sun sinks below the horizon. Then "the saints that slept,"
that is, the stars that were obscured or "buried" by the light
of the Sun, "arose and came forth."
At the time of the autumnal equinox in the sign Lil,ra,
whose symbol is the balance or scales, the Sun's forces and
254 The Pattern Life
the length of the days and nights are again balanced as
they were at the spring equinox in Arie.c. But this time as
the Sun crosses the Equator it is "crossified" or crucified
and dies to the northern hemisphere where it had been
giving its life-blood for Nature all summer for it has
entered the next sign, Scorpio, the sign of death. The sec-
ond decanate of Scorpio is called the altar of Ara, whereon
Judas is said to have hanged himself.
"And many bodies of the saints which slept arose and
came out of their graves" as the stars became visible after
the veil of daylight was rent by the eclipse of the Sun.
Nearby is the constellation called Berenice's Hair (Mary
Magdalene, the hair-platter). The crucifixion is said to
have taken place on Friday, as Venus, the ruler of Libra,
is also the ruler of Friday.
In the ninth sign, Sagittarius, the soldiers divide the
garment of the Sun its outshining intb four parts.
This symbolizes the division of the zodiac into the four
seasons, spring, summer, autumn and winter. The coat
woven without seam that could not be divided refers to
the interweaving of the planetary and zodiacal forces that
goes on continually.
Since the lower side of SagittarIus governs gambling,
and since the Sagittarius decanate of Leo governs soldiers,
they naturally gamble or "cast lots" for the coat.
After the autumnal crossing the crucifixion the
Sun descends to the lowest point of the southern hemi-
sphere where it apparently remains stationary for three
days, hence the "three days in the tomb." -
Then follows the results of the sacrifice the redemp-
tion the Sun sacrificing its light and life and pouring
out its life-force symbolic blood that all Nature might
find "salvation" and express more abundantly. From
then onward the Sun ascends to the "throne of David"
the summer solstice whence it shall "judge the quick
and the dead," or the results of the season's assimilation of
its life-force, the season's crops, "quick or dead," good or
bad.
The Astronomical Events 255
As the life-force of the Sun matures the grain from
which bread is made, and turns the juice of the grape into
wine, so does the life-force of the Spiritual Sun transmute
our experiences into the "bread of life" and the "wine of
the Spirit" for the nourishment of our spiritual life.
Hence the spiritual significance of the seemingly cannibal-
istic statement of Jesus: "Except ye eat the flesh of the
Son of Man, and drink His blood, ye have no life in you."
(St. John, vi, 53).
Appendix B
SYMBOLICAL OR METAPHYSICAL
INTERPRETATION
The symbolic or mystical interpretation of the Gospels
explains the allegorical or spiritual sense which underlies
the literal significance of persons, places, events, things and
sayings. The principle was recognized by St. Paul when
he tells us (Galatians, iv, 24) that the whole story of
Abraham's two sons, one (Ishmael) born of a bondwoman
(Hagar) and the other (Isaac) born of a freewoman
(Sarah) was only an allegory. He also refers to it when
he says: "The natural man receiveth not the things of the
Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither
can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned."
(I Corinthians, ii, 14).
In the great theological school at Alexandria in the early
days of the Christian church, the tendency was to make
little of the event itself in comparison with the truth it con-
veyed. The writings of St. Clement (150-215 A.D.), the
head of that great school, are full of the symbolic interpre-
tation of the Gospels. Fra. Origen (185-254 &.ñ.), the
successor to St. Clement in the Alexandrian school, with
great learning and critical discermnent combines the alle-
gorical with the literal interpretation. He defines three
classes of interpretation, the literal, the moral and the
allegorical or spiritual. He goes beyond St. Clement in
teaching that the literal sense of many passages was not to
be understood at all. He holds that in most cases the moral
and mystical interpretations are used to explain the spiritual
meaning of actual facts. But in other cases they are the
only interpretations to be accepted.
256
Symbolical or Metaphysical Interpretation 257
St. Origen says: "Who that has understanding will sup-
pose that the first and second and third day, and the eve-
ning and the morning, were without sun and moon and
stars, or that the first day was without sky?. . . I do not
suppose that anyone doubts that these things are said
figuratively by means of a history which is external and not
literally told.... Those who are not wholly blind can
collect countless such instances recorded as if they had
happened, but which did not literally happen." (De
Principiis, IV, iii, 1).
Another of the great church authorities, St. Augustine
(354-430 &.D.), says: "In the narrative of events which
have happened, we enquire whether all things are to be
accepted only in a figurative sense or whether they are
also to be asserted and defended as literal occurrences."
(De Genesi ad Lit., xi, 2) St Thomas Aquinas (1226-.
1274 Aa.) also distinguishes the literal and historical from
the allegorical and spiritual interpretation, as do many of
the early church authorities.
A modern authority on the subject says: "Modern an-
thropology finds in crude nature-myths, cosmogonies, and
theogonies the germs of philosophy and science. Psy-
chology is busy finding in dreams and myths imaginative
symbols of profound rational significance, and interprets
them accordingly. . . . When we pause to consider the
action of the inspiring Spirit of God, we are faced with the
fact that myth and symbol and legend and ceremony have
been as truly the subject or vehicle for inspiration as history
or prophecy." (The Mystical Interpretation of the Old
Testament, Harris, 697).
All profound students and logical thinkers must dis-
criminate between those passages which are of literal and
historical value and those whose very wording makes their
literal and physical interpretation rationally and spiritually
impossible.
Elaborating the statement of St. Origen referred to in
our Introduction (xix), we quote: "Since the chief aim
was to announce the spiritual connection in the things that
258 The Pattern Life
have been done and that ought to be done.... The Scrip-
ture wove into the history an event which did not happen,
sometimes that could not have happened, and sometimes
that could have happened and did noL" He held that if the
right use of enlightened Christian reason shows that a
literal interpretation would be physically, morally or spirit-
ually impossible, then that which is repugnant to the en-
lightened conscience is not to be accepted. (De Principiss,
Origen, IV, n 7-9.)
Appendix C
BIRTH DATES
Since the Christian Church celebrates December 25th
as the birthday of Jesus, most people naturally think be-
cause they have been taught so that was the day of the
month on which Jesus was actually born. But that is far
from being true. As a matter of fact, no one knows what
the date was.
Cannon Farrar, in his Life of Christ, (App. 673) says:
"It is universally admitted that our received chronology,
which is not older than Dionysius Exiguus, in the sixth
century, is wrong. But all attempts to discover the month
and the day are useless. No data whatever exists to enable
us to determine them with even approximate accuracy."
The Rev. Dr. Giles, in his Hebrew and Christian Records
(ii, 189), says: "We have no clew toe either the day or
the time of year, or even the year itself, in which Christ
was born."
The Rev. Dr. Geikie, in his Life of Christ, (i, 559), says:
"The whole subject is very uncertain. Ewald appears to
fix the date of the birth at five years earlier than our era.
Petavius and Usher fix it on December 25th, five years
before our era. Bengel . . . Anger and Winer, four years
before our era, in the spring; Scaliger, three years before
our era, in October; St. Jerome, three years before our era,
on December 25th; Eusebius, Iwo years before, on January
6th; and Idler, seven years before our era, in December."
Albert Barnes, in his Barnes' Notes, (ii, 402), says:
"God has concealed the time of his birth. There is no way
to ascertain it. By different learned men it has been fixed
at each month in the year."
2S9
260 The Pattern Life
Bishop Thomas J. Thorburn, in his Mythological Inter-
pretation of the Gospels, (33), says: "The earliest church
commemorated it at various times from September to
March, until in 354 AD. Pope Julius I assimilated the
festival with that of the birth of Mithra (Dec. 25th) in
order to facilitate the more complete Christianisation of
the empire. . . - There is a great deal of evidence to
indicate that he was born in the month of October."
"The institution of the festival of the Nativity of Christ
Jesus being held on the 25th of December, among the
Christians, is attributed to Telesphorus, who flourished
during the rule of Antonius Pius (A.n. 138-161), but the
first certain traces of it are found about the time of the
Emperor Commodus (A.D. 180-192)."
"If the writer of the Gospel according to St. Luke is
correct, Jesus was not born until about A.D. 10, for he ex-
plicitly tells us (ii, 1-7) that the event did not happen until
Cyrenius was governor of Syria... Cyrenius was not
appointed.. . until long after the death of Herod...
therefore about 10 A.D... . conjectures and traditions
led one to the 20th of May, another to the 19th of April,
and a third to the 5th of January.... It was not until
the fifth century that this day (Dec. 25th) was generally
agreed upon. . . Eusebius, the first ecdesiastical his-
torian, placed his birth at the time that Cyrenius was gov-
ernor of Syria, and therefore about 10 A.D."
On the first moment after midnight of the 24th of
December (i.e. on the morning of the 25th), nearly all
the nations of the earth, as if by common consent, cele-
brated the accouchement of the 'Queen of Heaven,' of the
'Celestial Virgin' of the sphere, and the god Sol.
On this account the Christians adopted it as the time of the
birth of their virgin-born God. . . in order that whilst
the heathen were busy with their profane ceremonies, the
Christians might perform their holy rites undisturbed."1
"It was not until the year A.D. 530 or so five centuries
1Bthk Myths, Doane 361-7,
Birth Dates 261
after the supposed birth of Christ that a Scythian monk,
Dionysius Exiguus, an Abbot and astronomer of Rome,
was commissioned to fix the day and year of that birth. A
nice problem, considering the historical science of the
period! For the year he assigns the date we now adopt,
and for the day and month he adopted the 25th of Decem-
ber. . . the very date, within a day or two, of the sup-
posed birth of previous Sungods.... In fact, the dates
of the main pagan religious festivals had by that time be-
come so popular that Christianity was obliged to accommo-
date itself to them. . . . It was not until 534 .n. that
Christmas day and Epiphany were reckoned by the law
courts as dies non."2 Since the Christian system of reck-
oning was by the short cycle of the 19 year Epact, the dates
were difficult to determine. But the dates were finally de-
termined, not from any historical facts or mathematical
data, but by the mere opinion of the clergymen concerned,
as determined by their votes.
The researches of Dr. Albert T. Ohlmstead, of the
University of Chicago's Oriental Institute, into the Baby-
lonian records preserved on recently discovered clay tablets,
shows that Jesus must have been at least 50 years old in-
stead of 33 at the time of His crucifixjon. 'What is not
so well known today," says Dr. Ohlmstead, "is that, thanks
to astronomical tablets, we can establish a calendar for
events in the late Babylonian period with rarely a probable
error of a day. For the period from 367 to 11 B.C., our
table is exact to a day."
Fitting this Babylonian calendar to the Passover dates
of the year of the crucifixion, Dr. Ohlmstead declares that
he has clinched the evidence that the crucifixion was on
April 7th, 30 A.D. He says confidently: "The date of the
crucifixion is as certain as any in ancient history and is
more exact than the majority."S
"Since the dawn of astrological wisdom, astrologers
Paian and Christian Creed2, Carpenter, 26
3Science News Letter, April 12th, 1941.
262 The Pattern Life
have attached paramount importance to the conjunctions of
the major planets, Jupiter and Saturn. It was on these
conjunctions that the Sages and Magi of such world-old
civilizations as Chaldea, Babylonia, Assyria, Egypt, Persia
and India based all their major and minor prophetic keys.
For these conjunctions were held to coincide with the
genesis of new kingdoms, new dynasties . . . and the
establishment of new religions, laws and social orders.
Consequently the Magi were fully aware that any work
undertaken, or doctrine promulgated under the joint aus-
pices of Jupiter and Saturn was likely to endure and be-
come consolidated in time. . . gradually grow to immense
proportions, getting impetus and accretion in the passage of
years, becoming firmly implanted in the minds and hearts
of the people from generation to generation."
"In November, 662 Bc., Saturn and Jupiter formed
their conjunction in the fiery sign Sagittarius, and was co-
incident with the birth of Zoroaster.... In October, 563
s.c., the same planets formed their conjunction in 50 of
the practical, earthy sign Taurus, and this period saw the
birth of Gatama Buddha.... In June of 384 B.C., Saturn
and Jupiter formed their conjunction in the second de-
gree of the intellectual and scientific sign Gemini And this
year witnessed the birth of the great Aristotle, the father of
the analytical method... . At the birth of Mohamet, in
a 570, we again find these two planets together."4
"Jupiter and Saturn form a conjunction every 20 years,
but in 240 year cycles, they form a conjunction in a given
astrological quadruplicity, such as in a Fire, Earth, Air or
Water sign. The following period of 240 years each of
the 20-year conjunctions are in the same quadruplicity.
The beginning of one of these cycles, or the first conjunc-
tion in a new quadruplicity is called a Great Mutation.
There has been such a Great Mutation at the birth of every
one of the great Teachers. It was in c. 7 that such a
Great Mutation occurred in the sign Pisces, and it was on
the basis of this conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter that
4yril Fagers, in American Jow'isal of Astrology, Winter, 1937.
Birth Dates 263
astrologers of Persia specifically predicted the birth of the
Christ. And we believe that is the correct birth date."
In a recent letter to the author, Mr. Robert L Ripley of
"Believe It or Not" fame, corroborated the above quota-
tions. He says: "Christ was not born December 25th,
1943 years ago! Most church authorities admit that our
present calendar is based on the erroneous calculations of
the sixth century monk, Dionysius Exiguus.
"According to Josephus (Ant. xvii, 8, 1) King Herod
died in April of the year 4 B.C. Jesus' birth must have
been prior to that time. The best conclusion is supplied
by the Gospel, telling of the massacre of the babes ordered
by Herod, that all children born within two years should
be killed in order to include the Messiah. That would bring
Christ's birth back to 6 B.C. (Luke, ii, 1, 2. Matth. ii, 1,
16).
"Kepler calculated that 'the Star of Bethlehem' a con-
junction of Jupiter and Saturn was visible over Palestine
about 7 B.C. The Jewish calendar of the olden days was
very difficult to calculate for the reason that they used a
strictly lunar year.
"Quirinius under whose governorship of Syria the
census which brought the family to Palestine is said to
have been ordered was Consul of Syria about 8 &.n.
But Prof. W. M. Ramsay has discovered an authentic
inscription lcnown as the Inscription of Pisidia which
makes it certain that Quirinius was Governor-Proconsul of
Syria between 10 and 8 u.c. This can be reconciled almost
wholly with the account of St. Luke, who claims that the
census was ordered during the Consulship of Quirinius.
That census brought the family to Bethlehem where later
Jesus was born.
"But the results of the latest research astronomical
by Kepler and Weiseler; religious by Koenig; and histori-
cal by Prof. Ramsay, documentary make it certain that
'Extract from a personal letter from Mr. Ernest A. Grant, the
first President of the American Federation of Scientific Astrolo-
gerL
264 The Pattern Life
Jesus was born in August of the year 6 B.C. Therefore this
is the year 1949 instead of 1943. BELIEVE IT OR
NOT !"
During our visit to a certain Coptic temple in Egypt in
1938 we were told that the Coptic Church possesses de-
tailed records, in actual physical documents, rescued from
the great Library at Alexandria when it was pillaged and
burned by Bishop Theopholis in 389 &.n, which give the
details of Jesus' three sojourns in Egypt. Having had
foreknowledge of the pillage and burning of the library,
the Church secured the records and placed them where
they would be secure from the ravages of insects, fanatics
and the passage of the ages.
In one temple we were present at a ceremony held in
the very cave or grotto in which the Holy Family are said
to have lived when they first visited Egypt. After their
return to Nazareth, between the ages of seven and twelve,
Jesus' precocious wisdom refuted many of the doctrines of
the learned Rabbis. He also denounced their alliance with
Rome. This aroused such antagonism that He was again
forced to flee into Egypt. There He was initiated into the
Essenes of the Great White Brotherhood, and took the
name of "Issa" and later was known as Saint Issa. There
He studied in the temple schools for a number of years as
a young man until He was ready to travel to the Far East.
While the Masters of the Brotherhood could not add any-
thing to His spiritual illumination, they did give Him much
instruction as to the scientific technique concerning the
mastery of His mind and His physical and finer bodies.
They also stored His mind with the cosmic philosophy
which had been handed down by the Brotherhood since the
days of Atlantis.
After visiting Ethiopia, Arabia, India and Thibet, the
Copts claim that Jesus returned to Palestine to take up
His life's mission. Because of these travels He was well
known in those countries, where the visit of any great
man, and especially a great Initiate, was carefully recorded.
Hence the name of the great Initiate and Master "Issa"
Birth Dates 265
appears in the Mohammedan Koran and in the ancient
records of both Hindus and Thibetans.
In one of the temples we were shown the very bench on
which it is claimed that Jesus sat at the temple services
during the many years of His sojourn there. During His
stay He trained seven Masters of the higher degrees of the
Brotherhood to act as Custodians to preserve and transmit
the whole truth of His doctrines induding Karma and
Reincarnation unchanged by exoteric misinterpretations
and translations, to succeeding ages until the cosmic cycle
for His second coming should arrive. It is claimed that
that time is now at hand, and that the prophecy of Hosea
(xi, 1): "Out of Egypt have I called my Son," will again
be fulfilled at the proper moment But it will not be until
the world is so sick of strife and war that it will realize
the essential unity of all manldnd, and that brotherhood
and co-operation on all planes are the bask laws of life.
Only then will it be ready to listen to and follow Him into
the New Age of world unity, pea and happiness.
Appendix D
INACCURACIES, CONTRADICTIONS
AND PHENOMENA
No doubt many persons have heard it said that there
were many inaccuracies and contradictions in the Gospels,
but when we come to list them the number is astonishing.
And this list does not indude the many more which involve
hair-splitting details of philology, grammar and punctua-
tion. They have to do, not with mere details, but with
scientific facts of astronomy, physics, meteorology, and the
accepted facts of history. These the literalists, fundamen-
talists, and those who hold that the whole Bible is the word
for word, God-inspired and inerrant word of God, will find
it impossible to explain. Yet all are satisfactorily explained
by the symbolical and metaphysical interpretation which we
have endeavored to present in this volume.
St. Luke tells us (i, 26) that the angel Gabriel was
sent to "a city in Galilee, named Nazareth," where he
would find Joseph and Mary. History records no such vil-
lage in Galilee either before or after the Christian era un-
til after the third century A.D. Probably the first reference
to it was made by St. Epiphanius (315-402 &.r).), and St.
Jerome (340-420 &.D.) toward the middle of the fourth
century by which time such a village may have been es-
tablished.
St. Luke says (ii, 1,2) that Joseph and Mary were
on their way from Galilee to Bethlehem in Judea (about
100 miles) to be taxed when "Cyrenius was governor of
Syria." History shows that Quintus Sentius Saturninus
266
Inaccuracies, Contradictions, Phenomena 267
was governor of Syria at the time of Jesus' birth, not
Cyrenius. And even though Cyrenius'later did make a
register of the inhabitants of Judea and Sainaria, it did
not include Galilee. Hence Joseph would not have been
affected and would not have had to make the journey.
Also, in the Roman censuses the residents were registered
at the towns and villages where they lived, not where they
were born. So here are two reasons why such a journey
was unnecessary, even ten years after Jesus' birth.
As opposed to this it is claimed that because of the dis-
covery of an edict issued by Gains Vibius Maxùnus, Eparch
of Egypt, in the 7th year of the reign of Trajan, (about
104 &.n.), requiring all persons residing out of their nomes
to return to their homes for the coming census, it can be
assumed that a similar custom was in vogue in Palestine
104 years previous! It is, of course, pure assumption to
say that because such an edict was issued in Egypt, it must
have been the custom in Palestine 104 years previously!
and without the slightest corroboration.1
Roman history, as recorded on the ruins of the Monu-
nentum Ancyranum at Angora, Turkey, shows that Em-
peror Augustus had three "lustrums" or censuses of the
Roman Empire taken in 28 B.C., 8 &.n. and 14 A.D., but
none near the reputed date of Jesus' birth in 4 B.C.
The geneology of Jesus is given through Joseph to
make Him a descendant of the House of David. Yet we
are distinctly told (St. Luke, i, 34) that Joseph was not his
father, for Mary told the angel Gabriel that she was still a
virgin. "How can this be, seeing I know not a man?"
Gabriel then told her that a physical father would not be
necessary since, "The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee :"
Thus the only geneology Jesus could have would come
through His mother, Mary. But she, like her cousin, Eliza-
beth, was of the House of Levi, not of David.
St. Luke (ii, 35) tells us that He was miraculously
'Mythical Interpretation of the GospeL,, Thorburn, 332.
268 The Pattern Life
conceived by "the power of the Highest." But St Paul
states definitely (Roman:, i, 3) that He "was made after
the seed of David according to the flesh?'
St Luke implies that Jesus was born in a stable (ii,
7), while St. Matthew tells us that the Wise Men found
Him in a house (ii, 11). Yet the early Church historians
(Tertullian, Eusebius, etc.) say that He was born in a cave.
The fact that the Angel Gabriel both appeared to and
spoke to Joseph, Zacharius and Mary assumes either that
all three of them were clairvoyant and also clairaudient, or
that Gabriel materialized before them or at least mate-
rialized his larynx and vocal cords, a psychic phenomenon
which has been photographed repeatedly in modern psychic
research and spoke in an audible voice.
For over eighteen centuries (until 1854) the Chris-
tian Church could notmake upits mindas to the truthof
the Immaculate Conception.
& We are told that the Wise Men followed a certain
special StarwhichalthotheysawitintheEast,itledthem
West to Jerusalem. It not only led them, but it actually
stopped, not only at an obscure village, but actually "stood
over where the young child was." (St. Matthew, i, 9). It
is self-evident that it is a physical impossibility for a star
to stop, and especially over any designated place.
The Magi told Herod that they had seen His star in
the East (St. Matthew, iii, 2), yet they travelled West!
i.e., "from the East to Jerusalem" (ii, 1) as the star went
before them. The star then changed its course and went
South to Bethlehem! This is an astronomical impossi-
bility.
We are told that the shepherds were watching their
flocks on the hillside at night (St. Luke, ii, 8) on December
25th. That would be during the coldest of the winter
months in Palestine. During that period the sheep were
never left out in the fields, but are either kept in or at least
driven back to the sheep-fold at night. Hence there were
neither sheep nor shepherds out on the hillside that night
We are told that Herod. "slew all the children that
Inaccuracies, Contradictions, Phenomena 269
were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two
years old and under." (St. Matthew, ii, 16). The number
is variously estimated at from 14 to 20,000. But there is
no record of any such slaughter, either in the carefully
compiled Jewish or Roman history.
St. Matthew says (ii, 13, 14) that as soon as the
Wise Men left Joseph: "he arose, he took the young child
and his mother by night, and departed in to Egypt." Yet
St. Luke tells us (ii, 21-2) that instead of fleeing into
Egypt that same night, the family remained right there in
Bethlehem for eight days, had Jesus circumcized, and re-
inained there over a month longer until Mary's 40 days of
purification were over. Even then they did not go to
Egypt, but presented Jesus at the temple in Jerusalem, and
then returned to their home in Galilee. Furthermore, "his
parents went to Jerusalem every year at the Feast of the
Passover." (ii, 39,41).
In St. Mark, i, 12 we are told that after the baptism,
'Immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness."
But in St. Luke, iv, 1 we are told that it was only after
Jesus "returned from the Jordan, and was led (not driven)
by the Spirit into the wilderness." And in St. John, i, 35-9
he tells us that "the next day after Johm stood, and two of
his disciples," saw Jesus "and abode with him that day.
The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee,"
instead of into the wilderness. Besides, there was no wil-
derness near either place.
St. Matthew, (ii, 5,6) makes Bethlehem the home of
Joseph and Mary. They go to Nazareth only after their
return from Egypt. But St. Luke (i11 4) tells us that
Nazareth was their home and that they went to Bethlehem
only to be taxed.
In St. Matthew, iv, 5 we are told that the Devil took
Jesus "into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of
the temple." In the first place, how could so foul a fiend
as the Devil have access to so consecrated a sanctuary as
the holy temple? And in the second place, the temple had
no pinnacles. Its top was dome-shaped. Also the story
270 The Pattern Life
assumes that all the kingdoms of the world belonged to the
Devil to give away to anyone he chose. And there was no
"exceeding high mountain" near Jerusalem from which all
the kingdoms of the world could be seen.
In one place (St. Matthew, xxvi, 20,49) we are told
that Jesus' betrayal took place after the last supper on the
night of the Passover, but in St. Luke, xxii, 66 we are told
that it took place the next day, "As soon as it was day."
In St. Matthew, xxvii, 3-5 we are told that Judas
repented his betrayal of Jesus and brought back the 30
pieces of silver to the chief priests, "and went and hanged
himself." And the chief priests "bought with them the
potter's field." But in Acts, i, 18 we are told that Judas
did not bring back the silver to the chief priests, but instead
"purchased a field with the reward of his iniquity."
1& Instead of Judas's hanging himself, the same passage
says that he died from a falL "Falling headlong, he burst
asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out....
And it was known unto all the dwellers of Jerusalem."
St. Mark, xvi, 2 says that when three women visited
the tomb of Jesus "they saw a young man sitting on the
right side, clothed in a long white garment." St. Luke,
xxiv, 4 says that several women visited the tomb and "be-
hold, two men stood by them in shining garments." But
St. John, xx, 11 says that Mary Magdalene at first went to
the tomb alone, but saw no one. Then she called Peter and
John and they both went into the sepulchre but saw only
the grave clothes. After they had gone away Mary again
"looked into the sepulchre, and seeth two angels in white."
St. Mark, xvi, 9 says that the angels told the women
to go and tell Jesus' disciples that He had arisen, but they
were afraid and "neither said anything to any man." But
St. Luke, xxiv, 9 says that they "returned from the sepul-
chre, and told all those things unto the eleven, and to all
the rest."
St. John, xxi, 12,13 says that after His resurrection
Jesus took bread and fish and gave them to His disciples,
but without eating them Himself. St. Luke, xxiv, 41,43,
'
et
GCS
1,%GG
-
%ß
$
$1
qeß.
$
$oic
tO0eS
coSS
ßOt$j
e
.ija'ø
(St.
dMLV, grrd
Reproduced fruni "Astrokgy, its Technics and Ethics,' C. Aq. LLbra, 241.
143 150 '0-. -18 i0 230
I /.. --- I /;-.---'-__ 0 p
c'I p
PG
'1j
.
u 1t9 i ,
Ì' /1
Z 0 D I A C U 5.
.4JI/I»4,.l t.
£ G S U . '.'-'
Co 0
._Aq4Jdr/u5 )(/ð.,.s. *. * ?
' ts. :;:'..':'.,.
l.a O 360 . 3.0 330 3:0 310
A
Aaron, daughters of, 12.
Abraham, 100; before vii; star
of, 61.
Adam, 26-7,
Adonis, 18, 109, 208, 220.
Adrian, Pope, 195.
Aesculapius, 71, 221.
Agathon, Pope, 195.
Age, Aquarian, 74, 162, 180;
Arian, 74; bronze, 194; Great,
62; of Jesus, 141-3; Piscean,
74, 109, 249; 12 years of, 117,
122, 249; 30 years of, 249.
Agni, &
Ajna, center, 211.
Albnma,ar, 60.
Aldebaran, 61.
Alexander, 107.
Alexandra, 107.
Alexandria, library of, 117.
Alkmene, 16.
Allegories, 44,109,110,156,166,
171, 210, 256.
Altar, of Ara, 254; Judas hung
on, 254; the saints under, 177.
Ambition, test of, 172.
Amenhotep, III, 16.
Amphiaraus, 221.
Anael, 15.
Andrew, 156.
Andromeda, 60.
Angel, Gabriel, 12, 14; Guard-
ian, 215-16; of inspiration,
215; from heaven, 189; from
Orion, 16.
INDEX
273
Angels, 9, 78; song, 55, 74.
Anios, 1&
Anna, mother of Mary, 24, 11&
Annunciation, 7, 14, 246; in 6th
month, 15; in Virgo, 19; to
Elizabeth, 12; to Mary, 15;
to others, 15.
Antaskarana, 113.
Antigones, 107.
Antioch, Theodore of, 40.
Apeuleius, 111.
Apis, 32.
Appendix A, 245; B, 256; C,
259; D, 266.
Appolonius, of Tyana, 18.
Apollo, 5, 16,28, 191.
Apported, 157.
Aquarius, 10, 63, 194, 248-9.
Aquinas, Thos., 25.
Ara, Altar of, 254.
Architect, the Great, xvi.
Archelaus, 43.
Archetype, vii, ix.
Arcturus, 60, 82, 247.
Arestaeus, 18.
Argo, ship of, 61, 250.
Aries, sign of, 219, 250-2.
Aris, 16.
Arista, 246.
Aristobuhis, 107.
Art, Christian, 32,45.
Ascension, 140; by, 241-2-3; de-
crees for, 239; doctrine of,
232; process, 239; the Sun's,
239, 245, 250.
Ass, 45,246.
274 Index
Astral, 213, 220, 233.
Astrology, 62.
Astronomers, Arabian, 60;
Chaldean, 89; Kepler, 60;
Proctor, 59.
Astyases, 109.
Attainment, Mount of, 76, 137,
155-8; Path of, 19, 180, 235.
Attis, 191, 221.
Auga, 18.
Augustine, St., 108.
Aura, 227.
Avatar, xix, 47, 56.
Azotus, 157.
B
Babylon, xix.
Bacchus, 28, 71, 208.
Bacob, 192.
Baldur, 208, 221.
Balthazar, 91-3.
Bambasara, 110, 170.
Baptism, 127, 139, 146; at 30,
249; in Aquaria, 138; into
death, 223; of fire, 130-1, 152;
of Holy Ghost, 130-3, 152-8;
of infants, 35, 131; of Spirit,
130-1; stages of, 129, 131-2-
4, 147; with water, 128, 130,
141.
Baptist, John the, 132-4-8-9,
141; beheaded, 144.
Bear, the Great, 45, 247;
-driver, 252.
Beast, the, 90, 183.
Bernice, hair of, 254.
Beth, 66.
Bethlehem, birth in, 44; star of,
66,247, 262-8; symbol of, 66;
Virgo rules, 19, 246.
Betrayal, the, 185-6, 270.
Birth, dates, 39, 107, 257; im-
maculate, 39; in Bethlehem,
44; in Capricorn, 45, 110; in
cave, 45-6, 54, 245; mystery
of, 42; of Christ, 39; spirit-
ual, 46; of Sun, 19, 28, 43-7,
245; virgin, 28, 246.
Blood, of 2fliIfl2?s, 198-9; sym-
bolic, 151, 198-9, 219, 250-4.
Body, astral, 220; celestial, 234;
etheric, vii, 220, 233, 241;
light, 235-8; Nirnianakaya,
238,240; physical, 232; spirit-
ual, 32-7, 235-8.
Bonaventura, St., 25, 50.
BoÖtes, 19, 60, 246-7, 252-3.
Brain, organ of, 71; waves, 236.
Bread, house of, 53, 66, 246; of
life, 37, 54, 162, 170, 254;
symbol, 199.
Bridge, Antaskarana, 113; of
swords, 114.
Brotherhood, Great Whit; 264.
Buddha, 18, 28, 110, 154.
Buddhi, 16, 152.
BUll, 10, 45, 194.
C
Calvary, 191-5, 252.
Calvin, John, 26.
Cana, marriage in, 175.
Cancer, 201; sign, 135, 140,250-
2-3; Tropic of, 135.
Candidate, the, 130-1, 155-8,
211-12.
Capricorn, 19, 43-5, 110, 158,
201, 245-9, 252-3; ruler of,
246, 253; rules Palestine, 61;
sheep, stables, 70, 82.
Capricornis, Alpha, 249.
Carmelites, 25.
Carpenter, 143, 202, 246.
Cataclysms, 174.
Catacumen, 131.
Cave, birth in a, 45-4 54, 245.
Cel, Druid, 227.
Cells, body, 34.
Census, in Palestine, 20,43,262.
Ccntaunjs, Centurian, 194-6,
251.
Centers, bodily, 122; Ajna, 211;
higher, 36, 122, 149.
Ceres, 54.
Challenge, communications, 13,
165.
Children, attracting, 37; at 12
yrs., 119; baptism of, 35, 131;
remarks of, 120-1.
Christ, birth of, 39, 50-5; child,
55, 227; Cosmic, 32, 48-9;
consciousness, 32-4, 76, 111,
228; descent of, 204; force,
15, 50, 151, 200-4, 229; in
you, 48-9; -man, 161, 182;
seed, 114, 227; star, 95; suf-
fers, 201-5.
Christhood, xvii, 5, 47, 212.
Christianity, ancient, x.
Circumcised, Jesus, 106.
Clairaudience, clairvoyance 268.
Clement, St., 256.
Clothes, grave, 162, 217-18;
swaddling, 84-S.
Coat, Jesus', 254.
Codom, 28.
Communications, test all, 13-15,
135.
Comodeo, 220.
Complexes, 212.
Concept, cosmic, xi, xii.
Conception, imniaculate, xii,
xiii, 33-7, 177; continues, 32;
doctrine of, 25; symbol of, 30.
Confucius, 16, 18.
Conjunctions, planetary, 61-2,
262.
Conscience, 137, 141.
Consciousness, buddhic, 5;
Christ, 15, 53-4, 76, 83, 122,
141-3,228; cosmic, 10; spirit-
ual, 17.
Constantine, 44, 192-S.
Contradictions, 266.
Co-operation, 265.
Coptic Church, 117; documents,
108,264.
Index 275
Corona Borealis, 252.
Councils, Damascus, 23; Ephe-
sus, 23; Trent, 24.
Crah, sign of, 201,250.
Crater or Cup, 203.
Crimes, of Herod, 107.
Criticism, xiv.
Cross, antiquity of, 192; arms
of, 252-3; cardinal, 191-4-6,
252; cosmic, 193-5; fixed, 10;
man on the, 193-5; nails in,
204; northern, 196k 252; sen-
tences on, 202; southern, 196,
252; stations of, 201; symbol
of, 194; Way of, 158.
Crown, of thorns, 252.
CrucifIxion, 191, 203; of Paul,
197; of Sun, 194,251; symbol
of, 204; two, 252.
Crystalization, point of, 251.
Cuneiform, records, xx.
Cup, 196, 203, 251.
Cycle of Sun, xv, xvi, xviii, 119,
149. 215, 249.
Cygnus, the swan, 147, 249,253.
Cyrene, Simon, 18, 252-3.
Cyrenius, Governor, 20, 260-6.
Cyril, of Alexandria, 24.
Cyrus, 18, 196.
D
Dag, whale, 208.
Darkness, 28.
Dates, birth, 39, 257, 260.
David, city of, 70; house of,
39; prophecies, 118; symbol,
70; throne of, 22, 52, 98, 100,
25t
Days, of fasting, 154-6, 160-5-
7; in tomh, 208-9; in wilder-
ness, 164, 249.
Death, baptism into, 223; last
enemy, 234, 241; n2ning of,
232; sign of, 254; stoned to,
29.
Deserts, of life, 87.
276 Index
Desire, King, 100, 145.
Devaki, 16, 18, 28.
Devil, 27, 157, 165.
Diaphragm, 83.
Dionysus, 5, 18, 82, 175, 208,
221, 261.
Divorce, 181-2.
Dogstar, 247.
Dominicans, 25.
Doubts, 74, 116, 125.
Dove, 149, 150-8.
Draco, 98, 105, '110, 247.
Dragon, 16, 105, 110, 247.
Dreams, of children, 120; warn-
ing, 18, 103, 106, 110, 116.
Duality, unity in, 182.
E
Ear 25OE
East, star in the, 57; symbol of
the, 64-S.
Easter, 221-5-8.
Edoni, 109.
Eggs, all life from, ix, 46; sym-
bol of, 225-6-7.
Egypt, flight into, 105, 264; out
of, 111; symbol of, 105, 110-.
5,125,248,252.
Electricity, born, 50.
Elephant, symbol of, 28.
Elephanta, 110.
Ems, rn
Elijah, 241.
Elizabeth, annunciation to, 12;
symbol of, 14.
Pmnl2us, 240.
Emotions, 236.
Enemy, the last, 234, 241.
Enoch, 241.
Ephod, 124.
Equinox, autumnal, 191-6, 252;
vernal, 250-2-&
Espoused, Mary, 20, 49; Apol-
b's mother, 16.
Essenes, 11, 117, 264.
Eucharist, 199, 251.
Eusebius, 260.
Evadne, 18.
Eve, 247.
Evolution, ix
Existence, pre-, Ix, 42.
Eye, the third, 182.
F
Faculties, higher, 79, 123, 176.
Faith, Articles of, 24; farmer's,
rn
Fasting, 40 days, 154-6,160-5-7.
Father, necessary, 30.
Fear, test of, 179, 188-9.
Feast, marriage, 175-9.
Feet, symbol of, 133, 143-9;
205.
Field, potter's, 186, 190.
Fish, age, 62,248-9; Great, 209;
Jesus ate, 234, 270; miracles,
248; sign of, 248; Southern,
140, 249.
Flight, into Egypt, 105.
Flocks, symbol of, 72.
Flour, 83.
Fohat, xvi.
Fo-hi, 28.
Food, spiritual, 90, 135.
Forces, super-physical, 4,230-6.
Forty, 154, 162-4-7.
Four, 95.
Franciscans, 25.
Frankincense, 91.
Frey, 221.
Functions, bodIly, 36.
G
Gabriel, angel, 12,14, 26
Galileo, 58.
Gambling, 254.
Gameogenesis, 26.
Gaspar, 59, 93.
Gaza, 157.
Gemini, sign, 250.
Geneobogies, of Jesus, fl 52;
of Mary, 99.
Gestation, period of, 75.
Ghost, Holy. 10, 31.
Gifts, of Wise Men, 87-9, 91-5.
Girdle1 134.
Gjamasp, 58.
Gnostics, 11.
Goat, 155, 245-9.
God, viii, xvi; image of, 155-6;
son of, xi, xix, 171.
Gods, Saviour, 28, 45, 200-8,
220-L
Gold, symbol of, 89, 90; use of,
90.
Golgotlia, 195-6, 252.
Gospels, Aquarian, 117; evi-
dence of, 4; Interpretation of,
1, 256.
Grail, Holy, 251.
Grave1 162, 217. 254.
Gregory, Pope, 195.
Guidance, inner, 8, 9, 27, 112,
132, 163, 19OE
H
Habit, 136.
Hadad, 109.
Hadrian, 44
Hagar, 256.
Hair, Bernice's, 234; plaiter,
215, 234.
Hallucinations, 166.
Hands, symbol of, 205.
Han-Id, 28.
Harmony, Prayer for World,
174.
Heart, organ of, 83.
Hell. 213; descent.into, 209,213.
Herbs, of the field, vii.
Hercules, 5,16,82,194,208,221.
Here, 18.
Hermes, 82.
Herod, and Wise Men, 98, 105;
crimes of, 107-8, 110; fam-
ily, 107; forces, 102-3; sym-
bol of, 100-1-2-3, 111, 145.
Hierarchies. 7.
Index 277
Honey, 135.
Horns, 5, 19, 28, 44, 82, 109,
120, 191, 208.
Hour, 6th, 96, 253; 9th, 196.
Hunger, Soul, 133-5-6, 161-6
Hydra, 207.
Hylozoism, viii.
I
Tamos, 18.
lapetos, 18.
Icthus, 248.
Ida, 136.
Ideals, 101.
Ideas, 101.
Illegitimate, 17.
Image of God, 15S.6
Immaculate, meaning of, 26, 33.
Immortality, 237.
Inaccuracies, in Gospels, 266.
Incarnation, of advanced Souls,
37, 177; method of, 32; ob-
ject of, 237; stages of, 119.
Incense, frank-, 91.
India, 191.
Initiates, 11
Initiation, candidate for, 211-12,
235; chamber of, 46; number
of, 17; star of, 67; Sun, 155,
206.
Initiators, 8, 9, 11.
Inn, symbol of, 54.
Innocents, massacre of the, 105-
8, 248, 289; symbol of, 110.
Inquisition, 4.
Inspiration, 10, ; angel of,
215.
Intelligence, cosmic, xvi.
Intuition, 16, 21; star of, 66,
100.
Involution, ix, 193.
in, manger of, 60, 247.
loseppe, 19, 246.
Isis, 28, 120-9.
Issa, St., 117, 264.
Ixion. 192.
278 Index
I
Jacob, 1(X).
Jamshid, 20&
Jansanist, Church, 24.
Jehovah, 12, 99.
Jerome, 44, 108-9.
Jerusalem, ruled by, 62.
Jesus, age of, 141-3; at 12, 117-
8-9, 122; birth of, 44, 257;
brothers, 41; historical, xxi-
ii; -man, 86; name in Greelç
248; symbol of, 49, 109; tests
of, 166; tomb of, 264.
Jews, king of, 98.
Joab, 109.
Joachi, Simeon Ben, 242.
John, the Baptist, 10. 127, 133;
beheaded, 144; Feast of, 140;
symbol of. 133-4.
Jonah, 208-9.
Joppa, 208.
Jordan, 142-6, 249; symbol of.
142, 249.
Joseph, 16,52; test of, 21; sym-
hoT of, 16,112.
Josephus, 3, 107.
Joseppe, 19, 246.
Journey, mothers on a, 18, 112,
246; Sun's, 22.
Judah, 99; lion of, 112, 251.
Judas, 185, 252-4; a devil, 186-
8; fall, 186; hanged, 186,252.-
4; ruptured, 186; symbol of,
188, 252.
Jupiter, 61,82,154,250,262.
IC
Kansa, 18, 109.
Karma, 54; Jesus', 192; Lords
of, 124.
ICe-un, 16.
Kepler, 62.
Kiss, traitor's, 188-9.
Krishna, 5. 16, 18, 28, 61 71,
82,154,288, 220.
Kung-foo-tzse, 16, 28.
Kwd 61.
L
Lamb, 185-8, 195,252; blood ol
the, 151.
Lamsa, 29.
Lao-Kium, 221.
Lao-tsze, 18,28, 62.
Larota, 28.
Latonia, 18,28.
Laugh, at critics, xiii.
Leo, sign. 185-8, 194-6, 250-4.
Lesson, the great, 116.
Levi, 99,250.
Libra, sign, 194, 250-2.
Life, Bread of, 37, 84, 162,254;
Cosmi; viii, xvi, 224; the
One, xv, 2; River of, 142-7;
Rose of, 231; Source of all,
xvi, 89; Tree of, 225; Water
of, 128, 181.
Life, The Pattern, 47, 202, 243.
Light, Prayer for, 69, 230.
Ughtbringers, 5.
Linga, Sri Rama, 242.
Lion, 112, 185, 250-1.
Locusts, 135.
Love, true, 30, 178.
Lucifer, 16.
Luke, symbol of, 10.
Lust, 17&
M
Magdalene, Mary, 215, 270.
Magi, 58, 87-9, 262.
Maha-Maja, 18.
Maia,2&
Man, 2nhn2l, 34, 84, 166; Jesus,
86; not a mortal, 170, 238;
spiritual, ix, 140, 182.
Manas, 197.
Mandane, 18.
Manger, 19, 82.
Maniccavacha, St.. 243.
Manifestation, Law of, xiii, xv,
xv 2Z2
Mara, 154.
Mare 15.
Mark, St., symbol of, 10.
Marriage, 35, 179; companion-
ate, 178; in Cana, 175; in
heaven, 177; trial, 178.
Martyr; 4, 177.
Mary, Annunciation to, 14; gen-
cology of, 99; symbol of, 16;
test of, 21; tribe of, 99.
Massacre, of innocents, 105-8,
289; symbol of, 110.
Masters, 7, 217; of Shadow,
167.
Mastery, 7.
Materialization, Law of, 222,
240-1.
Materializations, psychic, 233.
Mates, 177, 180-2.
Matter, 53, 171.
Matthew, St., symbol of, 10, 22.
Mautines, 16.
Maya, 28.
Mdchisedec, 242.
Melchor, 89.
Meninon, 221.
Memory, 121, 180.
Men, Wise, 65.
Mencius, 26.
Mviwj, 28, 208.
Messages, psychic, 75.
Milky Way, 147, 249.
Mind, an inn, 54; dual, 4;
higher, 83; influence of, 34,
236; laws of, 236; rational,
113; subconscious, 83; super-
conscious, 113, 166; tran-
scends brain, 36, 65.
Miracle, first, 175-9.
Miraculous, 3.
Miranine, 107.
Mithras, 5,40, 82,221.
Month, 6th, 15.
Mondane, 110.
Index 279
Mcnza,. 195.
Moon, 217.
Mortal, man not a, 170, 238.
Moses, 99, 233.
Mother the Divine, 226; of
Jesus, 176, 215.
Mothers, names of, 45,236.
Mutation, the great, 262.
Myrr, 93-7.
Myrrha, 18.
Mystery, birth a, 42; Gospel,
144, 152, 235; religions, 153;
of Jesus, 129, 197; schools,
xviii, 46, 87, 210.
Myth, Universal Solar, xiii, xx,
107, 125, 140, 154.
N
Nails, in cross, 204.
Names, of mothers, 236.
Nanda, St., 243.
Nataraa, 243.
Nativity, pictures of the, 45;
feast of, 260.
Nazarenes, 44.
Nazareth, 43-4.
Nazarites, 11.
Neophyte, 158, 166-7.
Nesscus, 252.
Nestorius, 23.
Night, symbol, 73; of Soul, 212.
Nimrod, 110.
Nine, number, 17.
North, wind, 64.
Novea, Aquillac, Puppis, 61.
Number, four, 95; six, 15; nine,
17; twelve, 119.
0
Oannes, 140.
Ophiucus, 247.
Origen, Fra., xix, 1,40,256.
Orion, 60, 87; belt, 60, 247.
Osiris, 5, 191, 208, 221.
Ox, 10.45,246.
280 Index
p
Palestine 71; ruled by, 6L
Pan, 154-5.
Pandavas, 2.
Parables, 215.
Pans, 71.
Parthenogenesis, 26.
Path, of attainment, 19.
Pattern, etheric, ix, 220, 233,
241; Life, 42, 202, 243.
Pelagius, 26.
Pentecost, 9, 10.
Perseus, 28, 250.
Peter, denies, 189, 231; sword
of, 250.
Phenomena, psychic, 7, 8, 161,
Pheroras, 107.
Philo, friend of St. Luke, 4.
Phoenix, 194.
Philanthropy, 95-6.
Photisma, baptism, 129.
Pingala, 136.
Pisces, rules Jerusalem, 62;
sign of, 62, 248-9.
Plan, the Grand, xvi; purpose
and design, ix, xv.
Plants, of the field, vii.
Plato, 3,45.
Plutarch, 3, 121.
Pluto1 63.
Pneuma, 155.
Pope, Adrian, 195; Agathon,
195; Gregory, 195; Julius, 260.
Power, cosmic, 230; psychic,
172; thought, 183,236.
Prayer, for Light, 69, 230; for
World Harmony, 174.
Precession, 59.
Pretender 99.
Prevision, 63.
Principle, the 6th, 15.
Prison, Spirits in, 209, 211.
Procyon, 247.
Prometheus, 191.
Proof, demand, 13; historica1
3; physical, 233.
Prophecies, 52-3, 118.
Prophesying, 118.
Prove, all things, 13.
Puberty, age of, 119.
Purification, 151.
Purple, and scarlet, 252-4.
Q
Quetzalcoatle, 14, 154, 191, 208,
221.
Quoted, AUTHORS.
Agassiz,ix.
Angus, 210.
Apeuleius, 210.
Augustine, St., x, 1,44,257.
Barkel, 103.
Barnes, 257.
Besant, xxi.
Binet-Sangle, 166.
Blavatsicy, 58, 68, 144-6, 160
193-7, 242.
Bonaventura, St., 25, 50.
Bryan, 239.
Caine, 39, 44, 52, 158, 209, 257.
Carrel, 65, 88.
Carpenter 261.
Coats, 233.
Coptic, Acts of St Matthew,
108; Church, 117.
Curtiss, iii, 5,8, 10-3-5-7, 22-
6-7, 36-8, 48, 51-2-6, 67-9,
73-9, 86, 91-2-5-6, 113, 118-
19, 124, 131-4-7, 148, 155-6-
9, 160-2-5-7, 173-8, 182, 193-
7-8, 200-1-3-4-6-9, 112-13-
17,226-7, 230-3-5-7-8-9, 246,
251-8,267.
Davis, 236.
Douse, 195, 209, 260.
Drews, xiv, 44, 248.
Elliott, 220.
Fagans, 262.
Farrar, 257.
Findlay, 32,41. 109. 220.
Gangooly, 109.
Geikie, 257.
Goldhier 209.
Grant, 263.
Greber, 220.
Harris, 257.
Higgins, 209.
Hooykaas, 20.
Howard, 236.
Jerome, 44, 109.
Jones, x.
Josephus, 3, 107.
Lainsa, 29.
Levi, 117.
Martyn,46.
Notovich, 117.
Ohhnstead, 261.
Origen, 1,40,27,256.
Philo, 3.
Pliny, 58.
Plutarch, 3, 121.
Proctor, 58.
Ripley, 263.
Robertson, 120-1, 155, 220, 245.
St. Paul, 33.
Screnck-Notzing, 233.
Sephariel, 61.
Tacitus, 108.
Taylor, 209.
Tertullian, 44, 128.
Thorburn, 62.
Underhill, 50.
Wiegafi, xxi
Quoted, THE BIBLE
Acts, 2, 147, 157, 186-8, 232.
Colossiaws, xxi, 197,244-6.
I Corinthians, xix, 18, 34, 123-
8, 161-4, 220, 232-4, 241, 255.
II Corinthians, viii, xviii, 48-9,
165, 238, 240.
Epheåms, 2.
Ezodus, 134.
Ezekiel, 193.
Galatians, xviii, 29, 41-8. 197-
9, 256.
Hebrews. 198, 238, 241.
Index 281
Hosea, 210.
Isaiah, 205.
James. 244.
I John, 13.
I Kings, 110, 156.
II Kings, 241.
Leviticus, 198.
Malachi, 141.
I Peter, 49, 208.
Psalms, xiii, 18.
Revelation, 139, 177, 182-3-4,
252.
Roinans, 29, 33-6, 40, 159,160,
197, 223-9, 240.
St. John, viii, 10,34,51,79, 130-
9, 153-6, 165, 175-7, 186, 211,
228, 240-6, 255.
St. Luke, 39, 41-3-4, 52, 70, 82,
91, 100-5-6, 117-8, 135-8, 141,
156-7, 186-7, 191, 205-6-15-
19, 232-4, 240-1, 266.
St. Mark, xviii, xix, 133,153-6,
207, 235.
St. Matthew, 17, 23, 41-3-4, 57,
87, 98, 105-6-9, 128, 139, 140-
4-5-7-8, 154-9, 162-4, 186-8-
9, 199,203, 233-5, 251-2.
I Thessalonans, 108.
I Timothy, 52.
Quoted, BOOKS.
Anacalypsic, 209.
Antiquities of the Jews, 107.
Astrology, British Journal of,
61.
4strology, Journal of, 58,262.
Augustine, Works of, x.
Believe It or Not, 263.
Bhagaw4 Gita, 2.
Bible for Learners, 20.
Bible Myths, 195, 209,260.
Catholic Dictionary, A New, 24.
Christ Myth, The, xiv, 44.
Christianity and Mythology,
120-1, 220, 245.
Comsnunicatio,i with the Spirit
World, 220.
Dawn of Truth, 103.
Dc Genesis, 1, 256.
Dc Principiir, 1,257.
Encyclopedia Britannica, x, 25,
146, 192, 219, 220.
Esoteric Christianity, xxu.
Hebrew and Christian Record,,
257.
Inner Radiance, The, 27. 51, 63,
91-2-5-6, 124,200,230-8,251.
Isis Unveiled, 58.
Kalyana-Kalpataru, 243.
Key of Destiny, 27, 119. 155,
209, 237, 246.
Key to the Universe, 10, 15, 17,
22, 36, 67, 113, 118. 134, 159,
162, 193-7, 227, 237.
La Folk de Jesus, 166.
Letters from the Teacher, Vol.
237.
Letters from the Teacher, VoL
182.
Life and Religions of the Hin.
tiv,s, 109.
Life of Christ, Caine, 39,44,52,
158, 209, 257.
Life of Christ, Farrar, 257.
Life of Christ, Gelkie, 257.
Man, the Unknown, 65,88.
Message of Aquaria, The. 15.
27, 48, 51, 73-9, 86, 148, 178,
198, 200-1-3-4-6.
Methods of Study, ix.
Mystery Religions, The. 210.
Mystical Interpretation of the
Old Testament, 257.
Mysticism, 50.
Mythical Interpretation of the
Gosj'els, 62, 260-7.
Pagan mid Christian Creeds,
261.
Pagan Christ,, 155.
Paganism is Our Christianity,
xxi
Phenomena of Materialization,
The. 237.
Philosophy of War, The, 173.
Photographing the invisible,
233.
Prayers of the O.C.M., 69, 173.
Primative Culture, 209.
Principles of Zoology, ix.
Psychic Dictatorship in Amer-
ica, 239.
Psychic Life of Jesus, The. 220.
Psychic Stream, The, 32, 41,
109,220.
Realms of the Living Dead, 8,
13, 148, 160-5, 213, 233-9.
Roman Antiquities, 47.
Science News Letter, 261.
Secret Doctrine, The, 144-4
193-7, 242.
Studies in Mystical Religions, x.
Truth About Evolution and the
Bible, The, 26,32,131,156.
Unitarian Answers, 24.
Universalist Church Co,nmis-
sion, 24.
Unknown Life of Jesus, The,
117.
Voice of isis, The, 38, 56,62,
113, 167, 193-8, 200, 226.
Voice of the Silence, The, 68,
160.
Way, the Truth and the Life,
The. 137.
Why Are We Here? 26, 119,,
170, 235.
Witnesses to the Historicity of
Jesus, 248.
Quirinius, 20, 263.
R
Ra,28.
Radioclastj 236.
Rams, 220.
Rams, 85-8.195,252.
Raven, viii
Rays, cosmic, 43
Reality, viii.
Reakns, demnn viii
282 Indes
Reason, transcended, 36, 55, 113.
Records, akasbic, 117; cunei-
form, xx.
Redeemer, of man, 199; of Na-
ture, 200.
Redemption, 197, 200.
Reflexes, 49.
Reincarnation, 177,237.
Religion, objects of, 1,6.
Repent, 136-7, 190.
Resurrection, 219, 222; power
of, 230; of Sun, 219; time of,
140.
Revelation, direct, xviii.
Rhoca, 18, 28.
Righteousness, Sun of, 215-6,
218.
Ring, fisherman's, 248; at Som-
erset, 194; Pass Not, 226.
River, astral, 149; of death,
148; of life, 145-7.
Robe, of Jesus, 252; purple,
252-4; white, 177
Rohini, 61.
Romulus, 28, 71.
Rose1 of Life, 231.
Rupa, Mayavi, 238.
S
Sacraments, 127, 199
Sacrifice, 199.
Sagittarius, 194 254, 262.
St. Bonaventura, 25, 50.
st. aement, 256.
St. Jerome, 44, 109.
St. Origen, 256.
St. Paul, 33.
St. Peter, sword of, 250.
Saktideva, 208.
Salome, 107, 145, 215.
Samaria, 20.
Samiramis, 191.
Samuel, 118-9.
Saosbyant, 154.
Sarapis, 191.
Index 283
Sara 256.
Sarcophagus, 211-12.
Sargon, 82.
Satan, 157,250-2; impersonates,
165.
Saturn, 61, 155. 250-3, 262.
Sattva, 113.
Saviors, 45, 200-8, 220-1.
Scales of Libra, 252.
Scarlet, purple and, 134;
woman, 182.
Schools, mystery, xviii, 46, 87.
157.
Science, Cosmic Soul, xvii, 55-.
9.
Scorpio, 194-7,254.
Scriptures, alas of, 1,6.
Seed, all from a, 227; Christ
114. 227.
Seers, &
Self, Spiritual, 9, 48, 176, 238.
Seneca, 4.
Sentences, en cross, 202.
Service, 95.
Sex, blessed, 30-1; is spiritual,
178, 180.
Sheep, symbol of, 70-a
Shekina, 1).
Shepherds, 70; Capricorn rules,
246; duty of. 76-7.
Shoes, symbol of, 133, 143.
Signs, cardinal, 22; fixed, 10;
6th, 246.
Silver, 30 pieces of, 186, 246,
252.
Simeon, 118.
Simon, of Cyrene, 18 252-3.
Sin, original, 24-5.-6-7, 35.
Sirius, 247.
Sii, number, 15; sign, 246.
Soldiers, Roman, 203, 254.
Solstice, summer, winter, 45,
140.
Sosna-deva, 208.
Song, angels', 55, 74.
Soul, at 12, 118; attracting ad-
284 Index
vanced, 37, 177 180; mates,
177; night of, 212.
South, 64.
Spica, 246.
Spirit, fruits of, 173, 215; man
a, 170; supreme, 164-8.
Spirits, communication with, 15;
in prison, 211; try the, 15,
165.
Sprout, born, 50.
Stables, 45. 82, 246; Capricorn
rules, 70, 246; symbol of, 83.
Star, Bethlehem, 52, 62-7, 268;
Christ, 64, 95; poem of, 66;
symbol of, 52.
Stephen, Bishop, 128.
Stone, rolled away, 215; the
white, 199.
Stoning, death by, 29.
Styx river, 148.
Suggestion, role of, 78, 83.
Sun, born, 19, 42; cycle, xviii,
xxi, 119, 215. 249; dies, 196,
256; home of, 219; initiation,
155,206; resurrection of, 219;
Spiritual, xii, 215.
Sun-gods, 28, 200-8, 220-1.
Sushumna, 136.
Swaddling clothes, 82-4-5.
Swan, 147, 249.
Sword, bridge of, 114; of Per-
seus, of Peter, 250.
Synibology, universal, xviii.
Synods, church, Constantinople,
195; Damascus, 23; Ephesus,
23; Quinisert, 195; Trait, 24.
T
Tacitus, 108.
Tammuz, 40-4, 191, 220.
Taurus, 10, 45, 194, 250.
Taxes, 19, 20, 43.
Tax-gatherer, 22.
Telephos, 18.
Telescope, 59.
Temple, 46, 121; Coptic, 264.
Temptation, in wilderness, 154-
5. 164-9, 269.
Tempter, the, 164.
Tertullian, 44, 128.
Tests, of Candidate, 213-14,
250; of communications, 13,
15, 165; of Joseph, 21; of
Mary, 21; of Wise Men, 91-
Testament, New, 198.
Theodelinda, Queen, 196.
Theopholis, 117.
Thieves, two, 201,253,270.
Thirst, spiritual, 176-9, 180,
2024.
Thorns, crown of, 252.
Thoth, 16.
Thought, forms, 183; of feet,
78; measured, 236; power of,
236.
Throne, of David, 22, 52, 98,
100, 254.
Tien, 221.
Ting-Wong, 28.
Tomb, of conditions, 224; of
winter, 222-3, 250; three days
in, 208, 254.
Traditions, 6, 24.
Trance, 211, 212.
Translation, 241-2.
Transmutation, 34, 200, 237-9,
240, 254.
Trait, Council of, 24.
Tribe, of Judah, 99, 251; of
Levi, 99; of Mary, 99.
Tribes, emblems of, 251.
Trigrains, xx.
Trinity, lower, 169.
Twelve, Age of, 117-8-9, 122;
number, 9.
Typhon, 18, 109.
U
Understanding, symbol of, 133.
Unitarians, 24.
Unity, man's, 206; in duality,
180-a
Universalists, 24.
Uric, 16.
Ursa Major, 45, 247.
V
Veil, of temple, 194,252-3.
Venus, 15.
Virgin, Mary 28, 246.
Virgo, 53.60, 110, 196,246,252;
rules Bethlehem, 19, 246.
Vishnn, 16,191.
Vitality, doubled, 236.
Voice, gentle, 77; inner, 86,113,
131, 150, 163,207, 229; warn-
ing, 109.
W
Waterbearer, 62, 248-9.
Waterpots, stone, 176-9.
Waters of Life, 128, 181.
Way, Milky, 147, 249.
Wealth, use of, 90-1
West, 64.
Whale, 208-9.
Wilderness, life a, 134-5, 139,
166, 269; temptation in, 154
164.
Will, Divine, xvi, 31,205; per-
sonal, 205.
Winds, four, 64, 216-17.
Index 285
Wine, 176, 180, 199, 235.
Winter, in Palestine, 71; tomb
of, 222-3, 229, 250.
Wise Men, departed, 104;
fourth, the, 95; Herod and
the, 98; gifts of the, 87-9,
91-3-5; star of, 57, 60, 247;
symbol of, 65, 89; tests of,
91-2-6; travel over, 87;
warned, 104, 116.
Wittoba, 191.
Wolves, 73-6-7.
Woman, scarlet, 182.
World Harmony, Prayer for,
174.
Worlds, astral, 213, 223; spir-
itual, 49; super-physical, vii,
117, 233.
Writings, cuneiform, xx.
Y
Yen-she, 28.
Yu,62.
z
Zacharius, 12.
Zeus, 3, 16. 18.
Zodiac, 119, 123, 191; influ-
ences of, 43; lessons of, 118;
map of, Appendix.
Zoroaster, 28, 45, 110, 128, IS4
208, 22
The
Universal Religious Fellowship
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter. Qiris-
lisa in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings presented in this volume have interested
and helped you, send for a descriptive pamphlet of our
correspondence course.
F. HOMER CUBTISS, B.S., M.D.
Washington, D. C.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy of Christian 'Psychology and
Mysticism in plain, comprehensible terms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere theory and metaphysical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy of life and Soul-growth tested
tbrcagh years of experience, which includes a rational explanation
of all forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and all after-death con-
ditions.
There are perliajis no books on the market to-day which ad fu!-
LU the need. of the awakened Soul wbo is seeking to know and
understand bow to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and cooung world conditions. While philosophical
and comprebenive in their scope, they also answer the heart-cry
for love, light and life.
Just the books to place In the bands of a friend who Is out-
growing former limitations of thought and old conceptions. Chris-
tine in their ethics, yet non-sectarian, cosmic and universal.
Send for our fully- Descriptive Catalog.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Waslsngfon, D. C.
A few of
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
Four-Fold Health (Second Edition) . . . . $1.50
Contains the exact routine to eliminate most chronic disorders, as
well as explicit instructions as to just what to do in acute attacks,
including appendicitis. This may save the life of your child, your-
self or your family.
The Philosophy of War (Third Edition) . . - $1.50
This is not a dry, academic discussion of the theories or even
the horrors of war, but a penetrating and illuminating revelation
of the hidden forces which are at work behind the scenes of oil mire.
It will give you the same understanding and comfort it gave the
thousands of readers of the former editions.
The Voice of Isis (Thirteenth Edition). . - $150
A fascinating compendium of spiritual philosophy, occultism and
esoteric bibhcal interpretation. Not mere theory and metaphysical
speculation, but a definite Jihilosoithy of life and Soul-growth.
"it is indeed an epoch-malcing volume."Kaljiaka Magazine,
India.
The Inner Radiance (Second Edition). . . . $2.50
Forty splendid chapters covering almost every phase of the mystic
life occultism and spiritual philosophy, from the stock market on!-
lapse and the depression, and the remedy, to the zodiac, the elemen.
tals, divine fire, redemption, King Arthur and his knights, King
Desire, and the Christ Star.
'Practical and vita! aid in the conduct of life."Springfleld Union.
The Key to the Universe (Sixth Edition,
Illustrated) $2.50
The most comprehensive and authoritative book on the signifl-
canoe and spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols. Not a
dry mathematical treatise nor mere speculative theories. Illustra-
tions and cothrm_ations from nature at every turn. Numbers and
symbols from 1 to 10.
"Is both thorough and profound."Baltimore American,
Realms of the Living Dead (Sixth Edition) . - $2.50
This volume gives a dear, scientific, satisfying and comforting
explanation of all after-death conditions, dual personalities, psychic
research, etc.
Explains all methods of communication with the invislbIe and
how to protect against undesirable influences.
A rational, scientific, all-inclusive philosophy; not a mediumistic
report
Send for fully descriptive catalog.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
Washington, D. C.
PERSONAL SURViVAL
With Physical Proofs
A sequel to 'Realms of the Living Dead"
Ends all arguments as to the reality of personal survival, not
by theory or speculation, but by actual facts scientifically in.
vestigated and unassailably demonstrated with physical proofs.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I Cosinc PHILOSO-
PHY
II THE PROBLEM OF
INCARNATION
III THE PROBLEM OP
RKINCABNATION
IV Srimuiu. CON-
TACIS
V DEATH UNDERSTOOD
VI EFFECTS OF PRAYERS
VII PRAYERS FOR THE
VIII GRADUATION
IX ANIMAL SURVIVAL
X THEOs0PHIsrs'
CLAIMS
XI A MESSAGE PROM
MADAME BLAVAT-
SKY
XII PHYSICAL PRoois-
GENWI. SUB-
JECr
XIII Snur PHOTO-
GRAPHS AND
SKOTOGRAPHS
XIV HAND WRITING,
PSYCHOGRAPHS
AND SIGNATURES
XV MAmurizsn
FORMS
XVI DIREct VOICE
XVII FINGERPRINTS AND
WAX GAUNTI.ETS
XVIII AUTOMATIC WRIT-
ING
XIX TELEGRAPHIC MES-
SAGES, ETC.
XX POLYGLOT LAN-
GUAGES, Cioss
CORRESPONDENCE,
'AND BooK TESTS
XXI HAII)INI's TEST
XXII OTHER PHYSICAL
PHENOMENA
XXIII LErrERS PROM HEll.
XXIV Lrrmts PROM
HEAVEN
XXV SUMMING U
Together with a complete oufline of the philosophy of life in
the unseen worldsthe manners, customs, pursuits, occupa-
tions, and interests.
Not only a scientific text book of psychic science, but a
fascinating description of life after death, from lowest to high-
est realms.
