{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3975 2920 1612","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v4_3_may_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V4 May 3 1886","mylang":"de"}
1886.] The Physical P~ of Spiritualism. 45
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
MOtiday, May 3, 1886.
The twentieth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall ·Mall,.on
Monday, May 3, 1886.
F. W. H. MYBRS, EsQ., IN THB CHAIR.
The following paper was read:-
III.
RESULTS OF A PERSONAL INVESTIGATION INTO THE
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM.
WITH SO:ME CRITICAL REMARKS ON THE EVIDENCE FOR THE
GENUINENESS OF SUCH PHENOMENA.
By MRS. HBNRY SIDGWICK.
By the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, I mean those which, if
correctly described, and not due to conscious or unconscious trickery,
nor to hallucination on the part of the observer, exhibit a hitherto
unknown force acting in the physical world, otherwise than through
the brain or muscles of the medium. They are thus distinguished from
the automatic phenomena, of which writing by the medium's hand,
trance-speaking, and table-turning with contact are examples.
The physical phenomena alleged to occur consist in ra.ps, or, as
Mr. Crookes calls them, percussive sounds; in movements and levitation
of furniture and other objects without contact; the playing of musical
instruments, the appearance of lights, the human voice and musical
sounds produced without instruments; the materialisation of
human hands, faces, and complete figures; psychography, or direct
writing and drawing without human intervention; spirit photography,
or photographing of human and other forms invisible to all but specially
endowed seers; unfastening of cords and bonds, elongation of the
medium's body, the power of handling red hot coals, and the passage of
solids through solids without disintegration.
My own experience does not include the whole of these phenomena,
and is entirely inconc1usive as to the genuineness of anypexceMeI
Digitized by UUU(Sl
46 The Physical Phenome'1Ut of Spiritualism. [May 3,
regret to say, in certain cases where I cleariy ascertained them to be
spurious and fraudulent. In the first part of my paper I shall give an
account of some of this experience. It is, of course, but one small
contribution to the discussion, and does not in any way settle the
important question whether the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
are ever genuine. Many other witnesses have given their testimony,
and there is a mass of literature on the subject. A good deal of this,
however, seems to have been written rather in order to call attention
to the subject than to convince, and at any rate gives so little detail
either as to the Phenomena themselves, or as to the precautions taken
to avoid deception and mistakes, that it can scarcely claim any scien-
tific value. As regards the rest, I shall endeavour to show, in the
second part of my paper, that the difficulties of the investigation have
been underrated, and that, consequently, tests have been too easily
accepted as decisive. On this ground much even of the remaining
evidence-though not all-has also, in my opinion, to be rejected. I
shall, however, only enter into general considerations, without giving
the results of my examination of particular cases, since it would require
a volume to do this in detail.
I.
My own practical experience in Spiritualism began in 18H, at a
seance with Miss Showers, which I well remember on account of the
interest excited by the idea that, notwithstanding the very inconclusive
character of the phenomena that occurred, we might possibly be·
communicating with beings belonging to another world.
/' But my first seance of any importance was with Mrs. J encken,
formerly Kate Fox, one of the three sisters who started
modern Spiritualism. The most striking seance I had with her
was the fourth of a series held at my own residence, when we
obtained a word written on a sheet of our own paper, under
the table, in light which I believe would ha.ve been good
enough to read ordinary print by. We thought that Mr.
and Mrs. Jencken both had their hands above the table,
and we could not detect any movement of their legs. But we were
not well placed for observing this, as we were continually instructed
by the "spirits" to lean over the table. The seance must have
very much resembled one with Mrs. Jencken's sister, Mrs. Underhill,
described by Mr. Dale Owen in the Debateable Land, p. 298: It
impressed me a good deal, though even at the time-in those early days
of our investigation, when our experience was less than it is now-
we thought that Mrs. Jencken might have written the word with her
foot, and the writing is just of the quality which can be so written
without much difficulty. ized by Google
1886.] 47
•
Within the last three years I have again had two short series of
.nces with Mrs. Jencken; but again with no conclusive results,
except the discovery that she or her "spirits" are Willing to claim, as
Spiritualistic phenomena, accidental occurrences quite unconnected with
her presence, and that she endeavours, as far as possible, to obtain from
oneself the information required to answer one's question. I
The raps that occur with Mrs. J encken are, as is well-known,
peculiar-quite unlike what one eM prod~eself by rapping with the
foot. They are loud double knocks, acquiring a special sound from the
table, floor, door or other object on which they appear to be made. They
will occur on the floor, causing it to vibrate, when she is standing up
and her hands and the front part of her feet are visible and
apparently motionless, and they will occur, if I remember rightly,
both when her shoes are on and when they are off. In short, they are
distinctly puzzling. As early as 1851, however, three medical pro-
fessors of the University of Buffalo in America, Drs. Flint, Lee,
and Coventry, investigated the double rap occurring in the presence of
Mrs. Jencken's sisters-(Margaretta Fox now Mrs. Kane, and Mrs.
Fish now Mrs. Underhill)-and concluded that they were produced by
rapid partial dislocation and replacement of the knee joints and
perhaps others.1 They stated that they had experimented with
another lady who could "exhibit all the phenomena of the BOunds belong-
ing" to what were then known as the Rochester Knockings (from the
place where they first became known). She did it by partially
dislocating the knee joint by an act of the will without any obvious
movement of the limb, occasioning a loud noise; the return of the bone
to its place giving a second sound and thus making the double rap.
Challenged by Mrs. Fish, they tried some experiments with her and
Margaretta Fox, which strongly supported their view. When the
mediums placed themselves as they pleased, raps occurred as usual,
but when they were placed by the Profe.ssors with their legs
extended in front of them, their feet not touching each other, and their
heels resting on cushions, in which position the necessary leverage
was unattainable, no raps occurred. Nor did they when Miss
Fox had her feet down, and Dr. Lee held her knees at
the side over her dress, except when he intentionally relaxed
the pressure, when two or three faint raps were heard. Knockings
went on as usual when these precautions were not taken, but stopped
the moment the knees were seized hold of. Mrs. Fish did not deny that
the raps failed to occur under the conditions imposed by the Professors
while they were present; but she asserted that they had occurred
afterwards under the same conditions in the presence of other gentlemen
I See E. W. Capron, Modern SpirituaJi81n, BoIIton,l856. C'ooole
Digitized by "
".. '
48 The Physical Pheno7M'fl,(J, of Spiritualism. [May 3.
whom she named, but who do notlseem to have come forward with their
testimony. I regret that I was u~ware of this explanation when I saw
Mrs. Jencken, but·our own experiments to BOme extent supported. it,
though not directed to that object, for no raps occurred when Mrs.
J encken sat with her feet in my lap, nor while she stood on a hassock
with her hand on the door on which the raps were to be made, while I
held back her skirts with a shawl; nor when she stood on the
floor and I clasped her round the knees; but I do not lay stress on this
last case as I do not think the pressure was of the kind required to
prevent the lateral displacement of the joints described.
'" Our next medium was again an American-a. professional medium
-Mrs. Eva Fay. Besides a dark seance of an utterly inconclusive
character, Mrs. Fay's ordinary performance consisted in a seance,
during which she sat with her hands tied together behind her back
to a staple in the wall, and her neck tied to another staple.
Various objects were placed on her lap, a curtain held up in front
of her, and immediately the objects on her lap were moved about
in various ways, a glass of water drunk, a pattern cut out of paper with
scissors, &c. Without quite understanding how she did these things, we
thought a simpler mode of fastening would be more satisfactory, and
accordingly carefully sewed a tape or ribbon tightly round each wrist
and fastened them to two separate staples, one on each side. of her.l
This position must have been much more comfortable than the one she
prescribed, but no phenomena occurred, and she declined a proposal
for further experiments: Later on we were shown by a conjurer a trick
by which her own method of tying might have operated.
So far our experiences were not very encouraging, but in the
autumn of this year, 1874, our hopes were considerably raised by hearing
at first-hand of BOme remarkable physical phenomena--raps, levitation
of the table, transportation of ob~ects which took place in a party
consisting entirely of friends. Unfortunately these sittings were dis-
continued by the medium of the party, on account of health, after a very
short time.
I now come to what was by far the most important series of
experiments we have made, those with Miss W.ood and Miss Fairlamb
(now Mrs. Mellon), of Newcastle, who, I believe, first developed &8
mediums for materialisation in the summer of 1874. Our attention
had been called to this branch of the subject by Mr. Crookes's experi-
ments with Miss Cook, accounts of which were published in this
same year. I need hardly explain to my present readers that in a
1 I write this from recollection, having kept no notes of s~ances with Mrs.
Fay. Almost all the other experiences I describe were recorded in note·books
immediately after their occurrence.
Digitized by Coogle
1886.] The Physical Phenornena of Spiritualism. 49
materialisation sMnce the medium generally sits apart from the rest
of the circle in what is technically called a "cabinet," but may be an
adjoining room, or any portion of the seance room suitably screened
oft' from the rest, so that he or she may be in almost total darkness,
while the remainder of the circle enjoy a subdued light-usually very
subdued. It is the business of the investigators to satisfy themselves
that any figure which may come out of the cabinet is neither a
made-up figure, nor the medium, nor a confederate. While the
materialisation goes on the medium is usually supposed to be in a
trance and unconscious.
Mr. Sidgwick, Mr. Myers, and Mr. Gurney had a series of seances
for materia.lisa.tion with Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb in January,
February, and March, 1875, at Newcastle. I was not there myself
nor at six seances held in April, in London, at the lodgings of one of
the party. The precautions taken to prevent the medium coming out
of the cabinet consisted in various modes of tying and sealing, to the
wall and into bags. They seemed pretty complete, the hypothesis of
confederacy was difficult, and living figures undoubtedly came out into
the room. Still, though we did not see how the thing could be done
by trickery, we did not consider that decisive evidence had yet been
obtained. The seances were now adjourned to the house where
I lived. It was decided to discard the bag as too complicated,
and tying round the neck with silk and sealing because it had so
often been necessary to cut the silk, and because it seemed
better to dispense with seals, which might, we thought, in the long
hours spent by the mediums in the dark cabinet, be undone and
reproduced by means of impressions taken in clay or bread. It would
have been difficult to use a light for this purpose without detection,
but perhaps not impossible, and I am not sure that seals cannot be
manipulated without a light. In all our tests from this time forward we
aimed at avoiding all possibility of physical discolnfort to the medium.
Long leather straps, cut out of single hides, so as to have no joining in
them, were first used to secure the mediums, and were fastened round
their waist and ankles by means of letter padlocks, which were thought
superior to ordinary locks as avoiding the possibilities of duplicate keys
and of picking. The other ends of the straps were similarly attached
to marble pillars that supported the mantelpiece in the room which
was used as a cabinet,-a small boudoir opening out of the drawing-
room where the investigating circle sat. A door opening from this
boudoir on to the landing was carefully secured to avoid all danger
of confederacy. It was not only locked in the usual way, but a leather
strap was passed through the keyhole and through a hole in the door-
post and fastened with a letter lock. Of course the words used for the
ditl'erent letter locks were different, and were changed every day-:. I
Digitized by UOo~ e
50 The Physical Pherwnuma of Spiritualism. [May 3,
I may here remark parenthetica.lly that I have bee~very much
surprised in reading accounts of seances at the confidence sometimes
placed in locks, in cases were the medium could have no difficulty
whatever in possessing himself of a duplicate key. Some other pre-
cautions taken to secure doors and other fastenings seem very
inadequate j for instance, the gummed paper recommended by some
mediums, which, in most ca.ses, could easily be removed and replaced
without detection.
Having arranged our tests &8 described, we began a series of
four seances. At the first a vague white figure, which might have
been a doll or perhaps mere drapery, appeared at the doorway,
but did not come out. The second W&8 a complete failure. At
the third a small vague figure again appeared, and raps were made
in places beyond the reach, we thought, of the hands or feet of the
medium, but of course she might have brought something with her to
make these with. We were getting depressed, especially &8 on this Ia.st
occa.si.on the disentrancement took a very long time, and finally left
Miss Wood talking wildly, and apparently under the delusion that she
had shot some one and W&8 in gaol. We tried to get her upstairs to bed in
the house, but she resisted so much that we had to give it up, and
finally she W&8 taken home to her lodgings about 6.15 in the morning,
quiet, but still seemingly under the same delusion. The seance had
begun at 7 p.m. She did not apparently recover her onity till the
following day. Whether a.ll this W&8 simulated it is difficult to oy. There
is some evidence on both sides. Somewhat similar phenomena., long
entrancement, &c., occurred on other occa.sions. Once Miss Wood
remained apparently in a sort of trance for about 51 hours, but the
doctor who W&8 ca.lled in thought it probable that she W&8 pretending,
&8 she would not allow him to feel her pulse. On the other hand,
Miss Fairlamb had once to be brought out of the cabinet in a state
which a doctor who W&8 present said W&8 a real faint-low fluttering
pulse, &c.-impossible to simulate, though not impossible to induce
artificially.
But to return to the seances I W&8 describing. At the fourth Miss
Fairlamb W&8 the medium-MiBB Wood not present at all-and an
undoubtedly material human figure came to the doorway, stood there
with its right foot on a chair, and allowed two members of the circle to
come close to it and touch it. The only question W&8 &8 to the sufficiency
of the tests. The medium had been fastened round the waist and the
left ankle, and when we experimented with the ome f&8tenings our-
selves, we found that she had come forward exactly &8 far &8 the ankle
fastening would allow, supposing she had got free from the waist
fastening. The left ankle-the one that was fastened-had not been
shown. All therefore turned on the wa.ist strap, and this we
Digitized by Coogle
1886.] The PhyBica1, p~ of Bpirit'IULliRm. 51
reluctantly concluded on examination, had not been so tight as to
make it certain that she could not get out of it. This was not
creditable to me, who helped to fasten her, but in my defence I must
say that she was intentionally not fastened very tightly, in order to
avoid the plea of discomfort which had been urged on previous OCC&-
mons as a reason for removing certain fastenings, or as interfering with
the manifestations, and the margin in the case of the waist is small.
So ended this series; and at the next, which was held at the same
place in the following July, and lasted three weeks, a different test was
used. The medium lay, without any fastening, in a hammock which
was suspended over a pulley fixed to the ceiling of the cabinet, the
other end of the suspending rope being attached to a spring balance
which recorded 1 the weight of the hammock and its contents, and
which was watched by one of the circle. There was an arrangement by
which the member of the circle sitting by the spring balance could
lower the hammock while the form was out (should one appear), so
as to defeat any attempt to produce a constant pull on the balance by
fastening the hammock to the floor or other part of the cabinet. The
seances were nearly unsuccessful until the last. On the Friday and
Saturday preceding the sitters had been brought up one by one to what
purported to be materialised forms, but the face was not in a place in
which it would have been impossible for the medium's face to be, and
on the Friday it appeared to some members of the circle that the face
1Vas not satisfactorily connected with the drapery that purported to con-
ceal the body. On Saturday, the 24th, at the last of the series of twelve
ances, Miss Fairlamb was placed in the hammock, and Mr. Sidgwick
observed the indicator of the balance. After some time Miss Wood
went into the cabinet for a few moments "to give power," as it was
said, and took in a light chair with her. Of course the cabinet was, to
the best of our belief, destitute of furniture, or of any objects which
could be placed in the hammock, and so far as we knew the mediums
were never alone there before the seance began. After Miss Wood
had joined the circle again, the weight went down to about 60Ib.-a.
very little over. Then a form came out and kissed me through the
white veil in which it was wrapped. Miss Wood was still in her seat,
and this kiss could not have been given by Miss Fairlamb without
leaving the hammock, and at the moment it was given Mr. Sidgwick
lowered the hammock a few inches without producing any change in the
weight indicated. So far things looked promising, for a certain fall of
weight was not to be taken in itself as a presumption against the genuine-
I The apparat1ll W&8 r.elf.regi.BteriDg 80 far &8 the extreme changes of weight
were coDcerned, but did Dot record the times at which the chuges took place.
n waa for this re&aOn that it required watchiDg.
Digitized by G<:lCtSIe
52 The PhYsWal Phenomena oj Bpirit1.Utlism. [Ma.y 3,
ness of the phenomena, since it is thought by BOme Spiritualists that the
medium maylose weight during a materialisation. Afterwards MissWood
was called up to the form, which looked small and did not move very
easily-it might have been a woman on her knees-and led it to various
members of the circle. Two other forms afterwards came out in
succession; the weight remaining approximately constant. When the
last had retired, the disentrancement began, Miss Wood going again
into the cabinet to help it.
After the seance I asked leave to search Miss Fairlamb. This she
sharply and decidedly declined. She was reminded that she had agreed
to be searched, but she said that was before not after the seance. This
refusal produced an unfavourable impression on us, and left the evidence
at best inconclusive. It was not impossible, though rather remarkable,
that the amount of weight required should have been brought in to the
cabinet by Miss Wood when she went in IC to give power," and the idea
that extra weight had been carried by the girls was rather supported
by the fact that they had that day come in a cab instead of walking, as
I believe they usually did.
However, we still did not think it right to drop the investigation,
and as BOme friends of the mediums at Newcastle offered a more or less
plausible explanation of the refusal to be searched, another series of
.nces was held with them through a period of three weeks, in August
and September, 1875, at Cambridge. The results were again incon-
clusive, and in BOme respects suspicious. For the form came out of
the cabinet three times, and it was found by trial afterwards that the
medium could each time have come just BO far without br~king loose
from the fastenings. This coincidence was suggestive.
In the following October Mr. Myers had BOme further seances with
the two girls at Newcastle, and once saw Miss Wood come out of the
cabinet accompanied by a form, which, if not a materialised spirit, was
an accomplice, 'lond it was difficult to suppose tlmt an accomplice could
have got in without detection, though not absolutely impossible. This
was again encouraging, and in January, 1877, we tried a final series of
.nces for materialisation at Newcastle. Miss Wood and Miss
Fairlamb had by this time quarrelled, and used to sit separately. We
first used, as a means of securing Miss Wood, a. long bag of machine-
made white net, which she got into head and all. The bag was BO long
that the end could be brought outsUk the cabinet, where it was drawn
together with tape, and the ends of the tape nailed and sealed to the
wall close to the mouth of the bag. We held four seances in this way
with no result, and then the IC spirits," through Miss Wood, told us to
give up that test. Then we substituted a graduated tape, tied round
the neck, and another round the ankle. The tape was sealed below the
knot on to a piece of paper, and the seals traced roundAvith ~ncil, and
Digitized by ~OOole
1886.] The Physical Pkenornena. of Spiritualism. 53
later with sympathetic ink, which we thought would betray the fact if
heat were applied to the seals. The ends of the tapes were brought out
of the cabinet, nailed through large sheets of white paper to the door,
and sealed over the nails. The light allowed at these seances was
exceedingly poor. A small white figure came to the entrance of the
cabinet.-a. brightish but irregularly shaped object, which on one
occasion danced up and down, and which I remember thinking at the
time niight be the pillow provided for Miss Wood's head. This occurred
at three successive seances. At the fourth we were told by raps that
the medium was choking. I went to examine, and found that the knot
had been moved an inch or more away from the seal, and close up to
the neck, so that the tape appeared too tight. The" spirit," speaking
through Miss Wood, claimed to have done this in playing with it.
After vainly attempting to loosen the knot, which I could not do in the
bad light, I cut the tape and removed it, leaving the ankle tape as the
only security. We heard a good deal of rustling of the paper to which
this was sealed, more than at any previous seance. After a consider-
able time, and much singing and talking, a figure-apparently that of
a full-grown woman-draped in white, came out. The light was too
low to distinguish anything but the general outline of the figure. I
think the face waS veiled, and when she touched my hand I could feel
something like soft muslin between her hand and mine. The figure
(twice at least) came out too far from the point where the tape was
attached to the door for it to.be poSBible that it could be Miss Wood,
with her ankle still bound. When the figure had finally retreated, we
were kept a long time waiting and singing, before the seance was
declared at an end. We then examined the fastening, and found the
attachment to the door intact, but the seal near the knot tom from
the paper and split, one half remaining attached to each tape. A
slight strain required to bring the two halves of the seal together
showed that the knot was not exactly as it had been, and judging by
knots made on other nights .which I had kept, it was much tighter than
I had made it. Also the part of the tape round the ankle was creased,
strained, and dirty all over, as if it had been much handled and pulled,
while after the previous seances it had been quite 1la.t and unstrained,
only dirtied in some spots obviously by the blacking on the boot, not
by handling. We felt sure that either it had been forced over the heel,
or that a loop large enough to pass over the foot had been obtained by
moving the knot to a place below the seal,-an operation which the
splitting of the seal rendered just possible. At any rate the
indications of deception were palpable and sufficient, and we were not
surprised to hear a few months later that a more aggreSBive investigator
had violated the rules of the seance, and captured Miss Wood per-
sonating the "spirit."
Digitized by Coogle
54, The Physical Phenomena of Spirituali..m~. [May 3,
Some persons may perhaps wonder why we had not adopted such
summary methods of investigation ourselves, but there was an implied
understanding with the medium that we should not do so, which
we should not have felt justified in breaking. It used to be
alleged, too, at that time, that great injury to the medium, and even
death might ensue from interfering with the materialised form; but
though such seizures have now been very numerous, no permanent
injury has ever been done by them to a medium, so far as I have been
able to learn. Temporary disturbance seems to have occurred, but not
more than might be expected as the result of a sometimes severe
struggle with the captor, or of the shock and annoyance of exposure.
For my own part, though I have no wish myself to adopt such methoda
of investigation, I think that both Spiritualists and non-Spiritualists
ought to recognise that" exposers" have thrown valuable light on the
subject.
While these final seances were going on with Miss Wood, we 'Yere
also holding seances with Miss Fairlamb under different conditions,
but with the same general result, namely, that all that occurred was
within the power of the medium. We were also then concluding &
series of collateral investigation with some other Newcastle mediums-
the Petty family, who exhibited somewhat similar manifestations. Thia
investigation had been carried on as long as those with Miss Wood.!'nd
Miss Fairlamb, and with equally unsatisfactory results j but it would be
tedious to go into details.
I have abandoned chronology in following our experiences
with the Newcastle mediutlls. I have now to observe that several
other unsuccessful and unsatisfactory series of seances contributed to
the thoroughly unfavourable impression left by- that last set at New-
castle. Thus, in the summer of 1876, we had an instructive series
of four seances with a medium named Edward Bullock. At the
first three very little occurred. The medium was accompanied
by his mother, and perhaps sheiPerceived that the conditions were not
sufficiently favourable for fraud, and warned him. To the fourth
seance he came alone. For the first part of the seance darkness was
required, but as it was afternoon it was difficult quite to exclude the
daylight, and,as a matter of fact, a little got round the curtains and faintly
illumined the wall of the room behind the medium, enabling my sister
and me to see him as a dark figure against a comparatively light back-
ground. Mr. Sidgwick and another gentleman who completed the circle
faced the source of light, and could not see him. We all held handa
round a Pembroke table, the medium's handa being held by me on one
side and by the gentleman already mentioned on the other. The
medium made slight twitching movements as on former occasions.
Presently I saw him lean forward over the ~leb~Ii>ft@11lead low
1886.] The Physical Phenom.ena of SpirituaUmn. 55
down, but carefully keeping the hand I held in the same position as
before. On the table were a musical box, a tambourine, and a bell.
The two former were moved about and raps made with them, and both
lids of the musical box were opened and shut. But none of these things
occurred except when the medium was leaning over the table sufficiently
to enable him to reach them with his nose and teeth. The bell was
quite out of his reach, and was not moved at all. Sometimes he seemed
almost to stand with a view to leaning over further, and when anything
occurred that would require considerable exertion, I felt his hand grasp
mine more tightly. The tambourine also floated about in the air. When
this happened we saw the medium's head and body moving from side to
side with an object like a tambourine projecting horizontally from his
mouth. The tambourine was finally dropped on my lap, where it
remained. The mediu~ was not entranced, and was undoubtedly
cheating deliberately, for he volunteered remarks about the phenomena.,
e.g., about the tambourine touching him in its passage through the air.,
The gentleman who held the medium's left hand, and who was not
placed so as to be able to see what was going on, was of a sensitive
organisation, and felt during the performances the sensations which he
always experienced at successful spiritualistic lM!ances-shudderings
and convulsive movements of the arms, I think they were--which shows
that sensations of this kind afford no evidence of the genuineness of
the manifestations.
. This dark seance was followed by a so-called light one. The light
allowed was feeble, but as will be seen it was too strong for the medium's
purpose. He sat behind curtains which were pinned in front of his
body so as to allow his legs, with his hands resting on his knees, to be
visibl~. The light was sufficient to enable us dimly to see the hands.
Presently we perceived that a handkerchief was placed on the left
knee so as to bear a coarse resemblance to a hand, and subsequently
by looking closely, the hand on the right knee was discerned to
be a left hand. Lights then appeared, tambourine and bell were
vigorously moved about in the cabinet, &c. Afterwards, in the course
of futile attempts to draw the musical box into the cabinet, an arm
was exhibited with a sleeve very like the medium's. We then observed
the handkerchief slowly removed and the hand substituted, and the
seance was declared at an end. Just before the removal of the handker-
chief, it was observed that the hand on the right knee was now a right
hand.,
Probably Mr. Bullock was not a really skilful performer, and he may
have acted wisely in his own interests when he gave up the career of
medium and took to that of exposer of Spiritualism, as he did six or seven
months later. We never told him what we had seen. Even Mr.
Bullock, however, took in some People and enjoyedCli!!it~WGQ~kh
56 Tlte Pltysical Phenorruma of Spirit'lUl1,ism. [May 3,
brief career as a medium. Wonderful accounts of him may be found in
the .ltfedium newspaper for 1876. At our seance the gentleman whom
I have already spoken of as present saw none of the indications
of the medium's own agency, except a movement which he thought
auspicious when the handkerchief was first placed on the knee.
About this time we had some private seances with Mr. Williams, but
nothing of the least interest occurred. These with some in 1874 made up
about eight or nine seances which Mr. Sidgwick has had with Williams.
Only one manifestation of any importance took place, and that was the
transference of a chimney ornament from the mantelpiece to the table,
which happened at the very moment when Mr. Sidgwick jumped up to
meet a late arriving member of the circle, and in doing so let go of the
medium's hand, so that the solitary phenomenon coincided with a solitary
opportunity for performing it by natural means.
I pass over several single seances of an inconclusive character with
various mediums, of which the chief value was the experience gained at
them, and come next to Dr. Slade's visit to England in 1876. We had
about ten seances with him for slate-writing chiefly at his lodgings.
but once in our own room and with our own table. We always
I obtained writing, but never under circumstances which appeared to us
completely satisfactory, and when at the last seance he presented to
us unasked, and under circumstances peculiarly favourable to a
change of slates, a slate full of conversation-book phrases in five
languages, and a text out of the Greek Test&ment, we had no longer any
hesitation in drawing up a report to the effect that we thought he was
" probably merely a conjurer.
I give this report, which is dated September 10th, 1876, in full,
though it is not written exactly as, in the light of further experience,
I should have written it now.
/ The impression on my mind after about 10 ~ces with Dr. Slade--
(about five in July and August, and five last week,-is that the phenomena
are produced by tricks. I am inclined to think that no one ever sees the
slate quite continuously from the moment they see it blank on both aides to
the moment they see writing on it. I think it probably always diaappe&rl!
for one or more intervals (however short) under the table, and that during
those interlals Dr. Slade sometimes changes it (having another collcealed
about his person, about the table, or about his chair), and sometimes rests
it on his knee, or against the table, supporting the other end with his sleeve
" or his little finger, and writes on it. It is easy to write noiselessly on a slate
with his fragments of pencil-quite as easy or easier than to make th' loud
sound usually heard.
I doubt the continuous seeing of the alate, because at the last four
seances when we were carefully watching for that, we never once saw it con-
tinuously. At the previous ~ce-at which I was in the best place for
observation-my attention was concentrated on obeerving.whethelj he turned
Digitized by""oogle
1886.] The PhyBical Phenomena of Spiritualiwnl,. 57
the alate in bringing it from under the table, which he certainly did not do.
On thinking over the seance afterwards I could not 'remember that I had
aeen it continuously, though I had a very strong impression that I had done
80. I now think that impression was probably false.
We took our own marked slate to these :five last aeances, and told Dr.
Slade we were very anxious to get it written on while we held it in our own
hands, or while it lay on the top of the table. We did once get writing
apparently done while the alate lay on the table, but had no opportunity of
seeing the under surface immediately before.
Dr. Slade had arranged that the last aeance on Friday should take place
in the evening after dinner. On ThuJ"Bday he made me (I sat opposite him)
hold our sla.te between me and Mr. Sidgwick in hopes of getting it written
on. No writing came. On Friday when we arrived he told us that he felt
extremely ill owing to a trying aeance with a man who had a bad iniluence on
him, and who had besides searched him more or less and generally made
himself very disagreeable. He had been su1feringfrom palpitatioDII ever since.
The spirits also informed us through him in a trance that they meant to do
great things j would write on the slate held by me if they could, and that if
Dr. Slade su1fered from the effort they must be respoDllible. Dr. Slade made
us hold our alate between us, and himself held one of his own. Mr. Sidg-
wick was next hint, I opposite. After a few scrawls, &c., Dr. Slade held his
alate tight against the table, and a long mellBll8e (apparently) began to be
written. At the same time Dr. Slade began to look very uncomfortable and
to complain of feeling so. In a faltering voice he told Mr. Sidgwick to take
hold of one comer of the slate. Mr. Sidgwick made attempts to see more
under the table, but every time he moved Dr. Slade begged him to sit still, as
every movement he made affected him (Dr. Slade). Presently he became
entranced, and the spirits told us through him that the moment the writing
ceased (the sound was going on all this time) we must go into the next room
and send in the secretary with a glass of wine, or Dr. Slade would go into a
rigid trance. After 10 minutes we were to return and continue the seance. He
came out of the trance a little before the writing ceased, then brought the
slate up on to the table and gave itto us. We took itinto the next room and
sent in the wine as directed. The slate was written on all over one side
with sentences (of no interest) in each of the following languages-French,
Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, English. The Greek was a quotation
from the New Testament, ~he others complimentary phrases. The remainder
of the seance was short, and nothing of interest occurred. The writing
described above was rather neatly done, and the dots and accents put with
80 much precision where they were meant to be that it is impossible to sup-
pose the writing was done by any man who could not see what he was doing.
The more we think over this seance the more suspicious it appears to
us. The arrangements seemed so well contrived for deception. Being in the
evening the light was necessarily le88 good, and though there was bright gas-
light it was above the table, which threw a shadow. It was ingeniously
contrived that Dr. Slade should use his own slate (thus getting an oppor-
tunity of c.hanging) though we brought one ourselves. The illneu !l&ve
him an opportunity of getting us hastily out of the room so that he could
safely dispose of the second slate. I also thought the time .occuDi~.-in
Digitized by ~~(Sl~
58 The Physical Phe'1tO'1ne'Y/,(J, of Spirittutlism. [May 3,
apparently writing Boomed unneoeaaa.rily long, but aa I did not time it this
impreaaion goes for very little.
At the 'first seance we were at in July, I aaw part of his hand moving
aa though writing and fancied the slate waa resting on his knee. This
occurred for two succeaaive meaaa.gea, a longish one and a short one. Each
time the hand moved backwa.rda and forwards about aa much aa would have
been required to write the meaaage, and each time I had no opportunity of
seeing the portion of the slate on which the meaaage waa written, between thia
movement of his hand, and the time when the BOund of writing came and the
slate waa produced written on. At the time I thought we were on the way to
discover the trick, but at the next areance I observed the aame movement and
afterwards aaw the slate with nothing on it. I now think he probably makes
the aame movementa Without producingresulta that he does in order to produce
them, with a view of diaarming suspicion. Thus on one occa.aion he laid the
alate on the table to get it written on and made a difficulty about showing us
the under side. We insisted, and there waa nothing there. He then B&i.d
we had broken the power for that time by inaiating on seeing the under aide.
I have never thought any of the phenomena other than writing which 1
have seen with Dr. Slade worth conaidering aa evidence. My chair waa raiaed
with rue on it, Dr. Slade's knee being against the side of the chair, and
bis hand on ita back. The chair in the well-known place on the fourth aide of
the table, quite within Dr. Slade's reach I think, waa several times ra.iaed and
upset. A table ran forward from the corner behind Dr. Slade, but he waa
leaning very much forward at the time (because the alate insisted on being
a.llowed to go far under the table) and I think his leg probably stuck out
behind him, and his foot hooked to the leg of the moving table. Touches and
grasps under the table can, I think, be done with the foot. A particular 80ft
touch on the right aide of the right leg of the person next Dr. Slade W&8
often repeated, and though it must be rather difficult to get his foot there
without ever letting his leg touch other people's, I think it would be poaaible,
and it is suspicious that the touch BO often comea in the aame spot. We aaw a
hand one day in rapid movement between Mr. Sidgwick's body and the table,
but it waa when Dr. Slade's hand waa under the table by way of holding
the slate.
So much for our own experience. With regard to other people's, it is
noticeable that there is no record, aa far aa I have seen in the Spirittcali8t,
of a long meaaa.ge being written on a marked alate-thus excluding the
posaibility of the alate being changed. In Miaa Jeffrey's ca.ae (aa in oura) an
excuse seoms to have been made to use Dr. Slade's slate, instead of the one
she brought, for the long meaaage. As to the really important point of
whether the slate waa seen quite continuously-I do not think it is stated in
any communication to the SpirittcalUt, except one from W. Whitear in the
SpirittcalUt for August 25th. I cannot reca.ll whether private friends have
stated that they aaw the slate continuously from the moment they aaw it
blank to the moment they aaw it written on.1
My theory of the way the writing may be done does not account for the
I As will be seen later in this paper, further experience haa led me to the
con~usion that o~rvers may be eaaily deceived as to th~act of1their own
continuous observation. Digitized by l::.oog e
1886]. The Physical Phe'1W'Tn6'1/,Q, of Spiritualiwm,. 59
person holding the alate feeling a preaaure which seemed to follow the
course of, and to be due to, the writing. This happened to Mr. Sidgwick
when the writing in many languagea waa by way of being done, and alao to a
friend of oura.l Nor does it account, I think, in all C&8ea for the BOund,
which cannot be produced by Dr. Slade acratching the slate when his hand
is not on it.
There remains, too, Serjeant Cox's poaitive statementa that VariOUI move-
menta of objecta occurred when Dr. Slade's hands were on the table upon
his handa, and hia whole body to hia feet fully before hia eyes, and when he
waa certain that not a muacle moved. (See Spirit1uUiIt for August 11th and
25th,l876.) We were aeldam able to see the whole of Dr. Slade's body, nor
"by moving our heada alightly to see the whole space below the table," owinlf
to the poaition in which Dr. Slade kept our handa. 1 think Serjeant Cox's
statement that the chair which waa lifted waa far beyond any poaaible stretch
of Dr. Slade's lega, and that the knee graaped waa beyond hia reach, IDUit
from his own account be (to aay the leaat) exaggerated. "-
I have not stated five general grounds of sUipicion which probably occur
to everyone-namely, his conjurer-like way of trying to diatract one's atten-
tion, hia alwaya aitting BO aa to have hia right hand to manipulate the alate,
the vague and general character of thll communicationa, hia compelling one
to ait with one'a handa in a poaition that makea it difficult to look under the
table, and hia only allowing two aittera at a time.
A few days after I wrote this report, Professor Lankeater had his
celebrated seance with Dr. Slade, and his exposure, so far as it went,
supported the view to which our experience had led; but some of the
evidence elicited at the trial which followed, shook for a time our
confidence in our conclusions. Further experience, however, of the
poaaibilities of conjuring, and of the extent to which even intelligent
people may be deceived, combined with Dr. Slade's pers~tent objection
to using securely locked and sealed slates brought by the sitters; have
brought us back to the conviction that his performance is conjuring,
and_nothing but conjuring; the more so that other persons beaidea
Professor Lankester affirm that they have caught him tricking. But
his tricks certainly are and were clever, and as I know of two conjurers
who visited him with friends of ours and failed to discover his 'lTWdus
opemndi, I do not think it argues stupidity in a witness unacquainted
with conjuring, if he fails to find it out either.
1 From experimenta I have ainee tried I think thia experience must be due
to imagination. By resting a alate on two tables, placing the hand on it, and
getting BOme one to write on the under aide, it can, I think, be ASCertained that
the vibrationa cannot be followed in thia way. I have also learnt experimentally
that the BOund of alate-writing cannot easily be localiaed with certainty, and
that there are aeveral waya of imitating it. It ia worth remarking that one of
the worat positions for localising the BOund, if it be not on the alate, ia with the
ear on it. The illusion that the writing ia being done on the alate is then eaaily
prodv.ced in & person who doea not know that the 80und of _rea! }'J:i~~!t..!.t
would generally under the circumstances be quite startlingqg~~.
60 The Physical Phe'TW'TMna of SpirittWliam. [May 3.
I have never seen slate-writing with Mr. Eglinton. Three sittings
I have had with him have been perfect blanks, and he is almost the
only medium out of 18 or 20 I have sat with, with whom I have
Witnessed no phenomena at all.
As an appendix to my narrative of personal experiences, I will add
an account of some seances at which I was not present but
which were conducted by the. group of investigators .to which I
belonged, and have in various ways strongly influenced my view
of the subject. They were a series with Mr. Haxby at the house
of some friends of ours, Mr. and Mrs. H., in 1878. A sister
of mine was present, and I have her written account, which is
almost the same to me as my own, because she and I have investigated
so much together that I know the exact value of her statements. At
the seance I shall first speak of there were present the host and
hostess, Serjeant Cox, Mr. and Mrs. Volckmann, my sister, two otht;r
ladies and a gentleman, and the medium. The cabinet consisted of an
oblong space curtained off in one comer of the room. Mrs. Guppy-
Volckmann sat at one end of the circle, or rather horseshoe, next the
cabinet, and not more than two or three feet from it; Mrs. H. next
to her, and my sister at the other end of the circle, so that she and
Mrs. Volckmann were the two sitters nearest to the cabinet. " The
light was that of a small oil lamp, with a coloured opaque shade,
turned low, and with two books in front of it." It stood behind the
sitters near the comer of the room (a small one) furthest from-the
cabinet. "There was also a little light from the fire." During the
seance Abdullah and Toby-two supposed materialised spirits-suo-
cessivelyappeared. M.y sister's account goes on as follows:-
The di1I'erence between Toby and Abdullah is simply that the former
alway8 appean con8idera.blr more bent than the latter, without beard or head
ornaments, and with Bleeves (I think). All that would be necessary to tum
Abdullah into Toby would be to pull the large handkerchief which ha.uga
[from Abdullah'8 head down his back] over the forehead, so &8 to conceal
the ornaments, and to pull down the Bleeves. Abdullah [dematerialised and
materiali8ed in the circle, that is, he] appeared to most of the circle to
diminish in Bize, and finally vanish in front of the opening of the curtains
of the cabinet, and also to appear in the same place and graduaJly grow up
to his full8ize. This happened more than once. From my position being
nearer than anyone elee's, and from my seeing Abdullah more in profile
while growing and diminishhlg, 1 was able to see the whole pr0ce88 distinctly.
He went down on his me_rather hutily-{othere observing this too)--e.nd
then gradually bent down and forwards, moving his body back into the
cabinet &8 he did so, and keeping the curtains closed above him. Finally
he went flat on the ground, leaving only his head exposed, and then drew it
in. 1 W&8 able to see that he W&8 lying down inside the cabinet, &8 the
curtainB do not quite reach the floor, and I BAWl. t.he~6b of white
LJigllzeaoy " ...n".-"'-'(5I.~
1886]. The Physical Phenom.ena of Spiritualis'7n, 61
drapery &11 the way from the opening of the curta.ins towards the wall. The
growing was done in exactly the same manner, a small bit of white being
shoved out first, and then the head, &c. The ornaments on Abdullah's fore-
head do not appear till he is nearly grown up, and I am almost certa.in that
I ea.w him throw back the 1Iap of his head-handkerchief just as he became
full-grown. Three times while Abdullah was in the circle we distinctly heard
noises in the cabinet. Firat rattlings a.s of something knocking about the
chair, next as of a stick striking the floor, This wa.s done both in and out
of time with the musical-box, and at the aame time Abdullah moved about
and ClUTied the musical-box, waving it in his arms. . . . . The third
noise wa.s the banjo knocking about. Abdullah went into the cabinet
between the times when the different BOunds were heard. All these noises
(a.s we found by trying ourselves afterwards) could be made by tying a weight
or a banjo to a string attached at the other end to Abdullah's foot, and
palling it over the bar of the chair in the cabinet. Little jogs of Abdullah's
foot could thus make all the BOunds.
* * * * * *
The la.st time that Abdullah vaniahed in this way he did it close to the
wall, between Mrs. Volckmann and the cabinet. We saw him go down on
his knees, and then all of a sudden he was gone. Mrs. Guppy-Volckmann
declared that he wa.s not close to the wall, and that he disappeared through
the curtain and not at the opening, and that the curtain had never moved.
Most of the circle aaw the curtain move, and 1 aaw him make a rush into
the cabinet close to the wall, and aaw his white drapery trailing behind.
After this an indistinct,black object came out from the cabinet, close to
the wall near Mrs. Guppy-Volckmann, where there was a deep shadow, and
dia.sppeared under the train of her voluminous black velvet gown. Others
in the circle thought the black object dia.sppeared, but did not see how or
where to. Soon after Abdullah materialised from under the gown. As the
white object first appeared it wa.s obvious to me that it wa.s the head and
shoulders of a man lying on his right side. I wa.s sure that his legs were
concealed behind Mrs. Guppy-Volckmann's chair, and this Mrs. H. made
sure of, a.s she stretched out her hand and felt the cloth of his coat there.
Serjeant Cox maintained that the noises made in the cabinet while
Abdullah wa.s out would require half a day's preparation beforehand.
The la.st thing that occurred at the seance wa.s the appearance of
Huby (still entranced) at the opening of the curtain, and with him BOrne
white drapery purporting to be Abdulla.h. At the lI8.Ille time Joey spoke,
having previously informed us that it wa.s impoaaible to do this while a spirit
wa.s materialised. This appearance of Abdulla.h and medium together wa.s
quite similar to what we had seen on a former occa.aion.
At the next seance my sister sat in the place previously occupied
by Mrs. V olckmann, who was not this time present. She says :-
Abdulla.h professed to dematerialiae before us once a.s at the previous
seance. My head wa.s only about l~ft. from him, and I saw him go through
the lI8.Ille proce&ll a.s he did then. I 8I\W his arms plainly till he wa.s right
Digi
62 The PhyBicaJ, Phe1UYf1l,61/,Q, of Spiritualism. [May 3,
down on the floor. Then he put up his hands to the cloth on his head.
bringing the part hanging behind over the top and front, to hide the tiara,
and then pulled the whole off hia head, the white cloth remaining as the
last bit of Abdullah for a few momenta. I saw his hair plainly as the cloth
came off, and also his back inside the curtains.
Before this seance all the members of the circle, including an
enthusiastic Spiritualist, whom I will call Mr. x., had been told what
to expect. Mr. Sidgwick was present, and he appends this note to my
sister's account.
I was seated at the furthest point in the circle: at the same time in
witnesaing Abdullah's disappearance I was unable even to imagine it any-
thing else than the' medium withdrawing gradually into the cabinet, having
first fallen on hiB kneeB, and then gradually lowered his head. But Mr. X.,
who sat nearly as far off as, but certainly not farther than I did, remarked
when the performance was over that .. all our doubts must now be removed,"
and afterwards to Mr. H., on going away, that our materialisationa were
better than theirs in Paris.
Experiences like this make one feel how misleading the accounts of
some completely honest witnesses may be. For the materia.lisations in
Paris were those which the Comte de Bullet had with Firman, where
near ~latives of the Count were believed constantly to appear, and which
are among the most wonderful recorded in Spiritualistic literature. And
after all it appears that these marvellous seances were no better than
"this miserable personation by Haxby. ' .
II.
Those who have followed me in this I fear lengthy, though
yet incomplete, account of my own experiences, will agree with
me that they certainly point to trickery as a more probable
explanation than hallucination of most of the physical phenomena
of Spiritualism. The hypothesis of hallucination has often been
suggested, and has recently been again advanced by E. von Hartmann.
So far as we yet know, however, sensory hallucination of several
persons together, who are not in a hypnotic state, is a rare phenomenon,
and not therefore a probable explanation. Moreover, I think that all
who have had a large experience of Spiritualistic seances will agree in
thinking that it is not at all generally applicable, partly because
material traces of what occur so often remain, and partly because of
the general agreement, not only of all the witnesses but of all the
senses, as to what is perceived, as distinguished from what is inferred.
There is, however, some reason to think that collective hallucination
does sometimes occur at seances, and if so, the fact is very interesting,
and it is important that careful independent records should be kept by
Digitized by Coogle
1886]. The Physical Phenomena of spiritu.aliBm. 63
sitters with a view to throwing light on the subject; but I feel sure
that nothing of the kind has occurred within my own experience.
I must, however, carefully distinguish sensory hallucinations,-that
is, perceptions which have no objective counterpart--from erroneous
interpretations of what is perceived. Erroneous interpretations which
arise from confusing what is observed with what is inferred-from a
failure to "distinguish between facts and inferences from facts," as
G. H. Lewes put it---&re, I think, very common at seances. Our conclu-
sions as to what we see or hear are always founded on a combination of
observation and inference; but in daily life it is seldom necessary to
distinguish between the two elements, since, when the object and its mode
of presentation are familiar, our inferences are generally correct. But it
is different when, owing to circumstances, such as a bad light, we have
to infer more in proportion to what we perceive than usual; or when
some one, e.g., a conjurer or a ventriloquist, is trying to deceive us by
presenting one object under the familiar aspect of another and
suggesting false inferences. It is not uncommon to find people at seances
encouraging each other in the belief that they see, say, a living human
figure, when all that they actually Bee is something moving which is
about the size of a human being; the rest is inference.
- This is a simple form of the kind of error in question, but I believe it
extends to cases much less easy to understand-namely, recognitions of
departed friends. I have never myself been at a seance when any
relatives of the sitters have been supposed to appear; but I know at
first-hand of a case where a gentleman recognised his aunt, and then
turned to the other sitters for information as to the presence of her
most characteristic feature. The following is quoted by Mr. D. D.
Home, Lights and ShadowB of Spiritualism, p. 342, as the confession
of an exposed medium :-" The first seance I held after it became
known to the Rochester people that I was a medium, a gentle-
man from Chicago recognised his daughter Lizzie in me after I
bad covered my small moustache with a piece of flesh-ooloured cloth,
and reduced the size of my face with a shawl I had purposely hung
up in the back of the cabinet. From this sitting my fame com-
menced to spread." The following, again, I quote from an account of
a seance in a recently published Spiritualistic work :-" In this figure
we both instantly recognised a sister of my wife, called Emily, who had
been dead about six years. As Emily had been of a sallow complexion
with black hair and eyes, recognition was easy. We both expressed
our belief in the appearance of our relative, but the other members of
the circle thought it was some one else." One party or the other (if
not both) must have been mistaken here.
The same thing has happened as regards 8(Hl&lled spirit photo-
graphs. These have, in common with figures seen at materialisation
Digi
64 The Physical Phenomena of Spirit'lWlism. [May 3.
seances in a bad light, the characteristics of being in general not
very well defined, and of being draped in a way not common in
ordinary life. At the trial of Buguet, the spirit-photographer, in
Paris, in 1875, it came out that different people claimed the same photo-
graph as a likeness of their respective friends, and some photographs I
have seen by Hudson, a spirit-photographer in London, which have been
differently recognised by different sitters, seem to me to have been taken
from the same model. I observe that "M. A. (Oxon)," speaking of
spirit-photographs, says: "Some people would recognise anything. A
broom and a sheet are quite enough for some wild enthusiasts who go
with the figure in their eye, and see what they wish to see. . . •
I have had pictures that might be anything in this or any other world
sent to me and gravely claimed as recognised portraits." (Hu,man
Natwre, May, 1875, p. 202.)
There is a negative inference often even more hastily made as
regards recognition-namely, that the figure seen cannot be the
medium. I do not think that nearly enough margin is usually allowed
for the effect of disguise and acting. A friend of mine once dressed up
as a stranger and paid an afternoon call, with a letter of introduction,
on her own mother, with whom she was living at the time, and was
not detected. Her mother had some time previously dared her to
succeed in disguising herself from her, which made it more remarkable.
Why should a disguised medium be more certainly recognised 1
For reasons of this kind much of the evidence from recognition
obviously fails to come up to the required standard, and it is impossible
to lay stress on any of it unless we have reason to know that the
witnesses are on their guard against the possibilities of error, and have
practised themselves in avoiding it. These remarks about recognition
apply not only to materialisation but also to professed reproduction of
the handwritings of dead friends. I am sure, from what I have seen,
that these are liable to be hastily identified from a very superficial
resemblance.
If then we must distrust the evidence from recognition, and can
regard the explanation by hallucination as at most of extremely
limited application, the only important question that remains to be
asked-and this applies not only to materialisations but to all the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism-is whether the precautions taken
to exclude what may broadly be called conjuring have been sufficient.
In the vast majority of recorded cases we have no evidence that they
have been sufficient. In many it is indeed obvious they have not,
and only those who have a very inadequate idea of the possibilities
of conjuring can doubt it; but one cannot investigate Spiritualism
for long without learning that some people quiterBincerely think
Digitized by ~0081e
1886]. The Physical Pke'1KJlm6'1U1, of Spiritualism. 65
things inexplicable which they could do ihemselvea if they tried. In
other cases the absence of any mention of certain precautions leads one
to doubt whether they were taken.I Other cases again are, no doubt,
inexplicable as described, but this is not enough unless a very wide
margin has been allowed for conjuring, for descriptions of conjuring
tricks are also often inexplicable owing doubtless to the omiBBion of
some important detail which has escaped observation, or the insertion
of some item which is a mere inference. No one--not even a conjurer
-ca.n expect to know all the poBBibilities of conjuring and to observe
all the accidental circumstances which may on any particular occasion
I It seems to me llndesirable that even men of established scientific reputa-
tion like Mr. Crookes and Professor ZOllner should hold themselves exempt
from mentioning even the simplest precautions. (Crookes' Ruearchu in t1uJ
Phe1wmtma of Spiritualiml, p. ~; ZaUner's TranBCe7ldental PAYAC8, trans-
lated by C. C. M&IIII8Y, 2nd eeL, p. 79.) It is a matter of common experience
among scientific experimenters that they sometimes omit precautions which,
when once thought of, seem obvious, even in their own line of work, and such
omissions are especially likely to occur in the present investigation, owing to its
highly novel character and the complicated sources of error to be guarded
against. That Professor Zallner did not always perceive and avoid important
sources of potIBible error may, I think, be inferred from his writings. For
instance, in describing the seance on December 17th, 1877, when he obtained
four knots in a string of which the ends were tied and sealed together, he omits
to mention that the experiment had been tried and failed before. We learn
that this was so, accidentally as it were, from his mentioning it in another place
and in another connection (A Mandlungen, Vol ii., p. 1191), where he tella
us that it was a long time before the "spirits" UDderstood what kind of knot
was required of them, and that before they did so he obtained knots, but not
auch as he wanted-knots, I infer, which could be made by ordinary beings
withont undoing the string. Now this fact obviously greatly affects the value
of the experiment, for it makes it poesible that Dr. Slade may have prepared a
string similar.to Professor Zollner's at home, and brought it with him, and,
notwithstanding Professor ZaUner's watchfuln8118, have changed it. (Professor
ZiiUner put the string roUDd his neck during a portion of the time before they
sat down to the table, in order not to lose sight of it. Afterwards it was placed
with the sealed end on the table, Professor ZOllner holding it in position and
the greaterpart of it hanging down below the table; and it was while so placed
that, as was supposed, four knots were made in it. It is generally hazardous to
infer from a description when a conjurer's opportunity occurred, but if pressed
I should say that the most likely time seelDS to me to have been after the string
was taken off the neck again,-perhaps while it was being arranged on the
table.) Whereas if Dr. Slade had been totally UDprepared for the experiment,
we should have had, on the view that it was conjuring, to make the much more
difficult supposition that he had prepared a similar string, or UDdone and re-done
one of Professor ZaUner's, after the latter went to the house for the s~ance. The
omission t~ mention this fact in describing the incident seelDS to me 80 unac-
countable except on the suppoeition that the poesible importance of it had not
occurred to Professor ZaUner, that we must I think assume in other C88e8 that
he may not ouly have omittOO to mention, but failed to see the importance of
even obvious precautioDl!.
Digitized by Goo~le
66 Tke PhysicaJ, Phe7wmena 01 Spirittwl,ism. [May 3~
favour deception and perhaps never exactly recur. It may, I think,
be fairly inferred that some leading Spiritua.lists do not allow a sufficient
range for the possibilities of conjuring from the fact that they have on
several occasions avowed" their belief that certain public conjuring
performances showed the conjurers to be mediums.l
Other believers in the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, or the
same at other times, lay stress on the advantage that, as they urge,
conjurers have over mediums. Conjurers, it is sa.id, require their own
stage and apparatus, whereas mediums will come to the investigatot::s
own room, bringing nothing but what they wear, and often allow them-
selves to be searched: moreover, prizes have been offered to conjurers
who will produce the same phenomena as the medium under the same
conditions, and none have come forward to claim them, though, it is
argued, "imposture can be reprodu~ at will." This last, however,
seems to me a most unjustifiable a.B8umption, since, as I have above
observed, the success of imposture may frequently depend on accidental
and unobserved opportunities; and it appears to me that mediums
po88eB8 an advantage far greater than stage and machinery in being
allowed to fail whenever they please. The conjurer would only compete
with them on equal terms if he could secure witnesses doubtful
whether what they saw was conjuring or not, and if he enjoyed the same
immunity from any necessity to succeed, or to adhere to any programme.
The following statement by "M.A. (Oxon.)" bears on this point. He
says (Humcm Nattw6, for 1876, p. 267) :-" The balance is largely
against ' prepo88eB8ion' influencing spiritual manifestations in any
appreciable degree, so far as my: experience goes. In 99 out ofevery 100
caaes people do fIOt get what they want or expect. Test after teat,
cunningly devised, on whioh the investigator has set his mind, is put
aside and another substituted." In other words the evidence is rarely,
properly speaking, experimental, which makes it necessary to allow a
muoh larger margin than would be required in experimental evidence not
only for trickery, but also for accidental mistakes and mal-observation,
even if trickery, conscious or unconsoious, were out of the question.
And it must be borne in mind that the most excellent moral oharacter
in the medium is no guarantee against trickery unless it can be
proved that he was in no abnormal mental condition when the
phenomena occurred; and that extraordinary deceptions have been
11'hus Mr. A. R. Wallace considered Dr. Lynn's entertainment to be
~ clearly mediumistic, and, as he describes it, it is certainly difficult to explain.
Mr. B. Coleman and .. M.A. (Oxon.)" asserted the 8&D1e of Maskelyne and
Cooke's. Others have aJao declared themselves in the 8ame way about these and
other conjurers. See the Spiritualist, May 15th, 1873, p. 205; Dec. 18th,
1874. p. 297; Oct. 15th, 1875, p. 189; August 17th, 1877. p. 78. Medium
and Daybreak, August 24th,1877, p. 538; April 2nd. 1886. )h212, &q.
Digitized by'-:.Oogle
1886]. The Physical PherI,ome""o, of SpiritualUlm. 67
carried on by hysterical patients and othen with no conceivable motive
·but a desire to secure attention.
There is another reason why conjurers would often compete on
unequal terms with mediums, and that is that it would not pay prG-
fessional conjurers to practise the particular tricks required. Slate-
writing, for instance, is not adapted to public performances, and the
numhllr of people who would pay guineas for the chance of perhaps
seeing writing produced on a slate by conjuring is small. I have,
however, been fortunate myself in meeting with an amateur conjurer
whom I will call Mr. A., who had given some attention to the subject of
slate-writing and could produce some of the phenomena. He very
kindly gave me three or four s~nces, none of them in his own house
nor with his own' table, but otherwise under conditions externally
similar to Dr. Slade's and Mr. Eglinton's, and I consider the experienoe
gained most valuable. Dr. Slade had already taught me how very
little I could observe at a time. Nevertheless it was a shock to me to
find how easily Mr. A. could deceive me. At one of these ~ces &
lady friend of mine was present who had not been told beforehand that
I knew this was conjuring. She was interested in slate-writing, had
seen some very good slate-writing phenomena with a medium, and
observed Mr. A. in the same state of mind. She sat next him.
The next day she wrote an account of what took place,still without know-
ing that it was conjuring. This is her account of the first occurrence.
I took alates with me, two ordinary onea and a folding alate. We first
UIIeCl the ordinary alates ; they were cleaned, dried, and placed one on the
other upon the table, a nib of pencil between them, and Mrs. Sidgwick's
medium's and my handa reating on them. No writing being heard, Mr. A.
and I held them underneath the table. Eventually, however, writing waa
produced whilllt the alates were on the table in position I have before
deacribed. The lneu&ge waa a long one, covering completely one side of slate.
We examined them when they were placed the BeCond time on the table,
and aatiBfied ourselvea that they were clean. I am sure that the alate. were
not changed.
Those who have studied the records of slate-writing _nces will
have noticed that it is rare for sitters to have long communications,
such as this was, written on their own slatu. Short remarks of a few
words or even lines on the sitters' slates are common, and long messages
covering one side of the slate are common too, but on the mediwn's
slates. At the time I had this sitting with Mr. A., I was under the
impression that long messages on slates brought by the sitters never
occurred, and consequently I was even more surprised than my friend at
the result. To cover one side of a slate with writing obviously requires
considerable time, and it seemed to me so inconceivable that Mr. A. could
have had the opportunity to do it unobserved, that notwithstanding my
• Digitized by Gc»CJgIe
68 Tke PhysicoJ, Plumome!rw, of Spiritualism. [May 3,
friend's certainty that it was her own slate, and my own impression to
the same effect, I came to the conclusion that it must have been changed.
But I was wrong. It toaI my friend's slate, and Mr. A. had found an
opportunity of writing on it. I was told afterwards how, and saw the
possibility, but I do not believe I should ever have discovered it if I
had not been told. I need hardly say that it was not done while we
heard the sound as of writing going on. This is my friend's account of
the next incident :-
The medium next asked me to fetch a book from the other room. I took
one at random from the shelves of the library. [The shelves contained
88veral hundred volumes.] Mr. A. laW me take it out, but did not touch it.
I brought it into the room, and put it on a chair betwe~n Mrs. Sidgwick and
myself, whilst we prepared another slate and bit of pencil. Being again
.tiafied that the slatea were clean, the book, into which I had not looked and
the name of which I did not know, was placed on the slate, all our handa
1"88ting on it as before. I mentally thought of a page and line, from which a
quotation was to be,mad_both numbers, at medium's requeat, being under
10. After a short time writing was heard. On the alate was written
.. Cantor lecture will be given on Monday, at the Kensington Museum.
This is all "e have power to do." We looked at p. 2, line 7, the numbers I
had thought of. but did not find the worda quoted. The medium, however,
was very sure that they would be found 80mewhere near, and he BOOn dis-
covered on last line of p. 7, .. Cantor lecture," and on second line of p. 8,
.. will be given on Mondays," and a few lines further down, "at the Ken-
sington Museum."
The teat having been only a partial SUCC888 the medium propoBed that we
Mould try it again. He asked me to fetch a I8COnd book from the other
room. I took up a "Joumal" lying on the table. I did not look to 88e which
numbor I had chosen. Medium asked me to think again of two numbers
under 10, to determine page and line from which quotation should be made.
I did 80, and very shortly after was written in red chalk, "no such page.OJ
This was true, for on opening volume, we found it commenced all a hundred
and 8Omething.
Assuming, as we must do, that the slates could be changed under our
very eyea, without our perceiving it, theBe two incidents are not very
mysterious, but the next is, perhaps, more surprising.
Mr. A. wished to try this teet again, 80 I fetched a third book. Thia
happened to be TifIW-both he and I laW the title. This time I told him the ~
numbers I was thinking of, p. 8, line 5. We held one slate under the table
and another, with the book on it, remained on the table i both these slates
were Mr. A.'s. After a time writing was heard, and it was on the upper alate
that we found the quotation, correctly given this time. "The Imperial Par-
liament" [po 8,] line 1, and then a few worda taken from line 5. (The alate
uaed was a large folding one with a lock belonging to the medium. Into this
be slipped a sheet of paper and a bit of pencil. It was ou.-the pa,.w.r that the
Digitized by ~0081e
1886]. The Physical Phenom.etnu of Spiritualism. 69
quotation was written. Mrs. Sidgwick had the key,l and it was she who
opened the elate.) The seance was held by full gaslight.
The following incidents of the same seance are also instructive :-
Mr. A. asked him [the supposed spirit] to tell us any secrets about
either of us, and we heard the BOund of writing on the IIlate lying on the
upper surface of the table. The sound continued when Mr. A. withdrew
his bands a. short distance from the elate, but ceased when he withdrew them
to a greater distance. A long messa.gfl was written again, covering the whole
aide of the slate, and commencing at a spot where the medium had previously
requested it to commence by putting a small Cl"08ll.
* * * * * *
One of our messages at request was written in different coloured cha.lks,
the bits of which had been pla.ced on the table underneath the slate.
* * * * * *
Before he left, Mr. A. held a slate with me under the table, and asked
that the name of the animal written on the slip of paper I had chosen should
be written on the slate. Writ.ing was heard, the slate brought up, and I
found rhitlQCef'08 in red chalk. This was correct, though how Mr. A. knew,
or by what means the word was written, I have no idea, for the slate appeared
to me to be clean when we put it under the table.
Without for an instant maintaining that Mr. A.'s performance waa
as good aa, from the description of others, I suppose that Dr. Slade's
and Mr. Eglinton's sometimes is, I am disposed to think that he too
could have supplied Professor Zollner with experimental proof of the
existence of four dimensional beings, if Professor Zollner could have
seen him without knowing he waa a. conjurer.
Another conjuring performance, with which I had nothing to do
myself, but of which a written account was sent to me by the gentle-
man concerned, may be worth mentioning in this connection, because it
baa the special interest of having been performed in the presence of a
witness who was, as it were, behind the scenes. I should add that I have
discussed the incident with this witness. A gentleman, whom I
will call for convenience Mr. X., sat with a conjurer for slate-writing.
Mr. X. held one slate in his left hand, and another lay on the table
before him in such a position that he "could easily watch both." The
latter was a double slate, hinged and locked, belonging to the conjurer.
This Mr. X. unlocked, placed in it three pieces of coloured chalk,
and re-Iocked it, putting the key in his pocket His account pro-
1 The precaution of keeping possession of the key of the medium's locked
slate is one often adopted with Mr. Eglinton, but it is of COU1'8e perfectly
nseless, as there may be any number of keys. ized by Google
70 The Physical P~ 01 Spiritualism. [May 3,
ceeda thus (1 have italicised the part to which 1 wish most to call
attention) :-" ..d/~ 8O'IT/,6/ew minutes, during which, 10 the but 0/ my
belief, I WIJ8 attenti1J6l,l regar¢ing both ,latu, Mr. - whisked the first
away and showed me on the reverse a message written to myself.
Almost immediately afterwards he asked me to unlock the second slate,
and on doing 80 1 found, to my intense astonishment, another message
written on both the insides of the slate-the lines in alternate
colours, and the chalks apparently much worn by usage. My brother
[who was looking on] tells me that there tOOl an inten;al of Mm16 two Of'
t/vre.e minutel, during fl)hich my attention WIJ8 calkd atDaI!I, but I C(m
O'flly believe it on his word." •
The fact is that slat&-writingas generally exhibited by Dr. Sladeand
Mr. Eglinton is not at all the simple phenomenon it is sometimes
supposed to be. The table may be mentioned, for instance, as one of
the complications apparently superfluous if the phenomena be
genui~e, but most useful as a screen and in other ways if they be
due to conjuring. 1 cannot but think that this absence of simpli-
city in the conditions under which not only alat&-writing, but the
other physical phcmomena are generally produced affords an important
presumption against their genuineness.
And there are two further arguments against their genuineness
which are gaining in force every year. The first of these is that almost
every medium who has been prominently before the public has at some
time or other been det.e<:ted in trickery, orwhat cannot be distinguished
from trickery except by hypotheses which appear to me violent and base-
less. And the second is the absence of evidence which does not depend on
the investigator's power of continuous observation. By continuous
observation, 1 mean observation which is uninterrupted during a
certain interval of time, varying in length according to circum-
stances,-this observation extending of course to all circumstances
which can have affected the evidence. This kind of observa-
tion is seldom or never required, either in ordinary life or in
scientific investigations, 80 that we have but little practice in
it, or opportunities of estimating our power of exercising it. It is
often on our want of power of exercising it that the succeaa of
conjuring depends, and it should be, and in many cases is, the aim of
investigators into Spiritualism to make the evidence independent of it
It is easy to devise experinients of various kinds which apparently in-
troduce no new difficulties if the phenomena are genuine, which resemble
in kind those we see, and omit none of the conditions said by (or through)
mediums to be necessary, and which, if successful, would place some of
the physical phenomena beyond all question of conjuring by eliminating
the necessity for continuous observation or accurate recollection on the
part of the investigator. But as far as 1 can D~Q)Q)~y good
1886]. TM Physical p~ of Spirituali8m. 71
evidence exists that such experiments have ever succeeded.1 Pr0-
fessor ZOllner devised some good ones, but they failed. He wanted,
for instance, to have a knot tied in a continuous band cut out of
bladder. The" spirits" explained that they bad failed in this
because "the band was in danger of 'melting' during the operation
under the great in"rease of temperature," affirmed to occur during
the passage of solid through solid. One would not have supposed
that cat-gut '(made up into a string) melted less easily, but knots
were found in a piece of cat-gut with the ends sealed together. This,
however, is not mcu/larilll an occult phenomenon and the evidence
that it was done at the seance after the ends were sealed, and not done
by Slade at home and his piece thus prepared exchanged for Professor
ZOllner's, depends on the latter's power of continuous observation.
The necessity of continuous observation at a slate-writing seance
can hardly, I think, be eliminated except by obtaining writing o~a slate
securely covered. Many people have tried to obtain this with Mr.
Eglinton, but I have never heard of any successful attempt,except one
of Mr. Wedgwood's. He took a pair of slates, tied and sealed together,
to Mr. Eglinton, but obtained no writing and put t~ slates aside. Some
months later he again took the slates to Mr. Eglinton's as they were,
adding only gummed paper round the edges. This time he obtained a
long message, but the experiment, as one eliminating the necessity for
continuous observation, is vitiated, because we have no complete
guaJllolltee that (1) the slates were not tampered with in the interval,
and (2) that a pair prepared in imitation was not substituted at the
second seance. For Mr. Wedgwood had no reliable means of identify-
ing his slates or his gummed paper so far as I have been able to learn.
He has never, I believe, obtained writing on a securely closed slate except
1 There is an alleged case of pieces of platinum being introduced into
bermetically -ted glaM tubes in Profeaaor Hare'. laboratory through the
mediumship of a MI. Ruggl8l, but in the only description I have seen there is
no evidence of the identity of the tubes seen empty and thoee seen with the
platinum in them 56 minutee later, exceptwhat depends on tile watchfuln_ of
the ob8erveJ1l. Dr. S. A. Peter's description of this phenomenon is quoted in
UUner's Tmmceruhntal PAylic., Mr. M_y's translation (2nd Ed. 1882, p.
152). An experiment which may have been important is given in Danaken'.
H&IIJ and ""'111 became a Spirituali8t (Baltimore, 1869). He tells ns of an
anonymou. medium who had an iron ring put on and off his neck, which he
.1.was seven inch8lleea in circumference than the medium's head. But~he
evidence in several 8I88ntial pointe is very incomplete. It i. aleo asserted that
private mediume have obtained phenomena independent of continuons observa-
tion. Baron du Prel, in SphinrIJ for June, 1886, -YB " Ich kenne pereilnlich drei
Privatmedien bei welchen direkte Schriften nicht nur in Doppeltafeln IOJItUm
iibt:r1&aupt in unzugii1lfllieAm Orten _kommm." It is to be hoped that theee
per80ns will place their evidence before the world with the detail required to
make it scientifically valuable. . .. Gooole
Digitized by "
72 The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism. [May 3,
on this occasion, though he has frequently tried. Another gentleman,
Mr. F. W. Bentall, who gives us an account of his experiences with
Mr. Eglinton (see Jowrnal of the Society for June, 1886), and who was
successful in obtaining writing on slates not securely closed, tried a
large number of times and quite in vain with securely closed ones. At
BOme of these trials he used a slate covered with a sheet of glass. The
" spirits" explained that "the vital ftuid-call it what you may-cannot
be retained sufficiently long in the enclosed space to enable us to move
the pencil with force enough," &C. Afterwards Mr. Bentallsubstituted
wire gauze for the glass, BO that there was no longer an enclosed space
in the same sense, but the result was no better.l
I mention these experiences with Dr. Slade and Mr. Eglinton merely
as illustrations of the kind of evidence I mean. Various other experi-
ments, designed with the view of obtaining evidence of this kind, might
be mentioned. For instance, BOme friends of mine have made many
attempts to obtain writing in a hermetically sealed glass retort,
containing paper and pencil, at dark sMnces with Mrs. Jencken, but
they never succeeded. The tests described in connection with our
investigation into materialisation phenomena were also intended to be
of this kind. It is difficult to suppose that all conditions which elimi-
nate the need of continuous observation are also such as exclude the
operation of occult forces-if such exist. And if, as time goes on and
experiments are varied, it is found that crucial tests invariably fail-
that the phenomena continually stop short exactly at the point to which
conjuring could conceivably go-the improbability that this is due to
chance becomes greater and greater, and ultimately greater than the
difficulty of supposing any amount of defective observation.
At present, however, notwithstanding this absence of what may be
called crucial evidence for the existence of these physical phenomena
beyond the recognised laws of nature, there is still BOme evidence which
ought not to be set aside, and which, though, in my judgment, not
enough to establish 80 vast a conclusion, still affords a primd facie case,
and makes it our duty to seek opportunities for further investigation.
Without attempting here to go into the details of this evidence, I may
refer the reader to that of Comte Agenor de Gasparin as to the move-
ment of tables without contact in what seem to have been careful experi-
ments carried on with his own family and friends (see De Gasparin, D,.
TalJl& Towrnante8 et du Swrnatwral en General, Paris, 1854); alBO to
the experimental evidence for similar phenomena obtained by the su~
Committee, No.1, of the Dialectical Society (see RepOlf't on S~
1 Of COUlI!e, had theae experiments of Mr. BentaU's succeeded they would
only have been crucial, if he had some satisfactory way of identifvin. his alate,
and of proving that it had not been tampered with. Digitized by ~008Ie
1886.] The Physical PM'1UYffIHTI4 of Spi,ri.tualism. '13
ofthe CommiUee ojthe London .Dialectical Society, 1871). AlBO to BOme
of Mr. Crookes' experiments with Mr. Home on the alterations of
weight of a partially suspended board (see R686MChes in the Phe'IWfTIIJf/,G
of Spiritualism, by W. Crooke&, reprinted from the Qu,atrter1'll JOf.III"'f&al
ofScience, London, 1874). And, finally, I would refer him to "M. A.
(Oxon's) " account of phenomena occurring through his own mediumship
(see Human Nat'U/re for 1874).
Evidence of this kind makes me think that the investigation
should go on, and may yet be fruitful; but I think we have enough
experience to show that it is not worth while continuing it with
established mediums under the conditions at present imposed.
This brings me to what, if these be genuine phenomena, is a point
of great importan'ce, namely, that there has been a large amount of
hasty assumption as to the conditions under which the phenomena can
and cannot occur. This can easily be proved by quotations from works
on the subject. In BOme investigations this would be of comparatively
little consequence-if a hypothesis has been mistaken by one investigator
for a fact, the next investigator will probably find out the mistake and
correct it; a little time would be wasted and that is all. But in our
investigation it is very different. If there are genuine physical
phenomena it is almost certain from the analogy of the automatic
phenomena that they depend largely on the nervous and mental
condition of the medium, and therefore on his beliefs. If, there-
fore, he believes, e.g., that the phenomena can only occUr in the dark,
the consequence may be that with him they will only occur in the dark,
and thus a mere conjecture may become a real, though quite artificial,
condition. For instance, De Gasparin believed it essential that the
circle should hold hands and form a chain, but;........as I understand their
description-the Committee of the Dialectical Society did not hold
hands, and certainly there was no chain in Mr. Crookes' experiments
with Mr. Home. The failure, therefore, of De Gasparin's circle to
obtain phenomena when the chain was broken may be with BOme'
probability referred to their belief in the necessity of the unbroken
chain. De Gasparin himself has some good remarks on the influence of
such belief, though he does not apply them in the instance I have men-
tioned. Now I believe not only that many of the conditions supposed
to be necessary, and which greatly complicate and hinder the investiga-
tion, have been assumed on very insufficient evidence, but that some of
them at least have been deliberately invented to facilitate fraud.
And there is even another danger peculiar to this investigation,
namely, that conditions may be invented unconsciously, BO far as the
medium is concerned, for it is known that the invention of false excuses
for failure is one of the curious things that occur in a.utomatic writing.
It is very important, therefore, that those who find ~iz~k
74 The Physical P~ of Spiritualism. [May 3.
their friends what seems to be mediumistic power-whatever that may
~hould approach the subject in as unprejudiced a way as possible,
and, in order to establish the genuineness of the physical phenomena,
that they should aim at obtaining them under the simplest possible
conditions.
In conclusion, I would repeat that it is not because I disbelieve in
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, but because I at present think
it more probable than not that such things occasionally occur, that I am
interested in estima.ting the evidence for them. I feel bound, however,
to admit that by far the larger part of the testimony put forward as
affording solid ground for a belief in them, which I have been able to
examine, is of such a nature as to justify the contempt with which
scientific men generally regard it j and though it is td be regretted, it is
hardly under the circumstances to be wondered at, that this contempt is
hastily extended to the who~ of the testimony. If what I have written
should contribute, in however small a degree, to the improvement of the
evidence on this subject in the future, I shall feel that it has not been
written in vain.
Digitized by Coogle
