{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__bakewell___natural_evidence_of_a_future_life.pdf","mytitle":"Natural Evidence Of A Future Life","mylang":"de"}
NATURAL EVIDENCE
OF
A F U T U R E LIFE,
DERIVED FROM
THE PROPERTIES AND ACTIONS OF ANIMATE
AND INANIMATE MATTER.
BY
- F R E D E R I C K C. B A K E W E L L ,
AUTHOR OF PHILOSOPHICAfT 30ffTER9ATIONS, ETC.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR
LONGMAN, REK9, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMAN,
PATERNOSTER-ROW.
1835.
6¿,
SìtT
■
Ô3<r
PREFA CE
T hough our literature abounds in excellent
treatises onNaturalTheology, there are scarcely
any works wherein the evidences which consti­
tute the foundations of that science have been
adduced to prove that the existence of man is
not limited to his present transitory state of
being. It may, indeed, be regarded as an extra­
ordinary circumstance, that although so many
learned divines and men of science have directed
their attention to the subject, with a view to de­
duce from the structure and functions of the
human frame, and from the operations of Na­
ture, the existence of a supremely intelligent
and powerful Creator of the universe, they
should, apparently, have neglected or overlooked
the same sources of evidence in their researches
respecting the ulterior objects for which man
was created.
a 3
V* PREFACE.
The question is admitted to be the most im­
portant that can engage the attention of human
beings. The moral philosopher and the meta­
physician have consequently endeavoured, by
arguments founded on the moral attributes of
the Deity and the constitution of the human
mind, to arrive at that momentous truth which
directs us to look beyond this world to another
and a superior state of existence. The exclu­
sion of natural phenomena from these consider­
ations must, therefore, be ascribed to the impres­
sion, too hastily received, that the evidence to
be derived from the actions of matter is either
not favourable to, or, at least, that it affords no
satisfactory proof of, the immortality of the
soul.
This ground of argument has, indeed, been so
long occupied by those philosophers who ascribe
the phenomena of life to material agency alone,
that their exclusive possession of it seems to be
sanctioned by prescription ; and the utmost that
has been attempted in this branch of the science
of Natural Theology has been, to resist the
assaults they are enabled to make from that com­
manding position. It may be confidently af­
firmed, however, that by abandoning this ground
to the materialists, the advocates of natural reli­
PREFACE. vii
gion not only concede to their opponents an ad­
vantage to which they have no valid claim, but
that theyrelinquish one ofthe strongest positions
on which the future existence ofthe soul can be
maintained, independently of Revelation.
The results to be attained byacarefulexamin­
ation of natural phenomena, afford, it is con­
ceived, the best answer that can be given to the
objections urged against the immateriality ofthe
sentient principle; for if it can be shown that
the balance of evidence derived from those phe­
nomena preponderates in favour of the existence
ofan immaterial, indestructible agency, distinct
from matter and from animal organisation, that
truth will be thus established on the veiy ground
on which alone it is attempted to be disputed.
To accomplish this object— to deduce from the
consideration of the ulterior and more hidden
causes of physical processes and of the animal
functions, the existence of the mind after death
— is the design ofthe present work.
The consideration of the nature ofthat exist­
ence —whether it be purely immaterial, or
whether the living principle be united with some
material form— does not enter into this branch
ofthe subject. It is a question which, so far as
it can be investigated by the limited faculties
a 4
viii PREFACE.
of man, peculiarly belongs to psychological
science. Neither is it within the scope of this
work to inquire respecting the objects of a fu­
ture state, nor into the conditions on which it
will be enjoyed. Those questions lie exclusively
within the provinces of moral science and of
revealed religion.
The proposition now to be affirmed is simply
this;—that the evidences to be derived from
the consideration of the properties of matter,
and the functions of the corporeal organs, are
sufficient to prove that the mind survives the
dissolution ofthe body. If this proposition can
be satisfactorily demonstrated by the inductive
process of reasoning from a variety of facts, it
will form a solid foundation whereon to rest
those arguments in favour of natural religion
which are derived from the attributes of the
Deify and the moral constitution of man ; and
it will receive additional value from being estab­
lished on the ground usually considered to be
the stronghold of the opponents to the natural
immortality ofthe soul.
In treating a subject like the present^ which
has relation to metaphysical as well as to physi­
cal science, it may be readily conceived that no
PREFACE. IX
small degree ofdifficulty would arise in stating
the evidence advanced, and in tracing the infer*
ences to be drawn from it, in such a manner as
to be intelligible to all classes of readers. To
prevent any unnecessary mystification, the
technicalities of science have been carefully
avoided, and no exemplifications have been in­
troduced that cannot be generally understood
by the accompanyingexplanations. It has been
the author's endeavour to present the sub­
ject in all its bearings, in the most intelligible
form, and in the clearest light With this object
in view, the work has been divided into three
parts; the two first ofwhich relate to matter and
its properties in the inorganic state; and the
last, to the manifestations of the living and
intellectual principles, by a system of organised
material particles. As the several divisionsofthe
subject have reference to the existence of the
soul in a future state of being, and as each of
the minor branches into which they are subdi­
vided also points to the same conclusion, it has
beenalmostimpossibletoavoidoccasionalrestate­
ment of the propositions and arguments, as the
consideration of the evidencehasproceeded. If,
however, this arrangement have the effect of
X PREFACE.
producing a clear elucidation of the subject, and
of impressingthe arguments with additional force
on the mind, the object for which it was adopted
will be attained, and the objections attending the
consequent repetitions will be amply counter­
balanced.
Haverstock Terrace, Hampstead,
December, 1835.
CONTENTS
Page
Introduction - xiii
PART I. THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF
Chapter I. Preliminary Observations
matter.
1
II. Solution - 9
III. Evaporation - 15
IV. Rarefaction - 21
V. Natural Decomposition - 32
VI. Combustion - 41
VII. General Summary - 55
part II. the properties of matter.
C hap. VIII. Preliminary Observations 73
IX. Light - 79
X. Heat - 97
XI. Electricity and Galvanism - 114
XII. Magnetism - 135
XIII. Chemical Attraction - 150
XIV. Gravitation - 170
XV. General Summary - 182
XII CONTENTS.
PART III. THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
Page
Chap. XVI. Preliminary Observations - - 194
XVII. Vegetation - - - 199
XVIII. Animal Organisation - - 218
XIX. Animal Life - - *231
XX. Organs of Sensation - - 249
XXI. Animal Mutations - - 269
XXII. Personal Identity - 285
XXIII. Suspended Animation - - 295
XXIV. Dreams and Spectral Illusions - S12
XXV. General Summary - - 825
Conclusion - - 338
INTRODUCTION.
W hen we attempt to investigate the causes of
any known phenomena, we are quickly arrested
in our progress by the subtile nature of the
inquiry, and we very soon arrive at the extreme
limits to which our researches can extend. Those
limits are more or less circumscribed, in propor­
tion to the acquired knowledge and the natural
capacity of the inquirer; but, however enlarged
his capacity, or however extended his know­
ledge, he will not be able to advance beyond a
certain, and not far distant, point in the train of
causation, and he will then be obliged to admit
that the final causes of which he has been in
pursuit lie beyond the reach of his intellectual
powers. A similar resultfollows every analytical
inquiry into the causes of even the simplest
natural phenomena; and the primary cause of
the falling of a stone to the ground is as inex­
plicable as that ofthe most intricate phenomena
of life. We may, indeed, ascertain that what is
termed the attraction of gravitation draws the
stone to the earth; we may discover the laws
by which that attraction is regulated; and, by
xiv INTRODUCTION.
extending our views, we may learn that the
system of the universe is upheld by the imme­
diate influence of that power; but when we in­
quire into the nature of the power itselfj the
philosopher is as much at a loss for an explan­
ation as the uneducated savage. He finds that
there are agents in constant operation around
him too subtile to be appreciated by any of the
organs of sense, and which are only perceptible
by their effects; and having by attentive observ­
ation of those effects discovered the laws which
govern the mysterious powers, he is obliged to
rest satisfied with the knowledge, that such
powers exist, without being able to form any con­
ception of their nature or modes of operation.
Every phenomenon in physical sciencedirects
us in this manner to look beyond material exist­
ences for its ultimate cause. The manifestations
of design, of power, and of wisdom, in all the
inanimate works of creation, teach us that there
exists a supreme Intelligent Cause, by whose
energies all things were created and are pre­
served. The subtile properties of matter are
thus alone'sufficient to show that there exists
some powerbeyond the cognisance ofoursenses;
and the uses to which those properties are
applied inform us, that that power must be
supremely intelligent and efficient
When we ascend from inanimate creation to
consider the wonderfully complicated organis­
INTRODUCTION. XV
ation that accompanies the manifestation of
animal life, the proofs of wisdom and of power
are still more conspicuously displayed; and
when we further consider the adaptations of ex­
ternal circumstances to the support and enjoy­
ments of living beings, the attribute of infinite
benevolence must be added to those of omni­
science and omnipotence. In these consider­
ations we are irresistibly led “ from nature up
to nature’s God ;” and the proofs of the exist­
ence of a spiritual Creator and Governor of the
universe are based on the clearest deductions of
human reasoning.
It is from this point, therefore, that we set
out in our present investigations. We take for
granted that there exists an all-wise, all-power­
ful, and an infinitelygood andbenevolentBeing;
who created and presides over all things. The
examination of the properties of matter, and of
the phenomena of life, afford the most satisfac­
tory evidence ofthis fundamental truth -„andwe
now propose to derive from the same sources
which furnish proofs of the existence and attri­
butes ofa supreme FirstCause—Superior to and
independent of the material world—evidence to
prove that the soul of man is also distinct from,
and independent of, any organised, system of
matter.
When we perceive a friend whom we have
loved and admired for his virtues and hi*talents,
XVI INTRODUCTION.
cut off by the hand of death in the full enjoy­
ment of his corporeal and mental faculties,—
when we see his body lying before us cold and
lifeless, and when we reflect that in a short
time even that memento of his existence will
be decomposed and destroyed,— we anxiously
inquire, are the powers of perception and con­
sciousness, the intellectual faculties, and the
moral feelings and affections, that were so re­
cently manifested in this material form, annihi­
lated ; or are their functions continued in some
other state of being, independently of material
organisation ?
If we were to confine our views to the phe­
nomena immediately presented to our senses,
and were to reason exclusively from a super­
ficial observation of the changes in the consti­
tution of the body consequent on death, we
should be led to the conclusion that the destruc­
tion of the body involves also the eternal de­
struction of the mysterious principle by which
it was animated. The only means we possess
of ascertaining the existence of sensation and
intellect in other men being the outward mani­
festations of those qualities by corporeal organs,
when those agents are entirely decomposed, all
indications of the continuance of such qualities
are also necessarily destroyed. Those inquirers,
therefore, who terminate their researches with
the examination of immediate visible effects,
INTRODUCTION. XVU
directly conclude that death is accompanied
by the annihilation of the souL We contend
that it is upon this contracted view alone of the
processes accompanying the dissolution of the
body, that the hypothesis of the materialists can
be supported; but such a consideration of the
subject is only suited to the rudest ages ofigno­
rance, and will be found to be directly opposed
to the plainest deductions from all scientific in­
vestigations.
The difficulties which attend every attempt to
discover the ultimate causes of anyphenomenon,
are particularly observable in the investigations
of the nature of the changes consequent on
death, which soon lead us from the consideration
of immediate material agency to other and more
remote causes, that baffle the penetration of
the most acute human intellect.
Should we, in the first place, discover that the
putrefactivedecompositionoftheanimalsolidsand
fluids,whichapparently terminates inthe destruc­
tion of the whole substance that constituted the
corporeal frame,ismerelyanintermediateprocess,
whereby the numerous simple elements that en­
tered into the composition of the body are re­
solvedinto other compounds; thisfirststep inour
inquiry would lead directly to the operation of
ulterior causes competent to effect those changes.
Let us, for the present, assume that this process
is effected by theagency of reciprocal attractions
subsisting among the elementary atoms of dif­
ferent substances, and that the infinitely varied
animal compounds are decomposed and re­
arranged by the operation of those attractive
powers; it would then appear that the only
effect ofputrefaction is to vary the combinations
of the ultimate elements —not to destroy them ;
and that not one particle of the matter which
formed a component part ofthe animal frame at
the moment of death, is lost by the decompo­
sition and subsequent dissipation, which appears,
on a superficial view, to annihilate the whole
mass. Should it also be ascertained that, not
only are the elementary particles of matte? pre­
served entire during the decomposition qf the.
body, but that the results of a variety of ana­
lytical experiments lead us to infer that it is im­
possible, by any known process, to destroy or
to change the elementary atoms of any mate­
rial substance ; the investigation respecting the
ultimate causes of putrefactive decomposition
would thus directly contradict the prima facie
evidence ofthe senses; and instead of affirming
the opinion that the material composition of the
human frame is annihilated after death, it w'ould
prove that the original elements are indestruc­
tible and unchangeable.
After considering the indestructible nature of
matter, if we direct our attention to those pro­
perties which distinguish one kind of material
xviii INTRODUCTION.
INTRODUCTION. XIX
-substance from another, and which are the im­
mediate agents in all the processes of Nature —
when we turn from the mere inert substance of
the animal body to examine the causes of those
changes which take place in its composition after
the principle of life isfled—we shall perceive the
inadequacy of the human intellect to apprehend
such subtile agencies, and we shall obtain ad­
ditional proofs ofthe fallacy of the first impres­
sion that death and annihilation are identical.
If it should be found that every active agent
engaged in the process of decomposition, or in
rendering that process manifest to our senses, is
distinct from inert matter, and is too subtile to
be appreciable by corporeal organs; then the
knowledge of the existence and operation of in­
visible agents, which excite and regulate the
changes observable in the constitution of the
material body, would oblige us to look beyond
the immediate effects and causes to unknown
and inscrutable agencies. If, for instance, it
should be found that chemical attraction, that
power which induces those changes indicated by
decomposition —if heat, which enables that pro­
perty of matter to exert its energies—if light,
through the medium of which we see the results
of the process —if these agents are discovered
to be subtile principles, connected with, but
abstractly independent of, matter, the changes
consequent on death, so far from being indica-
a 2
XX INTRODUCTION.
tions of annihilation, would become exemplifica­
tions of the presence and action of some other
power that is too mysterious and inscrutable for
investigation.
If it should be found, in addition, that eveiy
known propertyofmatter is,equallywith the pro­
perties ofattraction, heat, and light, distinct from
matter itself, and consists of some active, subtile
principle governed by peculiar laws, the natural
inference to bedrawn from these facts would be,
that the higher qualities developed by the or­
ganic combination of many of those properties
must be distinct from the matter organised; and
were we to add to these characteristics of the
properties of material bodies, the attribute of
indestructibility, and were thus to ascertain that
all the changes and dissolutions in Nature are
but intermediate processes in the formation of
other substances, we should possess the strongest
analogical evidence for the assumption that the
vital and thinking principles are asindestructible
as matter, and that their combination with, and
separation from, material organisation, are merely
preparatory to entering another state of being.
Supposing those positions, which have been hy­
pothetically assumed, to be well established, we
contend that the same process of reasoning by
which we arrive at any general truths in phy.
sical science would directly lead us to infer,
from those collective analogous instances, the
INTRODUCTION. XXI
immortality of the soul. This inference, it
must be further observed, is founded solely
on the consideration of the changes in the forms
of matter consequent on death, without any
reference to the active operation of the vital,
sentient, and intellectual principles. Having,
then, traced the results of the decomposition of
the corporeal frame, and noticed the conclusions
to which this view of the subject would lead, we
shall, in the next place, have to examine atten­
tively the phenomenaoflife; which are the only
indices we possess of the existence and powers
of the mind.
Now it must be evident, that as the existence
of an immaterial subtile principle cannot be per­
ceptible by material organs when not combined
with matter, it is impossible to have demonstra­
tive proofofthe continued existence ofthe soul
afterits separation from material substance. The
proofs of that separate existence, which are to
be derived from material phenomena, must con­
sequently be founded on induction from analo­
gous facts; but when that reasoning process is
well sustained, by numerous closely approximat­
ing analogies, the propositions which are thus
affirmed become scarcely less satisfactory than
positive demonstrations.
Should it be found, for instance, that the phe­
nomena of vegetation, and of animal organis­
ation, are caused by the agency of some subtile
XXil INTRODUCTION.
principle, not only distinct from matter, but
distinct likewise from any of the known proper­
ties of matter ; that the sentient principle is
distinct from the organs of sensation, and from
the medullary substance of the brain ; that
the power of consciousness, and the faculties of
memory and of thought, are also distinct from
matter, and that the perceptive faculties may be
brought into action independently of the exter­
nal organs that are specially adapted to their
developement; if, in short, it should be found
that the corporeal organs are merely instruments
that assist in the developement of some higher
and inscrutable power, we may surely infer, with
a degree of certainty equal to that which attends
any conclusions in physical science, that this
•superior power—which we designate the soul—
is distinct from material organisation, and that its
existence does not depend on those subservient
agents which manifest its presence. The relations
of material organs to the soul may, in this view
of the case, be not inaptly compared to those
subsisting between the microscope and the ob­
jects which are only visible by its means: as
those objects are not affected by the destruction
of the instrument that renders their existence
perceptible, neither is the immaterial principle
in man destroyed by the dissolution of those
material organs through whose agency alone he
becomes conscious of their existence.
INTRODUCTION. xxiii
To substantiate the facts that have been thus
assumed, and to establish the validity of the in­
ferences to be drawn from them, are the objects
now proposed to be accomplished. We shall,
in the first place, endeavour to show that all
matter is indestructible ; secondly, that all the
known properties of matter are subtile agents,
distinct from mere extension, solidity, and divis­
ibility, which are the sole abstract character­
istics of inert matter. Having then shown that
all material substances themselves contain a sub­
tile principle differentfrom mere abstract matter,
and that annihilation is incompatible with the
known laws of Nature, we shall proceed to con­
sider the connection of the immaterial principles
of vitality with material organisation, and to
prove that they are not only distinct from, but
that, even during the continuance of that con­
nection, the percipient and intellectual power»
are to a certain extent independent of the cor­
poreal organs.
In pursuing this course of inquiiy, it is not-
intended that we should enter the province of
the moral philosopher. He may arrive at the
same conclusions by reasoning upon the attri­
butes of the Deity, and the moral constitution
ofthe human mind. He may justly infer, from
the admirable manifestations of design and con­
trivance in the developement of the living prin­
ciple, that it was created for further purposes
XXIV INTRODUCTION.
than the transient and apparently useless exist­
ence in this world; and that the attributes of
benevolence, of goodness, and ofjustice, of the
Supreme Creator, would not be reconcilable
with a scheme of philosophy which would limit
the existence of man to the trials, miseries, and
persecutions, to which he is subjected in the
present life. As our object, however, is con­
fined to the evidence to be deduced from the
phenomena of material bodies, we are excluded
from those important considerations to which
we have just adverted. The arguments to be
derived from psychological considerations, re­
specting the nature, powers, and actions of the
human mind, are also not available in our in­
quiries, excepting in those instances wherein
mental operations are indicated by external
signs. We are thus precluded by the nature of
our subject from those arguments, by means of
which the moral philosopher and the metaphy­
sician arrive at the same conclusions that we
endeavour to attain from the examination of
material agencies; but the results of their in­
quiries may, at least, be referred to, in a general
view of our subject, as corroborative proofs, de­
rived from different sources, tending to give the
impress of absolute certainty to those conclu­
sions at which we arrive, from the consideration
of the well-known properties and phenomena of
matter.
NATURAL EVIDENCE,
&c.
PART I.
THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS.
I n accordance with that arrangement of our
subject which it has been proposed to adopt, we
shall commence our investigations by examining
the results of chemical action, for the purpose
of showing that the elementary atoms of which
all material bodies are composed are indestruc­
tible.
We are indebted to chemistry for the indis­
putable proofs which we possess of the imperish­
able nature of matter; and there is no truth
brought to light by this important science that
can be of greater interest to mankind. It is
now ascertained, and is capable of the clearest
proof, that the simple elements, of which all
substances are composed, cannot, by any con-
B
1 *'
ceivable means, be destroyed. They may, in-
deed, be so changed as to present not the least
resemblance to their previous forms—they may
be so mingled with other bodies that their iden­
tity cannot be traced — and they may be dissi­
pated into invisible vapour, and be apparently
annihilated —but we learn, from the science of
chemistry, that in every change the same ele­
ments remain, inextinguishable and unaltered.
If, then, the material bodies, which are the
objects of our senses, notwithstanding their con­
tinual decompositions and alterations of form,
can be proved to be essentially indestructible,
and in their elements incapable of change, we
may surely infer that the subtile, or immaterial,
properties of matter—in which no alteration can
be perceived, and whose existence can only be
known to us by their invariable effects — are
also eternal in duration and unalterable in their
natures. As an illustration of this position, let
it be admitted that matter is indestructible and
unchangeable, and can we refuse to admit the
possession of the same attributes to gravitation,
which is a universal property of matter, though
it is inscrutable to the human faculties, and
is known only by its effects? Can we admit that
the elements composing the globe we inhabit
are imperishable— though we see all the bodies
on its surface for ever decaying — and doubt for
a moment the indestructible nature of the power
2 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 3
of attraction, by whose agency the world is
maintained in its form and .preserved in its
orbit, and which must have existed unchanged
since the creation ofthe universe?
Having advanced thus far, and been com­
pelled to grant that attraction, a subtile pro­
perty of matter—
- whether we regard it as a
material or as an immaterial substance—must be
equally indestructible with matter itself; let us
proceed a step farther, and consider whether
this evidence will not be equally conclusive in
favour of the imperishable nature of the sen­
tient principle. For if it can be satisfactorily
proved that the elements of all visible objects
are indestructible, and that the subtile proper­
ties of matter,are also indestructible, may we
not reasonably infer that the sentient principle,
which acts upon inert matter, must be equally
durable with the inferior substance over which
it exercises complete control ?
This argument will apply with equal force,
whether we consider the mind to be a material
substance or to be immaterial. For if we agree
with those philosophers who believe the sentient
principle to constitute one of the properties of
matter, on that supposition — if matter and its
properties can be proved to be indestructible —
the sentient principle, being one of those pro­
perties, must also be imperishable. If, on the
other hand, we reject the opinions of the mate­
rialists, and conceive the vital principle to be
an immaterial essence, capable of being united
with and of controlling matter; then the in*
ference in support of our argument, to be
drawn from the equal duration of the superior
to the inferior substance, derives additional
strength. We shall not, in this branch of our
subject, have to take into consideration the
opinions of those who conceive the effects of
sensation and all the functions of animal and
intellectual life to be produced by, and to be
entirely dependent upon, a peculiar organisation
of matter. Our present object is to prove that
nothing which exists perishes, and thence to
infer that the sentient principle —by means of
which alone we have knowledge of existing ob­
jects — must also be indestructible, whether its
nature be material or immaterial. In the fol­
lowing pages, therefore, it will be our province
to show that the decay and apparent destruction
ofobjects, continually observed, areonly so many
changes in the forms of matter, and that matter
itself remains unimpaired and unchangeable.
Before we describe, however, the effects of
chemical action, it will be advisable, for the
more perfect elucidation of our subject to those
of our readers who may be unacquainted with
the rudiments of chemistry, briefly to explain
the principles on which all chemical action de­
pendsj and we shall then feel assured that the
4 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 5
rationale of the phenomena alluded to in the
course of our investigations is generally under­
stood.
The operating cause of all chemical combin­
ations is attraction ; —that same power, by the
influence of which all visible objects are retained
in their existing forms, which regulates the mo­
tions of the planets, and upholds the system of
the universe. The force of attraction, however,
has different modes ofoperation, and it has been
usual to consider it as consisting of three dis­
tinct kinds, viz. attraction ofcohesion, attraction
qf gravitation, and chemical attraction. The
difference between the attraction of cohesion
and chemical attraction appears to be this : the
attraction of cohesion acts only mechanically,
by holding the particles of matter composing
the same substance together, to form an aggre­
gate mass of those particles when brought into
close contact, without effecting any change in
the nature of the particles themselves ; whereas
chemical attraction operates among the con­
stituent particles of different substances, and,
by causing their elements to form other com­
binations, produces a change in the nature of
those substances. Thus the attraction of cohe­
sion may be considered as acting only on the
surfaces of the minute particles of bodies, whilst
chemical attraction exerts its influence in their
internal composition. The attraction of cohe*
B 3
sion, therefore, as it acts only externally, may
be destroyed by mechanical means ; but no me­
chanical division, however minute, can separate
the combinations effected by chemical affinity;
and these combinations can only be altered by
the operation of other chemical attractions more
powerful than those exerted in forming the com­
bination to be operated on.
The attractions of cohesion and of chemical
affinity are not only different in their modes of
action, but they directly oppose their respective
operations. Neither of these kinds of attraction
can act until the particles of the substances to
be operated on are brought into the closest con­
tact ; consequently, the attraction of cohesion,
by holding the particles of bodies together in a
mass, prevents their exposure to the influence of
chemical attraction, and it isgenerally necessary
to destroythe cohesion of bodies before chemical
action can be effected.
Chemical attraction, also, possesses the pecu­
liarity of being more strongly exerted among
the atoms of some bodies than among those of
others. Thus, the atoms of one substance that
will unite with avidity with those of another
substance, to which it has what chemists term a
strong affinity, cannot be brought to combine
with a different body. The particles of oil and
water, for instance, cannot by any mechanical
means be forced to combine, but seem, on the
6 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
contrary, to be influenced by some repulsive
principle that keeps them asunder. We know,
however, that water will mix readily with most
fluids, and that oil will freely unite with turpen­
tine, and with some other liquids ; therefore the
apparent repulsion existing between the particles
of oil and water does not arise from the absence
of attractive power, but from the circumstance
that the attractive powers they respectively
possess are not of such a nature as to act on
each other. This difference in the reciprocal
attractive powers of different bodies is the gene­
ral cause of chemical action; for when bodies
possessing various degrees of chemical affinity
towards each other are placed in circum­
stances that enable them to exert their respec­
tive attractions, those elements that possess
the strongest reciprocal affinities unite, and
leave the particles with which they were pre­
viously combined; and the result of this new
arrangement will be a fresh compound, fre­
quently possessing completely different proper­
ties from those ofany of the bodies brought into
action.
If in the foregoing brief explanation of che­
mical affinity we have succeeded in rendering
that chief agent of chemical action intelligible,
little difficulty will arise in understanding the
causes of the phenomena to be hereafter ad­
duced in illustration of this part of our subject.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. J
It will be found that the change, the decom­
position, and the apparent annihilation of bodies
are merely the effects of different combinations
among the ultimate atoms of matter, resulting
from their respective attractions. The rapidity
with which these phenomena are produced, de­
pends upon the degree of attraction subsisting
between the particles of the bodies brought into
action ; but whether these changes are effected
by the slowprogress oftime, or by instantaneous
combustion, the cause that produces them is the
same; and we shall find that, in every known
instance of decomposition, the elementary par­
ticles of matter have undergone no diminution,
and that it is not possiblefor them to be changed
or destroyed.
8 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
SOLUTION. 9
CHAPTER II.
SOLUTION.
T he process ofsolution presents the simplest ex­
emplification of the power of chemical affinity.
The only condition requisite to effect solution
is, that the solvent should possess a sufficient
degree of affinity to the substance to be dis­
solved, to overcome the attraction of cohesion
among its particles. In some instances the at­
tractive power of the solvent liquid is so weak
that it cannot act upon the body to be dissolved
until the attraction of cohesion existing between
the particles of the latter is diminished, by re­
ducing it to an impalpable powder. Even in
this case, however, it is requisite that the che­
mical affinity subsisting between the solvent and
the body to be dissolved be sufficiently power­
ful to overcome the cohesive attraction of the
minute particles of the powder, or no solution
would take place; and this condition is indis­
pensably necessary to solution, whatever be the
nature of the solvent or of the body acted on.
The phenomena of solution afford some of the
most obvious illustrations of complete changes
produced in bodies without causing their de­
struction ; yet we are somuch accustomed to see
these changes, that though the substances dis­
solved can no longer be recognised, and are
rendered perfectly invisible in their new con­
dition, we never for a moment suppose that any
particle of them is lost
The solution of a lump of sugar in a cup of
tea may be adduced as a familiar illustration.
The hard crystallised sugar is dropped into the
tea, and after a short interval it wholly disap­
pears. Were a person to witness such a phe­
nomenon for the first time, he would consider the
sugar to be totally lost, and he might be dis­
posed to attribute its disappearance to magic.
We are, however, so well acquainted with the
process, that we cease to regard the phenomenon
as worthy of notice, and feel confident the sugar
has lost none of its properties by the chemical
action, which renders it imperceptible to the
organs of sight and touch. If the lump of
sugar be dissolved in a glass of water, we may
perceive the solid crystallised mass gradually
disappear, until no visible indication of its ex­
istence remains, and the water will then appear
aslimpid as at first The presence of the sugar
may, however, be detected, not only by the
taste, but by the weight ofthe water, which will
be found to have increased in exact proportion
to the weight of the sugar dissolved. The sac­
charine matter may, indeed, be reproduced in a
10 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
SOLUTION. 11
solid form, by evaporating the solution to dry­
ness, when the residue will consist of crystals of
sugar, which will be found to weigh exactly the
same as the original lump. The sugar in this
case is not, indeed, reproduced in the identical
form that it previously possessed, but it is in all
respects, with the exception ofthe arrangement
of its particles, the same as before solution; and
the resemblance might be made more close by
conducting the process of evaporation in a ves­
sel that would bring the crystals, as they form,
into contact, by which means they would com­
pose a solid lump.
The foregoing is an illustration of one of the
most simple changes produced in the consti­
tution of bodies bychemical action. In conse­
quenceofthe frequent recurrence of the process
it fails to make any impression on the mind, and
we may be disposed to wonder that it should
excite observation. Yet the change the sugar
undergoes is so great, and it is in appear­
ance so completely destroyed, that if we had no
means ofdetecting its presence in the water, we
might imagine that solution was identical with
annihilation.
We will adduce another and less familiar in­
stance of the total disappearance ofa solid body
by solution. If a piece of silver be immersed in
diluted nitric acid, the affinity of the acid to the
metal willoccasion them to unite; a brisk action
will ensue, and in a short time the silver will be
entirely dissolved. The liquid will remain as
limpid as before, and will present no difference
in its appearance, to indicate a change. What,
then, has become ofthe solid piece of silver that
was placed in the liquid ? Its hardness, its lus-
tre, its tenacity, its great specific gravity, all the
characteristics that distinguished it as a metal,
are gone ; its very form has vanished ; and the
hard,splendid,ponderous,andopaque metal,that,
but a few minutes since, was immersed in the
mixture, is apparently annihilated. Must we
conclude that the metal is destroyed, because
its presence is inappreciable by oursenses? We
might, perhaps, be disposed to arrive at such
a conclusion, if we were unacquainted with the
means of restoring the silver to its metallic
state, or were ignorant of any test that might
indicate its presence in the fluid; or were un­
able, from analogous phenomena, to infer that its
elementary particles exist unchanged, and have
merely undergone a different state of combin­
ation. Chemical science, however, not only
affords us innumerable analogical proofs that the
metal is not destroyed, but enables us to repro­
duceit from the solution,undiminishedin weight,
and possessing the lustre and other properties
by which it was previously distinguished; and
thus to place the question ofits being suspended
in the liquid beyond the possibility of a doubt.
12 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
SOLUTION. 13
The reproduction of the silver may be effected
by introducing some pieces of copper into the
solution, to which metal the acid has a stronger
affinity than to the silver; and the latter will
consequently be disengaged, and fall to the
bottom in small brilliant metallic crystals. The
quantity thus deposited will be found to corre­
spond exactly with the weight of the metal dis­
solved, and if the minute particles be melted
and cast into the same shape that the piece of
silver presented before solution, it will be repro­
duced, not only the same in substance, and
endued with the same properties it possessed
before its disappearance in the acid, but even in
its pristine form.
It would be of little avail to multiply illus­
trations of the phenomena of solution, for the
purpose of showing that this process does not
destroy the particles of matter. The two in­
stances already adduced will sufficiently answer
our purpose, though they constitute two only
out of innumerable examples that might be pro­
duced in proofof the same indisputable fact.
Before we dismiss this branch of our subject,
however, it may be as well to direct attention to
the fact, that though solution is one of the
simplest processesof nature, the limited faculties
of man will not permit him to comprehend the
mode in which it operates. We are enabled to
discover the proximate cause of the process,
and to ascertain that the action of the solvent
upon the body to be dissolved is produced by
the chemical attractions subsisting between their
elementary atoms; but of the nature of that at­
traction, and of the manner in which it acts, we
are profoundly ignorant. In the more intricate
phenomena investigated bythe chemist, even the
proximate causes of their action can only be
conjectured; still less can he discover the
ultimate modes of operation by which their
processes are conducted. There is not one
phenomenon of nature that the mind of man
can fully comprehend; and after pursuing the
inquiry as far as his mental capacity will admit,
he is still obliged to confess that there is an
operating power beyond the reach of his com­
prehension. It is of importance in our re­
searches, that we should bear in mind the utter
incapacity of man to penetrate the hidden
mysteries of nature, lest we be induced to
mistake the low level of human knowledge for
the summit of omniscience, and should run into
the common error of concluding that whatever is
incomprehensible to our limited faculties must
be impossible.
14 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
EVAPORATION. 15
CHAPTER III.
EVAPORATION.
The phenomena of evaporation might, strictly
speaking, be classed with those ofsolution ; but
as the terra solution is commonly understood to
apply to the action of a fluid on a solid body,
we prefer, in the present inquiry, to limit it to
its common acceptation, and to treat those phe­
nomena connected with the solution of fluids in
aeriform bodies under a separate head.
If the disappearance of a solid substance when
immersed in a liquid be calculated to excite
surprise, and to induce the beliefthat it has been
destroyed, such an impression is still more likely
to be produced by the disappearance of a liquid
inthe atmosphere,withoutthe slightestindication
whither it has vanished. We see, for instance,
a drop of rain fall upon the window, we watch
it attentively, and perceive itgradually diminish,
until the last faint trace ofit is lost; —and who
can tell, from superficial observation, that it is
not lost for ever? Can annihilation be appa­
rently more complete ? In the case of the bodies
lost by solution, though the solid substance dis­
appears, yet the menstruum in which it is dis­
solved remains; but in this case there is no
apparent menstruum with which the water could
have mingled; and if we were ignorant of the
existence of an aeriform invisible fluid around
us, we could not conceive the possibility of the
continued existence ofa substance, every particle
of which we have seen melt away into seeming
nothingness, without leaving a trace to mark
where it had been.
A knowledge of the nature and properties of
air, however, enables us to explain this pheno­
menon, and to ascertain that the water has only
undergone a species of comminution, and has
not even been separated into the simpleelements
of which it is composed.
If any doubt be entertained of this fact, it
may easily be removed by the following simple
experiment: — Let a drop of water fall into a
dry and clean Florence flask, which should be
then tightly corked and placed in a warm room.
In a short space of time the drop ofwater will
have disappeared, and if the temperature of the
room be sufficiently hot, the flask will afford no
indication of the presence of water, and will ap­
pear to be perfectly dry. If the flask be then re­
moved into acolder temperature, the vapour will
be condensed, and appear on the sides of the
flask in minute globules, which, if collected,
will be found exactly equal to the drop of water
first placed within the bottle.
16 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
EVAPORATION. 17
The same process is continually going on in
nature. The water on the surface of the earth
is constantlyevaporating; and, so long as the air
is sufficiently heated to retain it in a state of va­
pour, the aqueous particles in the atmosphere
are invisible. When a change of temperature
occurs, the vapouriscondensed, and forms cloud,
fog, or dew, according to the manner and the
situation in which the condensation takes place.
The clouds are further condensed by subsequent
change of temperature, until the minute particles
composing them are united into drops; and the
water, which appeared to suffer annihilation in its
conversion into invisible vapour, again assumes
its original form, and, descending to the earth
in rain, refreshes its parched surface, and gives
additional vigour to the whole vegetable crea.
tion.
The effect ofevaporation depends, in the same
manner asthat of solution, upon chemical attrac­
tion ; and is caused by the affinity subsisting be­
tween the particles of the air and those of the
liquid evaporated. The liquid is thus dissolved
in the atmosphere precisely in the same manner
that solids are dissolved in fluids; and the attrac­
tions subsisting between different liquid bodies
and air, and between air in different states of
the atmosphere and the same liquid, vary nearly
to the same extent as the chemical affinities be­
tween liquids and solids.
c
Air possesses a much stronger affinity to alco­
hol(spirits ofwine) than to water, and the former
consequently evaporates much more rapidly than
the latter. If a mixture of spirits of wine and
water be, therefore, exposed to the air, it will,
in a short space of time, be found to have lost a
large portion ofthe alcohol; and if the exposure
be continued, nearly the whole of the spirit will
be dissipated in air, whilst the greater portion of
the water will remain. This process, when quick­
ened by the application of heat, and the adapt­
ation of proper apparatus for condensing and
preserving the product, is termed distillation.
A portion of water will always be carried away
with the alcohol; and when the spirit is required
to be strong, the distillation must be repeated
again and again, until the alcohol becomes as
free from water as it can be made by this
process.
The residuum, after the exposure to the air,
or the distillation, of a mixture of alcohol and
water, is found to have lost nearly all its more
volatile particles. The alcohol has separated it­
selffrom the water, has entered into combination
with the air, and, in the case of distillation, has
been reproduced in nearly itsformer purity, after
having been freed from the grosser particles with
which it was previously united. Thus, we per­
ceive that, so far from any destruction of the
more subtile properties of the mixture having
18 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
EVAPORATION. 19
taken place, as might be imagined from its dis­
appearance, the result of the process has been
merely to separate the grosser liquid from the
more subtile, and to restore the latter to its un­
diluted and ethereal state. Not one atomofthe
fluid has been destroyed, nor have its elementary
-particles suffered the least change by the various
combinations into which they have entered.
We shall adduce one other instance of evapor­
ation, which we consider worthy of notice, be­
cause it shows that one ofthe heaviest substances
in nature may be converted into vapour, and
made to float in the atmosphere, invisible to the
human eye. If a small quantity of mercury be
placed in a crucible on the Are, the liquid metal,
on becoming heated, will begin to evaporate;
and, on attaining a temperature of about 660° of
Fahrenheit, it will become in a state of ebulli­
tion, and tiie vapour will issue from it with great
rapidity, until the whole of the mercury in the
crucible disappears. As the mercury, however,
requires a strong heat for its retention in a state
of vapour, it rapidly condenses on coming in
contact with the cool air, and falls in minute
globules on surrounding substances in its natural
liquid metallic form. The process ofevaporation,
nevertheless, has been completely effected; and
if the temperature of the air were raised to the
boiling point of mercury, that ponderous metallic
body would be retained permanently in an aéri-
c 2
form state, and would appear to be entirely de­
stroyed.
The foregoing illustrations of the phenomena
of evaporation and distillation will be sufficient
to show that those processes neither destroy nor
change the elements of the substances operated
on ; and that, in the case ofdistillation, the effect
of the apparent change in the constitution of the
bodies subject to them is, to separate the more
subtile from its combination with the grosser
fluid, without diminishing the quantity of either.
It would be incompatible with the nature ofthe
present work to do more than adduce two or
three illustrations of each of the subjects dis­
cussed; but similar results are produced, in
whatever manner the processes may be con­
ducted. However various the nature ofthe sub­
stances dissolved, or of the liquids evaporated,
the chemist is enabled to trace the original ele­
ments through all their varieties ofcombination,
and to detect their existence even when they
have assumed a form that veils them from the
cognisance of the organs of sensation.
20 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
RAREFACTION. 21
CHAPTER IV.
RAREFACTION.
The processes of solution and evaporation have
been shown, in the preceding chapters, to pro­
duce only different arrangements in the particles
of matter, whilst the elements of matter remain
unaltered. Solid bodies disappear in the sol­
vent, and reappear when the solvent has been
evaporated : liquids are dissipated into invisible
vapour, and are again condensed into their ori­
ginal forms on the abstraction of the heat by
which they were vaporised. By the process
we are now about to investigate, the dissipation
ofthe particles of matter is more complete than
in the foregoing : the compound substances
operated on are separated into their elements,
one of which is converted by the operation into
a permanently elastic and invisible gas.
The conversion of water into gas is the first
instance of rarefaction we shall adduce. If a
known quantity of water be boiled in a closed
vessel, and the steam permitted to pass through
a red-hot tube, the end of which is inserted into
a basin of cold water, the steam that is formed
will be merely condensed. The temperature of
the water in the basin, however, will rapidly
c 3
QQ THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
increase, until it becomes too hot to condense a
further quantity of steam ; and it will be found
to have gained in weight in exact proportion
to the loss of the boiling water. If a quan­
tity of fresh iron turnings be then forced into
the heated tube, and the experiment be re­
peated, a number of bubbles will rise through
the water, in rapid succession, from the end of
the tube. These bubbleswill emit a strong, dis­
agreeable smell; the temperature of the water in
the basin willbe scarcely changed ; and its quan­
tity will not be in the least degree augmented,
though the boiling water will be diminished.
This important difference in the results of the
same experiment arises entirely from the intro­
duction ofthe iron turnings, which willbe found
to have lost their metallic lustre, and to be
coated with a black scaly substance.
This process appears to present, at first view,
a perfect instance of annihilation. The water
boiled in the closed vessel is diminished in quan­
tity ; yet there has been no vapour produced, nor
is the water existing, as water, in any other
form. The only perceptible product of the
operation is the formation of a noxious gas,
bearing not the least resemblance to, but being,
on the contrary, the very opposite of water in
all its properties. In the first place it is about
11,500 times lighter than that fluid, and is
even 14 times lighter than the air of the atmo-
RAREFACTION. 2d
sphere ; it cannot, by any ordinary means, be
condensed into a liquid; it is not only disagree­
able to the organs of smell, but it is highly dele­
terious in its effects upon the human frame, if
inhaled into the lungs; and, to make the dis­
tinction between this gas and water still more
marked, it is one of the most inflammable sub­
stances in nature.
Is it possible for the properties of any two
substances, therefore, to be more dissimilar than
those of hydrogen gas and water ? and must it
not appear, to those who are ignorant of the
composition of that fluid, extravagantly absurd
to assert that hydrogen gas forms the principal
component part of that fluid ? We learn, how­
ever,from the science of chemistry thatthisisthe
fact; and that, in the experimentjust adduced,
the elements of which the boiling water is com­
posed have passed through the process without
undergoing even the slightest change, however
great may be the difference between the com­
pound and its separate elements.
To explain the nature of the change that the
water has undergone, it wiH be necessary to pre­
mise that that fluid is composed of two ele­
mentary substances, calledoxygen and hydrogen,
in the proportion of eight parts by weight of the
former, and one part of the latter. These sub­
stances are unknown to us in their simple states;
and the only form in which they can be ob-
c 4
tained, unmixed with other bodies, is that of an
invisible gas. As all gases, however, are sup­
posed to owe their permanent elasticity to heat,
with which their bases are presumed to be
united ; oxygen gas and hydrogen gas are, con­
sequently, not simple substances. Oxygen and
hydrogen gases possess a very strong affinity to
each other, and, when placed in circumstances
that favour their union, they quickly separate
from the heat which retains them in a gaseous
form, and the product of their union is water in
its purest state. This combination is effected so
rapidly, that the heat and light that were united
with the bases of the two gases, on being liber­
ated, become veryperceptible ; and when amix­
ture of hydrogen and oxygen gases is ignited,
their rapid chemical action produces a loud
explosion.
When oxygen and hydrogen are thus che­
mically combined, they cannot be separated by
the most minute division of their particles—not
even when assuming the form of an invisible
vapour $ and it is only when brought into con­
tact with some other substance, to which the
hydrogen or oxygen has a stronger affinity than
they reciprocally possess, that the decomposi­
tion of the water can be effected. In the first
arrangement of the previous experiment, there­
fore, before the introduction of the iron turnings
iuto the tube, no separation of the elements of
24 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
RAREFACTION. 25
the vapour took place, because they did not
comein contact with any substance to which the
oxygen or hydrogen possessed greater attraction
than they do to each other. By the introduc­
tion ofthe iron turnings, however, in the second
arrangement, the oxygen of the heated vapour
comes in contact with a substance to which it
has superior attraction than it has to hydrogen,
and it immediately leaves the hydrogen, to unite
with the iron ; and the hydrogen, having ac­
quired sufficient beat, in passing through the
red-hot tube, to assume a gaseous form, rises
through the water as a permanently elastic
fluid.
The black scales observable on the iron turn­
ings are composed of the oxygen in its new
combination with iron, in which state it forms
what chemists term an oxide of iron. This oxide
consistsoftwenty-eightparts by weightofoxygen
and seventy-two parts of iron; and it will bo
found that the metal with which the oxygen has
combined has increased in weight in exact pro­
portion to the weight of the oxygen that was
contained in the waterthat has been decomposed.
The oxygen may be separated from the metal
by bringing it in contact with some other sub­
stance to which it has a greater attraction than
it possesses to the iron. It may be even made
to unite again with the hydrogen, by subjecting
it to a higher degree of heat; which increase of
gfj THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
temperature will have the effect of weakening
the attraction of oxygen to the iron, and will
render the reciprocal attractions between the
hydrogen and oxygen stronger than the attrac­
tion between the latter and iron. If) for instance,
the hydrogen gas, as it issues from the tube
during the decomposition of water, were col­
lected in a glassjar, and the oxidised iron turn­
ings were carefully collected and placed within
it, and the rays of the sun, concentrated in the
focus of a powerful lens, were then directed
upon the oxide, the oxygen would leave the iron
to unite with the hydrogen, and would again
become chemically combined with it in the form
of water. The iron, on parting with the oxygen,
would be restored to its metallic lustre, but its
weight would be decreased. This experiment
might be repeated again and again with the
same quantity of water ; and, if it could be per­
formed with sufficient accuracy, the identical
drops of water might be converted into steam,
then decomposed, and, after their elements had
assumed the opposite forms of a gas, and of a
solid body in union with iron, they might be
again united and reproduced in their original
form, possessing their original properties, with­
out one particle having been either lost or
altered.
We shall adduce a few more examples of the
conversion of solid bodies into aeriform invisible
RAREFACTION. 27
gases, for the purpose of giving further illustra­
tion to this interesting branch of our subject
If a known quantity of red lead (oxideoflead)
be placed in a retort and subjected to a strong
heat aquantity ofgas will be generated, and the
substance remaining in the retort will befound to
be diminished in weight. If the gas be carefully
collected in a proper apparatus, and weighed,
the weight of the gas will correspond with that
lost by the oxide. This invisible product, separ­
ated from the metal, is the same gas that con­
stitutes the vital part of our atmosphere, and
which forms the principal supporter of life and
of combustion, though it is not cognisable by
our senses. The base of this gas was before
chemically combined with the lead, until the
affinities of the oxygen and the metal were
overcome by the agency of heat. The effect of
the decomposition of the red oxide of lead has,
therefore, been merely to produce a separation
between the lead and the more subtile matter
with which it was combined, and to liberate the
oxygen in a form that will enable it to contribute
towards the support of animal and vegetable
creation.
AH other combinations of oxygen with a me­
tallic base may be decomposed by subjecting
them to the action of bodies whose attraction to
oxygen, or to the metal, is greater than that
which they reciprocally possess. In these cases,
the metals may frequently be restored to their
lustre and other metallic properties, which were
lost in their oxidised state; and the oxygen will
either enter into some other solid compound, or
become an invisible elastic gas.
Again: if powdered marble be inserted in an
earthenware retort,and intensely heated, a quan­
tity of gas will be evolved; and this gas, if col­
lected and weighed, will be found to correspond
with the weight lost by the marble during its
calcination. The gas produced in this experi­
ment is called carbonic acid, or carbonic acid
gas, and it possesses very different properties
from either oxygen or hydrogen gases. It is
considerably heavier, it has an acid taste, is
devoid of smell, is fatal to animals, and extin­
guishes flame. By the abstraction of this gas
the properties of the marble are materially
changed; for it is then converted into caustic
quicklime, capable of corroding animal sub­
stances, and possesses so strong an attraction
to water, as to be able to absorb one third its
weight ofthat fluid, and to retain it in a state of
solidity.
If the caustic quicklime produced by this pro­
cess, and the gas evolved from it, be brought
into contact, without being heated, the lime will
rapidly absorb the gas; the caustic properties of
28 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
RAREFACTION. 29
the lime will be destroyed, it will be restored to
the condition of powdered marble, and the gas
will be again united with it in the form ofa solid
compound. This experiment, likethe preceding
ones, might, by possibility, be repeated for ever,
without the lossor change, during the apparently
destructive processes to which the lime is sub­
jected, ofany portion ofthe elements employed.
It would be foreign to our object to multiply
illustrations to prove that solid bodies may be
converted into permanently elastic aëriform
fluids, without any diminution of their consti­
tuent eleménts. Those facts we have already
noticed are sufficient to show that the process
of rarefaction, even in those cases that appear
most strongly to countenance the supposition of
annihilation, merely produces a fresh arrange­
ment of the particles of matter that compose the
compound substances from which the gases are
generated.
The phenomena that have been adverted to
in this chapter present, we conceive, strong ana­
logical evidence in support of the belief in a
future life, and at the same time tend to remove
the objections that have been advanced against
the immortality of the soul.
One of the objections that has been urged
against the probability of the existence of the
soul after death is, the utter incapacity of the
human faculties to comprehend by what means
SO THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
the sentient principle,-which during corporeal
life is so intimately connected with the body,
can exist in a separate and detached state, want­
ing the organs of perception, which seem to
constitute the essence of life. This subject is
one of the many that at present exceed the
bounds of our comprehension ; and we cannot,
perhaps, expect that it should ever, by the ut­
most stretch of our reasoning powers, be made
intelligible to our limited faculties. But when
we ascertain, from the clearest possible evidence,
that changes take place in nature nearly equally
surprising with those that occur on death, with­
out producing, in the former case, any destruc­
tion or change in the matter operated on ; when
we perceive the elementary particles of bodies
reassuming,on decomposition, their simple states,
or existing in new forms, the very opposite of
those exhibited in their previous combinations;
we cannot fail to observe in these phenomena an
analogy to that more important separation of
elements which, it is contended, occurs between
the sentient principle of man and his corporeal
frame, when the latter ceases to live. And, fur­
ther, when we find that we are unable to enter­
tain the most distant conception of the ultimate
modes of operation by which these changes are
effected—when the ulterior causes of the mate­
rial processes that we are ourselves conducting
are veiled in impenetrable obscurity,—we can
. RAREFACTION. 31
scarcely presume, in the consideration of the
operations ofthose subtile or immaterial essences
that are not cognisable to the senses, to erect
our ignorance as the boundary of knowledge,
and refuse to believe merely because we cannot
understand.
32 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
CHAPTER V.
NATURAL DECOMPOSITION.
The processes that have hitherto been noticed,
as affording illustrations of the indestructibility
of matter, in circumstances that present the
most striking appearances of annihilation, have
been derived from chemical action artificially
induced. We shall, in this chapter, enter the
grand laboratory of Nature, and draw from
thence some additional evidence of the import­
ant truth that matter is indestructible.
The fallen leaves decaying on the ground, the
mouldering ruins, the crumbling rocks, even
the revolting spectacle of animal corruption,
and every other variety of form in which the
“ all-destroying hand of Time” indicates decay
and seeming annihilation, sofar from really tend­
ing to weaken the position we are endeavouring
toestablish,may be broughtforwardtostrengthen
and support it.
In the first place, let us consider what takes
place on the decomposition of vegetable matter.
The principal substances of which all vege­
tables are composed are, hydrogen, oxygen, and
carbon. Though the different species of vege­
NATURAL DECOMPOSITION. 33
tables that have been discovered exceed 60,000,
they are all composed ofthe same, or nearly the
same, ingredients in different proportions. In
some vegetable products, indeed, which possess
very different properties, these proportions vary
in so trifling a degree as to be scarcely distin-
guished bychemicalanalysis; and it is impossible
to conceive how such important variations in the
characters of compounds, so nearly approaching
each other in theircomposition, can be produced.
Starch, gum, and sugar, for instance, are vege­
table products of very distinct characters; yet
the analysis ofeach afiords the same ingredients,
and in proportions differing only in the most
trifling degree.
In living vegetables the carbon is disseminated
through theplant inallthe ramificationsofwoody
fibre, and it is also mixed with the hydrogen
and oxygen in forming the juices that circulate
through the leaves and branches. The decom­
position of vegetable matter is caused by the
separation of the oxygen, hydrogen, and car­
bon of which it is composed, from their exist­
ing combinations, and by their combining in
different proportions with the same, or forming
an union withother elements. Vegetable matter,
when thus decomposed, becomes the nutriment
of other plants, and contributes to the never-
ending renovation of nature. When the genial
warmth of summer, that enabled the noble oak
D
of the forest to secrete and raise its sap, is with­
drawn, the tree sheds its leaves on the ground,
where they decay and seem to perish; but, ere
the returning warmth renews vegetation, those
leaves are converted, by new combinations of
their elements, into rich manure, and, probably,
some portion of them will again contribute to the
growth and support oftheir parent tree. When,
in the course ofyears, the mighty oak itself falls
to the earth, and the returning summer no longer
brings with it renewed foliage to the decayed
trunk, whichliesgradually rotting on the ground,
even then, the process of decay is but a more
extended process of renovation; and when the
action of the air shall have crumbled the timber
into dust, itwill form a portion ofthe soil, whence
other trees will derive their nourishment.
Not one particle of the matter is lost in these
changes. It is true, we cannot reproduce the
plants in the same forms; it surpasses human
skill to construct atree, or to mould the smallest
of its leaves; but the elementary substances
of which they are composed can be proved to
exist, undiminished and unaltered by decay and
decomposition. We are enabled to ascertain
that tffe elements continue unchanged, but of
the manner in which they are again employed in
the formation of other organised beings we are
equally ignorant as we are of the modes by
which the Author of Nature first called them
34 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
NATURAL DECOMPOSITION. 35
into existence; though of the fact that the dis­
organised elements remain uninjured, and are
again employed in the organisation of other
living beings, we possess the most conclusive
evidence.
The decomposition of jnorganised bodies by
the hand of Time generally occupies too long a
period to enable us to investigate the results of
the process, with a view to ascertain whether
any of the particles of matter have been lost;
but, from a knowledge of the results attending
experiments producing more rapid decomposi­
tion of the same matter, we may safely draw the
conclusion that the decompositions of time, like
those of art, are merely the effects of a different
arrangement of the elementary particles com­
posing the decayed bodies. When a piece of
iron, for instance, is reduced to rust by the ac­
tion ofacids, we can determine, from the product
of the decompo'sition, that the iron, instead of
being destroyed, has its weight increased by the
absorption of oxygen, and that not a particle of
the metal has been lost by the process. If,
then, we perceive a piece of iron corroded by
long exposure to the atmosphere, and nearly
eaten away with rust, we conclude that the same
chemical attraction which was exeited to de­
compose the water of the acid, and caused the
oxygen to unite with the iron, hasbeen operating
in a slower degree in decomposing the moisture
of the atmosphere, and in reducing the iron to
an oxide, that has crumbled away, and left
scarcely any of the iron remaining in its me­
tallic state. In the latter, as in the former case,
we infer that no portion of the metal has been
lost; and we feelpersuaded that if the crumbling
particles of the corroded iron could be collected,
and restored to a metallic state by the expulsion
of the oxygen, they would be found to equal the
original quantity of the metal before decompo­
sition.
The decomposition of animal substances is
attended with phenomena of a more disgusting
character than those accompanying the decay
of inanimate matter; but the evidence it affords,
so far as it can be obtained, of the indestructi­
bility of matter, is as conclusive in this appa­
rently annihilating process as in any otherbranch
of chemistry. Animal substances are, however,
so extremely complicated in their compositions,
and the affinities of the numerous compound
substances that enter into their formation are
so difficult to determine, that little is known
respecting the chemical actions that regulate
the functions of the body.
The principal ingredients of which animal
matter iscomposed are ascertained to be oxygen,
hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen. Of the nature
of the latter substance, we have, indeed, scarcely
any satisfactory knowledge, though it forms one
30 th e indestructibility of m atter.
of the principal constituent parts .of many im­
portant substances, and, in the shape of gas,
constitutes four fifths of the volume of atmo­
spheric air. With these four elementary bo­
dies various others are combined, and form a
number of intricately compound products. In
the human body there are secreted upwards of
twenty different kinds of fluids, and the variety
of solid substances of which it is formed are
nearly equallynumerous; therefore the difficulty
of detecting the elements of each ofthese com­
ponent parts, in their united decomposition,
amounts almost to an impossibility : and the re­
volting nature ofexperiments with putrid matter,
and the danger attending them, have also de­
terred chemists from investigating the subject
The products of animal decomposition, how­
ever, when carefully collected, are found to be
equivalent in weight to the aggregate mass be­
fore putrefaction ; and, so far as the inquiry
has been pursued, we have the strongest reason
to infer that the effect of the putrefactive pro­
cess, like that of other chemical actions, is only
to produce a change in the combinations of the
elements on which it operates.
This change in animal matter appears to be
caused, in the first instance, by the absorption of
moisture from the atmosphere, and the decom­
position of the moisture absorbed, by the aid of
heat. The process of fermentation then con).
d 3
NATURAL DECOMPOSITION. 37
mences; the gelatinous and mucilaginous solids
are resolved into fluids, and the multitudinous
compounds are brought together in a condition
favourable for the developement of the affinities
of their respective elements. Various gases are
evolved, some ofwhich yielda mostfoetid smell;
and those portions only of the body remain that
are not volatile, and they are dried up in a friable
state, and crumble at the touch.
That moisture and heat are essential to the
commencement of the putrefactive process, is
ascertained from the circumstance that animal
matter may be kept for an indefinite length of
time when the temperature is reduced below the
freezing point: and, again, when dead bodies
are exposed to a high temperature, until all the
animal fluids are expelled, no putrefaction takes
place, and in this state they are frequently pre­
served for centuries. The effect of charcoal,
salt, and other antiseptic substances, in counter­
acting putrefaction, may be attributed to their
absorption of water, or oxygen, and thereby
checking the decomposition of the moisture, that
would otherwise induce putrefaction. The
whole process of putrefactive fermentation is,
indeed, strictly a chemical one; and, though we
are unable to trace all its causes and effects, yet
we know sufficient to enable us to infer that it
resembles all other chemical actions, and merely
resolves the elements of organic matter into
38 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
NATURAI. DECOMPOSITION. 39
other compounds, whilst those elements remain,
in every respect, unchanged and undiminished.
We are thus enabled to obtain, even from the
dissolution of the body itself, a corroboration of
the evidence of the indestructibility of the ele­
ments of which it is composed.
When it is asserted that the decomposition of
the animal frame after death produces only a
new arrangement of the particles of matter, and
that the elements composing the body remain
unchanged and indestructible, it may be ob­
jected that the product of the decomposition
bears no resemblance to the original body, and
that, as the particles of matter cannot be again
brought into the same combinations, and ar­
ranged in the same forms, the body is in fact
destroyed. The organised form, it is true, is
destroyed, and cannot be restored by human
power. The simplest of organised beings are
far too complicated in their arrangement, and
too delicately and beautifully elaborate in their
parts, for the ingenuity of man to equal; and
they afford ample evidence of the supreme wis­
dom of the Author of Nature, by whose power
they were formed, sustained, and are destroyed.
But we know that the omniscient Creator of all
things always operates by the simplest means,
and is enabled to construct, out of a very few
elements, an apparently unlimited number of
compound substances. It is our present object
d
to show that none of those simple elements are
destroyed by decomposition j and, though the
differencebetween the compounds resultingfrom
the putrefactive process, and those with which
they were combined in the living body, is to us
soextreme that their identity is entirely lost, yet,
to the eye of Omniscience, the elements of
matter must be visible in every hidden form;
and we maypresume that, in every change those
elements undergo, they appear to Him the
same.
40 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
COMBUSTION. 41
CHAPTER VI.
COMBUSTION.
The process of combustion seems pre-eminently
to deserve the title ofdestructive, since there is
no change we can conceive it possiblefor bodies
to undergo that can produce so complete an
apparent destruction of the matter acted on.
There is not, however, any chemical process in
which the elements of the substances brought
into action can be more clearly shown to exist,
after their metamorphoses, undiminished and un­
altered, than in that of combustion; and we are
hence enabled toderive from the most active and
violent of chemical agents one of the strongest
proofs that the elements of bodies are imperish­
able.
The chemists of the last century explained
the phenomena of combustion by the supposi­
tion that all combustible bodies contain more or
less of an inflammable property, to which they
gave the name of phlogiston. They conceived
phlogiston to be composed of light and heat
united with some other matter; and that this
fiery principle, on being disengagedfrom inflam­
mable substances, became evident to the senses.
The lustre of metals was supposed to be caused
by this imaginary internal fire mingled in their
compositions; and the fact, that metals, after
having been subjected to heat— and were con­
sequently supposed to have parted with their
phlogiston—lost at the same time their metal­
lic splendour, tended to confirm this opinion.
When, on further investigation, it was found
that the calces of metals, as they were then
termed, to which we now give the name of
oxides, are heavier than the metals previous to
combustion —instead of having lost weight by
theprocess, asmight have been expected, on the
supposition that the metals had parted with a
portion of their constituent ingredients — the
advocates of the phlogistic theory attempted to
overcome the difficulty by assuming that phlo­
giston was possessed of absolute levity, and that
the abstraction of it from any body made that
substance heavier than before, in consequence
of the loss of the lightness, or of the anti-gravi­
tating principle, ofthe phlogiston.
Ridiculous as this hypothesis now appears, it
continued for a series of years to be considered
as an established truth ; and, even long afterthe
experiments of Lavoisier and of Dr. Black had
shown the fallacy of the reasoning on which it
was founded, the supporters of the phlogistic
theory of combustion, among the foremost of
42 THE INDESTHUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
COMBUSTION. 43
whom was Dr. Priestley, continued stoutly to
assert the correctness of their opinions.
Even at the present day, the scientific world
is divided in opinion respecting the nature of
heat and the phenomena of combustion. Some
philosophers maintain that heat is an extremely
subtile fluid, that is capable of insinuating itself
between the ultimate atoms of all substances $
whilst others conceive that heat and light have
no existence as material bodies, and are merely
the result of peculiar motions among the parti­
cles of matter: these motions of the molecules
of matter are supposed to produce the sensations
and effects of light and heat somewhat in the
same manner as peculiar motions of the air are
known to produce sound. It will not be neces­
sary, however, to enter into a disquisition on
the merits of these contending theories. The
phenomena that will be adduced, in illustration
of this branch ofour subject, will admitofa clear
explanation on either hypothesis ; and the con­
clusions to be drawn from them, respecting the
indestructibility of matter, are the same, which­
ever theory be adopted.
When a wax candle is lighted, and permitted
to burn till it is consumed, scarcely a particle
remains to indicate that the candle has ever
been. The solid wax and the cotton of the wick
have entirely disappeared j and their destruction
seems to be so complete, that to assert that the
materials of which the candle was formed re­
main the same, and have not suffered the least
diminution or change by the process, would be
generally considered as evidence of a deranged
intellect That this is the fact, however, can be
proved by the mostsatisfactory experiments. If,
for instance, a small wax taper be ignited in a
jar containing a known quantity of oxygen gas,
it will burn with a very brilliant light and the
volume ofgas will be diminished as the combus­
tion proceeds, until either the taper be burnt
out, or the oxygen gas be nearly consumed.
Suppose the quantity of gas to have been suffi­
cient to admit of the entire consumption of the
taper, we should find, on weighing the product
in the jar after combustion, that its weight ex­
actly corresponded with that of the taper and of
the oxygen gas before ignition, and that not one
particle of matter had been lost.
We might carry the evidence still farther, and,
by a careful analysis ofthe aqueous and carbona­
ceous products in the jar, we might ascertain
that they agree precisely in properties, as wellas
in weight, with those elementary substances com­
posing the taper and the gas. Wax, forinstance,
consists of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, in
the proportion of about eighty parts by weight
of carbon, twelve of hydrogen, and eight of oxy­
gen, in every hundred parts. The cotton of the
wick is composed of the same elementary sub­
44 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
COMBUSTION. 45
stances, with a larger proportion of oxygen and
a smaller quantity of carbon. The principal
products of thé combustion of the wax taper in
oxygen gas will be found to consist ofwater and
of carbonic acid gas; and in these substances
we shall find united the elements of the taper
and of the oxygen of the gas.
Water, as was stated in a former chapter, is a
chemical compound of oxygen and hydrogen,
and carbonic acid gas is a compound of oxygen
and carbon ; therefore the result ofthe combus­
tion exhibits those three elementary substances,
—carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen—which com­
posed the wax taper, united into two distinct
binary compounds,— the hydrogen with the oxy­
gen, in the form of water; and the carbon with
the oxygen, in the form of carbonic acid gas.
Combustion, indeed, differs from other che­
mical actions only in the degree of energy with
which it is carried on ; and depends, like other
chemical changes, upon the reciprocal attrac­
tions exerted among the particles of matter
brought into operation. In the combustion of
the wax taper, the change produced is occasioned
by the strong affinity subsisting between the hy­
drogen and carbon of the wax and the oxygen
gas in the jar. When the hydrogen and carbon
composing the wax have been heated to the
point of inflammation—that is, when they have
been rendered, by expansion and increase of
temperature, capable ofexerting their attractions
to oxygen in the most energetic manner — a
rapid combination ensues, attended with the dis­
engagement of heat and light; and their recipro­
cal attractions will continue to exert themselves
in this manner, until the combustible body, or
the supporter ofcombustion, be consumed.
The cause of the heat and lightevolved during
this process is ascribed, by those philosophers
who imagine heat to be a subtile fluid pervading
all bodies, to the condensation of the oxygen
gas. All gases they conceive to be composed
of some base, united with a large proportion of
caloric, or the matter of heat, to which they owe
their elasticity and gaseous form. During com­
bustion, the oxygen that unites with the hydro­
gen ofthe wax, to form water, is thus condensed
from agas into a liquid; and the heat which was
necessary to maintain the oxygen in an aeriform
state is liberated, and becomes the object of
sensation. Upon the other hypothesis of com­
bustion, the heat and light are supposed to be
generated by the rapid internal motions of the
particles of bodies in arranging themselves in
their new chemical combinations. According
to both theories, however, combustion, so far
from being the cause of chemical action, is sup­
posed to be merely an adventitious phenomenon
consequent upon rapid decomposition. Our
present inquiry does not lead us to discuss the
4G the indesthuctibility of m atter.
COMBUSTION. 47
respective merits of these theories. They both
accord with the position, that the apparent de­
struction of matter by combustion is only a che­
mical change in the combinations of its ultimate
molecules, and that not one atom is really de­
stroyed by the process.
When combustion iscarried on in atmospheric
air, the effect produced is to abstract the oxygen
from the nitrogen of the atmosphere; for the
latter gas, not being a supporter of combustion,
is, consequently, not affected by the process.
The difference observable between combustion
in pure oxygen gas and in atmospheric air is
attributable to the greater rapidity with which
the supply of oxygen is conveyed to the com­
bustible in the former case than in the latter;
for, as the atmospheric air is composed of only
one fifth part of oxygen and four fifths of nitro­
gen, the combination ofoxygen with the burning
body proceeds but slowly in the air, compared
with the intensity of its action when surrounded
by the unadulterated oxygen gas. When the
supply of oxygen is accelerated by a blast of
air from a pair of bellows, as in a blacksmith’s
forge, the intensity of the heat is greatly in­
creased, and the fire then burns almost as bril­
liantly as if surrounded by an atmosphere of
pure oxygen gas.
The foregoing illustration of the phenome­
non of combustion, and the explanation of its
causes, are applicable to all cases of common
combustion. It may be advisable, however, to
adduce a few additional instances of the effects
of this species of chemical decomposition, for
the purpose of impressing still more forcibly the
important truth, that combustion is not, strictly
speaking, a destructive process.
All substances possessing affinity to oxygen
may be deemed combustible bodies ; and, in pro­
portion to the degree of their attraction to that
elementary principle, they are more or less in­
flammable. Even metals are not exceptions to
this rule, as may be proved by the following
experiment:—Let a piece offine music wire be
twisted in a spiral form, and be inserted into a
jar of oxygen gas, having previously attached a
small portion of lighted tinder to the end of the
wire: as soon as the tinder comes in contact
with the gas it will burn with great brilliancy
and inflame the wire, which will continue to
burn rapidly and vividly until the whole of it is
consumed. The product of the combustion
will be small globules of the black oxide of iron,
and the metal will have increased in weight in
exact proportion to the weight of the oxygen
gas consumed in the experiment.
The attraction of some of the newly disco­
vered metals to oxygen exceeds that subsisting
between oxygen and any other known sub­
stances ; and those metals are consequently the
48 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
COMBUSTION'. 49
most inflammable bodies with which we are ac­
quainted. The metal potassium possesses so
powerful an attraction for oxygen as to abstract
it from all substances. When potassium isplaced
upon water, it instantly decomposes that liquid,
and burns upon its surface. This evolution of
heat is produced by the rapid combination of
the potassium with the oxygen ofthe water, and
the metal then becomes an oxide of potassium ;
in which form it is commonly known as potass.
Potassium will even abstract oxygen from water
when the latter is frozen, and will exhibit,
during its combustion, the extraordinary phe­
nomenon of*ice on fire.
The inflammation of carburetted hydrogen
gas, with which the streets and shops of our
principal towns are now illuminated, differs es­
sentially in its apparent results from the com­
bustion of solid bodies. Carburetted hydrogen
gas is invisible, and is not perceptible to the
touch ; the air, that supports its combustion, is
also not cognizable to the senses of sight orfeel­
ing, and yet the combustion of these invisible
bodies produces a large quantity of liquid and
solid matter (water and soot), independently of
the invisible carbonic acid gas, which is also
generated during the process. In this case,
therefore, combustion exhibits itselfasa creative
instead of as a destructive agent, though, in
point of fact, the same causes, followed by si-
u
milar results, operate in this as in every other
instance of combustion. For the elucidation
of the causes of this phenomenon, it must be
borne in mind that carburetted hydrogen gas
is a compound of hydrogen and carbon in an
invisible elastic form ; and, during inflamma­
tion, the hydrogen and carbon of the gas unite
with the oxygen of the air in precisely the same
manner as the hydrogen and carbon of solid
combustible bodies —the hydrogen gas forming
water by its union with the oxygen, and the
carbon forming carbonic acid gas and soot.
The production of soot during the combination
is to be attributed to the imperfect combustion
of the carbon; — only a portion of it being en­
abled to assume a gaseous form, either owing
to the want of an adequate supply of oxygen, or
to the absence of sufficient heat.
In every form, and under every circumstance
that combustion takes place, the process will
uniformly be found, as in the illustrations we
have adduced, to becaused entirely by the active
decomposition of the combustible body. As
decomposition is, so far as we are able to dis­
cover, only the result of new combinations be­
tween the particles of bodies, the process of
combustion will, therefore, resolveitselfinto the
rapid disengagement of the elementary particles
of bodies from their original compounds, and
their re-arrangement, in different forms, with
50 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
COMBUSTION. 51
other elements. The heat emitted during the
process, so far from causing the destruction of
these elementary particles, is itselfgenerated, or
brought into action, by the operation of the re­
spective affinities which these particles possess
one towards the other. The heat evolvedduring
combustion is not produced until after the new
combinations are formed, and it is merely the
effect of which these energetic combinations are
the cause.
To illustrate thisposition, let us for a moment
consider more closely the successive stages of
the process of combustion, and we shall then be
convinced that the production of heat is subse­
quent to the chemical action that takes place
between the inflammable body and the supporter
of combustion. When a combustible is ignited,
the hydrogen and carbon in immediate contact
with the dame are rendered gaseous by the
heat, and are thereby adapted to enter into com­
bination with the oxygen of the surrounding
air. This combination, in consequence of the
force of their respective attractions, is so ener­
getic as to generate, or liberate, a quantity of
light and heat The heatthus evolved is suffi­
cient to bring those portions of the combustible,
next in contact, into a proper condition for com­
bining with more oxygen, and an additional
quantity of heat is thus liberated; this also
acting on succeeding portions, in a similar man-
e 2
5‘2 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
ner, and those again on others, the process
proceeds uninterruptedly until the whole of-the
combustible be consumed, or the supporter of
combustion be exhausted. Each successive
combination of the elements of the combustible
body with the oxygen, it will be perceived, pro­
duces the heat that facilitates the union of the
portion immediately following; and the heat
produced is the result of the immediately pre­
ceding combination with oxygen, and is not
evolved until that combination has been ef­
fected. So far as relates to the antecedent par­
ticles of matter, that have been united with
the oxygen, the process is concluded as soon as
the union ofthe elements takes place, from the
activity of which the heat arises; and if we
could divide the continuous process of combus­
tion into distinct operations, limited to each
separate combination of the particles of the
combustible with oxygen, the heat given out
would appear to be merely an adjunct to, and a
consequence of, the phenomenon, entirely un­
connected with its cause, of which it is only the
necessary effect.
When we thus view combustion as the effect,
and not as the cause, of rapid decomposition,'
fire loses all its terror as a destructive agent, and
serves rather to indicate the rapidity with which
new creations, consequent upon different com­
binations of the elements of bodies, are called
COMBUSTION. 53
into being, than to denote the destruction of
matter.
Independently of the proof which this view
of the agency of combustion affords of the im­
perishable nature of all material substance, it is
also valuable aspresenting an answerto those ob­
jections against a future life that are founded
on the supposed improbability of the sentient
principle survivingthe system of organisation by
which it is developed. If we were unable to
ascertain the nature of the changes effected
by combustion, and were obliged to form our
opinions solely from external appearances, the
balance of probabilities between the indestructi­
bility of matter by fire, and the indestructibility
of the soul by death would, we conceive, be
greatly in favour of the latter. The continued
existence of the particles of a combustible sub­
stance that has been, apparently, entirely con­
sumed by fire, seems so directly opposed to the
evidence of our senses, that unless we possessed
the most ample proofs of the fact, it might
well be considered impossible. In the presumed
existence of the soul after the dissolution of
the body, on the contrary, the internal evi­
dence is in its favour; for every one feels con­
scious that mind is something distinct from the
animal frame, and the natural inference conse­
quently is, that the mind is capable of a separate
existence. Ifour faculties were enabled to com-
e 3
prehend the nature of mind» we should, there is
no doubt, trace its existence, after the destruc­
tion of the material organisation with which it is
connected, in a manner equally certain, as we
are able to ascertain the indestructibility of com­
bustibles by fire; but the limited extent of our
intellectual faculties prevents the investigation
of such subtile essences. We can only pursue the
inquiry by analogy and induction from the ac­
tions of matter, yet the evidence thus obtained
may be so strong as almost to equal that ofposi­
tive proof. And when we find that facts in
physical science which can be clearly demon­
strated, appear to the unenlightened to be im­
possibilities, even those who possess the most
penetrating and well-stored minds should be
cautious how they express doubts respecting the
possibility or probability of the operations of
Nature; for the highest attainment of human
knowledge, when compared with Omniscience,
must be infinitely below the ignorance of the
most illiterate, in comparison with the acquire­
ments of the greatest philosophers.
54 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 55
CHAPTER VII.
GENERAL SUMMARY.
The important truth, that matter is indestruc­
tible, has been illustrated, in the preceding
chapters, by a variety of examples derived from
those chemical processes in which the substances
operated on are apparently destroyed. We com­
menced with the most simple form of chemical
action, and traced the existence ofthe elements
of matter through the varied combinations they
undergo in solution, evaporation, rarefaction,
decomposition, and combustion ; and, in each
example of these respective processes, the ul­
timate particles of matter were shown to be un­
altered by the changes in their outward forms,
and not to be in the least degree diminished
even by that most energetic of all chemical ac­
tions, which is accompanied by the phenomena
of combustion.
Each particular instance of the effects ofche­
mical action that has been noticed might be
adduced as analogical evidence that matter is
not destroyed by any other modes in which the
same processes may operate, even were each
illustration unsupported by other experiments.
We possess, however, abundance of corrobora-
e 4
tive proofs, founded on experience, in support
of the position that none of the processes we
have alluded to are destructive. The deduc­
tions from experience are considered more satis­
factory than any evidence short of that derived
from intuition ; and we rely with the greatest
confidence upon the recurrence of the same re­
sults that experience has taught us have, under
precisely similar circumstances, previously taken
place. When; for instance, we have satisfac­
torily ascertained that in the solution of a lump
of sugar not one particle of it is lost, we con­
clude, by reasoning from experience, that in all
subsequent similar solutions the saccharine mat­
ter will remain unchanged, and undiminished ;
and though we may not know the fact from ac­
tual experiment, we entertain no doubt on the
subject when we see other lumps of sugar dis­
solved. If, indeed, mankind could not depend
upon the results of experience, they would con­
tinually be in a state of the greatest uncertainty,
as they would be doubtful respecting the con­
sequences of the most simple actions; but we
learn, by seeing the same effects alwaysresulting
as natural consequences from the same causes,
to place the most implicit reliance upon that
evidence.
Experience, in the strict application of the
term, comprises only those facts which have
previously come within our observation ; and in
56 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY.
this sense the evidence of experience must ne­
cessarily be extremely limited. In the more
general acceptation of the term, however, it is
applied to those actions which on examination
will be found to depend for their verification on
analogy alone. We infer from the resemblances
which unknown substances bear to others which
wehave observed to obey a certain law, that they
are bodiesof the same kind, and that the untried
substances also will obey that law. We are
usually said to obtain this knowledge from ex­
perience ; but, strictly speaking, it is founded
on analogy; inasmuch as the qualities and che­
mical affinities of the new bodies operated on
are known only by their resemblances to others
on which experiment has been made. When,
for instance, I strike my hand against the table
on which I write, I know from experience of
the most intimate kind that it will meet with re­
sistance : when I relax my hold of my pen I
know with equal certainty it will fall. But
though I feel absolutely certain that the table
on which I am writing will offer resistance to
my hand, I cannot be supposed to be equally
certain that a table which I see for the first
time will offer the same resistance; and when
some solid body previously unknown is placed
in my hand, I can have no knowledge, from
actual experience, whether it will rise in the
air or fall to the ground, when I relax my
67
hold. The experience I have had, however,
respecting other tables and other solid bodies,
teaches me that they do resist my hand, and that
they are attracted to the earth by the power of
gravitation; and I conclude that the untouched
table and the unknown substance will be equally
substantial, and will obey the same laws.— I am
led to this conclusion respecting these unknown
substances, because the oneagrees in appearance
and the other in solidity, with those known bo*
dies which have been invariably found to exhibit
those properties which I expect to find them
possess ; and I have sofirm an impression in my
mind of the correctness of this inference, that
I should conceive the opposite opinion to be in
the highest degree absurd. The deductions in
these cases are, however, only founded on close
analogy.
This method of determining the properties of,
and of drawing conclusions respecting, things
unknown by their resemblances to things that
are known, is necessarily depended upon in all
branches of human knowledge; and when the
analogy is clear, and is supported by observation
of the laws which regulate similar bodies, the
deductions from it are as satisfactory as any evi­
dence we can require.
In the instances just adduced, the analogies
are very closely allied to the evidence of expe­
rience ; but until the table was touched and the
58 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 59
unknown body fell to the ground, strict experi­
ence was wanting to confirm the belief that the
table would offer resistance to the hand and that
the body would gravitate; and the deductions
founded on their resemblance to other bodies
was merely drawn from analogy.
Again: the dependence to be placed upon the
evidence of what may be termed strict expe­
rience varies in proportion to our knowledge of
the causes that produce the expected results.
Though I am absolutely certain that the table
will resist my hand, I cannot be said to be
equally certain that the sun will rise on the
morrow, or that the tides will continue to ebb
and flow; for the causes of those phenomena
are too imperfectly known, and the bodies oper­
ated on are too remote, to enable me to be ab­
solutely certain that they will constantly take
place. I take for granted, however, that what
has occurred every day without intermission
since the creation of the world will not fail to
occur to-morrow, and I depend upon the recur­
rence of those events with nearly as little doubt
as I entertain respecting the resistance of the
table or the gravitation ofthe pen. There must,
however, always be somewhat less of absolute
certainty attending the evidence of experience
when applied to future events which depend
upon remote causes, than when applied to facts
which come within the scope of our knowledge.
We may conceive it possible, without supposing
any violent interruption of the system of the
universe, for the sun to be deprived of the power
of communicating light, or that the inclination
of the axis of the earth to the plane of its orbit
might be increased ; but we cannot conceive it
possible for the table on which we are leaning
suddenly to lose its power of resistance to the
hand, nor for the pen to do otherwise than obey
the power of gravitation, unless upheld by a
miracle.
Though the deductions depending solely on
the continued succession of events are not so
positively to be relied on as those derived from
the operation of known causes, yet both spe­
cies of evidence are founded on strict expe­
rience, and neither of them admits a rational
doubt of its correctness. The deductions from
well-supported analogy also, when confirmed by
experience, become nearly, if not quite as satis­
factory as those drawn from experience itself,
and seem indeed to be little removed from abso­
lute certainty.
It has been thought desirable to introduce the
foregoing exemplification of the relation subsist­
ing between the evidence of well-founded ana­
logy and that of experience, for the purpose of
showing that the testimony on which mankind
universally rely with the most perfect assurance
has its foundation on analogical assumptions.
60 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 61
Thefalse conclusions that have been often drawn
from imperfect or remote analogies, have tended
to throw discredit upon arguments so founded j
but if we discard analogy as a foundation of
human judgment, wemust be contentto abandon
the greatest portion of our physical knowledge,
and the succeeding illustrations will show, that
when this mode of arriving at truth is cautiously
used, the conclusionsto be drawn from it may be,
and are, relied upon with certainty scarcely in­
ferior to that ofpositive proof.
When we infer that the results ofthe solution
of one lump of sugar are the same as those
attending all other solutions ofsugar in the same
solvent, under similar circumstances, we proceed
upon the clearest evidence it is possible to ob­
tain—that of experience. If we were not ac­
quainted with the results attending the solution
of any other substance than sugar, we might,
perhaps, infer,—from analogy,— as no particle
of sugar when dissolved is lost by the process,
that in all solutions the substance dissolved is not
destroyed, but is only suspended in the solvent.
The analogy in this case, however, if unsup­
ported, could not be alone adduced as evidence
of this general effect of solution. If, however,
we found, after analyzing the products of three
or four other solutions, that the same results
occurred, the inference drawn from the analogy
would assume a character of great probability.
When, on further investigation, we found that
during every solution which we are enabled to
analyse, the particles of matter in the body dis­
solved have merely entered into different com­
binations, and are notdestroyed, or even changed
in their properties, the general conclusion de­
duced from these facts, viz. that matter is never
destroyed or altered by any kind of solution,
acquires a degree of certainty little short of that
drawn from direct experience.
Having thus acquired a satisfactory know­
ledge of the fact that matter is not destroyed
by solution, we might proceed to infer, that as
in this apparently destructive chemical action,
the elements of matter only undergo a new
combination, therefore in all other chemical
actions the elementary particles of matter are
merely combined in different forms, and are not
destroyed. This analogical inference might be
drawn from the process of solution alone, but
it would be too general a deduction from one
species of chemical action to be confidently re­
lied on. When, however, we perceived, on
examining the results of other chemical pro­
cesses, that even the most apparently destructive
of them are really inoperative to effect the least
diminution in the particles of matter, we should
be warranted, by this accumulated experience
bearing upon the point, in concluding that such
an inference is correct. When, for instance,
62 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. G3
it is ascertained, that in every known form of
solution, of evaporation, of rarefaction, of de­
composition,and evenofcombustion,theelements
ofmatter are not changed or diminished;— that
no particle of the matter acted on suffers annihi­
lation —and that by no known process whatever
can matter bedestroyed;—thisaccumulated evi­
dence, derived from experience, gives so strong
a corroboration to the analogy, that the proof
of the indestructibility of all matter becomes
almost as well established as any truth can be of
which we have not absolute demonstration.
The same important truth may be arrived at
in another manner. It is known that all che­
mical actions we are acquaintedwith are merely
the results of differentstates of chemical affinity,
and that the decomposition and separation of the
elements of bodies are effected only by the
formation of new combinations. The processes
of chemistry, therefore, whichwe arein the habit
of considering as agents in the destruction of
bodies, are but the passive effects of the oper­
ation of chemical attraction, which has caused
the particles of matter to combine, either with
different substances or with differentproportions
ofthe same.
Taking this view of the subject, then, it will
be seen that the several processes selected for
illustration in the preceding chapters, as exhibit­
ing the most striking instances of the apparent
destruction of matter, are only subsequent effects
induced by the operation of chemical attrac­
tion. The phenomena of solution are the re­
sults ofthe affinity subsisting between the liquid
and the substance dissolved,— evaporation is
the effect of similar attractions between the
liquid evaporated and the atmosphere, —rare-
faction, of that subsisting between the rarefied
body and heat, — decomposition is the effect of
Various chemical affinities, which separate the
parts of bodies from their original compounds
to form others of a different kind, — and even
combustion has been shown, in the preceding
chapter, to be only the result of similar affinities
exerted energetically between the elements of
the combustible bodies and the supporters of
combustion.
If, then, experience teaches that the opera­
tions usually considered the most destructive do
not in fact destroy one particle of matter; and
if we*learn, also, that those operations themselves
arc nothing more than the effects of new com­
binations, and are entirely dependent upon the
operation of those combinations; we receive ad­
ditional evidence of the most conclusive nature
to confirm the former deductions from analogy.
We thus perceive that it would be impossible
for those processes which appear to change the
forms of bodies to destroy the ultimate particles
of matter, because the processes themselves are
Gt THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 65
only effects consequenton the changes that have
already taken place, and merely indicatethat the
new combinations have been completed.
We are not acquainted with any physical pro­
cess or operation of*Nature that can annihilate
matter: experience teaches us that matter is
imperishable; and we cannot form the least con­
ception of the possibility of its annihilation.
We are bound, then, to believe from an accumu­
lation ofevidence so strong as to be completely
irresistible, that the elements of matter which
have once been created can only be annihilated
by the direct interposition of the Omnipotent
Power that brought it into being.
Having thus arrived, by different modes of
reasoning, at the important truth that all matter
is indestructible, excepting by the direct inter­
position of the Power that created it ; the next
consideration is the application of this truth, to
prove the imperishable nature of the sentient
principle in man.
In this branch of our inquiiy we cannot—
owing to the limited extent of our faculties, and
our complete ignorance of the condition of the
mind after death — be aided by direct experi­
ence. Our faculties are, indeed, completely
baffled when we attempt to investigate the sub­
ject ; and as it seems impossible for us to attain
a knowledge of the nature and properties of our
own mind, even when we are acting under its
F
impulse, we can have but little expectation of
ascertaining the nature of the minds of others:
and as the sentient principle is so extremely
subtile as to evade all attempts to investigate its
nature when united with the corporeal substance
which it animates, and renders capable of per­
forming the functions ofvitality, wecan scarcely
hope to be able to penetrate the mystery of its
being, when it is separated from the body, and
no perceptible trace of its existence remains.
Being deprived, then, by our incapacity to com­
prehend so subtile an essence, from gaining any
positive evidence relative to the nature of the
human mind, or from being able to assist our
inquiries respecting its existence in a separate
state from the body by the results of experience,
we are obliged to have recourse to the next best
evidence we can obtain, which isthat ofanalogy.
If, however, the analogical evidence bestrength­
ened by a number of facts derived from expe­
rience, tending, by their separate corroborative
testimonies, to confirm the belief of a future
existence of the sentient being, the effect of this
combined evidence bearing upon the point will
be nearly as conclusive as that of direct proof.
It will bear, in short, the same relation in the
investigation of truth that circumstantial evi­
dence bears to that of positive testimony: the
latter is, indeed, more direct, but circumstantial
evidence may be not less satisfactoiy.
66 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 07
In the progress of our inquiries we trust we
shall be able to present a mass of evidence of
this description, tending to support, in the
strongest manner, the position which it is our
object to establish. One important link in this
chain of evidence is the truth arrived at in the
foregoing investigations. Indeed we might, as
has been already observed, infer, with the great­
est probability of correctness, from that truth
alone, that the soul is indestructible. For if
matter, which is continually undergoing appa­
rent and most striking changes, be imperishable,
we cannot reasonably suppose that the mind,
which controls all the actions of matter with
which it is incorporated, is ofa more perishable
nature than the grosser particles that are sub­
servient to its will. The numerous instances,
also, with which we are acquainted, of the con­
tinued existence of matter in a more subtile
form, and therefore inappreciable by our senses,
after if has apparently been annihilated, afford
strong emblematical analogy to the existence of
the soul after its separation from the body.
We can scarcely conceive a greater change
than that which takes place on the decomposi­
tion of water, and the conversion of its tasteless
and salubrious liquid particles into an inflam­
mable, invisible, and noxious gas, andinto a solid
body combined with iron. No annihilation could
appear to be more complete than that of the
F «
water in this process to those who are ignorant
ofthe nature ofthe phenomenon : and yet, when
that is known, it affords one of the strongest
proofs of the indestructibility of matter. The
changes that occur on death are not greater,
nor do they present a more decided appear­
ance of annihilation, than the decomposition of
water. The decomposition of animal bodies in­
deed exhibits, notonly the destruction of the sys­
tem oforganisation, but ofthe matter organised:
nevertheless, not one particle is lost throughout
the complicated process; and if we were ca­
pable of investigating the mental processes con­
sequent on the dissolution of the body, we can
scarcely doubt that the sentient principle would
be found to be as imperishable and unchangeable
as the matter with which it was united.
Our dense faculties will not enable us to com­
prehend the nature of immaterial being j and
even those material substances that assume a
subtile form, surpass the bounds of our compre­
hension. The power ofgravitation, for instance,
is supposed to be caused by a material agent;
but of its nature or modes of operation we are
totally ignorant. We know, however, that it ex­
ists, and that it has continued, since the creation
of the world, to exert the same influence over
grosser matter in all its combinations, decays,
and apparent dissolutions. We have a firm con­
viction that the power ofgravitation is of equal,
68 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY.
if not of superior, duration to the matter which
it controls; and we know that its force is not
diminished by the complete decomposition of
the substances on which it operates. The same
observations would apply to heat, light, elec­
tricity, magnetism, and chemical attraction j of
the nature of which we know nothing, though of
their existence we have continual proof. When
we combine these facts, relative to the indestruc­
tibility of matter, and when we consider our in­
competency to investigate immaterial essences,
we shall have strong grounds for believing that
mind is as imperishable as material substance;
and we shall see the futility of those objections
raised to the separate existenceofthe soul, merely
on the ground of such a state ofseparation being
incomprehensible. When, for instance, we per­
ceive that matter cannot be destroyed — that
the more subtile properties of matter exercise
their power over the grosser particles undis­
turbed by the changes and separations among
the particles themselves — that these changes
and separations seem fully as great, and are as
incomprehensible, to those not initiated into the
mysteries of science, as the supposed separate
existence of the soul from the body must, from
the incapacity of the human intellect, be to the
wisest of mankind— when we perceive that this
incapacity alone prevents our arriving at the
same truth, respecting the sentient principle,
f 3
C9
which we have attained respecting the inde­
structibility of material substances — we are
led, by a powerful combination of the clearest
analogies, to the conclusion, that the sentient
principle is as imperishable as the apparently
frail substance in which it is enveloped: and
this deduction from analogical evidence derives
strong confirmation from thefact, that in all cases
wherein we are enabled to pursue the inquiry to
a satisfactory termination, the results are the
same as those we infer to be the case with the
mind, which we cannot analyse. If, therefore,
we possessed no other natural evidence in sup­
port of a belief in a future life, the analogical
argument founded upon the indestructibility of
matter would ofitself, we contend, be sufficient
to afford strong presumptive proof of its cor­
rectness.
The argument in favour of a future life, af­
forded by the indestructibility of matter, has
been forcibly expressed by an able writer in the
following words : — “ We have the evidence of
experience that nothing is ever suffered to perish
but particular systems; which perish only as
systems, by a decomposition of their parts. A
being which, like the soul, has no parts, can
suffer no decomposition; and therefore, if it
perish, it must perish by annihilation. But of
annihilation there has not hitherto been a single
instance ; nor can we look for a single instance
70 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 71
without supposing the volitions of God to par­
take of that unsteadiness which is characteristic
of man. Corporeal systems, when they have
served their purpose, are, indeed, resolved into
their component parts; but the matter ofwhich
they are composed, so far from being lost, be­
comes the matter of other systems in endless
succession. Analogy, therefore, leads us to
conclude, that when the human body is dis­
solved, the immaterial principle by which it was
animated continues to think and act, either in
a state of separation from all body, or in some
material vehicle, to which it is intimately united,
and which goes off with it at death j or else
that it is preserved by the Father of Spirits, for
the purpose of animating a body in some future
state. When we consider the different states
through which that living and thinking individual
which each man calls himself, goes, from the
moment it first animates an embryo in the womb,
to the dissolution of the man offourscore; and
when we reflect, likewise, on the wisdom and
immutability of God, together with the various
dissolutions of corporeal systems, in which we
know that a single atom of matter has never
been lost; the presumption is certainly strong,
that the soul shall subsist after the dissolution of
the body. But when we take into considera­
tion the moral attributes of God— His justice
and goodness, together with the unequal distri-
f 4
bution of happiness and misery in the present
world, this presumption from analogy amounts
to a complete moralproofthat there will be a fu­
ture state of rewards and punishments.’*
The natural evidence of a future life does
not, however, rest upon the indestructibility of
matteralone. Thatformsonlyonelink—though
an important one— in the chain. In the sub­
sequent portions of this volume our investiga­
tions willbe directed to other phenomena bearing
upon the same point; and the accumulation of
evidence confirmatoryof the deduction from the
imperishable nature of matter will, we trust, be
found so strong as to remove all reasonable
doubt of its truth.
72 THE INDESTRUCTIBILITY OF HATTER.
73
PART II.
THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHAPTER VIII.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS.
W h e n treating of matter in the preceding part
of our subject, we were obliged to consider it as
being invested with certain properties, or qua­
lities, which are inherent in all known material
forms; but matter, when viewed in the abstract,
has relation only to solidity and extension. It is
this abstract idea of entity to which philosophers
refer when speaking simply of matter. This
substance is presumed to possess no active pro­
perties, but to be merely endued with solidity,
and the capacity of occupying a certain portion
of space. Its ultimate atoms are supposed to
be infinitely minute, but nevertheless to be solid
and impenetrable.
Of matter in the abstract, however, we can
fonn no defined idea, and all our notions of ma­
terial bodiesare associated with peculiar qualities
that are superadded to mere solidity and magni­
tude. Every substance that surrounds us is a
compound of several of these qualities, united
with certain portions of matter ; and when we
have pursued the analysis of any body to the
ultimate limits that our chemical knowledge will
admit, and have arrived at what we consider to
be its simple elements, those elementary sub.
stances will be found to be endued with several
qualities in addition to those appertaining to ab­
stract matter. The metals, for instance, defy
the power of chemical analysis to decompose
them ; and they are consequently regarded as
simple uncompounded elements. They exhibit
many properties, however, distinct from mere
solidity and magnitude. Most of this class of
bodies possess the power of decomposing and
of reflecting the rays of light,—the power of
cohesive attraction, by which their particles are
held firmly together,—of chemical attraction, by
which they are disposed to enter into combina­
tion with other bodies,—the attraction of gravi­
tation, by which they are drawn to the earth,—
the power of conducting heat and electricity, —
and, in the case of iron, of becoming the agent
of magnetism. Each of the metals, also, though
agreeing in theirgeneral characteristics, possesses
these properties in different degrees and has
peculiar qualities that distinguish it from the
rest. Now these properties, in which nearly all
other elementary bodies participate in a greater
or less degree, are energetic agents which excite
the inert masses of matter to action, and thereby
74 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
cause most of the changes that we perceive con­
tinually taking place in the material world. The
property of inertia, which is supposed to belong
to all abstract matter, is by these means over­
come ; and the active qualities inherentinmatter
are thus constantly exerting a controlling power
over the material substratum to which they are
attached. Whether these properties of matter be
themselves composed of subtile material atoms,
or whether they consist of immaterial essences
acting on matter, it is not within our province
to inquire. Our object will be to show that
these agents are distinct from what is abstract­
edly considered to be matter; that they are
subtile active properties, that control and modify
the solid materials with which they are con­
nected ; and that these agents are equally inde­
structible with the matter on which they operate.
If these facts can be established, the inferences
to be drawn from them will, it is conceived,
tend strongly to confirm the evidence already
advanced in support of our general proposition ;
and the considerations that will present them­
selves in the courseofour inquiries will assist in
an important degree to remove those objections
that are founded on the impossibility of com­
prehending a state ofexistence after death.
When we adduce the indestructibility of mat- •
ter as evidence of the indestructibility of mind,
we draw a direct inference from corresponding
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 75
appearances; and the conclusion we arrive at is
founded, in a great measure, upon the observed
uniform agreement of the laws of nature:—
those laws having been found by experience to
be opposed to the destruction of material sub­
stance, we concludethey will be equallyopposed
to the destruction of immaterial essence. There
is, however, another argument to be drawn from
analogy less direct than the former; which, in­
stead of tending to prove the great probability
of the deductions relative to unknown properties
from those properties that are known, tends
principally to show that the inferences are at
least not inconsistent with the ordinary opera­
tions of nature.
Thismode ofreasoningindirectlyfrom analogy
may be advantageously applied to overcome
those objections that are raised to the natural
evidence of a future life, from the supposed im­
possibility of the soul existingin a separate state
from the body.
To those persons who conceive thatobjections
founded only on the incapacity of man to com­
prehend the nature of the human mind have any
weight, it will be of importance to point out,
more fully than has hitherto been done, some of
the numerous instances in which our intellects
are completely baffled in attempting to compre­
hend the most ordinary phenomena. When the
mind is sufficiently impressed with its own in­
76 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
sufficiency to penetrate the secrets of nature —
even when the. objects investigated are appre­
ciable by our senses—the absurdity of presum­
ing to circumscribe the operations of the Omni­
potent Creator respecting immaterial essences
—ofthe nature of which we can form no con­
ception— seems to be exceeded only by its
impiety. An inquiry, therefore, directed to the
investigation of the more subtile properties of
matter, may be very advantageously undertaken,
were it with no other view than to exhibit the
utter inadequacy of the intellectual powers of
man to understand the ultimate causes of even
the simplest operations ofnature.
In pursuing this inquiry, however, we shall be
able to add materially to the direct analogical
evidence in favour of a future state of existence.
When, for instance, we find certain properties
inherent in matter, which properties, though ge­
nerally considered to be themselves material, are
at the same time so subtile as to elude all at­
tempts to ascertain their natures j—when we
find, as in the cases ofchemical attraction andof
gravitation, that these properties are not de­
stroyed nor affected by the decomposition ofthe
bodies in which they are manifested, but that
they continue inseparable from them in all
changes of formj—we shall surely be justified
in considering this union of subtile active pro­
perties with inert matter as strongly analogous
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 77
to the union of the sentient principle with a
material body; and the continued existence of
those subtile properties of matter, after the forms
with which they were combined are completely
dissipated, to present a dose symbolical ana­
logy to the continued existence of the soul after
the dissolution of the material system of orga­
nisation with which it was united.
78 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
LIGHT. 79
CHAPTER IX.
LIGHT.
L ig h t is the intermediate agent ofvision. Were
it not for the presence of this agent the organs
of sight, which are so curiously and beautifully
contrived for the reception of impressions from
external objects, would be entirely useless; our
knowledge of created things would be limited to
the extent ofthe senses ofhearingand oftouch;
and the inhabitants of the world would have to
grope their way in impenetrable darkness, and
in the profoundest ignorance of other worlds
and systems. It is by the agency oflight, acting
upon the eye, and transferred by the internal
mechanism of that organ to the brain, that we
are furnished with the principal inlets of know-
ledge; and that property of matter has, there­
fore, afforded an interesting object of research
to scientific inquirers of every age. Though
they have succeeded in attaining some know­
ledge of the laws by which light is regulated,
yet of the nature of light itself we still know
nothing. Indeed, respecting the absolute nature
oflight there has not been even any conjecture
80 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
formed, — and with regard to its mode of oper­
ation philosophers are not agreed.
The two theories that have been most gene­
rally received, as affording the best explanation
of the mode by which light acts upon the visual
organs, are the theories of emission and of
undulation. According to the former hypo­
thesis, light consists of extremely minute ma­
terial particles, that are supposed to be emitted
from the luminous body with immense velocity;
and these particles, being refracted by the eye,
and forming an image of the luminous object on
the retina, are supposed to convey to the mind
an idea ofits form and colour. The undulatory
theory supposes that light is an extremely sub­
tile fluid pervading all space, and that the sen­
sation of sight is produced by an undulating
motion communicated to this fluid by the lu­
minous body. This motion, it is supposed, acts
upon the retina and the optic nerve, and, it is
presumed, occasions an impression of the object
on the brain, in a similar manner to the com­
munication of sound by undulations ofthe air.
The latter theory appears to be the one most
generally adopted at the present day, and it is
found best to correspond with the known phe­
nomena of light; but it will be observed, that
neither of these theories attempts to explain the
nature of light itself. To say that it consists of
LICHT. Si
extremely minute particles impelled with great
velocity— or that it consists of an all-pervading
subtilefluid, whichonly becomessensibleto sight
when agitated by the luminous body— conveys
not the least idea of light; for of the nature of
those particles, or of that fluid, whose rapid con­
cussions on the retina, or whose vibrations, are
supposed to produce the effect of giving light,
we are still as ignorant as ever.
It mustbe borne in mind, that tothe ignorance
of the nature of light to which we have alluded,
is to be added our profound ignorance of the
mode by which the sense ofsight is produced in
the brain. For, admitting that it would be pos­
sible to comprehend the nature of light and its
mode of operation upon the eye, the still more
difficult problem would remain to be solved —
by what means is the sense of sight produced in
the mind by the mechanism ofthe eye?
Though we are thus ignorant ofthe nature of
light, considerable advance has been made in
the investigation of its properties, and of those
laws by which it is regulated. The knowledge
we have thus acquired presents such a number
ofastonishing results that, were they not proved
by the most accurate experiments, they might
reasonably be considered almost impossible.
In the first place, the immense velocity with
which light travels, or is communicated, far sur­
passes human comprehension. The distance
6
82 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
from the sun to the earth — upwards of ninety-
five millions of miles — is traversed within
the lapse of eight minutes, which is a rate of
speed 2,300,000 times faster than that of a ball
fired from a cannon, and would carry a ball
projected with that velocity nine times round
the earth in a second of time. The extraor­
dinary power which dense transparent media
possess of bending, or refracting, the rays from
their directcourse, is anotherwonderful property
belonging to light that we cannot clearly under­
stand. So essential, however, is this property, to
give effect to the purpose for which light was
created, that, unless it were capable ofrefraction,
light would be useless as an agent ofvision, as it
is by this means that the images of objects are
brought to a focus on the retina of the eye.—
The composition of light, again, affords another
subject for astonishment and admiration. The
discovery by Sir Isaac Newton that the white
light from the sun is composed ofall the primary
colours, and that when all those colours are
united they become colourless, seems so entirely
opposed toall our ideas of what is probable, that
it might completely stagger belief, were it not
established by the clearest demonstrative evid­
ence. The decomposition of light bymostvisible
substances, the absorption of some of the co­
loured rays, and the reflection ofothers, by which
means the different colours of bodies are pro­
LIGHT. 83
duced, are also phenomenaconnected with light,
the operations of which are entirely unknown.
Recent discoveries relative to what are termed
the “ interference,” the “ diffraction,” and the
•*polarisation” oflight, have disclosed new and
interesting properties in this subtile fluid that
were previously unsuspected; and the extension
of our knowledge seems only to render our inca­
pacity to comprehend the nature of that subtile
agent the more apparent.
If the rapidity of the communication of light
were only conjectural, or were the fact supported
by less substantial evidence, objectors might
be found ready to prove the impossibility ofany
particles of matter being impelled with so great
a velocity, without communicating motion to
other particles of matter with which they come
in contact. We might be told, that as light is
presumed to be impelled or communicated at a
rate 2,300,000 timesfaster than that ofa cannon
ball, it would require to be set in motion by a
force proportionably greater than that which
impels a ball from the mouth ofa cannon ; and
the supposition of such an immense impulse
being given to matter by the flame of a candle,
or by the smallest visible spark, might be repre­
sented as being opposed to the dictates of com­
mon sense, and contrary to the experience of
the action of flame upon all other matter.
What overwhelming objections would also be
g 2
84 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
raised, and what a fine held for sarcasm would
be opened to the sceptics, if the phenomena
respecting the general diffusion of light were
founded on less than demonstrative proof! As
every visible object must send rays oflight from
all parts of its surface in every direction, what
innumerable crossings of rays must occur before
they enter the eye! and as each ray of light
must, according to our notions of the action of
all moving bodies, on coming into contact ob­
struct and influence the motions of the other
rays that it crosses, it is impossible to conceive
how any ray of light should, under such cir­
cumstances, be transmitted to the eye without
having its course altered, or without being min­
gled with the other rays that it meets with in its
progress. When two candles, for instance, are
burning in the same room, each flame must, we
know, be sending out rays of light to every part
ofthe surrounding walls with a velocity two mil­
lions oftimes swifter than that of a cannon ball.
The rays must, consequently, cross each other
in millions of places; and how ludicrously ab­
surd it would be considered, and how contrary
to the established modes of philosophising, to
suppose that the particles ofthe same fluid could
strike against each other with such velocity with­
out any alteration in the direction of their mo­
tions, or without being in any way apparently
affected by these continued concussions.
LIGHT. 85
But if such an hypothesis would seem incon­
sistent with the laws of motion, when the rays
are considered asproceeding from only two lumi­
nous points, how infinitely greater would that in­
consistency appear, when the luminousbodiesare
multiplied, and when we consider that every
object we behold is sending forth radiating rays»
which must meet with and cross each other at
every point of their progress!
Every part of the wall of the room on which
the light of the candles falls reflects the light to
all other parts of the room. Now, suppose the
wall were divided into square inches, and that it
contained twenty thousand of such compart­
ments, each sending out a distinct and separate
radiating ray of light. Each ray, before it ar­
rived at the opposite side of the room, would
have to cross those twenty thousand rays of
light at every conceivable point of its course;
and if we presume light to be governed by the
same laws as other matter, it would appear an
utter impossibility, that after these innumerable
interferences of the rays of light, each separate
ray should proceed in its course without the
least impediment or change of direction, though
the other rays against which it must impinge are
travelling with immensevelocity, and in different
and opposite directions. But if, instead of sup­
posing that only one ray oflight issuesfrom each
square inch, we conceive,—which is, in fact, the
g 3
8 6 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
case,—that a distinct ray of light proceeds from
every perceptible point of the wall’s surface, the
number of crossing rays from one side of the
wall alone would exceed 200,000,000, and
those rays would have to meet and cioss each
other at every conceivable point of the progress
of every ray. When we take into consideration
also that these rays must meet throughout their
whole line of direction with rays issuing from
the opposite walls, and pursuing a directly oppo­
site course, the mode by which each ray arrives,
unobstructed, in a direct line from the luminous
point whence it issues, is utterly inconceivable.
The difficulty is not removed by adopting the
Cartesian theory, that light is communicated by
the rapid vibrations of a peculiar subtile fluid;
for in that case the vibrations must be communi­
cated with a velocity equal to that of the pre­
viously supposed motion ofthe particles of light,
and the chords of vibration must cross and op­
pose each other in all the innumerable points in
which the different rays come in contactj and
we should be at an equal loss to conceive how
these chords of vibration could be continu­
ally meeting and opposing each other with­
out being destroyed, as we are to imagine the
possibility of the rays crossing and meeting,
without being obstructed or altered in their
course.
If the confirmation of such facts depended
LIGHT. 87
on other than demonstrative proofs, the idea
of any subtile fluid moving with great velocity
and coming into contact at every point of its
progress with a similar fluid moving in opposite
directions, without havingtheir courses stopped,
impeded, or changed, would be considered so
totally opposed to sound reasoning, that they
would be rejected without hesitation, and the
propounder of them would be considered as a
madman. These apparent impossibilities must
however occur; for it would be still more im­
possible to conceive that the light from any ob­
ject could be conveyed to the organs of sight
unless some communication were made between
the object and the eye; and a number of expe­
riments have established the position beyond a
doubt.
The refraction of light, also, and the effect of
its refraction through convex lenses, exhibit
phenomena altogether incomprehensible to man.
When the rays of light fall upon aplane surface,
no image of the object is formed, because rays
issuing from all parts of the object fall upon
every point of the surface that receives them,
and therefore it presents only the appearance
produced by the mingling together of all the
rays of light; but when the rays are allowed
to pass through a convex lens, and are then
received on a white surface, in the focus of
the glass, a perfect and bright image of the ob-
g 4
88 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
ject is perceived; because in that case each
pencil of rays is converged to a separate point
by refraction in passing through the lens.
Let us suppose, for instance, the object to be
a man standing at some distance from the glass.
Diverging rays of light from his feet will be
transmitted and spread over the whole surface of
the convex lens; similar diverging rays will
proceed from his head, and will be also received
on the whole surface of the glass; and every
conceivable intermediate point will send forth
similarpencils ofrays, the wholeof which willbe
received upon the lens; on everypoint of which
there will be collected rays from every part of
the figure of the man that is placed towards the
glass. The effect of the refraction ofthe raysof
light by the lens is to bring those rays that, be­
fore entering the refracting medium, are diffused
and mingled together, into distinct and separate
points; and if aplanereceiving surface beplaced
where the different raysarecollected, an inverted
image ofthe man isperceived. If these converg­
ing rays were not obstructed by the screen placed
to receive them, they would, after meeting in a
point, again diverge and cross each other mil­
lions of times, and might afterwards be again
collected into a focus by another lens, and
form again a distinct image of the man, notwith­
standing the condensations, diffusions, and in­
calculable intersections that each ray has ex­
LIGHT. 89
perienced. The rays might, indeed, be thus
transmitted through aseries ofglasses, and after
converging and diverging numerous other times,
be still collected into a focus and form an image
of the original object.
The composition of light is another of its
incomprehensible properties. That the appa­
rently pure white light which proceeds from the
sun, and is reflected from the sheet of paper on
which I am writing, should be composed ofevery
variety of colour, seems so contrary to all our
preconceived notions as to be at first perfectly
incredible; and the assertion that white is a com­
bination ofallcolours, andthat black isproduced
by the absorption of light, and is therefore
positively invisible, would, among persons not
conversant with physical science, expose the
utterer of those truths to ridicule. The different
degrees of the refrangibility of the coloured rays,
and the manner by which they are acted upon
by different bodies—which possess the power of
decomposing light, and ofabsorbing some ofthe
rays and reflecting others—are also subjects ut­
terly beyond the reach of human reasoning, and
those effects, if not absolutely known to take
place, might be deemed to be impossible.
It would extend our observations on this sub­
ject to too great a length, were we to attempt to
enter into the consideration of all theproperties
of light that are beyond the comprehension of
man. The polarisation of light, by which it
becomes apparently destroyed—the phenomena
of the interference of light, which seems also,
under certain circumstances, to destroy it by the
meeting of opposing rays—and other highly in­
teresting properties of light that have been
recently discovered, and are yet but imperfectly
known, tend to show that this subtile fluid is
endued with properties, and is governed by
laws, that far surpass the narrow limits of our
faculties to comprehend.
Nearly all the known properties of light seem
to contradict our best-established opinions re­
specting the laws of motion, and are frequently
opposed to the primary evidence of the sense of
sight itself; yet they are proved by demonstra­
tions so clear as not to admit the shadow of a
doubt. When we find, therefore, the results
of human experience with regard to tangible
matter to be completely inapplicable to so sub­
tile a property as light, how much more dif­
fident ought we to be in drawing conclusions
from the observed operations of material sub­
stance respecting an essence so inscrutable as
that of mind! and if, in the former case, our
deductions from ordinary experience are falla­
cious, the objection to any presumed operation,
or state of existence, of the mind, founded on
no other basis than that of its supposed op­
position to common experience, dwindles into
90 TIIE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
LIGHT. 91
nothingness. It is, however, upon this found­
ation that the objections raised by materialists to
the existence of the soul in a separate state from
the body, principally, if not entirely, depend.
We have hitherto considered the properties
of light only as affording evidence to prove that
the existence ofthe soul in a state of separation
from the body is not impossible. They may
however be adduced as affording direct analo­
gical evidence of the great probability of the
sentient principle being distinct from a material
organised frame, and continuing to exist when
the latter is dissolved.
Every material substance possesses the power
ofabsorbing, transmitting, orreflecting the light
that impinges on its surface. Ifthe surface of an
opaque body be perfectly smooth, like that of a
mirror, nearly all the rays of light that are not
absorbed are reflected in one direction, and are
only visible in the line of reflection; but if the
surface be uneven, like that ofa sheet of paper,
the rays are diffused in every direction, and the
object from which they are reflected mayconse­
quently be seen from all points. The light re­
flected from these bodies, we have reason to
believe, moves with a velocity equal to that of
the incident rays from the luminary which they
reflect; but in what manner the reflection takes
place, orbywhatpower bodiesimpel light with so
great avelocity,we havenomeansofascertaining.
<J2 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
Owing to some peculiar conformation of the
surfaces ofbodies, also, they possess the power
of separating the coloured rays, and of ab­
sorbing some and reflecting others. It is the
power of reflecting light that renders all objects
visible; and the property of decomposing the
rays and of absorbing them, causes their distinc­
tions in colour.
These properties of all visible objects seem
to be distinct from those of the substances them­
selves, and act only on their surfaces; for by
painting, or by otherwise altering, the surfaces of
bodies, their colours and powers of reflecting
light are completely changed, without any
change having been effected in their substances.
If any object that reflects the rays of light, an
orange for instance, be placed on a black ground,
it becomes more distinctly visible from the con­
trast ; but if its surface be painted black, and it
is again placed on the same ground, it will not
be discerned; for it will then absorb nearly all
the rays that fall upon it, and as the ground on
which it rests does the same, there will exist no
distinctive reflection to mark its outline. The
body ofthe orange has, however, undergone no
change by the process of colouring, and it re­
mains in the same state, though its presence is
no longer perceptible.
If a ray ofthe sun’slight be admitted through
a small hole in the shutter of a darkened room,
LIGHT. 93
and be permitted to fall upon a piece of black
cloth, which reflects none of the light, the
room willappear to be in darkness, notwithstand­
ing the ray of light from the sun passes directly
through it. If, however, an orange or other
bright object be placed in the ray, the reflection
of the light from its surface will not only ren­
der the object distinctly visible, but will dif­
fuse light to all parts of the room. Now in this
case no more light actually enters the room
when the reflecting substance is placed in the
ray, but, owing to the peculiar conformation
of the surface of that body, it is enabled to
decompose the light, and to absorb all the
coloured rays but the one which gives it its pe­
culiar colour; and that ray it reflects with in­
conceivable velocity in every direction. If the
reflecting substance be removed or destroyed,
the room will again become dark, for there will
be no longer any object to reflect the rays. But
are we to suppose that with the destruction of
that substance the light it emitted is also de­
stroyed ? The presence of light is, indeed, no
longer apparent, nor is the substance that re­
flected it capable of again exerting the same
power; but, nevertheless, the light exists with
equal force, and possesses the same properties,
though the form of the object that caused the
previous sensation of light and colour is de­
stroyed. The reflecting substance was only the
medium through which the presence of light
was manifested to the senses; and though the
peculiar properties of the body enabled it to
decompose the rays, and to reflect only a por­
tion of the-colours that are combined in the
white light of the sun, yet those properties pro­
duce no effect upon the rays issuing through the
aperture until they actually impinge upon the
surface"of the reflector; and when that body is
destroyed or removed, the light streams onward,
unseen indeed, but still existing with the same
energy as when rendered sensible to the visual
organs by the agency of a body competent to
reflect it.
If wewere unable to ascertain that the light in
this case is not dependent for its existence upon
that of the reflecting body, the phenomenon
would strongly countenance the supposition that
the light and colour must be extinguished with
the body by which they are apparently called
into existence, and through whose medium alone
we become sensible of their presence. We per­
ceive a given substancepresenting acertain form
and colour, and communicating light all around.
When that body is destroyed no trace of light
remains, and we are involved in darkness. If
we were ignorant of the source whence the
light is derived, would not the supposition that
the light and colour are still existing unaltered
and undiminished, and that the substance we
94 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
LIGHT. 95
beheld was not the cause of the light, but was
merely endued with properties capable of ren­
dering them apparent, be deemed utterly in­
credible ? Assuming, therefore, that we were
ignorant of the cause whence the light origi­
nated under such circumstances, it would, we
contend, be equally difficult to imagine the con­
tinued presence of light and colour in the midst
of darkness, as it is, in our admitted ignorance
of the nature of the sentient principle, to con­
ceive that it should continue to exist after the
dissolution of the body ; and the sceptics might
raise even more weighty arguments against the
former hypothesis than any they are able to ad­
vance against the latter.
These phenomena of light bear a strong ana­
logy to the presumed independence of the soul,
and its continued existence after the dissolution
of the body. In the two illustrations just ad­
duced we perceive substances possessing certain
properties, by means of which they convey to
our minds impressions of light and colour. Of
the nature of those properties, or by what means
they are called into operation, we can form no
idea, but it is by their action that we become
acquainted with the existence ofthe objects pos­
sessing them. The object, in the latter illus­
tration, is supposed to be decomposed, and the
light and colour that previously rendered it
visible are apparently destroyed for ever. Not­
withstanding this apparent annihilation both of
the substance and its properties, we are able to
ascertain, from our knowledge of the source
whence the light is derived, that the destruction
ofthat peculiar conformation which excited the
sensation of light and colour in our minds has
had no effect whatever on the quantity or on the
nature of the light itself; which continues the
same, though invisible, and exists unchanged,
though the substance which served to mani­
fest its presence is dissipated. The first ofthese
illustrations — which represents the object that
reflects the light as unaltered, though rendered
invisible by a change in the reflecting powers of
its surface — may be considered as symbolical
of the condition of a living being in a profound
sleep or trance ; when the body retains its vital
powers without exhibiting any signs of vitality.
The latterillustration—ofthe continued presence
of light and colour after the destruction of the
reflecting body— may be regarded as represent­
ing the sleep of death, and the decomposition of
the human frame, whilst the inscrutable, incor­
ruptible essence, that endued it with vitality,
survives, independent of the material organisa­
tion which is requisite to render its existence
appreciable by our imperfect organs of per­
ception.
96 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
HEAT. 97
CHAPTER X.
HEAT.
Heat and light are soclosely connected in most
oftheir phenomena, and their properties bear so
near a resemblance to each other, that it has
long been a question among philosophers whe­
ther or not they are identical. The results of
numerous experiments, however, tend to the
conclusion that they are distinct; for the rays
of light can be separated from those of heat, and
a high degree of heat can be produced without
any visible light.
Though we are well acquainted with many of
the effects of heat, we are as ignorant of its
causes and modes of operation aswe are respect­
ing the nature and action of light; and the
theories framed for the explanation of the phe­
nomena are equally at variance. Whether heat
be a peculiar and distinct subtile fluid, or whe­
ther it be merely an effect produced by vibra­
tory motions of the ultimate particles of matter,
is a point far from decided; but the former hy­
pothesis, as being the more simple of the two,
and as affording a more intelligible explana­
tion of the phenomena of heat, is the one
that will be adopted in the succeeding observa­
tions. The other theory, indeed, seems to in-
H
9<S THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
crease the difficulties of the subject instead of
rendering it more clear; because, even grant­
ing that certain vibrations of the particles of
matter might produce the sensation and effects
ofheat, we should still be at a lossto understand
how thesesupposedvibrations couldbe communi­
cated to the particles ofsolid masses. The weight
of evidence, indeed, seems to preponderate so
strongly on the side of the former hypothesis,
that nothing short of the opposition it met with
from that distinguished chemist, Sir Humphry
Davy, could we imagine have shaken the belief
in it as an established theory.
According to the hypothesis which considers
heat asa peculiarfluid, that subtile matter is sup­
posed to pervade all substances, and to surround
their minutest particles. It is supposed to be
endued with a strong repulsive power which
tends to separate the particles of the bodies it
surrounds; and in proportion to the quantities
•of this calorific matter distributed among the
particles of such bodies, their cohesive attrac­
tions are presumed to be increased or dimi­
nished ; and they assume the form of an air, a
liquid, or a solid.
Every substance, accordingtothe sametheory,
possesses a certain capacity for caloric; that is,
an inherent degree of attraction for the matter
ofheat; the amount of which attraction varies
in different bodies, and even in the same bodies
HEAT. 99
under different circumstances. When the quan­
tity of heat which any substance contains does
not exceed its natural capacity for caloric, the
heat is not perceptible, and it is therefore said
to be latent in such body. When the capacity
for caloric is by any means diminished, the
superabundant heat is evolved and becomes per­
ceptible ; and this effect is in almost every known
instance produced when the specific gravity of
anysubstance isincreased; whether it beby ham­
mering, by compression, or by chemical action.
In such cases the particles ofmatter are brought
into closer contact, and a portion of the heat
surrounding them is supposed to be liberated, or
squeezed out, and thus to produce the sensation
of heat.
The foregoing is a brief outline of the leading
points ofthe hypothesis which is at present con­
sidered to afford the best explanation of the
phenomena of heat. It must be observed, how­
ever, that this hypothesis does not attempt to
explain the mode by which the supposed calo­
rific matter communicates the sensation, or pro­
duces the effects of heat; for that is a question
which lies beyond the reach of the human un­
derstanding. It merely attempts to explain the
operation ofsecondary causes, for of the primary
cause of the sensation of heat we are incompe­
tent to form an idea.
Let us next proceed to consider how this
h 2
100 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
hypothesis of the nature of heat and its modes
of action can be applied in support of the argu­
ment for the existence of the soul distinct from
its connection with the body.
Heat pervades all substances, and is so essen­
tial to the maintenance ofthem in their respect­
ive forms, that it may be regarded as constitut­
ing one of their essential parts. We are led to
infer from the results of all experiments that
have hitherto been made, that everysubstance—
even the air we breathe — would, if totally de­
prived of heat, become solid; and that, on the
contrary, by the infusion of heat, every solid
substance might be converted into elastic invisi­
ble vapour.
Water affords the most simple illustration of
this power of heat. When the temperature of
water, for instance, is reduced below 32° of Fah­
renheit’s thermometer, the liquid particles lose
their power of moving freely among each other,
and the mass assumes a solid form, which bears
no resemblance in mechanical properties to the
water from which it was congealed. If, on the
contrary, the temperature of the water be in­
creased till it arrives at 212°, the liquid becomes
converted into an invisible vapour. The latter
form is not less opposed to what we are accus­
tomed to consider the natural state of water,
than that of ice; and the difference between an
invisible aqueous vapour and a solid mass of ice
HEAT. 101
is so immense, that if we were not well ac­
quainted with the fact that they are convertible
into each other, or if we were destitute ofanalo­
gical evidence from which that circumstance
might be inferred, such a complete metamor­
phosis would be considered highly improbable,
if not altogether impossible. If the tempera­
ture be increased beyond that of boiling water,
the invisible vapour will exert an expansive
power, sufficiently great to tear asunder the
strongest vessels in which it may be confined;
and when this power is properly applied, by the
ingenuity of man, it' becomes one of the most
energetic and most useful moving forces that
have been made subservient to his will.
These four distinct and opposite forms into
which water may be converted, are produced
simply by the increase or diminution of heat,
and yet heat itself, which effects these astonish­
ing changes in the appearance and properties of
the water — which softens the solid mass into a
flowing stream, which dissipates the liquid into
the ambient air, which bestows on the invisible
vapoura giant’s power—exists in a state entirely
distinct from, and by no means necessarily con­
nected with, the body to which it is united.
The heat may be abstracted from the steam,
from the vapour, from the water, and even from
the ice, and it will not be destroyed or altered
by the changes of form in which it has been
h S
10« THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
combined, whilst the mechanical properties that
were imparted to the more material substance
by heat will be completely destroyed by the
absence ofthat subtile property.
The same general effects that are produced
by the combination of heat with water are
known to result from its union with other fluids.
The increase or diminution of heat in alcohol,
the oils, and even in mercury, produces the
effects of distillation or congelation. Mercury,
— a metal possessing so large a capacity for
caloric as to assume a liquid form at a tempera­
ture much below that at which all other metals
are solid — when deprived of its caloric of
fluidity, that is, when its temperature is reduced
to 39° below the zero of Fahrenheit, becomes
solid, and resembles the other metals. In that
state it possesses the quality ofmalleability, and
may therefore be hammered into plates as thin
as a sheet of paper; and during Captain Ross’s
polar expedition he cast bullets of solid mercury,
which were fired through a thick board. This
singular metal may therefore be considered to
be melted by a temperature higher than 39°
below zero; an addition of heat converts the
ponderous opaque metal into a volatile invisible
vapour, and if heated in a closed vessel the ex­
pansive force of the compressed vapour exerts
a power equal to that of steam. If the subtile
fluidthat endues the metallic vapour with power,
HEAT. 103
and its solid particles with fluidity, be with­
drawn, the effects cease, and the mercury en­
tirely changes its character and mechanical
properties, and becomes an inert and immove­
able mass, whilst the heat that pervaded its
particles, and imparted to them the properties of
fluidify, volatility, and elastic power, exists un­
diminished and unchanged.
Who can fail to observe in the foregoing illus­
trations of the combinations ofheat with material
substance a striking symbolical analogy to the
union of the sentient principle with the human
frame ? The difference between an etherial in-
.visible vapourand asolidimpenetrable substance,
is as great as any change we can imagine matter
to undergo; yet these changes we find are con­
sequent merely upon the withdrawal of an im­
perceptible fluid, which, though the sole cause
of these modifications in matter, is itself not af­
fected by those changes; and when separated
from the substance with which it was combined
is unimpaired and undiminished.
If we pursue this inquiry into the properties
ofheat still farther, we shall be enabled to collect
additional facts in support of this analogy.
When the subtile properties of heat are com­
pared with tangible substances, we are ready to
imagine that its particles must exceed in minute­
ness all other possible forms of matter; yet
when we consider heat in its numerous combina-
h 4
104 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
tions with light, the latter seems still more
etherial ; and if heat be, as there is good reason
to believe, distinct from light, we shall beobliged
to admit that the matter of heat is of a grosser
nature than that of light. Several of the pheno­
mena of light and heat appear clearly to indi­
cate that they are not identical; and to some of
those which mark this distinction we shall now
briefly allude, with a view to give additional
weight to the argument to be derived from the
separate existences of material bodies that seem,
on a superficial view, to be necessarily dependent
on each other.
Light, as we have before observed, is com­
municated with inconceivable velocity, and pene­
trates all transparent media. Its progress is im­
peded, if not altogether stopped, by the interpo­
sition of opaque bodies. In many cases the
calorific rays obey the same law, and are trans­
mitted in combination with the rays of light
through transparent media, whilst in other cases,
the rays of light are alone transmitted and those
of heat are obstructed. These instances of the
separation of heat from the rays of light seem to
confirm the opinion that light and heat are two
distinct properties, or forms of matter; for if
they were identical, the substance that admits or
obstructs the passage of heat would, we must
conceive, also transmit or obstruct the passage
of light.
HEAT. 105
The rays of light from a blazing fire are rea­
dily transmitted through glass, but a plate of
glass forms as complete a screen against the
heat of the fire as if an opaque body were inter­
posed. On the other hand, a sheet of iron, the
surface of which is blackened, when held in the
same place, will completely obstruct the rays of
light, and will absorb all the rays that impinge
on its surface. The heat, however, will not
only penetrate the opaque metal, but calorific
rays will be reflected from its blackened surface
in all directions. Again : transparent rock-salt
will transmit the rays of heat and light from
the fire without obstruction, whilst black quartz
totally obstructs the passage of light, but trans­
mits instantaneously the rays of heat, as if no
substance were interposed.
Another marked distinction between light and
heat consists in the different modes by which
they are diffused. Whilst light is transmitted
with a rapidity greater than that of lightning,
and, so far as we can ascertain, always with un­
varying velocity j heat is transmitted in more
modes than one, and with greatly differing velo­
cities. When transmitted in combination with
light, it is communicated with the same velocity
as that subtile fluid. When transmitted by ra­
diation unconnected with light, it is also com­
municated with a velocity probably equal to that
of light, though we have no means, in such case,
10Ü THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
of measuring with accuracy the rapidity of its
communication ; but when heat is diffused by
conduction, from one body to another, it is com­
municated slowlyfrom particle to particle of the
matter, through the whole mass. Even in the
latter mode of diffusing itself, heat varies in the
rapidity of its communication according to the
nature ofthe substancethrough which it moves;
and presents, in this respect, another remarkable
feature that distinguishes it from light There
are, indeed, scarcely any two substances that are
equally good conductors of heat; and many of
those bodies that afford the readiest transmission
to the rays oflight offer the greatest obstacles to
the communication ofheat amongtheir particles.
Glass is the most familiar instance of this pecu­
liarity. If a rod of copper and a glass rod be
immersed in heated liquid, the heat will be com­
municated through the metal about one hundred
times more rapidly than through the glass, and
the extremity of the glass rod will feelquite cold
when that of the copper one is too hot to be
touched. Even the air, which does not obstruct
the passage of radiant heat, is a very bad con­
ductor of heat among its particles, when not in
motion; and water is one of the most perfect
non-conductors of heat, though it readily trans­
mits thecalorific rays when combined with light.
The tendency of these facts is to show, not
only that the properties of light and heat are
HEAT. 107
distinct, but that heat itself exists in two differ­
ent states. It does not, however, form a part
of our present subject to speculate upon the pro­
bable modifications of the matter of heat; it is
sufficient for our purpose to show that the phe­
nomena indicate a manifest distinction between
caloric and light. The results of the experi­
ments on this subject also induce the belief that
light is a more subtile fluid than caloric, and that
it is, therefore, capableof penetrating media that
are impermeable by heat
At the same time that we seem compelled to
admit,fromtheirdistinctivephenomena, thatlight
and heat are not identical, their connection is, in
many instances, so extremely intimate, that it is
difficult to conceive the possibility oftheir exist­
ence independently of each other. Heat, for
instance, when combined with the solar rays, is
readily transmitted through glass, and is subject
to refraction in the same manner as light. This
fact is exemplified by a common burning glass,
which concentrates the rays of light into a bril­
liant spot in the focus of the lens, where the heat
is also concentrated with the light. The rays
of heat, indeed, seem to be even more refrangi­
ble than those of light, for when the latter are
dispersed by a glass prism into the primitive
colours, the heat is not only refracted to the
point of greatest refrangibility of the red rays,
but even beyond that point— where no light
108 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
whatever is refracted — the heat is equal to, if
it do not exceed, that contained in any of the
coloured rays. The laws regulating radiant heat
are, in other respects, similar to those of light,
though they are brought into operation by dif­
ferent agents; and the relation of these two
subtile essences to each other is so intimate, that
we are notacquainted with anyinstance in which
an energetic action of the one is unaccompa­
nied with the production of the other.
When, therefore, we find that these activeand
intimately connected subtile agents can be se­
parated, and that the balance of evidence war­
rants the supposition that they are really distinct
essences or forms of matter, all objections to
the separate existenceof the soul from the body,
founded upon their intimate connection with
each other, may be overcome; for in the in­
stance before us weperceive two subtile essences
— of whose nature or of the minuteness of whose
particles we can form no conception — united
so intimately as to appear one and the same, and
yet capable of being dissevered and of having
separate existences. The union between the
sentient principle and the human frame, it must
be borne in mind, is a union of two principles
that are manifestly distinct, and whether or not
we admit that the mind can exist without the
body, we must allow that no two conceivable
things can exhibit greater dissimilarity than gross
HEAT. 109
substantial matter and the subtileessence, or im­
material principle, which directs 'and controls
it. In the case of light and heat, however, the
two subtile essences possess so close a resem­
blance, that it becomes doubtful whether or not
they are identical; and yet those closely con­
nected properties of matter may, as we have
seen, be separated, and exist, apparently at least,
in separate and independent states.
There is another feature in the properties of
heat that must not be omitted from our present
consideration — its indestructibility.
It has been remarked in a former chapter that
heat does not destroy the substances which call
it into action; and we shall now endeavour to
show that heat is itself* not destructible. When
a heated substance is exposed to an atmosphere
cooler than itself it rapidly parts with its heat,
and becomes at length of the same temperature
as the surrounding air; and the rapidity with
which it cools increases in proportion to the dif­
ference between the two temperatures. The
heat is not, however, lost. It is distributed
among the surrounding substances, that were
not so hot as itself; it is also conveyed by ra­
diation to distant objects, and the result of the
coolingprocess is to communicate to otherbodies
as much heat as is lost by the body cooled.
In some instances, indeed, there is an apparent
absolute loss of caloric, but it is only an appa­
110 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
rent and not a real loss. When, for instance, a
cup containing heated water is placed in a basin
of ice, the heat of the water will be rapidly
diminished, and a portion of the ice will be
melted; but the melted ice will be found to have
not received the least increase of temperature.
The heat is not, however, annihilated;— it has
been absorbed by the water in assuming a liquid
form, and it would be evolved if the water were
to be again frozen. It is, indeed, a well-known
fact, that all bodies in passing from a denser to
a rarer state absorb heat; and that when their
density is restored the same quantity of heat is
evolved; consequently, when the denser ice be­
comes water a quantity of heat is absorbed in a
latent state by the liquid. This heat is termed
its caloric of fluidity. When the water is con­
verted into steam, a still greater quantity of heat
isabsorbed without any increase of temperature;
and it is rapidly evolved when the steam isagain
condensed into water, and itscapacity forcaloric
is thereby diminished. The phenomenon ofcom­
bustion has been previously explained upon this
principle; for when the oxygen gas of the atmo­
sphere is suddenly condensed by entering into
solidcombinationwiththecombustiblesubstance,
the heat contained between the particles of the
gaseous fluid is suddenly liberated and rendered
sensible. Numerous similar experiments might
be adduced to prove that heat is never annihi­
HEAT. Ill
lated, and that when it is brought from a latent
into an active state it is again diffused, by radia­
tion and by conduction, to other bodies.
We have now briefly alluded to the three re-
jnarkable characteristics of heat which more par­
ticularly support our general argument; first,
the nature ofits combination with tangible mat­
ter; secondly, the nature of its combination with
light; and, thirdly, its indestructibility. Each
of these characteristics affords analogical evi­
dence in confirmation of the position that the
living principle in man may exist after the or­
ganised form of matter which it animated is
destroyed.
The phenomena attending the union of heat
with solid bodies— the forms of which it com­
pletely changes, and seems to constitute a com­
ponent part of their compositions, whilst it is, in
fact, entirely distinct from them — is, in the
first instance, an illustration of the possibility
that a still more subtile essence, which enters
into combination with matter, and regulates its
actions, may possess an existence independent
of the material organisation with which it is
combined. The separation of the intimate, and
apparently necessary, connection between heat
and light—each supposed to be an extremely
subtile essence, and therefore the more capable
of entering into a close union — and their exhi­
bition in distinct and separate states, affords, in
112 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
the second case, additional confirmation to the
position that the sentient principle, which we
feel to be of a nature totally distinct from ma.
terial substance, may exist when the body to
which it is attached is decomposed. And when,
to this evidence confirmatory ofthepossibility of
the soul existing in an independent state, there
is added the inference to be drawn from the in­
destructibility and unchangeableness of heat, the
presumption in favour of this position assumes a
high degree ofprobability.
Numerous other phenomena of heat might be
adduced to support the foregoing inferences,
but a more detailed illustration of them would
convert this notice into a regular treatise on the
subject, and our present purpose is merely to
point out some of those leading properties that
seem to bear most directly on the argument.
Were we to adopt the hypothesis that heat is
not a distinct fluid, but is excited merely by
vibratory motions ofthe particles ofmatter, and
that light and heat are the same; though these
views of heat and light would present the argu­
ment in a different shape, they would not mate­
rially affect the argument itself. For, in the
first place, the cause of the vibrations must be
considered as something distinct from the vi­
brating atoms, and from the effects which those
vibrations are supposed to produce; and, in the
second place, were light and heat to be con­
HEAT. 113
sidered merely as different modifications of the
same subtile matter, the causes of those modi­
fications, which could represent that matter
under such different aspects, and subject to such
different laws, must be distinct from the matter
itself. Whichever theory, therefore, weadopt, to
explain the effects of heat or its connection with
light, the phenomena will be equally applicable
in support of the argument founded on the
analogy of the separate independence of subtile
essence in its connection with material substance.
i
114 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHAPTER XI.
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM.
The discoveries in physical science, at the same
time that they have extended the bounds of
human knowledge, have also exhibited in clearer
view the limited extent of the human capacity;
for every new discovery opens a fresh field of
inquiry, an additional source of w'onder, and
presents in a more humiliating viewour inability
to comprehend those numerous causes that ope.
rate on, and produce the various modifications
of, matter. It is true these investigations tend
to show that many of the apparently different
forms of matter are merely different modifica-
tions of one simple element, and by thus re*
ducing the number of the primary elements,
they greatly simplify our ideas of the operations
of nature. But the causesofthose modifications,
which produce such important changes in the
torms of bodies, seem more incomprehensible
than the supposition of the existence of different
distinct elements; and the various hidden pro­
perties of matter which philosophic inquiries
have developed — each of them inscrutable to
man—open to view a boundless prospect of a
land unknown, which serves, however, but as the
foreground to other and more distant scenes,
the outlines of which are not discernible in the
obscure horizon.
These observations are peculiarly applicable
to the science of electricity. Though the elec­
tric attraction was noticed before the foundation
of any of the physical sciences, the subject re­
mained dormant for a series of ages, and the
principal discoveries that render electricity
worthy of being denominated a science have
been made within the present century. It is
indeed still in its infancy, and each succeeding
year additions are made to the facts previously
known, which contribute to increase the im­
portance of this curious and highly interesting
branch of knowledge. When Thales, the Mi­
lesian philosopher, first discovered that amber
on being rubbed possessed the power of attract­
ing light bodies, he little imagined that the agent
thus excited byfrictionofthe gem, was identical
with the lightning ofheaven ; and when Frank­
lin's genius succeeded in drawing lightning from
the clouds, and he proved the identity of the
thunderbolt and ofthe electric spark, he had no
idea that subsequent discoveries would prove the
apparently evanescent electric fluid to be one of
the most constantly active chemical agents, or
that it is— as recent discoveries have almost
i 2
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 115
116 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
established—identical with the magnetic attrac­
tion which points the needle to the pole.
Notwithstanding, however, the great advances
that have been made in this science since the
time ofThales, we possess aslittle knowledge of
the nature of electricity as that ancient philoso­
pher, who attributed the active power of the
amber to the rousing of a dormant soul within
the precious stone, which he supposed then is­
sued forth and brought back the light surround­
ing bodies. The extension of our knowledge of
the properties of electricity and of its identity,
in a modified form, with otheragents, has thrown
noadditional light upon the nature ofthat subtile
agent itself; but has, on the contrary, added to
the previous difficulty of forming a conception
of its nature, another one nearly as great re­
specting the modifications which the same fluid
receives to enable it to assume forms so dif­
ferent and properties so various.
The.opinions respecting the mode in which
electricity is evolved differ even more widely
than those respecting heat and light; because,
in the case of electricity, there are, apparently,
two distinct species of the same fluid to take
into consideration, which seem directly opposed
to each other.
The phenomena of electricity, like those of
the other properties of matter already noticed,
are attributed by contending theorists to the
existence of one or more subtile fluids; or, to
the excitement of peculiar motions among the
minute particles of matter. The theory of Dr.
Franklin is the most simple of any, and as it
affords a satisfactory explanation of most of the
phenomena of electricity, it is the one that
will be adopted in the subsequent remarks
when reference to theoretical explanation is
necessary.
Dr. Franklin's theory supposes that electricity
consists of one all-pervading subtile fluid, which
is generally diffused through all substances; and
that the phenomena of electricity are produced
by any cause which disturbs the equilibrium in
the surrounding bodies, and conveys to the
body positively electrified more than its natural
share; to produce which effect some other body
must be deprived ofits natural proportion of the
electric fluid. Other electricians are of opinion
that there are two separate electric fluids, the
one excited by glass and the other by resins.
The latter opinion, which for a time was sup­
planted by that of Dr. Franklin, has latterly
been revived, though apparently without suf­
ficient reason, for not only is the theory of Dr.
Franklin the more simple, but it is less liable to
many objections that may be raised against the
theory of separate electric fluids.
It will be observed, however, that neither
Dr. Franklin’s, nor the other theory, attempts to
i 3
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 117
118 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
give an explanation of the ultimate cause of the
phenomena. For if we take for granted that
they are excited hy the plus and minus states of
one subtile fluid, and that the effects we witness
are produced by the efforts ofthis fluid to regain
its natural state of equilibrium, we shall still be
as much at a loss as the man whowitnesses them
for the first time, to comprehend the nature of
this supposed uniform fluid, or to understand
how the restoration of its equilibrium can pro­
duce the extraordinary sensation and effects —
accompanied with light and heat—which cha­
racterise the phenomena of electricity.
The circumstances that render the electric
fluid peculiarly mysterious are, the various
methods by which it is excited, the extra­
ordinary chemical and mechanical effects it
produces, and the singularity of the laws it
observes.
The excitement of electricity, there is reason
to believe, is caused by everychemical or mecha­
nical change in the constituent parts of bodies ;
but the readiest mode of exciting common elec­
tricity is by friction. When, for instance, a dry
glass tube, or a stick of sealing wax, is rubbed
briskly with the hand, or with any non-conduct­
ing substance, it immediately becomes highly
electrical, and emits sparks, and attracts all
light bodies placed within its influence. When
a feather is held near an excited tube ofglass,
it is attracted with great energy; but after
the electricity of the tube has been communi­
cated to all the fibres, the feather will fly off
from the glass, and will then be repelled by the
tube, if brought near it, until the feather has
parted with its electricity to some other object,
whenitwillbeagain attractedby the tube. If an
excited stick ofsealing wax be brought near the
electrified feather whilst it is floating in the air,
instead ofbeing repelled by thiselectric, asit was
by the glass, it will be strongly attracted; after
the electricity of the wax, however, has been
communicated to the feather, its fibres will be
repelled, and it will then again rush towards the
glass tube. If the excitedglass and wax be held
near to each other, the feather will be attracted
from one to the other alternately, until the
powers of the excited electrics are exhausted.
These effects are produced in consequence of
the glasstube and the stick of sealing wax being
in opposite states of electricity. According to
the theory ofFranklin, the friction of the glass
disturbs the equilibrium of the electricfluid, and
enablesit to acquire more than its natural share;
which additional quantity it has received from
the substance with which it is rubbed, and the
glass is therefore positively electrified. The
friction of the wax, on the contrary, according
to the same hypothesis, produces the opposite
.effect of diminishing the natural quantity of
i 4
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 119
120 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
electricity in the wax, which is therefore in
a negative state of electricity. The attraction
between a substance positively, and one that
is negatively electrified, is thus supposed to
be caused by their reciprocal endeavours to re­
gain their natural states. The vitreous and re­
sinous theory supposes the electricities ex­
cited in this manner to be two distinct fluids
which possess a strong reciprocal attraction, and
an idio-repulsive power among their own mole­
cules. In accordance with this hypothesis, the
feather, when electrified with either the vitreous
or the resinous fluid, has a repulsive power im­
parted to it, which repels it from that electric ;
and the attraction which electrified bodies pos­
sess to the opposite kind of electricity, impels it
towards the other electric.
It is difficult, if not impossible, however, to
account for several of the phenomena of elec­
tricity on the supposition of the existence of
two separate electric fluids; and the effects of
the repulsive power, which is ascribed to the
molecules of the electric fluid, may be satisfac­
torily explained by the force ofattraction alone.
It is therefore advisable not to obscure a sub­
ject, which is sufficiently difficult to compre­
hend, with needless complexities; and the
theory of Dr. Franklin is so extremely simple,
and is supported by so many experiments, that
the revival of the old and exploded theory of
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 121
vitreous and resinous electricity seems unac­
countable.
The common effects produced by the excite­
ment of electricity—its power of instantaneous
transmission through metals and other con­
ductors, and its obstruction by glass and the
whole class of electrics — its mechanical force
in rending asunder, perforating, or removing
any non-conducting body that obstructs its pas­
sage—its power of setting fire to combustibles,
and of deflagrating the metals—and its peculiar
effect on the nerves and muscles in the electric
shock, are generally well known ; and though
they present highly interesting subjects for con­
sideration, the limits of this work will not allow
us to pause on those phenomena. We must
proceed to those branches of the science more
particularly connected with chemical action.
The phenomena ofgalvanism bear so strong a
resemblance to those of electricity, that soon
after the invention of the Voltaic pile, in which
those phenomena were strikingly exhibited, it
was suspected to be only a modification of the
same power, and this opinion has since been
fully established. As it would be incompatible
with our present object to attempt to explain
the different modes by which galvanic electricity
may be excited, or to enter into a statement of
the varying opinions respecting its mode of
operation, a very brief outline must therefore
suffice.
If a piece of zinc and a piece of silver be
applied to the tongue, the one above, and the
other underneath it, no sensation will be expe­
rienced until the ends of the two metals are
broughtinto contact; but as soon as they touch,
a strong metallic taste will be immediately per­
ceptible. This peculiar taste is caused by the
excitement of galvanic electricity in its simplest
form. When several zinc and silver discs are
placed alternately upon each other, with an in­
termediate piece of moistened cloth ofthe same
size as the metal discs between each pair, the
effect is increased in proportion to the number of
the discs employed. This combination of metals
and intervening moistened cloth constitutes the
Voltaic pile, which exhibits decided signs of
electricity when a communication is formed by
proper conductors between its extreme ends.
The effect of this combination of metallic discs
is greatly increased when the intervening pieces
of cloth are moistened with an acidulous mix­
ture that will act upon the zinc. It is still
further increased by exposing the metals to the
free action of the liquid menstruum; for which
purpose zinc and copper plates are cemented
into troughs, with a space between each pair of
plates for the reception of the acid. A combin­
ation of these troughs constitutes the galvanic
122 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
ELECTRICITY AN9 GALVANISM. 123
battery, which forms one of the most powerful
agents in the decomposition of bodies that che­
mists possess. To produce these effects, it is
necessary that of the two metals employed one
should be more easily oxidizable by the fluid
than the other, and in proportion to the differ,
ence in this respect, and to the strength of the
acid menstruum, will be the quantity ofgalvanic
electricity excited. It is also essential that the
liquid in the different compartments should be
prevented from communicating.
When the galvanic arrangement is completed,
the affinity of the acid for the most oxidizable
metal produces a reciprocal decomposition of
the metal and the liquid, which excites, in some
unknown manner, the galvanic electricity. The
electricity excited in the firstpair of the series of
plates is transmitted through the fluid to the
next, and is thence communicated to those sue.
ceeding. The quantify of electricity is increased
at each transmission by the amount of electricity
excited by each succeeding pair of plates, until
the whole force of the electricity generated by
this arrangement is collected at the terminating
pairs in the series.
The electricity thus excited is not moment-
aneousin its operation, like that excited by fric­
tion : — its action is continuous, at impercept­
ible intervals, until the acid menstruum becomes
saturated, and ceases to act on the metal. Gal­
124 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
vanism differs, likewise, from common electri­
city in the lower degree of its intensity; but in
most other characteristics, and in their general
effects, they bear a close resemblance, notwith­
standing the difference of the modes by which
they are called into action.
Among the effects of galvanic electricity the
decomposition of water presents some extremely
curious phenomena, that deserve particular no­
tice. When the wires of the opposite poles of
the galvanic circle are immersed in water, the
decomposition of that fluid immediately takes
place; a stream of hydrogen gas will issue from
the wire of the negative pole, and if the wires
employed be made of platinum, gold, or silver,
a stream of oxygen gas will be evolved from
that one connected with the positive pole. If,
however, the wires be metals easily oxidizable,
the oxygen evolved from the positive pole of the
galvanic circle, instead of being exhibited in a
gaseous state, will unite with the metal and form
a metallic oxide. The relative quantities of the
gases evolved by this process are exactly in the
proportion that constitutes water, and it is clear,
therefore, that the gases produced are derived
from the decomposition of the water, and that
the attraction of the positive wireforthe oxygen,
and of the negative wire for the hydrogen, must
be sufficiently powerful to disturb the strong
chemical affinity subsisting between the oxygen
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 125
and hydrogen in the water. Those two ele­
ments of water must also derive from the elec­
tric current the caloric necessary for their as­
suming a gaseousform.
The distance between the ends of the wires
immersedin thewater in thisexperiment isimma­
terial,thesameeffectbeingproduced whetherthey
are brought within halfan inch, or are removed
half a yard asunder; and it is still more singular
that the same phenomena occur when the wires
are placed in separate vessels of water, merely
connected by a piece of moistened asbestos.
The particles of water operated on are, in the
latter case, apparently distinct, yet the process
of decomposition proceeds with the same facility
as before, and the result gives the same propor­
tions of hydrogen and oxygen which constitute
water. It is evident, therefore, that notwith­
standing the galvanic influence is communicated
through separate portions of the fluid, and the
decomposition takes place in detached vessels,
that the portion of water which is decomposed
is the same; and the hydrogen or oxygen must,
after separation from their aqueous combination,
traverse from one vessel to the other, through
the communicating fibres of asbestos, though no
indication ofthe transmission can be detected.
These phenomena, taken collectively, afford
additional proofof the incompetence of the hu­
man intellect to comprehend either the agents
employed by nature, ortheir modes of operation.
For—putting altogether out of consideration our
total ignorance of the electric fluid, and of the
processes by which it is excited — we can form
no idea by what means that power can weaken
the strong affinity of oxygen and hydrogen in
water, nor imagine how it is possible for the hy­
drogen gas to be transferred from one vessel to
the other without being dissipated, and even to
descend through the liquid to the point of the
negative wire.
These effects of the influence ofgalvanic elec­
tricity are not, however, more extraordinaiy
than those produced by increasing and suspend­
ing the chemical affinities of different bodies; to
a few of which we shall now briefly allude.
When clean pieces ofsilver and zinc are placed
in a solution ofsulphate of copper (blue vitriol),
no decomposition of the solution by the silver
will take place whilst the metals remain apart;
but when the zinc is brought in contact with
the silver, the affinity of the latter for the copper
will be increased; it will then decompose the
metallic solution, and a thin film of copper will
be deposited on its surface. The simplecontact
of the zinc appears in this instance to have pro­
duced some important change in the chemical
properties of the silver, though in what manner
this change is brought about by the influence of
126 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
the galvanic electricity, excited in so small a
degree, we are unable to discover.
The following example of the suspension of
chemical affinity by the influence ofgalvanism
is still more curious. If the wires of the posi­
tive and negative poles of a galvanic battery be
inserted, the one into an insulated cup contain­
ing an alkaline solution, and the other into a
cup containing an acidulous mixture; and if
both these cups beconnected,bymoistened fibres
ofasbestos, with an intermediate one containing
water, the acid in the cup connected with the
negativepole will be imperceptibly conveyed by
the connecting fibres of asbestos into the inter­
mediate cup, and will be thence transferred to
the cup connected with the positive pole of the
battery. The alkali will, in the same manner,
be transferred from the cup connected with the
positive end, and be conveyed through the inter­
mediate cup ofwaterto thatwith which the nega­
tive wire is connected. During this process the
add and alkali, which possessa strong affinity to
each other, must have been broughtinto contact
in the intermediate cup of water, and during
their passage along the connecting fibres of
asbestos, without combining. The water, also,
which possesses a strong chemical attraction for
both the acid and the alkali, has allowed them to
traverse its particles without retaining either;
and the resultof the experiment is, that the acid
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 127
128 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
and alkali have changed places without any che­
mical combination having taken place between
the three liquids, which possess, under ordinary
circumstances, strong reciprocal attractions.
The suspension of chemical affinities in this in­
stance, under the influence of galvanic electri­
city, is quite unaccountable in our present state
of knowledge, and presents another fact from
which man may learn to doubt the correctness of
positive conclusions founded only upon his li­
mited acquaintance with the influences which
the subtile — and to him inscrutable— proper­
ties of matter may exercise upon the combina­
tions and existences of different bodies.
Similar effects take place when a solution of
any of the neutral salts is submitted to the ac­
tion of galvanic electricity in cups similarly
arranged. If â solution of sulphate of potass,
for instance, be placed in the negative cup, the
chemical affinities ofthe salt will be altered, and
the sulphuric acid, which was combined with the
potass, will be transferred through the interme­
diate cup to that which is connected with the
positive wire, and it will pass through any solu­
tion that might be contained in the intermediate
cup without mixing with it, provided the solution
and the acid would, under ordinary circum­
stances, form a soluble compound.
Having now given a general outline of the
modes by which the two electricities may be
excited, and having mentioned some of their
effects, we shall next proceed to notice the con­
siderations whichpresent themselves, on areview
of these facts, that are more immediately con­
nected with the subject-matter of the present
work.
In whatever point of view we regard the
nature ofelectricity—whether as one all-pervad­
ing fluid or as two distinct fluids, whether we
consider it as merely the result of chemical ac­
tion or as identical with chemical affinity— we
must admit that it is distinct from the substances
which develope its powers, and that the effect of
electrical excitement is not to create a quantity
of electricity, but to bring the latent power into
operation.
Having then arrived at the fact that the elec­
tric fluid is distinct from, and exists independ­
ently of, the substancesby which it ismanifested,
let us briefly examine the phenomena of the
Leyden jar for the purpose of tracing a resem­
blance between the active powers bestowed on
it by electricity, and the powers with which the
human body becomes invested by the presence
ofthe vital principle.
The electricity with which the Leyden jar
is charged adheres to the glass, the non-con­
ducting power of which causes it to retain the
electric fluid; and the coating of tin-foil serves
to conduct instantaneously to one point the
K
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 129
ISO THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
electricity that is disseminated over the surface
ofthe glass. That the electricity is retained by
the glass, and not by the tin-foil, may be clearly
proved ; for the inner and outer coatings of an
electrified Leyden jar may be changed without
materially diminishing the force of the charge.
The glass jar with its coatings and connecting
wires, when electrified, exhibits active properties,
that might be mistaken by the ignorant as in-
dications of animate power. It attracts and
repels all light substances brought within its in­
fluence — it gives out a sound when a conduct­
ing body is brought near to its knob — it sends
forth luminous rays in the dark, and it might be
made to move by the attractive power of elec­
tricity if placed on an extremely delicate loco­
motive machine. As soon as a communication
is made between the outer coating and the knob,
by a conducting substance, a vivid spark is
emitted, a report is heard, a convulsive shock is
felt, and all the extraordinary powers of the jar
are then dissipated andapparently destroyed. We
learn, however, from a closer examination ofthe
phenomena, that the quantity of electricity is
not diminished by the explosion, and that the
effect of the discharge has been but to restore
the equilibrium that had been disturbed by the
electrical excitement.
If no direct communication be made between
the inside and outside coatings of the electrified
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 131
jar, the electricity will be gradually dissipated
'by the air until all signs ofenergy are gone, and
the jar that was before endued with active pro­
perties will become an inert piece of matter.
Not one particleof the fluid that conferred those
properties is, however, lost or changed; though,
having been gradually removed from the sub­
stance through whose medium it became per­
ceptible to our senses, we are no longer able to
detect its subtile existence.
Any comparison of the combinations of the
forms and properties of matter with the wonder­
ful conformation of man, governed by the sen­
tient principle, must necessarily be extremely
rude and imperfect; but in our endeavours to
comprehend the connection between matter and
mind, such comparisons may serve as tangible
points whereon to fix our ideas; and by showing,
in the combinations of matter with subtile pro­
perties, that the active powers of material sub­
stances are distinct from matter itself, and exist
independently of the forms in which they are
manifested, we may aid our feeble conceptions
of the distinct and separate existence of the
soul from the body; and the possibility of such
separate existences may, by these means, be
confirmed.
The analogy presented by the phenomena of
the Leyden jar to the presumed separation of
the immaterial principle from corporeal orga-
k 2
132 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
nisation, though it cannot be advanced as direct
evidence in support of the immortality of the
soul, may be at least regarded as symbolical of
the changes consequent on the dissolution ofthe
body: —the gradual decay of the mental and
physical powers, and the final departure of the
soul from the organised frame, which then be­
comes an inert mass, whilst the immortal, unde­
caying principle, that gave itanimation, is merely
transported to another state of existence.
The action of the galvanic pile presents
another striking analogy to the supposed se­
paration of the sentient principle from the body,
and its independent existence after the material
organisation that developed it is decomposed.
The galvanic pile, when in active operation,
exhibits more resemblance to an animated being
than an excited Leyden jar, in consequence of
the continuity of its effects; but as the acid
menstruum that excites the electricity by its
action on the zinc becomes saturated with the
metal, the effects gradually diminish, until the
action entirely ceases. The electric fluid that
was brought into an active state by the mutual
attractions of the metal and the liquid has
not, however, undergone any diminution or
increase during this process, nor is it destroyed
by the cessation of the chemical decomposi­
tion ; for as the chemical action did not
create the electric matter, but was only the
ELECTRICITY AND GALVANISM. 133
means of disturbing the electrical equilibrium,
and thereby rendering it perceptible, so the dis­
continuance of that action does not destroy the
electric fluid, but merely restores it to a state of
rest, to be again roused into action when the
exciting cause is renewed.
In these instances, and indeed in every in­
stance in which electricity is excited, we per­
ceive a typical illustration of that important
truth which it is our object to elucidate and
establish; and we observe in the combination
of ordinary matter with one of its more subtile
properties that very phenomenon, the possibility
of which is denied by some sceptics when as­
serted ofthe inscrutable connection between the
material body and the immaterial soul.
Ignorant as we are of the nature of electri­
city, it is muchmorecognisableto the senses than
any of the subtile properties we have hitherto
considered. It can be felt, seen, heard, smelt,
and even tasted, and yet we cannot form the
most distant conjecture respecting its nature, or
by what means it becomes perceptible to the or­
gans of sense. When, therefore, we find that
apparently insurmountable difficulties attend the
investigation of the character of an agent that is
subject to the examination of all the external
senses, the investigation of those more subtile
material properties that are not appreciable by
any one or£an of sensation seems a hopeless
k 3
134 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
undertaking; and we feel that it is not within
the range ofthe highest human intellect to com­
prehend the nature of the soul, the mysterious
attributes of which far exceed those ofthe sub­
tile properties of matter.
Whilst we possess an innate consciousness of
the existence of the soul, and are aware of our
utter inability to comprehend it —whilst we are
aware of the existence of many subtile proper­
ties of matter that are also completely beyond
the reach of our intellects, though the objectsof
sensation, and have proof that these latter and
grosser properties exercise their powers in ways
that would, if submitted to the examination of
human reason alone, appear quite impossible—
whilst these circumstances are known to us re­
specting the actions of matter, we cannot surely
deny that the same powers which matter pos­
sesses maybe also possessed by the more inscru­
table essence of the human soul. To attempt
to circumscribe the operations and existence of
the sentient principle within the limits of our
knowledge of those laws which govern the ordi­
nary forms of matter, when we are, at the same
time, obliged to admit that many of the proper­
ties of matter itself form exceptions to those
laws, seems to be completely opposed to the
clearest deductions from known facts, and alto­
gether irreconcileable with sound philosophy.
MAGNETISM. 135
CHAPTER XII.
MAGNETISM.
Magnetic phenomena might, in accordance
with the facts brought to light by recent inves­
tigations, have been properly classed with those
of electricity; but they are in many respects of
so distinct a character that it has been thought
desirable to consider them in a separate chapter.
Itwas conjecturedthat an intimaterelation sub­
sisted between electricity and magnetism, shortly
after the former science attracted the notice of
philosophers, in consequence ofthe similarity of
theirattractive and repulsivepowers,and fromthe
circumstances that the poles of the earth, which
are apparently the great depositaries of the
natural magnetic influence, arealsothoseparts of
the globe where the electric fluid seems to be
in most constant activity. This opinion was
stronglyconfirmed by the discovery that a needle
when subjected to the action of electricity be­
comes endued with magnetic powerj and by
the more recent employment of galvanism, in­
stead of common electricity, a method has been
discoveredofimparting toiron byits meansavery
high degree of magnetic power. Still more con­
clusive evidence df their identity is afforded by
k 4
the fact, that by apeculiarcombination of power*
ful magnets they may be made to emit an elec­
tric spark. This reciprocal production of mag-
netism by galvanic power, and ofelectricity by
magnetism, proves, at least, that a close connec­
tion subsists between the two subtile principles,
if indeed they are not the same.
Though the phenomena of magnetism bear a
strong resemblance to those of electricity in the
leading feature of their attractive and repulsive
powers, they are at the same time very dissimi­
lar in their modes of exercising those powers,
and they operate by totally different agents.
Electricity may, as was stated in the preced­
ing chapter, be excited by the friction of all
bodies that are non-conductors; and by chemi­
cal action it is excited in the metals, which are
the best of conductors ; but nearly the only sub­
stancein which magnetism can be excited isiron
and its compounds. Again: the excitement of
the electric fluid continues only so long as the
causes that excite it are in action, and when they
cease it is quickly dissipated; but when the
magnetic power is once communicated it is re­
tained by the magnetized steel for an unlimited
time; it exerts its influence without diminu­
tion, and the power may be communicated from
that to other pieces of steel, not only without
any decrease of energy, but with an absolute
increase of power by the communication. In
136 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
MAGNETISM. 137
the manner, too, in which the magnetic power
is excited, in its transmission through the parti­
cles of different substances, and in its polar
attraction, by which it is more particularly cha­
racterised, magnetism seems distinguished from
electricity. These points of dissimilarity seem
sufficient to warrant a separate consideration of
the magnetic and electric fluids,evenifweshould
be disposed to regard them as only different
modifications of the same property of matter.
The obscurity in which the consideration of
the nature of electricity is involved is, if possi­
ble, exceeded by that which surrounds the in­
vestigation of magnetism; for the former is
subjected to the cognisance of all the senses,
whereas the magnetic power, in its ordinary
developement, is not perceptible by any one.
Our only knowledge of magnetism is derived
from its effects, some of the more striking of
which must be briefly alluded to.
We shall in the first place proceed to consider
some of those peculiarities which distinguish the
operations of the magnetic attraction from those
of electricity. The electric attraction is not
confined to any class of bodies, but is exerted
towards every substance which isnot in a similar
state of electricity. The influence of the elec­
tric fluid, however, can only be transmitted by
conductors of electricity, and when the elec­
tricity is communicated to those conductors they
138 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
participate in the power of the excited electric,
and the substances brought within the electric,
influence are attracted towards the conducting
body nearest to them, and not towards the
source whence the power is derived. These
powers of conduction seem to have no limits,
for the electricity may be transmitted through
insulated conductors to a distance of many miles,
in an imperceptible space of time, without dimi­
nution. But though electricity will pass with
such amazing facility through metallic conduc­
tors, it cannot make the least impression on
non-conducting substances, which present a com­
plete obstruction to its passage. The magnetic
fluid, on the contrary, seems to possess the
power of penetrating all bodies, though it at­
tracts and is communicated to iron alone; and it
seems to possess thisproperty of passing through
the particles of the closest bodieswithout having
its effects retarded or impaired by their presence.
The property peculiar to the magnetic fluid
of operating through solid, opaque, interposing
substances forms one of its most curious fea­
tures, and in this respect it differs from every
other attracting power, with the exception of
gravitation. The hardness of the intervening
substance seems not to have the least effect on
the energy of the attraction, and we find that
when iron filings are strewed on a board, on a
plate, or, indeed, on any other substance, not
MAGNETISM. 139
too thick, and a magnet is held underneath
them, the small particles of iron are immediately
and strongly attracted, and the attractive force
is as great as it would be at a similar distance
were the interposing substance not there.
The division of the forces of the magnet into
attractive and repulsive powers, its polarity,
and the communication of its power to other
pieces of steel, also exhibit phenomena that are
not onlyinscrutable in their inherent causes, but
whose modes of operation are inexplicable upon
any presumed hypothesis. It is well known that
when a magnet is suspended from its centre of
gravity, one end of it will invariably turn to­
wards the north, and whenever it is disturbed
from that position, the same end will always
resume that direction after the disturbing force
is removed. If when a magnet is suspended
freely in this manner the south pole of another
magnet is brought near to its north pole, the
two magnets will be strongly attracted, but if
the north poles of the magnets be presented to
each other, they will be as strongly repelled;
and the north pole of the suspended magnet
will turn away from the similar pole of the
magnet presented to it.
These opposite forces of attraction and repul­
sion are strongest at the ends of each magnet,
and diminish gradually towards their centres,
at which points no magnetic power is percept­
140 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
ible. The central point, therefore, marks the
division between the repulsive and attractive
forces, and from either side of it the attraction
andrepulsion commences. Now, as the metallic
bar of the magnet is formed of one uniform
piece of steel, and as there exists no apparent
obstacle to prevent the neutralisation of these
two active powers, which have so strong an
attraction for each other at the extreme ends
of the bar, we are at a loss to conceive by
what means these reciprocally attractive forces
can beretained separate within the same piece of
steel, when they have so strong an attraction in
two different magnets. There is, indeed, some
similarity between this phenomenon and that of
a charged Leyden jar, but in the latter case the
opposite electricities are separated by the thick­
ness of the glass, the substance of which they
cannot penetrate, and even in that case, when
the opposite electricities are highly excited, they
overcome the obstacles that separate them, and
the jar is discharged.
The property of polarity is essential to the
existence of the magnetic influence, and when
a magnet is broken it instantly becomes two
separate magnets, each one possessing two op­
posite poles. This is the case not only when a
magnet is broken in the middle, but even when
a small portion is broken off the end of either
pole. Suppose, for instance, that we had a
MAGNETISM. 141
magnet twelve inches long;—then six inches
each way from the centre would exhibit oppo­
site states of magnetism, which would increase
in power tothe ends of the magnetic bar. Now,
if we were to break offone inch from the posi­
tive end, the natural inference might be that the
whole of that fragment would exhibit positive
magnetism ; but instead of that being the case,
the fragment immediately possesses two oppo­
site poles ; the fractured part becomes the nega­
tive end, and will strongly attract the end of the
magnet from which it was broken, whilst the
other end will repel it After the original mag­
net has been thus shortened, the neutral point
will be removed nearer to the negative end, and
that point which, prior to the shortening of the
bar, exhibited no signs of magnetism, will then
become magnetic.
Now, if we imagine the opposite magnetic
poles to be produced by theplusandminus states
of magnetism at each end — like the opposite
states of electricity — or whatever other hypo­
thesis we adopt to explain the phenomenon, we
shall find it involved in inexplicable difficulty.
We perceive the magnet before it is broken ex­
hibiting two apparently distinct powers, which
could not exist in one and the same end without
destroying or neutralising them both; therefore
we must, according to all our preconceived no­
tions on the subject, take for granted that the
142 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
magnetism at the positive end was either aWphs
or minus, or— if we assume the existence oftwo
magnetic fluids— that it was composed entirely
ofthe one kind of magnetism orof the other. If,
then, the attraction of the positive end be caused
by an excess of the magnetic fluid, the conse­
quence that might naturally be expected to ensue
from breaking off the part in which this excess
was most concentrated would be, that the frag­
ment would contain only an excess of the fluid.
But, contrary to this expectation, we find the
result to be that the part is no sooner separated
from the whole than its two ends indicate oppo­
site states of magnetism — the one beingplus,
the other minus— whilst the central point pos­
sesses no magnetic power whatever.
How the magnetic power in the fragment can
divide itself into a positive and negative state it
is impossibleto conceive; for, as those two states
possess a strong reciprocal attraction, and of
course neutralise each other, even if we could
form a conception of the manner in which they
exist at the opposite ends of the same bar of
steel, we should be still at a loss to understand
how the magnetic fluid could, when a piece of
that bar is broken off, collect itselfin a state of
excess at one end of the fragment, and leave the
other end in a deficient state. The difficulty is
increased by adopting the supposition that there
are two distinct magnetic fluids; for in that case,
MAGNETISM. 143
when a piece is broken oif the end of a magnet
— which, of course, must be charged with one
kind of magnetism alone— the sudden appear­
ance in thatpart of a different and opposite kind
of magnetism would be utterly unaccountable.
The communication of magnetic influence
to steel merely by contact, and not only with­
out diminishing the power of the magnet which
communicates it, but, on the contrary, with
an increase of its energy, evidently shows that
the magnetic power must exist previously in a
dormant state, and that this action of the mag­
net on steel must, in some unknown manner,
bring the latent power into action. The pecu­
liar qualities of steel enable it, in some myste­
rious way, to retain the power that is thus com­
municated ; but softiron, though it exhibits mag­
netic phenomena even more strongly than steel
whilst the magnet is continued to be applied to
it, loses all its magnetic properties as soon as the
magnet isremoved. The retention ofthepower
by steel must therefore be owing to some pecu­
liar conformation ofitsparticles, or to the carbon
with which all steel is united.
Though iron and steel are nearly the only
substances that exhibit magnetic phenomena,
the magnetic fluid we must presume is capable
of being conducted by and of pervading nu­
merous other bodies; for we should otherwise be
unable to account in any rational way for the
144 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
accession of magnetic attraction which super­
venes on the contact of a magnet with steel. That
the power mustbe derived from some extraneous
source seems evident; for we cannot by any
means conceive that the mere application of a
magnet to the surface of steel generates the
power. It must, therefore, be derived either
from the bodies immediately communicating
with the metals, or from the surrounding atmo­
sphere. The whole process is, however, involved
in the greatest mystery. We know that such a
power as magnetism exists — that its sensible
operations are confined almost exclusively to one
metal—and from the general observations of
those operations, connected with other pheno­
mena of nature, we are led to infer, that the
manifestation of this property is not caused by
any new creation of power, but in consequence
of bringing into action the dormant power by
some exciting cause. The nature ofthe exciting
cause we cannot explain, but we perceive the
result of it is to endue steel with this peculiar
property. This subtile property constitutes no
essential part of the steel as a metal: it is in all
respects totally distinct from it, and is a pro­
perty superadded to its metallic character;
which property, though imperceptible, except­
ing byits effects on iron, is an active agent, that
appears to give a semblance of vitality to the
metal. %
As the magnetic power is not created
MAGNETISM. 145
bythe exciting cause that imparts it to the steel,
we must infer that it is not destroyed when the
magnetism of the steel is impaired or altogether
dissipated ; and that, when the metal itself is
consumed by rust, the same power which im­
parted apparent activity to its inert mass con­
tinues to exist in some latent form, and may
be again brought into perceptible operation
when the cause that previously excited it is
renewed.
Some of the most marked distinctions between
the phenomena of electricity and magnetism
have been already pointed out, and if we assume
magnetism to be a distinct subtile fluid, the na­
ture of its union with grosser matter, and its
existence independently of the matter which
renders its properties cognisable to the senses,
serves to add another to those instances pre­
viously cited, of the connection of matter with
a distinct active principle that is not necessarily
co-existent with the agent that brings that prin­
ciple into action, even when its combination
with that agent is the only form in which it is
known to us. Should we, however, be disposed
to accede to the opinion now prevalent among
scientific men, that electricity, galvanism, and
magnetism, are only different modifications of
the same property of matter, in that case we
must view the phenomena of magnetism as af­
fording a peculiar and striking addition to the
146 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
illustrations of that mysterious, intimate, and
yet independent, connection ofthe electric fluid
with matter, which havebeen previously noticed.
Again: if weshould admit that the electric fluid
is capable of undergoing modifications as im­
portant as those which distinguish it from gal­
vanism and from magnetism, the consideration
of the nature of those modifications in a sub­
tile principle —itself unknown — which can
completely alter its character and change its
modes of operation, opens an additional vista in
the boundless and obscure field of knowledge,
through which we may behold further proofs of
the insufficiency of the intellectual powers of
man to comprehend even the material works
of an omnipotent Creator; and may perceive
the absurdity, therefore, of attempting to limit
within the narrow capacity of the human mind,
the operations of an omniscient Power, in the
creation and modes of existence of the soul.
The phenomena of magnetism that we have
been considering, become so familiar from fre­
quent observation, that they cease to excite sur­
prise ; but let us for a moment conceive that
the properties of the magnet were unknown,
and that a traveller from a distant part of the
world were to announce the discovery of the
loadstone and its singular powers. Imagine, for
instance, that he were to communicate, for the
first time, that there existed a substance which
MAGNETISM. 147
possessed an attractive power sufficiently strong
to lift bodies many times exceeding its own
weight, but that this powerful attraction was
only exerted on iron ; —that this peculiar force
was not obstructed in its operation by the inter­
position of the hardest substances between the
attracting power and that inetal; —that this
wonderful property produced not the least ap­
parent variation in the bodies that possessed it,
and that by mere contact it might be commu­
nicated to steel, not only without occasioning
any loss to the original source whence the
attractive power was derived, but with a positive
increase to its energy by the communication of
it to other substances. Let us suppose our tra­
veller to state, in addition to these circum­
stances, that when this attractive property was
communicated to a piece of steel, the two ends
possessed different kinds of attraction, and that
one would repel the end which the other at­
tracted ; that if this newly-discovered substance
were broken into a thousand pieces, each piece
would possess attractive powers, and the opposite
ends of each fragment would possess opposite
kinds of attraction ; and, to conclude his tale of
wonder, that if all the pieces were suspended
freely, they would all point in the same direction.
We can readily conceive that the traveller
who revealed this discovery would be over­
whelmedwith ridicule, and his statements would
l 2
148 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
be deemed scarcely more deserving of credence
than those ofBaron Munchausen. If the subject
were thought to be worthy a moment’s attention,
there is not one of the alleged properties that
would not be assailed by plausible arguments,
founded on fallacious premises, that might serve
forthe construction oflogical syllogisms to prove
the existence of such a substance to be impos­
sible. It isupon the same narrow system of phi­
losophising, which presumes all things to be im­
possible ofwhichthe humanfacultiescan form no
conception, that the arguments adduced against
the existence of the sentient principle in a sepa­
rate state from that of the body have been prin­
cipally founded. Every succeeding discovery,
indeed, trenches upon the territory of presumed
impossibilities, and shows that the operations of
nature are not to be circumscribed by the limits
whichtheignoranceofman wouldimpose. But,re­
gardlessofthese repeated checks on his presump­
tion, he adheres to this narrow-minded system of
reasoning, and will persevere in denying the pos­
sibility of stales of being that cannot, from their
inscrutable nature, be brought to the test ofposi­
tive proof}though the arguments by which these
objections are attempted to be supported are
merely a repetition of those that have been pre­
viously refuted in the material world by the ad­
vancing progress of knowledge.
The consideration of the polarity and dip of
MAGNETISM. 149
the magnetic needle might serve as additional
illustrations, if any were necessary, ofthe inscrut­
able nature of this extraordinary property of
matter; forinthese phenomena weperceive that
the magnetic influence, instead of being—as our
acquaintance with its operations would lead us
to believe — of very limited extent, manifests its
energy, at the distance of thousands of miles,
by means perfectly imperceptible and incompre­
hensible. The facts recently made known in the
new science of electro-magnetism might lead us,
again, into other paths ofimpenetrable darkness,
if we attempted to explore their mysterious
. causes; but those phenomena already adduced
are sufficient to prove that the properties of the
magnet are beyond our comprehension; and it
would only extend our observations to an unne­
cessary length were we to dwell on the numer­
ous branches of the subject that might be ad-
. vanced in support of ourgeneral argument.
150 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION.
Some of the general phenomena of chemical
attraction have been briefly adverted to in a
preceding chapter#, but we shall now have to
allude more particularly to this property of mat-
ter, for the purpose ofshowing the impenetrable
obscurity in which it is involved.
The term Chemical Affinity, it has been pre­
viously explained, signifies the attraction sub­
sisting between the ultimate atoms of different
substances ; and chemical action of every kind
depends upon the exertion of the intimate and
varying affinities in the molecules of matter.
In the consideration we shall now bestow
upon this important chemical agent, our object
will be to show that many of the effects pro­
duced by this property of matter are contrary
to the inferences we might be supposed to draw
from ordinary experience ; that the cause of
those effects is beyond the reach of the human
understanding; and that, in the union of this
subtile principle with the matter it controls, it
exists independently of that matter : and hence
to infer, first, that the results of experience in
* Page 5.
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 151
ordinary cases are not to be taken as the limits
ofpossibility in questions relating to subtile pro­
perties ; secondly, thatasweperceivecauses con­
stantly operating in the material world, of the
nature of which we can form not the least con­
ception, it is not improbable that the still more
inscrutable essence of the human soul may be
capable of exerting its energies under circum­
stances that surpass our comprehension ; and,
thirdly, that the separate existence of this sub­
tile property of matter, independently of the
matter with which it is combined, affords a close
analogy to the separate existence of the sen­
tient principle distinct from the body which it
animates.
To enable us to form an idea of the extraor-
dinary nature of the process accompanying the
commonest chemical phenomenon, it is neces­
sary to divest the mind, as much as possible,
from the impression that these effects are
brought aboutby well-understood and extremely
simple causes. The simplest chemical actions
are those ofsolution and mixture ; and we may,
perhaps, imagine that no difficulty can attend
the developement oftheir causes j but when we
examine closely the extent of our knowledge
even on these points, we shall find that, simple
as they appear to be, we are quite ignorant of
the modes by which they are effected, and of
the nature of the causes that excite themj even
l 4
152 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
when we bring to our aid the light that has been
thrown on the subject by discoveries in chemical
science.
When, for instance, a fewdrops of vinegar are
added to a glass ofwater, what can appear more
natural or intelligible, at firstview, than that the
acid should diffuse itselfthrough the water, and
communicate to the whole a degree of acidity,
proportionate to the quantity and strength of
the vinegar employed ? Again ; when a lump of
sugar is immersed inthat liquid, what can appear
more simple than its solution and disappearance,
and its consequent communication of a saccha­
rine taste to the whole of the fluid? But it will
appear evident, on a very little consideration,
that the combination of the acid with the water,
and the solution of the sugar, which appear to be
merely the necessary and passive consequences
of their being brought into contact, must be
effected by the operation of some active agent
For if the acid and the water did not possess
some peculiar reciprocal attractive properties,
the acid, as it is considerably heavier thanwater,
would fall to the bottom of the glass j but in­
stead of doing so, the heavier particles are sus­
pended by the uppermost particles of the water,
and their attraction must consequently be suf­
ficient to counteract the gravitating force that
continually tends to separate them.
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 153
The operation of an active agent in the che­
mical combination of liquids is rendered more
apparent when sulphuric acid is employed, in­
stead of vinegar, in the foregoing experiment.
Sulphuric acid is nearly twice the weight of the
water with which it combines, but its attraction
for the water prevents the particles of the two
liquids from separating j and, in addition to this
indication of the presence of some active pro­
perty which attaches the heavier to the lighter
particles, we observe that the mixture of the
sulphuric acid with the water excites a strong
chemical action throughout the mass of the
liquid; which then condenses into a smaller
space, and liberates a large quantity of heat.
The specific gravity of such a mixture is found
to exceed that of the mean specific gravity of
the two fluids j for if a pint measure of sulphu­
ric acid be added to a pint measure of water,
the result of the mixture will be very sensibly
less than two pints, though the weight of the
mixed liquids is undiminished. Some material
internal action must consequently have taken
place among the particles of the acid and water
on their combination, which has condensed
these fluids into a smaller space, though they
are, in their separate states, scarcely compres­
sible by the utmost mechanical power.
The sameobservation respecting the necessary
presence of some active chemical agent will
154 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
apply to the process of solution. Unless there
were some energetic principle at work to de­
stroy the cohesive attraction of the crystallised
particles of the sugar, it would remain a solid
mass in water, as it does when in contact with
turpentine, mercury, or airj but, by the influ­
ence of a mutual attraction between the water
and the sugar, the particles of the latter are
.disseminated through the liquid, and enter into
so close a combination with it, that they cannot
be separated until some other chemical combin­
ation takes place, by the introduction of another
substance that has a stronger attraction, either
for the sugar or the water, than they recipro­
cally possess.
The property of chemical attraction apper­
tains to all bodies, though they are frequently
placed in circumstances not suited to its deve-
lopement. When oil and water are placed in
contact they exhibit no signs of possessing
this power, and their particles, on the contrary,
apparently repel each other; but they can,
nevertheless, exert strong chemical attraction;
and the cause of that property not manifesting
itself in such circumstances is, that the pecu­
liar attractions they respectively possess bear
little or no aiflnity to each other. Oil and water
may, however, be made to combine by the in­
tervention of some substance to which they
have separately an attraction. Soda, for in­
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 155
stance, which unites with water and with oil,
will cause these apparently opposing bodies to
combine. It is evident, therefore, that attrac­
tive powers were previously existing in the oil
and water, and that they only required the
presence of a communicating medium to bring
those forces into operation. The comparative
absence of chemical affinities in different bodies
is, consequently, not to be considered as a proof
of the want of chemical attraction in those
substances, but merely to indicate that the reci­
procal affinities are not sufficiently strong to
overcome the cohesive attraction of their re­
spective particles.
These considerations bring us to the next
point of this interesting property of matter,—
the existence of different kinds, or degrees, of
chemical attraction. Not only do the particles
of all bodies possess an inherent attractive pro­
perty, but the nature of this attraction is dif­
ferent—or at leastit operates with very different
degrees of energy — among the particles of dif­
ferent bodies. It is upon these varying degrees
of attraction that all chemical decompositions
depend; for if their relative attractive powers
were equal, no chemical change would take
place when they were brought into contact: no
one substance would possess a stronger attrac­
tion towards another than to the body with which
156 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
it is already united, therefore there would be no
disposing cause to induce a change.
As an illustration of the effects resulting from
bodies possessing different degrees of chemical
affinity,let us take the following example:— Ifa
small quantity of lime be immersed in diluted
muriatic acid, the lime will be dissolved, and
the solution will be perfectly colourless and
transparent A piece of potass added to the
solution of lime will make the liquid turbid, and
in a short time the lime will be precipitated to
the bottom of the glass. This separation of the
lime from its solution in muriatic acid is occa­
sioned by the superior attraction which the acid
possesses for the potass; therefore, as soon as
the alkali is added to the solution, the acid
separates from the lime and unites with the
potass; and, as the lime isinsoluble without the
aid of the acid, it falls to the bottom. This
property, which enables the particles of bodies
to separate from previously existing compounds,
and to unite with other substances, has been
termed their elective affinity, from the choice
which the combining sabstances seem to ex­
ercise in leaving one body to unite with another.
The cause of these varying degrees of chemi­
cal attraction is attributed to electricity; and in
proportion to the quantities of the electric fluid
contained in different bodies, and their negative
or positive states ofelectricity respectively, their
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 1Ô7
affinities are supposed to be stronger or weaker.
Those bodies that apparently possess no affinity
to each other are presumed, according to this
hypothesis, to be in the same state of electricity,
and consequently to possess no reciprocal at­
traction ; while those that possess the strongest
affinity are supposed to be in opposite and
strongly excited states of electricity, and the
attraction is, therefore, in its greatest energy.
But whether we regard chemical attraction as a
distinct property of matter, or as only a modifi­
cation of electricity, in either case we must
consider it to be an active agent superadded to
the particles of matter, and entirely distinct
from them.
Another extraordinary peculiarityofchemical
attraction is that exhibited in the definite pro­
portions in which the atoms of different sub­
stances unite. Many substances, for instance,
will only unite chemically in certain propor­
tions; and whatever may be the disproportion
of the quantities of them mixed together, che­
mical combination will take place between cer­
tain portions onlyof the two substances, and the
surplus remains uncombined. Thus, we find
that oxygen and hydrogen gases will unite
chemically in those proportions only that con-
stitute water, and that when a mixture of the
two gases is exploded in a proper apparatus, if
the proportions be not exactly those that form
158 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
water by their union, the superabundant gas
will remain uncombined. In some cases, again,
substances that unite only in definite quantities,
will combine in more than one proportion,
though they will not unite in any intermediate
quantities. Thus one hundred parts of man­
ganese will unite with 14, 28, 42, or with 56
parts of oxygen; but only in those proportions,
and in no intermediate ones. In the same man­
ner, 14 parts of nitrogen will unite with oxygen
in the proportions of8, 16, 24, 32, and 40, but
in no others j and when bodies unite in this
manner in different proportions, those propor­
tions always are, as in the preceding instances,
multiples of each other.
We perceive therefore, from the foregoing
brief statement of the laws which govern che­
mical attraction, that it is produced by some
active principlewhich pertains necessarily to the
atoms of material bodies *
, that this attraction
between different substances varies in degree,
even down to the point of apparent repulsion ;
and that, in many cases, where the power seems
to be in the greatest activity, the combination
between tfoe attractive particles can only take
place in certain proportions.
In whatever way we endeavour to explain the
nature and operation ofthis property of matter,
weshall find that it surpasses our comprehension.
We may, indeed, by ascribing the effects of
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 159
chemical attraction to the agency of other
powers, and by assuming certain arrangements
to take place among the atoms of matter, ima-
gine that we have a clear idea of the nature of
the phenomena; but, on minutely examining
the extent of our knowledge, it will be found
that we have in reality made no advance toward
elucidating the cause of chemical attraction;
and that, allowing the existing theories respect­
ing the cause of definite proportions to be
correct, we should still be ignorant ofthe causes
that dispose the particles ofbodies to unite only
in those proportions.
If, for instance, we ascribe the effects of
chemical attraction to electricity, we do not
make the least approach towards understanding
its nature; for as we are avowedly ignorant of
the nature of electricity, even when excited in
its most palpable form, it cannot be supposed
that our minds will become more enlightened on
the subject by investigating it in its hidden
recesses ; when modified in a manner that com­
pletely alters its character and modes of ope­
ration, and prevents any one of its ordinary
attributes from being cognisable to the senses.
Again: if we were to adopt the atomic theory of
definite proportions — which ascribes the ope­
ration of that law of chemical attraction to the
union of a certain number of the ultimate ele­
mentary atoms of different bodies in the form-
ation of one atom of the new compound — we
should still be equally unable to explain why
the atoms unite at all; why the definite propor­
tions of atoms always unite under given circum­
stances ; or why the proportions are not inde­
finitely extended.
We shall next proceed to point out a few of
those effects of chemical affinity which, if not
subjected to the evidence of our senses, might,
in consequence of their extraordinary deviation
from the ordinary course of our experience, be
considered to be impossible.
Muriatic acid gas and ammoniacal gas are
both invisible, and a glass jar containing either
would therefore appear to be empty ; but when
these two invisible gases are mixed, the muriatic
acid unites with the ammonia, and forms a solid
salt; and the sides of the glass vessel in which
the gases are united is coated with white con­
crete muriate of ammonia. Withoutthe evidence
of this experiment, it would be impossible to
conceive, apriori, that the mixture of these two
gases could produce such a result; and if the
fact were not capable of ocular demonstration,
the formation of a solid substance by the mix­
ture of two invisible gases might be deemed an
impossibility.
If a bottle filled with ammoniacal gas be in­
verted over water, the water will immediately
rush up into the bottle, and the gas will disap­
160 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 161
pear. The apparent effect will be nearly the
same as if the bottle had been in a state of
vacuum. This phenomenon is produced by the
strong chemical attraction subsisting between
the ammonia and water; in consequence of
which, the former is immediately absorbed when
they come in contact, and the gas, which was
considerably lighter than atmospheric air, is
thereby condensed into a liquid. The affinity
of the ammonia and water is so strong, that the
latter will absorb 500 times its own volume of
the gas, and a pint of water will therefore be
sufficient to liquefy 500 pints of the ammoniacal
gas. This wonderful power of absorption is
known to be occasioned by what is termed the
affinity ofammoniaand water; but of the nature
of this attraction, or in what manner the gas
can be thus suddenly deprived of its great
elastic power, we cannot imagine.
Again ; when solutions ofcarbonate ofpotass
and muriate of lime are mixed in equal pro­
portions, those two colourless fluids will be in­
stantly converted into a white solid mass. The
changes that take place in the mixture to pro­
duce this effect are as follow: — The carbonic
acid that was combined with the potass has
a greater affinityfor the earth than it has for the
alkali, and therefore leaves the potass to unite
withthe lime; and the muriatic acid, with which
the lime wascombined, having a strongeraffinity
M
1G2 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
for the alkali than for the earth, it leaves the
lime and unites with the potass. A double de­
composition consequently takes place, and the
result is, that two different solids are formed,
viz. carbonate of lime and muriate of potass.
In this experiment, it must be observed, though
we are able to discover the nature of the
changes that take place in the mixture, we are
not able to discover the primary causes by which
those changes are effected ; and the conversion
of two transparent fluids into an opaque solid
substance, is so completely opposed to our no­
tions derived from ordinary experience, that it
has, not inaptly, been termed a chemical mi­
racle.
When an infusion of tincture of galls and a
solution of the green sulphate of iron —both
colourless transparent fluids—are mixed toge­
ther, they become black. If muriatic acid be
then gradually added, the transparency of the
liquids will be restored ; but by the addition of
a small quantity of colourless solution of potass,
the solution will again become perfectly black.
By a fresh addition of acid the transparency of
the liquid may be again restored, and a further
portion of potass will afterwards change it to
black. In this case the tincture of galls unites
with the sulphuric acid that holds the iron in
solution, and liberates the metal in the state of
a black oxide, which is held suspended in the
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 103
fluid, to which it imparts the property of ab­
sorbing all the rays of light. The addition of
more acid redissolves the metallic oxide; and
the further addition of potass attracts the acid
from the metal, and causes it to be again pre­
cipitated. In these experiments we perceive
that the effects are produced by the power of
elective affinity in the acids, the metal, and the
alkali, but in what that power consists, or by
what means its operation causes the mixture at
one time to absorb all the rays of light, and the
next moment to transmit them through its par­
ticles, we can form not the least idea.
Examples ofthe astonishing effects produced
by the operation of chemical affinity might be
multiplied ad infinitum, but the few that have
been selected are sufficient to show that the com­
binations induced by the agency of chemical af­
finity are too mysterious for the faculties of man
to penetrate their causes, and that they are fre­
quently directly opposed, in appearance at least,
to the results of experience in the more com­
mon phenomena of nature. If, for instance,
we were without positive proofof the fact that
the union oftwo gases might produce an opaque
solid substance, such a change seems so incom­
patible with our experience respecting the nature
of gases, that it would not be credited. There
are, indeed, several chemical processes, of an
analogous description, in which a permanently
m 2
elastic aerial fluid is, by decomposition, made to
form part of a solid compound. In those cases,
however, there exists an original solid nucleus to
which the base of the gas unites; but in the
formation of a solid substance by the combin­
ation of two gases alone, there is no palpable
nucleus around which the particles can begin
to collect, and the analogy of oxides might con­
sequently beregarded asinsufficienttoinducethe
belief that opaque, tangible, ponderous matter,
could be created by the mere mixture of two
invisible, subtile, and imponderable airs. But if
the production of such an effect from causes so
apparently inadequate might be deemed impro­
bable, even though our conception of the com­
bination were aided by the analogy which the
composition of oxides affords, we must presume,
that, if any analogous instance of the condensa­
tion ofgases into solids were unknown, the form­
ation of a solid body from invisible gases would
be considered an absolute impossibility. We
possess, however, experimental knowledge of
the fact; the proximate causes of it are well
understood; and the occurrence is considered as
a natural result of the operation of certain unde­
viating affinities subsisting between the bases of
the gases employed. It is an effect to the ac­
complishment of which the chemist looks with as
much certainty as to any other anticipated result
of chemical action ; and that phenomenon which
164 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
persons unacquainted with science might consi­
der miraculous, is in his view only the conse­
quence of one of the established laws of nature,
and its non-occurrence, insimilar circumstances,
would constitute the miracle.
It is thus that, in the progress of knowledge,
phenomena which were once attributed to super­
natural agency, are gradually discovered to be
conformableto established laws. The investiga­
tion of these laws shows that the whole course of
nature is regulated by fixedand unaltered rules ;
and man, having, as he imagines, discovered the
principles that guidethe complicated machinery,
and proud of his attainments, he is unwilling to
admit the possibility of any states of being that
either militate against those principles which he
conceives he has discovered, or that indicate the
insufficiency of his system to explain the mode
of their existence. Forgetful of the gradual
steps by which he has risen from a state ofigno­
rant wonder to his present position, and unable
to perceive the immense height of the eminence
above him, he is apt ignorantly to imagine that
he has reached the summit of the hill of science,
when he has only surmounted some of the ob­
structions surrounding its base ; and it is only
when obstacles to his further progress present
themselves in forms which he feels his inability
to master, that he becomes aware there is higher
ground to be attained, and difficulties to be yet
M 8
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 165
encountered which his mental constitution can­
not overcome.
It is with the view of keeping before our
minds the limited slate of our knowledge, and
the consequent presumption of circumscribing
the bounds of possibilities, that it is advisable
to reflect upon the incompetency of man to
comprehend the ultimate causes of any one of
the phenomena of nature, and to call to mind the
time when those effects that are now considered
to be the necessary results of chemical attraction
would have been deemed equally improbable as
that presumed change in the state of existence
of the sentient principle, which some sceptics
now deny to be possible, because it is opposed
to the laws which they have laid down for the
guidance ofan omniscient Power.
The chemical affinity of bodies maybe entirely
changed by combination with the particles of
other substances whose reciprocal affinities neu­
tralise their respective attractions ; and it may
also be materially altered by modifications of
their mechanical forms ; but though, in conse-
• quence of these changes, the original chemical
affinities of the substances may appear to be
destroyed, they will be found to exist undimin­
ished notwithstanding their apparent annihila­
tion.
When caustic soda and sulphuric acid, for
instance, are mixed together, the result of the
166 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 167
chemical union of those two strongly corrosive
substances is a perfectly mild salt— the sulphate
of soda— commonly known as Glauber’s salts.
In this salt none of the peculiar characteristics
of the acid or of the alkali can be distinguished.
The tests usually employed to detect the pre­
sence ofacidsor ofalkaliesindicate the existence
of neither of those substances in the salt; and
the compound possesses characteristics in every
respect different from those of its original ele­
ments. Most of those bodies to which the acid
and alkali had previously a strong attraction
may be mixed with a solution of the salt without
any chemical action taking place to mark that
such attraction ever existed. The original at­
tractions are not, however, destroyed by their
neutralisation in the salt, and when any substance
that possesses stronger chemical affinity to the
acid and alkalithan the soda and sulphuric acid
reciprocally possess, the dormant properties will
be brought into action. Consequently, when
a solution of nitrate of potass (saltpetre) is
added to a solution of the sulphate of soda, the
nitric acid in the former salt— which has a
stronger affinityfor sodathan for potass—and the
sulphuric acidin the latter salt—whichpossesses
a stronger affinity for potass than for soda—
exert their attractive powers, and, leaving the
alkalies with which they werebefore respectively
combined, each acid unites with the alkali to
m 4
which it has the stronger affinity; and the re*
suit of the change is the production of sulphate
ofpotass and nitrate of soda.
As an illustration of the change in chemical
affinities resulting fromthe change of mechanical
arrangement, we may notice the fact that many
substances which possess a powerful attraction
for the alkalies and acids in their ordinary and
pulverised forms, exhibitnoaffinitytowards them
when concentrated by the force of cohesion.
Thus we perceive that potass, which readily acts
upon powdered alumina (pure clay), has no effect
upon that earth when it is condensed in a crys­
tallised state in the sapphire and the ruby j and
charcoal, which in its common form so readily
combines with oxygen at a red heat, when it
is crystallised in the diamond, resists the most
powerful heat ofthe furnace.
In these illustrations, the power of chemical
affinity is shown to be not destroyed nor im­
paired by the dormant state into which it is
thrown by neutralisation and by the force of
cohesion. In the first case, it is suspended, in
consequence of its force being employed in re­
taining the union between the acids and the
alkalies; and in the second case, it is prevented
from coming into operation by the intervention
of the counteracting force ofcohesive attraction,
which holds the particles firmly together and
overcomes the chemical affinitiesthat dispose the
168 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
two substances to unite. These modifications
and suspensionsof the powers of chemical attrac­
tion present additional examples, to the many
previously noticed, of the existence of an active
principle in a latent state, when the usual indi­
cations of its presence are lost.
The briefconsideration we have been enabled
to bestow on the nature of chemical affinity has,
it is conceived, been sufficient to warrant the
conclusion that this property isan active, subtile,
mysterious agent, distinct from the matter with
which it is intimately combined, though our
senses will not enable us to detect-it in its disin­
tegrated form. The exemplifications ofthe ope­
rations of this agent upon material bodies afford
at the same time a rebuke to the presumptuous
arrogance of man, for attempting to impose li­
mitations on the works of Nature; — and its
peculiar combination with matter presents an
analogy to the presumed connection ofthe sen­
tient principle with the human frame which,
taken in conjunction with the other consider­
ations attending the properties of chemical at­
traction, deserves to be regarded as an additional
link in the chain of evidence to support our
position, that the-soul will exist after death in a
state ofseparation from the body.
CHEMICAL ATTRACTION. 169
170 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHAPTER XIV.
GRAVITATION.
T h e attraction of gravitation is an universal
property of matter that pervades all known
substances, and is in constant operation on every
thing we behold. It is, indeed, so intimately
connected in our minds with material' bodies,
that we seem to lose all idea of the presence of
such a power as.gravitation, and to consider its
effects merely as the necessary results attending
material forms. It affords in this respect an­
other illustration of the fact to which we have
previously alluded, that the mind may become
familiarised with the operation of a constantly
exerted power until the existence of that power
ceases to be noticed, and an effort of the men­
tal faculties is required to render us sensible of
its presence. That a solid substance shouldfall
to the ground when the supporting body is re­
moved, and that the objects around us should
rest on the floor, and not in mid air, seem to
be circumstances.so necessarily connected with
the nature of those bodies, and we are so little
accustomed to attribute such positions to the
energy of any distinct active principle, that if
solid bodies were not to be acted upon by the
GRAVITATION. 171
attraction ofgravitation we should ascribe such
a departure from the ordinary course of events
not to the suspension of any previously exist­
ing power, but to the superinduction of an
active agent that sustained those bodies in the
air.
It is only when the force of gravitation dis­
plays itself in a manner different from that to
which we are accustomed, that our attention is
drawn to the existence of such a power. The
ascent of a balloon is the most striking apparent
departure from the laws of gravitation; and
when aerial voyages were less common than they
have latterly become, those exhibitions naturally
excited the greatest wonder. The ascent of a
balloon, however, though apparently effected in
direct opposition to the force of gravitation, is,
in fact, produced solely by the operation of that
power; for the rising of the balloon in the air is
not caused by any positive property of levity in
itself, but by the gravitation of the heavier air
that surrounds it. A balloon, indeed, strictly
speaking, does not ascend, for that term implies
a positive and active power of raising itself, but
it is merelyforced upwards by the air of the at­
mosphere, the attraction of which to the earth
being greater than that of the hydrogen gas
within the balloon, the latter body is displaced
by the superior gravitating power of the air.
The balloon, which appears to be the active
agent in the ascent, is in fact completely passive,
and is acted upon, and its motions are entirely
directed by, the invisible atmosphere. The ascent
of light bodies in liquids is caused in the same
manner, by the pressure of the heavier liquid
downwards, and the consequent forcing upwards
of the lighter substance. That motion does
not therefore depend, as is commonly supposed,
on any principle of lightness in the ascending
bodies; for every substance is attracted towards
the earth by the force of gravitation, though the
superior attractions of heavier liquid bodies may
cause those possessing less specific gravity to ap*
pear to deviate from this general law of nature.
As no effect can be produced without a cause,
we must admit the existence of some power that
is enabled to attract bodies to the earth; for in
whatever way we endeavour to explain the effects
of gravitation, we shall be obliged to refer the
cause to some agent that is capable of acting
upon the inert masses of matter. We cannot,
indeed, upon any other principle account for the
attraction of gravitation; and though it seems
inherent in all matter, yet it must be distinct
from matteritself)which, accordingto ournotions
of it, must be inert, and incapable of exerting
any active powers.
Though our familiar acquaintance with the
commonly observed phenomena of gravitation
induces us to believe that they are produced
172 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
GRAVITATION. 173
without the exertion of any active principle,
yet when this force is called into operation in a
manner different from that in which we are ac­
customed to observe its effects, we are ready to
admit that such effects could only be produced
by an active agent, and we are lost in astonish­
ment at the extent ofits power.
In our ordinary observations on the effects of
gravitation, we are accustomed to consider the
earth as the grand depositary ofthis power; and
as all bodies on the earth’s surface are attracted
towards it, we are not aware that the bodies
acted on exert also an attractive power towards
the earth. This is, however, the case; for gravit­
ation acts upon all masses of matter reciprocally,
and the energy with which it acts is proportion­
ate to the respective masses j therefore, the earth
is drawn towards a body falling to its surface in
the same manner as the falling body is drawn
towards the earth, and the force of their relative
attractions corresponds with their relative quan­
tities of matter. The magnitude of the earth,
however, when compared with that of any de­
tached body on its surface, is so immense, that
its motion towards the falling mass is impercep­
tible. It has been calculated, that if the largest
body that it would be possible to detach, were
to fall from a height of 300 feet, the attraction
which that mass would exert on the mass of
matter in the globe would tend to move the
latter less than the 100,000,000,000th part of an
inch.
Though the mutual attractions subsisting be­
tween masses of matter cannot, in consequence
ofthe great disproportion between the earth and
falling bodies, be rendered evident in general
cases, yet in certain circumstances these reci­
procal attractions become perceptible. It has
been found, that when a ponderous body is sus­
pended by a plumb-line from the top of a high
mountain, it is drawn out of the perpendicular
by the mass of matter in the mountain, which
attracts the suspended body towards it This
attraction, because it is new to observation, we
should be. disposed at once to attribute to the
energy of some attractive power between the
mountain and the body attracted; though the
stronger attraction towards the centre of the
earth, to which we are accustomed, we are in­
clined to consider aseffected without the agency
of any power whatever.
If two bodies were launched into pure space,
beyond the attraction of all other bodies, and
were placed at perfect rest, millions of miles
asunder, their reciprocal attractions would dis­
pose them to approach each other, and they
would approximate with a rapidly accelerating
motion until they met, and they would then
return to a state of rest.
That this mutual attraction would take place
174 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
GRAVITATION. 175
between two bodies so situated is not a specula­
tive supposition, but it is proved by mathematical
calculations to be an undoubted truth, derived
from the observation of the general laws of
gravitation. Now we cannot conceive that two
bodies, when placed at such an immense dis­
tance, could be mutually attracted, without sup­
posingthat the attracting power— whatever may
be its nature —extends through space to both
bodies ; and that, therefore, there must be some
property extrinsic to matter itself, which has the
power of exerting this energy, distinct from,
though intimately connected with, the bodies
attracted. This property is the force of gravi­
tation;— a power which we conceive, to be so
extremely simple when operating on the surface
of the earth, and yet, when viewed in any of
its relations with which we arc not so familiar,
seems to be involved in as much, or even in
greater, obscurity than those other properties of
matter to which we have previously directed
our attention.
It is a question with philosophers whether all
attractions are to be resolved into different mo­
difications of the same general principle, or
whether they are to be attributed to separate
kinds of attraction, in their natures essentially
distinct. The attractions of gravitation, of elec­
tricity, of chemical affinity, of cohesion, and of
magnetism, are, according to the formerof these
opinions, produced by the same acting cause
differently modified. But if we take this view
of the powers of attraction, we shall find the
obscurity and mystery in which the subject is
involved to be greatly increased, when, in addi­
tion to their single and yet incomprehensible
natures, we add the consideration of those pecu­
liar modifications— apparently equally myste­
rious with the elementary principle itself—which
could produce such changes in that primary
cause as appear to entirely alter its identity.
Another difficulty would also present itself
in endeavouring to identify the attraction of
gravitation with that of other attractive powers.
The attractions of electricity, of magnetism,
and of chemical affinity, are supposed to be
exerted in consequence of the attracting bodies
being placed in different states of electricity,
&c. ; and it is considered essential to the exer­
cise of the power, that one body should be in a
state of excess and the other in a state of de­
ficiency; or, —according tothe theory whichsup­
poses there are two distinct powers that mutually
attract each other, — the attractions are caused
by inducing separate attractive powers in the
bodies that possess mutual affinities. The attrac­
tion of gravitation, however, could not be ac­
counted for on either of-these hypotheses, for it
operates on all matter without regard to its com­
position, or to the varying affinities that may be
176 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
subsisting among the particles constituting the
aggregate mass.
But even should we be disposed, notwith­
standing the difficulty of reconciling the vari­
ous kinds of attraction with each other, to
assume that they are identical, we should not
derive any additional knowledge respecting the
nature ofgravitation, as we are utterly ignorant
of the nature of those attractions to which it
wouldbecompared. The attractionofgravitation,
also, presents some features that appear to carry
it farther, if possible, beyond the limits of our
comprehension than the other attracting powers;
for, in addition to the mysterious properties that
give to bodies their power ofattraction, we have
in this case to consider the means by which the
force of gravitation can be extended through
the infinite bounds of space, uninterrupted in
its energy by interposing bodies, and having
no limits to its power in the vast range of crea­
tion. If the force of gravitation be calculated
to excite our wonder, and ifit surpass the bounds
of our comprehension, when regarded merely in
reference to its operations on the surface of the
earth, the consciousness of the incapacity of our
intellectual powers to grapple with so subtile a
property, is greatly increased when we extend
our views to the system of the universe, and
behold the planets, with their revolving satel­
lites, performing their evolutions round the sun,
N
GRAVITATION. 177
sustained in their respective orbits by the same
gravitating power that causes a pin to fall to
the ground; — and when we farther consider
that the solar system, vast as it appears, forms
only a portion of the countless systems of suns
and revolving planets in the boundless field of
creation, that have their motions regulated by
this unknown though all-pervading power.
It is the attraction of gravitation that, by
continually controlling the motion imparted to
the heavenly bodies, preserves them in their
curvilinear orbits. Were they not attracted to­
wards a central point by the mass of matter in
the sun, they would, in accordance with the
laws of motion, fly off into space ; whilst the
constant tendency of the revolving planets to
move in straight lines, or at tangents to their
respective orbits, is sufficient to counterbalance
the attraction of the sun, towards which they
would otherwise be directly attracted. These
counteracting powers, which have been termed
the centripetal and centrifugal forces—though
the latter is merely a modification of the laws of
motion by the operation of a controlling attract­
ing power—are necessary to the maintenance of
the system of the universe ; and if either of
them were to be withdrawn for a moment, the
beautiful mechanism of the heavens would be
immediately destroyed. If, for instance, the
force ofgravitation were to be suspended, all the
178 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
GRAVITATION. 179
bodiesimpelled in curvilinearorbits would flyoff
attangents, and moveinindependentandstraight
courses through the immensity of space. A vast
scene of confusion would ensue, in which the
moving worlds would be continually striking
against and rebounding from each other. The
objects upon their surfaces would be shaken oil;
and proceed independently in the directions in
which they were first impelled, until they also
came into collision with other masses, impelled
likëwise in straight courses, through the moving
chaos. Or, if we suppose the impulse of motion
to be withheld, the attraction of gravitation
would then be exerted without a counterbalanc­
ing power; the planetary bodies would be at­
tracted to the sun, and all the solar systems in
the universe would be attracted towards each
other, and form one immense aggregate of all
the worlds and systems of worlds in creation.
If, therefore, any dependence can be placed
on the conclusions drawn from the results of
human knowledge, we must necessarily infer
that the motion communicated to the planets at
their creation and the attraction of gravitation
were co-existent ; or, at least, that the force of
gravitation and planetary motion have been co­
existent since the creation of our solar system :
we must presume, also, that they will continue
as long as the universe exists, and that the pro­
perty of gravitation can be annihilated only by
n Ç
180 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
the same omnipotent Power by which it was
created.
The indestructibility of matter was deduced
in the first division of our subject from the re­
sults of investigations into the nature of the
various changes its forms undergo without de­
struction or diminution ; and we thence inferred
that, as matter is indestructible, the properties
which characterise and control it mustbe equally
imperishable. This inference, so far as relates to
the property ofgravitation, is fully corroborated
by the foregoing considerations, which show
that gravitation must have been co-existent with
matter since the creation of the solar system,
and cannot be annihilated without involving in
its destruction that of the whole system of the
universe.
The considerations that suggest themselves
from this examination of the property of gravi­
tation, bearing more immediately upon the ob­
ject of the present work, are those which remind
us of the inefficiency of the human intellect to
comprehend the most apparently simple pro­
perties of matter,—those wherein the force of
gravitation is shown to be actively operating
under circumstances that appear to exclude the
possibility of its presence, —and those which
exhibit the prospect of its eternal duration.
From the first of these considerations we may
derive an additional lesson against ignorantly
GRAVITATION. 181
presuming that phenomena, which to us are
unintelligible, must therefore be impossible ;
from the second, we learn, that the difficulties
which appear to attend the supposed existence
of the sentient principle in a state of separation
from the body, may find a parallel in the latent
combinations of the properties of matter; and
from the third consideration we may draw the
inference, that if the attraction of gravitation,
—which is a mere property of matter—be in­
destructible, the more subtile essence of the
human soul, which animatesthe organised frame,
is also imperishable and immortal.
182 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
CHAPTER XV.
GENERAL SUMMARY.
I n addition to those properties of matter to
which our attention has been directed, there are
many others scarcely less interesting in them*
selves, nor less important as illustrations of our
general argument. The attraction of cohesion,
by which the particles of all solid bodies are
held together; crystallisation, which disposes
the particles of matter, under certain circum­
stances, to assume regular forms ; the capacity
of matter to take the impulse of motion, and
to receive and communicate those peculiar vi­
brations producing sound, might be separately
advanced in confirmation of those points which
we have endeavoured to establish in this portion
of our investigations. In each of these pro­
perties and capacities of matter we should per­
ceive the agency of a power distinct from the
inert masses to which those properties belong.
The nature of the agent and its mode of opera­
tion would be found quite as inexplicable as
those properties of matter that have received
more especial notice; and its indestructibility,
under all circumstances, when the original forms
GENERAL SUMMARY.
and material organisations with which it was
combined are destroyed, would be equally ma­
nifest It would, however, extend this branch
of our subject beyond its proper limits, to dwell
more particularlyon the different properties that
operate upon and regulate material bodies, and
we trust that the consideration already bestowed
upon them has rendered such an extension of
this subject unnecessary.
The objects proposed to be attained by this
investigation of the properties of matter were,
to exemplify by the phenomena that are conti­
nually presenting themselves to observation, the
incompetence of the human faculties to under­
stand the most simple operations of nature, and
consequently to show the folly of assuming that
the limits of our comprehension must be the
bounds of possibility >to show, that the difficul­
ties which have been raisedagainstthe presumed
existence of the soul independently of the body
are not greater than those which present them­
selves at almost every step in our endeavours to
investigate the known properties of matter; and
to point out, in the indestructibility of those
properties and their separate existence from the
matter they control, a striking analogy to the
indestructibility of the sentient principle and its
independence of the body.
In pursuance of this object we have taken
under reviewsomeof the principal phenomena of
N 4
18->
184 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
light, heat,electricity,magnetism,chemicalattrao
tion, and gravitation. The nature of these agents
has been shown to be too subtile for the capacity
ofman to grasp. Whether they be regarded as
one and the same property differently modified,
or as distinct principles brought into action by
different forms and dispositions of matter,—whe­
ther they be regarded as subtile material fluids,
or as immaterial essences — whether they be
supposed to operate by emission, or by vibration
—whatever theory, in short, we adopt to explain
their modes of operation, we are obliged to con­
fess, after the utmost stretch of our intellects,
that respecting the nature and action of any of
these properties of matter we are profoundly
ignorant. We are sensible of the existence of
light, we feel the presence of heat, all the organs
of sense bear testimony to the effects of electri­
city, and the attractions of magnetism, chemical
affinity, and gravitation, are indicated in ways
too manifest to admit a doubt of the existence of
some power that acts upon inert matter, and im­
parts to it those peculiar properties; but if we
attempt to penetrate the dark mazes in which
those mysterious agents are concealed, we find
ourselves unable to advance a single step, or to
catch the faintest gleam to direct our course.
On examining the phenomena consequent on
the exercise of those properties, their modes of
operation appear to be not less difficult to com­
GENERAL SUMMARY. 185
prehend than the nature of the acting principle.
The dissemination of light, for instance — in
which an infinite number of opposite rays must
meet at every conceivable point, and be trans­
mitted, nevertheless, without interruption, at
an amazing velocity in all directions from the
luipinous bodies, to the bounds of space —
though an unquestionable fact, appears to be so
directly opposed to our experience ofthe laws of
motion in material substances, that if itrested on
less positive proofit would be considered abso­
lutely impossible. The samedifficulty applies in
an equally forcible manner to any explanation
that can be conceived of the radiation of heat;
whilst in the effects of electricity in suspending
chemical affinity, in the communication of the
magnetic power, and the transmission of its at­
traction instantaneously through solid bodies,
and in the formation of solids by the chemical
union of invisible gases, we perceive similar
instances of the apparent deviation from the or­
dinary course ofexperience which nothing less
than positive demonstration would induce us to
believe.
The third class of facts, however, to which
our attention has been directed —relative to the
existence ofthe propertiesofmatter distinct from
matter itself—is still more important. We have
seen that the existence oflight is not dependent
upon the bodieswhich reflectits rays; thata sub­
stance which appears — so long as it is the sub­
ordinate agent for communicating light to the
eye — to be the source of the light we behold,
may be destroyed, and that yet there may be no
diminution in the absolutequantityofthatsubtile
property, though it isnot perceptible to ourvisual
organs after the removal of the reflecting agent
The phenomena of heat afford a beautiful illus­
tration of the same fact, as they present that
property at one time actually developed, at
another latent, but in all its changes still exist­
ing undiminished and unaltered, independently
of the matter which it modifies; always ready,
under every circumstance, to be called into ac­
tivity by the agency of chemical attraction.
Electricity, magnetism, and chemical affinity,
also afford clear exemplifications of their exist­
ence independently of the matter which they
qualify. The active principle, or principles, of
which those attractions consist isevidently some­
thing distinct from the bodies with which it is
combined, and when that principle seems to be
destroyed its powers are in reality in active
though imperceptible operation.
All these subtile principles, and indeed every
other propertyof matter, we mustconceive to be
of equal duration with the existingmodifications
of material substance ; and, in thecasesof gravi­
tation and motion, to be coeval with the creation
of the universe. In addition, therefore, to the
I8(i THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 187
facts of the independent natures of the proper­
ties of matter, and of their continued existence
in a different and imperceptible state when the
forms with which they were combined are de­
composed, we possess the knowledge of their
having existed since the creation of the world;
and we must therefore presume thatthese subtile,
continuously existing agents can only be anni­
hilated by the direct interposition of the Divine
Power by which they were created.
The nature of the connection subsisting be­
tween the various properties of matter, which
has been incidentally alluded to in the preceding
chapters, forms also an important feature in the
results of our investigations respecting their
connections with material bodies. If, as we have
in many cases assumed, the different properties
of matter are distinct actuating principles, then
their combinations with each other, and their
consequent separations into their original dis­
tinct properties, afford a proof that not only is
the union between grosser and more subtile
matter capable of being dissolved, but that even
the more intimate combinations which we must
suppose to exist between subtile qualities may
alsobe disunited, and separated again into their
elementary principles.
The point we have been endeavouring to
establish in this branch of our subject is, that
188 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
the phenomena of the material world afford
evidence to prove that the belief in a future
life is notonly conformable to those phenomena,
but that the natural inferences to be drawn from
them lead directly to that belief; and that in
all branches of physical science, presumptive
evidence equally strong with that which can be
brought to bear on this question would carry
conviction to every rational mind.
If a person unacquainted with scientific re­
searches were to deny the correctness of the
discoveries of Sir Humphry Davy respecting
the metallic nature of the earths and alkalies;
or were he to deny that the combustion of-two
invisible gases could form water, merely on the
ground that such resultsare contrary to his daily
observation, and because he could not under­
stand how such changes could be effected, he
would undoubtedly be considered a most nar­
row-minded and irrational being; and yet the
principal arguments against the immortality of
the soul rest upon no better foundation than
the incompetency of the human faculties to
comprehend a state of existence separate from
an organised frame. Upon the same principle,
indeed, a man might doubt the exercise of voli­
tion, or even his present existence$ for he can­
not, by the utmost stretch of his intellectual
powers, conceivethe nature ofeither. I will, for
GENERAL SUMMARY. 189
instance, to place my hand upon the table, and
it moves there in obedience to my will; but
why it should move there rather than to any
other point within reach, or by what means the
muscles are so contracted as to make it move
at all, £ cannot comprehend; —and still less
am I able to understand how the will originated
that caused the effect, or what is the nature of
that faculty. We have a consciousness that this
faculty resides in the brain, but there is nothing
in the composition of that substance to induce
the beliefthat it could possess such power; and
we shall be obliged to confess that the brain is
only the instrument of some superior subtile
agent in the production of this effect. This
subtile power we cannot comprehend, but we
must admit that it exists, or we should otherwise
deny the consciousness ofour own existence.
Let us place the case of the materialists in the
most favourable point of view, and suppose, for
the(sake ofargument, that the sentient principle
isa property oftheorganised matter ofthe brain,
superadded to the properties in which the brain
participates with all other matter, and developed
only by that peculiar organisation; and even
upon this supposition, we shall find that the evi­
dence to be derived from the investigation ofthe
properties of matter is directly favourable to the
distinct existence of this imagined materialised
principle, and of its continued eutity after the
decomposition of the brain with which it is thus
assumed to be united.
All philosophers admit that it is not possible
for any forms or modifications of matter to be
created outof nothing; consequently this hypo­
thetical property presumed to be superinduced
by the combination and organisation of other
properties of matter, cannot, according to all
received systems of philosophy, be a new crea­
tion. It must either be an effect produced by
the combination of the other subtile agents that
are intimately connected with material bodies, or
it must be a distinct pre-existing principle which
is brought into operation by certain organised
forms ofmatter.
Whether or not it is in accordance with the
known operations of the mind to consider it as
only an effect produced by the combination of
other elements, it is not within our province at
this time to inquire. We shall now confine our
view of this material hypothesis to the consider­
ation of the proposed alternatives.
All our notions ofmatter represent it merely
as an inert substance, capable of being acted on,
but incapable of action. The properties which
characterise matter, and the laws which govern
those properties, are distinct from matter itself;
and we must, therefore, in speaking of material
organisations, bear in mind that these arrange­
ments are not accumulations of inert particles,
190 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 191
but the organisation of a substance that is en-
dued with certain active, subtile, and incom­
prehensible properties, that are distinct from
mere matter, but are essentially parts of all its
known forms.
It will appear from this consideration of the
subject, therefore — even on the supposition of
the sentient principle being an effect caused by
animal organisation—that as the substancespro­
ducing this effect mustbe the subtile agents that
characterise matter, and not a collection ofmere
inert molecules; and as those subtile agents have
been shown to be distinct from the matter they
control, and are indestructible, consequently
the product of their combined arrangement must
also be presumed to be distinct from inert sub­
stance and imperishable. And though this sup­
posed material product is only appreciable by
our faculties when it iscombined with and acting
upon matter, we must conceive that it would be
capable, like the simple subtile agents of which
it is compounded, of existing independently of
the material frame it animates.
Were we to take the other alternative, and to
assume that the sentient principle is an ele­
mentary material property developed by a certain
organisation, in that case, as we cannot suppose
any simple material substance to be created by
anypossiblecombination ofother material bodies,
we must come to the conclusion that this sup­
posed elementary material property was pre­
existent, and that the effect of the complicated
organisation was only to develope and not to
create it And again; as all the other properties
are distinct from the matter to which they impart
their respective powers, we cannot refuse to
admit that a property so infinitely more subtile
and incomprehensible in its nature — which im­
parts the powers of sensation and volition —
must participate in this independence, at least
in an equal degree, with those other properties
of matter which are subservient to its will.
Whether, therefore, we view the sentient prin­
ciple merely as a property belonging to a cer­
tain combination of other properties of matter,
or regard it as an elementary principle developed
by organisation, we shall be forced to admit that
it is in either case distinct from the organised
system in which it is manifested; that it is, like
those subtile agents, capable of a separate ex­
istence, and like them, too, imperishable. This
view of the question is, indeed, in all its prac­
tical bearings, nearly similar to that which
considers the sentient principle as an immaterial
essence connected temporarily with a material
frame; for the subtile properties of matter are
so far beyond the limited comprehension of the
human faculties, thatwe must grant it—even on
the material hypothesis— to possess nearly the
10*2 THE PROPERTIES OF MATTER.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 193
same attributes which are conceived to belong to
immaterial essences.
We know that there is something in matter
which imparts to it active properties distinct
from matter itself; and we feel conscious that
there is something in the human frame which
directs its material organisation, superior to its
arrangement of material particles. The investi­
gations we are enabled to make into the nature
of the former properties lead to the conclusion
that they are distinct from matter, and equally
imperishable with material substance. The same
powers which we have ascertained to belong to
the properties ofmatter must, as we have before
observed, belong to the sentient principle, whe­
ther we conceive it to be constituted ofa combi­
nation of those properties, or to be a distinct
material agent rendered perceptible by that com­
bination ; and the power of eternal duration
must, almost necessarily, appertain to the living
principle if we conceive it to be an immaterial
essence presidingover and governing the actions
of the material frame.
o
194- THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
PART III.
THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
CHAPTER XVI.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS.
W e have hitherto considered matter and its
properties in their simple inorganic states. We
shall now have to view them in those moreintric­
ate combinationsand arrangements wherein they
develope qualities different from those of their
elementary forms, and by the agency of which
the functions of vegetable and animal life are
discharged.
The facts supplied by the investigations of
physiological science have furnished some of the
most ppwerful arguments in support of natural
theology. Proofs of design, of wisdom, and of
benevolence, are displayed in every branch of
the inquiry; which exhibit, in the clearest
manner, the presence of an omniscient Creator.
It is not, however, within our province to expa­
tiate on this subject, as it is assumed that we
are acquainted with and appreciate the evidence
on which the belief in the existence of a su­
premely wise, powerful, and benevolent Creator
ofthe Universe is founded. It is our peculiar
duty to inquire whetherthe complicated organis­
ations of matter that manifest so clearly the
existence of an intelligent creating Power, do
not also afford evidence to prove that the living
principle, which preserves and directs those or­
ganisations, is distinct from organic matter, and
that it exists in a separate and imperishable
state.
The intimate, and apparently necessary, con­
nection between the mind and an organised
frame, constitutes, it is true, one of the strongest
grounds on which the system of materialism is
founded ; and physiological investigations have,
therefore, been considered unfavourable to the
argument of the separate existence of an imma­
terial principle. The dependence of the condi­
tion of the mind upon the state of the body, —
its depression when the body is subject to dis­
ease, — its vigour when the animal machine
is in perfect order— and the corresponding
decay of the mental faculties with those of the
corporeal frame with which it is united, — have
served as the foundations for inferences and sup­
posed analogies, drawn from partial and limited
views of those phenomena, that will not, it is
conceived, bear the test of examination.
Were the world to be formed of matter and
its properties in the simple states in which we
o 2
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 195
have hitherto considered them, the face of na­
ture would present the appearance of a lifeless
desert. Not a blade ofgrass would spring from
the ground, neither would any living creature
move along its surface, nor swim in its waters.
The tides might, indeed, ebb and flow; the rocks
might gradually crumble into dust by the de­
composing influence of the atmosphere; the
aqueous exhalations might rise into the air, be
formed into clouds, and be again returned to
the earth in showers; and day and night, winter
and summer, might continue to roll on in end­
less succession; but the moving ocean, the ac­
cumulating soil, the abundant showers, and the
changing seasons would benefit nothing; these
wonderful manifestations of design would have
no object, and the earth would exhibit a barren
waste, moving in dreary solitude in its orbit
round the sun.
We have now, however, to view the arrange­
ments of matter in forms suited to the develope-
ment of living principles; for the germination,
growth, and support o£»which the whole ma­
terial world seems to have been formed; and
for the promotion of which purposes it is so
admirably adapted.
From the first discernible trace of vegetable
organisation in the fungus, through the innu­
merable gradations in the scale, until we arrive
at the mighty oak of the forest, two leading
196 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
principles seem invariably to characterise those
forms of matter— their powers to provide for
their own nutriment and growth, and to propa­
gate their species. These powers seem indis­
pensable to every form of organisation, and it is
these properties that distinguish an organised
system from the arrangements of crystallisation.
As we ascend in the scale, from the vegetable
to the animal kingdom, we find that to these
two essentials of organisation are added the
powers of sensation and volition; and in.the
highest range of animal life, we find the mental
faculties of thought, memory, reflection, rea­
soning, &c. which distinguish a rational being
from the brute creation.
It will be our province, in the followingpages,
to show that this living principle in plants, and
the sentient and thinking principles in man, are
distinct from the organised structures in which
they are developed ; and that they are not in­
herent in any portion of the matter which
composes those organisations. We shall also
endeavour to prove, jprom facts and illustrations
derived from an examination of the exercise of
the perceptive and mental faculties, and the cor­
poreal functions, that the'sentient principle is not
only distinct from, but may, and does exist, in­
dependently of the material organisation of the
body.
The obvious and latent analogies, also, that
o 3
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. 197
are presented by the phenomena of the growth,
the decay, and the dissolution of vegetable and
animal life, to the presumed separability of the
sentient principle from material organisation,
will, it is believed, in our view of the question,
be found to counterbalance those of an opposite
tendency that are advanced by the advocates of
materialism. The phenomena oflife will there­
fore furnish not only a refutation of the argu­
ments on which the system of the materialists is
founded, but it will afforddirectpositiveevidence
of the distinct nature of the living and thinking
principle, and of its continuing to exist in a fu­
ture state of being.
198 the phenom ena of life.
VEGETATION. 199
CHAPTER XVII.
VEGETATION.
The consideration of the germination, growth,
and economy of plants forms one of the most
interesting subjects that can occupy the atten­
tion of the philosophical inquirer, though the
complexity of the simplest arrangement of
organic matter, and the obscurity of the ultimate
causes of vegetation, involve the inquiry in
apparently impenetrable mystery. The causes
which impel a seed, when buried in the ground,
to send forth shoots into the earth and others
above the surface ; and the means by which the
moisture, which the former imbibes, is decom­
posed and made to contribute to the growth
and nourishment of the rising plant, have not
been, and perhaps never will be, satisfactorily
developed. The researches that have been di­
rected to this intricate branch of science have,
however, thrown considerable light upon the
curious process which these hidden causes in­
duce. We cannot, of course, enter here into a
minute detail of this process, but it will be suf­
ficient for our purpose to take a brief survey
of the leading phenomena of vegetation, as a
o 4
200 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
groundwork for those inferences which it is con*
tended are to be reasonably drawn from their
consideration.
Though the seeds of every species of plants
have distinguishing characteristic differences,
yet there are some general properties in which
they almost invariably agree. Each seed con­
tains within the outer rinds that envelope it the
latent germ and radicle; —the latter intended
to strike into the earth, and the former to sprout
above the ground, and to grow and flourish as
the future plant. When the seeds are placed in
circumstances favourable to their germination —
that is, when they are surrounded by moisture
accompanied with a certain degree of heat—
the outer rind, which is in immediate contact
with the moisture, begins to ferment; or in
other words, to enter into a chemical combin­
ation with the elements of the aqueous particles.
Thewater and the rind aremutually decomposed,
and the elementary substances are conveyed
through the porous vessels of the seed to the
radicle and plumula, where they are converted
into vegetable matter, by the agency of some
unknown principle; and the germ, being thus
enlarged, bursts through its envelope. The
substance ofthe seed, whence the firstnutriment
is derived, continues to nourish the germinating
plant until the roots have acquired sufficient
size and power to furnish the requisite quantity
VEGETATION. 201
of aliment. The roots then branch out into the
ground, and imbibe from the earth through
their minute orifices, the moisture which is after­
wards converted, by some hidden process, into
the juice that forms the sap of the plant. This
sap is forced upwards, by the same unknown
agency, through the minute vegetable fibres.
The nursling sap stimulates the developement
of the leaves, which then act as the digestive
organs of the plant in assimilating this food, to
form its appropriate nourishment. The juices
thus prepared, and loaded with carbonaceous
matter, imbibed by the leaves and by the
roots, deposit a portion of their contents as
they traverse the vegetable fibres, and augment
the substance of the plant; whilst the con­
tinued stimulus of the rising sap forces out
additional branches, with their accompanying
leaves, until the stem and branches become suf­
ficiently large to appropriate to their nutriment
the whole ofthe secretedjuices.
The foregoing is an outline of the general
phenomena attending vegetation, but the re­
sults of the process vary, .according to the
nature of the seed, from the tender, beautiful,
and fragrant flower, to that of the hardy tree of
the forest By the assimilation of the circulat­
ing sap, the fibrous woody substance ofthe stem
and branches, the bark, the leaves, the flowers,
the fruit, and the seed that is to form other
similar plants, are all produced : but in what
manner the sap is secreted and forced upwards,
how it is altered in its character by the leaves,
by what means it can, when thus changed, be
converted into an organised system of woody
fibres, and those fibres be extended into other
branches, surrounded by bark and bearing leaves,
blossoms, and fruit; or what is the nature of
the change that can cause the same fluid which
circulates through and is converted into the
branches of trees, to form in one part flowers
and in another part fruit, we can form no con­
ception.
The products of vegetation, also, compared
with the substances ofwhich theyare composed,
form a subject for consideration not less curious
than the process of vegetation itself We are
so accustomed to the growth of trees and plants,
that the extraordinary difference between the
source whence they derive their nourishment
and the products of vegetation seldom attract
observation, though a little reflection will con­
vince us that it is a subject calculated to excite
the greatest astonishment.
The principal food of plants is water, and the
results of several experiments seem to lead to
the conclusion that water is the only nourish­
mentabsolutelynecessaiyto their radicalgrowth.
But allowing that the carbonaceous properties of
the soil are essential to the growth of most trees,
202 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
VEGETATION. 203
and that the elements of which they are com-
posed are to be found in the earth and the
surroundingatmosphere,whatfeatureofsimilarity
can be traced between the flourishing tree and
the ground whence it springs? or between the
soil and the fruit on its branches? The fibres
and orifices of the roots of plants are so ex­
tremely small, that it is impossible the nutriment
can be conveyed through their pores in any form
more dense’than a liquid. The liquid is decom­
posed in passing through the plants; and after
the elementary substances have been re-arranged,
they are forced to those other parts where the
nutritive fluid undergoes further changes, until,
by the peculiar action ofthe vegetative principle,
the liquid originally imbibed from the earth be­
comes a part of the vegetable organisation, and
forms a portion of a substance totally dissimilar,
in all its appearances, characteristics, and pro­
perties, from that whence its elements were
derived.
If we conceive it possible for a person who
has attained his reasoning faculties to be igno­
rant of the effects of vegetation, such a person,
on being shown for the first time a tree laden
with fruit, or a beautiful fragrant shrub, would
have no more idea that the tree or shrub was
necessarily connected with and was formed out
of the ground, than a person who for the first
time sees a steam engine or a ship has that
those objects are growing out of the ground or
the sea. The dissimilarity between a lump of
moistened earth, and the products of vegetation,
is, in fact, as great as it is possible to conceive
any difference between two objects; and were
it not for our experience of the fact that trees,
fruits, and flowers, derive the greatest portion of
their substance from the ground, it would, we
have little doubt, be considered an absolute im­
possibility, that the green herbage, the organised
woodyfibre,thebeautiful,variegated,and fragrant
flower, and the delicious fruit, should be com­
posed of matter bearing not the slightest trace
ofresemblance to the soil, — a substance which
cannot be converted by any known chemical
process into animal food. By means of chemical
analysis, however, we are enabled to ascertain
that the elementary substances of all vegetable
products are contained within the earths, water,
and gases from which plants are known to de­
rive their nutriment; though we are not able to
combine those elements in any manner that
would produce even an approach to the same
results.
The principal constituentparts ofall vegetable
products are hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen;—
the other ingredients form so trifling a portion
of their composition as scarcely to deserve
notice. Those three simple elements, combined
in different proportions by the hand of Nature,
204 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
VEGETATION. 205
constitute the solid substance and the liquid
juices of all grasses, plants, trees, flowers, fruits,
and seeds j and in the process ofvegetation they
are extracted from the soil and from the at­
mosphere, and are converted by the vegetative
functions of the plants into those various pro­
ducts.
We thus make an important step in advance
towards the knowledge of the principles of ve­
getable physiology. We learn that the growth
of plants and the production of flowers and
fruits, are not occasioned by a new creation of
matter, but by fresh combinations of the exist­
ing elements, and by their arrangement in cer­
tain forms. Had we not possessed these means
of ascertaining the composition of plants, the
conversion of a quantity of soil into vegetables
would in all probability be positively denied.
By the science of chemistry, however, we dis­
cover that the effects of vegetation can be only
caused by this assimilation of the elements of
the bodies submitted t6 the vegetative process;
and we are thus furnished with an additional
illustration ofthe fact that the extension of our
knowledge opens a wider range of possibilities,
and affords evidence of the existence of operat­
ing causes capable of producing effects that are
completely incompatible with external natural
appearances.
In the two states of ignorance which we have
just assumed, viz. that ofa person unacquainted
with the effects of vegetation, and of one igno­
rant of the rudiments of chemistry, the difficul­
ties thatwould present themselves in endeavour­
ing to discover the phenomena of vegetation
would be insurmountable. If, for instance, a
person who had never witnessed the effects of
vegetation were to be told that when a seed is
sown in the ground, it shortly puts forth a green
shoot from the earth, and gradually increases
into a strong woody stem, which sends out
branches covered with leaves, and bears flowers
that afterwards turn into fruit; and that the
latter contain numerous seeds, each of which
is capable of undergoing the same process, and
ofalso becoming a similar tree, he would natu­
rally conclude that the whole story was only an
ingenious fable, and, to him at least, the exist­
ence ofthe sentient principle after death would
appear a much more probable supposition than
the circumstances narrated respecting the veget­
ative process. Supposing, however, that his
doubts were removed by seeing the phenomena
attending the germination and the maturity of
plants ; he would then be equally incredulous
respecting the formation of the tree and the
fruit, from the elements of the soil and the air ;
until those doubts were also removed by an ac­
quaintance with chemical processes. But having
attained this knowledge, where is he to apply
206 THÈ PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
VEGETATION. 207
for an elucidation of the nature of the myste­
rious power by which the vegetative process is
commenced and carried on ? It surpasses the
science of chemistry to discover the principle
of vegetable life, which exists in the seed before
it is sown, which attracts the nutritive elements
as it germinates, and disposes them in the forms
adapted to the proper augmentation oftheplant;
and which, after the roots are formed, extracts
the nutriment from the ground, forces the sap
through all the minute pores, developes the
leaves, the fruit, the seeds; and, whilst its action
continues, preserves the vegetable matter from
destructive decomposition. Our inquirer finds
that he has reached the extent of human know­
ledge on thissubject, and that, after detecting a
number of secondary causes, he must at last
refer the ultimate cause of vegetable life—
which regulates those secondary causes he has
discovered— to some hidden principle, the na­
ture of which he cannotascertain, and which no
human being can comprehend.
If our inquirer exercise his reasoning powers
in reflecting upon the advances he has made in
the discovery of the causes of effects which he
at one time considered impossible, he will learn
to place less confidence in his own ability to un­
ravel the mysteries of nature, and he will be
inclined to believe the possibility of other phe­
nomena, though their causes and modes of oper­
208 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ation may be inconceivable; and when he finds,
in addition to those extraordinary processes of
vegetation with which he hasbecomeacquainted,
that matter is indestructible; that all the proper­
ties of matter are subtile essences distinct from
matter itself, and also imperishable ; and that to
those properties, when combined in vegetable
organisation, there is added some other unknown
subtile principle, which appears to regulate the
whole—hecannot fail toadmit that the existence
of the .sentient principle independently of the
body in which it is developed, seems to be not
only equally possible with those concomitants
of matter, but even more reconcileable with his
present views of natural phenomena than those
facts with which he has become acquainted, are
with his former ideas respecting them.
The foregoing illustration of the inferences to
be drawn from the phenomena ofvegetablephy­
siology is only one out of numerous instances
that might be adduced, and of which the me­
mory of every individual will furnish examples,
to show that as our knowledge extends, the
bounds of possibilities enlarge; and that facts
which we now feel convinced are indisputably
true were considered, in an earlier stage ofac­
quirement, to be impossible: and we may fairly
concludethat,ina moreadvanced stateofscience^
many of the difficulties which still surround the
investigation ofnatural phenomena would disap­
VEGETATION. 209
pear; and that if our méntal faculties were ex­
tended, the moresubtile propertiesofmatter, and
the nature of their connection with material
bodies, which subjects now surpass our compre­
hension, would be clearlymanifested. The recol­
lection oftheprogressive stagesofourknowledge,
and the consideration that what we at present
have acquired is but a small portion of what is
yet to be learned, and that when wehaveattained
the utmost bounds of human wisdom there are
innumerable objects of research which the intel­
lectual powers of man are incapable ofgrasping,
cannot be too frequently recalled to mind, for
the purpose of checking the vain presumption,
so irreconcileable with sound philosophy, that all
supposed effects which are incomprehensible to
our limited faculties must be impossible.
In our notice of the phenomena of vegetation
we havé, as yet, considered principally the che­
mical actions and decompositions which contri­
bute to that process. When, however, we carry
our chemical researches to their farthest extent,
we find that there is still wanting a cause to ac­
count for the active force that distributes the
nutriment extracted from the earth and the air
to the requisite parts of the plants, and for the
proper disposition of the digested materials into
woody fibre, leaves, flowers, fruit, and seed.
This cause, which lies dormant in the seed
until brought into action by heat,and moisture^
p
210 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
is not to be ascribed to any known chemical ac­
tion, nor to any known property of matter; and
we are obliged to refer it to some latent principle
that is developed by chemical attraction, and is
yet distinct from it. This latent power has been
denominated the living principle of plants, and
it bears indeed a close analogy tothe vital power
vhich regulates the functions of the animal
frame.
We are unable to discover the nature of this
living principle, but we are obliged to admit
that some power beyond mere chemical action
must preside over the vegetative process, capable
of arranging the products of decomposition into
such curiously complicated and beautiful forms,
and of protecting the plant from the action of
the oxygen of the atmosphere, and from under­
going, destructive fermentation, which it quickly
does when the living principle is lost. This
principle must be contained in the seed, and be
afterwards diffused through the wholevegetable;
and it must be presumed that it is either distinct
from all the other properties of matter, or is pro­
duced by some peculiar combination or modifica­
tion of those properties.
We know so little, indeed, respecting the na­
ture ofthe properties of matter and their powers
of combination, that it would be presumptuous
to assert that the processes of vegetation could
not be developed by their united efforts; but to
VEGETATION. 211
produce these effects their powers must be ex*
erted in a manner different from any that is
known to us; and there seems to be less diffi­
culty in conceiving that the vegetative prin­
ciple is a distinct elementary subtile property,
than in supposing it to consist of a combination,
ormodification, ofthe other properties ofmatter;
not one of which — so far as our knowledge ex­
tends—possesses anypowercapable ofproducing
effects analogous to those of the vegetative
process.
Whether we consider this power as a distinct
principle, or as the effect of the combination of
the properties of matter, the conclusion respect­
ing the subtile nature of the agent will be the
same. For if we adopt the former opinion —
that the chemical processes and adaptations of
vegetation are carried on under the guidance of
an elementary controlling power—as this power
is neither matter itself nor one of the known
properties of inorganic matter, it must be some­
thing distinctfrom both; and wemustreasonably
conclude, from the circumstance of its being
endued with a directing power over the ordinary
properties of matter, that it is not inferior to
them in their general attributes of extreme
subtility, pre-existence, and indestructibility.
All attempts to comprehend the nature of this
principle seem to be even more futile than our
endeavours to give a fixity to our ideas respect-
p 2
212 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ing the nature and operation of light, heat,
gravitation, &c.; and we can scarcely conceive of
it otherwise than as an extremely subtile essence
embodied in plants, and connected temporarily
with their material organisation; of which it is
the cause, and not the effect.
If, on the other hand, we adopt the hypothesis
that the process of vegetation is produced by the
operation of the combined properties inherent
in different forms of matter, then, in that view
of the question, as those properties are singly
imperishable and pre-existent, those essential at­
tributes must consequently be imparted to the
supposed compound.
It may, perhaps, be objected—on the sup­
position ofthe vegetative principle being a com­
pound, or modification, of the other properties
of matter— that as this peculiar modification is
only perceptible when connected with an or­
ganised system, it may be caused by, and depend
altogether upon, the organisation of matter; and
that when that organised system is destroyed, it
may be dissolved. But, if we reflect a moment,
we shall find that this objection is founded upon
the illogical basis of transposing cause and ef­
fect ; and would involve the absurdity of attri­
buting a cause to an effect, instead of ascribing
the effect to its cause.
We have before observed, for instance, that
the phenomena of germination and vegetation
VEGETATION. 213
are produced by the conversion of the moisture
of the soil and the elementary constituents of
the air into proper nutriment for the plants, first
by the decomposition of the outer coats of the
seed, and afterwards by the action of the roots
and the leaves. This process we may conceiveto
be produced by the agency of chemical affinity,
though wecannot discoverits modesofoperation.
We might conceive it possible, also, that after
the juices of the plant have been formed they
might be circulated through its pores by some
unknown modification of galvanic attraction.
But we cannot conceive it possible for either of
those powers, or for any combination of them or
of the other known properties of matter, to be
capable of converting those juices into con.
stituent parts of the living organised system ; —
each part when added to the plant taking a
share in the processes of stimulating the circu­
lation ofthe sap, and of still further augmenting
its growth. These processes, it must be observed,
are essentially different from that of crystallisa.
tion, to which they bear the nearest analogy, in.
asmuch as in the latter case the particles that
obey the laws of crystallisation, though they
are deposited in regular forms, constitute only
portionsof an inert mass; and do not contribute,
further than by the amountof their ownquantity,
to the augmentation of the crystallising body.
In the vegetative process, on the contrary, each
p 3
814 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
particle that is deposited exerts an active in­
fluence in promoting the growth of the plant, of
which it constitutes a portion.
To whatever cause, however, we attribute the
principle of vegetable life, we shall be obliged to
admit that the cause must exist before the effect
can be produced. The decomposition of the
moisture and the air, for instance, could not
take place unlessthe chemical attractionbetween
the elements of the substances decomposed pre­
viously existed; nor could the sap circulate
without the previous presence of the agent that
communicates the motion ; nor could the small­
est particle of vegetable matter be organised
without the agency of some previously existing
cause. If, therefore, the living principle in
plants be produced by the combination, or modi­
fication, of the properties of matter, that com­
bination or modification must be prior to the re­
sulting organisation; and cannot be dependent
upon the system of organisation which it pro­
duces. The objection, consequently, that we
presume it possible might be raised upon this
consideration of the nature of the vegetative
principle, falls to the ground; and whether we
regard this principle as a distinct subtile essence,
or as a modification of the properties of mat­
ter, on either supposition we arrive at the con­
clusion that it must be pre-existent, imperish­
able, and distinct from the organised system of
VEGETATION.
matter by meansof which it becomesperceptible
to our senses.
The appearances presented by the phenomena
of vegetation have been often advanced by
various writers as analogous to the resuscitation
of the human soul after death. The fall of the
leaves in autumn, and the apparent absence of
vegetable life during the winter months, have
been, notinaptly, compared to the decay ofage,
and the sleep of death; whilst the renewal
of the vital energies in the spring, and the
restoration of the pristine vigour and beauty of
vegetation in the summer months, have been
regarded as symbolical of the resuscitation of
the sentient principle in a new and invigorated
state of existence. These curious and wonder­
ful external phenomena of vegetation are, in­
deed, beautifully emblematical of a future life$
but they cannot, when taken abstractedly, be
considered as bearing a complete analogy to the
separate existence ofthe sentient principle; for,
notwithstanding the periodical renovation ofthe
dormantvegetative principle fora series ofyears,
a time at length arrives when the decaying or­
ganisation refuses to perform its functions, and
when the returning spring ceases to restore life
to the withered trunk and the leafless branches.
The tree is then dead; and all appearances indi­
cate that the principle by which this vegetative
process was carried on is irrecoverably extinct.
p 4
215
If, therefore, our observations were confined to
the external phenomena of vegetation, the ana­
logy between the renovation ofvegetable life and
the réanimation of the sentient principle in man
would be inconclusive; but when we carry our
views beyond these mere outward changes, and
consider the nature of the process by which
those phenomena are produced, the hiatus is
supplied, and the analogy becomes complete.
Welearn, from thisviewof the subject, to regard
the living principle of the tree as distinct from
the vegetable organisation, which the energy of
that principle produces ; and to consider the
destruction of that system of organisation only
as the disarrangement of certain forms of matter
by which the living principle was for a time
developed, without involving, in the least degree,
the destruction or diminution of the energy of
that subtile essence.
The phenomena of vegetation, it will be ob­
served, on a general view of those particulars
we have noticed, afford three species of evi­
dence in support of our argument In the
first place we learn, from the incomprehensible
nature of the process, to appreciate the insuf­
ficiency of the objection that has been urged
against the separate existence of the sentient
principle, founded on the want of capacity in
the human intellect to apprehend such a state of
being. In the second place, those phenomena
216 THE PHENOMENA OF LfFE.
VEGETATION. 217
afford additional evidence of the existence of a
subtile, imperishable principledistinct from mat­
ter, and existing prior to, and independently of,
its organisation. And, thirdly, the external ap­
pearances combined with the more latent pro­
cesses of vegetation, when viewed as con­
ducted under the guidance of the vegetative
principle, present a perfect analogy to the con­
tinued exercise of the sentient and thinking
principles of man after the decay and dissolu­
tion of the corporeal frame in which they are
developed.
218 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
CHAPTER XVIII.
ANIMAL ORGAN18ATON.
The distinctions between inorganic matter and
vegetables, and between the latter and animals,
are, that the first simply exist, that vegetables
exist and live, and that animals exist, live, and
feeU It has, indeed, been maintained by some
philosophers, that the vegetable creation is en­
dued with feeling; but though certain plants
exhibit, by shrinking from the touch, and by
theirlocomotive powers, someindications of life,
yet those indications are to be accounted for
by the operation of chemical and mechanical
causes without the necessity of supposing them
to possess sensation. It must be admitted, how­
ever, that between the lower grades of animal
life and the sensitive plants the difference is not
great, and it becomes difficult to ascertain the
precise point where mere vegetation ceases, and
where animal life begins.
Zoophytes partake in many respects of the
nature of vegetables, and their sensations, we
must conceive, cannot be very acute ; but they
nevertheless possess some distinctive character­
istics, which sufficiently distinguish them from
the vegetable creation.
In addition to the signs of sensation which
they evince in shrinking from approaching dan­
ger, zoophytes exhibit indications of volition in
theirmodesofsecuring and consuming theirfood.
Their organisationalsodiffers materiallyfromthat
ofplants. The latter receive their nourishment
from absorbents opening externally, which pos­
sess the power of changing the character of the
food before it is introduced into the body of the
plant. Zoophytes, oh the contrary, possess an
intestinalcanal into which the food is introduced
in its natural state, and the processes ofdigestion
and absorption are performed internally. These
may be considered to be the principal distin­
guishing marks between the lowest order of
animal life and vegetables.
The next advance in the scale of animated
creation presents us with the first trace of a
nervous system, of which the zoophytes afford
no indications. In worms the nervous system
consists of filaments of nerves, which extend
along the whole length of the animal, and are
united at several points into knots or ganglia,
which constitute distinct centres of sensation.
This organisation presents the first approach to
the spinal chord. Insects, fishes, birds, quadru­
peds, and man are furnished with brain, of
which the lower orders of animals are destitute.
ANIMAI. ORGANISATION 219
2 2 0 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
The brain is distinct from the nerves, and the
latter seem to be merely ramifications from the
former to the different portions of the animal
frame. The higher we ascend in the scale we
find that the proportion of brain increases, and
in man — the most perfect of all animals— the
quantity of brain is greater, not only in relation
to his comparative size, but absolutely greater
than that in any other living being, with the
exception of the elephant.
The animal kingdom was divided by Linnaeus
into six classes, according to what he conceived
to be marked distinctions in their internal struc­
ture. These classes are thus distinguished:—
animals that suckle their young, birds, amphi­
bious animals, fishes, insects, and worms. The
leading anatomical characteristic that seems to
separate the animate from the inanimate crea­
tion —the nervous system — is, however, com­
mon to all, with the exception perhaps of the
zoophytes; and possibly on further investigation
it will be discovered that they also are not des­
titute of those organs of sensation. In the fol­
lowing observations, however, we shall confine
ourselves almost exclusively to the organisation
and functions of the human body, which is the
most perfect of the organised arrangements of
matter.
The groundwork upon which the human frame
is constructed, consists of a series of differently
shaped bones, adapted to each other and joined
ANIMAL ORGANISATION. 221
together by ligaments. This bony structure
gives firmness and shape to the form, and serves
not only as a solid support to which the muscles
and other membranes are attached, but is emi­
nently useful in affording protection to those
delicate parts of the frame which require to be
guarded from external injury. The muscles,
which are the organs of motion, compose a
great portion of the fleshy parts of the body.
Their fibres are extremely minute, and they are
united in different forms. Through the mus­
cular substance arteries, veins, and nerves are
ramified in infinite numbers. The fibres of the
muscles are contractile, and when excited by
the nerves they immediately shrink, and cause
the bones to which they are attached to move.
The irritability of the muscular fibres is stimu­
lated, in some unknown manner, by the nerves,
acting either under the direction of the will or
independently of volition. The arteries and
veins arekept distended by the currents of blood
traversing through them perpetually in rapid
motion. The viscera, the heart, and the organs
for discharging the other necessary functions of
animal life, the cellular membrane, which fills
up the interstices between the differentparts, the
ligaments that bind them to each other and to
the bones, the fat, and the outer covering of
the skin, constitute the principal other sub­
stances that compose the form of man. The
contraction of the muscles when stimulated by
the nerves gives motion to the limbs, the bones
impart solidity to the form, and the circulation
of the warm blood through the arteries diffuses
heat and nourishment to every part.
If we coniine our observations exclusively to
these effects, without considering the causes that
produce them, or by which they are sustained,
the human body might be regarded only as a
curiously complicatedpieceofmachinery. When,
however, we examine more closely into these
effects, we perceive that numerous intricate
causes must operate in their production, and we
become aware of the existence of powers far
surpassing those to be attributed to any ma­
chinery that it is possible for the utmost stretch
of human ingenuity to construct, or the human
faculties to conceive.
When, for instance, we inquire by whatmeans
the nerves excite the contraction of the muscles,
or in what manner they contract ; by what power
the blood isforced through the arteriesandveins,
and by what means it is warmed and nourished ;
we find that the causes of those appearances
which more immediately present themselves to
observation, are much more deeply seated than
we might in the first instance have imagined.
We are able to trace the ramifications of the
nerves to the brain, and the circulation of the
blood to the pulsations of the heart, but there
£22 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL ORGANISATION. 223
our investigations terminate ; —we cannot as­
certain the cause that stimulates the heart, nor
comprehend the power that actuates the brain.
In this view of the mechanism of the human
frame we have confined our considerations to
those appearances which present themselves on
the momentary observation of its operation.
The difficulties attending the explanation of the
phenomena are prodigiously increased, when we
consider that these effects are continued for
many years; and still more so when we take
into consideration the growth of the body, and
observe that it is the residence of a power that
exercises volition, and possesses sentient, reason­
ing, and intellectual faculties.
Let us, in the first place, limit our views to
the numerous processes that must be completed
to effect the mere sustentation of the corporeal
machine.
The principal source of nourishment to the
human body is derived from vegetable and
animal products. The food, after mastication,
is impelled by the muscles brought into exercise
in deglutition to the stomach. There it under­
goes important chemical changes by the action
ofthe gastricjuice, and is transferred in a semi­
fluid state to the intestinal canal. This fluid,
which is termed chyme, being afterwards mixed
with pancreaticjuice and bile, is foreed through
the numerous convolutions of the intestines by
I
the peristaltic motion of the bowels, and as it
proceeds is absorbed by an immense number
of minute vessels, which open into the intestinal
canal, and carry offthose portions ofthe aliment
that are applicable to the nutriment of the
body. Those nutritive parts, after undergoing
various changes, are ultimately converted into
blood, and are added to the contents of the
veins. The blood, which is propelled by the
muscular contractions of the heart into every
part of the body, distributes its supply of nutri­
ment through the minute vessels of the arteries
to a variety of absorbing organs, by the agency
of which it is assimilated to all parts of the
human frame. Another source whence the blood
derives a large portion ofits nutritive properties,
and whence it principally acquires its heat, is
the atmospheric air. The venous blood, on its
return to the heart, passes through the lungs,
where it is exposed to the action of the air, and
rapidly absorbs a large quantity of oxygen, and
evolves at the same time a portion of carbonic
acid gas. The condensation of the oxygen gas
into a fluid in the blood occasions the evolution
of a considerable portion of the heat which was
before latent in the gas, and this heat being im­
parted to the blood constitutes one source, if not
the principal one, of vital heat.
By the assimilating processes to which the
food is subjected there are formed upwards of
224 THE PHKKOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL ORGANISATION. 225
thirty distinct kinds of fluids and solids, many of
which possess such peculiar properties and are
composed of such different elements, that it is
extremely difficult to obtain an accurate analysis
of their component parts. Among these various
substances we may mention, as those with which
we are best acquainted, muscular fibre, cellular
membrane, bones, tendons, milk, brain, fat, skin,
hair, nails, blood, urine, saliva, tears, sweat, and
the gastricjuice. These solidsand fluids,and the
numerousotherjuices that are secreted invarious
parts of the body, are all formed by the decom­
position and organisation of the food taken into
the stomach, and of the oxygen of the air in­
haled by the lungs. Of the nature of the pro­
cess by which' the elementary particles of the
food, combined with oxygen, are changed into
thesevarious substances, we can form no concep­
tion } and the process of their change into por­
tions of the animal organisation, and of their
adaptation so as to enable them to take part in
the intricate phenomena of life, seem still more
mysterious.
The difficulty which attends the comprehen­
sion of the process of assimilation in vegetables
exists in full force, and with the addition of
several other inexplicable circumstances, when
we attempt to discover the nature of the process
by which food is changed into a constituent part
of the living animal. The soil and the living
plantwere, in the preceding chapter, stated to be
so dissimilar that no effort of abstract reasoning
could induce the belief that the one originated
fromthe other; but if thatchangewould, without
the aid of experience, be considered impossible^
the apparent impossibility of such a transmuta­
tion is infinitely increased when the food of man
is compared with man himself. '
We have hitherto noticed only those pro-
cesses necessary to sustain the animal frame in
its existing state. The difficulties will be found
to multiply when we consider the processes that
must take place during the growth of a child
from infancy to maturity. In the latter case all
the former difficulties attending the comprehen­
sion of assimilation remain, and there is super-
added the consideration, that every organ of the
human body must not only be renewed, but
must be also augmented by the addition ofparti­
cles which, prior to the immediate time of their
forming part of the system, possessed no feature
of resemblance to the vital organ of which they
are to constitute an active portion.
Ofthe causes ofthese extraordinary and mys­
terious effects our limited capacities will not al­
low us to form an idea. We must, however,
admit that a cause does exist, and that it must
have existed prior to the effects it produces.
The organic products of that operating cause
226 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
may, indeed, afterwards become instrumental in
promoting future assimilations of matter, similar
to those they have previously undergone; but as
those organic products were entirely the results
of some previously existing cause, it would be
contrary to sound reasoning to suppose that any
organic arrangement of matter could create the
cause by which it is organised. We are the more
anxious to enforce this point, self-evident as it
may seem, because several of the phenomena of
physiology appear, on a superficial view, to
countenance the belief that certain systems of
organised matter possess the power of creating
similarorganisations, and that thispowerdepends
solely upon that peculiar arrangement of the
elementary particles.
For the purpose of obtaining a more defined
idea of the process of assimilation, let us con­
sider what are the circumstances attending the
growth ofanygiven memberofthe animal frame.
Let us take as an illustration the growth of the
hand. Compare the hand ofa child withthat of
a man, and observe the difference between the
size, the flexibility ofthejoints, and the strength
of each. The hand of the infant, however, in
the course of time becomes gradually as large
and as strong as the one with which it is com­
pared. The source whence this increase in the
magnitude of the bones, the muscles, the veins,
the tendons, and nerves, is derived, is admitted
Q 2
ANIMAL ORGANISATION. 227
228 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
to be the blood, which is continually traversing
along the arteries and veins, and even through
the bones of the hand. As this fluid rushes
along, the elements it contains that are adapted
to the assimilation of those different mem'
bers must be absorbed from it, and applied by
them in their respective accretions of substance.
The phosphate of lime, and other ingredients
which enter into the composition of the bones
must be secreted from the blood bv the nu*
merous glands immediately contiguous, and the
bones must possess the power of applying and
arranging the materials in their organisedforms,
soas to constitute a portion ofthe living skeleton
ofthe hand, and to be capable oftakingpart in the
animal economy. These newly formed portions
of bone then become themselves possessed of
the same power of assimilation; and the former
inert particles seem to be thus endued with vital
attributes, which dispose the accumulating os­
seous matter into its proper conformations, and
enable it to discharge the requisite functions.
Powers of assimilation, in some degree simi­
lar to those we have noticed as existing in the
bones, mustalsobe brought into operation in the
formation of the muscles, in the extension of the
veins, in the enlargement and strengthening of
the tendons, and in the ramifications of the
nerves. Each portion of matter that is added
to their composition becomes invested with vital
ANIMAL ORGANISATION. 229
properties, that enable itto assistinthe augment*
ation of the organic member of which it forms a
part, and also to communicate similar properties
to other portions of matter. The same process
that occurs on the growth of the parts of the
hand isalso operating in thegrowth ofevery part
of the body, and the miniature features, and
limbs, and organs of the infant, are thus gradu­
allyenlarged,untilthey attain their full develope-
ment in manhood.
From the foregoing consideration ofthe mode
by which animal organisation is perfected and
sustained, it might appear that the action of or­
ganised matter alone is sufficient to create the
vital functions; but this method of viewing the
question would be very superficial; and it will
appear on further consideration that we have as
yet been occupied merely in examining the ef­
fects of organisation, and have not made any
advance towards the developement of its causes.
True it is, that the particles of living organised
matter possess the power of moulding and adapt­
ing other particles to their own models; but
what is the nature of that power, and whence is
it derived? The power must exist before the
effect can be produced, and none of the proper­
ties of the matter which constitutes the organic
structure are capable of producing any effects
similar to those observable in the formation of
Q 3
the animal frame, and in the discharge of the
animal functions.
As the power is not, therefore, the same as
that of the ordinary properties of matter, it must
eitherbe distinctfrom thoseproperties, or it must
be some peculiar modification of them induced
by the system of organisation. We discussed
these questions relative to the separate nature of
the powers that produce organisation in our pre­
ceding investigations respecting vegetable life,
and we shall not now, therefore, travel again
over the same ground, further than to call to
mind the leading points of our position ; viz.,
that if this assimilating principle be a distinct
subtile property, it must reasonably be presumed
to partake of the attributes of indestructibility
and pre-existence in a degree not inferior to
those properties which are subservient to its
control ; and that if the principle of organisa­
tion be caused by a modification ofthe ordinary
properties of matter, then that modification of
subtile indestructible properties must be equally
indestructible with the original elements from
which it wascompounded or modified; and that,
in either case, the power must exist before the
effect can be produced.
230 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL LIFE. 281
CHAPTER XIX.
ANIMAL LIFE.
The difficulties which attend the comprehension
of the organisation of plants, and the nature of
the vegetable principle, seem to dwindle into
insignificance when compared with those which
present themselves in the investigation of the
formation and organisation of the great variety
of substances that compose the human frame;
and these, again, appear to be tangible objects
in comparison with the consideration of the
nature of the vital principle, which directs the
numerous animal functions; and with the still
higher and sublimer principles ofvitality evinced
in the exercise of the intellectual faculties.
The animal organisation and functions we
have hitherto considered are produced by the
simple involuntaiy effects of the living principle,
whatever that principle may be. The bones,
muscles, nerves, veins, and ligaments are formed
without any consciousness on our parts of the
process. Each organ of the body performs its
functions without the exercise of our will. We
observe that every part is furnished with an ap.
paratus fitted for the renewal of the exhausted
q 4
232 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
and wasting membranes, and is supplied with
proper materials for the beneficial working of
the apparatus; but without the presence of a
governing power, capable of making the com*
plicated machinery available, and of setting the
whole in motion, allthe contrivances and evident
adaptations of means to produce an end would
be useless.
The existence of some cause which animates
our frame, and which is the means of exciting
the animal functions, and of developing the
powers of sensation and volition, is universally
admitted. The principal point of difference
that arises on the subject is, whether these
powers are pre*existent to, independent o£ and
separate from, animal organisation ; or whether
they are entirely dependent upon, and are
created by, that organisation.
The vital principle in animals has usuallybeen
considered to partake of two or more distinct
characters. Of these, the most marked distinc­
tions subsistbetween that principle whose actions
are not subject to the will — and therefore re-
semble in some degree the vegetative principle
in plants— and the sentient and willing prin­
ciples, which more especially distinguish animals
from vegetables. Other distinctions, perhaps
not less important, have been drawn between
the mere sentientand willing principles, inwhich
all animals participate, and the intellectual and
ANIMAL LIFE.
moral faculties, that are more peculiarly the
attributes of man. The moral and intellectual
powers of man do not, however, come within
the scope of our present observations, and we
shall therefore confine our consideration more
particularly to the vegetative and sentient prin­
ciples ofanimal creation.
The various functions peculiar to animal life
were regarded, in the preceding chapter, as
being discharged exclusively by the several
organs of the body that are specially adapted
for their performance; but though this isstrictly
the case, in an abstract point of view, yet when
we consider these organs not as independent
agents, but as only forming parts of the whole
animal economy, we shall be obliged to search
beyond the mere organs themselves for the cause
that stimulates their action.
The immediate cause of the energy of the
vital functions is the stimulus of the nervous
system. The nerves, which are spread in
minute ramifications through every organ, are
traceable to the spinal marrow, and thence
along the spinal chord to the brain; from
which source, it is reasonably presumed, the
stimulus of all the nerves is derived. The me­
dullary chords of the nerves are united in dif­
ferent parts of the body into knots, or ganglia,
and it has been supposed that these ganglia
constitute secondary centres of nervous power,
233
that direct the involuntary functions of animal
life. Whether, however, the moving power of
the involuntary functions of the body proceed
directly from the brain, or whether that power
be delegated to the medullary chord of the spine
and the ganglionic system, in whatever part it
resides, some powerthere must be which excites,
through the mediumof the nerves, the irritability
of the muscles attached to each organ. The
heart continues to beat, the stomach to digest
the food, the chyme to be absorbed by the blood,
and all the secretions and assimilations of the
body to be performed, without our consciousness
ofthose processes, which proceed uninterrupted*
ly whether we are awake or asleep; and unless
we suppose that these extraordinary effects can
be produced without any cause, we must con­
clude that some power is always operating to
stimulate the organs of vitality in the discharge
of their functions. Where does this power re­
side? how does it operate? in what does it
consist?
The first question may, perhaps, be rationally
answered by referring to the brain as the ulti­
mate corporeal residence of this power; but the
other questions involve the elucidation of the
nature and operation of the vital principle,
which is a subjectfar too subtile forinvestigation
by the human intellect, and respecting which
we must be content to remain in ignorance.
234 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL LIFE. <235
Though we cannot, consequently, make any ad­
vance towards a knowledge of that inscrutable
essence, it will be of considerable importance to
establish its existence as a separate principle;
and though we cannot ascertain the laws by
which it is governed, we may arrive at a know­
ledge of some of its attributes.
In our consideration of the processes attend­
ing the continued operation of the functions of
animal organisation, we regarded every portion
of the human frame as endued with power to
assimilate thejuices that supply it with nourish­
ment into its own constituent parts. The bones,
the muscles, the integuments, &c. were each
represented as being able to convert the secreted
fluids into other portions of bone, of muscle,
&c., which newly created portions in their turns
become capable of taking part in the greatwork
of assimilation.
As these effects are entirely dissimilar from
those of any of the known properties of matter,
they were ascribed to the agency of somedistinct
organising principle ; and that principle, it was
argued, must exist prior to, and be independent
ofj the matter it organised. But this assimilat­
ing power of the organs of the human frame —
in whatever light we regard it —
- requires the
presence of some other power to bring it into
action, and cannot be developed excepting by
that stimulus. The nerves, we have observed,
are the agents bywhich thatstimulus isimparted;
but when we examine the texture and compo­
sition of the nerves, we are unable to discover in
their structure and constituent parts, any cause
calculated to set the animal machine in motion.
We find, also, that the nerves themselves are
enlarged with the growth of the body. They
must therefore possess the power of assimilation,
and that power must be made to operate by the
agency of some more remote cause, which sti­
mulates the nerves to the work of augmenting
their own substance. We may trace the nerves
through their innumerable ramifications to the
spinal chord, and to the brain ; but in neither of
those substances can we perceive the slightest
indication of a cause adequate to excite the
power of assimilation, or to the production of
any effects in the least resembling it The brain,
too, increases in size with the grow'th of a child
to manhood, and we must therefore, search for
a cause independent of the brain that is com­
petent to produce the effectsofits organisation.
In endeavouring to trace the effects of or­
ganisation to their causes we thus arrive at last
— after ascending all the perceptible linksofthe
chain of connection— at the brain, the seat of
sensation ; and we discover that there is yet a
cause beyond, past finding out, which stimulates
and governs the whole system of organised ani­
mal matter. The system of animal organisation
£36 THE PHENOMENA OP LIFE.
ANIMAL LIFE. 237
without the vital principle, may be compared to
the complicated machinery of the steam-engine
before the application of its moving power. The
boiler, the pipes, the piston and valves, the con­
necting rods and wheels of the latter, which are
so ingeniously contrived and so well adapted for
the continued working of the machine, are en­
tirely useless when the heat which serves to set
the whole machinery in motion is withdrawn.
The power of heat to communicate expansive
force to steam is, however, the same, whether
that power be manifested by the confinement of
the steam in the boiler ofthe engine, and its ap­
plication as the moving principle of the machi­
nery, or whether the steam be allowed to escape
and to dissipate itself in air. The machinery
is made and adapted for the application of
the moving power; and that power is not pro­
duced by those complicated combinations of
machinery, but exists independently of those
arrangements of material forms by which the
properties of the expansive force of steam are
manifested.
We may extend this analogy of the connec­
tion between animal organisation and the living
principle with that subsisting between the ma­
chinery of the steam-engine and its moving
power, and deduce from it an apt illustration of
our progress in discovering the source of animal
life by comparing our progressive efforts with
the steps by which a person unacquainted with
the steam-engine would arrive at the source of
the power which imparts motion to its compli­
cated machinery. He would trace the motion
of the fly-wheel to the rod that works the crank;
the motion of the rod to that of the working
beam, the latter to the perpendicular motion of
the piston rod; the piston rod he would be able
to ascertain was impelled upwards and down­
wards by the expansive force of the confined
steam ; and that expansive force he would dis­
cover was imparted by the heat derived from
the combustion of the coals. So far he would
be able to trace effects to their causes in an
uninterrupted and intelligible series; but having
arrived at the ultimate apparent cause of the
motion, he would then find that he was unable
to comprehend the nature of heat, which pro­
duced that effect, or of the mode by which it
communicated an expansive power to steam.
Should our inquirer, in consequence of his in­
ability to comprehend the nature of heat, or its
modes of operation on aqueous vapour, be dis­
posed to doubt the existence of such a property
distinct from the machinery with which he sees
it connected; and were he, still further, to infer
that the steam which sets that machinery in mo­
tion is produced by the operation of that pecu­
liar mechanical arrangement, such an inference
would immediately be considered as most puerile
2.38 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL LIFE. 289
and unphilosophical. Yet surely such a con*
elusion would be as reasonable as that which
supposes the motive power of a system of or*
ganisation to be merely the result of that organ­
ised system; for notonly does such a supposition
in the latter case involve the absurdity of assum­
ing a cause to be produced by an effect, but it
further assumes that this cause-creating effect is
also self-created.
Though physiologists differ in their opinions
respecting the seat of the involuntary powers
of the animal functions, no doubt is enter­
tained respecting the locality of the sentient
and voluntary powers. These are, by all phy­
siologists, we believe, allowed to be situated in
the brain, which, it is concluded, communicates
through the nerves the mandates of the mind to
the obedient muscles.
The brain, which is thus acknowledged to be
the residence of this power of directing the
motions of the body, has long been an interest­
ing object ofinvestigation to the anatomist, the
physiologist, andthe chemist. Without attending
to the minute subdivisions that have been in­
troduced by the phrenologists, we may state,
generally, that the brain is divided into three
distinct portions, which have been termed by
anatomists the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the
medulla oblongata. The latter portion of the
brain occupies the lower and posterior part of
240 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
the cranium, and is the immediate source of the
spinal marrow, which it closely resembles in
appearance. From this portion of the brain also
proceed the nerves that convey the impressions
from the external senses.
Of the functions of these three distinct por­
tions of the brain nothing is positively known,
though it has been conjectured, with great ap>
pearance of probability, that the cerebrum,
(which occupies the anterior portion of the era-
nium) is the seat of the intellectual and moral
faculties; that the cerebellum is the residence of
the animal passions and propensities; and that
the medullaoblongatais the seatofexternal sens­
ation, and the source of the involuntary actions
of the muscles. The phrenologists, indeed, ima­
gine that the brain is divided into numerous
compartments, to each one of which is allotted
the discharge of separate functions; and they
conceive they have discovered in the different
convolutions of its medullary substance the re­
sidences of distinct intellectual and moral facul­
ties. The science of phrenology is, however,
at present such questionable ground, that we
shall not venture to explore it, nor to found any
arguments upon the principles which it professes
to establish; but there seems to be little doubt
entertained, even by those who dispute the doc­
trines of phrenology, that the three great divi­
ANIMAL LIFE. 241
sions of the brain to which we have alluded are
employed in the discharge of differentfunctions.
If we are obliged to refer sensation and voli­
tion to the agency of the brain, as the last link
in the chain of connection between the effects of
organisation and their causes which our obtuse
faculties will enable us to discover, what isthere,
it may naturally be inquired, in the texture and
composition of the brain that can lead us to
suppose it to be the original source of these
powers? The brain is composed of a medullary
mass, parts of which are disposed in variouscon­
volutions. Its chemical composition is extremely
complicated, but it does not evince any peculiar
chemical affinities; and whether we consider
this substance as acting en masse, or in separate
compartments, we cannot conceive any possible
means by which it can either feel or act. When,
in addition to the powers of sensation and voli­
tion, we consider the brain as the organ of the
intellectualfacultiesofthought, memory, reason,
judgment, &c., we cannot fail to be struck with
the apparent inadequacy ofthe means by which
those faculties are called into operation ; and so
far from being induced by an examination of
the substance of the brain to suppose that itfeels
and acts, and thinks and reasons, we are inclined
to doubt the possibility of such a mass of appa­
rently inorganised matter becoming even a sub­
ordinate agent for the transmission of feeling
u
242 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
and volition, and for the exercise of thought and
judgment.
Shall we, then, conclude that we have arrived
at the first cause of the vital principle when we
have only succeeded in tracing it to a material
substance that presents no indication of vitality,
and that bears not the most distant analogy to
our conception of the intellectual faculties?—
or shall we presume that there is yet an undisco­
vered cause that acts upon the brain too subtile
for detection by the mental powers of man?
We cannot, indeed, understand, even if we
take a strictly material view of the nature of the
vital principle, how, in accordance with the ordi­
nary mode of considering matter and its proper­
ties, it can be regarded otherwise than as dis­
tinct from the mere material composition of the
brain.
It appears, fromchemical analysis, thatin every
100 parts of brain there are about eighty parts
of water, about five parts of fatty matter, seven
of albumen, one of a peculiar animal principle,
derived from muscular fibre, called osmozome,
one and a half of phosphorus, and the remaining
portions consist of different salts and acids.
When these component parts of the brain are
reduced to their known elements, very nearly
the whole mass is found to be composed of
hydrogen, oxygen, carbon, and nitrogen in dif­
ferent combinations. These substances, whether
ANIMAL LIFE. 243
in their compound or elementary forms, possess
no properties, when considered separately, at all
analogous to those qualities that are developed
by the exercise of volition, and of the mental
faculties; nor can we conceivein whatmannerit
is possible for any combination, or modification,
of the properties they possess to produce such
extraordinary effects. But admitting, for the
sake of argument, that it is possible for a certain
combination of differentbodies to generate active
qualities capable of controlling and directing the
whole functions of the human frame, yet this
modification ofthe properties of matter we must
presume to be distinct from mere matter itself.
For — unless the viewswe have taken of the na­
ture of the properties of matter be entirely erro­
neous— the qualities with which the particles
of different substances are endued are distinct
from, and to a certain degree independent of,
the mere inert matter with which they are con­
nected; and if that position holds good with
respect to the simple properties of matter, it
must also be true with regard to their combin­
ations. If, therefore, we were to conceive it
possible for any combination ofinanimate matter
to create a sentient, willing, and intellectual
principle, that newly-created power must be alto­
gether distinct from the inert compound mass
by which it is developed. In this view of the
question, therefore, weshouldbe obliged to refer
a 2
the vital principle to the operation of some in­
visible, unknown, subtile power acting upon and
controlling the matter by which it is supposed
to be generated. The difficulties attending the
consideration of the operation of the vital func­
tions are not in the least degree diminished by
this hypothesis; and, in addition to those diffi­
culties which surround the subject, on the sup­
position of the phenomena of life being caused
by the existence of an immaterial living prin­
ciple developed by material organisation, there
would be superadded the incomprehensible and
perpetual self-creation of sensation, volition, and
intelligence out ofinanimate matter.
It may, perhaps, be considered unnecessary
further topursue the line ofargumentagainst the
notion of the percipient soul being created by a
combination of different forms of matter; but
there is one other point of view in which it may
be regarded, thatought not to be omitted in this
consideration of the subject.
In reasoning upon this hypothetical material
living principle, we must, it is to be presumed,
conclude, that the mode in which the principle
is generated is similar to that in which subtile
active principles are called into operation by
other combinations of matter with which we are
acquainted. Let us examine, then, into the cir­
cumstancesattending the developementofknown
active principles by such combinations. Let us,
244 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL LIFE. 245
for instance, take galvanism, as being most ana­
logous to the vital principle, and consider the
means by which it is excited, and the nature of
its connection with the substances exciting it.
In considering this property of matter, in a
former chapter, it was stated that the mere con­
tact of two metals possessing different degrees
of attraction for oxygen is sufficient to excite
galvanic and electrical phenomena, and that the
addition ofany substance facilitating the oxidize-
ment of one of the metals increases the activity
of the developement. The same effect may be
produced by the agency of numerous other
bodies that act chemically on each other, with­
out the employment of metals j and even by the
mere friction of substances between which no
chemical attraction whatever subsists. Now,
surely, no one can imagine that the galvanism
excited by the contact of a piece of zinc and a
piece of silver is a positive creation of an active
powerwhich becomesmaterialised in the metals;
or that the galvanism excited by other and more
complex combinations forms a material part of
those combinations; still less is the idea of the
materiality of this peculiar quality reconcile-
able with the developement of electricity by
friction, in which case no perceptible chemical
action takes place. Electricity and galvanism
also are developed by the combination of such
r 3
numerous substances and by such a variety of
modes of action that it is impossible to consider
the same property— viewing it as a material
compound— capable of being composed of such
various ingredients, and of being produced in
such varieties of ways. The opinion that seems
most in accordance with the phenomena of
galvanism and electricity, and the one that is
generally adopted by philosophers, is, that that
property is a previously existing subtile agent,
and that it is therefore not created, but ismerely
rendered perceptible, in some unknown manner,
by chemical action and by friction.
Now if the supposed materialised vital prin­
ciple be presumed to be called into operation in
a similar mode to galvanism and the other pro­
perties ofmatter, the arguments ofthe material­
ists,whenpushed to theirlegitimateconsequences,
would militate directlyagainsttheir ownopinions,
and would thus tend to establish that part ofour
position which rests upon the existence of the
living principle distinct from the mere matter
that constitutes animal organisation. Unless they
are prepared to affirm that the sentient and in­
tellectual principles are more material, more
tangible, and more comprehensible than galva­
nism and the other subtile properties of matter
—or unless they can point out some mode by
which these etherial agents are generated, dif-
246 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL LIFE. 247
ferent from that by which other active subtile
principles are developed«—they must admit, that
the peculiar organisation of the brain, instead of
creating, only calls into operation, their supposed
material living principle. That principle must,
therefore —even if viewed as a material sub­
stance—exist prior to, and independently of) the
animal organisation by which it is thus supposed
to be developed ; and if it existed previously to
its connection with animal organisation, we must
reasonably conclude it will continue toexist after
that connection is dissolved; unless we were to
suppose it possible for the subordinate agent,
which merely calls the principle into perceptible
operation, to possess the property ofannihilating
the power by which itselfis governed.
Though the vital principle is unknown to us
in any state distinct from animal organisation,
yet, in everypointof viewin which we can bring
our mental powers to bear upon the subject, the
sentient and thinking principles seem so entirely
different from any known material substances,
that we cannot form any conception of mind or
sensation than as distinct from every possible
combination of matter ; and the preceding con­
sideration of this subject has, it is hoped, been
sufficient to show that the hypothesis of the
materialists, which supposes the percipient soul
to be the result of animal organisation, does not
r 4
348 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
remove any of the difficulties supposed to attend
the belief in the immateriality of the vital prin­
ciple, whilst it is obliged to have recourse to the
transposition of cause and effect; and it further
involves the absurdity ofsupposing thatallbeings
are self-created.
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 249
CHAPTER XX.
ORGANS OF SENSATION.
The communication between man and the ex­
ternal world is carried on entirely by the instru­
mentality of the five senses of touch, taste,
smell, sight, and hearing; and not only are all
our ideas derived from those sources, but we
cannot conceive of any mode by which know­
ledge could be otherwise obtained. It con­
sequently becomes an object of considerable
interest to trace, as far as possible, the means by
which thoseimpressionsthat constitutethe found­
ation of our ideas, are conveyed to the mind.
The sensations of feeling and taste are only
called into operation by actual contact with the
substances exciting them. Minute papillse from
the nerves are spread under every part of the
external cuticleof the body, and the impressions
of any substance on the skin are consequently
conveyed directly from those papillse to the
nerves, and thence to the brain. A series of
separate papillse arising from other nerves, that
lead directly from the medulla oblongata to the
tongue, are spread over the upper surface of that
organ; and the impressions which are made
250 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
upon it may, consequently, be regarded as being
caused by an immediate action upon the nerves
themselves. In neither case, however, can we
understand by what means any impression what­
ever is produced in the mind by the contact of
the papillae of the tongue or of the skin with
the substances that excite the sensations of taste
or feeling ; and still less can we comprehend by
what means the same substance can excite a dif­
ferentsensation, when brought into contact with
the skin, and when it is applied to the tongue.
The senses of taste and feeling, though ex­
tremely different in their impressions, have a
similarity of character, inasmuch as the sense of
taste seems to be only a modification of simple
sensation. The other senses are, however, very
different from either touch or taste, and they
are also separately very dissimilar. Their effects
are produced by subtile agents emanating from
the exciting bodies; which agents — so far
at least as regards sight and hearing— are dis­
tinct from the bodies themselves, and the im­
pressions produced by them have no appreciable
connection with their immediate causes.
In the senseof smell, however, it is frequently
difficult to make a distinction between the object
itselfand the emanation from it that excites the
sensation. In the case of noxious gases, for in­
stance, smell seems to be excited by actual con­
tact with the offensive substances; but as we
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 251
cannot conceive this mode of perception to bear
any relation to the impress of tangible objects,
it has, consequently, no resemblance to, nor can
it be associated with, the sensations excited by
touch and taste. The organs of smell, however,
resemble in their operation those of the two
latter senses; for, asthe impressionsare conveyed
immediately bycontact with the substance itself,
or with some material aëriform emanation from
it, there is no necessity for any intermediate
apparatus to communicate those impressions to
the nerves. This communication is effected, as
in the senses of touch and taste, by the expan­
sion of the filaments of the nerves that proceed
from the medulla oblongata on the surface des­
tined to receive the impression. The papillae
branching from the olfactory nerve are spread
over the whole interior of the nostrils, and the
actions of odoriferous and noxious effluvia on
thesepapillae are transmitted by their immediate
communication with that nerve to the brain, and
causes, in some inscrutable manner, the sensation
of smell.
The sense of hearing is produced by agents
less immediately connected with the original
cause of sound ; and the simple expansion of
the nerves into papillae, which arrangement is
sufficient for the excitement of the three senses
already noticed, would not suffice for the deve-
lopement ofthe sense of hearing. In the latter
252 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
case the sensation is produced by the commu­
nication of a vibratory motion to the medium
of sound. That medium is altogether distinct
from the object which acts upon it, and the
motion by which the sound is conveyed is dis­
tinct from both.
We may, perhaps, conceive that the faculty of
hearing might have been developed in a similar
manner to that in which the senses we have al­
ready noticed are brought into operation—by de­
licate expansions of the nerves into papillae ; but
the vibrations communicated to the air in mode­
rate sounds are so feeble and imperceptible, that
any system ofnervous papillae sufficiently sensi­
tive to receive their impressions directly from
the impulse of the air, would almost inevitably
be exposed to external injury. To remedy the
inconvenience that would attend such a dispo­
sition of the organ, the ear is constructed for the
purpose of collecting and concentrating the
vibrations ; which are then received upon the
tympanum, and thence communicated to the
liquid within the cavern of the ear, which serves
as the final medium of communication between
the external organ and the nerves which convey
the impressions to the brain. By what means,
however, these vibratory motions, which may be
thus traced to the brain, excite the sensation of
sound, we cannot discover nor conceive. The
idea we entertain of sound bears no more resem­
i
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 253
blance to that ofmotion than the idea of the co­
lour ofan orange bears to that of its taste ; and
in this, as in all other attempts to discover ulti­
mate causes, we perceive the insufficiency of
our mental powers to penetrate the mysteries of
nature.
The organs ofsight are the most complicated,
and appear to evince more elaborate and skilful
adaptation of means to an end than any of the
senses. We have already noticed the properties
of light, and the transmission of its rays, at an
inconceivably rapid rate, from all luminous bo­
dies, in every direction, to the utmost bounds of
space. Those rays, it was mentioned, possess
the property of refrangibility, in consequence of
which they are converged, after passing through
a convex lens, into points in its focus, and there
form an image of the luminous objects presented
before it. The eye is composed of various lenses,
of different degrees of density, and its beautiful
mechanism is entirely directed to the formation,
by those lenses, of clear and distinct images of
visible objects on the retina, which is placed at
the back of the organ for the reception of the
concentrated rays of light.
It is not within our province to enter into a
minute description of the separate parts of the
eye, nor to comment on the admirable adapt­
ation which its mechanism presents to the pur­
poses they were intended to serve : it will be suf-
iicient merely to point out, generally, the means
by which the appearances ofexternal objects are
conveyed by this organ to the brain.
The importance of vision in the animal eco­
nomy is manifested by the abundant supply of
distinct pairs of nerves for the discharge of the
functions of the organ. The most important of
these is the optic nerve, which issues from the
medulla oblongata, and is carried towards the
back of the eye, where it is spread out in a
most beautifully fine netlike form, and composes
the retina, or screen, on which the images of
externalobjects are received. Behind this screen
of delicate nervous fibres the choroid or inner­
most coat of the eye is spread, which is covered
with a black pigment that completely prevents
the rays oflight from passing beyond the retina,
on which they are brought to a focus. The
image is then conveyed by the optic nerve di­
rectly to the brain, where it excites a sensation
of form and colour, which we believe to corre­
spond with the forms and colours of the objects
from which the rays oflight issue to the eye.
The organs of sense are not of themselves
sentient, but are merely the mediafor conveying
their respective sensations to the brain. We
are so accustomed, however, to consider sens­
ation as resident in the organ which excites it,
that an exertion of the powers of reflection
and reason is necessary to convince ourselves of
<254 the phenomena of l ife.
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 255
the contrary. With respect to the senses of
touch, and taste, and smell, it is, indeed, very
difficult to conceive that they reside elsewhere
than in the organs themselves; but from the
consideration of the structure of the nerves
alone, which are all to be traced to the brain, it
might be inferred that the minute expansion of
the nervous filaments in those organs of sensation
are only subservient agents of the brain, whence
they emanate. If, however, any doubt were to
exist on this subject, it would be entirely re­
moved by the results of anatomical experiments
on the nerves of living animals, which have estab­
lished the fact, that when the nerves which com­
municate from the brain to any organ of sense
are divided, the sensation of that organ ceases,
though the impressions that usually excite it
may be continued.
With respectto the senses ofhearingand sight,
but more particularly the latter, the organs serve
so manifestly merely as means of communica­
tion between external objects and the nervous
system, that no one who examines the structure
of the eye and ofthe ear can doubt for a moment
that they are only the intermediate agents of
vision and of hearing. When an image is im­
pressed on the retina, it is true, the communi­
cation is completed, and the nerves are directly
acted on; but no one at the present day, who
has paid any attention to the subject, imagines
that the retina is sentient ofthe images impressed
on it The impression is communicated by that
delicate membrane to the optic nerve; and from
that nerve it is conveyed to the brain. But is
the brain itself sentient of the impressions it re­
ceives from the optic nerve ? or must we refer
to some other source for the percipient power ?
We have seen, in our preceding notices of the
functions of animal life, that the organisation of
the substance of the brain must be produced by
some principle distinct from its material com­
position ; and as we find it necessary to refer
the augmentation and arrangementofits material
particles to a governing subtile agent, we shall
be equally obliged to refer the perception of the
forms and colours of distant objects— our ideas
of which have no conceivable connection with
substance—to the agency of some presiding
subtile or immaterial principle, to which the im­
pressions imparted to the brain are transferred.
It is a disputed question in metaphysics,
whether the perception of external objects is
excited directly by their impressions on the
brain through the nerves, or whether it is pro-
duced by an act of the mind; which, it is sup­
posed, infers the existence of external objects
from the sensationsexcited by those impressions.
Des Cartes, Locke, Hartley, Hume, and many
other philosophers, contend that the mind does
not receive the impressions of the senses im­
256 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 257
mediately from the brain, but that each sensation
is the result of a process of reasoningand of asso­
ciation ; which, by constant exercise, hasbecome
almost simultaneous with the impressions, soas to
leave no perceptible interval between them and
the ideas which this process of reasoning con­
veys to the mind. Dr. Reid, and some other
metaphysicians, on the contrary, maintain that
the ideas received from the senses are the direct
results of the impressions of external objects on
the brain, conveyed to the mind without any in­
termediate reasoning process. This question is,
however, of a purely metaphysical nature, and it
is only adverted to for the purpose of showing,
that the opinions of the majority of those who
have devoted their attention to the study of
mental operations, are so far from countenanc­
ing the belief that the material organisation of
the brain produces the intellectual faculties,
that they conceive not a single idea can be
formed, even from the impressions of external
objects on the organs of sensation, without an
intermediate mental process, which resolvesthose
impressions into the idea which we conceive of
the objects exciting them.
By whatever process we may conceive the
ideas of objects to be excited in the mind, it
must be admitted that the immediate agent in
producing them isthe brain; and that the organs
of sensation are merely connecting links in the
s
258 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
chain of communication between the objects and
the sensorium. In the sense of sight these links
in the chain of communication are more dis­
tinctly perceptible than in the other senses, and
the organs of that sensation will therefore afford
a good exemplification of the successive pro­
cesses by which the impressions of objects are
stamped on the mind.
In the first place, the presence of light is ab­
solutely necessary to bring the organs of vision
into action. It has been previously stated that
the nature of light and its modes of operation are
beyond our comprehension; that its rays, though
the cause of vision, are of themselves invisible;
and that the transmission of light is a process
opposed to all our ideas of the ordinary commu­
nication of motion. In the very first stage of
our inquiry into the nature of vision, therefore,
we have to deal with a subtile agent that is com­
pletely removed beyond the cognisance of our
faculties. We know, however, that by some
inscrutable means the rays of light are trans­
mitted from luminous objects to the eye. They
are then converged by the lenses^of that organ
into separate points on the retina, and there
form an image of the objects from which the
rays of light proceed. Of the mode by which
the rays are refracted in this second stage of the
inquiry we are quite as ignorant as we are of the
nature of light, though we are able to ascertain
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 259
the laws that regulate its refrangibility. The
image when formed on the retina occupies a
space about equal to that of a sixpence, though
the numerous objects there depicted may be
miles asunder, and of stupendous magnitude.
Nevertheless, though the image be so dispropor­
tionate to the objects, the ideas conveyed to the
mind have no relation to the diminutive size of
theimages fromwhich the impressionsare directly
received, but correspond with the real sizes of
the objects, with which the mind has no imme­
diate contact.
The images on the retina are inverted, and it
has, singularly enough, been imagined from this
circumstance, even by those who have paid
attention to the scienceof optics, that all objects
are seen in an inverted position ; and it has been
supposed that the error is rectified by the sense
of touch, until at length, by frequent experi­
ence, we learn to conceive the objects to be
placed in different positions from those in which
they are presented to the mind. This suppos­
ition must have arisen from the now exploded
opinion that the retina is the seat of sensation;
and it appears to be so rude a conception, and
to be founded merely on superficial observation,
that it is surprising that men distinguished for
scientific research should have acceded for a
moment to a notion so thoroughly unphi-
losophical.
s 2
After having traced theimpressions of external
objects to the retina, the remainder of the pro­
cess of communication with the brain is totally
incomprehensible, and is utterly irreconcileable
with the laws that regulate the transmission of
light. We find that the impressions on the
retina are next transferred to the optic nerve.
But how are they transferred? The optic nerve
is not transparent, and therefore it cannot admit
the passage of the rays oflight. It is curvilinear
in its course to the medulla oblongata; and as
light moves only in straight lines, the optic nerve
cannot therefore convey rays of light from the
retina to the brain. There are no apparent
means provided in that medium of communica­
tion for transferring the images of objects,
such as we behold them, from the retina ; and
it is found, from experiment, that the optic
nerve is insensible to the impression of light
when the rays fall directly upon it. The com­
munication between the retina and the brain
mustconsequently be madeby actual impressions
totally distinct from those ideas of the nature of
light which are excited by the perception of
luminous rays.
The sensations produced by touching a hard
substance, and those which we receive on look­
ing at the same object, are as dissimilar as it is
possible for us to conceive any sensations to be ;
and yet we are induced to believe that the sens­
260 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 261
ationof sight, when minutely examined, resolves
itselfinto an extreme sensibility of the organ to
impressions from external objects, communicated
through the medium of light. Nothing resem­
bling our ideas of luminous rays can be trans­
mitted through the opaque substance of the optic
nerve, and the impressions must, in accordance
with our conceptions of all possible modes of
communication, be made either by motion ofthe
substance of the nerves, or by some rapid che­
mical action.
Our investigations respecting the seat of the
perception of sight, terminate, like those relative
to the percipient power of the other senses, in
the brain. The impressions made upon that
substance by the optic nerve cannot, if the fore­
going inference be correct, bear any relation to
our ideas oflight; and whether we assume these
impressions to be of the nature of vibratory mo­
tions, or of chemical changes, in either case it is
impossible for us to conceive how any kind of
motion, or any species of chemical action, can
produce an image of external objects in the
brain. The actual impressions made on the sen-
sorium cannot, we must therefore conclude, bear
any resemblance to the image formed on the re­
tina ; and the idea of external objects — corre­
sponding with that image in form and colour,
though differing from it in magnitude— must
be derived through some other medium, as dis-
s 3
tinct from the nature of light as light is distinct
from the objects by which it is reflected to the
eye.
Though we are thus enabled to ascertain that
the means by which the sense of sight is excited
bear no conceivable relation to the sensation
itself, our attempts to investigate the mode of
its operation are completely baffled, and we are
compelled to admit it to be a subject beyond
our comprehension. But even supposing we
were able to discover by what means the im­
pressions of light on the retina are conveyed to
and operate on the brain —whether it be by
vibratory motion jy by chemical action — we
should be no farther advanced in our knowledge
of the mode by which either of those processes
could excite the idea ofform and colour. Againj
supposing our faculties were enlarged, so as to
enable us to perceive a direct connection be­
tween the action of those impressions on the
brain and the visible objects that produce them,
we should have still to discover the percipient
principle whichfinallyreceives those impressions,
and which forms the idea of external objects in
the mind.
Where are we to look for this principle ? Can
it be supposed to constitute a portion of the
material mass of the brain ? Surely not; for it
passes the bounds of all conceivable possibilities
that the action of one species of inanimate
262 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
I
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 2Ö3
matter upon another should create a principle
capable of perceiving the effects of their united
action. But even if we were to suppose that
the sentient principle originates from a peculiar
unknown modificationofthe propertiesofmatter,
produced by the organisation of the brain, it has
been previously shown that such a disposition of
the properties of matter must exist distinct from
mere inert material substance ; and we should,
even on that supposition, be obliged to refer
perception to some principle distinct from the
mere medullary mass of the brain. We have
seen, also, when considering the functions of
organised life, that the augmentation of the
brain, and the motive cause of the animal func-
tions, must be attributed to the operation of
some subtile agent distinct from the matter that
is organised; and if those positions be founded
in truth, we cannot surely hesitate to refer the
percipient principle to the existence of some
power beyond the mere arrangement of the ma­
terial particles of the brain.
It cannot reasonably be urged as an objection
to this view of the question, that there is no
indication in the structure of the brain of its
being a subservient medium of communication
with any other power. It is true, that we can­
not trace the chain of secondary causes and ef­
fects beyond the brain j but, as our faculties are
avowedly incompetent to detect even the com-
8 4
264 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
monest subtile properties of matter, and as the
percipient principle is presumed to be much
more etherial than any material agent, the want
of power to perceive the presence of such an
immaterial essence cannot be advanced as an
argument against its existence. If such an ar­
gument were admitted to be valid against the
existence of a subtile percipient principle, it
would be equally applicable against the exist­
ence and operation of every property of matter,
and of every chemical and mechanical action;
for those properties and modes of operation are,
equally with the vital and sentient principles,
beyond the bounds of our comprehension. Nay,
if we were to deny the existence of a subtile
percipientprinciplemerely onthegroundthat the
brain presents no indication that its operations
have reference to other powers than itself, and
were we to maintain that perception is, therefore,
the soleact ofthat organ to which the perceptible
impressions can be traced, we should be forced
to the conclusion that the retina of the eye
possesses the power of perception; for we are
unable to trace the progress of light beyond that
membrane. Were we to assume, in short, that
when we have reached the limits of our faculties
in tracing effects to their causes, we must have
consequently arrived at the ultimate actuating
principle; and were we to infer that the last
organ to which we can trace operating causes
i
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 265
must contain the final cause of all, we should
reason as wisely as the savage who, when look­
ing through a telescope at a distant object, sup­
poses that it is contained within the tube, and
who, acting on this impression, breaks the in­
strument to seize the expected prize.
The extent and degree of the mutual depend­
ence of the different links in the chain of com­
munication between objects of sensation and the
percipient power, afford a subject for consider­
ation well deserving notice. The agents that
are subservientto the developement of each sense
would, if separate, be perfectly useless for the
discharge of their appointed functions; and if
one link in the chain were broken, the remainder
would be rendered entirely unavailable. But
though each agent in the ascending scale de­
pends upon the operation of the subordinate
agents for the exercise of its power, yet every
separate agent has an independent existence.
A reference to the phenomena of vision will
serve to illustrate these mutual dependencies of
the agents in producing a combined effect, and
their independence of each other when viewed
abstractedly. The property which visible objects
possess of reflecting the rays of light, would be
useless towards rendering their forms and colours
apparent to the eye if there were no light to
bring those powers into operation. The extra­
ordinary properties of light and its power of re­
fraction would be of no avail without the instru­
mentality of the lenses of the eye ; the wonderful
mechanism of the latter would be designed in
vain if the retina were not spread as a screen to
receive the concentrated rays ; the formation of
the image on the retina would not, however,
excite any impression, unless the optic nerve
were to convey the impression to the brain, and
the sensation of sight could not be experienced
without the presence of some percipient power
to receive the impressions which those numerous
agents mutually contribute to produce.
Though all the links in the chain of commu­
nication between external objects and the power
ofperception are, therefore, intimately dependent
on one another for the production oftheir com­
bined effect, yet each agent is distinct, and
enjoys the capacity of exerting its individual
properties in the absence of co-operating agents.
Thus, the outward formsofobjectsexist, andthey
possess the peculiar property that enables them
to decompose the rays of light, whether light be
present or not ; the properties of light, again,
have no necessary reference to the structure of
the eye ; nor does the image on the retina bear
any discoverable relation to the construction of
the optic nerve; the latter is not essential to
the existence of the brain, which is the more
immediate agent of communication with the per­
cipient power ; and the power of perception is
266 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ORGANS OF SENSATION. 267
not extinguished nor diminished when the oper­
ation of all those agents that serve to bring it
into action are suspended. Nay, we know that
every subservient agent — with the exception of
the brain — might be destroyed without injury
to the percipient principle; and when the impres­
sions derived from external objects have been
conveyed to the mind by the medium of the
organs of sense, the ideas excited by those im­
pressions are retained long after the objects that
excited them have ceased to exist.
Our incapacity to investigate the nature of
the connection between the percipient power
and the brain, prevents us from ascertaining
positively whether that power is independent of
the brain, as well as ofthesubordinate organs of
sensation. But the foregoing consideration re­
specting the abstract independence of the several
constituents of the organs of sensation, and the
independenceof the power ofperception, present
strong analogous evidence that the percipient
principle is not dependent on the substance of
the brain for its existence as an active power,
though itspeculiar and inscrutable properties are
brought into action by material substance. And
when, in addition to this analogical evidence,
we find that the substance of the brain bears no
conceivable relation to the ideas excited by the
organs of sense, and that we are obliged to refer
the organisation of the brain itselfto some subtile
governing power, we feel irresistibly led to the
conclusion that perception is not the mere result
ofmaterial organisation; and that thismysterious
power must be referred to some subtile imma­
terial principle, that is only connected with the
brain as the last perceptible link in the chain of
communication with material objects.
268 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 269
CHAPTER XXI.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS.
The gradual changes that are constantly taking
place in the animal frame, which produce a
complete alteration in all its constituent parts,
whilst the outward form and mental conscious­
ness remain the same, afford striking evidence
in support of the opinion that mind is not essen­
tially dependent upon matter; and the more
remarkable, because more rapid, mutations that
occur in several portions of the animal creation,
by which the forms and habits of living beings
are entirely altered, present a beautiful material
emblem of that change wherein “ mortals shall
put on immortality.”
The exhaustion which the several members of
the human body undergo in the discharge ofthe
functions of life, renders it necessary that they
should be continually supplied with fresh nu­
triment. The material composition of every
organ must, consequently, be ever vaiying, and
in a fewyears not one particle ofthe samematter
that composed the form ofan individual remains.
The brain, as an integral portion of the animal
organisation, must participate in these changes
and renovations; and if we suppose perception
to be merely the result of some process carried
on by the material substance of the brain, not
referable to any superior agent, we must con­
clude, that when the particular system of organ­
ised particles which receive an impression is de­
stroyed, the impression made on those particles
ofmatter must also be dissipated.
So long as the same matter remains, we
may conceive that an impression once made on
it might endure} but when no part whatever of
the former substance exists in combination with
the same system of organisation, it is impossible
—on the supposition that the organisedsubstance
produces sensations merely by its own action —
to imagine that the effects of any impressions
can remain after the substance impressed is
destroyed.
If perception, therefore, be the simple act of
organised matter, we cannot suppose that the
ideas received by the organs of sense from any
object, can continue when the organised matter
that constituted the idea is removed. Percep­
tion, under such circumstances, could only be
transient in its operations, and could leave no
lasting impressions; for the substance which is
supposed to be actually the percipient being is,
in a short time, supplanted by other materials,
withwhichitcan have hadnopreviousconnection.
Experience, however, informs us that percep­
270 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 271
tion is not of this evanescent character. A man
who is totally deprived of sight does not losethe
idea of distant forms, nor the idea of colours,
though numbers ofyears may have elapsed since
the impressions of either were made on his brain,
and every material particle of that substance
must, in the mean time, have been changed.
If he have once had the proper use of this
sense, he never afterwards so far loses the im­
pressions of light and colour as not to be aware
that there are other means of ascertaining the
existence of objects beyond those of taste, smell,
touch, and hearing. But, on the supposition that
it is the mere matter of the brain which, in con­
sequence of some peculiar undiscovered organ­
isation, is enabled to perceive the forms and
colours of distant objects; when that organised
matter which perceived these external qualities
is removed, and its place is supplied by other
matter that never received any impressions what­
ever from the optic nerve, we ought to conclude
that such a brain would not have any more con­
ception of the effects of light, than the brain of
a man who never enjoyed the sense of sight.
A still more forcible illustration than the
foregoing of the retention of ideas received
through the organs of sense after the material
organisation is changed, is furnished by simple
sensation.
When the limbs are pressed by any substance,
or receive any injury, the impression is imme­
diately conveyed by the nerves of the limb
through their various ramifications to the brain,
and the percipient power instantly becomes
aware of the injury or pressure. This feeling
is produced by a direct action on the nerves,
and this sympathy of sensation might be sup­
posed to continue between the limbs and the
brain so long only as the direct connection be­
tween them was maintained. If, indeed, the
perception of pain were the act of material or­
ganisation, we should conclude, that when the
substance is removed on which the painful im­
pression was excited, all sensation produced
by such impression would be destroyed. It is
known, however, that persons who have suffered
the amputation of a limb frequently experience
a sensation as if proceeding from the amputated
member ; and this sensation continues for years
after every atom of the original substance, both
of the connecting nerves and of the brain, that
ever had communication with the living limb,
has been changed.
It must be evident that under such circum­
stances the sensations alluded to can be pro­
duced onlyby associations in the mind of certain
existing nervous impressions with those sensa­
tions that were formerly excited by the nerves
of the lost limb. These associations, it must be
remembered, exist long after the destruction of
272 THE PHENOMENA OK LIFE.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 273
the identical material organisation that first ex*
cited them, and we shall therefore be obliged to
admit that the impressions communicated to
those previously existing particles of organised
matter must have been distinct from the matter
itself, or they could not continue in activity after
every vestige of the material substance that ex-
çited them has been dissipated.
Now, if from the consideration of the lasting
impressions derived from the organs of sensation
we are led to the conclusion that the percipient
power must be distinct from mere material or­
ganisation, the intellectual faculties — those of
thought and memory more especially — will
force the same conclusion upon us with re­
doubled energy. Not only are particular im­
pressions and perceptions recalled to mind by
the memory, but certain trains of thought,
events, arguments, and feelings, that have per­
haps slumbered in the mind for a series ofyears,
may be brought to recollection, and appear
nearly as vivid as at the time they were first
impressed on the brain. Tiie treasures of the
memory, it must be remembered, are thus pre­
served in the recesses of the mind long after
every particle of the human frame with which
the events and circumstances were first con­
nected has been changed.
If the substance of the brain be, as the
materialists imagine, the ultimate agent of
T
thought and memory, the impressions made upon
it by the external senses, and the ideas resulting
from those impressions, mustbe excited by some
chemical or mechanical action in the medullary
matter itselfj and if the whole of that substance
onwhichthe supposedactionoperatesbechanged,
we ought, as a natural consequence, to expect
that the peculiar modifications it received from
such action would also disappear. Should it,
however, be asserted that the organised matter,
after having received impressions which produce
certain modifications in its composition, has the
power of transmitting those modifications to
other organised accretions to itssubstance, whilst
the matter itselfis decomposed, what is such an
assertion but an admission that the substance of
the brain consists of distinct qualities, and is
separable into two different principles ?—one of
which is liable to all the vicissitudes and de­
compositions of matter, and the other of a more
subtile and imperishable nature, which continues
to exert its energies after the organised matter
with which it was originally connected has been
resolved into its simple elements.
We cannot conceive in what other manner
the materialists can account for the retention of
ideas after the matter that formed them is de­
composed, than on the supposition that the ideas
are transferred from the original matter of the
brain to the new substance with which it is
274 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 275
being continually renovated j for if we conceive
ideas to be composed of the organised matter of
the brain, they must either be decomposed with
the decomposition of that organisation, or we
must suppose that the effect of that system of
organisation is to create a new substance, that
can exist when separated from the matter that
called it into being. But— even putting out of
consideration the arguments that have been pre­
viously advanced against such an imaginary self­
creation— it is contrary to all known physio­
logical facts to suppose that any portion of the
substance of the human frame remains un­
changeable ; therefore we must presume that the
supposed matter ofideas, if it be at all analogous
to other material substances, would like them be
speedily removed from the constitution of the
body. We know, however, from the recollec­
tion of numerous by-gone events, that ideas are
treasured up in the mind notwithstanding the
decomposition of the matter that originated
them ; and though but a few, comparatively,
of the impressions made on the sensorium dur­
ing early life can be recalled, yet the recollec­
tion of a single one is sufficient to prove, that if
the idea thus stored in the memory be a mate­
rial substance, it must consist of matter differing
altogether from that which enters into the ge­
neral composition of the brain.
If it be supposed, then, that the matter of
t 2
ideas is distinct in its nature and properties from
other material substances, the effect of such a
supposition would, in point of fact, be to refer
the perception ofideas to an agent distinct from
the substance of the brain; and the theory of
the materialists would thus become so closely al­
lied to that which presumes perception, thought,
consciousness, &c. to be the result of the action
of a superior immaterial agent, that the differ-
•. ence between the two contending opinions would
be confined merely to the abstract nature of this
superior subtile agent.
The materialist assumes, that certain impres­
sions on the brain produce by their action on
that substance some other material creation,
which possesses the power of perception. A
combination of those sentient particles is sup­
posed to form compound material particles, of
thought, consciousness, volition, &c. These pe­
culiar particles of matter must be presumed to
exist independently of the organised matter of
the brain, or they would otherwise participate in
the changes of that substance, and with it would
be entirely eradicated in the course of a few
years. In tracing the progress ofthis imaginary
process of causation, however, we are led several
steps beyond the mere substance of the brain,
and are supposed to have arrived at other mate­
rial bodies, that possess powers essentially dif­
ferent from the matter of the brain in their
c
2j6 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS.
propertiesand durability. Theseproperties,which
the materialists ascribe to the existence of mate­
rial thinking and percipient particles, the imma-
terialist supposes to reside in a superior subtile
agent that receives the impressions of external
objects from the brain, but is, abstractedly, as
independent of that substance as the existence
of the brain is abstractedly independent of the
rays of light, that serve as the medium for the
sense of sight.
The former opinion, that the faculties of per­
ception and thought are performed by percipient
thinking particles of matter, affords no more
insight into the nature of those faculties than
the supposition which refers them to an imma­
terial agent; and the former opinion is, also,
involved in infinitely greater difficulties, and is
much more opposed to the facts and reasonings
that can be brought to bear upon the subject
than that ofan immaterial agency.
The mutations in the animal frame which we
have hitherto considered, produce little visible
alteration in the outward form, as the new par­
ticles ofmatter arrange themselves in nearly the
same positions and shapes as those of the par­
ticles they supplant; but several of the smaller
tribes of animated beings undergo changeswhich
suddenly and completely alter their forms and
habits oflife.
All winged insects, previously to assuming
t 3
277
their perfect forms, pass through several stages
ofexistence, altogether dissimilar to that in which
they ultimately appear. The firststate in which
they present themselves, after bursting from the
egg, is that of the lowest division of articulated
animals; and they then resemble intheiroutward
conformations the class of annelida, or vermi-
ferous creatures. They contain, however, the
embryo organs that are afterwards exhibited in
the perfect insect These organs are gradually
developed and perfected as the larvae increase,
until, after having attained their full growth, the
functions of vitality seem to be suspended, and
the insect is seen encased in a hard substance,
is without motion, and apparently dead. The
vital functions are, however, during this sem­
blance of death, continuing the developement
of the embryo organs; and at length the shell is
burst, and the insect, which had, during the for­
mer period of its life, crawled slowly on the sur­
face of the ground, at once expands its wings,
and rising from the earth, speeds its flight rapidly
through the air.
Every species of winged insects undergoes
similar changes; butthe metamorphoses ofthose
which previous to assuming their perfect shapes
were aquatic animals, appear to be the most ex­
traordinary. The larvae of gnats, for instance,
live inwater untiltheir organisation iscompleted,
and they are ready to take wing and to leave the
278 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 279
scene of their preparatory state of existence for
ever. The aquatic as well asthe terrestriallarvae
are subjected to a state of temporary stupor re­
sembling death, during the final process that
preparesthem fortheir perfect state of existence;
and they emerge at once from the water and rise
into a new element endued with enlarged powers
and additional sensations.
Is it possible to conceive any thing more won­
derful than these transformations? An animal
which, from the first moment of its existence,
has been accustomed to live in a dense fluid, and
to subsist upon aquatic products—which has its
vital functions and organisation adapted to such
a state of existence, and which would die if re­
moved from its aqueous element—this same
animal, after having been enveloped for a short
period in a hard inanimatesubstance, weperceive
bursting forth in a totally different form, pos­
sessed of additional organs and new sensations,
and furnished with powers adapted to its wants
and enjoyments in a new state of existence.
The embryo organs of the perfect insect may
be detected in the aquatic larva, but the mode
by which those organs are developed is an im­
penetrable mystery; and when we consider, in
addition to the changes that occur in the out­
ward forms and internal organisation of the
larva, that the instincts and propensities of the
insect must be entirely altered, to enable it to
t 4
280 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
work the new machinery with which it is in­
vested, the metamorphosis appears to be little
less than miraculous.
The obvious reflection that suggests itself
from the latter consideration of this subject, is
the striking emblematical analogy which these
transformations bear to another state of exist­
ence, wherein, after casting off the material
form that binds man to the earth, he may enter
into a new life, with enlarged and additional
mental capacities, that may enable him to soar
beyond the things of this world to regions of
intellect and felicity at present unknown and
inconceivable.
These transformations cannot, however, be
adduced as bearing a strict analogy to the
change which the sentient principle is supposed
to undergo on the dissolution of the body; for
in the one case, the process consists in the alter­
ation of material substance from one form to
another equally tangible ; but, in the case of the
dissolution of the body, the sentient being, on
its separation from material organisation, is not
cognisable to the senses. The transformation
of crawling larvae into flying insects may, how­
ever, be considered to bear as close an analogy
to the presumed separation of the material
from the immaterial principles of the human
body as it is possible for any changes of tangible
matter to bear towards those wherein one of the
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 281
agents is of a nature too subtile to be detected
by our limited capacities; and they may be re-
garded as completely typical, at least, of the
mysterious separation of the soul from the sub­
stance with which it is incorporated.
There is also another point ofview, in which
these transformations may be considered with
advantage in reference to our general argument.
The nature of the process by which these in­
scrutable changes are produced is entirely be­
yond our conception; and if we were without
positive evidence of the fact, such changes
would be considered, when viewed in reference
to the ordinary phenomena of nature, as utterly
impossible. The transformation, for instance,
ofa creature that can exist only in water, and
that has no external organs whatever fitting it
for surviving out of that medium, into a being
furnished with wings that transport it through
the atmosphere, provided with legs and other
organs adapted for living in air, gifted also with
instinct to make use of these newly-acquired
powers, and incapable any longer of living in
the medium which was previously necessary for
its existence;— such a transformation, we con­
ceive, if it were not confirmed by experience,
would be regarded as more difficult to compre­
hend, and the supposition ofsuch changes would
be viewed as much more opposed to all “ sound
principles of philosophising,” than the inde­
282 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
pendent existence of the sentient principle is
considered to be by those philosophers who con­
tend for the materiality of the mental faculties.
We may thus derive from these insect metamor­
phoses another and a forcible lesson against the
presumption of assuming those phenomena that
are beyond the reach of our mental capacities
to be beyond the reach of possibility.
The preceding considerations respecting the
mutations in the structure of the human frame
appear to lead us irresistibly to the belief that
the sentient principle and the intellectual facul­
ties must be distinct from, and, abstractedly,
independent of, the ever-changing organisation
of the body. The transformations of insects
present us with a correct emblem in the mate­
rial world of that change to another and superior
state of existence into which the soul is pre­
sumed to enter, when its connection with the
corporeal frame is dissolved ; and though not,
in every particular, analogous to that change,
they resemble it as closely as it is possible for
the mutations of corporeal frames to approach
those of spiritual essences. And, lastly, these
transformations are important, as additional and
striking illustrations that the phenomena, which
are daily occurring in the material world, ard
quite asinexplicable, upon any known principles
of philosophy, as those connected with the
separation ofthe ethereal principle ofour nature
ANIMAL MUTATIONS. 283
from its union with material organisation. In
a threefold point of view, therefore, — first, as
affording direct evidence of the separation of
ideas from the matter that excites them—se­
condly, as a material emblem of a future and
more perfect state of being —and thirdly, as
affording an answer to objections founded on
the supposed impossibility of such a separation
and of such a Hereafter— the mutations in
animal organisation furnish an important addi­
tional link to the evidence, that enables man to
convert the fetters which bind him to this world
into a chain of communication with the world
to come.
The argument in support of the immateriality of the
sou), founded on the mutations of animal life, has been thus
forcibly stated by Lord Brougham, in his “ Discourse on
Natural Theology,” published since the foregoing observ­
ationswerewritten s—“ The strongest ofall arguments,both
for the separate existence of mind and for its surviving the
body, remains; and it is drawn from the strictest induction
of facts. The body is constantly undergoing change in all
its parts. Probably no person of the age of twenty has one
single particle in any part of his body which he had at ten;
and still less does any portion of the bodyhe was bom with
continue to exist in orwith him. All that he beforehad has
entered into new combinations, forming parts of other men,
or of animals, or of vegetable or mineral substances, exactly
as the body he nowhas will afterwards be resolved into new
combinations after his death. Yet the mind continues one
and the same, 1 without change or shadow of turning/ If
the strongest argument to show that the mind perishes with
284 THE PHENOMENA OF LITE.
the body, nay, the only argument, be, as it indubitably is,
derived from the phenomena of death, the fact to which we
have been referring affordsan answer to this. For the argu­
ment is, that we knowof no instance in which the mind has
ever been known to exist after the body. Now, here is ex­
actlythe sameinstancedesiderated, itbeingmanifest that the
same process which takes place on the body, more suddenly
at death, is taking place more gradually, but as effectually in
the result,during the wholeoflife, and that death itselfdoes
not more completely resolve the body into its elements, and
form it into newcombinations, than livingfifteen or twenty
years does destroy, by like resolution and combination, the
self-same body. And yet, after those years have elapsed,
and the former body has been dissipated and formed into
new combinations, the mind remains the same as before,
exercising the same memory and consciousness, and so pre­
serving the same personal identity, as if the body had suf­
fered no change at all. Here, then, we have that proof so
much desiderated—the existence of the soul after the dis­
solution of the bodily frame with which it was connected.
The two cases cannot, in any soundness of reasoning, be
distinguished; and this argument, therefore, one ofpure in­
duction, derived partly from physical science through the
evidence of our senses, partly frompyschological science, by
the testimony of our consciousness, appears to prove the
possible immortality of the soul almost as rigorously as if
one were to rise fromthe dead.”
PERSONAL IDENTITY. 285
CHAPTER XXII.
PERSONAL IDENTITY.
The consideration of the mutations to which the
human frame is subjected seems naturally to
suggest the inquiry whether the person who is
continually undergoing these changes can, after
a certain lapse of time, be tbe same being who
formerly existed with a totally different bodily
substance. Some speculative philosophers have
gone the length of asserting the impossibility of
personal identity, and have contended that the
man of to-day cannot be the same as the man of
yesterday, or of to-morrow. Upon this hypo­
thesis it is contended, that the ever-varying
states of material organisation in the body and
the brain, must alter the constitution of the
being subjected to such mutations ; and, conse­
quently, that he cannot be the same from one
day to another; and, according to this mode
of reasoning, we ought to conclude, as these
changes are taking place every instant, that we
do not continue to be the same beings for a
single moment of our lives. The life of man,
we should therefore presume, consists not of
one continued existence, but of a series of innu­
merable separate existences.
<286 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
The supposition that the man of one moment
of time is not the same person as the man of the
succeeding moment, inconsistent as it is with
common sense, and opposed to our intuitive per­
ceptions, seems to be the only hypothesis on
which the system of the materialists can consist­
ently be defended ; for if mind consist of the
substance of the brain, it must be perpetually
changing with the material organisation of that
substance. We endeavoured, however, to show
in the preceding chapter that, even on the ma­
terial hypothesis, the percipient agent must be
sought for elsewhere than in the mere matter
of the brain ; and that that subtile agent— or
supposed property of material organisation —
when compared with the ever-fleeting materials
which compose the brain, must be ofpermanent
duration.
In contradiction,however, to the fancifulhypo­
thesis that the individuality ofman is destroyed
by his organic mutations, we have the memoiy
of former consciousness. The remembrance of
certain actions in time past, and of the motives
of those actions, and the recollection of the
impressions which former events produced on
our minds, all tend to prove—whateverchanges
our material organisation may have undergone
since those sensations were excited — that we
are still the same sentient beings who received
those impressions.
PERSONAL IDENTITY. 287
No man, we believe, who possesses the use of
his faculties, and who is able to recollect the
leading events of his life, entertains the least
doubt respecting his identity with his former
self, though no single particle of the material
substance that then constituted his bodily frame
remains; and no one ever for a single moment
felt less anxiety respecting the future circum­
stances of his life, from the consideration that
the being who will be percipient of those future
events will not be himself, but some other dis­
tinct percipient being, in whose welfare the pre­
sent man can have no interest. If the future
being who, it is thus supposed, is to assume our
form, our thoughts, our feelings, and dispos­
itions, together with the perfect recollection of
the present and past circumstances of our lives
and our motives of action —if such a future
being be not identical with our present selves,
and if the man of yesterday had an existence
distinct from that which we now enjoy, the dis­
tinction cannot be appreciable by our faculties,
and is utterly disregarded in all the practical
relations oflife. We might, indeed, by pursuing
the subject into its abstruse recesses, show the
fallacyand absurdity of the supposition that man
has no identity with his former self; but such a
course would lead us into metaphysical disquis­
itionsnotimmediatelyconnected withthe subject-
matter of our present consideration. It would
288 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
be found, that if we were to follow the denial of
personal identity to its ultimate consequences,
we should be obliged to deny that we exist; and
if we deny that truth, upon which all knowledge
is founded, it is useless to pursue any investiga­
tion farther.
The memory of former consciousness is suf­
ficient to prove, not only that we are the same
beings who existed at the period which we
recall to mind, but that we must have continued
the same duringall the intervening periods $ and
the deficiency of such remembrance at any time
in that interval cannot be reasonably considered
to throw any doubt upon the continuity of the
identity. Suppose that a man were to lose all
recollection of the events of the last ten years of
his life, but were to retain a strong impression
of events in which he took an active part prior
to that time; it would scarcely be contended,
we presume, that during the intervening period
of unconsciousness hisidentity was lost, and that
it has again returned to him. If, therefore, we
admit that the memory of consciousness con­
stitutes identity, we must grant that from the
earliest date of distinct recollection to the pre­
sent act of thinking, our identity must have con­
tinued uninterruptedly.
If, indeed, it be disputed that memory of con­
sciousness is sufficientproof of individuality, and
if it, consequently, be doubted whether we ex­
PERSONAL IDENTITY. 289
isted yesterday, we may with equal reason doubt
whether we exist to-day ; and, as no evidence
of any fact can be greater than that of the in­
tuitive perception of our existence, scepticism
upon this point would at once destroy the found­
ation on which depends the whole fabric of
human knowledge — it would annihilate the im­
pressions ofthe organs ofsense, and would make
all creation a non-entity.
There are other changes, however, besides
those in the material substance of the body,
that appear still more strongly to affect indi­
vidual identity. The changes to which we allude
are those continually occurring in our ideas and
sensations. Every day adds to our stock of
ideas, and circumstances are perpetually arising
that tend to enlarge our views, and to alter
our opinions of the questions that come under
our consideration. A man who devotes much
of his time to reading will be ever receiving new
ideas, which have to be associated with those
already stored in his mind ; and the not unfre­
quent result of such an accession of ideas is to
show that his previous notions were erroneous,
and must be altogether discarded.
By the increase of our knowledge, the same
impressions on the organs of sense excite very
different sensations at different periods. When,
for instance, a person hears an unknown lan­
guage, the sounds strike upon the tympanum of
u
his ear without exciting any sensation beyond
that ofunmeaning sounds; but if he afterwards
become acquainted with that language, and the
same words are repeated, they may produce the
most lively sensations. Our ideas respecting
natural phenomena are, also, perpetually chang­
ing as we advance from infancyto maturity, and
numerousobjects that produced feelings of alarm
and dislike in early life are afterwards regarded
with approbation and pleasure.
The mutations in our ideas, which we have
just noticed, are, for the most part, gradual, and
are comparatively permanent; but the changes
in our sensations are frequently sudden and
evanescent, are generally intermittent, at un­
certain intervals, and they often completely alter,
for the moment,the character and feelings of the
individual. Violent anger, for instance, seems
for the time to destroy the reasoning powers;
and, during its predominance, effects a total
alteration in the feelings and ordinary dispos­
itions, and suspends all the intellectual faculties
that are not engaged in the immediate cause
that excites the passion. The sensations of
pleasure and of pain, of hope and of dejection,
also materially affect our mental powers, and,
whilst under their influence, the ideas excited by
the same objects are exceedingly different; so
much so,indeed, that if our feelings are analysed
when the tone of the mind is restored to its
290 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
PERSONAL IDENTITY. 291
tranquil state, it will appear scarcely possible
that the same being could have entertained sen­
timents so opposite respecting matters that are
identical. Compare the views which a man in
the buoyancy of health and hope takes of any
proposed plan to advance his condition in life,
with those which are taken on the same subject
by the same individual, when he is labouring
under some languid bodily pain, or is depressed'
by mental affliction; and the sentiments enter­
tained on that, and indeed on most other sub­
jects, under those different circumstances, will
be so opposite that they will afford presumptive
evidence against the identity of the individual
entertaining them.
It will be found, however, upon reflection, that
the mutations of our ideas and of our sensations
afford no real countenance to the supposition
that the individual is not the same; for in both
cases the test ofidentity remains -—the memory
of former consciousness. Though our ideas may
change, we have a recollection of a state of exist­
ence prior to the change; and though our feel­
ings mayundergo alterations, that either suspend
for a time the exercise of our mental faculties,
or diversify the nature of our impressions, yet
we afterwards retain a consciousness of those
changes, and in our calmer moments we remem­
ber the feelings that excited the bygone passion,
or the state of exultation or mental depression
U 2
292 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE,
that induced us to take a bright or a gloomy
view of life and its prospects. Indeed, if we
were to assume that changes in our ideas or
sensations are opposed to individual identity, we
should be obliged, consistently with such an
assumption, to admit that every new perception
indicates a change ofindividuality; and in such
a case, the life of each living being could consist
ofbut one sensation, of one exercise of volition,
and ofbut one action. It is useless tospeculate
further respecting such notions of non-identity;
for, after all, even supposing that the individual
living being of the present moment is not the
same living being of the moments immediately
preceding and succeeding, they are so closely
connected that it is impossible for our faculties
to separate their individuality, and the continu­
ation of such a connection is all that we expect
in this world, or hope for in the next
There are, however, some considerations aris­
ing out ofthis subjectthat deserve further notice,
as they bear directly on the general argument in
favour ofa future state of existence.
In the preceding chapter we were led to infer,
from the duration of impressions made through
the medium of the nerves and the brain, after
the substance of the nerves and brain, and of
the whole organised human frame, have been
changed, that the percipient principle is distinct
from, and less perishable than, the animal or­
PERSONAL IDENTITY. 293
ganisation by which it is brought into action.
From the result of the foregoing reflections con­
cerning personal identity, we learn to refer the
various impressions on the sensorium to one
percipient being, in whom the connection be­
tween the past, the present, and the future is
preserved. The concentration of past percep­
tions must be produced not only by the retention
of separate impressions made by the organs of
sense, but by arranging, and comparing, and
associating them with each other. This mental
process is distinct from that of mere perception,
and it serves to reduce the separate fleeting im­
pressions to a connected permanent series of
ideas and sensations, independent of the objects
that were the original causes of thoseimpressions.
These ideasand sensations may also be subject to
changes, but the power of consciousness, which
enables us to perceive their existence, presides
over all those mutations, and is cognizant of
former ideas and feelings, contemporaneously
with its apprehension of those of the present
moment.
Of the nature of the power which thus in­
dividualises each separate sensation, and consti­
tutes the essence of that being whom we call
self, we can form no conception. We must,
however, admit that there exists such a power,
unless we are prepared to denypersonal identity,
andto contend thatour perceptions, our memory,
u 3
294 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
our consciousness, and our very existence, are
merely illusory, and that we ourselves, and all
external objects, are non-entities. And if this
power do exist, it must either constitute a part
of the material organisation of the brain, or it
must be a separate power, to which the organis­
ation of the brain is merely subservient. Now,
the results ofour preceding considerations show,
that even the organisation of the brain depends
upon some power beyond itself; that the per­
ceptive faculties must be distinct from material
substance ; and that the retention and associ­
ation of perceptions almost necessarily implies
the existence of a superior controlling power, by
which they are thus preserved and arranged.
We shall be obliged, consequently, to refer the
operations of the mind to some presiding subtile
agent, distinct from the mere matter of the
brain ; — an agent which continues the exercise
ofits powers after the combinations ofthe acting
organised substances that excited it are dis­
solved ; and which we may, therefore, reasonably
presume, will continue to exert those powers
after the present fleeting system of material
organisation is entirely dissipated.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 295
CHAPTER XXIII.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION.
The views we have hitherto taken of the pheno­
mena oflife refer principally to the active exer­
cise of the sentient faculties j we shall next
proceed to the considerations which present
themselves on an examination of the circum­
stances attending suspended animation. In en­
tering this branch ofour inquiry, weshall be in-
vadingone ofthe strong-holds ofthe materialists:
we hope, however, to be able to dispossess them
even of this position, and to show that those
arguments against the existence of an independ­
ent immaterial principle, founded upon thatclose
connection between the mind and body which
the phenomena of sleep exhibit, have no solid
basis, and that they are fullycounterbalanced by
the evidence which the same phenomena present
in favour of the opinion that mind and matter
are essentially distinct.
After continued exercise, the nervous stimu­
lus which excites the muscular fibres to action
becomes weak, the power of muscular con­
tractility is exhausted, the muscles are relaxed,
and the strength of the individual is prostrated.
u 4
The mental powers participate in the languor
occasioned by the exhaustion of the usual sti­
mulating energy, and they gradually sink into
a state of repose. The perception of external
objects is deadened; the powers of volition,
thought, and consciousness are suspended j and
the being who, but an hour ago, was full of ani­
mation and activity, and in the full exercise of
his mental faculties, lies before us a mere living
machine, insensible of external impressions, ap­
parently devoid of intelligence, and without the
power of motion.
During a state of profound sleep, conscious,
ness seems to cease; and, as there is then no
succession of ideas to mark the lapse of time,
the waking moment appears to be separated but
an instant from that of suspended animation.
During this time, however, the vital functions
have been performing their offices without inter­
mission. The heart has continued to beat, the
lungs to respire, the blood to arterialise and to
circulatethrough the body, the stomach to digest
and prepare the food for assimilation, the glands
to effect their ordinary secretions, and the vital
powers to appropriate and adjust the prepared
materials in their respective transmutations to
every part of the body. All the merely vegeta­
tive functions, in short, which tend to support
and renew the corporeal frame, continue active,
296 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
whilst the mental powers are [for a time sus­
pended in a state resembling death.
From this state of lethargy the mind may be
quickly roused to its former energy, by any
sudden strong impression upon the organs of
sense. A blow, a loud noise, a brilliant light, a
powerful scent, or the application of a pungent
substance to the tongue, will prove sufficient to
dispel the charm that binds the faculties in the
leaden bonds of sleep, and consciousness is at
once renewed. If the sleeper be allowed to rest
undisturbed, the insensible action of the vital
functions will, in a few hours, restore the ex­
hausted energies of the body; and when the
organs of sensation, and the stimulating power
of the brain, are prepared to resume their oper­
ations, the slightest external impression will
awaken him from his slumber, with his bodily
and mental powers invigorated.
Sleep is rendered so familiar to us by its con­
stant recurrence, that we fail to be impressed
with the very extraordinary nature of the cir­
cumstances that attend it, and which would
otherwise be regarded by us as perfectly mira­
culous. What, for instance, can be conceived
more calculated to excite our astonishment than
a body devoid of consciousness or motion be­
coming in a moment, and without any manifest
cause, an active being, endued with sensation,
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 297
with the power of volition, and beaming with
intelligence ?
If we were ignorant of such a state as sleep,
and were, for the first time, to perceive an indi­
vidual sinking gradually under its torpifying
influence, until animation was completely sus­
pended, we should conclude at once that the
vital spark was extinct; and we should have no
more expectation that the powers of perception
would return to the apparently inanimate body,
than we now entertain of the restoration of the
vital functions to a corpse.
The restoration of perception after sleep does
not, it is true, bear a strict analogy to the revival
of consciousness after death; for, in the latter
case, the corporeal organs, with which alone we
are accustomed to associate the vital powers, are
decomposed. The awakening of the mental
faculties from their slumber, in an invigorated
condition, may, however, be regarded as an
accurate emblem of that more important trans­
ition, when the soul will awaken after the sleep
of death, in another state of existence. The
evidence of a future life, which the phenomena
of sleeppresent, does not fail, we may reasonably
presume,fromthe imperfectionoftheiranalogyto
the circumstances attending death, but from the
inadequacyofour corporeallyconnected faculties
to apprehend the mysterious actions of immate-
298 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 299
rial agents. Being, as we are, utterly ignorant
ofthe nature of consciousness, and of that power
which actuates the vital principle, we are unable
to discover the processes which, during sleep,
enable the nutrient organs to discharge their
functions, whilst perception and volition are
suspended; and as we cannot understand the
nature or the mode of operation of these subtile
principles, during their union with material or­
ganisation, it is not to be expected that the
limited intellectual faculties of man should en­
able him to investigate their properties and
actions, when they are separated from their com­
binations with matter, through the medium of
which alone they can now become cognizable to
our senses.
The question which naturally suggests itself
from the consideration of this subject is, What
becomes of the power of consciousness in pro­
found sleep ? Consciousness implies the act of
perceiving our own existence; and the active
energy ofthe power by which that perception is
produced. It is the result of the action ofthe
percipientpowers on the material organisationof
the brain, and is, therefore, only an effect of the
energy of that power, and is not a primary
actuating principle. The state of consciousness
has consequently reference only to the present
act of perception; and it is not correct, in the
strict application of words, to say that we are *
300 THE PHENOMENA OF LIEE.
conscious of past impressions: it is the remem­
brance of those impressions of which we have
present consciousness. Consciousness, there­
fore, beingbut an effect of the percipient power,
and having relation only to the time being, can­
not be said to sleep ;for thatterm implies the re­
pose of some independent elementary principle.
Dormant consciousness is, in short, as great a
contradiction in terms as inert activity. The
sense of consciousness may cease, when the per­
cipient power by whose agency it is excited,
fails to act on the material organisation of the
brain;but it cannot sleep. The presiding power
by which the effectof consciousness is produced
is utterly inscrutable. We know that it acts
through the instrumentality ofthe brain and the
nerves withwhich it is connected; weknow that
there are two distinct nervous systems, the one
subservient to sensation, and the other to voli­
tion, and that the former conveys impressions
from external objects to the seat of the perci­
pient principle, and that the latter are the agents
by which that power exercises control over the
muscles of thebody; butwecannot ascertain the
manner in which this action and reaction are
produced. The action of the impressions from
external objects on the sentient principle, and
the reaction of that power on the nerves of
volition, and on the organs of the intellectual
faculties, constitute the sense of consciousness;
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. SOI
which depends, wethusperceive, onthis exercise
ofthe functions of the brain. When those func­
tions are by any means suspended, the state of
consciousness ceasesj yet the power which acts
upon the animal organisation, to produce that
sensation, may continue in its pristine vigour,
though it cannot be perceived, in our present
state of existence, during the absence ofthe in­
struments by which it is manifested.
The foregoing considerations, respecting the
agency of consciousness, are metaphysical specu­
lations which do not come strictly within the
province of the present work ; but they are in­
troduced for the purpose of showing, that the
suspension of consciousness does not necessarily
imply the absence of the power by which that
sensationisproduced. During profound sleep all
consciousness of our existence is suspended ; and
the connection which subsists between this pro­
stration ofthe mentalfacultiesandthe exhaustion
of the corporeal energies tends, it must be ad­
mitted, on a superficialview, to countenance the
opinion that matter and mind are identical. It
therefore becomes the more necessary to exa­
mine the grounds on which this opinion rests,
and to endeavour to prove that it has no solid
foundation.
The question, it must be remembered, is not
whether the mental faculties are intimately con­
nected with corporeal organisation ; for, unless
we are prepared to maintain, with the distin­
guished Bishop Berkeley, that matter has no
existence, the evidence of the close connection
between mind and matter is incontrovertible:
but the real question is, whether the mind is so
absolutely dependent on the body that it cannot
exist when separated from the organised system
ofmatter with which it is united. Does the sus­
pension of consciousness during sleep, then,
indicate this necessary dependence, and an indis­
solubility ofthe connection between the mental
powers and the corporeal frame ? We contend
that it does notj and that the extent to which
the evidence derived from it can fairlybeapplied
only shows that the faculty of perception in our
present state of existence is very intimately con­
nected with material organisation;—a fact which
no one who admits the existence of matter can
fail to admit, after the least consideration of the
phenomena of life.
So far, indeed, are the phenomena of sleep
from affording proofs of the identity of matter
and mind, thatwe conceivetheymay be advanced
as evidence in support of the opinion, that the
mind is distinct from, and may exist independ­
ently of, corporeal organisation.
In the first place, the suspension of the men­
tal faculties, whilst the corporeal functions are
in full activity, may surely be considered rather
as indicative of a difference between, than as
302 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 303
proofofthe identity of, those faculties and func­
tions } for were they mutually dependent, we
must suppose thatthe operations ofthe onecould
not be suspended without putting a stop to the
actions of the other. Again ; were the brain
itself the sentient principle, we should conceive
that the effect of corporeal exhaustion would be
only to weaken the force of sensation, and not
toextinguish it ; and that, asthe brain and nerves
became invigorated by the renewal of their
wasted substance, the mental faculties would
gradually resume their wonted activity. We
find, however, that the restoration of the ex­
hausted powers of the brain is imperceptible
until consciousness is revived at the moment of
awaking ; and then the power of perception re­
sumes, in an instant, its operations, and not till
then do we feel our mental faculties to have
participated with our bodily organs in the re­
freshing influence ofsleep.
If we presume consciousness to be excited by
a distinct power, which is brought into action
through the medium of material organisation,
we can conceive that when the nerves and the
corporeal organs have, from long exercise, been
debilitated, the presiding power may become
dormantj and that when its active operations on
the material substance of the brain have been
once suspended, the suspension ofits energy may
continue until some impression on the invigo­
rated organs of sensation rouses the dormant
power. It is, however, impossible to conceive—
upon the supposition that the sentient principle
itself forms part of the material organisation—
that the suspension of consciousness should con­
tinue after the bodily organs have been restored
to their former vigour; for if the brain were sen­
tient, we must conclude that consciousnesswould
be gradually restored with the restoration of the
strength of its exhausted organisation.
Thecircumstancesattending the developement
of the sense of sight by the visual organs may be
adduced, as affording a correct illustration ofthe
view we have taken in the preceding remarks
respecting the power of consciousness, and its
relation to the subordinate agents by which it is
manifested. When the light is gradually dimi­
nished until all objects are invisible, no sensible
impression is made on the retina. The nerves
that are adapted to convey the impressions re­
ceived on the retina to the brain then become
inactive, because the medium through which
alone they are brought into action is excluded.
Theopticnerveandthe brain,nevertheless, retain
their powers in full vigour, notwithstanding the
absence oflight; and when that medium is again
admitted the sensation of sight returns. In the
same manner, we may conceive the percipient
power to continue in full vigour when the mate­
rial organisation through whose instrumentality
304 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 305
alone its presence can be perceived during cor­
poreal existence is either fatigued, impaired, or
decomposed.
In whatever mode the suspension of con­
sciousness is immediately produced, we can
entertain no doubt that a deficiency in the stim­
ulus of the media which excite the percipient
power, is the cause of sleep. Those media are
the nerves and the brain j and there is no more
reason to suppose, from the consideration of the
phenomena of suspended animation, that the
substance of the brain is itself conscious, than
there is to infer from the consideration of the
phenomena attending the action of the organs of
sensation, that the brain is sentient of sight, of
hearing, of taste, of touch, or of smell. We
have endeavoured, in preceding chapters, to
show that those sensations are referable to some
agent beyond the brain, and that the latter sub­
stance is, also, dependent upon some subtile
agent ab extra, Which presides over its organis­
ation j consequently, if we have succeeded in
establishing that perception, by means of the
organs of sensation, must depend on the agency
of some subtile principle distinct from the brain,
we have strong grounds for assuming that the
power which excites a consciousness of our exist*
ence isalso independent of materialorganisation.
But the phenomena of sleep, we contend, are
not only consistent with the independent exist*
806 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
ence of the sentient principle in a state of separ­
ation from the body, but they tend to give addi­
tional confirmation to that position; for the
action ofthe vital powers during the suspension
of the powers of the mind, and the suddenness
of the transition from a state of unconsciousness
tothat of mental vigour, clearly indicate, we con­
ceive, that the mind is distinct from corporeal
organisation, and that the latter is merely the
medium bywhich the former powers are excited.
Sleep is not the only condition of the living
body that is accompanied with a suspension of
the mental faculties. In syncope the deprivation
of consciousness is more complete; and it is
accompanied alsowith the suspension ofthe vital
functions. The pulsation of the heart ceases,
the respiration is scarcely perceptible, the heat
ofthe bodyfrequently departs, and the continued
suspension of the vital functions occasionally
merges into death.
Fainting may be induced either by the action
of the body on the mind, or by the action of the
mind on the body. The loss of blood, or acute
pain, are either of them sufficient to cause a sus­
pension of the sentient powers; sudden fright,
or the hearing of distressing intelligence, may
also produce the same effect: the two former
are instances of the suspension of the sentient
powers by the action of the corporeal organs on
the mind—the two latter, of the action of the
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 307
mind on the body. The deprivation of con­
sciousness by loss of blood, or by great pain, may
be attributed to the altered condition of the or­
ganised substance ofthe brain, produced directly
by the altered condition of the body; or to the
violent action of the sensorial nerves, which
enervates or disables that organ from continuing
to serve as the medium for the exercise of that
faculty:— the machinery has been disarranged,
and the moving power, to which the machine
was expressly adapted for the production of
given effects, cannot manifest itself until the
parts are re-adjusted, though the power itself
has not been diminished nor affected by the dis­
order ofits subservient instruments.
This peculiar action of the body on the mind
points out the close connection subsisting be­
tween corporeal organisation and the exercise of
the mental powers; but it cannot be considered
to present any greater evidence of the necessary
dependence of the mind on the body, than that
afforded by the suspension of animation during
sleep, which we have already investigated. The
principal difference between the two cases is,
that in swoons the functions of the body parti­
cipate with the mind in the suspension of its
powers.
Those instances wherein the suspension of the
vital functions is caused directly by the action of
the mind, furnish very remarkable evidence to
x 2
prove that the body is onlythe subservient agent
of the mind. Let us consider, for a moment, in
what manner fainting can be caused by sudden
fright. In these cases, the sensation is usually
conveyed through the visual organs to the brain.
The rays of light from some dreadful object, or
from the agents in some revolting action, strike
upon the eye, and are transferred by the optic
nerve to the brain, and excite perception of the
images impressed on the retina.
Let us suppose, for instance, that a person
who is susceptible of superstitious impressions
awakes at midnight, and perceives at his bedside
a horrible figure, with a ghastly visage, and
clothed in the imaginary habiliments of a ghost.
The shock produced by such a sight would most
probably deprive the spectator ofsensation.
Now, what can have caused this effect? It
cannot be attributed to the mereimpression com­
municated to the brain by the rays of light pro­
ceeding from the object; for the same figure, if
viewed in the day-time, or under other circum­
stances, might not excite the least alarm. The
effect must be produced by associating the ap­
pearance of such an object with our precon­
ceived notions of supernatural agency, and the
mysterious dread of some unknown and incon­
ceivable danger must operate on the organs
of sensation with such extreme violence as to
suspend the action of the brain. That organ
308 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 309
becomes then incapable of performing its accus­
tomed functions; and this sudden revulsion not
only suspends the exercise of the mental facul­
ties, but paralyses the nerves that are subservient
to the vital powers, and puts a stop to their
operations. Similar effects may be produced by
certain impressions on the other senses; but, in
every case, they result, as in the foregoing in­
stance, from certain associations of ideas con­
nected with the impressions made by the organs
of sensation, and arise altogether from the oper­
ations ofthe mind, distinct from the simple im­
pressions that excite them.
The vital powers are thus liable to be sus­
pended by any strong, sudden impulse of the
affectionsofthe mind, derivedoriginally from im­
pressions totally inadequate—when viewed apart
from the existingassociationofideas—toproduce
any effect whatever on the functions of the body.
When we perceive, therefore, the same cause
producing at one time no effect on the animal
frame, and at another time acting with sufficient
force to stop the operation of the vital functions,
and even, in some cases, to extinguish them
altogether, we may reasonably conclude that the
sentient principle cannot be a mere material
agent, subject to the undeviating laws which re­
gulate the actions of material bodies on each
other.
The line of demarcation between syncope and
x 3
death is frequently so faint as to be scarcely per-
ceptible. The external appearances are nearly
the same; but, in the former case, thevital spark
is by some inscrutable means preserved, and the
body and mind are restored to their former
energies. We cannot ascertain in what manner
the power of consciousness can be retained in
the inanimate form, to be restored to action with
the renewed exercise of the vital functions; and
we must necessarily, from the utter incompetence
of our faculties to comprehend the nature of a
subtile immaterial being, remain ignorant of the
mode by which the soul can exist when disunited
from material organisation. The operation of
the mind, on recovering from a swoon, isrenewed
without our being able to form the most distant
idea of the manner by which this restoration of
consciousness is effected; and if we are unable
to discover the nature of this mental process
when operating within our bodies, it is irrational
to expect that we should be able to ascertain the
mode by which the power of consciousness is
preserved in a state separate from that system
of material organisation in which alone we have
knowledge ofits existence.
The principal argument, however, against the
existence ofthe soul apart from corporeal organ­
isation, resolves itself into our incapacity to
comprehend such a state of being. But if we
were to assume the extent of our comprehension
a 10 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 311
to be the boundary of possibilities, we must re­
strict our belief within a veiy limited compass;
for innumerable are the phenomena ofinanimate
matter, as well as the phenomena of life, that
baffle the intellectual powers of man, and show
his inability to apprehend the causes ofthe sim­
plest processes that are continually operating
around him. The objection, therefore, that is
founded on the inadequacy of the intellectual
powers of man to comprehend how the mind
can exist distinct from a system of material
organisation similar to that with which we are
accustomed to see it connected, ought not to be
entitled to the least consideration; whilst the
amount of direct and analogical evidence which
can beadduced toprove that the mind is distinct
from, and may exist independently of, the body,
is, we contend, sufficiently strong to counter­
balance all objections that may be urged against
an immaterial sentient principle, and to leave a
vastly preponderating weight of evidence in con­
firmation ofthe beliefin a future life.
312 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
CHAPTER XXIV.
DREAMS AND SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.
In the preceding considerations respecting the
state of suspended animation, the power of con­
sciousness was regarded as participating with
the organs of sensation in their temporary slum­
ber, and as being almost necessarily suspended
on the cessation of the perception of external
objects. We took this view of the question for
the purpose of considering, under circumstances
most favourable to the material hypothesis, how
far the observed mental and physical pheno­
mena attending the suspension of that power
in profound sleep, and during syncope, were
applicable in favour of or against the immate­
riality ofthe sentientprinciple. We endeavoured
to prove, that even in this view of the question,
the inferences to be deduced from it were so far
from being opposed to the existence of a sepa­
rate immaterial principle, that they tended to
confirm the evidencewe had previouslyadvanced
in support of that position.
If we are enabled to arrive at conclusions
favourable to the belief of the independent ex­
istence of the sentient principle from those
phenomena which exhibit the intimate connec­
tion that subsists between that principle and
the active exercise of the organs of sense, we
shall be able to arrive at a still more satisfac­
tory conclusion from the consideration of the
phenomena of dreams; wherein the power of
consciousnessis active independently of external
impressions,— the idea of motion is excited
without any relative change of place — and
wherein thought, and memory, and the other in­
tellectual faculties are exercised, the passions are
roused, and a new scene is opened to view,
without the immediate aid of those organs of
perception that serve to connect us with the ex­
ternal world.
The limits of our knowledge are too confined
to enable us to ascertain with any precision the
means by which dreams are produced. They
seem to be the result of an intermediate state
between profound sleep and the active exercise
of the perceptive faculties; and dreams are sel­
dom perceived when fatigue conduces to sleep,
in a healthy state of the body and a tranquil con­
dition of mind. Though the causes of this inter­
mediate state of existence lie concealed behind
the impenetrable veil that enshrouds every men­
tal process, many of the impressions that are
made duringitscontinuance remain afterwaking,
and afford ample materials for interesting specu­
DREAMS AND SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 313
lation respecting the operations of the mind. It
is not our province, however, to pursue this
inquiry beyond those leading points that tend
towards the elucidation of the subject we have
in view.
Every one who has paid attention to the phe­
nomena of dreams mustbe conscious that, during
the continuance of dreaming, the forms and co­
lours of objects, and their motions, are clearly
distinguishable, and are impressed with a vivid­
ness which, at the time, produces the idea of
reality. The idea of solidity, corresponding
with the sense of touch, is also excited j some­
times a sensation resembling the sense of taste
arises in the mind; and sounds, apparently pro­
ceeding from distant objects, seem also to strike
upon the ear. During our dreamswe frequently
behold objects that are different from any of
which we have recollection in our waking hoursj
we hear sentiments expressed which are opposed
to our own, and endeavour to controvert ima­
ginary arguments; we find ourselves also mov­
ing, in idea, from place to place; we frequently
suppose ourselves to be in vigorous action ; and
we are often in fancied collision with some per­
sonal antagonist. Our sentiments and sensations
are usually, in dreams, the same as when awake;
and though we must represent in our minds all
the beings who take part in the scene— must
furnish them with words, and enter, in some de-
314 th e phenomena of l ife .
gree, into their feelings— we have no distinct
internal consciousness of the existence of any
other persons than ourselves. The dread of
personal injury seems even more prevalent in
dreams than at other times; and the alarm of
some impending danger is frequently the cause
of rousing us from our disturbed slumber. The
imaginary scene in which we are actors gene­
rally interests us as much as that of the real
theatre of life; and on awaking from a very
’ vivid dream, we experience a temporary diffi­
culty in recalling our ideas from their abstract
world to the material scene around us, and
we cannot, for a few moments, remember where
we are.
The ideal lapse of time, during dreams, is not
the least extraordinary circumstance attending
this peculiar state of the mind. Days, and occa­
sionally even years, are supposed to have passed
away during the short interval of sleep. We
sometimes dream that we areasleep, and engaged
in the scene of another dream, from which se­
condary state of dreaming we seemingly awake
to enter again into the action of the original
dream; being, in both cases, perfectly uncon­
scious that during the whole time our percipient
organs are inactive.
It appears,fromtheforegoingnoticeoftheprin­
cipalphenomenaofdreams,thatthepowersofcon­
sciousness, ofperception, and ofvolition, with the
DREAMS AND SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 315
faculties of thought and judgment, are in active
operation, whilst the ordinary communication of
the perceptive facultieswith the external world is
cut off; and the ideal state of existence which
dreams disclose, seems to be an exact counter­
part of reality in its sensations and motives of
action. The question, then, arises, how can
these perceptions be excited without the agency
of the material organs by means of which alone
they can be produced when we are not asleep ?
The effect may beattributed, inacertain degree,
to the operation ofthe powersofmemory; butthe
exercise of memory alone would not account for
the phenomena, for the actions in which we are
apparently engaged are seldom mere repetitions
of those which have previously occurred.
Though it cannot be supposed that during the
time the energies of the organs ofsensation are
suspended we can receive any fresh impressions,
yet the power of combining those impressions
already received into different forms must be in
active exercise, so as to produce from the old
materials the effects of entirely new impressions.
The perception of these new combinations im­
plies the action of the perceptive power; and the
ideal plans we adopt, in consequence of those
perceptions, indicate the operation of thought
and judgment. Memory provides the crude
materials of our dreams; but they are wrought
Sl6 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
into their varied forms by the combined oper­
ation ofthe intellectual faculties.
To be able to see without the eye, to hear
without the ear, and to feel without touching
the objects of sensation, would, we may venture
to assert, have been considered utterly impos­
sible, if we had not experience of the fact from
the effects ofimagination and ofdreams. These
facts, we contend, afford direct proofin support
of the position before advanced, that the perci­
pient principle is independent of the organs of
sense ; and they lead us to infer, also, that the
material organisation of the brain — by which
the impressions of external objects are origin­
ally conveyed to the mind —must be distinct
from the power that receives and retains those
impressions : for it would be impossible other­
wise to account for the activity of the perceptive
power during the time that the brain ceases to
hold any direct communication with the material
world. The same reasoning will apply, with
even greater force, to the intellectual faculties,
which are exercised uponthose ideal perceptions;
and as the action of memory, of perception,
of thought, and of judgment, necessarily sup­
poses consciousness of those mental operations,
it follows, as a necessary consequence, that the
power of consciousness also must be independ­
ent ofthe organised matter of the brain.
DREAMS AND SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 317
It may perhaps be objected to this conclusion,
that as dreams do not occur in profound sleep,
the ideas in that state of the mind may be ex­
cited by the partial operation of the material
organisation ofthe brain. Admitting this to be
the case, it would not militate against our argu­
mentj for we have never assumed that the oper­
ations of the mind can, during its intimate
connection with organised matter, be carried on
without the aid of its corporeal mechanism.
The evidence to be adduced from the pheno­
mena of dreams goes to this extent :— it proves
that ideas similar to those produced bythe action
of material organs may result from the mere
operation of the mind, without the agency of
those organs. It fails, indeed, to prove that
those mental operations can be performed with­
out the material organisation ofthe brain ; but
having shown that the effectsofthe complicated
machinery by which all our knowledge is gained
may be repeated without the aid of the original
instruments of sensation —having shown that
the mind can dispense with material organs in
those instances wherein their adaptation to the
production of certain known effects is more
particularly cognizable to man—analogy leads us
to infer that the more inscrutable operations
of the mind, which cannot be traced to the
agency of any separate material organs, may
318 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
exist independently of the organised systemwith
which the intellectual faculties are connected.
Spectral illusions afford instances even more
conclusive than the foregoing of the distinct
natures ofthe mind and the organs of sensation.
In these cases, not only are the impressions pro­
duced without the immediate aid of the organs
of sense, but in direct opposition to the impres­
sions which those organs are calculated to pro­
duce; for the image viewed by the mind is
sufficiently vivid to obliterate the impressions
made upon certain parts of the retina by the rays
of light from external objects. In dreams, the
wholescene is illusory; and the perceptive facul­
ties being inactive, there are nodisturbing causes
to influence the workings of the imagination;
but in cases of spectral illusion, as the percep­
tive faculties are in active exercise, the mental
vision is more subject tobe disturbed by external
impressions from the organs of sensation, and
unless the ideal image be extremely vivid, it will
be obliterated by the impulse ofthe rays of light
proceeding directly to the eye from surrounding
objects. In certain states of the mind, however,
the ideas which are excited by its internal oper­
ations are more powerful than the impressions
conveyed to the sensorium by the ordinary ac­
tion of the nerves, and overcome the direct
action of light on the retina of the eye.
It is well known, for instance, that in certain
DREAMS AMD SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 319
820 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
states of the brain and nerves images of objects
not present are perceived by the mind with a
distinctness equal to reality. Now, when a per­
son in the full exercise of his faculties perceives
a figure which has notangible existence, such an
illusion requires for its production not only an
impression to be made on the mind sufficiently
strong to excite the idea of the apparition, but
also of sufficient power to efface the impressions
conveyed to the retina by the rays of light
issuing from the objects that the apparition
seems to conceal from sight. For, suppose the
figure appear to be standing near the wall; then
as every ray of light from the wall that previ­
ously produced an impression on the retina con­
tinues to act with a force equal to that imparted
before the figurewas seen, those rayswhich pro­
ceed from the points apparently covered by the
apparition must, in some manner, be prevented
from producing their accustomed impressions on
the mind. Were this not the case, as there is in
reality no object between the eye and the wall,
the perfect vision of every point sending forth
rays of light would preclude the possibility of
the perception of any illusion. It must be evi­
dent, therefore, that in all spectral illusions visi­
ble in conjunction with real objects, the mind
mustpossessthe power of seeing not only images
which have no tangible existence, but of seeing
DREAMS AND SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 321
them also in opposition to the direct impressions
of the perceptive organs.
The simultaneous perception of real bodies
and of mental visions seems to arise from the
same act of the mind ; and yet the causes
of these perceptions bear not the least resem­
blance to each other. In the one case they arise
from impressions produced by material objects
acting on the organs of sight ; and in the other
case they originate in the mind, without any
communication whatever with the externalworld.
Now*, when we perceive the same effect which is
produced by the agency of material organs com­
municating with external objects, to be excited,
at the same moment, by the internal operations
of the mind alone, we cannot fail to admit that
the faculty of perception is independent of the
mechanism of the eye and of outward material
forms ; and when we ascertain, further, that the
mental vision may be sufficiently powerful to
efface the impressions conveyed to the brain
through the organs of sensation, we must con­
clude that the images formed by the mind
may be more vivid than the impressions re­
ceived through the ordinary media of sensation.
These facts, therefore, tend 'to confirm, in the
clearest manner, the evidence derived from other
sources, that the mind is independent of the
v
322 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
material organs, by the agency of which all our
fundamental ideas are received.
The objection that may possibly be urged, on
the ground that spectral illusions are only the
results of a diseased state ofthe brain, does not,
so far as our present argument extends, inva­
lidate our inferences; for if the ordinaiy effects
of the organs of sensation can be produced, in
any state ofthe brain, without those agents, that
fact is sufficient proof of the capability of the
mind to act independently ofthe material instru­
ments which are specially provided for commu­
nicating to it the impressions of external ob­
jects.
The consideration of that state of the brain
which renders the mind peculiarly susceptible
to internal emotions is a physiological question,
and is distinct altogether from those views re­
specting the faculties of the mind to which the
knowledgeofits independent powerofperception
gives rise. If we were to assume that spectral
illusionsare caused byan increased stimulusgiven
to the material organisation of the brain, the only
inference to be drawn from such an assumption
would be, that the activity of the perceptive
power increases in proportion to the increased
energy of its material agents. Were we to take
for granted that this hypothesis is correct, the
supposition would not weaken our argument
DREAMS AND SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 323
in support of the independence of the mind;
for as we have in all our views of the perceptive
andintellectual facultiesconsideredthem asbeing
brought into operation by the agency of the ma­
terial organisation of the brain, the intensity of
their powers must necessarily depend upon the
state of the machinery by which they are brought
into action. But though the mind may and must
be affected in its modes ofoperation by the con­
dition of its corporeal machine, there isno more
reason to regard this sympathy between the
mind and the body as indicative of the ab­
solutely necessary dependence of the former
on the vitality of the latter, than there is to
imagine that the existence of heat depends on
the continued action of the machinery of the
steam-engine, by the agency of which the ex­
pansive power of that subtile property of matter
is exerted.
Could we, indeed, establish the fact of the
mind operating entirely apart from matter, we
should be able at once to dispose of the whole
question ; but our very limited faculties will not
permit us to penetrate into the subtile properties
of abstract etherial essences. Though the phe­
nomena of dreams and of spectral illusions do
not represent the perceptive faculties to be
capable ofacting when separated altogetherfrom
the corporeal machine, yet we conceive that the
y 2
324 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
proofs which they exhibit of the agency of the
perceptive powers, not only without the aid of
the organs of sensation, but in direct opposition
to the impressions which those organs conveyto
the brain, are sufficient to establish the abstract
independence ofthe mind.
j
CHAPTER XXV.
GENERAL SUMMARY.
The circumstances under which alone our cor­
poreally connected faculties will enable us to
apprehend any state of existence, are necessarily
so intimately blended with animal organisation,
that we are placed on very disadvantageous
ground when we endeavour, by investigations
into the nature of that connection, to establish
their separate and independent existences. As
the body is the residence of the sentient and
thinking principles— as every sensation we re­
ceive proceeds from material substance, and is
communicated to the mind through material
organs— as every conceivable indication of life
and intelligence must be conveyed by means of
material agents— the phenomena of life seem,
indeed, at first view, to present evidence directly
opposed to the existence of the sentient principle
in a state separate from animal organisation.
We can form no idea of existence unconnected
with the sensations conveyed by the organs of
feeling, seeing, hearing, taste, and smell. Each
of those sensations is communicated through the
medium of an organised system of matter; nor
can we imagine how such impressions could be
y 3
326 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
produced, otherwise than by agents similar to
those employed. We are, consequently, neces­
sarily compelled, in our inquiries into the nature
and properties of mind, to be satisfied with in­
vestigating it in combination with the material
organisation with which it is so intimately
united.
These considerations will serve to show the
difficulties which must attend anyattempt to dis­
cover the mysterious connection by which mind
and matter are linked together ; especially when
we endeavour to derive, from their apparently
inseparable union, evidence to prove that they
are distinct and independent principles. We
trust, however, in the view which has been taken
of the phenomena of life, that we have overcome
those difficulties, and succeeded in establishing
the independence and pre-existence of the sen­
tient principle ; and that we have shown, that in
those cases wherein any deficiency occurs in the
chain of evidence, it arises rather from our men­
tal incapacity to comprehend the mysterious
subtilties of the human mind, than from any
deficiency in the nature of the proofs to be ad­
duced. The analogical evidence afibrded by
the consideration of the phenomena of life, also,
confirms and strengthens that which is attained
by induction from particular physiological facts;
and we contend that the combined proofs pre­
sented in this branch of our subject alone, are
GENERAL SUMMARY. 327
sufficiently strong to establish the conviction of
the existence of the mind as a separate and
independent principle ; and that, if evidence
equally conclusive were advanced in support of
any system of physical science, the system so
supported would not fail to meet with implicit
belief
The leading positions we have endeavoured
to establish in our viewsof the phenomena of life
are : —
First, That the living principle exists prior to,
and is, therefore, not consequent upon, animal
organisation.
Secondly, That the sentient and thinking prin­
ciples are distinct from the material substances
with which they are united ; and,
Thirdly, That the intellectual powers of man
exist independently of the system of material
organisation by which they are developed.
To support the first position, we directed our
attention to the origin of the living principle in
vegetation, and in animal organisation, with a
view to ascertain the first cause which actuates
the organisation of matter. In pursuing this
inquiry, we found that the changes which take
place in inert matter, disposing it to enter into
organic arrangements, are effected by some pro­
cess entirely distinct from any physical cause
with which we are acquainted. This process
depends, indeed, upon chemical agency for its
y 4
328 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
first developement; but there is no perceivable
relation to chemical action in its mode of oper­
ation, nor in its effects. In the first stage of
germination, for instance, the chemical affinities
subsisting between the moisture ofthe earth and
the external coats of the seeds, produce a mutual
decomposition of their respective partsj and the
hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen are, by these
means, presented in those states which are best
adapted to their conversion into portions of the
organised system of the germinating plant. But
the chemical action does not extend beyond this
preparation of the food for the future plant; and
we arc obliged to look elsewhere for the cause
that arranges the prepared elements into their
organic forms, and endues the organic particles
with an active principle, capable of disposing
other particles into similar forms, and of also
communicating to them their peculiar properties
of organic life. These effects are unlike those
produced by any known properties of matter;
and we are obliged to refer the cause to some
source concealed by its subtilty from the com­
prehension ofman. This cause begins to operate
as soon as the elementary substances that enter
into the composition of plants are prepared for
its action. Of the nature of this agent we can
form no conception. We know, however, from
its effects, that such an agent exists; and every
accretion of organic particles that succeeds the
GENERAL SUMMARY. 329
first developement of the germ can be attribut­
able only to the extension of the original oper­
ating cause to each particle of matter after it is
organised.
We cannot rationally suppose that the effect
of vegetation is produced without any cause;
we must, therefore, conclude that the vegetative
principle exists prior to the organisation of the
plant ; and that this organisation being merely
the effectof the active operation ofthat principle,
it cannot create the cause by which it is pro­
duced ;—in other words, the vegetative process
is not caused by vegetation, but by some occult
actuating power, which exists independently of
the plant in which its effects are developed.
The conclusions at which we arrived from the
investigation of the phenomena of vegetation,
were strongly confirmed by the consideration of
the more complex structure of animal organis­
ation. The existence of some power adequate
to the assimilation of the food, and to the ar­
rangement of the materials in their varied forms,
and also capable of imparting to those particles
the principle of vitality, by means of which they
are enabled to take part in discharging the func­
tions of the numerous animal organs, was shown
to be absolutely necessary before any of those
wonderful effects could be accomplished. The
growth and sustentation ofthe human frame were
shown to be owing to causes existing prior to
each augmentation and renovation of organised
matter j and that any system of organisation—
viewed abstractedly asa peculiar arrangement of
the particles of matter — was utterly inadequate
to effect the organisation of other particles of
matter, without the aidofsomepre-existingactive
principle capable of imparting that property to
the inert particles.
The arguments advanced to prove that animal
organisation depends upon the operation of some
pre-existing, subtile cause, was found to be
equally applicable to the vital principle, by the
mysterious operation of which all the functions
of the body are discharged. Whether or not
that subtile agent— by whose means the puls­
ations of the heart, the inspirations and expir­
ations of the lungs, and the innumerable secre­
tions consequent on those actions are effected —
be the same operating cause which regulates the
accretions of matter in the organisation of the
human frame, we cannot determine ; but that
some power exists competentto work the animal
machine we must admit. To assume that power
to be created by the system of organisation
which itself must be the primary agent in pro­
ducing, would involve the absurdity oftranspos­
ing cause and effect ; and we cannot, therefore,
avoid coming to the conclusion that the vital
principle exists prior to, and does not depend
330 th e phenomena of l ife.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 331
upon, the system of organisation which it con­
structs.
Having thus,wetrust, satisfactorily established
our firstposition— that the living principle must
exist prior to, and is not consequent upon, animal
organisation — the distinct nature of the sentient
and thinking principles from the matter with
which they are united, and the separate and in­
dependent existence of the intellectual powers,
might have been affirmed from analogy alone.
But, independently of the analogical evidence
which the pre-existence of the vital principle
affords, we have derived, from several pheno­
mena of life, direct testimony in support of
those positions, as conclusive asthe nature of the
subject will allow.
To prove that the percipient and willing prin­
ciples are distinct from the material substance
with which they are united, our inquiries were
directed to the principle of animal life, to the
functions of the organs of sensation, and to the
phenomena of animal mutations ; and these in­
vestigations led to the conclusion that the sub­
tile principle which animates the human frame,
and the perceptive power, are distinct from mat­
ter ; and that the material organs are only subor­
dinate agentswhich communicatethe impressions
from external objects to the immaterial mind.
As we ascended the scale of animal life, and
proceeded from investigating the connection of
the vital and sentient principles with material
organisation to the consideration of those phe­
nomena which evince the operation of the in­
tellectual powers, the distinction between those
powers and material organisation were still more
apparent, and they also were shown to exist
independently of that organisation.
The phenomena of animal mutations, for in­
stance, exhibit the powers of consciousness and
memory, and the faculties of thought andjudg­
ment, as capable of being transferred from one
system of material particles to another without
participating in the changes that take place in
the physical constitution of the organs by which
they are developed, even when all the particles
of matter with which they were connected have
been changed.
In our consideration of the subject of personal
identity we were led to observe, that the muta­
tions in our ideas and sensations at different
periods of our existence, whilst the memory of
former consciousness remains, renders it neces­
sary to refer the various impressions on the sen-
sorium to one percipient power, by which the
connection between the past, present, and future
is preserved ; and as that power continues im­
mutable in its essence, notwithstanding the
variety of changes in the ideas and feelings
which it apprehends and associates, we can
form no other conception of its nature than as
SS2 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 833
distinct from, and independent of, the ever-
changing material organisation with which it is
combined.
Our inquiries into the phenomena of sus­
pended animation and of dreams, also tended
to show that the functions of animal organis­
ation are distinct from the percipient and intel­
lectual faculties ; and that whilst the percipient
power may operate without the aid of material
organs, the intellectual powers may be exercised
upon those immaterial perceptions.
If we have succeeded in proving those three
leading propositions which it hasbeen our object
in this branch of our inquiry to establish, and
have shown that prior to the formation of any
organised system of matter there must exist
some subtile active agent competent to originate
and to regulate the process, — that the sentient
principle is distinct from material substance,—
and that the intellectual powers are, abstract­
edly, independent of the materialagentsbywhich
they are developed— we shall have derived
from physiological science every possible evi­
dence which it could be expected to afford in
support of the argument for a future state of
existence.
If the vital principle exist before the system
of organisation in which its energies are dis­
played, we may rationally presume that the sen­
tient and thinking principles —which have been
331. THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
shown to be distinct from the material organs—
must also have existed before the developement
of those material agents which are subservient to
the exercise of their powers. If we were to
deny their pre-existence, we should then be
obliged to assume that an organic system of
matter iscapable of creating subtile agents which
are distinct from and independent of matter it­
self; —agents, too, which possess the power of
controlling material organisation, and for the use
ofwhich that organisation is constructed. We
should, according to this hypothesis, be driven
to the absurdity of assuming that inert matter,
which can act only by the stimulus of a pre-ex­
isting power, can create the active principles
which are to regulate its motions ; and that the
instrument can create the agent by which it is
employed.
The pre-existence of the intellectual powers
might, indeed, be inferred from their distinct and
independentcharactersalone,and that conclusion
seems to be a necessary consequence of the ad­
mitted pre-existence of the living principle : for
whether that principle be distinct from the in­
tellectual powers, or whether it be a modification
of the same subtile agency, if we admit the
necessary pre-existence of an active subtile prin­
ciple toeffect the organisation of matter, we must
equally admit the pre-existence of the powers for
whose developement that organisation is formed.
GENERAL SUMMARY. 335
We may also infer, from the foregoing consider­
ations, that if the sentient and intellectual prin­
ciples exist prior to, and independently of, the
system of organisation in which they are subse­
quentlydeveloped,theywill continue toexistafter
that organic system isdestroyed. We cannot, it
istrue,form anyconception ofa stateofexistence
independent ofthe body. All our ideas are de­
rived originally through the medium of corporeal
organs, and it is as impossible to imagine any
sensation distinct from the animal frame as it is
to conceive the nature of a new sentient power.
No one, however, we believe, will be presump­
tuous enough to adduce his inability to compre­
hend the nature of other senses than those he
possesses as an argument against the possibility
of additional senses being imparted to percipient
beings; and our incapacity to apprehend the
nature of a future state of existence ought not,
therefore, to be considered a rational objection
to the immortality of the soul. The incompe­
tency of our mental powers to examine the first
causes of the simplest processes of Nature, have
been frequently pointed out in the course of our
inquiries; and in no instance is this incompetency
more evident than in our endeavours to arrive at
the first causes of the phenomena of life. We
are baffled in all our attempts to penetrate
the inscrutable mysteries which every where
surround us; and can we hesitate to admit that
836 THE PHENOMENA OF LIFE.
the mysterious processes of intellectual vitality
—the connection of which with the animal or­
ganisation we cannot understand — may be car­
ried on in other states of existence at present
unknown ?
The numerous analogies which the phenomena
of life present, tending to confirm the beliefin
a future state, must not be omitted in a summary
of the evidence afforded by this branch of our
subject. We do not, indeed, lay much stress
upon mere detached symbolical analogies, unsup­
ported by corroborative testimony ; but when
physiological changes, that are analogous to
those which may be presumed to occur on the
separation of the immaterial spirit from material
substance, are accompanied by other facts, which
serve by well-sustained induction to give addi­
tional confirmation to the analogy, those ana­
logous instances become important as correlative
evidence; and they are also valuable as exem­
plifications that changes are continually being
wrought in the constitution of living bodies,
which are only less wonderful than those we
anticipate on the dissolution of the corporeal
frame, from the circumstance that they are be­
come familiar by frequent occurrence.
In this point of view, therefore, the annual
decay and renewal of vegetation—the mutations
and metamorphoses of animal life— and the re­
storation ofsuspended animation—are deserving
GENERAL SUMMARY. 3S7
of consideration ; not only on account of their
symbolical analogies to the resuscitation of the
soulafter the dissolution of the body, but because
they afford illustrations that analogous changes
are constantly taking place equally as incompre­
hensible, and which, if presented to us for the
first time, would appear equally as miraculous, as
those which we affirm respecting the material
developement and the immaterial existence of
the human mind.
z
338 CONCLUSION.
CONCLUSION.
The proposed object in commencing the present
work was to elicit, from the investigation of the
laws and properties of material substances, and
from an examination of the relations subsisting
between mind and matter, evidence to prove that
the subtile qualities of bodies, and the ethereal
essence of mind, are separate entities, distinct
from, and independent of, mere inert matter; and
to deducefromthesepremises the existence ofthe
soul, independentlyofthebody. With thisobject
in view, we have endeavoured, as strictly as pos­
sible, to confine our observations to those pheno­
menathatareconnectedwiththephysical sciences,
and to abstain from entering the region of ab­
strusemetaphysics. Thephenomenaofmatterand
its properties, and ofthe combinations ofmatter
with mind, are those alone which have been con­
sidered proper subjects to be adduced as “ natu­
ral evidence” in support of our argument. It is
impossible, however, from the nature of these
inquiries, to avoid altogether metaphysical spe­
culations, though they have seldom been intro­
duced excepting in connection with material
phenomena, or as illustrations of the actions of
CONCLUSION. SS9
the mind on the functions ofthe body. Having,
therefore, with this limitation, taken a survey of
some of the more striking properties of organic
and of inorganic matter, it remains for us to
examine the results of our labours, and to show
that the evidence collected is morethan sufficient
to counterbalance all opposingarguments against
the belief in a future life, founded on the con­
nection between mind and a system of material
organisation; and that it affords satisfactory
proofs of the independent existence ofthe soul.
The inherent quality of matter that was first
exemplified was its indestructibility. Numerous
instances were adduced of the apparent destruc­
tion of matter, from the simple process of solu­
tion to that of combustion ; in all of which it
was shown, that even when the annihilation of
matter seems the most complete, the elementary
particles of the substances operated on suffer
no diminution nor change, but have merely en­
tered into different arrangements. The processes
themselves which are commonly considered the
most destructive, instead ofbeing active destroy­
ing powers, were shown to be merely the effects
and not the causes of chemical action. Com­
bustion, for instance —which is usually viewed
as the most active of all chemical agents—was
found to be the result of the close affinity sub­
sisting between oxygen and hydrogen ; and that
z 2
840 CONCLUSION.
those gases, on entering rapidly into combina­
tion, liberate or excite the heat that accompanies
their union; the evolution of the heat and light
being subsequentto the change which takes place
in the elementary condition of the two gases,
and onlyan effect caused by the energetic chemi­
cal action. Every other apparently destructive
process which we are enabled to examine was
also found to be the result of similar attractions;
and the indestructibility of matter by any known
chemical action was satisfactorily proved, first,
by analysing the results of those processes con­
sideredmost destructive; and,secondly, by show­
ing that the processes themselves are merely the
effects ofantecedent changes, produced by che­
mical affinity.
Having established ourfirstproposition — that
the elementary particlesofmaterial bodiescannot
be annihilated— we next proceeded to investi­
gate the general properties of matter, and took
under examination most of those essential attri­
butes which govern and regulate inert substance.
Our inquiries into this branch of the subject led
to the conclusion that light, electricity, chemical
attraction, gravitation, and all the other proper­
ties of matter, are distinct from inert matter
itself, and that those subtile agents exist inde­
pendently of the material particles by whose
means their actions are developed.
CONCLUSION. S41
Among the numerous illustrations of this fact
that were presented during the investigation,
those connected with the nature and proper­
ties of light may be regarded as peculiarly for­
cible. The presence of light, it was observed,
is only perceptible to the eye when the rays fall
directly on the retina from the luminous object.
Under all other circumstances light is invisible.
It was shown, however, to be independent of the
objects reflecting the rays to the eye j and that
it continues to exist undiminished, though imper­
ceptible, when the objects that reflect, modify,
and partially decompose its rays, are removed
or apparently destroyed.
Instances equally conclusive, if not so imme­
diately obvious, were adduced, in treating of the
other properties of matter, to prove that they are
subtile agents, independent of the substances
with which they are combined ; and it was
inferred —from the evidence of experience in
some cases, and from well-founded analogy in
others— that all those subtile properties which
actuate inert matter are equally indestructible as
the matter they control.
After considering the properties of inorganic
matter, we proceeded to examine the phenomena
of life. In viewing the new relations in which
matter presents itself during the organic pro­
cesses, we were obliged to admit the accessionof
z S
342 CONCLUSION.
some additional subtile principle, distinct from
any of those properties previously investigated.
The necessary pre-existence of this organic
principle, and its independence of any system
of organisation, were clearly deduced from an
examination into the origin and maintenance of
organised arrangements.
The mysterious connection subsisting between
organised matter and the sentient and willing
principles was particularly investigated; and
those principles were shown to be independ­
ent of the organs of sensation by which their
powers are developed. We were also enabled
to deduce from the unchangeable character of
the power of consciousness, and from the reten­
tive powers of memory, that the intellectual
faculties are distinct from the ever-changing
material substance of the human frame. Assum­
ing that those faculties of the mindparticipate in
the attributes which pertain to the agents that
subserve the purposes of their developement,
we inferred, from the established pre-existence
of the oiganic principle —fromthe action of the
perceptive faculties independently ofthe organs
of sensation— and from a variety of analogous
phenomena tending to confirm the presumed
independent existence of the living principle—
that the mind must also exist prior to, and be
independent of> as well as be distinct, from,
CONCLUSION. 348
the organised material syutemwith which it is
united. ' i ■ ;i-
This retrospection of the principal results of
those inquiries to which our attention has been
directed comprises the leading features of the
direct evidence that has been adduced in sup­
port ofour general position. >Thatposition does
not depend upon isolated facts, but on a variety
of concurrent testimonies in each department of
ourinquiries. The importantquestion, therefore,
to be decided is— are the inferences drawn from
this accumulated evidence sufficiently conclusive
to establish the conviction that the mind conti*
nues to exist after the dissolution of the body?
For the satisfactory determination of this
question, it will be necessary to concentrate
the evidence derived from each of the three
partsintowhich the subjecthasbeen divided,that
it may be brought to bear effectively upon that
point. Each of the divisions of our subject is
independent, and complete in itself, and the ob*
ject proposed in their separate investigations was
to arrive at the same conclusion— the future
existence of the soul — by pursuing different
courses of inquiry; so that, by extending the
number and variety of the instances, we might
give additional weight to the argument founded
on their distinct and various testimonies. Had
any one of the three leading divisions of our ar-
' : • Z 4 •
344 CONCLUSION.
gument stood alone, the inferences to be drawn
from the consideration of the different branches
into which each is subdivided would, we con­
tend, be sufficient to produce moral certainty
of the existence of the soul after death ; and
the proofs afforded by the indestructibility of
matter, the properties of matter, and the pheno­
mena of life, collectively, present a body of evi­
dence in support ofthat position, which amounts,
it is conceived, to little less than positive demon­
stration.
Though the arguments founded on the inde­
structibility of matter— the properties of matter
— and the physiological consideration of the
phenomena of life— are, as we have just ob­
served, separately independent, and are not con­
sequent upon any inferences derived from their
antecedents, yet thesecumulativeproofs mutually
tend to confirm each other, and thus give addi­
tional strength to the arguments which they se­
parately affirm.
Having, for instance, established the funda­
mental truth that matter is indestructible, and
that no substance can be annihilated without the
direct interposition of Divine Power, if follows,
as a necessary consequence, that the subtile pro­
perties of matter— the continued existence of
many of which may be traced from the creation
ofthe universe — are also indestructible. Hav­
ing, in the second place, proved that the proper­
CONCLUSION. 845
ties of matter are subtile principles distinct from,
and independent of, the material particles with
which they are combined, we are led to infer,
that the still more subtile principle of the mind
— to the developementofwhich those properties
are subservient — is also distinct from, and inde­
pendent of, matter and its properties. Again j
as all matter and its properties are indestruc­
tible, we conclude that the ethereal principle of
the mind — which is infinitely superior in all its
other attributes to the properties of matter —
participates in the attributes of durability and
immutability which are possessed by the inert
particles ofall material substances. These deduc­
tions are confirmed when we find, in the third
place— from investigating the connection of
mind with material organisation —•that that
ethereal essence is distinct from the organised
system with which it is combined, that it can act
independently of material organs, and that its
elements must exist prior to the formation ofthe
material frame by which its powers are mani­
fested.
Now, when we find that the consideration of
the imperishable and unchangeablenatureofmat­
ter establishes, by well-sustained induction from
analogous facts, the existence of the soul after
death, — that we arrive at the same conclusion
from the distinct consideration of the properties
of matter, — and that, when we proceed with
CONCLUSION.
the inquiry, and examine the nature of the con*
nection between mind and material organisation,
we are led to the same end, — the attainment
of thesecorresponding results from the investiga.
tion of so many and such different natural laws
and phenomena, ought surely to be regarded as
satisfactory as any evidence that it is possible to
procure, in support of the truths of inductive
science. These cumulative proofs also derive
additional importance from the circumstance,
that the separate ascending links of the inquiry
— though distinct and independent — mutually
support each other; and when combined, they
constitute, as we contend, a complete and irre­
fragable chain of communication between the
present and a future world.
In addition to the evidence alluded to in the
foregoing retrospect, other facts and illustra­
tions were brought under notice, during our in­
quiries, which, though they cannot be adduced
directly in support of our argument, are ofgreat
importance in. combating the objections raised
against the immateriality ofthe soul. We refer,
more particularly, to the numerous instances
wherein we had occasion to remark upon the
utter incapacity of the human intellect to arrive
at the first causes of even the simplest processes
ofNature; and the consequent irrationality and
presumption of assuming that the operations Qf
an pmnipoijentand omniscient Power are circum­
346
scribed within the narrow bounds of our com»
prehension.
The principal objections that have been raised
to theimmateriality ofthe soul are founded upon
the incapacity of the intellectual powers of man
to comprehend a state ofexistence separate from
material organisation. The best possibleanswer
to this objection is, that the human intellect is
insufficient to apprehend the nature of any one
of the phenomena that are continually occurring
around us ; and that, if the proof of their
occurrence depended upon any evidence less
conclusive than that of immediate perception,
the difficulties and apparent impossibilitieswhich
they involve, would be deemed fully equal to
those which surround the comprehension of
immaterial existence. It was with the view of
impressing this important consideration more
fully upon the mind, that we adduced, in the
courseofourinvestigations, so many instances of
the mysterious and inscrutable operations of the
properties of matter, which serve to show how
utterly inadequate our mental powers are to un»
derstand the nature of those subtile properties,
or the ultimate causës of their innumerable phy-
sical actions and changes ; which are equally in»
comprehensible as the nature of that change
which we presume takes place on the separation
ofthe soul fromitsmaterial agents. Wewent still
farther, and undertbok to prove, even upon the
CONCLUSION. 347
348 CONCLUSION.
hypothesis that the existence of the mind de­
pends entirely upon an organised material sys­
tem — that the matter ofmind must be distinct
from the matter of organisation; and that the
difficulty attending the comprehension of the
processes of life would be rather increased than
diminished, by attributing them to material
agency.
The most specious arguments of the mate­
rialists depend upon the intimate connection
subsisting between the mind and the body in
every stage of existence, and in every condition
of the corporeal tenement. On the birth of an
infant, all the organs adapted forthe maintenance
of animal life are in a perfect state ; whilst those
which are appropriated to the perceptive and
intellectual faculties are incomplete, and are
only developedgradually, and inacorresponding
degree with the developement of the intellec­
tual powers. When the material organisation has
attained its greatest perfection, we perceive the
mind to be in its greatest vigour ; when disease
enervates the body, the generally accompanying
languor of the mental powers indicates their
sympathy with the material system ; and when,
in the decline of life, the diminished action of
the animal functions and the increased rigidity
ofthe muscles and other animal tissues bring on
the infirmities ofage, the faculties of perception
and memory, of thought andjudgment, fail, and
the mind seems to sink into the grave even more
rapidly than the body.
It must be admitted, that the apparently ne­
cessary dependence of the sentient and intel­
lectual faculties upon material organisation,
exhibited on a first view of the phenomena of
life, tends to countenance the notion that the
functions of the mind cannot be exerted without
the aid of material organs; and if we possessed
no other evidence respecting the operations of
the mind, and its connection with matter, than is
afforded by external appearances, we might be
induced to assent to thatopinion. But having, in
ourinvestigations into the mysteriousphenomena
oflife, ascertained that the sentient and thinking
principlesaredistinct from matter—that they can
act independently of the organs of perception,
and must have existed prior to the construction
of material organisation—we are thence taught
to view the brain merely as the apparatus for
developing the powers of the mind, and to con­
sider that any deficiency in the proper develope-
ment, occasioned by injury, or by the decay of
the apparatus, is no more indicative of the decay
ofmental power, than any derangement in the
machinery of the steam-engine, which impedes
its action, is to be considered indicative of the
loss of the expansive power of heat, by which it
was previously set in motion. We admit the
difficulty of comprehending by what possible
means those powers of the mind can be ore-
CONCLUSION. 349
served during the decay of its apparatus, but
equal difficulties occur on the consideration of
every question in science, however simple, when
we attempt to discover ultimate causes.
This subject has been frequently discussed
during the course of our inquiries respecting the
phenomena of life, when the objections founded
upon the close connection subsisting between
the mental faculties and the animal frame were
anticipated and answered. It must be borne in
mind, also, that in the view we took of those
phenomena, it was our especial object to con­
sider the intimate relations subsisting between
mind and matter; and our principal and most
direct arguments to prove the mind to be distinct
from, and independent of, material organisation,
were founded on those considerations.
If we assume—as every one must do who
admits the existence of matter,— that the mind
is intimately connected, under every circum­
stance, with material organisation, and that the
brain is thè more immediate agent ofthe mental
powers in all their relations with matter, we
cannot fail to perceive, that the outward visible
signs of those powers must depend upon the
condition of the agent by which alone their ac­
tions can be manifested to the material senses.
The injury or decay of the agent must, there­
fore, necessarily impair the power of mind in itti
actions on matter, as it is only through the
350 CONCLUSION.
CONCLUSION. 351
medium of material organs that its existence is
appreciable; but the assertion that this recipro­
cal sympathy between mind and matter implies
absolute identity, is opposed to the best esta­
blished deductions from the consideration of the
phenomena of life and the attributes and pro­
perties of matter, and it is founded only on the
incapacity of man to apprehend the nature of
immaterial existence, and the consequent limit­
ation ofhis views to secondary causes.
The consideration ofthe progressive stages in
our acquirement of knowledge is sufficient to
show, that, as the mists ofignorancearedispelled,
the chain of causation is seen to extend from
proximate agents to others which are more and
more remote; and the ideaswhich mankindgene­
rally entertain respecting their own knowledge
of first causes, will be found, on examination, to
be in inverse proportion to the extent of their
scientific attainments. The effects of the most
common phenomena are ascribed by those who
have paid no attention to the pursuit of science
to the immediately observable causes. These
causes,^they conceive, afford a perfectly satisfac­
tory solution of the processes and changes; and
such observers imagine; when they perceive the
hntaediate agent which produces the phenome­
non thatthey have detected its ultimate cause;
when;-in faCt, they’have made scarcely any ad­
vance iii’theprogressOfCausation,andhave been
352 CONCLUSION.
confining their views only'to the effects of more
occult agencies. The utmost stretch of even
the best cultivated human faculties, indeed, will
only attain the examination of the lower links of
the chain which leads from effects to their pri­
mary causes; and, as man advances in know­
ledge, he feels more and more conscious of his
inability to penetrate the great secrets ofNature,
and he becomes convinced that the last causes
at which he can arrive are very distant from that
original source whence the effects he has been
examining emanate.
Asan illustration ofthe foregoingobservations,
let us suppose, that a man who is ignorant of
the nature of heat were called upon to explain
the cause of a fire burning in the grate. He
might imagine, when he stated that it was caused
by the burning of the coals, that he had men­
tioned the primary cause ofthe phenomenon, and
that such a reply would be a satisfactory answer
to the inquiry. When, however, he had ad­
vanced some steps farther in the progress of
causation, he would discover that the coals are
not the substances burned, and that the heat
and light of the fire are produced by the che­
mical union of the component parts of the coal
with a portion of the atmosphere; that this
union, again, is effected by the property of che­
mical attraction subsisting among the element­
ary particles of the substances, and that the
CONCLUSION. 353
heat given out by the process is merely evolved,
or excited, by the rapid chemical action with
which the combination of the hydrogen aud
oxygen is effected. He would learn, also, that
the heat is not created by this chemical action,
but that it exists prior to the commencement of
the process; and that neither the quantity ofabso­
lute heat, nor the quantity of matter apparently
consumed, is diminished or increased by the
largest fire. The result of his inquiries would,
therefore, show that what he formerly believed
to be the primary cause of the fire, is in reality
only asubordinate effect, produced by the opera­
tion oftwo other mutually depending causes, and
that those causes do not produce the heat, but
are merely the agents in its developement. By
prosecuting the inquiry to this point, he will
therefore arrive at a knowledge of the ¡existence
of two subtile principles or properties of matter,
—chemical attraction and heat; but ofthe nature
of those properties he can procure no inform­
ation. So far as our knowledge extends, they
are ultimate principles; but as our only reason
for believing them to be so is, that we are un-
able to pursue the analysis farther, the found­
ation for such a belief is extremely slight. In
every branch of science we are thus led onward
from effects to causes, until we reach the ex­
treme limits of our mental powers; and we are
then obliged to refer to higher causes, to which
A A
854 CONCLUSION.
those principles we have been investigating are
only the subservient agents.
If we apply the same analytical process to
physiological science, we shall find that primaiy
causes recede as we advance in the inquiry,
even more remarkably than in the foregoing
illustration.
The first or lowest link in the chain of mental
phenomena that comes within our cognisance is
that of sensation or perception. Perceptions,
which constitute the foundations of our ideas,
are retained and stored in the mind bythe power
of memory; the materials thus prepared are
brought into action by the faculty of thought;
and they are arranged and compared by the
reasoning powers. On the ideas that have been
in this manner perceived, retained, recalled, and
compared by the mind, the judgment at last de­
cides; and another power—volition—may then
act in accordance with that decision, and compel
the members of the body to obey its mandates.
The operations of the mind, we therefore per­
ceive, correspond with those of physical pheno­
mena, in observing a regular series ofprogression
from effects to causes, until our inquiries are
stopped by arriving at a mysterious, incompre­
hensible power, which, owing to our inability to
discover any subordinate agency, we are fain to
consider an elementary principle. We are so
profoundlyignorant respecting all the operations
CONCLUSION. 355
of the mind, that there can scarcely be degrees
of difference in our knowledge of those mental
processes we have enumerated; yet we may pre­
sume, from analogy, that if we were enabled
to comprehend the nature of perception, we
might still be incompetent to understand the
modes by which the higher operations of the
mind are performed, or the nature of the ener­
gies of volition. The latter subtile principle
is connected with the animal organisation by a
complicated apparatus of nerves specially pro­
vided for the discharge of its important func­
tions. The whole construction of the human
frame, indeed, appears to have reference to the
due exercise of this power. By what means,
however, the stimulus of the nerves of volition
causes the muscles to contract, we are unable
to discover; and the nature of the process by
which the stimulus is conveyed from the brain
to the nerves, —the causes of its excitation
and of its duration in certain channels, and in
various degrees of energy,—are questions which
seem to be involved in mysteries far too subtile
and impenetrable for the human faculties to
elucidate.
We thus perceive that the phenomena attend­
ing the exercise of the power of volition on
material organs, present the same progressive
advances from effects to their immediate causes,
and the same fruitless search after a primary
a a 2
356 CONCLUSION.
actuating principle, which marks all our endea­
vours to discover the ultimate sources of natural
or mental phenomena. We observe, for in­
stance, the admirable disposition of the bones
and the muscles, and their beautiful mechanical
contrivances for moving most energetically with
the least waste ofpower; we are enabled to dis­
cover that the irritability of the muscular fibres
is excited, and that theirconsequent contractions
are produced, by the nerves. In examining the
nervous system physiologists have detected two
distinct sets of nervous fibres, appropriated to
volition and to sensation; and we are able to
trace the source ofboth those sets offibres to the
brain. There, however, our researches termi­
nate ; and we cannot, by the most intense appli­
cation of thought, form any conception of the
causethatcommunicatesmotionto asinglefinger.
We may, perhaps, conceive we have assigned the
cause when we ascribe volition to the power of
judgment and the imagination; but, as we know
absolutely nothing of the nature or operation
of those faculties, we are thus only referring
from one unknown cause to others equally in­
comprehensible ; and we are obliged at last to
admit the agency of some superior ulterior
power, the existence of which is inscrutable to
material beings.
Whether we consider the means by which the
matter of the human frame is assimilated, ac-
CONCLUSION. 357
creted, and organised, or the manner in which
the different organs discharge their respective
functions, we are obliged to refer those processes
to the agency of some latent power distinct from
the organs themselves. This power, it is pre­
sumed, resides in the brain; which substance
serves as the immediate agent ofperception, and
of all the moral and intellectual faculties. The
examination ofthe structure, and the analysis of
the constituent parts, of the brain, however, pre­
sent no appearances, nor indicate any inherent
qualities, which, in the mostdistant degree,corre­
spond withthe sensationswhichitsagencyexcites.
It has alsobeen shown, that the substance and or­
ganisation of the brain cannot be produced with­
out the aid of some active principle, entirely dis­
tinct from, and existing antecedent to, the mere
arrangement of material particles of which the
brain is composed. What foundation, therefore,
is there for supposing that the brain alone, ofall
the material organs, is the ultimate cause of the
functions it discharges? Whence are we led to
infer, excepting from our inability to pursue the
train of causation farther, that that organ is the
supremegovernorofallthe complicated functions
of animal and intellectual life, and is itself the
origin as well as the agent of all our thoughts,
feelings, and actions?
It has been observed, by one of the most in­
genious and zealous supporters of the system
a a 3
358 CONCLUSION.
of materialism, that “ the same kind of facts,
the same reasoning, the same sort of evidence al­
together, which showdigestion to be the function
of the alimentary canal, motion of the muscles,
the various secretions oftheir respective glands,
prove that sensation, memory, judgment, reason­
ing, thought, in a word, all the manifestations
called mental or intellectual, are the animal
functions of their appropriate organic apparatus,
the central organ of the nervous system. No
difficultynor obscuritybelongs to the latter case,
which does not equally affect all the former in­
stances j no kind of evidence connects the living
process with the material instruments in the one,
which does not apply just as clearly and as for­
cibly to the other.” *
It will be seen, therefore, from the preceding
extract, that the utmost extent to which this
zealous materialist endeavours to carry his prin­
ciples is, to establish the same relation between
the organisation of the brain and the intellectual
faculties, which subsists between the various
functions of the body and the organs by which
they are discharged. The immediately succeed­
ing passage, which we quote asbeingclearlyillus­
trative of the position we have been endeavour­
ing to maintain, shows that, aflerhaving attained
this object, he is obliged to refer to some un­
• Mr.Lawrence’sLectures on Physiology, &c.
known mysterious cause, by whose agency the
operations of the brain are performed: —
“ Shall I be told that thought is inconsistent
with matter; that we cannot conceive how me­
dullary substance canperceive, remember,judge,
reason ? I acknowledge that we are entirely
ignorant how the parts of the brain accomplish
these purposes—as weare how the liver secretes
bile, how the muscles contract, or howany other
living purpose is effected— as weare howheavy
bodies are attracted to the earth, how iron is
drawn to the magnet, or how two salts decom­
pose each other. Experience is, in all these
cases, our sole, ifnot our sufficient instructress;
and the constant conjunction of phenomena, as
exhibited in her lessons, is the sole ground for
affirming a necessary connection between them.
If we go beyond this, and come to inquire the
manner how— the mechanism by which —these
things are effected, we shall find every thing
around us equally mysterious, equally incom­
prehensible.”
Now, if it be admitted that the organisation
of the brain is of itself insufficient to develope
the intellectual faculties without the superven­
tion of some mysterious directing power, we are
at once carried, by the materialist himself, be­
yond the sphere of material systems; and we are
brought to the consideration of a subtile active
a a 4
CONCLUSION. 359
CONCLUSION.
principle, superior to organised matter. What­
ever be the presumed nature of this incompre­
hensible agent — whether it be presumed to be
material or immaterial — if the existence of a
principle distinct from the organisation of the
brain be admitted, the materialists have no
longer any foundation whereon to rest. No
conceivable combination of matter is capable of
being set in motion without a movingpower; and
whatever view we take of the question, we are
obliged to look beyond the inert matter of the
brain for the vital principle which animates and
governs the corporeal and intellectual organs of
the human frame.
The difficulties in which the materialists are
involved, in their attempts to ascribe the oper­
ations of the mind to material agency, and the
necessity in which they are placed of admitting
the existence of some mysterious governing
power to account for the phenomena of life, are
thus forcibly stated by Mr. Whewell:—“ Those
theorists who have maintained most strenuously .
the possibility of tracing the phenomena of ani­
mal life to the influence ofphysical agents, have
constantly been obliged to suppose a mode of
agency altogether different from any yet known
in physics.”—“ The history of living beings
only begins with sense and consciousness, the
developement of which is, even by the before-
named theorists, supposed to originate with some
360
CONCLUSION. 361
mode of agency different from physical causes.
Instincts, affections, passions, will, are also pos­
sessed by living beings ; and bow lost and be­
wildered do we find ourselves, when we endea­
vour to conceive these faculties communicated
by means of general laws! Yet they must be
so communicated by God, and of such laws he
isthe Lawgiver. But we have still to go farther,
and far higher. The world of reason and mo­
rality is the same creation as the world of matter
and of sense. These depend on the laws of
man's nature, no less than the laws of his mate­
rial existence or his animal impulses.” *
In commencing ourinquiries, we assumed the
fundamental truths of Natural Theology to be
taken for granted. The existence of a supreme
Creator is manifest through all the works of
nature; and the incontestible evidence adduced
by Archdeacon Paley, and by other ablewriters,
to prove the existence of a Supreme Intelli­
gence, seems to have placed that important truth
beyond the reach of controversy. If, there­
fore, the innumerable proofs of intelligence and
power in the works of Nature manifest the ex­
istence of a supreme omniscient and omnipotent
Creator, it is strictly within the range of our
present inquiry to avail ourselves of any argu­
ment that can be founded on that demonstra-
• Mr. Whewell’s Bridgewater Treatise.
CONCLUSION.
tion. Were we, indeed, to pursue the train of
reasoning which this subject suggests, we might
be led into a wide field of investigation, incom­
patible with the limits of this volume; but there
are a few considerations, wherein the proofs of
the existence of the Deity in his works ap­
pear to bear more particularly on the views
we have taken in support of the argument for
a future life, that should not be omitted in a
comprehensive survey of the natural evidence
on which that argument is founded.
In the first place, we obtain from Natural
Theology a direct confirmation of the inference
drawn from the results of all our researches—
that there is an ulterior power, operating beyond
the last point to which we are enabled to trace
material agency. Having, therefore, found that
every branch of science, and all the phenomena
of life, point to some subtile cause superior to
any which we are enabled to investigate; and
having discovered, from the evidences of Natu­
ral Theology, that there does exist a Presiding
Intelligence over the universe, omniscient to
design, and omnipotent to effect, we are con­
ducted directly to the Great Actuating Cause
that governs the infinitely varied modifications
of matter.
The relations we are thus enabled to establish
between thematerial worldandasupreme govern-
862
CONCLUSION.
ing Power, complete the chain .of evidence by
which we have endeavoured, in our previous
investigations, to connect the operations ofasys­
tem of organised matter with immaterial agency.
They afford also a most satisfactory answer to
the objection that has frequently been urged by
the materialists, “ that to adopt an opinion which
supposes material effects to beproduced by other
than material causes, is to form an hypothesis
without a single fact to support it.” So far,
indeed, is this assertion from bearing the test
of experience, that not one single material
effect can be pointed out which, when strictly
examined, will not be found to depend upon
subtile causes, distinct from our ideas ofmatter;
and when we view physical phenomena in their
relations to the presiding omniscient Power,
who made and who governs the universe, we are
necessarily obliged to refer the cause of every
material action to immaterial agency.
It is not within our province to inquire into
the nature of the soul ofman — whether it be a
direct emanation from the Deity, or whether it
be a comparativelysubordinate agent, governed,
like the material world, byestablished laws. We
know, however, that it was created by an all­
wise Power existing throughout eternity; and
whether it be a divine emanation or a distinct
immaterial principle, we cannot — on the ad­
mitted assumption that itis a creation of Divine
S63
CONCLUSION.
Power — suppose it to be otherwise than immor­
tal, without forming an hypothesis opposed to
the knowledge we have gained respecting the
properties and elements of all created things.
Another consideration suggests itself in con­
nection with the existence of an omniscient,
all-powerful, and spiritual Governor of the uni­
verse, that serves to remove any doubt which
might remain relative to the possibility of the
mind existing entirely independently of material
organisation. Though we are enabled, by at­
tentively studying the worksofNature, to attain
a knowledge of some of the attributes of the
Deity, it is utterly beyond the sphere of our
intellectual capacities to comprehend the su­
preme, mysterious, and ineffable nature of the
Divine Power. We see every where around us
convincing proofs ofa constantly sustaining Pro­
vidence, whose operations are never suspended,
and are equally apparent in the awful bursts of
the tempest, and in the refreshing shower, — in
the formation of the system of the universe, and
in the construction of the smallest leaf, —yet,
though weperceive the effects which indicate the
presence of thegreat creating Power, we see not
the Power itself. The Deity acts in ways too
subtile for the apprehension of our corporeal
faculties, and is perceptible only in his works.
Beingconscious, therefore, that the greatAuthor
of Nature produces all the wondrous and mys­
3(ik
CONCLUSION.
terious effects which we behold by means of
immaterial agency, can we hesitate to admit that
the functions of the human mind may also be
discharged by the exercise ofimmaterial power?
We cannot, it is true, conceive how sensation
can be produced otherwise than by the organs
by means of which we are accustomed to receive
impressions from external objects ; but when we
learn that infinite wisdom and infinite power are
manifested without the aid of material organs,
we must conclude that the same causes which
are adequate to produce the greatest possible ef­
fects, are also adequate to produce effectswhich
are comparatively insignificant.
In the foregoing epitome of the leading fea­
tures of the evidence in support of a future life
derived from the phenomena of Nature, we have
necessarily omitted numerous minor points, that
contribute by their accessory testimony to esta­
blish our position. The difficulty that we
have had to contend with does not arise from
any deficiency, but from the actual redundancy,
of corresponding evidence in the three divisions
of our subject, which renders the concentration
of the whole within one field of view almost
impracticable.
Had we to rely solely upon the arguments
founded on the indestructibility of matter, they
might have afforded satisfactory assurance that
the sentient principle is also imperishable. The
S(>5
366 CONCLUSION.
investigation into the subtile properties of mat­
ter, and the consideration that they are distinct
from, and independentof, the material substances
which they control, might have reasonablyled to
the conclusion that the soul is distinctfrom, and
independent of, the material organisation which
is subservient to its will. The phenomena of
life, again— which require for their first evolu­
tion a pre-existing power, distinct from the pro­
perties of matter, competent to dispose the ele­
mentary particles in their organic arrangements,
and which in their more advanced processes
exhibit the mind as distinct from material sub­
stance, and capable of acting independently of
the organs of sensation — would alone lead
directly to the conclusion that the soul is imma­
terial and immortal. When these three branches
of our subject —- each one of which is, we con­
tend, sufficient to establish a satisfactory belief
in a future state of existence— are taken col­
lectively ; and when the array of evidence they
present is viewed in connection with the funda­
mental truths of Natural Theology, the testi­
mony thus afforded ofa future state ofexistence
is scarcely less conclusive than demonstrative
proofs. It must bebornein mind, also,that each
branch of the inquiry, at the same time that it
affords evidence to establish our general argu­
ment,furnishesanswers totheprincipalobjections
that are raised against the immaterial and sepa­
CONCLUSION. 367
rate existence of the soul; for all investigations
into the properties and actions of material bodies
serve to show that the incomprehensibility and
apparent impossibility ofa state ofexistenceapart
from material organisation is not greater than
the inscrutable mysteries and apparent impos­
sibilities which surround and accompany the
causes of every phenomenon we behold.
No one, we feel persuaded, would refuse his
implicit assent to any proposition in physical
science that rested on much less solid foundation
than that afforded by natural evidence for the
belief in a future life; and shall we hesitate to
receive the proofs in the latter case, because
they affirm a proposition the most interesting
that can be submitted to the consideration of
man? Shall that evidence, which would carry
conviction in all cases connected with our rela­
tions to material creation, be deemed invalid only
when it coincides with that innate feeling which
prompts all mankind to look beyond the present
worldto anotherand asuperior state ofexistence?
It is not within the limits of the human in­
tellect to form an idea of a being existing and
receiving sensations without the aid of material
organs; and we are consequently ignorant of
the condition of such an existence after death.
We infer, however, from those considerations
respecting the immutability of the elements of
matter— and particularly from those respecting
368 CONCLUSION.
personal identity—towhichourattention hasbeen
directed, that one of the essential conditions of
a future state must be the continued conscious­
ness of a former existence. Beyond this, it is
useless to speculate.
The transition from a state of consciousness
manifested by material organisation, to a condi­
tion of being wherein the intellectual powers
are developed by immaterial agency, does not
necessarily imply the destruction, nor even the
suspension, of our existing intellectual faculties.
Several analogies may be pointed out in natural
phenomena, which seem favourableto the opinion
that death is only a preparatory change of con­
dition, analogous to that of our birth, and that
it will usher us into a new sphere of action, with
acontinuous consciousness of our existence, and
a continued exercise of our mental powers. It
has been well observed on this subject, by an
eminent author,—“ There appears so little con­
nection between our bodily powers ofsensation
and our present powers ofreflection, that there is
no reason to conclude that death, which destroys
the former, does somuch as suspend the exercise
of the latter, or interrupt our continuing to exist
in the like state of reflection which we do now.
For suspension of reason, memory, and the affec­
tions which they excite, is no part ofthe idea of
death, nor is implied in our notions of it. And
our daily experiencing these powers to be exer-
CONCLUSION. 369
cased without any assistance that we Know of
from those bodies, which will be dissolved by
death, and our finding often that the exercise of
theft is so lively to the last; these things afford
a sensible apprehension that death may not per­
haps be so much as a discontinuance ofthe ex­
ercise of these powers, nor of the enjoyments
and sufferings which it implies. So that our
posthumous life, whatever there may be in it ad­
ditional to our present, yet may not be entirely
beginning anew, but going on. Death may in
some sort, and ii^ome respects, answer to our
birth; which is not a suspension of the faculties
which we had before it, or a total change of the
state of life in which we existed when in the
womb; but a continuation of both with such
and such great alterations.” •
The knowledge that the divine, omnipotent
Creator of the universe is a spiritual Being
whom, excepting in his works, “ eye hath not
seen, new ear heard,” is sufficient to prove
that the exercise of the intellectual powers pos­
sessed by man is perfectly compatible with im­
material existence. Not only, indeed, is the
exercise of the intellectual faculties consistent
with immaterial agency, but we may reasonably
infer, from the analogies presented during the
whole course of our investigations, that when
*BishopButler’sAnalogyofReligion to the Constitution
and Course ofNature.
B B
870 CONCLUSION.
the mind is detached from matter, it will exert
its energies with greater vigour than when fet­
tered by its connection with the corporeal ma­
chine ; and that when perceptions are. received
and reflected on directly by the mind, without
the intervention of material organs, or material
processes, they will be more clear and compre­
hensive, and that the real nature and properties
of the objects perceived will be divested of that
obscurity in which they are involved when viewed
through the medium ofsubordinate instruments.
All the phenomena of Natpe point to imma­
terial agents as their ultimate causes; and as
we pursue the investigation into the more intri­
cate processes of the properties of matter, every
material and visible agent refers us to a .subtile
and invisible cause, which is past finding out.
Jt is only when we take our position on the low
level of ignorance that our views are limited to
the material objects which immediately surround
us; but when we occupy the vantage ground of
science, our views are expanded, we behold
other and more distant scenes, and the mind is
raised above this world to survey the prospect of
a superior, a better, and a more enduring state
ofbeing. . ..
In the course of the foregoing inquiries, we
have necessarily been limited, by the nature of
CONCLUSION. 371
oursubject, to the consideration of those tangible
and visible phenomena that indicate the power
and wisdom of the Author ofNature; and those
inquiries have led to the conclusion that the
soul of man is created for another state of exist­
ence. The same conclusion at which we have
arrived from the investigation of natural and
mental phenomena, might also be attained
by the consideration of the moral attributes of
the Deity. Every work of creation manifests
that the goodness and benevolence of God is to
be equalled onlafcy his knowledge and power;
and we are hencWed to infer that our capacities
for enjoyment, surpassing the gratifications of
this world, and our ardent'aspirations for a state
of future bliss, have not been bestowed on us
without an object, and that they will be realised
in some other sphere of action. The physical
and the moral government of the world concur
in pointing to another state ofexistence, wherein
the mysterious decrees of Providence and the
hidden secrets of Nature will be justified and
explained; and they thus unite in confirming the
important truth made known to mankind by
Revelation. From this view of the subject we
are, therefore, led to perceive the relations sub­
sistingbetween natural science, moralphilosophy,
and Revelation : the first guides us to a know­
ledge of a future life ; the second confirms that
truth, and teaches also that the next scene of
37* CONCLUSION.
our existence will be fitted for a higher'state of
moral and* intellectual enjoyment; and Reve­
lation informs us that the happiness or misery of
the future will depend upon our conduct in the
present world.
THE END.
Lowdov:
PrintedbyA. Sromswoanz,
New-Street-Square.
