{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__white___road_i_know.pdf","mytitle":"Road I Know","mylang":"de"}
Stewart Edward White
.,,
;'
"I've got a formulaI've worked out. I
relax my body- rock it in my cradle
of confidence - then keep justa shred
of attention to see that it doesn't foi-
low me. And then I sneak out onto
the road I know. The ROlldI K,w,w-
that's its name." -BE'ITY
E. P. Dutton and Company,
Inc.
Publishers, New York. A. o. 1942
Copyright, 1942, by
STEWART EowARD Wmra
All Rights Reseruetl
Printedin the U.S.A.
No part of this bookmay be reproduced in anyfonn with-
out permission in writing from the publisher, except by a
reviewer who wishes to quote brief passages in connection
with a review written for inclusion in magazineor news-
paper or radio broadcast.
FIRST PRINTING • •
SECOND PRINTING
THIRD PRINTING • •
FOUllnl PRINTING
nnB PIUNTING •
MARCH, 194,2
APRIL. 1942
APRIL, 1942
APRIL, 194,2
APRIL, l9-P
Stewart Edward White has also written
THE BB11 Y BOOK
"An all-eaorbing story of Psychic Developmentwhich started in
fun and ended in Philosophybridging the world of fleshwith the
world of spirit. Of interest to the skeptic, the student and the
mourner, as well as the casual reader of.thingshidden from the
avenge mind." - The Occult Digest
ACROSS THE UNKNOWN (wrm HARWooo
WBITE)
"It is an attempt to explaincomprehensivelyto the uninitiated a
glimpseof a fullerlife asprescribedby personalitiesof another and
higher life." - Sa DiegoUniun
THE UNOBSTRUCTED UNIVERSE
"This is a spiritualisticbook of an unusually philosophicnature,
and whatever may be the sourceof its argumentsthey are largely •
in harmony with the lneosophical position."
- 11,eTheosopbiclll
Forum
"Interesting and valuable for its philosophical emphasis on the
onenessof all,the reality of the spiritualand the necesity of belief
in immortalityif civili7.ation
is to find the values and follow the
principlesthat alonecan make for peace." - The Cburclmum
PuBLISHED BY E.P.DurroN & Co.,INC.
.,..
-
~
CONTENTS
..
INTRODUCTION vu
Chap. •• BETTY Page •s
Chap. z. EVERYBODY IS PSYCHIC Page 33
Chap. ·3·. BETTY'S OWN NARRATIVE Page 41
Chap. + BETrY'S OWN NARRATIVE Page 59
Cont.
Chap. S• BETTY LEARNS TECHNIQUE Page 72
Chap. 6. BETTY TAKES THE ROAD Page 81
Chap. 7• "SEEK AND YOU SHALL FIND" Page 95
Chap. 8. THE INNER CITAD~L Page 104
Chap. 9. IN-FLOODING STRENGTH Page 109
Chap.10. INHERITING THE LAW Page 121
Chap.11. LEAVING THE BODY Page 1 34
Chap.12. REST ON ATf AINMENT Page 141
Chap.13. THE NEAR COUNTRY Page 147
Chap.14- GATES BEYOND GATES Page 152
Chap.15. INVISIBLE ALLIANCES Page 170
Chap.16. HABITUAL SPIRITUAL Page 182
CONSCIOUSNESS
Chap.17. TIIE HIGHER POWER Page 192
Chap.18. THE SOURCE OF SUPPLY Page 201
Chap.19. TIIE GREAT SIMPLICITIES Page 206
Chap.20. THE NATURE OF THE SUBSTANCE Page 223
Chap.21. KINSHIP Page 230
Chap.22. RADIATION Page 244
INTRODUCTION
THEhistory of thisbook isin itselfan interesting and
amusingnarrative. After the publication of The Un-
obstructed Universe, Betty informed us that sometime
must elapsebefore she would be ready to give another
"divulgence." So it occurred to me to examine once
again the records of the work Betty did while she was
still here. Twice already they had been combed for
material- the extracts used in makingThe Betty Book
and Across the Unknown. While those two books
dealt to a large degree with Betty's training, the effort
had been to select material from a viewpoint of univer- .
sal application. Now another viewpoint might prove
valuable - that of Betty's own education irrespective
of any concern with others than herself.
Perhaps it was largely for my own satisfaction; in
any caseI did again go through the roughly million and
a quarter words that were the records of Betty's work
while here. P~ges directed at her personally, and no
one else, I red-pencilled. Next I cut them out and
pasted them seriatim. They totalled nearly two hun-
dred thousand words. For the first time I read them
consecutively; and realized that, even with no further
arrangement, I had a narrative.Furthermore, it had
growth-interest, it moved, it climaxed - most glori-
ously, I thought. Here was obviously a book to be
8 INTRODUCTION
written. Therefore, as I am a writer of books, I set
blithely about it.
No light job, I realized. I must tell the story asclearly
and simply as possible; I must be accurate, for this sort
of thing depends on its integrity; I must use, of those
two hundred thousand words, only about one-fifth,
lestthe reader be confused aswell asbored by the rep-
itition nee~ for the perfection of Betty'sinstruc-
.
non.
My first attempt was to follow chronology and to
quote from the records verbatim such excerpts as
would bestillmt:rateeach step of Betty's progr~; with.
of course, the nee~ editorial connective tisme.
That didnot work at all.Betty's instruction was indeed
from simple to complex. But definitely it was not
chronological. Her orderly graduation from grade to
grade w~ an illusion. My re-perusal of the record made
clear to me that actually, in ~nee, she was given the
whole thingat once. I can go back now and perceive
that the whole planand the whole accomplishment is
laidout in the first hundred or so pages.
In other words,
Betty was exposed to the entire experience and instruc-
tion much asa photographic 61m
isexposed - sharply
to the dot of the opening and closing of the shutter.
But, justas the image resulting is latent and must be
developed out, so was Betty's comprehension and con-
trol latent, andit too mustbe developed out Her train-
ingwas justthat.
INTRODUCTION 9
When once I had got that through my head, the rea-
son,£or a number of thingsbecame clear to me. As, for
instance, the Invisibles' maddening habit of abandon-
ing one subject for another, and yet another; return-
ing to each, apparently at random, and certainly at odd
times. Now I was able to seethat what my logical mind
had wanted to be a building process, one brick on an-
other, was in fact the aforesaid developing-out, the
whole image becoming more and more defined only
as the development proceeded. Whatever might be the
illusion of a step-by-step-graded-school; I now saw,
asI struggled to work out a chronological presentation
of the material, it came about because the Invisibles had
successively brought to major prominence, one after
the other, single details of the whole image,subduing
temporarily all the rest. But never was a detail so clari-
fied as to obviate their need for back-tracking. They
were invetenite moppers-up.
Realization that chronology offered no satisfactory
frame for this story cleared my mind for a re-write. To
do this re-write I had to use a card-index system and
fromittakeallthathadbeensaidonanyparticularphase,
whenever and wherever, and then piece it together in-
to a cohering pattern. I had already found that method
necessary in making The Betty Book, but as the latter
dealt only with beginnings, and asthis book dealt with
the whole picture, I assumed it to be outmoded. So I
did it in that sequence. For example, in dealing with
10 I N T R O D U C T I O N
some fundamental concept, such as Contact with the
Source,I mightfindit madeprominent from,say,about
page 1200 to about 1300, but already on page 4 some-
thing had been said so apposite that it must be fitted
into the later, more extended disc~on
And that did not work either. If I quoted a p~ge
entire, it was too long. Worse yet, the new sequence
could not be made to behave any more than had the
chronological method, becauseit, too, skipped about.
My brother Harwood did grand work in searching
records, correlating them, showing their connection.
I didalot of writing. At lastwe produced something-
not the right something.None the lesswe agreed to be
satisfied.And then, as I was ready to passthe manu-
script onto the publishers,Betty herself,through Joan,
of The Unobstructed Universe, turned it down fiat.It
must be done over again.
"You have," said Betty, reinforced by her coadju-
tors-I hereadopt theirown boldhabitof putting acon-
densation, though an accunite one, in quotes - "col-
lectedan admirablelot of buildingblocks.Goodbuild-
ing blocks. Your trouble is that you are trying to use
them undr~d for the job, and even yet you are in-
fluencedby the chronologicalorder of their delivery."
Now I will begin to quote the Invisibles verbatim.
"You see,Betty wasdrilled,drilled,drilledfor twenty
years,overand overagainin the samethings,with enor-
mous elaboration in her instruction. Of coursethere
INTRODUCTION II
were manyrepeats, and in manyplaces. You cannot
takeyour readersin three hoursoverthe wholeof those
twenty years.Your job isa selectivejob. You have·the
obligationto dipinto any portion for clarity.You must
pick out the bits that seem the sharpest illustration of
Betty's systematic travel of the Road - no matter
where they come. The public has to have a straight
line. It just cm't be expected to jump over twenty
years!"
-That helped.
"Furthermore," the Invisiblespointed out, "you are
not now writing a didactic book, like The Betty Book
and Acrossthe UnknO'W1l.
This isa drama,andmust be
written as such; with three Acts. Act I: How Betty
wastaught to tapthe Source.Act II: Her actualexperi-
ence after she had learned to do so.Act Ill: What she
did with it, and what it did to her. Only don't present
the narrativeasthree Acts or three Parts; obliteratethe
joints.
"Now," they further instructed,"usewhat you have
already written as building blocks. Distribute them in
three piles,as they fall under one or the other of the
three Acts. Then go ahead. And slashout all but the
best that applies."
This was the schemeof my finalrewrite. I had this
advantage: I wasin weekly touch through Joan,and so
could submit my results.Betty and her Invisiblesdid a
lot of "rejiggering," as they calledit; recasting,trans-
12 I N T R O D U C T I O N
ferring, changing phraseology. So sometimes there
may be found a slight variance in my quotation and
the original record, or a difference in sequence. And
of course it has been necessary for the sake of both
clarity and ease to condense as of one continuouc; ses-
sion the material scattered over several.
But Betty was right in her insistence on the dramatic
form. The actual process of her development is in no
sensealtered by it; rather it becomes clearer, and more
easily to be foilowed.
So this book, like the others, is a collabonition. My
brother Harwood and If or the spade work; Darby and
Joan for criticisms and suggestions; and Betty and her
Invisibles through Joan for personal supervision and
approval of the finalform.
THE ROAD I KNOW
.
CHAPTER I
BETIY
I.
I MUST write thisbook for three reasons: First, to satis-
fy numerous readers of The Unobstructed Universe-
the third of the so-called "Betty books" and dictated
by her through another psychic after her death - who
demand insistently to know "how Betty got that way";
second, to answer questions from the manywho, in one
way or another, are setting out on the pathBetty foi-
lowed; third, because in her own training Betty was
given a pattern for livingwhich could well be used by
all of us.
For one by-product of The Betty Book, and Across
the Unknuum, written before Betty's death, as well as
The Unobstructed Universe, published just eighteen
months after she died, isa widespread interest in Betty
herself. This is more than a mere curiosity as to per-
sonality. The latter is well enough defined by what
these booksreport
of her words and thoughts. Rather,
people want to know- to judge by their letters - bO'W
that personality came about. How much was her orig-
inalself? How much was of her own volitional devel-
opment? How much was due to her training by the In-
16 T H E R O A D I K N O W
visibles?1
What was that training? As applied to her,
alone, or to be aspired to by others? For of course a
gooddealof the teachings in the three books isan ac-
count of training methods for mankind in general. In
a word what hundreds of my correspondents saythey
want isa biography of Betty.
But not a biography in ordinary definition. Rather
a biography of inner life and development. What made
her what her three booksshow her to be? After all,
that isthe ~ntial aimof any biography - to evaluate
the expansion of a person's life, and to examine the in-
fluences and happenings and accomplishments that
brought thisperson to wherever he or she hadlanded
by that pausing-time we call death.
2.
Aswith most lives that grow to an ultimate fulln~,
material in Betty's case is emb~ingly abundant.
The difficulty isnot of search, but of selection and ar-
rangement. The whole record of the work Betty did
in the higher consciousness, both while she was still
here and after her death, runs to two thousand four
hundred single-spaced pages. From the two thousand
done in her lifetime I have clipped those passages that
carried individual instruction. These make over three
1 Betty'snamefor discamatepersonalides.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 17
hundred pages- all materialfrom which to select Be-
sides, there are, of course, my own recollections of
nearly forty years.And in addition, more than a year
after her death, I cameupon a filingfolder containing
a miscellanyof papersin which from time to time she
herself had set down jottings of her own attirude
toward the work shewasdoing,and the impr~on she
had of it.
So,in order to make a start, it isnee~ to adopt
a point of view.It must be this: that here isan account
of one person's psychic training for a specificjob of
what later,after her death,shewasto call"divulgence."
It is quite asidefrom the purposes- and alsothe ~i-
bilities- to do a portrait or a "character sketch" of
Betty. She was as many sided as she was femininely
elusive.When I think of attempting it, I shareher own
impatiencewith words.
"It's like trying to lookat the stars in the daytime,"
she once complained."It's perfectly clearuntil I bring
it into the daylightof words, and then it's gone.I don't
want tobesilly;but the wordsmakeonelaugh:they are
so long-drawn-outfor the amount of ideain them. It is
asimp<>Smble
to put my world2
into wordsasit isto put
the ocean in a bucket." Again and again I remember
her interrupting her reporting to expressthat despair
over the imp<>Smbility
of containing such thingsin
2 Referringto the beyond-earth consciousnessinto which she had
the ability psychically to enter.
18 T H E R O A D I K N O W
language. Nearing the end of her long experience she
wrote this, in her own person, one of the fragments I
found in her files.
"Seeing the thing makes.it too big for words; they
stumble. A condensation of words isa flat crystallized
proce~. Reality isa rounded thing, that pulses.It over-
flows the mold of words. I cannot tell what my words
are doing. I can only radiate myself. That ismy form
of expression.Take it from me asI ~: it isyours."
This givesme a glimpse for my point of view. Betty
did radiate herself. For example, many people, seeing
her objectively, remarked on how naturally and with-
out effort she assumed the age of her companions of
the moment. She could join children or old people -
or anybody between - and becomefor the time being
actually one of them. And obviously this was by no
taking thought of condescension or adjUSbllent.She
entered their world so interestedly and wholly that she
blended with it.
A friend had two children aged sixand four. In due
time the mother presented them with a baby sister; and
the happy idea occmred to her that Peter and Sally
could pick out the infant's godmother. They consulted.
"Can we have anyone we want? Anyone at all?"
they asked.
"Anyone," the mother asmred them, wondering
which of a very largefamilyof aunts and cousins it
would be.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 19
"Then we'll take Betty White," said they.
Panly because of this faculty, people flocked to
Betty with their problems and troubles. She gave them
tea - and radiated; and sympathized with them in her
way, which was not at alla coddling way, but as brac-
ing as a frosty morning. She seemed almostto avoid
feeding them specific advice; and they went away a
little puzzled over why they felt so much better about
things. Not that she had no specific advice, when it
was really appropriate. Nor that she lacked the moral
courage to speakout in meeting when - rarely - an
almost brutal bluntness would really do some good.
Three daysafter she had died a man took me aside.
"I want to tell you something," said he. "Do you
remember, a number of yearsago, how intolerant I was
of people? About little things,I mean?"
"I certainly do,'' I agreed.
"And perhaps you noticed that allat once I quit?"
"I certainly did," said I. "Everybody did."
"Well, one evening, after I'd been holding fonh
about so-and-so's lipstick, and what's-her-name's
swank and a lot of n1yusual guff,Betty took me off in
a comer. 'See here, Jim!' said she - and I'll never for-
get how she looked me in the eye - 'you are justabout
the poorest sportsman I know.' " He chuckled rue-
fully. "That put me back on my heels," said he.
I could well imagine it, for Jim
in hisday had been
a fine amateur athlete, and in sports had always held -
20 T H E R O A D I K N O W
and still holds - to the high code of the sportsman.
"I swallowed hard and asked her what she meant,"
continued Jim.
" 'I'll tell you,' said she. 'You like to put
people into c~ifications, and then you get mad at
them when they do the perfectly natural thingsthat
prove you were right!'
"That," said Jim,
"opened my eyes. Do you know,"
he went on somewhat hesitatingly, "there had always
been aword that somehow I had never found the mean-
ing for. I knew what the dictionary said, and ho,\t
people used it, and all that, of course; but what I mean
is it didn't hold a satisfying idea somehow. Didn't
click -" he floundered.
"I get you," said I. "I use 'em in my busine§ -
words." ·
"Yeah.And then I knew Betty,andwhen I saw her
sitting so smalland straight at the head of her t2ble,
and the little proud poise of her head, and her gaiety
and wit, and saw her so gracious to all sorts of people,
always, everywhere - no, gracious means condescend-
ingsomehow, it wasn't that - Well, I got themeaning
of my word."
"What was the word?" I asked.
"Aristocrat," said Jim.
I remember AustinStrong sitting silentat a gaydin-
ner party, hiselbow on the table, hischin in hishand,
watching Bettywith the playwright's lookof specula-
tion and analysis,
andfinally givingit up with a sigh.
THE ROAD I KNOW 21
"That damned charm!" he muttered, shaking his
head.
For Betty's outer person was just that. Charm -
charm and gaiety. And a delightful wit, that was wit
because of new angles of view, and of mod~ of expres-
sion so original and unexpected that the stiffest for-
malistmust yield to it. Isuppose it carried so far because
it was in no way artificial, or considered, or thought
over. It was Betty's normal language, the way she
thought, and therefore the way she spoke. Like all wit
of that kind, while unforgettable, it isequally unquot-
able. In report most of it becomes mere museum mount-
ingswithout the breath of life. But no one was ever
bored with Betty. Even though what she had to say
might be drily statistical, one found himselfalert for
what she would make of it. I lived with her thirty-five
years,and- though there was plenty more - inallthat
time I was always relishingly entertained, and contin-
ually anticipating what next.
However, it 'Yasnot the outer expression but the in-
ner person that made the charm memorable; made it
stick,asit were. Apparently people never forgot Betty.
She made an indelible impre~. After her death I re-
ceived several hundred letters - and I mean letters
pages long, not mere "notes of condolence." An extra-
ordinary number of them were from people who had
met her just onceand years before - from twelve to
to thirty-two yearsbefore - but who wrote as though
22 T H E R O A D I K N O W
her personality were to them as of yesterday. On my
return home, after her death in Upland in 1939, my
secretary told me that a very aged Negro had hobbled
in to say how sorry he was. "Mis' White, she was
folks," saidhe. Investigating,I found that this man had
given the windows of our new housetheir firstwash-
ing when the builders had cleared out, and that wasall
the contact hehad everhadwith us.The housewasfin-
ishedin 1919.
Now I amnot setting down thesethingsasa partisan
of Betty. I am her partisanof course; but my point is
that so became and so remained everyone who had
evencasualcontact with her.And, I am convinced,this
hasbeentrue, not ~ntially becauseof the outer char-
acteristics,but becauseof what she called "radiation."
This power ofradiationprobablywasinborn; the train-
ing of her Invisibleswas directed toward its conscious
unfoldment. I say it must have been inborn, for obvi-
ously there must have been something to work on,
somethingto develop.So,though this biography isof
the inner, it must be built on a foundation of outer cir-
cumstance,and we must dealbriefly with the latter.
Betty was a little woman. She alwaysfirmlymain-
tained that fivefeet washer ''officialheight." For thirty
yearsI madehera standing offer of fivehundred dol-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 23
lars- for herself or her pet charity - if measurement
would prove that claim; and a further offer of one
hundred dollars ifshe would be measured at all! These
offers she always refused with dignity. Nevertheless
her proportions were so harmonious, and she carried
herself with so spirited a lift of the head that her tiny
stature had its own unique ~rsonality. People called
her "exquisite"; I suppose that was the adjective most
often used to describe her. Also she seemed to have the
secret of perpetual youth. Until her lastillnessat fifty-
nine, her figure was as slender and well-f onned; her
hair assoft and abundant and brown - she never had a
gray hair; her skin as smooth; her cheeks as shell pink
as at twenty-five. This isnot my own - and fatuous -
opinion, but the occasion for wondering remark by so
manyof her friends that I have to believe it factually
true.
"Why!" exclaimed a visitor, seeing her in bed with
her hair about her on the pillow, "she's justlikea little
girl!,,
The statement of all this would have slight impor-
tance, were it not for the possibility- worth consider-
ing- that this too maywell be the "outward and visible
sign" of that inner thing she called radiation
- her de-
velopment of which we are to deal with in this book.
Continuing for the moment with the physical, Bet-
ty's small body was soft and feminine, but somewhere
in it - or in the spirit that animated it - dwelt a decep-
24 T H E R O A D I K N O W
rive endurance. Before my marriage I had led a rather
unusually venturesome life, in all parts of the world,
and this I continued afterward. And Betty went along.
Horse and pack in the Sierra and Rockies; the cattle
roundups of Arizona; afoot and back-packing in the
traill~ back country; canoe travel; fourteen months
of safariin Untral Africa; years of cruising along the
Pacific Northwest coast. Nor was she taken along asa
considered and pampered sightseer. NanmillyI eased
thingsfor her when I could, but often it was not ~i-
ble to easethingsat all. These were no play trips.The
mountain travel was before the days of made trailsand
guides: we carried everything we needed - even to
horseshoes - on horseback, for five months ·ata time;
we slept without cots or tents; and sometimes rode
fourteen hours of a day, and then cooked and made
camp.Arizona of thosedayshad no dude ranches: Bet-
ty slept on the ground, and arose at four to a real
cow-puncher breakfast of thin, greasy fried steakand
soggysoda biscuits, and saw no more food until night-
fall; and in the hours between rode the breakneck lava
doing her full share in the cattle drive. On foot tripsin
the woods she carried her own appropriate back-pack.
The safariof her day in Africa was no modern Cook's
tour of prearrangement: we took our bearers from the
savage tribes. As for Alaska - well, one day she went
out on a shore excursion with Charley, who issix feet
one and weighs a hard hundred and eighty pounds.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 25
Charley promisedto take good care of her. On their
return he floppedinto a deck chair.
"H ever," he criedfervently, "you get meout in the
woods again with that - with that darn little chip-
,mrnk -"
I remember at the White House seeingTheodore
Roosevelt staringacrossthe lunch table at her small
andvivaciouspersonalitydeckedin the pink thingsand
ostrich-featheredbighat of the period."I don't believe
i~" he muttered to me at last.
Her steadycooln~ and couragewere probablyalso
manifestationsof an inner quality. In strenuous out-
door life there must be emergencies.Shemet them. If
the nature of the show was one - a lion muss-upfor
instance- to which shecould not contribute, shewas
behind the guns,where she belonged, and keeping
quiet.When there wassomethingshecoulddo,shedid
it, calmly and efficiently.Sometimesthat something
took coolheadedness,
sometimesreal courage.Once in
Africa a buffaloappeared,silently,unexpectedly,ac-
tuallyto crop the top of a lowbushbeneathwhich she
was sitting. The instinctivefeminine reaction - and
the usualmasculine,I suspect- would be to squawk
and flutter, and soto be instantly crushedby hoof and
horn. Betty slowlyeasedherselfflatto the ground and
26 T H E R O A D I K N O W
lay immobile the eternity before I could get hold of a
rifle. Of a wild and stormy day that kept me close to
an ailing and uncertain engine of the little cruiser she
and Iconducted for some years up the BritishColumbia
coast, a violent sea threw her against the spokes of the
wheel where she stood at her post, breaking two of her
ribs. I did not know thisuntil we reached a port, three
days later.
"Why should I tell you?" she answered my re-
proach. "There was nothing to be done about it."
Suffering - of others - tore her heart; but she could
cut steadily and coolly into human flesh, when a back-
wood's accident made minor surgery nee~. I've
seen her cut a deeply imbedded fishhookfrom a man's
arm with entire coolness and dexterity, a lot calmer
than the man himself- until afterward! Then she
wailed.
A curious and interesting angle to this is that she
came to it not only without preparatory training or
experience, but with what ordinarily would be called
a handicap. She was raised in Newport, with subse-
quent backgrounds of fashionable hotels in Bermuda,
Florida, Jamaica, California. From babyhood to the
very noon I married her she was tagged about by a
personal Negro "mammy,"
who dressed and undressed
her, and picked up thingsafter her. Her education was
in an "exclusive" girls' school, where, she later con-
fessed, she learned "the whole of nothing."
T H E R O A D I K N O W 27
So, for a honeymoon, I took her into the Sierra
where she slept on the ground and no tent; ate camp
food of my cooking;and got along by way of ward-
robe - for four months- on what shecouldstuffinto
one smalldufflebag. This seemedto me then a nice
easytrip! I hadbeenup inthe Hudson Bayregion,car-
rying everythingI ownedonmyback;andherewehad
horsesto do the carrying, and I did the cookingand
hard work, and all Betty had to do wassit a horseand
lookat thescenery-and- oh,yes- makethebedand
help pack and do the laundry and maybe wash dishes
occasionallywhen the horsesstrayed!Taking a lot for
granted in the beginning,only years later did I realize
that I wasfavoredwith a very miracleof adaptability.
For Betty had a good time always;a joyous,zestful,
outflinging good time. She always had that, right
through life. For her the world was, indeed,full of a
numberofthings.Shescornedthethought thatit could
ever be otherwise."Old age?"sheansweredsomeone's
~imistic objection."But why oldageat all?Old age
iswhen you stoplookingat things!"
Sometimes,to teaseher, I would describeher asthe
world's greatestmongrel,and to proveit I would gab-
ble, almostin a breath, asit were, the catalogueof her
mixture.
"She ishalf-Spanish,half-Scotch.She was born on
the IsthmusofPanama,raisedinNewport, andmarried
a Westerner. Her mother wasa Roman Catholic,her
28 T H E R O A D I K N O W
father a Scotch Presbyterian, she was brought up an
Episcopalian, and now what is she?" .
And this, together with my suggestion that she was
lessthan five feet tall, she ignored with dignity.
5.
One gift,that she had always po~ed, wasgreatly
developed, or perhaps only more clearly disclosed,by
the life she led with me. That was her kinshipwith ani-
mals as well as with human beings. She understood
them, and - more important - they understood and
had confidence in her. Often I have rounded the bend
of an Alaskanriver to see Betty, sitting on a cut bank,
talking to a raven beside her. On my appearance the
bird would at once fly away - though I was,perhaps,
a hundred yards distant, and Betty but two or three
feet. We were having a good deal to do, at that time,
with the big Alaskabrown - sometimes calledKadiak
- bear, and as we were taking moving pictures and not
killing, the camera demanded much shorter range than
therifle. While these animalsby no meansdeserve their
reputation for ferocity, they are to be treated with
respect. One day Betty, walking upstream, met one of
them, somewhere between twelve and fifteen hundred
pounds of live bear, walking down stream. She stopped,
drew herself up to her full five feet(?), and pointed a
co~manding finger.
T H E B. 0 A D I K N O W 29
"Now you are a nice bear," said she, "but you go
away! Go ,way!'' she repeated more sharply.
The bearstopped, looked at her to see if she meant
it, dropped his ears exactly as a well-mannered dog
obeys, and turned off at right angles into the brosh.
After a few such experiences - not only with bear,
but with deer and other wild creatures - I beganto
~ up the movie when occasionally she would say:
"I wouldn't fool with that one, he's er~."
Quite often, when we had anchored near shore, a
yellow jacket would visit the cabin. Betty would hold
her handsabout a foot apart and extended toward the
insect, and- believe it or not - that creature would go
out of the hatch and away like a bullet .
"I justconvey to him that this isnot a nice place for
a yellow jacket to be,'' she answered our queries. But
she conf~d she could do nothing with flies.
"They are too scatter-minded," she explained.
When we married I owned a horse named Bullet.
Bullet was a wonderful mountain horse, but he de-
manded respect. Even I, whom he knew well, had to get
aboard with neatn~ and dispatch. Bullet tolerated no
sloppin~. If I fumbled or dawdled, or caught against
the cantle, or anything like that, down went hishead in
protest and up arched hisback. But he was not treach-
erous. Once I was properly in the saddle, I could do
anything the lawful occasions of rough mountain travel
demanded, even to picking thingso~the ground or dis-
30 T H E R O A D I K N O W
mounting on the wrong side,or wavingslickersto head
pack animals,or shooting a gun- anything; anything
at all. That was for me. But he was not so tolerant of
others. Indeed, I did not permit others to ride himafter
a friend of mine- a finerider - found himselfon one
sideofahighsharppicket fenceandBulleton the other,
when the dust had cleared. That is, I permitted no
others but Betty. Shecould not reach both the pommel
and the stirrup from the ground, soshewound the sad-
dle stringsaround her hand and literally shinned up
Bullet's foreleg, and Bullet turned his head to watch
benignly,standinglikea rock until shewaswell settled
in the saddle,his ears on the half-slant of virtue.
My picket-fence friend was horrified when he first
saw this performance.
"It's criminal!" he expostulatedvehemently. "Some
day he'll killher."
But I knew better, and sodid Betty. And sodid Bul-
let
Anecdote of thissort I could recallby the score.But
one other picture seemsto insist.One daythe Austin
Strongs, Betty and I were wandering through San
Francisco's open-air zoo. Betty was some distance
ahead of us. We saw her stop for a long time before a
cage in which dozeda great lion, boredly obliviousto
the throngs of peoplepassingor trying vainly to attract
his attention. After a time Betty walked away. That
lion opened his eyes,got to his feet, foilowed to the
T H E R O A D I K N O W 31
end of the cage, lifted his head staringafter the tiny
figurejustasfar ashe could see her in thecrowd. Then
hesighed,lay down again, and closed hiseyes.
We pursued Betty.
"What were you doing to that lion?" we demanded.
"I made him pictures," said she simply, "pictures of
the African veldt."
6.
I shall get no further piling up such incidents. After
all it is not really a portrait that is intended, but only
to show a training in spirituality. Granted that spiritu-
ality is,as Betty expresses it, such a "skiddy" word, its
avowed practitioner isordinarily looked upon assome-
one apart from hearty living. I have sought to suggest
that Betty was in no senseapart- apart from anything.
She had a healthy and holy horror of anything resem-
bling asceticism. She used and enjoyed to the full all
of human life. "Asceticism means you are afraid of
something," she pointed out. She had an equal horror
of any taint of superiority, of the "teacher" attitude.
Zest;joyousness; the glow of radiation; a genuine
love "for all things great and small." Simple elements
of personality, but rarely to be met unalloyed.·People
felt the rarity, without recognizing it.
One day, months after Betty's death, I was driving
32 T H E R O A D I K N O W
home from the city, with a friend - a business man.
"Wasn't it wonderful," he said out of a prolonged
silence, "that they loaned us Betty for a little while."
CHAPTER II
EVERYBODY IS PSYCHIC
l.
THERE mayhave been, in the world's history, others
who have been asrigorously and systematically trained
as was Betty for her especial job of divulgence. If so
the details of their training, ifrecorded, have not come
to my attention. The capacity for mediumship is be-
yond question a natural gift. But, like any other natural
gift,it is of itself imperfect, unreliable in detail. Above
all, without intelligent cultivation, it does not progress.
Used prematurely or exc~ively it often appears to de-
teriorate, perhaps finallyto atrophy to nothing. There
is close analogyto a natural singing voice that is used
too soon or too much. No reasonable teacher allows
that. He wants reliability, stability, and progress.
Now Betty had this natural gift of mediumship to
a high degree. But until 1919 nobody - not even she or
I - recognized it technically. Her friends knew her as
one with exquisitely delicate human sympathies and re-
lationships, extraordinarily sensitive and responsive to
the deeper beauties of life, and possessedof almost un-
canny intuitions. Then occurred the small "chance"
experience which presently she herself will describe.
34 T H E R O A D I K N O W
Shefound herselfunexpectedly
in what iscalled"psy-
chic" touch with an unseen world.
This is, of course, no very unusual occurrence. In-
deed, since I came out openly on the whole subject, I've
had so manypeople write me and recount their own
experiences, that I am almost tempted to say it isanither
common occurrence! But most such persons run a
standardized course.
As it ordinarily goes, the psychic gets in touch, by
one technique or another, with what seemsindubitably
to be discarnate intelligences. These latter give "com-
munications." Sometimes these communications are
convincing enough to withstand skilled and dispassion-
ate appraisal of genuineness; though even then, more
often than not, they show a strong dash of "coloring"
from the medium's subconscious. Both the new-fledged
medium and the sitters are enormously impressed.
They feel that to them isbeing confided a message of
sacred trust. The world must be told of it! Indeed, not
infrequently they feel they have been especially in-
structed to go fonh and proclaim. The psychic has
said - and the statement has been accepted at face val-
ue - "you are chosen" to give fonh a revelation. Na-
turally this sense of almost sacred obligation results in
a book or pamphlet, generally privately printed, dis-
tributed in all good faith, and with all confidence that
it isgoing to arouse said world. Its failure to do so isa
most disheartening and disillusioning puzzle.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 35
It should not be. There are really only two things
wrong in the experience, though nine-tenths - per-
haps even a larger percentage - of the effort istrue and
constructive.
One of the two things is the asmmption that the
c,m~ge" is intended for the world. That is natural
enough. Indeed, haven't they been so told? It isflatter-
ingto be especially "chosen," and what reason, asyet,
is there to doubt? But I am sorry to saythat long and
varied experience hasmade me leery of justthat state-
ment It occurs too often. I am convinced it indicates
either that the whole occurrence isphony, or that the
medium's subconscious isat work. Not that the medi-
um isreally at fault, or exhibiting undue egotism. The
material given isindeed important, if only a recasting
of proverbial wisdom; and that importance exagger-
ates itself in the medium's subconscious. The "mes-
sage" isreal, but it is not addressed to the world; it is
addressed to justthose few people of that small group,
fitting their need for the couching of old truths in lan-
guage appropriate to their understanding; and ismeant
only for their own development and unf oldment. They
are getting personal attention. It fitsthem. Alsomany
others inthe world are getting personal
attention. Very
rarely, and only in emergency of world need, is the
divulgence intentionally conveyed in such form as to
merit widespreadacceptance.
That iswhy suchbooks as Margaret Cameron's The
36 T H E R O A D I K N O W
SevenPurposes,
Lodge'sRaymond, inspiteofallitsob-
vious "coloring," and the anonymous Our Unseen
Guest commandeda public. An emergency existed.
In Betty's casethere seemedto be no such urgency.
Quite the contrary, indeed.Nor were we told that we
were especially selected, except for our own sakes.
And it was nearly eighteen years before we were al-
lowedto think the job was in any way public.
The Betty Book did not come out until 1937, and
that, I think, was conceded rather to satisfyour own
uneasinessover the enormousaccumulationof record,
than becauseof any desireon the part of the Invisibles.
Beforethat they hadappeasedour instinct for order by
helpingusput together an arrangementof the teaching
comprisedin the firstfour hundred pagesof records,
covering the firstyear and a half. This was duplicated
in fifteen or twenty mimeographedcopies,and had a
wide lending circulation among personal friends and
acquaintances.It was the basison which - in 1935 -
somefifteenyearslater - we beganto build The Betty
Book. By that time the records had grown to 1993
pages.Nevertheless,we were held,in The Betty Book,
to the materialof that firstyear and a half - approxi-
mately thosefirst400 pages.Only a primer was called
for, said the Invisibles,hinting - but vaguely - that
the more advanced work would be collatedand dealt
with later. The "primer" was not actoally published
until 1937.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 37
Encouraged by its reception, my brother and I
plunged into selecting from the now bewilderingly
abundant material, and emerged with the compilation
we called Across the Unknown. This dealt with Betty's
later experiences. It by no means exhausted the rec-
ords, but we had more or less caught up to Betty, so
to speak, and now we could go on with her in what-
ever were to be her further explorations. That looked
like the job; and a good job it was.
Therefore when Betty fell so desperately ill, in 1938,
we had every confidence in her recovery. She had been
rigorously and carefully trained for twenty years, and
seemed to us just to have arrived at the point of her
real effectiven~ as a tool: surely that tool must be
put to use! It did not make sense otherwise. Neverthe-
lesswhen she did die, we had no feeling of frustration.
The very circumstance of her death appeared to point
the climax of truth to the whole episode of her long
training. I wrote of that in the final chapter to Across
the Unknown. I have quoted from it once before in
The Unobstructed Universe. Neverthel~, here, for
the third time, it appears in print as nee~ back-
ground to the whole picture.
"You know," I wrote of my experience immediately
following her death 1
, "the cozy, intimate feeling of
companionship you get sometimes when you are in the
same room; perhaps each reading a book; not speaking,
1 For the whole passage,
see Across the UnknO'W'fl,
page331 et seq.
38 T H E R O A D I K N O W
not even looking at one another. It is tenuous, an eva-
nescent thing - one that we too often fail to savor and
appreciate. Sometimes, in fact, it takes an evening or
two of empty solitude to make us realize how substan-
tial and important it really is.
"Well, within a very few minutes that companion-
ship flooded through my whole being from Betty, but
inanintensity andpurity of which I had previously had
no conception. It was the same thing, but a hundred, a
thousand times stronger. And I realized that it more
than compensated for the little fact that she had stepped
across, because it was the thing that all our physical
activities together had striven for, but - compared
with this - had gained only dimly and in part. Why
not? Actually it was doing perfectly what all these
other things had only groped for. So what use the
other things? and why should I missthem?
"Does this sound fantastic? Maybe; but it isas real
and solid asthe chair I amsitting on. Somuch so that I
have never in my life been sofilledwith pure happin~.
No despair; no devastation; justa deeper happin~ than
I have experienced with her ever before, save in the
brief moments when everything harmonized in fulfill-
ment.
"This,I now believe, isthe 'great blo~m' of which
the Invisibles spoke: the final significance to which all
of Betty's twenty yearsof work was to lead. Here is
her concrete proof of one reward that can come to
T H E R O A D I K N O W 39
those who follow in her footsteps, her finalevidence
that her instrument of twenty years' forging isstrong
enough to withstand the supreme test."
Sowe imagined the job finished - except perhaps in
the funher use of material from the records. Then oc-
curred my visit to renew friendship with Darby and
Joan,of Our Unseen Guest, and through Joancame
Betty's "divulgence" of that amazing book, The Un-
obstructed Universe. Soon it was blazingly clear that
without Betty's twenty years of traininghere in our
obstructed universe such a "divulgence" would have
been totally im~ible from her present unobstructed
phaseof livingthere: that it would be equallyimpo~-
ble for her to have given it from here; that - obscurely
to us at first,but evident to us now - all along she and
Joan
had been developing apart asateam now to work
together. That the job had justbegun! As an end of
effort the previous two books fell into relative unim-
portance. They had been only indirectly part of the
intention.
"They were partsof my trainingthat happened to
get published," said Betty, while giving The Unob-
structed Universe. Shedidnot deny the value so many
people found in them: they were - and are - worth
40 THE ROAD I KNOW
while. "But," said she, "they should really be read
·after this one."
Curiously, as it seemed to us at the time, she had
never taken much partnor great interest in the writing
of the first two books, either on her own, or when she
was working in her "other consciousness" with the In-
visibles. "These books," she told us - from that other
consciousn~ - "are not intended to reach manypeo-
ple -yet."
But of the third book, from the very start, she, now
a permanent dweller in the other consciousn~, con-
fidently predicted, "this isgoing to makea fflr"; "this
isgoing to be taken up by the scien~." We flatlydis-
believed her. Fully as we recognized the novelty and
value of the book's contents, we considered it limited
in appeal to the smalland very specia1izedpublic al-
ready interested in such things. We were wrong. It
sold twelve printings in its firstthree and a half months;
it elicited literally hundreds of letters; it has been
preached on from many pulpits. And, as for the scien-
tists,I have dozens of letters, from all varieties of them,
some of each sort prof essin~to find in the book revo-
lutionary principles that open to them new fields in
their own specialties.
In view of this, and in view of the fact that Betty
promises us further "divulgence" in due time, an ac-
count of her twenty years of rigorous preparation,
seemsnow to be strongly indicated.
CHAPTER III
BETTY'S OWN NARRATIVE
l.
A FEW monthsago,and quite by chance, I came across
a number of folders in which Betty had filed a ~ of
papers and notes.Among them were sheets on which
she had written down - apparently at irregular inter-
vals - her own personal impressions concerning all
this long arduous discipline and unfoldment. They are
fragmentuy and undated. I think perhaps they were
notes for a personal narrative which was never und~r-
taken. They do, however, give an invaluable back-
ground for the account of her training drawn from
the actual records. The following - as far as it goes -
iswhat Bettyherself, in her own normal person, wrote
of her thoughts and impressions concerning her experi-
ence. It is as she wrote it, except that I have here and
there inserted a word obviously intended, or rear-
ranged cemiin material out of logical order. But in no
case have such slight alterations changed the sense.
2.
"Most ofus," her notes began, "come into contact,
42 T H E R O A D I K N O W·
sooneror later,with someonewho hashadexperiences
of a startlingnature, somethingthat pointsto the exis-
tence of powers beyond those we ordinarily po~.
If suchan experiencehappensto us personally,
it isall
the morearrestingbecausewe are forced to believein
it and try to explainit. Few thingsthat canhappento
usin the courseoflifeareasthrilling- in the true sense
of the word - asstaggering,astheseglimpsesof an ex-
tension of our powers. Somethinglong buried in us
seemsto cometo the surfacetemporarilyand convince
usthat the thing experiencedisquiteJ><>mble
and true.
I say temporarily, because at first it has tremendous
tides.The high tide of our first enthusiasmhasan ebb
that drainsaway everything,leavingusfar away from
the originalfloodinginspiration.Then everythinggoes
cold, flat and hopelesslyinaccessible,if not actually
repellent.
"It seemsthat the developmentof thesehigherpow-
ers within us runs a definite course, with symptoms
almostasrecognizableasmeasles.Exaltationandsecur-
ity; then flat-tiredincapacitiesof allkinds,and doubt.
After sufferinglong from eachsymptom,asif it were
fatal,I havetried to sumup the wholeexperiencefrom
the vantagepoint of ten yearsof constantstruggle.
"Why the struggle? I do not know. ~rtainly
neithersorrownor lackof life'sexperiencesturned me
to it. It must be born in people.Perhapsit was a gift
from a longlineof Scotchancestors,allof whomseem
T H E R O A D I K N O W 43
to have had to struggle thus. At anyrate, it has all hap-
pened along with an exceptionally busy adventure-
some life, and a happily married one.
"To tidy up the subject in my own mind I have
hunted up some notes written in the very beginning
of my psychic experiences.
"One night during dinner we and a friend disc~ed
a psychic book I had been reading. The friend then told
of her succ~ in R~ia at moving tables and we were
inspired to try it ourselves, solemnly swearing 'on
honor' to be honest in the experiment. After dinner the
lampswere put out and by the firelight, kneeling
around a small table, with tips of fingers touching the
top and our little fingers joined, we three sat quietly
waiting. After a brief wait we were thrilled by a
strange feeling of vitality in the table and movement
began. Until midnight we experimented, too spell-
bound with our own astonishing success to carry out
our original engagement to go to the 'movies.'
"The table tipped once for yes and twice for no, and
moved around the room in designated directions. Next
we tried pencil and paper and had a little succe~.
Heans were repeatedly drawn, 'love' and 'Helen' writ-
ten, and a few uncertain attempts at words. These were
done with a pencil held in one person's hand, with an-
other person's hand placed lightlyupon it, the elbows
off the table.
"On a subsequent evening some friends came to call,
44 THE ROAD I KNOW
bringing with them a Ouija board. With the usual pro-
tective veneer of suppressed hilarity, we proceeded to
experiment with this.We tried the board with different
combinations of people, receiving a jumble of sense
and nonsense, vague advice on busin~, unremem-
bered anecdotes of childhood playmates. Some of the
names spelled out were familiar and others strange. The
impression left was one of confusion, but alsoa certain
bewildering credence. The first thing that really
moved me was a message from my old colored nurse,
an adored foster mother, who was with me from my
binh to my marriage. Then came my mother, who
had died in my babyhood, and called me daughter, a
name strangely novel and beautiful to me asI had never
known my parents. She urged me to try writing with
a pencil.
"This in private I tried to do, with growing success
each day. At firstthe letters all ran along together and
had to be separated into words. I kept my eyesclosed
in order to free my mind of all outside distractions, but
this was not so necessary later except when my atten-
tion wandered or became concentrated on the words
being written. The messages were very simple ones
urging me to continue, but they brought me a strange
and beautiful elation. My mother confirmed my life-
long impression that my family (nearly all of whom
had died in my childhood) had been watching over
me and tryingto influenceme for years.I waspath et-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 45
ically, almost frantically implored to have patience,
faith and persistencein spiteof failureor interruptions
from oppoc;iog
forces.Great insistencewasmadeupon
practice, constant practice, and keeping my mind a
blank.
" 'This is only a weak beginning.You will develop
rapidly ifyou willonlyfollow our influence.Will you
makea littleshrineof yourselffor usto work through?
There are many of us trying to get at our loved ones.
After a whileyou will be ableto talk and act with us.
We want you to begin to practice givingyourself up
to ussothat we can talkthrough you. It will takesome
timefor you cannotknow our laws.Sitquietlyawhile,
think of cosmicthings, we will help.'
"In the meantimea telegramhad comewith the sad
news that Lizzie,a much lovedand devotedfriend and
retainerofthe family,hadhadastrokeof apoplexyand
wasunconscious.I askedthe Ouijaboard1
ifshewould
recover.
"'Do not worry, she will not suffer long, she will
come to us in ten days,'the board answered.
"I said,'Are you sure?'
"'About,' was the answer. In twelve daysshe was
dead.
1 But by this time Betty had, I though~ abandoned
the Ouija
board for automatic writing. This maybe a slip on her part, or
she may indeed have recurred for this purposeto the earlier
method.
46 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"At about thistime, also,camea sudden written mes-
sagefrom Stewart's father, asking himto give financial
aid to a friend of ours who needed capital to give him
a businessopportunity.
" 'Write a letter at once, now,' the m~ge urged, 'it
isa question of time.'
"We were at that moment in a friend's camp at some
distance from a post office,with no known communi-
cation that day,but no sooner was the letter written
than a man arrived who was delivering something and
returning at once, and to himwe entrusted the letter.
Later it proved that time was an important element in
receiving the infonnation regarding the loan.
"These circumstances, or coincidences, if you pre-
fer, had at least the effect of arousing our interest. We
determined to investigate slowly and carefully and
honestly each step, not letting ourselves he carried
away by anydesire of our own to believe or disbelieve.
"Mediumship was now being urged upon me in the
m~ges. My first and second efforts at this caused a
strange semation of being lifted out of myself and al-
most slipping over the edge, as when justlosing con-
sciousne~ under ether. Before letting me go, however,
Stewart demanded assurance that I was really in the
hands of my friends and for this purpose asked for a
test. His father was asked to give the name of an old
lumbennan employed years ago, a name unknown to
me. A curious jumble of names of old 'lumber jacks'
T H E R O A D I K N O W 47
came, all unknown to me, some of them known to
Stewart, but the desired name did not come and the test
failed.
"The next day thiswas written. 'It willbe impomble
for us to answer the tests for the present, because your
father isnot yet in our sphere and cannot communicate
directly; as soon asthat ismade po~ble we will be able
to convince you. At present it would only confuse you
and not add to your faith. It is disappointing to us to
have the delay, but we understand and do not blame
you. It willbe invaluable to have Stewart for us, so we
must wait. We will let you know when we are ready
for the tests. In the meantime we will write you regu-
larly and try. to prepare your mind for what we want
you to do.We willnot make you nervous.We promise
that, and that no evil will come to you, for there are
too manyof us working over you. That is the great
strength and hope of your particular case. It isall for
your happin~. Dear child, fear not; tell Stewart to
give you up to our care every day for a little while.
From earliest times in the history of the race a few
have experienced what you are now doing. It is now
daily becoming more common, and we hope soon to
be acknowledged before the world.
" 'Give your mind to thoughts of our love for you
and yours for us. It isthe stepping stone which brings
us safely acr~. We cannot succeed without that. Love
isa powerful medium of communication. So much de-
48 T H E R O A D I K N O W
pends on you, we can only succeed if you do your
part.'"2
"During this time and subsequently," Betty's notes
go on, "my mind was exalted with my secret. I was
supremelyhappy. There followed,however,a sinking,
haunting period of lack of faith in myself.All I had
ever learned of the subconsciousmind tormented me
with questionings.Could I be hypnotizing myselfwith
this thing? The beautiful nearn~ and protection,
which had been a lifelong companionship, cherished
in the very fiberof me8
, suddenlyfellaway, leavingme
lonesomeas a deserted soul. This temporary lossand
struggle, in milder form, took place again and again
after receivingvariousfalsepredictions.
"Severalbooksof similarexperiencesread about this
time, and a wholesomeand too lively senseof humor
which occasionallybrought on a childish and rather
hysterically amusedattirude towards the whole affair
undoubtedly savedme at this period.
"My first experienceof this kind of falseprediction
was astounding. I had asked a very foolish question,
'Will I havea long life?' The answerwas,'You will die
2 All this - the table tipping, Ouija board, the visit to the friend's
camp, the death of Lizzie - I recall as having happened in 1919.
-S.E.W.
8 Betty had always, though vaguely, felt herself under the care
of the unseen. S.E.W.
THE ROAD I KNOW 49
of cancer of the stomachin ten months.' Feelinga great
personalinterest in this statement and that something
reallyshouldbe doneabout it, I rallieda little efficiency
and askedif I should go and have an X ray taken. The
answer was rather blighting to a happy psychic, 'No,
it will do no good.'
"I wasnot particularly dep~d by this,strange as
it may seem.My principal impr~ion was that it was
really sid for Stewart and that I must certainly hurry
and finishup a lot of things at looseends. It was hon-
estly rather an exciting stimulating thought and if I
could only persist in it efficiency would be tremen-
douslyincreased.At once,however,alesshwried hand
wrote, 'You will livemany happy years.'
"This was my first experience with what I later
learnedto callthe 'BlindForces.' I had been repeatedly
warned to maintain my faith in spite of interruptions
from opposing forces, so I was not altogether unpre-
pared. A number of almostchildishpranks followed at
intervals.Curiouslyenough,insomethere seemedto be
an element of truth, perverted in transmismon.For in-
stance, while sitting at a table in a hotel dining room
my hand had a feverishly insistent desire to write. I
took a menu, and on the back, with a haste which
cramped my hand, received this message,'Your Aunt
Nina isin danger. She isin an automobilewreck. It is
on the gradeeast of Hollywood (thisafter aslighthesi-
50 T H E R O A D I K N O W
tation). Bertha will be injured. You will be called on
the telephone to go to them. Do not leavethe hotel this
afternoon.We did not forseeit.'
"Shortly afterwards my Aunt and Bertha rangup
and talked to me on the telephone, as hale and hearty
as ever. On returning home, however, I found that at
the time my butler and hiswife had been in an automo-
bile wreck which proved very serious for her, poor
girl,asher face was badly scarred for life.
"A rather amusing prediction received in the same
hurried manner while on a street car and written on a
paper tom from a package, announced that there
would be a change in my fortunes; that I was to be left
a large sum of money by someone the spirits had ad-
vised to leave it to me for their work. Rather a moral
lecture foilowed, telling me to decide what was the
most far-reaching benefit I could confer with it, and to
act while I was in my prime; and givingme clearly to
understand that I was not to use the money for myself
in any way; that they would keep a suspicious eye on
me. It continued, 'You do not believe, you are not as
excited about thisaswe are. We &houldlike to talk to
you more about this wonderful gift, but you seem
apathetic,' as indeed I was, for I knew that it was not
true. At the end, 'This is not true, Mother,' was
written.
"I felt quite resentful and indignant over these
things,even though I had been more or I~ prepared
TH E RO AD I KNOW 51
to expect them, or someform of 'interference.' Grad-
ually,however,my faith grew until, even in the midst
of my indignation over what seemed a very flagrant
case of attempt to deceive me, I still never doubted
that an explanationwould be given, and my desireto
continue wasasstrong asever. Only the surfaceof me
demanded that I assumean injured frame of mind, as
of avirtuouspersonbadlytreated. Always,too,Iguard-
ed myself againsttoo easycredulity. The etiquette of
my world required certain apologies,but the supreme
court within mewas rather lenientaboutthe wholedis-
gracefulaffair.There wasno needin beinghuffy about
it for no satisfactoryapologieswere given, outside of
vagueremarksabout thesescapegoatforces every fail-
ure ishung on.Asfor examplethus- 'the forceswhich
intruded onyou yesterdaywill not be allowedto make
an attack upon you again.' I preserveda dignifiedand
judicialsilenceasthere seemednothing elseto do.This
promise of better protection was faithfully kept, for
on two eveningssoonafter this,when the writing fal-
tered or becametense,the pencilwasforcibly knocked
out of my hand. The false messageshad always been
delivered with feverish haste and great force in con-
trast to the calmand deliberationof other communica-
tions,especially
thosefrommy father. This 'cutting-in'
haste had the virtue of making me able to recognize
instantlyanddiscountanything thusreceived.The imi-
tation high moral tone adopted in the announcement
52 T H E R O A D I K N O W
of my comingfortune was particularlyabsurd. After
the firstirritation had ~d, it seemed rather humor-
ous to me and I felt asifdealing with children who had
dressedup'to playladyand go calling.'"
I want to break in on Betty's manuscript at thispoint
to emphasize the strength of the opposing cw-rents
againstwhich she,persisted. As she says, the communi-
cations themselves were sprinkled with inconsistencies
and crude falsifications for which, as yet, no sufficing
explanations - or apologies - were offered. And she
had not, of course, yet learned to edit such thingsout.
I should not have been much surprised if she had
chucked the whole thing. It took some resolution to
set aside, from an exceptionally busy and colorf ul life,
so much time for anything so unreliable and doubtful.
For her life was indeed busy and colorf ul.California
in winter attracts a great variety and number of people
from all over the world. Our friends derisively nick-
named our house "The White Hotel" because of the
ahnostcontinuous occupation of our guestrooms. We
gave dinners- many of them - and because we invited
people in order to know them, we never set table for
more than ten. Betty served tea every afternoon, SOOn
attracting her own little circle of the faithful who came
as often as they could without shame. And beside the
T H E R O A D I K N O W 53
regulars she used that hour to entertain such visitors as
she could not quite work in on the "hotel" or a dinner.
The flow through our house was almost continuous.
We had about everything - writers, soldiers, states-
men, ranchmen, cowboys, fishermen, artists, stage
people, a Japanese ambassador, a Persian mystic, a Cel-
aneseprince. No end to them. A brilliant company on
the whole; a congenial company too, made so by Bet-
ty's uncanny ability to lift people to their own tops.
The graceful and gracious conduct of this constantly
shifting socialmenagerie would seem a full-time job,
but it was actually only one side isrue of Betty's many
lively interests. She had three acres of garden which
she managed with the labor of one man - and it was
her garden, not a gardener's garden - minutely dia-
grammed by her, down to the planting of the last
pansy,on huge sheets of wrapping paper. With a truly
prof ~onal eye she took into account color, height,
background, arrangement, the seasons.And the results
she achieved brought her literally dozens of blue rib-
bons in competition with the big estates employing as
many asten gardeners. In thisgarden also she collected
and acclimated rare foreign plants and shrubs - con-
cerning which even yet I am called upon to write very
ignorant replies to enquiring scientists. It was thiscol-
lection which gained her, in the U.S. Department of
Agriculture,the unsought listing as AgriculturalEx-
plorer. In addition she was very active in our local Gar-
S4 T H E R O A D I K N O W
den Club, injecting into its numerous affairscertain
quaint andBettyishconceitsof her own. For example,
she established(for the AnnualFlower Shows) an es-
pecial award which was known as the SmellTrophy
to begivenfor that arrangementjudged to produce the
most pleasing blend of perfume! And another - in
cash- to the sculptor submitting the designfor a bird
fountain, faucet head, or what-not which was at once
the most artistic and could be the most cheaply repro-
duced. All this likewisewould seem to be a full-time
job.
But shehad justasmuch interest and zestto put into
allsorts of other outlets for her insatiableenergy. She
wove textiles of her own designs;she had a potter's
wheel and did somereally charming original pottery;
she modelled in clay. She was deeply interested in
Oriental Art of which she made a seriousstudy. She
wrote - for her own satisfaction,since she showed it
to nobody - the gayest light verse. I found dozensof
such poems, goodones, among her papers. She even
had a flair for catching essentialswith spirited, quick
pencil sketches,a talent I had not suspecteduntil one
day in Alaskaafter we had been married sometwenty
years. Something comical in a bear's movements
amusedher and she recorded the beast'sattitude with
a few quickstrokes.And allthesevariousaptitudesshe
used merely for her own amusement.It seemednever
to occur to her to show them to anyone; and she was
T H E R O A D I K N O W SS
alwayssurprisedwhen I insistedon bringing them out.
It was as though they were simplythe varied expres-
sion of one essentialthing within her, sothat it did not
particularly matter what mediumshe happenedto use.
She never took any of them ponderously, nor did she
pursueanyofthemtoo single-mindedly.Butthey were
part of the "busyness" of life to which she refers.
And lastly,justfor full measure,shedid a great deal
in socialservice and charity work - tubercular chil-
dren, the unemployedbefore the daysof Government
relief, and the like.
This for sevenor eightmonthsof the year.Summers
we cruised,up the PacificNorthwest Coast.
Aswe did
our own navigation, and had a vivid side interest in
everything from diggingclamsto chasingafter whales,
these months also had a considerable "busyn~". So
when I say that throughout all these twenty years,-
from 1919 to 1939, - Betty never failedto findat least
one hour every day for thismysteriouswork to which
shewas summoned,the strength of its compulsioncan
be understood.
4·
"Remembering the daily anxiousmes§ges I had re-
ceived beggingme to go on in the face of discourage-
ment," Betty's own manuscript continues,"I went on
with my experiment.There was a lack of my former
56 T H E R O A D I K N O W
enthusiasm, however, and this evidently reacted on
the communications, which were labored and had not
the interest of previous ones. I took up my pencil list-
lessly,always on guard to repel marauders. In my wan-
ing faith I demanded some material proof.
'' 'Convince me that you are here,' I said. 'Move my
arms or legs. Make me feel your presence.'
"A sensation ensued of strong currents running
through me, but I could not be sure that it was not men-
tal suggestion. Stewart's arms were twisted and jerked
around asif he were going through calisthenics and his
hands were involuntarily clenched' ..Immediately I re-
ceived the foilowing in writing:
" 'You will not have any succ~ with such manifes-
tations.We do not especially recommend trying them,
we are not after that kind of mediumship; we want to
protect you more or less against justsuch thingsand
keep our oWn private wire under proper control and
insulation. It may be a comfort and pleasure to feel that
way - that we answer and are near - but how can
you be sure who it isanswering you? It isthe cheapest,
easiest form of communication. We are building up a
different variety for you and your uses. It isa far more
delicate mechanism and so more difficult to manipu-
late. It will, however, be much more reliable.'
4 Up to this time Bettyhad, in general, worked alone, with auto-
matic writing. However, I was now "sitting in", as a spectator.
The sensation of what she described was similar to the muscle-
jerk induced by an electric current.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 57
"We asked the question, 'Who isjerking Stewart's
muscles?'
"'An experimental pest,' was the answer. Not until
sometime later did anyinvoluntary movement of mus-
cles come to me and then it was unsolicited. A rare
occurrence.
"Until the beginning of my second period, nearly a
month later, thisanaemic uncertain frame of mind pos-
~d me. It may have been due to lack of physical
vitality, for I wasvery tired.
"That I ~d not abandon the experiment altogether
as a dangerous,uselesspursuit - as so manydo at this
period - waspartly due to an obstinate disposition and
partlyto Stewart's interest and encouragement- com-
bined, of course, with that of my spirit family. Grad-
ually the fog was lifted. By rereading the communica-
tions, piecing together bits of advice sent me in regard
to control of my own mind and spirit, and by the slow
subtle imp~ions that came to me, I worked out a
crude sort of formula for myself. All of a sudden it
was succ~ and the pall was thrown off me."
All I haYe quoted in the foregoing was written as
one piece. Betty's own phrase - "this iswritten after
ten yearsof constant stntggle" - dates it as done in
1929. The internal evidence of the context indicates
58 T H E R O A D I K N O W
that shewasdealingwith only the beginnings,for she
had graduated from automatic writing by the first
months of 1920. Her training in the technique of re-
ceivingand ~ing on what shewas taught and what
sheexperienced,wasmerelyanecessaryadjunct to her
realjob of growth and development.I shallsketchthe
latter processin due time;but firstlet usfoilow out all
Betty herselfhadto say,in her ownperson.
CHAPTER IV
BETfY'S OWN NARRATIVE (Continued)
I.
INthe samefilethat contained the materialembodied
in the lastchapter I found anothermanuscript,dealing
with the samesubject-Betty's beginningsin thisjob
of unfoldment, and how and why she undenook it.
The onealreadyquotedwas written in 1929.This one
must havebeen done earlier-in 1922. NeverthelessI
think they mustbe readin thisreverseorder. The em-
phasisof the 1929 document is on externals, so to
speak,while the earlierone dealsmore with the inner
imp~.
"For alongtime,"thismanuscriptbegins,"there had
beenanuneasysensewithinmeof havingstrayedfrom
the path I desired.I did not try to think it out, I just
drifted along.
"During my long wanderingsunder wide skies,in
silentplaces,the accumulateddust of civilizedmatter-
of-fact life was wiped off.The freshnew surfacewas
moresensitiveto reflectionsfrom the bigsimpleforcC$
60 THE ROAD I KNOW
aroundme,andgraduallymy oldoutlookwasreplaced
by a wider vision.It happenedquitesimplyand narur-
ally, without any attitudinizing. I began to grow up.
"Whenever we returned from the isolationof our
wildernesstravel, I took up worldly affairswith en-
thusiasm,but eachtime certain thingsgrew a little I~
satisfactoryand other thingsvaguelydistasteful.Then
camethe war to teach usreality.
"After it wasoverwe lookedagain at our individual
lives.I knew the secret of my vaguediscontent.I had
rediscovered the immense possibilities- outside of
selfn~ - in what we vaguelycallthe spirit.I felt my
feet on the road for which I had searchedall my life.
The vast accumulated experienceof the world had,
oddlyenough,beenadmittedonlyto thesurfaceofmy
mind, and had left little impresson my heart. Like a
child who, with wonder and fascination, discovers
that water iswet and that firewill burn, I beganmy in-
vestigationsof the world where livesfaith,vitalityand
the wisdomof the heart- allthe big thingswe liveby
but cannotanalyzein laboratories.
"The first idea that cameto me was disconcerting.
If I were to dietomorrow, the body I f~ overwould
leaveme,would leaveme standing 'as is'? Standingin
what?
"The awkwardnessand unpreparedn~ of this in-
evit2hlesituationstruck at my imagination.It wastoo
stupidto slouchalongin suchan improvidentunthink-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 61
ing fashion devoid of any purpose, of anyinner core
which I could retain beyond the moment of this life!
"This rather hazy determination to do something
about it was strengthened by the stimulation received
through automatic writing, which began in the early
spring following the armistice. Now for nearly three
yearsI haYestruggled for comprehension, ~ing from
automatic writing to a curious state of freed or double
consciousn~ in which I absorb experiences directly,
somehow, and Stewart records them in words spoken
through me, or by me as firsthand impressions.
"There hasbeen no sudden refonnation of my char-
acter, accompanied by a firm grip on destiny! During
allthis time of intensely interesting and puzzling mani-
festation I had many daysof doubt and distraction. I
felt like a child walking on stilts - above my usual self,
but awkwardly maintaining balance. Only recently
has the natural spontaneous happin~ of it come to me,
and with it a wonderful feeling of firmn~ inside,
somewhere apart from my usual surface consciousn~.
''Now let me retrace my steps in this quickening
proc~.
"As I stated, I decided it was high time, and highly
desirable and entertaining, to take control of myself.
The idea was simple enough, but difficult to carryon.
The slothfuln~ of the human creature isbeyond com-
prehension when we compare it with hislatent possi-
bilities. Week after week came the same pleadings in
62 T H E R O A D I K N O W
automatic writing before I seriouslyarranged my busy
daysto comply.
" 'Make up your mind to giveup a short time every
day to us.'
" 'Set asidean hour, the samehour, every day.'
" 'You will need months of practice.'
" 'It all dependson you and your cooperation.'
" 'Have you anything more important to do? Ask
yourself that questionwhen interruptions threaten and
you are tempted to set this hour aside.'
" 'You will not be able to jump right into succ~.
Do not expect it. It takes much assemblingof forces
and much eliminationby careful experiment.'
" 'Remember, we can do nothing without your will
to reach us.'
" 'Give ustime every day; it is more important
than
anything elseyou can do.'
"So farnothing startling, but it soundedreasonable;
an intelligent beginning. I have found that the only
way to learn to shoot a gun,or swim, or acquire any
new ability, is by the simple method of shooting or
swimming,
and keepingon doingit. I was interested
enough, and curious enough, to try to follow direc-
tions, and decided on at leasta half hour every single
day, without exception.1
"Being rather humorously inclined, after making
1 As a matter of fact, the time she thus dedicated averagedmuch
longer.
T B E R O A D I K N O W 63
this determination I settled myself and asked politely
what I wassupposed to do next. My first instructions
were in the direction of ordering my mental equip-
ment
" 'Gm you manageto be more in the moodand give
more time to preparation? It isthe only way. You did
not have any succ~ before today because your mind
was absolutely separated from us by worldly affairs.
We are helpl~ in that case.'
" 'You must think of us as natural everyday friends
who are with you justas others come into your world.,
"'Do not strain, nor think of us as supernatural.It
isonlythat your earthlyvision•
isas limitedas that of a
new-born baby.'
" 'Becontent to let us lead you like a little child,
step by step.'
"'Drop every worldly, selfishthought We cannot
give you aformula for experiment It isa caseof condi-
tion of mind and soul.'
" 'You must abandon yourself to our method, not
confine us to yours. Let it come to you by degrees,
naturally, as a plant grows.'
"These instructions, and some on relaxing, came
sometimes very haltingly, sometimes fluently, as fast
asmy pencil could travel. Always, from the very first,
accompanying each instruction, was a sentence or two
urging me to do my part.
"It took sometime to get into the front of my mind,
64 THE ROAD I KNOW
into my everyday consciousn~, just what my part
was. It came to me at last asa surprise.
It wasstrength-
ened will power; though that does not quite expr~
it Firm substance; resolution, is more nearly it. My
part was the holding of myself in control. This was
insisted on until I could have no doubt of what was
wanted of me.
"Iknew how good it felt to have amanageable bodyl.
So why stop there? Why not try, asthey urged, to get
control of the mental and spiritual muscles? Here was
training for an exciting new game. I was interested.
There was no use in justsitting and listening.
I would
do my part, and see whit happened next.
"My first effort was disconcerting and slippery, a
skiddy performance. What I called my mind refused
to stayon the road. Before taking up the pencil I tried,
as suggested, to 'prepare my mind.' Every annoyance
I had ever experienced, long forgotten, returned to
memory to buzz around like diabolical mosquitoes.
With persistent effort I banished that annoyance, but
its place was taken immediately by an insistent swarm
of trivialities of different character. All my pethobbies
and pastimes took possession! It was enough to make
one believe in personal devils!
"An obstinate Scotch-headednessdetermined me to
2 She was a competent sportswoman and no mean acrobatin an
amateur way. She could stand on her head, for imtance, as easily
as a dog sits up. S.E.W.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 65
do battle for ~on of my own mind. Something
interesting was being said to me, but my shockingly
bad mental manners - squirming,teasing and inter-
rupting - kept me from hearing it. At least I should
make myselflisten. Then I could calmly decide on the
merit of what was being said. All this traffic of mind
must be dodged. The logical course was to make a
safety zone in the traffic. I drew an imaginarycircle
around myself,and stood triumphantly ungettable.
"The pencil began to write fluently: 'When worries
and world annoyances come, you can rise strongly
and determinedly, spend a few moments in calm, and
at once descend, reinforced to the object in hand. Brush
away the stingingfly before he sucks your life blood
and leaves poison in its place. This alone takes much
conscious manipulation to accomplish. You see I am
not giving you noble, difficult tasksto perform. I am
only settingafew simple exercises asa point of contact
in the beginning.Master these and you will have the
vision and strength to seethat you are mastering your-
self and your destiny.'
" 'We want to urge you, and keep on urgingyou,
to remember every hour the powers you possess,
the
forces you have within you to draw upon. Use them
in every little thingyou do. The degree of succ~ you
have depends on the amount of energy put into it.'
" 'It isobvious that eachshould bebig, but of hisown
volitionstayssmall.'
66 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"I shall not quote much further. Day after day I was
exhorted to strive for 'habitual consciousn~' of uni-
fied life. The overwhelming p&on of the pleading
kindled the commonplace words as I wrote them.
Could my own lazy,comfortable subliminal (what-
ever that maybe) stir itself to meet such a frenzy of
solicitation for my salvation? As I had lived with it
many years and knew only its inertness, the evidence
all pointed to an outside force trying to act on my
. rather reluctant personality.
"The idea of communication was not new to me. In
my early childhood I remembered that GrandmaMar-
in and Uncle Calvert had been the butt of the family
for prof~ing belief in it. What if all these years they
had been tryingto reach me and tell me that it istrue?
This ceased suddenly to be merely an interesting game,
and became a matter for serious investigation. I deter-
mined to throw more vitality into it; to keep my head
steady, but to follow with my heart the p~ibility that
they, my family, were trying to lead me. Whatever it
was, I must findout.
"So I continued my daily hour of quiet. With aston-
ishing results. There was never any indication of their
taking ~ion of me in the ordinary sense of over-
coming a weak will by a stronger. On the contrary all
my experience proves that no spiritual growth ispos-
sible without strong control of one's own earth mind;
without resolution accompanied by voluntary self ef-
T H E R O A D I K N 0 W 67_
fortand sympatheticenthusiasm.The depth of wisdom
and the exceptionaltechnique in developing compre-
hension of the spiritual life, rather than the evidential
materialgiven,forced us to accept the fact that an out-
sidebeingwasdirecting a systematiccourseof instruc-
tion.
"The old absorption in personal intercourse with
friends soon gave way to a bigger scheme. It had to,
perforce. As the instruction progr~d they' devel-
oped a lofty disregardof our demandsfor more enter-
taining and personal subject matter. It was evidently
to be their kind of thing,or nothing. Our demandsfor
experiments,tests,stunts, manifestationswere ignored.
This interestingforce wasnot to be bullied.It then oc-
curred to me to asrume the part of a rather humble
mindedeagerpupil,and seewhat sucha chastenedatti-
tude would accomplish.It accomplishedmuch.
"And so, finally, I bent my energiesand interest to
trying,from my end, to help the communicationsas
they directed. I experimented with various forms of
concentration. I alsonoted the succ~ or failure of va-
riousimpulses
naturalto me.And whenthesewere suc-
cem'ul I tried to increasetheir force, thus evokingmy
own spiritualvitality. For example: very earlyI dis-
covered that this vitality was magicallysuccem'ul
when reinforced with an outgoing from the heart, as
in lovingremembranceof a friend.
aThe communicaton.
68 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"This kind of thing,however, I hesitateto empha-
size.Formulasare dangerous.Your needsare not my
needs. Stability may be the thing I strive for, while
flexibilityandabandonto spiritualimaginationmaybe
the adjustmentneededfor you. My spiritualstrivings
may there£ore be a misfitfor you. You must cultivate
your own modelingpower to proportion you so that
you will attract your own developingcurrents. These
will makeyou awareof your weak pointsand aidyou
in strengthening them through your consciouscoop-
erationuntil the proc~ becomesspontaneous.
"Above all,get thisclear: these notes are intended
only to giveanexampleof anindividualpr~ suited
to aparticularperson.Donot let them mummifyyour
own life-givingcurrents by inducing you to expect
anythingexactlysimilar.
"During the years,then, patient experimenthasde-
veloped in me, together with growing wonderment
and faith,a little comprehensionofspirituallaw.There
havebeenmanysetbacks,struggles,doubtings.Inweak
momentsI have had an almostcowardly longing for
my oldcomfortablyself-absorbedunawaren~ of life.
I emphasizethis againbecause the psychic booksI
haveread describingother people'sexperienceslay so
littlestressonthe difficulties.
VcryearlyI cameto look
upon thesewritersasbeings
of a superiorclay,utterly
set apart from me. I thought dejectedlyhow excep-
tionally unfit I was, with all my failures,my self-
THE ROAD I KNOW 69
tortures of doubt, my semi-paralyticstate of will. If I
did manage to soar serenely, I was sure to flop pain-
fully;and then camethe realtest of strength in putting
myselfback. I shallset down the failuresand discour-
agements,even at the risk of clouding the inspiration.
We havethe recordsof my shininghours;I shalltell of
the slowminutesin between. My own method maybe
a painfullyslow self-evolution,designedfor tortoises,
and the easyaccomplishmentsof the others are a de-
signreservedfor hares,but at leastI am determinedto
arrive someday."
(Her intention asto the ultimateuseof thesenotes,
I am unableto gu~. Whatever it was,sheapparently
pmq,oned it for the time being.Sheaddsthis:)
"The whole subject ismuch too big f01 me. What
we vaguely,mistily call spiritual,and look at momen-
tarily on Sundays,isas real, nanmtl and joyous as the
fleshand blood we accept as a fact of existence.This
flesh and blood is the pod for the protection of the
ripeningspiritoal body within us which we inhabit
after death. Each of us mustsometimedevelopthis in-
ner,bigger self. Oursisthe choicewhether to lie dor-
mant or to start expandingat once from the seedto the
plant, and so occupy increasinglymore life. It seems
to be a caseof 'eventually, why not now?' And delay
bearscompound interest on the amount of effort to be
paidout later.
"This concept isasoldasthe earth itself.We accept
70 T H E R O A D I K N O W
it generally astrue - but unimportant at ,p,esent;
so we
are quite content with our half-life. The moment our
desire for more life passes
from the purely mental into
absorption by our consciousness,
germination begins.
H it becomes a fixed habit of mind and heart, growth
will continue as it was intended to, cooperating with
an orderly, useful, practical life.
"We have proved the wisdom and comfort of physi-
cal hygiene, why not teach the next generation a little
spiritual hygiene? Teach them how to keep their
thoughts clean and strongly muscled, to have faith in
their healthy impulses, to keep open and expanding
hearts. Why not give these their due proportion of
acknowledgment and education, along with the de-
velopment of the brain? Our brains are only the mortal
machines we work through, very important as are
good, well-oiled typewriters. Why stop education
with adaptability to this life? Why not a still higher
education? If only for the sake of the full lunged hap-
pin~ there is in it, teach the next generation youths
periodically to lift their eyes from the narrow treads
they follow to the wider landscape they may inherit
if they will."
And she ends on a high note:
"The great fact remains," she wrote of herself, "that
along with the discouragements has come, in great mo-
ments of susceptibility, the setting free within me of a
magic genii long bottled up. The expansion of this re-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 71
leased,vigorouslyhealthy beinghas been a happin~
beyond anythingI imaginedp<>mble.
The old feeling,
too,ofbeing offtheroadisgone.However it mayseem
to others,sofar asI personallyam concerned,I knO'ID
that Iam joyouslyonmyway,justcomeinto my heri-
tage, and longingto shareit"
CHAPTER V
BETIY LEARNS TECHNIQUE
BEFORE finallysetting out to follow Betty, as well as
we can, through the twenty yearsof her inner expan-
sion, I must describe - very briefly - the mere exter-
nalsof technique.
The firstOuija board period lasted
but a few days.
The toy seemedto be used only to attract her attention,
and to direct her to a more facile method of communi-
cation - automatic writing. Indeed about the only
clearly defined "m~ge" it conveyed was the admoni-
tion, over and over repeated, "Get a pencil. Get a
pencil."
I wasnot present at Betty's firstexperiments at auto-
matic writing, though of course I saw the results even-
tually. She described them as slow and fumbling. The
first script was illformed, without capitals or puncru-
ation or spacing, like one long continuous word. She
had to go over it painfully,dividing the words from
one another. Sometimes it was nee~ to gu~ at
some of them, from the context But they made such
good sense that she brought the scrawls to me. We de-
cided to go on with it.
With practice the writing improved. The words
T H E R O A D I K N O W 73
were divided; the letters clearly formed; the sentences
capitalized and punctuated. The whole proc~ gained
speed and certainty, until it had the facility of one
writing a letter about something he really wanted to
say.And the content of the instruction thus conveyed
wassoforward looking and yet so practical, that I set-
tled back in my own mind to much the same anticipa-
tion as Iwould have had in the writing of a book. Here
was material; here was thelability to write. What more
could one want?
And then, after only nine months of it, we were
blandly informed that shortly the writing would cease!
And it did!
We resolved to try anew technique. Betty bandaged
her eyes and lay Bat I took her wrist. This was in De-
cember, 1919.
The experiment was an instant succ~ in that Betty
appeared at once to slip easilyinto a kind of expanded
consciousn~. Perhaps double consciousn~ would be
better. Her selfseemed to be mainlycentered in the
expansion, but at the same time she retained enough
connection with physical existence to talk to me in re-
port of what she saw, heard or did. I think my touch
on her wrist was what held this channel open. And I
suspectI may,in some mysterious fashion, have con-
tributed to the conditions that enabled her to function
in her two aspects at once. At any rate, when she
worked alone she brought back nothing for record,
74 T H E R O A D I K N O W
though she did report in general even greater personal
succ~. Or perhaps my touch on her wrist was merely
her sort of tea leavesor crystal ball - the device that
opened the channel. I preferred to think the former.
For if my function was only as recorder of what was
said,I shall claim a heavenly crown of patience. Even
after the technique was established, I was often forced
to sit for long intervals, holding Betty's wrist,while
she was most happily busy at her own invisible affairs.
But that isa bit ahead of the story. Though from the
very firstattempt Betty managed this slipping into the
double consciousness quite easily, the other aspect-the
reporting back - was a different matter. When she
tried to tell me about it- whatever it was - her speech
was halting, stumbling, fragmentary almostto the point
of incoherence. Obscurely, through that incoherence,
I thought I caught glimpses of something important.
But as compared to our easy,rapid automatic writing
this seemed to be a very ramshackle makeshift. Still,I
was in it for the duration. Gradually emerged a reason-
able explanation. In the auto~atic writing Betty had
been an amanuensis; had merely lent herself as a ma-
chine. Now she was to be brought into touch with
realities, which she was to absorb and tell about. Also-
as herself partaker of this superconsciousn~ - she
would receive direct impressions, would hear words
~th some "inner ear." While still in the supernormal
state, she would bring down these things
to thatfrag-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 75
ment of normal consciousn~ retained for the purpose,
and through it report to me for record.
That was ttie program, as I understood it, and it
seemed both reasonable and interesting. She made
quick progr~. Soon she was able to tell me matters
that made sensein what was gradually revealing itself
asanordered and progress;ve expansionof herself. And
then once more, just as this method in turn began
to be
really useful, it was interrupted and something new
attempted.
We had no.warning. On January28, 1921 -almost
a yearafter the first Ouija board trial - Betty with-
drew herself into one of her patience-trying private
~ons. All I got out of it was a fragment now and
then of her side of conversations with her Invisibles-
"I'd like to: but can I?" "How silly!" "Where do I
find it? will you show me?" - tantaHzingbits. Finally
-after over an hour of this- she turned to me.
"They can't tell me what I'm working toward be-
cause they cannot tell yet what I'm capable of devel-
oping," saidshe. "They can't predict: it all depends on
me. They want me to do regular laboratory work, but
how can I? - How they shove!"she cried. "How they
shove me! My,what a force they're putting behind me,
pushing me on, on, on! - My other consciousn~
with you is slipping, slipping - I'm justbarely con-
scious whether I'm talking or not - It's a new phase
- I don't wantto lose consciousn~."
76 T H E R. 0 A D I K N O W
She was immobile and silent for thirteen minutes.
Then she sighed deeply and slightly moved her feet.
"I can move now. Rouse me. It isallover for tonight.
What did they do to me? I was holding intercourse
with somebody, but it did not get back to my waking
consciousness."
I shook her wrist gently, and after a few moments
she cameback. Whether I liked this or not I did not
quite know. But Betty seemed no worse for it On the
contrary, her color was bright, her vitality increased.
The following day's ~on beganagainwith some
private businesswhich was not confided to me. I gath-
ered that Betty was being persuaded to something. "Oh
go ahead; I don't care," she muttered at one time. "I
don't know what you're doing," she complained. "Oh,
do be definite and don't muddle it!" she cried. ''I'm
not er~!" she disclaimed,"I've got to breathe!" "I
don't believeit's going to work anyway," sheprotested.
"- Well, I'll try."
Then ten minutes of silence. Suddenly a guttural
sound in her throat - gr-, a pause, and the sound was
repeated several times, until it extended itself into an
almostrecognizable word, grandma.After ten seconds,
very distinctly and clearly the two words Grmdma
White. But the voice that spoke them was not Betty's!
By the same slow and painfulprocess came my love;
manymore; the nameMary.And6na11y
the beginning
of a sentence, makeher-.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 77
It tookjustanhourfor thesefew words,with a lotof
under-breath rapid comment of protest and apology
from Betty.At lastshesaidto me:
"Doesn't amount to anything.I wishyou'd takeme
out. I'm tired. It isnot coherent, and I cannot help it.
They dull me and then do it themselves."
After thisshecontinueddailyto work - andclearly
and valuably- by heroldtechniqueof reportingback,
from the other consciousn~, in her own person,until
February 11, when asecondattemptwasmadeat what
might be called "direct transmisgon."Here is the en-
tire resultof somethingoveran hour.
"Mary - rather hard - realizedifficulties- give
considerationchannel- undeveloped.Progressslow"
(came explosively,as one word)" - Sanih- m-mil-
militate-aren't you sasf-" (meantfor satisfied,
prob-
ably) "- don't be so-"
Here Betty broke in. "Oh, I'm working so hard!
Why do I haveto work sohard!"
Then, veryslowly,with apausebetweeneachword,
but clearly:
"Method new. No more now. Good night Wake
up!"
Nothing happenedfor fiveminutes.Then Betty,to
me: "Wake meup. I'm tired - shovingmearound that
way! I stoppedbreathing- but I found a new way to
breathe.I felt it when it changed.I felt absolutelysafe.
It isn't uncomfortable unlessyou stop to think about
78 T H E R O A D I K. N O W
it. If you don't think about it, you don't have to
breathe. Everything swirled and swirled and rocked
in a kind of rhythm. I felt myself to be more of a gas
substancethan fleshand blood. I was justvaguely con-
sciousof trying to force out something,working very
hard."
She "awakened" presently, of herself, refreshed,
without fatigue.
Nothing further wasattempted in thenew technique
until February 17,though we had the usual~ons in
that week. After this manner we continued, usingBet-
ty's old technique of reporting back in her own person
mostof the time,with an occasionallaboriousperiod of
practice in allowingherselfto be usedasa mouthpiece.
With such practice the difficultyl~ened, the facility
improved. But nothing imponant was said that way.
Likethe firstof the automaticwriting, the communica-
tion was largely personal; a phase almostcompletely
abandoned in the other method.
"We cannotyet- holdit steadily- longenough
- for subtle explanations-" the Invisible labor-
iouslyansweredmy query asto why thiswasso."Your
receiving apparatus very primitive - Excuse us!"
Not until about the firstof May did thosein charge
consider Betty flexibleenough to usefor the transmis-
sionofanything seriouslyintegralwith the maineffort.
And I shouldthink it fully a year thereafter before the
interchange switched back and fonh, from Betty in
T H E R O A D I IC N O W 79
person to Betty asa mere transmitter, freely,without
checksandstumbles.Until, in other words,the instru-
ment wasperfected.
PeoplehaveaskedmehowIknew- outsidethe con-
text of what wassaid- when to ascribeto Betty, and
when to the Invisibles.Her voicewasslightlydifferent
in qualityandtimbre,inthelattercase:thephraseology
wasnot of Betty'shabit;but the most convincing,and
at thesametimeunproveable,distinctionwasa decided
"feel'' of personality. That would, of course, mean
nothing to anybody but me; and rarely, when it did
not matter oneway or the other~I wasnot myselfcer-
tain.ButordinarilyI wassure.
I havealsobeen askedabout physicalsymptoms,as
to Betty's conditionwhilein thisstateof consciousn~.
It was obviouslytrance, but not completeas in the
caseof Joan,who actually seemsto "go away", leav-
ing her organismto be used. Betty was supposedto
work - saidthe Invisibles- "with intelligentcoopera-
tion": I cannotdobetter than to quotefrom The Betty
Bookasto this.
"She was to go to them, insteadof their comingto
her. - And as intelligent cooperation presupposes
participation, her consciousnesswas not taken from
her in the customarydeeptrance.That doesnot mean
that shewasconsciousasyou and I are conscious.She
wasunawareof her physicalsurroundings- shewent
'out of herbody', asthe occultistshaveit,to someother
80 THE ROAD I KNOW
phase of existence. But in that somewhere else she re-
tained her facuities of thought. She was not put out,
drugged.She was transferred
--Occasionally, but
rarely and only for certain exactaccunicies,she goesso
'far away' - asit seemsto her - that apparently there
remainsto her only a shred of (our) consciousn~. But
that shred isalwaysthere, and through it the approach
to 'intelligent cooperation' isalways p<mible."
It took about five minutes for her to become en-
tranced, and about the same time to "come out" after
the sesgon wasfinished. "I'm coming down like a leaf,
zig-zag,"she once described her return to nonnal con-
sciousn~. I could seeno physical change while she was
in this state, except that her respiration becamealmost
imperceptible. Nor did she ever suffer anyill after ef-
fects, even temporary. None of the nausea,dizzin~ or
the like which some psychics undergo. On the con-
trary, she always awakened pink-cheeked and re-
freshed.
Now, havingfinishedthe external mechanics of Bet-
ty's technical training,we are at last ready to back
track, and take up once more her beginnings;but this
time from the point of view of the inner consciousn~.
CHAPTER VI
BET.fY TAKES THE ROAD
,.
As I LOOK back on thesebeginnings,I am reminded of
the firsthandlingof a skittishcolt; and Iadmirethe tact
and skill with which the Invisiblesdid the job. They
had, firstof all,to get Betty's - and incidentallymy -
confidence;they mustkeepour interest;they mustper-
suadeher - and me - that the thing wasworth doing;
and finally must arouse a realdesireon her part to go
on. In consequence, the early communications were
sugar-coatedwith personalmatters; but, with the pro-
portion of the latter graduallylessening,at lastthe per-
sonalwasdropped with a finalitythat resultedin com-
plete anonymity. Only when this was accomplished
did they giveusa glimpseof their own point of view.
"The content of first messagesthrough new sta-
tions,"1 explainedthe Invisibleslater-six or sevenyears
later;after they had developedBetty asa reliablechan-
nel, "isimportant only asit servesto retain interest and
doesnot discounigeby too complete irrelevancy. We
1 The lnvislolesused the term station - or receiving station - in-
•ead of the usual "medium" because,they maintained, the latter
hastoo manyconnotations.
82 T H E R O A D I K N O W
are rarely at firstattempting to say anything. We are
merely trying to get a reaction to stimulus. Hthiscould
be fully understood, it would be as effective to convey
a single irrelevant word - or indeed mere meaningless
sounds. From our point of view the whole importance
of a considerably extended period of first work is in
the reaction on the part of the station to any impremon.
Often in a long alleged m~ge a smallphrase, a single
word, or even a solitary syllable or sound isall that ac-
tually emanates from us with definite intent. The rest
of the message, so-called, may be a mere going along
with what the station himselfunconsciously imagines
to be the purport."
Nevertheless, that bit of genuine response isentirely
satisfactory to them, they went on to say, no matter
how confused or falseor contradictory the whole thing
may seem to us. That is because their interest at the
moment isin the process,
and not in what issaid. How-
ever, they admitted, as we at this end know nothing of
the process, our interest isnaturally in the content, and
ifthat content becomes too nonsensical or unbelievable
we are likely to throw the whole thing overboard.
"So," they said, "we give attention to accuracy, or
what you call 'evidential,' only when our hand on the
pulse of your interest or belief indicates slowing down
to a danger point. What we are after is not personal
communication, but development of an instrument
capable of something more worth while."
T H E R O A D I K N O W 83
This was a reasonable and logical explanation of the
early puzzlements and bewilderments which Betty
touched upon in her own narrative. But it could not be
given at the time. She must at firstgain her reassurance
and encouragement as she could. Her Invisibles were
very gentle with her.
''I am a friend," one told her, at the automatic writ-
ing stage, "you can trust me. We will uphold and care
for you. No hann can ~ibly come to you. Stewart
must not fear for you. We solemnly promise him to
guard you. We will make every effort to satisfyhim.
"Only hold fast to our love for you and your
faith will be justified. Never mind how discouraging
the outlook is, continue to believe us. Do not ask ex-
planations, only believe."
And after a particularly confusing seriesof experi-
ences:
"We have not forsaken you, but we are putting
you more on your own to work. We do not want to
foster dependence on us. Your unhappin~ hinders.
Throw it off. You have gone stale from being tired.
Rest,and you will regain your outlook. Perhaps we
have been too eager and pressed you too hard. Poor
little girl,we are sorry for you and would comfort you
tonight. -- Good-night, dear. Are you happier
now? We are asnear you asever, but we havestrained
you a little too much. Forgive us."
Another time Betty had, evidently,been"gettingin-
84 THE ROAD I KNOW
stroction" beyond her saturation point. She blew up
in a burst of laughter.
"So much preaching!" she cried. "I've never been
so doggone goodin my life! Why, I justache behind
the ears being intelligent!" and then went off in a
school-girl giggling fit, renewed every time I tried to
askher anything.
"Now," Wd the Invisible, when at last she had
sobered down, "perhaps you can rid yourself of the
very self-conscious attitude we have been trying to
point out to you. You were getting to be so busy with
your attitude that you could not really listen to us. We
are delighted to see you natural again. We do not want
any solemn, virtuous-feeling saint in place of a very
human little daughter."
The too-hard presmre of which they spokewasan
unremitting effort to arouse Betty's will to persist.At
this time she was far from convinced and was easilydis-
couraged. Ordinarily the stimulus of the Invisibleswas
gently carried on by appeal to her trust and affection,
or to her common sense and self-respect.
"Do you wish to bespiritually illiterate?" they asked
her.
Betty did not graspthe connection.
"H we can get it to you, you'll see the point,"Wd
T H E R O A D I K N O W 85
they. '"When you see a child learning to write, you
know how hopel~ it looks that it should ever be able
to receive inspiration from the printed page.Yon are
in justthat stage. But you've got to stick to it. In fact
we are going to keep you to it. You've got to learn it
sometime, justas you had to learn to write. Of course
anybody, if he pleases,can remain spiritually illiterate,
but then he will have to live a comparatively common-
place existence."
I challenged this last.I could not see Bettyas com-
monplace.
"By commonplace we mean keeping your approved
boundariesbeyond which you make no effort to go.
Byrestricted imagination, by neglect of the unknown
- by theseyou keep yourself commonplace."
"But we have our ordinary dailylives to live," I ob-
jected.
"It is not your application to little necessary things
we worry about. It's the unbroken application. That's
the thing that makes you commonplace. If you stop
work, even drudgery, often enough, and switch your
center of consciousn~ to big spiritual proportions,
you can accomplish ordinary life without getting com-
monplace."
This reasonable gentlen~ as I say,was the rule.
But at times they arose to an ahnost frantic urgency.
''We lashyou to our own frenzy of purpose for your
own salvation. Make a vow to us to carryon our work.
86 T H E R O A D I K N O W
We cannotalwayscomewith the force of thisevening,
but we want thesewords to burn into your soul,to be
your o~on, your ruling passion.Power wanes,and
we want to leaveyou at our highestpitch of urgency,
callingto the deepsofyouto answerthe great duty."
Almostfrom the first hesitantly written words, the
Invisiblesbeganto makeit clear that they had in mind
an important ultimateaim.Betty, it seemed,was to be
madeaninstrument for somepurpose
not yet defined.
We both possesseda healthy senseof humor, so at
firstwe were inclinedto treat such claimswith skepti-
cism and some derision. They perilously resembled
thesesuper-solemn"especiallychosento bring a Great
Messageto the World" assuranceswith which we had
becomefamiliarthrough certain of our acquaintances
who hadstumbledon "psychics."These experimenters
seemed ~variably to have been taken in charge by
very important people, such as Plato or Aristotle or
William Jamesor even Julius Caesarand Nero.
But Betty's Invisibleshad proved not to be so high-
falutin. They did not pretend to be anybody in par-
ticular, and they had not as yet offered any Message.
It wasmerely that they had a purpose in trainingher,
which was not so unreasonablewhen we stopped to
think ofit.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 87
"It's only," said they, "that we're giving you a little
encouragement that you are more than a mere by-
stander taking notes. It's not a futile task. Once the
inter-relation of allcreated things iseven dimly sensed,
one cannot again be small. The mantle of -magnitude
isover the most humble part of the whole."
What they wanted, they kept on repeating, was to
teach Betty how to expand her consciousn~. Asa re-
sult, said they, she would become permeable to the
invisible spiritual forces from which ordinary life in-
sulates us more or less. This, for lack of a better term,
they called Contact with the Source. Incidental to it
would come an improved type of thisthing they were
now doing soimperfectly- communication from their
world to ours.
"We have been a long time planning this," said they,
"so do not fail us. This is a great experiment for us.
Much depends on you. It is the usual thing to have a
person surrender all initiative as soon as we establish
communication. We want you to gain strength from
us,not lose it and become dependent. Involuntary me-
diumsare good only aslong asthe conditions suit them:
a voluntary medium in full control would be invalua-
ble. We do not want to be too strong on this side be-
cause it ispart of our scheme to have you do your share.
We can write pages very fluently and easilywhen w~
wish, but it issafer to make you an active agent instead
of a passive one."
88 T H E R O A D I K N O W
It was about this time, I believe, that they dropped
the word medium as too full of connotation, and
adopted the word stationinstead. About this time,
also,Betty resolved to give thesesupposed Invisiblesa
"sportingchance."
4·
The expansion of consciousness desired by the In-
visibl~ turned out to be no simple task.Betty devoted
an hour or so each day to following directions as best
she could. But this, she herself confessed, was not very
succ~ul, for she could not make out justwhat was
wanted of her. At first she struggled for a complete,
clear-cut intellectual picture - largely, I think, so she
could satisfy me. But the Invisibles rejected the mental
approach.
"How can we bring to you strongly enough," said
they, "the firstprinciple of what we want you to do?
It isto expand in spirit,not intellectually. The spirit is
usually like a desiccated fruit inside the brain. We
fear to give you too much for that reason. You are too
much in your brain. Let your spirit soakup in a simple
and pleasant fashion until it isa fittingmate for your
b
. ,,
nun.
Such expansion, they asserted, would in due time re-
sult in the development of an entirely new faculty.
"It islike learning another language," said they, "so
T H E R O A D I K N O W 89
you can listen to us with understanding. :Eachtime you
desire to travel beyond your present country you must
say to yourself: am I thinking and listening in the right
language? Otherwise communication is hopeless."
There w:as
a pause;then Betty said faintly, "I'm go-
ingaway off now."
"This faculty," resumed the Invisibles presently,
"which we awkwardly call listening, thinking in an-
other language,isan expansion of the progressive real-
ity within you. You must strive for po~ession - as a
subconscious fixture - of a facuity not sufficiently de-
veloped in you yet. Until you can absorb knowledge
directly with this·faculty, you will always be subject
to dilutions, contaminations, dispersions.
''This absorption of comprehension, only partialof
course, carried through the present channels of con-
tact, arrives transmuted from the reality of the source
into the symbols of the brain. It isalmostusel~ to at-
tempt much funher extension of vision until you work
out this facuity for receiving direct comprehension.
The brain isa physical apparatus. It will always auto-
matically take what it isable to absorb. But the inner
expansive faculty, vigorously developed, can outrun
the physical apparatus indefinitely."
There was a short pause.
"It isso discQuraging," ended Betty, "now I see that
double image
at the water's edge - reality and reflec-
tion. They look just alike, but they are so different! I
90 THE ROAD I KNOW
get the reality and take hold of it; but I only give you
the reflection."
Betty was really working very hard to do her share
well and conscientiously. In fact, as it turned out, she
tried too hard.
"Don't strain inthese efforts," warned the Invisibles.
"Keep the body relaxed, but free and stimulate the
spirit to respond with a great and rising wonder, similar
to that inspired by the overwhelming beauties of na-
ture. Unstopper your imprisoned spirit; let it rise
blithely and naturally. Enjoy yourself. Don't strain.
Let your heart dominate, and abandon yourself to its
impulses. You will release yourself from terrible intel-
lectual bonds: terrible, however, only when unbal-
anced."
"We want none of the usualabandoning yourself to
outside influences," said they at another time. "It is all
a matter of holding yourself together around a good
firm core of aspiration and interest and aimas to where
you are headed.
"And one more tip we want to give you," they
added. "Run hard from the curiosity seekers who will
try to make a gymkhana out of you. Don't Jet them
even have a look in. Tell 'em anything you like, but
head 'em off, for they will queer the whole thing in
T H E R O A D I K N O W 91
your mind if you will let them. In time you will have
many clamoringafter your help, but you must make
themseekfor themselves,not attaclithemselvesto you
likeleeches."
These and similarwarningswere repeatedagainand
again.They insistedthat the usualmorbid curiosityin
"psychics"ledto aby-road, or blindalley,from which
Bettymustbe blocked.
And another tendency of which shemust be cured
was overeagem~. That wasa natural mistake- once
her enthusiasmwasarousedfor thisfascinatingexplor-
ation. The Invisiblesgavehe1somekind of a jarring,
I don't knowwhat it was.I knew there hadbeensome-
thingstartlinggoingon.I askedBetty.
"You see," she told me, "I was just slipping over
when somethinghappened,justat the wrong moment,
and checkedme back too suddenly.And I wasso dis-
appointed,so eagerto go on, that I flungmyselfback
absolutelywide open, tried to get myself back by an
enthusiasticabandon, and that stopped the perform-
ance.That's whatbroughtdownonmyheadthiswarn-
ing stuff.No more going ahead under these falseand
dangerousconditions."
6.
"Falseanddangerousconditions-" -we hadthought
only vaguelyof that aspect.And we had taken it for
92 T H E R O A D I K N O W
granted that we were goingahead,that we were on our
way. Hadn't we agreed "to give them a sporting
chance"? But to our surprise
- to mine at least- it
seemedthat was not enough. We must actually enlist;
andof our own free will; and with a plainstatement of
decision.Apparently we had not been called upon for
it until sufficientdemonstrationshad provided materi-
alsfor intelligentchoice.Well, now we hadthem. And
the Invisiblessquarely calleda halt
"Escape,"
they pointed out, "is not merely getting
free. It istakingup responsibilities."
"Before going on with us," they continued, "certain
facts must be faced. You must pay a price to serveour
cause.Hyou are to succeed,you must go into tnining.
Are you willing to do it? We do not intend to interfere
with normal life, but you must consecrate your spirit-
uallifeto us, and conserveits vitality and composure.
"Perhaps thiswork, if undertaken, will leadyou into
pathsyou do not wish to tread, but once started you
cannot choose.You must take all or nothing, sodo not
draw back if we lead you to the edge and tell you to
look.You will be tried in the firesof experienceto see
if you are fit to endure."
This, I myselfconsidered,must be Betty's decision,
not mine. I felt that the expansion she had already
gainedmust havesharpenedher intuition to a sufficient
wisdom.Butsecretly I reservedthe right of vetoshould
thismysteriouswarning uncover inher mindthe slight-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 93
est alarm or hesitation. She considered it carefully.
"I can stop where I am," mused Betty, "where
nearly everybody stops-with the ~omfortable crowd.
But the compliment hasbeen paid me of an opportunity
to surmount normal boundaries, to accept the unillum-
ined pathof apprenticeship, wrenching myself free. •••
Oh, the c~ of the wrench!"
What the "cost of the wrench" would be she did
not disclose, nor did I confuse the isme by inquiry.
Questions sometimes make cross currents.
"It islife," she reflected. "And I want to get nearer,
nearer to the sourceof all.strivinglife. I want to smell
the wet earth and feel the cool drip of rocks. I want
to sway with the presence of the wind. That isalllife,
life.•••
"I want to keep close, close as I can get, to that. I
want to sniff it, taste it, drink it, bathe in it. That's
where I want to be. I don't like the dead things. Some
people like intellectual conquest, mechanical things,
making automatons; but I don't like that, I crave the
live things; thingsendowed with self-structure.
"I want to get near enough so I can partake of the
same great vitality. Throw open all hatches. I want
to go out in the wind and the light and the air. I don't
know what you callthat current of vitality .••• Never
mind its name; I'm going to get close to it!"
She fell into a long period of deep reflection. Sud-
denly she decided.
94 THE ROAD I KNOW
"Give me all of life before I leave!" she cried pas-
sionately. "All! All! I don't want a niche. Aren't there
plenty of people to fill niches? Of course, they are
happier in the peace of limited struggle. But I want
most tremendously and vehemently the highest possi-
ble comprehension! I want to take the suffering and
all! I don't care ifit tears me to bits; I want it! I've made
my choice. I don't care ifit ishard. It isn't allsuffering.
The intensification of living isworth it."
Shehadsetfoot on"The RoadI Know."
CHAPI'ER VII
I.
FaoM thishighpeakofexalteddedicationthe Invisibles
yankedBetty down to considerationof the practical-
rather humorously,I thought.All very wellsplendidly
to defy unknown dangers.Any hero can do that! But
how about the minor everydaypenalties?
"They're afraidI minimizethe price,"Bettytoldme.
"The price?" I queried.
"Solitudeof ~ociation," saidshe, "- but I'm will-
ingto payit."
I was still dumb, so they diagrammedit like this:
Nobody enjoysbeing considered"queer," I wastold;
and what was going to be the use of all Betty's great
effort uni~ she came into the open eventually, and
appliedit in the world of dailyliving?
The prospect did not dismayher, though it made
hera littlesad.
''What a pity if my friends misjudgeme," she re-
gretted. "They could withdraw so much of the nice,
wann human interchange.I know there will be an as-
sault of misunderstanding.They'll all be critical, I'm
afraid;watchingmein asuspiciousway. It willbe hard
for meto riseabovetheir attitudeand work unaffected
96 THE ROAD I KNOW
by it Well, I know there's a price. There issomuch
disapprobation of boundary-breakers."
Sheconsidered the situation.
"Well, now we've settled that," she went on, after
a while. "I'll think over how to repel impertinence
with some dignity and conviction of superiority, and
not merely withdraw, or combat in lower terms and
with lower weapons..••
"I know what I'll do - I've a right to my own life.
I won't get combative or superior or scornful; I'll get
confidential.I'll say:
" 'Well, I'll tell you. A few times in my life I've seen
treasure trove, something that had nothing to do with
money, or position, or fame, or anything else I can
name, but justa deep, powerful sort of happiness, and
possible to obtain too; and I'm going to get it if I search
through every law, sacred and profane, until I findit.
Wouldn't you like to have it? Wouldn't it be worth
living if you got track of it, even if you did make mis-
takes?
" 'Well then, leave me be: I'm exploring. HI findit,
I'll let you know. In the meantime I am discovering
manyby-products well worth the having,well worth
the effort of discovery. We all want happin~; but I
don't want the pasgve kind. Iwant big, powerful, crea-
tive happiness,and I want it all packed up and ready
to take with me when I die!'
"That's the way I'll talk to them. I'll justtake them
T H E R O A D I K N O W 97
into my confidence as to what I am after. And it's the
truth, and that's all there is to it.''
An excellent attitude of mind, but the Invisibles
seemed not certain that she even yet understood what
she might be up against.
"You see," they said, "everything one does for self-
development - awaren~, expansion, contact and all
the rest - has a certain acceptability to the ego con-
cerned, and nobody objects. But when you reverse
that, and begin to insiston outgo, offering something
of your own attainment,testing it againstthe world's
resistanceand misunderstanding, then you must expect
a harder time. It is one thing to have a neat chapel to
visit occasionally, and quite another to carry its in-
fluence into 'practical' life."
And, said I, while an attitude of mind helps forti-
tude, it does not protect from suffering.
"Sensitiveh~ capableof absorbing wisdom through
direct impr~on suffers enormously from the world
of combat," the Invisibles agreed. "For as awaren~
increases,so does suffering. Becauseof this,unfortun-
ately, the spiritualaspirant often prefers to seeka shel-
tered life and become a bystander. Such a person may
have an exquisitely sensitized vision, but he is abso-
lutely sterile because of lack of human contact. The
bystander probably regards hisreaction as one of fas-
tidiousn~, but it is really inertia, atrophied force,
overcultivation, lo~ of productiven~."
98 T H E R O A D I K N O W
Betty recurred to a picture they had seemed to be
showing her.
"I want to look at that chap again," she begged.
"He's quite fascinating, quite exquisite but useless. If
he were set in action, so much of him would break or
crumble or change. What a pity he couldn't be used!
He's such a highly developed specimen."
"The whole point is," insisted the Invisibles, "any
sensitiveperson isuseI~ in employing the force of the
higher consciousness if he is always vulnerable to the
return blows of the world. Suppose he istrying to ac-
complish something, and everybody begins irrelevant
personal attacks, obstructions of all kinds.The minute
he becomes susceptible to all that he is automatically
shut off from the power-current which was going to
helphimaccomplish.
"You yourself must look out for this. You have
gained ace~ to a shining substance. Now you must
learn to useit against a lower element superior in quan-
tity. The toughening proc~ which will make your
bit of strength available must rest with you. Little by
little, in smallmatters at first,you must learn to pro-
tect your mind against the darts and arrows which poi-
son resolution."
"Hardihood," commented Betty. "That is a nice
word. It justhappened to cqme around."
"No suggestions are offered today," concluded the
Invisibles. "The problem is merely stated for your
THE ROAD I KNOW 99
solution. You stand at the crossroads.Either you pro-
ceed faintly shadowedby a strange experience,or you
strive onward toward a hold on the vitality of spiritual
life which will remain unbroken even in your darkest
hours.
''Better think it over," they warned.
As I look back I doubt if the Invisiblesanticipated
that Betty would encounter any considerable degree
of criticism among friends and acquaintancesbecause
of her interest in psychic development.As a matter of
fact shemet almostnone. They were testing her only,
lam sure.
2.
Very well, the Invisiblestold Betty, in effect,when
shefailedto be impressedby their warnings,ifyou are
really going on with this thing, you must first of all
realizethat mere assentisnot enough. "There is," said
they, "no suction quality to passivewillingness.We
cannot start things,that part of it isyour job; we can
merely complement your own effort."
And - they added this impressivelyfor Betty's own
instruction - it must be done by your own "hean-
desireand not mind-desire." They made much of this
point:it was all-important.
"It isuselessjustto sitwith mentalpreparation," said
100 T H E R O A D I K N O W
the Invisibles. "You must have the soul preparation,
too-·the spirit, not the letter of the law. As soon asyou
have yourself established the right condition, we can
come. That iswhy we are trying to go only as fast ~
you can asrure yo~ own grasp and accomplishment.
Otherwise we would be taking you from useful things
of the world into a no-man's land of idle speculative
dreaming.This is far from our purpose. When you
do not succeed, seek the reason in yourself. Your sur-
face mind may be going through certain evolutions
which have no growth or corresponding demand from
within. In that case you are not truly seeking; you are
apathetically making anappeal which has no oower
behind it to accomplish."
They continued, over many ~ons, to return to
this concept, and ever the more strongly.
"Only steadfast determination and striving will
bring you the step further you must go. It isall in your
hands now. We can do little more than watch you gain
this nee~ strength before we can help further.
That isthe law.We may advise and influence, but you
must make selection and experiment.
"Always holdinmindhow much dependsonarous-
ing yourself.The energy with which you demand of
us will measure what you get. It isnot the energy of
commanding, but of showing the force which be-
gets its complement. It is the energy of measure for
measure, given and received. This isall very indefinite
T H E R O A D I K N O W IOI
to you now, but remember you are experimenting with
forces not recognized in your world of sense."
"What do you mean by unrecognized forces?" I
demanded. It seemed to me highly desirable to know
with what we were supposed to deal,for I was still in
somewhat of a doubtful frame of mind. My query
caused some hesitation.
"Let us callthe whole a matter of inspirational force,
for the sake of givingit a name," was the reply. "It
comes from a combination of conditions created by
the person himself.We only take advantage of this
combination. Once a person of his own choice estab-
lished it, we can act on it. The initialstepisyour work.
We hesitate to use words like soul-yearnings,for in-
stance, becausein your mind they have a set signifi-
cance. But the idea isthat we cannot work on an unre-
ceptive person in any satisfactory degree. Roughly
speaking,the forces we use are emanations from you.
They meet complementary forces not your own that
unite with them and so open up a further proc~ of
creative selection. "1
A little later they summed up very neatly thisneces-
sity for more than acquiescence.
"It is just by determination and faith," said they,
"that you accomplish the firstdead lift. That manif
es-
tation with yourselfand byyourself,youmust get be-
1 Those who have read The Unobstructed Uffl'Unsemay find in
this last a foreshadowing
of the truly great theory of creative
selection there set forth. ·
102 T H E R. 0 A D I K N O W
fore you gainany response. This iswhat people do not
realize. They don't put any strength into it, and when
it will not work at once, they go the other way. You
must get that strength for yourself."
Another point on which the Invisibles insisted was
that Betty must make haste slowly.
''Do not look on this thing that we want you to do,"
said they, "as something that can be pccomplished in a
year or two. Think of it asfor eternity.You are strong-
er than we hoped, and we can go faster than we ex-
pected, but we dare not strain you too far. A few
simple tasksat a time are all we ask. You will soon see
the plan and be impatient to go faster, but you must
not try to fly until you are sure of your wings.We pre-
fer to keep you a little clipped until we are surer of
your endurance. Some day we will take the air together
and allyour work will be rewarded. Meanwhile break
down your barriers; let in the flood of spirit we are
sending to you. W elcorne it and feed upon it greedily.
Remember every waking moment to be really trying
to live according to the few rules we have given. You
will understand better as you go along.
"Above all," they cautioned, "do not strain for psy-
chic power, dividing and disintegrating your force.
Rather weld together. Hold yourself a responsible be-
ing, capable of limitl~ possibilities, and so lift up your
spirit healthyand whole, askingto be stimulated to
greater effort.
T H E R O A D I K N O •W 103
"Don't you see, the instant you try to create, to
pump up, to reach for definite things, you are in grave
danger. You will never get anywhere ifyou are think-
ingof what you are going to get. In that caseyou would
be just a curiosity seeker along with so manyother
people!
"Belief in the attainability of higher powers isa legit-
imate ambition, but such powers must be grown into
faithfully. Meanwhile simply lay bare your problems
to the influence of the great expansion, which will
bring your solution. This isthe only real channel which
will bring permanent wholesome psychic influence. It
is the safe and open highroad. There are oth~r ways,
of course, but they are exploration."
CHAPTER VIII
THE INNER CITADEL
SHRINKINGfrom being misunderstood maybe only
one way of thinking too much of one's self.
"The first line of attack here," said the Invisibles
when in due course they did get around to suggestions,
"has to be in the direction of elimination. And that im-
plies a deliberate inspection of egoism and coming to
terms with it. Always you are dealing with the ego.
You desire generous and spontaneous blending with
other lives, but there isa toughened membrane - call
it the ego - which obstructs that blending.
"Now in place of this toughened membrane of an
ego-which can be wounded, and issadly scarred by
contacts with life - we substitute an indestructible
self, a self held together by intention, and by coopera-
tion with universal force; a self vastly more flexible,
permeable and self-controlled."
This substitution of a non-ego self proved to be no
mere figure of speech.
At the next session the Invisibles resumed the dis-
c~ion. It was in proc~ very simple, they protested.
You do withdraw yourself, in a sense.There isin every
individual, they told Betty, an inner citadel, a "psychic
core."
"It ishis enduring center, his seed that will endure.''
T H E B. 0 A D I K N O W 105
Search yourself, they urged her, for this constant
within. And then consciously
establish it.
"You will not find it in your brain," they said."Look
for it rather in the region of the heart; or more accur-
ately, the intangible sensations that have no organic
position. This is the great security, the foundation for
any superstructure of effort you may want to build.
"The firststep in control is the recognition of such
aninner fora~ for protection and refreshment. There
is nothing more important than creating this abode of
emotional security, spiritual order and demonstrable
strength.
"You see,the great question is: how are you going
to stabilize yourself among all the shifting pursuits of
the world, the varied points of view, the confficts and
uncertainties? How are you going to reach reality in
the midst of them? And the only answer is, first to
make within yourself an individual bit of reality over
which you have complete jurisdiction. That is your
one method of approach to theultimate attainment of
complete reality."
A fine blueprint but a large order, thought I. Very
simple. For Betty! First you establish the inner citadel,
and then establish yourself in it Then from it, as head-
quarters, you act.
"The top layer is much the nicest place to establish
yourself," Betty volunteered. "You can look at allyour
troubles, humorously and in proportion, as most oh-
1o6 T H E B. 0 A D I K N O W
jectionable mosquitoes, but still as only m~uitoes,
and yourself as outlasting them. That!
s the way to
live."
"Thingssurge beneath, picking and battering and
fuming, but cannot destroy you," the Invisiblestook
it up. "As long as you have this inner power you
needn't mind what is battering against you, nor what
tools or dynamite are used. Such can be only a surface
nuisance. The shell may be scarred, but you have with-
drawn the part of you that can be hurt.
"Take your moments of discord and entanglement,"
they challenged. "How are you going to ~ your-
self?
"There isonly one way, but you musthave prepared
it beforehand and practiced it: let go your hold of
everything and withdraw into the magic-working
center of lifewithin yourself. It is always posgble to
check your nervous reactions momentarily by sud-
denly commanding a relaxation, like makingyourself
stop shivering. Then quickly combine thismomentary
release with a swift retreat to your inner citadel. Go
apart in it and rest the tensions. Stay in peace and quiet
of volition, acquiescing in your whole being to the re-
harmonizing
power of your higher consciousn~. It is
to your ordinary facuities as is an adult sympathetic
mind to a child's troubles. It helps you clarify your
vision and gather strength to make your decisions and
planyour actions."
T H E R O A D I K N O W 107
And, they added, it is a sure refuge when outside
presrure threatens really to overwhelm. Then is justi-
fied the complete withdrawal for recuperation. Betty
caught at thisaspect, considering it for some time be-
fore reporting it to me.
"When too weak for aspiration, too sick for effort,"
she said at last,"what would I do to get buoyant again?
Huddled down, hating my own darkn~; the divine
sparkimprisoned, held captive; the physical shackled
- I don't like it, but what to do?
"I'll burrow down still further inside myself. I'll lie
in close to the divine sparkimprisoned there. Weary-
hearted, I'll acknowledge my plight. Achingly I'll
unite with the light that I know isthere. Nothing else.
No expectancy; no hurry. To my quiet relief, even
amid aching inhannony, harmony must rush to succor.
''That sounds pretty abstract, I know, but it really
isthe proc~ in zero conditions."
"But," warned the Invisibles, "do not forget that if
you would progr~, you must inevitably go forth
againto take your full share of the buffeting of the
elements. This,however, does not mean that you are
called upon to plunge heedlessly into the muck and
mire. Do what comes, bear what comes in natural
course, but do not overweight beyond what your ser-
enity iscapable of floating. Distinguish between with-
dniwal and hearty but undamaged living."
The 5emon was about over, so Betty did not
108 T H E R O A D I K N O W
pursue the subject then; but she caught the point
"I am coming out now," said she, "and the reality is
gettingthinnerandpaler.As I driftaway from it, all I
can be sure of isthat it isnot enough to saywith great
dignity: Iwithdraw my consciousness.That isno good.
A dignifiedwithdrawal from earth frets looks rather
silly!,,
CHAPTER IX
IN-FLOODING STRENGTH
·,.
I MUST confessthatthe earlyperiodof Betty'sinstruc-
tion wasa tough one for me. I seenow that she was
being given the basic foundations,and that some of
them - like the "inner citadel,"for example- had to
be givencontent before they could becomepractical
But at the time the teachingwas- to me - merely a
point ofview.It wasfragmentary;it wasvague;it came
slowly. For her part Betty was enthusiastic.But she
was havingthe experiences;I wasn't All I didwas to
sit there for an hour or so,with penciland paper,tak-
ing down what little there wasto take down. A great
dealof the timenothingwassaidby anybody.I patted
myselfon the backfor beingsolongsuffering.Now I
seeI might havemadea positivecontributionthrough
somekindof enthusiasmof my own;but the Invisibles
themselvesrealizedthat thiswasa good dealto askon
the basisof what wasofferedme.
"You are very patient,"they told meappreciatively
one day,"- and that isall," they added drily.
My jobwasdistinctlyside-linesitter; and recorder,
of course. I listenedto directions given Betty as to
proc~ unseenby me -
110 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"Too expectant - not enough relaxed."
"You are striving so much to make your mind recep-
tive that you defeat our purpose and open your mind
to other sources."
"We have decided on a slight change of plan for
you.We are going to makeyou put in practice asnearly
as possible each phase as you acquire it. Roughly the
plan isthis: we will lead you into our world for your
l~ons, but in order to obtain any further instruction
you must do your practicing at home. We are not try-
ing to lead you away from world experience, only to
strengthen and enlighten you about it."
"Open up more naturally, and do not keep such a
stem hand on yourself and your emotions. It won't
harm you ifyou go to the opposite extreme for a while
until balance is gained."
"Now try to regulate your breathing: several short
quick breaths and along one, and then let go. One after
the other. When you breathe do not strain for any-
thing. Try to forget that part. Just
go in and out with
the tide."
"We are putting you through a time of slow prep-
aration, and you are not standing still,asyou think ...•
At present you are nec~arily muscle-bound in your
mind with too much effort."
"Push. Push through as you would in walking
againsta strong wind."
That sort of thing. Stage directions. Of a dnuna
that
THE ROAD I KNOW Ill
I, in the wings,could not see. Once in a long while the
Invisibles t~d me something personal,a bit of "evi-
dential," a brief explanation. As a fish is t~d to a
trained seal.
Betty herself realized that her reports back were in-
complete. .
"Are these words right?" she asked me, rather anx-
iously. "They did not get laid justright ••. Words!
Words! Words!" she cried, exasperated. "We have to
string boundaries of them around even the dimmest
comprehension. And rnore is there than can ever be
contained!"
But right then the Invisiblesapparently did not care
whether or not there was any mental comprehension -
in either of us. They weren't interested in our minds.
Minds came in later, they assured us.
"It isthe amateur method to seek growth or spiritual
freedom," said they, "by an intense concentration of
mind; but this must be replaced by expansion of the
heart. That reestablishes the proportion of spirit over
the material, and welds the being into a new function-
ing body capable of volition. There isa great difference
between the terrible diffusionsof seeking occult power
and the expansion of the heart which arranges your
proportions and makesyou a workable reality.You are
past the first danger posts.Do not wonder at silenceson
our part. Daily strengthening of purpose by silent
contemplation of your intention, that iswhat '\\'ehave
112 THE ROAD I KNOW
been trying to leadyou to, not to dailyseekingfor ad-
venture."
2.
Neverthel~ even I could perceive certain definite
stepsof instruction.
The first thing Betty was to accomplish was per-
meability to the invisiblespiritual forces, or Contact
with the Source.The result of this was to bespiritual
consciousness.At first she gained it only in touches,
flashes.
Next shemust extend the duration of spirimalcon-
sciousn~ until it becamehabitual.Once she wasable
to transfer her headquarters for living from her old
limited, earth consciousn~ to this expanded con-
sciousness,shemust learn how to utilizeher new van-
tage point, and her new powers and insight, in her
ordinary conduct of lifeand her relationsto the people
about her.
That, stripped of all technique, was the program.
And its emphasison mundane utilization;the immedi-
ate applicationto life, not to someimpracticalmysti-
cism,gave it common senseto me. The ultimateai~
the fashioningofBetty asan instrument for work after
shehad left earthlife,wasnot then apparent to us.
None of thisburst upon Betty all at once, as an "il-
lumination."The ideaand the practice of Contact was
TH E RO AD I K N O W IIJ
introduced to her gradually,as one might teach a be-
ginner to swim.One day shehad been quietfor much
longerthanusual.Ibeganto getrestless.
''What are you up to?" I demandedat last.
"Getting porous,"Betty replied."Porosity..•. " She
pausedto savourthis,then chuckled."That's a nicefat
juicy word!°
It sucksin and out.
"When youarecoldandenteraroom,awarmroo~
you sayto yourself that you are in a different atmos-
phere, and instantly expand to it. That is the differ-
ence between ordinary lifeand the elementI'm in."
"What element?"Itriedfor evenaglimpse
ofunder-
standing.
"It's anew mediumofsensation," sheexplained,"the
mostrelaxingandyet vigorousstateyou canimagine-
so aboundingin beautyand vitality.It's too wonderful
for me to graspjustyet."
"Gm't you tell memore of tlusnew medium?"
"Could you imagine a substance made out of
Spring?"shereplied."Not of individualfreshwillows
and budsand bl~ms and tender greensand bursting
colors - not those details,but the very sweep of an
entireworlddeckedout;thesubstmceofSpring.Don't
youseehowfresh,delicious,exciting,exaltingit would
be comparedto ordinary things?I am in this superla-
tive beauty and freshnessand exquisitedelicacy. It is
hard to descnoe in clumsy teffllS, or name anything·
but justthe.'substanceof Spring.'"
114 T H E R O A D I K N O W
Which sounded pleasant and poetic, but those were
the days when I was pragmatic and still somewhat
skeptical. For satisfaction I wanted both reasons and
results. Nevertheless I held my fire and awaited devel-
opments. Much instruction followed, whose purpose
I fathomed not at all.For example:
"We would like you," the Invisibles speaking
through Betty told her, "to cultivate to the utmost your
instinct for beauty: form, poems - anything that has
been achieved by man in hisbrief moments of triumph
and contact with the over-soul. It is the biggest up-
lifting material thing you can possess.
• ••Do not be
afraid to drink deep of beauty. It is an open door
through which you can glimpsewhat isto come: beau-
ty, all that is harmony and in opposition to discord.
Beauty isa great and quiet teacher. Detailed education
isvery important, but it isbeset with many restrictions
and pitfalls. It is a wise teacher who keeps his pupils
looking at the end of the vistainsteadofwatching their
feet on the narrow path they walk."
To me, sitting on the sidelines, that sounded a good
deal like urging Betty to be Betty! But day after day
they kept her at whatever lay behind their words.
"Beauty and love," they insisted. "You hear us say
love so often that the word ceasesto convey any idea
to you; but it is the all-containing, permeating essence
which will unite your world to ours. We wish we had
another word for it. But we see it as the firstprinciple
THE ROAD I KNOW 115
of growth. Open the flood gates, let the great current
of the universe pour through you to others, if you
would live."
Much of Betty's instruction was given in thismood
of poetic imagery.Againthe Invisibleswould expr~
themselves in what seemed to me more practical terms.
"Don't try for anything," said they on one occasion,
"but justthe feeling of a substance as physically per-
meating as ether or gasor something like that. Try
simply, in relaxing, to feel that this substance permeates
every inch of your body. Accustom yourself to the
feel of it You will fud it will rest you and bring hap-
pin~ even in the very beginning.You have tried it
before; but thiswill visualize it. Do it at any time; mo-
mentarily. It's anactualfact, thisinlet of strength."
There wasa pause,evidently for experiment.
"Anybody could do it," said Betty presently. "It is
a matter-of-fact law. I don't see anything 'psychic'
about it. I am juststudying the law; and little·by little
I am demonstrating it.The biggestthing you canstudy
is this permeating strength, and how much of it you
can take. I lie here and strive according to the poor
little rules I have discovered already, and something
likeaslightchemicalchange takes placethat makes me
116 TH E RO AD I KNOW
awareof my own possibility.I am justa poor feeblebe-
ginner, but I can seesomuch ahead."
"Here are the only taskswe give you now," con-
cluded the Invisibles,"first,love - attract unselfishly;
second,aswe told you before, walk through your days
as a creature with folded wings, consciousof the pos-
~ion of another elementand of your ability to enter
it; third, liveenough in spirit to invite inspiration,and
act promptly without questioning on what comes to
you."
For a while Betty seemed to be considerdlg this.
Then shesaid:
"If eellikeColumbusafter weeksand weeksof trav-
el, holding fastto the faith that it's there on the other
side.I mustn't relax that faith."
Betty'sfaithwas not ill-founded, but alsoits fulfill-
ment was not immediate.Other thingsin her makeup
delayedmattersfor a time.Notably caution.Betty was
far frombeingcredulousoran easymark. Her longline
of Scotchancestorshadgivenher a certain hard-headed
skepticism.At the timeit seemedto meamighty useful
trait in this kind of a job. It still does. But also its use
could be overdone.The Invisiblespointed this out.
"Don't be afraid to accept your dreamland," they
advised her. "You have enough ingnined practical
•
TH E RO AD I KNOW 117
habits to bring you back to balance whenever neces-
sary,but uni~ you let go your present control you
will never be able to do our work. The fact that you
havethat control isyour greatestassetif you can tum
it offat willand control it.Do you seewhat we are do-
ing?Step by step we are trying to break the bonds
which tie you down to your earthly villageand help
you to enter the wider world we livein. Yes,it islike
getting you offsticky flypaper.You want to do it, but
you must conqueryour bodilyinstinctsandhabitsfirst.
Youhavethe imaginationand control but the abandon
must be acquired."
Betty must havebeenableto obeyorders,for shortly
shereported:
"I am being taken along with some Strong Ones.
Their ~iation invigoratesmeso.I amgoingthrough
somekind of an experienceon a higher level.Before,I
was like a little skinny chickabiddy thing that refused
to comeout of its shell- crouched in its little shellbe-
causethat was all it knew that was comfortable.Now
someoneis helping me to step bravely out and I am
feelingstrong andsure,andnot regretting the Sc1Crifice
ofmy shell."
"You can have little conception now of the intense
happinesstoward which you are progr~g," the In-
visiblesencouragedher. "We don't want to enriceyou
with statements that - misconceived- would en-
danger a simpleapproach to the reality. But no inner
118 TH E RO AD I KNOW
vision must ever have a wall instead of a horizon."
For some little time Betty was silent. Then she an-
nounced:
"I've always before stuck my head up through a
hatchway and tried to look around; -but now I've
climbed up. I'm all here but I don't know what to do."
She chuckled.
"This isa great game - a great game, Itell you what!
Like a fairystory .... My, but thisisthe life!"
Againshe was silent.
"Well, I've got to do something about it now. I can't
just stand and say how nice it is.All the old ideas and
sensationsare under•f oot, asthough I had taken off my
clothes and were standing on them ready to swim••••
But what'll I do?"
"Never mind," said the Invisibles, "just go on."
"You must have brought me here for some reason,"
Betty insisted. "What isit? I'm listening."
Once more the interval of silence.Then she laughed.
"Supposing," she began, "just supposing you sud-
denly found yourself free asair, released into the big-
n~ of the solar system as compared with the earth.
Supposing you were just jumping with energy and
eagem~ and enthusiasm, and the only danger seemed
to be spreading out too wide and maybe ~olving
yourself. And if you had no plan about what you'd
accomplish with all that bursting energy - That's just
my trouble now. Generally people make plans first.
TH E B. 0 AD I KNOW 119
Then, when the plan1S
big enough, energy is meted
out But here I am, all dressed up in energy, and no
place to go! I don't know what to do first.It's too
big..•. My inwardn~ isn't big enough for it I want
to give it to you - lots of it. Maybe that's the reason
it
isgiven to me."
She contemplated this for a moment.
"If I could only thicken it up a little," she mused,
"so you could useit."
There was a short pause.Then, sadly:
"I can't thicken it up enough!"
"The general trend is toward a more spirituallife,"
hinted the Invisibles.
"All right," I put in my oar, "what is 'spiritual'?"
"It isjustdaily life carried on by a selfwith higher
associations," wasthe answer. "That daily life can eith-
er go on growing, or be dwarfed and stand still.When
it is dwarfed, you are not conscious of it, justas you
are not conscious of an atrophied organ. When it be-
ginsto grow it takesp~ession of you and pushes other
thingsaside.
"You'll see the point, in time," said the Invisibles,
addressing Betty. "All you can do at present isto em-
body, in your daily life, your aspiration and kinship
with the stars. Above all be patient. Go about your
affairs and do not expect us unlesswe manifest.
We are
Iifting you. Playand laugh and love and work to rise.
Cannot you feel even now that you have set a little
120 T H E R O A D I K N O W
harder task for yourself and tliat you can see a little
farther?"
In other words, she must firstabsorb the concept -
whatever it was - and then understand it. But under-
standing, in the Invisibles' definition, seemed to be
something more than mere mental appraisal and judg-
ment. It was a kind of incorporation into the substance
of one's self. The Invisibles called this "make-it-so,"
borrowing the phrase by which a navyofficer makes
official a happening aboard ship. "You must not only
understand it, but you must make-it-so before it isyour
~ion," the Invisibles summed it up.
CHAPTERX
INHERITING THE LAW
l.
MANYdifferent primary phases were mixed in with
the first development of the idea of Contact. In addi-
tion to the inner citadel, there were, for example, such
thingsas insulation, elimination of undesirables, and a
half dozen other technicalities fully treated in The
Betty Book,but out of place here. That iswhat I meant
when I said that to me at this time the instruction
seemed fragmentary. As far as I wasconcerned the
lack of sequence was maddening. The Invisibleswould
bring up a brand-new topic of instruction or discus-
sion; would get my interest justnicely started on it; and
then drop it in favor of something entirely different.
They gave things in dabs. Sometimes they had four or
five subjects going at once. Talk about keeping track
of a three ringed circus! I have - or had then - a tidy
mind.
"Why don't you finisha thing once you've begun
it?" I complained, "instead of romping around like
the giddy goat!"
I got no exact answer at the time; but I had ceased
expecting exact answers to that type of question. To
answer would have been, I suppose, to defeat the very
122 T H E R O A D I K N O W
purpose of the indirection. In other words, arousing
too directly the interest of Betty's subconscious mind
would have resulted in what we called "coloring";
which means that the said subconscious would take
over, more or I~, and inject its own ideas. In the early
stagesof Betty's training this had to be carefully guard-
ed against.After about five years, however, such pre-
caution was no longer necessary. Betty herself had
command; and the "sub" had not a look-in. Then, to
my satisfaction, the little-dab method was abandoned.
That was one answer to my question. There was an-
other, but the Invisibles gave it only after Betty had
gone beyond the need for that technique.
"For purposes of study there is over-magnification
of a part," they now told me. "To avoid Dlmhapement
there must be occasional pauses to contemplate this
magnified part in relation to the whole. That is, the
part must be shoved back and diminished to its proper
relationship. The constant changing of subject to
which you have always objected is the only method
we could devise of accomplishing this purpose. It al-
lowed the picture to retire to its proper proportions."
That satisfied my mind. An unusual conc~on on
the part of the Invisibles. For a long time they seemed
to have almost a contempt for intellect. That proved
not to be really so. Merely, for the moment, the intel-
lect was not the appropriate tool; and llloreover as a
usual thing, in our ordinary processes, we use the in-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 123
..
tellect almost exclusively, forgetting the non-intellec-
tual- shall I ~y intuitional - equipment which now
the Invisibles wished to bring up to correct balance.
But, asusual,they did not explain this until the fact was
accomplished; and that one thing came nearer throw-
ing me off the whole business than anything else.
My lifehad been one that required a very active use
of the intellect. And if my mind could not endorse a
thing, then it was out, as far asI was concerned. Now,
apparently, I was being asked to accept things without
that endorsement! I say apparently, for later I found
out this was not at all what they were asking. I under-
stood, finally, that I was not to set aside intellectual
judgments: but merely to postpone them until the ac-
complished fact. Then I could use my mind as criti-
cally as I pleased. Indeed, the Invisibles wanted me to
doso!
The whole thing boiled down to one simple state-
ment: the brain is the executive, not the originating,
branch of our personal government.
Why did they not tell me this, in so many words,
right at the start? I did not know, and I was annoyed.
But that was not the Invisibles' way of doing things.
They never told us until after we had experienced.
Evidently we were supposed- as the cowboys express
it- to "roll our own."
"There isno substance at all in pure intellect," the
Invistoles answered one of my protests. "It isjusta very
124 T H E ll O A D I K N O W
fine shadow. The simplest achievement is so much
more important Pure intellect isaloof, unrelated."
From her vantage point in the other consciousn~
Bettyaccepted thismore readily than did I.
"There's such a great difference between your brain
and mine," she told me. "Yours is a much better hu-
man faculty - so much stronger." But she added, "I
can't see why it's so much less absorbent than mine. I
don't understand that. It's very puzzUng
to me - very
puzzling.I don't seewhy brainlessinstincts like mine
h
. ,,
are so muc easier.•••
Neither could I. And even the Invisibles ref used
help.
"They've gone .andleft me to puzzle this out," md
Betty."I admire brain so much .•.. I don't understand.
It looks like some nonconducting quality - a sort of
gloss, like gWS.There's something ...• "
She broke off for a moment, as if listening.
"Where's the catch?" she ventured.
Again the listening pause.
"Oh, I see! Lookslike a ship runningwith a very
strong starboard light and almostno port light. It's a
one-eyed thing. It's the other eye they're trying
to de-
velop in me."
She studied thisa few moments.
"I am getting to understand it a little now," she con-
cluded. "The brain looks like a pettyofficer. Whatever
it isincapable of handling it denies. Through genera-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 125
tions of denial it has arrested the development of the
wiser inner self, which isadapted to handling the high-
er world of sensesand ~ibilities, the vitalized world
around us, what lies outside human-set limitations.
They are not really limitations except as we cramp that
inner self."
Betty seemed satisfied. I was not. I wanted to see,
with the practical eyes of my mind, where I was plant-
ing my feet. The Invisibles were patient.
"Make the leap," they urged. "Dare to do it. Take a
chance on our being right. You cannot connect up in
an nnbr(?ken series of steps with what you know. This
reality isnot on the outskirts; a gap must be bridged. It
isvery necessary to employ the measuringstick of your
mind ordinarily; but lay it aside intermittently. Hurl
yourself into space, as it were. It will not hurt you to
gobravely out to pick up a clue or two. You've been
trying to creep up on thingson the scientific side, but
they've got to be boldly taken, artistically, in the pres-
ent case."
"I see what they want!" cried Betty. "Supposing
you had to prepare a turtle to become a lark. . . . I'm
showing you how to break up the inertia. This leap-
ing, hurling business; this releasing - whatever you
want to call it - isdefinitely the only way to take pos-
session ofthe wider, freer life."
All of which, to ~e, at that time, tended dangerously
near to conventional metaphysical fuzzin~; and that
126 T H E R O A D I K N O W
was something I did not approve at all.I was very dif-
ficult at that period; and if I seem to be doinga lot of
talking about myself, it is only because I believe my
firstview was that of the hard-headed, practical, aver-
age man in the street. The phrase "insult to one's intel-
ligence" occurred to me.
"Don't be offended in your intellect," the Invisibles
told me. "Give usachance. Your precious intellect will
have its innings.
We won't do more hann than present
it something to work on for the rest of its natural life.
Leave it in soak and keep it flexible, and we can go on.
It's boundto besatisfied later. When this other faculty
becomes the leader, your intellect must immedi2tely
react to it: it must, justasthe blood g~ through your
body to nourish all parts.Do you get the idea, now?
Something beyond what you canunderstand,ctm ez-
plain'Withthe brain?If that iswhat we want to get to
you first,how couldwe get it through your bnin with-
out the slowestof evolution?"
As a statement that made sense.
"Pleasenote," they pressed home their point, "you
will not get scientific explanation such asyou expect.
You will get the realityas we can manage to give i~
which you can deduce as theory later. We cannot tell
you in words which would convey anything to you,
what we mustaccomplishby moldingyou to the thing
itself."
T H E R O A D I K N O W 127
The molding, it proved, had a definite and ordered
method. Betty was much amused at the proc~.
"It's like children dr~ing up and playing lady," she
commented. "I'm pretending I'm what I'd like to be.
It's absurdly dignified."
She laughed heartily.
"You ought to see me! It's the way I feel when I
wear a train!"
It all still looked fuzzy to me, and I said so.
"Couldn't ,Pu just take it on faith?" they urged.
"Couldn't yotr just frretend for a time, to give it a
chance to work? Hthisreality isever to be recognized,
it must be by something hitherto unrecognized in law.
Put your energy and your daring into throwing out
to your farthest limitsin search of comprehension of
the hitherto unknown. You must gainit inimagination
first: and then work back through slow steps to con-
nect it with observed facts."
And there I was stopped again! By a word! Imagina-
tion. I am a fiction writer and I know something about
imagination and its power to conjure elaborate struc-
ture out of thin air. Also it had kin-folk, such as"wish-
fulfillment" and "compensation fantasies." Even Betty
was doubtful.
"I don't think," she objected, "that's a very good
word - imagination. It's too cobwebby with unreal-
ities."
128 T H E R O A D I K N O W
The Invisibles seemed openly astonished.
"Imagination?" they cried. "Why, that is the very
gatewayof reality! You call it a plaything. You've al-
ways called it a plaything. But actually it's the one
thingyou ~ess that connects you with the next sub-
stance. It's a transmuting chemical."
"It's been the father of a big brood of mistaken
ideas," I grumbled.
"Neverthel~," they insisted, "it's the way to get
outside yourself. How elsecould you fllction beyond
your fleshly limitations? But use imagltation master-
fully ...-not as an onlooker: as a partaker.
"The whole trouble," they added, astoundingly, "is
in using too little. A little imagination has no strength
to fight. Instead of freeing, it iscaptured, a poor little
helpl~ thing. A little, taken and concentrated o~
shut off from its source of supply, isdevitalized, dead."
They had made one convert.
"One must try harder to get hold of the idea and
play with it in symbols," agreed Betty enthusiastically.
"You've got actually to be, in imagination, dripping
big-leaved plants in the sun againstthe blue sky. You've
actually got to breathe that idea in before you can
make it work, because you are not working in our ac-
customed substance; you are working in a higher crea-
tive form that you don't know how to use, except un-
consciously and asit were, relaxedly. When you get to
a certain ageand dignity, you don't play that way.You
T H E R O A D I K N O W 129
should.I am not at allimpr~d by any ageor dignity.
I amjustimpr~ed with actualthingsand the necessity
for them."
Whatever my doubts,Betty wascompletelysoldon
the idea.
"I want to go on where it isfree under the law," she
continued. "I want to go on and be moreand more the&.
inheritor of these influences.That's it: I want to in"
heritthe law.Assoonasyou becomeclean-souledand
free-spirite<Jlouinherit the law;and that lawisa kind
ofevolutioBltructure. It iswhat carriesyou onbeyond
littleman-madeexperiments.
They aresopoky!"
No discumon of pr~ wouldbe completewere
I to omit the exuberant joyousnessof the whole per-
formance. This was in no degree dampedby the hard
and seriouswork. There wasplenty of that, but never
did the Invisiblespermit it to become portentous or
overpowering. Nevertheless it cannot be denied that
ordinarily revelationhasa certain drag to it. Saintsand
Holy Menareproverbiallygrimanduncompromising.
Betty's Invisibleswere carefulto avoidthis.And Betty
herself was by nature such a gay and chuckly person
that she reacted wholesomelyagainstanyinadvertent
overstress.
F'or the idea of asceticismthey had nothing but
130 T H E R O A D I K N O W
scorn. Givingup athing- anything- instead ofusing
it in its proper proportion is merely an indication - as
Betty herself.had always maintained - that you are
afraidof it. Funnydiets; abstinences of any kind; strict
physical regimens - all that sort of thing- were def-
initely out.
"No negations of anykind interact favorably on the
higher centers," said they. "That sounds like a danger-
ous doctrine, but in reality the danger is more apt to
occur on the side of damagingthe sponleity of the
body's functions - its buoyancy and eq brium and
youthful confidence and carelesmess. Only too easily
the aspirations of ~,e inner life misinterpret themselves
into such restrictions as ~ over-regulated child would
suffer."
Nor would the Invisiblespermit either of usto tan-
gleourselves up in the conventional ideas of "service",
"duty", "will-power."
"It's not will-power at all!" they protested. "Every-
thing gets so stiffand painful
when you do it from the
will-power side. Get at it more from the spirit-power,
the desire-power side. There's a lift to happin~ and
hannony which isso much easierthan this painful
will-
power method. This other is like the hard work you
do in play. It's glowing, quickening, a life-begetting
thing."
Betty considered this.
"Work ... production," she mminated. "Work is
T H E R O A D I K N O W 131
painful;production isbetter. What can Iget that isself-
acting? Creation is the nearest to it. That isa cleaner,
brighter word. People do not create under a lash."
"Above all," said the Invisibles, "don't forget the
importance of joyousn~ through all work. That's the
big thing.Think more about that. There is no excuse
for drearin~. Drearin~ isjustcontraction."
You must never do thingsmerely from a sense of
duty or "service," said they; you mustdo them because
you 'Wtmt Wdo them. And you'll want to do them
when you've developed full consciousn~! Better not
to do them at all otherwise. And, they added astonish-
ingly, you ctm give to otherseffectwely only from
overflow! Duty-and-will-power has no momentum;
what they called "automatic-quickening" carries far.
And that accompanies only a real desire,and a real en-
joyment in the game.
"Keep your attention on savoring, joyously absorb-
ing what you get with the effort," they advised. "So
few people are acquisitive enough - so few absorball
they could after they have made the effort. They take
only in proportion to what they spend, when there is
so much more to be had with a little more effort on the
joyous side insteadof the struggle side."
"Oh!" cried Betty delightedly, "I've beengivenan
attribute of bouncing! We don't any of usbounce high
enough - not enough recoil. Ifwe want to befar-flung
in happin~ we mmt think more about the end and
132 T H E R O A D I K N O W
I~ about the effort. We are too near-sighted: we look
too much for what is in clear focus. We should look
more to the ultimate reward."
She checked herself. Then with a comic effort at
dignity:
"That isavery nice swelly idea. It swells me nicely!"
"The way to free yourself," concluded the Invisi-
bles,"is by ezpamionof the heart.It isthe only p<>m-
ble instrument for shaping your destiny. Without it,
the rest isstruggle and suffering
and delay1 With it, all
isan open door!"
.
This moving forward blindly in a fog,so to speak,
had its clear spotsof summary.
Every so often, when
Betty had advanced to a certain completed phase,she
was presented with a blue print of the ground over
which she had pmed. Sometimes this was cast in a
formula, but accompanied always with a warning that
it was no hard and fastrule, but only a summaryof
progress. Here isan example, given in early days- in
1920.
1. The relaxation of the body.
2. The inffowing of the living waters of the spirit
3. In order not to be swept away by them, the _mak-
ing of "stability," which had been symbolized by
Betty as her "shaft." (See The Betty Book.)
T H E R O A D I K N O W 133
4- The exertionof will powerjustto overcomethe
deadlift;theeffortthen to climbout;the pushing
againstthestrongcurrent. Then you arereadyto
start.
s.The puttingonofblindersagainsttheearthmind,
and thinkingwith the heart.That is the firstout-
going;all the rest hasbeenincoming.
6. The feelingof union with all createdthings,the
expansionsidewayssupplementingthe upward.
At thetimethiswasgiven,Betty'sexperimentswere
stillconfinedto moreor lessformalsessions
under def-
inite control. But now she glimpseda different p<>m-
bility.
"That accomplishesa definitesomething,as a pro-
visional formula," she commented on the above.
"However, Ithinkit can beused,not onlyin thistrance
state,but in every-daylife.It can beusedin the lifewe
live,without abandageoverthe eyes.It wouldbecome
then asinspiration,a long breath."
CHAPTERXI
LEAVING THE BODY
,.
UNDOUBTEDLY when entering the higher conscious-
n~ Betty had from the very beginning"left the
body",without appreciating the fact. As soon as she
realized that she was actually so doing, the Invisibles
beganto teach her how to do it consciously.
"Escapefrom therestrictionsofthebody," saidthey,
"and life outside the restrictions of the body, even
while you are occupying it, can beexperienced.That
isthe reallife. How can any sensibleperson doubt it?
We are trying to shatter the bodily conception of life
in order to expose
the other to view.The discoveryof
thisother conception and the gradualacquisitionof it
is what constitutesthe raison
d'etre of your existence.
Hyou donot discoverit, you havefailed;you areeither
standingstill or slippingback."
Most of the training to accomplishthiswas techni-
cal,intended for Bettyindividually,and in no senseto
betaken asgeneralinstruction. It was only one of the
necessarymeans to an end. So I quote bits here and
there from the record merely to givea picture
of the
sort of thing that went on.1
1 O,ndensed version used in Acrossthe Unlmoom.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 135
"I see!" said Betty, in running comment. "Now!
Justto slip off my body.... leave it lying on the
floor.... somuch easierto work from thisend back....
I'm getting somuch more at home here."
An interval followed, with no comment.
"Now they've brought me back to contemplate my
body. They think I can improve my control .•.. "
Againthe pause.
"They're justletting me into my body and out again
- justa flash,to get control of doing it.••. It's won-
derful practise in a kind of balance - in keeping my
spirit sobalanced that it gets no dragfrom the body ....
I've got to keep quiet to do this,or I'll never getany-
where. • . • This is fine! Somuch more strength this
way! See how much quieter I am lying."
"Practise in leaving the body," said the Invisibles to
me by way of explanation. Then in command to Bet-
ty: "Enter the body .... Now release."
"I've got to keep leaving and entering, alternating,"
said Betty.
Short silence.
"My head and neck are tired in my body," she com-
plained presently. "I'd like to turn •••• I'm going to
try. ... Sopainful
to think about my body."
She tried to move, but failed.
"Shall I move your head for you?" I asked.
"Toward the wall," said Betty.
I obeyed.
136 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"That's better."
There ensued a long silence - but obviously a busy
silence.
"I can't hold it any more," said she at last. "I fell
over. I oughm't to have done that. Now I can rest, they
say."
Here ensued another long silence, but this time ob-
viously not busy.
"Try once more," the Invisibles told her at last
Another pause.
"Yes, I can do it!" said Betty. "Now wait until I
alternate again.... I did it! That's very, very useful."
The "lesson" continued thus for upward of an hour.
Then Betty was free to tell me a little something about
it - while still in her trance state. ·
"You withdrew allattention from your body, which
is very difficult," she told me. "I thought of it as so
heavy asto be impossible to move; while I, the living,
left it in the comer and walked off in my spiritual body.
That worked until my hay fever wanted to make me
sneeze.
"The mainthing isthat, during the day, about your
affairs,you can at odd moments, practice retiring to
that spiritual body. Withdraw attention from the
other, until you get helpful control. It is very impor-
tant for me to learn it....
"I'm going to come out pretty soon: I'm justhang-
ing around ....
T H E R O A D I K N O W 137
"It is a matter of withdrawing attention from one
thing, and giving it full strength to another. It must
be done before I can go on. They can't keep on drag-
ging my body around. I've got to get control so I can
leave that entirely behind. They say the reason I always
come back so soon isthat I'm a self-stopper. I've got to
stop wobbling and prepare to go all the way and not
want to snap back. It islike standing on my head. It's
that 'Oh dear, I'm going to wobble and come down'
idea that bringsme back."
"The more you can relax the body allthe time," said
the Invisibles,"the more power you ~ and the
more you can use the spiritual in contact with the
physical.Ignore the body, except for its nee~
functions. The firstpoint is to keep it in health,so that
it can be the more easily ignored."
"Now I am going to do it over again," said Betty.
"This must be made more trustworthy •••. Such a
ligh "
strange t.•••
For some little time she was silent.
"I can travel a little now," she resumed. "Getting
the idea of unattached motion. I've been so tethered
before. But it ishard for me to see; it's so dim."
"One of the most powerful forces isbelief in your
powet to do it," said the Invisibles. "That combined
with effort to make good in it, will accomplish almost
anything. Without that you sink into your own limita-
tions and consider them impossible to overcome. But
138 T H E R O A D I K N O W
ifyou get the belief that it can be done and back it up:
presto! It is done, and you have opened new doors. It
is the halfness of trying doggedly without the belief
that gets you nowhere."
"I've always wanted to explain that holding-steady
process that gets you here, but I've never been able to,"
said Betty. "I think I'd call it a condensation of pur-
pose; but condensation is not quite it, because it de-
pends so much on expansion and breadth of percep-
tion.''
2.
With practise, "getting out of the body," like the
other things,became for Betty I~ and I~ a question
of concentration and struggle. One day - after several
months of off-and-on practice - she suddenly seemed
to understand the knack.
"Why!" she cried, somewhat astonished, "I canslip
back and forth easily today! It is very strange! The
wind swept through me as I came in. I hailed it, did
not crouch before it, and it went through me as sun
goesthrough you. I wasn't conscious of my body any
more; I was justconscious of vigorous well-being al-
most as disembodied as one could hope to be. Harmo-
nious vitality superseded the mortal sensation."
She paused in her reporting, apparently trying out
hernewfound skill.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 139
"I likeslipping back and forth that way," she con-
fided presently."I don't see why it isn't justas inter-
estinga performance, and vastly more desirable, as
learningto swim in an element that is not your own.
It isjustasnatural, really. I justleap out of myself, and
take a dive into a freer and more stimulating element.
Each time I do it it gets easier; I am more at home in it;
and more stimulated by it. I am not tremendously good
at it; but it's justas simple as that."
From then on Betty had little or no trouble with the
"getting out" part, but the return to the body without
undesirable reperC\lmon, so to speak,
was another mat-
ter.
"The danger of thisexperience isalways in coming
back," she explained to me, "in arousing the body,like
an invalid who thinks she's been abused.••• That's the
attitude with which you must look at your bodily
wealm~ always.You must be their trained nurse,
giving them only such attention as is wholesome and
such care as isnecessary and such sympathyas isgood
for them. •.. "
She broke off to consider this.
"And," she continued, "there's no use saying, 'I'll
do it next time.' Not next time: this time. 'This isthe
only time there is,' - you must say that to yourself.
140 T H E R O A D I K N O W
You are not rising above the body, after the usual
method; you're n~n-existing it, humorously ridiculing
it out of its habits. But, after all, one's so likely to be
more in the frame of mind of the family relative than
of the trained nurse."
"Listen," said the Invisibles. "There isa kind of in-
valid's room in which your body has established its
habits and weakn~es. You are coming back now, but
you are not going to let your active, vigorous, pulsing,
living being more than visit and cheer that room."
"Well," said Betty, "I'll juststayquiet and pack up
my ideas.••. I must come away. I'm gettingdrowsy,
and I am a little afraid of that state in between, but I
have to ~ through it each time.
"I'm coming back." A pause. "I'm almmt back. •••
It seemslike a fairy-story world now."
CHAPTER XII
REST ON ATI AINMENT
,.
ALLof Betty's instructions, and all of the work she
wascalled upon to do, conformed to the law of rhythm.
That isto say,she had alternate periods of activity and
of rest. But the usual notion of rest as semi-comatose
loafing was promptly knocked from under us. After
a prolonged period of what she termed "striving,"
Betty considered herself entitled to what she called a
"sag-back" party.
"The way you sag back when boresome callers go
at last," she explained.
And at once she made an astounding discovery.
"Why!" she cried, "that's funny! It certainly is! I
hunted and hunted, and there is not any place in the
whole universewhere you can slump! -- I fell be-
hind looking for it. Now somebody's helping me catch
up justto seewhat it feels like,the difference. No place
to slump! Not even when you catch up! It islessstrain
to keep your place, it's a more comfortable feeling
-- there's no standing still --You can stand still,
if you want to," she decided after further investiga-
tion, "but you can't sit down."
142 T H E R O A D I K N O W
This paradox puzzled her. She retired into another
of those inner experiences of hers which I always
hoped was going to mean something or other to me -
in time.
"They straightened me out in fine shape," she con-
fided presently. "I had lost my equilibrium and sat
down. It's a funny thing, but you can't do that; you've
got to keep going when you once start. It's as if you
were to decidethat your heart had beat long enough,
and you thought you'd stop it a while."
It was only later, and after several 5emom ofgrop-
ings,that she againreported anything to me.
''After every great spiritualeffort I've alwaysbeen
left with a slightly vacuum-like spent feeling," Slid
she."As ifI'd put in my alland was entitled to a vaca-
tion, a slight reaction, a slump, - getting back to a
comfonable and ordinary level. That's the way I've
been doing, the way everybody does. Well now,
there's another kind of relaxation, another kind of rest.
Instead of goingback each time to your own starting
place, which is merely an unnec~ habit, discard
that idea, and enjoy resting on the.•.• " She stumbled
for a word or phrase.
"R~ on attainment," supplied the lnvisll>les,
cryp-
tically.
Here was a new concept for Betty to absorb and to
clarify.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 143
"The only relaxationisin accustomedness,"the In-
vistolestried to explain. "When you get accustomed
to a thing it does not tire you; you can rest in your at-
tainment. You may justas well give up right now any
idea of slumping, because you never can, uni~ you
back out All you can do is to work so hard you get
usedto it, so that it doesn't tire you. There's great joy
in it, though, when you get there."
It did not soundvery restful to me. I said so.1
"They sayI mustn't think of being wracked and
spent and tired," said Betty."I must rest in what I have
attained. That is the real refreshment. It doesn't tire
you somuch when you start expandingif you rest on
what you've attained. That's quite nice! It transfers
your center of consciousn~ Such a new way of rest-
. ,,,
mg.
With an air of discoveryshe announced that this
1 "But you mmed the point," Joan writes me, in comment on this
part of the MS. "Of course you 'rest on attainment'! Take mere
physical dexterity, like learning to knit, which I did not do until
about five years ago. My fingers were stiff and clumsy; I lost
stitches off my needle; it was very hard for this old dog to learn
new tricks. I was about to give up in despair. Then suddenly I
could knit! Now when I am weary I rest myself by knitting.
Work one knows how to do is never wearying when pursued
normally. We rest on that attainment, and only tire over some
new _proc~ of learning. Transfer this fact from the physical
into Betty's spiritual, and you'll understand."
I think Joan
is right. ·
144 T H E R O A D I K N O W
feeling-tired-business is largely a matter of what the
body seemsto expect of us.
"I amapt to think I am tired when I come back," md
she, "but it's only a peevish kind of resentment of my
body. I'll justignore that. I'm not tired: I'm justused,
- like a slate. I can brush it off and fix it
"I must never," she continued, "admit a weakor
tired thought at that stage. H I do, it dilutes the im-
pression; like leaving something unstoppered. It runs
out"
"Stay up on your hilltop; make yourself at home
there," advised the Invisibles. "No sense in you - the
real you - coming back. Restup there and have a new
starting point. This going back every time isjustpoor
technique. You can do it, but it's clumsy and labori-
ous."
"It's nice to stay up," admitted Betty, after shehad
considered this, "but it's new-nice. I still want to go
back and slump; that's old-nice. - Well, I'll try
it---
"lt's a stronger kind of rest," she reported to me.
"Sort of leaving your consciousness on the top shelf
instead of bringing it back to rest on unpaddednerves.,,
She was silent so long that I asked her what she was
doing."I'm tidyingup to come back," saidshe.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 145
"Now listen," saidthe Invisibles, "there's no restl~
feeling ofperpetualmotion about it. It's more a feeling
of warm existence, like quiet and very active rays.It's
like the sun growing things- that kind of life. It kee~
you living outside, in advance of yourself, instead of
occupied with your physical self."
"I'll try it," agreed Betty, "I won't allow myself to
think when I'm tired. When I'm tired I'll be in a der-
rick and lift automatically without thinking. It will
probably work, if you sayso." She sounded doubtful.
"I see - it willbe outside of myself. It'll take some do-
ing!" She chuckled. "Me a derrick! Make it mechani-
cal. I see: instead of damaging my real substance by
drawing on it. All right; come on, we'll go try it."
"Don't spend yourself on what your mechanism can
do," supplemented the Invisibles.
"I know lots of things but I can't teach myself
them," observed Betty quaintly, "I want to go now
with myself that knows lots of things.It's nice not to
try to understand, justto know." Ensued a long pause.
"I did not come all the way back!" she cried trium-
phantly, "I distinctly did not come all the way back
today. I may not be able to stay there --"
"The mainthingisnot to slump back automatically.
You can be at easewithout being out of formation,',
said the Invisibles.
146 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"What was that expresgon?" queried Betty."Rest
in attainment. At first I thought that a terrible idea.
But there isrest to it. Only, I don't get it unlessI've
attained. It's the rest you find in being unconscious of
your struggle because you are strong enough for it."
Apparently she eventually surrounded the tech-
nique to her own and the Invisibles' satisfaction. Years
later she had this to say: ·
''It used to be such an effort to keep going: now it's
such a discomfort to stop. My being seemsto consist
entirely of the feeling of a machine in action. I'm set in
action; wound up; mymachinery isgoing. It's the feel-
ing of the next stratum of energy above us which they
talkedabout."
There is indeed, said she, a rhythm of rest and ac-
complishment. It is the rest of incoming and outgo-
.
1ng.
"I wish I could find a name for it all. There is a
poised well-being about thisthing. It isa vigorous rest.
I'm enthusiastic and vigorous; yet I'm resting-with-
out slumping. How would I say that? Rest isn't the
word: it's a pause of consciousn~. It's a kind of radia-
tion, which is a sort of worship. There ought to be
some name for that pause in application that sort of
shoots out. It ought to be done lots, to fill up the gaps,
to heal. Lots of it is needed everywhere, all through
life; it's a kind of ventilation. I'll justdo it a while and
seeifsomeword comes up to claim it."
But no word did.
CHAPTERXm
THE NEAR COUNTRY
WHEN Betty firstset out on her Road, it seemed to her
- and hence to me -that she journeyed far to touch
even the first contact with these new and strange
"forces". And when she came actually to that phase in
which she "Ieft the body'' in order to explore or to fol-
low wheresoever in the "other consciousn~" she was
led, the impression of distance was deepened. She so
expr~d her experience. - "I'm going away off now."
"My! I'm going deep! ••. Still farther?" "I'm being
taken away now." Alwaysthe impression of trll'Velto
some remote destination. And when she faced back, the
return trip seemed to her as long.
This imp~ion, astoundingly, proved to be an il-
lusion. It arose, I think, panly from Betty's own sense
of radical ch1111ge
of environment, which in our world
ordinarily means distance; and partly from mankind's
age-long mental habit of considering heaven "up" and
hell "down," and the heavenly m~ngers descending
to us on ladders or beams of light. After Betty had gone
to her Unobstructed Universe, she showed an amusing
impatience over this idea. She was talking, through
Joan, to a young woman she had known well in our
life. Something was said that indicated confusion in the
148 T H E R O A D I K N O W
latter's mind. Bettystopped the di.scusgon with the
abrupt question:
"What isyour idea of where I am now, anyway?"
"Why," replied the young woman, rather vaguely,
"why, I justthink of you as suspended somehow, in
space."
"I trmrighthere!"stated Betty vigorously. "Thereis
only one universe. There isno separate 'heaven.' My
world isyour world plus."1
Even while here, she grew to understand that the
two phrases, "leaving the body" and "going far", were
only a manner of speaking, and that she could modify
them to advantage. Leaving the body became more a
matter of withdrawing- completely- attention from
the body. And the "journey" simply did not exist!
"It makes the world seemso small," she commented,
''when you reach out for people, and the spacebetween
somehow shuts up like a telescope. I don't understand
that. Got to do some experimenting around. I don't see
how you can pull out and push in space like that•••• "
The foilowing long pause was obviously occupied
in the "experimenting around."
"Why, how astonishingly near that brings things!"
she burst out. "Isn't that astonishing! Why, isn'tthat
astonishing! Even the distance to the other conscious-
n~ is not a distance of space; it's a slown~ or tor-
1 I quoted this incident in The Unobmucted Uniuerse,but it is
worthrepetition
here.
T H E R. 0 A D I K N O W 149
pidity in penetrating. It's justlack of the right combin-
ation that makes it seem distant. It is so near when
you clear that intervening denseness which is not
space.•..
"How can Itell this?Supposing Iwas in adarkroom,
and then a bright light was turned on. The darkness
and the light occupy the same area, don't they? One
overcomes the other and reveals what the otlier did
not Well, instead of being in the dark substance of
consciousness, I'm in the brighter revealing one. Den-
sity isgone. I'm in the same place I was, but with great-
. .
er VlSIOn.
"It is all one; here; now. All the heavens and hells
and universes superimposed. Why, that is perfectly
tremendous! It gets nearer and nearer until it all seems
right on top of me! More and more revealing light! ...
"I can't pierce it further. I'm not big enough: it
would overwhelm me and burst me. I can't do it.... "
This was enormously interesting to me at the time.
It ismore sotoday, for now it appearsasthe firstinkling
of the brilliant exposition of Space and Time Betty was
to give us,fifteen years later through Joan,
inherbook,
The Unobstructed Universe.
In the immediately subsequent 5Cmonsthe concept
was further developed.
"I see!" she began, after a long interval of silent in-
vestigation, "space isonlyan imaginary boundary, not
a definite reality. How curious it looks! There isn't
150 T H E R O A D I K N O W
anysuch thing as that word-pattern we call space. It's
I th -1!.a ' "
a toge er wuerent .•.•
She pausedto examine further.
"This istoo much for me!" she resumed. "My good-
n~! There's no use trying to figure it out while you're
living. You couldn't hold on to the idea when you
brought it back! I don't believe I could standan idea
like that and ·get back and live again sensibly. But I'll
try to tell you. I'm gaspingover it, and I'll spoilit; but
I'll try- .
"Yesterday when I looked at a pebble under the mi-
croscope, I looked down into a deep canon of space. I
can walk on that pebble; and yet, by the magic of con-
centnition, a tiny crevice in it can be refracted to the
illusion of a real cafion with true immensity. How can
you measure space? How can you give anythingso
elastic and changing the name of space? Don't you see,
space isnot real at all. It iscontained in an attribute of
your consciousness."
"U>nsider," suggested the Invisibles, "the magni-
tude of your own illusion of space as compared with
the space of an unref racted pebble. Now raise it again
to an incomprehensible magnitude such as you can
only go~ at."
Bettythought this over awhile. Then, in a puzzled
tone:
''We are all apparently occupying the same space.
It doesn't seemto be a caseof distance at all.... This
TH E R O A D I K N O W 151
is quite new to me and very satisfactory; because I
never could see how they'd have room for everything
and everybody who'd ever died. This is much better;
only I can't understand it clearly ..•.
"Well, anyhow, I'm never going to have anyrespect
for space again, because I know now it's altogether too
unreliable. It depends utterly on who is looking at it.
I'm sorry I did not get that intelligently, but anyway
it wasagrandmuckraking and exposure of space! You
see,it's a word that hasn't any standing at all, except
with us. It represents only what we think about it But
I must sayit's rather exhausting to struggle with, since
I don't seem to have much influence with it, and yet
have work to do in it!"
"Space is not distance," concluded the Invisibles.
"Spaceis degrees of perception. Distance is only slow-
n~ in gettingthere."
"How can one speakof 'life beyond'," cried Betty,
"when thereis here!"
CHAPTERXIV
GATES BEYOND GATES
·,.
J'HAT concept-the hereness
rather thanthe therenest
-had at leastthe merit of relieving my own mind. I
had never quite liked the idea that Betty was being
taught to "leave her body" andgo sky-hootingoffinto
unknown and distant spaces. But if leaving the body
meant, as it now seemed, merely a complete with-
drawal of attention from the body, and a transfer of
being ~to a different center of the same consciousn~
why then that wasn't so bad. Neverthel~ the new
field was "remote" in that, without such training as
Betty was receiving, we enter it consciously only
through the portals of death.
In that sense, at least, she was exploring a distant
world. Exploration of thisnew region was not merely
to satisfycuriosity: it had adefinite purpose,
concerned
asit waswith universals.
"I am always afraid of being monkey-minded over
here," she told me. "There's so much to see and do."
Though the Invisibles described the purpose
as"ex-
pansion of consciousness," that appeared to have a
number of facets. She wasto learn wisdom by precept
and actual experience: she was to establishheadquar-
T H E ll O A D I K N O W 153
ters in the higher consciousnessfrom which to direct
her daily life: she was even to developcertain super-
normalpowerswhich are generallylumpedunder the
term "occult."
This lastwasan alluringsideline.It hadthe fascina-
tion of takingrabbitsout of hats.Doubtlessthat iswhy
it ismadethe endandaimof manyso-calledsystemsof
development.The averageof us, whether we believe
or wholly scoff,liketo hearabout Adeptsand Masters
and White and Black Magiciansand Witch Doctors
andVoodoo,but onlyasthey areableto performmys-
tifying stunts. Well, in due time Betty learnedto per-
fonn stunts, when they wer~usefulto the mainobjec-
tive- but only then.
That wasthe point. Either she or the Invisibles- I
forget which - once stated the criterion for that sort
of thing."When a meansismadean end-in-itself,it at
once becomesa deterrent." In other words, conscious
attempts to develop psychic powers for their own
sakes are putting the cart before the horse, and are
quite likely dangerousin the long run. The saferoad
is to seekhigher consciousness,
and then such psychic
powersasare usefulto that end accompany,or follow
as a by-product. Betty did acquire psychic powers.
But shewasnever much interestedin them, exceptas
facultiesto beutilizedintheworld ofhigherconscious-
nessaswe utilizeour facuitiesof sight and hearing in
our own world.
154 T H E R O A D I K N O W
Neverthel~ as they were her facuities and for her
use, enough legitimate occasion in ordinary life hap-
pened by to furnish material for many chapters of the
believe-it-or-not variety, were the telling of such our
program. For instance, as we have seen, she had been
taught very definitely how to leave her body, in the
occult sense.But that ability was for the purposeof
her explorations, and she confined her use of it to just
that purpose,
except on a few rare and obviously legit-
imate occasions. As when she reached acr~ the con-
tinent - three thousand miles- to the sick-room of a
relative. She reported to me how he was,she described
the room, who was in that room, and what they
were doing; details confirmed to the last item by
letter.
She also learned to partake of another's mind -
which isperhaps more accurate than sayingshe could
"read" another's thoughts; and - again on very rare
occasions - did so; but ordinarily her scrupleswould
.
notpemut.
"It would be an invasion of privacy," saidshe.
Doing psychic work in the usualsensefor others was
no part of her job; and this aspect,too, she declined.
However, because the circumstances made it seem to
her almost obligatory, she solved a mystery as to
whether murder or suicide, so convincingly that not
only did the widow receive a large sum of insurance,
but a rascally busin~ associate was glad to disgorge.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 155
Over the period of years such things happened - not
often - but when they did they were of practical
value.
2.
For ~ of us, I think, such unique pmibilities
would have held something of a lure. But Betty was
not much tempted. Her interest was too completely
centered in the exploration of her new world. And
this, even I could see, was a man-sized job.
Betty's attempts to describe that world were a con-
stant struggle. This new region, it seemed, was so ut- ·
terly novel as to be next to inexpr~ible. But appar-
ently the reporting back was an e~ntial part of her
program, perhaps for crystallization in her own mind,
perhaps for my benefit.
"I am trying hard to accustom myself,because I
dimly feel I must acquire for you an actual knowledge
of these fundamentals," she told me. "They must be
made living, vibrating intensifications of your con-
sciousn~ not just dead symbols of vaguely compre-
hended verities. I must accomplish it, first in my own
exploratory fashion, then in its refinements and adap-
tations-its mental concepts and its verbal monuments.''
Naturally she had a human desire to share her dis-
.
covenes.
"I take such a childish delight in having a private
156 T H E R O A D I K N O W
world," she confided. "I'm so bursting with it some-
timesthat it seemsasthough peoplemust know I have
a big secret.•.• I'll make a beautiful window so they
can lookand seewhat I see."
This wasordinarilyher attitude. But oncein a while
shebalke~alittleat marringthe clarity of her visionby
any attempt at translation.
"Oh, but it would spoilit so to make a diagramof
it!" she protested. "It's such a fragile thing!It's just
begun..•• Please!Have I got to spoilit?"
She seemed to listen; then added in a confidential
whisper:
"Let's put it away quietly, as it is; justtiptoe away
and leaveit, likethe bird's nestI usedto visit."
Againshepaused.To me it waslikelistening
to one
end of a telephoneconversation.
"I don't think I can say it," she yielded at last."I'll
try.
"It islikelivingon the edge of a vastforest," shebe-
gan."I've livedin a clearingall my life. Now rm go-
ing to slipinto the forest. It's full of wonderful things,
and I've got to findmy way through•••• "
Shefellsilent.
"I'm getting the fullness of it now," she went on
presently. "It's a beautifulrest hallof the spirit. I can't
describeit, but it offersmarvelousstrengtheningpeace.
If I could only establish this in the midst of world
affairs, it would make a proper domicile in which
T H E R O A D I K N O W 157
to produce power and equipment for competent
k
,,
wor ..•.
She paused again, asif in contemplation.
"I feel so strongly this great vaulted life of limitless
health, vitality and possibility, surging, pulsing with
power and rhythm .... Resonance - it has a beautiful
sound, made up of the harmony of little voices, like
the pulse of a summer night. It isso alive,this vaulted
life. It isall feel and happiness. How can I describe it?
It hasa richn~ we know nothing about - all the top-
ne~ of youth combined with all the depth of maturity.
And there's such abounding energy to it - such
abounding joy! In it I feel as if in perfect physical
health. My body actually radiates - there's an out-
going of something which manufactures harmony.
I don't know what the substance of it is,but it resem-
blesintense appreciation. I wish there were a name for
it. If I said 'worship' it would mean something else to
most people. We have nothing like it. The warmest
humanglow you can imagine - affection, sympathy -
cannot approach it in intensity. They are justsparks
f . "
rom 1t••••
She sighed deeply.
"I am hunting, hunting for recognized words and
teffllS for this feeling of abounding life. I can't find
anythingbut the word enthusiasm. That's the liveliest
little word I can find. All the rest are torpid. It isdis-
couraging to hunt and hunt around among all these
158 T H E R O A D I K N O W
logicaland legaland leveling things and not find flame-
leaping words. It's too bad!"
For some moments she was still.
"My world!" she continued, with something like
reverence. "The intensity of it isalmostlike suffering,
it isso acute. I am roaming, almost despairing, hunting
for terms. It islife at the meridian - it casts no shadow.
It is life at its core. To translate it would wrench me
to pieces. I must keep quiet.... "
As a dealer in words I thought she was doing very
well, and I said so. But she was datisfied. To her the
thing itselfwas so much more vivid than anypcmible
reflection of it.
"To try to tell of it," she disagreedtersely, "is like
trying to bottle sunshine. In ordinary tenm it simply
does not convey itself."
3•
To the very end Bettycontinued to find the higher
consciousn~ largely untranslatable. Nec~y,
therefore, she often resorted to symbolism.Much of
this was arresting and beautiful. I cannot here quote
adequately.2
But the following willserveasan example:
"I've entered the hinterland of consciousn~" said
Betty. "Everything is radiance-filled and fresh and
eager-spirited, as on a pinnacle day of exueme youth
and extreme tiptoen~ for life, more life•••• "
1 There ismuch of it in Across the Unknown.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 159
She broke off, leaving me to wonder what was going
on.
"I'm playing a most amusing game," she explained
presently. "I'm busy collecting different phases of the
spell of this country. It is not a tellable thing, but I'll
see what isobtainable in word patterns .•••
"All the words are too pompous," she continued.
"They are too ponderous for the playful, b~ful thing
I'm doing. It islike the great, bosoming comfort of be-
ing in the water. I lie on my back in the embrace of
the water, only conscious of its caress when I move.
It so perfectly surrounds and accepts and sports with
me. I tear it up; I tear the water up to see it mend itself
so derisively, justlaughing its bubbles at the futility of
my effons. I am stroking the water as I swim in the
sense of its soft encom~ing, and piercing it with
armsthrust
out. Broken drops flashback.•••
"I wonder if I could collect in words some of the
sun spelltoo? I want to get the different phasesin frag-
rnents, and then bring them together for that spell of
enchantment which isthe hinterland of consciousness.
"Now, the sun! It isvery commanding. It is not so
playful. All I do isto lie subordinate to it. It takes pos-
session of me. Without resistance I give up to its ex-
pansion. Magically it dispelsmy clothes and enters into
my bones. My very skeleton grows larger and lighter
under .itsinfluence. My mind is lulled. I am all atoms
and chemistry, all separated and spread out. I might be
160 T H E R O A D I K N O W
a mereheat radiationfor all the tangtl>ilitythere is of
me.•••
"It's too bad I don't understand music,for it is all
around me all the time. I get into the sweepof it, into
the control and abandon of what you might callgreat
engul1ingcadences,which absorb discord and tum it
into harmony. It isa curiouskind of music- an intox-
icating rhythm of things. If you get tired you justlet
go,and it sweepsyou alongand restsyou.•..
"There's alwaysastrongtemptationto abandonmy-
selfcompletely- and yet I never do.I alwayswant to;
and I always put it deliberatelyasideas dangerous.I
wonder why! It is curiously like fighting off drowsi-
n~. There is always the instinct to concentrate on
somethingpractical••••
"I think perhapsthere's danger of getting drowned,
of getting unbalanced and losing your perception.
There comes a woozy point, a givingway to the
drunky sensation.That's the danger point..••
"I wonder what those body stringsare that can be
strainedonly somuch at a time.AsI comeback I real-
izesomebodyhaswatched over them."
For a long time I was certainly no help to Betty in
herstrugglefor expression.I wasstilllookingfor some-
thing "definite." I think my effort to pin thingsdown
T H E R O A D I It N O W 161
put her on the defensive. The Invisibles did their best
to combat thisattitude. They were always encourag-
ing her to loosen up; to make an amusing game of it
"••• They tell me it is justplay." Betty herself was
speaking. "They only want to make it play.It keeps
the right balance....
"Oh dear!" she begged. "I want to get it into some-
thing tangible for Stewart. You've got to cast a mate-
rial shadow for him.You've got to make it into some-
thing like coin he can spend to get thingswith, or he
won't thinkit any good!"
She paused a moment.
"I feel as though I had dived to a great depth to get
something for you," she told me, "and when I came up
and looked at it with your eyes, it was nothing but a
cockleshell."
As I look back I realize I must have been a great trial,
nevertheless I believe my insistences were useful. My
stubbornness gave Betty an anchor to windward; coun-
teracted anydanger of drifting. At least the Invisibles
were kind enough to tell me so.
Betty realized that for thisperiod anyway, we must
have different points of view.
"I am emboldening myself," she told me one day,
after a long initial pause, "and it takes time. Funny
game! ... I have to embolden myself in order to acquire
an authoritative presentation of things. You see, we
work in different mediums. Yours offers adjustment
162 T H E R O A D I K N O W
to the highest reaches of comprehension compatible
with earth conditions; my records are translations from
other conditions extending beyond normal experience.
Each time I have to transmute myself for participation
to the best of my ability in the new conditions, and
then struggle to turn them into word symbols giving
approximate concepts. I keep my contacts with you by
pasgtlgback and forth from one type of comprehen-
sion to the other. It isslow hard work, but it hasto be
done. I hold my little bit of consciousn~ ason a magic
carpet, miraculously freed from what I can only sym-
bolize to you asterrestrial gravitation - that beingthe
hampering customary conditions as compared with
thisgreater scope of action ....
"U>ming here islike coming from a stingylittle cab-
in to magically wrought palaces and vaulted temples,
with still .more beautiful places beyond - a vast and
colorful world purpled over with mystic promises.
How can I tell you these things,when they are so big
and I am so little? Myaudacity in even sensingthem
awes me! ..•
"Today's experience seems to be a l~n in selec-
tion. There appears to be an elaboration and richn~
in my surroundings which surpasses all my powersof
perception. I sense intricacies of beauty I cannot even
comprehend. I could easily losemyself in convolutions
of the varied appeals to my senses.
"Fortunately there iswithin me a controlling desire
T H E R O A D I K N O W 163
and ability to see a few great simplicities of this differ-
ent and more powerfully vital form of life. While I
can sense the stupendously manifold l~r manifesta-
tions existing in this particular arc of my illumination,
at the same time I can see the fundamental motivations
behind them. Becauseof my hold on theseIcan support
the wealth and beauty and elaboration.
"My effort," she interrupted herself to explain, "is
always andalways will be, to do the thing itselfbefore
I can know about it."
Obviously manyof Betty's experiences were sym-
bolic shows arranged by the Invisibles.For example:
"I am carefully approaching something - a great
Presence." It was Bettyspeaking. "I want to see ifI can
make out who he isand what he has to tell me....
"Now I can't come any nearer to him,so I will just
have to listen carefully. Something isshaping vaguely,
asa masscomes to fonn on a potter's wheel. ..•
"He is showing me carefully guarded treasures. I
know they are treasures, but I don't know what to
value them with. I amto select from them asthe natural
appeal isto me. And then I am to wear them, because
of the dignity and responsibility they imply, asa treas-
ure bearer should. It islike an emblem of office laidon
me, and I am tryingto conduct myselfas worthy. I
164 T H E R O A D I K N O W
wish you could understand what this kind of spiritual
pride is,how it differs from the pride of arrogance. It
isa lofty tingling thing that ismarried to humility.
"It must be a great poverty of spirit that makes peo-
ple go unadorned with the emblems of their belief.
These emblems now being showed me are beautiful
things, so marvellous in design and workmanship, so
distinguished in prerogative. They mark the rank that
serves. They acknowledge before all men's eyes the
grandeur ofkinship, the unity of humanexperiences. I
go apparelled thus in crowded places, a member of a
great fraternity, seen of all men, but unrecognized by
the saddening majority. I am not at all self-conscious
about thesethings I wear, because mockers do not seem
to notice them - at least they do not believe they are
real....
"I could not pick out much of that treasure: I did
not dare. I had only courage enough to see about two
things I could support. I took a beautiful golden disc
thing to wear over my heart to keep it from hardening 9
to keep it tender in spite of contacts with the world.
I wanted that very much, very much. And then there
was a banner I wanted to hold up over the crowd
where all people could see it; but I did not take that
because my hands would not be free, and I must have
freed hands. The thing I did take was a kind of cloak.
It had only a back to it. Somehow it keepsme going
forward. I couldn't turn around and goback in it. I do
T H E R O A D I K N O W 165
not care much about the backward-looking part of me,
and I wanted to cover it up with something that was
more nearly the texture of my ideal.
"There are so many things in that treasure heap. I
just selected the things that would give me strength.
There isa massof beauty in them, so curiously wrought
with every human perception and precious instinct.
There isa long golden chain I would like to have had.
It was a chain of concentration that does not bind, does
not restrain you from expanding; but I did not take it.
I wanted it, too; but I did not think I was fit to wear it
yet. It isa great pity, because everybody who knows
anything will notice that something islacking. I'll go
back some dayandgetit."
"I feelit justasa vastcurrent!" Betty wastrying to
describe another aspect of her 'private world.' "I am in
connection with that current. Little nerve-scattering
things cannot hurt me. But that's not enough. How can
I arrest and deflect it, this mighty force? How can I
handle it? It sweeps through and by me, partaking of
me. How can I partake of it? Suppose you found your-
self in a mighty thing like this; what would you do?
I've got to decide."
She studied the problem.
"When you come over here," she continued, "this
166 TH E R. 0 A D I IC NOW
force is all you've got to beginyour work with. All
you have is the amount you can take and arrange. I
take stock of myself - sensehow much individual-
ized current is around me which keeps at bay, as it
were, what would be an all-engulfingsubstanceif I'd
let it. But I'm not going to let it engulf me, I'm going
to act on it. That isasnear asI can get to sensation,the
first primitive sensation of creative force which I
manufacture and maintain.
"It is the growth of this sensation of greater and
greater radius of superior force acting on the primal
substancewhich will make it possiblefor me to estab-
lishmy ideal,what I actually am capableof, what my
speciesis in the universal plan. I said speciesbecause
my ideal, my little atomic arrangement I am capable
of making,establishesmy speciesin the universe.And
I am capableof changing it continually.
"This makes the whole universe dependent on the
amount of the lifeforce oneisableto generateand util-
ize.One's participation in the abounding beauty of the
whole Plan is dependent only on one's own efforts.
One istremendously responsiblefor one's radius.That
iswhat one isjudged by."
She broke off.
"I am makingit very difficult and unattractive to-
day,I am afraid," sheapologized,"because it isthe be-
ginningof an aspectvery hard to put into words. But
later the avidityand desirecomewhich lift me into the
T H E R O A D I K N O W I 67
ease of it, like laughing, or breathing in the springair,
or anything elsethat is the gift of life....
"I feel as if I had stepped all over a bed of flowers
telling you about it."
Again,at another time, another attack from another
angle:
"I am," she said,"very busy getting a consciousness
of my aliven~ for you to put down later. It's an ac-
knowledgment and exercise of acute aliveness. I must
prepare it first in quiet. It is one of the secrets of all
inner creative work and progr~ and self-propul-
. ,,
s1on
....
"One of the most ~ential motivations of progr~,"
put in the Invisibles, "is the reality of this very thing,
this acute aliven~, this wann eager current ever seek-
ing new channels. Without a definitely encouraged
consciousn~ of this aliveness you are not yet in pos-
s~ion of your highest capabilities. But when you gain
it for your own, you will have forever in your hands
the magic open-sesame of gates beyond gates. Yon
cannot realize all the difference between what hasal-
ways existedas the common eternal history of the race,
and the few inheritors of actual treasure. The aston-
ishing power, the intense stimulation beyond anything
you can conceive intellectually, is the reward that
awaits your efforts.
"You graspintellectually what the raising of vibra-
tions means.Yet could you, deliberately, sitting inyour
168 T H E Jt O A D I K N O W
chair, raiseyour vibrations; and, clearly aware of the
act, describe and control the accompanying emotion?
This is, quite simply, the trained approach to acute
aliven~."
"I cannot accomplish it through the channel of my
mind," Betty took it up. "I must experiment and tell
you !llyself
....
"I can, for instance, walk from here to the door in
various degrees of vibration - which I call that for
lack of a better term. I can go asa human lima bean, for
instance: life contained within an un~rminated shell,
you know. I can walk somewhat in that fashion with-
out particular sense impressions on the way. Or I can
go with perhaps some simple idea occupying me, of
some busin~ or pleasure. Or I can go in various de-
grees above that, admitting more and more of life to
my inner being, in proportion as I am increasingly re-
leased from my restricting shell. Or, finally, I can go
with acute aliven~, which is the master dispeller of
that containing shell; so that, while I walk seemingly
as before, utilizing the same functions, actually I am
permitting a flooding-in of the greater all-encompass-
ing self. I would then walk towards the door in a beau-
tiful spare moment, occupied happily and naturally in
merging myself. There's the secret. Like warm sun
rays on a gratefully receptive body, in the pregnant
moment of eternity in passing to the door, all the rich-
n~ of life would Boodthrough me; and I, comforta-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 169
bly, deeply happy in my merging with it, would slow-
ly learn the secret of acute awareness and all that it
horizons to my soul.
"I can't tell you what it really feelslike: words don't
hold it nicely. But it's not only a flooding-in, there's an
ebb to it, and you flood out with it. Nevertheless I do
not, somehow, losecontrol of my segment of life. The
participation temporarily in the g~ater unity justex-
pands the segment."
"The great effort being made today," concluded
the Invisibles, "is to impart the giftof knowledge of
the true nature of spiritualpractises. It has been so un-
humanized, so undesirably presented, so scoffed at and
misunderstood. The time is ripe to present it as a
warmth and shelter and beauty of the inner life, as ar-
dently to be desired and worked for as those of the
outer."
CHAPTER XV
INVISIBLE ALLIANCES
l.
"Te1s is difficult," was Betty's rather puzzled com-
ment one day. "No more inspiration poured in. I am up
againsta curious kind of waiting for someactsof mine.
I seethat clearly, but can't seemto make the effort.
"I feel as if my hands and feet were bound," said
she, "and yet I wastold to make my firstexperiment-
"At first I f~d and objected at being thrust so
soon, so unprepared, as it were, into the stream of
workers in spiritual force. But then I realized I was
accompanied by something I was sure eventually to
atta.in
••••
"I went back to my hook-up with the Source to see
what first clumsy thing I would do to utilize my pow-
er," said she. "The first thing I wanted was affiliation,
a heart affiliation that abolished separaten~. That
· makes for strength. The second thing I wanted was to
make an impress of my convictions. It did not have to
benoisy or clamorous, but it did have to be steadyand
motivating. How few make impr~ions: only the
quiet and the martyred."
She was supposed to do something. What?
"Naturally I was much at a loss,but I did do some-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 171
thing. Do you want to know what I did? It isa sort of
foolish thing to tell; but the first thing I did was to
throw out allthe warmth and happinessI couldcollect
and hurl forth. I decidedI wasgoingto havemy own
circumambiencethat everybody would like to come
into. It would be likea glowingriver in its unimpeded
progr~, with songon the way, and sparkle- And,
by Jove, I wasgoing to seethat it kept up its exuber-
anceanddanceandvitalityand fling!I got enthusiastic
aboutit, and I worked terribly hard, until I found out,
after I had made it, that I carried myselfalong quite
gail
,,
y.
This met with approval,asa beginning.
"You realizehow usel~ and futileyou are;you try
hard andexperimentuntil you acquiresomethingwith
which to work," saidthe Invisibles.
"This," saidBetty with satisfaction,apparently de-
scribing the state of consciousnessto which this
brought her, "seemsto beaheadin productivity of any
other surroundingsI've had. It isa placewhere things
are done, and done efficiently.I've got all the release
andfreedomofstridingonhilltopsandthrough spring-
swept days, and the feeling of superlative powers
.thin"
WI •
Apparentlythe methodof the momentwasto throw
her overboard,asoneteachesa puppy to swim.
"I am," said she after a long silence,"plopped out
into a place of turmoil and stress beating upon my
172 T H E R O A D I K N O W
serenity. It was like a fire drill, a firstaid course, what
to do in an emergency. I remembered the advice given
for the physical zero hours. Leave pain and puzzle-
ment outside, they said, and creep to your quiet center.
Let your heart seek close proximity to the divine
spark, believing in its power to remagnetize you. Be
still.Let it work."
"This," interjected the Invisible, "is the same thing
aswhat we have called taking directly from the Source.
It supplies harmony fitted and prepared for instantane-
ous use, with all the warmth necessary for the con-
tinued life of that harmony in practical affairs.''
"The chaotic din and discord continued around
me," Betty went on, "and I thought, 'I must fly to my
army of invisible friends. With them I must hastily
flingout worship, thankfulness for knowledge of su-
perior weapons, claiming the reinforcement of them,
determined that the constructive forces would infonn
my action.' Then I stepped out naturally into the bat-
tle, and held on to my determination, and let it work.
A great pressure came against me, like the swift cur-
rents we could barely stand against in crossing the
Alaskan rivers. A great presmre was on me, and I felt
my inadequacy: It was an emergency. What could I do
to maintain myself, and to act against the current, as it
were, like a power-ship against the tides? At once I re-
enforced myself with the strength of the army of in-
visible friends we have been unifying. The presmre
T H E R O A D I K N O W 173
was still there, but the crisis had passed, turned by su-
perior strength.
"You see, our best weapons are really our invisible
alliances. That part must not be neglected, as it isour
present field of action. Action without the directing
powerof the spirit runs to waste; and on the other hand
unrelated spiritual example seldom reproduces itselfin
others."
She was feeling for a technique of application.
"I just break up and work hard and am uncomf orta-
ble," she told me, "and then I find I am raised up to a
superstate and in touch with something that I did not
have before. I see it vaguely and look back and tell you
about it. I don't just sit and read about it and see it; I
do it, whatever I'm at. That iswhy I work so hard and
keepquiet so long.
"The way I'm presenting this it sounds so gloomy,"
she broke off to complain. "But really it isso cheerful,
so jolly and so loving and wiseand warm-hearted. You
see, it isn't any question of going out and trying to be
good. There's a great danger in that, because we are
apt to lose the exuberance of our sinfulness; and that is
taming, very very taming. What you miss,the way I
am telling it, isthe exuberance."
"What's the matter \\ith zest?" suggested the In-
visible. "You do not think of muscular 'exercise', for
instance, when you experience zest. You do not iron
yourself out into any newly acquired condition. Duty
174 T H E R O A D I K N O W
does not drive you to it. Logic isleft instorage. With a
full flow through you proceed to enjoy living.That is
spiritualaction.
"Of course," they added, "you cannot go around
zesting thingspriggishly. That is not what is meant.
What we want to get into theseteachings isnaturaln~,
not priggishn~."
They recurred again and again, in many forms of
exp~on, to the ~urance that they demanded of
Betty no great and noble tasks.Justliving,said they,
ordinary daily living.Plenty of material to work on
there.
"Nothing istoo smallto work on 'Withthe tools of
eternalvalues,"emphasized the Invisibles. "Take the
smallestthings, little hourly experiences or situations
of a commonplace day, you can, by your concentt2-
tion of desire, transform them into a spiritualsignifi-
cance akin to a poem."
The Invisibles' word "poem" set Betty offupa by-
path.
"Poetry is thought's most buoyant fonn, ready for
release into emotion," she said to me, with an air of
confiding something, "I /Nil poetry now. It isthem~
volatile fonn of human communication. I am beauty
running free, only shaped by the momentary effort to
reflect someparticularization of life, insteadof life it-
self.Always it isshaping,and the limitationsof fonn
are itspain,the ecstasyof itssuffering.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 175
"Have you ever thought of the visual body of a
poem?"she continued her apparently irrelevant fan-
cies."How it typifiesits buoyancy compared to prose?
It fioatson a page; it isn't anchored at all the comers.
"I do things so curiously," said Betty after a pause.
"I had to do some sordid scrubbing stuff;and then in
order to make a poem out of it, I blew some soap bub-
blesout of the scrubby stuff,and laughed.
"I came over today in a blind and unilluminated
state," she continued, back at lastto her knitting, "and
the first function I felt was of pouring myself out. I
think after a while this would get me all the functions
I needed. .•• Anyway, ifI didn't doit, I wouldn't have
much."
a.
"I am," on another occasion said Betty with satis-
faction, "sort of contained in a general heart-expansion
- nice and human - I can't explain it -
"I don't think that would make sense," she answered
some unspoken suggestion. "The word 'love' doesn't
suit my needs; I'll pass it by. I must gather something
expr~g more vigorous action, lessfuzzed up with
individuality.
"I'm doing something quite astonishing. There are
influences around me radiating the warmth of human
176 T H E R O A D I K N O W
affection, only with so much greater power.I ~lve
to their love; I surround them as they surround me,
steeping in each other's heart-expansion. It's so trans-
forming, breath-taking, and I can't tell you in words.
Now, the strange thing is, I reach out and spread this
aonosphere around each one I care for. And it en-
larges and grows stronger and becomes firm, like a
continent in surrounding ocean. Beautiful thingsare
produced on it. I don't understand the rest very well;
I'm so puzzled because it's still an individuality. I am
that firmbody. I feel it in allits part, and yet it iscom-
posed of many people. How can that be? I only sense
it through the atmosphere of its spaces, as it were."
Betty laughed. "Thatwas a funny trick! I went out and
brought in a very reluctant one. She had to come!"
At the next se~on the job of giving expr~ion to
what seemed to be the inexpressible, was tackled again.
"It's too big to say," Betty confessed at last, "but the
only way to get it isthe constant struggle to communi-
cate it I suppose it's hopel~, but I'll try.
"Last time I tried to analyze the different attnos-
phere I was in, the greater consciousn~, which was
the substance all of us contain. I was no longer isolated
in a small, individual, self-seeking consciousness: I was
in an atmosphere of sympathetic attunement with the
all. I tried to tell you of that lasttime. Now I am going
on from there.
"The sensation of retaining this annosphere, of
T H E R O A D I K N O W 177
keeping oneself in this higher consciousn~, is the
f "
meanso .•••
She broke off suddenly.
"I've lost the words," she explained the break.
"They were right there, and they got lost. I'll do it
.
overagam.
"By means of the heart-expansion people call love,
the sensation of super-sympathy- this outfiowing and
inflowing, thismost thrilling and exquisite life - we
come the nearest we can to apprehending the concep-
tion of God. It can be indulged at anymoment of our
days, interpenetrating them with universal life. That
is the way we intensify our days and harmonize our
lives.•••
"But alsothere's another element to this atmosphere
of heart-expansion which is the universal substance.
It's a lifting quality which is the expression of the in-
dividual's contact with it. I partake to the greatest pos-
sible extent of the heart-expansion. At the same time
I sweep on with it, lifting my share of it by means of
the energy that is in me. It isasimponant for me to do
my individual part as for the greatest...•
"My heart aches with intensity, the annosphere isso
tremendously vital. You see, thiselement, which I am
admitting by my heart-expansion and which has no
words to describe it, isthe highest greater-being we are
capable of sensing.The more I enter into it, the greater
will be my happiness and richness of perception ....
178 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"I know now what that phrase means; God is love.
It always sounded so strainingand affected to me. I
don't like it yet; but that is my stupidity. At least I
know what it means. There are so many word-seeds
we don't know how to plant and make them grow
into life-giving things!"
She found it difficult to make an intelligent start in
the actual application. Apparently it was to be a repe-
tition, in thisfield, of her gropings toward realization
in others. Againshe must arrive at comprehension by
cut and try, by the actual doing. But in the doing she
found, as always, satisfactions by the way.
"It isa perfumed work," she told me, "like woodsy
smells and flowers and odors caught at rare moments.
When you lead people out into something they ap-
prove of, like Nature, then you can work magic on
them."
This, I suggested, was poetic but inconclusive.
"Suppose," she countered, "you were set down
without equipment in a new world - a world of crea-
tive power centered in the individual, What would
you do? Today I decided that, to succeed with this
power, first of all my fundamental outlook must be
one of health, harmony and onward-going succ~. SoI
started out trying to experience the difference between
T H E R O A D I K N O W 179
times of dep~on and those of full and overflowing
life. I wanted to make myself a strong magic; that is, I
wanted to manufacture it for others, for thus only
would I call it into being, with reciprocal action on
myself.
"Then," said Betty,"I lifted up my desires- after
working them into a concrete conception of the de-
sired end according to my limited light. I held them up
eagerly and earnestly and and continuously, submit-
ting them to the influence aboveme, and that influence
helped me to remodel them to greater perfection and
present ~on, directed me in the supporting con-
firmation of what I desired. That's the way to work!
"This," said she, with the satisfaction of discovery,
"is the application of what I experienced when I with-
drew insidemyself, and shut the door, and stayed quiet
until I found there was another 'exit, and so gave my
little bit, and the Great Rhythm took it and amplified
it. This is the new exit - the rising-above, and all that,
.
JS outworn.
"While here," she continued, "I can reach out and
quicken the thoughts and hearts of ~ny humanbeing I
have ever known. What then? What right have I?
How do I dare utilize that power, and for what pur-
pose?I cannot see the answers to these questions now.
I only know that one who has experienced thispower,
even momentarily, can never againbesatisfied,
asisthe
walnut in its shell."
180 T H E R O A D I K NO W
Shelapsedfor a timeinto contemplationof somein-
ner experience.I askedher what shewasdoing.
"I am going through the sensationsof another per-
sonregardingthisinfluence,"shereplied."He isa per-
son with an ~bsorbingoccupation,one that demands
all hisworking hours and energy - justcaught in the
habit and fixture of days like that. I am that person.
That isthe wall I am up against.I haveto beginwith
the tiniestlittle start of somekind and keep working
. "
at It. •••
Shewassilentfor a while.
"Now then! I only had room in my mind for the
hopel~~ of doinganything elsewith my days... .
This isn't me," shereminded,"it's somebodyelse... .
Then in a fertile-spirited moment a shred of vision
cameto me, a tiny fleetingglimpseof a differentkind
of living.Suddenly I saw a beautifulradiance,sensed
a better scheme;and becauseit was the real-thing in-
spiration,becauseit met the fertile moment in me, it
didn't fade out like the worded inspirationin books.
It was persistent. A sort of breath of sweet spring
growth hadcometo mein a dampdarkdungeon.I was
sproutedby it somehow....
"Now what to do?I ambackat the beginning.I am
seeingthatthissproutthingmaybeonlyacellarsprout.
It maybe only, for a while,at besta potted plant or a
windowbox,insteadofaforestgiantfightingstormsor
spreadingsilentunder the starlight....
T H E R O A D I K N O W 181
"At leastit's the way everybody has to begin. Every
human being advances by the same path. And the uni-
versal experience of it is what satisfiespeople's minds
that, if they are way behind, they must catch up. . ••
"Well, if that isthe way to go about it," sighed Bet-
ty, somewhat doubtfully, "at least there's something
tangible to get at"
CHAPTER XVI
HABITUAL SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS
l.
ITWAS curious and interesting to me to follow Betty's
own change of inner attitude toward the thing she was
doing. At the start she worked at it only during the
especially dedicated hour or so off onnal "communica-
tion." Her object was to get "m~ges." And her chief
reaction was of high adventure. But little by little she
shifted until her objective became no single concrete
thing at aspecified time, but a continuous state of mind.
The Invisibles approved strongly of this change in
purpose; probably all along they had been working to
induce it. The "s~ions," with myselfattending, were
all right, and necessary and must be continued. But
they were now only a small part of Betty's job. Hers
was the proverbial "woman's work" in that it was never
done! Shemust practice, saidthe Invisibles, by herself.
Not in "psychics," or communicating, or any of the
rest of that; but in realizing - making real to herself -
thisnew-found inner state. Start firstthing in the morn-
ing, saidthey.
"The first busin~ of each day," they told her,
"should be a recognition of the sun of your life - un-
questioning and eager heartlifting acknowledgment of
T H E R O A D I K N O W 183
the warm, loving, positive creative force of the uni-
verse beyond your knowledge. Always give time to
purify and clothe fittingly your spirit to contemplate
the unknown great Causal Force operating through
each living thing. Unless you make a conscious exer-
cise of this, conscious power is not yours throughout
the day."
And, they emphasized, that power throughout the
day 'lfrUSt be conscious.Which, Betty acknowledged,
was a fine counsel of perfection, but as a practical mat-
ter might be somewhat difficult. Highly desirable to
float through the hours on a high plane of serenity, but
how about telephone calls, and the cook with her lists,
and the arrival of the plumber, and --
But that was not at all the idea. The Invisibles kept
at her, and finally managed to convince her.
"I see," she cried, "each day we must create for our-
selves by this magic, call it what you please - tuning,
ordering - a dignified temple suitable for the habita-
tion of our highest ideals. It isas though one made of
each separate day a beautiful little habitation in which
to live while the big temple of the lifetime isbuilding.
There is retardment and confusion and discourage-
ment in working out the greater scheme, unless the
little temple of each separate day isprepared as an in-
spirational workroom. You know, workmen on big
buildings always have these little houses to work from,
but they are generally ugly."
I 84 T H E R O A D I K N O W
Thereafter Betty never omitted these "early morn-
ing ablutions," as she called them. Every morning she
retired for a haH hour to her little sun-room, and no-
body was permitted to interfere, not even the cook!
Occasionally travel or emergency might prevent. Nev-
erthel~ she would always manage to sit quie~ for at
leasta few minutes, by herself.
This procedure was the firststep toward establish-
ment of what the Invisibles called "habitual spiritual
consciousness." Before long they insisted on another.
"A new field," she reported to me, "almost a
busin~like field, establishing us in the substance of
reality. It has to be done or we'll go no further ..••
Otherwise we would go with the drift of those who
just experiment or are content merely to be experi-
mented on."
"That sounds like a threat," I commented. "Where
might we fall down?"
"A subtle dulling of accustomedn~" replied the
Invisibles. "You must partake more constantly of the
vitality within reach. The accumulation of the details
ofliving reduce the power to a minimum."
There ensued a short pause.
"The single thing I can get hold of today," Betty
saidat last,"is the drabness of our life. Why don't we
T H E R O A D I K N O W 185
intensify it? It can be so breath-taking and so magically
progresgve! There are not enough breathing-spaces,
like parks in a city; not enough moments of suscepti-
bility to happin~ and well-being; it's not punctuated;
it's all run together with the details of living. If we
could only make ourselves distribute more and more
frequently through our hours little breathing spaces
for the spirit to mount to consciousn~ of strength
and well-being, that would be the training we need in
the gradual acquisition of the happiness we won't take.
But we shut it out for all but the occasional hour, and
gradually the barrier thickens. We must keep it thin
and easily broken through. It's the frequency,not the
length of time, that does it. The more frequently, the
richer the personality. It is very difficult to fight the
tendency to hibernate in the world. Might justas well
do it now."
"Coagulation sets in," explained the Invisibles, "if
you don't keepbroken up, if you dolf't keep listening
at the higher pitch. Habituate yourself to it by utilizing
it constantly ••.• "
"This is confused,very much confused;but that's
it", put in Betty."Can't find the clear way to put it. It
isvery bothersome because firsta thing seems audible
and then visible; but in reality it is all the same sense
over here, and you can't tell which is which when you
are separating them into word-senses. It's a reality of
feel.This is like having too manylegs: it's a nuisance -
186 T H E R O A D I K N O W
a two legged animal explaining locomotion to a centi-
pede. It isvery confusing to have so manysenses
•••• "
"But anyway," resumed the Invisibles, "all you've
got to remember isthat when you make an effort you
generate a spark which helps you to enter intermittent-
ly that higher more intensive fonn of life where sparks
live. The oftener you do it, the more you get. When
you decide it isn't worth while, and is too much trou-
ble, you get out of hearing distance.••• "
"Hold on!" I objected. "You are talkingsparksnow.
How can you hear sparks?"
"Out of reach, then," amended the Invisibles, "...
.....
you get where you think sparks are just imprnctical,
imaginative and impossible. And so you cheat your-
self."
A few sessionslater they brought the whole propo-
sition more into the clear.
"The time has come," said they, "when the thing
we have been calling spiritual contact must penetrate
into the more practical. It must be elongated, asit were,
to touch more commonplace conditions of mind. The
effort isnow to gaina more particularized method of
maintainingthe growth already made, to gainthe con-
stant refreshment necessary to keep the spiritual life
.
vigorous.
"Make three and four minute sessions during the
whole day whenever you have an interval. Make it the
most vital nec~ity of your day. At present you are
T H E R O A D I K N O W I 87
giving us left-over time, and that is discouraging and
retrogr~ive. The every-day-every-hour attitude of
mind isso much more useful than any amount of peri-
odicalconcentration!
"The mainthing," continued the Invisibles, "is to
keep sweeping back and forth, so the dividing line be-
tween the two worlds doesn't show. Commute all the
time: it's easyif you keep in practice. It's a definite
proposition - as definite as keeping outside your shell.
That shell is a very exact symbol. Once allow your
consciousn~ to slip into it, and you are at home and
familiar
and comfortable, recognizing nothing tangible
but its commonplaces. Keep out of it! Train yourself
to be at home outside - to occupy, ordinarily, daily,
hourly, the highest consciousn~ you have achieved.
"A little reiteration will not hurt. It's the carrying-
through idea: habitual
consciousness."
3·
Betty did not acquire readily the ease of spirit she
ultimately gained. In spite of her new understanding
she sometimes found it difficult to cope with the com-
mon distractions - travel, illn~, house-guests, sheer
inertia - and most of all the trivial, accustomed rou-
tine of dailyliving. Little things, often repeated, gain
a momennun thatishard to break or check. But slowly
her corn~ swung toward the desired orientation.
"It is a very interesting experience I am going
188 T H E R O A D I K N O W
through," she commented, "pruning and rearranging,
selecting, stimulating life's directions. Somuch falling
from me, so much expanding before me. My eager im-
pulse towards the thingsdimly sensed and greatly de-
sired outruns my laboriously slow accomplishment.
My heavy self doesn't cooperate with my active spirit-
ual being."
By this time Betty was pretty well at home in her
disassociated state. The first struggle for re-establish-
ment was over, but the struggle in the tangible world
wasjustbeginning.
"When I'm here, I enjoy myself," she announced
one day from that other consciousness. "But I am ex-
alted above the confirmation of my powers. And Idon't
know how to confirm them so they will be enduring.
It's as ifsomeone had clothed me in most distinguished
estate, and I go in it rather ignobly conscious that it
doesnot belong to me - that I amnot fit for it And I
am ashamed not to deserve the beauty and dignity, in-
stead of merely presenting the externals of it."
"What's the trouble?'' I asked. "Aren't you getting
along fast enough to suit you?"
"I still get only glimpses·of the great powerI talk
about and which I am struggling to comprehend," she
explained. "Of course, I enter the higher level with in-
creasing frequency. There is no question about it:
normal consciousness is assuming l~r proportions.
But there ispainin the contrasts I suffer. It isso con-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 189
fusing to overlap the two consciousn~! Justnow,
for instance,I wasestablishingmyselfcomfortably-so
happy andbusyand settledaboutmyself.And then the
other focus of my consciousn~ showed up and saidit
was intangible stuff.But it is not.... Dear me! It is
mostannoying to havetwo focuses.What amI to do?"
Sheworked on her problem.
"It isasifI were buildingsomethingand had justes-
tablished the·comer of the top layer," she continued
presently. "And then I stopped there and went away,
and livedin an entirely different level!I've simplygot
to make that my home, just as the lower level isnow.
I've got to live in it and finish it out. There is no use
startingit uni~ you livein it. That justpostponesyour
destiny.That isthe trouble with all of us: we keep our
idealsaslookout towers, and we seldomtake the trou-
ble to climbthe stairs."
For a long interval Betty wassilent.Then, in a puz-
zled tone:
"Somethingisgrowing in meand hasput out ashoot.
Maybe this physicalworld isonly our roots. Maybea
plant isterribly worried over itsfirstshoot."
Another long pause.
"Now," sheassertedsuddenly, "instead of reaching
up,Ihave'11lO'IJed
up.I amstayingthere. It works,too!"
Againthe pause.
"Ah, that's grmd!" she cried at last, in triumph.
"That's arealvista!l will not bll'Ue
the horrid littlenear-
190 T H E R O A D I K N O W
sighted, cramped, strained half-breathed atmosphere
of the l~r life. I won't have it! I am going to do my
work with a well-ventilated mind, continually con-
scious of the liftingpower of deep-breathed percep-
tions. I am not going to inhabitmy lower level. I am
the better workman ifI center myselfin other regions."
She broke off, and for somemoments was still
"I'm coming back," she ended. "Do you know, my·
bodyseemslike a troublesome child to me now. I drag
it around, and bathe it, and dressit, andstandit, and sit
it, and ftm over it!"
4-
"lt ismostimportant,"pointed out the Invisiblesto
Betty,"that you do not get a misconception of what
we intend to convey by the term 'habitual spiritual con-
sciousness.' This does not imply any retirement into
any permanent state of abstraction, nor any priggish
watchfulness to determine that your every move is
transcendental. It means simply that each day, when
you finishyour practice, you do not close the experi-
ence like a book, but carry it around like a treasured
p<mession. Instead of being completely forgotten, it
remains in the back of your mind, communicating its
inftuence automatically to your actions and reactions,
and ready at any moment, if specifically called upon,
to lend a helping hand.
"It isparticularlynecessary, perhaps, to distinguish
T H E R O A D I K N O W 191
this state clearly from the periodsof intense concen-
tration you employ for training and development In
especial
exercises such as these, you are for a purpose
temporarily focusing on certain aspects of yourself.
During these periods you impose on the other aspects
your command that they sit still and do not bother yo~
so to speak,until you have finished. You totally - or
as nearly so as possible - inhibit their activities. You
dis~ all reports from the subconscious; you clear
the conscious mind of thought.
"But when you invoke the higher consciousness in
the course of normal daily living you do not do this.
The bodily functions proceed with no less, and no
more, than your customary awaren~ of them. Your
brain-mind movesforward on itsunintennitting stream
of thoughts and mental images. A bodily or mental
vacuum isunnatural and im~ble. To check the flow
of these thingsisalsounnatural, and allowable only for
a special purpose. Whole living implies the simultan-
eous functioning of all the parts of yourself. Only the
sharp focus of your attention is shifted as desired to
that portion of your being where it is important that
it should function for the busin~ of the moment.
"You must at all times remember, however, that it is
as seriousa mistake to concentrate wholly in the super-
conscious as it is in the brain-mind or the body. To
each its balanced due of yourself; for that balancing is
the art of life."
CHAPTERXVII
IllE HIGHER POWER
"I GO to the Source," said Betty, summing up her own
practise. "In doing so I utilize my higher mind, aban-
don myself to my intuitional, secure in its reality. I give
up looking at the Source externally. I try to enter into
its feeling of power and strength. After I do thisa little
while, I am no longer an alien thing. I am somehow
attached to it sympathetically. Then I keep quiet,
veryhappily and expectantly, and its potentiality seeks
in me some little entrance, some crack or cranny
through which I receive some little bit. But that little
bit does its work. Eventually that bit must be recog-
nized in my own medium for some definite purpose.
Now I am magnetized with it; one with it. But finally
I have to come out on the borderline, and I take back
with me only justasmuch aswill fit into the customary
mind's capacity for statement.
"Sometimes," she conf~ed, "I get sort of thwarted
and bored. I have to get over that."
She sought for the way to increase her capacity.
"I am trying to look at the Source and understand it
for you," saidshe. "It's a kind of disembodied quality.
I am on the power side, and being ~d temporarily
bygreat strength and wisdom. Under itsspell r m tum-
T H E ll O A D I K N O W 193
ing to look down to seewhy I don't get more of it
ordinarily.
"All ofus- our group-have hadahazyconception
that there are such thingsasspiritualforcesthat work
justaswellasourphysicalforcesdo,onlysuperlatively.
We alladmitthem,but still our handsandeyesandlegs
and earsare of far moreutility to us.The disembodied
qualityIamnowlookingatiswhatwouldgiveusactual
possession
oftheworkingabilityof thesehigherforces.
This qualityisnot much recognized.Actually it isjust
thesureness
ofyourbeliefintheexistenceof thisgreat-
er force.That isthe principalthing to beginwith.
"Take anexamplefrom naturalphysicalforces.You
wouldn't have the nerve or the idiocy to try walking
on water; but you step out on ice with perfect
confi-
dence. In ordinary daily living you come to ~ate
your mind sonaturallyand pleasurably-
and habitually
with the forces which control our physical universe
that they grow measurablyfirm under the feet, as it
were.Take gravitation,whichalwaysworks;the mag-
netic attraction or the powerof electricity when con-
trol isestablished;the buoyancy of placementin water
- anyof the naturallawsthat appealto you. Our con-
sciousmindsapproveand abandonall test of them.
"Butthesehigherforceswehavesensedonlyasweak
generalizations.We've got to make them the samein
our consciousmindsasthe natural forcesI mentioned,
and which we acceptasa matter of course.We've got
194 T H E R O A D I K N O W
to associate with them, experiment with them, ascon-
stantly and interestedly aspeople did in uncovering the
laws controlling the physical forces. The same prac-
tice will make our spiritualbodies work. Anyway, it's
the first necessity we shall be faced with when we 'go
hence.' Everything we have been accustomed to will
have gone away from us. H we haven't built this ex-
tension of confidence in the new forces, we shall be at
a loos. This particular attitude of mind, surety, con-
fidence isitselfa force: it isa superlative force."
"What we are stepping around," said the Invisibles,
"is to avoid the useof the word 'faith.' We don't want
to use it until we have freshened it. It's been made re-
spectable by calling it suggestion: you all know the
power of that. Only this is its simon-purereality, its
essence."
There was a short pause.
"They told me I couldn't get much of it," Betty re-
sumed, "only enough to begin with. I'll tell you how
I'm doing it.
"I made a sort of cradle of confidence of the tides
and the moon and the planetary swings;and I said,
there's no reason why I shouldn't rest thisspirit of me
securely in these unfailing forces. I felt delightfully in
suspension, restful with everlasting-arms restfulness.
This extension of my personality, the reality I call my-
self, has quite reasonably ventured out to ~ate with
unseen but thoroughly tested realities. That's the be-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 195
ginning:that ishow we beginto grow into the higher
forces.
"I havea funny way of working. I varyall kindsof
t~. I.jumpup and down on thesebigger lawsto feel
their reality. Mentally I tum and twist them all, and
jiggle them around, and they still hold me up with a
suren~ of causeand effect.
"Now I will leavethat testing sidefor a minute and
justseekthe societyof the greater forces."
A longsilencefollowed.
"Feelssort of likeablindpersonwalkingalong,"said
Betty at last."I know by the feeling when I get in a
sunspot of power, and I try to keep.in it, and when I
stray out of it I try to get back. I know it's there, and I
justhaveto makemy sensessoacute that I can keep in
it or get back to it if I stray.
"Each personmustplay hisown mentalgamein this
thing. I am only suggestingmine...•
''All this is an effort to establish us firmly in the
spiritual so we can utilize its greater powersin doing
the physicalthingswe seeare worth doing. This defi-
nite belief in a force assistingour best efforts,and our
reckoning on its unfailing help; the establishmentof
this principle of the constructive, directive forward
movementwhich we callevolution- thiscondition of
faith must at sometime or other in our progressionbe
permanently accepted by our united being."
"Now the point isthis," stated the Invisibles,"there
196 T H E R O A D I K N O W
exists in you, indefinitely developable, an engine of
power, dynamically creative, capable of impressing
and moulding your material world according as you
give out from your inner being its creative force. This
forceisnotprimarilythementallycreativeforce, which
you understand perfectly. It is, as it were, a higher
sense of that mentally creative force; in short the vital
principle of life. It comes, not from that mere agent of
the soul, the intellect, but from the plexus of life itself.
Mental force can make a mould or plan, but for com-
pletion this plan must have the vital principle supplied.
Mental force is the neatly made electric globe into
which the current is not turned. The true creative
force, on the other hand, carries its own vital principle
with it. It isa matter of the heart aswell asthe clearly
seen concept of the mind."
Betty groped for definition in words - and asalways
she was ~tisfied.
"I'm trying," Bettysaid, "to get a clear idea of this
spreading, creative, radiant thing I'm associating with.
It is a supporting force pertaining to the reach just
above us. I like to get in it and be swept along with it,
but I don't think I'm ready. It goes on to such a vast
ocean beyond my comprehension ....
"It's so nameless I don't know where to begin to cut
it up into words. H I do that, I'm afraid it won't piece
together again.It's too big for language. All I can say
T H E R O A D I K N O W 197
is that it's the biggest union of life, the nearest to har-
mony, the most collected force ....
"Harmony isso poor a word! It isn't a badword; it's
justa mistreated word. I want to give freshnessto that
word. Now it's justa semi-religious, semi-musical term;
but really there is a rising tide of progress connected
with it. Well, in spite of its inadequacy it represents a
strong factor in thisforce that upholds, thistide of ex-
tension. But it isnot the thingitself - only a shred.
"The thingitself is not will-power, either; that's
only another aspect of it; just one more place where
we've touched it in comprehension. What I am trying
to get at is the whole of this force; not only the de-
tached bits we recognize in words of will-power and
concentration, but the complete power of it.''
"There isalways a contracted and an expanded form
of everything," contributed the Invisibles. "Will-
power isthe contracted fonn of thishigher thing. You
can step into it from will-power without contracting
if you think of it more as desire-power.
Will-power is
in spite of your desires."
One dayBetty- more or less in desperation, I sus-
pect - tried the label of "pure feeling". But she re-
coiled from it at once. The phrase had been too much
knocked about by sentimentality.
"Some day," said she, "I'm going to take pure feel-
ing and cleanse it of the taint of transient emotion, weak
198 T H E R O A D I K N O W
sentiment, becausepure feeling isthe divine spark. It
is the intelligence of the bean, the secret of creative
magic. Pure feeling is a warrior quality. It is made of
the stuffthat endures.Strong and true, it engageswith
earthp~ions andcomesthrough them unscathed.Still
I despairof setting down pure feeling."
But the Invisibles found the phnse accept2ble
enough, for the time being,at least
"Purefeeling,"saidthey "cannot beapprehendedby
the brain.You can, hoWever, cultivateit by welcoming
its entrance into your hean region. Experiment,and
seehow it softensall the cruel rigiditiesof life, bow it
escapesallchainsand shacklesof maladjusnuents."
Betty paused long to consider, and-perhaps
to ex-
periment.
"I madethe mostsuperhumaneffortto musemyself
to the possibilities
I havebeenshown,"shereported at
last. "And I struggled and struggled with increasing
difficulty until I remembered the secret of the heart-
solve~lt.Then a great, warm rushing sensation came
over me, and in the stimulationof it I longed unspeak-
ably to be able to make the effort and do the work, to
asw.me the responsibilities pertaining to the distin-
guished estate that has been loaned me. In this great
rush of vitality resulting from justthe right combina-
tion of life I actually sensed creative blood coursing
through me. And that gaveme the feeling of the only
way to work toward permanent occupancy."
T H E R O A D I K N O W 199
"Why not," suggestedthe Invisibles,"think of the
higher force as a compound of the essencesof all the
qualitiesof all the formsof lifeand experienceoneen-
counters? And then, in imagination,select and call
forth those particular essencesone needs for the use
of anyparticularmomentin life?
"That's a goodgame," said they. And Betty,with
her usual enthusiasmfor games,pounced upon it at
once.
"If I am to work in essences,"saidshe,"I must get
the toolsof my craft. SoI collectmyselfessences:the
energy of my waterfalls,the stabilityof my rock, the
time achievementof my trees - there is such inspinl-
ti~ in theirachievementin time.I liketheirbeauty af
age.When I stand under a big tree, I am glad I am
growing old! I want that kind of garnered strength.I
want ~ and waterfallsand big rocks. They are so
real in themselves.The realitiesof humanstire me -
their wars, murders,shortsightedn~.
"Thus I collectessences.All I haveto do isto walk
in my gardencollectingand releasingessences- never
hoarding in the cloistered-gardenseme.&ences are
everywhereto work with.
"It would take a poet or an angelto expressit," she
saidat last,"becausewe do not know how to partake
of thissuper-happiness.I get justa breath of it when I
lie down next the earth and sniff it; and I get just a
taste of it when I comein on the wavesand the saltis
200 T H E R O A D I K N O W
on my lips;and I get justa whisper of it when I stay
still in the woods and listen; and I get the most of it
when I love something, even my dog or my garden.
Don't you see; I want so much to sink deep, dive, be
absorbed in thisintense reciprocity, thisthing I can't
even name. It must be experienced and entered com-
pletely in order to have practical understanding and
sympathy and accomplishment in the material world.
I . di . "
t givesan en essVJSta. • • •
CHAPTER XVIII
THE SOURCE OF SUPPLY
WE HAVE now, you and I together in these pages,
travelled many miles•along the Road that Betty knew.
Through her eyes of the spirit we have seen much of
the landscape it traverses; and in her company we have
p~ed certain landmarks, and have risen to certain
heights from which we can see the highway going on
for eternity, asthe Invisibleshad once said. And some-
how, though we cannot discern the end of the Road,
we are able to make out, through the mists,at leastthe
lay of the land through which Betty will continue her
.
Journey.
What lies about us at thispoint? Aside from all the
details of instruction and the by-products of acquisi-
tion, I think I should define as the kernel of her ac-
complishment up to now, conscious
contact, or tuning
in at will, with the Source.
What of this Source?
In extreme starkn~ of definition, it isthe vital prin-
ciple that isthe basisof allmanifestations and energies
that make up the universe. It isthe underlying evolu-
tionary power, force, life that makes things, and keeps
them in being, in development, and in functioning.
The highest expression of this force on earth indubita-
bly ishuman consciousness. And so an extended defi-
202 T H E R O A D I K N O W
nition leads up to Consciousness as the one and only
reality. We sense this highest of reality, but not broken
into bits as is our own experience, but all-inclusive-and
all knowing. Some people name it God: some people
name it something else. That does not matter.
Now if Betty had stopped, on her road, at the mile-
stone of mere contact, she would have found herself
in a numerous company. Mystic communion has been
often enough achieved to be generally recognized,
even if not widely practiced. But such mere contact
does not get you to the end of the journey. Betty's
next forward thrust was to be toward another mile-
stone, not so well known.
The Source isthe vital principle of which we must
partake for mere being. It isthe origin, cause, basisof
existence. But merely to exist isnot enough. Creation
must alsofunction. To function it must have energy,
power. And that energy and power, certainly so far as
we are concerned, must berenewed as it exhaustsitself
by use. That is an axiom we well know as applying
to, say,a gasoline engine. It has a fuel tank, which must
from time to time be refilled.
But now we are called upon to discover that renewal
isa universal need. The vast machine that is creation in
cosmos, that isthe earth and all that in it is,that isour-
selves,must have its power, and it must be renewed.
Otherwise all sits "numb, and dumb and unaware,"
awaiting the Word.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 203
Askanyman what he seeksfrom life. Happiness,he
will reply. And of what substance ishappin~? Why,
hisfirst thought runs, bodily health and comfort and
efficiency, and a certain security of possessions. But
soon, even though he gainsthem in full measure, he
must conclude that these thingsare not happiness. His
discontents are not for thingsoutside. His hunger isfor
thingswithin.
What does man reallywant, in the unstable world
of today? Mental peace, I think.But mental peace seems
to him out of reach in high inexpr~ibles, on which he
cannot put his finger. And yet, if he could analyze,
they are not so many. A few thingswould suffice- to
achieve his ambitions, and perhaps a little more; to
gainaninner ~urance of a stability that isindependent
of outward circumstance; above all to po~ both the
faith and the feelingthat there isa strength beyond his
own, and that he can command and utilize it.
There is that strength, Betty was assured. We do
tapit and utilize it. But ordinarily our tapping it isun-
conscious, a mere prerequisite of any function at all.
We take from it only what the need of the moment
forces upon us, so to speak, and in consequence our
existence is niggardly and hampered.
So there is the Source,·not only of being, but of
power - the Source of Supply.
Nobodywould lead a niggardly and hampered exis-
tence if he could help it. Well, he can help it, Betty
204 T H E R O A D I K N O W
demonstrates. It isunnec~. No man need be con-
tent with only just enough to get by with. Hhe would
follow her Road he will discover that it is~hie for
him to tapthe Source of Supply as a conscious and in-
tended act. And in so doing he will find that what he
can take from that Source of Supply islimited only by
hisdesire-power and the energy with which he iswill-
ing to back it! For the Source of Supply is unfailing
and inexhaustible. And sympathetic and understand-
.
mg.
What is the practical value of this knowledge?
Where doesone apply it in everyday living?Merely
to acquire it is not sufficient: one must accomplish.
How? The answer is engraved on Betty's next mile-
stone.
At the point in her progress to which we havenow
traced her Betty had entered fully into the occupation
and savor of her "private world" and its powers and
prerogatives. She had perfected her mystic commun-
ion with the Source. She had learned how to tap the
Source of Supply. But now she perceived that she was
to be not the owner, but the agent. She mustlearnhow
to be the agent. That was the next stretch of her Road
she must traverse.
From the Source of Supply, Betty wastold,we can
get everything, unstinted, everythingthat is goodfor
usand that we have earnedand deserve. ButonlyfJTo-
videdwe know howtogiveit ll'Wayafterwe getit! -
T H E R O A D I K N O W 205
"Take no thought of the morrow-" "All thingsshall
be added unto you-"
Butwhy? And bow? Betty'scontributionfromhere
on was to be not so much the discovery of additional
principl~ as the learning of how to manage the funda-
mentals she had already mastered. Let us follow her
progrtS (!llthisnext stretch of her Road.
CHAPTER XLX
THE GREAT SIMPLIQTIES
I.
BvNATURE Betty was a givey person. Indeed, I used to
joke that her endless generosities had forced me to be-
come mean and avaricious just to keep us out of the
poorhouse. There was little need, therefore, for the
Invisibles to stress desireas the first rule in the disci-
pline of outflow. Nonethele~ outflow, as well as in-
flow, must be motivated, they told us, by the wish-to
rather that the will-to. And Betty, the naturally gener-
ous and free handed, responded with enthusiasm. "It's
so much more natural to give," she said, "than to take."
Not that there were no gropings and stumblings on
the way to her full understanding of the art of manag-
ing the outflow of the Supply, now that she had learned
how to tap it. There were many puzzlements. But these
the Invisibleshelped her to resolve by what they called
the Great Simplicities.
I shallnot catalogue the Simplicitieshere in advance,
but rather call them to attention as they developed in
due course. It is best to picture Betty as reaching out
for them, feeling her path asshe went - for that ishow
it actually happened.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 207
"There come certain times in one's evolution when
one completes a phase of development," Betty was
explainingthe next stretch of road. "Instead of being
a freshman, one is a senior. I can always tell when I am
starting a new field of work, because I can turn around
so easily and look back at the old one so clearly. And
you can't turn around until you have pretty well fin-
ished up a stage. . . . I
"I wish I could get a good analogy for the sensation
of what I'm facing now. There's quite a change in the
feelof it - something like being made a pro instead of
an amateur."
Contributed the Invisibles: "The 'JWactice
of the
higher consciousn~, an activelife regulated by it -
thisis the final step in our present teachings. After ac-
customing yourself to the universal mind, convincing
yourself of its desirability, then comes the still more
difficult practice of using it. It must be done in relation
to earth life, or it isnot done at all. One must learn to
take the rough and tumble, the unsympathetic con-
tacts, indifferent ifnot actually thwarting."
There was a pause while Betty digested this.
"Formerly," she acknowledged at last, "I brought
myself, by various symbols to stand under a spiritual
sun, as it were, passive and receptive. Now I must go
out actually on the earth to live to the full, to fail and
fall, experiment, create a new environment .... "
"You admit the inflow unquestioningly," said the
208 T H E R O A D I K N O W
Invisibles. "That, however, is but an openingof the
gates.You must go through."
"Oh dear, I've been so busy getting thisthinginto
my consciousn~," lamented Betty, "and now I've got
to be justasbusy getting it out - andit's justashard!"
"Remember," reiterated the Invisibles, "the first
point - that the activelife means constant inflowing
and outflowing. You must never, never forget to be
constantly giving out."
Either Betty or myself - I forget which - wanted a
specific hint as to where to begin. Active where and
how?
"It doesn't make the least difference what you do,',
came the answer, "or which part of the world you
choose to function in. It is the functioning itselfthat
counts. The main thing isto get rid of the stoppage at
the place of meeting with the world. The 'through'
proc~ must be acquired.
"Without this giving out there is no circulation.
From now on youroutgomustequalyou, intake.You"
- they were speaking more directly to Betty - "are
rapidly outgrowing the stage where you contain, asa
quiet pool,a backwater portion of the current oflife.
Infuture your status must be one of continuous move-
ment, without stoppage at your point of contact with
the world. Obstruction isthere at present.
"Don't be so solemn about it," they urged.
"Thisis
a pleasure-giving party, solely and simply an accelera-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 209-
tion of happin~ - and how to step on the accelerator.
That doesn't make such a bad picture, does it?"
And anyway, they pr~ed the point home, how do
you get fun out of anythingyou have?
"By using it,'' they insisted. "You can have titles of
~on, but they are only scraps of paper. Can't you
imagine a man who doesn't know how to read, owning
a library with every book in the world in it? All he
owned would be stuff. He couldn't eat it He couldn't
get anythingout of it!
"The important thing to realize is that this unified
consciousn~ cannot be imprisoned and shackled. It
mustbe held lightly and loaned to others, pmed freely
and lavishly.One's function isto helpconductaflow-
not to steala cupful of something and run away with
it."
I thought the Invisibles were rather over-strSllg
the point. Still they tried for a clearer picture, as Betty
slowly took their dictation, seemingly hangingon
every word.
"It isa sort of down-thrust after the upward exten-
sion," saidthey, "a definite movementin return. What-
ever you practice hereafter, keep in mind the strong
down-thrust as necessary for rebound.
"In fact, there is little permanent value in having
learned the higher laws unless you can do this.Suppose
with their help you have succeeded in trnnsmuting an
area around yourself- have made a start at surround-
210 TH E RO AD I KNOW
ing yourselfwith harmonyand healthand happin~.
Still you haven't really accomplished much uni~ you
can maintainthe effectiveness of your perception by
spreading the area. That area, that transmutation, must
spread, expand around you, or you will find yourself
p~d only of narrow puritanical piety."
So it was then that Betty mastered one of the Great
Simplicities - Circulation,
as the Invisibles now and
then called it, meaning not merely the nec~ty for an
outgo equal to the intake. The outgiving must not be
intennittent. Circulation, not in spurtsbut rather as
a continuous fiow - movement always; that's the
idea.
"I seemyself
asI used to be," saidBetty finaUy,"con-
vinced of the essential tuning process, without which
we are nothing; doing it more or lessregularly; luxuri-
ating in it even. The picture isnow repellent to me. It
lacked something I must temporarily name robusm~
and independence. It had no joyous dynamics. It would
be im~ble for me to re~ to the apathetic stage,
except periodically for rest, or ifI became conscious of
nervous tensions, or for healing if ill. No longer am I
concerned with exercises in spiritual contact. That,
fortunately, has become automatic. I've made that con-
nection. Now I've got to tum the current on and let it
flow through. Circulation!"
THE ROAD I KNOW 211
2.
Particulariution
was the name given by the Invisi-
bles to another of the Great Simplicities.
"A rather ponderous bit of language," I suggested.
Betty chuckled, as though she too had found the
word amusing. But her amusement quickly ~d.
There was a long pause.
"I must try to tell you," she said at last,"what I ex-
perienced justnow in being unable to utilize the love
force arounci me. I could not hold it condensed and
shapeit in any form. I mustexplain this, becausewe've
got to understand it - the painof taking shape, the
anguish of particularization. I have no right to take
more expansion. It would be like overfeeding, or
massed wealth - something damaging to me. I have
been allowed for years to experience the rhapsody of
a higher life, but now I come willingly to suffer the
painof myselfshaping one little verse from the great
rhapsody ....
"Don't you see, I've progressed to beauty and abun-
dance but can't enjoy it because there's no scheme or
planof arrangement to it"
She fell silent a moment.
"Take a concrete example from our everyday lives,"
she continued. "Let us say we have decided that our
daysare going to be shaped in freedom of movement,
unbamacled. And suppose we have acquired the ex-
212 TH E B. 0 AD I KNOW
pansion of heart,and are tryingto live it widely and
glowingly and merrily. Now we come to the point:
there issomething more than that. If we stop there, it
isalmosta stagnation. We have got to be continually
taking thosevery qualitiesof liberation and wide sym-
pathy,and shaping them into something needed in the
world, something near to others. This we must do,
even at the cost of suffering diminutions of our emo-
tional satisfaction."
Mere outflow, it seemed, was not enough, however
sustained and steady. It must focus to definite ends; it
must particularize.
"Inspiration," saidthe Invisibles, "comes only in at-
traction to some definite output, some definite produc-
tion. It cnmot come unlessit has a container. Inspira-
tion only fills what isprepared for it. It cannot be con-
trolled otherwise. It is like electricity; it has to be
brought into a mechanism ready for it. The through
current must push something. In the same way the
higher consciousness isa wonderful driving force, but
its nature isto dissipate uni~ it meets something that
helps its pa.rticularization. The force wants to be as-
sisted: it comes for that purpose. Remember that: it is
a waiting, undifferentiated force that wants to be dif-
ferenti11ted.
Your businessisnow to attach something
to it - and so make it practical.
"Atfirstyour little stream will doubtl~ find its way
only in diffused efforts hither and thither, seeking a
T H E R O A D I K N O W 213
path in which to flow.But justaswater tendsto unify
itselfin ariver bed,soyoutoo must feelyour way to a
shaping."
"I don't shoot straight ahead with a superior over-
riding force,'' interjectedBetty. ''I hardly evenplan.I
seemat first justto stand tiptoe and look aheadat my
objective,at it were. Then I busy myselfgeneratinga
greatandcomposedsecuredetermination,quitediffer-
ent from nervous will-power. It is a great confident
recognitionof my ability to get there. Only I seemto
work very hard at the generating;asif I actuallymade
light, where it was dark, in order to seethe way. Oh,
I can't seemto sayanything that fits."
And then sheadded, chucklingagain: "I feel likea
smudgepot, keepingoff the frost. That's all I can do
now.... Well, it's something!It helpsthe climate-
temporarily."
In the enthusiasmof thisoutftowing,warnedthe In-
visibles,Betty wasnot to forget to keepup the inflow.
That is the trouble with somany people.
"As water evaporates under the influence of the
sun," saidthe Invisibles,"so doesthe absorbingquality
of earth life diminishyour supply.Keep ever in mind
the constant uninterrupted renewal of power. Have
214 T H E R O A D I K N O W
complete confidence in the powerhouse, of which you
are a distributor.
"Evaporation off orce issosubtly accomplished that
you may not always recognize your depletion," they
continued. "So keep constantly in mind the power
house idea, making sure you possessits feeling of
strength before attempting to distribute - or combat.
There isgrave danger here of illequipment and defeat
for no reason but the world-sapping of your strength,
of which you have been unconscious. If your weapons
failyou, it isbecause you have allowed this. Distribu-
tion isso ~ and comfortable when you feel sure of
the storage capacity."
But don't worry about it, the Invisibles added. It is
not going to desert you, in the interims, provided you
do return regularly to the power house.
"Don't keep wondering if you are 'working in a
spiritualway,' "they said. "The Source will not desert
you unl~ you lose your surety and strangle yourself
with tensions. Then you cut it off; you chill yourself.
The important thing isthe sensing how long you can
work masterfully without renewing yourself."
''It cannot be just abandoned," Betty joined in. "Yet
we do not keep nervously busymaintaining it."
''It isyour rhythm that isimportant," the Invisibles
returned. "There is nothing difficult about it. Justdo
not go on working when you feel that depreciation has
set in. Then a momentary return to attonement is all
TH E RO A D I K N O W 215
that isnecessary; trrovidedyou have made a strong and
accustomed home of it, have established your home of
comfort and worship."
And that momentary return to attunement consti-
tuted still another of the Great Simplicities - Replen-
ishment.
"Like using a storage battery which has t'> be re-
charged," was my suggestion. "Isn't it posgble to con-
nect up with the dynamo?"
"Yes," they again agreed, "- ultimately. But right
now we are trying to set down a kindergarten way.
And the two outstanding points of it are: to spend al-
ways plenty of time tuning yourself in comfort and
worship at your Source, plenty of time to well estab-
lish your participation in its power, replenishing it
when need be; and then never to doubt that it follows
you when your mindiscompletely freed from it in the
minutiae of work."
''It's a handhold for practice in turmoils, even little
turmoils," confided Betty. "I am trying to get some-
thing clear-cut for the rough and tumble of things.You
are apt to send out then a sort of desperate feeler for
something you think you have lost. You feel that you
ought to be doing something different and extra-special
about something you left behind you. I want to do
away with that. If you are running a car at high speed,
you can't afford to look up rapturously for inspiration.
You've got to trust the stars are still there, and that you
216 THE RO AD I KNOW
can look up to them when the night com~. You must
keep your compartments organized, so you can step
from one to the other with no fuzzy places between."
"It is," saidBetty to me, when finally she hadgrasped
the distinction, "simple technique. The very firstthing
always is the tuningof yourself, your leap or levitation
of heart to your Source; - or even justpresenting your-
self.It is especially the feeling of comfort. It is, first,
the absolute tuningof yourself.You are then imbedded
in something so much more potent than yourself, so
incomprehensibly secure. All you cando isto sense the
comfort, the security of it; to lend yourself nipturously
to it; to worship it.
"Next, while you are completely comfortable, com-
posed and warmed and reassured of your divinity; -
while you arethere, before any tensions can~ while
power is upon you, decide what you are going to do
when you are farther away from it; when you have
changed your focus. Decide what you are going to do;
and go promptlyand do it."
Not that following the prescription is eas'f. It Wa9
not so even for Betty.
"At present I am working under the greatestdiffi-
culty I have ever had," she said. "You see, I usedto be
like a reservoir with no sluice gates. Consequently I just
overflowed automatically, without controi and a lot
went to waste. No longer helped to a super-abundance,
I now have to make my own current by opening def-
T H E K u A D I K N O W 217
inite outlets. As a result, what used to bea great
out-
powing isnow only a thin trickle."
"Becontent," advised the Invisibles. "Keep replen-
ishing. Keep going. It is yours, however pitiful. Begin-
ningsare always pitiful. But that is your stage in the
great progr~ion. There is nothing unusual about it
You are bringing in a substance that is alien to the en-
vironment. Befaithful to it. If for long periodsit does
not augment, what matter? It isthere; and in time, with
the growth of wisdom, you will find skill for a full
flow."
"I take stock of myself,"Betty told me. "My, but it's
nice to be free! If I could only feel thisway allthe time!
Nobody ever told me what a tremendous ~onate joy
there isin pouring yourself out; a nec~ty of being.
I've pentmyselfupallmy lifein comparisonwith what
I might have done. It is everything I ever hoped for,
lifeand love and food and drink, outpoured in a great
heart-emptying rush." -
And then, another time, years later:
"Supposing you offered yourself completely and
eagerly, joyously spent yourself on something because
you wanted to more than anything else in the whole
wide world; and while doing it you suddenly found
you were receiving something beyond anything you
218 T H E R O A D I K N O W
had ever experienced before, so that you didn't know
whether you were giving or ta.king;that would be the
beautiful state, the beautiful union, this wonderful
thing we are trying to get hold of and are evolving
toward."
A very disturbing time had descended on Betty.
"Oh dear!" she cried. "What I don't know worries
me so much, and what I do know doesn't interest me!
Always,always this feeling of the vastn~ of what we
have to learn. Why sometimesI can glimpse down cen-
turies ahead; and I come back feeling as though I were
now in the cave-man age!
"That's neither here nor there," she checked herself
sharply. "There's no excusefor being fuzzy!"
Promptly the fourth Great Simplicity came through.
Apparently "spirituality" can and sometimes does get
out of hand. It needs Regulation.So the fourth Sim-
plicity was named.
"The proportioning mechanism is sincerity," de-
cided Betty, after due consideration. "The strength of
one's sincerity is a large ingredient of succ~. That
seems to regulate the flow back and forth from the
Source to our desired accomplishment. Sincerity. That
isthe best I can do for that beautiful ingredient of real-
ity. HI said earnestness, it would be drearyand labori-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 219
ous.I don't want to get the idea of fixity of any kind,
but I want to get the ideaof regulationfrom within
one'sself. You see,part of the time we shallbe using
this intuitive leap to the Source and back; and part of
the timeweshallbeusingthelogicand observationand
experienceof our ordinary minds.The two comeclos-
est together in sincerity. There you are true to both
sides,neither lendingyourselftoo looselyto your new-
ly found visions,nor bringingin the stiffn~ of your .
limitedmind.SothebestI can doistheword sincerity."
"Nobody," saidthe Invisibles,"hasever tarnishedit
becausesofew useit completely. It isbeing yourself,
your best inner self, so naturally and freely that you
give courageto the timid inner selvesof others. That
makesthe hook-up. That isofferingsomethingsimple
and sound and true, instead of irritating people with
benignshallown~."
"It carries so illuminatingly,like a beam acr~ the
whole surface of socialinsincerity." Betty took it up.
"It isnot bluntn~: it iskindly penetration.
"There is alsohumor, thank goodness!"she added.
"That comesin when we limpa little,or lag.It patches
up bad holesin our character.It keepsour admirations
fresh, because it cannot associatewith priggishn~.
There is always the cheering absurdity between our
aimsand our nebulousaccomplishments.It minimizes
our afflictions.It keepsustendertoward theweaknesses
of others.
220 T H E R O A D I K N O W
''With Sincerity and Humor we cannot go far
wrong, even in untried fields.That's why I call them
regulators,thesequalities."
6.
All this preparation, as presented here, appearsto
precede the actual experiencesand experiments that
enabled Betty to real-ize, to make-it-so, to become
what sheknew. But from the baldchronological stand-
point these actual experiences had already long since
begun. However, bald chronology,asalways,givesno
clearpicture of process.I must,like the Invisibles,skip
about, selecting from the record, sketch what seeim
nee~ to the framework of effort and indicatethe
tools Betty must use. One of the latter, of course, was
the care of the physical body. As a furtherance for
spiritual development the Invisibleshad no use what-
ever for the medievalidea, still persistentenough, of
the "mortificationof the flesh."
"One thing to respect always," they protested any 1
such point of view, "is the physicalbody.H there is
flattening out and dulling of it, that comes about
through variousmisinterpretationsof the relations be-
tween the spiritual and the physical.The growth in
refinementof the inner beingmayinterpret itself into
aenemia of the physicalbeing,intorestrictionsoff~
and appetites of all kinds. Don't make hard and fast
THE ROAD I KNOW 221
rules for yourself physically. Deliberately break over
your regulations and observe the reflex of comfort and
fluidity your whole being will enjoy. There is none-
cessity to elaborate this.It isa hint that you can accept
or reject as you please."
The ideamet no opposition from Betty. Zestof en-
joyment in all that the world had to offer had always
been characteristic of her.
"I want common ordinary earth bmte force!" she
declared. "It's my contribution, my share. Spirituality
on earth is impotent without it. It is the functioning
body of the spirit. They concentrate me on the spirit-
ual until I have a certain amount, and then I have to
produce the force to make it function. H I merely kept
on with the spiritual I'd just get a weak thing that
would convince nobody. Oh, I like looking at such
nice, fine, forceful bodies! Their muscles stand out;
they're fit and ready; and each holds up steadilyand
blithely hisspiritualgift that he is carrying.Fine! It
thrills me."
Fine! the Invisibles echoed. But, they rather hu-
morously anti-climaxed Betty's abandon, mere physi-
cal brute force is not quite it. There isno reason why
one should not "be hisage," no reason to pretend a
physical vigor unnatural to one's years.Let the kids
have their own kind of vigor. It's about all they do
have!
"Attainment of the higher consciousn~" the In-
222 T H E R O A D I K N O W
visibles pointed out, "involves a new way of working.
It has more dependence on mental and spiritual vigor
than on physical.
The former isnot p~ble in physical
youth. You enter a rare period of enjoyment once you
can overleap the largely magnified dictates of the body
and learn wisely to manage it; learn not to arouse its
combative simulations, but to give it easeand consider-
ation, exceptionally pampering it if nee~ to gain
its cooperation. Let your vigor and abandon of youth,
your enthusiasm for adventure, be in the mental and
spiritual integration you have acquired. The body,thus
cajoled, will serve you efficiently to the end. Even in-
valids have acquired thistechnique for exceptional ad-
ventures."
Simplicity of allsimplicities - respectforthe Tem-
ple of the Body!
CHAPTERXX
THE NATURE OF THE SUBSTANCE
l.
THE Invisibles never appeared concerned about any
difficulties Betty was having. It always seemed to me
that they watched her experiments and struggles much
asa benign adult watches a baby trying to find out how
to fit a peg into a hole. They supplied the pegand the
board with the hole in it, and occasionallythey dropped ,
a hint on how to get them together, but that was all.
Betty was at a phase of development which the In-
visibles ironically called "the tinhom-rattle-whistle
stage of children playing games." But they hastened to
add: "The games of children are among their best
means of learning. Grown-ups do not play with toys;
but taking away a child's toy does not make him a
grown-up." ·
Apparently this idea gave Betty pause for thought.
"Over here," she had to agree, rather ruefully, "I
am always saying. 'Let's seeifI can do it! Let me do it!'
as a child says."
"All right, here comes opposition," said the Invisi-
bles. "Get ready! What to do?"
"I must gird myself joyously, like a game." Betty
2 24 T H E R O A D I K N O W
roseto the suggestion.''Well, it's my turn! A hard ball
iscoming! On your toes!"
"Using the higher force," saidthey, "actually islike
trying to putt a golf ball down, or to hit a bull's-eye.
You havea certain power, and you try to work it; and
you figure why you failed, and you try again- just
likeyour sports over there."
Of a cold fact it was likeour sports over here, Betty
told me, later in her normal person. Especially that
dratted gameof golf, sheadded. Betty had wonderful
commandof her body- aswimessthat stunt of stand-
ing on her head for long periods- but golf always ex-
asperatedher. She brought back from the links an ex-
cellentdefinition- "You know, I cm playthis gamea
great dealbetter than I am - but I never do!" Now, in
her flounderingsin searchof the smoothapplicationto
actual life of her inner attainments, she was puzzled.
Finally the Invisiblesthrew her a line.
"You are forgetting to work in the nature of the
substance,"saidthey.
The nature of the substance-here wasanew phrase
to add to the manycatchwords the Invisibleshad pre-
sentedus.The inferencewasfairlyclear,but what ex-
actly did they mean?
Ha chemistwants to ~olve gold, he doesn't try to
T H E R O A D I K N O W 225
do it with sulphuric acid, does he? - I must condense
and epitomize.- Jfeknows better. It isnot gold's nature
to respond to sulphuric acid. ff an artist wants to ex-
pr~ pure form, he does it in clay or marble or wood,
he doesn't use paint. If he wants to express color and
aonosphere and that sort of thing he usesa canvas; he
does not daub up a statue, even if the Greeks did do it,
or paste falsewhiskers on a portrait. Not ifhe isa good
artist. And what would you think of a mechanic who
built a machine out of wood instead of metal? Or a
schoolmaster who tried to talk calculus to the kinder-
garten?
Now, the Invisibles advised Betty, extend that to
what you are trying to do- I amstill condensing a1113$
of record. What are you working on? The world -
people, individuals. You are trying to give them some-
thing, of yourself, aren't you? The trouble isthat you
are trying to give them all the same thing in the same
way. You don't expect the same thing from each of
them, do you? We do not want or find the samethings
indifferent people. What do you want of your friends,
they 6oa11ychallenged.
"Why," reflected Betty,"in someI want the warmth
of uncritical affection, unquestioned acceptance in
spite of surf
ace imperfections. In others I want the
light touch of humor and good fellowship playing
lambent over our companionship. Still others help me
to touch my highest point of mind and soul reaches."
226 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"And each of them wants something different from
you," supplemented the Invisibles. "The art of living
is to find out what you have for each other. A really
skilled worker cherishes the character of the materials
he works with, even to the point of utilizing a knot
hole for decoration. He works in the nature of the sub-
stance."
And, they added, it israther naive to expect smooth
sailing and cordial acceptance always.
"If you generate a force, it must meet opposition."
Betty was beginning to seethe point. "That's what I'm
working on today. I go at it with a certain interest and
appetite in trying it out; a humorous acceptance of a
challenge with myself."
That opposition, said the Invisibles, is itself a sub-
stance, with a nature of its own, that must be worked
.
ID.
"The firstthing you must learn," they added, "is to
accept opposition so in its entirety, so completely, that
not one speck of attention isever wasted on it, except
for the intellectual appraisement of its strengthand
the planning for control of its effect."
"I see," said Betty, "you do not say, 'Isn't it hateful
I've got this? Isn't it disgusting that this happened!'
You know that, if someone goes at you to overwhelm
you with something, it is stupid to waste time and
strength in reacting to it with resentment. Yon at once
T H E R O A D I K N O W 227
get together all your vigor to create exactly the op-
. ,,
posite....
"The best course," elaborated the Invisibles, "is al-
ways to reduce your aimsto their ~entials, and then
seek the cooperation of your material, however imper-
fect. Nor willyou find this too difficult to accomplish-
provided you keep as your chief aim the determina-
tion to proceed with the least friction and the most
skill and sympathy, in the sense of an artist's sympathy
with hiswork and material."
"I needed that." Betty was appreciative. "You see,
for a moment I was a little sad and puzzled about the
uselesmess of trying to bring a bit of real spirituality
into ordinary life. The exquisite amount of devotion
required to accomplish it, the creation of all the heart
energy and absorption in it, in order to make it live in
the atmosphere of everyday life - it's all so intangible
to do, and people's reactions to it are so curious! It is
like leading them into a refrigerating room or a furriace
room - something that has an immediate reaction on
them. You can't tell how they are going to take it."
"Now the method we suggest in working in the
nature of the substance," said the Invisibles, "is not
to try immediately to graft on it what you have to
bring. You should leave that to the constructive pur-
pose with which you have unified yourself. Your part
· is to cultivate, in full enjoyment, the pitchwhich made
228 T H E R O A D I K N O W
that unification po~ible; and to try to lift from drnb-
n~ and traditional isolationsthe humll1Jnamre."
"It's a sort of idea of little shadings of ability to pick
up from the human scrap heap and sense the bits of
quality there. I find it a little hard - let it go," saia
Betty.
"My firsttranslation of my experience," Betty tried
to retrace the steps that had led her to this point, "was
that I was not to reach restl~ly and objectively hither
an~ thither, but was to sit at home in myself and sense
that selfto the depth of my capacity of heart intelli-
gence and comprehension. But that was not adequate:
it istoo limited.
"My next reaction to it was that through persistent
practice I had become used to thinking of myself as
vigorously centered in a point of power, capable of
action on inferior substance. And that inferior sub-
.stance is inferior because it has no free will to refuse
my vigorous action, any more than metal can refuse
to accept warmth when placed near the fire.
"But that was inadequate, too. Both thoseconcepts
were too limited to convey the scope of spiritualaction.
They are stillmolded by brain limitations;and yet both
have necessary steps of truth embodied in them. The
thing they lack is the universalityof spiritual con-
sciousness."
"The only real way to work in the nature of the
substance," contributed the Invisibles, "is through a
T H E R O A D I K N O W 229
generousand spontaneousblendingwith other livesin
the universalitycommonto all.
"It isvery hard to drag forth the enduring element
in each- the perpetual
person-, to throw calmlyinto
the discardthe barnacleparasitepart," saidthe Invisi-
bles.
"To work in the nature of the substance!"they ex-
claimed."Why, ifthe worldwere onlywiseenoughto
do that, there would be little elseto do. It istolerance.
It isthe mh degreeof humanitarianism.
It isrespectfor
the integrity of each individualsoul.Those who have
gainedthehabitualspiritualconsciousness
alwayswork
that way, inthe natureof the substance;andit isin that
way you can recognizethem. In fact, working in the
nature of the substanceisthe only way peoplecan live.
together in peace.,,
CHAPTER XXI
KINSHIP
l.
OF COURSE, the Invisibles had told Bettyall along, she
was going to meet obstructions, throughout life. There
isa nee~ resistance, they indicated. How else can
one rise?How else does an airplane rise, save through
the resistance of the air?
"After all," said they, "the time to practise anything
enduring is in the times of str~ •••• "
And, they added drily, she would find no dearth of
stress points.That is life; and life, in last analysis,
is
people,just people. All the rest - the material corn-
forts, the material securities, the material nec~ties -
are met by the ingenuities of the mind and the energies
of the body, and what they ~ure isbare existence. But
it is in one's dealings with people, one's relations with
people, one's giftsto and from people, that one meetS
the deeper resistance by which one's consciousness may
rise.That islife; and that isthe nature of its substance.
I thinkthey were warning Betty not to expect every-
thing to be all sweetness and light and brotherhood of
man merely because she had come to understand the
nature of her substance. Or perhaps not. They must
have known Betty pretty well by now, and have been
T H E R O A D I K N O W 231
quite aware of her personal history. Without going
into details,she had been enmeshedfrom childhood
with a singularlycompletearray of self-centeredand
exacting neurasthenics,encroaching anctdemanding
personalitieswith whom she had to cope; nor did her
marriagefree her from them entirely. The Invisibles
classedthem as"unreceptives,"which seemedto me a
masterpieceofunderstatement.If Ihadbeenconsulted,
I shouldhavesaidthat Betty neededno instruction on
how to get alongwith people,prickly or otherwise.It
isaliteralfact that in the thirty-sixyearsof our lifeto-
gether I neverknew her to quarrel,with anybody; not
even with me! I am certain this is no fatuous recon-
struction because, occasionallyfor the fun of it, I
wouldtry to prodherintoafight,andneversucceeded.
Oh, shecouldbe firm enough,asmany- againinclud-
ing myself - found out, but in somemysteriousand
Bettyishfashionshe managedit without battle or in-
dignation.
Bethat asit may, the Invisiblesand Betty embarked
on a statementof principlesconcerning conflict.
"First of all," the Invisiblesbegan, aproposof "un-
receptive" people, "you must protect yourself from
getting in their zone of action. You must first insulate
yourself.Insulationisnot unsympathetic!It is just the
232 T H E R O A D I K N O W
precaution the doctor takes against infection. So in-
sulation is not isolation.
"Next," they advised, "keep yourself whole. The
strategy of war is to divide the enemy. Recognize in-
stantly when you are being divided. Laugh a good
strong laugh, and rush forward. At the moment of
unity surge onward in spite of obstructions. Whenever
provoking thingshappen, look on yourself as in danger
of being the vanquished instead of the victor, the cap-
tured instead of the captor. Each time you score, it is
a definite count; it is not erased. It is like acquiring
something; makes what you are doing easier. It is a
great help each time you hold fast and don't get cap-
tured.
"Do not start out expecting to be flattered by spec-
tacular results. Justplan to keep going for the satis-
faction of occupying your place in the gteater scheme.
There will always be moments of full realization, the
blooming and fruition natural to all life. That alsowill
come to you in its tum. It isnot all strain and effort.
"Do not," they continued, "be discouraged even
when failure turns into something like actual defeat.
This is fun,you know, like gardening or healing or
painting a picture or any other creative satisfaction.
You decide, as a master should, how thingsshould be,
and you make them so. You dominate your materials,
instead of being dominated; and because of your
strength of perception you are able to look beyond in-
T H E ll O A D I K N O W 233
evitable failore to inevitable success..Pay no attention
to defeat. When you look at the defeat side it is like
compound interest. The next time you will have to
overcome this time, and the failure that went be£ore,
and the one before that ....
"And finally,"they completed their list, "watch
your fore-detenninations. Bad days must not be bad
before they begin.Put your consciousn~ on the high-
er level,before you start out every day. You need more
preparedn~ for yourself. That is your job. Particu-
larized foredetennination," they discriminated, "not
just hazy. Work it over carefully, as you would an
architect's blueprint. That is vitalized thinking. It's
different, a creative thinking. There's substance to it.
It isreally a higher form of thought."
"I do try to work it," said Betty."I know the law,
but - oh dear, it's so unpopular! Everybody thinks it's
mushy. They don't know what I'm doing."
"These points are the important ones," summed up
the Invisibles, "the robustn~ of your intent, and the
temporary quality of seeming defeat. Remember we
are concerning ourselves with the laws of a higher
force which must, eventually, overcome thingspotent
only in their own generation and time."
"All right," agreed Betty. "Every time I feel an-
noyed or deflected or cro~d, I'll think of myself as in
danger of capture by inferior force. Instead of cutting
myself off from my reinforcements, I'll try to utilize
2 34 T H E R O A D I K N O W
them in commonplace moments like that, andnot keep
them for big, noble occasions."
"In your relations to people," said the Invisibles, "it
isn't at all this everything-to-everybody, hand~
idea. That's the cheap imitation; very cheap! There is
dignity and reserve and depth to the real thing. It is
justa quietfeeling, a silent feeling of kinshipand sym-
pathetic response, instead of the usualindifference."
Kinshipproved to be a key word.
"U, S, us; N, E, double S, n~: Us-n~" the In-
visibles started Betty off, one day.
"There isno such word," she commented, "but that
iswhat they say.... Anyhow, I can't separate myself
into a hard-shelled detached unit anymore.
"Apparently I'm made up of fundamentals which
every created thing shares to a greater or l~r degree.
There£ ore I'm sympathetically connected with, and
share in the life of, everything through the ingredients
we have in common. That, very vaguely, isthe Us-ness
of it.•.• I c31,'t say it very well; but it's a very nice
feeling."
''Don't look at this too closely," advised the Invisi-
bles, "don't analyze it. Take it asabroad general feeling
until it grows and forms."
"I am in a wonderful atmosphere," said Betty. "It is
T H E R. 0 A D I K N O W 235
teeming with life, and it is plastic somehow. I feel
peopleall around me, acting chemicallyon each other
- just like chemical action, only it is spiritual. We
laugh at the idea of auras, but they are quite real in a
way. Yougo near a fire,and that hasan aura;sohasice.
Only with peopleit seemsquite a tangiblething. It ex-
tends just a certain radius around. When people ap-
proach within that radius their auras intermingle, and
at once chemicalaction begins."
She w~ silent so long I finally asked what she was
doing.
"I am keeping quiet," she replied, "justto seewhat
belongsto us allin common.It isa strangecompanion-
ship.When I separate myself and enter each one of
you, it isthe jolliestkind of companionship.None of
the littlesuperficialdifferencesmatters at alLIt isvery
funny: I like to laugh, and yet it would sound inane
were I to tell you that just laughing, for itself alone,
without any specifiedjoke, is a nice kind of inter-
mingling.
"It's a gooddeallikehaving lots of relatives,'' Betty
continued after a pause. "That's the heavy side of it!
But the nicesideof it isthat you can go around feeling
relationshipwith all the beautiful things in the world.
Youcancallout to eachother. That's much better than
beingastrangerinthe world, isn't it-this claimof kin-
shipto allcreated things.
"I can go around and call to things, call to a nice
236 T H E R O A D I K N O W
cloud I see up there: 'Hello there! We're related to
each other on such and such a side.' Or I can say to my
big tree and all the little birds under it in the nest, 'I
claim a bit of you all.' Wind and sun; they're touching
and quickening the bit of me that is wind and sun. It's
so much nicer to let them all enter in, and welcome
them, and exchange courtesies with them, than to be
so hard-shelled and alone....
"I'm soanxious to keep going around and seeing how
much of things claim me, finding out which are my
near relatives and which my far ones. They're all dif-
ferent. There are the stars: they are pretty distantly
related. I can't do more than respect and admire
them ....
"I can't tell you how it changes thingsto think this
way. The sympathetic contact makes it posgble to
contain the whole world within yourself, expanding
to contain them all.I'm astonished at the feel of it. And
it's such fun! All the infinite variations are such fun-
mixing up all the shades and colors and infinite varia-
tions! I'm having a lovely time! Please let me enjoy
it. ...
"It's such a new world I've discovered. I wonder
why I didn't always know it. I've always wtmted to
feel that way. I want to whistle with the wind! I want
to swish with the tides! I want to lullaby with the
moon! I want to be loud with the thunder! I want to
cr-e-e-p into smallplaces, and I want to soar into big
T H E R O A D I K N O W 237
ones! I'm all tingling and glowing with the warmth of
the sun. I think I will go now where the cold lives."
She stopped short, struck with a new and splendid
idea.
"I wonder," she speculated doubtfully, "if I could
be an earthquake."
The thought of Betty asan earthquake was too much
for me; I shouted aloud. She joined my laughter, but
half-heartedly.
"I'd have to work my way up to that," she conceded.
She waved her extended hand, now here, now there.
"Anyway,it's like waving to somebody, or letting
him go by with no recognition at all. I want to go
around justgreeting things!
"The simplest expression I can reduce it to isin the
word reciprocity," she decided. "That makes an actual
thing, like an electric current. I must have very simple
things like that, so they will stay in my everyday
. d,,
nun •
"I am," said Betty in her next approach, "face to
face with this vast level of consciousn~ that isback of
human consciousness. They show me a great rope
twisted of many strands.... I don't understand it. It
runs through us all.... It isthe connecting link:It is
the connection through which we act on each other on
238 T H E R O A D I K N O W
thislevel. When we touch it, it ischarged with life and
vitality, an open way of wisdom and understanding.
H you touched, reached this level, somebody would
answer somewhere if you had a real need they could
supply. It is the universal conductor in some way."
"Never mind how simplified your consciousness
may become," the Invisibles told her, "nor how clear
your aimor your comprehension of what you are after,
nor how devoutly you may follow it, it does.not work
uni~ you have sympathetic comprehension of the
inter-relation."
"I amalmost afraid to try to put the relationship into
words," saidBetty, "and yet I must struggle with it."
She attacked the problem of expr~ion from many
angles. "The great ocean connecting all islandsand
continents - all the parceled-off objective things,of
however great magnitude, are but the islandsand con-
tinents among and around which Bows the great car-
rier," was one effort. But that did not work; for, said
she, the universal relationship not only Bowsaround,
but through. It isthe common substance of allcreation,
and it isin that common substance that created things
meet and act on one another in proper proc~ inter-
mingle in their common denominator, soto speak,3Ild
yet-
"I've made an awful m~ of trying to tell you!"
Betty gave up in despair. "I won't talk anymore. I've
saidit badly because I gave the impression of a merging
T H E R O A D I K N O W 239
of individualities.
It is not that. They aredistinct; but
it's the merging of the substance p~essed by all of
them, which, kept uppermost, produces the magic.''
"This is very advanced teaching," warned the In-
visibles."We are not sure that it is wise to precipitate
it,but we'll sketch itsmeaning.Very briefly and crude-
ly, it isto thiseffect: .
"The undeveloped being lives in isolation of con-
sciousness within himself, his village, his town, his
country, depending on how far along he is, always
contained within definite personality limits, separated
from other creations by the confines of his sensesand
sympathies. The developed man isas different a crea-
ture in the breadth of his perceptions as isa walnut in
its difference from the winds. The developed man can
search out any distance with an extension of himself,
his full consciousnessconcentrated at any point he de-
sires.He asrumeskinship with other consciousn~ as
poignantly as with his own."
"It is just like the radio," contributed Betty. "You
pick out the right wave length and travel on it."
"This sympathetic assumption of kinship," contin-
ued the Invisibles, "empowers him with the attributes
of the higher consciousness.And one result of this is
that he is no longer, while living as other men, re-
stricted by their limitations of position - position in
the geometrical sense- because anything he turns his
attention to ardently, anything he loves, he becomes,
240 T H E R O A D I K N O W
in thisgreaterentity. This greater entity giveshim the
abilityto broadcasthimseH,to travel to it sympatheti-
cally,asit were, on itsindividualwavelength."
"It may not sound like much at first," said Betty,
"but think of the stupendous power of this facuity
when oneactuallygrowsinto full possession
of it. One
no longeroccupiesa one-pointedposition.One's heart
extensionsare potentiallyuniversal
....
"Sometimes,"saidshe,gropingfor it, "I believethat
just shutting your eyes and loving people is the real
way. If I kept them open,I'd be sobusylookingat the
outsidesof you. And now I don't have to: I can just
shut my eyes and love you as you register on me -
I can't sayit very well - not what you getsnarledup
trying to do, but what you haveinsideof you that you
want to be. - I must rememberthat's the way to do
with people.
"Don't haveto keepyour eyesshut all the time; just
now and then, - but it's easierto keepon lovingthem
when you do!"
The Invisiblesapproved this.
"You can ignore the misrepresentingagents of the
man- hishabits,indulgences,dormancies- and insist
on dealingwith hisposgbilities,"saidthey.
"You see," Bettyrepeateda standard complaint, "I
wassadand puzzledagainabout the uselesm~ of try-
ing to bring real spiritualityinto ordinary life. It's so
apt to make you shirk your devotion to other more
T H E R O A D I K N O W 241
obvious things.I was so puzzled about it. I understood
my bit of power. I'd learned a little bit about my own
heart, and had timidly, but unashamed, let a few other
people feel it - given it to them whether they wanted
to stamp on it or not. People's reactions are so very
curious. Dothey want to acclimatizethemselves,or do
they want to stay asthey are?"
"The greater entity," or, as the Invisibles put it at
times, Kinship, isthe wave length to which one tunes
in order to really communicate with fellow beings.
And with that came, to us both, a great illumination.
For .themost part the aimof Betty's firsttraining had
seemed to be the fitting her for easycommunication
with the Invisibles. Now we perceived that all of it,
the earlier and the later, had been to fit her for real
CO'fm1l/l,nication
with herfellow-heingswhereverthey
mtght be!And the method she had learned isthe meth-
od of communication everywhere. Exactly so the In-
visiblescommunicated with her.
So nc,~v they told us a little of how they did it.
"In approaching a person with whom we wish to
communicate," saidthey, "our preliminary preparation
is the holding off from that person, temporarily, the
presmre of conditions relative to his normal life. We
lift the weight.Mter that presmre is lifted, it is like
242 T H E R O A D I K N O W
looking into a lighted room from the outside dark; or
peering into the different element of an aquarium. That
is the first process.
"Perhaps," they continued, "you will understand
this better if you think of it as just like any of yDur
other closer contacts. Take friendship, for example:
you approach your real friends with exactly the same
process of lightening pressures, of warmth in each
other's atmospheres, of getting directly in touch with
the intimate sides of them which are less recognized
by the world in general.
"What have we now? We have a human being mo-
mentarily surrounded by an atmosphere of higher po-
tentiality. The process that follows isto observe hisre-
actions to it; the type of thing presenting itself im-
mediately to hisconsciousness. The drift of thisnative
tendency regulates to a certain degree the material pos-
sible to impart to him.The next process is one of in-
hibiting undesirables, relapses to habitual methods of
thought.
"In other words, we select from his native equip-
ment, when freshly released, the thingmost suitable to
our purposes. The skill on our side isin the correspon-
dence possible between what we desire to impart and
what the subject under observation has avidity enough
to take. That avidity isan essential ingredient in com-
mon. He may not in normal consciousness be aware of
this avidity. It may be a totally buried part of hisspirit-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 243
ually arrested nature. If however it exists at aii it can
under skillful treannent be called out, educated up to
our own purposes."
Here again was working in the nature of the sub-
stance.
But Betty was back with her more immediate job.
She interrupted to call it "the utilizing of kinship, the
connective mind, in the world of affairs."
"I'm connected with everything by one of my in-
gredients," she declared. "I don't understand this....
I'm justtrying to grasp the feel of it.... That iswhat
I am coming into now."
CHAPTER XXII
RADIATION
l.
RECORDED sessions
off ormalinstruction,assuch,prac-
tically ceased with 1934. This ended fifteen years of
rigorous schooling. Apparently Betty's '~outfit for
eternity," as she had once called it, was complete. She
had come into ~ions, and she had gained con-
scious use of them. That use appeared to boil down to
the ability to communicatewith her fellow beings, vis-
ible or invisible, here in our obstructed aspect of the
universe, or elsewhere in the unobstructed.
One thing more, however, remained to be brought
to the forefront of her consciousness; and that one
thing was in the line of attainment rather than of in-
struction. Betty had not only learnedsomething, she
had becomesomething. And what she had become pos-
sessedits own power of action, by the very nature of
its own substance. This was the last concept Betty
must get clear for me and her own conscious under-
standing.
2.
"They are showing me," she began her description,
''a very advanced method of reaching us.A specialkind
T H E R O A D I K N O W 245
of adjusnnent is involved: the sort of thing the spe-
cialists over here use when they look at us. It shows our
world very dark - black. Here and there are spots of
glow or phosphorescence from the more developed
among us••••
"Now I am taking the point of view of a very highly
developed person on this side, one of the really great
Radiant Ones.If I were such a one, and wanted to help
somebody who showed this phosphorescent glow in
the darkness, how would I go about it? Why, I think
I would just come close and contemplate him, and so
bring the effect of my radiationon him. And what
would be the result of that?
"First of all, it would burn away or melt away the
external dull crust, exposing the core of his reality. And
that core would then reflect back. It would not glow
of itself, but it could now reflect the light of my radia-
tion, andthus becoming visible to the man- make him
visible to himself.
"Do you see? It was all dark to himbefore, but now
he can see himself because of this reflected light, and
can perceive his needs and lacks and all that. And then
while the glow is on him,and only then, he can write
to himself about it, or talk to himself about it, in detail
- justwhat heneeds. Butall/ have doneisto bring my
radiationto him."
246 T H E R O A D I K N O W
How wasshe to make the application to creative liv-
ing? She went deep into an experimental silence.
"You remember," she was ready to report to me at
last, "that intensifying of your out-going impulses?
Well, the exercise I've been doing is like that, only it
isno longer in a straight-line channel, as it were. I am
getting the circular action of it, like a lawn sprinkler.
I keep turning it, almostlike a searchlight; the beam is
like a searchlight ray, only it's all warm and human and
happy natural enthusiasm and interest, as when one
approaches one's hobbies, affections or lov~. I am ex-
ercising myself by turning a complete circle with it.
At each point it touches I see with new and sympa-
thetic eyes right into the soul of the thing, and my
kinshipand responsibilities with it ... "
And after a long silence:
"I don't actually have to turn myself now; I can do
it in almostany direction ....
"Now they've taken it away. It was to give greater
flexibility to the idea of propulsion. . . . Radiationis
better. That was an actual practice in radiation .•.•
"There's something more about it; but I've got to go
deeper to get it.•••
"How do I do it?" she pondered. "It sounds silly to
say 'think horizontally,' doesn't it? But that is it. It is
as though the spiritual force were fluid, and by think-
T H E R O A D I K N O W 247
ing horizontally it could be made to flow in all di-
rections about you, reaching others and bringing
others to you in a single all-embracing exchange of
vitality."
Ensued another of the long pauses that always in-
dicated work was going on in which I had no present
concern. But it must hav.ebeen productive work, for
Betty resumed almost breathle~ly:
"Iamgaining strength," shetold me, "almost beyond
my ability to contain .... I lead a dance, I fling, I spread
warmth, I rush on, incandescent with life! Justlet me
travel on in thisglowing way for a while.•.• "
An interval followed.
"I am going through a change," Betty explained at
last,"a curious radiating, convexing and pouring out
from myself,as definite as though I'd been turned in-
side out..••
"Why! When you're arranged in that old c01lcave
shape, you present no surface of participation in life!
You are an alien shape, just a dormant seed-encasement
of life! I don't want to be that way again, ever, just
concavely containing my little bit. It isall right, but it
isungerminated."
Another pause.
"Take something exhilarating," Betty continue'd,
"take a salt-sea-washed body and .thecool sweet union
of it with the great fresh element. Keep going out, out,
out beyondthe mere exhilaration. Youhave turned the
248 T H E 1t O A D I K N O W
other way, curving out, a radiation of yourself - radi-
. ,,
anon ....
Betty's enthusiasm became breath!~.
"No words exist which can exactly express or con-
vey this inner flame," the Invisibles encouraged her.
"It is one of the most silently apparent of p~essions.
It makes its way without words or exhibition. It travels
from heart to heart in its own channels of expression
and exchange. And you always sense it, even ifyou do
not acknowledge it with anything better than mental
sophistication, as toward something simple folk and
peasants have. For it isa unique and unmistakable thing,
this rare, luminous, stimulating, kindly radiation of one
who conducts, even though unconsciously, the cur-
rent of universal force."
Her elation ebbed.
·"I don't quite understand that - too big for me. I
have the feeling of it: I know what it feels like to mani-
fest in various forms of Iife. But I can work only in the
emotional desire of it."
The Invisibles warned her againstfostering the idea
of an ebb. This radiation, it seemed, was the one thing
that did not work in alternate rhythm of activity and
rest.
"Remember this well," said they, "radiance should
not wax and wane in power depending on the earth's
recognition of it. It is the private affair of a surface,
continually existent under all conditions, whether or
T H E R O A D I K N O W 249
not someoneseesthe sunshiningon it. It ishisown self-
-of-self, his own bit of frequency that he alone can
manipulate. Therein only is happiness secure. The
control of destinyisinasteadymaintenanceof a course
satisfactory to your highestapex of perception. Radi-
ance isthe reward of thispermanenceof heart."
"Pretty soon," saidBetty, "I'll start out and radiate
more strongly, pulse myself along. I feel like a baby
that must wonder how peoplemovearound so fastand
surely. I wonder how they dare do it. Radiation in-
creasesmy surface." Sheadded, "You are tremendous-
ly responsible for your radius. That is what we are
judged by."
"Each person'sdeeds,"saidthe Invisibles,"float,asit
were, in a certain attnospherecreated by himself.This
fostering atmosphere is not sufficientlyunderstood.
"We recognize and acknowledge things almost as
intangible,suchasthe chemicaleffectof the sun'sray's
on plants,the warmth and other conditionsindispensa-
bleto growth. The plantsurvivesor perishesaccording
asthe climateissuitableto itsneedsand character.The
warmth of the human heart associatedwith directing
power, discriminating intelligence - it is variously
named - makes this humanly fostering climate. It is
not understood as a parallel to the climatic condition
with plants. It must be. As soonas it is so understood,
it is going to fall in the category of things cultivated
asessentialto life." ·
2 50 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"This atmosphere we radiate -" contributed Betty,
- "I don't know how else to say it - I see in it the
potency of the Djinn to the bottle - a Djinn which is
released by expansion of the heart. The moment you
take the trouble to acquaint yourself with your own
heart, to exercise it and extend its perceptions, then
you've begun to release your powerful Djinn - radia-
tion. I luxuriate in it; but thisluxuriating isthe sort that
goes out and can be picked up by others. It is not a
selfly thing. - There isa difference: selfishisstern and
haughty; selfly ismerely limited..••
"It isfunto be alive enough to throw out sparks this
way," she cried enthusiastically. "Some people are
sufficiently inflammable to get the spark: on others it
just sizzles and goes out because of the soggin~ of
them.•.• I wish I could describe what I'm doing.•.. "
She broke her exultation with a sudden complaint.
"Sometimes when I am happy, working this way in
heart substances, head substances keep gettingin the
way, analyzing me as an introspective fool" She
paused, then went on with confidence. "But I know
they are wrong. I see their inferiority and limitations
in span. They are all right-for their job. But the heart
substances are more powerful, more enduring."
''The thing is so fundamental," the Invisiole en-
ilorsed this, "that its reality can only be felt, and not
contained in written words. It isakin to light and heat
and energy, which a,e firstand manifest second. The
T H E R O A D I K N O W 251
interest with which one pursues a pet hobby comes
nearerto the radiationideathan any other, magnetical-
ly attracting to you everything along the line, giving
and receivingwith easeand pleasure.Love,humor, in-
terested creation of the kind one does pleasurablyin
one'savocations-every unobstructedchannelof daily
lifeendowedwith easeand richnessof output: allthese
are akin."
ButBetty had~d hermomentarydepr~ion.
"I feel so powerful!" she cried. "I'm so powerful
and sure, so absorbingof everything around me. And
yet I'm not just a fungus-growth absorbing. I'm oc-
cupying morelife: that's what I'm doing!That's a nice
idea,but I can't help thinking how funny it is for me
- I'm sopiffling!"
"Radiation is penetrative to a degree unknown to
densermatter," statedthe Invisiblesfurther, extending
Betty's lawn sprinkler concept. "Roughly speaking,
for visualizationpurposes,
its action isnot confinedto
adirectline,but isalsoencircling.In otherwords,when
this force issent out forward to an object,it isalsore-
ceivedabeamand astern, aboveand below.
"And as it isextraordinarily penetrative and encir-
cling, so it is also, paradoxically,extremely personal;
more so than any earthly ~on, for its very exis-
tence depends upon yourself - your inner, not your
nervously controlled self.It isthe mostindividualistic
~on imaginable,aswell asthe mostuniversal.
252 T H E R O A D I K N O W
"Germinated spirituality isradioactive," they added.
"That iswhat makes the difference between the culti-
vation and expansion of it, and when it is merely po-
tentially or rather dormandy motivating in you. It is
what gauges personality, the radius of a humanbeing's
life influence.
"Think about this happily, without effort of any
kind. Strain will never accomplish anything but defeat.
If radiation were anything but illumination in rapture,
it would not be radiation."
"Listen!" breathed Betty.
Down in the cafion, outside our window, a:wood
thrush was singing, repeating over and over again his
liquid musical phnises.
"That is what I mean!" she cried. "That bird! His
very best- but plus hisresponse." She puzzled a long
time over some instruction or explanation that was ob-
viously being conveyed to her. "Oh, I see!" she ex-
claimed at last - the thrush was continuing to sing -
"He is still doing it because he isn't filled up yet. You
see, he fillsup magnetically, by giving out. That is the
way creatures get their life force, - the frog croaks,
and gets histhat \\ray.People get somewhen they laugh
or sing together."
She contemplated this for some time.
T H E R O A D I K N O W 253
''I used to think I was reaching toward some distant
and occult sort of sense," she ventured. "Now I find
I'm justmakingthinner and thinner my walls in order
to blend myself with forces right at hand; forces that
all the plantsand beasts possess."
"Until there isworship in the heart," this from the
Invisibles, "a development of intense perception of
something vastly superior to the sovereignty of the
brain, until there isthe recognition of your sun - until
that is activating, all else isbut an intellectual concept.
Unl~ that warmth is within you, a livingflame ever
ready for action, it willbe better for you to wait with-
out the gate."
"BeforeI start anything," promisedBetty,"I'll drop
my consciousn~ into place as a link between the pur-
poseI do not understand and the little act of which I
am master. It is the consciousness of the hook-up and
the practice of it that makes it work, lets in the power.
It is justa workaday, natural action - my two hands
directed by my spirit. I'll just say to the unknown Pur-
pose,'I am ready when you are,' and keep a steady con-
fidence in the purpose at hand, andit willgrow in ripe-
nessbetter than I could plan."
A silence.
"We are making a great road over which a noble
traveller approaches," said Betty.
