{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__clarke___christian_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Christian Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
CHRISTIAN
PHRENOLOGY;
OR THE
TEACHINGS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT
RESPECTING THE
ANIMAL, MORAL, AND INTELLECTUAL
NATURE OF MAN.
THREE LECTURES DELIVERED IN THE THISTLE HALL,
DUNDEE,
On Sundays, January 25th, February 1st and 8th, 1835
BY
HENRY QLARKE,
MINISTER OP THE CONGREGATION.
LECT. I. ANIMAL PROPENSITIES.
II. MORAL SENTIMENTS.
III. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED,
A PHRENOLOGICAL TABLE,
NOTES, &c.
SECOND EDITION.
DUNDEE. \
Ifrfitulr at t|je %tobtxti$tv ®&tt t
AND SOLD BY THE BOOKSELLERS IN DUNDEE ; J. ANDERSON, EDINBURGH ;
AND R. HUNTER, LONDON.
1835.
Ma >-'''
,
PREFACE.
" Christian Phrenology " is a new phrase. Whether it shall he
deemed fitting that this phrase be allowed an honourable posi-
tion in the society of " Christian Philosophy," "Christian Ethics,"
" Christian Counsel," and their numerous associates, must be de-
cided by those who can at pleasure, by giving or withholding
their support, augment or lessen the number of honourable posi-
tions to be filled. To their judgment, therefore, the author of
the following lectures must leave the entire disposal of that mat-
ter : But, whatever may be its issue, one thing is certain,—that
either the human mind and Christianity have never yet been
fairly brought into juxtaposition and permitted to act mutually
on each other, or the religion of Jesus is wholly unadapted to the
great majority of minds. That God should present a moral and
religious system to man, quite unsuited to the nature and condi-
tion of the mass of those for whom it was designed, is impossible.
To cherish the thought would be impiety—a daring insult to
Heaven. A revelation from the Father of All must be adapted to
all—designed for all. Why, then, does it reach the minds of so
very small a minority, and influence the hearts of so few even of
these?—Not surely because of any imbecility and inaptitude of
Christianity : Nor can it be because the mind is unadapted to
this religion; for, if it were, then the religion would be just as
unsuited to the mind. The \ery partial reception of Christ's
holy gospel into the soul must be owing to the lamentable fact,
that the nature of the mind is so very imperfectly understood by
both the people and their instructors —that, how rightly to apply
Christianity to its moral diseases, the majority know not. It is
indeed owned that Christ is a physician, and that his doctrines
are medicines for the mind : But it is not generally perceived that
each individual is himself to use the sanatives offered; and that,
in order to do so, he must understand what his own mental con-
stitution requires, and what regimen best agrees with his case.
But he who is not at all, or but very slightly acquainted with his
own constitution, cannot know how to use the medicament. To
\r
him it is inefficacious—worthless, although it came from Heaven,
and is a boon of Heaven's King. Its efficacy and worth are in its
application and effects. To secure its benefits and blessings,
man must know himself. Phrenology offers to give this know-
ledge. If it can fulfil its promise, then, it must be the friend and
helpmate of Christianity. The author being fully convinced that
this is the case, and having a firm faith in the divine mission of
the Saviour and the regenerating and saving power of Christ's
holy gospel, he desired that his bearers should possess a system
of Mental Philosophy that would enable them both to know their
own individual mental powers and moral dangers, and how to ap-
ply Heaven's best gift to their own individual wants. With this
view and wish the lectures were preached. With the same view
and wish extended to society, they are now published. May their
aim be secured, and to God be the praise !
Dundee, April 18, 1835.
The following notices of the First Edition have appeared in the publi-
cations whose names are sifbjoined.
" It is a set of principles for practice ; and, to all who shall read the work,
desirous of turning it to account, it will lend some aid to inquiry into the
nature and interests of man as a rational and accountable being, and the
applicability of Christianity to the constitution and improvement of the hu-
man race. A spirit of liberality and genuine philanthropy breathes through-
out ; and every man, whatever may be his religious opinions, may read
the lectures with pleasure and profit."
—
Dundee Advertiser, May 1, 1835.
" This is a book to refresh and gladden. There is so much of heart in
$t—so much kindly feeling manifested towards all created things—that the
reader must of necessity, whether he should agree with the author or not,
rise from the perusal of his work inspired with respect and esteem for him-
self. There is an utter want of cant and pretension about this small work,
which greatly enhances its value ; and if humane and benevolent thoughts,
expressed in eloquent language, can make a work popular, Mr Clarke's
ought to be a favourite with the public."
—
Dundee Chronicle, May 9, 1835.
" These lectures evince in their author a refined and cultivated under-
standing, great purity of moral and religious feeling, and an ardent desire
of the improvement and instruction of mankind. We trust that their cir-
culation will be extensive, and are sure that they will meet with a favour-
able reception from every enlightened Christian, whatever opinion he may
entertain with respect to Phrenology."
—
Phrenological Journal, No. xlv.,
June 1835.
Thus encouraged, the Author ventures to send forth a Second Edition.
Dundpr, Juno 5, ]R35.
TABLE OF PHRENOLOGICAL ORGANS ;
THEIR USES AND ABUSES, AND THE EFFECTS OF THEIR BEING
DEFECTIVELY DEVELOPED.
ORDER I. FEELINGS.
GENUS 1. PROPENSITIES COMMON TO MAN AND THE LOWER ANIMALS.
The love of Life. The desire for Food and Drink : Use—nutrition : Abuses—gluttony
and drunkenness.
Names and uses of Organs.
1. Amativeness—Love
between the sexes.
2. Philoprogenitive-
ness—Love of chil-
dren.
3. Concentrativeness
Love of perma-
nence of emotions
and ideas, and of
bringing all the
thoughts to bear
on one point.
Abuses of Organs.
Libidinousness.
Indulging and spoiling
children.
Morbid dwelling on the
emotions and ideas,
to the neglect of
the external world.
Effects of Deficient Organs.
Disregard or dislike of
the other sex.
Disregard or dislike of
children.
Incapacity to fix the
mind or to concen-
trate the thoughts.
Names and Uses of Organs. Abuses of Organs. Effects of Deficient Organs.
4. Adhesiveness—Love
of friends, attach-
ment, sociality.
5. Combativeness —
Love of contest a-
gainst danger or
difficulty, resist-
ance, courage.
6. Destructiveness —
Love of destroying
anything noxious
or necessary to be
destroyed.
7. Secretiveness— Love
of concealing the
thoughts and in-
tentions, reserve.
Prudence, if join-
ed with 12.
8. Acquisitiveness —
Love of acquiring,
of accumulating,
and possessing ar-
ticles of utility.
9. Constructiveness —
Love of construct-
ing useful things.
Attachment to unwor-
thy objects, inju-
rious attachment.
Contentiousness, pro-
vocation, insult,
war.
Cruelty, passion, rage,
revenge. With No.
5 may lead to in-
jury of others, or
even murder.
Low cunning, deceit,
duplicity, lying,
treachery.
Selfishness, covetous-
ness, avarice. With
No. 7 may lead to
theft and general
dishonesty.
Constructing things in-
jurious.
Regardlessness of
friends, attachment
weak.
Inability to face danger
and contend with
difficulty.
Want of power to de-
stroy even that
which needs de-
stroying.
Incapacity to maintain
secrecy when ne-
cessary ; a tenden-
cy to reveal all
that is known ; im-
prudence.
Disinclination to ac-
quire ; improvi-
dence.
Deficient capability to
construct.
GENUS 2. SENTIMENTS.
1. Sentiments common to Man and the Lower Animals.
Names and Uses of Organs.
10. Self-esteem—Love
of self, self-respect,
dignity.
1 1 . Love ofapprobation
—Love of others'
esteem or praise
—
love of fame.
12. Cautiousness--Love
of caution or cir-
cumspection. If
joined with 7, gives
prudence.
2.
13. Benevolence— Love
of doing good or
making others hap-
py, kindness, cha-
rity.
14. Veneration — Love
of that which is
deemed great and
good, disposing to
adore and worship
religiously.
Abuses of Organs.
Self-conceit, pride,
disdain, domina-
tion, tyranny.
Vanity, ambition, envy
;
too great thirst for
praise ; living on
others' opinion.
Excessive fear, de-
spondency, and
melancholy.
Effects of Deficient Organs.
Regardless of self-re-
spect, want of dig-
nity.
Regardlessness of
praise and ofothers'
opinion.
Inattention to danger,
incautious, preci-
pitate.
Sentiments proper to Man.
Profusion, prodigality, Indifference to the good
too easy and gene- and happiness of
rous. others.
Venerating mere anti-
quated and unwor-
thy objects, super-
stition, worship-
ping the ideal.
Indifference to the
great and good,
and to adoration
and worship.
7
Names and Uses of Organs.
15. Firmness —Love of
determination and
perseverance ; giv-
ing fixedness of
purpose ; fortitude.
16. Conscientiousness
—
Love of right, jus-
tice, and truth.
17. Hope—Love of an-
ticipating and look-
ing for future good,
faith.
18. Wonder—Love of
the wonderful, the
new, and extraor-
dinary, and of
dwelling on things
unseen.
19. Ideality — Love of
the beautiful, the
splendid, and su-
blime ; the poeti-
cal, the perfect.
21. Wit—Love of ob-
serving discrepan-
cies and congrui-
ties.
20. Imitation—Love of
imitating, or copy-
ing either manners
or nature.
Abuses of Organs.
Stubbornness, infatua-
tion, obstinacy.
Tenacious of wrong,
if deemed right,
and of falsehood,
if thought truth.
Credulity, unwarrant-
able expectation.
With 17, makes a
visionary.
Eagerness for the mar-
vellous and the ex-
travagant; and with
10, fanatical.
Effects of Deficient Organs.
Want of decision, ir-
resolution.
Disregard of right and
wrong, truth and
falsehood.
Tendency to doubt
and despair.
Disregard of the truly
wonderful.
18
Romantic, absurdity, Carelessness about the
living in an ideal beautiful and su-
world. blime, grossness.
Inattention to discre-
pancy and congru-
ity.
Turning everything to
ridicule. With No.
6, mischievous
tricks and satire.
Mimicry of others' de- Incapacity to imitate,
fects, or buffoon-
ery.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
GENUS 1. EXTERNAL SENSES SEEING, HEARING, FEELING, TASTING, SMELLING
GENUS 2. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, WHICH PERCEIVE EXISTENCE.
Names and Uses of Organs.
22. Individuality—Per-
ceives simple facts
and existences.
23.
24.
25.
26.
Form — Perceives
form.
Size — Perceives
size and dimension.
Weight—Perceives
weight and mo-
mentum.
Colouring — Per-
ceives colour.
Abuses of Organs.
Over - anxiety about
facts to the neglect
of reasoning—idle
curiosity.
More solicitous about
forms than their uses.
The same of size as of
form.
The same of weight as
last two.
The same of colour as
last three.
Effects of Deficient Organs.
Small power to ac-
quire facts.
Indifferent at discri-
minating form.
Same of size as of
form.
Same as last two.
Same as last three.
GENUS 3. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, WHICH TERCEIVE THE RELATION
OF EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
Names and Uses of Organs. Abuses of Organs. Effects of Deficient Organs.
27. Locality—Perceives Too great a devoted- Incapacity to find
space and relative ness to mere lc- places and posi-
position. calitics. lions.
8
Name* and Uses of Organs.
28. Number—Perceives
the relations of
numbers.
29. Order —Perceives
relative arrange-
ment.
Abuses of Organs.
Sacrificing higher ob-
jects to mere cal-
culation.
Too sensitive to a
want of order
—
finical.
Effects of Deficient Organs.
Inability to calculate
numbers.
Inattention to orderly
arrangement.
30. Eventuality — Per- Given up to the study Disregardful of events.
ceives the relation
of events.
31. Time — Perceives
duration.
32. Tune — Perceives
melody.
33. Language — Per-
ceives the signs of
thought or words,
and employs them
of events and idle
story-telling.
Too scrupulous about
time.
Given up wholly to
music.
Dealing chiefly in
words — given to
logomachy.
Defective at measur-
ing time.
Small power for music.
Difficulty in clothing
the ideas in words.
Too speculative and
metaphysical.
Neglectful of the causes
of effects and of
logical reasoning.
freely.
GENUS 4. REFLECTIVE FACULTIES, WHICH COMPARE, DISCRIMINATE, AND JUDGE,
Names and Uses of Organs. Abuses of Organs. Effects of Deficient Organt.
34. Comparison — Re- Too anxious about Regardless of analogy.
fleets on analogies, analogies.
resemblances, and
the conditions of
things.
33. Causality—Reflects
on cause and ef-
fect, and traces
their connexion.
24, 25, 26, 29, and 28, are indicated on the figure by the dots beginning
at the root of the nose.
If the first column be read from top to bottom through the whole Table,
it will be seen that the uses of the organs are all good—highly impor-
tant—absolutely necessary : But, if the second column be* read in the
same manner, it will be perceived that the abuses of the organs produce
all the crimes known among men ; while, reading the third column
wholly by itself, will show that deficient organs, even those that may be
most awfully misapplied, are by no means to be desired. The deficiency
would not be an improvement. Upon these principles the following lec-
tures proceed. Self-esteem, Love of Approbation, and Cautiousness, are
admitted into the second lecture, although they are semi-animal, because
they have in their uses a decided moral tendency. By looking at the
uses and abuses of Veneration, Hope, and Wonder, it will be found that
they may either exalt to high-toned religion, or debase to grovelling su-
perstition—belief in prodigies, magic, ghosts, and all kinds of absurdities ;
and even Conscientiousness may, when joined with these in its abused
state, aid the delusion and swell the evils. The abuses of the organs only
are sins ; and from these sins the majority of human miseries flow. To
use the organs aright is of couTse to avoid transgression and to escape
suffering ; and this again is to be virtuous and happy. In the hope of
prombting this object, the science exhibited in this tabular view and the
Christian religion are here associated under the appellation " Christian
Phrenology."
CHRISTIAN
PHRENOLOGY.
ANIMAL PROPENSITIES.
COLOSSIANS III. 5—10.
M Mortify, therefore, your members, which are upon the earth,—fornica-
tion, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covet-
ousness, which is idolatry ; for which things' sake the wrath of God
cometh on the children of disobedience ; —in the which ye also walked
some time, when ye lived in them. But now ye also put off all these,
—anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your
mouth. Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old
man with his deeds, and have put on the new man ; which is renewed
in knowledge, after the image of him that created him."
By some it is affirmed that man is half brute half demon
By others it is asserted that man is but a little lower than
the angels. Those who maintain the first opinion, conceive
that human beings must, as the result of their nature, feel like
beasts and act like furies. Those who cherish the second opi-
nion, think that rational creatures, when they are using—not
abusing—their natural powers, must both feel and act as be-
ings who occupy an elevated position in the scale of existences.
Whence springs this difference ? Why is man " in doubt to
deem himself a god or beast?" The difference of opinion
arises from defective views of man's nature, taken as a whole.
The doubt owes its existence to the too common practice of
B
10
looking at one time only upon the animal propensities of manr
when these have been terribly abused and awfully misemploy-
ed ; and, at another time, viewing- only the moral sentiments
and intellectual faculties of man when these have been well-
trained and wisely directed. Under one aspect, man does
seem a demon ; under the other, he appears a god.
When man acts as an animal who possesses intelligence,
only to ramify and augment the force of the mere propensi-
ties, then, indeed, the course he pursues is marked by crime
and misery, and his dwelling-place is the abode of woe. But
when man acts as a moral and intellectual being, who possesses
animal propensities only to employ them as powerful stimu-
lants to his higher faculties, then is his path-way strewed with
blessings and his home is the residence of peace. To be ac-
quainted, then, with the functions, the influences, and modes
of rightly employing the various mental powers, must be of all
things the most important. Man's present interests depend
upon this knowledge. Man's advancement in moral and intel-
lectual culture depends upon it ; and upon this knowledge de-
pends his future destiny.
How can a man rightly employ his powers unless he knows
what powers he possesses ? How can he improve unless he
understands the method ? How can he guard his weaknesses
unless he is aware of them ? or put forth his strength unless
he is acquainted with its nature and extent ? Without a know-
ledge of self, all other knowledge loses its chief value. The
external world presents its highest forms of beauty only to
that eye which knows how to view them. The material crea-
tion gives its purest pleasures only to that mind which knows
how to feel them. The more knowledge a person has of him-
self, the more does he know of the capabilities which sur-
rounding nature possesses of furnishing him with enjoyment.
" The proper study of mankind is man." Void of the know-
ledge which this study brings, we could not with certainty af-
firm that Christianity is adapted to the nature and wants of
man. If we really know that the Christian system is just fit-
ted to our faculties and condition, we must understand what
11
those faculties and that condition are. I fear, comparatively
few even among professing Christians have this knowledge.
And this I take to be the chief reason why Christianity is so
imperfectly understood and so feebly and inefficiently applied.
Man is supposed to be a totally different creature from that
which he really is ; and then Christianity is imagined to have
in view the accomplishment of objects the very reverse of
those for which it is designed. It is conceived that a human
being can never act righteously and become holy unless his
nature undergo a miraculous change ; and then Christianity is
viewed as a mysterious power for working this miracle. To
take the religion of Christ, and apply it to its uses, as other
gifts of God are accepted and employed, is thought to be be-
yond the natural capabilities of man. Instead of laying hold
of the gospel, man is to wait till the gospel lays hold of him.
To attempt to save himself is deemed an unpardonable sin.
A man may feed and clothe his body—he may preserve his
health, and even raise himself high into the regions of science
and mental culture—by the voluntary use of the means which
his Creator has supplied. But he must not, on pain of eter-
nal perdition, think of voluntarily feeding his soul with "the
bread which came down from Heaven," and exalting himself
by Christianity to holiness and endless happiness. Surely this
must be a great mistake. Its effects are obviously evil. Men
wait for influences from without, which should proceed from
within. By this error, I much fear, multitudes are wholly de-
prived of those inestimable blessings of our Lord's teachings
which they might otherwise enjoy. I would guard you
against it.
Let us then examine the New Testament representation of
man's nature. We do not confine ourselves to this part of the
Bible, because we disesteem or undervalue the Old Testa-
ment : It is simply because, on the present occasion, we de-
sire to ascertain what Jesus and his Apostles taught respect-
ing the mental powers of man. We wish to know what were
their doctrines on the animal propensities, the moral senti-
ments, and the intellectual faculties. What do they say of
12
the human mind ? This will be the subject of inquiry in this
and two succeeding lectures.
I. They teach that man has animal propensities ; and that
from these chiefly sin springs. These are spoken of as deeds
of the flesh, inordinate affection, carnal mind, evil concupis-
cence, covetousness, lust, anger, urrath, malice. All these are
fruits of the animal propensities, or the inferior powers of hu-
man nature. Those who manifest such fruits are said to be
" in the flesh," to " live in sin," " to be carnally-minded, and
therefore at enmity against God." " They are not subject to
the law of God."j They yield " their members servants to un-
cleanness and iniquity." They are " brought into captivity to
the law of sin, which is in their members." They are the
bond-slaves of their own ungoverned, unholy desires. Now,
this is precisely accordant with the views of man's nature
which are given by that system of mental philosophy with
which we desire to compare Christianity. According to Phre-
nology, man's animal propensities are the powers by which he
is chiefly led astray.* But how ? These propensities are pos-
sessed by irrational creatures, and yet they do not sin against
God. Why then does man ?—Just because he is a rational
being. The beasts of the field can employ their propensities
only in one way. That way is natural. The natural use of a
power is proper, necessary, right. Were man to employ his
animal propensities naturally, he would no more make his
members the servants of sin than do the birds of the air, the
fish of the sea, and the inhabitants of the forest. But man's
rational powers enable him to employ his propensities unna-
turally. Deprive the greatest sinner in existence of his ra-
tional faculties, and leave him in possession of all his animal
propensities, and he is not one moment longer held to be a
sinner. He cannot sin, because he cannot distinguish between
right and wrong. It is reason, then, that enables man to sin.
But it is with the animal propensities mostly that sins are com-
mitted. Those propensities are the instruments and the
* See Animal Propensities, on Figure and in Table.
13
power ; but the reasoning faculties alone can direct them to
sin. The intellect misemploys the propensities, and then ini-
quity is the result.
It is upon this principle that infants, idiots, and lunatics, are
exempt from the charge and punishment of criminality, al-
though they may do injury to others. They cannot reason
;
and therefore they are not accountable for their actions.
They may have all the animal propensities, and these may
manifest terrible effects ; but the agents are void of rea-
son ; and this is admitted to exonerate them from moral, so-
cial, and religious obligations. And both inability and igno-
rance are made grounds of exemption from condemnation by
the Christian system. " If ye were blind," says Jesus, " ye
should have no sin." " But sin is not imputed," says Paul,
" where there is no law :" " For where no law is, there is no
transgression." The religion of Christ does not denounce the
animal propensities, nor require their extermination : But it
does denounce the misuse of them, and require that they
should be properly governed and rightly directed.
II. The Author of Christianity and his Apostles appeal to
the animal propensities, as to powers that are in themselves
both necessary and good. Without those propensities many
of the precepts of the New Testament could not be obeyed.
Love of wife, love of offspring, and love of neighbour, friend,
and mankind, are enjoined upon the followers of Christ. And
yet these various kinds of affection owe their existence far
less to the intellectual nature of man than to the animal.
Again, Christians are commanded to " fight the good fight,"
to " war a good warfare," to " contend earnestly for the faith,"
to " overcome evil with good," to " crucify, mortify, or de-
stroy the deeds of iniquity," to be " wise as serpents," and to
" lay up for themselves treasures in Heaven." Now, here are
no less then seven of the nine animal propensities which Phre-
nology enumerates, called into exercise by the Christian code.*
Nor in that code is there anything inimical to the remaining
* See Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5., 6, 7, 8.
14
two. Respecting each of the animal propensities planted in
man, the language of Paul may with strictest propriety be
employed. " Every creature of God is good." And surely
no one will dare to maintain that the animal nature of man
is not a creature of God. If the Creator did not bestow upon
him that nature, who did? And if the animal nature of man
be the work of some other being than God, can man be a
creature of God?—Assuredly not: He lias another Creator.
But if he who endowed man with his higher powers, bestow-
ed upon him also the lower, " who art thou, O man ! that re-
pliest against God ? Shall the thing formed say to him that
formed it, why hast thou made me thus ?" If the animal pro-
pensities occasion pain, remember that it was not for tins they
were made part of the constitution. They were meant to pro-
duce pleasure. If they lead to sin, bear carefully in mind
that this is not their use. They were intended to be the
servants of virtue.* If they are employed as the instruments
of self-degradation, keep steadily in view the fact that this is
their criminal abuse. They were meant for blessings ; but
their possessors too often convert them to curses. Their de-
signed end was to minister to human enjoyments •
but not
unfrequently they are made the agents of human misery. But
this does not prove that they are in themselves evils. As
well might we conclude that religion is an evil because men
have made it an instrument of bigotry and persecution, an
engine of crooked state politics, and a pretext for tyranny,
wars, and every abomination. Every good may be perverted
to an evil. But what does this prove ?—That man, as a neces-
sary consequence of his nature, is compelled thus to pervert
the gifts of Heaven ? Then he cannot be blameworthy. He
cannot be a responsible being ; he cannot merit punishment.
But such conclusions would be as unphilosophical as they are
anti-Christian. Jesus teaches the reverse.
III. According to the Christian Scriptures, the animal pro-
pensities may be kept within the limits of virtue and religion.
* See their uses, in Table.
15
It is through these propensities that temptations assail us.
Take away the propensities, and you take away temptation.
A temptation is a desire—a wish. But a temptation is not a
sin. For Jesus " was in all things tempted, as we are, and
yet he was without sin." He never yielded to temptation.
He therefore never sinned. To sin is to yield to temptation
and transgress a law of God. But God never enacted a law
forbidding man to he tempted. Sin, then, is not in the wish,
the desire, the temptation involuntarily arising—but in the
consent of the mind, and the employment of means to attain
the object desired. When that object is unlawful, the consent
is sin in thought, the use of means to attain it is sin in deed.
Now, these inordinate affections, these lusts of the flesh, are
to be resisted. Let us hear the language of Scripture.
" Mortify the deeds of the body." " Let not sin reign in
your members." " Lay aside filthiness, malice, guile, sin."
" Yield your members servants to righteousness." " Be
transformed by the renewing of your mind." " Grow in
grace." " Every man is tempted when he is drawn away
of his own lust, and enticed ; then when lust hath conceived
it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth
death." " Abstain from all appearance of evil." " They that
are Christ's have crucified the flesh." And Jesus adds, " He
that will be my disciple, let him deny himself and take up his
cross and follow me." Upon no other supposition than that
man has the necessary power to resist temptation, overcome
sin, and direct aright his animal propensities, can language
like this have any obvious meaning. And yet it is the cur-
rent language of the New Testament. Could Jesus require
from his disciples that which they did not possess ? Could
he command them to do that for which they had no power ?
Could he tell them to learn of him, when he knew they were
utterly incapable of doing so ?—Impossible. Yet Jesus knew
what was in man. He must therefore have known that man
was capable of doing whatsoever he commanded. He must have
known that his teachings were adapted to the nature of the
beings to whom those teachings were offered.
f
16
Man, then, can resist sin. He can prevent its reign in his
members. He can lay aside evil. He can become renewed,
transformed in the spirit of his mind. He can deny himself:
In other words—he can restrain, regulate, and direct his
animal propensities, so as to prevent their excess and in-
terdict their transgression of the laws of God. He who
does this mortifies the deeds of the body—denies his animal
self—that self which alone is to be denied overcomes temp-
tation and fights a good fight. And these principles of
Christianity perfectly accord with the views taken of mind by
the science of Phrenology. That system of mental philosophy
shows that the animal propensities not only may be governed
by the moral sentiments and the intellectual powers, but
must be so governed, or the individual will by their wild ex-
cesses violate the laws of his Creator and become obnoxious
to their penalties.*
IV. But the Christian Scriptures assure us that to govern
the animal propensities, and thereby overcome temptation
and sin, is to attain virtue and religion. Were there no
temptation, this could not be a state of probation. Trial and
discipline can take place only in a condition where the indivi-
duals who are probationers are at liberty to do wrong. Were
they exposed to no dangers they could have nothing to de-
fend. If no allurements assailed them they would have
nothing to resist. If they were never tempted they could
never overcome. A man placed on an island where there was
no human being but himself could not steal, cheat, or injure
his fellow-man. But there would be nothing virtuous and
praiseworthy in his abstinence. He could not do otherwise.
He finds no opportunity—he feels no temptation—he has no
allurement to resist. As far as honesty and justice are con-
cerned he is not in a state of trial. He cannot while he re-
mains alone earn the character of an honest and just man. " To
him that overcometh," says our Lord, " will I grant to sit
with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am
* See the Abuses of the Organs, in Table.
17
*et down with my Father in his throne." " My brethren," says
James, " count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations,
knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience."
" Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he is
tried he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath
promised to them that love him." He who overcomes the
most temptation achieves the most splendid moral victories
;
he shall wear the brightest crown and be seated on the most
glorious throne. To such a conqueror of self, the most suc-
cessful leader of armies and fleets can bear no comparison.
All the martial and naval conquests on record combined in
one, would be an infinitely less pleasing sight in the view of
Heaven, than the single conquest obtained by him who sub-
dues his own animal propensities, and compels them to obey
at all times his higher powers.. This is the victor whose brow
shall be garlanded with an imperishable wreath of glory
—
whose name shall be written on the eternal scroll of God, and
whose triumph shall be celebrated in Heaven.
And, that man is constituted upon the principle which re-
quires the moral and intellectual powers to assume supreme
control over the animal propensities, is as essentially a funda-
mental doctrine of Phrenology as it is of Christianity. On
this point they both speak one language. Each says that he
who is held in chains by his blind unreasoning appetites is
the most miserable of slaves. Both affirm that he who is
completely master of his propensities enjoys the sweetest,
dearest, liberty. He is emancipated from the thraldom of
vice, because his members are in subjection. And, although
the Creator has made men to differ, and has bestowed upon
one ten talents, and upon another only one, yet, according to
both systems now before us, every one is required by his own
good to employ diligently and improve carefully the powers
and faculties which he holds. They are a trust—they will
have to be accounted for. Neglect and abuse will meet with
punishment. Attention and improvement will obtain reward.
We close with three remarks.
1. According to these views, man is to be rendered reli-
c
18
oious, not by the destruction, but by the direction of the ani-
mal propensities. Take away man's power to sin, and his in-
nocence is involuntary. And involuntary innocence is no
more of the nature of religion than is our breathing. " True
religion before God the Father " is to do deeds of charity
when an opposite course might have been pursued ; and ta
" keep unspotted from the world" when there might have
been a yielding to corruption. The new birth required—the
new creation proposed to be effected by Christianity—is no-
where said to mean the annihilation of the animal nature of
man. Man is a new creature when he has been changed from
that state in which his higher powers were slaves of his
lower, to that in which his propensities are the servants of
his moral and intellectual faculties. This is putting off the
old man. This is putting on the new man. But this is not
putting off the animal nature, and putting on some other na-
ture. The most religious man on earth lias still the very
same animal propensities as he possessed before he became re-
ligious, but he employs them differently. He uses them
aright ; and he now finds them too good to wish to have
them eradicated ; he turns them to the most account, and
thanks God that he possesses them.
2. Christianity and Phrenology both represent sin as a
voluntary act of man, not as an essential constituent of the
mind,—it is that which may be avoided. To turn men away
from iniquity was the great object of our Saviour's mission.
" Go, and sin no more," said Jesus to the woman who stood
before him charged with adultery. And yet he sent her
away with the same nature and powers as she had when the
crime was committed. He neither allowed her to suppose
that sin was involuntary and unavoidable, nor undertook to
work such a change in her nature as would render her in-
capable of sinning and compel her to obey his injunction.
Were sin a law of man's nature, then sinning would be obey-
ing that law ; and obedience, when free, is virtue ; and every
act that is not free is neither virtuous nor vicious. But sin,
we are told, is non-obedience or transgression of the law. It
19
is a violation of a known principle of right, by a being pos*
sessed of the power to have acted in accordance with that
principle, and to have performed the right. Sin, then, is a
stain on the mind, but it may be washed away. It is a
foul blot, but it may be cleansed. Christ has supplied the best
means for putting away sin, and Phrenology is a practical ap-
plication of those means.
3. Both Christianity and Phrenology forbid us to view
man's nature as a mixture of brute and demon. They who
are become half brute half demon are said to be "without na-
tural affection," and to be " given up to vile affections." " As
they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave
them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are
not convenient ; being filled with all unrighteousness." They
are " men of corrupt minds." They are in an unnatural state.
They are degraded, debased, and " gone out of the way."
But, while we may point to them as melancholy proofs
of what human beings may become, we must not point to
them as evidences of what human nature in its essence and
constitution is. We might as justly adduce Socrates, New-
ton, and Howard, as proofs that the nature of every man is
wise, and good, and great, as hold up Nero, King Henry the
Eighth, and Judge Jeffreys, as evidences that the nature of
every man is base, cruel, and depraved. To place the crimes
of men to the account of an uncontrollably sinful nature, is to
exculpate them from blame. It is more : It is asserting that
man is unimprovable. It is condemning all plans and attempts
which aim at exalting the human mind. It is pronouncing all
human means unavailing to elevate the human character. It
is representing a human being as too worthless, despicable,
and vile, to be the object of virtuous affection. Let man be
the loathsome reptile that he is sometimes supposed, and he
is unworthy of regard, undeserving of respect, and utterly
destitute of any claims upon the laws of benevolence and truth.
Then, duty to each other men cannot owe. Beings who were
compounded of only brute propensities and demon hate, work-
ed up to a nature radically and universally depraved, must in-
30
variably act as demon-brutes. But is this the case ? Are om
social, scientific, charitable, and religious institutions, proofs
that we are demon-brutes ? Whenever a man sincerely la-
ments that the human race is nothing but beast and demon>
his own lament demonstrates that his views are false. He is
not himself a demon-beast ; for, if he were, no such lamenta-
tion could escape him.
Does the tiger lament his own fierceness, or the serpent
mourn over his degradation and poison ? And as impossible
would it be for man—for any man—to sigh for human nature,
if the nature of every human being were brutified and demon-
ized. The good man's sighs over sin prove that he is not all
sin. Man has indeed an animal nature, but he has also an in-
tellectual nature. When the former absorbs the latter—when
the mind, or soul, is swallowed up in mere sense—then truly
man becomes an awful offender. His enormities are terrible.
He would then disgrace the beasts, and perhaps even disho-
nour demons. But, wben the animal part of man is purified
by man's moral sentiments and absorbed by his intellectual
faculties, then is it manifest that there is a noble " spirit in
man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth him under-
standing." u His deeds then are wrought in the love of God
and man :" " He then evinceth the same mind which was
also in Christ :"
And then he gives forth evidence that " God
hath made him but a little lower than the angels, and hath
crowned him with glory and honour."
Such, my friends, are the powerful motives, the thrilling
encouragements given you to act upon the advice of Paul, and
to obey the commandments of Christ. You see that your ani-
mal propensities are goodif not abused—you perceive that their
misuse is sin and misery, an offence against God, and an injury
inflicted upon yourselves. You find that Christianity is adapt-
ed to your nature, if you will apply it ; and you discover that
your nature is formed for a moral and intellectual training.
He who is the light of the world, the way, the trutlr, and the
life, is the instructor and guide which you need. Keep full in
view, then, the elements of vour own nature. Remember the
21
dangers to which your animal propensities expose you. Ac-
cept the means offered for your defence ; and, when you pos-
sess them, hold them firmly and employ them wisely. Then
will you avoid the evil, secure the good, exalt your mind, re-
fine your heart, and be making ready to quit " the earthly house
of this tabernacle," and become inhabitants of that " house not
made with hands, eternal in the Heavens."
MORAL SENTIMENTS.
ROMANS VII. 22, 23.
" For I delight in the law of God, after the inward man ; but I see ano-
ther law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and
bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. *'
By the "members," we are doubtless to understand the animal
propensities. By " the law of sin which is in the members,"
is signified the tendency of the animal propensities to lead
astray ; and, when they do lead astray, sin and misery follow in
their divergent course. To restrain their aberrations, and to
keep them in that straight path along which they may lawfully
proceed, and which conducts them to innocent gratification
and innoxious pleasures, they need controlling power and
guiding aid. Where are these to be found ? In the gospel,
it is replied. There is grace to help in every time of need
—
there is aid for the weak—there is comfort for the sighing
—
there is rest for the weary. All who enter the strait gate
and pursue the narrow way will resist temptation and be pre-
served from sin. True : But still another inquiry presses itself
on our attention : Are there any natural faculties in man,
through whose instrumentality these means are applied?
While Christianity speaks of the carnal or fleshly mind, of
inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and worldly lusts, does
22
it recognize any powers in man by which the merely sensual
appetites may be preserved from sinful and injurious excess ?
To these, and all similar questions, Paul, in the words before
us, supplies a satisfactory answer. " I delight in the law of
God, after the inward man," and the sin of my members is
against the law of my mind. There are, then, in man, natural
principles opposed to sin. There is an inward man that
delights in the law of God. There is a law of the mind
which wars against the excesses of the animal propensities.
It is only by warring against this " inward man," and " the
law of the mind," and overcoming them, that the inordinate
affections of the flesh can gain their ends and riot in crimi-
nality. And it is therefore to these natural faculties of man
that Christianity applies herself in order to oppose iniquity.
These faculties she offers to aid in their war against the
encroachments and domination of the members. And she
gives the most solemn assurance, that, if her assistance be
accepted and her advice received, the inward man shall be
renewed, day by day, with giant strength, to " fight the good
fight," to " mortify the deeds of unrighteousness," and to
achieve a series of splendid conquests, which shall conduct to
a firm and lasting dominion.
What, then, is the inward man or law of the mind, of which
the Apostle speaks, and through which Christianity seeks to
resist and destroy iniquity ?—the moral sentiments. Of these
Phrenology enumerates ten or twelve,* and they may be said
to be designed to lead to the due performance of duties to
self, duties to others, and duties to God.
1. Duties to self. The moral sentiments more immediately
engaged in the discharge of these duties are termed Self-
esteem, Love of Approbation, and Cautiousness. Self-respect
is the only stepping-stone to Self-exaltation. It is an essential
ingredient in the regard which is had by man to his own
character—it is the basis of all true honour, dignity, and
moral greatness. It is that which exalts the mind above
* See Table, —Moral Sentiments,
23
meanness, servility, and baseness ; and raises it to the noble
elevation where it sees its own worth and perceives its
connexion with the moral creation of God. It is that senti-
ment which says, by the mouth of Paul, man is " the temple
of the living God ;" which affirms, through Jesus, that rational
beings are the children of a Heavenly Father, designed to
become inhabitants of mansions in the sky, and to wear the
image and share the glory and kingdom of Christ. And such
Self-respect was personally exhibited in the character of Jesus.
And this sentiment stands most intimately connected with
the desire to obtain the approbation of others. And no wish
of the human breast is more worthy than that which is most
eager to obtain a good name and to deserve it. The esteem,
and even the praise, of our fellow-men, may be legitimately
desired and virtuously sought. To seek this esteem and
praise was the object to which Jesus desired to stimulate his
followers, when he said, " He that humbleth himself shall be
exalted ;" " and, when thou art bidden to a feast, take the
lower seat, and when he who bade thee comes in, he will say,
friend, go up higher ; then shalt thou have worship of them
that sit at meat with thee." Not only, then, may a man
labour honestly to secure the good opinion of others, but it is
a duty which he owes to himself so to do. His influence in
society depends upon it. His own happiness depends upon it.
How can he be happy who is an object of dislike to all who
know him ? There is but one way for such a one to escape
from the self-tormenting thoughts which the knowledge of
being generally disesteemed is calculated to excite, that is
—
to be void of Self-respect. But then, what a pitiably-degraded
being must he be who neither respects himself nor possesses
the respect of others ! How immeasurably removed from him
who has both
!
It is, however, obvious, that both Self-respect and the
esteem of others require the conjoint operations of Cautious-
ness. This sentiment acts as a truly valuable guard. " Watch,"
says our Lord, " and what I say, I say unto all, Watch." Care,
circumspection, and even fear of doing wrong, are very fre-
24
quently enjoined by the Christian Scriptures. " Use all dili-
gence," says an Apostle, " to make your calling and election
sure." But this diligence, watchfulness, and fear of indulging
criminality, must depend chiefly upon the amount of caution
exerted. So, then, these moral sentiments must cooperate in
the performance of those duties by the discharge of which
alone it is that man can secure the good opinion of those
around, and attain the glorious eminence of Self-respect.
These are sections of the law of the mind : These are in-
tegral parts of the inward man : These are the instruments
by which Christianity would work the works that duties to
self require. Nor without these natural powers could Chris-
tianity accomplish the objects whereunto it is sent. The
gospel cannot beget Self-respect and the desire of others'
esteem in grovelling swine ; they have not the necessary
natural sentiments ; and the teachings of our Lord do not
profess to lessen or augment the number of the natural powers
of any created beings. The sole object of those teachings is
to direct the natural powers aright. To birds and beasts the
New Testament is not addressed, for the simple reason, that
they can neither see nor feel that it is " the wisdom of God
and the power of God." And, to human beings totally devoid
of the moral sentiments, it could no more apply as a guard, a
guide, and stimulant to the discharge of duty and the attain-
ment of excellence, than it can apply for these purposes to the
terrific king of the forest. Its applicability arises from the
existence of the powers, and the existence of the powers con-
stitutes the applicability.
2. There are next to be considered moral sentiments, which
are principal instruments in the discharge of the duties that
an individual owes to others. These are termed Conscien-
tiousness and Benevolence.* Among the most frequently-re-
peated and solemnly-enjoined duties of a Christian, are those
of kindness, forgiveness, honesty, justice, and brotherly love.
u Above all things," says Paul, " put on charity." " Love is
* See Table.
25
the fulfilling of the law." " Whatsoever ye would that men
should do unto you," says Jesus, " do ye even so to them ;"
" for by this shall it be known that ye are my disciples, if ye
have love one towards another." And all such appeals are
made to the natural sentiments of justice and benevolence.
Christian love is benevolence. In vain would the gospel call
upon man to love his fellow-man, and seek to do him good,
unless God had planted in human nature powers to answer the
call. An echo from vacuity might as easily be obtained as a
response to the most thrilling language of Christian benevo-
lence, from that breast in which no corresponding sentiment
had a place. And, if Christianity requires the existence of
those very powers of the mind which the mental philosophy
under our consideration propounds, then these two systems
are formed to accord. The New Testament commands the
performance of that which could not be done without the or-
gans before-named. Void of Conscientiousness, man would
have no self-directing sentiment of justice. He might abstain
from certain deeds, from the mere dread of punishment—he
might perform other deeds, from the apprehension that suffer-
ing will be the consequence of neglect : But creatures pos-
sessing neither reason nor conscience do the same. He who
does some good to another, under the compulsory power of
dreaded punishment, if the deed be omitted, or a contrary one
be done, is actuated by no higher a principle than that which
influences the mastiff. In such a deed there can be nothing
praiseworthy. To force the performance of actions is to ren-
der them involuntary ; but to extort from men involuntary ac-
tions, the gospel does not put forth its power—to reward them
it does not promise. When, then, Christianity enjoins the
discharge of moral duties, and promises obedience rewards, it
not only recognizes the existence of the necessary moral powers,
but affirms that those powers may be and must be rightly and
efficiently employed.
3. The third class of sentiments are those which are the
principal instruments in the discharge of the duties which man
owes to God. These are termed Veneration, Hope, Wonder,
D
•26
and Ideality.* And constantly do Christ and his Apostle9
call for the exercise of each of these sentiments of the human
mind. All that is great and wise and good is ascribed to the
Father in Heaven, that he may be venerated—all that can in-
spire confidence and trust is attributed to him, that man's faith
and hope in God may be strong—and all that is marvellous,
stupendous, sublime, is declared to pertain to him, that
men may wonder, praise, and adore. But, without the organs
just named, men could neither venerate, nor hope in, nor adore
their Creator. There must be in man the chords which vibrate
to the tones of religion, or even the master's hand could not
educe them. A human being who has placed himself under
the entire management of Christianity assumes a now aspect,
and gives forth to the circle around him a thrilling harmony
which he had never before yielded. But it is just as a musi-
cal instrument sends forth new melodies in obedience to the
highly-skilful fingers of the performer. The instrument is
new, because it is under 4:he influence of a new power ; but its
natural constitution remains unchanged ; its tones can never
exceed, much less oppose its nature. And so of man. But
man has this advantage—he is a self-acting instrument. He
who renders no praise and adoration to his God must be either
an instrument unattuned, or acted upon by unskilful hands.
But the requisites for the moral melody are there, and man
may allow them to be called forth. Every human mind, not
physically malformed or diseased, has, according to Phreno-
logy, all the organs in question in a higher or lower degree.
And does not Christianity say the same ? Why else does it
call upon every man to employ them ? Why else does it
command every one to have the mind of Christ, and to hope
in Heaven, and to adore the eternal King ? But we must now
mention two of the moral sentiments which lend their aid
alike to each of the classes which have been named, and as-
sist in the discharge of every duty. These are, Firmness and
Imitation.* To resist the evil and pursue the good, these are
* See Table.
27
indispensable. When Jesus tells his disciples to " take up the
cross and follow him," not " fearing those who can kill the
body,"—and when Paul says, "Be not shaken in mind ;" " stand
fast, quit ye like men, be strong,''—they recognize the power
called Firmness. And, when Christ calls upon men to learn of
him and copy his example, he teaches the existence of the
power of Imitation. Firmess of purpose, moral daring, and
a constant employment of the imitative power, upon that
which is worthy to be copied, are demanded by every promise
and prospect of the gospel. Without them no Christian ex-
cellence is to be attained—no Christian reward to be secured.
Let us now see how our comparison of the principles of the
two systems stands. The one teaches that there are certain
natural moral sentiments, which are elementary constituents
of the human mind ; the other appeals to these sentiments
as to things which actually exist in man. By one it is assert-
ed that these sentiments, rightly directed, will lead to the
discharge of individual, relative, and religious duties ; by the
other it is affirmed that man must employ those powers to do
as he would be done unto,—to serve his God, and to work out
his salvation. One system teaches that human beings are
constituted moral agents ; the other treats them as such.
Every page of man's history proves his possession of those
moral powers. Every page of the New Testament addresses
itself to them. Too often have they been most wofully ne-
glected, misapplied, enfeebled, and debased. But was there
ever upon earth a people devoid of the sentiments of right
and wrong, honour and dishonour ? Did ever a people exist
who evinced no sentiments of wonder and veneration towards
things stupendous and a power superhuman ? The religion
of the most superstitious is evidence of some natural powers
in man which prompt to the adoration of superior objects ;
the grossest idolatry must be the effect of some mental cause.
What is it ? From the animal propensities alone it could not
possibly proceed. Were man reduced to the condition of the
ourang-outang, he would not then be a worshipper of even an
idol. Paganism, underits most disgustingforms, still points up to
26
mental powers which in their nature must be good and noble,
and in their designed use most salutary. The worshippers of
Boodh in India, of Fo in China, and of Lama in Thibet, evince
the very same mental sentiments as those which are manifest-
ed by the worshippers of the only true God. Only change
the object of worship and the truth of this position will be
demonstrated. The inhabitants of India, China, and Thibet,
might worship the Christian's God without undergoing a change
of nature ; and any people might exchange an inferior code of
morals and religion for one that was better, without exchang-
ing a single power of the mind for some other.
The law of the mind—the inward man—is essentially the
same, notwithstanding the endless changes that may take
place in the individual's modes of applying that law. The
grand differences are those on the one hand in which the mo-
ral sentiments and intellectual faculties are held captives by the
domination of the animal propensities, and those on the other
in which the animal propensities are under the complete con-
trol of the moral and intellectual powers. These are the ex-
tremes. The former is the lowest degradation and wretched-
ness—the latter is the highest exaltation and peace. Be-
tween these extremes are ranged all other grades of human
character. And why are human characters thus diversified ?
There are two grand causes—constitutional or natural differ-
ences, and the differences produced by art or training. By a
natural difference is not meant that one man has no moral
sentiments and another has no animal propensities. Were
this the case, the former would be a purely moral being with-
out any training. To temptation he Avould be a total stranger.
There would be no warring of his members against the law
of his mind. For him to sin would be impossible. To such
a one this life would be no state of trial. He would not be
a probationer on earth. His virtue would be necessary, un-
avoidable, non-meritorious. But the latter individual would
be a purely animal being, even though he should have re-
ceived the utmost amount of the best possible training. No
temptation would he be able to resist. There could be no
29
war of his inward man against his members. For him to be
virtuous would be impossible. His crimes against others
would be necessary, and therefore blameless. His life then
could not be a condition of moral discipline and education.
Natural or constitutional differences, then, cannot go to these
extremes, if every rational being is a moral agent, exposed to
temptation, liable to sin, and designed to attain holiness by
resistance.
Still there are countless differences in the natural consti-
tution of human beings. Not that the elementary faculties
are radically dissimilar ; but their modifications are not pre-
cisely alike in any two individuals of the race ; and the dif-
ferences are incalculably extended by art or training. Al-
though education neither creates nor destroys a mental power,
yet it orders the organs of the mind,—stimulating some,
checking others, and bringing out to the best advantage those
energies which are possessed and which it is most desirable
to call into operation. Christianity, accordingly, is a system
of education. For the training of man is it designed. Its
object is to make the greatest possible difference in the cha-
racters of those who are trained in its school from those who
have been trained in schools of vice ; and this education, im-
provement, exaltation of man, Christianity proposes to effect
in perfect accordance with the laws of man's nature. Atten-
tion to three unquestionable facts will bring conviction to the
mind that this is a great truth.
1. Man is made for moral conflict. The inward man—the
moral sentiments—must necessarily delight in the law of God :
But the animal propensities are constantly tending to stray
from that law and act in opposition to it,—in other words,
each function of the mind seeks gratification ; but that which
would please one organ would not unfrequently pain another.
To gratify an animal propensity is very often to offend a mo-
ral sentiment. The member and the mind are at issue.
There must be a war ; and one must triumph and the other
be vanquished. If the animal propensity be victor, then the
moral sentiments are brought into captivity to the law of sin
;
30
but if the inward man achieve the victory, then the propen-
sities are made subject to the law of the mind, the deeds of
the flesh are mortified, and the law of God is obeyed. And
to teach men how to conduct this warfare to a glorious issue,
Jesus came. He was tempted, and yet triumphed. He gave
an example. He showed by what means the good soldier,
who has enlisted in the cause of truth, self-purification, holi-
ness, may insure success upon success till his conquests are
complete and his rewards are made certain. Thus, the Chris-
tian may become more than a conqueror through Christ, who
loved him ; and thus our first fact proves, that human train-
ing, by Christian principles, is proposed by the religion of the
Messiah to be conducted in strict accordance with the laws of
the mind.
2. Christianity is completely adapted to the moral senti-
ments of man. Were it otherwise, the New Testament would
be a useless book. We may say that the teachings of Jesus
are opposed to the excesses of the appetites. In this asser-
tion we do not maintain that religion and man's nature are
opposed. On the contrary? it is to affirm that there is some
principle in the human mind to which those teachings appeal
against the inordinate affections, the evil concupiscence, and
the lusts of the flesh. But, were we to say that the doctrines
of our Lord are opposed to the moral sentiments of man, that
would be tantamount to asserting that the inward man, the
law of the mind, and Christianity? are natural, inveterate, im-
placable enemies. In this case, Christianity cannot be aiming
to purify and direct human nature ; but to punish and de-
stroy it. But is it so ? Does Jesus make war with man's
whole nature, his moral sentiments, and intellectual faculties
included, or only with the criminal indulgences of the ani-
mal powers ? Does he say that he came to destroy man's
natural sentiments of Benevolence, Veneration, Hope, and Con-
scientiousness ? Does he affirm that his object was to eradi-
cate from the human mind the powers of desiring, feeling,
and reasoning ? Did he say that a man must deny himself
the use of his moral and intellectual powers, to become his
31
disciple ? The bare putting of these questions is refutation
in overflowing abundance of the supposition, were it possible
to entertain it, that Jesus came to destroy human nature*
Had he said anything like this, then it could not be true that
he came to call sinners to repentance,—to enlighten, purify,
and save. His work would have been to remodel the animal,
moral, and intellectual powers of man—to change human
beings to something not human—to take away the very capa-
bility to err and sin. But Christianity is addressed to man,
as man ; it recognizes his powers ; it points out his dangers ;
it tells him what are his moral wants ; it offers abundantly to
supply them. And thus our second fact proves that Christi-
anity is designed to educate man in exact conformity with the
laws of the human mind.
3. Christianity manifests itself only through the moral sen-
timents. The evidence of its truth is presented to the intel-
lectual faculties ; but the evidence of its vitality, power to
purify and exalt, and efficacy to give hope, peace, joy, can be
made known only through the moral sentiments. When it is
said that " religion plays round the head, but comes not near
the heart," the meaning is, that its truths are believed but its
influences are not felt. The head is another name for the in-
tellectual faculties—the heart is another term for the affec-
tions ;
* and the perceptive and reflective powers, which are
designated the reason, or the head, may be exercised upon
the evidences for the truth of Christianity, till a firm convic-
tion is obtained that it is from God, and worthy of all accep-
tation. But the moral sentiments may still remain unaided
and the animal propensities uncontrolled. Christianity, how-
ever, is designed for the heart ; for this purpose does it ap-
peal to the head. It would prove itself true, that it might be
permitted to exert its power. It would convince the reason
that it is from Heaven, in order to be allowed to take up its
abode in the soul. It would persuade men to believe that
Jesus was a messenger from the moral Governor of the uni-
* See Propensities, Sentiments, and Intellect, in Table.
82
verse, that his message might be received by the moral senti-
ments of man ; and thus does it seek to pour all its influences
into the inward man, and give all its heavenly aids to that
law of the mind which opposes the law of sin. It aims to
heighten Self-respect, and stimulate to the careful discharge
of all duties connected with self. It labours to strengthen
Conscience and Benevolence, and move to the zealous per-
formance of all duties arising out of social connexions. It en-
deavours to invigorate Veneration, Hope, and the sentiment
of Beauty and Sublimity, and excite to the most religious ob-
servance of all the sacred duties which man owes to his God.
And thus our third fact demonstrates that Christianity is a
system of education most rigidly in accordance with the laws
of man's mind. Nor could it be otherwise, if the doctrines of
the New Testament and the mental principles are both from
the same unerring wisdom and boundless love. Admit that
God constituted the human mind, and communicated through
Christ to that mind a revelation of his will, and it inevitably
follows that they cannot be essentially inimical to each other.
They must in their nature harmonize. In the operations of
some of the powers of the mind, hostility to the principles of
Christianity is indeed too often manifested ; and this was the
very circumstance that rendered the gospel necessary. Had
man never been led astray by his animal propensities, Jesus
and his teachings had never been needed. But, if man had
been left without moral powers, through whose instrumen-
tality the abuses of the inferior functions might be corrected,
Christ and Christianity would have been utterly useless. The
moral and religious principles of the New Testament are
needed by a being liable to err and sin ; and they are of the
utmost value, the highest use, to one who has within him
powers which, if duly trained and properly employed, will be
efficient in the performance of moral and religious duties.
We close with two remarks.
1. To deny the existence of natural moral powers, is to re-
fute experience and Christianity. The moral and religious
sentiments have been, in numberless instances, very clearly dis-
33
played by those to whom the gospel was totally unknown. Of'
such Paul declares " they were a law to themselves." Many a
Heathen is more virtuous than many a professin 5 Christian ;
but let not this be supposed to be disparaging to Christianity.
All have not the spirit of Christ who call themselves his fol-
lowers—all do not feel the power of Christianity who wear
her form. The fault is in the man, not his system. Nor is
the fault in man's nature, but in his mode of using it* The
doctrines of the New Testament declare themselves able to
make men wise, good, holy ; but not without men's own exer-
tions, much less in opposition to those exertions. And, that
this pledge of ability to ennoble the soul has been redeemed,
the testimony of countless multitudes who have been regene-
rated by the gospel, has proved. But never was an instance
furnished of an individual having had moral powers actually
created within him, by even Christianity. Religion has in-
deed been called forth where it had not previously been dis-
played ; but religion is a certain mode of manifesting the
existence of some of the moral sentiments, not an evidence
that the elementary organs of the mind have been exchanged
for others. Besides, all that is styled religion is not that
which the name is designed to imply. Some feelings so call-
ed are merely animal ; some are only fear of punishment,
terror at death, and futurity ; and some are nothing higher
or holier than bigotry and fanaticism: But true Religion
dwells among the moral powers, and manifests herself in love.
2. Our second remark is, that, as we find the connexion
between the moral sentiments and Christianity so clearly
proved, we must conclude that they are designed to act mu-
tually on each other. This is the sum of the present inquiry.
Man is a moral agent, exposed to pernicious influences, and
direful effects, from the excesses of his animal propensities.
Reason and human experience advise him to sustain a con-
flict against the attempts of those propensities to step over
the boundaries within which they may legitimately seek grati-
fication. But Christianity addresses him in plainer terms,
and a much more urgent strain : It tells him that loss and
34
pain, both here and hereafter, will be the result of allowing hi&
moral powers to be reduced to base captivity by blind, cla-
morous, violent propensities ; and it assures him that gain,
and glory, both in this life and that which is to come, shall be
the reward of his using all the means within his power to give
his moral sentiments the ascendency, the entire dominion over
the law of sin in the members ; and Christianity offers to in-
struct, to aid, to befriend, in the important work. Only let
the aim be mutual, be one ; and not only will the inward man
delight in the law of God, but obey it, and secure the invalu-
able reward which Heaven has promised to the obedient.
INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
MATTHEW XIII. 23.
" He that receiveth the seed into the good ground, is he that heareth
the Word and understandeth it ; which also beareth fruit and bringeth
forth some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty."
What a plain and momentous statement ! But, alas ! those
sayings of Jesus which are at once the most plain and practi-
cal, are those which are the least understood and applied.
They are overlooked because they are so unadorned and na-
tural ; they are neglected because they appeal to facts so obvi-
ous, and enjoin the performance of duties so reasonable. Dis-
puting and dividing about doubtful points, are preferred to the
practical application of the plainest principles. Had the single
sentence just quoted been seen, felt, and employed in all its
simple, majestic beauty, heavenly power, and benignant spirit,
by professing Christians in all ages, most of their controver-
sies on the design of Christianity would have been spared,
and all their bigotry and persecutions would have been utterly
unknown. They could not have required one another to re-
35
«eive that which could not be understood, if they had acted
upon the Saviour's maxim,—that he alone receiveth the seed
into good ground who heareth the Word and understandeth
it. They could not have expected that all should think and
act precisely alike if they had proceeded upon the declaration
of Jesus, that, while some of the good ground brought forth
fruit a hundredfold, others of the very same description could
bring forth only sixty or thirty. Had Christians always re-
cognized the truth, that the soil of the mind, like that of the
earth, is diversified in its susceptibilities of production, they
had never fallen into the monstrous opinion that they could,
by anathemas, hatred, and religious fury, new-model the men-
tal principles, and compel every human mind to yield the
same quantity of the same kind of fruit.
But why did they not recognize this truth when their great
Master had placed it so fully in their view ? Why were
Christians ever bigots, fanatics, and persecutors, when they
were so positively forbidden to be either, by their exemplar
and guide ? Because they turned away from plain things, to
wander and lose themselves among speculative perplexities.
They left the straight and flowery path of truth and love and
peace, to pursue the crooked and thorny mazes of error and
malice and war. And then they foolishly expected each other
to listen attentively to words which they could not possibly
understand, and to bring forth fruits which the great Husband-
man never required—which the mental soil could never pro-
duce. They did not attend to those laws of the mind, of duty,
and of religion, to which Jesus so earnestly and so plainly
pointed. They looked some other way. They heard some
other sounds—they chose some other principles. But, under
the influence of these principles, the human mind has been
misunderstood, and Christianity has been misapprehended.
Both have been wofully misapplied, and the consequences have
been awful. From these let us seek to escape ; and, to accom-
plish this object, we must acquire as much knowledge as possible
of the capabilities and tendencies of our own mental powers,
and of the adaptation of any system of mental improvement
36
to the nature and necessities of those powers. This has been
attempted with the animal propensities and moral sentiments
of man, viewed in connexion with Christianity ; and it is
hoped that a certain amount of success has attended the un-
dertaking. A similar attempt has now to be made with the
intellectual faculties of man, and the Christian system. Are
these adapted to each other ? Are they framed for one ano-
ther ? We think a careful investigation of the principles re-
cognized by Jesus Christ in the passage which has been
quoted, will affirmatively and satisfactorily answer the ques-
tions.
In these words we have three distinct subjects of considera-
tion : The human understanding, some naturally good ground,
and the word or seed that is sown upon it, with the fruit that is
yielded. We must endeavour to attach clear ideas to each of
thesa phrases, if we desire to be benefited by the truths which
they contain.
1. We have to ascertain what is meant by the human un-
derstanding. This necessity arises out of the fact set forth,
that he only who understandeth the Word reeeiveth the seed
into good ground. The word " understanding " is the repre-
sentative of the same idea as the Avoids " reason," "judg-
ment," and " head," when these are employed to signify cer-
tain mental powers ; and the powers intended by these ex-
pressions are the intellectual faculties. He who, in common
language, is said to have the best understanding, judgment,
reason, or head, is he who possesses the best intellectual fa-
culties for understanding, reasoning, and judging, and ha9
employed them aright. Ofthese intellectual faculties, Phreno-
logy enumerates fourteen. Some are designated perceptive
and others reflective organs.* The former acquire know-
ledge—the latter examine its nature, origin, and use. Exter-
nal visible objects make impressions on the mind through the
instrumentality of the eye ; sounds act on the mental organs
through the ear ; and, by the five bodily senses, all simple
* See Table—Intellectual Faculties.
37
perceptions are obtained. But it is by the reflection alone
that these mere sensations are converted to those ideas which
are called an acquaintance with the causes and effects, the re-
lationships and dependencies, of things and events. The whole
stock of any individual's knowledge and opinions is made up of
a certain number of single ideas. The difference between the
knowledge possessed by one person and that held by another
is simply the difference in the number and distinctness of those
two persons' ideas. Hence the extent of knowledge will be in
proportion to the two following circumstances,—the quality of
the bodily senses and mental powers, and the manner in which
they have been employed. If the five senses and the powers of
the mind are both superior, and have been employed in the best
possible manner, then the ideas acquired are the most numer-
ous and clear. Such a person lias most knowledge. But if
the senses and the mental powers are inferior, and have been
very defectively trained, then the ideas collected are few and
indistinct. Such a person has but little knowledge. The un-
derstanding? reason, judgment, or head of the first, would be
designated strong, good : That of the latter would be termed
weak, bad. Yet each is an understanding.
By the understanding, then, is net meant the same range
of powers and the same amount of knowledge. Still there
must he the same elementary principles. There must be per-
ceiving faculties, and there must be also reflecting. No being
can fully understand a subject unless he is capable of per-
ceiving its various integral parts, their connexions, depen-
dencies, and combinations, in forming a whole. But there
are certain subjects which no training can make some persons
understand. Painting, Poetry, Sculpture, and even Mathe-
matics, cannot be apprehended by many human minds,
into which other subjects find a ready admittance. Their
powers of perceiving must therefore differ from those of the
painter, the poet, the sculptor, and the mathematician ; and
this is just the view taken by Phrenology. That mental
science teaches, that although each individual has the same
number of perceiving and reflecting organs, yet in power and
38
activity these organs are found to differ in every human be-
ing from every other. The understanding, accordingly, can-
not possibly be the same on every subject of thought in any
two persons in existence. Still there are some subjects which
every rational being can understand. They can perceive and
reflect upon their several parts, their connexions, their modes
of combination, and their effects as a whole ; and this is un-
derstanding a subject. The perception may not be so clear,
the reflection less strong and profound, in one than in
another. The consequence will be, that one understands
his subject less perfectly than another ; but to under-
stand at all requires at least a knowledge of the essential
constituents of a subject. But knowledge and opinion are
made up of ideas : So then there must be in the mind ideas
of the fundamental principles which constitute a subject, or
that subject is not understood. Thus, Zoology, Botany, Che-
mistry, and Astronomy, are not understood, unless the con-
stituent principles of jhose sciences are, as so many ideas,
laid up in the mind. It is the same of Christianity. As no
man knows or understands any art or science a hairbreadth
beyond the number and distinctness of his ideas, so no one
can have more knowledge or understanding of Christianity
than that which is represented by the sum-total of his ideas.
Let any one number his own ideas upon Christianity or any
other subject, and he will ascertain the amount of his know-
ledge or understanding in either ; and the extent to which he
knows or understands the Word is made by Jesus Christ the
measure of probability that it will reach the good ground and
produce the desired fruit, if not a hundredfold, yet sixty or
thirty.
2. We must therefore next endeavour to determine what
is signified by the good ground. Already has it been shown
that Christianity seeks to control the animal propensities and
reign in the moral sentiments.* But it must here be added,
that it could accomplish neither the one nor the other, except
* See preceding Lecturer.
39
through the intellectual faculties. Although the doctrines of
the New Testament have been found to be applicable to the
propensities and sentiments, we have not discovered how
they can be applied without the perceiving and reflecting
powers. A man must see and be persuaded that the Chris-
tian system is adapted to his nature and wants ere he can
avail himself of its assistance and derive benefit from its aid.
To those only who have an ear does Christianity deign to
speak. Not to the blind does she set forth her beauties. Not
to the mentally incapacitated does she offer her wisdom.
The awakened ear, the observant eye, the sensitive touch,
can alone hear her words, see her features, and feel her em-
brace. Her accents are sweet and her propositions clear ; but
not to the deaf. Her form and lineaments are the perfection
of grace and beauty ; but not to the visionless mind. Her em-
brace is thrilling softness and winning love ; but not to him
who is wholly void of feeling.
And the hearing, seeing, and feeling required, will be
found to be a combination of the intellectual faculties with
the moral sentiments. They must cooperate ; they must be
one. These are the terms on which alone Christianity pro-
mises to undertake the moral and religious improvement of
man. And why ? Because the moral sentiments cannot be
rendered instrumental in directing aright the animal propen-
sities, without the steady cooperation of the intellectual facul-
ties ; nor the intellect itself be rendered available in keeping
tire propensities to their legitimate employments and the dis-
charge of their natural duties, without the equally steady
cooperation of the moral sentiments.* The moral senti-
ments, then, are the good ground. They are what the words
" heart," " affections/' and " feelings," are in current phraseo-
logy usually employed to signify.
Upon this good ground the seed of morality and religion
is to be sown. Here, this seed is to vegetate, attain matu-
• See Table—Uses of Moral Sentiments and Intellectual Faculties.
40
rity, and produce fruit : But this seed can reach its desti-
nation only through the understanding. If the understand-
ing were wholly wanting, the seed could never pass to the
good ground ; and the inflexible opposition of the under-
standing would have the same interdictory effect. This ac-
counts for the constant demands upon the perceiving and re-
flecting faculties, made by the Author of the Christian system,
" Why do ye not understand ?" " Why even of yourselves
judge ye not what is right?'' and many similar expressions of
Jesus, show that he did not expect to reach the heart but
through the head. The intellect is to moral and religious in-
structions what the hand of the husbandman is to the grain
which he scatters over the soil. It is that which makes a
judicious deposit ; it is that by which alone the precious seed
is committed to the ground. Christianity addressee the in-
tellect : She appeals to the faculties enumerated by Phreno-
logy ; she gives her commands to these faculties; her authority
and evidences she presents to the intellect. And all this she
does in order to obtain that influence over the moral senti-
ments, and that dominion over the animal propensities, which
she could not by any other means possibly obtain.
And the method by which Christianity aims to direct the
actions of men, by enlightening the mind and exalting the
soul, is precisely that which Phrenology points out as that and
that alone which is practicable. It gives to the perceiving
organs new ideas or knowledge, and to the reflecting facul-
ties new matter for reflection ; and thus it sends to the moral
sentiments new stimulants, and throws around the animal pro-
pensities new restraints. The mental system with which we
are tracing out the connexion of Christian principles, main-
tains, that it is only by furnishing the intellectual faculties
with their most appropriate aliment, and accumulating a pro-
per stock of ideas or knowledge, and employing this know-
ledge as a stimulant and guide to the moral sentiments, that
the animal propensities can be made to perform their natural
functions, without breaking through their boundaries, and
4J
plunging into the deep waters of excess.* The New Testa-
ment gives utterance to the very same position-. These sys-
tems are in unison. But we must now proceed
3. To ascertain what we are to understand Vy the seed or
Word. That it is a principle of production, the connexion in
.vhich it is employed abundantly proves. But what are its
qualities and uses ? It cannot be that among its qualities and
uses one is to create a soil, for its declared object is to find
one. The seed cannot be the ground ; but the ground which
it would find is one that would be adapted to its nature. That
ground, we have seen, is the moral sentiments ; to these then
it must be fitted. Then, if it be sown and nurtured, neither
permitted to be trodden under foot, scorched by a burning heat,
nor choked with thorns, it will spring up luxuriantly and yield
abundance of fruit. But if its only congenial element is a
moral soil and a moral atmosphere, then its qualities and uses
must be moral ; and then, too, the fruit must be of the same
character ; for there is always a corresponding analogy be-
tween the fruit, the tree, and the soil. The Author of the
physical world is also the Author of the mental world, and he
operates according to similar principles in both.
In the vegetable kingdom, fruits, if sown as seed, produce their
like ; but the crop is limited by the nature of the soil and cli-
mate. So of the mind : Sow the seeds of poesy on some
minds, and they will yield abundance offruit of a similar kind,
—
while the very same seeds deposited in another mind would
be lost, would perish. In the latter case, the mental soil and
temperature must be uncongenial, or there must have been
some sad mismanagement. But then, no soil, temperature, and
management, could make the acorn to produce wheat, or a
grain of wheat to yield an oak. If, then, the seed or Word
means Christianity, and the fruit it is designed to bring forth
is analogous to the good ground from which it is to be obtained,
it must be a system of moral and intellectual principles. And,
to exercise the intellect, and excite the moral sentiments, and
Compare uses of Intellect, with Abuses of Propensities, in Table
r
48
to generate actions which shall be rational, just, generous, and
benignant, must be its design, and such are its professed
objects. It declares itself to be an emanation of the great
fountain of Intelligence to the human intellect. It pro-
fesses to be from the moral Governor of the Universe to
his moral creature, man. It designates itself a system of
heavenly wisdom, mercy, and love, addressed to the heads
and hearts of rational and moral beings, for the purpose
of calling forth the fruits of wisdom, mercy, and love. It af-
firms itself to be purity, piety, perfection, designed for tin*
good ground of the human soul,—there to be sown, thereto be
nurtured, that there it might produce purity and piety, and
lead to perfection. Are not the two systems which we are
considering in perfect harmony ? Does not one show man
constituted upon those very principles, in strict accordance
with which the other professes to act? Does not Phreno-
logy show that intellect and moral sentiment are to be
supreme, and Christianity require them to be so ? Evidently
they are meant for an indissoluble connexion. And from these
ascertained facts, consequences of the very highest moment
flow. A few of these our subject requires us to notice*
1. Each human mind must be a world of its own. In each
there is, to use the language of Scripture, "good ground ;" ory
to employ the phraseology of the science, the moral senti-
ments.* In each, too, according to both, there are the animal
propensities and the intellectual faculties. Both recognize
a power in the animal nature of man to raise the storms of
passion and the tempests of anger, revenge, and fury.f Both
speak of mental diversities, and of varied capabilities of pro-
ducing intellectual and moral fruit. Both suppose the neces-
sity of mental and moral culture ; both represent the tendency
of the mere propensities to be to overrun the good ground
and choke and destroy the seeds which may be sown upon it,
and to wrest the soil itself from the possession of the intel-
* See Table, Moral Sentiments,
f See Abuses of Animal Propensities.
43
lectual faculties. The mind, then, bears that strong analogy
to the physical world which fully warranted the employment
of those beautiful figures that were selected by Jesus for the
purpose of instituting a comparison between mental and na-
tural phenomena.
As there are stony places and thorny wastes on the sur-
face of the earth, so there are impervious and unproductive
sections in every mind. As all uncultivated soils yield use-
less or noxious weeds, so every undisciplined mind produces
either fruits of small value, or those whose nature is actually
pernicious. As intense heat scorches up the productions of
the earth, so the violence of the animal propensities withers
the rising crops which the moral field is sending forth. As
physical evils flow from Nature's elements, so moral evils
spring from the mind: And as, under the very best possible
management, some seeds cast into the earth will decay, some
blossoms will fade, and some weeds will spring up among
the grain, so will the human mind, while man continues a pro-
bationer upon this globe, be found to be actuated in some de-
gree by those antagonist principles which will destroy some
moral seeds, blight some moral blossoms, and produce some
moral weeds. But what woidd be thought of that husband-
man's wisdom who should affirm that his land had not a single
good quality in it, because it yielded some weeds ? At what
rate would that man's veracity be estimated who should as-
sert that the best crop of wheat is rendered utterly valueless,
and even injurious, by a few bad grains and wild seeds ? Who
could believe that the great globe is a mass of poison, be-
cause it throws up some poisonous plants ? And yet to affirm
the first, assert the second, and believe the third, would be as
consistent with wisdom, veracity, and fact, as to assert that
nothing good does or can proceed naturally from the human
mind. While there is no mind wholly void of barren spots
and noxious weeds, there is not one to be found totally des-
titute of good ground and useful fruit.
2. The Author of the mind will not expect its fruit to bo
more in quantity and better in quality than the mental ground
44
can produce. By the mouth of his Messenger he has declared
that he is not a hard master, desiring to reap where he has
not sown, and gather where he has not strawed. To main-
tain that the Deity demands the same feelings, and opinions,
and conduct, from every human being, when he has made
every one to differ in some respect from all the rest, is to
contend that he is less equitable than the creatures of his
hand. It is to pronounce him a hard master, and to set a
mere theory in opposition to the most obvious facts. But
Jesus declares that some of even the good ground yields only
thirtyfold, while others produce a hundred. And yet lie
furnishes no warrant for believing that the smaller pro-
duce will be rejected and the ground condemned. It has
yielded according to its capabilities; its fruits are accepted,
and it is characterized by the proud distinction—good. This
is another mode of expressing the idea which the Author
of Christianity has elsewhere conveyed. Those who ha
received ten talents must account for that number ; but those
who have received only one will never be called upon
to account for ten : And, as the Judge of all the earth will
do right, should there be any who have received no talent,
they will not be required to render up an account of what
they never possessed. And upon this same principle the
Word or seed of Christianity is not expected to vegetate and
yield fruit where it has never been sown. Phrenology points
out the number of talents received, and estimates the quan-
tity of good ground in each mind.
3. As the intellectual faculties are the only media of ac-
cess to the moral sentiments, and the moral sentiments are
the only instruments by which the animal propensities can
be duly restrained and beneficially directed, virtue, piety,
and true religion, must be in proportion to the strength, ic-
tivity, and harmonious cooperation of the intellect and moral
powers. It has been said, that " ignorance is the mother of
devotion." But of what devotion? Can ignorance pro-
duce the devotion of the wrapt-ennobled soul ? Can it send
forth the devotion of Christ ?—No. The devotion of igno-
45
ranee is low, grovelling, superstitious ; it is mere fear, tinc-
tured deeply with the dark colouring which the animal nature
has given it. It is false devotion. That which is true is ever
brightened highly by the glowing tints that the combined
energies of the intellect and moral powers have impressed
upon it. There is no beauty in the devotion which is the off-
spring of ignorance ; its parentage is base ; the issue is of but
little worth ; too often has it proved worse than worthless.
It has led men to fanaticism and persecution—to the com-
mission of the most atrocious crimes, and the infliction upon
themselves and others of the direst miseries. It has given
the name religion to that which which was positive mad-
ness. But such insanity was never produced by hearing the
Word and understanding it, and receiving the good seed into
the good ground of the mind. Thirty, sixty, or a hundred-
fold of bigotry, anger, wrath, and malice, are the very coun-
terpart of those fruits of love, and joy, and peace, that the
religion of Jesus is designed to produce ; and, " by their fruits
shall ye know them." " If a man have not the spirit of
Christ, he is none of his." But, to know what that spirit was,
requires the exercise of both the perceiving and reflecting
powers. The fundamental command, " Learn of me," can-
not be obeyed without a vigorous use of the intellectual facul-
ties ; but, the more carefully these are trained, and the more
assiduously the moral sentiments are at the same time culti-
vated, the higher must the individual ascend in excellence,
true religion, and positive enjoyment.
We are thus conducted to the following principles as the
sum of our three lectures. According to Christianity and
Phrenology, man is composed of an animal nature, a moral
nature, and an intellectual nature. Between the first and
the second there is a constant warfare,—the third sometimes
aiding the animal and sometimes the moral. The animal na-
ture tends to excess ; and, when this excess is sanctioned and
aided by the intellectual nature, then and only then sin is the
result ; for sin is the wilful or voluntary transgression of a
known law. The more the animal nature is aided by the in-
46
tellectual, the more enormous and dreadful are" the sins com-
mitted ; and, if the animal nature has once entirely engaged
the intellectual in its service, and wholly subdued the moral
to its control, then is the individual reduced to the very low-
est degree of degradation, and then does he become the most
awful offender : But if the moral nature has completely en-
gaged the intellectual in its service, and totally subdued the
animal to its sway, then is the individual elevated to the high-
est degree of moral excellence, and enabled to become the
strict observer of every righteous and holy law.* This is to
attain complete self-government: This is to acquire the
greatest moral strength : This is to become pure in heart
:
This is to overcome temptation—to subdue evil concupiscence,
inordinate affection, and worldly lusts : This is to be born
again and become a new creature : This is to secure peace
through piety and happiness through holiness.
Who, then, can with reason tax this arrangement of man's
mental powers with any radical defect ? Who can with con-
sistency demur ? Does not every one feel, that, in this state
at least, he needs his animal powers as much as his moral and
intellectual ?f And, if those powers are in themselves as
good as they are necessary—and they are, when legitimately
employed, the sources of no inconsiderable amount of human
enjoyment—shall man repine against them, because, by his
own neglect or voluntary misapplication, they have involved
him in crime and suffering ? To find fault with any of the
powers of the mind, what is it but to find fault with him who
made them ? To affirm, that, because man's animal nature
leads him into the transgression of the law, therefore his
whole nature, the moral and intellectual included, is sin, and
man must transgress, what is it but to affirm that there is no
inward man that delights in the law of God, no good ground
on which the seeds of virtue and religion can be sown, and
* God's laws may be dividedmto the Physical, Organic, and Moral ; the
latter including Religious.
t See consequences of deficient Animal Propensities, in Table.
47
no understanding to direct ? And what is all this but placing
the crimes of the creature to the account of his Creator ? But
not so will he speak and think of his own nature who has
learnt what that nature really is.
Man is what it has pleased his God to make him. That
Maker is too wise to err and too good to be unkind. He
has constituted man for trial and improvement. Has he done
wrong ? To subject man to trial and render him susceptible
of improvement, he planted within the human mind three
sets of powers, or, as it were, three natures,—the animal,
the moral, and the intellectual ; and hence the moral war-
fare that man has to wage, and hence the moral victory that
he may gain. Was this a mixture of cruelty and error?
Man's improvement or degradation depends upon the right
use or the misdirection of the powers possessed and the
means enjoyed. Is not this just and right? Christianity
is professedly means of heavenly grace for acting through
and upon the three sets of natural human powers to pre-
vent vice and promote virtue—for enlightening, purifying,
and exalting man in this life, and preparing him for endless
felicity. Is this irrational?—Assuredly not. Man, Nature,
Christianity, and all the dispensations of Deity, are graciously
fitted to each other.
Wisely and well must he be employed who carefully studies
his own constitution, condition, and means of improvement,
and resolutely applies the knowledge acquired to the purposes
for which it is sought. Such a one heareth the Word and un-
derstandeth it, receiveth the seed into good ground, and
bringeth forth fruits worthy of a moral and intellectual be-
ing—fruits that his Maker will accept—fruits that shall never
decay : Yes, we repeat, fruits that shall never decay ; for it
is clear that the moral and intellectual powers of man are
susceptible of indefinite expansion, improvement, exaltation
;
and therefore for nothing less can they possibly be designed
than endless, evergrowing enjoyment.
48
NOTE.
In the preceding lectures, man is viewed under one general aspect.
Phrenology teaches that every individual differs from every other. This
may at first appear a discrepancy. Christianity is taken to be a moral and
religious system for raising every man to a high deyree of moral and reli-
gious energy. Phrenology maintains that the natural sentiments which
produce the moral and religious character are in some individuals very
low. This may seem a contradiction. The apparent discrepancy, how-
ever, is easily adjusted —the seeming contradiction without difficulty
brought to agree. The Bible could not have descended from the grand
general principles which it gives for the regulation of human conduct
into endless minor details and countless minute exceptions, without very
much lessening its own power, if not actually defeating its own aim. It
was not designed to excuse, but to stimulate. It was not meant to show
men how small an amount of morals and religion would serve their own
purpose and please their God, but to urge upon them the attainment of
the greatest sum. Its object is to render every one as highly informed
and as strictly practical in matters of morals and religion as the capabilities
of each will admit : But it does not aim at impossibilities. Its standard of
excellence is high, its point of purity is lofty, and it incites every one to
attain that standard and reach that point : But it never affirms that those
who have put forth all their energies and used their best endeavours to at-
tain the one and reach the other, and yet failed, shall be lost. On the
contrary, it most positively avers, that he who has improved the one talent
bestowed, and wrought the one hour afforded, shall obtain a reward.
It must, then, be as allowable to view man under a general aspect, and
to speak of Christianity as a system for exalting every man to the higher
regions of morality and religion, —although every individual differs from all
others, and some possess the moral sentiments only in a low degree, —as it
is to speak of knowledge, food, and sunlight, as designed and fitted for all,
although the incapacitated cannot receive the first, the diseased partake of
the second, nor the blind perceive the last. It is said aliment is for the
stomach, and the stomach for aliment : Yet the physician finds a patient
who cannot take food. Is this exception fatal to the general principle ?
Does it even in the slightest degree affect that principle? And if not,
must it not be the same when the Phrenologist discovers an individual
with very deficient moral sentiments ? This is an exception —not a con-
tradiction. Upon the principle thus explained, the three lectures have
proceeded ; and, as this method is presumed to be perfectly legitimate, it
is concluded that there can be no rational ground for pronouncing the
statements made respecting Christianity and Phrenology to be any way
inconsistent with unity of object and harmony of action.
