{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__fellows___exposition_of_the_mysteries.pdf","mytitle":"Exposition Of The Mysteries","mylang":"de"}
3
'ni
EXPOSITION OF THE MYSTERIES,
Ol
RELIGIOUS DOGMAS AND CUSTOMS
01 'PBI ANGIE?
EGYPTIANS, PYTHAGOBEANS, AND DRUIDS.
A1102 Ll INQUIRY INTO TBS ORIGIN, HIBTGBY, ARD PUIPOR1' DY
'
FREEMASONRY.
BY
JOHN FELLOWS. A. M.
`
L'Ulity do Dian shit le grand Dogma do mm la Mystona.
NEW-YORK:
P15119 |01 fll lU'l'l0l| AKD IOLD BY GOULD, IAIKI LID O0-
l835.
UNIVERSITY
Q-fc
l-'EH»» HARVARD
LIBRARY
/£6/, !,' of
.,
1/
7 `
/aw in ,.
,
/
ff/ J//' mf ff);
?;9IQ' 67,
/'ff'/j
1
Errn
'
to At f Co
`
th l835,b J Fnuo
`
the
§1.'B;f6'r°§¢.'""Z5.».. þÿn§'.J.'.=¢o....1""°°'°m.'i'u.'¬!¢°%'».... ¢,?¢.27'»1.¢».,.'£"i.&..¢
aw- o
'
'
_;'`
'_
KA
xzf
(Y
Y1E
ROYAL 4
RM fa
~'¢¢2Z7>'f3
Qi? #HF an
QV ///
"
W |\\
I
1 A
3
111| IllHH||lll|l|Il|!|||||| VIIIIIHIIIIIIIIII #lg
I
'W1TT7WW'MW1'W"
"1_Q
3-1
'I
1_;_/1 ~»<z;,,_ ;v" `
'..._
-I
.4
,
'Y
fT»=~=;:£ f
R
OH'
<<ff?¢5¢i§m=f`¥"' §»=~¥3"=mf'.;=2~§?f11'ff=">, E2 4 =
Zz: 'T§'3z`:"Jf.`:"5ff
`
l,w'W
7 "`V
V
`
.',-§R&£?f"v'~;¥i-W "via;f;#§3*'5*f&3.'4f?5,A
,fJ}f, "J"
_',_vf!} ml JMX' _.
W >'
~fl2j /fifvréf "
A
I
_
J
'xsglf-uu5{(|m¢¢`Q,`
t
-7.15 ' °§§~ 'Inf ,
J ,nfl
51
`
QV' ";; "xx<*!l'fW
' if *s'*"=f~ '"
uf
'
Y _
1,L_m:¢,".>~l'.t'.
lik? F '
/,
. "VE" ,`~ Z'
`
~1
~' 9
*bf* g 4 "
5 15 J
L
U
'QQ 7 / `§ I
E 5- 2
QM?
"
' 5
~
< A
~ -
117:
' `1`
"TE >;.b¢?¥ ff ffi nf
1
§
_gm ri! ,F
`Q*
"
1 53"
"
"' '
,_ M |U|NUU|W ,f
"
' 'f 1
fm, '*<f'9
fy
'
1 7 ,;7.
12 iQ HH; .4
iw _
Sv
\v~~
_
»
;,
..
H
'J' A
*g -
4; , `
_
J
fir 5
23? ' Ai
'
if -f' V
'
~- -
' '
-
1
|Jgt;,-;1 >;,
EXPLANATION OF THE FRONTISPIECE.
17:4 two Pillars represent two imaginary columns. supposed to be placed at the
equinoxes, to support the heavens. The one on the left is called Boaz, and indicates
Osiris, or the Sun: the one on the right is called Jachin, and designates Isis, the sym-
bol, both ofthe earth and its productions, and ofthe Moon.
The Arch, supported by the two pillars, is e representation of the semicircls meds
by the apparent course of the sun in the upper hemisphere, from Aries to Libra inclu-
ivs; _from whence originates the name of the royal arch degree of masonry-
77te Seven Stars, are the Pleiades, "a small platoon of stars, says Pluche, very
remar'kal>le, most known, and easiest to be distinguished, of all the constellations.
'Hiey were particularly useful to regulate the informations given to the disciples of the
priests, by means of an atlas." "They were, says Bailey, vary famous among men,
because they intimate the season of the year."
The Blazing Star is Anubis, the Dog-star; whose rising forewarned the Egyptians
of the approach of the overflowing of the Nile. Hence the great veneration in which
it was held by them, and which has descended to thc Frcc-masons.
`
The G indicates Geometry, the knowledge of which was of vast importance to the
Egyptians in measuring their lands,-the boundaries of individual property being
removed by the inundation of the Nile. This science, consequently, was considered by
them divine ; and acquired a sort of mystical union with the Deity. The G, however,
was not intended as the ot' the word God, that term being unknown to the
Egyptians.
'
The Square and Compass, as instruments in the science of geometry, became an
emblem of justice ; because through their means, every one had his "old land-marks"
restored to him.
The Cornucopia, or Horn qfAbmdance, was a symbol used by the Egyptians to
denote the sun'a being in the sign Capricorn, when the harvest was gathered. and con-
sequently an abundance of provisions laid up in store.
771: Armorial Bearing: are those of royal ardt masonry; for an explanation of
which, see Cherubim, page 243.
The C/tcckered Flooring, culled mosaic or -muaaic work, rr-presents the variegated
flea of the earth in the places where the ancients used formcrly to hold their religious
assemblies. This imitation was mudo when temple-worship was introduced, to recon-
cile t.he people to the change. For the origin of the term mosaic, or mtuaic work, see
Nav 251
The Cmotopli, or Block-Cqdin, used in the anniversaries, is typical ot' the death of
the lun in the inferior hemisphere, under the name of Osiris; who is personated by the'
Hiram of masonry.
The Illysterioua Trunk, on the left of the cotliu, is a copy of those used by the
ancients for a deposition of memorials of past events ; and the bor, on the right, is the
form of those used by Freemasons for a similar purpose.
Among the emblems of masonry, in Croes's Chart, ie the figure of a Key, which is
also generally displayed in masonic Monitors. The key was the nttnbutc of Anubis,
the Dog-star, in aftertimes denominated Mercury, and indicated the closing of one year,
and opening of another; because the Egyptians formerly commenced the year at the
rising of this star. Its employment was afterwards extended to the opening and shut-
ting the place of departed spirits. The Popes ot' Rome, consequently, now claim it as
th r appropriate badge of ofllce. The meaning of this symbol not having been pre-
served in the lodge, is there assigned to its Treasurer.
t
ADVERTISEMENT.
As some works hsquently alluded to in this volume may not be familiar to readers
in general, it ls requisite to describe them more particularly than was convenient to do
when making references to them. In fact, often the names of the authors only are
mentioned; of such, therefore, I will here give the titles more fully, with the dates of
the editions.
`
The work of Bailey, from which many quotations are made, is entitled "
An Univer-
sal English Dictionary of Words, and of Arts and Sciences, illustrated with 260cuts."
London, 1759. This is a continuation of his etytnological dictionary, but entirely dir
tinct from that work.
"An Exposureof Freemasonry ;" published in London, 1825, in a periodical, entitled
"The Republican," edited by Richard Carlile.
"Lighten Masonry." By Elder David Bernard : Utica, 1829. This work contains
an exposition of 48 degrees ot' Freemasonry. -
"A Ritual of Freemasonry, illustrated with numerous engravings." By Avery
Allyn: Boston, 1831. This volume treats of 33 degrees of the order.
Volney's Ruins, here made use of is die New-York edition of 18%.
Elura.-Marg! errorslrzhichmay appear in some copies, wars corrected aker a few
sheets were etru oil oee which mar the sense, and mistakes in the spelling of
classical words, ss well as others in the_ learned languages, which the general reads'
could not correct, will alone be taken notice o£ \
For Et foror and conjux, Page 22, Line 13, read, Et soror et
con'ux.-_p. 28, l. 10,
repoitum and Ofiridis; repositum,
l0siridis.-AJ. 11, l. 38, Nemetis; ldemests.-p. 30, l.
32, Jevov; Jehov.-p. 35, I. 26, that their foun er of
colotéy°
that founder of their col-
ony.-p. 40, I. 9, Dtonyteuag Dionysius.-p. 41, l. 10, abio; Saboi.-p. 49, l. 27,
Hannadi: Hannabi.-p. 52, l. 12, Dmdalus; Dmdalus.-p. 56, I. 7, Pegassus; P a-
;_u;.-p;rh56,
I. 13, Stabro; Strabo.-p. 86, 1. 14, covering; convening.-p. $, 135,
at; us.
N. B. Ibid., page 152, line 10 refers to Moore's Epicurean, to which the preceding'
ellnnt from Dupuis should have been credited.
The running title of Ch. 111, should have commenced at page 142, instead of 156.
In age 318, the Defence of Freemasonry is referred to as having been before noti-
mdzrwhersasthat article was printed subsequeutl .
he extract commencing at page 333, and eating st 335, should be credited to Fon-
tenellsle History of Oracles.
,._. ,
CONTENTS.
cxnrrzn 1.
Dogmas and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians ~
,
-
l-97
cnuvnm u.
Origin, Nature, and Object, ofthe Ancient Mysteries; abridged
from Bishop Warburton's Divine Legation of Moses; with
notes and remarks, pointing out their identity with Free-
masonry, etc. ----~
_
- - -
100-141
,
cnsrrsa ru,
An Examination of Virgil's Sixth Book of the Eneid: in which
it is shown, that the allegorical descent of Eneas into Hell,
is no other than an enigmatical representation of his initia-
tion into the Mysteries -
- ----
142-177
casrrln rv.
The Metamorphosis of Apuleius: and the Amour of Cupid and
Psyche. Also: a_Sketch of the Life and Doctrines of
Pythagoras, the founder of the sect that bore his name:
and the Doctrines and Customs of the Druids, the priests
ofthe ancient Britons ------
178-224
cnn'r1:n v.
Opinions and Observations of learned writers on
Freemasonry,
who are in full communion with the order - - -
225-257
-cnuran vi.
An Inquiry into the Origin and History of Freemasonry 258-274
CHAPTER VII.
Analysis of Freemasonry; in which the symbols, and original
intention of the Institution, are
explained » - -
275-351i
cnnrnn vin.
Miscellaneous Articles.--Ceremonies observed in laying the
corner stone of Freemasons' Hall, London, 1775; and at
its Dedication in 1776.-Antimasonic Writers.-Barruel
and Robison.-The Illuminati.-Horrors of the American
Revolution.-Defence of Masonry.-Conclusion. 357-403
INDEX T0 CHAPTER I.
A Page J P
Animals become symliqliesl - -
Anub' Thou, Bequlsptus
-
Adsgllhyudes, Pleiedee - -
grpollo,
Muses, Gr-aces -
Apgslllinevis - -
Augunes
- - -
-
G.
Cabiri - - -
Circé -
-
-
Conjuratinn -
D.
Dionysius, Bacchus - -
-
Daedalus ----
Dog-days, why so called -
-
E.
Egyptian Mysteries -
F.
Funersl symbols and ceremonies -
G.
Genealogy of the Gods -
H.
Hsrpocrstes
- -
-
I.
his, symbol ofthe earth -
ig; Jehov, Ammon, Neptune, Pluto
45 M.
54 Memo:-isle of pest events -
58| Menes - -
_
- -
70| Moloch, Baal, Adonis, Achnd -
81 Mercury, Hermes, Camillus
Metamorphoses,Pl1sntorne -
53
`
N.
59 Nyobe ----
ss
\ O
l0airis, the sun, 13. liesurrection of
40
Proteus - - - -
S.
74 Symbolical writing
Symbolical ceremonia
Syrens - - -
31 Saturn - - -
Semiramis - -
Sesostris ----
64 Sibyls -----
Science of Ancient Egyptians
24 T.
Typhon or Phyton - -
18 U.
Usage: common to all nuions
__,__._._1--i-
mi R
90' Phenix, origin of the fable of -
DKIIII IR PIIIIAIOIIY, Ol' WHICI IOTXCI Il TAXI!! D( Tl!! VOLUII.
,Durga of Entered
Aprrentice,
Fellow-cn t' -
"
Master Mason -
"
Select Master -
"
Most Excellent Master
"
Royal Arch -
"
High Priesthood -
"
Knight of the Eagle
"
Knight of Kedosh -
"
Order of lfloeehites
"
Rosyeruaan
INTRODUCTION.
Taz original object of the secret rites of treemssonry has
been a subject of inquiry for upwards of six hundred years, and
the enigma seems not to have been satisfactorily solved. The
initiated, as well as those without the pale of the order, are equally
ignorant of their derivation and import. VVhat mote it be? is a
question as
difiicult of solution now as when first propounded by
king Henry VI. of England. _
i
The intention of this work is to endeavor to unravel the intri~
cate web in which the mystery is involved, by tracing the order
back to its source, and, by showing its intimate connection md
similitude to institutions more ancient, put it beyond a doubt, that
it sprang from, and is a continuation of the rites and ceremonies
observed in those establishments.
Had a work, taken notice of by the Abbe Barruel, fallen into
thehands of _
the editor, he would probably have been saved much
trouble in the prosecution of this research.--" We recommend,
says he, to our reader to peruse the treatise of a most learned and
zealous- mason, dedicated Demen die es Verstehen, or To those
who can understand. He leaves no stone untumed throughout
antiquity to prove the identity of the ancient mysteries of Eleusis,
of the Jews, of
the Druids, and of the Egyptians, with those of
treemasonry."
i
In pursuance of this course, it becomes necessary to take I
transient view of the dogmas and customs of Egypt in the remotost
2
X IN'.l'BODUC'l'I0l'.
l
l
periods of its history; for it appears evident, that this country was
the salient point from which the religious observances of the
ancient world commenced.
What are
emphatically called the mysteries, is but another
name for religion ; and an exposition of what they consisted, is of
course embraced in the subject as forming a parallel with the rites
of masonry. Independent of the main design of the work, these
topics in themselves possess great interest as matters of curiosity;
which is enhanced by observing the close aflinity which they bear
to the practices of the masonic order at the present day.
"
Among all the ancient nations which have been distinguished
in history, there is none more worthy of our notice than the king-
dom of Egypt. If not the birth-place, it was the early protector
of the sciences; and cherished every species of knowledge, which
was known or cultivated in remote times. It was the principal
source from which the Grecians derived their information; and,
a.Rer all its and enlargements, we may. still trace the
stream of our knowledge to the banks of the Nile." (New Edinb.
Ency.)
Whatever may be thought of the doctrines of thc mysteries,
they enforced the principles of morality by the most terrific scenical
representatio of the torments of the wicked on the one hand, and
of the most pleasing spectacles of the happiness of the righteous
on the other, in a future life. These scenes are faintly copied in
royal arch masonry, and the same morals, in like manner, incul-
cated. _
i
'I'he writer is not a devotee to the mystic rites of the craft:
he is not prepared to vindicate the outrages committed by indi-
viduals of the order, instigated by a fanatical zeal for the protec-
tion of frivolous ceremonies; nor will he apologize for the use that
may have been made of the fraternity to promote the views of
1
urmonucnon. xi
political aspirants. If any improper intluence in this respect, has
been employed, as is asserted, he does not hesitate to pronounce it
anti-masonic--against the rules of the order; for both religion, on
which itself was originally founded, as well as
politics, are totally
excluded from the lodge.
The most material and best founded objection that has been
brought against masonry, is the oaths which it imposes upon the
brethren. They are shocking to the taste of the present age:
their continuance was an enormous blunder in the revivers of the
order in 1717. They were then no longer necessary. Masonry
contains nothing which at that time rendered its members amena-
ble to the laws of England.
The false construction put upon these oaths, has implicated the
order in the foulest deeds; and perhaps caused the masonic obli-
gations to be considered paramountto legal oaths administered in
courts of law, and thus perverted the course ofjustice. The only
means, therefore, of avoiding this evil, and of wiping away the
stain at present attached to the society, is a total abandonment of
the oaths.*
However desirable this may be to many of the brethren, it is
¢_" At the very threshhold of our
mysteries, an oath of secrecy, extremely minute in
all its details, and tremendous in its sanctions, has from time immemorial been enacted
of
every
candidate. It is not to be
mtgposed
that such an oath had no foundation at
first. t would argue a profiigacy inc ible, to invent one so sacred and inviolabla
merely for the sake of swearing it. Nor does such a
solemnitycornport wah the
or practices of any association of architects whatever. For in at is
th_ere, or what con d
there ever have been, in the art of building, or in the whole ettcleof science merely, that
could require or even warrant so appalling an obligation? Neither does it agree with
the resent state ofthe institution; for masonry harbors no treason: nor blasphamias.
Its d)vsigns at the present day are not only innocent, but laudable. It requires us to
fear God and promote the
h;ppiness
of man. The inventors of this oath, then, must
have most unpnrdonably tritl with the awful solemnity of auch an engagement, lL at
the time of its institution, there did not exist a cause,
prtxortipnate,
at least in soma
degree, to the precautions used against its violation. ( id.-The way to words by
things, or an
attemgt
at the retrieval of the ancient Celtic, in a volume of tracts in the
library ot' Harvard ollegc.) What this cause was, we
can determine only by probable
conjecture. But we may presume that it must have originated in some
great personal
danger, if not death, apprehended to members of the institution from t a pulaoe, if
their secrets were
laid open to the world. Every rnnson, by retlecttng on Sizes hints,
will satisfy his own mind, that at the Brat constitution ot' our fraternity its
great obiaet
was not solely the advancement of the arts, _still less of architecture alone- '-(Groom
|n£'s Brisflnquiryinto the0rigin and Pnncaplasofhesmasonry.
|
|
xii nvmonucnon.
resisted by others on the absurd and superstitious notion, that no
alterations can take place in "
the ancient land-marks" of the
institution; which, like the laws of 'the Medes and Persians, must
remain eternally the same: when, notwithstanding, within about
fifty years, the old inclosures have been broken down, and the
boundaries of the order extended zso as to include an
immense
territory beyond the ancient limits.
i
'
»
After this unqualifiedreprobation of the oaths, I confidently
assert, that nothing is taught or practised in the lodges contrary to
the strictest morals. The exposition of the ritual by those even
who are inimical to the order, proves the fact. And, as has been
often urged, if there were no other testimony, the characters of
many of those who are known
to be members, is a sufiicient
guaranteethat nothing improper would be tolerated.
If it be said, that a
partial feeling is created among the brethren,
that operates injuriously to the public good, it may be answered,
that the same objection may be urged against all associations of
individuals, whatever may be their views and intentions.
This partiality, by the way, has been the cause of relieving
many in distress, and even
saving the lives of valuable citizens.
A case of this kind happened in the American revolutionary war,
which is often alluded to by masonic writers. Col. McKenstry
was taken prisoner by the Indians, who were preparing to put him
to a cruel death. In this emergency, he gave the masonic sign of
distress, which induced a brother mason, a British officer, to inter-
fere and save his life.
While this transaction reflects honor upon the .ofiicer as a
mason, it at the same time leaves an indelible stain upon his charac-
ter as a man, which equally attaches to his king and government.
What l employ savages as auxiliaries in war, ahd then stand by and
look coolly on, while they amuse themselves in tomahawking and
nrmonvcnon.
acalping their prisoners, unless the latter can give the talismanic
signal, and pronounce the Shibboleth of masonry 'I-But as
are considered by their subjects not to he moral agents, but looked
upon as minors or idiots who can do no
wrong, the prime minister
at the time, lord North, and his principal adviser, lord Sackville,
must bear the bulk of the odium.
This rule of masons to grant aid to each other under certain
circumstances, was
probably derived from the laws of Egypt: by
which, "He who
had neglected or refused to save a
ma.n's life
when attacked, if it were in his power to assist him, was punished
as
rigorously as the assassin: but if the unfortunate person could
not be succoured, the qfender was at least to be impeached, and
penalties were decreed for any neglect of this kind. Thus the
subjects were a
guard and protection to one another; and the
whole body of the community united against the designs of the
bad."-(`Rollin's Anc. Hist.)
Some apology for the awful oaths administered in masonic
lodges, is perhaps due on the score of precedent; which has in all
times greatly influenced the customs and government of the world,
and sometimes sanctified principles the most absurd and pernicious.
The mysteries were protected by the most severe oaths in
Greece and Rome, and, no doubt, were
equally so in Egypt, the
place of their birth. And, moreover, in the two former countries,
if not in the latter, revealing the secrets of these mysteries was
punished with death by the laws.
For this there was a substantial reason: the greater mysteries
taught the doctrine of one
Supreme God, and that polytheism was
an error; admitting, at the same time, that the sun, moon, and
stars, were minor divinities under the superintendence of the one
Supreme. The belief] however, in Hero-gods was so engrafted
on the minds of the ignorant multitude, that it was feared the open
xiv nvrnonucnox.
promulgation of a doctrine in opposition to that faith, would lead
to disturbances in the state that might produce great evil. This
mystery consequently was confided only to a chosen few of the
most intelligent, under the sanction of an oath and the penalties of
the law.
Vhen freemasonry was first established in England, soon after
the edict ofCanute, in the beginning of the eleventh century, (as is
presurned,) prohibiting in tolo the Druidical worship, the strongest
oaths were required to bind the initiated to secrecy: for had the
real intent of its founders been known, it would doubtless have
cost them their lives.
That Canute was
superstitious, and of course vindictive, is
evident from his having made a
pilgrimage to Romefthrough
excessive religious zeal, in 1030; and, therefore would, no doubt,
have punished the Druids for an infraction of his edict with merci-
less cruelty.
'
By the incorporation of the Danes with the nation, (says
Lingard, in his History of England,) the rites of paganism had
again made their appearance in the island. Canute forbade the
worship of the heathen gods, of the sun or moon, of fire or water,
of stones or fountains, and of forests or trees.
This ferocious and sanguinary warrior, in 1030, made a.
pilgrimage to Rome. On the road he visited the most celebrated
churches, leaving every where proofs of his devotion and liberality.
In his retum he proceeded immediately to Denmark, but despatched
the abbot of Tavistock to England with a letter, describing the
object and issue of his journey. In this letter he says,
"
It is long
since I bound myself by my vow to make this pilgrimage ; but I
had been hitherto prevented by affairs of state, and other impedi-
ments. Now, however, I return humble thanks to Almighty God,
that he has allowed me to visit the tombs of the blessed apostles,
l1|'l'l0DUC'.l'ION. IV
Peter and Paul, and every holy place within and without the city
of Rome, and to honor and venerate them in person. And this I
have done, because Ihad learnedfrom my teachers, that the apostle
St. Peter received from the Lord the great power of binding and
loosing, with the keys of the kingdom aj heaven. On this account
I thought it highly useful to solicit his patronage with God."
He concludes his letter as follows: "
Lastly, I entreat all my
bishops, and all the sheriffs, by the fidelity which they owe to me
and to God, that the church dues, according to the ancient laws,
may be paid before my retum, namely: the plow-alms, the tithes
of cattle of the present year, the Petcr~pence, the tithes of fruit in
the middle of August, and the kirlc-shot at the feast of St. Martin,
to the parish church. Should this be omitted, at my retum,I will
punish the offender by exacting the whole tine appointed by law.
Fare ye well."
Furthermore, it may be remarked, that the customs of the
times in which I am endeavoring to show that masonry was estab-
lished, sanctioned the most horrible oaths.
"
The multiplicity of oaths in -the judicial proceeding of the
middle ages# (says Dr. Henry, in his History of Great Britain,
v. iii, pl 425,) had the same eifect that it will always have, of
diminishing men's veneration for them, and giving occasion for
frequent perjury. The legislators of thosc_ times employed several
devices to prevent this, by awakening the consciences, and keeping
alive the religious fears of mankind. With this view, their oaths
were couched in the most awful forms of words that could be
invented; and these forms were frequently changed, that they
might not lose their effect by becoming too familiar."
Many who have written with great asperity aggxinstfmasonry,
under false impressions of its general tendency, have doubtless
° The middle oi dark a cs are described as
comprehending
the thousand years from
the taking of Rome by gre Goths, in the middle of he fift century, to_ the taking of
Conatmunople, by the Turks, in the middle of the tifteenth century.-Edit.
xvi mnmonucrmn.
been actuated by the purest motives, whilst others, such as the
Abbe Barruel and Professor Robison, have been instigated by the
most malignant political prejudices. I shall take some notice of
these two writers in the sequel.
All
EXPOSlTl0N
MYSTERIES, atc.
CHAPTER 1,
noolu Ann cusrols or 'ran ANCIINT sarrruns.
4
I1' will be attempted, in this work, to show that the mysteries and
ceremonies of the celebrated order of Freemasons are derived from the
religious dogmas and customs of ancient nations, particularly those of
Egypt, where the foundation ofthe whole machinery of religious mys-
teries, as far as is known, was Hrst laid.
In order, therefore, to attain a comprehensive view of this subject, it
becomes necessary to be well informed of the rites, customs, and cere-
monies, of the ancient inhabitants of that famous country. And as the
Abbe Pluche, in his History of the Heavens, has treated more
minutely
of these topics, and explained them more
satisfactorily, than any other
author that has kllen under my observation, I shall commence this
volume with extracts from his work.
Critical histories of the mbulous gods of Paganism, under the sem-
blance of truth, have been transmitted from age to age, and been gene-'
rally received as narratives of real facts. Pluche has unveiled many
of these poetical fictions, and pointed out the source from which they
were derived. »
My limits will not pennit me to give the whole of his expositions ;
but, on account of the great merit of the work, with which, it is pre
l
I
2 -
noauas AND cusrous or
sumed, but few American readers are acquainted, I have not confined
the selections merely to such parts as have a
particular bearing upon
the subject in hand. _
As the author is little known in America, I will give an abstract of
a sketch of his life and writings, contained in La, Biographic Univer-
ullc, Paris, 1830.
Anthony Pluche, a~ celebrated writer, was born at Reims, in 1688;
and obtained the appointment of Professor of Languages, in the Uni-
versity of that city. Two years afterwards, he passed tq the chair of
Rhetoric, and was raised to holy orders. The bishop of Laon, (Cler-
mont,) becoming acquainted with his talents, gave him the presidency
of the College of his diocese. By his assiduity and science, the insti-
tution was much improved; when particular circumstances occurred
that troubled his tranquility, and obliged him to relinquish his employ.
The Intendant of Rouen confided to him the education of his son, at
the request of the celebrated Rollin. The Abbe Pluche having fulfill-
ed this trust with success, left Rouen for Paris, where he gave, at tirst,
lessons on Geography and History. Through the notice of distin»
guished authors, his name soon became celebrated, and he sustained
that celebrity by his works.
He gave successively, to the public,-first, the Spectacle de la
Nature, (Nature Displayed,) in 9 volumes, 121110. This work, equally
instructive as agreeable, is written with much clearness and elegance.
Second, The Histoire du Ciel, (History of the Heavens,) in 2 vols.,
l2mo. In this work is to be found two parts, almost independent of
each other. The first contains learned researches upon the origin of
the poetical heavens. This is nearly a
complete mythology, founded
upon new and ingenious ideas. The second is the history of the opin-
ions of philosophers on the formation of the world. The author here
shows the uncertainty of systems the most accredited. Besides a;lic-
tion noble and well turned, one here finds an erudition that does not
fatigue. As to the ground of the system exposed in the first part, Vol-
taire calls it, probably with reason, the Fable of Hearcn. Third, La
Mécanique des Langues, Paris, 1735, in 12mo. He here proposes a
means more short for learning languages. Fourth, Concorde de la
Geographic des ditferens ages; Paris, 1764, in l2mo.
Plan of the W'ork.
I 'FIND myself under the necessity of oversctting, or unravelling,
Bibles, in order to establish tnith. The men most celebrated, who have
1
_
rm: Ascrrzrrr zovrrrms. 3
treated ofthe formation of the heavens and of the earth, or of their mu-
tual relations, were
pagans, philosophers of different nations, and sacred
writers. Those systems which have been given by the Egyptians,
Phenicians, the Greeks, and Romans, are obscured by fabulous recitals,
and by metamorphoses full of absurdity. Although they were the most
ingenious and polished of all people, they formed ideas so strange on the
government of the heavens, and on the powers which sustain the human
species, that there is no need to combat them with argument; they carry
their own refutation with them. But, from the depth ofthis frightful dark-
ness, it is possible to elicit light. Through these fictions, I find a fact,
the explication of which shows us what has given birth to fables; it is
the development of them. The Srst fixed point, is the signilication of
the names and figures which have served, from the highest antiquity,
fo characterize the sun, the moon, and the stars, according to their
different situations.
`
The usages of the ancients, and the inspection of
nature, will aid us in discovering the sense, the knowledge of which
will lead us
immediately to perceive the enormous abuse that has been
made of the institutions of the first men, and place in sufficient light the
origin of the idolatry of our fathers.
Another effect of this research, is to teach us, thafthe same mistake
which has peoplcd the heavens with chimerical divinities, has given
birth to a multitude of false pretensions on the influences of the hea-
yenly bodies, and the errors which still tyrannise over most minds. If
our
history of the heavens produces no other benefit than the discovery
of the mistakes which have precipitated the human race into errors that
disgrace it,-the consequences of which still disturb the repose of soc#
ety,-this will undoubtedly be an
advantage sufficiently satisfactory.
My remarks may be useful to youth, byzunveiling to them those
fabulous personages which they hear so often mentioned. I have still
greater hopes, perhaps vith too much presumption, that this mall essay
might be of some use to teachers themselves. I should think myself
happy to have assisted their work, by some views which they might
afterwards improve and proportion to the wants of their disciples.
Teachers, however vell qualified, generally want leisure to undertake
researches of any considerable length ; and the more judicious they ara,
the more disagreeable is it to them, to be for a
long series of years
handling fables almost always absurd or scandalous, without being
recompensed for the tiresomeness of these ridiculous stories, by the
satisfaction of being able at least to find out the origin of them. I here
4 noanss nan onerous or
derive all the branches of idolatry from one and the same root. I
endeavor to show, that the same mistake has given birth to the gods,
goddesses, metamorphoses, auguries, and oracles. The fables thus
reduced to their true value, will amuse without danger; and the mas-
ters possibly will like and adopt a
principle, whose great simplicity
puts it within the reach of children themselves.
The chief benefit I should be glad to reap from my labor, would be
the facilitating the study of nature, and even that of religion, in restrain-
ing the said study within the bounds of possibility and necessity, both
which are still of no small extent.
The engravings accompanying the work are all drawn from the
monuments of antiquity. They are marked as follows z-all those
found in .Antiquity Explained, by Montfaucon, with an M; those col-
lected by Cartari, with a C; those which are on the vase of agate of
St. Denys, with a V; and those which are taken from the table of Isis,
published by Pignorius, with a T.
Usage: Common to All Nations.
We are sometimes amazed at the conformity found in many respects
between the practices of the Hebrews, and those of the nations given
over to the grossest idolatry. Most of the learned, in order to account
for such a similitude of images, say that false religions only copied and
mimicked the true; and from the conformity of some particulars of
mythology with sacred history, they think themselves authorized to
aim, that the heathens had the communication of the holy scriptures,
or must have frequented the company and imitated the Hebrews.
Other leamed men, and among the rest, Sir John Marsham, in his
Rule of Times, being sensible how much unknown to, and as it were,
separated from other nations, the Hebrews were,-how much disliked
by those that knew them,-and of course, how little fit they were to
serve them as models, and finding, moreover, from a multitude of evi-
dent proofs, that the sacrifices, the ceremonial, and the very objects them-
selves, of idolatry, were prior to Moses and the holy scriptures, they
have maintained, that the laws and the ceremonies of the Hebrews were
an imitation of the customs of Egypt and the neighboring nations, but
adapted to the worship of one God.°
___l.
*Gust use is msdeof the Biblain the ceremonies of masonry; which maybe
accounted for by the confamiryin the customs of the Hebrews with thou of more
sadentn|tion|,fromwhichthsmuonieordsri|duivsd.-Ed2.
'Ill ANCIENT IGYPTIANI. 5
Symbolical Writing.
The Egyptians, even the most ancient of them, were acquainted with
the signs of the Zodiac. Their monuments, which are known to be of
the earliest antiquity, are covered with Egures, among which those of
the crab and the wild goat, of the balance and the scorpion, of the ram
and the bull, of the kid, the lion, the virgin, and the rest, are
frequently
found. I
The twelve symbolical names, which signify the twelve portions,
both of the year and the heavens, were a
prodigious help towards regu-
lating the beginnings ot' sowing, mowing, harvest, and the other works
of mankind.
It was found very convenient, to expose in public a small figure, or
a single letter, to notify the exact time when certain general works
were to be begun in common, and when certain feasts were to be cele-
brated. The use of these figures appeared so convenient, that they by
degrees extended it to more things than the order of the calendar.
Several symbols, fit to inform the people of certain truths, by some anal-
ogy or relation between the figure and the thing they had a mind to
have understood, were devised.
This method of saying or showingeone thing, to intimate others, is
what induced among the eastern nations the taste of allegories. They
preserved, for a
long time, the method of teaching every thing under
symbols, calculated, by a
mysterious outside, to excite curiosity, which
was afterwards recompensed by the satisfaction of having discovered
the truths which they concealed. Pythagoras, who had travelled
among the eastern nations, thence brought that custom to Italy.
Ham, and those of his descendants who came to inhabit the banks of
the Nile, and the whole Lower Egypt, first tried to cultivate the earth
according to the order of the year, and in the manner used in other
countries; but no sooner were they ready to cut down their harvest, in
the driest season ofthe year, and without the least appearance of rain,°
but the river swelled, to their great amazement: it flowed on a sudden
over its banks, and took from them those provisions which they thought
themselves already sure o£ The waters continued to rise to the height
of twelve, fourteen, or even sixteen cubits,1 covered all the plains,
*Never does it rain in the Delta, (LowerE t,) in the summer, and but rarely and
in small quantities du
`
the whole course of iiigyean-Volnq/'e Travels.-Edit.
tln the time of Hdxdotus, sixteen mbits were necessary, or at least fifteen, to over-
Bow the Delta. The same number was sudicient in the time of the Romans. Before
the time of Petronius, says
Strsbixlenty
was not known tn the Delta, unless the Nile
loss tofourteen cubitl.-Ibid. (
'
) _
6 nocnus AND cusroms or
the plains, carried _away their cattle, and even the inhabitants them-
selves. The inundation lasted ten or eleven weeks, and oftentimes
more.
'
It is true, the overflowing left on the land a mud which improved it;
hut, the difficulty of obtaining a harvest, since the summer the only time
proper for it, brought the storm and the inundation, caused Ham to quit
both the lower and the middle Egypt, and retire to the higher. He
there founded the city of Thebes, originally called Ammon-no, Amrnon's
"abode. But many, finding it inconvenient to remove from lower Egypt,
which after the retiring of the waters, was throughout the remaining
part of the year like a beautiful garden, and a
delightful place to dwell
in, endeavored to fortify themselves against the return of the waters.
They observed from one
year to another, that the overflowing was
always preceded by an Etesian (annual) wind, which blowing from north
to south, about the time of the passage of the sun under the Stars of the
crab, drove the vapors towards the south, and gathered them in the
middle of the country, (Ethiopia, now Nubia and Abysinia) whence the
Nile came; which there caused plentiful rains, that swelled the waters
of the river, and brought on the inundation of lower Egypt.
But they wanted the means'of knowing exactly the time when it
should be necessary for them to be prepared for the inundation. The
flowing of the river beyond its banks happened some
days sooner or
later, when the sun was under the stars of the lion. Near the stars of
Cancer, though pretty far from the band of the zodiac towards the south,
and a few weeks after their, rising, they see in the morning one of the
most brilliant, if not the largest star of the whole heaven, ascending the
horizon. It appeared a little before the rising of the sun, which had
rendered it almost invisible for a month or two before. The Egyptians
then pitched upon the rising of this magnificent star as the infallible
sign of the sm's passing under the stars of Leo, and of the beginning of
the inundation. That star became the public mark, on which every one
was to keep a watchful eye, not to miss the instant of retiring to the
higher grounds. As it was seen but a very little time above the hori-
zon, towards the dawning of the aurora, which becoming every instant
clearer, soon made it disappear, it seemed toshow itself to the Egyp-
tians, merely to 'warn them of the overflowing, which soon followed.
They then gave this star two names having a
very natural relation to
the helps they borrowed therefrom. It warned them of the danger ;
whereupon they called it Thaaut or
Tayaut, the dog; they called it
also the barker, the monitor, in Egyptian, Anubis; in Phenician, Han-
'run sucrsur lovrruus. 7
sobeach; which, by-the-by, shows the analogy there was between these
two languages, notwithstanding the diversity of many words, though
chiefly in the pronunciation, which made them appear quite dilierent.
The connection of this star and the rising of the river, caused the people
to call it commonly the Nile-star,_or barely the Nile. _
In Egyptian and
in Hebrew, Sihor; in Greek, Seirios; in Latin, Sirius] The Egyptians
gave it besides, but in latter times, the name of Sothis or Thotes, which
is the same with his other name, Thot, the dog, with a different pro-
nunciation.
The inhabitants, retiring into their towns on the warning of the
northern wind and the dog-star, remained idle for two months or more,
till the waters were
perfectly drained. Therefore, the prudence of the
Egyptians, before the overflowing, chiefly consisted in observing the
termination of the vernal winds, the return of the northerly which began
with the summer, and at last the rising of the dog-star, which circum-
stance was to them the most remarkable point ofthe heavens.
During their inaction, alter the rising ol the river beyond its banks,
their attention was directed to the observance of the return of the south-
erly winds, more moderate than those of the spring, and which facilita-
ted the Howing of the river towards the Mediterranean, by the conformity
of their blowing with its direction, which is from south to north ;' and
also to measuring the depth of the river, in order to regulate their hus-
bandry accordingito the quantity ofmud, which was always proportioned
to the degree of the increase.
I will here remark, that the Anubis or Dog-Star, souseful to the ancient Egyptians,
is the Blazing-Star-of masonry; and, although the craft are ignorant of its origin as a
masonic symbol, they are actually taught the moral drawn from its original emblem-
sticaluss. -
"
77t¢ blazing-star represents that prudence which ought to appear conspicuous in
the conduct ot' every mason ; but is more especially commemorative of the star which
appeared in the east, to guide the wise men of Bethlehem, to proclaim the birth and the
presence of the Son of God." (Allyn, p. 47.)
What connection can possibly exist between a star and prudence, except allegorically
in reference to the caution that was indicated to the Egyptians by the tirst appearance
of this star, which warned them of approaching danger?
Mr. Converse, in his explanations of the intention of this emblem in his Symbolical
Chart, observes, "A;qn~oa.dting evil is frequently averted by a friendly ad/monition.."
Pluche, in a part of his work not quoted above, says,
"
The names given to this public
sign were Anubis the barker, the girer of advices, or Tahsut the dog." The meaning
then that has been
h/anded down to masons of their blazing-star, completely identiiieb
it with Anubis the dog-star.
'
*
See Plutarch de lsid. and Osiris.; also M. De Mullet's description of Egypt.
8 noolu sun currols or t
`
'l'he advice given to the ancient Egyptians by this star was undoubtedly very impor-
tant to them, but it cannot be of the least advantage to the masons of Europe or Amo-
rtca. -
As to the allusion to the star that the wise men to Bethlehem, every intelligent
and candid mason will acknowledge its absurdity; because he must know, that the
principles and dogmas of freemasonry, contained in the ancient mysteries from which
it is derived, existed long before the birth of Jesus Christ.
Webb, in his "
Monitor," says,
"
The Mosaic pavement is emblematic of human life,
chequered with good and evil; the beautiful border which
surrounds it, those blessings
and comforts which surround us, and which we hope to obtain by a faithful reliance on
divine providence, which is hieroglyphioally represented by the blazing-star in the
center."
This symbol is peculiarly, if not exclusively, applicable to the Egyptians who inhab~
ited the Delta, who by placing a reliance on the warning providentially given by this
star, and in consequence retiring to the high ground with the produce of their agricul-
ture, might enjoy the comforts that surrounded them.
The same
necessity which rendered the Egyptians astronomers,
made them also painters and writers. `The inspection of the heavens
had taught them at last how to regulate their tillage, so
strangely crossed
by that disposition which was
peculiar to Egypt. 'l'he custom of giving
symbolical names to the objects that served them as rules, most natu-
rally led them to delineate in a rude manner the figures of these symbols,
in order to inform the nation of the works in common to be done, and
ofthe annual events with regard to which it was
dangerous to misreckon.
This service was
performed by a number of persons appointed for that
purpose and maintained at the public expense, whose duty it was to
study the reyolutions and aspects of the heavenly bodies, and to com-
municate the necessary information to the people.
Such is the original of the sacerdotal order so ancient in Egypt; the
chief functions of which always were the study of the heavens and the
inspection of the motions of the air. Such is the origin of the famous
tower where that company was
lodged, and where the characters of the
several works and the symbols of the public regulations were
carefully
delineated. Which symbols appeared in time very mysterious, when
the meaning of them was forgotten. That tower, the structure of which
has caused so much criticism, was_at that time, without any affectation
of mystery, called the Labyrinth, that is, the tower, the palace.
`
Now, if we would in a reasonable manner unriddle some of the most
usual of the Egyptian symbols, we ought to consult the wants of the
Egyptian colony. It is there we are
naturally to look for the meaning
of the figures which were exposed to the eyes of the whole nation
assembled.
'nn ANCIENT ecvrrums. 9
I
The hawk and the hoop were the names and the symbolical figures
given the two winds, the retum whereof
the Egyptians were most cen-
cemed to observe. The hawk signified the Etesian northerly wind,
which, in the beginning of the summer, drives the vapors towards the
south, and which covering Ethiopia with thick clouds, there resolves
them into rains, and makes the Nile swell all along its course. The
hoop, on the contrary, signified the southerly wind which promoted the
draining of the waters, and the retum of which proclaimed the meas-
uring of the lands and the time of sowing. I must here produce some
analogy and some peculiar resemblance, between a hawk and a north-
erly, a
hoop and a
southerly wind.
Naturalists observe, that the hawk delights in the north; but that at
the retum of mild weather, and when she casts her feathers, she makes
southward with her wings spread, and looks towards the place whence
a warm air comes, which may assist the falling of her own feathers, and
restore her the beauties of youth. In times of the remotest antiquity,
and even before Moses, the Arabians, who were the neighbors and allies
of the Egyptians, had an idea of the hawk in all respects like that which
naturalists give us. In the conversation which God had with Job, and
in which he shows, that it is not man, but the Creator, who, by a
spe-
cial providence, has valied all the parts of nature, and to good purpose
has regulated the inclinations of animals: Docs the hawf, says he to
him, by thy wisdom shake her old feathers, to get rid of them, and
stretch her wings towards the south? (Job, 39. 29.) This bird then,
on account of the direction of its flight at the return of the heats, was
the most natural emblem of the annual wind, which blows from north
to south about the summer solstice, and which on account of the effects
of this direction was of so
great importance to the Egyptians.
The hoop on the contrary makes her way from south to north. She
lives upon the small worms, an infinite number of which .are hatched
in the mud of the Nile. (Diod. Sic. Bibliath. ltb. I.) She takes her
flight from Ethiopia into Higher Egypt, and fi-om thence towards Mem-
phis, where the Nile divides. She always follows the course of the
Nile as it retires within its banks, qite down to the sea. From this
method of hers, she was
perfectly Ht to characterize the direction of
the south wind'
of
»I°2,,'l2;%'¢'"\=;"y§l'?°"r?I.1°,?.{$1'f;.'I¥l°.§,§°§§'.L'1;'?i¥,'l2'..§i'd"¥?I'.ff.§,'Z.§'.}?$'2.`L1'.i'.,';'l£?8§?'
G. "In w at my ord 9" Ham. "I am but mad north-north wut; when the wind ll
southerly Iknow u hawk from a handsaw." Thomas Capell, editor of the Orford
edition ol' Shakspeare, changes handsnw to hernshaw, which renders the passage iuldf
2
I0 noeiras /mn cvsroas or
The warning given by the dog-star being their most important
concern, the Egyptians from its rising, anciently dated the beginning of
their year, and the whole series of their feasts. Wherefore, instead of
representing it under the form of a star, which might not distinguish
it from another, they delineated it under the figure relative to its func~
tion and name. They called it the star-dog, the door-keeper, the star
which opens or shuts, closing one year as it were, and opening another
When they had -a mind to express the renewal of the year, they rep.
resented it under the form of a
door-keeper, easy to be distinguished
by the attribute of a key; or else they gave it two heads back to
back;
the one of an old man, which marked ,Qthe expiring year, and the other
of a young one which denoted the new.
When the people were to be wamed of the time of their retreat
at the approach ot' the inundation, instead of the two heads, they then
put on the shoulders of a human body, the head of a dog. The attri-
butes or subordinate symbols, added thereto, were the explication ofthe
warning it gave. It was in order to give the Egyptians to understand,
they wereto ta.ke with them a store of provisions, and repair with
all speed to the high ground, or their raised terraces, and there to
remain quiet by the water side, that Anubis had on his arm a kettle or
porrige-pot, wings on his feet, in his right hand, or under his arm a
large feather, and behind him a tortoise or duck, both amphibious
animals, which live on the earth and by the water side.
The Egyptians expressed the several increases of their swelling
river, by a column marked with one, two or three lines in form of a
cross, and surmounted with a circle, the symbol of God, to character-
ize providence, which govems this important operation. More com-
monly, instead of a column, they made use of a
pole terminated like
a T, or crossed with one or more transverse pieces. To abridge these
remarks, they were often contented with one small cross ;-which
put upon a vessel or elsewhere might signify the increase of the
water. .
ligible. Hemshaw or hem is but another name for heron, of which there are various
species; the tuhsd or crowned heron is also denominated hoo . This kind is very
rare in Europe, but in Africa, they associatein great numbers. my feed upon worms,
an in Egypt, follow, as above stated, the retreat ol' the Nile. See Roes's Cycl.
&lamlet, though fetgning madness, yet claims sudicicnt sanity to distinguish a hawk
from a hemsliaw, when the wind is southerly ; that is, in the time of the migration ot'
the latter to the north, and when the former is not to be seen.
lfit be said that Shakspears was not probabl
actxnsinted
with the customs of these
migra
'
birds of Eg t, I answer, that severnlof t e works of Plutarch, who
Ngives
a partiirlxar account oiylihatcotmtry, were translated into English, by Thomas orth,
in about the middle of the sixteenth century, and no doubt were known to Shakspesre,
whose Hamlet was drst published m 1596.-Edit.
'ras ANCIENT aornuus. _
ll
It is certain that the Milcias, or column marked as above stated,
to signify the progress of the water, became in Egypt the ordinary
sign of the deliverance from evil. They hung it (on the neck of sick
persons, and put it in the hand of all beneficial deities. Mr. Gordon,
Secretary of the Society for the encouragement of learning, has given
us in the seventh plate of his collection, the amulets and preservatives
which he has observed in the Egyptian monuments; many of which
are perfectly like the measure of the Nile.
They painted the devastation made by the overilowingwater under
the figure of a dragon, of a crocodile, a
hippopotamus, ora water
monster, which they called ob,' that is, swelling, an
overflowing ; and
which they afterwards called Python, the enemy.1'
Another method of communicating to the people infomation res-
pecting the inundation, seems to have been by publicly exposing three
vessels or measures, being pitchers of unequal capacities, well known
to the people without any proclamation or
messengers, which served
to show them the increase and diminution of the Nile. Two things
persuade me that this is the meaning of these vessels or bulging mea.
sures, so
commonly found in the Egyptian monuments. One is the
name given them; the other is the attributes annexed. The name
canob or canopus given to these vessels, is grounded on the use made
of them. Canob signifies the fathom of the dragon, the measure of
the overflowing, From-Cane, a
perch, a fatham, a rod or cane to
measure; and from-ob, the dragon.
The canopi are
very commonly terminated by one or two crosses.
The top ofthe vase is also oftentimes surmounted with several bird's
heads, to signify and characterize the several winds which they know,
and which either assisted or retarded the increase or the lowering of
the waters, sometimes they put upon the canopus the head of a dog, to
signify the state of the river or the time of the rising of the dog star,
At another time they put ther eon the head of a maid, to mark out the
state of the Nile under the sign of the virgin, and at the approach of
the draining or retiring of the water.
___
il- ob1Levit. 20, v. 21.
9 Mount Cassius, to the foot of which the inundation of the Nile eatended., a little
above the ancient
Citylof
Pelusium or the modem Dan-uetta, derives its name hom a
word which si ines t e bound or term of this inundation ; and the sandy coast near
it was called gissiobe for the same reason. And it was because the lake Slrbon, or
Sirbonis, which is near it, was still full of the remains of the inundation when Egypt
was 'te dry, that it was said Python had
gone
to die in this lake. lt_was morsovq
so ftiilliwf bitumen and of oily or rombusub maters, that it was imagined that Jupi-
mutans;
their pierced him mth a thunderbolt, which allod all the great menu with
I2 noorus ann cuerols or
It appears that the ancient Egyptians, after they had ascertained the great benelt
of the inundation when they were properly prepared for it, changed the name of their
Evil Genius, the Water Monster from ob* to Python ; which had reference to the deadly
elfects of the miasmata arising from the stagnant waters left upon the low lands
after the retiring of the inundation. "
Ovid makes the serpent Python spring from
the Steams of the mud which the deluge had left upon the earth; and in this, he is
plainly making an allusion to Typhon, whose name is the same by a simple transposi-
tion. In making Pytlum spring from the slime ofthe deluge, does not the Poet point
out thereby the noxious steams which rise in Egypt after the waters of the Nile have
subsided. In line, when he says that Apollo slew him with his arrows, does he not con-
ceal under this mnblem, the victory of Omsover '!'yplu.m, or at least the triumph of the
sun beams over the vapors of the Nile 1" (Mayo's Myth. vol. ii. p. 47.) Python, says
Bailey, ia derived from pyllw, Gr. to putrify. The serpent Py|.hon's being slain byApollo,
i thus interpreted :
by Python is understood the ruins of waters; but Appollo (that il
the sun) dispersing the vapors by his arrows (that is his beams) slew this serpent.
Typhus, a species of continued fever, has the same origin. "It may be occasioned
(says Hooper, in his Medical Diet.) by the emuvia arising from either animal or vegi-
table substances in a decayed or pun-id state : and hence it ia, that in lnw and mushy
countries it is apt to be prevalent, when intense and sultry heat quickly succeeds any
great inundation." _
The convenience of that language, which rendered itself intelligible
to the eyes, and in some sense made animals and even stones them-
selves to speak, by degrees became more common. It was extended
to every thing. The symbolical writing soon served as the rule of
morals, as well as the regulation of husbandry. It was made use of
to perpetrate among the people, the knowledge of the most important
truths, and to inculcate their principal dutiesfl'
The character of the Egyptian writing designed to signify God,
was not a
simple Bame or blaze, as was the general usage of the East
but a circle, or rather a sun.
They added to the circle or solar globe
several marks, or attributes which served to characterize so
many dit*
ferent perfections. For instance, in order to indicate that the Supreme
Being is the author and preserver of life, they annexed to the circle
sometimes two points ol' flame, but more commonly one or two ser-
pents. This animal was
always, among the Egyptians, as in other
countries, the symbol of life and health. Not because the serpent
makes itself look young again, by every year casting ifs old skin,
* The descendants ofAfrica, in the West Indies, still retain the name of ob, or obi,
by whose aid they
pretend
to magical powers.-Edit. _
1 The custom o conve 'ng moral instruction by symbohcaliigures has descended
to the'masons, thatis, asgdw of it is kept up by them, but without
being senously
ryrded.
The practice is new a mere dead letter;
showuigilhowever,
c
force of
h it in contin a custom no longer needed., Too much
hg t is
now abroad in
the
world, to requirudlihe square and campuses, to direct men in t err duties. The conun-
uance t' these old practices notwithstanding, is of usein pointing out the origin of the
instituiion that observes them.-Edit.
'ras auclsur sovrrr/ms. I3
but because among most of the eastern nations, as the Phenicians,
Hebrews, Arabians, and others, with the language of whom that of
Egypt had an
affinity, the word have or heva, equally signifies the life,
and a
serpent. The name of him who is, the great name of God Jov
or Jehom thence draws its etymology. Heve or the name of the
common mother of mankind comes likewise from the same word.
It is from this word that the Latins made their mmm, the life and
the ave, which is a wish of good health.
i St. Clement of Alexandria, observes, that the word heva, which
is known to signify the life, likewise signifies a serpent. And it is
barely on a double meaning of the word hevi or heva, that the meta-
morphosis of Csdmas and Hermione into serpents is grounded, (Ovid,
Metam.) They vere of the country of the Hevians.
Macrobius has informed us that the serpent was an emblem of
health, salulis draco, speaking of Esculapius. When Moses liited up
a brazen serpent in the wildemess, the afflicted Hebrews understood,
that it was a sign of preservation?
To express the wonderful fecundity of providence, they added to
the symbolical circle the figures of the most fruitful plants, and most
commonly two or three large leaves of the banana-tree.
The solar year.-Osiris.
The year relates to three principal objects. To the course of the
sun ; the order ofthe feasts of each season, and to the works in com-
mon to be done. Let us
begin with the symbols of the sun.
That lurninary, as it was the grandest object in nature, had also its
peculiar character or mark in the syrnbolical writing. It was called
Osiris. This word, according to the most judicious and most learned
among the ancients,1' signified the inspector, the coachman, or the
leader, thc king, the guide, the moderator of the stars, the soul of the
world, the governor of nature. From the energy of the terms ofwhich
it was
composed, it signified in general the governor of the earth,
which amounts to the same sense. And it is because they gave that
name and function to the sun, that it was
expressed in their writing
'In one of the modem degrees of masonry, entitled The Brazm
Serpent,
the
Jewel is a Serpent sntwined u n a cross pole, in form of a T, about whic _are the
Hebrew
characters-whi¢3i)sigF:'yone who shall live. The corcred word is John
Ralp, the founder of this
degree.
e sacred word is Moses. This
dtglree
has refer-
ence to the deliverance of t e Israelites, from capuvity. (Bensrd,)-E .
_
f Plutarch de laid, and Isirid, and Macrob. Dux and pnnccps, moderator lllllllllllmf
reliquonun, mens mundi, and empcrauo.
I4 noouss sun cusrons or -
.
sometimes by the figure of a man bearing a
scepter, sometimes by
that of a coachman carrying a whip, or plainly by an eye'
They were often contented with setting down the marks of his dig-
nity, such as a scepter surmounted with an eye, or a
scepter with a
serpent twined round it, the symbol of life which the sun maintains, or
barely the whip and the scepter united ; sometimes the royal cap of
Osiris on a throne, with or without a
scepter.
The Egyptians every where saw. and especially in the place of
their religious assemblies, a circle or the figure of the sun. Near the
sun, over the
head of the syrnbolical figures, were seen sometimes one
or two serpents, the symbol of life, sometimes certain foliages, the sym-
bols of the bounties of nature; sometimes scarabeus's wings the em-
blem of the variations of the air. All these things being connected with
the object oftheir adorations, they entertained a sort of veneration for
the serpent, which they besides saw honorably placed in the small chest
that was the memorial ofthe state ofthe first men, and the other cere-
monies whose meaning began to be lost.
Having already contracted a habit of confounding the Most High
with the sun, they by little and little mistook the symbol itself of the
sun, the Osiris, the mederator of the year, for a man. Osiris, from the
letter or
symbolical personage he was before, becoming in the minds
of the people a real person, a man who had formerly lived among
them, they made his history to relate to the attributes which attended
the figure. So soon as
Egypt was
possessed with the ridiculous notion,
that the statues of Osiris, Isis, and Horus, which served to regulate
society, by their respective significations, were monuments of their
founders; that Osiris had lived in Egppt, and had been intered there,
they_ framed stories agreeable to this belief For want of a tomb
containing in reality the body of Hammond or Osiris, they were con-
tented vith a
cenotaph, an
empty tomb. A vast concourse of people
gathered near these pretended tombs, and with pomp celebrated an
annual feast there. Plutarch ohen mentions the feasts of Osiris'
tomb, and informs us, that when the Egyptians were
reproached with
placing in heaven gods whose tombs they showed, their reply was,
that the bodies of these gods had been embalmed and interred in
Egypt ; but that their souls resided among the stan.
° "
Eye and sun are expressed by the same word in most of the ancient languages
of Asia'
(Ruinsp; 159%
This is one oft e em lems of masonry, called the all
seeing
ev e, and said to repre'
sent the true God ; whereas it is nothing more than a
:ymbo
of the sun made UE of
by the ancient Egypuans,md from them descended to e masons.-Edit.
'rua mcrsur aevrruss.
'
15
These tombs, tho merely representative, were become a
necessary
part ofthe ceremonial. The Cretians, being of Egyptian extraction,
had their own feast of Osiris or Jehov, the feast of their god, and of
course the empty tomb was inseparable from that solenmity!
Death and Resurrection of Osiris.
The author here gives a complex Egure, copied from the collection of Mountfaueon
and which, he says, is painted on a mummy at the Austin-fryar's of Ls Place des
Vxctoires, representing the death and resurrection of Osiris, and the beginning, pro-
gress, and end of the inundation ol' the Nile.
The sign of the lion is transformed into a couch, upon which Osiris is laid out as
dead; under whichare four canopi of various capacities, indicating the state of the
Nile at dilfereat periods. 'l'he Brat, is terminated by the head of the dog-star, which
gives warning of the approach of the overflow of the river ; the second by the head
ot' a hawk, the symbol of the Etesian wind, which tends to swell the waters; the
third by the head ol a Heron, the sign of the south wind, which contributes to propel
the water into the Medeterranean ses; and the fourth by that of the Virgin, which
indicates that when the sun had passed that sign, the inundation would have nearly
subsided.
To the above is superadded a large Anubis, who with an emphatic jesture, tuming
towards Isis who has an empty throne on her head, intimates that the sun, by the
aid of the lion, had cleared the ditllcult pass of the tropic of Cancer, and was now in
the sign of the latter, and, altho in a state ol' exhaustion, would soon be in a condi-
tion to proceed on his way to the South ; at the same time, gives to the husbandman
the important warning of retireingtnavoid the inundation. The empty throne ilindi-
eative of its bdng vacated by the supposed death of Osiris.
The raising ot' grand master Hiram, in the third degree of Masonry, by the "
grip or
paw qf the Lion," (the termsused in that operation) who, as the story goes,_had been
murdered by three fellows of the craft, is evidently copied from this fable of the death
and resurrection of Osiris. The position of the master Mason, when in the act of
raising Hiram, is a fac simile of that of Anubis over the body of Osiris.
Mr. Pluche scems not to have had an adequate conception of the fabled death of
and consequently to have mistaken the purpon of the figure now under consid
erstionl therefore oiler the foregoing explicatiou as the result of my investigation of
the subject. g
Hr. Pluche candidly acknowledges that he had doubts of his understanding the
intention of the picture which he endeavors to expound ; for he says, immediately after
giving his explanation, "But it would be a rashness in me to presume to write any
longer in Egyptian, when I am not as yet over sure of my skill in reading it. Let us
int of all conhrm ourselves therein, and again try the application of our principles to
some other monuments.
"
He adds, ina note,
"
We shall in another placeexplain why
this tigure is used about adead body, when we show how the sense of these symbols
came to be preverted.
"
This he atterwards attempts to do as follows :-
"
'I'hus being gradually come to
ascribingdivinity, and offering their worship to the
ruler, representing the lhnctions of the sun, they to complete the absurdity, took him
~
The oothnofl-liramhasaplacsamongthesmblematicalti¢uresot'masonry.-Edu.
.
_
I6 noolas sun cusrols or
for the Brat of their kings. 'I'hence this odd mixture of three inconsistent notions, I
mean of God, of the Sun, and of a dead man, which the Egyptians perpetually con-
founded together.
The cause of their thus confotmding them is easily accounted for, when the sup-
posed death of Osiris, the sun, and God of the Egyptians, is taken into consideration.
It must be understood that thesun was supposed to be in insurmountable dimculties
at both the solstices, which caused as great lamentations as his victories and reap~
pearance afterwards, did rejoicings. What led to these appr-ehensions when he was
in the summer solstice, is well explained., in Rees's Cyclobedia, as follows :-
"
Orus or Horus,* afamous Deity of EEYPL which, as well as Osiris, was anemblem of
the sun. Mscrobius, who informs us why the Greeks gave Horus the name of Apollo,
says, in the mysteries (Saturn, lib. l,) they diseoverus a secret which ought to be
inviolable, that the nm arrived at the upper hemisphere, ir called Apollo. Hence we
may infer, that thisemblematical Deity was no other than the star of day, passing
through the signs of summer. As Apollo among the Greeks was called the Horus
of the Egyptians, as to his skill both in Medicine and divination, he was regarded as
the same person, and called by the ancients Horus-Apollo# The Allegory of Horus
has been thus explained. The wind Rharguin makes great ravages in Egypt in the
spnng, by raising whirlwinda, of buming sands, which suffocate travellers, darken the
air, and cover the face of the Sun, so oe to leave the earth in perfect obscurity. .This
circumstance represents the death of Os-iris, and the reign of Typhon. When thesun
approaches the sign of the lion, he changes the state of the atmosphere, disperses
these tempests, and restores the northerly winds, which drives before them the malig-
nant vapors, and preservein Egypt coolness and salubrity under a buming sky. This
is the triumph of Horus over Typlton, and his glorious reign. As some natural phi-
losophers have acknowledged the intiuence of the moon over the state of the atmos-
phere, they united her with this god to drive away the usurper from the throne. The
priests considering Osiris as the father of time, might bestow the name of his son on
Horus, who reigned three months in the year.
Jahlonski, who has interpreted the epithet of Arueri, which the Egyptians gave to
Horus, pretends that it signifies ellealious virtue. These expressions perfectly charac-
terize the phenomina which happened during the reign ot' this god. It is in summer,
in fact, that the Sun manifests all his powers in Egypt. It is then that he swells
the waters ofthe River with rains, exhaled by him in the air, and driven against the
summit of the Abysinian Mountains ; it is then that the husbandman reckons on the
treasures of agriculture. lt was natural for them to honor him with the name of
Arueri, or emcatious virtue, to mark these auspicious etfects."-(Ssvery's Letters in
Egypt, etc.) .
The reasons which the inhabitants of northem climates have for lamenting the
absence of the sun when in the southem hemisphere, is thus beautifully portrayed by
Dupuis :
"We have, in our
explication of the labors of Hercules, considered
the sun
principally as the potent star, the depository of all the ener-
gies of nature, who creates and measures' time by his march through
the heavens, and who, taking his departure from the summer solstice
mugrorés write
this name
differengyz gdthe Greek, from which it seems to be
t e rst Cl£'l',OI'l¢!f"R, is as trat .- r .
wp; "
0|-us was more
partihulargtgsiris in his second state, and therefore represented
bythe Egypttansas a child."-( olwell's Myth. Diet.)--Edit.
'ras sscuzur xovvrnns. 17
or the most elevated point of his route, runs over the course of the
twelve signs in which the celestial bodies move, and with them the difi
ferent periods or revolutions ofthe stars, under the name of Osiris or of
Bacchus, we shall see this beneficent star, who, by his heat, in spring,
calls forth all the powers of generation ; who governs the growth of
plants and of trees ; who ripens the fruits, and who dispenses to all
seeds that active sap which is the soul of vegetation, and is the true
character of the Egyptian Osiris and the Greek Bacchus. It is above
all in spring-time that this humid generator developes itself; and cir-
culates in all the rising productions; and it is this sun, by its heat
that impels its movements and gives its fertility.
"
We may distinguish two points in the heavens which limit the
duration of the creative action of the sun, and these two points are
those where the night and the day are of equal length. All the grand
work of vegetation, in a great part of northern climates, appears to be
comprised between these two limits, and its progressive march is
found to be in proportion to that of light and heat. Scarcely has the
sun, in his annual route attained one of these points, than an active
and prolific force appears to emanate from his rays, and to communi-
cate movement and life to all sublunary bodies," which he brings to
the light by a new organization. It is then that the resurrection of
the great god takes place, and with his that of all nature. Having
arrived at the opposite point, that power seems to abandon him, and
nature becomes sensible of his weakness. It is Atys, whose mutila-
tion Cybele deplored; it is Adonis, wounded in the virile parts, of
which Venus regretted the loss ; it is Osiris, precipitated into the tomb
by Typhon, and whose organs of generation the disconsolate Isis
never found.
"
What picture more effectual to render man sorrowful than that of
the earth when, by the absence of the sun; she finds herself deprived
of her attire, of her verdure, of her foliage, and when she offers to our
regard only the wreck of plants dried up or tumed to putrefaction, of
naked trunks, of arid lands without culture, or covered with snow ;
of' rivers overflowed in the fields, or chained in their bed by the ice,
or of violent winds that overtum every thing. What has become of
that happy temperature which the earth enjoyed in the spring and dur-i
ing the summer? that harmony ofthe elements, which was in accord
with that ofthe heavens 'I that richness, that beauty of our fields loaded
with grain and fruits, or enameled with flowers whose odour per-
fumed the air, and whose variegated colors presented a
spectacle sd
3
l8 DDGIAB sun cusrols or
ravishing. All has disappeared, and the happiness of man has
departed with the god, who, by his presence, embellished our climes;
his retreat has plunged the earth into mourning from which nothing
but his return can free her.
_
"
He was then the creator of all these benefits, since we are
deprived
of them .by his departure; he was the soul of vegetation, since it
languished and ceased as soon as he quilted us. What will be the
term of his flight and of his descent into other regions 2 Is he going
to replunge nature into the eternal shade of chaos, from whence his
presence had drawn it ?
'
"
Such were the inquietudes of these ancient people, who, seeing the
sun retiring from their climate, feared that it might one day happen
that he would abandon them altogether : from thence arose the feasts of
Hope, celebrated at the winter solstice, when they saw this star check
his movement, and change his route to retum towards them. But if
the hope of his approach was so
sensibly felt, what joy would not be
experienced when the sun, already remounted towards the middle of
heaven, had chased before him the darkness which had encroached
upon the light, and usurped a
part of it empire' Then the equili-
brium ofthe day and the night is re-established, and with it the order
of nature, A new order of things as beautiful as the first recom-
mences, _and the earth, rendered fruitful by the heat of the sun, who
had renewed the vigor of youth, embellishes herself under the rays of
her lord.
"
(Abrégé de l'Origine de tous les cultes, p. 142.)
The civil year.-Isis.
We might here reasonably enough call the order of the feasts the
ecclesiastical year, since they were religious assemblies. But this
order of the days appointed for working or for religious purposes
being the rule of society, We shall call it the civil year.
'
The figure of the man, who rules over
every thing on earth, had
been thought the most proper emblem to represent the sun, which
enlivens all nature : and when they wanted a characteristic ofthe pro-
duction of the earth, they pitched upon the other sex. The changes of
nature, the succession of seasons, and the several productions of the
0 I will here remark, that all the talk put into the mouth of Masonic candidates about
wanting light and more light, relates to a
physical and D01 to amental benefit: it
has reference to the hght of the sim. In fact, on takmg the bandage from the eyes of
a
candidatsil
the blaze of man tapers is exhibited before him in satisfaction of his
desires, w|t_ this declaration ofvtha master,
"
And God said let there be light, and
:re was These ocsmomssars smblsmatical of the |un'natum to the north-
rm: ANCIII1' soreness. 19
earth, which no doubt were the subject of the common thaaltsgivings,
might easily be expressed by the several dresses given this won1an.°
When the sacrifice was intended to be made in the day, Isis was
dressed in white, but if ,in the night she was dressed in black. They
put a sickle in her hand to denote the time of harvest. When the pur-
pose of a feast was to remind the people of the security afibrded by
their dwellings, Isis was crowned with small towers. 1' To intimate
the winter neomenia, the head of Isis was covered with little fillets
and with skins sewed together ; sometimes with feathers ranged one
over the other, or with small shells neatly set by each other. 1 There
were sometimes on the head of Isis a craw-fish or crab, sometimes
the horns ofa wild goat, according as
they had a mind to signify
° "
On comparing the different explanations given by Plutarch, and other ancient
writers, it will appear that Osiris is the type of the active, generating ana beneiicent
force of nature and the elements ; Isis, on the contrary, is the passive force, the power
of conceiving and bringing forth into life in the sublunary world. Osiris was par'
ticularly adored in the sun, whose rays vivify and impart new warmth to the earth,
and who on his annual retum in the spring, appears to create anew, all organic bodies.
Isis was the earth, or sublunary nature, in general ; or, in a more confined sense, the
soil of Egypt inundated by theNile, the principle of all fecundity, the goddess of gen-
eration and production. United to one another, Osiris and Isis typify the universal
being, the soul of nature, the Psntheus of the Orphic verses. ° ° ° °
"
The Egyptians solemnized, at the new moon of Phamenoth (March) t`he entrance
gf Osiris into the moon, which planet he was believed to feeundats, that it might in
turn fecundate the Earth. (Plut. de Is et os.) Finally, on the 30th, of Epiphi, (24|.h,
of July,) the festival of the birthof Horus took place, (of Horus the representative of
Osiris, the conquerer of 'l'yphon.,) in the second great period."-Anthon's Lemp. Class.
Diet. Art. Isis.)
The hrst conquest of Osiris over Typhon was at the winter solstice, and then the
birth of a renewed sim was celebrated; the second conquest, as above stated, was
attributed to Horns, which, or rather Horus Apollo, as before observed, was the name
given to the sun when in the northem hemisphere, or atleast after his passing the sum-
mer solstice.
One of the grand festival days of masons is on the 24th., of June. The cause of
this variation from the ancient custom arises from the procession of the eqninoxea,
which has caused the northem solstice to occur on that day, when the sun is in the
sign Cancer ; whereas it was in Leo (July 24th,) that this solstice took placein ancient
times during 2160 years, This is the reason why the Egyptians consecrated this
animal to the sun, while in its full strength, and as the forerunner of the summer aolf
stice, of the riseof the Nile and its succeeding overtlow, which caused the fertility ol
Egypt. (See
"
Truth drawn from Fables" by Dr. Censtantio.)
1 ltis alittle remarkable, that one of the signiiications given to tower, is highhead-
d";"l'hi§guh{osai6work, and was no doubt intended to represent in anticipation the
'
tedf fth rth` th prochin season,aiterlhesunhadcha.ngedhi|
muretigx To tht:zgflildgl htiniihphetie.-Edit.
20 DOGIAI nm cusrolu or
eitherthe entering of the sun into the sign cancer, or the feast that
was solemnized at his entering into that of Capricorn. In Egypt,
where the inhabitants can with certainty judge of the product of the
year by the state of the river, they proclaimed a
plentiful crop by
surrounding Isis with a multitude of breasts ; on the contrary, when
the presage of fertility were not favorable, they exposed an Isis with
a single breast ; thereby to warn the people, to make amends for the
smallness of the harvest by the culture of vegetables, or
by some other
industry.
All these changes had each its peculiar meaning, and Isis changed
her dress as often as the earth.
Next to the symbolical king, or the emblem of the sun, the Egyp-
tians had no figure that appeared more
frequently in their assemblies
than Isis, the symbol of the earth, or rather the sign of the feast that
were successively characterized by the productions of the earth in
each season.
In looking for the origin of this woman, they ran into the same
mistake which had caused them to take the governor of the earth, the
symbol of the sun, for Ammon their common
father. Isis was looked
upon as his wife : she partook of the titles of her husband ; and being
in their opinion raised to a real person and a considerable power,
they invoke her with confidence: they gave her the honorable titles
of the Lady, the Queen, the Govemess, the common Mother, the
Queen of heaven and earth'
*
What contributed most to seduce the Egyptians, was the frequent
joining of a crescent or a full moon to the head-dress of Isis. Thence
they took occasion to give it out that Osiris's wife, the common mother
of the Egyptians, had the moon for her dwelling place.
"
It was
formerly a general custom to make sacrifices and public
prayers upon eminent places, and more
especially in groves, to shel-
ter the people from the heat of the sun. When the Isis which_ pro-
claimed the feasts, and whose figures were one of the finest parts of the
ceremonial, was once become the object of it, and had been looked
upon as the dispenser of the goods of the earth, of which she still bore
the marks ; her several representations, which only foreboded abund-
°'l'heRoman Cathli seemtoh b edt' th E
'
h l
their "dn" w the virgiglguy' which isnt;fgzizovys; ;_rom
e gyptmns t e sty e of
"
HolyMary-Holy Mother of God Mother most amiable-M :tical rose-Tower
of D
'
-Tower of ivory-Gate of Yi -M
`
Star-& ~
f A l
Queen of Virgins,-Queen of |llSaints,":i:l2Edi2mm'
mn
ii
nge '_
'un Aucunr IGYPTIANI- 21
ance and joy, becoming most agreeable to the people, always eager
and credulous on that head, the false sense attributed to these figures
made them pass for the surest means of obtaining plentiful harvests.
These images were
worshipped with solemnity, and placed in the
finest words. Crouds of people flocked to the religious feasts of the
lovely queen who loaded them with blessings. No doubt they had
every thing from her. The coolness and beauty of the place where
she was worshipped, had no less an influence on the assistants than
the attire of the goodness, and instead of calling her the queen of
heaven, they often styled her the queen of the graves." ~
She also became the queen of herds, Asterotlg the great fish, or
queen of fishes, Adirdagal, or by way of excellence the queen Amalcta
Appherudothf
The Greeks softened the sound of these words, and gave them the
inflection and tum of their own language. The queen of herds
became Astarte ; that of fishes became Atergatis, and the mother of com
became the Aphrodite of the Cyprians and the Greeks. The name
Appherudoth, the mother of harvests, changed into that of Aphrodite,
was no more than an
empty sound void of all meaning. But it seeming
to the Greeks to be derived from a word in their tongue, which signified
the froth of the sea
they thereupon built the wonderful story of the god-
dess engendered ofthe froth ofthe sea, and suddenly springing out of
the bosom of the watery main, to the great amazement both of the
gods and men.
They represented the Amalcta Aphrodite, the queen ofharvest, hold-
ing with her left hand a
long goat's horn, out of which they make
ears of com, vegetables, and fruits to spring. She had a sickle or
some other at tiribute in her righl hand ; and thus they united without
any reason the mark of the opening of the harvest, together with the
hom of the wild goat, which signified anciently the end of all harvests,
and the beginning of winter. This is then the plain original of the horn
ofabundance, and ofthe Amalthean goat. That horn being always full,
(a privilege it evidently had) could not but proceed from a
goat which
had done some
important service to mankind. They contrived that this
goat had been nurse to Jupiter. But the god and the nurse are both
alike. The one existed as little as the other. This single instance is
fully sufficient to prove that most ofthe tales of the poets are little stories
grounded on
quibbles ofthe same kind, and invented only to have some-
thing to say upon figures always presented at certain feasts, but no
longer understood. They made all these figures so many tutelar deities.
22 noeius Ann cus-role or
The common people have at all times and in all countries, been
fond of quibbles, equivocations, and puns. If the change of figure has
often made several gods of one and the same
symbol diversiEed, a sim-
ple variety of names, nay the difference of pronunciation, has more
than once
produced a like multiplicity. The Isis mistaken for the
queen of heaven, or for the moon, was called Echet, Hecate, or Achate,
the only, the excellent. (Inter ignes luna minores.) Among some peo-
ple of Syria, the same
symbol, by a slight inflection of name, was called
Achot, the sister. The same whom they had already made the wife of
Jehov, or of the sun, or of Jupiter, (for these are still but one) became
also his sister.
-Ego quae di vurn incedo regina, Jovisqus
Et foror and conjuri-
She afterwards became the daughter ofthe same Jupiter; and then
the mother of all the gods. All this medley of states and genealogies
evidently proceeds from the diversity of the attributes and names
given
to one and the same
symbol.
It is not more difficult to guess, how the same Diana is sometimes
a terrestrial deity, sometimes the moon, and sometimes the queen of hell.
By her first institution she had a relation to the earth, and marked out
her productions. The false interpretation that was given to the cres-
cent and the full moon which she bore over her head to proclaim the
feasts, caused her to be taken for the moon ; and at last the time during
which she remains invisible, that is, between the last phasis and the
return of the new, put it beyond all doubt that she was gone to take a tu rn
in the abode of Ades, or the invisible, that is, to the empire of' the dead.
But what contributed most to the strange notions people framed to
themselves ofthis triceps Hecate, which was at the same time the earth,
the moon, and the wife of Pluto, is this. So soon as the first phasis of
the new moon was
perceived in the evening, ministers for that purpose
went and proclaimed it in all the cross-ways and public places, and the
feast of the neomenia was celebrated either that very evening or the
next day, according to the institution of places. When the sacrifice
was to be made at night, they put an owl near the figure that proclaimed
it. The Isis then was called Lilith, that is the owl; and this visi-
bly is the origin of that nocturnal lilith of whom so
many tales have
been told. A cock was
put in the room hereof] when the sacrifice was
to be made in the morning. Nothing could possibly be more
simple
or more convenient than this practice. But when the deified Isis had
once been looked upon as a woman, or a
queen dwelling in the moon,
ras sncmm' sovrrnss. 23
and there governing the heaven in conjunction with Osiris or Adonis,
the proclamation of the return of the new moon, which was a
thing
extremely plain before, assumed a
mysterious and stately air. Hecate
was become invisible for many days; her return was expected with
ceremony. The goddess at last left the empire of the dead, to come-
again into the heavens. Imagination had s. vast field to expatiate here.
and Hecate never failing to visit sucxessively those _two districts, it
could not be doubted but she ruled both in heaven and in the invisible
abodes. On the other hand, they could not but be sensible of the pal-
pable relation she had to the earth and its productions, whereof she
always bore the several marks either on her head or in her hands.
She then became the threefold Diana ( triceps Hecate) which is at one
and same time, the earth; the moon or the lady of heaven; and the
queen of hell. '
Tergeminamque Hecatm, tria virginis ora Diana
The ancient proclamation of the new
phasis, which was made with
a loud voice, to proclaim the beginning of the neomonia, insensibly
degenerated into loud shrieks, which they gave out of mere
supersti-
tion and custom at the entrance of cross streets. They saluted the god-
dess of the dead, at her coming out of the horrid mansions The music
and the notions agreed with and suited each other. But the ancient
proclamation of the neomenia, was the origin of those devout and meri-
torious roarings,
Nocturnis Hecate triviis ululata. per urbes.
All the heathen antiquity, after it had confounded the symbol of the
new moons and ofthe feasts relating to the several seasons of the year,
with the star that regulates society by its phases, ascribed to the moon
an universul power over all the productions of the earth, and generally
over allthe operations of men.
They likewise fancied, that she was
perfectly well acquainted with future things, and that she never appeared
without foreboding by certain marks what was to befal husbandmen, fam-
ilies, and whole kingdoms. People have not as
yet fully shaken offthe
persuasion they ancientlyhad of the influences and presages of the moon.
A like respect was paid to the Neomenis, or New Moon by the Hebrews. Dr. Adam
Clarke, in his history 'of the ancient Israelites, gives the following statements in sub-
stance of this matter.
"As the Moon regulates the months, so does the Sun the yesr. The' division
which we make of the year into twelve months, has no relation to the motion ot' the
moon. But it was not so with the Hebrews : their months are lunsr, and their name
24 noetuts AND cusrons or
sudieiently shows it. They call them .lon=hin, which eomeafrom Jerac, which ig-
niies the moon.
The moment in which the conjunction between the sun and moon is made, can
only be known by astromical calculation, because sho does not then appear ; and as
the Hebrews were little skilledin this science, they began their months at the irst pha-
s1b,'or lirst appearance of the moon, which required no learning to discoven This
was an alTair in which the great Sanhedrim. were concerned, and the diH`erent phases
of the Moon were painted upon the hall in which they assembled. It belonged to
them to choose men of the strictest probily, whom they sent to the tops of the neigh-
boring mountains, and who, no sooner perceivedthe new Moon, but they came with
all speed, even on the Sabbath day itsem to acquaintthe Sanhedrim with it. It was
the business ol' that colmcil to ascertain whether the moon had appeared, and to declare
it : which was done by pronouncing these words, the_/east of the New Ilfoon, the feast
q/' the New Moon ; and all the people' were informed of it by the sound ot' trumpets.
To which ceremony David alludes, when he says, blow up the Trumpet in the New
Ilfoon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast-day.-Psalms. 81. v. 3."
The masonic pillar Jachin, which represents Isis, the tigure of whom, was exhib-
tted at each neomenia, is tmdoubtedly derived from Jarchin, the name given by the
Hebrews to their months.
Bailey relates some curious customs which formerly'prevailed in regard to the moon.
"
The common people, he says, in some counties of England, are accustomed st
the prime of the Moon, to say; It is a _fine Ilfoon, Godbleu her; which some imagine
toproceed from a blind zeaI,retained from the ancient Irish, who worshipped the Moont
or from a custom in Scotland, particularly in the Highland, where the women inake a
courtesy to the New Moon; and some English women do still retain a touch of thisgen-
tilism, who sitting upon a gate or stile the tirst night ol' a moon, say,
V
"All hail to the Moon, all hail to thee ;`
I
Eritheeimgood Moon, declare tome,
T is mg twho my husband shall be." _
»
ln New England, where most of the ancient usages of the mother country have
been perpetuated, it is considered an ill omen to observe the Iirst appearance of the
Moon over the left shoulder; but when seen over the right, particularly if the beholder
has moaey in his pocket, it isdéemed apresage of good luck. It is not unfrequent upon
such occasions to prefer a petition for what is most desired, and great confidence is
entertained in its being granted.
Thus it appears that the Moon has been the innocent cause of much superstition
from the earliest time to the present day, and that the term
"
moon struck," possesses
a legitimate origin. _
Harpocrates.
p
The Egyptians did not fhil to put in places consecrated to the pub-
lic exercises of religion, the symbol of the proaperities of their tillage.
They placed a
figure, sinking under the burden of the goods he had
reaped, in the assembly of all the feasts that were solemnized after the
harvests of corn, wine, fruits, and vegetables. I-lc carried on his head
the natural marks of a
plentiful harvest, viz. three pitchers of either
wine or beer, surmounted with three loaves, and accompanied with
'nn sxcrsnr savrrnns. 25
leaves, vegetables and several fruits. The bread, wine, etc., wherewith
they deck his head, lay immediately on the two great horns of a wild
goat. They could not possibly mark out in a more simple and less
mysterious manner, the perfect plenty which the husbandman enjoys
in the beginning of winter, when the sun passes under the sign Capri-
corn.
l-Ie is most commonly seen with a
single pitcher instead of three,
and with one goat's horn instead of two ;° or with the circle accom-
panied with large banana leaves, or with some other symbol. The
Greek sculptors, who did not much like these enormous head dresses
disposed the whole with morecomeliness and decorum. They placed
the goat's horn in one of the hands of the figure, and made some
fruits come out of it.
<
Symbolical ceremonies. ,
Mcmorials of past events.
The symbolical writing so commonly and usefully imployed to
teach in a
compendious and popular manner the most important truths
for the preserving of good manners, and promoting the good of man-
kind, served also from the beginning to preserve the memory of his-
tories, and publicly to expose the object or the motives of the feasts
to which some great event had given occasion.
The ancients always opened their festivals and public prayers
with woes and lamentations for what they had lost ; though they were
used to conclude the same
by a general repast, where singing, the
sound of instruments, and joy succeeded their mourning. Whence
it comes, that the cries usual in the most ancient feasts, even those
which in process of time became expressions of joy, and set forms of
aeclamations, being traced up to the primitive origin, signify nothing
but tears and expressions of grief addressed to Almighty God. Such
were the crim, io Bacche, hevoe Bacché, io triumphé, io pzesn. This
word io, jeov, jevoe, hevoe, is the name of God, and signifies the
author of lQfe,Iu that is. Bacché comes from beclcé tears. Baccotls
signiiies lastentations. The women who lament the death of Adonis
in Ezekiel are called Bacchants, meboccotli, women mourners. Tri-
umphé comes ifrom, tcrowela, which the western nations pronounced
triumphs ; there being no letter whose pronunciation was more dili-
cult and more varied than`the oin. That word triumphe signified
groans and sobs. It afterwards signified the public prayer. and linally
° Cmss's masonic chart represents two comueopim or
goat's horns, and one
Etehen
three, however, of the latter, ssbofore observed, an used in the ceremonies.-
4
26 noerus mn cusroiu or
the singing ofthe assemblies, as may be seen Ps. 89.* All these words
joined to the name of God, were short expressions by which the peo-
ple exeited each other to have recourse to God in their` distress, and
to direct their prayers and cries to him. The whole of these, was
like the Latin and French expressions, Deo gratias, Dieu mercy,
adieu.
`
The object and motives of this mournful practice are more
easy
to be discovered among the Egyptians than among the other nations ;
not only because the Egyptians having been less mingled with other
people, have made fewer alterations in their ancient customs; but
also because their practices being strictly connected with public and
certain symbols engraved in stone, or carried in ceremony at the
feasts, they were better fixed or less disfigured in Egypt than in other
parts of the world. There they lamented with Isis the death of the
governor which had been taken from them, and killed by a
dragon
rising from under the ground, and by a water monster. They then
rejoiced for the resurrection of Osiris ; but he was no longer the same
and had lost his strength.
The.Fgyptians, and most of the eastern nations, had an
allegory
or picture, which became famous, and which is every where met with.
It represented the water monster slain, and Osiris restored to life ; but
there sprang out of the saith hideous figures, who endeavored to
dethrone him. They were monstrous giants, one of which had
many arms
; another pulled up the largest oaks ; and a third had in
his hands the fourth part of a mountain, which he flung against hea-
ven.
They were all distinguished by some singular attempt, and by
frightful names, the most known of which were Briareus, Othus,
Ephialtes, Enceladus, Mimas, Porphyrion, and Rouach or Rmchus.
Osiris got the better of them; and Horus, after he had been very
much abused by Rmchus, happily got rid of his pursuits, by appear-
ing before him with the jaws and claws of a lion.
I might be thought here to ofler a mere fable ; But to show that
this picture is historical, and that all the personages which compose
it are so
many symbols, or significant characters, representing the
hardships of the Ent men, and in particular the unhappy state of hus-
bandry in Egypt, it will be suHicient here to translate the peculiar
*Blessed th lthtlmth' soimdth shall 0Lo
'
nu ugm et ¢u';°¢°§rl'$ii§¢a° r°i'l'ir°u°§r°?"i"n»_ gm; adder »u:ail¢¢i»'¢ me inrdhli;
favor our horn shall be exalted. For the Lord_1s our defence; and the holy one of
Israel il our king. How long, Lord 'I wilt thou hide thyself forever 'l"
`
0
'run sxciasr rovrrmss. 27
names given to each of these giants. Briareus signifies the lou of
serenity; Othus, the diversity of seasons: Ephialtes, great gatherings
of
'
clouds, Enceladus{ the havocks of great overflowing waters
spread :
Porphyrion, the earthquakes or the fracture of the laidt
Mimas, the great-rains; and Rcechus, the wind.'
As to the figure of Horus who assumes the head and claws of 4
lion, to rid himself of the 'wind that ruined all his hopes ; it is a syml
bol peculiar to the husbandry of the Egyptians.
Thus the necessity of personifyingthe objects they wanted to paint
very soon introduced the use of allegorical pictures, and of fabulous
recitals. They at that time could not write otherwise than by delinea-
ting the figures of the objects intended. But they thought themselves
masters of ordering the whole, in the manner
they judged the Httest
ts make an agreeable impression, and to be well understood. The
di$culty of conveying the ideas of intellectual things into the mind by
the eye, first made them have recourse to symbolical figures: the use
of these figures afterwards authorized the taste of fictions. But what
was obscure in them was cleared by the simplicity and propriety of the
names given each peice. I could produce new instances of this in
the Etbles of Andromeda and Bellerophon, which are
pure allegories,
the interpretation of which must be deduced from the signilication and
meaning of the names of all these personages. But this would take
ns od' too much from that part of the ancient writing and of the pub-
lic ceremonies that related to the representation of past disasters, and
to the regulations of mankind.
Altho, Mr. Pluche has actually shown the cause of the lamentations and after
to have been occasioned by the loss and subsequent restoration of Osiris the
sun, still he attributes the allegory to the misbrtunse that had happened to mankind
in consequence of a general tlood. His remarks upon this head are omitted.
The ancients not only expressed certain truths by figures delineated
on stone ; they also joined to these figures dramatic ceremonies, where-
in the objects and the names of the actors were significant, and served
to recall the memory of
things past.
The feast of the ancient state of mankind, assumed s more shining
form in Egypt and Syria, by means of the symbolical figures, which
had been multiplied there much more, than any where else. This feast
having become common to all nations, on this acconmt deserves a more
°
The author gives in notes, the originals of the above names, which are omitted.
28 noorus nm cusrons or
ample illustration, than what has already been said about it. We ca.n~
not explain the symbols of it, without casting a useful light upon an
ininite number of monuments remaining in our hands, and which have
hitherto been looked upon as unintelligible.
They carried at this feast a basket or small chest, that contained
the monuments of the progresses of husbandry. The chest was
neither mysterious nor significant in itself It only served to receive
the memorative symbols of things past.
First, they found therein the mark of the weakening of Osiris, and
of the loss of fecundity. (In cista or rapmla repojitunt erat Dionysii
(0ji~ridis) ptuiemlum. S. Clem. Alex. coltortat, adgentes. p. 6. edit.
Ozoa. From the Phenician word, --ouervak or oraia, pudendust,
they made Orgia., a name given the ancient rural feasts. They were
called in Greece Plmlliea, which has the same meaning. The indis-
cretion of that symbol gave birth to all sorts ofextravagances and licen-
tiousness.
Then came sesameseeds, heads of poppies, pomegranates. bay-ber~
ries, branches of fig-tree, dry stalks, cakes of several kinds of corn,
salt, carded wool, cakes of honey and of cheese, and finally a child
a serpent and a winnowing van. See this enumeration in St. Clem.
Alexand. and in Potter's Antiquity of Greece, vol. 1. Grecian festi-
vals. The whole was accompanied with a iiute, or some other musi-
cal instrument. .
The drum or fiute, which was
inseparable from the celebration of
the feasts, was the symbol of gratitude, which on certain days invited
men to meet together, to praise God in concert. The small chest, the
van, in which they afterwards found so
many mysteries, (Mystics van-
nu. Virg. Georgie. See l'A»tiq. expliq. and the agen, in the treasury
ef St. Denys.) and the whole representation here enumerated, passed
from the Egyptians to the Phenicians, and by their means
spread in
and wide. Nothing ismore commonly found in the monuments of the
heathen feasts, than a small chest, a van, a
serpent, a human head, and
a flute or a drum.
When the feast representing the ancient state of mankind and the
progresses of industry was celebrated, both the figure of the earth and
that of work obtained several names in different countries. But we
ind the sarne
purpose and the same relations in all these names. The
Isis representing the earth, was called Ceres, Themis, Nemefis, Semele
Mnemosyne, and Adrastia.
`
We. shall bestow an entire article upon the explanation of the
I
'ras auctsnr aornuus. 29
symbolof Ceres. The Isis surnamed Nemesis simply signiiiedthe
earth preserved from the waters. Semele signified the representation
of the ancient condition of men ; and Mnemosyne is no more than a
bare translation of the same word into Greek. Torches were
always
carried next to Ceres, or the symbol of the mourning earth, and this
caused Isis thus accompanied to be called Themis, Themisto, and
Adrastia, which three names
signify all the ezcellency offire.
A multitude of ancient monuments testify to us the use of the lit-
tle portable chest, of the van, the child and the serpent. They added
to these figures the sorry grains on which they in the beginning had
been obliged to feed, and the marks of the crosses they had been
necessitated to overcome' (See the antiquities of Greece collected by
Dr. Potter, Vol. i. And Clem. Alexander. Cohort. ad Gent.)
The persons who in the public ceremony carried the chest wherein
all these memorials were contained, likewise assumed to themselves
significant names, and made a
part of the representation. They
became actors, and every thing concurred with the symbolical pieces,
to convey certain truths into the minds of the spectators.
The representative child was called simply the child, liber, the
beloved son
; 'sometimes the child author of life and subsistence, liber
puter ; sometimes the child of the representation, ben, Semeleh ; some-
times Horus, Erichthonius, Harpocrates, Bacchus, Apollo, Icarus.
He bore many other names, whereof we shall give an
explication,
in the particular enumeration of the feasts of the several national
It is known from the testimony of Diodorus Siculus, and from the
conformity of the Athenian laws with the Egyptians, that the first
inhabitants of Attica were an
Egyptian colony. We have even several
*Every royal arch chapter of masons is supplied with a similar chest; to which
[nat consequence is afectedly attached. It contains, besides other testimonials of
nmes
|:p|st,Isomething Ifgglbllgg, andbwhichdis declared
to
bi mannakge
hieh sraeli
`
to usted' urin eirwan m e ess.
'
Amon; the enlildem of masohlifyldlre likewise tliegheleton or ot' the human
head,
agsgpll
as the
Bkggre
of
ahselgepbthjglut
the original mtenuon ot' these symbols
now un wn to e .
.nglghe Jdwealso had, at the out end otyevery school or
synagogue, a chest called
Aaron, or
Jak,
m
whichluygsllocked up the
pentatgpch|nmalp°nscrip;,nv5ntte:|$| wslllum
'squar rod , resseomman wasto dehv to o as
:ere fouhd to be iyselhrnpng ihgml"-(Colcott Disq. on Masonry, p. 72.)
Y
It is probable that this chest also contained memorials of _the wretched stats of the
Israelites while in the wilderness. The letters, above mentioned, were
same as the royal ineffable characters, which consist of right ang in vanous
#nie c s wo ~
an as e name
m°d°"
wnilhthe°h'°°iiiiif |liili"¢ifEd"` lof rk a in sun bore an
of ap°u°,°i>'» iiggn rpollo, when mills- northern hdmisphere which i. the ap.. for
asnmg
on
tliivluapors
of husbandry in this region, then may be s propriety in the
SPP BOE- .
30 noorns AND cosroxls or .
proofs,that it originally came from the city of Sais, so famous for its olive-
trees. Among the
ceremonies which these foreigners brought from
Egypt into Greece, they remark the little chest, which accordingto the
custom of their original country, contained the symbolical figures of
agriculture. Three young Athenian women carried in their feasts a
basket, wherein lay a child and a
serpent. _
Infantemque vident ezporrectumquc draconenu'
The three maids that carried this child had names relating to hus~
bandry, the'symbols of which they bore in their hands. They were
called Herse, Pandrosos, and Aglauros. The signification of these
names unveils the whole obscurity of the enigma. It is enough for
us thereby to understand, that it is to the alternative of the
rain, the
dew, and the fair weather, that husbandry is indebted for the life it
affords us. Let the imagination of poets wander upon the rest, and,
according to their custom, look into a
symbol to them become unintel-
ligible, for the matter of an
insipid metamorphosis.
In order to render these representations more complete, they did
not in Egypt, forget any more than in other places, the necessity, the
first men had been under, of defending their houses and the fruits of
the earth, from wild beasts. They preserved the memory of this
particular circumstance by a kind of hunting which they renewed
every three years, throughout the East. The same feast was not cele-
brated every year, because wild beasts did not multiply from one year
to another so as to alarm the neighborhood. This htmting being
only a representation and not much in earnest, it made the sanctity
of feasts degenerate into tumultuous ramblings, which were succeded
by the greatest disorders. g
`
It is true, they began by a sacrifice, and the invocation of the true
God ; as
may be easily proved from their warlike cries, that signified,
The Lord is the mighty ; the Lord is my strength ; Jo Saboifl' Deus
mihi ezercitus. The Lord is an host to me ; the Lord is my guide ;
Jevov nissi ; Jo nissi, Dio nissi ; Deus vezillum mihi, Deus mihi, dux esta.
Ezod. xvii: 15. And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it J'eho~
aah-nissi. It is not time yet to convert the Dionissi, which was
only
aprayer, into a man's name, and of it to make the Dionysius of the
° Ovid. Mdam. d Erichthoniua.
_-
_tSaboi, with,perhaps, some variations in the
gronunciation,
is scommon expression
mth country people, to set dogs upon cattle.-- dit.
i
_
,__
TH! ANCIENT IGYPTXANI. 3|
Greeks. All words which we find again in the mouth of the Hebrews,
because their tongue and religion were
originally the same with that of
the other nations. The latter have altered their notions, while the
form of prayers still remained the same. Q
Animals become S3/mbolical.
From the knowledge we now have of tlie genius and taste of the
eastern nations, and chiefly of the Egyptians, for symbolical figures
and significant ceremonies, we are authorized to think, that the singu-
lar practices observed among them were so many emblems of certain
astronomical, moral and other truths. We no
longer run
any risk in
saying, that the ram' which they reverenced in Thebais and Libya, the
bulls they respected at Memphis and Heliopolis, the kids; honored at
Mendes, the lion, the fishes and other animals which they worshiped in
several provinces, were
very plain symbols in their first origin. They
were no more than the ancient signs of the Zodiac, and the diH`erent
marks of the ituations of the sun.
They distinguished the neomenia
of one month or of another, by annexing the figure of the celestial
animal into which the sun then entered, to the Isis which proclaimed
that'feast ; and instead of a bare picture, they introduced into the feast the
animal itself the living animal relating thereto. The dog being the
symbol of the dog-star, which formerly opened the year; they put a
living dog at the head of the whole ceremonial of the first neomenia.
It is Diodorus, who recounts this fact, as
having been an
eye~witness of
it. They therefore took the habit of calling these neomeniaa the feast
of the ram, the feast of the bull, of the dog, and of the lion.
`
Funeral symbols and Ceremonies.
There was near the Egyptiantowns a certain ground appointed for
the common burying-place. Diodorus Siculus, (Biblietlt. l. 1.) informs
us how these tombs were
regulated, and in an exact description of the
burying-place at Memphis, the largest and most frequented of all,
relates all that was practised there. According to his recital, the com-
mon burying place, was onthe other side of the lake called Acherusia,
from --
acharie, af%er,.and from -
ish, man, comes, --
acliariir
ultima hominir the last condition of man, or rather what follows the
death of man. They also say
--
aclteron, postremum, conditio-
ultaata. The dead person was brought to the shore of that lake,
and to the foot of a tribunal consisting of several judges,who inquired
32 DOGIAI sun cusrols or
into his life and conversation. When he had not faithfully observed
the laws, the body was left unburied, and very likely was thrown
into a sort of lay-stall or ditch called Tartarus. This word may
come from the Chaldaic, -
tarah, pnzmonitio, doubling the word.
Diodorus informs us, that there was near a town, at a small distance
from Memphis a leaking vessel, into which they incessantly poured
Nile water ; which could signify nothing but endless ,tortures and
rexnorses. And this single circumstance gives room to think, that the
place where the unburied bodies were thrown, was set round with
frightful representations.
When no accuser appeared, or he who deposed against the deceased
was convicted of falsehood, then they ceased to lament the dead person,
and his encgmium was made. (Diod.) They, for instance, commended
his excellent education, his respect for religion, his equity, moderation,
chastity and other virtues. His birth, which was
supposed to be the
same with all men, was never allowed as
any merit in him. All the
assistants applauded these praises, and congratulated the deceased, on
account of his being ready to injoy an eternal repose with the virtuous.
There was on the shore of the lake a severe and incorruptible water.
man, who by order of the judges, and never upon any other terms;
received the deceased into his boat. The very kings of Egypt were
treated with the same rigor, and were not admitted into the bark, with-
out the leave of the judges, who sometimes deprived even them of
buriaL The water-man carried the body on the other side of the lake,
into a plain embellished with meadows, brooks, groves, and all the
rural omaments. This place was called Elizout, or the Elizian
Eelds, that is, full satisfaction, an habitation of 'repose or
of joy.
There was at the entrance of that abode the Egure of a dog with three
pair of jaws, which they called Cerberus. The whole ceremony
ended by thrice sprinkling sand over the opening of the vault wherein
they had put the corpse,' and by bidding him thrice# adieu.
All these words and practices almost every where copied, were so
many instructions addressedto the people. They gave them to under-
stand by all these ceremonies, as
by so many speeches or very signii-
cant symbols, that death was followed by an account which we were
to give of our life before an inflexible tribunal : but that what was
indeed dreadful to the wicked, was only a
passage into a
happier
*The custom of throwing thrice sand
nga
the oorpis is now become universal.
Injado lorpuluro. Horst. eann. L 1. od._
thfagna mane: ter von eocavit. Enud. 6.
nn Aucuzur
_|o¥r1'uN|.
~
33
state for the good. Wherefore death was called the deliverance.
(Pelilah, or rather,pelouta., alleviation, deliverance. Wherefore Horace
looks upon that passage as the end of evils.
Levare functufn pauperem laboribus. Carms 1.2. od. 18.) It is
likewise called in French le trepas, that is, the passage to another
life. I
The boat of transportation was called tranquility, (beri, tranquil-
itas, sermitas, Whence comes,-baris, Charon's bark., Diod. Sic.)
because it carried over, none but the just ; and on' the contrary
the waterrnan, who inflexibly refused those whom the judges had not
acquitted, was called Wrath, (Charon. Exod. 15; 7.) or the vengeance.
As to the earth thrown upon the corpse, and the tender adieus of
the relations, they were no more than natural duty and a simple
expression of their regrets. But they were not contented with paying
them by the way this honor: They also put at the entrance of the
cemetery and over the door ofthe deceased's tomb the symbol of the value
and tender affection they had for their departed relation. The dog_
being of all animals the most addicted to man, is the natural emblem of
friendship and attachment. They gave the figure of the dog three
heads or throats, to express the three cries they had made over their
f`riend's'grave, according to the custom which granted that honor to
none but good men. '1'herefore this figure, thus placed near the tomb
and over the head of the new-buried person, signified his having been
honored with the lamentations of his family, and with the cries which
friends never failed to come and utter overthe grave of him whom they
had valued and cherished for his good qualities. The meaning of this
symbol is no longer a riddle, after its name has been translated. They
called it Cerberus, that is in plain terms, the cries of the grave'
It is neither easy nor reasonable to pretend to explain all the symbols
and ceremonies of antiquity, before we are convinced that most of the
singular figures used on the most solemn occasions, were in their first
original no more than significant symbols and instructive ceremonies.
It is enough for us that this is true of many of them; which I flatter
myself' I have shewed in this first essay of explanation of the ancient
writing, since the explication I give of it is simple, plain, and strictly
connected both with the common notions and the wants ofthe first men.
The Egyptians, who had contracted a habit of adoring the sun as
God, asthe author of all good, and looked on Osiris as their
f`ounder,_
ran headlong into a third abyss. They, from a confused remem-
°From -ciri or e.-ri, which has the same sense in French, and from --
br,
the vault, the grave
--
corbsr.
5
34 noolrns AND cvsroms or
brance, and an universal custom, knew that this figure of Osiris related
tothe sun, and it was indeed nothing else in its first institution. They
besides saw the circle the character of God placed frequently enough
on' Osiris's forehead. They then perpetually joined the idea of Ham-
mon with that of the sun, and both these with that of God. They no
longer honored God nor the sun, without singing at the same time the
favors of Osiris or Hammon. The one was
still inseperably connected
with the other ; which made them give out, that Hammon or Osiris
had been transported into the sun, there to make his residence, and that
he thence continually protected Egypt, taking a delight in pouring a
greater plenty upon the country inhabited by his offspring, than on any
other land in the universe. Thus being gradually come to aseribing
ditinity, and offering their worship to the ruler representing the func-
tions ofthe sun
; they, to complete the absurdity, took him for the first
of their kings. Thence this odd mixture of three inconsistent notions'
I mean of God, of the sun, and of a dead man, which the Egyptians
perpetually confounded together.
_
Jeltav, Ammon, Neptune, Pluto.
That religion which grossly indulged the seltllove and vanity of
the Egyptians, easily Hrund favor, and took root in the minds of the
people. The rest of the symbols took the same turn. They inquired
who was the Poseidon or Neptune, that is, the marine Osiris, the sym-
bol of the annual rctum of the fleets; and they made of him a
god who
delighted in the sea, as Osiris did in the heaven. The funeral Osiris
who declared the anniversary of funerals, had also his own
history :
and as all the ceremonies belonging to burials, instead of being taken in
their true sense, that is, as public instructions upon the state of the just,
after death, had by degrees been looked upon as
pictures of the real
treatment given to the dead under ground and in delightful gardens:
they, of Pluto or of the symbol of the deliverance of the just, made a
god, who presided over the abodes of the dead.
The pretended god Neptune, (Herodot, in Euterp.) who became
the favorite deity of the maritime nations, was almost unknown to and
hardly worshiped among the Egyptians, who hated the sea, and who
living in plenty of every_ thing, hardly ever went out of their own
country. On the contrary, as
they were
very exact inthe outward prac-
tice of their religious ceremonies, the funeral anniversaries which were
frequentlyrepeated, rendered Pluto much more renowned among them.
We often seo round the head of the Egyptian Pluto a radiant
'rms Aucrnnr Iovrrraxs.
~
3|
crown, and round his body a
serpent sometimes accompanied with the
signs of the zodiac; which evidently siguities the duration of one
sun, that is, of one
year. And it is plain here, that the author of the
Saturnals, who pretended that Pluto and many other gods were origin-
ally nothing but the sun, had great reason to think so, since Jupiter,
Ammon, Neptune, and Pluto, are in reality no more than the symbol
of one solar year diversified according to particular circumstances,
They did not quite lose sight of the unify of their origin`in making
persons of them: for they made them three brothers, who, as
they
said, had divided the empire of the world between them.
Ham or Ilammon being commonly called God Jehov, Jehov-Am-
mon, the city of Thebes where he had dwelt longest, and which they
anciently called Ammon's abode, (Ammonno) was aherwards called
the city of God. (Diospolis)
This word Jehov, in its primitive use, signified the father of lifa
the supreme being! The Greeks translated it by that of Zeus or Dios ;°
and the Romans by that of Deus : all names
having the same sense, if
they be not the same sound diversified according to the pronunciation
of different people. They sometimes joined to it the name of father,
which was but an
interpretation of it, and called him Diospiter or
Jovpi-
ter. The Ammon which by a stupid kind of love was confounded with
God, and with Osiris or the star moderator of seasons, became the famous
Jov-Ammon or the Jupiter-Ammon, and had always the first honors
paid to him, aher the other symbols had in like manner been converted
into so
many celestial personages and powerful deities. The reason of
thi pre-eminence is founded on their having annexed the idea of that
their founder of colony to the most brilliant of all their symbols, I mean,
their Osiris. -
The establishment of the laws. Menes
The rural works not being resumed in Egypt, till after the Nile had
quitted the plain, they, for this reason, gave the public sign of husbandry
the name of Moses or Museus (saved from the waters; ) and on the
same account; the moons during which Horus Apollo, or
husbandry,
continued his exercises, went also by the same name.
About the end of autumn, the inhabitants being freed from the works
of the field, manufactured in their night-work the line thread and
*They sometimes changed this word into that of zen, which comes from zan and
zao ha lin. Which makes thosameunse.
36 ,
.
oooius AND customs or
cloth, which were one oftheir chief riches. The sign which was the
publication of it, took thence the name of Linus, which signifies watch-
ing, the setting up in the night. (-;Lyn, to watch.) The star that
lights the night has on this account retained the same name, and so
has the matter itself that was manufactured during those watchings.
This sign has evidently given birth to the tales of Linus, Museus,
Orpheus, Picus, Ganymede, and many other pretended heroes or legis-
lators, of which it is needless to pretend to determine and fix the
chronology and the above.
'I'he custom they had, to publish the several regulations concerning
polity, by the several postures of the 'son of Osiris, caused him to he
commonly called Menes, that is, the rule of the people. The Egyp-
tians from this nev title took it into their heads, that Menes had been
their legislator, the author of their polity, the orderer of their year, the
founders of their laws. For this reason, they put this imaginary foun.
der at the head of all the lists of the kings of their several provinces.
The name of Moses or Muscus was
very properly given to. the
public sign of the revival of husbandry. _This word, which signified
the drying up, made part of the calendar: it was the summary andthe
substance ofa statute of polity, It was
every year in the mouth of the
people, aller the re-entering of the river within its banks. g
It was
not
then a man's name. But if Menes and Museus are but one and the
same
thing; if they are only the names of the same sign; what then
becomes of the first king ofEgypt, the foundation of their history? He,
from that moment, loses all his reality.
Two of the most learned men among the ancients, Eusebius in his
evangelical preparation, and St. Clement in his exhortation to the Gen-
tiles, by preserving and handing down to us the ancient set-form
whereby they incited those that were initiated into the mysteries to
imbibe religious sentiments and love work, have helped us to End out
exactly what the famous Menes was. The instructions given therein
for good conduct, are addressed to work itself It is called the son
of the star of the day, because husbandry can do nothing without the
sun. Again, it is called Museus ; because in Egypt, whence this set.
form came, husbandry did not resume its operations but till after the
retiring of the waters. In short, it is surnamed Menes °
in the same
set-form, that isrule of the people. Therefore, this pretended founder of
the Egyptian monarchy has not more
reality in him than his father
*Hlrkenthofn,0MmelMu|eus, lonoftheltarofthsdsy.
-
'nn Aucunrr aovrruus. 37
Osiris, the ancient character of the sun, nor more than Museus another
character ofthe revival of the tilling of the lands and of the operation
of sowing.
Anubis, That, flisculapius.
The falsity of the ancient history of Egypt is completely demon-
strated by the abuse they further made ofthe fourth key of their sym-
bolical writing. It was the figure of a man with a
dog's head, wear-
ing oftentimes a
pole with one or two serpents twisted about it. The
meaning and intention of the public sign exposed in the assembly ag
the rising of the dog star, was to advise the people to run
away and_
give attention tu the depth of the inundation, in order to rule their
ploughing accordingly, and to secure their lives and subsistence. The
names given to this public sign were Anubis the barker, the giver of
advices or Tahaut the dog, or
Esculapius the man~dog.
°
It was still
the same meaning or the same
public sign ; but they were three names
for one and the same thing. A sufficient ground for them to derive from
thence three personages of their history, the chronology whereof will be
still lengthened by this means.
They make their demi~god Anubis -to
reign before Menes, without telling us where. They make Thot of
Thaautes son of Menes, their second king of Egypt. They make him
a counsellor to
Menes. They ascribe to him the introduction of the
letters, the invention of music and dancing, with a great many other
fine discoveries ; the foundation of which is because the dog-star opened
the year, brought along with it a new series of feasts, and appeared at
the head of all the letters or
symbolical figures which expressed the
annual order. Though }Esculapius was as
yet no more than the sign
of the canicular star, the Egyptians made him a third king, who had
applied himself to the procuring the preservation of his subjects by the
study of physic; a
notion that had its origin from the preservation of
life which was expressed by the serpents twisted about the measure of
the Nile. Such is the origin of the serpent of Epidaurus, and the very
plain reason for which the serpent has always been inseparable from
the god ,of physic, to which art both the man and the animal had origi-
nally no manner of relation. Several historians quoted by sir John
Marsham in his rule of times (Chronicus Canon.) attributed the inven-
°F'rom-aiah1nan,andfrom--ealephdog, comes-malcphdu mandog.
ThlG'l"l¢lmhlmdlf1'0k||01l,¢'l¢l!ll'-d0K.
38 noeuu Ann cusroxs or
tion of the letters to Escnlapius as well as to Tahaut. ,Which was
doing them justice, the one not being different from the other. Marsham
is most earnestly angry with those who have thus confounded things and
altered history, by attributing to _/Esculapius the invention which is the
glory of Thot. This he patches up to the best of his power. But it
was
very superfluous, here to have recourse to means of reconciliation;
since Esculapius or the man-(log, and the '1'ahaut, or the dog~star, as
well as Anuhis, were no more than the names of one figure that was
exposed in the assembly of the people, to warn them of the appearance
of that star, the rising of which would soon be succeeded by the inun-
dation.'
The Gods of Egypt communicated to Asia and .Europe by the
P/tenicians.
Egypt always was and still is.the most fruitful countrylin the world.
The harvest, which is almost certain there, and by much exceeds the
Wants of the inhabitants, occasioned great quantities ol' com to be amas-
sed there, which in barren years were the resource of the Arabians,
the Canaauites, the Syri:tus, and the Greeks. Travelers whom need
or curiosity had drawn thither, and the Phenicians especially, who
inhabited lvutn small maritime coast near mount Libanus, and had no
granary so certain as
Egypt, were all equally struck with the polity
that reigned in every part of that beautiful country, with the gentle
temper of the inhabitants, the mysterious outside of the ceremonies and
feasts which were with much pomp celebrated there, and finally with the
plenty which they looked upon as miraculous in a
country where it
never rained. The notion they had of that river whose source remained
concealed, and whose overflowings seemed to them contrary to the
common course ot' nature, made them say, that God himself poured
these beneficial waters on
Egypt. (Fluvius 12 Deo misses. Odyss. 4.)
The Egyptians represented this marvel 'by the figure of God, that isv
by a sun out of whose mouth a river sprung ;'I' and the foreigners as
°'
Eeculnpius was sometimes represented either
stnndinq,
or setting on a throne,
holdin" in one hand a statl] nnd grasping with the other the iced 011 n
serpent: at his
feet u dug lay extended. On some ancient monuments we
see him with one hand
a plied to his beard, and having in the other a knotted stall' encircled by s serpent.-
InlImn'|, Clan. Diet.--Edit.
tFor this reason it wus, that they gave or the sun among other titles that of
-1-
pheob Pluzlnu or Phoiboa which signifies the mouth Q/' Ob that is the :ounce of
#Ile operjlowing, front the _two wurds,_- phcb, os, the moutll and -_
gb the
iwelhng,
the overtiowmg ; tt is the ancient name they gave to the Nile overlowmg lil
THE ANCIENT BGYPTIANS. .
well as the Egyptians every where gave it out, that so sin gular a
prosperity was the reward of the piety of the inhabitants. Nay, the
Phenicians perhaps and the Canaanites at first received from the
Egyptians and used the symbolical characters among themselves.
The introduction of the common writing must have caused them to
lose the sense without suppressing the figures ; so that these symbols
being always a
part of the ceremonies, and publicly exposed at
feasts'
every body annexed to them the notion or
history he thought carried
the greater likelihood with it. Thus Egypt was the cup wherein the
poison of idolatry lay, and the Phenicians are the people, who, by trav-
eling all over the world, have presented this Eital enp to the greater
part of the westem nations. For the same reason it is, that the names
of the gods and the words made use of in the heathen feasts, have so
sensible an
analogy with the Pheni-:ian language.
Travellers and merchants, during their sojourn in Egypt, were
undoubtedly struck with the outward shew of the feasts and the abun-
dance that seemed to be the result of them. They did not carry home
this multitude of symbols and practices which_ they understood nothing
of but they seldom failed to look with veneration upon the three or
four chief symbols which the Egyptians honored as beneficial powers,
and as the authors of all the good they enjoyed.
The governor, the woman, the child, and the messenger, or the
giver of advices, always appearing in their feasts, though with_ some
variety; foreigners used themselves chiefly to these three or four
objects, the most distinguished of the whole worship : and the Pheni-
cians, whom constant necessity alvays brought again to the port of
Pharos, were the first who made 1180 of the same ceremonial, and cel-
ebrated thc same feasts in their own
country. The circle of the sun
accompanied with serpents and foliages, or with large wings to repre-
sent the intelligence which is the mover of all things, the master of the
air, the dispenser of seasons and harvests, though always placed at top
of the noblest symbols, hovever less attracted the eyes than did the
brilliant figure of the governor of the earth, or the several dresses
given the mother and the beloved child. Nothing contributed more to
humanize, as I may say, the idea of God, or rather to make men refer
their worship and adorations to beings like oiirselves.
Moloch, Baal, Adonis, and Ac/lad.
The god, or rather the figure of the sun, which the Egyptians called
Osiris, or the governor of the earth, assumed other names in other
40 noaxus sun cusrous or
places. The eastern nations who had adopted him, and who looked
on their temporal advantages as the effect of this devotion, called him
Moloch or Melchom, that is the king; some, Baal or Adonai, or
Adonis, or Hero,' all which names
signify the lord. Others called him
Achadj which the old inhabitants of Latium have rendered by that of
Sol,unicas ; and others finally named him Baalshamain or Beelsamenjf
the lord of the heavens. But it was
always the sun which these fig-
ures of a king and these names immediately signified.
Dionyisus, Bacchus.
In the times when things were expressed by symbols, and the several
parts of these symbols were varied to be the better understood, far from
being designed to conceal any mystery; the figure of Horus changed
its name and attributes according to the exigency of the circumstances
in which it was
employed. The first use it was
applied to in certain
feasts was the representation of past events. The second was the
instruction and the regulations fit for the people.
'
The representation of the ancient state of mankind consisted, not
only in the commemorative signs that were carried either upon a win-
nowing van or in the small chest before mentioned :
they joined thereto
ceremonies or set forms of prayers regarding the same intention. They,
in these feasts, invoked the name of God with great lamentations. They
called him the mighty, the life, the father of life. They implored his
assistance against wild beasts, and made show of giving them chace,
running hither and thither, aa if they were going to attack them They
even did it in good earnest completely armed.
It was the custom to say with a
sigh : Let as cry unto the Lord,
io terombe, or disterombe. Let us
cry before the Lord, or God see our
tears, io Bacche, io Baccoth. 'Ihou art the life, the author of being.
Thou art God and the mighty : Jehova, hevan, hevoe, and eloah.
They chiefly said in the east : God is thejire and the principle oflife.
Thou art the Jire ; life proceeds from thee : hu esh : atta esh.' All
these words and many others, which were the expressions of grief and
* See the name of hero in that sense in the interpretation ofthe obelisk of Ramesses
in Ammian Maroellin, or in Marsham's nile of times. _From that hero, the Latins made
their her-nu and hero, the lord, the lady. _
The Philistines called him the lord of men,
mar-nas, from the word maran, which signifies the master, and from as which signi~
Sea man. And this comes tothe sense of the foregoing names.
1 l~
admd, unicus, and by a softened pronunciation, adad, one, the only. The
ancient
kings
of Syria, who
szyled
themselves his children, assumed the name of Ben-
adadsono God. SeeMacr .SaturnaL '
-
S --
Dominus erslonim.
iHuesh- ipuut ignis, Deutoron,4:24. Allaah, tuvitau. SseStnbo, l,l0.
s
D
nooius nm cusrons or
`
ll
adoration, became so many titles, which the people, without under-
aanding, gave to this child or
imaginary deity. He was then called
Bacchus, Hevan, Evoe, Dithyrambus, Jao, Eleleus, Ves, Attes. They
knew not, what all this signified : but they were sure that the god of
the feast delighted in all these titles. They never failed to give them
him, and thus these expressions became cries of joy, or extravagant
roarings. 1
_
When people went about pursuing the wild beasts that thwarted
the endeavors of husbandmen, they cried aloud: Lord thou art an
/wrt to me, io Sabio. Lord ! be my guide, io Nissi, or with a diferent
accent Dionissi' Of these warlike cries, which were
repeated- with-
out being understood, they made the names of Sabusius and Dionysius
Of all these names, that were most used in Italy was Baccoth. The
delicate ear ofthe Greeks, who could not indure harsh sounds. gave
the preference to the name of Dionysius. These several titles (and the
series of them was
long) gave birth to as
many histories. Thus they
called this god Dionysius, because he was son of Jehov or Jupiter, and
born at Nysa an Arabian city. He was named Evius, because, as he
was
fighting with one of the giants, Jupiter incouraged him in the
Greek language, and-e-But if we now are sure of truth, why
should we
busy ourselves in enumerating such sorry tales? We are
no way concerned to hear all the nonsense, which the want of under-
standing these names 1' has caused to be built upon each of them.
Let us now pass on to the retinue of Bacchus. _
We shall there End
a proof; that Bacchus was no more than a mask or figure, and not any
man that ever existed.
When the arts were once invented, the remembrance of the rough-
ness ef the first ages, and the comparison of the hardships which man-
kind had at first experienced with the conveniences and inventions of
latter times, rendered the rural feasts or the feasts ofthe representation
of the ancient state of men, more brisk and lively than all the rest
One of the most essential points of this feast was then to appear
'Tho plications in Masonry are similar to the above. In the degrooof royal
arch, the gllowing ejaculations are utered :-"Lord I cry unto thee: make haste unto
me :
give ear unto my voice. Mme
eiyesare
unto thee 0 God the Lord ; in thee is my
trust; leave not my soul dntirute. cried unto
thei0 Lord; I said, thou artmy
refugeil
and my portion in the land of the living. ttend unto my cry; for I am
broug t ve y low: deliver me from my persecutors; for
theaiare stronger than I.
Hear
my'
rfilayer, 0 Lord ; give ear to
mi supplicationszfin thy thfulness answer me
and in t
yai§hteousness."-(Webb.)-
dit. _
#These les may be sean in the hymns attributed to Orpheus and Homer ;|n the
poems
of Hesiod and Ovid ; in the hymns of Callimachus; in the mythologies o!No¢l
¢ Comte, and othezs.
6
42 nocnms Asn cusrons or
there covered with skins of goats
'
bucks, tygers, and of other tame
and wild animals. They smeared their faces with blood, to bear the
marks of the danger they had run and the victory they had obtained
Instead ofa child of metal mysteriously carried about in a chest, they
by degrees contraeteda custom of choosing a good fat jolly boy, to play
the part ot" the imaginary god. They in process of time gave him a
chariot; and to render the whole more admirable, the pretended tygers
odered to draw him, whilst the bucks, and goats were
jumping and
capcring round him. The assistants disguised and masked in this man-
ner had names agreeable to what they were doing. -They were called
Satyrs, a word which signifies mcu. disguised 'I' or Fauni, that is
masks. These etymologies which are
very plain, and strictly con~
nected with what precedes. are still confirmed by the usage which the
assistants at these rural feasts observed of consecrating to Bacchus, and
ofsuspcntling on the tree under which they made their last station,
the mask of bark or other matter, wherewith they had covered their
little. that they might have a share in the ceremony. The feasts of
Bacclius have been abolished by the preaching ofthe gospel; but we
:te the ruin.iins of them among us in our winter rejoicings. I
It is the
ini; c niccrii, and, with no great difiercnce, the same
idolatryj
-';'hf,e who lollowed or attended the chariot of Bacchus, were
calm.: liiccliaiits, that is, mourners, because the feast began with woes
and complaints, and with frequent invocations on the assistance of God.
The woman, who carried the small chest or the sacred baskets, or
at least a
thyrsus,§ which vas sometimes a
javelin, in memory of the
first chases; sometimes a tordh of rcsiny' wood, wcrc called Menadcs
'1`nyadcs, and Bassarides. They were named Menados, which signi-
This is whanhe Latins expressed by Thynsos indueere :to fonn choruses ofpeo-
pif drcfsed like
gcyjnts apd rasnég;
-lhiasim hirci ¢l
jridq,
Genes. 30; 35.
ua,
1-»; Llur, hid cn, tis i --panim or plumim, aciu prosopu,pena1uv ooci
inasks. Those panim oriiiideousmasks coitld not fail frightenin your childreit. For
this imsoiiit is, that fears occasioned by appearances of evil voitgof reality, have been
czdli-tl li rrears
pun
'
ues, partial: terrnra. Such is evidently the origin of the name
given in the god of Blébndes, viz. Pan, in whose homs and hair thephilosophen thought
they had found a very noble emblem of general nature. Those who are fond of these
admirable
conmrptioiis, may look out for them in the allegoric explicationsot' Plutarch,
Innihlichus, Psi; his the em icror Julian, and Plato.
havereadinanI-Ingiishpaper,thatancientlyitwasnotunusualforaWag,on have read in an I-Ingiish paper, that anciently it was not unusual for a Wag, on
the first of J unitary, to burst into u neighbor's housedisguised in an ox's hide, including
that of tho head with the horns nttachcd.-Edit.
§ Thyrsus, u rod or lance twisted rountl with ivy, which was put into the hand of the
sold icrs ol' Hacrlius. or of those who colcbratod his festivals. Ovid describes them as
wound about with vine branches.
The Jews do :it this day carry a sort oI'Thyrsii or
something like them, in the feasts
of Tabemacles and especially in the Hoaanna Rabba. They are branches of wil-
law,myrt]c und palm-tree, bound up together with citrons or
oranges,
which they wave
or push in a
rclqgiaus manner toward! the four quartersof the cor d.-(Bailey)-Edit,
Tu: axcuzxr au'P1'l.xs. 43
ties, the woman who carry tlie publi¢ signs, because the fcastsor the
regulations, and all the sacred figures inseparable from them, were in
the ancient language called Mancs, that is, regulations. This the
Greeks rendered Tltismoi. The extravagant attitudes of these mad
women, who strove to outvie each other by the lamentations and rep-
resenting gestures authorized by custom, were thence called Mania.
These woman again were called the Thyades, that -is migrant or wan-
dering, when they dispersed themselves in the mountains like so many
huntresses. They were called Bassarides or grape-gcatherers, because
these feasts were celebrated after vintage, and when-new wine began to
be drinkable.'
Atler the vagaries and the whole train, at last appeared an old man
upon an ass, who advanced with a sedate countenance,~oH`ering wine
to the tired youth, and inviting every body to take some rest. 1'
If any body should complain that this explication of the origin of
the Bacchunals does not establish a relation sufiiciently' sensible
between wine and the feasts of Bacchus, who from all antiquity, has
been looked upon as the inventor and propagator of the vine, vhereas
we reduce it to the proclamation of n few instructions, which the peo-
ple stood in need of ; Ishall reply, that the feasts of Bacchus and Ceres
are every where styled among the Greeks and Romans, the feasts of
the regulations; because they confusedly remembered, that the purport
and intention of the figures of Isis and Horus was to regulate the con-
duct of the people. And I shall at the same time desire such, tof take
notice of what Horus carries over his head at the solemnity of the
Pamylia, or at the beginning of the winter. Among other objects
capable of pleasing, there appear three large pitchers of wine. _ This
`was the finest part of the ceremonial: and the feasts where this liquor
was drunk in plenty could not but be the most brisk and most enliv-
ened of all.
`
I have musiderably abridged the preceding article. That the Bacchus honored in
the prooessions here described was not, as the author states, a man that ever lived, is
very evident ; but that the figure representing him was merely a symbol ofhusbandry
as ha endeavors to show, is not so clear. The festivalh were religious thanksgivings, in
* After the virgins, followed a company of men carrying poles at the end of which
were fastened phalloi. The heads of these men were crowned with ivy and violets,
and their faces covered with other herbs.
They
marched singing songs upon the
occasion of the festival.-Anthon's Lemp, class ict.-Edit.
flbat pando Silenus asello. _ _ _
"
It was the custom, at the celebration of the Elsuauuan mystonsa, as_we are told by
the Scoliast. on the place, to have what was wanted in
those nies, car-nod upon Asses-
Heace the proverb, Arima portal mystcr-ia."-Warb, Div. Leg.-Edd.
44 ooorus sun cusrols or
which gratsihl acknowledgments were rendered for the favors received from the hand
ofdivine providence, and the image intended to represent the god who was supposed to
bestow these blessings, was ceremoniously carried in procession. The Bacchanals
were similar to the feasts noticed in the memorials of past events, with trifling varia-
tions aridng from s di8`ersnce of taste, and misconceptions in the conveyance of cus-
toms from one country to another.
The Roman Catholic processions of the Host are of the same nature as the above,and
no doubt the custom, like most ol' the practices of the church of Rome, has been
derived from the ancient pagan ceremonies. The catholic processions, it seems, are
conducted with more mystic, solemn pomp than those ofthe ancients, but the ruman
assaults ofthe guards or assistants in this affair, ofpersone walking inthe streets, who
are not even within the pale of their order, for neglecting to fall upon their knees,
on the passage of the host, is more outrageous than the extravaganciss of their pro-
wiypc.
The masonic processions are identically the same thing as the Bacchansls, but got
up 'with more taste and refinement, owing to the influence of civilization. In these
are carried, besides other articles, which will hereafter be enumerated, a box or chest,
called the lodge, about which much secrecy is pretended, and which is kept covered
from the eyes of the profane or uninitiated. The utmost decorum is observed, and no
person is annoyed for not paying homage to the sacred contents of of the mysterious
chest.
The author himself in the next article to the foregoing, has told uswho Bacchus
really was, and which fully explains the understanding that should be applied to these
Bacchsnalian processions ; ss§f'ollows»:-
'
The scepter and empire of heaven and earth fell to the share of
Osiris. The chariot, the whip, and the reins were assigned to Apollo;
whence it is that we so commonly find in one god the characters of
another. The Horus Apollo, who was
only related to the niral year
or the order of works, was the more
easily mistaken for the sun which
rules nature, that they put the whip and the attributes of the sun into the
hands of the Horus, in order to shorten and abbreviate the marks of the
solar year, and ofthe works suitable to each season. Thus Horus became
the same with the Moloch of the Ammonites, the Adonis of Byblos, the
Bel of the other Phenician cities, and the radiant Belenus honoured in
Gaul. This driver-of the chariot, which gives light to the world, is the
son of
.lupiter ; but the son of Jehov the son par excellence, liber, is no
other than Horus, Bacchus or
Dionysius. Osiris Horus, Apollo, Bacchus,
and the sun, are then confounded. This the author of the Saturnals
has sumciently demonstrated. Virgil himself makes no distinction
between Bacchus and Appollo or the sun, when he gives Bacchus and
Ceres or Isis the government of the year and the light.
--Vos, 0 clarrissima mundi
Lumina, lshentem coalo qua ducitis annum, _
Liber st alms Cena- Georgie. I.
'ral Ancxlrrr lovrruns. 45
Atlas. The H3/ades and Pleiades.
Atlas, according to the fable, was an ingenius master af astronomy
a doctor who knew nature in general, and gave information about it.
Homer gives us Atlas as a
very learned god, who knew all the obli-
quities of the coasts, and all the depths of the sea. Virgil ascribes to
the informations of the great Atlas the knowledge men had acquired
of the moon, the eclipses of the sun, and the whole order of nature.
The name
signifies a
support, (--- atlah, support, prop.).which
gave occasion for the invention of the metamorphosis of the doctor
Atlas into a column or high mountain, that props up the arch of the
heavens.
'
The Phenicians in the voyages they repeated every third year to
Tarshish, that is, to Cadis, and to Bmtica,(now Andalusia) through the
"Red-Sea, and in carrying on the commerce of all the coasts of Africa,
often saw the highest mountain of Mauritania, whose top is generally
covered with snow, and seems joined with the heavens. The name of
Atlas or
columnpgiven to that mountain, caused the fable of Atlas to
be applied to it. They said he was king of Mauritania a great astro-
loger and geographer, who at last was
by the gods changed into a
high
mountain, reaching from the earth to the heavens.
The Hyades or Huades, who took their name from the figure V,
which they form in the forehead of the celestial bull, and the Pleiades,
which are that small` platoon of stars so remarkable, near the forego-
ing, are the most known and the easiest to be distinguished of all the
constellations of the zodiac. They particularly were of use to regu-
late the informations given fo the disciples of the priests by means of
an Atlas, that is, ofa Horus bearing a celestial sphere. Atlas humani-
zed, became the father of the Hyades and Pleiades ; and Orion which
rises immediately after them, easily passed in the imagination of the
hbulists for a libertine, who incessantly pursues them.
Among the other fables which the Phenician travellers were suil
Hciently at leisure to devise
'
in their courses, or to recount when they
came home, the two Guest doubtless are those of the garden of the
Hesperides, and of Atlas freed by Hercules of the burden of the celes-
tial globe. What can be the origin of the first? Three nymphs
placed round a tree
that bears golded apples, of which they have the
disposition and management; a
dragon that watches to interdict the
use of and access to this admirable fruit, to any other ; a wild goat that
browzes on the grass at the foot of the tree ; or instead of the goat, a
46 DOGMAS Asn eusroms of
horn ofnbnndance placed either at the foot ofthe tree or in the hand of
one of the three nymphs. This is the picture of the garden of the
Hesperides.
'
The picture, is nothing more than the ancient symbol ofthe rich
commerce ol' which the Phenicians made the preparations in winter.
It was the commerce of Hesperia or of the western countries, particu-
larly of Spain, whence they drew exquisite wines, rich metals, and that
supcrfine wool which the Syrians dyed in purple, (See Diod, and Strab,
or Spert, :le la. nal, vol. 4. part 2, dialog. 2.) They brought back
the finest com from the coast of Africa; and when they went round
the continent through the Red Sea, they exchanged all sorts of iron-
ware, knives, and edge-tools, for ebony and other precious woods, for
gold dust and provisions of all kinds. This branch of their commerce
was the most esteemed of all. It was the chiefobject that did then take
up the thoughts of the Phenicians; nor did they fail to expose the
public sign of it in the assemblies. One may easily guess at the
meaning of that tree which afforded such precious things. The great
dragon that surrounded the tree, tumed the mind of the beholders to
the subsistence and benefits whereof it was the sign. The capricorn,
or
barely one horn of this animal placed at
the foot of the tree, was the
character of the season. The three moons during which the compa-
nies were formed, had their name of Hesperidcs, or- Hesperia, as well s
all the West, from the word which signifies the good share, the best lot.
(--csper, 2 Sam. 6: l9.)
The public sign, used upon this occasion, was doubtless three golden balls, having
reference to the three moons, personified by three nymphs, in which the companies were
brmed, the figure and color corresponding with those ofthe full moon. Aa allusion
may also be made to the gold dust and other precious articles, thc but lot, will the
Phenicians received in exchange for their merchandise.
The Lombards, 'the money-lenders of former times, are said to have adopted this
sign for their ollices; and pawn-brokers still use it, to designate their profession. I
am sensible that some writers conjecture the golden apples of the Hesperides to be
nothing more than oranges; but it hardly probable that an article of so little value,
in a mercantile point of view, should have given rise to the fable.
Hercules is a name of the sun, and his relcaving Atlas of his burden, alludes to his
dhsolving the snow with which Atlas or the mountain of Moritania was loaded.
Mercury, Hermes, Camillus.
We have now a
pretty large number of very famous men and
women, which ve, methinks, have an
acquired right to strike out of
'run .Neu;N'r euvrrxms. 47
history. We must no longer inquire into their country, antiquity, or
genealogy, since we have proved that they all of them are
nothing more
than the Osiris, _the Isis, and the Horus of Egypt ; that is, the three
principal keys of the ancient writing, or the simbols of the solar, the
civil, and the rural year.
`
We know a fourth key, viz. the Thot or Taaut, that is the dog.
Thence again springs a multitude of kings and gods, of whom we shall
in few words find out and explain the names, ranks, and imployments.
The Egyptians in after~times, no doubt, made him one oftheir kings,
who had been transported into this fine star. They give him as the
son of Menes, and the grandson of Osiris, and ascribe the invention of
the symbolical characters to him. They say, that he was the counsel-
lor of Menes, whom he assisted in the regulation of their feasts. But
this fine story had no other foundation than the report that went among
the Egyptians of old, that Thot introduced the Manes, and renewed the
`procla.mationst And indeed he opened the year, since that always
began at the rising of the dog-star.; whence the first of their months
had the name of Thot. It was out of mere superstition, that the Egyp-
tians forbore calculating exactly the sacred or civil year, when they
began to know that besides the 365 days, there remained a
quarter of a
day to be added to complete the revolution of a
year. Four quarters of
a
day overlooked, made a wh6'le day in four years' time ; and neglec-
ing to intercalate that day at the four years' end, and to reckon 366,
instead of 365, their civil year on this account began one
day too soon,
and by retrogradation differed a whole day from the calculation ofthe nat-
ural year. The beginning of the sacred year went successively therefore
through every one ofthe days of the natural year in the space of 365,
times four years, which make 1460 years. They fancied they blessed
and made all the seasons to prosper, by making them thus enjoy one
afler another the feast of Isis, which was celebrated along with that of
the dog-star ; though it was
frequently very remote from that constel-
lation : and it wus in consequence of the ancient custom of celebrating
the feast of Isis, or the renewal ofthe year at the exact rising ofthe dog
star, that they allerwards, in whatever season that feast might fall, to he
sure, introduced, not only the figure of a dog, but even real and live dogs,
which always preceded the chariot of Isis (Died, l. l.) ; a circumstance
which I beg my reader to take a
particular notice of' Thus in after-
times they took aispecial pleasure in introducing a marvellous and
mysterious air into every thing. The calculation just mentionedrand
many others which they had received from the priests their predeces~
48 nooaus /tsp cusrons or
sors, were things of the utmost plainness. They, in process of time,
mistook them for the durations of the several kings whom they quar-
tered in the dog-star and other celestial bodies.
0
One had lived 1460
years ; another had reigned so
many thousands of years together.
The astronomical observations grounded on several suppositions and
combinations of the stars, were one of the chief imployments of the
priests. These calculations found in the registers of the most laborious
among the leamedbeing always joined with names of men, such as
Anubis, Thot Menes Osiris and others whom they lodged in the stars
passed for the term ofthe terrestrial lxfe of these gods Such rs indeed
the true ongm of that antiquity of the Egyptian history which they
trace back so
very high Their ancient kings are nothing more than
the names of the stars, and the pretended duration oftheir hves is
only
a
supputatxon of the ttme necessary to bnng again a
planet to that pomt
ofthe heavens from which ll had begun xts course Thus they made
as wronga use of their astronomical computations as they had done of
their writing
Let us not m mentxonmg the retrogradatxon of the feast of Isis and
the return of that feast at the nsxng of the dog-star at 1460 years end,
omit one observation mz that they looked upon the l46lst year as
prlvlleged as a
year of plenty and rlelsgltts It was because this so
important an event, according to them concurred with the desired
Etesian wind that they expressed the whole by a bird of singular
beauty that raised admiration more than any ofthe rest, and returned
to Egypt atter an absence of 1460 years, (Tam Afmal, 6) They
farther said, that this bird came thlther to die upon the altar ofthe sum
and that out of its ashes there rose a little worm, that gave birth to a
bird perfectly like the precedmg They called xt Phcemx, which sig
mfies the advantage they pretended was annexed to the concurrence of
the opening of the year with the real rising of the dog-star, I mean
the mast
delzgltgful plenty (-plwnek delunu abundans Prov 26,
21 ) We then have here again another emblematic figure convened
into awonderwlneh it would Imvebeen acnmeto doubt of.
tinestarnear Cancer underthenams _of T1mterofAuub|s. andvefy
well employed in swellm'g and smkxng thenver Nile. the other wholly
intent upon physnc, and entxrely taken up with the care of peoples
»-»-m""""".-'¢'m""'
""
§v."'T.?.°a'f.'.i" sat2°"'"" """"'°'" """""
Dgtgdbycoo le
'
1 0
'
I
'
4
V
l A
`
i
i
I'
`
The dog-stay has
already_aEorded_ius residing in the
4
`
.
V'
.
A
A, ~.
'
» _
,
Y-.. V
_
.'_" _
`
|,i W _
|
`
f.
' '
_
A _
for ,_ '_
'run Aucnwr aovrruus. 49
health under the name of Esculapius. Next to Anubis and 1Escula-
pius, let us now see the Camillus of the Heturians, the Janus of the
Latins, the Hermes of the Greeks, and the Mercury of the Phenicians,
all of them rising out of the same figure. The observation of the dog-
star was not only justly denoted by the figure of a serpent, the symbol
of the life it had procured the Egyptians, but having besides procured
them abundance or rather a superabundance of corn, which enabled
them to help foreigners and to enrich themselves by the selling of their
commodities, the figure of Anubis was often accompanied by a full purse
the sight whereof filled the people with joy ; and this procured it the
new title of Mercury, which signifies the dealer, or the intriguing, the
cunn
ing, or only commerce.
A new
proof that Mercury was no more than a
symbol of the dog.
star or of the warning of the retreat, and not a man that ever taught or
invented any thing, is, that they put into his hand the mark of the swell-
lng of the Nile, and at his feet the wings, intimating the necessity of
escaping the inundation by a
speedy fiight.
The mark of the rising of the water was a
pole crossed; a
very
plain symbol indeed ; and the serpent twisted round it had, in the hand
of this figure, no other meaning than elsewhere. It always signiied
the life, the subsistence. When double, it denoted subsistance in very
great plenty, and such as was sufiicient both for the Egyptians and for-
eigners. This pole was terminated with two little wings; the symbol
ofthe wind that regulated the increase of the waters. All which signifi-
cations were forgoten, and the monitor becoming a
god as well as the
other figures, they changed his name of Anubis, the barker, into that of
Hannadi, the orator. (Hamnobealt, Isai. lvi. l0,) His gesture and the
stick he had in his hand helped on this metamorphosis. It was taken
for the mark of a leader, an embassador. Hence the title of guide, of
inspector of the roads, of messenger of good news, and so
many the
like that were given Mercury, and of which we find a collection in
Geraldi's history of the gods. Hence came the roads under his pro-
tection, and of placing his statue at the entrance of the highways.
But what can be the origin of the name of Caduceus given to Mer-
cury's rod I
In the East, any person preferred to honors bore s
sceptre' or staH'
*The proof of this is f ently mel with in Scripture. When the tribes murmured
at seeing the priesthood serlailzd in the family of Aaron, the chiefs of the tribes received
orders to bring their seepters into the tabernacle. The soeptsr ot' Levi borne by Aaron
wu found in bloom the next day; and the Scripture observes, that the otha' chick
took beck their soeptsre qr ltlvol of command.
7
50
T
DOUHAI AND CUSTOII or
of honor, and sometimes-a plate of gold on the forehead called cadorlt
or cadaceus,
°
signifying s.
sacred person, (--cadosh sanctus, rrparaf
tus.) to inform the people that he who bore this rod or mark was
a
public man, who might go hither and thither freely, and whose per-
son was inviolable. Such is the origin of the name given to M¢rcury'|
wand. Thus they made the guide of travelers, the interpreter, (---
interpres, namcius sacar,) and deputy of the gods, of a figure whose
otiice they confusedly knew was to warn people of being gone. Being
wholly ignorant of the relation between this long measure and the Nile,
it was
every where converted into an embassador's staff that there
might be some connexion between the envoy and the wand he
earried.
Instead ofthe measure of the Nile, they very often put into his hand a
key, and gave him two fizces, one of a
young man, the other of a man
in years; incompassing the whole with a
serpent having his tail in his
mouth. The serpent symbol of life or of time, here signifies the year
that makes a
perpetual circle, and the revolution of the stars coming
again to the point of the heavens from which they began their course
the year before. Our door-keeper who here shuts up the concluding
year, and opens the new, is no other than the dog-star, whose rising or
disengaging from the rays of the sun pointed out the new solar year.
I say solar, or natural, because it happened for reasons before stated,
that the beginning of the sacred year went through every one of the
seasons. But they still observed the custom of making the god Anubis
who was the door-keeper of the feasts, to precede the pomp of Isis_
which was the first feast ofthe year ; whence it appears, that the whole
was rather astronomical than historical. This undoubtedly is the Janus
of the Latina, who had the same attributes with the name of door-keeper_
His ordinary companion good king Picus, with his hawk's head, has
* A similar plate decorated the chief
psiest
of the Israelites. '
The
highr;priest
wore
aplase of old upon his forehead, on w 'ch were engraven these two wo_ s
Koduch
layhorah, 51st is
Hal;
to the Lord. It was tied with a purple or blue nbbon to his
tiara, which was ma e of linen, like those of the other priests, and was only distin-
guished hom them
by
this plate and ribbon. There was in every
'synnsgoise
a sort of
minister, who read t e prayers, directed the reading of the law, and
preac
ed, he was
called chaza that is, inspector or bishop. See Dr. A. Clark's Hist. srael 2%-7.
Thereis andegree in masonry called "
a chapter ot' the
gland Irupeclpre o
loddges,
or
grand elected knights of Kadmh 7" who seem to have rrowed their title an func-
|l0ll` as Inspectors from those of the Egyptian Mercury- The badge bome by Mercury
appears to be alluded toby the manner ofansweringthe question,
"
Arc you Kadosh ?" upon
which the person questioned places his hand upon his forehead, and says,
"
yes, I am."
'Ute sacred words are Nell-am Adanai ;which
probablyihave
the same signiheation as the
words engraved on the plate wom by the Jewish hig priest ; Adonaior Adonis mean-
ing'}'¢;L:l.-7'Hiis degrtpo lgstparticulsrly pgtreed. h
_
IHIYHI 'Om Y 6 YB!! IIIIIO In O IIC degree, ll mffbll'
dad with the words /datum 5 alle lard.-szdcclw'
'run n|c|lN'|' KBYPTIANI. 51
so much the air of an Egyptian, that we cannot doubt but that Egypt
not Latiurn, wasthe country of both.
Anubis considered as a
symbol, was in reality the rule of the feasts,
and the introducer of all the symbolical figures that were
successively
shown to the people during the whole year. When a god, he was
made inventor and regulator of these feasts. Now these solemnities
were called the manes, that is, the regulations, the signs, the cnsigns,
because the Hgures there presented to the assistants were
originally
designed to regulate the works of the people. This they made the
noblest function of Anubis; and it was with regard to this frivolous
opinion, that the pomp of Isis was
always preceded by a dog. But the
neomenize of each season, and the particular feasts that went before or
that followed each harvest having peculiar names that distinguished
them, the general word of stones, ensigns or images, was still the name
of the funeral assemblies, which were
frequently repeated,and the names
of manee, images sirnaulcres, and dead persons were confounded. Thus
Mercury, who opened and :hut the manes,(--, manium dux, doctor
animarum,) became the leader of the dead. He conducted the souls with
a high hand. Theking or the shepherd must indiscriminately fol-
low the troop. He opened the melancholly abodes to them, shut these
again without remorse, and took away the key, not permitting any
one to escape. (Tun oirgam mpit. Hao animas ille evocet area)
This again is what the Phenicians and the .Arcadians meant, when
they called himCyllenius, a word which signifies the shutting or one
that conclude: the year, and who _#aisles for ever the duration of life.
The people were persuaded, that he invented music, the lyre, wred-
ling, and all the exercises that form the body because all these things
being inseperably annexed to the ancient feasts, he was
thought the
regulator of them as well as of the feasts, he of course introduced
every thing belonging to them. »
As to the genealogy of Mercury, it confirms all we have mid. Hg
is the son of fair Maia, and grandson of Atlas. Maia is the Pleias or
the cluster of stars known even
by the vulgar, and placed on the back
of the bull. The eastern nations called these stars Mmah, which sig-
nifies the hundred, the multitude. The Greeks sometimes retained
their first name, and called them Maia; sometimes translated this
word by those of Pleiades and Pleione, which likewise signify ilu
multitude. These so very remarkable stars being most Gt to regulate
the smdy of the heavens, and being the first that struck the eye bdble
the rising of the dog-star, of which they thus became the forernnnené
52 Domus AND cusrols or
they, together with the Hyades, were the first in the knowledge of
which the Egyptian priests took care to instruct their young pupils, in
the sphere of Atlas. This symbol being once become a god, all his
instructions were embellished with histories as well as he. The stars,
that served as a rule to know the others by, became the beloved daugh-
ters of doctor Atlas. Maia disengaged herself at that time from the
rays of the sun in Gemini, that is, in the month of May, to which she
seems to have given her name. The finest star that clears itself a month
or somewhat more after from the rays of the sun, is the dog-star or the
Anubis, of which they were pleased to make Maia the mother, because
the star of Anubis was the first that succeeded her.
Dcedalus.
It was the custom in Egypt to say, when the dog-star or Anubis
was
represented with large hawk's wings, that the water would be ofa
su$cient height, and there would be a
certainty of a
plentiful har-
vest. On this occasion Anubis was called Daadalus, which signifies a
sujcient height, or a sufficient depth.
All the ancients agree that Dzedalus was an ingenius architect-
They ascribe to him the invention of the compasses and the square.
They farther add, that to him mankind is indebted for statuary ; they
even characterize the nature ofthe progress which this noble art made
under him, by circumstances which render the thing very credible.
Before Dadalus, and to his very time, according to Diodorus Siculus.
"
Statues had their eyes shut, and their hands close to their sides. But
Dzedalus taught men how to give them eyes, to separate their legs, and
to clear their hands from their body. Which procured him the general
admiration."
But by misfortune, both the history and the statues with their feet
united, become the proof of the origin I here assign to Dzedalus. The
compasses and square, of which he is made the inventor, are no other
than the compasses and square that were put into the hands of Anubis
or Horus, to warn the husbandmen to be in readiness to measure their
lands, to take angles in order to distinguish them from the lands of
others. Thus he was made the inventor of the symbolical instruments
they saw in his hands. The statues whose hands and feet are
frequently
swathed, and which are found in the cabinets of our virtuosos, are no
other than the statutes of Osiris, Isis, and Horus, such as
they were
presented to the people at the time of the inundation. There was
nothing then to bedone, and the inaction was universal. The intire
Till ANCIENT EGYPTIANI. 53
cessation of the rural works could not be better intimated, than by a
Horus swathed or deprived of the use of his feet bythe inundation, and
using onlyhis arms to point out the measure of the water, a vane to
shew the wind, another instrument- to take angles, and a horn to pro-
claim the general surveying.
The Cabiri of Samothmcia.
The three principal igures of the Egyptian ceremonial were carried
to Berytus in Phenicia, and thence into several Islands ofthe 1Egean sea.
Their worship became very famous, especially in Lemnos, and in
the island of Samothracia, which lies very near it. They were called
there the Cabiri, (--l cabirim, patentee.) meaning the powerful
gods: and their name of Cabiri, which is Phenician, was as much
Med in Egypt as in Phenicia itself: which is a
standing proof of the
mixture of the Phenician terms with the Egyptian language, if the
ground of both be not exactly the same.
The figures of these gods being originally designed to make up a
certain sense, by a collection of several pieces that very seldom meet
together, could not but have a
very odd, if not a
very ridiculous air in
the eyes of such as did not understand their meaning. The foliages,
horns, wings, and spheres, so
commonly found on the heads of Osiris,
Isis and Horus, could not but amaze or raise the laughter of such as
were not accustomed to them. Herodotus observes, that the Cabiri,
as well as the same
figure of Vulcan, were the diversion of Cambyses,
when he entered their temple and that of the forging deity.
They often add to these a fourth god, whom they sometimes call
Mercury, sometimes Camilus or Casmilus, which among the Heturians
and in latium signified a minister or a messenger. In all which it is
plain, that we again meet with the four principal keys of the ancient
Egyptian writing, changed on accouut of their human figure into so
many tutelar and powerful gods.
The names of the Cabiri, with their lignineations, are thus given in Anthon'| Claes.
Diet. :-"Axierol is said to have lignilied in Egyptian, the all powerful one ;-Axioltersos
is made to denote the grealfecundalor ;-Axeokersn is consequently the great fecun-
datri.:-; lhdCllll`|.lllllh¢1d|0|l¢l1d|bQf01'¢Ul¢ deity, orhc whobehddc thefaceqfthl
ddpyjl
'hadnt answers to the Supreme Intelligence; the second t»o0siris the sun; the
thirdtelsisg and the fourth wAnubil.
54 noerus Asn cusrols or
Apollo, the Muses, and the Graces.
Notwithstanding the variety which thecaprice of private men and
the difference of tastes have introduced into the Egyptian ceremonial.
and among the signs that served to proclaim whatever was of concern
to the public, we find every where thesame grounds, because the wants
of all men were the same, and their practices were founded on these
wants. After the sense of those emblems had been so far perverted as
to change the significant Hgures into so
many deities solely taken up
with the care of supplying all the wants of the Egyptians, or ofinform-
ing them of all their concerns; each province paid special worship to
one or the other of the figures. For instance, the some places they
honored Apollo holding in his hand a
lyre. This so very plain a
symbol of the feasts, having been taken for a
deity presiding over har-
mony,° the other figures which attended him to denote the several cir-
cumstances of each season, were taken in a sense
agreeable to the
notion they had framed to themselves of Apollo. The nine Isises which
proclaimed the menomeniae, or the first days of every one of the nine
months, during which Egypt is freed from the inundation, bore in
their hands symbols peculiar or suitable to each of these months; as
for instance, a
pair of compasses, a flute, a
trumpet, a mask, or some
other attribute, to denote the feast that preceded the surveying of the
lands that had been overflowed, or some other solemnity. All these
figures in reality informed men of what they were to do. They had a
general confused remembrance that these were their functions. But
being once become goddesses, people imagined that they had the super-
intendance of music, geometry, astronomy, and of all sciences. They
were united in a chorus to the musician Apollo; and instead of seeing
in the instruments they bore the peculiar characters of the feasts and
works of each month, men took them for the specific marks of all fine
and delicate arts, and even helped on this fancy, by adding a
part of
the emblems. They were called in Egypt the Nine Muses: which
,__tl_(__
°
The author, it seems, was not sensible of the propriety of this title ;,but none could
be more appropnate for the inhabitants ofthe northem climates to bestow upon Apollo,
the sun of the upper helrusphsre. as before
noticeduigs
well described the
complaints that would naturally occur, in consequence of the a nee of the sun in the
winter season : What has become of the happy temperature which the earth enjoyed
m the summer? that harmony of the
elapientc which accorded with that of the,'heave.ns 'P
that nchness, that beaut of our ields, etc.
All toedthish tate fh' d `hthf be
.¢,1,§°..LZ' ,»..L
- -
.§'Z¥¥..1'f.m,Z þÿ'-»`¥¬2'
2.2¢ °'?'li¢"..rI"'».¢.s¢°'°'"li';°"2l'°§'.l`1 or
music
by
a natural allusion to the movements of the planets and the mysterious har-
mony o the spheres." (Anthon's Class. Diet.)-Edu.
THE ANCIENT
FUYPTIANB. 55
signifies the nine months rescued from the waters, or delivered from
the inundation : an
etymology whose exactness is demonstrated in the
name of Moses, or Mose, which signifies saved from the waters, disin-
gaged, freed from the waters. Such was the common name
they
always retained. But the Greeks, among whom this chorus of deities
was introduced, gave each of them a
proper name. Those names if
they are taken out of their language, conformably to the ridiculous
notions they entertained of these figures, are no manner of information to
us, and are not worth our
translating. Near the nine Isises that
denoted the nine months in which people might go up and down, and
act at liberty, appeared also the three Isises, that represented the three
months 'during which the water remained on the plains, and hindered
the free correspondence of one
city with another. They were drawn
sometimes in swathings, and incapable of making any use either of
their feet or arms
; sometimes half women and half lizards, or half
fishes; because men must then remain on the land by the water-side.
In fine, (and this lastform was more to the liking of the Greeks,) they
were represented as three idle sisters, without any attribute. holding
one another by the hand; because theydenoted the inaction ofthe three
months of inundation, that succeeded each other without interruption.
And as these three months broke off the ordinary correspondence of
one
city with another, at a time when they had not as
yet raised the,
magnificent causeways that have since been made; the three Isises
proclaiming the neomenim, of these months of total separation, were
called C1t¢ritout,° that is, the divorce, the time of the separation,
This word had a relation of sound with the word eltariter, which
in Greek signilies sometimes the thartksgivings, sometimes the favours,
or a. courteous behaviour. Which gave occasion to the Greek poets
to imagine, that these three goddesses presided over gratitude and out-
ward charms.
Notwithstanding all the care
every city had taken in the month of
June to supply itself with necessary provisions, they could not on
many
occasions do without the assistance ofeach other, and they had recourse
to the conveniency of barks and sails. The bark with its sail was
represented in Egypt and Phenicia under a figure of a
winged steed.
On this account it was that the people of Cadis, who were
originally
of Phenician extraction, anciently gave a
ship, whether large or small,
*F -elm at. aboeinder comes_- þÿdter ¬toutrepudium,acissio,theintsr-
mptionrgtlpoommeredi See thewoid Uuritaut. Isai. 50: I. ds Dent. 24: l.
56 nofznus /mn cusrols or
the name of a horse ;° and speaking of their barks, they called them their
horses. What can be then the meaning of Pegassus, or the winged horse
set by the side of the three Graces and the nine Muses 2 If these god-
desses preside over gratitude and the sciences, our winged horse becomes
unintelligible. But if our Charites are the three months of separation,
or the interruption of the free correspondence of one
city with another,
in this case indeed Pegassus comes to our assistance; and if the nine
Muses are the nine Hgures that publish what is to be done during the
nine months in which Egypt is freed from the waters, then indeed the
winged horse, that is, the boat, becomes a
symbol of the end of naviga-
tion, and of the return of the rural works. They therefore gave this
figure the name of Pegassus, which signifies the and of navigatiomf
according to the style of the Phenician people testified by Stabro, the
conveniency of navigation.
An Egyptian or Phenician colony, that had all these figures in the
ceremonial of its religion, brought them along with it to Phocis in the
neighborhood of Mount Parnassus and of Delphos. They had for cer-
tain no meaning there, being no
way related to any thing belonging to
that country. But they had been long honored, together with their
president Apollo, as so
many bountiful deities: which was suHicient to
perpetuate the use of these figures, and of the pretty stories which had
been devised to account for all.
It will not be improper, in order to strengthen what has been said,
to observe, that in the ancient figures the three Graces are often seen
under the conduct of Mercury, because the rising of the dog-star in
Egypt is succeeded by the three months of inundation ; and the
nine Muses under the conduct of Apollo, because Horus, or
working,
makes its use and benefit of the nine following months.
But why did this Apollo pronounce oracles, and foretel future events 7
This was its first destination and appointment. Horus served only to
inform people by his attributes, of what was to be done or
expected ac~
cording to the winds and years. People never forgot, that these Hgures
were the signs and regulaitons that guided the works ofman : but when
they were once made gods; instead of lookng upon them as convenient
indications and tokens, whereby persons of great expenence regulated
° Gaditarorum merealoraa
'
calibur uti uavibua, uperer param', qua; aqua; appel-
lenl. Strab. geograpb. l. 2. pigedit. Reg.
Pa
1' From -
pug, canal, otiatur ; and from- nu, cursor mais, come: -paganu.
navigationia intermiuio. The head of a
stead'-put
on the shoulders of Isis, (Patna,
in Armd.) with a fish inone hand and doves in e other, was evidently the roclamaf
tion of a feast that opened the navigation, when the mn left the sign Pices, aus brought
on the Zsphyrs, the gentlcness of which was denoted by the dove.
'ras snctnrr aovrnsss. 57
the works of the people, and beforehand pointed out to them what was
to be done from one month to another, they fancied that these figures
were
acquainted with future events, and gave informations about them.'
The author, it appears to me, is here in error. Apollo was a god, the sun, before
the invention of the symbols that indicated his movements in the heavens, and the
state of the seasons, which regulated the labors of man. Nor do I perceive the pro-
priety of naming these symbols Horus, or Apollo, any other appelation would answer
equally well. When Appollo had become personilied by means of the popular religion
that govemed the opinions of men at the time, he then, "Instead of being the god
from whom eminste fecundity and increase, is a simple shepherd, conducting the herds
,of another. Instead of dying and arising again to life, he isever young. Instead of
scorching the earth and its inhabitants with his devouring rays, he darts his fearful
arrows from his quiver of gold. Instead of announcing the future in the mysterious
language of the planets, he prophesies in his own name. Nor does he any longer
direct the hannony of the spheres by the notes of his mystic lyre, he has now an
instrument, invented by Mercury and perfected by himseltl The dances too of the stars
cease to beconducted by him; for he now moves at the head of the nine muses, the
strings of his divine cithara, the divinities who preside each over one of the liberal
arta" (Constant, de la Religion.-Anthon's Class. Dict.)
Nyobe. y
Niobe, the poets say, proud of her own fruitfulness insulted Lawns,
but Appollo punished her by slaying her fourteen children with his
arrows. She never could be comforted ; and the gods out of compas-
is on changed her into arock. Latona or the lizard, or the figure which
is half woman and half lizard, signifies the retreat of the 'Egyptians to
the higher groundsj
Nyobe signifies the sojourn of the enemy. or of the river overflow-
ing the plain. From 1-
nnalt, habitares to sojourn ; and from -ob,
exundation, tumor, comes l
Nyob, more exundationis.
The insult Nyobe gives Latona is the necessity she lays the Egyp-
tians under of flying like amphibious animals, to terraces surrounded
with water. The fourteen children of Nyobe, are the fourteen cubils
that mark the several increases of the Nile, (Strab. l. 17.) These
°
Possibly this has procured Horus-Apollo the title of Pmm or Pzana, revelatar,
tluinterpretér qf hidden things, the oracle. It is the same name Pharoah gave Joseph
In his
toraqpe.
He called him (Genes. 41 : 45 ;) taaphat pmanach, theinterpreter of sacred
things. _
ese
Egyptian words have a vast relation with the two of the Pheniciau lau-
guafe
which signify the same thing,
-
to
observe, to perceive, and- tsaplum to hide.
The tigures of Anubis and Isis are sometimes attended
byia tortoise, a duck or sn
srntphibtous
The
nsturrl
ofthsss
animal;
is to
heap
wit in
ragga
both of
tihelagld
an wstar,w arefrequen neeessaryto em,an to tto ergruun as
water rises. This was the symbol borne bythe Egyptian I3 at the approach of the
overflow, and she was than called Leto, or Lstona, which is the name of the
tous This Isis,
havin?
the head and shoulders of a woman, with the paws, y
and tatlofalatoorlissriis oundin themonumentsof antiquity.
8
58 noonas sun cusrous or
fourteen cuhits are still seen represented by fourteen children, disposed
one above another upon the feet and arms of the figure of the Nils,
now standing in the Tuileries. ,
Niobe, in short, is changed into a stone. Here lies the eqnivocation.
The sojourn of the enemy becomes the preservation of Egypt, sltelap.
But the same word, disguised bya slight alteration into that of sltelatn
signifies a stone, (3 sltelav, salus, -
shelww, silex.) Understand-
ing no
longer what was meant, by the mother of the fourteen children,
changed into preservation, or become the preservator of Egypt, they
metamorphosed her into a rock, and her eyes into two fountains, that
continue to shed tears for the death of her dear litmily.
The following remarks of Mr. Mackey areingenious and plausi-
ble. Ifhis derivation of Tantalus be correct, it completely developes
the`Drigin of this celebrated personage.
"
Nyobe was the symbol ct' the Nile ; whosefaurtaen children show that the water
of the Nile rosefourtcen cubih above the land, which being dried up by the rays of the
sun, it was said that Appollo, that is, the sun, slew the fourteen children with his
arrows. Ovid reckons up the pedigree of Nyobe with much precision, andtells us har
father's name was Tantalum-
-
"
The lower part of Egypt, that is, the Delta, was formerly a gulf of the ses, which
was filled up in the nm of some thousand ages by the sediment brought down by tho
Nilafrom Ethiopia- Nyobe then is the daughter of 'a high country ; but Ethiopia on
account of its being a
high country, is called in their language, Tnndalus, from Tm
a country, and dalah high. Thus Tantalus, a high country, was the father of Nyobe,
a low country-the sediment of the one having produced the other.
"
It isfurther said, that Tantalus was punished in' hell with stemal thirst, while hs
stood dtin deep in water- But do we not know that Tandalus, that is, Ethiopia is all
arid country, notwithstanding all the fertilizing water of the Nile runs through it."
Although it rains in Ethiopia for several months almost continually, s portion of the
yearissaidtobsverydryand sickly.
`
Argus.
A
The explication of the foregoing fable '
assists us in the undel-
standing another, wl1ich,puerile as it is, has often exercised the greatest
poets and the best painters : I mean the fable of Argus.
Juno, provoked at the conduct of her husband, took from him mir
Isis, and having tumed her into a heifer, committed her to the vigilance
of Argus, who had a hundred eyes, some of which were awake, while
the rest slept. But Mercury by his songs lulled all the eyes of the
guardian asleep, and carried 06 Isis. What can this tale relate to?
If I am not mistaken, the origin of it is this :
°'l`hatoftheArgcrnanrs,wlnch'sh elusive! b Dupms,' contrary
to our llllllbfl axplication, to be purzly
Y Y
'rua nwisur IBYPTIANI- 59
Weaving was famous at Athms, in the island Amorgos, and. in
Colchis, as well as in
`
Isis, the symbol of feasts, when she proclaimed the neomenim, and
ether solamnities of the winter and the spring, was attended by a Horus
it to characterize the kind of work which was to last for six months
together. This Iigure was covered all over with eyes, to mark out the
peculiar kind of work which is done by night ; and it was because this
Horus intimated the necessity of watching to forward the making of
cloth, that he was called Argus, which means the weavefrs work! The
Isis, after having quitted the homs, of the wild goat, whereby she deno-
ted the winter, assumed during the whole spring those of a heifer.
because it is properly the passing of the sun under the sign of the bull.
that constitutes in the temperate zone the true beauty of that delightful
season. The vernal Isis, the handsome heifer, thus remained several
months together under the eyes of Argus, or
by the side of the open-
eyed Horus, till the latter was removed, and the heifer carried away by
Mercury ; that is, till the nightly works, spinning and the making of
cloth, were over, by the rising of the dog-star or Anubis. The people
jesting upon these figures, forged the fable of Isis changed into aheifer,
of her guardian Argus, and of the notable exploit of Mercury. who on
this account was surnamed Argiphontes, the murderer of Argus. We
ind in Pierius, that the Egyptians gave also the name of Argus to the
peacock that was
by the side of Juno or Isis ; and in the mythologists,
that Juno, after the death of Argus, took the eyes he had 'about him,
and therewith embellished the tail of the bird that was consecrated to
her. This peacock placed near Isis, is only an attribute fit to denote
the beginning of the nightly works, by an agreeable imitation either of
the starry heaven, or rather of a multitude of eyes kept incessantly
open. The name of Argus, viz. of weaving, it then went by, is a
proof of this, and shews the intention of the ensign.
'
.
Circé.
The same Isis carried into Italy with her several attributes, gave
birth to arfable of quite another turn. There she became the sorcereu
Circe, who with her wand turned men into lions, serpents, birds, swine
and any other ligure she was
pleased to give them. From what can
men
imagine stories like this? The mythologists thought she was an
°
---argvlhorargos,
thf wuzsers
work.
words --
,
r
general to rea o work,
of spinning þÿlh? f`505lub ¬IIlg
the moi eomrnoiifp
60 DOGIAI AND CUl'l`0ll 0|
emblem of voluptuonsness, that brings men down to the condition of
beasts. It was diflicult to say any thing more reasonable, when they
neglected to inquire into the true origin of these fictions. Circe is no
other than the Egyptian Isis, who sometimes with a measure of the
Nile, sometimes with a weaver's beam, a distaiil or a lance, always
appeared with some distinction in the public proclamations. She was
always accompanied with the figures of Horus and others, that varied
from month to
month, and often from day to day. She was
the princi-
pal part of the enigma, to which all the other enigmatic emblems were
subordinate. She was
every where to be met with, and had always by
her side and under her wand, sometimes a man with a
dog's head,
sometimes a lion, then a
serpent or a tortoise, sometimes a whole child,
at another time a child's head upon the body of a
serpent, and succes-
sively the animals of the zodiac, and others, that denoted the return of
the different rural works. In a word, she converted all that were near
her into several animals. The Isis and her whole attendance was then
really a riddle to be found out, an emblem to he explained. But what
signifies Circe Cl Even the wrapper, the enigma, (circ, involucrunt.)
Let us
proceed farther. Isis very probably was not called Circe on
any other account but that of the circ, or solar circle she commonly
wore over her head. That circle was the emblem of the Supreme
Being, of whom Isis proclaimed the several feasts But why was this
sun called circ, the enigma ? It is because God could not be painted
and a disc was the enigma of God. lt was the enigma par excellence
the circ. The place in Italy, to which this Isis with her circle over
the head was brought and honored of old, is still called Mbntc Circello.
To proclaim certain feasts or sacrifices, that were celebrated perhaps'
in the evening at the rising of the new moon, or in the morning at the
rising of some star, or of the planet Venus, when it is admirably splen-
did, a little before the dawning of Aurora, they put over the head of Isis
instead of the disc of the sun, that of a star, or of the known planet, a
crescent, or a full moon. These figures, and the prayers that were sung
in the old language at the return of each feast, made them imagine that
Circe, by her inchantments, or
by some
mysterious words, had the power
of making the stars and the moon come down upon the earth. It is
equally evident,that the several foliages she bore in her hand, or over
her head near the figure of the moon or of some other plannet, made,
the people say, that the properties of these plants were admirable ; and
;hat it was from a knowledge of their virtues that Circe was able to
make both heaven md earth submit to her power. The figure seemed
I
'rln ntcnwr sovrrlatls. Q1
to intimate this, and they believed it. This afterwards became the priv-
ilege of common
witches; and the people is still persuaded, that the
sorceresses at their pleasure dispose of heat, cold, hail, and all nature.
This figure of Circe, which ignorance from an enigma or
popular
ensign had converted_ into a witch that turns men into several animals,
and has the power of displacing the stars, relates very sensibly to the
enigmatic attributes of Isis, which were a sun, the moon, some stars,
certain extraordinary plants, and animals very often of a monstrous
kind. The rest of the fable, by its conformity with this interpretation,
completes the demonstration of its exactnem, Circe, or Isis, was so far
really the proclamation of the year, that she put on such clothes and
dresses as were agreeable to the four seasons. To announce the begin-
ing of spring, that overspread and enamels the earth with flowers and
verdure, she wore carpets of different colors. To denote the begin-
ning of summer, which nourishes us, she bore in her hand a basket
and a loaf ; to proclaim the autumn, she bore a
cup; and at the begin-
ing of vinter she bore a chahng-dish, or a stove with its foot. These
four figures gave birth to the fable mentioned by Homer, (Odyss. v.
350.)
that Circe had four maids, one of which spread the carpets of several
colors to recive the guests. the second prepared the table, and put large
baskets upon it, the third presented the cups, and the fourth kept up the
Ere on the hearth.
'
`
Proteus.
Proteus was the sign denoting the exchange of the Egyptian pro-
ducts for flocks, metals, wine, and other commodities which Phenician
ships brought into the island of Pharos, the only Egyptian port for-
merly of safe and easy access. These vessels there took in their pro-
visions of corn, fiax, and all the productions of Egypt. The annual
return of those ships to the confines of Egypt, was proclaimed by an
Osiris called Neptune. The Egyptians, who hated the sea, did not
worship Neptune; but they retained his name, which signities the
arrival of the jleet, and gave it to the borders of Egypt or the sea
coast. This we have from Plutarch. Proteus going to Pharos to sup-
ply the marine slceds (the vulgar name for ships or vessels) with every
thing, can be no other than the sale the Egyptians went to make of
their commodities, on the arrival of the Phenecian barks. This is
confirmed by the name Proteus, which signifies nothing but the abun-
dance of fruit and the productions of the earth.
'
From the name
- =~~i-*-?
I ll|um-- pqri, /rudus, comes --
poret, eopia fructuum. Genes. 49- 22-
Oi Domus sun currons or
Poret or Proteus evidently proceed the French words port and porter
because the fruits of the earth were the first object of transportation from
one coast to another. The feigning that Proteus, on his srival at the
port of Pharos, assumed many figures, arose from the variety of the
commodities there offered for sale by the Egyptians.
The Syrens.
All Greece and Italy were
by degrees filled with colonies and eus-
toms originally derived from Egypt or Phenicia; but the ritual, of
which Egypt itself had forgotten the meaning so far as to take Osiris
and Isis for deities, was
infinitely more disfigured among other nations;
and when asingle part of the Egyptian religion was
any where intro-
duced, it grew darker and darker, for want of being connected with
the other practices that served to compose the whole. The three lsises
that proclaimed the feasts during the three months of inundation,
being presented to the inhabitants, who seemed to become amphibious
by their long dwelling by the water-side, were sometimes halflwomen,
and half-lizard, or half-women and halftish; One of them had in her
hand an instrtunent of music rounded at top, and called Sistrum, which
was the symbol of the hymns, dances, and of the universal joy that
appeared throughout Egypt, when the Nile was of requisite height.
They sung and danced at that time, as is still practised in Cairo, and
all over
Egypt, on the like occasion. They called the woman that
carried the sistrum, the ringer of hymns, because her function was to
publish the good news, and the hymns of the great feast. This is
then the origin of the Syrens on the coast of Naples, whose name sig-
nifies to sing hymns. (From -_-
:hir hymns.: ; and from -
ronan, canere.) The figure given to all the three is exactly that of
our Isis. The number of the Syrens answers to that of the three
months of intmdation; and the sistrum bome by one of them has,
through ignorance, been converted into a looking-glass. As to what
is said, that they devoured the strangers, that presumed to come too
near in order to hear them ; this fable is grounded on what was
given
out, that the three Isises of the sQgimer were iiital to foreigners, whom
the gross and marshy air of Egypt used to carry oH§ when they exposed
themselves too much to it. M. de Maillet, and all travellers, agree
that the air of the houses is then suffocating, that no one can bear it
and that every body has tents on board the boats, to injoy a little cool
ness. It is therefore evident, that it was of very greet moment to for-
4
fill Auclnvr' xevrrntu. 6|
signals to avoidthe three Byrens. Let usnotleave thismatter without
observing, that this number of four nymphs forthe fourseasons, that of
three for the moons of each season apart, that of nine for the nine
months during which they work in Egypt, their attire, their hmctions,
and names, are things very plain, connected with each other, and equally
agreable both with nature and the monuments. Messieurs Bocharl Huet,le
Clerc, and other learned men, have thought upon these several subjects in
a very ingenious, and even sometimes very judicious manner. But what
they have said of them is destitute of connection. Facts do not favor
their opinion; and when they have made a few mythologies accessible
bythe help of a first key, they cannot leadus any further without hav-
ing recourse to a new
key, or without wresting the sense of every thing.
Ifwe use but one single key, and the bare idea of a
sign is sufficient to
introduce a sense, and some relations between figures so
utterly incohe-
rent, is it not because we are indeed arrived at their true original, and
have found out the common and general intention from which they
sprung 1
'
The Metamorpboses, and the Phantoms.
Alter these instances offables evidently proceeding partly from Egyp-
tianiigures and partly from the popular expressions, equivocations, or
pro-
verbs occasioned bythe sight of these figures ; we
haveacquired a
privi-
lege of asserting in general that from the same source, metamorphoses,
phantoms, and oracles sprung. `
All' and every one of the Egyptian figures had been established
only to proclaim the feasts and works to come. When they were
become so many gods, all these deities had the privilege of foretelling
future events; whence it happened, according to Herodotus, (In Euterp.
Mm. 52.) that Jupiter, Minerva, Apollo, Diana., Mars, and above all
Latona, pronounced oracles to the Egyptians. The oracle of Latona
became the most notable, because really Latona being originally no
other than the Isis, halilwoman hali1lizard, or the virgin Erigone united
toe lizard's body, to mark out the exact height of the increases of the
Nile, she was the most consulted of any figure. All eyes were ixed
upon this measure.
They addressed to Latona every day and every
hour. When she was at last made a
goddess, the people who consulted
her imagined, that she knew every thing. But we shall treat of this
matter apart, as there is nothing in point ofwhich it is so difiicult to make
men cast od' their ancient prejudice, as the predictions of futurity.
The same source from which the oracles sprung, has given birth
to phsntoms. The gods which men had forged to themselves, being
64 ooouss nu: cusrons or ~
for the most part hideous and monstrous figures, and the apprehension
of the evil they were reputed capable of doing, havingla greater share
in the religion of nations than confidence and the love of justice; men
represented to themselves their own deities, and the powers which they
dreaded, only under the ideas of figures bristling with serpents, armed
with claws or horns, very often with yawning wide-open jaws, and with
such an
aspect as could not but corrupt the imagination and reason of
children. These empty phantoms fostered in them a childish terror.
that lasted as
long as their lives.
It is no longer any task to guess at the general origin of metamor-
phoses. Egypt is evidently the source of them. A man with a dog,
wolf or lion's head ; a woman, who, instead of feet, has a lizard or a
&sh's tail ; a child with the body ofa serpent, and other the like figures
invented to supply the wants we have mentioned, being no longer
understood, they imagined as
many fables and miraculous changes as
there were of these compound figures. This relish for surprising
stories became universal in Phenicia, then in Greece, and all the world
over. The least equivocation, historical facts abriged, short and pro-
verbial expressions, all in short gave binh to some miraculous transfor'
mations.
This would be the proper place to explain the whole series of the
metamorphoses, and to recall them severallyto their peculiar originals.
I even conceive how several of them might be accounted for in a
very
plain manner. But it is enough for us to know how this odd taste
came to take root in Greece and other places. The particular exami-
nation of these innumerable extravagances would become tiresome to
my readers ; and far from being willing to clog them with a new train
of Phenician etymologies, I am
really very much afraid of having
already transgressed bounds, though I was
indispensably obliged to
follow this method. It is with ancient languages as with geometry;
they must be made use of when there is necessity ; but it is ridiculous
to treat of needless matters, merely for the sake of making a show of
erudition and geometrical learning.
T/be Genealogy of the Gods.
Though the Egyptians, by introducing great mysteries where than
were none, have disfiguredhistory and religion, yet we cannot deny,
them the glory of good regulations for polity and_public order. What-
ever was
necessary, and must be done in common, was not left to the
'ral ancllur novrrlaus. 65
freevrill of private persons, but fixed
to a certain time of the year, and
proclaimed by public signs. -
In the beginning of the spring, or at the return of the irst heats.-
which in Egypt come on in February, they clean ed their goods, houses
and stables. Every thing in a
decayed state, being of no use to the,
Egyptian lands which the Nile suiiiciently improved, was consumed
by fire.
This general purification was proclaimed by an Isis and a Horus,
who had names agreeable to to the work of the season. The Horus,
was called Our '
or Ourim, the _/ire, the fire-brands ; and the Isis wal
called Obs, 1 or Ops, mould or lwarincss. These puriiications which
were transmitted from coast to coast, are still in use all over Europe
towards the return of the fair weather in February or March ; and the
custom of lighting fires in the evening on certain days in the spring for
that purpose appointed, is still the amusement of youth in a multitude
of cities and villages, where they faithfully observe the old rubric
without knowing the reason of it. Even in Egypt, where the solemn
feasts, falling back one day every fourth year, appeared in seasons to
which they had no longer any relation, they forgot the motive of the
institution of the feast of the fire-brands, but they were
always faithful
in the observation of it. .
`
In the evening the inhabitants of Sais began their great feast with an
illumination. So soon as the neighboring towns saw it, they lighted
the like fires. Each did the same one after another, and all Egypt
took a
part in the feast by a general illumination. (Herodot. in
Euterp. n.
50.)
-
The moon of February, besides the visitation of houses, proclaimed
two other operations. The one consisted in scouring the canals and
chanels of the Nile; and the other, which immediately preceded the
harvests, was the decision of law-suits.
The priests, during the year, appeared but seldom iii public, except
at the times of religious atlairs. But they went out inthe spring, that
is, in February, and met to judge the differences of private persons, that
these might afterwards freely go about their respective works. _
The scouring of the ditches and canals was
proclaimed in the
assembly of the neomenia, by an Isis that was called Tite, or Tetis,
l;_i,
° |ll8l1I.llLl!i.lld£`I'ldll¢il'Id n".'rh.y
þÿ%e;1»g_5ui¢Ef"}'.'if»;i,o°°m:!¬
i., their geheral pun'd;a°°:»"i§'¢1i."L§°§m'P;'i'fwmuy,
HIIIIG In 0|l¢8.
1 Fra -_abode ucidu fiery' T-
ob 'mudrr petrudo.
-; oben Mm? comin Joel
I' l
_
Q .
»
66 nocmss .mn cusronrs or
and by an Horus whose name was Titan, that is, the mud, the raking
up of the earth. (-- tit, ccznum, lutu1n.'
The assembly of the priests to judge the people was
proclaimed by
a Horus with a
great beard, and a
scythe in his hand. He was indiffer-
ently called Sudec, Keren, Chinn, and Cheunna, or Saterin; and by an
Isis with many breasts, and encompassed with the heads of animals.
This Isis was on this occasion called Rhea. The Horus with his great
beard denoted the assembly of the ancient men. The scytlte in his
hand denoted hay-making and the harvest, which immediately fol-
lowed the assize. They called this figure Sudec or stadic, justux.)
which means the just ; Crone, (-- karen, splendor, ) that
is, the glory, the dignity the majesty ; or the crown, that is the
circle of the judges; Chiun or
Cheunna, which means the assembly
ofthe priests ; in short, Soterim, --soter, judex, soterim or sotrim
judises and principes. Joshua i. 10 1 sometimes ezecutores, satellites,
or Setrum, which signifies the judges, or the eirecution of the judg-
mentsj
Ailer the decision of the law suits of private persons, and while
the people were busy about cutting down and threshing the com, the
judges continued to hold their sessions, to provide by general regulating
for all the exigencies of the state ; and-it was on account of their being
assembled the rest of the year till the rising of the dog-star in June or
July, that the characteristick of the judgments, viz. the old man armed
with a
scythe, remained in his place, till they saw a new Osiris, a new
sun, that is, till the new
year. We shall see the strange fables to which
this particular circumstance gave birth.
They by degrees lost the meaning of these plain figures and
names, that were in use at the feasts in which the whole was become
an iuvariable ceremonial. The current or the running writing caused
the sense of them to be neglected ; on the other hand, nothing contri-
buted more to make it forgotten than the custom of not reckoningexactly
the sacred year, and of always putting the beginning of it back a whole
day every fourth year; so that the feasts and figures relatingto the
operations ofthe spring, being placed in autumn or winter, and so of the
rest, they no longer understood any thing of what this multitude of
4' '
Father Pezron derives the name Titan from the Celtic, Tit the earth, and Dm,
s man.'~Bailey. Edit.
-
f 'Justice
(among the lsraelitcs,) was administered by two sorts ofofiiccrs
Sliphe-
tim and Sotmrn, established in every city, by the command which God gave to oscs
Deut._xvt.
133 -These
goats
were given to Levites, and there were six thousand of
hem in D svx 's t1me(l hron. 4.) Dr Adam Clarke'e, Hint. Isreal, p. 164,-Edit
'ras Ancxsur sovrrnms.
'
61
figures meant. All being taken for so
many men and women whose
apothesis was celebrated, the people assigned to them a
genealogy
agreeable to the order of their feasts. Osiris and Isis, who began the
ymr, were the two great deities that held the first rank and from whom
they made the secondary gods and goddesses already spoken ot] to
descend. But from whom shall Orisis and Isis, that is, Jupiter and
his wife, proceed? They, as well as their brothers Neptune and
Pluto, are the children of that venerable old man, who, of all the
signs exposed, was what appeared the longest towards the end of
the year. and whose place Jupiter afterwards took. According to the
primitive order, a new Osiris and a new Isis, or the posted signs of the
new year, appeared again in June or
July. According to the order of
later times, all these figures, it is true, succeeded each other in the
same
manner, but in seasons and months to which they had no longer
any just relation. Thus Sudec, or Cronos, or Saturn, became father of
Jupiter and Isis. Satum, Rhea, Tetis and Titan were their forefathers.
The Titans were looked upon as the children of Ur, or Urane, and of
Ops. Several genealogists go no further. Others, as Diodorus, make
Urane and Ops the children of Acmon. The Egyptians, in their gen-
ealogy, go back even to Vulcan. Now Acmon, the brazier, and Vul-
can are but one and the same
thing.
Thus all these great personages that have peopled heaven, whom
every country flattered themselves with having had for their inhabitants,
to whom poets have attributed tragical adventures, and all the accidents
of humanity ; these great conquerors, the histories of whom our
learned men are incessantly sifting, even so far as to penetrate into
the political concerns that prompted them to act, prove at last to be, as
well as Cancer, Capricorn, the balance, or the sphinx, mere ensigns or
public marks and figures posted up to direct the people, and regulate
the feasts and public works all the year round,
Saturn.
Again I find a
proof of the same truth in the observations which
the iiible of Saturn naturally offers to my mind.
Instead of painting him with a
scythe, to signify that the sessions of
the judges are to be held in the time of harvest and hay-making, we
sometimes find him represented with eyes before and behind, (Sanche-
niathon in Euseb, prep, Evangel.) some of which are awake, and the
others asleep ; and with four wings, two of which are spread and two
I
68 nooun ann onerous or
closed ; which marked out the penetration and continuance of the work
of the judges, who relieved each other by succession night and day, to
dispatchrhe aflhirs of the people and those of the state, without making
any one to linger under prejudicial and destructive delays. A new proofof
Baturn's being a
judge, or the symbol of justice, whose penetration nothing
can
escape, is that the poets,and above all, Homer, most commonly calls
him the penetrating, the sagacious, the subtil, the quick-sighted Saturn.
Again it was, because Saturn in its original, signified the execution of
the judgments, or the punishment of crminals, that they usually said,
Saturn carried away somebody, and demanded his victim every year.
Thence came the opinion theyhad, that Saturn would be worshipped by
the effusion of human blood, and the barbarous custom which every
where spread, making its way from Phenicia into Africa, and thence
throughout Europe.
It was because Saturn or Chrone had a
necessary relation to the
equity of the judgments, that` were passed without any respect of per-
sons, that Satum was said to have reigned with perfect gentleness and
integrity. They said farther, that a
perpetual spring reigned in his
time, because the sessions of the judges were anciently inseparable from
the nnest month of the year: such is constantly the month of Febru-
ary in Egypt.
The custom of reckoning 365 days for the year, without intercala-
ting one day at four years end, by degrees displaced all the feasts, and
made people forget that the figures there exposed related to the circum-
stances of the season. .
In imitation of this usage, justice was
anciently administered in
Europe in the finest of our months, viz. in May. We still [ind in a
multitude of places remains of this custom, in the practice observed by
the farmers of the duties and receipts of lords, of setting up branches
with their leaves on, or a green arbour before the chief or manor-house.
where the assizes were
held' formerly, and where executions of crimi-
nals were made. But all this preparation is grounded on the circum-
stance of the season in which justice was administered in remotest anti-
quity ; it was in the finest of our mouths. The above mentioned green
arbor is still called the May, and the terms of magistrate and majesty
seem to be borrowed from the name of the month in which these ven-
erable assemblics were held in Europe."
'
» nm month hu mei-ua in nm from the rim meaiuy "usa mn., which
ghidisengpqsd
itself from the rays of the mn, distant thirty degrees and passing
as Gemim. ,
'nn sttctsrrr sorrruus. 69
We again End a sensible token of the relation Saturn had to the
judicial functions of the sacredotal order, in the disposal of the public
treasure and the archives in the temple of Saturn. (Festus, et Lil. Greg.
Girald. ryntagm. 4.) This was an imitation of the method of the
Egyptians, who anciently put the public~ treasure and the records of
the genealogies of families in the tower or
labyrinth under the custody
of the priests.
In fine, there is no better proof that people were perfectly ignorant
of the sense of the figures mistaken for deified personages, than the
notion which the Greeks framed to themselves of Saturn when he was
brought into their country.
'
The-name of Chrone under which he was known to them; very
plainly signitied the majesty of the judicial assemblies, the crown or
circle of the judges. But not knowing what this figure and its inten-
tion were, and finding a relation of sound between the name of Chrone
and that of Chronos which among them signified time they interpreted_
the whole symbol in that sense. The age of the figure squared with this
incomparably well. But what were
they to do with the scythe he carries
in his hand 'I Why, he shall use it to cut down every thing. Above all,
the stones which they made him to devour in Syria, seemed to distinguish
him perfectly well. Time consumes every thing, and preys upon the
very stones.
The following judicious remarks, from the Myth. Dict. of W. Howell, B. D. sup-
port the hypotheses of Pluche, in regard to the manner in which names have bed
appropriated to persons that never had existence.
Semiramis. .
The wonderful actions of Ninus and Semiramis may be read in divers historians,
Herodotus, Strabo, Diodonts Siculus, Ctesias, etc. The accéunts are inconsistent and
incredible ; and indeed what credit canbe given to the History ot' a person, Semiramis,
the time of whose life cannot be ascertained within 1535 years 'P for so great is the di!"
ference of the extremes of the following numbers.
According to Syncellus she lived before Christ 2177, years, Patavius makes the term
250, Helvicus, 2248, Eusebius 1984, Mr. Jackson, 1964, Abp-Usher, 1215, Philo Bib-
lius from Sanchoniathon 1200, Herodotus about 713.
The hitory of Ninus and Semiramis is in great measure founded upon terms, which
havebeen misconstructed; and Ections have been invented in consequence of these
mistakes. Under the character of Semiramis we are certainly to understand s people
called Semarim, a title assumed by the ancient Babylonians. They were called Sell
srimfrom theirensign, whichwsssdove, expressed Itvlltlld "ll
object of worship, and esteemed the same as Rhea, the mother of the goda It YU
70 noouas AND cusrosrs or
a common mode of expression to call a tribe or a family by the name of its fotmders
and a nation by the head of the line. People are often spoken of collectively in the
singular under such a patronymic. Hence we read in Scripture, that Israel abode in
tents; that Judah was put to the worst in battle, etc. When it was said, that the
Ninevite performed any great action, it has been ascribed to a person called Ninas, the
supposed founder of Nineveh. But we may be assured, that under the character of
Ninus and Ninyas, we are to understand the Ninevites ; as by Semiramis is meant a
people called Samarim : and the great actions of these two nations are in' the histories
of these personages recorded. But writers have rendered the account inconsistent, by
limiting, what was an historical series of many ages, to the life of a single person.
The Ninevites and Samarim did perform all that is attributed to Semiramis, and
Ninus. They did conquer the Modes and largely extended their dominions. But these
events were many ages after the foundation of the two kingdoms.
Itis said of this ideal personage, that she was exposed among rocks ; but delivered
and preserved by Simms, a Shepherd ; and was afterwards married to one Menon 6
she is likewise said to have constructed the Brat ship. Now Simms is a personage
made out ol' Sema, or Sams, the divine token. Menon is the deus Lunus, under which
type the Ark was reverenced in many regions : andas it was thc first ship constructed,
with which the history of the Dove was closely connected they have given to Scmiramis
the merit of building it.
,
Sesostris.
The history of this persoaage has been admitted as creduile by the most learned
writers and ehronologists ; though they cannot determine the era of his reign within a
thousand years. Notice has been taken under several articles of the supposed con-
qnerors of the earth; and aniong them of the reputed deities of Egypt, under the
names of Osiris, Perseus, etc. These are supposed, if they ever existed, to have lived
in the first ages of the world, when Egypt was in its infant state; and Sesostris is made
one of the number. He isby some placed beforeOrua; and by some after. He is also
represented under the diferent names of Sethos, Sethosis, Sesoothis, Seconthosie, and
Sesostris.
Osiris is said to have conquered the whole earth; then Zeus, than Perseus, then Her-
cules, all nearly of the same degreeof antiquity ; if we may believe the best mytho-
log-ists. Myrina comes in for a share of conquest in the time of Orus. After her
Thoules subdues the whole from the eastem ocean to the great Atlantic; and as if
nothing had been perfonned before, Sesostris succeeds, and conquers it over again. By
comparing the histories of ancient pcrsonages together, we may perceive that they bear
s manifest similitude to one another; tho' they are attributed to different persons.
Scsostris was Osiris; the same as Dionysius, Menes, and Noah.
Origin of Apis and Mnevis. _
'
Nothing could be more convenient or more ingenious than the
astronomical language, which immediately characterized each season
and the works peculiar to it, by making the governor of the earth enter
into the twelve signs of the zodiac, whose names
had a
just relation to
what successively passes upon the earth in the course of a
year. Noth-
ing so gross, on the contrary, or so
pitiful as the historical sense which
nn: ANCIENT aovrrnna. _ 7|
the people afterwards anexed to this language ; and such is evidently
the origin of the ridiculous doctrine of ,the transmigration of souls,
which Pythagoras brought to Italy as a rare
discovery.
Generally all the animals of which the stars bear the name, were
looked upon with veneration by the Egyptians, as having been the first
retreats of their gods, and as being very possibly appointed for that of
their dead parents. People never looked without a
religious awe
upon
those in which they knew Osiris and Isis had resided, such as the ram,
the bull, the heifer, the goat, and the lion. Their ancient custom of
carrying ceremonially at the feasts of certain seasons, the animal whose
name the house into which the sun entered, went by, disposed the peo-
ple of certain provinces to honor particularly the animal carried at the
feasts that concurred with the conclusion of their harvest.
Chance having produced a calf at Memphis which had some
spots
nearly in the figure of a circle or crescent, symbols so much reverenced
among them, this singularity was taken by them for the characteristic of
Osiris and Isis stamped upon the animal lwhich their gods had an
affection for : and that this was an
apparition of the govemor, avisit
which the protector of Egypt deigned to make them. This miracu-
_lous calf] alter having served preferably to any other at the ordinary
ceremonial, was lodged in the finest place in Memphis. All hismotions
were judged prophetical, and the people flocked to him with their
offerings. _He received the great name of Apis, which means the mighty,
the powerful god.
They took great care after his death to replace him with another
that had nearly the same spots. When the marks desired were not
neat and exact, they were
improved with a pencil.
1
_
They even
seasonably and after a certain time prevented the inde-
cency of his death, by leading him in ceremony to a
place where they
drowned and then interred him very devoutly. This melancholy cere-
mony was intermixed with torrents of tears, and was
emphatically
called Sampis, or the retreat of Apis, (-1 sur, 'recederc ;-isa:
abir, recessit Apis. Vid. Judic. xvi :
20.), a name which was aller-
wards given to Pluto the infernal Osiris. After the burial of Apis, his
successor was
sought for. Thus was this strange devotion perpetuated.
A powerful motive contributed greatly to it, viz. it was lucrative.
The inhabitants of Heliopolis, who made a
separate dynasty; or a
kingdom diiferent from that at
Memphis, thought themselves too much
in the favor of the sun whose name their capital bore, not to partake
of his visits or those of his son. They therefore soon had the sacred
12 DOGIAB AND CUSTOIS 0|
ox as well as those of Memphis. They called him Menavis or Mnevis
whichis the same thing as Mane: the mighty, or the same with M¢h0°
phis ; and in choosing this magnilicent name for him, they supposed
other qualities and other functions' in him no less capable of drawing
crowds of people thither.
Phyton or Typhon.
Osiris being become the common father of the Egyptians, was
by
degrees looked upon as the principle from which all the good that hap-
pened to Egypt sprung; in like manner, Phyton, when he was
become the name of the symbol that signified the havock of waters, was
looked upon as an ill-minded spirit, as a principle fond of thwarting,
perpetually intent upon crossing and prejudicing them. They made
him the principle of all disorder, and charged him with all the physi-
cal evils they could not avoid, and all the moral evils which they did
not care to lay to their own
charge. Hence came the doctrine of the
two opposite principles, equally powerful, incessantly striving against
each other ; (Plutarch, de Isid. and Osi'r.,) and alternately vanquished
and victorious. This doctrine, which from the Egyptians was handed'
down to the Persians under the names of Oromnzes and Arimazes, is
altogether diflerent from ours, according to which God, conformably to
the adorable views of his providence, employs the ministry ofthe spirits
who have persevered in a state of uprightncss, and leaves a certain
measure of power to those who are fallen from it.
The aversion of the Egyptians for this Phyton their imaginary
enemy, and according to them incessantly intent upon vexing them,
went so far, that they no longer dared to pronounce his name. How-
ever, we find it entire in the language of the Hebrews who had dwelt
in Egypt, and had contracted the habit of calling by that name the most
mischievous of serpents, that is, the asp. (-1 peteu.) The entire
name of Phyton or
Python, is found again in the most ancient and most
celebrated fables of paganism. There we see this terrible monster
engaged with the god who enlightens the world, and spreading deso-
lation every where.
Nothing has been more celebrated in antiquity than the victory of
the sun; nothing more abhorred than Phyton, when, from a painted
monster, he was become a
being intent upon doing mischief The
Egyptians fearing to defile themselves by the bare pronouncing of that
'Ill ANCIIN1' IGYPTIANI. 13
detestable name, retained the letters of it, and converted them into that
of Typhon.°
We have seen how the cross, as well entire as abridged, was the
mark of the increase of the Nile, because it wasthe measure of it.
When confined in the hand of Osiris, in the claws of the hawk, or
the hand of Horus, it very plainly signiied the overflowing of the
Nile regulated by the sun, strengthened by the wind, and subject to
fixed rules. This cross which in their vulgar writing, as likewise in
the ancient Hebraic characters, in the Greek and the Latin alphabet,
was the letter Tau.
That the cross or the T suspended by a ring, was taken by the
Egyptians for the deliverance from evil, we
may assure ourselves
by consulting their practices, which are the surest interpretation of the
opinion that governed them.
They hung it round the neck of their children, and of their sick
people. They applied it to the strings or fillets with which they wrap-
ped up their mummies, where we still find it. What can in their ideas
signify a T placed near those of to whom they wished health and life,
if not the deliverance from the disease and death, which they hoped to
obtain by these superstitious practices. 4
Hence we see how strangely they misapplied those figures, which
in their iirst institution related to the Nile, to husbandry, and to things
totally foreign to the applications of succeeding times. This very pro
hably is an introductive key, wherewith one mightstrive to explain part
of the meaning which the Egyptians of the later times have given to
their sacred .
This custom of the Egyptians appeared so beneicial and so impor-
tant, that it was adopted by other nations. The children and the sick
most commonly wore a ticket, wherein was a T which they looked
upon asa powerful preservative. In process of time other characters
were substituted in the room of the letter T, which was at first engraved
on this ticket, but of which the'other nations understood neither the
meaning nor the intention. They often put a serpent in it, an Harpo-
fcrates, or the object of the devotions in vogue; nay sometimes ridicu-
lous figures, or even some that were of the utmost indecency. But the
name of Amulet, (Asnolimentun malorunn), that was given to this
»s° 1 :ami h mx ¢ ¢ new onEngliah
si-£5 °'i"&l'.°°}'f?.;°l2}Ti.fs..5Y' þÿ$y'¢.n"i'§a»°$`3.`ZE=?i,"¬1'§'.§°?¢ ,.w.,'$'&'i.m,, aw.
I0
74 noeuas an onerous or
ticket, and which signifies thelremoval of't/te wil, most naturally rep-
resents the intention of' the Egyptians, from whom this practice came.
The above mentioued practice, we have seen, arose from the instntment used for
measuring the height of the inundation of the Nile, being an abridgement of it, and
which was considered the salvation ol' Egypt. A like veneration is bestowed upon
this figure, that is, the cross, by Roman Catholics : which, like other customs of the
ancients, has probably been adopted by them without understanding its origin, and
_which they attribute to a dilferent source. A spell, which they no doubt consider
more potent, however, is now generally used instead of the cross. This is called gos-
pels, and consists of short passages extracted from the gospels by a priest, which
is enclosed in a piece of silk, and tied round the necks of children, going to bed.
The same superstition prevails among the Mahometans.
Dr. Hume, in Walpole's memoirs, speaking of modern Egypt, says, "The general
remedy in cases ol' fever and other kinds of illness, is a saphie from a priest, which
consists ot' some sentence from the Koran written 'on a small piece of paper and tied
round the patience's neck. Thiaif the sick man recovers, he carefully preserves by
keeping it constantly between his scull-caps, of which he generally wears two or three.
Saphies are very commonly used by the Mnhammedans, being considered to possess
much emcacy for the body as well as the soul, and occupy the same place in the esti-
mation of the superstitions esdid the frontlete ot' the Jews and the phylacteries of the
early Christians." Quoted in Russell's View of Egypt., p. 3% New-York edition.
In regard to the sacred writing of the Egyptians, it is not improbable that its char-
acters were originnally fonned from the figure of the Nilornetor, consisting of right,
angles and thence considered sacred.
`
The Egyptian Mysteries.
We must not expect, we are told, that the priests of Isis, or Plutarch,
or
any other travellers who heard them talk, can be able to give us
any
information about the true sense and meaning of their symbols. It was
a mysterious theology ; which they took great care not to divulge.
Those who were initiated therein, engaged themselves by an oath never
to communicate to the people any part of what had been revealed to
them. Does not Herodotus oflen tell us, that he is permitted upon no
account whatever,to reveal the names and the honors that were destined
and annexed to certain deities, or what these deities were? The secret
in this point being inviolable, are we to wonder that they have not
explained themselves on the grounds which concern us ; and can we
judge of what they have not revealed 2
Let us then see, (and this shall be the
conclusion of our
essay upon
the Egyptian religion) what these mysteries so much spoken of were ;
and, if possible let us penetrate into these secrets, in spite of the veils
and berries intended to render them inaccessible.
'nnl Auclawr sovrruus. 75
Among the ancient Egyptian tigures, there were some which could
not well be mistaken for celestial gods, and of which it was diflicult to
lose the meaning. having at first been of infinite use to the people. Such
were, for instance, the serpent, the canopus, and the hawk. We see
therefore, from the interpretation given of them by the grammarian
Horapollo, that in the fourth century the Egpytian priesst still expres-
sedthe life or eternity of their gods by a serpent encompassing thine :
(Serpentem auream Diis suis circumponunt.) that they repre-
sented the overflowing of the Nile by three piichers, and denoted
the wind by a hawk spreading her wings. Accipiter alis in aere pro-
tensis venttm sigviijicat. Ibid. But the people having once forgotten
the sense of the sacred writing, and taken human figures for celestial
powers, never gave over inventing histories ; and the priests who pre-
served this writing, adapted it to their histories, which renders it worthy,
of contempt, and altogether different from the ancient as to the mean-
ing.
~
The priests at first retained a
part of the primitive explications.
Thence comes the mixture of great and little in the Egyptian theology
and in the Eleusinian which was the same. In there more than any
w'here remained the ancient footsteps of the truths, which constituted
the principal ground-work of the religion of the patriarchs.
But it would have been dangerous for the Egyptian priests to attempt
undeoeiving the people and divert them from the pleasing thought that
Osiris and Isis were two real personages, and were besides of their
country and the protectors of Egypt. This chimerahnd all the others
in appearance were authorized by the agreement of the monuments with
the common phrase. The actions of Osiris and Isis were
incessantly
mentioned. The people believed what they saw and what they heard.
The perpetual recital of as
many historical facts, as there were
figures
and ceremonies exhibited, completed their errors, and rendered them
invincible.
If our councils and the most venerable of our bishops have had so
much ado to abolish among the people the belief of certain legends
unworthy the majesty of our religion, and which were connected with
no monument capable of countenancing them ; how can we conceive
that the Egyptian priests were able to take from a
people immersed in
ignorance and cupidity, the extravagant stories which universal custom
offered to their minds on sight of the personages and animals where-
with the places of their assemblies were filled 2 It is much more nat-
76
'
DOGIAI nur CUITOII or
~
ural to think, that the priests themselves, like the rest, yielded tothe
persuation of being under the patronage of their ancestors transported
into the stars, and now the moderators of the sun, the moon, and of all
nature. The people, in their fanatic enthusiasm, would have torn in
pieces any that should have dared to deny the history of Osiris and Isis.
Truth was then altered and obscured by the very priests. They lirst
accustomed themselves to these notions, because it was dangerous not to
comply with them and atierwards became themselves the most zealous
defenders of them. The whole came on
by degrees. They first com-
plied with the common language, because they thought they could not
Item the torrent ; but they studied in private what they could collect of
the interpretation of the ancient writing. Thus they at once admitted
both the popular stories and the erplications that demolished them:
they only took care to require profound secrecy from those whom they
would instruct in a more solid manner.
Thus instruction assumed a
mysterious and important air, without
altering any thing in what the people believed. It only mentioned a
a more
perfect state, and a kind of knowledge of which none became
capable till aiier many trials and efforts which suited not the common
fort of men. Thus they avoided exciting the fury of the people.-
This was
already a crying injustice in those prieststo detain tmth cap-
tive, and to appropriate it exclusively to themselves.
So criminal a
disposition could not but occasion a still greater
impairing of truth. And really every thing degsnerated more and
more
every day. The probation of the disciples, and the oath of an
inviolable secrecy, being very remarkable practices, were
perpetuated
with great exactness. The ceremonial part easily supports itself in all
religions, and is often embellished rather than diminished, because itis
of no importance to the passions, which it never disturbs, and sometimes
really indulges. It was not with truth and instruction as with the
ceremonial. They were
disfigured from age to age, sometimes through
the ignorance of the priests, sometimes by their averice, but principally
by their fondness for systematic reveries, with which the most subtil
among them tried to explain the symbolical writing; and of which
they were much fonder than of a few plain and over simple truths,
which their predeceuors were contented to teach them.
Therefore danger and fear first gave birth to the secrecy of the
Egyptian instructions, and have converted the practices, of the ancient
ceremonial of the public religion, into so many mysteries, 'to the
knowledge of which none could be admitted but such as had given
ras Altllll aevrrnss. 77
prooh of a profound respect for the objects of religion, of s. perfection
which common men could not attain, and of an unconquerable tacitur-
nity. But then those who were initiated thought themselves of a clan
superior to the rest of nes, and their condition appeared worthy the
envying. The priest being sure of the discretion of their disciples
might very well acknowledge to them the groesness of the meaning
which the people annexed to these symbols. But their shameful con-
nivance suH`ered error to get so much ground, that the piety of the
initiated themselves sunk into a mere ceremonial; _
and the small
remains of tniths, which subsisted amongst so many fadulous stories,
remained there stiiied as it were, and without any useful effect. The
priests themselves out-did the popular superstitious ; and out of custom,
and from interested views preserved the preparatory ceremonies, and
the religion of silence, that gave the people a
high notion of the min-
isters, and of their learning.
Ihave given the literal translation of moat of the terms made use of
in these mysteries. Neither the Greeks nor the Romans understood the
mmning of them, because they are Phenician. The very name
mys-
tery being also a Phenician word, which signiies a veil, an invelope-
sust,' we are, on this very account, authorized to look out in the Cha-
nanean language for the meaning of the other terms made use of in
the mysteries. But if the terms used in the Eleusinian feasts shall per-
fectly concur' with the sense I have ascribed to the pieces that were
most in use in the symbolical writing and ceremonies, the result will
evidently be, that the figures originally appointed to instruct the people
have been converted into so
many imaginary gods, and that we have
obtained the true original of allthese inhabitants ofthe poetical heaven.
The Ceres of Sicily and Eleusis is no other than the Egyptian Isis,
brought intothose places by Phenician merchants, who made themselves
rich by transporting the corn of Lower Egypt into the places whither the
scarcity of provisions drew them, and generally on the different coasts of
the Mediterranean, where they had odices, and establishments. The
ceremonial of the rural feasts had in their hands taken a turn some
what different. The mother ofharvests there lamented her daughter,
instead of bewailing her husband, as the Egyptian ritual would have it.
This excepted, the ground and intention were the sameul ,
'imma si 'wr aa ¢bmmb,m¢bumm.P»Lio=_1»a.4=s.
fGcero,onthel"l'Iatn'e ofnt:sG'o`ds,r::k"iisthefollowingnmsrksuponthmsubJect:
"'I'hssoverdgntymdpoweroverthsearth1sths portionofagod, §|Yl0l'¥||
wsllssdsGnsks,hvs|vsnanamsthatd¢notssnchsszmLsunDl.mlN* N'
78
'
ooeuu nan cwrols or
'
'
.
The feasts instituted in honor of Ceres were called Thesmophoria,
whose principal parts may be reduced to three, viz. the preparations the
processions, and the anttopsia, or the sight of truth.
The preparations, the long enumeration of which may be read in
Meursius, (Gmcia Feriata,) had for their object the frugality, chastity
and innocence that were
necessary to the worshippers. The proces-
sions consisted in the carriage of the sacred baskets, wherein they
inclosed a child and a golden serpent, a van, grains, cakes, and all the
other symbols of which we have made the enumeration in another
place.
If in the feasts of Ceres or Isis, men carried to an
extravagant
excess the form of the gestures and situations, the scrupulous recitals
of the .vetzforms of prayers, the length of the vigils, outward purity,
abstinence, the forbearance of all pleasures, and the shunning all man-
ner of distraction; it is because the whole of religion was reduced to
these outward practices. Those who observed them knew neither the
motive nor the purport or destination of them. It was no longer any
but an artificial devotion, or the skeleton of the ancient religion. But
any upright unprejudiced mind will easily discern in them the inten-
tions of the first founders, who knew the full value of rule, the beauty
of order, and the benefit of recollection,
A long description of all the puriiications and other ceremonies that
filled up the first of the nine days of devotion consecrated to Ceres,
would have tired out my readers, and is no part of my plan, which
chiefly aims at obtaining the origin of these establishments. It will
bethe same with the long procession formerly made from Athens to
Eleusis, and with the several marches peculiar to each of the nine
days. The Greeks had built the particulars of this minute ceremo-
nial upon the little adventures that composed the wonderful story of'
the migration of Ceres into their country. p
But this my reader is acquainted with. What was carried in the
ton, because all things arise from the earth and return to it. He forced away Proserpine,
in Greek called Persephone, by which the poets mean the seed of com ; from whence
their fiction of Ceres, the mother of Pr.;-wrpine srnking for her daughter, who _was
hidfrom her. She is culled Ceres, which is the same as Geres, a
gerendis fnrglbus,
from bearing fruit, the first letter of the worfl being altered after t e
manner of the
Greeks; for by them she is called Danster, the same as Gemeter," that is mother
h"|Y
.uhluche derives
Persephoplp thus,
tfom
-
peri, fruit, com, and --
mphan, to hide,
l-
pen e corn ost. _ _
wniiemay be nm at the tlambeau or torch which
Cere¥'a)ccord1ng
to the fable
'
ggidt hav carried
`
ht dd
'
arch fherd hter |er|nne,is asymbol
ist' the lgat aug, withouiufvhollii aidniiomtrit or dom couludxe found or produoed.~Edu
'
ral mcxsur ssnruus. 79
feasts of Ceres at Eleusis, is the same that was carried in the feasts of
Isis. Let us, therefore, pass on to the explication of the autopsia,
or the manifestation of truth, which was in a manner the last act of
this representation, and was the whole purport of the mysteries. Alter
a horrid darkness, lightnings, thunder claps, and an imitation of what
is most shocking in nature, the serenity which at last succeeded, dis-_
covered four personages magnificently dressed, and whose habits were
all mysterious.
The most brilliant of all, and who was
especially called the Hie-
rophant, or the expounder of sacred things, was dressed so asto repre-
sent the being that govems theiuniverse. The second was thejlanbeau
bearer, and had relation to the sun. The third, who was called the
adorer, and who kept near an altar, represented the moon. The fourth
was called the messenger of the gods, or Mercury, which corresponds
to the Egyptian Anubis, with his dog's head and measare of the Nile,
accompanied by two serpents, and is nothing but the wholesome advice
which the dog-star timely gives to men, to make oil, at the increase of
the waters, and thereby secure their subsistence.
Nothing could be better contrived than these magnificent ceremonies
whereby the Egyptians incessantly recalled to the minds of the assis-
tants the belief ofthe first men concerning the judgment of God, and
the hopes which are to quiet the minds of the just at the approach of
death.
What an indestructible tradition attended with constant practices had
been able to preserve of the ancient doctrine, proved at last so
very
opposite to the popular notions, that the priests thought themselves
under the necessity of using much circumspection, and of having
recourse not only to the trial of their desciples, but also to the oath of
secrecy. The reason of the priests themselves went astray in this laby-
rinth of obscure signs and mysterious practices. Then came on
systems.
One looked out among all this apparatus of ceremonies and fables for a
complete set of physics.
Another tried to find out a
complete body of moral and instructive
maxims, under the color of the most scandalous fables. Others
imagined they hid found the most profound metaphysics therein.-
Nor does the simplicity of the Egyptian, appear by much so
shocking
as the sublime nonsense of a Platonic, who sees Monades and Triades
every where; who, in a figure of Isis exposed in the middle of
an
assembly of husbandmen, finds the srchetpye world, the intel-
lectual world, and the sensible world; or who seeks in the feet of a
80 nouns; ann cusrous or g
goat the picture of universal nature; or who Ends out in the horn of an
ox the edicacy of the impressions of his imaginary genii.
Thus the learned, from a habit of diving into matters, and of look-
ing out for extraordinary explieations, have perplexed a of itself
very simple. »
'
A few regular assemblies excepted, in which by public authority
were preserved some
footsteps of truth together with some ancient cus-
toms, the whole went on from bad to worse, from the liberty of embel-
ishments and interpretations. The gods were
multiplied in the popu-
lar discourses as much as the symbols, and even in proportion to the
different names given one and the same
symbol. Oitentimes the minu-
test equivocations, proceeding from a
variety in the pronunciation, the
diversity of dresses of the same iigure, nay a bare change of place, a
trifle added or retrenched, gave birth to anew
god.
We may see in P1utarch's treatise, but above all in Eusebius'a
Evangelical Preparation, the strange variety of adventures and employ-
ments which the Africans, the Phenicians, and the Phrygians attributed
to the same gods. The celestial court was not the same in Egypt as in
Greece. In Egypt it was Osiris that gave light to the world. In
Greece Osiris or Jupiter was freed from that care. The sceptre and
thunderbolt were left to him; but the chariot of the day was given to
Horus or
Apollo, who in his quality of symbol of the rural works
boreby way of abbreviation the marks of the situation of the sun, or
the characteristic of the season.
Jupiter could neither do every thing, nor be every?where. Lieu-
genants were then given him, each with separate districts. Every thing
assumed a settled form. The histories of the gods were
composed;
and by attributing to them what each nation in particular was
pleased
to publish on their account ; by adding thereto the histories of the
ministers of the temples, and those of the kings who had favored their
worship ; but chiefly by excusing the disorders of women on account
ot' the pretended disguises of these gods possessed with their charms ;
they formed that monstrous lump, of mythology, in which it is no won-
der that we find no sense, no
coherency, no order of place or time, nor
any kind of regard either to reason or good manners. Though the
major part of these fabulous recitals be utterly extravagant ; yet as
they
have made part of the strange theology of our forefathers, men have at
all times endeavored to find out the true origin of them. I have ven
tured my own conjectures on the same subject ; because they appeared
to me to amount nearlyto a
certainty, and the whole might be unravelled
'nn aucxanr aavrruru. 81
with no less decencythan benefit. It is no longer so with regard to the
minute particulars of these extravagances. .The collection of them
would be the matter of very large volumes; and there is indeed no-
subject upon which it will bemore lawful to set bounds to one's know-
ledge.
el
The foregoing article has been very much curtailed ae it is intended to give a full
account of the ancient mysteries from bishop Warburton's Divine Legation of Moses a
ln which the subject is treated of more at large, and in some respect evidently with
a better understanding bf it than the Abbe Pluche possessed-
Ths horrors exhibited at the commencement of the ceremony were intended to
represent the condition of the wicked in another life, and the closing scene portrayed
the abode of the blessed ; the miseries of Tartarus and the happiness of Elysium were
contrasted ; and beinglpronounced by holy priests, in whom the vulgar in barbarous
ages placed implicit confidence, to be a tnie picture of what actually takes 'place in a
future state of existence, must have produced a most powerful eflect. _
I
This scene is imitated in the royal arch degree of masonry, originally with the
same view as the archctype ; and as in the original mysteries, it forms the last act or
degree of ancient masonry. The candidates, are kept in the dark by being hoodwinked;
thunder and lightning are represented by the firing of pistols, rolling cannon balls, etc.
In the conclusion, the aspirants are brought to light, and presented- to what is called
the grand council, consisting of three personages denominated high priest, king, and
the holy scribe; on whose decorations some hundred dollars are expended, in order
duly to prepare them to sustain the exalted characters allotted to them. These three
are theprincipal persona of the drama. The fourth, and next in dignity, is styled the
mptainqf lhehoat;
"
who is stationed at the right hand of the grand council, and
whose duty is, to receive their orders, and see them duly executed."
The high priest corresponds with the hierophant of the mysteries, the king with the
Ilnbssu bearer, the sun, who was deemed the king and govemor of the world; the
holyacribe with Isis, the adorer, hence the attribute holy applied to him ; and the cap-
tain of the host, with Anubis Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of the gods. The
identity of these institutions cannot be mistaken.
`
The Auguries.
My readers, ever so little conversant in ancient history, may remember
lohave olten seen the Romans, the Sabines, the Hetrurians, the Greeks,
and many other nations, very careful in never attempting any important
Undertaking, without previously consulting the birds, and drawing
ivorabls or ill consequences, sometimes from the number and kind of
the birds that traversed the air, sometimes from the quarter whence
they began their Bight, and the diflerent course they took. We may
likewise remember, that in order not to be obliged to wait long' for a
bird which chance may not immediately offer, the priests _of the mise
l l
I
83
'
noolu Ann cusronn or
deities had introduced the custom of the sacred chickens, brought into
the middle of the assembly of the people in a cage, for the magistrates
gravely to observe their ways and motion. They had reduced into an
art, and refered to constant and settled rules, all the consequences to be
drawn with regard to futurity, from the several methods iri which
these whimsical animals let fall or swallowed the food offered to them.
Have not the priests of paganism, either out of interested views, or
from an infatuation for these chimerical rules, a thousand times spoiled
or put a
stop to the most important and best concerted undertakings,
out ofregard to a fowl that had refused her meat? Augustus and many
other persons of understanding, have without any fatal consequences
despised the chickens and divination. But when the generals in the
times of the republic had miscarried in any enterprise, the priest and
people cast the whole blame of it on the heedlessness with which the
sacred chickens had been wnsulted, and more commonly still, on the
general's having preferred his own forecast to that of these fowls. Nor
can one indeed without some indignation, see these dangerous silli-
nesses continue in the highest esteem and credit among people full of
magnanimity, and the greatest genius seemingly making serious apol-
ogies for them.
'
Tully has handed to us a good saying of Cato, who declared that
one of the most surprising things to, him was, how one
soothsayer
could look another in the face without laughing. I do not doubt but
this judicious orator, when he was discharging his functions as a
priest of the auguries, was
always ready te change his countenance
whenever he happened to see
any of his colleagues walking with a
grave stately air, and lifting up the augural stafif He was
perfectly
sensible of the vanity of these practices. After having observed in the
second book of divinitiori, that the Romans had never been concerned in
a matter of greater consequence than that of the quarrel between Caesar
and Pompey, be freely confesses, that the sugars, aruspices, and ora-
eles, had never been more
frequently consulted; but that the answers,
whose number was endless, had not been followed by the events they
foretold, or else had been succeeded by such as were quite contrary.
However, Tully, notwithstanding this confession, which wholly demol-
ishes the art of prediction, ,yet out of politic views defends the practice
of it. He preferred leaving the people in their error, to the risk of
provoking them, by endeavouring to freethem from a pernicious and
criminal superstition! _
*It may be presumed that the ri-nk which Cicero was unwilling to hazard in this
P
'rnz ancrsxr aovrrnns. 83
Anciently, or at the time of the institution of the symbols, rnen,
before sowing, or' planting, used to say; let us first conmlt the birds.
Nor was there any thing better understood. People were satisfied
when they had observed this custom with care. These birds signified
the winds, the observation and course of which determined the propriety
of rural works. But men, in process of time, very earnestly invoked
the birds themselves. _
The cock commonly placed by the side of Horus and Anubis or
Mercury, very plainly signified what was to be done in the morning,
as the owl marked out the assemblies that were to be held in the eve-
ning. Cocks were then made so
many new monitors foretelling futu-
rity; and the owl acquired in this matter a talent which many people
earnestly contend she is still possessed oi When this bird, which is
an
enemy to light, happens to shriek as she passes by the window of a
sick person, where she perceives it, you never can beat it out of their
head, that this shrieking, is a
foreboding of his end.
Origin and Falsehood of the Sibyls.
It is from a sensible abuse in astronomy or ofthe custom of consult-
ing certain stars, that the oracles of the Sibyls were introduced. Har-
vest has always been the great object of the desires and attention of all
nations. In ordeftherefore to regulate the manuring of their lands,
their plowing, sowing, and the other operations of concem to the bulk
of society, men had their eyes fixed on the virgin that bears the ear of
corn, and which is the mark of the time of harvest. They observed
how far the sun was remote from it, and on this account they generally
used to consult and have recourse to the virgin ; a
language as reasona-
ble as the practice expressed by it. They at first gave this constellation
the name
Shibyl Ergone' the 'reddming ear of com, because it is
exactly thehircumstance for which men wait to begin their harvest, and
because their crop ripens when the sun draws near this collection of
81815.
They afterwards called it sometimes Sibyl, sometimes Erigone.
esac, was the loss of popularity and the emolument arising from the priestly otiice. Self-
interest, in all ages of the world, has been the moving pnnciple ot' action with the cun-
nin and
desigrnng,
to impose upon the_ credulity of ignorance. Observing the feeding
or thght of bi s, or inspecting the entrmls of a bullock, thereby to
predict
future events,
isnot more ridiculous, nor
less creditable to_the understanding o the human species,
gan slo:r;.;
practices that might bs mentioned, which are m vogue st the present
,;From>-- §t£bul, or l
Shibolegspicc; and from--Den. 5 : 7. En-
|one pw-pure. The purple ear of corn, Spies rubuema.
-__¢..._. __ _ _____i..
84 nooxas Alto cusrotts or
This name Erigone rendered in Greek by that of Erytra, which corres-
ponds to it, and signifies nd, gave birth to the Erytrean Sibyl. There
was certainly an advantage in consulting her, and her answers were
very just to regulate husbandry so long as she was taken for what she
was, that is, for a cluster of stars under which the sun placed himselfat
the time which brought on harvest, and reddened the ear of com. And
because the Egyptian harvest did not fall under that sign, but under
the Ram or the Bull, it is, that Egypt docked to the oracles of Ammon
or of Apis, and had so particular an affection for Isis with the horns
of a heifer, the ancient proclamation of their harvest; whereas all the
east consulted the Erytrean Sibyl, in order to be assured ofa plentiful
stop. This language became the matter of fables. Our maid changed
from a
sign to a
prophetess, had no doubt the most perfect knowledge
of futurity, since people came from all parts to ask her questions. The
excessive wickedness of mankind at last obliged her to quit their abodes,
to go, and in the heaveris take possession of the place due to her~
Many countries assumed to themselves the honor of having given birth
to this sibyl: nor would it be a hard matter to find seven instead of one.
All the current predictions, among which some strokes of the prophe-
cies addressed to the Hebrews, are found, in time passed for the answers
ofthese sibyls.'
,iT
'Hrs American reader should be aware that the term com is used in England, as a
generic term for all seeds that grow in ears. The French word, here translated corn, is
blé, which signifies grain, wheat; blé do Terquie or d' Inde, means maize, Indian com.
Wheat as it ripens puts on a reddish hue: which is not the case with Indian corn,
although red ears are sometimes found among it. Grain, in English, seems the most
proper term, for the genus of the different species.
In masonic lodges, the master is stationed in the east, representing Osiris the sun;
Ind the senior warden in the west, representing Isis or Virgo, the sign of harvest; his
duty is to pay the craft their wages, which alludes metaphoricslly to the reward
the husbandmsn receives in the produce of his labor, when the sun arrives at this
sign. This is indicated by a painting representing a sheaf of wheat, whichia hung
back of this ot!icer's chair. The pass word of the fellow-craft, at this station, to and-
tle him to psy, is shibbolcth, the reddcning ear qftoheat. Can any thing more conclu-
sively point out the astronomical cast of free-masonry.
lt must have been at a very remote period when the Egyptian harvest occurred, as
above stated, during the passage ofthe sun, either under the sign of the ram or the bull,
Volney, in his travels in Egypt and Syria, observes:
`
"As the sun approaches the tropic of Capricorn, the winds becomes variable and
tempestuous; they most usually blow from the north, the north-west, and west, in
V Sasupon this subjsst the excellent remarks of P. Catrou on the Mth selogus ol
nr .
¢
-ras wcunr :evra-use. 85
which points they continue during tha months of Decemba, January, and February,
which is the winter season in Egypt, as well as with us. The vapour ot' the Medeterrs-
nean, condensed by the coldness of the atmosphere, descends in mists and rains."
Conjuration.
'
I am still to inquire into the origin of an art far more
important than
all the foregoing. This is necromancy, the'art of calling up the spirits
ofthe dead, and of making them speak' The reader will not be dis-
pleased hereto find the key of the occult languages, and to be acquainted
how magicians went about asking questions of hell, and conversing
with the devils.
A respect for the human body which was believed to be destined for
a better state to come, and one
day to rise from the dust, induced the
Erst nations to inter the dead in a decent manner, and always to join to
this melancholy ceremony, wishes and prayers, which were
expres-
sions or a
profession oftheir expectation. _
Funeral assemblies were the most frequent, because men died every
day, and these meetings were repeated on
every anniversary. They
were not only the most common, but also the most regular.
Every thing was simple in the ancient feasts. Men met upon some
high and remarkable place. They made there a small pit, wherein to
consume the entrails of the victims by fire. They made the blood to
flow into the same pit. Part ofthe flesh was presented to the ministers
of the racryice. They boiled the rest of the offering immolated, and
eatit, sitting near the fire. By degrees they swerved from this sim-
plicity.
What had been approved on some important occasion, afterwards
passed into custom, and became a law. The number, the characters, and
the histories of the objects which men took for gods, afterwards gave
birth to a thousand varieties, which appeared very important rites and
necessary precautions. Whoever should have neglected one single
point of the ceremonial prescribed, had nothing less than the plague or
famine to apprehend. Whenever the gods in that case were contented
with only sending a
transitory tempest or some furious beast among
them, the fault was reckoned very cheaply atoned for. Each feast hav-
ing its proper service and decorations had a
peculiar name. It was not
*Tha science of commnning with departed spirits,
supposed
to have been lost for
many centuries, is believed, by the
Swedenborgiana
to ave been communicated to
the founder of their sect, Emmanuel Swedenborg. a asserts, that in the year 1143,
the Lord manifested himselfto him by a personal appearance, and at the same
urns
opened his spiritual e as, so that he was enabled constantly to see and convene with
qlnts and angels.-Edit. _
86 aoenn sun cusroin or
'thus with the funeral assemblies: nothing was changed in them. They
were void ofjoy and decoration. Men went on with practising what had
ever been done. The families in intering their dead, were accustomed
to a common rubric which was
perpetual. It is then in the service of
the funerals especially, that we
may again find the principal of the usa-
ges of primitive antiquity. At these solemnities they continued to
make a ditch, to pour out wine, oil, honey, milk, or some other liquors in
use, to shed the blood ofthe victims," to roast their flesh, to eat it in com-
mon sitting round the pit or hearth, and discoursing ofthe virtues of him
they came to lament. These assemblies continued to bear the name
given to all solemn convenings.
While the other feasts, on account of the diversity of the ceremonies,
were called Saturnalia, Dionisiaca, Palilia, etc. the funeral assemblies
were simply called the Manespt that is, the covering or regulation.
That the Manes andthe dead became two
synonymous words, or were
indifferently used, one for another. And as the things which gave
names to the feasts, were
generally become the objects ofan extravagant
worship; the M'anes or the dead became likewise the object reverenced
in the funeral ceremonies. The strange facility with which the
minute parts of the universe were deitied, is a hint to us how the cus-
tom was introduced of directing prayers, vows, and religious worship
to the dead whom they had loved, whose praises were celebrated, and
who were thought to enjoy the most refined knowledge, after they had,
together with their body, cast offthe frailties of humanity.
The ancient sacrifices were not only eucharistical.
i
In the times
when the Most High was as
yet worshipped, they were looked upon as
an alliance contracted with him, and whereby they engaged themselves
to be faithful to him. Ishall here mention neither the reasons nor
any
instances of it. The former are
palpable, and the scripture abounds
with the latter.
All nations, when they sacrificed either to the gods they had framed
to themselves, or to the dead whose memory was dear to them, thought
they entered into an alliance, conversed, and familiarly eat with them.
But this familiarity engrossed their thoughts most particularly in the
funeral assemblies, in which they were as
yet full of the memory of the
slnferimua tepido cpumantia tymbill lade,
'
Sanguinin ct
aacvji paleras. )Eneid. 5.
See the same ceremonies in the anniversary of Anchises. }En. 6.
t From l
manim, distributianu, vita, raditus, uolemnitzu. This name was
`
toh boli liigures. In txcul t `edth t'th` fth
§'.1iu"p.J°§$t'»t'iZt¢§°.f.a.md~ .ful'.2'f.| ..'§'.§..\§f§'?"" _°"""°°
°"""°° '
Tll ANCIINT IGYPTIANI.
persons whom they had tenderly loved, and who, as
they thought, took
always a great part in the concerns of their family and country.
We have heretofore "observed, how cupidity and ignorance hav-
ing rendered all men indifferent as to justice, had led them astray as
to the object of their worship, and had afterwards converted every part
of it into so
many means ofbeing relieved of in their illness, instructed
in futurity, and provided all proper means to succeed in all their/ under-
takings. Every object in nature spoke to them. The .birds in the
heaven, the serpents and other animals on the earth, a
simple rod in
the hand of their minister, and all the instruments of religion, were so
many oracles and`prophetical signs. They read the stars, and the gods
spoke or revealed their intentions to them from one end of nature to the
other. This covetausness and gross religion, which applied to the gods
merely to ask them questions in matters of interest, was no less inquisi-
tive and thought it had a right to be still better served in the funeral
sacrifices than in all the rest. Men in these ceremonies thought they
had to deal with affectionate gods, which, on account of the concern they
still had in the prosperity of their family, could not but inform them in
time, of whatever might be of service or
detrimental to them. The
whole apparatus of the funerals was then again interpreted in the same
manner, as that of the other feasts, and the whole was converted into
so
many methods of divination., _
The ceremonies of the Manes, though,they were but the bare practi-
ces ofthe assemblies of the primitive times, being in every respect dill
ferent from those observed in the other feasts, appeared so
many differ.
ent methods of conversing with the dead, and of obtaining the desired
information from them. Who then could doubt but it was in order
familiarly to converse with their ancient friends, that men sat down
round a
pit, into which they had thrown the oil, the flour, and the blood
ofthe victim they had killed to their honor? How could it be doubted,
but that this pit so different from the altars set up and pointing towards
heaven, was a suitable ceremony, and peculiarly belonging to the dead?
The dead evidently took pleasure in these repasts, and especially in
what was poured into the pit for them. Doubtless they came to con-
sume the honey and the liquors which disappeared from thence; andif
their frlends were contented with offering them liquors only, no doubt it
was because their condition as dead persons would not admid of gross
foods. Men were then so extravagantly credulous as to believe thai
the phantoms came to drink and voluptuously to relish these liquors,
. _..._ __
Lili.
88 noelu nn cusroirs or
'
while their relations feasted on the rest of the sacri6ce around the pit.
After the repast in common between the dead and the living, came
the interrogation, or particular calling up of the soul, for which the
sacrifice was
appointed, and who was to explain her mind. Every
body isseneible that an inconvenience attended the ceremony, it being
to be apprehended that the dead might crowd about the ditch, to get a
share in this effusion which they were so
very greedy ofi and leave
nothing for the dear soul, for whom the feast was
designed. This was
provided against. The relations made two ditches. In one
they threw
in wine, honey, water and flour, to amuse the generality of the dead: in
the other they poured out the blood of the victim then to be eaten in
common
by the fiimily. They sat upon the brink of the latter, and with
their swords near them, they kept off by the sight of these instruments,
the crowd of dead who had no concern in their affairs. They on the
contrary invited and called up by his name the deceased, whom they
had a mind to cheer and consult. They desired him to draw near.
The dead seeing that there was there no
security for them, fiocked and
swanned round the ditch, the access to which was free, and politely
abandoned the other to the privileged soul, who had a right to the offer-
sng, and who knew the bottom ofthe affairs about which she was to be
consulted. t
The questions made by the living were distinct and easy to be under-
stood. The answers, on the contrary, though very certain, were `nei~
ther so quick, nor so
easy to be unraveled. But the priests who had
been taught in their labyrinth how to understand the voice ofthe gods
the answers ofthe planets, the language of the birds, the serpents and
the mutest instruments, easily understood the dead, and became their
interpreters. They reduced it into an art, whose most necessary point
and what best suited the condition ofthe dead, was silence and darkness.
They retired into the deeper caves:
they fasted and lay upon the skins
of the sacrificed beasts. When they waked or after a watlzh, which,
was fitter to turn their brains than to reveal hidden things to them,
they gave for answers the thought or dream which had most affected
them. Or they opened certain books appointed for that use :' and the
_fT|f100f'd| which offered at the opening of them, were
precisely those
*A similar custom isstill practised bysomesuperstitiouspeople; who whanin doubt
hsttho ttodstsrmin` srticulsrcucum' un thsbi sndthearlt
;'....,. 5..°Yt'&a.. ,1,.t.,.:,":.';,,,.,,... .., t..i..:.,. a.'v,:;,'f,:,counlii:-Edit.
nz ntcisur zovrrnss.
'
89
of the prophecy expected: or in short, the priest and sometimes the
person himself who came to consult, took care, at going out of the cave,
to listen with attention to the very first 'wards he could possibly hear,
from what part soever
they proceeded, and they were to him in lieu of
an answer. These words for certain had no manner of relation or cou-
nexion with the business in hand; but they were tumed so
many wayst
and the sense of them so
violently wrested, that _they must needs have
given way some small matter. Commonly enough theyhad ia appear'
ance some relation to it. They sometimes, instead of the foregoing
methods, had recourse to what they called sorles, viz: a number of
tickets on which there were some words written at random, or some
verses
already current or
newly coined. These tickets being thrown
into an urn, they were stirred very well together, and the first ticket
that was drawn, was gravely given to the distressed family, as the
means to make them easy. Methods of divination were
multiplied with-
out end. The whole of religion was almost converted into so
many
methods of knowing futurity. See the dissertation of Vandale upon the
heathen oracles. See the history of the oracles. This matter has been
sufficiently treated upon by the learned: it would be needless to
resume it. ~
It is evident that the practices above mentioned were
extremely tit
every where to spread this extravagant persuasion, which is still pre~
served among the people, that we
may converse with the dead, and that
they often come to give us advices.
Ifl can
again supply my readers with the proofs of this custom, or
rather ofthis perverse abuseofthe funeral ceremonies ; I shall, methinks.
have sufliciently shown, that the opinions of men upon the gods, the
dead, and the answers that may be obtained from either of them, are
nothing buta literal and gross interpretation rnade of very plain signs,
and of still plainer ceremonies, whose purport was to express certain
truths, andto fulfil certain duties.
Because all nations flocked to high places, there to shed the blood
ofthe victims into a trench, and to converse with a dead person, by
keeping oil' others by the sight of a sword, it is, that, scripture so olten,
and in so
express a manner, forbids the Israelites to assemble upon
high places, or, (which was
frequently the same thing) to hold their
amemhly nearthe blood, or to eat sitting round any pit sprinkled with
the blood of the lvictirns. The seventy interpreters knowing per.
fectly, that this was what' drew the people to the high places, having
very well translated this passage of Leviticus, xix. 26. and other the
i2
90 nooaas aan cusrous or
like by these words, i
ye shall not go and eat upon the mountains.
Here to eat is the same
thing as to sacrifice'
In concluding my extracts and remarks on the interesting works of the Abbe
Pluche, I will take' some notice of what he says ofthe dog-days; which are cbntinually
recorded in Almanacs, when probably neither the authors nor readers, know any thing
of their origin, or the propriety or use of their being retained in such registers.
According to our author, the rising of the dog-star, was generally accompanied
with what the Egyptians called the Efeaian northern wind, that continued to blow for
lbw' forty days in succession. When this wind failed to occur at this period, or was
too light to he of use in causing the swelling ofthe Nile to a sudicient height, a general
sadness of the people ensued. The probability, therefore, is, that while the inhabitants
'emained idle on the high ground, watching the progress of the inundation, these forty
di!! were passed' very much, in fasting and other acts of devotion to gain the favor Of
their gods in this respect. Indeed the author relates a story that prevailed among the
Cretians, that corroborates this opinion; which is, that through the displeasure of the
B'°dl| this Wind was not permitted to blow fora considerable time ;
"
but after repeated
loerifcn, the gods at length granted the retum of the Etesian wind, 'and its constant
>l°wi=s. during thefmy dey. that followed me i-sang of me dog asf, canal me dog-
dlili which again brought abundance upon the earth." The people, he says, in
another place,
"
were wamed to observe the dog-days."
Volney remarks that,
"
about the end of July, dnring all the month of August, and
half of September, the winds~in Egypt remain constantly in the north, and are model'-.
ate: brilker in the day, however, and weaker at night"
The dog-days, ,in callenders calculated for the United States, are generally noted aa
UOUll3:!ICl.Dg
on the 30th of July, and ending on the tenth of September, making forty
two 'ys.
It iehighly probable that the Roman Catholic Lent has grown out of this ancient
customin regard tothe dog-days; accommodated however, in respect to the time of its
Ubbervance, to the circumstances of countries differently situated to that ofEgypt. Such
IU essential change in the usual habit of living, is, no doubt, very detrimental to health,
and
probably causes the premature death of thousands annually. The requirement of
lbstmcncs from meat on -Fridays and Saturdays, is founded upon the same principle.
A
breach of this rule ofthe politico-religious church of Rome, is placed in the list of
df'mmn8 lilll, in a ritual issued, even under the reign of the Emperor Napoleon, with his
'Ullature attached, ordering its observance by all Catholics throughout his dominions.
_ Tlllll the fastings and mortilications originally got up to appease the tickle and vin-
fi'°'"°8°dl of paganisrn, have, without the least propriety or reason, been incorporated
""° ll" °YStems of some sects of professed Christians.
BY l-his establishment the catholic is required to abstain from eating meat for forty
fl'Y': "Qelll by special indulgence granted by a priest. Those therefore, to whom it is
m°°"°m°m *U
P°Y`f°|"l»|'ldl1lg6I!0B8, are under the necessity of sean-icing themeslvel
'° alll and vegetable diet during. the above term. _
'Masonic writers say, "their brethren used to meet on the highest hills." This
d°°l""!°l IPPIIOI to the predecessors of freemasona, but not to the craft; whose
lssembhes were always held in a
lodge-room, guarded by a member at the door, with a
drawn sword.
The Jh"¢10°1'd Spoken, on raising the dead body of Hiram, waa_ to be substituted for
me lost master mason,s word, provided it was not found upon him. This idea is evr-
ngélx from the superstitious practices mentioned above, at the funeral anniver-
-
is-_-ri
- 7
rn: suctssr scvrrtsss. 91
I will bersobserve, that personages which Mr. Pluche declares to be mythological,
never having had existence, will be considered by other writers, quoted in this work, as
real historical persons. Some of his hypotheses in other respects, may alsobe contrary
to the doctrines ot' authors here cited.l shall generally pass such discrepances without
comment, leaving the reader to form his own opinion.
To Abbe Pluche's account of Egypt, I will add a few extracts from a recent and
very valuable work, entitled,
"
A View ot' Ancient and Modern Egypt, by the Rev-
Michael Russell, L L. D.
`
Literature and Science of the Ancient Egyptians.
In Egypt the use of the hieroglyph was not entirely superseded by
the invention of an
alphabet. For mahy purposes connected with reli-
gion, and even with the more solemn occupations of civil life, the em-
blematical style of composition continued to enjoy a preference; on a
principle similar to that which disposes the Jew to perform his worship
in Hebrew, and the Roman Catholic in Latin. There appears also to
have been a mixed language used -by the priests, partaking at once of
hieroglyphics and of alphabetical characters; which, in -allusion to the
class of men' by whom it was
employed, was denominated hieratic.
Hence, in process of time, the Egyptians found themselves in posses-
sion of three different modes of ,communication-the hieroglyphic, pro-
perly so called, the hieratic, and the demotic or common. , This dis-
tinction is clearly recognized in the following well-known passage
extracted from theworks of Clemens Alexandrinus.
Those who are educated among the Egyptians, says he, learn first
of all the method of writing called the epistolographic ; secondly, the
hieratic, which the sacred scribes employ; and, lastly, the mast myste-
rious description, the hieroglyphic, of which there are two kinds,-the
one
denoting objects, in a direct manner, by means of the initial sounds
of words ; the other is symbolical; Of the symbolical signs one class
represents objects by exhibiting a likeness or picture; another, by a
metaphorical or less complete resemblance; anda third, by means of
certain allegorical enigmas. Thus,-to give an
example of the three
methods in the symbolical division,-when they wish to represent an
object by the Hrst, they fix upon a distant resemblance: such as a circle,
when they want to indicate the sun, and a crescent when their pur-
pose is to denote the moon. The second, or
metaphorical, allows a
considerable freedom in selecting the emblem, and may be such as
only
suggests the object by analogous qualities. For instance, when they
record the praises of kings in their theological fables, they exhibit them
in connexion with figurative allusions which shadow forth their good
92 t noomss Asn cvsroxs or
actions and benign dispositions. In this' case the representation is not
direct but metaphorical. Of the third method of symbolical writing
the following will serve as an
example 1
they assimilate the oblique
course of the planets to the body of a serpent, but that of the sun to the
figure of a scarabams.
In reference to the knowledge actually acquired of the literature of
aI1Ci6D¢ Egypt by means of the late discoveries in hieroglyphics, we
are not entitled to speak in boastful or very confident language. The
wasting hand of time, vhich has rendered its effects visible even on the
Pyramids, has entirely destroyed the more perishable materials to which
the sages of Thebes and the magicians of Memphis may have commit-
ted the science of their several generations. We know, too, that the hig-
otry of ignorance and of superstition accomplished, in many cases_
what the flood of years had permitted to escape; for which reason we
must not estimate the extent of acquirement among the wise men of
Egypt by the scanty remains of their labors which have been casually
rescued from accident and violence. From DiodorusSicu1us we receivethe
information that in the tomb of Osymandias were deposited twenty thou-
sand volumes,-anumber which is reduced by Manetho to three thousand
five hundred and twenty-five,-all of which, on account of their anti-
quity or the importance of their subjects, were ascribed to Thoth or Her-
mes, who, it is well known, united in his character the intelligence of
a divinity with the patriotism of a faithful minister.
Oi these works, which unquestionably belong to a very remote
antiquity, we have a short account supplied by a Christian bishop,
Clemens of Alexandria, who appears to have devoted much attention
to the learning of the ancient Egyptians.
"
In that country," he tells
us, "every individual cultivates a different branch of philosophy,-an
arrangement which applies chiefly to their holy ceremonies. In such
processions the singer occupies the first place, carrying in his hand an
instrument of music. He is said to be obliged to learn two of the books
of Hermes ; one of which contains hymns addressed to the gods, and
the other the rules by which a
prince ought to govern. Next comes the
Horoscopus, holding a clock and the branch of a palm-tree, which are
the symbols of astrology. He must be completely master of the four
books of Hermes which treat of that science. One of these explains
the order of the fixed stars 3 the second, the motion and phases of the
sun and moon : the other two determine the times of their periodical
rising. Then follows the Hierogramrnatist or sacred scribe, with two
feathers on his head, and, a book and ruler in his hand, to which are
added the instruments of writing, some ink and areed. He must know
rss /mcxsnr sorrrnns. _
'
93
what are called hieroglyphics, and those branches of science which
belong to cosmography, geography, and astronomy, especially the laws
of the sun, moon, and five planets; he must be acquainted with the ter~
ritorial distribution of Egypt, the course of the Nile, the furniture of
the temples and of all consecrated places. After these is an odieer
denominated Stolistes, who bears a
square-rule as the emblem of justice,
and the cup of libations, His charge includes every thing which
belongs to the education of youth, as well as to sacrifices, first-fmits,
hymns, prayers, religious pomps, festivals, and commemorations; the
rules for which are contained in ten books. This functionary is suc-
ceeded by one called the prophet, who displays in his bosom a jar or
vesml, meant for carrying water,-a symbol thought to represent the
deity, but which, more
probably, had a reference tothe sacred char-
acter of the Nile. He is attended by persons bearing bread
cut into slices. The duty of the prophet, [as president of the mys-
teries, according to Volney's citation of this passage] made it neces-
sary for him to be perfectly acquainted with the ten books called sacer~
doml, and which treat of the laws of the gods, and of the whole
discipline of the priesthood. He also presides over the distribu-
tion of the sacred revenue; that is, the income arising from the
performance of pious rites, and dedicated to the support of religious
institutions. Hence, there are forty-two books of Hermes, the know-
ledge of which is absoluu-ly necessary ; of these, thirty-six, containing
the whole philosophy of the Egyptians, are
carefully studied by the
persons whom we have mentioned ; and the remaining six are leamed
bythe Pastophori, or inferior priests, as
they belong to anatomy, to
nosology, to instruments of surgery, to pharmacy, to the diseases of
the eye, and tothe maladies of women." (Clemen. Alexandria. Strom.
lib. vi. p. 633.)
This distribution of the sciences does not enable us to determine either
the principles on which they were founded or the extent to which they
were pursued. We possess a better criterion in the perfection to which
the people of Egypt, at a very early period, had carried some of those
arts which have a close dependence upon scientific deductions. The
prodigies of Thebes could not have been accomplished by a nation
ignorant of mathematics and chymistry; nor could the pyrarnidm
the obelisks, andthe monolithic temples, which still meet the eye of the
traveler in almost every spot between Elephantiné and the mouths of
the Nile, have been raised without the aid of such mechanical powers
as have their origin in the calculations of philosophy.-(See p. l33,
Harper's Ed.)
94
'
noel/is ann onerous or
Here we have the archetype of masonic prooessious, on festival days and other
important occasions. I shall hereafter give a detailed account of those which took
place in London, on laying the comer stone and on the dedication ofFreemasons' Hall-
We see here also the original of the square rule, as a masonic symbol. It WIS, in
Egypt, an 'emblem of justice, because it was the means by which was ascertained the
boundaries of lands that had been obscured or carried away by the inundation. We
here moreover recognise the holy or sacred scribe of a royal arch chapter, with a book
and nrler in his hand. The original book, containing the laws of Egypt relatingto
sacriiiws and other matters sppertaining to religion, not havingbeen preserved, masonry
substitutes for it the Bible, which is opened at the beginning of the gospel of StL
John, and with the square and compasses laid thereon, is eeremonially carried in the
processions.
The jar or vessel spoken oi] was undoubtedly one oi' the Cannopi which indicated
the dilferent heights of'the Nile, and for this reason acquired a sanctity among the peo-
ple. 'l'he three pitchers carried in masonic processions no doubt originally alluded to
the Egyptian cannopi.
As to the leaming, so much boasted of by the craft, and which seems to be claimed
by them as an inheritance from their predecessors, it is to be feared, that it remains
buried in the the tomb Q/'O|y1nandiaa. The hymns or odes and songs, as well asprayerl
are retained in great abundance, and compose an essential part of the masonic cere-
momes.
Attributing the authorship of twenty thousand, or even three thousand tive hundred
and twenty-Eve volumes, to Thoth or Hermes, is an evidence of his being a Gctitious
character, and corroborates the opinion of Pluche on the subject. Jamblichus, how-
ever, puts this matter beyound controversy; he says :
"
Hermes. the god who presides
over language, was formerly very properly considered as common to all priests ; and
the power who presides over the true science conceming the gods is one and the same
in the whole of things.
Henoe,our ancestors dedicated the inventions of their wisdom to this deity, inscrib-
ingall their mm writings with the name of Hermes. (Taylor's trans. p. 11-)
Volney,- who, in his Ruins, quotes part of the foregoing extract from Clemens
observes, that Mercury [who is the same as Hermes] is the Janus of the Romans, tha
Guisnese of the Indians, and it is remarkable that Yanus and Guianese are synony-
mous. In short, it appears that these books are the source of all that has been trans-
mitted to us by the Greeks and Latins in every science, even in alchymy, nacromancy,
etc. What is most to be regretted in their loss is that part which related to the principles
of medicine and diet, in which the Egyptians appear to have made considerable progress
and useful observations."
Remains of the Ancient Arts, in various parts of Egypt-
Dendera, which is commonly identified with the ancient Teutyra,
presents some
very striking examples of that sumptuous architecture
which the people of Egypt lavished upon their places of worship.
The gateway in particular which leads to the temple of Isis has excited
universal admiration. Each front, as well as the interior, is covered
with sculptured hieroglyphics, which are executed with a richness, a
precision, elegance of form, and variety of ornament, surpassing in
many respects the similar edificcs which are found at Thebes and
'ras sucrsar »scrr1°raNs. 95
Philoe. The height is forty-two feet, the width thirty-three,and the depth
seventeen.
"Advancing along the brick ruins,'f says Dr. Richardson,
"
we came to an
elegant gateway or
propylon, which is also of sandstone,
neatly hewn, and completely covered with sculpture and hieroglyphics
remarkably well cut.
Immediately over the centre of the door-way is
the beautiful Egyptian ornament
usually called the globe, with serpenf
and wings, emblematical of the glorious sun poised in the airy limtament
of heaven, supported and directed in his course
by the eternal wisdom of
the Deity. The sublime phraseology of Scripture, 'the Sun of Righte-
ouaness shall rise with healing on his wings,' could not be more emphati-
cally or more
accurately represented to the human eye than by this ele-
gant device. The temple itself still retains all its original magnificence.
The centuries which have elapsed since the era of its foundation have
scarcely affected it in any importapt part, and have impressed upon it
no greater appearance of age than serves to render it more venerable
and imposing! To Mr. Hamilton, who had seen innumerable mon-
uments of the same kind throughout the Thebaid, itseemed as if he
were now
witnessing the highest degree of architectural excellence
that had ever been attained on the borders of the Nile. Here were
'concentrated the united labors of ages, and the last eflbrt of human
art and industry, in that uniform line of construction which had been
adopted in the earliest times.
The portico consists of twenty-four columns, in three rows ; each
above twenty-two feet in circumference, thirty two feet high, and cov-
ered with hieroglyphics. On the front, Isis is in general the principal
figure to whom offerings are made. On the architrave are represen-
ted two processions of men and women bringing to their goddess, and
to Osiris, who is sitting behind her, globes encompassed with coyva'
horns, mitred snakes, lotus flowers, vases, little boats, graduated stajs,
and other instruments of their emblematical worship. The interior
° The knowledge ot' astronomy leads to the
interpretation
of hieroglyphical charac-
ters, since
astronomicafaifns
are often found on t e ancient
Eggpnan monuments,
which were probably emp eyed by the pnests to
record dates. the ceding of the
portico of the temple
amopjlthe ruins of' Tentyra, therexs a long row of figures of men
and animals,
following
e
other_m the same
direction amongthese are the twelve
dgna of the zodiac, p aced according to the motion of t e sun : it is probable that the
first figure in the procession represents
thebegtnmng
of the
gear. Now the first is the
Lion as if coming out of the temple ; and it is well nown t at the
agpcultunl year of
the
gglyptians
commenced at the solstice* of summer, the epoch ot' t
e inundation of
the e : then if the preceding
hipothesls
be true, the solstice at the time
the_ tempts
was built must have
hatppened
m t e
constellation of the lion; but, as the solstice new
ha pens 21° 6' north o the constellation of the Twins, it s_ea|y to OUIUPUN *lil* the
zodiac of Tentyra must have been made 4WD years ago.-Dram on Mech. of the Heav-
by Mrs. Somerville.-Edit.
'
nooruts Ann cusronrs or 96
of the pronaos is adorned with sculptures, most of them preserving
part of the paint with which they have been covered. Those on the
ceiling are
peculiarly rich and varied, all illustrative of the union
between the astronomical and religious creeds of the ancient Egyp-
tians ; yet, though each separate figure is well preserved and perfectly
intelligible, we must be more
intimately acquainted with the real prin-
ciples of'the sciences, as they were then taught, before we can under-
take to explain the signs in which they were embodied.
The sekos, or interior of the temple, consists of several apartments,
all the walls and ceilings of which are in the same
way covered with
religious and astronomical representations.
The rooms have been lighted by small perpendicular holes cut in
the eeiling,afnd, where it was possible to introduce them, by oblique
ones in the sides. But some idea might be formed of the 'perpetual
gloom in which the apartments on the ground-floor of the sekos must
have been buried, from the fact, that where no
sidelight could be intro,
duced, all they received was communicated from the apartment above;
so that notwithstanding the cloudless sky and the brilliant colors on
the walls, the place must have been always well calculated for the mys-
terious practices of the religion to which it was consecrated. On one
corner of the roof there wasa chapel or temple twenty feet square,
consisting of twelve columns, exactly similar in figure and proportions
to those of the pronaos. '1'he use to which it may have been applied
mint probably remain one of the secrets connected with the mystical
and sometimes cruel service in which the priests of Isis were employed.
Towards the eastern end of the roof are two separate sets of
apartments, one on the north and the other on the south side of it.
The ceiling of the next room is divided into two compartment by
afigure of Isis in very high relief. In one of them is the circular
zodiac ; in the other a
variety of boats with four or five htiman figures
ineach; one of whom is`in the act of spearing a large egg, while
others are stamping with their feet upon the victims of their fury,
among which are several human beings. Near this scene a large
lion, supported by four dog~headed figures, each carrying a knife, may
be regarded as an additional type of the sanguinary purposes for
which the apartment was used. The walls of the third room'
are
covered with the several representations of a
person,-first at the
point of death lying on a couch; then stretched out lifeless upon a
bier; and finally, being embalmed.
The western wall of the great temple is particularly interesting for
*he extreme elegance of the sculpture.
'rnz Auclnur nevrrxsus. 97»
Here are frequent representations of men who seem prepared for
slaughter or just going to be put to death. On these occasions one or
more appear, with their hands or. legs tied to the trunk of a tree, in the
most painful and distorted attitudes.
In a small chapel behind the temple, the cow and the hawlr seem»
to have been particularly worshipped, as~
priests are frequently seen
kneeling before thcm presenting sacrifices and offerings. In the cen~
tre of the ceiling'is the same front face of Isis in highrelieil illumi-
nated, as it were, bya body of rays issuing from the mouth of the same-
long figure, which, in the other temples, appears to encircle the hea-
venly bodies. About tvo hundred yards eastward from this chapel is
a propylon of small dimensions, resembling in form that which con-
ducts to the great temple, and, like it, built in a line with the wall
which surrounds the sacred enclosure. Among the sculptures on it
which appear of th_e same style but less finished than those on the large
temple, little more is worthy of notice than the frequent exhibition of
human slaughter by men or by lions. Still farther towards the east,
there is another propylon, equally well preserved with the rest, about
forty feet in height, and twenty feet square at the base. Among
the sacred figures on this building is an Isis pointing with a reed
to a graduated staff held by another figure of the
same deity, from
which are suspended scales containing water animals, the whole group
perhaps being an emblem of her influence over the Nile in regulating
its periodic al inundations.-Ibid. p. 166.
The signs of the zodiac portrayed in the center of the roof of heemasons' hall, Lon-
don, it appears, are in accordance with the astronomical decorations of the ancient
temples of Egypt. Celestial and terrestrial globes also compose a part of the masonic
emblems.
The author seems not to be aware that the Isis, pointing with a reed to a graduated
stud; was directing the attention of the Egyptians to the Nilorneter or measure of the
inundation, so importantto their well being. This measure in alter times, as before
noticed, became an ensign of otiiee, Mercury's wand, and as such has been adopted by
masonry.
The cruelty supposed to be connected with the Egyptian mode of worship, as indi-
cated by the appearance of persons tmder torture, the reader will find in the sequel, were
nothing more than sham representations of the punishments said to be indicted upon
the wickedin another life. The contrast displayed in the death of a virtuous character,
carefully embalmed, clearly points out the intention of these representations. The
sppartments where these awful figures were portrayed, were, no doubt, the int into-
which candidates for initiation into the mysteries were introduced.
£3
'
CHAPTER II.
ORIGIN, NATURE, AND OBJECT, OF THE ANCIENT IYBTERIES;
ABRIDGID FBO! BISHOP WARBUB'|'0N'B DIVINE LEGATION OF
IOBESQ WITH HOT!! AND REIARKS, POINTING OUT THEIR
IDINTITY WITH FRIIIABONBY, ETC.
I-r is proper to premise, that the author uniformly refers to the works of the writers
which he quotes, and generally gives the passages in the original language in which
they were written. His quotations from the Eneid, the Metamorphosis of Epuleius, and
some other works, given in the Latin language, are here rendered into English. A few
Greek passagesinhisworkarealsogivenintranslation, andall Greek terms areput
in Roman characters for the benefit ofthe general reader.
An abstract ofthe author's remarks, introductory to his treatise on the Mysteries, is
int given, as follows :
'
So inseparable, in antiquity, were the ideas of la/w-giving and
religion, that Plutarch, speaking of the preference of atheism to super-
stition, supposes no other establishment of divine worship than what
was the work of the legislator.
"
How much happier would it have
been, says he, for the Carthagenians, had their first law-giver been like
Critias or
Diogoras, who believed neither gods nor demons, rather than
such an one as enjoined their public sacrifices to Saturn."
But here it will be necessary to remind the reader of this previous
truth, that there never was in any age of the world, from the most early
accounts oftime, to this present hour, any civil-policied nation or people
who had a religion, of which the chief foundation and support was not
the doctrine ofa fixture state of rewards and punishments; the Jewish
people only excepted. This I presume, our adversaries will not deny.
Mr. Bayle, the indulgent foster father of infidelity, confesses it in the
fullest manner, and with the utmost ingenuity;
"
all the religions of
the world, whether true or false, turn upon this grand pivot, that there is
an invisiblejudge who punishes and rewards after this life, the actions
of men, both of thought and deed. From thence it is supposed the
principal use of religion is derived," and thinks it was the utility of
that doctrine which set the magistrate upon inventing a
religion for the
state.
"
It is the principle motive that incited those who invented it."
(Diet. Crit. and Hist. Art. Spinoza Rem. E.)
The Egyptians were the first people who perfected civil policy, and
establi hed religion: they were the first too, who deiiied their kings,
law-givers and public benefsctors. This was a
practice invented by
them, who in process oftime, taught the rest ofthe world their mystery.
l00 A DISBEBTATION on
The attributes and qualities assigned to their gods, always corres-
ponied with the nature and genius of the government. If this was gen-
tle, benign, compassionate and forgiving ; goodness and mercy were
most essential to the deity; but if severe, inexorable, captious or une-
qual, the very gods were tyrants; and ezpiations, atonemcnts, lustre-
-limu, and bloody sacrifices composed the system of religious worship.
Gods partial, changaful, passionate, unjust,
Whose attributes were rage, revenge and lust,
Such as the souls of cowards might conceive,
'
And formed like tyrants, tyrants would believe.
The first step the legslatortook, was to pretend a mission and rev-
elation from some god, by whose command and direction he had framed
the policy he would establish. In a word, there is hardly an old law-
giver, on record but what thus pretended to revelation, and the divine
assistance.
The universal custom of the ancient world was, to make gods and
prophets of their first kings, and law-givers. Hence it is, that Plato
makes legislation to have come from God, and not from man.
Aristotle, in his maxims for setting up, and supporting a
tyranny,
lays this down for one
"
to seem extremely attached to the worship of
the gods, for that men have no apprehension of injustice from such as
they take to be religious, and to have a high sense ofprovidencef' Nor
will the people be apt to run into plots and conspiracies against those,
whom they believe the gods will in turn, fight for, and support." And
here it is worth noting, that, anciently, tyrants, as .well as law-givers
gave all encouragement to religion; and endeavored to establish
their irregular wills, not by convincing men that there was no just
nor unjust in actions; but by persuading them that the privilege of
divine right exempted the tyrant from all moral obligation.
Porphyry quotes an express law of Draco's concerning the mode
ofdivine worship.
"
Let the gods and our own
country heroes be pub-
licly worshipped, according to the established rites; when privately,
according to every man's abilities, with terms of the greatest regard
and reverence; with the first fruits of their labors, and with annual
libations." Andocides quotes another of Solon, which provides for the
due and regular celebration ofthe Eleusinian Mysteries. Athenazus
does the same. And how considerable a part these were of divine
worship, and of what importance to the very essence of religion, we
shall see hereafter.
priacipbiz beginning to and acted upon, by some of our lead-
'mn Ancrnu' lvsnarns. 10|
The second step the legislators took to propagate and establish
religion, was to make the general doctrine ofa providence, with which,
they prefaced and introduced their laws, the great sanction of their
institutes.
Thus Zaleucus begins his preface: "Every inhabitant whether of
town or country, should first of all be Hrmly persuaded of the being and
existence of the gods: which belief he will be readily inducedto enter-
tain, when he contemplates the heavens, regards the world, and
observes the disposition, order, and harmony of the universe; which
can neither be the work of blind chance, nor of man. These gods are
to be worshiped as the cause of all the real good we
enjoy. Every
one therefore should so
purify, and possess his mind, as to have it
clear of all kinds of evil; being persuaded that god is not honored
by a wicked person, nor
acceptably served, like miserable man, with
sumptuous ceremonies, or taken with costly sacrifces, but with virtue
only, and a constant disposition to good and just actions."
And much in the same fashion does Charondas introduce his laws.
In imitation of this practice, Plato likewise, and Cicero both prelhce
their laws with the sanctions of religion. And though these two
great men were not, strictly speaking; law-givers in form; yet we are
not to suppose that .what they wrote in this science, was like the dreams
of the sophists, for the amusement ofthe idle and curious. They were
both well practised in affairs, and deeply conversant in human nature;
and they formed their speculative institutes on the plan, and in the spirit
and views of ancient legislation; the foundation of Plato's being the
Attic La/ws, and the foundation of Cicero's the Twelve Tables.
Plato makes it the necessary introduction to his laws, to establish
the being and providence of the gods by a law against sacrilege. And
he explains what he means by sacrilege, in the following words;
"Either the denial of the being of the gods: or, if that be owned,
the denial of their providence over men; or, thirdly, the teaching, that
they are flexible, and easy to be cojoled by prayer' and sacrifice."
And afterwards: "It is not of small consequence, that what we here
reason about the gods, should by all means be made probable; as, that
they are ; and that they are good; and that their concernfor justice
takes place ofall other human considerations. For this, in our
opinion,
seems to be the noblest and best preface that can be made to a
body of
°Plutarch,in histreatiseoflsis and Osiris, remarks, that "In Cretethere wus
statneof Jupiter, without ears. The Cretians
jnddnq_it
aa thathe whoistherult
21251. ghd
of all things, should hear no one."-See syl.or'| Trauslauon Jamh. p.
it
t
_
1
102 A DIIIIRTATION on
laws. In compliancy with this declaration, Cicero's preface to his laws
is conceived in the following terms: "
Let our citizens then be, first ofall
firmly persuaded of the goverment and dominion ofthe gods; that
they are the lords and masters of the world; that all things are dis-
posed by their power, direction, and providence; and that the whole
race of mankind is in the highest manner indebted to them; that they
are intimately acquainted with every one's state and condition; that
they know what he does, what he thinks; with what disposition of
mind, and with what degree of piety he performs the acts and oliices of
religion; and that, accordingly, they make a distinction between the
good and evil."
And then follow the laws themselves; the Erst of which is conceived
in these words: "
Let those who approach the gods, be pure and unde-
iiled; let their offerings be seasoned with piety, and all ostentation of
pomp omitted : the god himself will be his own
avenger on transgres-
sors. Let the gods, and those who were ever reckoned in the number
of celestials, be worshipped: and those likewise, whom their merits
have raised to heaven: such as Hercules, Bacchus, Aisculapius, Cas-
tor, Pollux, and Romulus. And let chapels be erected in honor to
those qualities, by whose aid mortals arrive thither, such as reason,
virtue, piety and good faith."-De Legg. lib. ii. c. 8. ,
Institution of the Mysteries.
The next step the legislator took, was to support and affirm the
general doctrine of a
providence, which he had delivered in his laws,
by a
very circumstantial and popular method 'of inculcating the belief
of a future state of rewards' and punishments.
This was the institution of the mysteries, the most sacred part of
pagan religion: and artfully framed to strike deeply and forcibly into
the minds and imaginations of the people.
I propose, therefore, to give a full and distinct account of this whole
matter : and the rather, because it is a
thing little known`or attended to:
the ancients who wrote expressly on the mysteries, such as Melanthius,
Menander, I-Iicesius, Sotadea, and others, not being come down to us.
So that the modern writers on this subject are
altogether in the dark
concerning their origin and end; not excepting Meursiue himself; to
whom, however, I am much indebted, for abridging my labor in the
search of those passages of antiquity, which make mention of the
Eleusinian Mysteries, and for bringing the greater part of them together
under one view.-(Eleusinia: ive de Cereris Eleusina lacro.)
V
`
TRI snoxssr rnsrssrss. 103
To avoid ambiguity, it will be proper to* explain the term. Each
of the pagan gods had, besides the public and open, a secret worship
paid unto him; to which none were admitted but those who had been
selected by preparatory ceremonies, called initiation. This secret
worship was termed the Mysteries.
But though every god had, besides his open worship, the secret
likewise; yet this latter did not every where attend the former; but only
there, where he was the patron god, or in principal esteem. Thus
when in consequence of that intercommunity of paganism, which will
be explained hereafter, one nation adopted the gods of another, they did
not always take in at the same time, the secret worship or mysteries of
that god; so, in Rome, the public and open worship of Bacchus was in
use long before his mysteries were admitted.. But on the other hand,
again, the worship of the stange god was sometimes introduced only
for the sake ofhis mysteries : as, in the same city, that of Isis and Osiris.
Thus stood the case in general, the particular exceptions to it, will be
seen in the sequel of this dissertation.
The first and original mysteries, of which we have any sure
account, were those of Isis and Osiris in Egypt; from whence they
were derived to the Greeks, under the presidency of various gods, as~
the institutor thought most for his purpose; Zoroaster brought them
into Persia, Cadmus and Inachus into Greece at large, Orpheus into
Thrace;' Melampus into Argis, Trophonius into Btsotia, Mino into
Crete; Cinyras into Cyprus, and Erechtheus into Athens. And as in
Egypt they were to Isis and Osiris; so in Asia they were to Mithras,
in Samothrace to the mother of the gods, in Bmotia to Bacchus, in
Cyprus to Venus, in Crete to Jupiter, in Athens to Ceres and Proser-
pine, in Amphissa to Castor and Pollux, in Lemnos to Vulcan, and
soto others, in other places, the number of which was incredible.
But their end, as well as nature, was the same in all ; to teach the
doctrine of a future state. In this, Origen and Celsus agree, the two
most learned writers of their several parriest The first, minding his
adversary of the difference between the future life promised by Chris-
tianity, and that taught in paganism, bids him compare the Christian
with what all the sects of philosophy, and all the mysteries, among
Greeks and Barbarians, taught concerning it: and Celsus, in his turn,
sndeavoring to show that Christianity had no advantage over Paganism
in the sdicacy of stronger sanctions, expresses himself to this purpose;
"
But now, after all, just as you believe eternal punishments, so do the
4...-1_1-.l --___.li,_
104 A nrsssanrrorl on
ministers of the sacred rites, and those who initiate into, and preside in
the mysteries."
And that nothing very heterodox was taught in the mysteries con-
cerning a future state, I collect from the answer Origen makes to Cel-
sus, who had preferred what was taught in the mysteries of Bacchus
on that point, to what the Christian religion revealed concerning it.
lib. iv. p. 167. ,
They continued long in religious reverence: some were more
famous and more extensive than others ; to which many accidents
occurred. The most noted were the Orphic, the Bacchic, the Eleusin-
ian, the Samothracian, the Cabiric, and the Mithriac.
Euripides makes Bacchus say, in his tragedy of that name, that
the Orgies were celebrated by all foreign nations, and that he came
to introduce them among the Greeks. And it is not improbable, but
several barbarous nations might have learned them from the Egyp-
tians long before they came into Greece. The Druids of Britain
who had, as well as the Brachmans of India, divers of their religious
ritesfrom thence, celebrated the Orgies of Bacchus, as we learn from
Dyonisius the African. And Strabo, having quoted Artemidorus for
a ihbulous story, subjoins, "But what he says of Ceres and Proser-
pine is more credible, namely, that there is an island near Britain,
where they perform the same rites to those two goddesses as are used
inSa1nothra.ee." (Strabonis Geor. lib. iv.)~ But ofall the mysteries,
those which bore that name, by way of eminence, the Eleariisiarq cel-
ebratedat Athens in-honorsof Ceres, were
by far the most renowned 6
andfin process of time, eclipsed, and, as it were, swallowed up the rest.
Their neighbors round about very early practised these mysteries to
the neglect of their own; in a little time all Greece and Asia Minor
were initiated into them; and at length theyspread over the whole
Roman empire, and even beyond the limits of it. "
I insist not, (says
Tully) on those sacred and august' rites of Eleuris, where, from the
remotest regions, men come to be initiated." And we are toldin Zosi~
mus, that "these most hoiy rites were then so extensive, as to take in
the whole race of<
mankind." Aristides calls Eleusis the common
temple of the earth. Amd Pausanias says, the rites performed there
as much excelled all otherfrites, instituted for the promotion of piety, as
the gods excelled the heroes.
How this happened, is to be accounted for from the nature of the
State which gave birth to these mysteries. Athens was a
city the
'mm ANCIENT nnrsrnuzs. 105
most devoted to religion`of any upon the face of the earth. On this
account their poet Sophocles calls it the sacred building of the gods»
in allusion to its foundation. Nor was it a less compliment Sr. Paul
intended to pay the Athenians, when he said,
"
Ye men of Athens, I
perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious." (Acts, xvii. 22.)
And Josephus tells us, that they were universally esteemed the most
religious people of Greece. Hence, in these matters, Athens became
the pattern and standard to the rest of the world.
In discoursing, therefore of the mysteries in general, we shall be
forced to take our ideas of them chiefly from what we find practised in
the Eleusinian. Nor need ve fear to be mistaken ; the end of all
being the same, and all having their common original from Egypt.
To begin with the general purpose and design of their institution.
This will be understood, by showing what they communicated pro-
miscuously to all. '
To support the doctrine of a providence which, they taught, gov-
erned the world, they enforced the belief of a future state of rewards
and punishments, by all kinds of methods. But as this did not quite
clear up the intricate ways of providence, they added the doctrine of a
metempsychosis, orthe belief of a prior state, as we learn from Cicero,
and Porphyry, the latter of whom informs us, that it was
taught in the
mysteries of the Persian Mithras. This was an ingenious solution,
invented by the Egyptian lawgivers, to remove all doubts, concerning
the moral attributes of God, and so, consequently to establish the belief
of his providence, from a future state. For the lawgiver well knew
how precarious that belief was, vhile the moral attributes of God
remained doubtful and uncertain.
In cultivating the doctrine of a future life, it was
taught, that the
initiated, would be happier in that state than all other mortals: that
while the souls of the profane, at their leaving the body, stuck fast in
mire and filth, and remained in darkness, the souls of the initiated
winged their flight directly to the happy islands, and the habitations of
the gods.
'
This promise was as
necessary for the support of the Myste-
ries, as the Mysteries were for the support of the doctrine. But now,
lest it should be mistaken, that initiation alone, or
any other means
than u. virtuous life, entitled men to this future happiness, the Myste-
ries openly proclaimed it as their chief business, to restore the soul to
its original purity. "It was the end and design of initiation, says
Plato,
"
to restore the soul to that state, from whence it fell, as from its
native seat of perfection." They contrived that every thing should
14
_
.¢...._.--_ .__,--.-
10| A arsssanrron ou
tend to show the necessity of virtue, as appears from Epictetus.
"Thus the mysteries became useful, thus we seize the true spirit of
lhem, when we
begin to apprehend that every thing therein was insti-
tuted by the ancients, for instruction and amendment of life." -Por-
phyry gives us some of those moral precepts, which were enforced in
the mysteries, as to honor their parents, to ofl`er up fruits to the gods,
and to forbear cruelty towards animals. In pursuance ofthis scheme,
it was required in the aspirant to the Mysteries, that he should be of a
clear and unblenxished character, and free even from the suspicion of
any notorious crime. (Libanius Decl. xix.) To come to the truth, he
was severely interrogated by the priest or hierophant, impressing him
with the same sense of his obligation to conceal nothing, as is now
done at the Roman confessional.
As appears from the repartee# which Plutarch records, in his
Laconic Apot/zegms of Lysander, when hc vent to be initiated
into the Samothracian mysteries,
"
he was
required, by the hierophant,
to confess every wicked act that he had committed during his whole
life."
Whv initiation into these mysteries is called, inquiring of the ora-
cles will be seen afterwards. f
`
Hence it was, that when Nero, after the murder of his mother,
took a journey into Greece, and had a mind to be present at the cele-
bration of the Eleusinian mysteries, the consciousness of' his parricide
deterred him from attempting it. (Sueton. Vita Neron. cap. 34.) On
the same account, the good Emperor M. Antoninus, when he would
purge himself to the world ofthe death of Avidius Cassius, chose to
be initiated into the Eleusinian mysteries, it being notorious, that none
were admitted into them, who labored under the just suspicion ofany
heinous immorality. This was
originally a fundamental condition of
initiation, observed in common
by all the mysteries.
During the celebration of the mysteries, they were enjoined the
greatest purity, and highest elevation of mind. "When you sacrifice
or pray, says Epictetus in Arrian,-go with a prepared purity of mind,
and with dispositions so
previously disposed, as are required of you
when you approach the ancient rites and mysteries." And Proclus
tells'us that the mysteries and the initiations drew the souls of men
from a material, sensual, and merely human life, and joined them in
communio with the gods. Nor was a less de: ree of purity required of
the initiated for their future conduct. They were obliged by sol-
emn engagements to commence a new life of strictest piety and virtue ;
TBR ANUIINT lYl'l'llll!. 101
into which they were entered by a severe course of penance, proper to
purge the mind of its natural delilements. Gregory Nazianzen telll
us, "that no one could he initiated into the mysteries of Mithras, till he
had undergone all sorts of`mortil`ying trials, and had approved himself
holy and impassible." The consideration of all this made Tertullian
say, that, in the mysteries, "truth herself took on
every shape, to oppose
and combat truth." Omnia udversus veritatem, de ipsa veritate con-
structa esse. Apol. cap. 47.) And_Austin,
"
that the devil hurried away
deluded souls to their destruction, when he promised to purify them by
those ceremonies, called initiutions."
The initiated, under this discipline, and with these promises, were
esteemed the only happy men. Aristophanes, who speaks the sense
of the people, makes them exult and triumph after this manner:
"
On
us only does the sun dispense his blessings, we
only receive pleasure
from his beams; we, who are initiated, and perform towards strangers
and citizens all acts of piety and justice." And Sophocles, to the
lame purpose,
"
Life, only is to be had there; all other places are full
of misery and evil." "
Happy, says Euripides is the man who hath
beeninitiated into the greater mysteries, and leads a life of piety and
religion." And the longer any one had been initiated, the more hon-
orable they deemed him. It was even scandalous not to beinitiated,
and however virtuous the person othervise appeared, he became sus-
picious to the people, as was the case of Socrates, and, in after-times of
Demonax. No wonder then if the superior advantages of the initiated,
both here and hereafter, should make the mysteries universally
aspired to. And indeed, they soon grew as
comprehensive in the num-
bers they embraced, as in the regions and countries to which they
extended. Men, women, and children, ran to be initiated. Thus
Apuleius describes the state of the mysteries even in his time : "There
was an influx ofa crowd of those who had been initiated in the sacred
rites ofthe goddess, consisting of men and women of every degree and
ofevery age, resplendent with the
pure whiteness of linnen ga,[1nents."
The pagans, we see, seemed to think initiation as
necessary, as the
Christians did baptism. And the custom of initiating children appears
from a
passage of '1'erence, to have been general.
Nay, they had even the same superstition in the administration of
it which some Christians had ofbaptism, to defer it to the approach of
death; so the honest farmer Trygzeus, in the Pax of Aristophanes;
"I must be initiated beforel die."
The occasion of this solicitude, is told us by the scholiast on the
108 A
vrssanrrrrox on
Rane of the same poet. "The Athenians believed, that he who was
initiated, and instructed in the mysteries, would obtain divine honors
after death; and therefore all ran to be initiated. Their fondness for
it became so great, that at such times as the public treasury was low,
the magistrate would have recourse to the mysteries, as a fund to sup-
ply the exigences ofthe state.
"
Aristogiton, says the commentator on
Hermogenes, in a great scarcity of public money, procured a law, that
in Athens, every one should pay a certain sum for his initiation."
Every thing in these rights was
mysteriously conducted and under
the most solemn obligations to secrecy/.' Which, how it .could agree to
our
representation of the mysteries, as an institution for the use of the
people, we shall now endeavor to show.
They were hidden and kept secret for two reasons:
First-Nothing excites our
curiosity like that which retires
from our observation, and seems to forbid our search. Of this opin-
ion you will find the learned Synesius, where he says,
"
the people will
despise what is easy and unintelligible, and therefore they must always
be provided with something wondcrtlil and mysterious in religion, to hit
their taste and stimulate their curiosity." And again, "the ignorance
ofthe mysteries preserves their veneration 3 for which reason
they are
entrusted to the cover of night."
'
On these principles the mysteries were framed. They were
kept
secret, to excite curiosity: they were celebrated in the night to impress
veneration and religious horror.1' And they were
performed with variety
of shows and representations, (of which more
hereafter) to fix and perpet-
uate tho e impressions. Hitherto, then, the Mysteries are to be con-
sidered as invented not to deter, but to invite the curiosity ofthe people.
But,
Secondly-They were kept secret from a
necessity of teaching the
initiated some things, impropergto be communicated to all. The learned
Varro in a
fragment of his book of religions, preserved by St. Augustin,
tells us that "there were
many truths, which it was inconvenient for the
state to be generally known; and many things, which, though false, it
was expedient the people should believe ; and that therefore the Greeks
shut up their mysteries in the silence of their sacred inclosures."
Now to reconcile this seeming contradiction, of supposing the mys-
*This obligation of theinitiated to secrecy was the reason that the Egyptian hiero-
glyphic for them, was a
grasshopper, which was supposed to have no mouth. See Ho-
npollo Hyeroglyphlib. u. cap. 55. __ _
fEun ide in the Bacchantes act n makes Bacchus say, that the orgies were
celebrated)in :ll6 night, because dtirknessihas something solemn and august in it, and
proper to till the mind with sacred horror.
'ms Ancrnwr rnrsnsnrzl. 109
teries to be instituted to invite the people into them, and at the same time
to keep them from the people's knowledge, we are to observe, tliat in
the Elcusinizm rites there were two mysteries, the greater and the less.
The end ofthe less must be referred to what we said ofthe institutor's
intention to invite the people into them ; and of the greater, to his inten-
tion of keeping some truths from the people's knowledge. Nor is this
said without suflicient warrant: antiquity is very express for this dis-
tinction. W'e are told that the lesser mysteries were
only a kind of
preparatory purification for the greater, and might be easily communi-
cated to all. That four years was the usual time of probation for those
greater mysteries ; in which, as Clemens Alexandrinus expressly
infonns us, the secrets were
deposited.
However, as it is very certain, that both the greater and lesser mys-
teries were instituted for the benefit ofthe state, it follows that the doc-
trines tau'ht in both, were
equally for the service of society; only with
this difference, some without inconvenience, might be taught promis-
cuously, others could not. _
On the whole, the secret in the lesser mysteries, was some hidden
rites and shows to be kept from the open view of the people, only to,
invite their curiosity ; and the secret in the greater, some hidden doctrines
to be kept from the pcople's knowledge, for the very contrary purpose.
For the shows common both to the greater and lesser mysteries, were
only designed to engage the attention, and raise their devotion.
But it may be worth while to inquire more
particularly into the hid-
den doctrines of the greater mysteries, for so
religiously was the
secret kept, that the thing seems still to lie involved in darkness. We
shall therefore proceed cautiously; and try, from the obscure hints
dropped up and down in antiquity.
"
Pandere res alta terra et caligine mersas."
I
Lay open things hidden in the deep earth and in obscurity. `
To begin with st
passage of Clemens Alexandrinus : "Alter these,
(namely, lustrations,) are the lesser mysteries, in which is laid the
foundation of the hidden doctrines, and preparations for what is to
come afterwards." A
But there was one insuperable obstacle to a life of purity and holi-
ness, the vicious examples of their gods. Ego homuncio hoc non
facerem? (Could not I, a
sorry fellow, be permitted to do this thing)'
°Terence, Eun. act. sc. v.-Euripides puts this argumentinto the mouth of several
of his speakers, u and down his tragedies. Helen, in _the fourth act of the Trajqn
Dana, sa "I-Few could I resist a goddess, whom Jupiter himself obeys 7" Ion, in
his play otyihat name, in the latter end ot' the first act, speaks to the same purpose;
_ ¢.»-__-1-_i.- _
110 A DIIIERTATION ox
was the absolving formula, whenever any one was resolved to give a
loose to his passions. And the licentious rites, in the open worship of
their gods, gave still greater encouragement to these conclusions.
Plato, in his book of laws, forbids drinking to excess; unless, says he,
during the feast of Bacchus, and in honor of that god. And Aristotle,
in his politics, having blamed all lewd and obscene images and pic~
tures, ezcepts those of the gods, which religion had sanctified.
Now the mysteries professed to
egract nothing difficult of the initi-
ated, which they would not assist him to pertorm. It was necessary.
then, to remedy this evil; which they did by striking at the root of
it. , So that, such of the initiated as were
judged capable, were
made acquainted with the whole delusion. 'l'he mystagogue
taught them, that Jupiter, Mercury, Bacchus, Venus, Mars, and the
whole rabble of licentious deities, were
only dead mortals, subject in
life to the same
passions and iniirmities with themselves, but having
been, on other accounts, benefactors to mankind, grateful posterity had
deified them,and, with their virtues, had indiscreetly cannonized their
vices.' The fabulous gods being thus routed, the supreme cause of all
things naturally took their place. Him they were taught to consider
as the creator ofthe universe, who pervaded all things by his virtue, and
governed all by his providence. But here it must be observed, that the
discovery of this supreme cause was made consistent with the notion of
local tutelary deities, beings superior to men, and inferior to God, and
by him set over the several parts of his creation. This was an
opinion
universally holden by antiquity, and never brought into question by any
theist. What the aporreta overthrew, was the vulgar polytheism, the
worship of dead men. From this time, the initiated had the title of
Epoptes, by which was meant one that secs lltingsas they are and with-
out disguise; whereas, before he was called Mystes, which has a con-
trary signification.
i
But besides the prevention ofvice, the detection of the national gods
.
and in the fifth act of Hercules Furens, Theseus comforts his friend by the examples of
the crimes of the gods. _
See likewise his Hyppolitus, act. ii. sc. ii. The learned and
in emous Mr. Seward, in his tract ot' the mrtformily between ery and paganirm, hu
when notice ofa difficult passage in this
tragedy,
which he liiihpvery ably explained, on
the
syptem
here delivered of the detection of Po ytheism in the sacred mysteries.
° hen St. Austin, (Qiv. dm, lib. ii. cup. 7. 8) had quoted the
Flglo
homunico hoc non
facerem, to show what mischief these stories did_to the morals of t e people; he makes
the defenders of
paganism reply, that it was
true, but then these things were only
taught in the fab es of the poets, which an attention to the mysteries would rectify;
this the father cannot deny; but observes however, that in the then co t
stats of the mystenes_ the remedy was
become part of the disease; "Nolo
tdioere ills rnystica quam tsta theatnca esse turptora."
1
'rin sucussr rnrrrsans. lll
had another important use, which was to excite men to heroic virtue,
by showing them what honors the benefactors of nations had acquired,
by the free exercise of it. And this, as will be shown hereafter, was
the chief reason
why princes, statesmen, and leaders of colonies and
armies all aspired to be partakers ofthe greater mysteries.
Thus we see, how what was taught and required in the lesser mys-
teries, became the foundation of instruction in the greater; the obliga-
tion to a good life there, made it necessary to remove the errors of vul-
gar polytheism here; and the doctrine of a providence taught previ-
ously in those, facilitated the reception of the sole cause of all things,
when finally revealed in these. Such were the truths which Varro,
as quoted above, tells us it was
expedient for the people to kl'l0W..
Hs supposed, indeed, the error of vulgar polytheism to be so inveterate,
that it was not to be expelled without throwing society into convulsions.
But Plato spoke out, he ovned it to be "
difficult to find the father and
creator of the universe; and, when found, impossible to discover him
to all the world."-(In Timseo.)
Besides, there was another reason
why the institutors of the myste-
ries, who were
lawgivers, should be for keeping this truth a secret.
They had had, themselves, the chief hand in the rise of vulgar polythe-
ism. They contrived it for the sake of the state; and to keep the peo-
ple in awe, under a greater veneration for their laws. This polytheisrn
the poets had depraved, by inventing or
recording vicious stories ofthe
gods and heroes, which the lawgivers were willing to have stifled. And
they were
only such stories, that, in their opinion, as
may be seen in
Plato, made Polytheism hurtful to the state. _
That this accounts for the secret in the greater mysteries, is no pre-
carious hypothesis, raised merely on conjecture, I shall now endeavior
to show.
First, from the clear evidence of antiquity, which expressly informs
us ofthese two particulars. That the errors of polytheism were detected-
and the doctrine of the unity taught and explained in the mysteries.
But here it is to be observed, that when the ancients speak of mysteries
indefinitely, they generally mean the greater.
*These two were the truths which the
plontifex Scazvoln, said were to be kept hid
fmm the people.
"
It is recorded in books t at Scmvola, a very learned poutiii; argued
that three kinds of gods had been handed down to us, one b the poets, another by the
philosophers, the third by the rulers ofthe state. The first kind he says is worthless-
ihs sepecand np! pluizible for
tripminonvugaaltha, pecatxrgl
it
ccéntnins §e|tsinh_t|ings,ht2§
now o w nc is pre_|u icia to t e peop e. at 1 en are t rose t ings w 1
are
Kzjudicialto the multitude?
"'I'hesei;'
he says,
"
that Hercules, Esculapius, Castor,
Pol are not gods, but were men w o departed human life.-Aug-uutin do Ciml.
Doi, lib. if. cap. 27.
112 A ntssr~:n'rA'rioN ou
It hath been shown, that the Grecian and Asiatic Mysteries came
originally from Egypt. Now, of the Egyptian, St. Austin giveth us
this remarkable account. "Of the same nature, too, are those things
which Alexander ofMacedon wrote to his mother, as revealed unto him
by one Leo," chief hierophant of the Egyptian mysteries, whereby it
appeared, that not only such as Picus, and Faunus, and Eneas, and
Romulus, nay Hercules, and Esculapius, and Bacchus the son of Semele,
and Castor, and Pollux, and all others of the same rank, had been
advanced, from the condition of mortality, into gods, but that even those
deities ofthe higher order, the Dii majorum gentium, those whom Cicero
without naming seems to carp at, in his Tusculans, such as Jupiter,
Juno, Saturn, Neptune, Vulcan, Vesta, and many others, Whom Varro
endeavors to allegorize into the elements or parts of the world, were,
in truth, only mortal men. But the priest being under great fears and
apptehensions, while be was telling this, as conscious he was
betraying
the secret of the mysteries, begged of Alexander, when he found that
he intended to communicate it to his mother, that he would enjoin her
to burn the letter, as soon as she had read it."'l'
_
To understand the concluding part, we are to know, that Cyprian,
who has also preserved this curious anecdote, tells us, it was the dread
of Alexander's power, which extorted the secret from the hierophantj
All this well illustrates a
passage in Lucian's council of the gods;
when after Momus had ridiculed the monstrous deities of Egypt, Jupi-
ter replies,
"
it is true that these are abominable things, which you
mention of the Egyptian worship. But then, consider, Momus, that
*It is not improbable but this might be a name of office. Po hyry in his fourth
book of abstinence, informs us that the priests ot' the mysteries oflxiuhras were called
lion.: the priestesses lionesses, and the inferior ministers ravens. For there was a great
conformity, in the practices and ceremonies of the several mysteries, throughout the
whole pagan world. And this cnnecture is supported by a passagein Eunapius, which
seems to say, that it was unlawful to rerml I/z¢ name Q/'thc hieru hunt.
In the modern
dejgree
ofmasonry, called knight of the Eagle, and) sovereign prince of
Rose Cross de Hero en, the aspirnnt
"
solemn] '
promises on his honor, never to reveal
the place where he was received, who received him, nor those who were present at hir
recelpltion."
`
.
so in the degree of "
knight of Kadosh," "when a reception is made, the great
commander remains alone in the chapter with the candidate, and must be so situated
that the latter cannot see him, as he is not to know who initiates him." (Bernnrd.)-Edit.
1' I suppose this communication to his mother, might be tn let her understand, that
he was no longer the dupe of her iine story of Jupitcr`s intrusion, and thc intrigue of his
divine
ongxinal.
For Eruatosthcncs, according to Plutnrch, says, that Olymptas, when
she broug tAlexnnder on his wny to the army, in his first military expedition, acquainted
him in private with the secret of his birth; and exhorted hint to behave himselfas
became the son of Jupiter Hnmmon. This, I suppose, Alexander might tell to the priest
and so the murder came out.
¥But this is a mistake, nt lcnst it is expressed inaccurately. What was extorted
by the dread_ot' Alexander's power, was not the secret, which the initiated had a right
to, but the pnest's consent that he should communicate the secretto another, which was
contrary to the laws of the mysteries.
'mi uicrnrcr itrsrnnzs. ll!
much of it is enigmatical; and so, consequently, a very unit subject
for the bufiboary ofthe proiime and uninitiated." To which the other
answers with much spirit,
"
Yes, indeed, we have great occasion for
the mysteries, to know that gods are gods, and monsters, monsters."
But Tully brings the matter home to the Eleusinian mysteries
themselves, "
What, says he, is not almost all heaven, not to carry on
this detail any further, filled with the human race? But if I should
search and examine antiquity, and from those things which the Greé
cian writers have delivered, go to the bottom of this affair, it would be
found, that even those very gods themselves who are deemed the Dii
msjorum gentium, had their original here below; and ascended from
hence into heaven. Inquire, to whom those sepulchers belong,
which are so
commonly shown in Greece. Remember, for you are
initiated, what you have been taught in the mysteries ; 'you will
then as length understand how far this matter may be carried.-Q Tuscr
Dhpf CHQ. 13;
_
He carries it further himself; for he tells us in another place, that not
only the Eleusinian Mysteries, but the Samothracian likewise, and the
Lemnian taught the error of polytheism, agreeablyto this system, which
supposes all the mysteries derived from the same original, and consti-
tuted for the same ends. "What think you, says he, of those who
assert, that valiant, or famous, or powerful men, have obtained divine,
honors utter death, and that these are the very gods, now become the
objectof our worship, our pra4/ers and adoration? Euhemerus tells us;
when these gods died, and where they lie buried. I forbear to speak of
the sacred and august rights ot' Eleusis-I pass by Samothrace, and
the mysteries of Lemnos, whose hidden rites are celebrated in darkness,
and amidst the thick shades of groves and forests.-"
a 4
_
Hare the author comments rteonsiderable length on an
equivocal passage of Cieerti,
immediately following that here quoted,
'l
which, he says, M. Pluche, in his Histoirs
Bu Cid, brings to prove, that the purpose of the mysteries was not to explain thé
nature of the gods." His criticism goes to show the absurdity of this inlarenee. He
thas concludes his remarks:
"
It had hardly been worth while to take this notice of M. Pluche's interpretation of
Cicero, had' it not' been evident, that his purposein it was to disguise the liberty he took
of transcribing the general explanation cn' the mysteries, as delivered in the first edition
of this volume, printed in 1738, into the second edition of his book, called Hiatoire dd
Old, printed in 1741, without the least notice or acknowledgment." _
That Mr. Pluche may have taken some of his ideas on the mysteries from the bishop?
book, is hfghty pfoba8te, but his work
esrtiigly possesses sumcieat originality to profs
114 _
A mssannrtol on
the laborious investigations of the author, upon ground not previously occupied, to
establish his fume as an ingenious acute writer. In the disagreement of these authors
in regard to
the purport of the mysteries, the bishop has undoubtedly the advantage.:
'hs had evidently paid more attention to the subject than his cotemporary. Ths abbé
was deceived by Cicero, in whom he appeared to place implicit confidence; but heshould
have remembered, that Cicero had been initiated into the Eleusinian mysteries, and,
therefore, no doubt, felt under restraint when speaking of them. Besides, he had four
characters to sustain; that ot' a philosopher, a statesman, a lawyer, and an augur or
priest; in the due support ot' which, his popularity was, more or less, involved. A
striking instance ot' the
irrcompaubility with each other of the tirst and last mentioned
ol' these characters, is exhibited by him, in the passagejust quoted above and that before
cited, in which he says, "Let the gods, and those who were ever reckoned in the num-
ber of the cdatiala, be worshipped: and those likewise, whom their merits have raised
to heaven ; such ss Hercules, Bacchus, Esculapius, Pollux, and Romulus." Here the
augur and the philosopher are at complete issue. Two sentiments more directly in
opposition could not be entertained; and it is surprising the bishop did not notice their
total contrariety.
'
What hath been said, will let us into the meaning of Plutarch's
hint, in the following words ofhis tract concerningthe ceasing oforacles.
"
As to the mysteries, in whose representations the true nature of
demons is clearly and accurately held forth, a sacred silence, to use an
expression of Herodotus, is to be observed."
Thus lar in detection of polytheism.
`
With regard to the doctrine
ofthe unity, Clemens Alexandrinus informs us, that the Egyptian mysta-
gogues taught it amongst their greater secrets.
"
The Egyptians,"
says he, "
did not use to reveal their mysteries indiscriminately to all.
nor expose their truths concerning their gods to the profane, -but to those
only who were to succeed to the administration ofthe state: and to such
ofthe priestsas were most approved, by their education, learning, and
quality."
But, to come to the Grecian mysteries. Chrysippus, as
quoted by
the author of the Etyrnol. magnum, speaks to this purpose. "And
Chrysippus says, that the secret doctrines concerning divine matters, are
rightly called Teletai,.foi° that these are the last things the initiated
should be informed of: the soul having gained an able support; and.
being possessed of her desires, (that is, the mistress of herself) can
keep silent before the uninitiated and profane." To the same purpose,
Clemens: "
The doctrines delivered in the greater mysteries, are con-
cerning the universe. Here all instruction ends. Things are seen as
they are ; and nature, and the things of nature, are givento be com-
prehended."
Strabo having said, that nature dictated to men the institution of the
mysteries, as well as the other rites of religion, gives this remarkable
'ran ANCIENT nrsrsnrna. 115
I I
reason for his assertion,
"
that the secret celebration of the mysteries
preserves the majesty due to the divinity, and, at the same time, imitates
its nature, which hides its`elf from our senses." A plain intimation of
the nature of the secret. And had
there been any ambiguity, he pre-
sently removes it, where, speaking of the different faculties exercised in
the diiferent rites of religion, he makes philosophy to be the object ofthe
mysteries. Plutarch expressly says, that the first cause
of all things is
communicatizd to those who approach thc temple of Isis with prudence
and sanctity. By which words he means, the necessary qualilications
for initiation.
We find Galen intimating, not obscurely, that the doctrine of the
divine nature was
taught in those very mysteries. In his excellent
tract Of the use of the parts of the human body, he has these words:
"
The study, therefore, of the use of the parts, is not only of service to
the mere
physician, but of/ much greater to him who joins philosophy
to the art of healing; and, in order to perfect himself in this mystery,
labors to investigate the universal nature. They who initiate them-
selves here, whether private men or bodies, will find, in my opinion,
nobler instruction than in the rites either of Eleusis or Samothrace. A
clear implication, that to lead men thither was their special business.
-
But this seems to have been so well known to the learned in the time
of Eusebius, that where this writer takes occasion to observe, that the
Hebrews were the only people whose object, in their public and national
worship, was the god of the universe, he suits his whole expression, by
one continued metaphor, to the usuages of the mysteries, "For the
Hebrew people alone," says he,
"
was reserved the honor of being initia-
ted into the knowledge of God the creator of all things, and of being
instructed in the practice of true piety towards him. Where, Epopteia,
which signifies the inspection ofthe secret; Thcopia, the contemplation
of it; and Demiourgos, the creator, the subject of it, are all words
appropriated to the secret of the greater mysteries. I am
persuaded
this learned writer had his eye on some
particular passage of scripture;
probably on the 45th chapter of Isaiah, where the prophet, foretelling
the conquests of Cyrus, and the exaltation of his empire, apostrophises
the God of Israel in this manner,
"
Verily thou art a God that hidest
ghyself,» O God of Israel the Saviour." This was said with great pro-
priety of the creator of all things, the subject of the Aporreta or secret,
*Here Strabo takesin all that in said,
bothofthespidn, nndofnnturs, inthetwopre-
coding
pangs
from Crynppm and Clemens; and we that by nature no not nunlt
thooormieal t theological nature.
H6 4 nxssranrxou pu.
-in all the mysteries throughout the Gentile world ; and particularly of
of those of Mithras, in the country which was the scene of the pro-
phecy. That this is the true sense of this obscure passage, appears from
the following words of the same chapter, where God himselfaddresseth
the Jewish people:
"
I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place ofthe
earth: I said not unto the seed of Jacob, seek ye me in vain." This
was said, to show that he was taught amongst them in a different way
from that participation of his nature to a few select Gentiles, in their
mysteries ; celebrated in secret, and in dark subterraneous places;
which not being done in order to give him glory, by promoting his
public and general worship, was done in vain.
This naturally leads us to the explanation of those oracles of Apollo'
quoted by Eusebius from Porphyry; the ense of which neither those
ancient writers, nor our Sir John Marsham seem
rightly to have "under-
stood. The iirst is in these words,
"
The way to the' knowledge of the
divine 'nature is extremely rugged, and of dwicult ascent, The
entrance ,is secured by brazen gates, opening to the adventurer; and
the roads to be passed through, impossible to be described. These, to
the 'vast benefit of mankind, were first marked out by the Egyptians."
The second is as follows :-
I
"
True wisdom was the lot only of the Chaldeans and Hebrews,
who worship the governor ofthe world, the seMezistent deity, with pure
and holy rites."
Marsham. supposing after Eusebius, that the same
thing was
spoken
of in both the oracles, says,
"
Certainly there can be no
controversy.
that, as the religious belief of the Hebrews in One Supreme Being, was
esteemed very correct, the same belief by the Egyptians was
equally
estimable." And again,-" The truth is, Apollo was little consistent
with himself; because in the one oracle, the Egyptians are said to be
the first; and in the other, the Chaldeans and Hebrews the only people
who knew the true God." But they are
perfectly consistent; they treat
of different things: the first, of the knowledge of the true God; and the
second of his public worship.
I will only observe, that the frigltts and terrqrs to which the initia-
ted were
exposed, gave birth to all those metaphorical terms of digi-
culty and danger so
constantly employed by the Greek writers, when-
ever they speak of the communication of the true God.
Thomas Taylor, in a note to his translation of Jamblichus on the mysteries of the
Egyptians, Chaldeans, and Assyrians, has rendered the foregoing oraclein v0I'l¢, |8100-
blo to the original; which ho introduces as follows:
V
'rua nzcrsru' rrvsnruss.
'
H7
lost historians give the palm ol' antiquity to the Egyptians. Andlsncian, in lib. De
Des, says, "That the Egyptians are said to he the first among men that had a concep~
tion of the gods, and a knowledge of sacred concems. They were also the iirst that
had a knowledge of sacred names." Conformably to this also, an oracle of Apollo,
grated by Ensebius, says that the Egyptians were the first that disclosed by ingtnite
adians the pall; that leads tothe gods. The oracle is as follows:
"The path by which to deity we climb,
Is arduous, rough, ineffable, sublime;
And
thgstrong mossy
gates, through which we pass
In our rst course, are ound with chains of brass.
Those men the first who of Egyptian birth
Drank the fair water of Nilotic earth,
'
Disclosed by sctionsinlinite this
roadh
And
mary'
mths to God Phenicisns s owed
This 1- the
Assyrianssointed
out to view,
And this the Lydisns an Chaldeans knew."-(p. 295.)
Mr. Taylor has substituted Lydiam for Hebrews, under a suspicion, ss he says, that
either A1-istobulus, well known for interpolating the writings ol' the Heathens, or Euaebias,
had fraudulently inserted the latter.
Means are taken to
produce a like terror as spoken of above, in candidates for royal
arch masonry. They are advised, that "It will be necessary for them to pass through
many trials, and to travel in rough and rugged ways, to prove their tidelity." The
gates alluded to in the oracle of Apollo, which secure the entrance to the knowledge of
the divine nature, are actually represented in the scenery of this degree. The true name
of the ,Supreme Being is atfected to be communicated; and in an address to him are the
following expressions : "Teach us, we pray thee, the true reverence of thy great., mighty
and terrible name."
In a German work, by C. L. Reinhold, entitled The Hebrew mysteries, or the oldest
religious Freemasonry, it is adimted,
"
That the whole Mosaic religion was an initia-
tion into mysteries, the principal forms and regulations of which were borrowed by
Hoses £rom the secrets of the old Egyptians."
Josephus, to the same purpose, says that,
"
That high and sublime knowledge, which
the Gentiles with dibiculty attained, in the rare and temporary celebration of their mys-
terics, was habitually taught to the Jews, at all times. So that the body politic seems,
as it were, one great assembly, constantly kept together, for the celebration of some
sacred mysteries." -
The two great mysterious secrets of the Egyptians, it has been seen, were the exist-
ence of one Supreme Being, implying the error of polytheisrn; and a future state of
rewards and punishments for acts committed in this life. The former of which only,
it appears, was taught to the Jews. This is likewise communicated to the masons of the
royal arch degree. and ia the only secret of the order.
It is true, it was formerly enjoined upon the Jews to observe certain rites and can
monies, which were then adapted to their peculiar circumstances; but which by the
coming of Christ were rendered vain and useless, and were accordingly abrogated by
the new dispensation! For instance, they were taught thata person became deliled
by touching a human corpse, and their priests were absolutely prohibited from doing it.
So, at interrnents of their dead, those who enter the cemetery wash their hands on
retiring, bowls of water and napkins being fumished for the purpose.
° "But notwithstanding he (Christ) obtained a more excellent ministry, by how
rnudt also he is the nieditstor of a better
covenanh
which was established
uion
better
promises. For it' that irst covenant had been faul ees, then should no place ave bel;
sought for the second." (Hebrews viii. 6-1.
¢
118 s ntssznrarros on
The idea of detilement by touching human dead bodies, was also a pagan doctrine.
for which Jamblichus gives the following reasons: -
"It is not lawful to touch human dead bodies when the soul has left them, since a
outige, image, or reprumtation of divine life is extinguished in the body by death.
But it is no longer unholy to touch other dead bodies( because they did not parttbipate of
a more divine life. To other gods, therefore, who are purefrom matter, our not touch-
ing dead bodies is adapted; but to those gods who preside over animals, and are proxis
mately connected with them, invocation through animals is properly made."-('I'aylor'a
Trans. p. 275 )
As to the mystery of obtaining remission of sins, by theperfonnance of certain
mystic rites, as is customary with the Jews at this time, on what are called atonement
day|,the secretis fully known to Roman Catholic priests, and practised upon by them
with equal success.
ln "
A brief Examination of the Rev. Mr. Warhurton's Divine Legation of Moses :"
London, 1742, are the following remarks:
`
"We have no profane records that can reach, by many hundred years, so high as
the ancientstnte and constitution of the religion and priesthood of Egypt, in and before
the days of Moses. But as the Mosaic constitution itself was accommodated tothe
natural temper and bias of a people perfectly Egyptianized, and who knew nothing but
the language, religion, laws, and customs of Egypt; and as~this people could never be
brought off from the religon and cu toms to which they had been naturalized, the history
of Moses and the prophets gives one almost as just and adequate a notion of the religion,
priesthood, and worship of Egypt, as if their own
history had been handed down to us.
Of this we need no other, or more authentic authority than our leamed auth or's own
concessions, who has granted as much in this respect as could have been desired. And
thouglr Moses attempted, in his law, to reform the religion of Egypt, with regard to
their symbolical polytheism, or siderial worship by images; yet this could never be
sdbcted, but the gross of the people still continued in the symbolical worship of Egypt,
except when restrained from it by force and compulsion under some of their kings_
But they immediately fell back again to tho same sort of religion and worship, as soon
asythat restriction and legal persecution were relaxed or taken oflf"
Thus, I think it appears, that the Aporretn, in the greater mysteries,
were the detection of the origin of vulgar polytheism;' and the dis-
covery of the doctrine of the unity.
I will`venture to go further; and give the very history repeated,
and the very hymn sung, on these occasions to the initiated: in the first
of which was delivered the true
/origin and progress of vulgar poly-
theism; and in the other, the unity of the deity.
'
° What hath been said will ive light to a strange story told by Thucydides, Plutarch,
_and others, ofa debauch and ni ditramble of Alcibiadesjust before his expedition to Syra-
euss.
_In which. they say, he revealed to, and acted over with his com anions, the
mysteries of Ceres: that he assumed the office of the hierophant, and called some of
those he initiated Mystai, and others Epoptai: and that, lastly they broke all the
statues of Hermes. These are mentioned as distinct actions, and unconnected with
one another. But now we see
_their relation, and how one arnss
from the other: for
Alcibiadea having revealed the origin of polytheism, and the doctnno of the unity, to
his companions; nothing was more natural than for men, heated with wine to mn tbrth
in a kind ofreligious fury, and break the statues of their idols. For, what he acted _over,
was the
greater mystenes, as appears from Plutarch's calling them the mysteries of
Ceres, an from Alcihiades calling some Epoptai, the name of those who participated
of the greater mysteries.
'
-
'ral nzcrasr lrsrlnlss. 119
For it appears to me, that the celebrated fragment of Sanchoniatho,
the Phenician, translated by Philo Byblius, and preserved by Eusebius,
containing a
genealogical account of the first ages, is that history, as it
was wont to be read to the initiated, in the celebration of the Egyptian
and Phenician mysteries. The purpose of it being to inform us, that
their popular. gods (whose chronicle is there given according to their
generations) were
only dead men deified.
And as this curious and authentic record (for such we shall find it
was) not only serves to illustrate the subject we are now
upon, but will
be of use to support what is said hereafter of the rise, progress, and
order of the several species of ancient idolatry, it may not be improper
to give a short extract of it in this place.
'
He tells us, then, that, "of the two first mortals, Protogonus and
1Eon, (the latter of whom was the author of seeking and procuring
food from forest-trees) were begotten Genos and Genes. These, inthe
timeof great droughts, stretched their hands upwards to the sun, whom
they regarded as a
god, and sole ruler of the heavens. From these,
after two or three generations, came Upsouranios and his brother
Ousous. One ofthem invented the art ofbuilding cottages of reeds and
rushes; the other the art of.
making garments of the skins of wild
beasts. In their time, violent tempests of wind and rain having rubbed
the large branches of the forest-trees against one another, they took fire,
and burnt up the woods. Of the bare trunks of trees, they drst made
vessels to pass the waters; they consecrated two pillar: to /'ire and
wind, and then offered bloody sacrifices to them as to gods." And here
let it be observed. that this worship ofthe elements and heavenly bodies
is truly represented as the first species of idolatry.
"
After many generations, came Chrysor; and he likewise invented
many things useful to civil life; for which, after his decease, he was
worshipped as a god, Then flourished Ouranos and his sister
who deified and offered sacrifices to their father Upsistos, when he had
been torn in pieces by wild beasts. Afterwards Cronos consecrated
Math his son, and was himself consecrated by his subjects." And this
is as
truly represented to be the second species of idolatry; the wor-
ship of dead men.
_
I-Ie goes on, and says, that "
Ouranos was the inventor ofthe Baatylih,
a kind of animated stones, framed with great art. And that Taautul
formed allegoric figures, characters, and images of the celestial gods and
elements." In which is delivered the third specierof idolatry, status
and brute worship. For by the animated stones, is meant stones cut
»
120 A nrsssmwrroir on
into human shape; brute, unformed stones being before this invention
consecrated _and adored. As by Taautus's invention of allegoric
figures, is insinuated_(what was
truly the fact) the origin of brute wor-
ship from the use of hieroglyphics. ~
This is a
very short and imperfect extract 'of the fragment; many
particulars, to avoid tediousness, are omitted, which lwould much sup-
port what we are
upon, particularly a minute detail ofthe principal arts
invented for the use of civil lqfe. But what has been selected on this
head, will afford a good comment to a celebrated passage of Cicero,
quoted, in this section, on another occasion.-As the two important
doctrines, taught in secret, were the detection of polytheism, and the
discovery of the unity; so, the two capital doctrines taught more
openly,
were the origin of society with the arts of life, and the existence of the
soul after death in a state of reward or
punishments.
The fragment explains what Tully meant by men's being drawn by
the mysteries from an irrational and savage life, and tamed, as it were,
and broken to humanity. It was, we see, by the information given them,
concerning the origin of society, and the inventors of the arts of life,
and the rewards they received from grateful posterity, for making them-
selves benefactors to mankind.
The reasons which induce me to think this fragment the very his-
tory narrated to the Epoptai, in the celebration of the greater mysteries,
are these;
First, it bears an exact conformity with what the ancients tell us
that history contained in general, namely, an instruction that all the
national gods, as well those majorum, such as
Hypsistus, Ourauos, and
Cronos, as those minorum gentium, were
only dead men deified:
together with a recommendation of the advantages of civil life above the
state of nature, and an excitement to the most considerable of the initia-
ted (the summatibus viris, as Macrobius calls them) to procure it.
And these two ends are served together, in the history of the rise and
progress of idolatry as delivered in this fragment.
Again, in order to recommend civil life, and to excite men to pro-
mote its advantages, a
lively picture is given ofhis miserable condition,
and how obnoxious he was, in that state, to the rage of all the elements,
and how imperfectly, while he continued in it, he could, with all his
industry, fence against them by food ofacoms, by cottages of reeds, and
by coats of skins: a matter the mysteries thought so
necessary to be
impressed, that we find, by Diodorus Siculus, there was a nautical
-ras morals' lurntxs. I2l
representation of this 'state eahihited in their shows' And what
stronger excitement had heroic minds, than to be taught, as
they are ii:
this fragment, that public benefits to their fellow creatures were
reward with immortality.
My second reason for supposing it to be that very history, is our
being told, that Sanchoniatho transcribed the account from secret records,
kept in the penetralia»of the temples, and written in a sacred sacerdotal
character, called the Ammonean, from the place where they were
Erst deposited; which, as Marsham reasonably supposes, was Ammon-
no, or Thebes, in Egypt : a kind of writing employed, (as we have shown
elsewhere) by the hierophants ofthe mysteries. V
But, lastly, we are told, that when this genealogical history came
into the hands of a certain son ofThabion, the first hierophant on record
amongst the Phenieans, he, after having corrupted it with allegories.
and intermixed physical and cosmical afections with historical, that is,
made the one signiicative ofthe other, delivered it to the prophets ofthe
orgies, and the hierophants of the mysteries; who leftittotheir succes-
sors. So that now we have an express testimony for tho fact here
advanced, that this was the very history read to the Epoptai in the
celebration ofthe greater mysteries.
'
But one thing is too remarkable to pass by unobserved: and that is,
Banchoniathds account of the corruption of this history with allegories
and physical affections, by one of his own countrymen; and of its
delivery, in that state, to the Egyptians, for Isiris is the sa.me as Osiris,
who corrupted it still more. That the pagan mythology was, indeed,
thus corrupted, I have shown at large, in several parts of this work:
but`I believe, not so early as is here pretended: which makes me sus-
pect that Sanchoniatho lived in a later age than his interpreter, Philo,
assigns to him. And what con5rms me in this suspicion, is that mark
of national vanity and partiality, common to after-times, in making the
mysteries of his own
country original, and conveyed from Plienicia to
Egypt. Whereas it is very certain, they came first hom Egypt. But
of this, elsewhere. Ho\vever, let the reader take notice, that the
question concerning the antiquity of Sanchoniatho does not at all affect
our inference concerning the nature and use of this history.
° We here ses the origin of the forlorn emdition in which the candidate for masonic
lmnursisxdeed,when fer
initiation; yh "neither npr
clotgid, baro-
nsza ...,.,:.1=s:'r' as '=°°°.,...,'~°&- ~=°~-°~' M ~
_ i1°ntim¢mqawa||$ii»mbmme"§\1°f;hs mipfylllid nmqfutghspegmaga
£?s.'*'»ri'.'2'3."mft..'}ii."i1".'§2'.m'?§$i';'»?."""t..m." "'°'?".33'.2£'.n';%"°
'° '
lil A »lss|a'rA1~wl~ os
A criticism of that very knowing and sagacious writer, &thsr8imoa
of the Orstory, will show the reader how groundless the suspicions of
learned men are concerning the genuineness ofthis fragment. Father
Simon imagines that Porphyry forged the history of Sanchoniatho,
under the name of a translation by Philo Byblius; and conjectures, his
purpose in so doing was to support paganism; by taking froniit, its
mythology and ailegeries, which me christian mimi pei-pemuy objec-
ted to it. "He would make it appear, to answer the objections that
were made on all sides upon this, that their theology was a pure
mythology-theygo back to the times which had preceded the allegories
and the iictions of the sacriiicers." (Bib. Crit. v.~i. p. l40.) But this
lnrned man totally mistakes the case. The Christians objected to vul-
gar paganism, that the stories told of their gods, were To
this their priests and philosophers replied. that these stories were only
Nythologieal allegoriss, which veiled all the great truths of theology.
dhics, and physics. The christians said, this could not be; for that
the stories of the gods had a substantial foundation in inet, these goth
being only dead men deiiied, who in life, had like passions and iniirmi-
iel with others. For the truth of which they appealed to such writers
as Sanchoniatho, who had given the history both of their mortal and
immortal stations and conditions. Hovv then could so acute an adversary
as Porphyry, deeply engaged in this controversy, so tar mistake the
date of the question, and grounds of his defence, as
toiarge a book in
support of his'oause, which totally overthrew it 9 .
The Rev. James Anderson, D. D. published, in 1723, the £rst book.
onmasonry with the sanction of the' grand lodge of England The
commencement ofhis work bears a
strong resemblance to the foregoing
fragment. Instead, however, of permitting the first inhabitants of the
world to gain knowledge gradually by the aid of experience, he makes
them iinished artizans from the beginning. Thiswasnecessary for his
purpose, which was to show the original establishment of the freemgson
society. As his account throws much light upon the early history of
man, and the amusing progress of the arts and sciences in the first stages
of human existence, and is, moreover. greatly relied upon by masons
I will here give a short abstract of it. _
"
The Almighty Architect," says the Dr. "having created all things
according .to geosntry, last of all brmed Adam. and engraved on his
Mart the some noble science ; which Adam soon discovered by survey-
1
-Y
_.l
'_
ru usosssr assassin ti!
iaghiseasthlypsradisaandfsbricstiaganarborasaconvenient shelter
kom heat, sec. When expelled from his lovely arbor, he resided in the
most convenient abodes of the land of Eden, where he could be best
secured from cold, heat, winds, rains, tempests, and wild beasts, till his
sons grew up toform a lodge ; whom he taught geometry and the great
use of it in architecture ; without which the children of men must have
lived like brutes, in woods, dens, eaves, etc.; or at best in poor huts of
mud, or arbors made of branches of trees, etc. ' ° '
Tubal Kaiu
wrought in metals, Jubal elevated music, and Iabal extended his
BDU. _
,Adam was succeeded in the grand direction of thecraft by Seth..
Euock, Kainsn, Mahalaleel, and Jared, whose son Enoch was expert
and bright, both in the science and in the art, and being a
prophet,
he foretold the destruction of the earth for sin, first by water, and
afterwards by tire. Therefore Enoch erected two large pillars, theone
of stone and the other of brick, whereon he engraved the ab-ridgmest
of the arts and sciences, principally geometry and masonry.
At last, when the world's destruction drew nigh, God commanded
Noah to build the great srk or jloatiag castle,and his three sons assisted,
like s
deputy and two wardens. That edifice, though of wood only,
was fabricated by geometry as nicely as
any stone-building, like true
ship-building at this day, a curious and large piece of architecture, and
iinished when Noah entered into his sin: hundredth year. Aboard which
he and his three sons and their four wives pasud, and having received
the cargo of animals by God's direction, they were saved in the ark,
while the rest perished in the flood for their immorality and unbeliei
And so from these masons, or four grand ojicers, the whole present race
of mankind are descended.
Ailes the flood, Noah and his three sons, having preserved the know-
ledge of the arts and sciences, communicated it to their growing 063
spring. And it came to pass, as
theyjourneyed from the East towards
the West, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and dwelt there
together, as Noachida, or sons of Noah, which was the first name of
masons, according to some old traditions. When Peleg was born there
to Heber, after the Hood one hundred and one years, father Noah pax'-
titioned the earth, ordering them to disperse and take possession; but
from a fear of the consequences of separation, they resolved to keep
together. _
Nimrod, the son of Cash, the eldest son ofHam, wasat the head of
those that would not disperse ; or ifthey must seperate, they resolved to
in 4 D|Bll'l'-A4l'0l os
transmit their memorial iuumsotéto an fume ages; and mmpioysa
themselves under grand mater Nimrod) in the largeandfertile vale ot'
Shinar along the banks of the Tygris, in building a stately tower and
city, the largest work that ever lhe world saw, and soon filled the vale
with splendid edifices. But they o-ver built it, and knew not when to desist
till their vanity provokedtheir Maker to confound their grand design, by
confounding their speech. Hence the city was called Babel, sonjilsion.
Thus they were forced to disperse, about fifty-three years after they
began to build, or alter the Hood one hundred and filly-four years, when
the general migration from Shinar commenced. They went off at
various times, and travelled North, South, East, and West, with their
mighty skill, and found the good use of it in settling their colonies.
~
But Nimrod went forth no farther than into the land of Assyria, and
founded the first great empire at his capital Nineveh, where he long
reigned. Under him fiourished many leamedmathematicians, whose suc-
cessors were long afterwards called Chaldees and Magians: and though
many of them turned imageaoorshippers, yet even that idolatry occa-
sioned an improvement in the arts of designing: for Ninus, king of
Nineveh or Assyria ordered his best artists tn frame the statue of Baal.
that was worshipped in a gorgeous temple.
'
This history of Dr. Anderson is the only authority that masonry can
produce to substantiate the extraordinary antiquity which it claims.
The specimen I have given of it, is suicient for the reader to form an
opinion of its authenticity, as well as its resemblance to the fragment of
Banchoniatho. Nimrod, Bel, Baal, and Belus are supposed by mytho-
logista to be the same
person. We will turn to Warburton.
.1-.._¢_
We now come to the hymn celebrating the unity of the godheadf
which was sung in the Eleusian mysteries by the hierophant, habited
like the Creators! And this Itake to be the little orphic poem quoted
by Clemens Alexandrinus and Eusebius; which begins thus;
"
I will
declare a recret to the Initiated ; but let the doors be :hut against the
profane. But thou, 0 Musaaus, the odipring of bright Selene, attend
carefully to my song; for I shall deliver the truth without disguise.
Suffer not, therefore, thy former prejudices to debar the of that happy
the name thstths Isrulitssgavs him; buthis frisndsmllsd
lll,0
tAPsssagsinPo h shows whstkindofpsrsonsgsthsereatorvrss resented
» mania: i?o':iia» fF
° ~~ - "P
7
my' !'f&~_`h n.1Cl:;»°¢:,xP|7Pasnasgias|;andmuuduesdmmthae
'run AIUKIIT nnrlatss.
'
125
life, which the knowledge of these sublime tmtlts wil procure unto
thee.; but carefully contemplate this divine oracle, and preserve it in
purity of mind and heart. Go on, in the right way, and see the sole
governor of the world ;' he isone, and of himself alone; and to
that one all things owe their being. He operates through all, was
never seen by mortal eyes, but does himself see every one."
The reasonswhich support my conjecture are these : 1. We learn
from the scholiast on Aristophanes and others, that hymns were sung
in the mysteries. 2. Orpheus, as we have said, Erst brought the mys-
teries from Egypt into Thrace, and even religion itself; hence it was
called Thresceia, as being supposed the invention of the Thracian.
3. The verses, which go under the name of Orpheus, are, at least.
more ancient than Plato and Herodotus ; though since interpolated.
It was the common opinion, that they were genuine; and those who
doubted of that, yet gave them to the earliest Pythagoreans. (Laertius
in Vita Pythag. and Suidas.) 4. The subject of them are the mys-
teries, under the several titles of Thronismoi metrooi, teletai, iefar,
logos, and (is ado Katabasis. 5. Pausanias tells us, that Orpheus's
hymns were sung in the rites of Ceres, in preference to I-Iomer's,
though more
elegant, for the reasons given above. 6. This hymn is
addressed to Musteus, his disciple, who was said, though falsely, to
institute the mysteries at Athens, ns his master had done in Thrace;
and begins with the formula used bythe mystagogue on that occasion
warning the profane to keep at distance ; and in the fourth line men-
tions that new
l#e or
regeneration, to which the initiated were
taught
to aspire. 7. No other original, than the singing the hymns of
Orpheus in the Eleusinian mysteries, can be well imagined of that
popular opinion, mentioned by Theodoret, that Orpheus instituted those
mysteries, when the Athenians had such certain records of another
founder. 8. We are told that one article ofthe Athenians' charge
against Diagoras for revealing the mysteries, was his making the Orphic
speech, or
hymn, the subject of his common conversation. -9. But
lastly, the account, which Clemens gives of this hymn, seems to put
the matter out of question: his words are these :
"
But the Thracian
mystagogue, _who was_ at the same time a
poet, Orpheus, the son of
Oeager, after he had opened the mysteries, and sung the whole theol-
ogy of idols, recants all he had said, and introduceth truth. The
sacreds then truly begin, though late, and thus he enters upon the
'
° Tbsfis, his representative ; but how he could be lmbited like the Creator, who YS
fever seen by mortal eyes, it is diEcult to imagine.-Edit. _ _
IM A ssssarsvnoa on _
`
matter." To understand the force of this passage, we are to know;
that the mystagogue explained the representations in the mysteriesi
where, as we learn from Apuleius, the supernal and infernal gods pas-
sed in review. To each of these they sung a
hymn; which Clemens
calls the theology of images, or idols. These are yet to be seen
amongst the works ascribed to Orpheus. When all this was over,
then came the Aporreta, delivered in the hymn in question. And,
alter that, the assembly was dismissed, with these two barbarous words,
kogz ofspltaz, which shows the mysteries not to have been originally
Greek, The leamed Mr. Le Clerc well observes, that this seems to
be only an ill pronunciation of leots and ostphets which, he tells us:
signify in the Phenician tongue, watch and abstaisfron evil!
Thus the reader sees the end and use both of the greater and less
mysteries ; and that, as well in what they hid as what they divulg-
ed, all aimed at the benefit of the state. To this end, they were to
draw in as many as they could to their general participation ; which
they did by spreading abroad the doctrine of a providence,_and afuture
state; and how much happier the initiated would be, and what supe~
rior felicities they were entitled to in another life. lt was onthis
account that antiquity is so full and express in this part. But then,
they were to make those they had got in as virtuous as they could;
which they provided for, by discovering, to such as were capable of
the secret, the whole delusion of polytheism. Now this being sup~
posed the shaking foundations, was to be done with all possible cir-
eumspection, and under the: most tremendous seal of secrecy. (See
cap. xx. oi' Meursius' Eleusinia.) For they taught, the gods them~
selves punished the revealers of the secret ; and not them only, but
the hearers of it too. (Apul. Met. lib. xi.) Nor did they altogether
trust to that neither; for more effectually to curb an ungovernable
curiosity, the state decreed capital punishments against the betrayerti of
the mysteries, and indicted them with inerciless severity, (Si quis
arcanaa mysteria Cereris sacra vulgasset, lege morti addicebatur.)
The ease of Diagoras, the Melian, is too remarkable to be omited
This man had revealed the Orphic and Elusinian mysteries ; and so
passed with the people for an atheist; which at once condrms what
hath been said ofthe object of the secret doctrines, and ot the mischief
that would attend au indiscreet communication of them. I-Ie likewise,
.u i.2.°i'T.1'.";.' Z"§°.'?'¢¥f.i'.¢°h¢2'f"wt%° ".'f;"a.'I'f."§1'$$i{.il.""mi»-p°~°~'°
i"'i"f»"»{°'3if'i°I
mn," menus.)-me.
rua AIMIIT lssrsarss. l21
diasnsdedhis friends fromheiug initiatedinto theseriteqtheconse-
qnence 'of which was, that the city of Athens proscribed him, and set
aprice upon his head. While Socrates, who preached up the latter
part of this doctrine (and was likewise a
reputed atheist,) and Epicu-
rns, who taught the former (and was a reel one) were suffered, because
they delivered their opinions only as points of philosophic specula-
tion, amongst their followers, to live a
long time nntnolested. And
this, perhaps, was the reason why Socrates declined being initiated!
Which, as it appeared a singular aifectation, exposed him tofmnch
censure. But it was forsborn with his usual prudence. He remem~
bered,that Eschylns, on a mere imagination of his having given a
hint in his scenes of something in the mysteries, had like to have been
tomin pieces on the stage by the people; and only escaped by an
appeal to the areopagns ; which venerable court acqnited him of that
dangerous imputation, on his proving that he had never been initiated.
The hmous Euhemerns, who assumed the same oline of hierophant
to the people at large, with more boldness than Socrates, and more
temperance than Epicurus, employed another expedient to screen him-
self from the laws., though he fell, and perhaps deservedly, under the
same imputation of atheism. He gave a ibnlons relation of a
voy-
age to the imaginary island of Punches, a kind of ancient Utopia ;
where, in a temple of Jupiter, he found a genealogical record, which
discovered to him the births and deaths of the greater gods ; and, in
short, every that the hiarophant revealed to the initated on this
subject. Thus he too avoided the suspicion of a
betrayer of the mys-
teriss.
This, therefore, is the reason why so little is to be met with concern-
ing the Aporreta. Varro and Cicero, the two most inquisitive persons
in antiquity, affording but a
glimmering light. The first giving ns a
drort account of the cauu only of the secret, without mentioning the
doctrine ; and the other, a hint ot' the doctrine, without mentioning
the cause.
But now a ranarlrable exception to all we have been saying con'
earning the secrecy of the mysteries, ohtrndes itself upon us, in the
case of the Creatana ; who, as Diodorus Sicnlns assures us, celebrated
° "
Some enlightened persons did not /believe that to he virtuous there was an
necessity for auch an association. Diogenes was once advised to contract this sacred
mgagementg but he answered;
"
Pstccion, the notorious robber, obtained initiation |
h andhAm:'1ad"nevsr
solicited it; is_ it
mble
I
-l:l:a£.d what
the
lbrmer
' '
Elgnon' Adds, while tts drag through
mm ¢f°:i"»°ivJ5.uaan." omni. ot Aman.)-nan.
/
128 s srsssnrrrroa os ,
their mysteries openly, and taught their aporreta without reserve.
His words are these: "
At Cnossus in Crete, it was
provided for, by an
ancient law, that these mysteries should be shown openly to all ; and.
that those things, which in other places were delivered in secret, should
be hid from none who were desirous of knowing them." But, ascen-
trary as this seems to the principles delivered above, it will be found,
on attentive redection, altogether to confirm them. We have shown,
that the great secret was the detection of polytheism; which was done
by teaching the original of the gods; their birth from mortals; and
their advancement to divine honor, for benefits done to their country, or
mankind. But it is to be observed, that the Cretans proclaimed this to
all the world, by showing, and boasting of the tomb of Jupiter himsel£~
the Father of gods and men. How then could they tell that as a
secret in their mysteries, which they told to every one out of them?
Nor is it less remarkable that the Cretans themselves, as Diodorus, in
the same place, tells us, gave this very circumstance of their celebra-
ting the mysteries openly as a
proof of their being the first who had
consecrated dead mortals. "
These are the old stories which the Cre-
tans tell of their gods, who, they pretend to say, were bom amongst
them. And they urge this as an invincible reason to prove that the
adoration, the worship, and the mysteries of these gods were first derived
from Crete to the rest of the world, for, whereas, amongst the Athen-
ians, those most illustrious mysteries ofall, called the Eleusinisn, those
of Samothrace, and those of the Ciconians in Thrace, of Orpheus's
institution, are all celebrated in secret; yet in Crete'_'--and soon as
above. For it seems the Cretans were
proud of their invention ; and
used this method to proclaim and perpetuate the notice of it. So when
Pythsgoras, as Porphyry inform us, had been initiated into the Cre-
tien mysteries, and had continued in the Idean cave three times nine
days, he wrote this epigram on the tomb of Jupiter, Zan, when
sun call Jupiter, lies here deceased.
'
.
It was this which so much exasperated the other Grecians against'
them ; and 'gave 'birth to the common proverb of Kuta: aei pseystai,
the Creta/lu are eternal liars. For nothing could more afiront these
superstitious rdoleters than asserting the fact, or more displease the
politic protectors of the mysteries than the divulg-ing it. ,
The mysteries then being of so great service to the state, we shall
not be surprised to hear the wisest of the ancients speaking highly
in their commendation; and their best lawgivers, and reformers, pro-
viding carefully for their support.
"
Ceres (says Isocrates) hath made'
,
_
rnn ANCIENT ursrsnms. 129
the Atthenians two presents of the greatest consequence; corn, /which
brought us out of astate of brutality; and the mysteries, which teach
the initiated to entertain the most agreeable expectations touching death
and eternity." And Plato infroduceth Socrates speaking after this manner:
"
In my opinion, those who established the mysteries, whoever they
were, were well skilled in human nature. For in these rites it was
of old signified to the aspirant, that those who died without being ini-
tiated, stuck fast in mire,and filth; but that he who was purified and ini-
tiated at his death should have his habitation with the Gods." And
Tully thought them of such use to society, for preserving and propaga-
ting the doctrine of a
future state of rewards and punishments, that in
the law where he forbids nocturnal sacrifices offered by women, he
makes an
express exception for the Mysteries of Ceres, as well as for
the sacrifices to the good goddess. _
'
Aristides said, the welfare of Greece was secured by the Eleusinian
mysteries alone l Indeed the Greeks seemed to place their chief hap-
piness in them ;' so
Euripides makes Hercules say,
"
I was blest, when
I got a
sight of the mysteries ;" and it was a
proverbial speech, when
any one
thought himself in the highest degree happy, to say, I seem as
if I had been initiated in the higher mysteries.
But now, such is the fate of human things, these mysteries, venera-
`ble__as they were, in their first institution, did, it must be owned, in
course of time, degenerate; and those very provisions made by the
State, to enable the mysteries to obtain the end of their establishment,
became the very means of* defeating it. For we can assign no surer
cause of the horrid abuses and corruptions of the mysteries (besides
time, which naturally and fatally depraves and vitiates all things) than
the season in which they were represented ; and the profound silence
in which they were buried. For night gave opportunity to wicked
men to attempt evil actions ; and secrecy, encouragement to repeat
them; and the inviolable nature of that secrecy, which encouraged
abuses, kept them from the magistrate's knowledge so long till it'
was too late to reform them. In a word, we must own, that these
mysteries, so powerful in their first institution for the promotion of vir-
tue and knowledge, became, in time, horribly subservient to the grati-
ication of lust and revenge. (Wisdom of Sol. xiv. 23. 24.) Nor
will this appear at all strange after what hath been said above. A like
corruption, from the same cause, crept even into the church, during the
purest ages of it. The primitive Christians, in imitation, perhaps, of
these pagan rites, or from the same kind of spirit, had a custom of cele-
17 ~
_.lv-
D30 A nrsssnuwrrou on i
i
brating vigils in the night; which, at first, were performed with all
becoming sanctity gt but, in a littleitime, _they were so overrun with
abuses, that it was
necessary to aboli h them.
And the same
remedy, Cicero, tells us, Diagondas the Theban 'was
forced to apply to the disorders of the mysteries. _
However, this was not the only, though the most powerful cause of
the depravation of the mysteries. Another doubtless was their being
sometimes under the patronage of those deities, who were supposed to
inspire and preside over sensual passions, such as Bacchus, Venus, and
Cupid ; for these had all their mysteries ; and where was the wonder,
if the initiated should be sometimes inclined to give a loose to vices, in
which the patron god was supposed to delight 'I And in this case, the
hidden doctrine came too late to put a stop to the disorder. However.
it is remarkable, and coniirms what hath been said concerning the origin*
of the Mysteries, and of their being invented to perpetuate the doctrine
of
'
a future state, that the doctrine continued to be taught even in the
most debauched celebrations of the Mysteries of Cupid and Bacchus.
Nay, even that very tlagitious part of the mysterious rites when at
worst, the carrying the kteis and pltallos, in procession, was introduced
but under pretence of their being emblems of the mystical regeneration
and new life, into which the initiated had engaged themselves to enter.
The last cause to which one
may ascribe their corruption, was
the Hierophant's withdrawing the mysteries from the care and inspee-
tion of the civil Magistrate; whose original institution they were.
But in aitertimes it would happen, that a little priest, who had borne
an inferior share in these rites, would leave his society and country,
and set up for himself; and in a clandestine manner, without the allow-
ance or knowledge of the magistrate, institute and celebrate the myste-
ries in private conventicles. From rites so managed, it is easy to
believe, many enormities would arise. This was the original of those
horrid impieties commited inthe mysteries of Bacchus at Rome; of
which the historian Livy has given so circumstantial an account; for
in the beginning ot' his story, he tells us, the mischief was occasioned
by one of_these priest's bringing the mysteries into Etruria, on his own
head, uncommissioned by his superiors in Greece, from whom he learnt
them; and unauthorized by the State, into which he had introduced
them. The words of Livy show that the mysteries were, in their own
nature, a
very different affair; and invented forthe improvement of
knowledge and virtue. "
A Greek of'mean extraction, (says he,) a
little priest and soothsayer, came first into Etruria, without any skill,
'ma /mcnmfr xvsrnnxu. V
l31
tar wisdom in mysterious rites, many sorts of which, that most improved
;people have brought in amongst us, for the culture and perfection
both of mind and body."
What Livy means
by the culture of the body, will be seen hereafter
when we
come to speak of the probationary and toilsoine trials under-
gone by those aspirants tothe mysteries, called the soldiers of Mithras.
However, it is very true, that in Greece itself the Mysteries became
ahorninably abused ; a proof of which we have even in the couduct of
their comic writers, who frequently lay the scene of their subject, such
as the rape of a
young girl, and the like, at the celebration of a religious
mystery ; and from that mystery denominate the comedy. And in the
.time of Cicero, the terms, mysteries and abominations, were almost
synonymous. The Academic having said they had secrets and mys~
teries, Lucullus replies,
"
Quaa funt tandem ista myteria ? aut cur cela-
tis, quasi turpe aliquid, vestram sententiam 2" What, after all, are
these mysteries? or
why conceal your purpose as if it included some-
thing base. However, in spite of all occasions and opportunities,
some of the mysteries, as
particularly the Eleusinian, continued, for
many ages, pure and undefiled. The two capital corruptions of the
mysteries were magic and impurities. Yet, so late as the age of Apol-
lonius Tyan, the Elusinian kept so clear of the first imputation, that
the hierophant refused to initiate that impostor because he was a
magi-
cian. And, indeed, their long-continued immunity, both from one and
the other corruption, will not appear extraordinary, if we
consider;
that, by a law of Solon, the Senate was
always to meet the day alter
'IC celebration of these mysteries, to see that nothing had been done
amiss during the performance. (Andoc. Orat.) ~So that these were
-the very last that submitted to the common fate of all human institu-
ations.
`
And here the fathers will hardly escape the censure of those who
will not allow high provocation to 'be an excuse for an unfair represen-
tation of an
adversary. They will hardly escape censure, for accus-
*teming themselves to speak of the mysteries as gross impieties and
immoralities, in their very original! Clemens Alexandrinus, in a heat
° What hath beensaid above, shows that M. Le Clare
rhath'-gone into the other
extreme, when he contends, (Bibi. Unis. -tom. p. 73.) that e mystenes were not
corrupted at all. I can conceive no reason for
hxstplaradox,
but as it favored an accusa-
tion against the
lstherawho
have much insisted on e
cprrplption
ot' them.-" The fathers
have said that all kin s of lewdness were committed in e
mysteries ; but whatever
they may say it isnot credible that all
Greeeea howeyer cormpt it may have been, has
ever consented that the women and girls shoul prostitute themselves in the mysteries.
But some Christian authors have found no
didiculg
in
sagng
a thousand things little
conformable to truth, to defame
paganism
; as ough _
ere
were none but
against whom they could discharge t eircalummes."-Bsbl. Urns. tom. vi. p. 1 .
»
»i32 A DISSERTATION on
of zeal, breaks out,
"
Let him be accursed, who first infected the world
vriththese imposturcs, whether it was Dardanus -
or- etc. These
I make no scruple to call wicked authors of impious fables ; the fathers
of an execrable superstition, who, by this institution, sowed in human
life the seeds of vice and corruption." But the wisest and best of the
pagan world invariably hold, that the mysteries were instituted pure;
and proposed the noblest end, by the worthiost means.
The truth of the matter was this: the fathers bore a secret grudge
to the mysteries for their injurious treatment of Christianity on its first
appearance in the world. VVc are to observe, that atheism, by which
was meant a
contempt of the gods, was reckoned, in the mysteries,
amongst the greatest crimes. So, in the sixth book ofthe Eneid, (of which
more hereafier,) the hottest seats in Tartarus are allotted to the atheist,
such as Salmoneus, Tityus, and the Titans, etc. Now the Christians,
for their contempt of the national gods, were, on their first appearance,
deemed atheists by the people; and so branded by the mystagogue, as
we find in Lucian, and exposed amongst the rest in Tartarus, in their
solemn shows and representations. This may be gathered from a
remarkable passage in Origen, where Celsus thus addresses his adver-
sary:
'
_
"
But now, as you, good man, believe eternal punishments, even so
do the interpreters of these holy mysteries, the mystagogues and initia-
tors: you threaten others with them; these, on the contrary, threaten
yawn
This, without doubt, was what sharpened the fathers against the
mysteries; and they were not always tender in loading what they did
not approve. But here comes in the, strange part of the story; that
after this, they should so
studiously and formally transfer the terms,
phrases, rites, ceremonies and discipline of these odious mysteries into
our holy religion; and, thereby, very early vitiate and deprave what a
pagan writer (Marcellinus) could see, and acknowledge to be absoluta
and simplex, [perfect and pure] as it came out of the hands of its author.
Sure then it was some more than ordinary veneration the people had for
these mysteries, that could incline the fathers of the church to so fatal a
counsel: however, the thing is notorious, and the effects have been
severely felt.
The reader will not be displeased to find here an exact account of
this whole matter, extracted from a
very curious dissertation of a
great
and unexceptionable writer, Is. Casaubon, in his sixteenth Exer. on the
Annals of Baronius.-[Bishop W. has given the remarks of Casaubon
in the original Latin, of which the following is a translation 1]
'mt Asctnsr ursrsnrss. 133
"
When the fathers found it to be an easier way of bringing over
minds corrupted by superstition to the love ofthe truth, they first adopted
many terms used in their rites; and after thus treating. of several heads
of the true doctrines, they further adopted some of their
ceremonies;
that they might seem to be saying, as Paul said to the Gentiles,-'Whom
ye ignorantly worship the same do Ideclafe unto you!' Thence it
came that the fathers called the sacraments by the same names as were
used to describe the (pagan) mysteries, as mueseis, telelas, teleiosei»
epopteias, or epopseias, telesteria, and sometimes, but more
rarely,
orgies. The Eucharist they emphatically denominated the mystery of
mysteries; and also, by autonomy, the mystery, or in the plural, the
mysteries. And you may every where read in the writings of the
fathers, when treating of the holy communion, the words pltrieta mys-
teria, or aporreton mysterion, referring to those that were to be divulged
and those that were not. So the Greek verb myesthai in the ancient
writing is often employed to signify the becoming a
partaker of the
Lord's Supper; and the term myesin for the act itself; and mystcs for the
priest, who is also called mystagogon, and hierotelektes. In the Greek
liturgies and elsewhere hiemtelete, and rryphia, hai epiphobos teletc (the
hidden and awful mystery) means the Eucharist.
"
And as
certain degrees were used in the pagan rites, so in like
manner Dionysius divides the whole tradition of the sacraments into
three acts, distinguished by their seasons and ceremonies. The first
was Catltarsis, the purgatinn, or purification, the second the mg/estis or
initiation, and the third, teleosis or the consummation, which they also
frequently called epopsian, or the revered. Tully had before aiiirmed
that the Athenian mysteries brought to the dying better hopes. On
their part, the fathers maintained, that the mysteries of Christ brought
certain salvation and eternal life to those who worthily partook of them;
and that for those who contemned them there was no salvation: and
they did not scruple to say that the end and ultimate fruit of the sacra-
ments was deification, when they knew that the authors of those vain
superstitious had dared to promise the same honor to their initiates.
And therefore you may read in the fathers that the end ofthe holy
mystagogies was deification and that those who faithfully received them
should in the life to come be gods. Athanasias has used the verb theo-
poiestltai (to deity) in the same sense, and subsequently confirmed it by
saying, 'that by partaking of the spirit we are united to the God-head.'
Ofthe symbols of the sacraments by which those ceremonies are cele-
brated, it is not here the place to treat: but that which is called a symbol
134 s ntsslnnnos on
offaith is various in its kinds, and they serve as tokens or tests by which
.the faithful may recognize each other. And we show that the same
were used in the pagan mysteries. The formula pronounced by the
deacons,
'
Depart hence all ye catachurnens, all ye possessed and unini-
tiated,' corresponds with the '
procul este profani' of the pagans. Many
rites of the pagans were
performed in the night, and Guadentius has
the expression
'
splendidissima non:
vig~ilia.rum,' the brightest night of
the vigils. And as to what we have said of the silence observed by the
pagans in their secret devotions, the ancient Christians so far approved.
that they exceeded all their mysteries in that observance. And as Seneca
has observed, the most holy ofthe sacred rites were
only known to the
initiated; and Jamblichus on the philosophy of the Pythagoreans has
distinguished between the aparreta which could not be carried abroad,
.and the ezphora, which might; so the ancient Christians distinguished
their whole doctrines into those which might be divulged to all (the
ezphora) and the aporreta, or arcana, which were not rashly to be dis-
closed. Their dogmas, says Basilius, they kept secret, their preaching
was public. -
And Chrisostom, treating of those who were
baptized for
the dead, says, 'I verily desire to relate the matter fully, but I dare not
be particular, because of the uninitiatedf They make a
difficulty for us
in the interpretation, and oblige us' either to speak without precision, or
else to disclose what they should not be informed of: and as the pagans
used the terms ezorcheisthai ta mysteria, touching those who divulged
the mysteries, so
Dionysius says,
'
See that you do not disclose, nor
slightly reverence the mysteries, and every where in Auguxtinus, you
will read of the sacrament known to the faithful' And thus (in Johan-
nem, tract. xvi) 'all the catachumens already believe in Christ, but
Christ does not trust them :' and ifwe should ask` one of them whether
he eat the flesh of the Son of man, he would not understand what we
ra nt; and again,
'
The catachumens are
ignorant of what the Chrir
tians receive! Let them blush that they are
ignonant"
We have observed above, that the fathers gave very easy credit to
-what was
reported of the abominations in the mysteries ; and the easier,
perhaps, on
account of the secrecy with which :they were celebrated.
'The same affectation of secrecy in the Christian rites, and the same lan-
guage in speaking of them, without doubt procured as
easy credit to
those calumnies ofmurder and incest, charged upon them by the pagans.
Nay, what is still more remarkable, those very specific enormities in
which their own mysteries were then known to oifend, they objected to
in the Christian . '
'rss srrcranr avsrraras. 185
"A catsehumen is a candidate for baptism, or a person who prepares himself for
receiving it. Towards the end of the first csntury, Christians were divided into two
orders, by the names of believers and oalodtumens., The latter as contra.
distinguished from the former, were such as had not yet been dedicated to God and
Christ by baptism, and were, therefore, admitted neither to the public prayers, nor to
the holy communion, norto the ecclesiastical assemblies. As they were not allowed to
assist at the celebration of the meltoriat, the deacondismissed them, after sermon, with
this formula, proclaimed three times, "Re cutachumeni mieaa eel." (Rees)
"
Missa is
derived from mitto to send. Missa has been used for mianb. Ile mine at or miuio
est. You/may all return home." (Bailey.) 1
"Quad noruntjldda, whatthe faithful know. These word; or, as expressed in
Greek, iaasin oi pémuemmoi, formes what may be called the watch-word of the secret,
and occur constantly in the fathers. Thus St. Chrysostom, for instance,-in whole
writings Casaubon remarked the recurrence of this phrase, at least ifty times, in speak-
ing of the tongue (comment. inPsalm I53,) says, 'Reflect that this is the member with
which we receive the tremendous sacrifice,-the faith/'ul know what I speak oh
Hardly less frequent is the occurrence of the same phrase in St. Augustin, who seldom
ventures to intimate the eucltariat in any other way than by the words Quad norunt
j!d¢lu."-(Travels in search of a Religion, Phila. ed. p. 82.)
This precaution needs no apology when referring to religious rites, which iiexposed,
would subject 'its votarias to punishment.-" It was,
"
says the same writer, "inthe
third century, when the followers of Christ were most severely tried by the ires of per.
location, that the discipline of secrecy, with respect to this (the Eucharist) and the other
mysteries, was most strictly observed." "
A faithful concealment (says Tertnllian) is due
to all mysteries &0m the very nature and constitution of them. How much more must
it be due to such mysteries as, if they were once discovered, could not escape immediate
punisment from the hands of man."-(Ibid. p. 73.)
The persecuted, when they obtained the majority, became the persecutors, and the
Druids of England were under the same necessity of concealing their dogmas and rites,
as the Christians formerly had been. But what excuse have the masons of the pts-
sent day for making a mystery of the same rites when not in danger of persecution?
There can be no pretext for retaining a secret, when the cause that gave it birth no
longer exists. Besides, the masons do not profess the doctrines of paganism, they
merely repeat the ceremonies, parrot-like, without any regard to or knowledge of the
original intention. -
That the mysteries were invented, established, and supported by
Iawgivers, may be seen,
From the place of their original; which was
Egypt. This Herod-
otus, Diodorus, and Plutarch, who collect from ancient testimonies,
expressly afiirm; and in this, all antiquity concurs; the Elusinian
mysteries, particularly, retaining the very Egyptian gods, inwhose
honor they were celebrated; Ceres and Triptolemur being only hoo
other names for Isis and Osiris!
° Mr. Le Clerc owns, that Plutarch, Diodoms, and Theodore! have aU said this;
yet, the better to
support his scheme in the interpretation of the lustoryof Ceres, he has
thought fit _to contradict them. _
Yet he in another place, could ses_thst Astarte wal
certainly Isis, ae Adonis was Osins; and this, mereli f1'°m "IG d°l1¢Y °f W*-|' °°"'
rnomes.
1-36 A nrssanrnrxou on
Hence it is, that the universal nature, or the first cause, the object of
all the mysteries, yet disguised under diverse names, speaking of her-
self in Apuleius, concludes the ennumeration ofher various mystic rites,
in these words-" The Egyptians skilled in ancient learning, worship-
ping me
by ceremonies perefectly appropriate, call me
by my true name,
queen Isis."
But the similitude between the rites practised, and the doctrines
taught in the Grecian and Egyptian mysteries, would be alone suffi-
cient to point up to their original: such as the secrecy required of the
initiated; which, as we shall see hereafter, peculiarly characterized the
Egyptian teaching ; such as the doctrines taught of a
metempsychosis,
andafuture state of rewards and punishments, which the Greek writers
agree to have been first set abroacb by the Egyptians# such as- absti-f
nence enjoined from domestic fowl, fish, and beans, (see Porphyrius De
Abstin,) the peculiar superstition ofthe Egyptians; such as the Ritual
composed in hieroglyphics, an ~invention of the Egyptians. But ig
would be endless to reckon up all the particulars in which the Egyp-'
tian and Grecian mysteries agree: it shall suHice to say, that they' were'
in all things the same.
Again; nothing but the supposition of this common original to all
the Grecian mysteries can clear up aud reconcile the disputes which
arose amongst the Grecian states and cities conceming the first rise of
the mysteries; every one claiming to be original to the rest. Thus
Thrace pretended that they came first from thence; Crete contested the
honor with those barbarians; and Athens claimed it from both. ,
And
at that time, when they had forgotten the true original, it was
impossi-
ble to settle and adjust their differences: for each could prove that he
did not borrow from others; and, at the same time, seeing a similitude
in the rites, would conclude, that they had borrowed from him. But the
owning Egypt for their common parent, clears up all difficulties: by
accounting for that general likeness which gave birth to every one's
pretensions. .
Now, in Egypt, all religious worship being planned and established
by statesmen, and directed to the ends of policy, we must conclude, that
the mysteries were
originally invented by legislators.
The sages who brought them out of Egypt, and propagated them in
Asia, in Greece, and Britain, were all kings or
lawgivers; such _as
the Locrain, in his book otf the soul of the world,
,peaking
of the_necessity_
of mculcsung the dpctnne of future
punishments,
calls _them
mopxai
xenat, foreign
torments;
by which name both atm and Greek writers genera y mean Egyptianf
where the su rect is religion.
THB ANCIINT lY8'l'lRll.
Zoroastenluachus, Orpheus," Melampus, Trophonius, Minos, Cinyrss,
Erectheus, and the Druids.
They were under the superintendence of the State. A magistrate,
intitled Basileus, or king, presided in the Eleusinian mysteries. Lysias
informs us, that this king was to oH`er up the public prayers, according
to their country rites; and to seethat nothing impious or immoral crept
into the celebration. (In Andoc.) This title given to the president of
the mysteries, was, doubtless, in memory ofthe first founder.
Though it be now
apparent that the mysteries were the invention of
the civil magistrate, yet even some ancients, who have mentioned the
mysteries, seemed not to be apprised of it, and their ignorance hath occa-
sioned great embroilment in all they say on this subject. The reader
may see
by the second chapter of Meursius' Eleusinia, how much the
ancients were at a loss for the true founder of those mysteries: some
giving the institution to Ceres; some to Triptolernus; others to Eumol-
pus ; others to Musaaus ; and some
again to Erectheus. How then shall
we
disengage ourselves from this labyrinth, into which Meursius has
led us, and in which, his guard of ancients keep us inclosed? This clue
will easily conduct us
through it. It appears, from what hath been said,
that Erectheus, king of Athens, established the mysteries# but that the
people unluckily confounded the institutor, with the priests, Eumolpus
and Musteus, who first ofliciated in the rites; and, with Ceres and
Triptolemus, the deities, in whose honor they were celebrated. And
these mistakes were, natural enough: the poets would be apt, in the
licence of their figurative style, to call the gods, in whose name the
mysteries were performed, the founders of those mysteries; and the
people, seeing only the ministry ofthe officiating priests, in good earnest
believed those mystagogues to be the founders. And yet, if it were
reasonable to expect from poets or people, attention to their own fancies
and opinions, one would think they might have distinguished better, by
the help of that mark, which Erectlteus left behind kim, to ascertain /til
title ; namely, the erection ofthe ojicer called Basileus, or king.
, But this original is still further seen from the qualities required in
the aspiranis to the mysteries. According to their original institution,
neither slaves nor
foreigners were to be admitted into thexn.1 Now if
p#.:.',=.§¢'::f#'.,,tr¢.?°t*;f.:'°:1'.f:'.; ,.3;'1"°.:a',:f;1a,*:f.,2,°:.?;;,":z°:.r.;:.°w'%,:°.,::';:.";
'°""'~, _ _ . _ .
_
2sf:.,. , ».
I '°""=°'°'°"-*"°°°°°"""'""
l38
V
A nrssnrnros on
ghe mysteries were instituted, primarily for the sake ofteaching religious
truths, there can be no reason given why every msn, with the proper
moral qualities, should not be admitted: but supposing them instituted
by the state for political purposes, a
very good one may be assigned;
for slaves and foreigners have there neither property nor country.
Wheu`ailerw'ards the Greeks, by frequent confederations against the
Persian, the common
enemy of their liberties, began to consider them-
selves as one
people and community, the mysteries were extended to- all
who spoke the Greek language. Yet the ancients, not reflecting on the
original and end oftheir institution, were much perplexed for the reasons
of an exclusion so
apparently capricious. Lucian tells us, in the life of
his friend Demonsx, that that great philosepher had the courage, one
day, to ask the Athenians, why they excluded barbarians from their mys-
teries, when Eumolpus, a barbarous Thracian, had established them:'
but he does not tell us their answer. One of the most judicious of thg
modern critics (Is. Cssaubon) was as much at a
loss; and therefore
thinks the restraint ridiculous, as
implying, that the institutors thought
the speaking the Greek tongue contributed to the advancement of
piety.
'
Another proof ofthis original may be deduced from what was
taught,
promiscuously to all the initiated; which was, the necessity ot a
virtuous and holy life, to obtain a happy immortality. Now this, we
know, could not come from the sacerdotal warehouse: the priests could
afford their elysium, at the easy expense of oblations and sacrifices:
for, as our great philosopher (who, however, was not aware of this
extraordinary institution for the support of virtue, and therefore con-
cludes too generally) well observes,
"
the priests made it not their busi-
ness to teach the people virtue: ifthey were
diligent in theirobservauces
and ceremonies, punctual in their feasts and solemnities, and the tricks
of religion, the holy tribe assured them that the gods were pleased, and
they looked no further: few went to the schools of philosophers, to be
instructed in their duty, and to know what was good and evil in their
actions: the priests sold the better pennyworths, and therefore had all
the custom: for lustrations and sacrifices were much easier than a
clean conscience and a
steady course of virtue; and an
expiatory sacri-
fice, that stoned for the want of it, much more convenient than a strict
and holy life.-(Locke's Reasonableness of Christianity.) Now we
_ °Butthefact,theirnotbeingsGrecisnbutafre` ,tht` b b
'
ti
ll proved
by
their _very name, mycleria, from the eiistigrxii m!xlstdi;oii:'ti1ni::ilr,ii;
set 'locus I
ditus-(athing or place hid.)
__7'F"
rm: ANCIENT xtvsrsaxss. |39
may be assured, that an institution, which taught the necessity of a
strict and holy life, could not but be the invention of lawgivers. to
whose schemes virtue was so
necessary.
It is now submitted to the reader, whether it be hot fairly proved,
that the mysteries were invented by thelegislator, to affirm and establish
the general doctrine of a
providence, by inculcating the belief of a future
state of rewards and punishments. Indeed, if we
may believe a certain
ancient, who appears to have been well versed in these matters, they
gained their end, by clearing up all doubts concerning the righteous
gbvemment ofthe gods. (Sopater in Divis. Quest.)
~
w
It seems of very little importance to determine whether the mysteries were the inven-
tion of civil legislators, or of the sscredotal order. And in fact, in Egypt where they
were tirst established, the priesthood and the legislators formed but one body. This
was also the case in Britain, where the Druids performed the ofhces of priests, and
were at the same time the makers of the laws.-
Tytler, in his Elements of general History in the chapter on Egypt, says,
"
The
huctions of the sovereign were partly civil, and partly religious. The king had the chief
regulation of all that regarded the gods : and the pl'iests, considered as his deputies, E1-
led all the omces of state. They were both the legislators and the civil Judges; they
imposed and levied the taxes, and regulated weights and measures."
The title of Baaileua (king) given to one of the omcers in the celebrations of the
mysteries, who is decorated with a crown, has doubtless caused the supposition that
this character was the representative of civil, temporal power. Whereas thc crown
was originally the ensign of divinity.
"
In the remotest antiquity, the crown was only
given to gods. Leo, the Egyptian, says, it was Isis who first wore a crown, and that
it consisted of ears of com [grain] the use whereof she first taught men.
"
In this most authors agree, that the crown originally was rather a religious than
.a civil ornament ;rather one of the pontiticalia, than the regalia ; that it only became
common to kings, as the ancient kings were priests as well as princes; and that the
modern princes are entitled to it in their ecclesiastical capacity rather than their tempo~
nl."-(R¢a's Cycl.)
The author cites no authority for his assertion that,
"
A magistrate, entitled Basileus
or king, presided in the Eleusinisn mysteries." But, he says,
"
Lysias informs us that
thi king, was to offer up the public prayers, according to their country rites ; and to
see that nothing impious or immoral crept into the celebration."
Lysias, it appears, was noticed by Cicero as anorator ot' some repute, but he is little
known as an author; and he seems in this case, to have indulged hisfancy in one of his
popular orntions, without possessing an absolute knowledge of the truth ot' his declara-
tion; for there is no evidence of his having been initiated into the mysteries. He was
no doubt, deceived by the title given to one of the otticers in these celebrations, which
was very likely to be generally known.
Besides, the bishop has shown above, that, "By a law of Solon, the Senate was
always to meet the day after the celebration of these mysteries, to ses that nothing
hadbeen dome amias during the performance." Now, if there were a magistrate appointed
by the king, bearing his title, and presiding in these celebrations as his representa-
140 A ntssaarnron os
'
tive what need would there be for the meeting of the senate for the purpose here
stated.
Jamblichus, who, by the by, was a Pagan priest, and appears to be thoroughly versed
in the metaphysical science of the gods, has clearly intimated who this Basileus ol' the
mysteries was. In speaking of the one Supreme, he says
"
prior to truly existing beings
and total principles, there is onegod, prior to the _fret god and lang, imtnoveable, and
abiding in the solitude of his own unity. Who is father ot' himsell] is selébegottsn, is
father alone, and is truly good."-(See 'I'aylor'a Trans. p. 301.)
The original of that part of the passage particularly alluded to isproton kai ton pro-
ton Than kai Basiletu ; which Gale properly translates, prior stiam primo Deo, et
rage[sole.] That is, prior to the Hrst god and king, the sun. For it is well known
that the sun was the iirst object of adoration among all the ancient nations, and he
was styled the king or govemor of the world.
The Supreme God, alluded to by Jsmblichue, was called in Egypt, Kneph, of whom
Plutarch says
"
the unbegotten Kneph was celebrated with an extraordinary degree of
veneration by the Egyptian Thebans."
~
As a further proof of the erroneous opinion formed by our author on this subject,
an appeal may be made to the practice of royal arch masonry, which I deem conclu-
sive in this and similar cases. Here the hierophant or high priest is the presiding odicer
and the king holds the second rank, and presides only in the absence of the former.
And the idea that this oilicer .was ever the representative of an earthly monarch was
never entertained by masons. No civil power has ever exercised any authority in the
|odge ; and although some ofthe royal family of England, and also of other countries
have become members of the fraternity, they enter it like other men, on the ground of
perfect equality. In short, the odicsr styled king, personates Osiris the sun, one of the
divinitiee celebrated in the mysteries, the second person in the pagan trinity.
It is worthy of remark, and perhaps here is the most proper place to make it, that
masonry conforms to the practice of the Egyptians, in prohxbitingto slaves a participa-
tion of its mystic rites. It excludes also all those who possess anybodily ddect. That
a benevolent society, as the masonic institution is, should make a misfortune of this
kind the cause of debaring admission to its social and friendly communion, admits of
no justincation; no mason can give a plauskile reason for it.
It is an outrage against humanity. Any one who, in fighting the battles of liberty
and his country, should have lost a leg or an arm in the conflict, would in vain apply
for admission into this society. Every mason has swom not to bepresent at the initia'
tion of a person thus situated. He is bound down with the adsmantine chains of pre-
cedent, which has often perverted the plainest principles of justice and common sense.
I do not believe there is a single mason who would not wish to get rid of this rule
but the fraternity entertain a religious horror against defacing the "old land marks"-
The oaths, therefore, engendered in days of darkness and superstition, must remain the
some to the and of time.
This circumstance alone is astrong proof of the origin of the order. The practice
arises from sstupid adherence to the religious customs and observances of tlte ancient
Egyptians. The mysteries, it has been seen, were deemed a sacred institution, and the
most rigid investigation of character, and the severest trials were imposed upon the
aspirsnts to its benefits. "
No person, says De Pauw (in his Phil. Diss. on the Egypt-
and Chinsss,) who was born with any remarkable bodily imperfeclion, could be con-
secrated in Egypt ; and the very animals, when deformed, where never used either for
sacriilce, or in symbolical worship."
'l'he Levites among the Jews were subjected to the same rigid discipline; no one
that had the least bodily blemish could be admitted into the sacsrrlntal order.
_
'ras ascissr lvsrsalss. |41
"
As to the admittance of the Lsvites into the ministry, birth alone did not give it
to them ; they were likewise obliged toreoeive a sort of consecration. Take the Levitea
from among the children of Israel, says God to Moses, and cleanse them. And thus
shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them ; sprinkle water of purifying upon them, and
let them shave all their Seah, and let them wash their clothes, and so make themselves
clean. Then let them take a young bullocli, etc. Numbers, viii. v. 6.
1 Nor was any Levite permitted to exercise his functions till after he had berved a sort
of novitiate for tive years, in which he carefully learned all that related to his ministry.
"
From considering their order, we proceed to consider the manner in which the
priests were chosen, and the defects vhich excluded them from the priesthood. Among
the defects of body, which rendered them unworthy of the sacerdotal functions, the Jews
reckon upMy which are common to men and other animals, and ninety which are
peculiar to men alone. The priest whose birth was polluted with any profaneness, was
clothed in black, and sent without the verge of the priests' court, but he who was
chosen by the judges appointed for that` purpose, was clothed in white, and joined him-
self to the other priests. Andl know not whether St. John does not allude to this
custom when he says, "He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in mite rai-
sunt; and I will not blot his name out of the book of life." (Rev. v. 5.) They
whose birth was pure, but who had some defect of body, lived in those appartments of
the temple wherein the stores of wood were kept, and were obliged to split, and pre-
pare it for keeping up the Bro of the altar." (Rev. Adam Clarke's Hist. Anc. Israelites.
Burlington Edit.-p-273, 279.)
'
There is a reniarkable similarity in the institutions of the Egyptians, Jews, and
Fraemasons. The probation of four years was required after initiation into the lesser
mysteries, before the candidate could be admitted to a participation of the greater. An
entered apprentice in the lodge ot' Freemasons had formerly to serve seven years in
that grade before he could be advanced. This extra time, however, arose
from the
necessity of adaptingthentles of theorder to the craft of masonry; it being the usual
period required for apprentices in that and other mechanical trades. The members of
the masonic fraternity also "
formerly wore while during lodge-hours but at present
the white apron alone remains."-(Smith.)
CHAPTER III.
AN EXAKINATIQN OF VIRGIL'8 SIXTH BOOK 0F THE ENEIDI ll
WHICH IT IB» SHOWN, THAT /THE ALLEGORICAL DESCENT OF
INEAB INTO HELL,,1S N0 OTHER THAN AN ENIGHATICAL REPRE~
BBNTATION OI-' HIS INITIATION INTG THE llYBTERlEB»
Wa have seen in general, how fond and tenacious ancient pagan-
ism was of this extraordinary rite, as of an institution supremely use-
ful both to society and religion. But this will be seen more
fully in
what I now proceed to lay before the reader; an examination of two
celebrated pieces of antiquity, the famous Sixth Book of Virgifs Eneid,
and the Metamorphosis of Apuleius. The first of which will show us
of what use the mysteries were esteemed to society; and the second, of
what use to religion.
An inquiry into Eneas' adventure to the shades, will have this
farther advantage, the instructing us in the shows and representations of
the mysteries; a part of their history, which the form of this discourse
upon them hath not yet enabled ns to give. So that nothing will be
now wanting to aperfect knowledge of this most extraordinary and
important institution.
For, the descent ol`Virgil's hero into the infernal regions, I
presume,
was no other than a
figurative description of an initiation; and par-
ticularly, a
very exact picture of the spectacles in the Eleusiptian mys-
teries; where every thing was done in show and machinery; and
where a representation of the history of Ceres afforded opportunity of
bringing in the scenes of heaven, hell, elysium, purgatory, and what.
ever related to the future state of men and heroes.
A the Eneid is in the style of ancient legislation, it would be hard
to think that so
great a master in his art, should overlook a doctrine,
which, we have shown, was the foundation and support of ancien¢
politics; namely a future state of rewards and punishments. Accord-
ingly he hath given us a complete system ofit, in imitation ofhis models,
which were Plato's vision of Erus, and Tully's dream of Scipio_
Again, as the lawgiver took care to support this doctrine by a
very
extraordinary institution, and to commemorate it by a rite, which had all
the allurement of spectacle; and atforded matter for the utmost embel-
'ras racism' nrsrsruzs. , I43
lishments of poetry, we chnnot but confess a description of such a scene
would add largely to the grace and elegance of his work; and must
conclude he would be invited to attempt it. Accordingly, he hath done
this likewise, in the allegorical descent of Eneas into hell; which
is no other than an enigmatical representation of his initiation into the
mysteries.
Virgil was to represent a
perfect lawgiver, in the person of Eneas;
now, initiation into thegmysteries was what sanctified his character and
enobled his function. Hence we find all the ancient heroes and law-
givers were, in fact, initiated. 1
Another reason for the hero's initiation, was the important instruc-
tions he received in matters that concerned his oflice.
A third reason for his initiation, was the custom of seeking support
and inspiration from the god who presided in the mysteries.
A fourth reason for his initiation, was the circumstance in which the
poet has placed him, unsettled in his affairs, and anxious about his
future fortune. Now, amongst the uses of initiation, the advice and
direction of the oracle was not the least. And an oracular bureau was
so
necessary an appendix to some of the mysteries, as
particularly the
Samothracian, that Plutarch, speaking of Lysander's initiation there
expresses it by a word that signifies consulting the oracle: on this
occouut, Jason, Orpheus, Hercules, Castor, and (as'Macrobius says)
Tarquiuius Priscus, were every one of them initiated into those mys-
teries.
'
All this the poet seems clearly to have intimated lu the speech of
Anchises to his son :
"Carry with you to Italy the choisest of the youths, the stoutest
hearts. In Latium you have to subdue a
hardy race, rugged in man-
ners. But first, my son, visit Pluto's infernal mansions, and, in quest of
an interview with me, cross the deep Hoods of Avernus."
A filth reason was the conforming to the old popular tradition, which
said, that several other heroes of the Trojan times, such as Agamemnon
and Ulysses, had been initiated.
A sixth, and principal was, that Augustus, who was shadowed in
the person ofEneas, had been initiated into the Eleusinian mysteries.-
(Suet. Oct. cap. xciii.)
'
`
While the myaeries were confined to Egypt, their native country,
and while the Grecian lawgivers went thither to be initiated, as a kind
of designation to their office, the ceremony would benaturally described,
in terms highly allegorical. This was, in part, owing to the genius of
I44 A DISBIRTATIOI ox
the Egyptian manners; in part, to the humor of travelers;,but most of
all, to the policy of lawgivers; who, returning home, to civilize a bar-
barous people, by laws and arts, found it useful and necessary (in order
to support their own characters, and to establish the fundamental prin-
ciple ofa future state) to represent that initiation, in which, they saw the
state of departed mortals in machinery, as an actual descent into hell.
This way of speaking was used by Orpheus, Bacchus, and others; and
continued even alter the mysteries were
intrqduced into Greece, as
appears by the fables of Hercules, Castor, Pollux, and Theseus's descent
into hell. But the allegory was
generally so circurnstanced, as to dis~
cover the truth concealed under it. So Orpheus is said to go to hell by
the power of his harp: that is, in quality of lawgiver; the harp being
the known symbol of his laws, by which he humanized a rude and bar-
barous people. So again, in the lives of Hercules and Bacchus, we
have the true history, and the fable founded on it, blended and recorded
together. For we are told, that they were in fact initiated into the
Eleusinian mysteries 3 and that it was just before their descent into hell,
as an aid and security in that desperate undertaking. Which, in plain
speech, was no more, than that they could not safely see the shows, till
they had -been initiated. The same may be-said of what is told ns of
Theseus's adventure. Near Eleusis there was a well, called Callicho-
~rus; and, adjoining /to that, a stone, on which, as the tradition went,
Ceres sat down, sed and weary, on her coming to Eleusis. Hence the
stone was named Agelastus, the melancholy stone. On which account it
was deemed unlawful for the initiated to sit thereon. "
For Ceres, (says
Clemens) wandering about in search of her daughter Proserpine, when
she came to Eleusis, grew weary, and sat down melancholy on the side
of a Well. So that, to this very day, it is unlawful for the initiated to
sit down there, lest they, who are now become perfect, should seem to
imitate her in her desolate condition." Now let us see what they tell
us concerning Theseus's descent into hell. "There is also a stone,"
says the scholiast on Aristophanes, "called by the Athenians, Agelastus ;,
on which, they say, Theseus sat when he was meditating his descent
into hell. Hence the stone had its name Or, perhaps, because Ceres
sat there, weeping, when she sought Proserpine." All this seems
plainly to intimate, that the descent of Theseus was his entrance into the
Eleusinian mysteries. Which entrance, as we shall see hereafter, was a
fraudulent intrusion. ,
Both Euripides and Aristophanes seemto confirm our inteqsreta-.
tion of these deacents into hell. Euripides, in his Hercules fnrenlt
rn: aucxarvr itvsnauts. 145
brings the hero, just come from hell, to succor his family, and destroy
the tyrant Lycus. Juno, in revenge, persecutes him with the furies;
and he, in his transport, kills his wife and children, whom he mistakes
for his enemies. When he comes to himself he is comforted by his
friend Theseus; who would excuse his excesses by the criminal
examples ofthe gods: a consideration, which, as I have observed above_
greatly encouraged the people in their irregularities; and was therefore
obviated in the mysteries, by the detection of the vulgar errors of poly.
theism. Now Euripides 'seems plainly enough to have told us what
he thought of the fabulous descents into hell, by making Hercules reply,
like one just come from the celebration of the mysteries, and entrusted
with the aporreta.
"
The examples," says he,
"
which you bring ofthe
gods, are nothing to the purpose. I cannot think them guilty of the
crimes imputed to them. I cannot apprehend, how one god can bethe
sovereign of another god. A god, who is truly so, stands in need of no
one. Reject we then these idle fables, which the poets teach concerning
them." A secret, -which we must suppose, Theseus had not yet
learnt.
The comic poet, in his Frogs, tells us as
plainly what he too under-
stood to be the ancient heroes' descent into hell, by the equipage, which
he gives to Bacchus, when he brings him in, inquiring the way of
Hercules. It was the custom, at the celebration ofthe Eleusinian mys-
teries, as we are told by the scholiast on t.he place, to have what
was wanted in those rites, carried upon asses. Hence the proverb,
Asinus portat mysleria :
accordingly the poet introduces Bacchus, fol-
lowed by his buH`oon servant, Xanthius, bearing a bundle in like man-
ner, and riding on an ass. Auth lest the meaning of this should be
mistaken, Xanthius, on Hercules's telling Bacchus, that the inhabitants
of Elysium were initiated, puts in, and says, "And I am the ass
carry-
ing mysteries." This was so broad a hint, that it seems to have
awakened the old scholiast; who, when he comes to that place, where
the chorus ofthe initiated' appears, tells us, we are not to understand
this scene as
really lying in the Elysian fields, but in the Eleusiniaa
mysteries. .
Here then, as was the casein many other of the ancient fables, the
pomp of expression betrayed willing posterity into the marvellous. But
°
The resemblance between the practices of masonry and those of the ancient mys-
teries, is too striking not to be noticed. Here we have the :lun-us qf the initiated ; in
masonry, we
observe the appreuttce'e, the fellow craft's, and the master maaon's chorus
41 "Ili that ts, songs adapted to each
deggee.-Edit.
.
I
146 A DISSEIITATION ON
why need we wonder atthis in the genius of more ancient times, which
delighted to tell the commonest things in a
highly figurative manner,
when a writer of so late an age as
Apuleius, either in imitation of anti'
quity, or
perhaps in compliarfce to the received phraseology of the mys-
teries, describes his initiation in the same manner.
"
l approached to
the confines ot' death, and having trod on the threshold of Proserpine, I
returned from it, being carried through all
the elements. At midnight
I saw the sun shining with a splended light; and I manifestly drew
near to the gods beneath, and the gods above, and proximately adored
them." _
Eneas could not have described his night's journey to his com-
panions, after he had been let out ofthe ivory gate, in properer terms,
had it been indeed to be understood as a
journey into hell.
'I'hus, we see, Virgil was obliged to have his hero initiated; and
that he had the authority of fabulous antiquity to call his initiation a
descent into hell. And surely he made use of his advantages with
greatjudgment ; for such a Hction anirnates the relation, which, delivered
out of allegory, had been (too cold and flat for epic poetry.
Had an old poem, under the name of Orpheus, entitled, "A descent
into hell," been now extant, it would, perhaps, have shown us, that no
more was meant than 0rpheus's initiation; and that the idea of this
sixth book was taken from thence.
But further, it was
customary for the poets of the Augustan age to
exercise themselves on the subject of the mysteries, as
appears from
Cicero, who desires Atticus, then at Athens, and initiated, to send to
Chilius, a
poet of eminence, an account ofthe Eleusinian inysteries; in
order, as it would seem, to insert into some poem he was then writing.
Thus it appears, that both the ancient and modern poets afforded Virgil
a
pattern for this famous episode.
Even Servius saw thus far into Virgil's design, as to say, that
many things were delivered according to the profound learning of the
Egyptian theology. And we have shown that the doctrines taught in
the mysteries, were invented by that people. But though I say this
was our poet's general design, I would not be supposed to think he fol~
lowed no other guides? Several of the circumstances are borrowed
from Homer; and several of the philosophic notions from Plato : some
of which will be taken notice o£ in their place. _
The great manager in this affair is the sibyl; and, as a virgin, she
sustains two principal and distinct parts: that of the inspired priesless,
i__ -.
~
THE ANCIENT MYSTERIES. |47
to pronounce the oracle; and that of hierophant, to conduct the initiated
through the whole celebtratiom'
For as we have observed, the initiated had a
guide or conductor,
called Hieropltantes, Mg/stagogos, indiffcrently of either sex, who was
to instruct him in the preparatory ceremonies, and lead him through'
and explain to him, all the shows and representations of the mysteries.
Hence Virgil calls the sibyl Magna Sacerzlos, and Docta, Comes, words
of equivalengsignification. And as the female mystagogue, as well as
the male, was devoted to a single life, so was the Cumrean Sibyl, whom
he calls Casta, Sibylla. Another reason why`a priestess is given to
conduct him, is, because Proserpine presides in this whole affair. And
the name of the priestess in the Eleusinian mysteries shows that she
properly belonged to Proserpine, though she_vas called the priestess of
Ceres. "
The ancients," says Porphyrius, "called the priestesses of
Ceres, Melissai, (bees,) as
being the ministers or hierophants ofthe sub-
terraneous goddess; and Proserpinc hersel£ Melitodes.
It was for this reason that these female hierophants were called
Melissai, as is well observed by the Schol. on Pind. in Pyth. the bee
being, among the ancients, the symbol aj cltastitg/.1
i
Quod nec concubitu indulgent, nec
corpora segnes
In Venerem solvunt.
The first instruction the priestess gives Eneas, is to search for the
golden bouglt, sacred to Proserpine. ~
Under this branch is concealed the wreath ofmyrtle, with which the
initiated were crowned, at the celebration of the m
ysteries-f(Schol. Aris-
toph. Ranis.)
`
The golden bough is said to be sacred to Proserpine, and so we are
told was the myrtle; Proserpine only is mentioned all the way; partly,
because the initiation is described as an actual descent into hell; but
principally, because, when the rites of the mysteries were
performed,
Ceres and Proserpine were
equally invoked ; but when the shows were
represented, then Proserpine alone presided: now this book is a
repre-
sentation of the shows of the mysteries. The quality of this golden
bough, with its lento vimine, admirably describes the tender branches of
myrtle. But the reader may ask, why is this myrtle-branch represented
to be of gold? not merely for the sake of the marvellous, he may be
_
*This remark can apply only to the shofurs and representations of_the laser myste-
at
the
cosrgusxon ogwhacli like
of
fenpfilehreropslpagt ends,
rtélyiecanjudge by
t e uty impo upon t e sr y y as wi appear er on.- t.
#The bee, or
rather bee-hive,
among
the masonic symbols, is considered an smblun
ofindustry: for which there is probab y some authority in sntrqluty.-Edit.
|48 A nrsslnisrlos on
assured. A golden bough was literally part of the sacred equipage in
the shows of the mysteries. For, the branch which was sometimes
unrealized into a crown, and worn on the head, was, at other times. car-
ried in the hand. Clemons Alexandrinus tells us, from Dionysius Thrax
the grammarian, that it was an Egyptian custom to hold abranch in
the act ofadoration. And of what kind these branches were, Apuleius
tells us, in his description of a
procession of the initiated in the mys-
teries of Isis: "A third advanced bearing a
palm branch of thin guilt
leaves, and also the Mecurial Caduceus." The golden branch, then,
and the caduceus were, related. And accordingly Virgil makes the
former do the usual office of the latter, in affording a free passage into
the regions of the dead. Again, Apuleius, describing the fifth person
in the procession, says,
"
A fifth (bearing) a
golden van full of golden
boughs." So that a golden bough, we see, was an
important imple-
ment, and ofa very complicated intention in the shows of the mysteries;
Eneas having now
possessed himself of the golden bough, a
pass-
port as
necessary to his descent as a
myrtle crown to initiation.
He is then led to the opening of the descent:
"
Here stood a cave
profound and hideous, with a wide yawning
mouth, stony, fenced by a black lake and gloomy woods."
And his reception is thus described:
"
The ground beneath their feet began to rumble, the mountain tops
to quake, and dogs were seen to howl through the shade of the woods-
atthe approach of the goddess." .
How similar is all this to the fine description of the poet Claudian'
where, professedly and without disguise, he speaks of the tremendous
entry into these mystic rites :
"
Now I see the shrines shake upon their tottering bases, and light-
nings, announcing the deity`s approach, shed a vivid glare around.
Now a loud warring is heard from the depths of the earth, and the
Cecropian temple re-echoes ; and Eleuxis raises her holy torches; the
makes of Triptolemus hiss, and lift their scaly necks rubbed by their
curved yokes. So afar, the three-fold Hecate bursts forth."-(De raptn
Proserpinae.)
Both these s
descriptions agree exactly with the relations of the
ancient Greek writers on this subject. Dion Crysostom, speaking of
initiation into the mysteries, gives us this general idea of it: "
Just so it
is, as when one leads a Greek or barbarian to be initiated in a certain
mystic dome, excelling in beauty and magnificence; where he sees
'ras uccusr lrsrssns. 149
many mystic sights, and hears in the same manner a multitude of voices ;
where darkness and light altemately a6"ect his senses; anda thousand
other uncommon things present themselves before him.
"
The ritual of initiation was read aloud, and hymns were sung in honor of Gem.-
Soon after a hollow sound was heard, and the earth seemed to groan beneath our feet:
we heard thunder; and perceived by the glare of the lightning, phantoms and specter!
wandering in darkness, and Slling the holy places with howlings that chilled us with
terror, and groans that rent our hearts."-(Travels of Anacharais.)
"
This happy moment (de l'autopsis) was introduced, says Dupuis, by frightful scenes,
by alternate fear and joy, by light and darkness, by the glimmerings of light, by the
terrible noise ot' thunder, which was imitated, and by the apparitions of lpocterl, of
magical illusions, which struck the eyes and ears all at, once." (See Moore's
Epicurean_)
De Pauw, in his Philosophical Dissertation on the Egyptian and Chinese, observes
"Were it tnxe, as some have pretended, that certain mysteries were celebrated in apart:
ments of the labyrinth, it would not have been ditlicult to produce noise there as violent
as thunder. Pliny assures us, that the re-percussion of the air in that edihce, merely on
opening the doors, which probably acting as suckers caused others to shut. According to
the common report thunder was imitated in Greece, by rolling stones in vessels of cop-
per. The initiated were to be terrified, and this was done effectuallyin the mysteries el
Mithra." (Vol. 1. p. sos.)
~
If Virgil copied solely from initiations in the Eleusinian mysteries, the temples of
Ceres would seem to have been constructed on a plan similar to that of the Egyptian
labyrinth ; for in the sixth book ofthe Eneid, v. 126, are the following lines:
Now, with a furious blast, the hundred doors
Ope of themselves; a rushing wirlwind roars
Within the cave, and Sibyl°a voice restores.
Similar delusions are practised in royal arch masonry, where thunder is imitated by
rolling cannon balls, etc.
The poet next relates the fanatic agitation of the mystagogue, on this
occasion.
"
Procul, 0 procul, este, profani, etc. Hence, far hence, 0 ye profane,
exclaims the prophetess, and begone from all the grove! This said,
she furiously plunged into the open cave"
So again, Claudian, where he counterfeits, in his own
person, the
raptures and astonishment of the initiated, and throws himsell, as it were,
like the sibyl, in the middle of the scene.
_
"
Away, ye profane,-now fury has expelled human feelings from
my breast." The aifectation of fury or madness, as we are told by
Strabo, (lib. x.) was an
inseparable circumstance of the mysteries.
The procul, Oprocul este, prolhni of the sibyl, is a literal transla-
°Whenabotw chapterof hmaso th 'hpriest "Ifthers
bs£yE§%rson`;»rese?xli,"v:ho is not s :Zh mssolrheishlrgquestsd:yr:'tire." Ber-
n 1.
150 A nrsssnrnrox on
tion ofthe formula used by the mystagogne, at the opening of the mysf
teries:
Ekas, ekas este, bebcloi.
But now the poet, intending to accompany his hero through all the
mysterious rites of his initiation, and conscious of the imputed impiety
in bringing them out to open day, stops short in his narration, and breaks
out into this solemn apology. .
Dii, quibus in imperium est animarum, etc.
"Ye gods, to whom the empire of ghosts belongs, and ye silent
shades, and Chaos, and Phlegethon, places where silence reigns around
in the realms of night! permit me to utter the secretsl have heard;
may I have your divine permission to disclose things buried in deep
earth and darkness." _
_
Claudian, vho, as we have observed, professes openly to treat ofthe
Eleusinian mysteries, ata time vhcn they were in little veneration: yet,
incompliance to old custom, excuses his undertaking in the same maneri
Dii, quibus in nnmerum, etc.
Had the revealing the mysteries been as
penal at Rome,as it was in
Greece, Virgil had never ventured on this part of his poem. But yet
it was esteemed impious.
He therefore does it covertly; and makes this apology to such as
saw into his meaning.
The hero and his guide now enter on their journey:
"
They advanced under the solitary night through the shade, and
through the desolate halls and empty realms of Pluto; their progress
resembling a
journey in _woods by the precarious glimmering moon
under a faint malignant light, when Jupiter hath wrapped up the heavens
in shade, and sable night hath stripped objects of color."
This description will receive much light _from a
passage in Lui:ian's
dialogue of the tyrant. As a
company made up of every condition of
lite, are
voyaging together to the other world, Mycillus breaks
out, and says: "Bless us! hov dark it is! where is the fair Megillus?
who can tell in this situation, whether Simmiche or
Phryna be the
handsomer ? every thing is alike, and of the same
color; there is no
room for rivalling of beauties. My old cloak, which but nov
presentedf
to your eyes so
irregular a
figure, is become as honorable a
garb as his
majesty's purple. '1'hey are, indeed, both vanished," and retired
* The original has a
peculiar elegance. Huphanc gar ampho, etc. alludes lo the ancient
Greek notions concerning the first matter, which they called uphuncs, invisible, as
being without the quuhties ofform and color. The investmg matter with these qualities,
'run aucrnm-r mvsrnnras. 151
together under the same cover. 'But my friend, the Cynic, where are
you? give me your hand: you arc initiated in the Eleusinian mys-
teries. Tell me now, do you not think this very like the blind march they
make there ? Oh extremely : and see, here comes one
of the Furies as I
guess by her equipage ; her torch, and her terrible looks."
'
The Sibyl, on their approach to the mouth of the cave, had advised
Eneas to call up all his courage, as being to undergo the severest
trials.
"
Do you, Eneas, boldly march forward, and snatch your sword
from its sheath; now is the time for fortitude, now for tirmness of reso-
lution."
i
These trials were of two sorts: the encountering real labors and
difliculties; and the being exposed to imaginary 'and false terrors.
This latter was submitted to by all the initiated in general; the other
was reserved for chiefs and leaders. On which account, Virgil
describes them both in their order; as
they were both to be undergone
by his hero. The first in these words,-
"
Before the very courts and in the opening jaws of hell, grief and
tormenting cares have fixed their couches; and pale diseases, repining
age, fear, and famine, forms terrible to view, (terribiles visuformae) and
death and toil; then sleep that is akin to death, and criminal joys of
the mind; and in the opposite threshold murderous war, the iron bed
chambers of the furies, and frantic discord."
`
To understand the force of this description, it will be necessary to
transcribe the account the ancients have left us of the probationary
trials in the mysteries of Mithras, whose participation was more pai'-
ticularly aspired to, by chiefs and leaders of armies; whence those.
initiated were commonly called the soldiers of Mithras. "
No one,"
says Nonnus,
"
could be initiated into these mysteries till he had passed
gradually through the probationary labors, ,by which he was to acquire
a certain apathe and sanctity. There were
eighty degrees of these
labors, from less to greater ; and when the aspirant has gone through
them all, he is initiated. These labors are,-to pass through fire, to
endure cold, hunger, and thirst, to undergo much journeyings ; and,
in a word, every toil of this nature."
___ __ __
____
was the production of bodies, the ta Phainomena: their dissolution, a return to a state
of linvisibility.-cis Haphanes chorei ta dialuomena, as the
'pretended
Merc.
Triamaa.
has it,
tmp.
xi. Matter, in this state of invisibility, was, by e earlier Grealts,
called ades. erwards, the state itself was so called- and at
length
it came to sig-
nify the abode of departed spirits: hence some of the Orphic odcs, w ich were
sunf
m
the mysteries, bore the title of e eis
Adpy Katabasis, a descent into the regions o the
dead, a little equivalent to Teaetai and ieros Logos.
|52
'
'
A DIIUIBTATION OK
They exercised the candidates, says Dupuis, in his Recherches snr les lnitiations,
many days, to aoss by swimming, tt large extent of water ; they threw them into it,
and it was with great diiculty that they extricated themselves. They applied a sword
and ire to their bodies : they made them pass ovcr flames. The aspirants were often
in considerable danger, and Pythagoras, we are told, nearly lost his life in the trials.
In tracing the early connections of spectacles with the ceremonies of religion, Voltaire
says,
"
The truly grand tragedies, the imposing and terrible representations, were the
sacred mysteries, which were celebrated in the greatest temples in the world, in pre-
sence of the initiated only ; it was there that the habits, the decorations, the machinery
were proper to the subject, and the subject was the present and future life."-Ibid.
Volnsy, shows the origin of these ceremonies. "The Egyptians, says Porphery,
employ every year a talisman in remembrance of the world ; at the summer solstice,
they mark their houses, tlocks, and trees with red, supposingthat on that day the whole
world had been set on fire. It was also at the same period that they celebrated the
pyrrhic or tire dance." And this illustrates the origin of puriication b y tire and water,
for having denominated the tropic of cancer, gate ot' heaven and of heat or celeatis
ire, and that of Capricom, gale of deluge or of water, it was imagined that the spirits
or souls who passed through these gates in their way to and from heaven, were scorched
or bathed; hence the baptism of Mithra, and the passage through the flames, observed
throughout the east long before Moses. Ruins, p. 238.
Ancient masonry has slightly imitated these trials, particularly in the third and royal
arch degrees. The Dmids who established it, were, perhaps, fearful that by carrying
the joke too far, their practices might come to the knowledge of the govemment,
which would probably have led to the destruction of the order. For, fonnen, whose
professed object was merely to teach the mechanical art of masonry, to be engaged in
the performanceof such extravagances as were practised in the ancient mysteries, would
certainly have alarmed even the initiated themselves; a great portion of whom, who were
carried no farther than the third degree, doubtless retained their attachment to the
Christian religion. They knew not what was meant by the ceremonies; they were
pleased, however, with the shows.
But the inventors of modem degrees of the order, without any regard to religion,
keeping, however, for the most part, within the pale of Christianity, have indulged their
imaginations to an unbounded extent. They could have been influenced by no other
motives than the pleasure of exercising their wit in experiments upon human credulity-
The following specimens will show that the ancient models have served as the
ground work upon which the new superstructure has been reared ; which, by the by,
already extends fifty stories above the old fabric.
In the d°8"°°» called Chevalier_ de l' Orient, or knight of the East, the master says
to the junior general, cause Zerubbabel to undergo the seventy trials, which I reduce to
thru, namely, first that of the body; second, that of his courage; third, that of his
mind. Alter which, perhaps, he may merit the favor which he demands.-(Ba-rnard.)
The following is taken from the Abbé Barruel, but whose book, being repletq
with falsehoods against masonry, renders the account justly entitled to suspicion. It
relates to initiations in the degree ot' Knight of Kadosh, or as (he says) the regenerated
lan."
"
Adepta have told me, that no physical art is spared ; that there is no macbiney,
Qeotus, tlrors, etc. which are not employed, to try the constancy of the candidate.
Wears told by Hr. Honjoy, that the duke of Orleans was obliged to ascend, and then
throw himself of a ladder. A deep cave, or rather precipice. whence a narrow tower
cies tothe summit of the lodge, having no avenue to it but by subterranean! panagsl
'ras nwtxtvr lrsrsntss. |58
rspletewithhononistheplacewhetethecauchdatehabsndonedtohimlli tied hand
and toot. In this situation he Hnds hirnselfraised from the ground by machines making
ths most frightful noise. He slowly ascends this dark vault, and then suddenly falls,
as if he were not supported by any thing. Thus mounting and falling alternately
hs must carehilly avoid showing any sign of fear."
Perhaps, on account of the highrank of thsdukeof Orleans, hswas thoughtenti-
tied to greater perils and trials than common men. Bernard gives this degree, and,
althwgh a ladder is required tobe ascended, and the candidate is prohibited to return
the same way, yet no such hazardsss hererelated, are spoken o£
The description of the oeremoniesin thedegresof It-nights ot' the Whiteloglsor
Paliesn,ssreportedtoCarli1e,exceeds,intsrrorsandswfula¢ss, svesBarrnsl's
account of these in the knight of Kadosh. It must have been got up by persons inti-
mately acquainted with the practices of the holy Inquisition, particularly in regard to
Auto-da-fb. I will give a short extract from it. ~
Second Point of Reception.
The apartment for the preparation, and tbr this reception, is made as tetifying as
-possible, to resemble the torments of hell. It hasoeoen chandeliers, with gssy burning
Hambeass, whose mouths represent death's heads with cross bones. ,The walls are
hung with tapestry, painted with ilames and Hgures of the damned.
The door is opened by a brother appointed to guard it, to whom each gives the report
of a perfect mason and the pass word Emanuel. The candidate is instructed to say,
"
I am one of the brothers, who seek the word lout, by the aid of the new law, and the
three colunms of masonry." At these words, the guard takes his sash and apron from
him, saying these marks of decoration are not humble enough to qualify him to ind it,
and that he must pass through much more vigorous trials. He then covers him with
a black cloth, so that he can see nothing, telling him that he must be conducted to the
darkest of places, from which the word must come forth triumphant, to the glory of
masonry, and that he must abandon all self-conlidence. In this condition, he is con-
ducted into an apartment, in which there is a steep descent, up and down which he is
directed to travel. After which, he is conducted to the door, and the black cloth is
removed. Before him stand three igures dressed as devils. He is then ordered to
parade the room three times, in memory of the mysterious descent into the dark places,
which lasted three dayr. He is then led to the door of the apartment, covered with the
black cloth, and told, that the honors through which he has passed are as nothing, in
comparison with those through which he has to pass : therefore he is cautioned to summon
all his brtitude, to meet the dreadful scene. Alter farther manmuvering of this sort, tha
candidate is reported to the master, by the deacon, as a knight of the Eagle, who, after
penetrating the deepest places, hopes to procure the lost word, as the fruit of his research
and to become a perfect mason, etc.
On turning to Bcmard's description of this degree, I iind he agrees in substance with
Carlile. He says,
"
On the hangings of the third apartment must be represented, in
transparent paintings, all the horrors which we attach to the idea of lull ; such as
human iigures and monsters with convulsed muscles, engulfed in flames, etc. etc. On
each side of the door is a human skeleton, with an arrow in his hand, etc."
Virgil has made the suiferings in the other world, preparatory to admission into
Elysium, as related by Anchises to Eneas, to correspond with the trials to which candi-
dates wore subjected in the mysteries. Bishop Warburton refers to that part of the
poem which describes tho nature and end of purgatory, but does not quota the
P|"8°~
20
.._._..l-
154 nr sxalrmrxox os 'ras
Anehlses, says:--" Even when with the last beams of light their lifeisgone, yet
not every ill, nor all corporeal stains, are quita removed from the unhappy beings,
andit is absolutely unavoidable that manymieimu habits, .which have long grown
up with the soul, should be strangely eonllrmed and riveted therein. Thereforeare
they alilicted with pains, and pay the penalties of their former ills. Some, hung on
high, are spread out to whiten in the empty winds: in others the guilt not done away
is washed out in a vast watery abyss, or burned away in fire. We have each of us a
Demon, from whom we suffer, till length of time, after the flxed period is elapsed,
hath done away the inherent stains, and hath left celestial reason pure from all irreg-
ular passions, and thermal that spark ofheaaenlyjire, in its original purity and bright-
ness, simple and unmixed : then are we conveyed into Elysium, and we, who are the
happy few, possess the Belda of bliss."-(Daaidsorfe Trane.)
The second sort of trial were the imaginary terrors of the myste-
ries ; and these, Virgil describes next. And to distinguish them from
the real labors preceding, he separates the two accounts by that (ine
circumstance of the tree of dreams which introduces the latter.
"
In the midst a gloomy elm displays its boughs and aged arms ;
which seat vain dreams are said to haunt, and under every leaf they
dwell. Besides many monstrous spectres of various forms; ia the
gate Centaurs, and double-formed Bcylas, Briareus with his hundred
hands, and the enormous snake of Lerna hissing dreadful, and Chi-
mmra armed with flames ; Gorgons, I-Iarpes and the form of Geryon's
three-bodied ghost."
These terribiles visu formaa are the same which Pletho. in the place
quoted above, calls allokota tax morphas phasmata, as seen in the
entrance of the mysteries ; and which Celsus tells us, were likewise
presented in the Bacchic rites.
But it is reasonable to suppose, that though these things had the
use here assigned to them, it was some circumstance in the recondite
physiology of the East, which preferred them to this station. Hp are
to consider than this darkentrauce into the mysteries, as a
representa-
tion of the Chaos, thus characterised. _
`
"
They advanced under the solitary night through the desolate halls
and empty realms of Pluto.
And amongst the several powers invoked by the poet, at his entrance
on this scene, Chaos is one.
Now a
fragment of Berosus, preserved by George Syncellus
describes the ancient Chaos, according to the physiology of the Chal-
deans, in this manner :-" There was a time, they say, when all was
water and darkness. And these gave birth and habitation to monstrous
H
srxra aoox or vmouls auxin. |55
animals of mixed forms and species. For there were men with
two wings, others with ibur, and some again with double faces.
Some had the horns of goats, some their legs, and some the legs of
horses; others had the hind-parts of horses, and the fore»parts of men,
like the hippocentaurs. There were bulls with human heads, dogs
with four bodies ending in fishes, horses with dogs heads; and men,
and other creatures with the heads and bodies of horses, and with the
tails of fishes. And a number of animals, whose bodies were a mon-
strous compound of the dissimilar parts of beasts of various kinds.
Together with these, were fishes, reptiles, serpents, and other creatures,
which, by a
reciprocal translation of the parts to one another, became
all portentously deformed: the pictures and representations of which
were
hung up in the temple of Belus. A woman ruled over the whole
whose name was Omoroca, in the Chaldee tongue Thalath, which sig-
`nilies the sea; and, in _the course of connexion, the moon." This
Boconnt seems te have been exactly copied in the mysteries, as
appears
from the description of the poet.
The canine figures have a considerable station in this region of
monsters : And he tells us,
"
And dogs were seen to howl through
the shade of the woods," which Pletho explains in his scholia on the
magic oracles of Zoroaster. "
It is the custom, in the celebration of
the mysteries, to present before many of the initiated, phantasms of a
canine figure, and other monstrous shapes and appearances."
The woman, whose name coincides with that of the moon, was the
Hecate of the Greeks, who is invoked by Eneas on this occasion.
"
By mistic sounds invoking Hecate, powerful both in heaven and
hell." Hence terrifying visions were called Hecatea.
The ancients called Hecate, diva triformis. And Scaliger observes
that the word thalath, which Syncellus, or Berosus, says, was equiva-
lent to the moon, signifies tria.
And now we soon find the hero in a
fright,
"
Here Eneas, disconf
certed with sudden fear, grasps his sword, and presents the naked point
to each approaching shade."
`
With these affections the ancients represent the initiated as
posses-
sed on his first entrance into these holy rites. "
Entering now into the
mystic dome (says Themistius) he is filled with horror and amazement.
He is seized with solicitude, and a total perplexity ; he is unable to
move a step forward, and at a loss to find the entrance to that road
which is to lead him to the place he aspires to-:till the prophet or
conductor, laying open the vestibule of the temple"-To the same pur-
156 as axalrnarros or 'ran
pose Proclus;
"
As in the most holy mysteries, before the scene of the
mystic visions, there is a terror infused over the minds of the initiated,
so," etc.
'
The adventurers come now to the banks of Cocytus. Eneas is sur-
prized at the crowd of ghosts which hover round it, and appear impa-
tient for a
passage. His guide tells him they are those who have not
had the rites of sepulture performed to their manes, and so are doomed
to wander up and down for a hundred years, before they be permitted to
cross the river.
We are not to think this old notion took its rise from the vulgar super-
lition. _
It was one of the wisest contrivances of ancient politics; and
came
originally from Egypt, the fountain-head of legislation. Those
profound masters of wisdom, in projecting for the common good, found
nothing would more contribute to the safety of their fellow citizens than
the public and solemn interment of the dead; as without this provision,
private murders might be easily and securely committed. They there-
fore introduced the custom of pompous funeral rites ; and, as Herodo-
tus and Diodorus tell us, were of all people the most circumstantially
ceremonious in the observance of them. To secure these by the force
of religion, as well as civil custom, they taught, that the deceased could
not retire to a
place ofrest, till they were performed. The notion spread
so wide, and fixed its roots so deep that the substance of the supersti-
tion
rernains, evento this day, in most civilized countries. By so effec-
tual a method did the legislature gain its end, the security of the citizen.
Mr. Bayle cries out,
"
What injustice is this I was it the fault of
these souls, that their bodies were not interred I" But not knowing the
origin of this opinion, nor
seeing its use, he ascribes that to the blind-
'ness of religion, which was the issue of wise policy.
The next thing observable is the ferryman, Charon; and he, the
learned well know, was a substantial Egyptian ; and, as an
ingenious
writer says, iinirly existing in this world.-(Blafckwelfs life ofHomer.)
The case was plainly thus ; the Egyptians, like the rest of mankind,
in their descriptions of the other world, used to copy _frost something
they were well acquainted with in this. In their funeral rites, which,
ll we observed, wasa matter of greater moment with them than with
any other people, they used to carry their dead over the Nile, and
through the marsh of Acherusia, and there put them into subterrane-
ous caverns; the ferryman employed in this business being, in their
language, called Charon. Now in their mysteries, the description of
the passage into the other world was borrowed, as was natural, from
~
srxrn soon or vraou.'s sumo. 157
the circumstances of their iimeral rites. And it might be easily proved,
if there were occasion, that they, themselves transferred these realities
into the ntytbos, and not the Greeks, as later writers generally imagine.
Eneas having crossed the river, and come into the proper regions
of the dead, the first apparition that occurs is the dog Cerberus ;
"
Huge
Cerberus makes those realms resound with barking from his triplejaws,
stretched at his enormous length in a den that fronts the gate."
This is plainly one of the phantoms of the mysteries, which Pletho
tells above, was in the shape of a dog kunode tina.. And in the fable
of Hercules's descent into hell, which, we have shown, signified no
more than his initiation into the mysteries, it is said to have been,
amongst otherthings, for fetching up the dog Cerberus.
The prophetess, to appease his rage, gives him a medicated cake,
which casts him into a slumber ;
"
Flings to him a
soporiiic cake of
honey and medicated grains"-(medicatir fmgibus.)
In the mysteries of Trophonius (who was said to be nursed by
Ceres, that is to derive his rites from the Eleusinian,) the initiated car-
ried the same fort of medicated cakes to appease the serpents he met
with in his passage. Tertullian, who gives all mysteries to the devil,
and makes /tim the author of what is done there, mentions the offering
up of these cakes, celebrat et penis oblationem. This in question was
of poppy-seed, made up with honey ; and so I understand medicatis
frugibus, here, on the authority of the poet himself; who, in the fourth
book, makes the priestess of Venus prepare the same treat for the dra-
gon who guarded the Hesperian fruit.
But without doubt, the images, which the juice of poppy presents to
the fancy, was one reason
why this drug had a
place in the ceremonial
of the shows; not improbably, it was given to some at least of the ini~
tiated, to aid the impression of those mystic visions which passed before
them.' For that something like this was done, that is, giving medica-
ted drugs to the aspirants, we are infonned by Plutarch ; who speaks of
a shrub called Leucophyllus used in the celebration of the mysteries
of Hecate, which drives men into a kind of frenzy, and makes them
confess all the wickedness they had done or intended. And confession
was one necessary preparative for initiatioa.1'
Mm'
mf "§i,"L°53§i.'°§,*.?¢§'¢§uTZ'f§,§Tiid`i.°¢§,'3?hiZi,T2°i2'§Zia §°'.I°§'L'{"§f~' .iff HZ
of master
Hirum,J'>reserved
ever
since his assassination ; which every faitliful muon
may receive, but at it cannot remam m the body of one who is pe red. After thg
candidate has
swallowed the dose, the master thus addresses him, rgifother, one
thing
you camo here to leam ls, that you ought never to refuse to confess r
faults; obgq-
any ought to be banishedfrom the heart of every good mason.-Ext.
What were called the secret eeremomee of the gods, says Fontenello, were withfm
|58 AN rzxuuskrrox or 'ma
The regions, according to Virgil's geography, are divided into
three parts, Purgatory, Tartarus, and Elysium.
The mysteries divided them in the same manner. So Plato, where
he speaks of what was taught in the mysteries, talks of souls sticking
fast in mire and filth, and remainingin darkness, till a
long series of
years had purged and purified them; and Celsus, in Origen, says, that
the mysteries taught the doctrine of eternal punishments.
Of all the three states this of Tartarus, only was eternal. There
was, indeed, another, in the ancient pagan theology, which had the same
relation to Elysium, that Tartarus had to
Purgatory, the extreme of
reward, as Tartarus of punishment. But then this state was not in the
infernal regions, but in Heaven. Neither was itthe lot ofcommon human-
ity, but reserved for heroes and demons ; Beings, of an order superior
to men, such as Hercules, Bacchus, etc. who became Gods on their
admission into that state, where the eternity was' in consequence of
their deiiication.
And here it is to our purpose to observe, that the virtues and vices,
whichtstock these three divisions, with inhabitants, are such as more
immediately aH`ect society. A plain proof that the poet followed the
views of the legislator, the institutor of the mysteries.
Purgatory, the iirst division, is inhabited by suicides, extravagant
lovers, and ambitious warriors: and in a word, by all those who had
indulged the violence of the passions ; which made them rather miser-
able than wicked. It is remarkable that amongst these we find one of
the initiated: "
Polybetes devoted to Ceres." This was
agreeable to
the public doctrine of the mysteries, which taught that initiation with
virtue procured men great advantages over others, in a future state ;
but that without virtue, it was of no service.
Of all these disorders, the poet hath more
distinctly marked out the
misery of suicide.
doubt the best artihces the priests could invent to keep
people
in the
dar-kg
and yet
they could not so well hide the juggle, but that the cheat wo d be_ suspected y many
persons : and therefore they eontnved amo themselves to estabhsh certain mysteries
which shonldengage those who were initial§into them to an inviolable secrecy. Those
who were initiated also gave further
securityl
for their discretion ; for
thaiwere obliged
to make a confession to their priests of all t e most pnvate actions of sir lives ; so
that by this means they became slaves to their priests, that their own secret: might bs
k .
,Pit was u n this sort of confession that a Lacedemonian, who was
going to be ini-
tiated into th; mysteries of Samothraec, spoke roundly thus to the priest ; if I have
committed any cnmes, surely thc Gods an not ignorant
rg
them.
Another answered almost after the same manner ; is t you or to God we ought to
cor;/'su our crimes 7 It is to God, says
thetp;-ist.
Well then retire thou, answered the
Laeedsmonian, and I will confess them to These Lucedemonians were notvery
iitllof the spirit of devotion.-(Hiat. qf Oracle, p. ll4, London, l688).-Edit.
srx-ra noon or v1aou.'s sumo. 159
Here keeps close to the mysteries; which not only forbade sui-
cide, but taught'on what account it was criminal. "
That which is said
in the mysteries (says Plato) concerning these matters of ma.n's being
placed in a certain watch or station, which it is unlawful to fly from, or
forsake, is a profound doctrine, and not easily fathomed."-(Phaed. p.
62. Ser. ed. torn. l.)
Hitherto all goes well. But what must we say to the poet's putting
new-born infants, and men htlsely condemned into his purgatory? For
though the faith and inquisition of modern Rome send many of both
sorts into s
place of punishment, yet the genius of ancient paganism
had a gentler aspect. It is, indeed, difficult to tell what these inmates
have to do here. Let us consider the case of the infants ; and if we
find it can only be cleared up bythe general view of things here ofered,
this will be considered as another argument for the truth of our inter-
pretation.
'
"
Forthwith are heard voices, loud wailings, and weeping ghosts of
infants, in the tirst opening ofthe gate : whom, bereaved ofsweet life out
of the course of nature, and snatched from the breast, in a black unjoy-
ous day cut oil] and buried in an
untimely grave."
These appear to have been the cries and lamentings that, Proclul
tells us, were heard in the mysteries. So that we
only want to know
the original of so
extraordinary a circumstance. Which, I take, to
have been just such another provision of the lawgiver for the security
of infancy, as that about funeral rites was forthe adult. For nothing
could more engage parents in the care and preservation of their young,
than so terrible a doctrine. Nor are we to imagine, that their natural-
fondness needed no inforcement, or support ; for that most degenerate
and horrid practice among the ancients, of exposing infants, was tmiver-
sal ;' and had almost erased morality and instinct. St. Paul seems to have
hadthis in his eye, when he accused the pagan world of being without
natural affection. It needed therefore the strongest and severest check ;
and I am well persuaded it occasioned this counterplot of the magis-
trate, in order to give instinct fair play, and call back banished
4 We
mg
well
djudge
it to_be so, when wetind it amongst the Chinese (seo M. Polo
Ida. ii. cap.
'
.) an the Arabxans, _the two
people least corrupted by
éoiigign manners,
and the vicious customs of more civilised nation . The Arabians, p arly, lmng
much in a state _of nature, where men's wants are few, and consequently where there
is
small
templtauon
to
this unnatural cnme, yet were become so prone to it, that thetr
lawgiver Ma omet found it
necessm? to exact an oath of the Arabian women, not to
destroy their children. The form 9 this oath is given us h Gagnier, in
his notes_on
Abel-fcda's L|fe_ of Muhomct, and it is in these words ;-" #ou will associate nothing
W1lhG0¢li Mr
indulge
anger; nor destroy your children; nor bo disobedient to the
Apostle of God, in that w nch is Just."
1
I
160 AN IXAIIINATION OI THE
nature. Nothing, indeed, could be more worthy of his care: for
the destruction of children, as Pericles finely observed of youth, is
like cutting old' the spring from the year. Accordingly we are told by
Diodorus, that the Egyptians had a law against this unnatural practice,
which law he numbers amongst the singularities ofthat people
"
They
are obliged says he, to bring up all their children, in order to render the
country populous, this being esteemed the best means of making states
ilourishing and happy." And Tacitus speaks of the prohibition as no
less singular amongst the Jews.
`
Here again Mr. Bayle is much scandalized: "
The first thing which
occurred, on the entrance into the other world, was the -station assigned
to infants, who cried and lamented without ceasing; and next to that, the
station of men unjustly condemned to death. Now what could be more
shocking or scandalous than the punishment of those little creatures,
who had yet committed no sin, or those persons whose innocence had
been oppressed by calumny2" The first difficulty is already cleared
up : the second shall be considered by and by. But it is no wonder Mr.
Bayle could not digest this doctrine of tlie infants; for I am much mis-
taken, ifit did not stick with Plato himself; who, relating the Vision of
Erus, the Pamphylian, concerning the distribution of rewards and
punishments in another life, when he comes to the condition of infants,
passes it over in in these words :-" But of children who died in their
infancy, he reported certain other things not _'worthy to be remembered.
Erus's account of what he saw in another world, was a
summary ofwhat
the Egyptians taught in their mysteries conceming that matter. And I
make uo doubt but the thing not worthy to be remembered, was the
doctrine of infants in purgatory: which appears to have given Plato
much scandal, who did not, atthat time at least, reflect upon its original
and use.
'
But now, asto the falsely condemned, we must seek another solu-
tion: .
°'
"Next to those are such as had been condemned to death by false
accusation. Nor yet were these seats assigned them without destina-
tion and appointment, or without the sentence of a judge. Minos, as
inquisitor, shakes their urn 1 he convoltes the council of the silent
shades, and examine their lives and crimes."
This designment appears both iniquitous and absurd. The falsely
accused are not only in a
place of punishment, but, being first delivered
under this single predicament, they are afterwards distinguished into two
sorts; some as blumcublc, others as innocent. 'l'o clear up this con'
srxrn soox or vraexris auxin. l6l
fusion, it will be necessary to transcribe an old story, told by Plato in
his Gergias 1 "
This law, concerning mortals, was enacted in the time of
Sstum, and is yet, and ever will be in force amongst the gods; that he
who had lived a just and pious life, should at his death be carried into
the islands of the blessed, and there possess all kinds of happiness,
untainted with the evils of mortality: but that he who had lived unjustly
and impieusly, should be thrust into a place of punishment, the prison
of divine justice, called Tartarus. Now the judges, with whom the
execution of this law was intrusted, were, in the time of Saturn, and
under the infancy of Jove's government, living men, sitting in judgment
onthe living; and passing sentence on them, upon the day of their
decease. This gave occasion to unjust judgments: on which account.
Pluto, and those to whom the care ofthe happy islands was committed,
went to Jupiter, and told him, that men came to them vvrongmllyjudged,
both when acquitted and when condemned. To which the fatherof the
gods thus replied: I will put a
stop to this evil. These wrong judg-
ments are
partly occasioned by the corporeal covering of the persons
judged; for they are tried while living: now many have their corrupt
minds hid under a fair outside, adorned with birth and riches; and,
when they come to their trial, have witnesses at hand, to testify for their
good life and conversation; this perverts the process, and blinds the
eyes of justice. Besides, the judges themselves are encumbered with the
same corporeal covering: and eyes and ears, and an
impenetrable tegu-
ment of flesh, hinder the mind from a free exertion of its faculties. All
these, as well their own covering, as the covering of those they judge,
are bars and obstacles to right judgment. In the iirst place then, says
he, we are to provide that the fore-knowledge which they now have of
the day of death, he taken away: and this shall be given in charge to
Prometheus; and then provide, that they who come to judgment be quite
naked: for from hencebrth they shall not he triech till they come into
the other world. And as they are to he thus stripped, it is but fit their
judges should await them there in the same condition ; that, at the arrival
of every inhabitant, soul may look on soul, and all family relation, and
every worldly ornament being dropt and left behind, righteousjudgment
may at _length take place. I, therefore, who foresaw all these things,
before you felt them, have taken care to constitute my own sons, the
judges: two ofthem Minos and Rhadamanthus, are Asiatics; the third,
Eacus, an European. These, when they die, shall have their tribunal
erected in the shades, just in that part of the highway, where the two
roads divide, the one leading to the happy islands, the other to Tartarus.
21
162 AN sxnsluntou or 15|
Rhadamanthus shall judge the Asiatics, and Eacus the Europeans; but
to Minus I give the superior authority of hearing appeals, when any
thing obscure or diiiicult shall perplex the others' judgments: that every
one
may have his abode assigned him with the utmost equity.
The matter no w begins to clear up; and we see
plainly, that the cir-
cumstance ofthe falsely condemned, alludes to this old fable: so that by
jalso damnati crimine mortis, if it be thetrue reading,Virgil did not mean,
as one would suppose, men
falsely condemned, but wrongfullyjudged,
whether to acquittal or conviction; but condemnation being oftenest the
sentence ofjustice, the greater part is put figuratively for the whole.
One difficulty remains; and that, to confess the truth, hath arisen
rather from a mistake of Virgil, than of his reader. We End these peo-
ple yet unjudged, already Exed with other criminals in the assigned
district of purgatory. But they are
misplaced, through an oversight of
the poet; which, had he lived to perfect the Eneid, he would probably
have corrected: for the fable tells us
they should be stationed on the
borders of the three divisions, in that part of the high road that divides
itself in two, which lead to Tartarus and Elysium, thus described by
the poet:
"
This is the place where the path divides in two: the right is that
which leads to great Pluto's walls, by this our
way to Elysium lies;
but the left carries on the punishments of the wicked, and conveys
to cursed Tartarus."
It only remains to consider the origin or moral of the fable ; which,
I think, was this: it was an Egyptian custom, as we are told by Dio#
dorus Siculus, for judges to sit on
every man's life, at his interment; to
examine his past actions, and to condemn and adquit according to the
evidence before them. These judges were ofthe priesthood; and so, it
is probable, taught, like the priests of the church of Rome, that their
decrees were ratified in the other world. Partiality and corruption
would, in time, pervert their sentence; and spite and favor prevail over
justice. As this might scandalize the people, it would be found necessary
to teach, that the sentence which influenced every one's Enal doom, was
reserved for a future judicature. However, the priest took care that all
should not go out of his hands; and when he could be no longer judgs,
he contrived to find his account in turning evidence; as
may be seen
by the singular cast of this ancient inscription:
"
I Sextus Aniciua
pontiff certify that this man has lived honestly: may his soul rest in
peace." (Fabius Celsus Inscript. Antiq. lib. iii.)
Eneas, having passed this first division, comes now on the confines
17
sixrn noox or vrnoir.'s ENIID. l63
of Tofrtanu ; and is instructed in what relates to the crimes and puni|h~
ments of the inhabitants.
It is remarkable, that Eneas is led through the regions of Purga-
tory and Elysium; but he only sees the sights of Tartarus at a distance.
and this could not be otherwise in the shows of the mysteries, for very
obvious reasons.
Among the criminals destined to eternal punishment, in this division,
are, those who had sinned so
secretly as to escape the animadversion
of the magistrate.
And it was
principally on account of such crimes that the legislator
enforced the doctrine of a future state of punishment.
The infringers of the duties of imperjict obligation, which civil
laws cannot 'reach : such as those without natural affection to brothers,
duty to parents, protection to clients, or
charity to the poor.°
The invaders and violators ofthe holy mysteries, held out in the per-
son of Theseus, make the last class ofoffenders.
"
There sits, and to eternity shall sit, the unhappy Theseus; and
Phlegyas most wretched is a monitor to all, and with loud voice pro-
claims through the shade: warned by my example, learn righteousness,
and not to contemn the gods."
The fable says, that Theseus and his friend Plrithous formed a
design to steal Proserpine from hell; but being taken in the fact, Pin-
thous was thrown to the dog Cerberus, and Theseus kept in chains, till
he was delivered by Hercules: which without doubt means the death
of one, and the imprisonment of the other, for their clandestine intrusion
into the mysteries. We have already offered several reasons, to show
that the descent of Theseus into hell, was a violation of the mysteries:
to which we may add what the ancients tell us of the duration of his
imprisonment, which was four years; the interim between the cele-
brations ofthe greater mysteries.
But when Virgil comes to describe these shows, which were
sup-
posed to be a true representation of what was done and sulfered in hell,
Theseus is put among the damned, that being his station in the other
world. lf'
This will remind the learned reader of a
story told by Livy.
"
The
Athenians, says he, drew upon themselves a war with Philip, on a
very
slight occasion; and at a time when nothing remained of their ancient
fortune, but their high spirit. Two young Acarnanians, during the
ah*
So the law of the Twelve Tables: Potromu ei disntifraaldh fulfil, UGC#
164 an izxunu-rrow or 'ras
days of initiation, themselves nninitiated, and ignorant ofall that related
to that secret worship, entered the temple of Ceres along with the crowd~
Their discourse soon betrayed them ; as making some absurd inquiries
into what they saw; so being brought before the president of the mys-
teries, although it was evident they had entered ignorantly and without
design, they were
put to death, as guilty of a most abominable crime."
The oflice Theseus is put upon, of admonishing hishearers against
impiety, could not, sure, be discharged in these shows by any one so
well, as
by him who represented the violator of them. But the critics,
unconscious of any such design, considered the task the poet has
imposed on Theseus, of perpetually sounding in the earsof the damned,
this admonition:
"
Wamed by my example, learn righteousness, and not to contemn
the gods," as a
very impertinent employment. For though it wasa sen-
tence of great tmth and dignity, it was
preached to very little purpose
amongst those, to whom there was no room for pardon or remission.
Even Scarron hath not neglected to urge this objection against it 2*
and it must be owned, that, according to the common ideas of Eneas's
descent into hell, the objection is not easily got over.
But, suppose Virgil to be here relating the admonitory maxima
delivered during the celebration ofthese mystic .r/lows, and nothing could
be more just or useful: for then the discourse was addressed to the vast
multitude of living spectators. Nor is it a mere supposition that such'
discourses made part of these representations. Aristides expressly says.
that in no place were more
astonishing words pronounced or sung, than
in these mysteries; the reason, he tells us, was, that the sounds and the
sights might mutually assist each other in making an impression on*
the minds of the initiated. But, from a
passage in Pindar, I conclude,
that in these shows, from whence men took their ideas of the infernal
regions, it was customary for each oiiender as he passed by, in machi-
nery, to make an admonition against his own crime. "
It is reported,
ays, Pindar, that Ixion, by the decrees of the gods, while he is inces-
santly turning round his rapid wheel, calls out upon mortals to this
effect: that they should be always at hand to repay a benefactor for'
the kindness he had done them." Where the word Brotoi, living men,
seems plainly to show that the speech was at first made before men in
this world.
U Cette sentence est bonne & belle,
Mais en Enfer de quoi sert-elle?
__l
srxrn DOO! or vr||en.'s IHIID. |65
The poet closes his catalogue ofthe damned with these words:
Ausi omnes immane nefas, ausoque potiti.
For the ancients thought that an action was sanctified by the success;
which they esteemed a mark of the itvor and approbation of heaven.
As this was a
very pemicious opinion, it was
necessary to teach, that
the imperial villain who trampled on his country, and the baded plot-
ter who expired on a gibbet, were equally the objects of divkxe vena
geance.
Eneas has now passed through Tartans; and here end the lesser
mysteries.
The hero advances to the borders of Elysium, and here he under;
goes the lustration:
"
Eneas springs forward to the entry, sprinkles his body with fred
seater, and fixes the bough in the fronting portal."
"
Being now about to undergo the lustration, says Sopater, which
immediately precede initiation into the greater mysteries, they called me
happy."
Accordingly, Eneas now enters on the greater mysteries, and comes
to the abodes of the blessed: '
"
They came at length to the regions of eternal joy, delightful green
retreats, and blessed abodes in groves where happiness abounds. Here
the air they breathe is more free and enlarged, and clothes the fields with
radiant light : here the happy inhabitants know their own sun and theii
evm sara."
These two so different scenes
explain what Aristides meant, when
he called the shows ofthe Eleusinian mysteries, that most shocking, and
at the same time, most ravishing representations
The initiated, who till now only bore the name of Mystai, are called
Epoptai, and this new vision, Autopsia.
"
The Antopsia, or the seeing
with their own eyes, says Psellus, is when he who is initiated behold:
the divine lights."
In these very circumstances Themistius describes the initiated, when
just entered upon this scene,
"
It being thoroughly purified, he now
discloses to the initiated, a region all over illuminated,and shining with
a divine splendor. This which was all over illuminated, and which
the priest had thoroughly purified, was agalma, an image. The reaf
son of transferring what is said ofthe illumination of the image, to the
ilumination of the region, is, because this image represented the appear-'
ances of the divine Being, in one
large, uniform, extensive light. This,
Iamblichus says, was without jigure. To this image, the following. lines
inthe oraclss efZo|osster allude:
166
'
an axtutsarron or 'mn
"
Invoke not the self-conspicuous image of nature, for thou must
not behold these things before thy body be purified by initiation." This
autopton agalma was
only a diffusive shining light, as the name
partly
declares; and the sight of this divine splendor was what the mysteries
called autopsia.
The cloud and thick darkness are dispersed; and the mind emer-
ges, as it were, into day, full of light and chearfulness, as before, of dia-
consolate obscurity.
Pletho tells us with what these clouds were
accompanied, namely,
thunder and lightning, and other meteoric appearances. He says, they
were
symbols, but not of the nature ofthe deity : and this was true; for
the symbol of that was the autopton agalma which followed: hence, as
we see above, it was without figure.
Let me observe, that the lines,
"
Here the air they breathe is more
free and enlarged, and clothes the fields with radient light: here the
happy inhabitants know their own sun, and their own stars," are in
the very language of those who profess to tell us what they saw at
their initiation into the greater mysteries.
"
At midnight I saw the
sun shining witha splendid light," says Apuleius on that occasion.
¢__;¢_
Dupuis, speaking of the mysteries, says, "They discovered the origin of the soul,
its fall to the earth through the spheres and the elements, and its return to the place of
its origin : here was the most metaphysical part and which could not be understood by
the generality ofthe initiated, but of which they gave them the sight by tigurcs and
allegorical specters."-(See Moore's Epic.)
Thomas Taylor, a modern writer, and I believe still living, in a Dissertation on the
Eleusinian and Bacchic Mysteries, contends for the reality of the descent of the gods
through magical evocation; and he quotes the authority of ancient authors in proof of
the fact.
Mr. Taylor possesses great erudition; has translated the commentaries of Proclus,
and the works of Jamblichus and Apuleius; isa thorough convert to the Platonic philo-
sophy, and an enthusiastic admirer ol' the rites of Ceres and Bacchus; "In the compo-
sition of which he says we may diseem the traces of amlted wisdom, and racondits
theology ; of a theology the most venerable for its antiquity, and the most admirable
for its excellence and reality.
Plato, says he, in the Phcedrus, thus describes the felicity of the virtuous soul prior
to its descent, in a beautiful allusion to the arcane vision of the mysteries:
"But it was then lawful to survey the most splendid beauty, when we obtained
together with that blessed choir, this happy vision and contemplation. And we indeed
enjoyed this blessed spectacle together with Jupiter, but others, in conjunction with
some other god; at the same time being initiated in those mysteries, which it is law-
ful to call the most blessed of all mysteries. And these divine Orgies were celebrated
by us, while we possessed the proper integrity of our nature, and were freed from the
molastations of evil which awaited us in a succeeding period of time. Likewise in con-
sequence of this divine initiation, we became spectators of entire, simple, immoveable.
and blessed visions, resident in a pure light; and were ourselves pure and immaculate
srrrn soox or vntoufs strain., 167
and liberated hom this surrounding veatment, which we denominate body, and to
which we are now bound like an oyster to its shell." Upon this beautiful passage Pro-
clua observes, in Theol. Plat. lib. 4. p. 193. "That initiation and inspection are sym-
bols of ineffable silence, and of union with mystical natures, through intelligible vis-
ions l"
Now, from all this, it maybe inferred, that the most sublime part of epoptia or
inspection, consisted in behelding the gods themselves invested with a resplendent
light; and that this was symbolical of those transporting visions, which the virtuous
soul will constantly enjoy in a fixture state, and of which it is able to gain some ravish-
ing glimpses, even while connected with the cumbrous vestment of the body.
But that this was actually the case, is evident from the following unequivocal testi-
mony of Proclus in Plat. Repub. p. 380.
"In all initiations and mysteries, the gods exhibit many forms of themselves, and
appear in a variety of shapes ; and sometimes indeed, an unjigured light ofthemselves
is held forth to the view, sometimes this light is jigured according to n human form,
and sometimes it proceeds into a diferent shape." This doctrine, too, of divine appear-
ances in the mysteries, is clearly confirmed by Plotinus, Ennead i. lib. 6. p. 55. and
Ennead 9. lib. .6 p. 700. And in short, that magical ecocation formed a part of the
aaeerdotal qjlee in the mysteries, and 'that this was universally believed by all anti-
quity, long before the era of the latter Platonists, is plain from the testimony of Hippo-
crates, or at least Democritus, in his treatise de Morbo. Sacro. p. 86. For spealtingof
those who attempt to cure this disease by magic, he observes:
"lfthey profess themselves able to draw down the moon, to obscure the sun, to
produce stormy and pleasant weather, as likewise showers of rain, and heats, and to
render the sea and the carth barren, and to accomplish every thing else of this kind,
whether they derive this knowledge from the mysteries, or from some other institution
or meditation, they appear to me to be impious, from the study of such concerns."
From all which it is easy to see, how egregiously Dr. Warburton was miclaken, when
in his Divine Legation, he asserts,
"
that the light beheld in the mysteries, was nothing
more than an illuminated image which the priests had thoroughly purified."
But he is likewise no less mistaken, in transferring the injunction given in one of the
magic oracles of Zoroaster, to the business of the Eleusinian mysteries, and in pervert-
ing themesning of the 0racle's admonition. For thus the Oracle speaks:
"Invoke not the self conspicuous image of nature, for you must not behold these
things before your body has received the purincatiou necessary to initiation." Upon
which he observes, "
that the self conspicuous image was only a diffusive shining light,
as the name partly declares." But this is a piece of gross ignorance, from which he
might have been freed by an attentive perusal of Proclus on the Timaaus of Plato, for
in these truly divine commentaries we learn, "that the moon is the selfoonapicuous
image of fontal nature."-In Tim. p. 260.
Theurgic magic is still adhered to by the church of Rome, and forms a part of the
neu-dots! odlcc. By which means, it is believed, that the real preemee of the Saviour
is manifested in the sucharist.
Masonry adopts the same principle. ln the royal arch degree, the ouloplon agalma
is exhibited in an illuminated bush: the candidate for initiation is ordered to put off his
shoes, being told that the place where he stands is holy ground- In fact one of the
characters personates the deity. and announces his actual appearance.
The more we examine the pagan system of religion, the more shall we be convinced
that the rites and ceremonies of masonry, as well as those of the Catholic church, are
derived from that ancient institution.
|68 All RXAIINATIDI Ol' 'Ill
Virgil, by leaving his master, and copying the amiable paintings of
Elysium, as
they were represented in the mysteries, hath artfully avoided
a iault too justly objected to Homer, ol' giving so dark and joyless a
landscape of the fortunate nemom, as could raise no desire or
appetite
for them: his favorite hero, himself; who possessed them, telling
Ulisses, that he had rather be a
day laborer above, than command in
the regions of the dead. Such a
representation defeats the very intent
of the law giver, in propagating the doctrines ofa future state. Nay,
to mortify every excitement to noble actions, the Greek poet makes repu-
tation, fame, and glory, the great spur to virtue in the pagan system,
to be visionary and impertinent. On the contrary, Virgil, whose aim,
in this poem, was the good of society, makes the love of glory so
strong a
passion in the other world,that the Sibyl's promise to Palinu-
rus, that his name should only be affixed to a
promontory, rejoices his
shade even in the regions of the unhappy.
It was this ungracious description of Elysium, and the licentious
stories of the gods, both so
pernicious to society, that made Plato ban-
ish Homer out of his republic,
Butto return. The poet having descrihd the climate ofthe happy
regions, speaks next of the amusement of its inhabitants.
'Some exercise their limbs on the grassy plains, in sports contend, and wrestle on
the yellow ssnd.'
Besides the obvious allusion in these lines tothe philosophy of Plato
concerning the duration of the passions, it seems to have a more secret
one to what he had all the way in his eye, the Eleusinian Mysteries,
whose celebration was accompanied by the Grecian games. On whidt
account too, perhaps it was that, in the disposition of his work, his Hlth
book is employed in the games, as a
prelude to the descent in the
sixth.
The first place in these happy regions, is assigned to the lawgiv-
ers, and those who brought mankind from a state of nature into society.
At the head of these is Orpheus, the most renowned of the Euro-
pean lawgivers; butbetter known under the character of poet: for the
first laws being written in measure, to allure men to learn them, and
when learnt, to retain them, the fable would have it, that by the force of
harmony, Orpheus softened the savage inhabitants ofThrace.
But he has the first place; because he was not only a legislator but
the bringer of-the mysteries intothat part of Europe.
The next is allotted to patriots, and those who died for the service
of their country.
srxra aoox or vraerrfs lima.
The third to virtuous and pious priests. For it was of principal
use to society, that religious men should lead holy lives; and that they
should teach nothing of the gods but what was agreeable to the divine
nature.
The last place is given to the inventors of arts mechanical and
liberal. The order is exact and beautiful. The first class is ofthese who
founded society, heroes and lawgivers: the second, of those who sup-
ported it, patriots and holy priests: and the third, of those who adorned
it, the inventors of the arts of life, and the recorders of worthy actions.
Virgil has all along closely followed the doctrine of the mysteries,
which carefully taught that virtue only could entitle men to happiness ;
and that rites, ceremonies, lustrations, and sacrifices would not supply
the want of it.
Nor has he been less studious in copying their shows and repre-
sentations; in which the figures of those heroes and heroines, who were
most celebrated in the writings of the ancient Greek authors, passed iii
proceslion.-(Aristid.)
But notwithstanding this entire conformity between the post's scenes
and those represented in the mysteries, something is still wanting to
complete the identification: and that is, the famous secret of the mys-
teries, the unity of the godhead, of which so much hath been said above.
Had Virgil neglected to give us this characteristic mark, though, even
then, we could not but say, his intention was to represent an
initiation;
yet we must have been forced to own he had not done it vith the
utmost art. But he was too good a
painter, to leave any thing ambigu-
ous; and hath therefore concluded his hero's initiation, as was the cul-
tom, with instructing him in the Aporreta, or the doctrine of the unity.
Till this was done, the initiated was not arrived to_the highest stage of
perfection; nor, in the fullest sense, intitled to the appellation ofEpoptes.
Musms, therefore, who had been hicrophant at Athensnakes the
place ofthe Sibyl, as it was the custom to have dwerent guides in tl#
ferent parts of the celebration, and is made to conduct him to the recess
where his fnther's shade opens to him the hidden doctrine of perfection,
in these sublime words:
"First then, the divine spirit within sustains the heavens, the earth,
and watery plains, the moon's enlightened orb, and shining stars; and
the eternal mind, dcfuscd through all the parts of nature, actuates the
whole stupendous frame and mingles with the vast body of the universe.
Thence proceed the race of men and beats, the vital principles of the
flying kind, and the monsters which the ocean breeds under its smooth
crystal plain."
22
!" att axsutzurtos or fs:
This was no other than the doctrine of the old Egyptians, aswe are
assured by Plato; who says they taugh that Jupiter was the spirit
which pcrvadet/| all things.
We have shown how easily the Greek philosophy corrupted this
principle into what is now called Spinozism. Here Virgil has pro-
ved his judgment to great advantage. Nothing was more abhorrent
from the mysteries, than Spinozism, as it overturned the doctrine of a
future state of rewards and punishments, which the mysteries so
carefully inculcated; and yet the principle itsel£ of which Spinozism
was the abuse, was cherished there,as it was the consequence of the
doctrine of the unity, the grand secret of the mysteries. Virgil, there-
fore, deliversthe principle, with great caution, and pure and free ofthe
abuse; though he understood the nature of Spinozism, and in his fourth
Georgie, where he delivers it, appears to have been infected with it.
...ii
The doctrine of the unity ofthe goziheati here contended by the author to be taught
by Virgil, and as being the doctrine ot' the old Egyptians, must not be understood as
opposed to the belief in the triplicity of the Supreme Being, an opinion universally held
by the ancient world. Different nations expressed this triplicity by various names, to
which they also assigned different attnbutes.
"The philosophers of all nations (says Ramsey, in a Dissertation onthe Theory and
Mythology of the Pagans) seem to have had some itlea, more or less confused, of the
triplieity of the Supreme Uhily. Plato speaks of the thrce forms of the Divinity, which
he calls Aguthos, Logos, and Psyche ; the sore-reign good, which is the principle ofdeilyt
the intelligence, which drew the plan of the world; and the energy, which exectt.
god it."
`
An erroneous amignment is here marie, by Ramsey, of the attributes or powers of
thepersons composing this trinity. Agnthos, the sovereign good, is the intelligence,
which drew the plan of the world; Logos or Word is the energy which executed it; and
Psyche, is but another name for Isis, indicating the productions of the earth, which gives
a tinish and beauty to the whole creation. This is agreeable to the masonic trinity,
which is denominated Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty.
'Fontenelle gives the following curious anecdote of a responce hom the Oracle of
Serapis:
'
n
"'I'hulis, a king oi' Egypt, who, as is said, gave the name of Thule to the isle now
called Iceland; his empire reaching thither was oi' large extent; and, being pufed up
with pride, he went to the oracle of Serapis, antltltus spake to it: 'Thou that art thegod.
of fire, and who governest the course nt' the heavens, tell me the truth ; wa~ there ever,
or will there ever be, one so puissant as myself'I' The oracle answered him thus:
'First God, then the ¥Vord and Spirit, all united in one whose power can never
end_
Go hence immediately, 0 mortal! whose life is always uncertain] And Thulis at hu
going thence, had his throat cut." (Suitlaa) History Orttcles, p. 9, London, 1688.
-
The Greek inscription on thc great obclisk nt Rome, says Chutcaubrian, was to this
affect:
"
The Mighty God; Begotton uf God; and the Allaesplcndent Apollo, the
Spirit."-(See Knnpp's Spirit.`Mas. p. l0?.)
The idea of the pagan trinity, according to Volney's opinion, was founded on the
*hras modes of action of the sun, in the three seasons of the year. The sun thus char-
stxrn aoox or vtxou.'s santa. -
Wt
seterizsd,
"
ls, says hr, no other than' the three-eyrd Jupiter, eye and mn being expres-
ssd by the ssms word in most of the ancient languages of Asia. This is the origin of all
the trinitary system subtilised by Pythagorss and Plato,' and totally disfigured by thai!
interpreters-"-(Ruins, p. l59.) -'
Although innovations appear to have been introduced in the administration of the
rites of the lesser mysteries, in Greece and Rome, particularly in the latter, still it does
not appear that women, as our author supposes, were even admitted to participate in
the celebrations of the greater mysteries; much less to act as hieropliants, to expound
what were called the sacred secrets therein contained. This would have been too great
s departure from the original, and, moreover, exposed the secrets to too great hazard.
"In Egypt the omce of the priesthood is in evcry _instance confined to the men ; thers
are no priestesses in the service of male or female deities."-(See 8cdoe's Herodotua.)
And hereit may be worthy of remark, that the frecmasons have adhered closely to thdr
prototype, by the total exclusion of females from their order.
Women and children, ss we have seen, were freely admitted to the tritling shows
and representations of the lesser mysteries, and here, it seems, women sometimes took
the lead, and presided at the celebrations.
Virgil has made this distinction as pointed as possible, in the duties he assigns to
the SibyL When she arrives in sight of Elysium, where the greater mysteries coll-
mance, her command ceases, and she resigns her oflice to Musaaus, She was an utter
stranger to the country, and applies to him for instnictiou. Eneas, while under her
gnidmoe, could only view at a distance, like Moses upon Mount Pisgah, the happy
l'@9l|l of the bl sed:
The chief beheld their chariotsfrom qfar,
Their shining arms, and coursers trained to war.
Their lances lix'd in earth -their steeds around,
Free from their harness graze the l1ow'ry ground.
The love of horses which they had, alive,
And care of chariots, after death survive.
Some chaercful souls were feasting on the plain;
Some did the song and some the choir, maintain,
Beneath a laurel shade, where mighty Po
Mounts up to woods above, and hides his head below.
To these the Sibyl thus her speech address`d,
nd first to
him surrounded by the rest-
Tow'ring his height, and ample was his breast)-
"
sty, happy souls! divine Mussaus! say,
'W mere lives Anchiaes, and w/ters lies our may
To find the hero, for whose onl sake _
We sought the dark abodes, andi:ross'd thebittsrlaksi"
I 'To this the sacred poet thus re ly'd :
"In no fix'd place the ha py soulis reside.
In groves we live, and iie on mossy beds,
By crystisl
atreamsilrlhat
inurmer through the molds:
But pass yon easy
`
ls, and thence descend;
The path conducts you to your joumey's end."
This said, he led them up the mounlain's brow,
And shows them all the shining fields below;
They wmdtlu hill, andthro' the blissful meadows go.
(Drydafs Thru-)
The mysteries did not teach the doctrine of the unity for mera spo-
culation; but, as -we said before, to obviate certain mischiefs of poly-
theisrn, and to support the believe of a
providence. Now, as a future
state of rewards and punishments did not quite remove the objections
|72 AN ltxaltxnrou or 'ran
to its inequalities here, they added to it the doctrine of the metempsy-
chosis, or the believe of a prior state. (Vid Porph. de Abst. 1. iv.
sect. 16. et Cie Frsgm. ex lib. de Philosophia.) And this, likewise'
our
poet has been careful to record. For after having revealed the
great secret of the unity, he goes on to speak of the metempsychosisr
or transmigration, in this manner; _
"All these souls whom you see, after they have rolled away a
thousand years, are summoned forth by the god, in a great body to the
river Lethe; to the intent that, losing memory of the past, they may
revise; the upper regions, and again become willing to return into
bodies."
And thence takes occasion to explain the nature and use of purga-
tory, which, in his hero's passage through that region, had not been
done: this affords him too an opportunity for that noble episode, the
procession of the hero's posterity, which passes in review before him:
And with this the scene closes.
In attending the hero's progress through the three estates of the
dead, we have shown, from some ancient author, at almost every step,
the exact conformity of his adventures to those of the initiated in the
mysteries. We shall now collect these scattered lights to a
point;
which will, I am
persuaded, throw such a lustre on this interpretation,
as to make the truth of it irresistible. To this purpose, I shall have
nothing to do, but to transcribe a
passage from an ancient writer, pre-
served by Stobaaus; which professes to cxplainthe exact conformity
between death, or a real descent to the infernal regions, and initiation,
where the representation of those regions was exhibited. His words
are these; "
The mind is affected and agitated in death, just as it is in
initiation into the grand mysteries. And word answers to word as
well as thing to thing: for Telcytan is to die; and Teleisthai, to be
initiated. The first stage is nothing but errors and uncertainties;
laborious wanrlcrings; a rude and fearful march through night and
darkness. .And nov arrived on the verge of death and initiation, every
thing wears a dreadful aspect; it is all horror, trembling, and affright-
ment. But this scene once over, a miraculous and divine light displays
itself; and shining plains and floivery meadows open on all hands
before them. Here they are entertained with hymns, and dances,
with the sublime doctrines of sacred knowledge, and with reverend
and holy visions. And now become perfect and initiated, they are' free
and no longer under restraints; but crowned, and trimlphantftlioy
wallrfup uid down the regions of the blelsed; converse with pure ad
strm loox or vrnonfs auero. 113
holy men; and celebrate the sacred mysteries at pleasure."
The Son of Birach, who was full of Grecian ideas, and hath embel-
lished his admirable work of Eeclesiasticus with a. great deal of Gen-
tile learning, hath plainly alluded, though in few words, to these circum-
stances of initiation, where encouraging men to seek :ther wisdom, he
says :-
"
At tirst she will walk with him by crooked ways, and bring
fear and dread upon him, and torment him with her discipline, until
she may trust his soul, and try him by her laws. Then will she
return the straight way unto him, and comfort him, and show him he?
secrets. "-(Chap. iv. 17, 18.)
The conjecture of the author, that an allusion is here made to circumstances attend-
ing initiations into the mysteries, is corroborated, or, I might say, conirmed by
masonry; for a known practice in the one renders it pretty certain that the same
existed in the other.
In the royal arch degree, after the candidates have taken the required oath, they are
gold, that they were now obligated and received as royal arch masons, but as this
degree was injlnitety more important than any of thc preceeding, it was
necessary for
them (as before noticed) to pau through many trials, and travel in roughand rugged
ways to prose their jlddity, before they could be entrusted with the more important
secret: of this degree. They are futher told, that though they could not discover the path
they were to travel, they were under the direction of a faithful gmkte, who would
"bling the blind by a way they know not, and led them in paths they had not known ;
who would make darkness light befone them, and crooked things straight; who would
do these things, and not forsake them.
"
(Isaiah 42, v. 16.)-Bernard.
The progress finished, and every thing over, Encas and his guide
are let out again to the upper regions, through the ivory gate of
dream. A circumstance borrowed from Homer, and very happily
applied to this subject; for, as
Euripides elegantly expresses it,
"A dream is the lesser mysteries of death."
But, besides this of ivory, there was another of horn. Through
the fisrt issued fasle visions; and through the latter, true.
Servius, with the spirit of a. rank grammarian, who seldom finds
any thing to stop at but a solecism in expression, says very readily,
"Vult autem intelligi, fnlsa esse
omnia quw dixit. He would have
you understand by this, that all he has been saying is false and ground-
less. "
Other critics give the same solution. Rumus, one ofthe best,
may speak for them all ;
"
When, therefore, Virgil sends Eneas forth
through the ivory gate, he clatrly indicates that whatever he has
laid in regard to the infernal regions, is to be reckoned among the
iblea."
|74 an axunurrxorl or 'ral
This interpretation is strengthened by Virgil's being an
Epicu-
rean; and making the same conclusion in his second Georgie:
"Felix, qui potuit cognoscere causas,
Atque metus omnes et inexorabile faturn
Subjecit pedibus, strepitumque Acherontis avari !"
"
Happy is he who can know the causes ol things, and tread under
foot all fear, inexorable fate, and the noise of greedy Acheron.
"
But Virgil wrote, not for the amusement of women and children
over a winter's fire, in the taste ol' the Milesian fables; but for the use
of men and citizens; to instruct them in the duties of humanity and
society. The purpose, therefore, .of such a writer when he treats of
a future state, must be to make the doctrine interesting to his reader,
and useful in civil life: Virgil hath done the first, by bringing his
Hero to it through the most perilous achievement; and the second, by
appropriating the rewards and punishments of that state to virtue and
to vice only.
The truth is, the difficulty can never be gotten over, but by sup-
posing the desent to signify an initiation into the mysteries. This will
unriddle the enigma, and restore the poet to himself And if this was
Virgil's meaning, it is to be presumed, he would give some private
mark to ascertain it: for which no place was so
proper as the conclul
lion. He has, therefore, with a
beauty of invention peculiar to him-
fellf made this fine improvement on Homer`s story of the two gates;
and imagining that of horn for true visions, and that of ivory for false,
insinuates bythe first the reality of another state; and by the second,
the shadowy representations of it in the shows ol' the mysteries: so
that, not the things objected to Eneas, but the scenes of them only
were false; as
they lay not in hell but in the temple of Ceres.
But though the visions which issued from the ivory gate were unsub-
stantial, as being only representative; yet I make no
question, but the
ivory gate itself was reaL It appears, indeed, to be no other than that
sumptuous door of the temple, through which the initiated came out,
when the celebration was over. This temple was of an immense big-
ness.'
_
° Ancient authors inform us
that the festivals ot Ceres sometimes
brought
to Elensis
thirty _thousand of theimuated, without including those who came only rom motives
of curiosity- These were not present at all the ceremonies. To the more secret, no
doubt, werelonlyadmitted the small number of novices who ever ear rooeivedtbn
last seal ol' initiation, and some of those who had received it long lieliire.
Behind the temple, on tha western side, is still to be sean a terrace, ent in tho
rnkxtsslf, sndrussd slghtor mnsfset sboveths doorot' the temple. Its length is
urn soon or
vracnrls num. |75
And now, having occasionally, and by parts only, said so much of
these things, it will not be amiss, in conlusion to give one general and
concise idea of the whole. I suppose the substance of the celebration
to be a kind of drama of the history of Ceres, which afforded oppor-
tunity to represent the three particulars, about which the mysteries
were
principally concerned. The rise and establishment of civil society.
The doctrine of a future state of rewards and punishments. The
esror of polytheism, and the principle of the unity. r
But here let it be observed, that the secrets of the mysteries were
unfolded both by words and actions : of vhich Aristides, quoted above,
gives the reason; "That so the sounds and sights
miglht mutually
assist each other in making an impression on the minds of t e initiated.
'
The error of polylheism therefore was as well exposed by the dark
toanderings in the subterraneous passages through which the initiated
began his course, as
by the information given him by the hiero-
phant: and the truth of the unity as
strongly illustrated by ths autop-
ton agalma, the seU` seen image, the diffusive shining light, as
hy the
hymn of Orpheus, or the speech of Anchixes.
On the whole, if I be not greatly decieved, the view in which
I place this famous episode, not only clears up a number of difficulties
inexplicable on
any other scheme; but likewise ennobles, and gives
a
graceful finishing to the whole poem; for now the episode is seen
to be an assential part of the main subject, which is the erection of a
civil policy' and a religion. For custom had made initiation into the
mysteries a
necessary preparative to thafarduous undertaking.
To conclude, the principles here assumed, in explaining this famous
poetical fiction, are, I presume, such as
give solidity, as well as
light, to
what is deduced from them ; and are, perhaps, the only principles from
which any thing reasonable can be deduced in a
piece of criticism of
this nature. For from what I have shown was taught and represented
in the mysteries, I infer that Eneas's descent into hell signifies aninitia-
tion; because of the exact conformity, in all circumstances, between
what Virgil relates of his hero's adventure, and what antiquity delivers
about '270 feet, and its breadth in some places 44. At the northem end is to be lean
the remains of a chapel, to go up into which there were several steps.
I conjecture that on this terrace was exhibited the scenery; that it was divided
lengthwise
into three great galleries, the two first of which represented the region of
tria ,
and that of the infernal shades; and the third, covered with earth, presented
groves and meadows to the view of the initiated, who from thence went up into the
chapel, where their eyes were dazzled by the splendor of the statue of the goddess
(Travels ot' Anachams.)-Edit.
1761 AN BXAIINATION Ol' TBI
concerning the_ shows and doctrines of those mysteries, into which
heroes were wont to he initiated
'l'hs_ view taken by bishop Warburton of the ptn'port ol' the sixth book of the Budd,
was new, and caluculated to excite the deep attention of the learned world. Accord-
ingly various opinions were entertained for and against the correctness of the position
assumed by him. Among the critics who entered the lists in opposition to the author,
was the celebrated historian Gibbon. And this, he says, was his irst publication in
English. His remarks on the subject are contained in the third volume of his miscel-
laneous work; which he introduces as follows:
"
The allegorical interpretation which the bishop of Gloucester has given ofthe sixth
book of the Eneid, seems to have been very favorably received by the public. Many
writersfbcth at home and abroad, have mentioned it with approhation, or at least with
esteem; and I have more than once heard it alleged, in the conversation of scholars, as
an ingenious improvement on the plain and obvious sense of Virgil. As such, it h not
rmdeserving the notice of a candid critic; nor can the inquirybe void of entertainment,
whilst Virgil is our constant theme.
"I shall readily allow, what I believe may in general be true, that the mysteries
exhibited a theatrical representation of all that was believed or imagined of the lows!
world; that the aspirant was conducted through the mimic scenes of Erebus, Tarta-
rus, and Elysium; and that a warm enthusiast, in describing these awftd
might express himself as if he had actually visited the infemsl regions. It is not lur-
prising that the copy was like the original; but it still remains undetermined, whether
Virgil intended to describe the originalor the copy."
If the copy was a true representation of the original, of what consequence is it which
the poet took as his sampler? But, as it was more easy to procure a conect iscription
of the spectacles exhibited in the temple ol' the Eleusinian Ceres, than of what taks
place in the regions below, it is most probable Virgil chose the former. Besides, it may
be remarked, that the description of the infernal regions was doubtless hrst matured in
the mysteries. No author, it is presumed, had before their establishment, ever givsn
any thing like a detailed account ol' such place. They therefore, properly speaking, an
the original, and the parallel is to be found in Virgils description of Eneas's descent.
Mr. Voltaire showed great iickleness in his opinion on this subject; sometimes
giving it in favor of Warburton's hypothesis, and at others, the contrary. Speaking of
the Eleusinian mysteries, (tome. xvi, p. 162) he says,-
"The mysterious ceremonies of Ceres were an imitation ofthose of Isis. Those who
nad committed crimes confessed and expiated them: they fasted, they purified them-
selves, and gave alms. All the ceremonies were held secrct, under the religions sanction
of an oath, to render them more venerable. The mysteries were celebrated in the night
to inspire a holy horror. They represented a kind of tragedy in which the spectacle
exposed to
view the happiness of thc just and the torments of the wicked. The greatest
men of antiquity, the Platoe, thc Ciceros have eulogizcd these mysteries, which had not
then dvgeneratcd from their primutrve purity.
"Very lcanretl msn have supposed that the sixth book of the Eneid was a
descrip-
tion of what passed in these Sl't'I0l and colt-hrmed shows." Again, he says, "The sixth
book of the Eucid is only a description pf the mysteries of Isis and the Eleusinian
Ceres."
He afterwards rccants this opinion, and says, "I think I ses a description of the
Elmsinian Ceres, in Claudian's poem on the Rape qf Proserpins 'mudt clearer than!
`.._L
srxru soon or VlR6lL'S szurn. l71
can see any in the sixth book of the Eneid. Virgil lived undera prinee who joined to all
his other bad qualities that ofwishing to pass for a religious character; who was probably
initiated in these mystenes himself, the better thercby to impose upon the people: and
who would not have tolerated what would have been pretended to be such decided pro-
fanatioo."
Why, Augustus was the hero ofthe poem; it was for his honor and glory that the
poet labored. I-Ie was, says our author, shadowed in the person qf Eneas ; and would
not, therefore, probably have been very scnrpulous about a vague exposition of the
mysteries, while it tended to his own glorificntion.
"Cluudian, (says Warburton.) profcsses openly to trcat ofthe Eleusinian mysteries,
at a time when they were in little veneration." It is not strange, therefore, that Mr.
Voltaire should ne a description of the Eleusinian. Ceres, in Claudi/m's poem, 'much
clearer than in the silrlh book qf the Encid ; the author of which evidently not intend-
ing that his object should bu generally known.
Voltaire seems frequently to have written olfhand, without subjecting himself to the
trouble of rigid scrutiny; and, indeed, he wrote so much, and upon such a variety of
topics, that it would appear impossible that he should bestow strict attention to them
all. In the present case, his first imprcsssions appear to have be:-I: founded on the
opinions of the learned mm he alludes to, and he probably adopted a contrary belief in
like manner, without an attentive examination of the subject.
Bishop Warburton was probably occupied many years in the composition of his
learned work; he had thoroughly studied the subject, and it isconidently believed that
this application ofthe sixth book of the Eneid to the mysteries will stand the test of the
moat severe criticism.
The Abbe Barthelemi, in an article on. the mysteries, in his "
Travels of Anacharsis,"
quotes the Eneid in a description of them, as if no question then existed in regard to
Virgil's views-
23
CHAPTER IV.
'Ill IITAIORPHOIIB Ol' AYUiLllU|Z AND Till AIOUR Ol' CUPID
ARD
PBXCHI.
Thus far concerning the use of the mysteries to society. How
essential they were esteemed to religion, we
may understand by the
Metamorphosis of Apuleius ; a book, indeed, which from its very first
appearance hath passed for a trivial fable. Capitolinus, in the life of
Clodius Albinus, where he speaks ofthat kind of tales which disconcert
the gravity of "philosophers, tells us that Severus could not bear with
patience the honors the Senate had conferred on Albinus; especially
their distinguishing him with the title of learned, who was grown old in
the study of old~wives-fables, such as the Milesian-Punic tales of his
countryman and firvorite, Apuleius.
The writer of the Metamorphosis, however, was one of the graves!
and most virtuous, as well as most learned philosophers of his agei
Albinus appears to have gone further into the true character of this
work, than his rival Severus. And if we
may believe Marcus Aure-
lius, who calls Albinus, "A man of experience, of demure life, and
grave morals," he was not a man to be taken with such trifling amuse-
ments as Milesian fables. His fondness therefore for the Metamorpho-
sis of Apuleius shows that he considered it in another light. And
who so
likely to be let into the author's true design, as Albinus, who
lived very near his time, and was of Adrumetum in the neighborhood
of Carthage, where Apuleius sojoumed and studied, and was distin-
guished with public honors? The work is indeed of a different char-
acter from what some ancients have represented it ; and even from what
modern critics have pretended to discover of it. Those ancicnts,who stuck
in the outside, considered it, without refinement, as an idle fable; the
modems, who could not reconcile a work of that nature to the gravity
of the author's character, have supposed it a thing of more importance,
and no less than a general satire on the vices of those times.
But this is far short of the matter. The'author's main purpose
was not to satirizo the specific vices of his age, though to enliven his
fable, and forthe better-carrying on his story, he hath employed many
circumstances of this kind, but to recommend Pagan religion, as the
only cure for`all vices whatsoever.
To give what we have to say its proper force, we must consider
f
ras lrrnroneuosrs src. 179
the real character oi the writer. Apuleius, of Madaura in Africa, was
a devoted Platonist; and, like the Platonists of that age, an inveterats
enemy to
Christianity. His zeal for the honor of philosophy is seen
in that solemn afiirmation, when convened before a court of justice,
"
I have never derogated ought from the honor of philosophy, which
is more precious to me than life." I-Iis superstitious attachment to the
religion of his country i seen in his immoderate fondness for the mys-
teri . He was initiated, as he tells us, into almost all of them ; and in
some, bore the most distinguished offices. In his Apology before the
proconsul of Africa, he says,
"
Will you have me relate what kind of
things those were, which wrapped up in a napkin, I confided to the
house of Pontianus? You shall be allowed. I have been initiated
in Greece into many mysteries. I carefully guard certain of their
signs a d tokens which have been committed to me by the priests. I
say nothing unusual, nothing unknown. Ye who are
present know
what thing it is of father Bacchus Symm-istaa which you keep concealed
at home, and silently venerate apart from the profane. But I, as I
have said, through love of truth, and duty to the gods, have learnt
numerous mysteries, and very many rites, and various ceremonies.
Nor do I make up this for the occasion: but it is about three years
ago that shortly after my arrival at Oea, in a
public discourse on the
majesty of }Esculapius I made some declaration, and enumerated what-
ever
mysteries I knew. That discourse is very celebrated; is generally
read; is in the hands of every body,-commended to the pious people
of Oea, not so much by my eloquence, as
by the mention of ,Escala-
pius. Can it then appear strange to any body who has any knowledge
of religion, that a man versed in so
many mysteries of the gods should
keep certain holy trides in his house 'I I am accustomed wherever I
go to take with me the image of some god packed up among my books,
and on festivals to worship it with incense and wine, and sometimes
with sacrifices."
His great devotion to Paganism, therefore, must needs have been
attended with an
equal aversion to Christianity; and it is more than
probable, that the oratien he speaks of as made in honor of Esculapius,
was in the number of those invectives, at that time so well received by
the enemies of our
holy faith. For, not to insist on the success of his
oration, which, he tells us, was in every body's hands, a thing common
to discourses on subjects that engage the public attention, but rarely
the fortune of such stale ware as
panegyrics on a God long worn into
an establishment ; not, I say, to insist upon this. we may observe that
18| "mr: HITAKORPHOSIS
}Esculapius was 'one of those ancient heroes, who were
employed, by
the defenders of Paganism, to oppose to Jesus; and the circumstances
of }Esculapius's story made him the iittest of any in fabulous antiquity,
for that purpose.
Having seen what there was in the common passion of his sect, and
in his own fond mode of superstition, to indispose Apuleius to Chris-
tianity, let us
inquire what private provocation he might have to preju-
dice him against it: for, a private provocation, I am
persuaded, he had;
occasioned by a personal injury done him by one of this profession;
which, I suppose, did not a little contribute to exasperate his bigotry.
He had married a rich widow, against the will of her Erst husband's
relations; who endeavored to set aside the marriage on pretenceof
his employing sorcery and enchantments to engage her affections. Of
this, he was judicially accused by his -wife's brother-in-law, Licinius
1Emilianus, before the Proconsul of Africa. Now his accuser, if I am
not much mistaken, vas a Christian, though this interesting circum-
stance hath escaped his commentators.
Now irreligion and atheism, we know, was the name
Christianity
at that time went by, for having dared to renounce the whole family of
the gentile gods in a
lump. Emilianus had made such clear work_
that there was not so much as an anointed stone, or a tree adorned
with consecrated garlands, to be found throughout his whole Farm.
That the Atheism of Emilianus vas of this sort, and no cowrtleyof
philosophic impiety, appears from his character and station. He was
neither a fine gentleman or a profound inquirer into nature; charac-
ters indeed which are sometimes found to be above religion; but a
more rustic in his life and manners. Now plain unpolished men in
such a station are never without some
religion or other ; when
we find Emilianus, therefore, not of the established, we must
needs conclude him to be a
sectary and a Christian. His neg-
lect of his country gods was not a mere negative affront; of forgetful-
ness. He gloried in being their despiser; and took kindly to the
name of Mezentius, as a title of honor,-(alterum, quod libentius audit,
ob deorum contempturn, Mezentius,) which I would consider as a fur-
ther mark ofa Christian convict. He even held it an abomination so
much as to put his hand to his lips, (according to the mode of adora-
tion in those times) when he passed by a heathen temple; (nefas habet
adorandi. gratia manum labris admovere,) the most characteristic mark
of a primitive confessor, by which he could never be mistaken ; nor,
one would think. so long overlooked
or Aruuius. 180
The aversion therfore, which Apuleius had contracted to his
Christian accuser, and we see, by his apology, it was in no
ordinary
degree, would without doubt increase his prejudice to that religion. I
am
persuaded he ga ve the character ofthe Baker`s'wife, in his golden ass
for no other reason than to outrage our
holy faith. I-Ie draws her
stained with all the vices that could fall to the share of a woman; and
then, to finish all, he makes her a Christian.
Let us see now how this would influence his writings. There
was
nothing
'
the Philosophers of that time had more at
heart,
especially the Platonists and Pythagoreans, than the support of sink
ing Paganism. This service, as hath been occasionally remarked
they performed in various ways and manners: some
by allegorizing
their theology; some
by spiritualizing their philosophy; and some
as Jamblicus and Philostratus, by writing the lives of their Heroes, to
oppose to that of Christ; others again, as
Porphyry, with this view,
collected their oracles; or as Melanthius, Menander, I-Iicesius, and
Sotades wrote descriptive encomiums on their Mysteries. Which last,
as we shall now show, was the province undertaken by Apuleius; his
Metamorphosis being nothing' else but one continued recormnendation
of them.
But let us enquire into the motives our author might have for enter
ing at all into the defence of Paganism: His reasons for choosing this
topic of defence, the recommendation of the mysteries.
As to his defence of paganism in general, we
may observe, that
works of this kind were
very much in fashion, especially amongst the
philosophers of our author's sect. He was, as we have seen, most super-
stitiously devoted to pagan worship: and, he bore a
personal spite
and prejudice to the Christian profession.
As to his making the defence of the mysteries his chioce, still stron-
ger reasons
may be assigned. These were the rites to which he was so
peculiarly devoted, that he had contrived to be initiated into all the
mysteries of note, in the Roman world; and in several of them had
home the most distinguished offices. The mysteries being at this time
become extremely corrupt, and consequently, in discredit, needed an
able and zealous apologist; both of which qualities met eminently in
Apuleius. The corruptions were of two kinds, debaucheries and
magic. Their debaucheries we have taken notice oi; above: their
magic will be considered hereafter. But, our author's close attach-
ment to mysterious rites was, without question, the very thing that
occasioned all those suspicions and reports, which ended in an accusa-
182 'run xlnuosraosis
tion of magic: and considering what hath been said of the corrupt
state of the mysteriest the reader will not wonder at it.
Such then being the general character of the mysteries, and of this
their great devotee, nothing was more natural than his projecting their
defence; which at the same time, that it concurred to the support of
paganism in general, would vindicate his own credit, together with an
institution of which he was so
immoderately fond. And the following
,considerations are suilicient to show, that the Metamorphosis was writ-
ten aller his Apology: for, his accusers never once mention the fable
of the golden ass to support their charge of magic, though they were
in great want of proofs, and this lay so
ready for their purpose. He
positively asserts before the tribunal of Maximus Claudius that he had
never given the least occasion to suspect him of magic:
"
Nusquam
passus sum vel exiguam suspicionern rnagiaa consistere.
"
Now antiquity considered initiation into the mysteries as a
delivery
from at living death of vice, brutality, and misery, and the beginning of
a new life of virtue, reason, and happiness. This therefore, was the
very circumstance which our author chose for the subject of his recom
mendation.
And as in the mysteries, their moral and divine truths were
repre-
sented in shows and allegories, so in order to comply with this
method of instruction, and in imitation ofthe ancient masters ofwisdom,
who borrowed their manner of teaching from thence, he hath artfully
insinuated his doctrine in an agreeable fable; and the fittest one
could conceive for his purpose, as willbe seen when we come to exam-
ine it.
i
The foundation of this allegory was a Milesian fable, a
species of
polite triiiing then much in vogue, and not very unlike the modern
Arabian tales. To allure his readers, therefore, with the promise of
a fashionable work, he introduces his Metamorphosis in this manner;
"
And I too will deliver to you various fables in this Milesian style,
and delight your ears in a gentle whisper ;" plainly intimating that there
was someting of more consequence at bottom. But they took'him at
his word; and, never troubled their heads about a further meaning.
The outside engaged all their attention, and sutliciently delighted
them; as we may gather from the early title it bore of Asinus Aureusz'
*F thbeg1n`nin f t`Plin' 'l I ectthtA th -
mon tiaingivzn to the gillaageilfi,'had sail:liggiflzs :|mdptrollersluse1drt?t:lafor
et' money to the rabplein a circle. Pliay's words are these-assem fpars et accipe
aursam fabulam. l. ii, Ep. 20.
or Arunsrus. |83
unless we will rather suppose it to have been bestowed by the few intel-
ligent readers in the secret; for, in spite of the author, a secret it was,
and so all along continued.
Upon one of these popular thbles, he chose to ingratt his instruc
tion; taking a celebrated tale from the collections of one Lucius of
Patm; who relates his transformation into an Ass, and his adventures
under that shape. Lucian has epitomised this story, as
Apuleius seems
to have paraphrased it: and the subject being a
metamorphosis, it admi-
rably`iitted his
purpose; as the metempsychosis to which that supersti-
tion belongs, was one of the iimdamental doctrines ofthe mysteries.
The Qfable opens with the representation of a
young man, person-
ated by himself; sensible of the advantages of cirtueand piety, but im-
moderately fond of pleasure, and as curious of magic. He gives a
loose to his vicious appetite, and the crimes and follies into which they
lead him soon ends in his transformation to a brute.
This contrivance of the introductorypart is artful; and finely insinu-
ates the great moral of the piece, that brutality attends vice as its pun-
ishment: and punishment by actual transformation was
keeping up to
the popular opinion.
St. Austin permitted himself to doubt whether Apuleius's account of
hischange intoan ass was not a true relation. I shall say nothing to
this extravagant doubt, but only observe, that it appears from hence, that
St. Austin esteemed Apuleius a prodigate in his manners, and addicted
to the superstitious of magic.
°
But to proceed with his plan. Having new shown himselfthoroughly
brutalized by his crimes; he goes on to represent at large the miseries
of that condition, in a
long detail of his misadventures; in the course of
which he fell, by turns, under the dominion of every vicious passion ;
though the incidents are chiefly confined to the mischiefs of unlawful
love: and this, with much judgement, as one of the principal ends of
the mysteries was to curb and subdue this inordinance, which brings
more general and lasting misery upon mankind than all the other.
And as it was the great moral of his piece to show that pure religion,
such as a`Platonic philosopher esteemed pure, was the only remedy
for human corruption; so, to prevent the abuse or _mistake of this
capital principle, he takes care to inform us, that an attachment to super-
stitious and corrupt religion does but plunge the wretched victim into
still greater miseries. This he finely illustrates, in the history of his
adventures with the begging priests of Cybele; whose enormities
are related in the eighth and ninthbooks; and whose corrupt myste-
-
/
184 THE METAMORPHOSIS
ries are intended as a contrast to the pure` rites of Isis; with which
in a
very studied description and encomium he concludes the Fable.
In the mean time, matters growing from bad to worse, and Lucius
plunged deeper and deeper in the sink of vice, his affairs come to a
crisis. For this is one great beauty in the conduct of the fable, that
every change of station, while he remains a brute, makes his condition
still more wretched and deplorable. And being now about to perpe-
trate one of the most shocking enormities ; Nature, though o
deeply
brutalized, revolt: ; he abhors the idea of his projected crime ; he evades
his keepers; he flies to the sea»shore; and, in this solitude, begins to
reflect more seriously on his lost condition. This is finely imagined,
for we oilen see men, even alter a whole life of horrors, come
suddenly
to themselves on the hideous aspect of some monster-vice too frightful
even for an hardened conscience to endure. Nor is it with less judg-
ment that the author makes these beginnings of reformation confirmed
by solitude; when the unhappy victim of pleasure hath broken loose
from the companions and partakers of his follies.
And now, a more inti_mate acquaintace of his hopeless state obliges
him to Hy to heaven for relief The moon is in full splendor, and the
awful silence of the night inspires him with sentiments of religion.
He then purifies himself in the manner
prescribed by Pythagoras,
the philosopher most addicted to initiations of all the early sages ; as
Apuleius, of all the later; and so makes his prayer to the moon or Iris,
invoking her by her several names of the Eleusinian Ceres, the celestial
Venus, Diana and Proserpine, when betaking himself' to repose, she
appears to him in a dream, under that shining image so much spoken
of by the mystics, as
representing the divine nature in general!
These several symbolic attributes, [as described by Apuleius,
but here omitted,] the lucid round, the snakes, the ea/rs
of corn,
and the sislrum, represent the tutelar Deities of the Hecatman, Bac-
chic, Eleusinian and Isiac mysteries. That is, the mystic rites in
general : for whose sake the allegory was invented. As the black
Palla in which she is wrapped, embroidered with a silver moon, and
stars, denotes the time, in which the mysteries were celebrated, namely
*
Artemidorus says, that for a man
tp dream that Ceres Pronfpinc, or Bacchus
appears to him, betokens some
extraordinary ood fortune to happen to him. This
popular divinationby _dreams was
apparently
aunded on the common opinion of the
advantages attending initiation into t
o_mysteries. The ancient Onirocrilubs were not
founded on the arbxtary fancies of the
tmgostors
who professed that art, but on the
customs and supersuuons ofthe times, an with a principal reference to the Egyptian
Hieroglyphics and mysteries.
or nunsrus. , 185
in the dead of night; which was so constant and inseparable a circum-
stance, that the author calls initiation, noctis soci¢tas.'
"
Behold, Lucius, I, moved by thy prayers, am present with thee;
I, who am Nature, the parent of things, the queen of all' the
elements_
the primordial progeny of ages, the Supreme of Divinities, the sover-
eign of the spirits of the dead, the lirst of the,celestials, and the uniform
resemblance of gods and goddesses. I who rule by my nod the lumi'
nous summits of the heavens, the salubrious breezes ofthe sea, and the
deplorable silences of the realms beneath: and whose one
divinity the
whole orb of the earth venerates under a manifold form, by differen*
rites, hnd a variety of appalletions. Hence the primogenial Phry-
gians call me Pessinuntica, the mother of the gods; the Attic Abori-
gines, Cecropian Minerva; the floating Cyprians, Paphian Venus;
the arrow~bearing Cretans, Diana Dictynna; the three tongued Sici-
lians, Stygian Proserpine; and the Eleusinians, the ancient goddess
Ceres. Some also call me Juno, others Bellona, others Hecate, and
others Rhamnusia. And those who are illuminated by the incipient
rays of that divinity, the sun, when he rises, viz. the Ethiopians, the
Arii, and
Egyptians skilled in ancient learning, worshipping meby
ceremonies perfectly appropriate, call me
by my true name queen
Isis.
"
This was exactly adapted to the design of the mysteries; and
preparatory to the communication of the aporrela. It had likewise
this further use, to patch up and recommend the pagan religions; by
showing that their Polytheism consisted in nothing else than in giving
the.Supre1ne God various names, merely expressive of his various
attributes. This was the fashionable coloring, which, after the
appearance of Christianity, the advocates of paganism employed to
blanch their Idolatry. I will* only observe further that the words
the Egyptians worshipping me with ceremonies perfectly appropriale,
insinuate what was true, that all mysterious worship came jirst
from Egypt: this people having penetrated furthest into the nature
of the gods: as the calling her who represents the mysteries in general
rerun natura parens, shovs plainly vhat were the aporrela of them all.
Parent Nature then reveals to Lucius the means of his recovery.
Her festival was on the following day; when there vas to be a pro-
°
Masonic meetings are nocturnal, and the aprons of the fratemity
sregpnerslly
omamentad _with figures of the nut, moon, and seem stars, or planets; wht shows
that the
pnncxpal design of the institution was something very different from the
mechanics occupation of masonry. They show, indeed, that it was founded on Saba
um, the worship of the stars.-Edit. -
-
_
44
~
0
186 nrrnlonrnous
union of her votarirs_ The priest who led it up, would have a
chaplet
of roses in his hand, which had the virtue to restore him to his former
shape. But as breaking through a habit of vice is, of all things, the
most difficult; she adds encouragements to her promises,
"
Nor should
you fear any thing pertaining to my concerns as difficult. For in this
very same moment of time in which I come to
you, being there also
present, I order my priest in a dream to do those things which are to be
done hereafter." Alluding, to what V8.S,t8l1gl1I in the mysteries, that,
lhe assistance of Heaven was
always present to second the elforts of
virtue. But in return for the favor of releasing him from his brutal
shape, that is of reforming his manners
by initiation, she tells him she
expected the service of his whole life ; and this, the mysteries required.
Nor should his service go unrewarded, for he should have a
place
in Elysium hereafter; and this, too, the mysteries promised.
Lucius is at lenght conhrmed in his resolution of aspiring to a life
of virtue. And on this change of his dispositions, and entire conquest
of his passions, the author finely represents all nature as
putting on a
new face of cheerfulness and gaiety. "All things likewise, indepen-
dent of my peculiar joy, seemed to me to cxult with such great hilarity
that I might have thought that cattle of every kind, every house, and
even the day itself, rejoiced vith a serene countenance.
"
And to enjoy
Nature, in these her best conditions, was the boasted privilege of the
Initiated, as we may see from a Chorus in the Frogs of Aristo-
phanes.
And now the procession, in honor of Isis, begins. Where by the
way, we must observe, that the two first days ot the celebration of
the Eleusinian mysteries are plainly described: the one called agyrmos,
from the multitude assembled; the other alase mystai, from the pro-
Cession made to the sea-shore. "
Then there was an influx of a crowd
of those who had been initiated in the sacred rites of the goddess,
respledent with the pure whiteness of linen. garments. In the next
place, the images of the gods, carried by the priests of Isis, pro~
ceeded, not disdaining tovalk with the feet of men; this territiically
raising a canine head; but that being the messenger of the infernal
gods, and of those in the realms beneath, with an erect face, partly
black, and partly of a golden color, bearing in his left hand a cadu-
ceas, and shaking in his right hand branches of the iiourishing palm
tree; whose footsteps, a crow, in an erect position, immediately followed.
This crow was the prolific resemblance of the all-parent goddess, and
was carried on
_the sholders of one of the blessed servants of this divinity
or nuasius 187
and who acted the part of a mimic as he walked; another carried a
cista or chest, containing arcane, and perfectly concealing the mystic
symbols of a magnificent religion. And another bore in his happy
bosom the venerable efhgies of the Supreme Divinity, which was not
similar to any cattle, bird or wild beast, nor even to man; but being
venerable for the subtilty by which it was invented, and also for its
novelty, was an
ineffable indication of a more sublime religion, and
which was to be concealed with the greatest silence. "°
The priest or
hierophant of the rites leads up the train of the initiated with a
garland
of roses in his hand. Lucius approaches, devours the roses, and is
according to the promise of the goddess, restored to his natural form,
by which, as we have said, no more was meant than a change of man-
ners from vice to virtue. And this the author plainly intiniates by
making the goddess thus address him under his brutal form, "Imme-
diately divestyourself of the hide of that worst of beasts, and which for
some time since has been to me
detestable.
"
For an Ass was so far
from being detestable, that it was
employed in the celebration of her
rites; and was ever found in the retinue of Osiris or Bacchus. The
garland plainly represents that which the aspirants vere crowned with
at their initiation ; just as the virtue of.
the roses designs the mysteries.
At his transformation he had been told, that roses were to restore him
to humanity 1 so that amidst all his adventures, hc had still this remedy
in view.
Our author proceeds to tell us, that the people wondered at this
instantaneous metamorphosis.
"
'I'he people admire, and the religious
venerate so evident an indication of the power of the Supreme
Divinity, and the magnificence and facility of my restoration."
`
For
°
I have `ven a more full account of this procession, from the work of Apuleius,
than is copiediby Warburton. In the processions of the London masons, before noticed,
at laying the foundation stone, and the dedication,ot' frecmasons' hall, 1_n 1775, and 1776,
among other things, ~were carried, three pitchers, containing com, wine, and oil; the
bible; wand or caduceus; a oista or chest, here eulled the
Mdge
&c- After the cere-
mony of laying the foundation stone, "the brethren proceeded t
rough
the city in pro-
cession, without exposing any of the emrignia of the order." Smit _-Edit.
*The modem masomic degree of Rose-Cross scemito allude to this ridiculous con-
ceit regarding the virtue of roses. The following dialogue takes place between the
master and senior warden :-"Do you know the Pew.-an 7-I do.-What does it sig-
nify 'I-Among us it is u symbol ofthe Saviour of the world, and of his per/'ect human-
ity. What is the ob`ect of the degree of
Knights
of the Rose-Qross'l--To lead us to
respect thildecrees of the Most
Hpgh,
who is a
le to reinstamp his image on us." To
reinstamp is here intended to signi y the restoration to a former state; which is exact-
I what occurred to Lucius, when in his asaine condition, by the eating of rosu. The
liilican is a Roman Catholic
symbol
of the Saviour, arising from the fable that this
bird perforates its breast, and su crs its youn to feed
upon
the blood
ssum5;herefrom.
Theiaviour,
in
theIrittEl,p;`
the
(iiitholic Cilllill,is t us
addressevdtp
"
O
iliiean
Ja-
nulcameuawi I one rap wil:
iss1p ientopu'ya1oor
.
'l'hs_degroo of Rose-Cyross was inventedqin France, a oman Catholic country.-Edit.
l8B IIETAIORPIIGBIS
the mysteries boasted the power of giving a
sudden and entire
change to the mind and affections. And the advocates of paganism
against Christianity used to oppose this boast to the real and miracu-
lous efficacy of grace.
As soon as Lucius had recovered the integrity of his nature by ini-
tiation, the priest covers him, naked as he was, with a linen garment.
A habit always bestowed upon the aspirant, on his admission to the
mysteries; the rationale of which, Apuleius himself gives us in his
apology? When all was over, the priest accosts his penitent in the foL
lowing manner. "O Lucius! you have at length arrived at the port of
quiet, and the altar of pity, having endured many and various labors,
and great tempests of fortune, and been tossed about by mighty waves of
calamity. Assume now a more
joyful countenance, and more adapted
to that white garment which you wear. Attend the pomp of your
mviour goddess with triumphant steps. Let the irreligious see, let them
see and acknowledge their error. Behold Lucius, rejoicing in' the
providence of the great Isis, and freed from his pristine miseries, tri.
umphs in his own f`ortune,"1'
Here the moral of the fable is delivered in plain terms; and, in this
moral, all we have advanced, concerning the purpose ofthe work, fully
confirmed. It is expressly declared, that vice and inordinate curiosity
were the causes of Lucius's disasters; from which the only relief was
initiation into the mysteries. Whereby the author would insinuate
that nothing was more ubhorent from those holy rites than debauchery
and magic ; the two enormities they were then commonly suspected to
encoura ge.
'
lt hath been observed above, that, by Lucius's return to his proper
form, was meant his initiation; and accordingly, that return is called,
as initiation was, the being born again,-ut renatus quodammodo,
*
"Wool, the excretion of the most sluggish body belonging to the herd, was for
that reason, pronounced by Orpheus and P lhagoras, to be a profane raiment- But
Bax, truly the most cleanly of the best prodliiction ol' the earth, not only þÿCl0"j`ld_l|d
xailzid thearpost holy priests of Egypt, but was used also to cover the sacred utensils."
U _ . .
li "
&Vhilst the apron with which we
[masonsl
are cloathed indicates a disposition
of innocence, anrlbehes not the wearer's heart, et the ignorant derida and scoff on:
superior to
the ndicule and _malice of the wicked, we will enfold ourselves in the garb of
our own virtue; and safe in our self-approving conscience, stand unmoved against the
persecunons _of
adversity;
"The raiment whlc truly
implies
the innocence of the heart, is sbadge more
honorable than ever was
_devised y kings; the Roman eagle, with all the orders of
knighthood, are thereunto mfenor,
"
Smith._
~Formerlv masons used to be cloathed in white during
Lodge hours, which -
ties is lull followed in
many lodges in Germany, France, and olland; but ings;-
land, the white apron is on y remaining.
"
Ibid.-Edit.
or nunlrus.
'
189
and-sua providentia quodammodo renatos; but this was
only to the
lesser, not the greater mysteries. The Iirst was to purify the mindi
hence it was called by the ancients, kakias apbairesin, a separation
from evil : the second was to enlighten it, when purihed, and to bring
it to the knowledge of divine secrets. Hence they named the one
Katharsin, and the other Teleiothta, purification and perfection'
The first is here represented in the incident of Lucius's being restored
to humanity by the use of roses: The second, as the matter of chief
importance, the author treats more
circnmstantially.
~
I-le begins with making the priest take occasion, from the beneit
already received, to press Lucius to enter into the greatef mysteries of
Isis.
But at the same time makes him inform the candidate, that nothing
was to be precipitated: for that not only many previous rites and cere-
monies, concerning religious diet,'and abstinence from profane food,
were to be observed ; but that the aspirants to these higher mysteries
were to wait for a call. s .
The author, by the doubts and apprehensions which retarded his
initiation, first gives us to understand, thatthe highest degree of sanctity
was required of those who entered into the mysteries.
These difficulties being surmounted, be is initiated with the accus-
tomened ceremonies. He then makes his prayer, in which the grand
aporreta ofthe mysteries is still more
plainly referred to.
"
Thou, O holy and perpetual saviour of the human race, being
always munificent in cherishing mortals, dost employ the sweet affec-
tion ofa mother in the misfortunes of the miserable. Nor is there any
`day or night, or even a slender moment of time, which passes unat-
tended by thy benevolent interpositions. Thou protectest men both by
sea and land, and dispersing the storms of life, dost extend thy salutary
right hand, by which thou drawest back the enextricably twisted thread
of the Fates, and dost mitigate the tempesls of inclement fortune, and
restrain the noxious courses of the stars. The supernal gods reverence
thee, and those in the realms beneath
attentively observe thy nod. Thou
rollest the sphere of the universe round the steady poles, dost illuminate
the sun, govern the world, and tread on the dark realms of Tartarus.
The stars move responsive to thy command,1' the gods rejoice in thy
ma:o1rii=?itmni:(;n\ig f§'$a,'if §i.°¥1'{Z°¢"¢'i.'2 þÿ$"p21'i§¢.¬f.°l'i"i~'¢7.'?°iJ'.if{°i'sd'il`fi
"'"""'
1* Respondent cigars. This, I su pose, relates to the music of the sphere!! The
imageisuobleand sublime. Itistagsnfromtheeorumtinthelyre, toanswerw, mql
oboytbehsndottbemutsrwbohsdpnttbaninto tune.
|90 nrova or
divinity, the hours and seasons return by thy appointment, and the
elements reverence
thy decree. By thy nod blasts of wind blow, the
clouds are nourished, seeds germinate, and blossoms increase. Birds
swiftly pass through the tracks ofthe air, wild beasts wandering on the
mountains, serpents concealed in the ground, and the enormous mon."
sters that swim in the sea, are terrified at the majesty which invests thy
divinity, etc."
The affair thus over, the author, in the next place, takes occasion,
agreeably to his real practice and opinions, to recommend a
multiplicity
of initiations. He tells us how Isis counseled him to enter into the
mysteries of Osiris: how, after that she invited him to a third initiation:
and then rewarded him for his accumulated piety with an abundance
of temporal blessings.
All this considered, we can no
longer doubt but that the true design
of his work was to recommend initiation into the mysteries, in opposi-
tion to the new religion. _We see the catastrophe of the piece,_the
whole Eleventh Book, entirely taken up with'it; and composed with
the greatest seriousness and superstition.
And, surely, nothing could be better conceived, to recommend the
mysteries, than the idea of such a
plan; or better contrived than his exe-
cution of it. In which, he omits no circumstance that might be plau-
aibly opposed to Christianity; or that might be recommended, with
advantage, to the magistrate's favor: as where he tells us, that in these
rites, they prayed for the prosperity of all orders in the State,-" For
the great Emperor, the senate, the equestrian order, and for all the
Roman people."
This interpretation will throw new light on
every part of the
golden ass. But I have been so
long upon the subject, that I have only
time to give one instance; and this, chiefly because it reflects it baelr
again on the general interpretation of the fable.
'
The Amrrur of Cupid and Psyche.
A
ln the filth and sixth books is the long episode of Cupid and Psyc/u,°
visibly allegorical throughout; and entirely foreign to all the rest ofthe
° ln order to a due understandin of the Fable, it is necessary to know the nature of
the characters upon which it is founded. _ _
"Psyche, (Greek, the soul or life) a
gpddeesby which the ancients seem to mean the
human soul. She was represented wit the wings ot' a butterfly on her shoulders, to
intimate by the nimblenesa of that creature, the activity, nature and properties ot' tha
soul."-(Bailey) _
Accordin to ancient mythol , there were two
cuptds,hona,
born of Venus, and
begotten by%upiter, the inciter dlfdeleatial love; tha other, t e son of Erebua and Nor]
the author of tef-redial amourn.-(Edit)
CUPID nw PSICHI, 191
work, considered as a more Milesian fable ; but very applicable to the
vvriter's purpose, if he had that moral to inculcate which we have here
assigned him.
There was no man, though he regarded the golden ass as a thing of
mere amusement, but saw that the story of Cupid and Psyche was a
philosophic allegory of the progress of the soul to perfection, in the
possession of divine love andthe reward of immortality! Now we
have shown at large, that the professed end of the inysteries was to
restore the soul to its original 'rectitu/le, and to encourage good men
with`the promises of happiness in another life. The fable, therefore,
of Cupid and Psyche, in the fitih and sixth books, was the Hnest and
most artful preparative for the subject of the eleventh, which treats of
the mysteries.
But if we look more
nearly into this beautiful fable, we shall find that,
besides its general purpose, it has one more
particular. We ha re observ-
ed that the corrupt state of the mysteries, in the time of Apuleius, was one
principal reason of his undertaking their apology. These corruptions
were offtwo kinds, debaucht-ries and magic. Their debaucheries have
been taken notice of above. Their magic was of three sorts: The
magic of invocation or necromancy; the magic of transformation or
Metamorphosis; and the magic of divine communication under a visible
appearance or theilrgy. The shows of the mysteries seem to have
given birth to the first, the doctrine of the metempsychosis taught
therein to the second, and the Aporreta concerning the divine nature, to
the third. The abomination of the two Erst sorts was seen, bypll, and
frankly given up as criminal: but the fanatic Platonists and Pytha-
gorean: of the latter ages, espousing the third, occasioned it to be held
in credit and reverence. So that, as Heliodorus tells us, the Egyptian
priests, (between whose Philosophy and fanatic Platonism, there was at
this time a kind of coalition,) affected to distinguish between the magic
of necromancy and the magic of thcilrgy, accounting the first infamous
and wicked; but the last very fair, and even commendable. For now
both those fanatics had their philosophic mysteries : the rites of which
consisted in the practice of this the-ilrgic magic. These were the mys-
teries, to observe it by the way, of which the emperor Julian was so fond,
that he placed his principal felicity, as the Christians did his principdl
° The Amour of Cupid and Psyche was_a subject which lay in common amon st
the Platonic writers. And every _one fashioned this agreeable fiction
according
to an
doctrines he had to convey under it. By this means ir could not hut become amous.
The
rema.inin§nmonuments
of ancient sculpture convince us that it was very famous;
b which, not g is so common as the figures of Cupid and Psyche In the various cir-
cumstances of their adventures.
|92 AIDUB or
crime, in their celebration. But our author who had imbibed his Pla-
tonism, not at the muddy streams of those late enthusiasts, but at the
pure fountain-head of the Academy itselti well understood how much
this superstition, with all its plausible pretences, had polluted the mys-
teries ; and, therefore, as in the course ot' the ad ventures of his golden
ass, he had stigmatized the two other kinds of magic, he composed this
celebrated tale, hitherto so little understood, to expose the magic of
theurgy. It is, as we said, a philosophic allegory, delivered in the
adventures of Psyche, or the soul: whose various labouri and traverses
in this progress, are all represented as the affects of her indiscreef pas-
sion for that species of magic called Theurgy.
To understand this, we must observe, that the enthusiastic Platonists,
in their pursuit of the Supreme Good, the union with the Deity, made
the completion and perfection of it to consist in the theurgic vision ofthe
Autopton Agalma or the self seen
image, that is, seen
by the splendor
of its own light. Now the stqry tells us, there were three sisters, the
youngest of whom was called Psyche; by which we are to understand,
the three peripatetic souls, the sensitive, the animal, and the rational ;
or, in other words, sense, appetite, and reason : that the beauty of Psyche
was so divine, that men forsook the altars of the gods to follow and
worship her, according to the ancient aphorism:
-
Nullum Numen abest, si sit Prudentia.
Na Deity is wanting, Prudence is consulted.
She is contracted to, and possesses the celestial Cupid or divine love.
invisibly. In the mean time her sisters, envious of her superior enjoy;
ments, take advantage ofthe god's invisibility to perplex her with athou~
sand doubts and scruples, which end in exciting her curiosity to get a
light of her lover. By which the author seems to insinuate that they are
the irregular passions and appetites which stir up men's curiosity to this
species of magic, the theurgic vision. Psyche is deluded by them, and
against the express injunction of the god, who calls it sacrilega curiosi~
tax, attempts this fbbidden right. She succeeds, and is undone. Divine
love forsakes her: the scenes of pleasure vanish: and she finds herself
forlorn and abandoned; surrounded by miseries, and pursued vith the
vengeance of Heaven. In this distress she comes to the temples of
Ceres and Juno, and seeks protection of those deities; by which is
meant, the having recourse to their mysteries, against the evils and dis-
asters oflife; as is plainly marked by the reason
given for her applica-
tion:-" Not willing to omit any even doubtful means of bettering my
curio AND rsvcua. f
193
conditionl' They both deny admittance to her; intimating that the purer
mysteries discouraged all kind of magic, even the most specious. In
a word, after a long and severe
repentance and penance, in which the
author seems to have shadowed the trials and labors undergone by
the aspirants to the mysteries, she is pardoned and restored to the
favor of Heaven. She is put again into possession of Divine Love,
and rewarded with the prerogative of immortality. ,
There are
many other circumstances in this fine allegory edually
seriling to the end here explained: as there are others which allude to
divers beautiful platonic notions, foreign to the present discourse. It
is enough that we have pointed to its chief and peculiar purpose;
which it was
impossible to see while the nature and design of the whole
Etble lay undiscovered.
Before I totally dismiss this matter it may not be improper to
observe, that both Virgil and Apuleius have represented the genuine
mysteries, as Rites of perfect sanctity and purity; and recommended
only such to their countrymen; while they expose impure and impious
rites to
the public aversion; for it was their purpose to stigmatize the
reigning corruptions and to recommend the ancient sanctity. On the
contrary, a man attached by his office to the recommendation of the
mysteries, as then practised, was to do the best he could, when deprived
of the benefit of this distinction; and was to endeavor to give fair
colors to the foulest things. This was the case of Jamblichus. His
friend Porphyry had some scruples on this head. He doubts whether
those rites could come from the gods, which admitted such a mixture of
lewdness and impurity. Such a mixture Jamblichus confesses; but at
the same time, endeavors to account for their divine original, by show-
ing, that they are only the emblems of natural truths; or a kind of
moral purgation ofthe inordinate passions.
'
Hitherto we have considered the legislator's care in perpetuating
the doctrine of a future state. And if I have been lon gcr than ordinary
on this head, my excuse is, that the topic was nev, and the, doctrine
itself, which is the main subject ofthe
present inquiry, much interested
in it.
'
Theilrgy.
Theiirgy is compounded of Theos, God, and argon, work, and signifies magk
operpting by divine or celestial means, or the power of doing extraordinary and supere
natural things by lawful means, as prayer, invocation of God, etc., called by some
whik magic.--Bailey. c
'
The wisest ofthe pagan world, and
thcizriigrcatestphilosophers held Thsiirgic magic
lg* TBI AIOUI 01 CUPID AID PBYCII.
inthe highest esteem. Theiirgy was, according to them, a divine art, whichssved only
to advance the mind of man to the highest perfection, and render the soul more pure ; and
they, who by means of this magic had the happiness to arrite at what they called
Auloprla, or Intuition, a state wherein they enjoyed intimate intercourse with the gods,
believed themselves invested with all their power, and were persuaded that nothing to
them was impossible. Towards this state of perfection all thoae aspired, who made
profession of that sort of magic; but then it laid them under severe regulations None
could be priest of this order but a man of unblemished morals, and all who joined with
him in his operations, were bound to strict purity; they were
not allowed to have any
commerce with women; to eat any kind of animal food, nor to deile themselves by the
toudt of a dead body. The philosophers, and persons of the greatest virtue, thought it
their honor to he initiated into the mysteries of this sort of magic."-Mayo's Myth-
v. 1. p 277. _
~
'
Thomas Taylor, in a note to his translation of Jamblichus, observes :-"This art of
divine works is called theiirgy, in which Pythagoras was initiated among the Syriana,
as we are informed by Jamblichus in his life of that philosopher- Proclus was also
skilled in this art, as may he seen in his life by Marinus. Psellas, in his MS. trestiss
on Demons, says,
'
that magic formed the last part of the amxrdotol science :' in which
place by magic hedoubtlees means that kind of it which is denominated thellrgy. And
that theiirgy was employed by the ancients in their mysteries, I have fully proved in
my treatise on the Eleusinian and Baeehic mysteries. This thetlrgy, is doubtless the
same as the magic of Zoroaster, which Plato in his tirst Aloibiadss says, consisted in
the worship of the gods."
"The emperor Julian alludes to this thehrgical art, in the following extract from his
Arguments against the Christians, preserved by Cyrd:
'
For the inspiration which arrives to men from the gods is rare, and exists but in a
few. Nor is it easy for every man to partake of this, nor at every time. lt has ceased
among the Hebrews, nor is it preserved to the present time among the Egyptians.
Spontaneous oracles, also, are seen to yield to temporal periods. This, however, our
philanthropic lord and father Jupiter understanding, that we might not be entirely
deprived of communion with the gods, has given us observation through sacred arts, by
which we have at hand sutiicient assistance! "-(p. 343, 347
This art was professed by the early masons, as appears by an examination of one
of the brotherhood by King Henry VI. It is, as before observed, afundamsntal doctrine
ofthe Roman Catholic church.
"'I'he priests of Egypt, Persia, -India, etc. pretended to bind the gods to their idols,
andtomalcethemdeseendfrom heaven attlteir pleasure: they threatened thesnn and
moon to reveal the ueret mysteries. to shake the heavens, etc." (Ensebius Prep. Evang.
p. l%, and Jamb. do Myst. Egypt.-See Ruins, p. 235.)
CHAP'rEa1v_
'
A IKITCH 0l` Tlll LIFE AND DDCTRINEB Ol' PITBAGORAB, Till
IOUNDBR 0| THE SECT 017 ANCIENT PAILOSOPHERS THAT BOB!
HIS ULIB. ALSO THE DOCTRINEB AND CUSTOHS OF TH! DRU°
IDI, THB PRIEST! OF THE ANCIENT BBITONB. g
Nofrwrrns-ntxnnco Pythagoras died, at least dfteen hundred years before the insti,
tution of the Freemasons' society, he is hailed by the fraternity as a brother mason.
Both Cross and Webb, in treating of masonic emblems, among which they include I
diagram ofthe forty-seventh problem of Euclid, hold the following language: V
"This was an invention of our oncimlfriend and brother, the great Pythagoras,
who in his travels through Asia, Africa and Europe, was initiated into several orders of
priesthood, and raised to the sublime degree qfmaater-mason. This wise philosopher,
enriched his mind abundantly in a general knowedge of things, and more especially in
geometry or
-masonry; on this subject he drew out many problems and theorems." etc-
The appellation of grandfather of freemasons would perhaps apply much more appro-
priately to Pithagorss, than that ofbrother; forhe probably was the father ofDruidism,
and this was the father ofthe masonic society; which it made use of as a mere cloak
to cover its religious observances, with no special regard to the improvement ofthe
craft. The idea however of a connection between Pithagoras and masonry, must
have been handed down in tradition by the old Druidical masons; which is a strong
evidence, that the secrets and ceremonies of masonry, are derived from the ancient
Egyptian mysteries through the Pythagorian school.
`
Upon this supposition, of the truth of whiclfI have no doubt., it becomes important
to give some lcoount ot' this celebrated philosopher, whose memory is so deservedly
venerated by the masonic order.
'
The bestarranged account of his life and doctrines, that I have met with, iscontained
in Rses's Cyclopedia; I therefore make the following abstract from that work.
Pithagoras was of Samoa, the son of a la pidary, and the pupil of
Pherecydes, and iioprished, says Bay le, about five hundred years before
Christ, in the time of Tarquin, the last king of Rome, and not in Nu-
ma's time, as
many authors have supposed.-(See Cicero Tux. _
Ques.
lib. io. cap. l. `
Posterit has been very liberal to this
philosopher,
in bestowing
upon him such inventions as others had neglecte to claim, particu-
larly in music; for there is scarcely any part of it, as a science, with
which he has not been invested by his generous followers in biography.
'Musical ratios have been assigned to him, with the method of deter-
mining the gravity or acuteness of sounds by the greater or less degree
of velocity in the vibration of strings; the addition of an eighth to the
196 urs ann noc'r|m|zs
lyre, (Pliny, lib. ii. cap. 2.) the harmony of the spheres (Plato ;) and
the Greek musical notation (Boethius). His right, indeed, to some of
these discoveries hasbeen disputed by several authors, who have given
them to others with ,as little reason, perhaps, as
they have been before
bestowed upon him.
'
Alier musical ratios were discovered and reduced to numbers, they
were made by Pithagoras and his followers, the type of order and
proportion in all things; hence virtue, friendship, good government,
_celestial motion, the human soul, and God himself were harmony.
This discovery gave birth to various species of music, far more
strange and inconceivable than chromatic and enharmonic; such as
divine music, mundane music, elementary music, and many other divi-
sions and subdivisions, upon which Zarlino, Kircher, and almost all the
old writers, never fail to expatiate with wonderful complacencef' It is
perhaps, equally to the credit and advantage of music and philosophy,
that they have long descended from these heights, and taken their
proper and separate stations upon earth ; that we no
longer admit of
music that cannot be heard, or of philosophy that cannot be under-
stood.
Master Thomas Mace, author of a most delectable book, called
"
Mtrsic's Monument," would have been an excellent Pythagorean;
for he maintains that the mystery ofthe Trinity is perspicuously made
plain by the connection ofthe three harmonical concords, 1, 3, 5; that
rnusic and divinity are
nearly allied ; and that the contemplation of
concord and discord, ofthe nature of the' octave and unison, will so
strengthen a man's faith, "that he shall never after degenerate into that
gross sub-beastical sin of atheism."
Pythagoras is said by the writers of his life, to have
'
regarded
music as something celestial and divine, and to have had such an
opin_
ion of its power over the human affections, that acwrding to the Egyp-
tian system, he ordered his deciples to be waked every morning,
and lulled to sleep every night, by sweet sounds. , He likewise con-
sidered it as
greatly conducive to health, and made use of it in disor-
ders ofthe body, as well as in those of the mind. His biographers pre-
tend to tell us what kindof music he applied upon these occasions.
°
The terms sacred and prq/'une music are still retained, appropriating grave and
plain we tones to the former, and guy and livel to the lntter. On this account, it is
reported, that Wesley, the founder of the Methodist sect, declared that the Devil should
not have_all the _best tunes, and accordingly, he introduced into his church service the
most spnghtly airs, which are still m use among his followers, having, it is said, the
most happy effects--Edil.
or PYTHAGORAS. [97
Grave and solemn, we
may be certain; and vocal, say they, was pre-
ferred to instrumental, and the lyre to the flute, not only for its decency
and gravity, but because instruction could be conveyed to the mind, by
means of articulation in singing, at the same time as the ear was
delighted by sweet sounds.
'
In perusing the list of illustrious men, who have sprung from the
school of Pythagoras, it appears that the love and cultivation of music
was so much a
part of their discipline, that almost every one of them
left a treatise behind him upon the subject.
The first journey of Pythagoras from the Grecian islands was
prob-
ably into Egypt, which were celebrated in his time for that kind of
/wisdom which best suited his genius and temper. In his way thither,
Jamblichus asserts that he visited Phcenecia, and conversed with the
prophets and philosophers that were the successors of Mochus the
Physiologist.
'
_
While he was in Egypt, he was introduced by the recommendation
of ~Polycrates, tyrant' of Samos, to Amasia, king of Egypt, a distin-
guished patron of literary men, and thus obtained access to the col-
leges of the priests. Having found it difiicult to gain this privilege, he
prformed many severe and troublesome preliminary ceremonies, and
even submitted to circumcision, a prescribed condition of his admission.
He passed twenty-two years in Egypt, availing himself of all possible
means of' information with regard to the' recondite doctrines of the
Egyptian priests, as well as their astronomy and geometry, and Egyp-
tian leaming in its most unlimited extent.
After his return from Egypt to his native island, he wished to com-
municate the benefit of his researches and studies to his fellow-citizens,
and with this view he attempted to institute a school for their instruc-
tion in the elements of science; proposing to adopt the Egyptian mode
ot teaching, and to communicate his doctrines under a
symbolical form.
But the Samians were either too stupid or too indolent to profit by his
instructions. Although he was obliged to relinquish his design, he did
not altogether abandon' it. In order to engage the attention of his
countrymen by some other means, he repaired to Delos; and after pre-
senting an offering of cakes to Apollo, he there received, or
pretended
to receive, moral dogmas from the priestess, which he afterwards
delivered to his deciples under the' character of divine precepts. With
__.
#The name! nt, as at Brut used, merely designated the chief magistrate of a
place: the Greegnin old time, called the supreme govemor of every city a tyrant or
ing. Bailey.-Edit.
|98 x.trs» nm nocrmuzs
the same views he also visited the island of Crete, so celebrated in
mythological history; where he was conducted by the Corybantes, or
priests of Cybele, into the cave of mount Ida, in which Jupiter is said
to have 'been buried. Here he conversed with Epimenides, an
eminent pretender to prophetic powers, and was by him initiated into
the most sacred mysteries of Greece. About the same time he visited
Sparta and Elia. and was
present during the celebration of the Olympic
games, where he is said to have exhibited a golden thigh to/Abaris, in
order to convince him that he was Apollo. Besides other places
which he visited du ring his stay in Greece, he repaired to Phlius, where
he first assumed the appellation 'of philosopher. Having thus added
to the stores of learning which he had previously accumulated, and
acquired a kind ofauthority which was calculated to command respect, he
returned to Samoa, and made a second attempt, more successful than his
Erst, to establish a school ollphilosophy. In a semicircular kind of build-
ing, which the Simians had used as a
place of resort for public business*
he delivered, with an assumed authority of a sacred nature, popular
precepts of morality; and he also provided himself with a secret cave.
into which he retired with his intimate friends and professed deciples,
and here he gave his followers daily instructions, accompanied with a
considerable parade of mystery, in the more abstmse parts of philoso-
phy. His fame, and the multitude of his followers, increased. What
he failed to accomplish by mere force of learning and ability, he eH`ected
by concealing his doctrines under the veil of mysterious symbols, and
issuing forth his precepts as responses from a divine oracle. About
the beginning of the fifty-ninth Olympiad, Pythagoras, desirous ofesca-
ping the tyranical government exercised in hisnative island, by Sylo-
son, the brother of Polycrates, left Samos, and, as we have already
hinted, passed over into Italy, and attempted to establish his school
among the colonies of Magna Graecia. It is probable, that, in order to
obtain credit with the populace, he about this time pretended to possess
a power of performing miracles, and practised many arts of imposturo.
The first place at which he arrived, in Italy was Crotona, a city in the
bay of Tarentum, the inhabitants of which were very corrupt in their
manners. But such were his reputation and influence, that he was
treated with great respect, and people of all classes assembled toshear
his discourses; insomuch that the manners ofthe citizens were soon
cotally changed from great luxury and licentiousness to strict sobriety
and frugality. It is said that six hundred, (some say two thousand.)
persons were prevailed upon to
sub_rnit to the strict discipline'which he
_ .<l.l1;_____ _
or PYTHKGOIAS. l99
required and to throw their effects into a common stoclr for the benefit of
die whole fraternity. The influence of his philosophy extended from
Crotona to many other cities of Magna Griecia, and obtained for Py-
thagoras from his followers a
degree of' respect little short of adora-
tion. If he had contented himself with delivering doctrines of philoso-
phy and precepts of practical wisdom, he might probably have contin~
ued his labors, without molestation, to the`end of his life! But he mani-
fested a
strong propensity towards political innovations ; and he
employed his influence in urging the people to the strenuous assertion of
their rights, against the encroachment of their tyrranical governors.
This course of conduct raised against him a
very powerful opposition
which he was unable to resist and contend against, and which obliged
him to retire to Metapontum. Here he found himself still surrounded
with enemies, and was under a
necessity of seeking an assylum in the
temple of the Muses, where not being supplied by his friends with sutf
ficient food. he perished with hunger' The time of his death is uncer-
tain ; but according to the Chronicon of Eusebius, he died in the third
year of the sixty-eighth Olympiad, B. C. 506, after having lived accord-
ing to the most probable statement of his birth, to the age of' eighty
years. After his death his followers paid a
superstitious respect to his
memory. They erected statues in honor of him, converted his house at
Crotona intoa temple of Ceres, the street in which it stood was called the
Museum, and appealed to him as a
divinity, swearing by his name.
It appears, from the history of this philosopher, that with all his tal-
ents and learning, he owed much`of` his celebrity and authority to
imposture. His whole manner of life confirms this opinion. Clothed
in a
long white robe with a fiowing beard, and, as some
say, with a gol-
den crown on his head, he preserved among the people, and in the
presence of his desciples, a
commanding gravity, and majesty of aspect.
He recurred to mu ic for promoting the tranquility of his mind, fre-
quently singing, for this purpose, hymns of Thales, Hesiod, and
Homer. He had such an entire command over himself] that he was
never seen to express, in his countenance, grief] joy, or anger. He
refrained from animal food, and confined himself to a
frugal vegetable
diet, excluding from his simple bill of' fare, for mystical reasons, pulse
°Anobius affirms that Pythagorss was buried alive in a tem le ; others state that
he was slam in attem ting to make his escape. It can hardly bc doubted that his
death was violent, ancilthat, with all his caution to reserve himself] he fell a
martyr
to his
generous
efibrts to underexve mankind. An til construction was put upon! e
uniono the Pythagoreans, and it proved very fatal to thetn. That society of students
being looked upon as s faction which conspired against the state, sixty of them were
destroyed, and the rcst went into banishnent.»Diegesis.bv the Rrv. R. Taylor.-Edit.
200 Lira AND bocraiass
or beans. By this artificial demeanor, Pythagoras appeared among
the vulgar as a being of an order superior to the common condition of
hunianity,and persuaded them that he had received his doctrine from
heaven. Pythagoras married Theano of Crotona, or, as some
say, of
Crete, by whom hehad two sons, Telaugus and Mnesarchus, who, aiier
his death took the charge of his school. Whether this philosopher letl
behind him any writings has been a subject of dispute. Many works
have been enumerated under his name
by Leartius, Jamblichus, and
Pliny: but it is the declared opinion of Plutarch, Josephus, Lucian,
and others, that there were no genuine works of Pythagoras extant;
and it appears highly probable, from the pains which he took to con-
fine his doctrine to his own school during his life, that he never com-
mitted his philosophical system to writing, and that the pieces to which
his name was afiixed at an
early period, were written by some of his
followers, upon the principles imbibed in his school. The famous gol-
den verses attributed to Pythagoras, and illustrated with a
commentary
by I-Iierocles, were not written by our philosopher, but are to .be
ascribed to Epicharmus, or
Empedocles. They may, however, be con-
sidered as a brief summary of his popular doctrines.
His method of instruction, formed upon the Egyptian model, was
"exoteric," and "
esoteric," that is: public and private. Those auditors,
who attended his public lectures, did not properly belong to his school,
but followed their usual mode of living. His select deciples called his
companions and friends, were such as submitted to a
peculiar plan of
discipline, and were admitted by along course ofinstruction, into all tlu
mysteries of his esoteric doctrine'
r
Masons, who have taken only the three first degrees of the order, are taught only
what may be_ called the exoteric doctrine of masonry, and this in an obscure symbolical
manner, not intended to be fully tmderstood. In this grade, they call each other brother.
Thgfv
were
formerly, that is, in the time of the Druids, not permitted to advance further
un
`
they had convinced their superiors that confidence might be placed in them, and
that they were
worthy
of' receiving the esotenk: principles of the order. When raised to
the sublime degree o royal arch, they address one another by the appellation ofcom-
panitm. _And then, no doubt, in ancient times, the whole secret of masonry, that iq
4he doctnno of Druidisnr was clearly exposed.
Dermutt, after_malung some
_remarks on the conduct of' certain persons, who, it
seems, were dissatisfied at not having been admitted to the royal arch degree, says, "To
this I will add the opinion our worshiyful brother, Dr. Fifield D'Assigney, printed in
the year 1744. '
Some of' the fraternity, says he, have expressed an uneasiness at thu
mattefs
beinaikept
a secret from them, since they had
nlrcadygusscd through the usual
degrees
ofapr anon; but I cannot help being of opinion that t cy have no right to any
such bena t"until they make n proper
application,
and are received with due
fomrality;
and as it is an
organized body of men, w o have passed the chair, and given undema~
ble
£1-oqp qf tltetr skill in architecture, it cannot bc treated with too much reverence."
qw Dr. Fttield must have been sensible, that architecture was not
taught in the
lodge lnlhts day. This ridiculous parade, therefore, about skill in this art, is a mere
issues
for the observance of an ancient custom, the reason for which was unknown.
`
it. ,
_ or rrrnsooass. 20|
Previously tothe admission ofany person into this fratemity, Pythago-
ras examined his features and external appearance ; inquired how he
had been accustomed to behave towards his parents and friends; marked
his manner of laughing, conversing, and keeping silence ; and observed
what passions he was most inclined to indulge ; with what kind of
company he chose to associate; how he passed his leisure moments;
and what incidents appeared to excite in him the strongest emotions of
joy or sorrow. Nor after this examination was
any one admitted into
his society, till he was hilly persuaded of the docility of his disposition,
the gentleness of his manners, his power of retaining in silence what
he was
taught, and, in fine, his capacity of becoming a true philosopher.
Alter the first probationary admission, the fortitude and self-command
of the candidate were put to the trial by a long course of severe absti-
nence and rigorous exercise. The course of abstinence and self-denial
comprehended food and drink, and clothing, all which were of the most
plain and simple kind, and the exercises prescribed were such as could
not be performed without pain and fatigue. To teach them humility
and industry, he exposed them, for three years, to a continued course
of contradiction, ridicule and contempt, among their fellows' In
order to restrain the powerful passion of avarice, he required his discif
ples to submit to voluntary poverty : he deprived them of all command
over their own
property, by casting the possessions of each individual
into a common stock, to be distributed by proper omcers as occasion
required. After this sequestration of their goods, they lived together
on a
footing of perfect equality, and sat down together daily at a com-
mon table. If any one afterwards repented of the connection, he was
at liberty to depart, and might reclaim, from the general fund, his
whole contribution. That his disciples might acquire a hnbit of entire
docility, Pythagoras enjoined upon them, from their first admission, a
0 This is imitated in the past masterh degree ofmasqnry. The nfawly initiated mem-
ber, perfectly
iglnorant
of the mode of
proceedlggs
in a
lodgie, is, against his
wall
placed in the c air of the master as presiding o cer; and "t e installed worship
is made the butt for
ever?
worthy brother to exercise his wit upon."
This custom it woul appear, has descended from the Druids, the antient school-
masters of England, to the universities and colleges, even of America; where those of
the t°reshmen,ornevly entered class, are made the butt and ridicule of the higher classes
for twelve months. The latter are empowered to direct the former to perform any
errand they wish; can order them to repair to their rooms, and there lecture them for
their awkwardness,
ignoranctah
etc. This practice was
doubtless introduced upon the
principle of Pithsgoras, to inc cate humility; but when exercised upon s raw, dridsnt,
countryboy, it must prove extremely discouraging and oppressive- _ The custom how-
ever it is said has gone into disuse. Gen. Erastus Root of Delhi, in this State, by s
resolute refusal to submit to this discipline, has the horror, as I aminformed by a_grsd-
qgase
of Dartmouth college, of putting an end to this vile practice in that rnst1tunon.-
1 il.
_
26
202 un nu: nocnxus
long term of silence, called echesaythia. This initiatory silence,
which probably consisted in refraining from speech, not only during
the hours of instruction, but through the whole term of initiation, con-
tinued from two to Eve years, according to the propensity discovered
by the pupil towards conceit and loquacity. With regard to himself]
this was a judicious expedient, as it checked impertinent curiosity, and
prevented every inconvenience of contradiction. Accordingly his dis-
ciples silenced all doubts and refuted all objections, by appealing to his
authority Autos eplta, ipn dixit, decided every dispute. More-
over, during the years of initiation, the disciples were prohibited from
seeing their master, or hearing his lectures, except from behind a cur-
tain,' or receiving instructions from some inferior preceptor.
»
To the members ofthee soteric school (who were called gyesioi exiles
tai genuine disciples) belonged the peculiar privilege of receiving a full
explanation of the whole doctrine of Pythagoras, which was delivered
toothers in brief precepts and dogmas, under the concealment of sym-
bols. Disciples of this class were
permitted to take minutes of their
master's lectures in writing, as well as to propose questions, and olfer
remarks, upon every subject ofdiscourse. These were
particularly dis-
tinguished by the appellation of the "Pythagoreans," they were also
called "
Mathematicians," from the studies upon which they entered
immediately after their initiation. After having made a sufficient pro-
gress in geometrical science, they proceeded to the study of nature, the
investigation of primary principles, and the knowledge of God. Those
who pursued these sublime speculations were called "
Theorists," and
those who devoted themselves more particularly to Theology, were
styled sebatatikoin religious. Others, according to their abilities and incli-
nations, were engaged in the study of morals, economics, and policy;
and were afterwards employed in managing the ailhirs of the fraternity,
or sent into the cities of Greece, to instruct them in the principles of
government, or assist them in the institution of laws. ,
The brethren ofthe Pythagorean college at Crotona, called coniobion,
coenobium, about six hundred in number, lived together as in one fam-
ily, with their wives and children, and the whole business of the society
was conducted with the most perfect regularity. Every day com-
menced with a deliberation upon the manner in which it should be
spent, and concluded with a
retrospect ofthe events which had occurred,
_i;
*Therein an aifoctation of this as before observed in th
'
degrees of
" ofht:s Eg'l¢.;l:°nd fEi;usl,"in which lhe calididzxiuitot permit-
0
or rvrusoorus. |03
and of the business that had been transacted. They rose before the sun
that they might do him homage; utter which they repeated select ver-
ses from Homer and other poets,`and made use of music, both vocal
and instrumental, to enliven their spirits and fit them for the business
of the day. They then employed several hours in the study of science.
These were succeeded by an interval of leisure, which was
commonly
spent in a
solitary walk for the purpose of contemplation. The next
portion of the day was allotted to conversation. The hour immediately
before dinner was iilled up with various kinds of athletic exercises.
Their dinner consisted chiefly of bread, honey, and water; for after
they were perfectly initiated, they wholly denied themselves lhe use of
wine. The remainder of the day was devoted to civil and domestic
aflairs, conversation, bathing and religious ceremonies.
The "
exoteric" disciples of Pythagoras were taught after the
Egyptian manner, by images and symbols, obscure and almost unintel-
ligible to those who were not initiated into the mysteries of the school;
and those who were admitted to this privilege were under the strictest
obligation of silence with regard to the recondite doctrines of their
master. The wisdom of Pythagoras, that it might not pass into the
ears of the vulgar, was committed chiefly to memory; and when they
found it necessary to make use of writing, they took care not to suffer
their minutes to pass beyond the limits of the school.°
Clemens observes, that the two orders above described corresponded
very exactly to those among the Hebrews; for in the schools of the
prophets there were two classes, viz: the sons of the prophets, who
were the scholars; and the doctors or masters, who were also called
perfecti; and among the Levites, the novices or
tyros, who had their
quinquenial exercises, by way of preparation. Lastly, even among the
proselytes there were two orders: exoterici, or proselytes of the gate;
0 The principal and and most etlicacious of their doctrines, the Pythagorean: com-
mitted to memory, and communicated them to their successors as mysteries from the
gods; and if at any time there were any extraneous, or as I may say, profane par'
sons
among
them, they dgnitied their meaning by symbols. _
Hence sis reprovmg Hipparchus for communicating the diseauru to uninitintsd
persons, voidof malhmmtzkss and theory, saith, it is reported that you teach
philosolplay
in public to all that come, which Pythagoras would not do. lt' you arechauged, 1 l
rejoice; if not, you are dead to me : for wc ought to rcmembewthat it is pious, accord-
ing to the direction of divine and human exertntions, that the goods qf ought
not to be communicated to those whose soul is not purified so much as m dream. It
is not lawful to ,bestow on
everéone
that which was acquired with so much labor, nor
to reveal the mysteries of the lcusinian goddess to
profansupersons: They who do
both these, are alike unjust and irrelxgious. It is good to con
'
_er within ourselves how
much time was employed in taking away the
:gels
that were tn our breasts, that alter
tive years we might be made capable of his [
{'t<l:s,§<(:ru'&6,discourses.-J_ambhchl-
Quoted in T. Stanley's History of Philosophy. n n, l p. 376.-Edd.
A
204 Lua AND nocramas
and intrinseci, or
perfecti, proselytes of the covenant. He adds, it is
highly probable, that Pythagoras himself had been a
proselyte of the
gate, if not of the covenant. _
After the dissolution of the assembly of Pythagoras's disciples by
the faction of Cylo, a man of wealth and distinction at Crotona, it was
thought necessary by Lysis and Archippus, in order to preserve the
Pythagorean doctrine from oblivion, to reduce it to a
systematic sum-
mary; at the same time, however, strongly enjoining their children to
preserve these memoirs secret, and to transmit them in confidence totheir
posterity. From this time books began to multiply among the follow-
ers of Pythagoras, till at length, in the time of Plato, Philolaus exposed
the Pythagorean records to sale, and Archytas of Tarentum_gave Plato
a
copy of his commentaries upon the aphorisms and precepts of his
master. Of the imperfect records of the Pythagorean philosophy left
by Lysis, Archytas, and others, nothing has escaped the wreck oftime,
except perhaps sundry fragments collected by the diligence of Stobeeus,
concerning the authenticity of which there are some grounds for sus-
picion; and which, if admtted as genuine, will only exhibit an imper-
fect view of the moral and political doctrine of Pythagoras under the
disguise of symbolical and enigmatical language. The strict injunc-
tion oisecrecy, which was given by oath to the initiated, Pythagoreans
has effectually prevented any original records of their doctrine con-
cerning Nature and God from passing down to posterity. On this
head we are to rely entirely for information, and indeed concerning
the whole doctrine of Pythagoras, upon Plato and his followers. Plato
himself: while he enriched his system with stores from the magazine
of Pythagoras, accommodated the Pythagorean doctrines, as he also
did those of his master Socrates, to his own system, and thus gave an
imperfect, and, we
may suppose, in many particulars, a false represen-
tation ofthe doctrines of the Samian philosopher. It was farther cor-
rupted by the followers of Plato, even in the old academy, and after-
wards in the Alexandrian school. To which we
may add, that the
doctrine of Phythagoras itsel£ probably in its original state, and
certainly in every form under which it has been transmitted to us, was
observed, not only by symholical, but by mathematical language, which
is rather adapted to perplex than to illustrate metaphysical conceptions.
In this fault Pythagoras was afterwards imitated by Plato, Aristotle,
and others!
° Moderatue saith, that the Pythagoric
philosophy carne at last to be extinguished;
lint, because it was
enigmatical; next, because t e
wntmgs were in the Done dialect,
which is obscure, by which means the doctrines delivered in it were not understood;
Q or Pvrusoonss. 205
We extract from Brucker the following faint delineation of the
Pythagorean philosophy; The end of philosophy is to free the mind
from those incumbrances, which hinder its progress towards perfection,
and to raise it to the contemplation of immutable tmth, and the know-
ledge of divine and spiritual objects. This effect must be produced by
easy steps, lest the mind, hitherto conversant only with sensible things,
should revolt at the change. The first step towards wisdom is the
study of mathematics, a science which contemplates objects that lie in
the middle way between corporeal and incorporeal beings, and as it
were on the confines ofIboth, and which most advantageously inures the
mind to contemplation. _
The monad, or
unity, is that quantity, which, being deprived of all
number, remains fixed; whence called monad from to meneivt. It is
the fountain of all number. The duad is imperfect and passive, and
the cause of increase and division. The triad, composed of the monad
and duad, partakes of the nature of both. The tetrad, tetractys, or
quaternion number, is the most perfect The decad, which is the sum
of the four former, comprehends all arithmetical and musical propor-
tions.
l
According to some writers, the monad denotes the active principle
in nature, or God; the duad, the passive principle, or matter : the triad,
the word formed by the union of the two former; and the tetractys, the
perfection of nature. Some have understood by this mysterious number
the four elements; others, the four faculties of the human mind; others,
the four cardinal virtues ; and others have been so absurd as to suppose
that Pythsgorns made use of this number to express the name of God.
in reference to the word -
[Gehovah,] by which that name is
expressed in the Hebrew language. But every attempt to unfold this
mystery has hitherto been unsuccessful. -
Next to numbers, music had the chief place in the preparatory
exercises of the Pythagorean school, by means of which the mind was
to be raised above the dominion of the passions, and inuted to contem-
plation. Pythagoras considered music, not only as an art to be judged
of by the ear, but as a. science to/be reduced to mathematical principles
and proportions. p
and, moreover, because they who published them were not Pythsgoreans. Besides,
Plato, Aristotle, and others, as the Pythagoreans afiirm, vended thc best of _them as
their own, changin only some few thin s in them, but the more vulgar and tnvial, and
whatsoever was sgerwsrds invented envious and ealumnious persona, to cast M
contempt upon the Pythagorean school,
th%dcollccted
and dehvered as proper to that
sect.-( orphyry, p. 36; Stanley, p. 363.)- il.
206 urs nm nocfalruts -
It was said of Pythagoras by his followers, who hesitated at no
assertion, however improbable, which might seem to exalt their master's
fame, that he was the.only mortal -so far favored by the gods as to be
permitted to hear the celestial music ofthe spheresf Pythagoras applied
music to the cure of diseases both bodily and mental. It was, as we
have seen, the custom of his school, to compose their minds for
rest in
the evening, and to prepare themselves for action in the morning, by
suitable airs, which they performed upon the lute, or~ other stringed
instruments. The music was, however, always accompanied with
verse, so that it may be doubted, whether the elfect was to be ascribed
more to the musician or to the poet. It is said of Clinius, a
Pythago-
rean, that whenever he perceived himself inclined to anger, spleen, or
other restless passions, he took up his lute, and that it never failed to
restore the tranquility of his mind. Of Pythagoras himself] it is related,
that he checked a
young man, who, in the midst of his revels, was
meditating some act of Bacchanalian madness, by ordering the
musician, who had infiamed his passions by Phrygian airs, 'to change
the music on a sudden into the slow and solemn Doric mood. If the
stories which are related by the ancients concerning the wonderful
effects of their music are to be credited, we must acknowledge we are
strangers to the method by which these effects were
produced.
Besides arithmetic and music, Pythagoras cultivated geometry,
which he had leamed in Egypt; but he greatly improved it, by inves-
tigating many new theorems, and by digesting its principles, in an
order more perfectly systematical than had before been done. Several
Grecians, about the time of Pythagoras, applied themselves to mathe-
matical learning, particularly Thales in Ionia. But Pythagoras seems
to have done more than any other philosopher of this period towards
reducing geometry to a regular science. His definition of a
point is»
a monad or unity with position. He taught that a geometrical point
corresponds to unity in arithmetic, a line to two, asuperficies to three
a solid to four. Ofthe geometrical theorems ascribed to Pythagoras, the
following are the principal: that the interior angles of every triangle
are together equal to two right angles; that the only polygons which
fill up the whole space about a given point, are the equilateral triangle,
the square, and the hexagon ; the first to be taken six times, the second
four times, and the third three times; and that, in rectangular triangles,
the square of the side which subtends the right angle is equal to the
two `squares of the sides which contain the right angle. Upon the
invention of this later proposition (Euclid, I. i. prop. 47.,) Plutarch says,
'
or rvrlmons. 207
that Pythagoras oiiered an ox, others, an hecatomb, to the gods. But
this story is thought by Cicero inconsistent with the institutions of
Pythagoras, which, as he supposes, did not admit ofanimal sacrifices.
Theoretical philosophy, which treats ofnatu re and its origin, was the
highest object ofstudy ofthe Pythagorean school, and included all those
profound mysteries, which those, who have been ambitious to repor!
what Pythagorss said behind the curtain, have endeavored to unfold.
Upon this subject, nothing can be advanced with certainty, especially
respecting theology, the doctrine of which, Pythagora , after the man-
ner of the Egyptian priests, was peculiarly careful to hide under the
vail of symbols, probably through fear of disturbing the popular super-
stitions. The ancients have not, however, left us without some grounds
of conjecture.
A
With respect to God, Pytlragoras appears to have taught, that he is
the Universal Mind, diffused through all things, the source of all animal
life, the proper and intrinsic cause of all motion, in substance similar to
light, in nature like truth, the first principle of the universe, incapable
of pain, invisible, incorruptible, and only to be comprehended by the
mind.
The region of the air was supposed by the Pythagoreans to be full
of spirits, demons, or heroes, who cause sickness or health to man or
beast, and communicate, at their pleasure, by means of dreams, and
other instruments of divination, the knowledge of future events. That
Pythagoras himself held this opinion cannot be doubted, if it be true, as
his biographers relate, that he professed to cure diseases by incantations.
It is probable that he derived it from the Egyptians, among whom it
was believed that many diseases were caused by desaoniacal passes-
nom.
The doctrine of the Pythagoreans, respecting the nature of brute
animals, and mctempsgchosis, the transmigration of souls, were the foun-
dation of their abstinence from animal food, and of the exclusion of
animal sacrifices from their religious ceremonies. Y
This doctrine Pythagoras probably learned in Egypt, where it was
commonly taught. Nor is there any sufficient reason for understand-
ing it, as some have done, symbolically.
The precept prohibiting the use of beans, is one of the mysteries
which the ancient Pythagoreans never disclosed, and which modem
ingenuity has in vain attempted to discover. Pythagorean precepts of
more value are such as these: Discourse not of Pythagorean doctrines
without light. Above all things govern your tongue. Quit not your
~
1
208 Lira .mn nocrnrnas
station without the command of your general. Remember that the
paths of virtue and of vice resemble the letter Y. To this symbol
Persius refers, when he says,
"There has the Samain Y's instructive make
_
Pointed the road thy doubtful foot should take;
, There warn'd thy raw and yet un ractis'd youth,
To tread the rising right-hand patliof truth."
'
(Brut-ker's Hisl. Philos. by Enjield, vol. i. b. c. 12.)
Atier the death of Pythagoras, the care and education of his chil-
dren, and the charge of his school, devolved upon Aristaeus of Crotona,
who, having taught the doctrine ofPythagoras thirty-nine years, was suc-
ceeded by Mnesarchus, the son of Pythagoras. Pythagorean schools
were afterwards conducted in Heraclia. by Clinias and Philolaus; at
Metapontum by Theorides and Eurytus; and at Tarentum by Archy-
tas, who is said to have been the eighth in succession from Pythagoras,
The first person who divulged the Pythagorean doctrine was Philo-
laus.
The symbolical use of the letter Y has reference to the old fable, before noticed, of
the trivia or triple path, that is, where the road to the infernal regions divides into
two,
the one leading to Elysium, and the other to Tartarus. This letter was a very appro-
priate symbol to mark out thesc roads; the disproportion of the two strokes which form
it, being indicative of the comparative numbers to be accommodated in the two courses;
that is, of the righteous and the wicked. St. Matthew, no doubt, makes allusion to the
common idea entertained upon this subject, when he says, .
"Enter ye in at the straight gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that
leadcth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat: because straight is the
gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life; and few there be that ind it."
vii. 13.
(
"It )is surprising, says Bayle, that a philosopher so skillful as Pythagoras in astro-
nomy, in geometry, and in other parts of the mathematics, should be pleased to deliver
his most beautiful precepts under the vail of enigmas. This vail was so thick, that the
interpreters have found in it ample matter for conjecture. This symbolic method was
very much used in the East, and in Egypt- It is from thence without doubt Pythagorss
has derived it. He retumed from his travels laden with the spoils of the erudition of
all the countries ho had visited. It is pretended that his tetraelys is the same thing as'
the name tdragrammaton., a name inetfable and full of mystery, according to the
Rabbins. Others will have it, that this tctradys, this grand object of veneration and of
oaths, is nothing more than a mysterious manner of dogmatising by numbers. But let
us not forget, that Pythagorss and his successors had two ways of teaching, one for the
initiated, and the other for strangers and the profane. The first was clear and unvailed,
the second was symbolic and enigmatioal."-(Dict.)
It is somewhat remarkable, that a difference of opinion should exist among the
leamed in regard to the meaning which Pythagoras intended to convoy to his pupils of
the esoteric class, by the word Tctractysz for it appears pretty evident, that he used it
~
4
customs nm noolas or Till naurns. 209
enigamatieally as synonymous _with geometry. And so Bailey, who seems to have
known more of antiquity than any other of his day, defines it. He says,
"
Tetractys,
in ancient geometry, eignihed a point, a line, a surface, and a solid." Hutchinson, in
his '
Spirits of Masonry# gives the same definition. He says, "The Pythagol-ie
tstractics [letractys] were a point," etc. as above. -
The ancient Druidical Freemasons were taught, as reported by Prichard, that there
are four principles in masonry, which are specified agreeably to the above dednition
of tetrsctys. r
These four principles contained in the tstractys or geometry, comprehend the entire
of physical nature, and on this account the enigma of the perfection of the number four
has been erected.
A writer on .masonry (see Carlile. p. 99) observes, "That the Pythagorean!
amrmed the tetractys, or number four to be the sum and completion of all things, as
comprising the four, great principles both of arithmetic and geometry. In the center of
smasonic lodge, within an irradiation or blazing star, is inscribed the letter G, denoting
the great and glorious science of geometry, as cultivated by our ancient and venerable
masters." And adds,
"
Whilst each ofthose our symbols recipocally serves to Hlustrate
the rest, there is one sense, in which they yield to thedecided preeminence of the great
mntral emblem, whose sacred initial character, surrounded by a blaze of glory, recalls
our minds from the work to the ardtitect, from the science to its mystery."
The Egyptians invented geometry, and they found it of suchinlinite importance, that
they in a manner deidcd the science. Hence the great respect paid to its in
masonry. It is, in fact, made to indicate the Supreme Being, who, according to the
Pythagorean doctrine, was mysteriously involved in the physical principles of nature.
Geometry is painted as a lady, with a sallow face, clad in a green mantleffringed with
silver, and holding a silver wand [the Nilometer] in her right hand.-Bailey.
The Elaurinian mysteries were regularly celebrated every Mb year, that is, after a
revolution of four years. Tho Olympic games took place at the same time, thename of
which originated from their being first celebrated near the city of Olympia. Hence the
olympiad, an' epoch of four years; all arising, evidently, from the perfection attributed
to the number four.
ii
The Customs and Religious Dogntas, of the Druids of England,
extracted from the History of Great Britain, by Robert
Henry, D. D.
'
When the Romans first invaded Britain, under Julius Caesar, the
inhabitants of it were tixmous, even among foreign nations, for their
superior knowledge of the principles, and the great zeal for the rites of
their religion.
To say nothing here of the profits which the Druids derived from
the administration of juétice, the practice of physic, and teaching the
sciences, (which were all in their hands,) they certainly received great
emoluments from those whom they instructed in the principles, and ini-
tiategl into the mysteries of their theology; especially from such of
them as were of high rank,
andéame
from foreign countries.
210 cuvrois uw DOOILI
Nothing can be amrrned with certainty, concerning the precise num-
ber of the British Druids, though, in general, we have reason to believe,
that they were very numerous. Both the Gauls and the Britons of
these times were much addicted to superstition; and among a
supersti-
tious people, there will always be many priests. Besides this, they enter-
tained an
opinion, as we are told by Strabo, which was
highly favor~
able to the increase of the priestly order. They were
fully persuaded,
that the greater number of Druids they had in their country, they would
obtain the more plentiful harvests, and the greater abundance of all
things. Nay, we are
directly informed by Caesar, that great numbers of
people, alluredbythe honors and privileges which they enjoyed, embraced
the discipline of the Druids of their own accord, and that many more
were dedicated to it by their parents. Upon the whole, therefore, wg
shall probably not be very much mistaken, if we suppose that the Bri-
tish Druids bore as
great a proportion in number to the rest of the peo-
ple, as the clergy in popish countries, bear to the laity, in the present
age.
The Druids, as well as the Gymnosophists of India, the Magi of
Persia, the Ghaldeans of Assyria, and all the other priests of antiquity,
had two sets of religious doctrines and opinions, which were
very diffe-
rent from one another. The one of these systems they communicated
only to the initiated, who were admitted into their own order, and at
their admission were solemnly sworn to keep that system of doctrines a
profound secret from all the rest of mankind. Besides this, they took
several other precautions to prevent these secret doctrines from transpir-
ing. They taught their disciples, as we are told by Mela, in the most
private places, such ascaoes of the earth, or the deepest recesses of the
thickest jinrests, that they might not be overheard by any who were not
initiated. They never committed any of these doctrines to writing, for
fear they should thereby become public. Nay, so jealous were some
orders of these ancient priests on this head, that they made it an inviola-
ble rule never to communicate any of these secret doctrines to women,
lest they should blah them. The other system of religious doctrines
and opinions was made public, being adapted to the capacities and super-
stitious humors of the people, and calculated to promote the honor and
opulence of the priesthood.
It cannot be expected, that we should be able to give a minute detail
of the secret doctrines of the Druids. The Greeks and Roman wri-
ters, from whom_alone we can receive information, were not perfectly
acquainted with them, and therefore they have left us
only some general
or 'rnx narfrns. , .211
hints, and probable conjectures about them, with which we must be con-
tented. The secret doctrines of our Druids were much the same with
those of the Gymnosopbists and Brachmans of India, the Magi of Per-
sia, the Chaldeans of Assyria, the priests of Egypt, and of all the other
priests of antiquity. All these are frequently joined together by ancient
authors, as
entertaining the same opinions in religion and philosophy.
which might be easily confirmed by an induction of particulars, The
tmth is, there is hardly anything more surprising in the history of man-
kind, than the similitude, or rather identity, of the opinions, institutions,
and manners of all these orders of ancient priests, though they lived
under such different climates, and at so great a distance from one ano-
ther, without intercourse or communication. This amounts to a demon-`
stration, that all these opinions and institutions flowed originally from
one fountain. The secret doctrines of the Druids, and of all these diffe-
rent orders of priests, were more agreeable to primitive tradition and
right reason, than their public doctrines; as
they were not under any
temptation, in their private schools, to conceal or disguise the truth.
It is not improbable that they still retained, in secret, the great doctrine
of one God, the creator and governor of the universe. This, which
was
originally the belief of all the orders of priests which we have
mentioned, was retained by some of them long after the period we are
now considering, [that is from the first invasion of England by the
Romans under Julius Oxesar, filly-Hve years before the Christian era, to
the arrival of the Saxons, A. D. 449,] and might therefore be known to
the Druids at this period. This is one of the doctrines which the Brech-
mans of India are sworn to keep secret :-
"
That there is one God, the
creator of heaven and earth." Cesar acquaint: us, that they taught
their disciples many things about the nature and perfections of God.
Some writers are of opinion, and have taken much learned pains to
prove, that our Druids, as well as the other orders of ancient priests,
taught their disciples many things concerning the creation of the world
-the formation of man--his primitive innocence and fel ieity--and his
linll into guilt and misery-the creation of angels-their rebellion and
expulsion out of Heaven-the universal deluge, and the final destruc-
tion of this world by Ere; and that their doctrines on all these subjects
were not very different from those which are contained in the writings
of Moses, and other parts of Scripture. There is abundant evidence
that the Dniids taught the doctrine of the immortality ofthe souls of men;
and Mela tells us, that this was one of their doctrines which they were
permitted to publish,for political rather than religious reasons. "There is
212 cus-ron um noonns
one thing which they teaoh their disciples, which hath been made known
to the common people, in order to render them more brave and fearless;
viz: "
that souls are immortal, and that there is another life after the
present." Caesar and Diodorus say, that the Druids taught the Pytha-
gorean doctrine of the transmigration of souls into other bodies. This
was perhaps their public doctrine on this subject, as
being most level to
the grbss conceptions of the vulgar. But others represent them as
teaching that the soul alter death ascended into some
higher orb, and
enjoyed a more sublime felicity. This was probably their private doc-
trine, and real sentiments!
But however agreeable to truth and reason, the secret doctrines of
the Druids might be, they were of no benefit to the bulk of mankind,
from whom they were
carefully concealed. For these artful priests, for
their own
mercenary ends, had embraced a maxim, which hath unhap-
pily survived them, that ignorance was the mother of devotion, and that
the common people were incapable of comprehending rational princi-
ples, or of being influenced by rational motives; and that they were
therefore to be fed with the coarser food of superstitious iixbles. This is
the reason assigned by Btrabo, for the fabulous theology of the ancients.
"
It is not possible to bring women, and the common herd of mankind
to religion, piety, and virtue, by the pure and simple dictates of reason.
It is necessary to call in the aids of superstition, which must be nou-
rished by fables and portents of various kinds. With this view there-
fore were all the fables of ancient theology invented, to awaken super-
stitious terrors in the minds of the ignorant multitude." As the Druids
had the same ends in view with the other priests of antiquity, it is highly
probable that their public theology was of the same
complexion with
theirs; consisting of a thousand mythological hxbles, conceming the
genealogies, attributes, oflices, and actions of their gods; the various
superstitious methods of appeasing their anger, gaining their favor, and
discovering their will. This farrago of hibles was couched in verse
iitll of figures and metaphors, andwas delivered by the Druids from lil-
tle eminence: (of which there are
many still remaining) to the surround-
_
. . _ _
, . _ _ _
ri.»§~'Zi' l¢En'§;§°§.'i', if.°',i.f'I"'¢i'}§1.§'i>i".§1§ff.i`.'1 w1i.,'i'Z°$ii"`.$; §iI§e.i'i#?,¥'ei.'iLi'r1§ iii
selection. lf e prefer the former, death transmits him from the earth into the circle of
felicity; but if he prefer the latter, death returns him to the circle of emu-sea: he is
made to do penance for a time in the_body of a beast or reptile; and then permitted to
re-assume the form of msn. According to the predominance of vice or virtue in his dis-
position, a
repetition of his probation may be necessary; but after a certain number of
transmigrauous h1s_oifences will be expxated,
haipsssions subdued, and the circle of
fehctty will receive him among its mhabxtants.- t.
or 'nn nantes. 213
ing multitudes. Wlh this fabulous divinity, these declaimers
intermixed moral precepts, for the regulation of the lives and manners
of their heurers; and were peculiarly warm in exhorting them to abstain
from doing any hurt or injury to one another; and to fight valiantly in
defence of their country. These pathetic declamations are said to have
made greet impression on the minds of the people, inspiring them with
a supreme veneration for their gods, an ardent love to their country,
an undaimted courage and sovereign contempt of death. The secret and
public theology of the Druids, together with their system of morals and
philosophy, had swelled to such an enormous size, in the beginning ef
this period, that their disciples employed no less than twenty years in
making themselves masters of all their diH`erent branches, and in getting
by heart, that infinite multitude of verses in which they were con.
tained.
The sun seems to have been both the most ancient and most univer-
sal object of idolatrous worship; insomuch, that perhaps there never
was
any nation of idolators, which did not pay some
homage to this
glorious ltuninary. He was worshipped by the ancient Britons with
great devotion, in many places, under the various names of Bel, Beli-
nus, Belatucardus, Apollo, Grannius, etc., all which names in their
language were
expressive of the nature and properties of that visible
fountain of light and heat. To this illustrious object of idolatrous
worship, those famous circles of stones, of which there are not a few
still remaining, seem to have been chiefly dedicated : where the Druids
kept thesaored _/ir¢,' the symbol of this divinity, and from whence, as
being situated on eminences, they had a full view of the heavenly
bodies.
As the moon appeared next in lustre and utility to the sun, there
can be no doubt, that this radient queen of heaven obtained a very
early and very large share in the idolatrous veneration of mankind.
The Gauls and Britons seem to have paid the same kind of worship
to the moon, as to the sun; and it hath been observed, that the circular
temples dedicated to these two luminaries were of the same construc-
tion, and commonly contiguous. But a
great number of the gods of
Gaul and Britain, as well as of Greece and Rome, had been men, vic-
torious princes, wise legislators, inventors of useful arts, etc.
fL|ke the ancient Jews and Persians, the Druids had a
sacredi inextinguishable tire,
which was preserved with the greatest care- At Kildare, (Ire and,) it was
guarded
from the m0ll remote antiquity by an order of
Dru.idessas,Dwho
were succeeded in later
times by an order of Christian Nuns."-(Higginis Celtic ruids, p. 283.)-Edu.
214 cvsrons nm noexas
They worshipped also several female divinities or gotiesses; as
Andraste, who is supposed to have been the same with Venus or Diana ;
Minerva, Ceres, Proserpine, etc. Nay, into such an abyss ofsuperstition
and idolatry were
they sunk, that according to Gildas, they had a greater
number of gods than the Egyptians; and there was
hardly a river,
lake, mountainfor wood, which was not supposed to have some divini-
ties, or genii residing in them.
As it hath always been one end of religious worship, to obtain cer-
tain favors from the objects of it, so
prayers and suplications for these
hvors, have always made a
part oflthe religious worship of all nations,
and in particular of that of the ancient Britons. When in danger,
they implored the protection of their gods; prayers were intermixed
with their praises, accompanied their sacrifices, and attended every act
of their religion. It seems, indeed, to have been the constant, invaria-
ble practice of all nations, the ,Jews not excepted, whenever they pre-
sented any oH`erings or sacrifices to their gods, to put up prayers to
them to be propitious to the persons by whom and for whom the olier-
ings or sacrifices were presented; and to grant them such particular
Btvors as they desired. Offerings of various kinds constituted an im-
portant part of the religion of the ancient Britons. This was a mode
of worship, which the Druids very much encouraged, and their sacred
places were crowded with those pious gifts. .
Mankind in all ages, and in every country, have betrayed a con-
sciousness of guilt, and dread of punishment from superior beings, on
that occount. In consequence of this, they have employed various
means to expiate the guilt of which they were conscious, and to
escape the punishment of which they were afraid. The means which
have been most universally employed by mankind for these ends, were
sacrifices of living creatures to their offended gods ; which constituted
a
very essential part of the religion of the ancient Britons, and of
almost all other ancient nations. The animals which were sacrificed
by them, as well as
by other nations, were such as they used for their
own food; which being very palatable and nourishing to themselves,
they imagined would be no less agreeable to their gods. These vic-
tims were examined bythe Druids with great care, to see that they
were the most perfect and beautiful in their several kinds; alter which
they were killed, with various ceremonies, by priests appointed for
that purpose. On some occasions the victims were consumed entirely
by fire upon the altar; but more commonly they were divided into
three parts, one of which was consumed upon the altar, another fell to
or 'ral naums. 215
the dare of the priests who officiated; and on the third, the person
who bought the sacrifice, feasted with his friends.
It had been well, if our British ancestors had confined tli selves
to the sacrificing of oxen, sheep, goats, and other animals; but we
have undoubted evidence, that they proceeded to the most horrid lengths
of cnielty in their superstition, and oH`ered human victims to their gods.
It had unhappily become an article in the Druidical creed, "
That
nothing but the life of man could atone for the life of man." In conse~
quence of this maxim, their altars streamed with human blood, and
great numbers of wretched men fella sacrifice to their barbarous super-
stition. They are said indeed to have preferred such as had been
guilty of thieft, robbery, and other crimes, as most acceptable to their
gods; but when there was a
scarcity of criminals, they made no scru-
plato supply their place with innocent persons. These dreadful sacri~
iices were olfered by the Druids for the public, at the eve of a danger-
ous var, or in the time of any national calamity; and for particular
persons of high rank, when they were afiiicted with any dangerous dis-
ease. By such acts of cruelty did the ancient Britons endeavor to
avert the displeasure, and the favor of their gods.
It seems to have been one article in the creed of the ancient Britons
and of all the other nations of antiquity, that the gods whom they wor-
shipped had the government of the world, and the direction of future
events in their hands; and that they were not unwilling upon proper
application, to discover these events to their pious worshippers.
"
The
gods (says Amianua) either from the benignity of their own natures,
and their love to mankind, or because men have merited this favor
from them, take a
pleasure in discovering impending events by various
indications." This belief gave rise to astrology, augury, magic, lots,
and an infinite multitude of religious rites and ceremonies; by which
deluded mortals hoped to discover the counsels of Heaven, with regard
to themselves and their undertakings. We learn from Pliny, that the
ancient_Britons were
greatly addicted to divinition, and excelled so
much in the practice of all its arts, that they might have given a lesson
to the Persians themselves.
'
The British sovereigns ot' this period had not much authority either'
in the making or executing the laws, which are the principal acts of
government in peaceful times. In that great relaxation of political
union and civil government which prevailed in times of peace, their reli-
gion seems to have been the chief bond of union among the British
tribes and nations; and the Druids, who were the ministers of that reli-
'
e
216 cusrols arm DOOIAS
gion, appear to have professed the sole authority of making, explaining,
and executing the laws; an authority to which the clergy of the church
of Rome long and eagerly aspired, but never fully obtained. One great
reason of the superior success of the Druids in their ambitious schemes
was this: the laws among the ancient Britons, and some other ancient
nations, were not considered as the decrees of their princes, but as the
commands of their gods; and the Dnrids were supposed to bathe only
persons to whom the gods communicated the knowledge of their corn-
rnands, and consequently the only persons who could declare and
explain them to the people. The violations of the laws were not con-
sidered as crimes against the prince or state, but as sins against Heaven ;
for which the Druids, as the ministers of Heaven, had alone the right
of taking vengeance. All these important prerogatives of declaring,
explaining, and executing the laws, the Druids enjoyed and exercised
in their full extent.
"
All controversies, says Caasar, both public
and private are determined by the Druids. If any crime iscommitted,
or
any murder perpetrated; if any disputes arise about the division of
inheritances, or the boundaries of estates, they alone have the right to
pronounce sentence; and they are the only dispensers both of rewards
and punishments. These ghostly judges had one engine which con-
tributed much to procure submission to their decisions. This was the
sentence of excommunioation or interdict, which they pronounced
against particular persons, or whole tribes, when they refused to sub-
mit to their decrees. The interdicts of the Druids were no less dread-
ful than those of the Popes, when their power was at its greatest height.
The unhappy persons against whom they were fulminated, were not
only excluded from all sacrifices and religious rites; but they were held
in universal detestation, as
impious and abominable; their company was
avoided as dangerous and con inating; they were declared incapable
of any trust or honor, put out he protection of the laws, and exposed
to injuries of every kiud.' A co dition which must have rendered life
intolerable, and have brought the most refractory spirits to submission.
The first day of May was a-great annual festival, in honor of Bel-
* Here doubtless is the source of the severity said to be enjoined upon the mason;
brotherhood towards backslidi or eontamacious members; but the tolerant irit of
the
'ge has, no
doubt, left the rig:-eats held out in this
caseila mere dead lety. §)asons
expe their rnembers or
immoral
eonductkand
so do all ot er
relifgious societies.
Thuzy
have a practice, however,tn this rd, t st ap ars rehensib e, which to pub
in their registers, the names of hmhon who Ezve his the misfortune td'be
exstiled
from the order. This tends to tix an indelible stigma upon the character of an o d-
ing brother, prejudicial not only to himself, but to
his family connections. The list con-
tammg names of delinquents, should never be permitted to go beyond the walls of the
lodge mom.-Edit.
'
or 'mn mturns. 217
inus, or the sun. On this day prodigious fires were kindled in all
their sacred places, and on the tops of all their cairns, and many sacri-
fices were offered to that glorious luminary, which now began to shine
upon them with great warmth and lustre. Of this festival there are still
some vestiges remaining, both in Ireland and in the Highlands of Scot*
land, where the first of May is called Beltain, that is, the fire of Bel, or
Belinus.' Midsummer-day and the first of November, were likewise
annual festivals; the one to implore the friendly infiuences of heaven
upon their fields, and the other to return thanks for the favorable sea~
sons and the fruits of the earth ; as well as to pay their yearly contri-
butions to the ministers of their religion. Nay, it is even probable, that
all their gods and goddesses, their sacred groves, their hallowed hills,
lakes, and fountains, had their several anniversary festivals; so that the
Druidish calendar was
perhaps as much crowded with holidays as the
popish one is at present. On these festivals, after the appointed sacri-
fices and other acts of devotion were finished, the rest of the time was
spent in feasting, singing, dancing and all kinds of diversions.
It was an article in the Druidical creed,
"
That it was unlawful to
build temples to the gods: or to worship them within walls and under
roofs." All their places of worship therefore were in the open air.
and generally on emincnces, from whence they had a full view of the
heavenly bodies, to whom much of their adoration was directed. But
that they might not be too much incommoded by the winds and rains,
distracted by the view of external objects, or disturbed by the intrusion
of unhallowed feet, when they were instructing their disciples, or per-
forming their religious rites, they made choice of the deepest recesses
of groves and woods for their sacred places. These groves were planted,
for that purpose, in the most proper situations, and with those trees in
which they most delighted. The chief of these was the strong and
spreading oak, for which tree the Druids had a
very high and super-
stitious veneration. These sacred groves were watered by some conse-
crated fountain or river, and surrounded by a ditch or mound, to prevent
the intrusion of improper persons# In the centre of the grove was s.
_
° I am inclined to think the author has mistaken the cause of these illurnmatmns,
and that they were
originally signals
for a general punticstion, mentioned by Pluche,
in which every thing su
ject to ecay, for the benefit of health, was consumed by hre,
on the first of February in Egypt. They were called the fest1va.l_ of the
djlre-brands;
which name
probably became changed, in consequence of the ongm an intention of
the custom having been lost.-Edit. _
1* Where (says masonry) did our ancient brethren meet, before lodges were erected?
Answer. Upon holy ground, or the highest hill, or_ lowest vale, or any other secret
place; the better to guard against
cowsnsgd
enemies."-Edit.
218 cusrol nun noone
circular area, inclosed with one or two rows of large stones set perpen-
dicular in the earth; which constituted the temple, within which the
altar stood, on which the sacrifices were offered. In some of their most
magnificent temples, as
particularly in that of Stone-henge, they had
laid stones of prodigious weight on the tops of the standing pillars,
which formed a kind of circle aloft in the air, and added much to the
grandeur ofthe whole.
The British Druids were in the zenith of their power and glory at
this period; enjoying an almost absolute authority over the minds and
persons oftheir own countrymen; and beinggreatly admired and resorted
to by strangers. But as the Romans gained ground in this island, the
power of the Druids gradually declined, until it was quite destroyed.
For that victorious people, contrary to their usual policy, discovered
every where a
very great animosity against the persons and religion of
the Druids. They deprived the Druids of all authority in civil matters-
and showed them no
mercy when they found them trangressing the laws,
or concerned in any revolt.
Such of the Druids as did not think fit to submit to the Roman
govemment, and comply with the Roman rites, fled into Caledonia'
Ireland, and the lesser British isles, where they supported their authority
for some time longer. Many of them retired into the isle of Anglesey.
which was a kind of little world of their own; and where the Arch
Druid of Britain is thought to have had his stated residence. But they
did not long remain undisturbed in this retirement. For Suetonius
Paulinus, who was
governor of Britain under Nero, A. D. 61, observ'
ing that the isle of Anglesey was the great seat of disaifection to the
Roman government, and the asylum of all who were forming plots
against it, determined to subdue it. Having conducted his army to the
island, and defeated the Britons, who attempted to defend it, though they
were animated by the presence, the prayers, and the exhortations of a
great multitude of Druids and Druidesses, he made a
very cruel use of
his victory. Not content with cutting down their sacred groves,
demolishing their temples, overturning their altars, he bumed many of
them in the fires, which they had kindled for sacritising the Roman pri-
soners, if the Britons had gained the victory. So many ofthe Druids
perished on this occasion, and the unfortunate revolt under Boadicia,
queen of the Iceni, which happened soon after, that they were never
able to make any considerable figure after this period.
But though the dominion of the Druids in South Britain was des-
troyed at this time, many of their superstitious practices continued
or 'tus nrttuns. 219
much longer. Nay so deeply rooted were these principles in the
minds of the people both of Gaul and Britain, that they not only baded
all the power of the Romans, but they even resisted the superior power
and divine light of the gospel for a long time alter they had embraced
the Christian religion. This is the reason that we meet with so many
edicts of emperors, and canons of councils, in the sixth, seventh, and
eight centuries, against the worship of the sun, moon, mountains, riv-
ers, lakes, and trees. This superstition continued even longer in Bri-
tain than in some other countries, having been revived first bythe
Saxons, and afterwards by the Danes. It is a suflicieut proof of this.
that so late as the eleventh century, in the reign of Canute, it was
found necessary to make the following law against those heathenish
superstitious:
"
We strictly discharge and forbid all our subjects to
worship the gods of the gentiles; that is to say. the sun, moon, fires,
rivers, fountains, hills or trees, and wood of any kind."
Extract from Dr. Lingardhv History of England.
To the veneration which the British Druids derived from their
sacerdotal character, must be added the respect which the reputation of
knowledge never fails to extort from the ignorant. They professed to
be the repositories of a sacred science, far above the comprehension of
the vulgar: and their schools were opened to none but the sons of illus-
trious families. Such was their fame, that the Druids of Gaul, to attain
the perfection of the institute, did not disdain to study under their
British brethren. They professed to be acquainted with the nature,
the power, and the providence of the divinity; with the figure, size,
formation, and final destruction of the earth; with the stars, their posi.
tion and motions, and their supposed influence over human affairs.
They practiced the art of divination and magic. Three of their
ancient altrologers were able, it is said, to foretel whatever should hap-
peubefore the day of doom. To medicine also'they had pretensions:
but their knowledge was principally confined to the use of the miscltoe.
vervain, savin, and trefoil; and even the edicacy of these simples was
attributed not the nature of the plants, but to the iniluence _of prayers
and isca/stations.
Frost the Edinburgh Encyclopedia.
The garments of the Druids were
remarkably long; and, when
employed in religious ceremonies, they always wore a white surplice.
220 cvsrols AND Domus
They generally carried a wand in their hands; and wore a kind of
ornament enchased in gold about their necks, called the Draid's egg.
Their neckswere likewise decorated with gold chains, and their hands
and arms with bracelets: they wore their hair very short, and their
beards remarkably long.
The Druids had one chief] or Arch-druid, in every nation, who
acted as high-priest, or pontfez mazimus. They had absolute authority
over the rest: and commanded, decreed, punished, etc. at pleasure.
He was elected from amongst the most eminent Druids, by a
plu-
rality of votes.
They worshipped the Supreme Being under the name of Esus, or
Hens," and the symbol of the oak; and had no other temple than a
wood or a grove, where all their religious rites were
performed. Nor
was any person admitted to enter that sacred recess, unless he carried
with him a chain, in token of his absolute dependence on the Deity-
The consecrated groves, in which they performed their religious
rites, were fenced round with stones, to prevent any persons entering
except through the passages left open for that purpose, and which were
guarded by _some inferior Druids, to prevent any stranger from intrud-
ing into their mysteries. 'I'hese groves were of different forms ; some
quits circular, others oblong, and more or less eapacious as the votaries
in the districts to which they belonged were more or less numerous.
____
In the chain carried by the ancient Britons, in the performonco of their religious rites,
is to bs seen tho archetye of the cable-tow, or tow-rope, worn about the nock of the aspi-
rsnt to masonic secrets; which is the subject of much ridicule among the uninitisted
profane, and, indeed, the fratemity themselves do not seem to be aware ot' its true
import. They are not conscious that this humble badge iss testimony of their belief in
God, their dependence on him, and their solemn obligations to devote themselves to his
will and service.
The candidate for masonic instmction should be looked upon as an untutored, wild
man of the woods: a mere child of nature, unregenerated and destitute of any knowl-
edge of the true God, as well as the conveniences and comforts of civilized life- For
_
° "
Hema says Pluche, assumed the casque and buckler, when levies or
recruits were
intended- e was
then called Har-its, _that is, the mighty,
þÿUl¢a{'0f1llI|%¢lbl¢,%'l0l8ll.¬!.
Job xv. 20.) The
Syriana
softened this word and pronounc Hazu. e find the
same word lmzis or mu, used to
si%it°y the terrible in war.
"The_Lord strong and
mighty, the Lord
mighg
in battle." s. xzuv. 8. Others
pronounced
it without aspira-
tion, and saidAru; o ers
wrth_a very harsh and roug
aspiration,
and pronounced
Wards. This
dfure
ot' Home m a warlike dress, became t e god of combats He
evidently is the sis ofthe inhabitants of Edesse, the Hczus, ol' the Gauls, the dres of
the Greeks, the Warts or Mars of the Sabmes and Latina."-Edit.
'
or 'rss nnnsns.
i
22|
thi reason, he is exhibited blindfolded, "Neither naked nor clothed," but about halfway
between both.
Here also may be seen the type of the masonic Tiler, an irjerior qdlcer, with a
drawn sword, to guard the lodge from the impertinent intrusion ot' cowans, or rather
oovins, and eaveedroppers. It will not be pretended that a sword is needed in this case;
it is a mereensign of omce, in conformity to the Druidical custom.
The following extracts from I-Iume's History of England, will
account for the slow introduction of Christianity among the ancient
Britons.
The most memorable event which distinguished the reign of this
great prince [Ethelbert,] was the introduction of the Christian religion
among the English Saxons. The superstition of the Gennans, particu-
larly that of the Saxons, was oi the grossest and most barbarous kind,
and being founded on
traditionary tales received from their ancestors,
not reduced to any system, nor
supported by_political institutions like
that of the Druids, it seems to have made little impression on its vota-
ries, and to have easily resigned its place to the new doctrine promul-
gated to them.
On the contrary, the constant hostilities which the Saxons main-
tained against the Britons, would naturally indispose them for receiv-
ing the Christian faith, when preached to them by auch inveterate ene-
rnies.
The Saxons, though they had been long settled in the island, seem
not as yet, [early part of the ninth century,] to have been much im-
proved beyond their German ancestors, either in arts, civility, know-
ledge, humanity, justice, or obedience to the laws. Even Christianity
though it opened the way to connections between them and the more
polished states of Europe, had not hitherto been very effectual in ban-
ishing their ignorance, or sollening their barbarous manners. As they
received that doctrine through the corrupted channels of Rome, it car-
ried along with it a great mixture of credulity and superstition, equally
destructive to the understanding and to morals. The reverence toward
saints and reliques, seems to have almost supplanted the adoration of
the Supreme Being. Monastic observances were esteemed more
meritorious than the active virtues; the knowledge of natural causes
was neglected, from the universal beliefof miraculous interposition and
judgments; bounty to the church atoned for every violence against
society: and the remorses for cruelty, murder, treachery. assassination,
and the more robust vices, were
appeased, not by amendment of life,
CUBTOKB AND DOGIAI
but by penances, servility to the monks, and an abject and illiberal
devotion. ' ' '
The ecclesiastics, in those days of ignorance, [mid-
dle of the ninth century,] made rapid advancesin the acquisition of pow-
er and grandeur; and in inculcating the most absurd and most inter-
ested doctrines. Not content with the donations of land made them by
the Saxon Princes and nobles, they had cast a wishful eye on a vast
revenue, which they claimed as
belonging to them, by a sacred and in-
defeasible title. However little versed in the scriptures, they had
been able to discover, that, under the Jewish law, a tenth of all the pro-
duce of land was conferred on the priesthood; and, forgetting what
they themselves taught, that the moral part only was obligatory on
Christians, they insisted that this donation conveyed a
perpetual prop-
erty, inherent, by divine right, in those who ofiiciated at the altar.
During some centuries, the whole scope of sermons and homilies was
directed to this purpose; and one would have imagined, from the gene-
ral tenor of these discourses, that all the practical parts of Christianity
were comprised in the exact and fathful payment of the tithes to the
clergy. Encouraged by their success in inculcating these doctrines,
they ventured farther than they were warranted, even
by the Levitieal
law, and pretended to draw the tenth ofall industry, merchandize, wages
of laborers, and pay of soldiers; nay, some canonists went so far as to
affirm, that the clergy were entitled to the tithe of the profits made by
courtesans in the exercise of their profession.
Slavery in England.
As slaves are not admitted into the society of Freemasons, it may be
interesting to some of my readers, unacquainted with the fact, to know
the vast extent of the evils of slavery in England at the time when this
institution is supposed to have been established, and the great propor-
tion of the inhabitants, particularly of the mechanical and laboring
classes, that were
consequently excluded from a
participation in its
charitable and benevolent purposes. I, therefore, give the following
extract from Dr. Henry's History of the different ranks of people, in
Britain, from the arrival of the Saxons, A. D. 449, to the landing of
William, duke of Normandy, 1066.
The lowest order of people among the Anglo-Saxons, and the other
nations of Britain, in this period, were slaves, who with their wives and
children were the property of their masters. Besides those who were
native slaves, or slaves by birth, others frequently fell into this wretched
or ras nauxns. 223
state, by various means; as, by an ill run at play,-by the fate of war,
or by forfeiting their freedom by their crimes, or even by contracting
debts which they were not able to pay. These unhappy people, who
were very numerous, formed an article, both of intemal and foreign
trade; only if the slave was a Christian, he was not to be sold to a Jew
or a Pagan; or if he belonged to the same nation with his master, he
was not to be sold beyond the sea. Slaves were, however, of various
kinds, among the Anglo-Saxons, employed in various works, and were
not all in an equal state of thraldom. Some of them were called villani,
or villains, because they dwelt at the villages belonging to their rnas.
ters, and performed the servile labors of cultivating their lands, to
which they were annexed, and transferred with these lands from one
owner to another. Others were domestic slaves, and performed various
offices about the houses and families of their masters. Some of these
domestic slaves of the king and the nobility, were
taught the mechanic
arts, which they practised for the benefit of their owners; and the
greatest number of the mechanics of those times seem to have been in
a state of servitude. Slaves were not supposed to have any family or
relations who sustained any loss by their death; and, therefore, when
one of them was killed by his master, no mulct was
paid, because the
master was supposed to be the only loser; when slain by another, his
price or manbote was paid to his master. In a word, slaves of the
lowest order, were considered merely as animals of burden, and parts
gf their owners' living stock. In the laws of Wales it is expressly
said :
"
That a master hath the same right to his slaves as to his cattle."
The horrors of this cruel servitude were
gradually mitigated ; and
many of those unhappy wretches were raised from this abject state to
the privileges of humanity. The introduction of Christianity contribu-
ted not a little, both to alleviate the weight of servitude, and diminish
the number of slaves. By the canons of the church, which were in
those times incorporated with the laws of the land, and of the same
authority, Christians were commanded to allow their slaves certain
portions of time to work for their own benefit, by which they acquired
property,-the bishops had authority to regulate the quantity ofwork to
be done by slaves,-and to take care that no man used his slave harshly
but as a fellow-Christian. The bishops and clergy recommended the
manumission of slaves as a most charitable and meritorious action;
and in order to set the example, they procured a law to be made, that
all English slaves of every bishop should be set at liberty at his death,
and that every other bishop and abbot in the kingdom should set three
224 onsroxs Aus DOGIAS
slaves at liberty. But after all these mitigations of the severities of
slavery, and diminuitons of the number of slaves, the yoke of servitude
was still very heavy, and the greatest part ofthe laborers, mechanics, and
common
people, groaned under that yoke at the conclusion ofthis period.
The next class or rank of people in Britain, in this period, was
composed of those who were called frilazin; who had been slaves, but
had either purchased, or
by some other means obtained their liberty.
Though these were in reality free-men, they were not considered as ofthe
same rank and dignity with those who had been barn free; but were
still in a more
ignoble and dependent condition, either on their former
masters, or on some new patrons. This custom, the Anglo-Saxons
seemed to have derived from their ancestors in Germany, among whom
those vho had been made free did not differ much in point of dignity
or importance in the state, from those who continued in servitude.
This distinction, between those who had been made free, and those
who enjoy freedom by descent from a long race of freemen, still pre-
vails in many parts of Germany; and particularly in the original seasts
of the Anglo-Saxons. Many of the inhabitants of towns and cities in
England, in this period, seem to have been of this class of men, who
were in a kind of middle state, between slaves and freemen.
The third class, or rank of people in Britain, in the period we are
now considering, consisted of those who were
completely free, and
descendedfrom a long race of freemen. This numerous and respecta-
ble body of men, who were called cearls constituted a middle class,
between the laborers and mechanics, who were
generally slaves, or
descended from slaves on the one hand, and the nobility on the other.
They might go vhere they pleased, and pursue any way of life that
was most agreeable to their humor.-vol. iii. p. 320
In the time of the Anglo-Saxon rule, says Dr. Lingnrd, not less
than two thirds of 'the population of Britain, existed in a state of sla-
very. And the sale and purchase of slaves publicly prevailed during
the whole of this period. These unhappy men vere sold like cattle
in the market. The Northumbrians, like the savages of Africa, are
said to have carried oil] not only their own
countrymen, but even their
friends and relatives, and to have sold them as slaves in the ports ofthe
continent. The men of Bristol were the last to abandon this nefarious
traffic. Their agents travelled into every part of the country; they
were instructed to give the highest price for females in a state of preg-
nancy; and the slave ships regularly sailed from that port to Ireland,
where they were secure of a ready and profitable market.
CHAPTER V.
OPINIONS AND OBSERVATIONS OF LEARNED WRITERS ON FREE'
IABONRY, WHO ARF IN FULL COMMUNION WITH THE ORDER.
lan ol' those writers on masonry who belong to the craft, either through ignorance
or design, hava mystitiad the subject in such a manner as to render it, not only unin-
telligible, but absolutely forbidding. The opinions, therefore, of those of tha order who
hava written with candor, and with a view ot' eliciting the truth, so far as they deemed
consistent with their obligations, are entitled to great consideration. Such are the
writings from which the following axtraota are made, or, at least, the passages selected
generally boar that character.
.___
Profs "
The Spirit of Masonry," by William Hutchinson. Carlisle,
(England) 1802.
I am induced to believe the name of mason has its derivation from a
language, in which it implies some strong indication, or distinction, of
the nature ofthe society; and that it has -no relation to architects.
The titles of masons and masonry most probably were derived from
the Greek language, as the Greek idiom is adopted by the Druids,
as is shown in many instances in the course of this work. When
they committed any thing to writing, they used the Greek alphabet-
and I am bold to assert the most perfect remains ofthe Druidical rites and
ceremonies are
preserved in the ceremonials of masons, that are to be
found existing among mankind. My brethren maybe able to trace
them with greater exactness than I am at liberty to explain to the pub-
lic. The original names may probably be derived from or
corrupted
ofMysterion, res arcana, mysteries, and Mystes, sac ris initiatus mysljs-
those initiated to sacred mysteries'
There is no doubt that our ceremonies and mysteries were derived
from the rites, ceremonies, and institutions ofthe ancients, and some of
them from the remotest ages.
' The English word mason has u vcry simple origin; it comos_t"roni mugon French;
"
From mas, an old word which signifies house; thus a mason isa
person who makes
houses."-(French Enc.) The awknrd connection which architecture is made to
bear
towards _the mysteries involved in freemasonr , is easily accounted for on the supposi-
tion, which is undoubtedly a fact, that thel)r|n`ds made use ofthe craft of masonry
mural; as a oovsr to their mystic
worahip.29
226 f
ornuorn or warns:
The ancient masonic record, [the examination of a
freemnsonby
Henry VI.) says, that masons knew the way of gaining an understand'
ing of Abrac. On this word all commentators (which I have yet read)
on the subject of masonry, have confessed themselves at a loss.
Abrac, or Abracar, was a name which Basilides, a
religious ofthe
second century, gave to God, who he said was the author of three hun'
dred and sixty-five.
'
_The author of this superstition is said to have lived in the time of
Adrian, and that it had its name aher Abmsan, or Arbazae, the deno-
mination which Basilides gave to the Deity --He called him the
Supreme God, and ascribed to him seven subordinate powers or angels,
who presided over the heavens :-and also, according to the number of
the days in the year, he held that three hundred and sixty-(ive virtues,
powers, or intelligences, existed as the emanations of God: the value, or
numerical distinctions ofthe letters inthe word, according to the ancient
Greek numerals, made 3651A B P A X A E.
I 2100 I 60 I 209.
,
With antiquaries, idbrazats is an
antique gem or stone, with the
word abraxaslengraven on it. There are a
great many kinds ofthem,
of various tigures and sizes, mostly as old as the third century. Per-
sons professing the religious principles of Basilides, wore this gem
with great veneration, as an amulet; from whose virtues, and the pro.
tection of the Deity, to whom it was consecrated, and with whose name
it was inscribed, the wearer presumed he derived health, pnosperity,
and safety. _
`
In the British museum is a
beryl stone, the form of an
egg: The
head is in camio, and reversed in taglio. The head is supposed to
represent the image of the Creator, under the denomination of Jupiter
Ammon 1-the sun and moon on the reverse, the Osiris and Isis of the
Egyptians; and were used hieroglyphically to represent the omnipo-
tence, omnipresence, and eternity of God. The star seems to be used
as a point only, but is an emblem of prudence, the third emanation of
the Basilidian divine person.,
`
'
In church history, Abraz is noted as a
mystical term, expressing
the Supreme God; under whom the Basilidians supposed three hun-
dred and sixty-five dependent deities; it was the principle ofthe gnostici
hierarchy; whence sprang their multitudes of Threons. From Abrazas
proceeded their
primoganial mind; from the primogmnial mind, the
logos or word; from the'logos, the Pltromesis or prudence: from
phronresis, Sophia and Dynamis, ,or wisdom and strength; from these
ou rnsrnsorunr. f
227
two proceededprincipalilies, powers, and angels; and from these other
angels, of the number of three hundred and sixty-five, who were
sup-
posed to have the govemment of so
many celemial orbs committed to
their care. The Gnostics were a sect of Christians having particular
tenets of faith; they assumed their name to express that new
knowledge
and extraordinary light to which they made pretensioiis; the word
gaostic implying an enlightened person.
'
Jupiter Ammon, was worshipped under the symbol of the nm. He
was
painted with ltofnr, because with the astronomers the sign Aries in
the zodiac is the beginning of the year: when the sun enters into the
house of Aries, he commences his annual course. Heat, in the Hebrew
tongue is Hammah, and in the prophet Isaiah Hummamin is
given as a
name of such images. The error of depicting him with horns, grew
from the doubtful signification of the Hebrew word, which .at once
expresses heat, splendor, or brightness, and also horns.
"'
The sun was also worshipped by the house of Judah, under the
name of Tsmsz, for Tamuz, saith Hierom, was Adonis, and Adonis is
generally interpreted the sun, from the Hebrew word Adan signifying
dominur, the same as Baal or Moloch, formerly did the lord or prince
of the planets. The month which we call June, was
by the Hebrews
called Tamuz; and the entrance ofthe sun into the sign cancer ,was in
Jews' astronomy termed Teln/qiha Tamuz, the revolution of Tarnuz.-
About the time of our Saviour, the Jews held it unlawful to pronounce
that essential name of God, Jehovah; and instead thereof; read Adonai,
to prevent the heathen blaspheming that holy name, by the adoption of
the name 'of Jove, etc. to the idols. Concerning Adonis, whom some
ancient authors call Osiris, there are two things remarkable: the death
or loss of Adonis, and the finding of him again: as there was greal
lamentation at his loss, so was there great joy at his finding. By the
death or loss of Adonis, we are to understand the departure of the
sun;
by his finding again, the return of that luminary. Now he seemeth to
depart twice in the year; first, when he is in the tropic of canwr, in the
farthest degree northward; and, secondly, when he is in the tropic of
capricorn, in the farthest degree southward. Hence we
may note, that
the Egyptians celebrated their Adonia in the month of November, when
the siin began to be farthest southward, and the house ofJudah theirs in
the month of June, when the sun was farthest northward; yet both
were for the sauie reasons. Some authors say, that this lamentation was
performed over an image in the night season; and when they had suf-
iciently lamented, a candle was brought into the room, which ceremony
228 omstons or warrnns
might mystically dunote the return of the sun, then the priest with a
soft voice, muttered this form of words,
"
Trust ye in God, for _oat
ofpains salvation is come unto us."-Godwg/n's Moses and Aaron.
Our ancient record, which 1 have mentioned, brings us
positive evi~
dence of the Pythagorean doctrine, and Basilidian principles, making
the foundation of o_ur religious and moral rules.
As the servants of one God, our predecessors professed the temple,
wherein the deity approved to be served, was not the work of n1en's
hands. In this the Druids copied after them: the universe, they con-
fessed, was filled with his presence, and he was not hidden from the
most distant quarters of creation: they looked upwards to the heavens
as his throne, and wheresoever under the sun, they worshipped, they
regarded themselves as being in the dwelling place of the divinity, from
whose eye nothing was concealed. The ancients not only refrained
from building temples, but even held it utterly unlawful; because they
thought no
temple spacious enough for the sun, the great symbol of the
deity.
"
lllundus universu.r est templum solis"" was their maxim; they
thought it profane to set limits to the infinity of the deity ; when, in later
ages, they built temples,' they lgh them open to the heavens, and
unroofed. _
As we derived many of our mysteries and moral principles from the
doctrines of Pythagoras, who had acquired his learning in Egypt,and
others from the Phzenicians, who had received the Egyptian theology
in an
early- age it is not to be wondered that ve should adopt
symbols, to represent or
express the attributes of the Divinity.
The third emanation of Abrax, in the Gnostic hierarchy, was
Phronwsisfthe emblem of Prudence, which is the first and most exalted
object that demands our attention in the Lodge. It is placed in the
centre, ever to be present to the eye of the mason, that his heart may be
attentive to her dictates, and steadfast in her laws ;-for prudence is the
rule of all virtues ;-prudence is the path which leads to every degree
of propriety ;-prudence is the channel whence self-approbation flows
for ever :-she leads us forth to worthy actions, and as a Blazing Star,
enlighteneth us
through the dreary and darksome paths of this life.1'
°
The_maxim of the ancients. that "
The 'whale world was the temple q/'the sun,"
gee not
igzdicate
that they looked upon the sun as the symbol of the Deity, but as the
ext use
tylt is a difficult task for masons to make out an
thing respecting this blazing
star, that has the least semblance of reason. They find'it amnng the
symbols, but are
not aware how it came there, and endeavor to make the best ot' it they sstbly can.
The reader will recollect that it is Anubis the do -star, who wamed the yptians to
retire from the plain with their produce, to avoid the destructive otlbcts of inunda-
hon.
ON rnsslasosnv. 229
That innocence should bethe professed principle ofa mason, occa-
sions no astonishment, when we consider that the discovery of the
Deity leads us to the knowledge of those maxims wherewith he may
bewell pleased. The very idea ofa God, is succeeded with the belief,
that he can
approve of nothing that is evil; and when first our prede-
cessors
professed themselves servants of the Architect of the world, as
an
indispensable duty, they professed innocence, and put on white
raiment, as a
type and characteristic of their conviction, and of their
being devoted to his will. The Druids were
npparelled in white, at
the time of their sacrifices and solemn offices. The Egyptian priests of
Osiris wore snow-white cotton in the service ol Ceres, [Isis] under whom
was symbolized the gift of Providence in the fruits of the earth-and
the Grecian priests also put on white.
Every degree of sin strikes the rational mind of man with some
feelings of seltlcondemnation. Under such conviction, who could call
upon, or claim the presence of a
Divinity, whose demonstration is good
works 'l-Hence are men naturally led to conceive, that such Divinity
will accept only of works of righteousness. Standing forth forthe
approbation of heaven, the servants of the _first revealed God, bound
themselves to maxims of purity and virtue; and as masons, we
regard
the principles of those who were the first worshippers ofthe true God,
we imitate their apparel, and assume the badge of innocence.
In this pretension of the author, that the predecessors of the freemasons were the
first to discover the true God, an allusion is evidently made to the Egyptians, who
seem to have been great boastersin this respect.
"
The most ancient of the profane historians, and he who speaks in the most learned
manner of the religion of the Egyptians, is Herodotus. The Egyptians, according to
him, are the tirst people in the world who knew the names of the twelve great gods, and
from them the Greeks had leamt them. They too are the Erst who erected altars to
the gods, made representations of them, raised temples to them, and had priests for
their service, excluding wholly the other sex from the priesthood. Never was any peo-
ple, continues he, more religious. They even had two sorts of writing, the one commorg
and the other ue.-red ; and this last is set apart solely for the mysteries of religion.
Their priests shane their 'whole body every third day. Clothsd in linen, with sandals
made of the plant papirus, they are not allowed to wear other apparel, nor other cover-
ing for their fest- They are obliged to bathe themselves in cold water twice s day, and
as often by night. So scrupulously exact must the priestsbe in the choice oftha victims
which they are to offer to their gods, that they are punished with death if they other up
any which have not the qualities requisite." Mayo's Hyth. v- ll. p. 21.
The color ot' mhdis being made a symbol of purity and innocence probably swes its
origin to the following absurd notions of the ancients :
230 _
or>n|1oNs_or warrsns
"
As the constellations of _summer accompanied the season of long, warm and
ttnelouded days, and that of fruits, and harvests, they were considered as the powers Of
light, fecundity and creation, and by a transition from a physical to amoral sense, they
became genii, angels ot' science, of beniiieence, of purity and virtue: and as the constel-
lations of winter were connected with long nights and polar fogs, they were the genii
of darkness, of destruction, of demh, and, by transition, angels ol' ignorance, ot' wicked-
ness, of sin and vice.
' '
"Now, as the earthly states, the greater part despotic, had already their monarchs,
and as the sun was apparently the monarch of the skies, the summer hemisphere.
empire of light, and its constellations, a people of while angels, had for king an enlight-
ened God, a creator intelligent and good. And as every rebel faction must have its
chiral] the heaven of winter, the subterraneous empire of darkness and woe, and its stan,
a people of black angels, giants or demons, had for their chief a malignant genius, whose
character was ~applied by different people to the constellation which to them was the
most remarkable.-Ruins p. 144-6.
"
The priests, says Dupuis, clothe themselves in white, a colorassigned to Amman
or the god oflight."
The superstition, or rather affectation in regard to this color, is still retained among
some Christian sects, whose priests cover themselves with this pagan, outward show of
unty.
p
It is somewhat remarkable that white as an emblem ot' purity and innocence should
have descended to the oborigines of America. The prophet, who accompanied Black
Hawk and other chiefs to Washington as hostages for the faithful performance of the
treaty made with their nation, (1833) thus addressed the President of the United States:
"
Father I have come this day clothed in while (pointing to his leather doublet) in
order to
prove that my intentions are of the most pacific nature, and (raising his hands
to heaven) I call upon the great spirit of myself and forefathers to witness the parity of
my heart on this occasion."
In this country, [England] under the Druids, the first principles of
our profession most assuredly were taught and exercised.
We are bold to say, that if we trace the antiquity of masonry on
operative principles, and derive such principles from the building of
Solomon's Temple, we may as well claim all the professions which
Hiram excelled in.
`
Assuredly the secrets revealed to us were for other uses than wha,
relate to labouring up masses of stone; and our
society, as it now
stands, is an association on
religious and charitable principles; which
principles were instituted and arose upon the knowledge of God.
We ground a
judgment of the nature of our
profession on our cere-
monials, and flatter ourselves every mason will he convinced that they
have no relation to building and architecture, but are emblematical, and
imply moral, and spiritual, and religious tenets. 'It appears self-evi-
dent, that the situation of the Lodge, and its several parts, are copied
on rnmarraeomu. 231
after the Tabernacle and Temple, and are representative of the universe
implying that the universe is the temple in which the Deity is every
where present# our mode of teaching the principles of our profession,
is derived from the Druids; our maxima of morality, from Phythago-
ras; our chief emblems, orignally from Egypt; to Basilides we owe the
science of Abrax, and the characters of those emanations of the Deity
which we have adopted, and which are so necessary for the main-
tenance ofa moral society.
Our Lodges are not now appropriated to worship and religions
ceremonies; we meetas a social society, inclined to acts of benevolence,
and suffer the more sacred offices to rest uuperformed. Whether this
neglect is to our honor, we presume not to determine; in our present
state professing ourselves free and accepted masons, we are
totally
severed from architects, and are become a set of men working in the
duties of charity, good ofhces, and brotherly love.
From the ancient rites and ceremonies which we have laid before
you, it will be easylor you to trace the origin of our own rites, and to
discover the foundations on which our
society is formed.
We have explained to you, that the structure of the Lodge is a
pat-
tern of the universe, and that the first entry of a mason represents the
first worship ofthe true God.» We have retained the Egyptian symbols
ofthe sun and moon, as the emblems of God's power, eternity, omnipre-
sence, and benevolence; and thereby we
signify, that we are the chil-
dren of light, and that the first foundation of our
profession, is the
knowledge and adoration of almighty Mesoumneo, who seateth himself
in the centre of the heavens 1-we derive from the Druids many of the
Amonian rites; and have saved from oblivion, many of their religious
rites, in our initiation to the first degree of masonry, which otherwise
would have slept in etemity. These we seem to have mixed and
tempered with the principles of the Essenes, who are a sect as
ancient as the departure of the children of Israel out of Egypt. The
philosophy of the Egyptians, and the manners, principles, and customs
of the Hebrews, were introduced to this land by the Phcenicians, and
make a
part of our
profession, so far as
they are
adapted to the wor hip
of Nature's great Author, unpolluted by idolatry.
We hold our
grand festival on the day of St. John, which is mid-
summer day; in which we celebrate that season when the sun is in its
i
fact rs, the tabernacle, as wel as the temple of Solomon, appear to have been con-
structed upon the same plan as the temples of the ancients.
232 ornuoru or wnrraus
greatest altitude, and in the midst of its prolific powers: the great type
of the omnipotmce of the Deity.
`
We are not to search for our antiquity in the mythology of
Greece or Rome, we advance into remoter ages. Religion was the
original and constituent principle; a
recognition of the Deity-Hrs! dis-
tinguished us from the rest of mankind ; our predecessors searched for
the divine asence in the wonders displayed on the face of nature-they
discovered supreme wisdom in the order of the universe-in the stel-
lary system they traced the power, in the seasons and their changes the
bounty, and in animal life the benevolence of God; every argument
brought with it conviction, and every object conirrnation, that all the
wonders displayed to the eye of man, were only to be produced by some
superlative being, and maintained by his superintendency. It was
from such conviction, that men began to class themselves in religious
societies. _
'
'I may venture to assert, it was the only consequence which could
ensue, whilst men, were looking up to the Divinity through his works,
that they would conclude the sun was the region, where, in celestial
glory, the Deity reposed. _
_
We discover in the Amonian and Egyptian rites, themost perfect
remains of those originals, to whom our
society refers. We are told they
esteemed the soul of man to be an emanation of the Supreme, and a
spirit detached from the seraphic bands, which filled the solar mansions,
and surrounded the throne of majesty. They looked up to this grand
lumina ry, as the native realm from whence they were sent on thi!
earthly pilgrimage, and to which they should, in the end, return; the
figure ofthe sun was at once a memorial of their divine origin, a badge
.of the religious faith they professed, and a monitor of those principles,
which should conduct and ensure their restoration. How soon, or to
what extreme, superstition and bigotry debased this emblem, is a
research painful and unprofitable. t
~
We masons have adopted three particular characteristics, secrecy,
charity, and 'brotherly love. Our sense of these great duties has been
explained, and of what especial import they are to masons; or to mel
who have separated themselves from the rest of mankind, and professed
they are servants of Him who mletlt in the midst of heaven.
If our ceremonies `mean not the matter which has been expressed;
if they imply not the moral and religious principles which we have
endeavored to unveil; it may be asked of you, masons, what they do
imply, import, or
indicate?
ox rnmnsouav. 233
Genius of Ilfasonrg/.
Samuel L. Knapp, Esq., in a work entitled "
The Genius of Masonry,
or a Defence of the Order," in taking notice ofthe late discoveries made
by Champollion and others, ofthe hidden wisdom of the Egyptians, by
ascertaing a clue to the understanding of their hieroglyphics, observes 1
"These distinguished men who have embarked with so much of
that zeal which is necessary for the accomplishment of any great object,
will, we trust, be permitted to entirely draw the veil of Isis which has
covered her mysteries so
long that the world began to despair of ever
seeing the glories it concealed. Behind this veil of Isis I have long
thought was concealed our masonic birth. I now fully believe it.
There was the cradle of masonry: no matter by what name it was
called: no matter by whom it was enjoyed."-p. 99.
An Ahiman Rezon ;"
By brother Frederick Dalcho, M. D., Charleston, S. C., IKM. Containing extracts
from an Oration delivered by him, before the grand lodge of South Carolina, 1801 1
from which the following is taken.
In the earliest age of man, when the human mind, untainted by
the vices and prejudices of later times, unsihackled by the terrors and
anathemas of contending sectaries, and the machinations of biggotted
priests, the God of nature rcceived the homage of the world, and the
worship of his adorable name constituted the principal employment of
him, to whom the mysteries of nature were first revealed. After the
deluge, the worship of the Most High was obscured by clouds of
imagery, and deliled by idolatry.
In many of the ancient nations of the east, their religious rights
were
enveloped by the priests, in allegories, emblems, hieroglyphics,
and mystic devices, which none could understand, but those of their
own order. From these ancient examples, the mysteries of the craft
have been wisely concealed from the vulgar; and under cover of vari-
ous well adapted symbols, is conveyed to the enlightened freemason an
uniform and well connected system of morality.
I am of opinion that the ancient society of free and accepted
masons was never a
body of architazts; that is, they were not, origi-
°_'I'he book ofeonsritution is usually denominated, Ahiman Rezan: which is acor-
ruptton of three Hshrew words, schi man ratzmt, which llglllm the thoughts, or opm-
ions, ofa true and faithful brother.
30
234 ortruons or warrzns
nally, embodied for the purposes of building, but were associated for
moral and religious purposes. It must be evident to every freemason,
that the situation ol' the lodge, and its several parts, are
copied after the
tabernacle and temple ; and represent the universe as the temple
in which the Deity is every where present. Our manner of teaching
the principles of our mystic profession is derived from the Druids, who
worshipped one supreme God, immense and infinite; dur maxima of
morality from Pythagoras, who taught the duties we owe to God as our
creator, and to man as our fellow creature; many of our emblems are
originally from Egypt; the science ofAbrax, and the characters of those
emanations of the Deity, which we have adopted,are derived from Bas-
ilides.
The word Mason is derived from the Greek, and, literally, means
a member of a religious sect, or one who is professedly devoted to the
worship ofthe Deity."
As humanity ever
springs from true religion, every religious sect.
which acknowledges the Supreme Being, are
equally respected by the
order. Religious disputes are banished from our societies, as
tending
to sap the foundations of friendship, and to undermine the basis ofthe
best institutions. The great book of nature is revealed to our
eyes ;
and the universal religion of her God, is what we
profess, as freema~
sons.
Dr. Dalcho published a second edition of his Ahimnn Rczon, with azlditimw and
explanatory notes, in 1822. And it may not be improper to state, that previously to
this period he had taken clerical orders: which perhaps caused him to examine the
masonic institution more critically than he had done, to ascertain if it contained any-
thing inconsistent with his sacerdotal functions. At any rate, a change in his opinions
on some points, seems to have taken place; which are set forth in his explanatory
notes, from which the following extracts are taken.
Origin of Freemasonry.
The principles of our order, are coeval with the creation, Founded
upon the laws of nature, and the commands of God, nothing had pre-
cedence of them in time. The origin of the society, however, as an
institution distinct from other associations, is involved in impenetrable
obscurity. And notwithstanding the learning and zeal ot many indus-
trious masons, it will, I fear, forever remain unknown. Various
li_i
'° The author here ad0pts_Hutchin|on's conjecture, upon trust, which has been shown
to be erroneous.
os rarzsnuisounv. 235
indeed, have been the speculations on this subject; and great has been
the labor expended by many "good men and true," to prove that every
man of note, from Adam down to the present day, were freemasons.
But such round assertions are beneath the dignity of the order, and
would not be urged by men of letters. Neither Adam, nor Noah, nor
Nimrod, nor Moses, nor Joshua, nor David, nor Solomon, nor Hiram,
nor St. John the Baptist, nor St. John the Evangelist, belonged to the
masonic order, however congenial their principles may have been.
It is unwise to assert more than we can
prove, and to argue against
probability. Hypothesis in history is absurd. There is no record,
sacred or
profane, to induce us to believe that these holy and distin-
guishcd men, were freemasons, and our traditions do not go back to
their days. To assert that they were freemasons, may "make the vul-
gar stare," but will rather excite the contempt, than the admiration of
the wise. If St. John was a freemason, then it is impossible that Solo-
mon should have been one, because his lodges could not have been
dedicated to St. John, who was not born until a thousand years after
the first temple was built, therefore, there would have been in St. John's
day, what there was not in Solomon's, which would be contrary to our
known principles. And besides if both these personages were freema-
sons, then we have the evidence that Solomon was the greater mason
of the two, and our
lodges should be dedicated to him, instead of St.
John. But if Solomon was a freemason, then there could not have
been a freemason in the world, from the day of the creation, down to
the building of the temple, as must be evident to every master-mason.
The excellence of our institution depends upon its usefixllness, and
not its antiquity. It is sufficient for us to know, that the origin of the
institution is so remote, that the date is lost in the lapse of ages, and
can now only be indistinctly traced by occasional records, and the tra-
ditions ofthe order.
Dr. Priestly, in his remarks on Mr. Dupuis' Origin of all Religions,
classes the freemasons and Gypsies together. He aflirrns that, "
they
have formed themselves into a
body, though of a very heterogeneous
kind, but are not able to give any rational account of their origin."
(Institutes of Moses page 336.) The philosopher has certaily placed us
in bad company, by classing us with these vagrants ; but his inference is
nevertheless true. The purposes for which our institution was originally
organized, are now as unknown as the date of its origin. Whether it
was
designed for architectural purposes, for the improvement ofthe arts
and sciences, or for the preservation of revealed religion, by significant
symbols and impressive rights, in an idolatrous and barbarous age
136 OPINIONS or warraas
cannot now be ascertained. Perhaps all these objects gave rise or
perfection to the institution.
When the I-liudoos claim for their Shastras an
antiquity of more
than two millions of years; when the Chaldeans boast of observations
of the stars for more than four hundred and seventy thousand years,
and Manetho Sebennyta, the high priest of Heliopolis, claims for the
Egyptians, a national existence of near
lil`ty~four thousand years, who
would hesitate to pronounce them all fabulous? Let freemasons, then,
give up the vain boastings, which ignorance has foisted into the order,
and relinquish a fabulous antiquity rather than sacrifice common sense.
Let us trace our principleszto Adam, or even to Godlhimselfi with reve.
rence be it spoken, but let us not excite the pity of the wise, by calling
Adam a freemason. This will not lessen the dignity or
importance of
the institution, but rather add to its celebrity by giving it a reasonable
origin.
'
`Mr. Clinch supposes freemasonry was introduced into Europe by means of the
Gypsies. (See Anthologia Hibemica, for April, 1794, p. 280)
Although this is avcry ridiculous supposition, itis highly probable that the leaders of
the first emigrants ol' this tribefrom Egypt, had been initiated into the lesser mysteries;
and perhaps copied in part from them the forms of the oath which they administer to
their initiates.
"
Every person who was not guilty of some public crime, could obtain admission to
the lesser mysteries. Those vagabonds called Egyptian priests in Greece and Italy,
required considerable sums for initiations; and the Gypsies practise similar mummeries
to obtain money."-(DePuaw's Egypt, vol. 2. p. 42.)
The customs of the latter, and the oath which they impose upon each other, has
been preserved by Bailey; from which, as a curious antique, I make the following
extract.
The Gypsies derive their origin and name from the Egyptians, a people heretofore
very famous for astronomy, natural magic, the art of divination, etc., and therefore,
are great pretendars to fortune-telling.
It is the custom of these vagrants to swear all that are admitted into their fratemity,
by a fomi and articles annexed toit, administered by the principal Maunderor roguish
Strowler, and which they generally observe inviolably. The manner of admitting a
new member, together with the said oath and articles, are as follows :
The name ot' the person is first demanded, and a nick-name is then given him in its
stead, by which he is ever alter called, and in time, his other name is quite forgotten_
Then standing up in the middle of the fraternity, and directing his face to the Dimbar-
Damber, or prince of the gang, he swears in this manner, as is dictated to him by on°
of the most experienced.
"I, Crank-Cutiin, do swear tobe a true brother, and will in all things obey the
commands of the great Tawney Prince, and keep his counsel, and not divulge the
secrets ol' my brethren.
I will never leave nor forsake this company, but observe and keep all the times
of appointments, either by day, or by night, in any place whatsoever.
I will not teach any one to cant; nor will I disclose ought of our mysteries to
them, although they Hog me to death.
ON ra 1-:snrasos av. 237
I will take my Prince's part against all that shall oppose him, or any of us, accor-
ding tothe utmost of my ability; nor will I suffer him, or any belonging to us, to be
abused by any strange Abrams, Rumers, Hookers, etc., but will defend him or them
as much as I can against all other outlyers whatever.
I will not conceal ought I win out of Libkins, or from the Ruifmans; but will pre-
serve it for the use of the company."
The centers have, it seems a tradition, that from the three first articles of this oath,
the first founders of a certain boastful, worshipful fratemity, who pretend to derive their
origin from the earliest times, borrowed of them, both the hint and form of their estab-
lishment. And that their pretended derivation from the tirat Adam, is a forgery, it
being only from the first Adam-Tiler.
The same author has given the meaning ofthe cant terms here used as follows:
Abrams; shabby beggars. Rutllers; notorious rogues. I-Iookers; petty thieves,
Libkin; a house to lie in. Ruffmans; the woods or bushes. Adam-Tiler; the com-
rade ol' a pick-pocket, who receives stolen goods or money, and scour: off with them.
Festival of St. John the Evangelist.
In every country where freemasonry is encouraged, their anniver-
sary festival is celebrated with great ceremony. lt is a
day set apart
by the brotherhood, to worship the_ Supreme Architect of heaven and
earth ; to implore his blessings upon the great family of mankind ; and
to partake of the feast of brotherly affection. All who can
spare a
day
from their necessary avocations, should join in this celebration. The
freemasons of South Carolina have chosen St. John the Evange1ist's
day, as their anniversary.
The annual festival of the order, is celebrated in some places on St.
John the Baptist's day, (June 24.) and in others on St. John the Evan-
gelist's day, (Dec. 27.) The latter has been preferred in South Caro-
lina, on account of the heat of our climate. But why either of them
should be chosen in preference to any other day, is, perhaps, difficult
to explain. I know of no connection between these eminent "
Saints
and Servants" of God, and the lodge of freemasons. I now 'write as a
minister of that God, to whose honor and glory, my life is devoted, and
to whom I must, ere long, give an account of my stewardship. I think
I run no hazard of contradiction in saying that if either of these most
holy men, were now permitted to revisit the earth, they would greatly
wonder at finding their names enrolled as
patrons of an institution, of
which they had never heard. And there can be no question of the
fact, that if they were now to apply for admission into any of our
lodges, they would be utterly incapable of "
working their way in."
238 ormroivs or WRITERS
The annual masonic festival in England, is held "
on the anniver-
sary ofthe feast of St. John the Baptist, or of St. George, or on such
other day as the grand master may appoint." Their reasons for select-
ing these dnys, are sufficiently expressive of their opinions. '1`he feast
of St. John the Baptist, occurs on the 24th June, when, in that climate,
the weather is not too warm for a
public procession; and St. George,
whose anniversary is held April 23d, is the patron Saint of England.
This, to me, is clear evidence, that the anniversary of St. John was not
selected, because they deem him to have been a frcemason.
I am, hovever, of opinion, that we act visely in taking St. John the
Evangelist, for the patron of our order. He is worthy of imitation,
both in his principles and conduct. But, as it has been well said of old
Amicus Plato, Amicus Socrates, sed magis amica veritas; so I may truly
say, that I highly venerate the masonic institution, under the fullest
persuasion, that where its principles are aclrnowledged, and its laws and
precepts obeyed, it comes nearest to the Christian religion, in its moral
effects and influence, than any institution with which I am
acquainted.
At the same time, I hold truth to be too sacredly connected with my
ollice and character, to allow me to approve of the custom, now gene-
rally adopted, of dedicating our lodges
"
to God and the holy St. John,"
as joint patrons of the society. I hold it to be irreverent, to unite the
name of any created being, with the uncreated Godhead. The name
of God is surely sufficiently honorable and powerful as the patron of
our institution, without the°additionof any other. If the lodge be dedi-
cated to God, let it be dedicated to him alone. He can bless all our
"
work begun, continued, and ending" in Him, without the assistance
of St. John. But, if itbe necessary to have St. John, let us take him
alone, as our
tutelary head, or unite with him any of the old worthies,
usually considered as masons.
It is a well known fact, as, before observed, that the early Christians very judi-
eiously adopted, not only the festival days of the pagans, but even their manner of
celebrating them. This was doubtless done with the view of rendering the change in
the new religion less perceptible, and consequently less shocking to the prejudices
of those who adhered to the ancient instition. Among the principal festivals of the
pagans were those of the solstices and equinoxes.
De Pauw, in his Philos. Diss. on the Egyptians and Chinese, observes, that "Besides
the Sabbath, which thc Egyptians seem to have observed very regularly, they had a
fixed festival at each new moon; one at the summer and one at the winter solstice, as
well as the vemal and autumnal equinoxes. All othersexceptthat at the rising of Sirius
os 1=ar:1»:»tAsoNax'. 239
were changeable, and dependent on certain combinations known to the priests only,
who transferred them arbitrarily, whenever they occurred on tha neomenia, the equi-
nox, or the solstice."--Vol. 2. p. 159.
"The festival of the 25th of December, (says Higgins, in his Celtic Druids, p. l65.)
was celebrated by the Druids in Britain and Ireland, with great _/if-es lighted on the
tops of the hills. This festival was repeated on the twelfth day, or on what wo call
the Epiphany. In some parts the fires are still continued. The errergv-sem, and PBI'-
ticularly the missletoe, which are used sllover the country, and even in London, in
this festival, betray its Druidical origin.
"On the 25th of December, at the tirst moment of the day throughout all the ancient
world, the birth day of the god Sol was celebrated. This was the moment, when,
after the supposed winter solstice, and the lowest point of his degradation below our
hemisphere, he began to increase, and gradually to ascend, At this moment, in all the
ancient regions, his birth day was kept; from India to the ultima Thule, these ceremo-
nies partook of the same character: every where the god was feigned to be hom, and
his festival was celebrated with great rsjoicings." _
The tires on the hills are smblematical of the power and ardnr of the sun, when
he should have ascended to the upper regions, which he was then approaching; and
the evcrgreens are typical of the effect that would be produced in the vegetable king-
dom by that event.
What possible allusion can the display of evcrgreens at Christmas have, unless that
here suggested 1 The custom is unddubtedly borrowed from the Druids, and is contin-
ued without the least applicability to the Christian religion. Masonic lodges, moreover,
are decorated in this manner on thc 27th of December, which is eorroborntive of the
opinion here advanced.
The Roman and Episcopal churches still retain an astronomical cast, as is appa-
rent both in their _fired and moccablefeasts.
"
The principal of the moveable feasts i'
Easter, which governs the rest. Easter was an idol or goddess of the Saxons, in
honor of whom, sacrifices were offered about the time ofthe year which isnow obser-
ved by the church in commemoration of our Saviour's resurrection. It is kept on the
first Sunday after thefull moon, succeeding the vernal equinox." (Bailey.
The birth days of the two St. Johns, it appears, are fixed by the framers of the
church ritual, at the periods of the solstices. These of course were observed as festi-
val days by the Druidical masons ; and as they were celebrated openly with pompous
processions, etc., it became necessary for them to use every precaution to prevent a
discovery of the real cause of these demonstrations ofjoy. With this view they appro-
priated the names of the feasts or festivals that had been assumed for them by the
Catholic Church. But while they ostensibly honored the two St. Johns, they were
mentally paying homage to their favorite divinity, the sun.
Signs and Symbols,
Illustrated and explained, ina course of Lectures on Freemasonry. By George Oliver
Vicar of Clee, etc.-Grimsby, 1826.
Under what denomination soever our Science has been known in the
world; under what form soever it may have been practised; it has
240 orsioxs or wnrrrns
always been understood to have a distinct reference to the worship of
God, and the moral culture of man.
Thecharacteristic propensities ofa people, the state oftheir progress
from barbarism to civilization; their intellectual attainments, the charac-
ter of their government, or their intercourse with other nations, might
and did create some distinction in the ceremonial, but the great essen-
tials, broadly struck out by the Cabiric priests, did never
vary.
In a word, the mysteries were the only vehicles of religion through~
out the whole idolatrous world; and it is probable that the very name
of religion might have been obliterated from amongst them, but for the
support it received by the periodical celebrations, which preserved all
ihe forms and ceremonies, rites and practices of divine worship; and
the varieties of custom in this particular, constituted the sole difference
betwixt the masonry (shall I so call it 2) of different nations. Where-
soever the mysteries were introduced, they retained their primitive
ibrm, adapted 'to the customs and usages of the national religion: and
if varied in some unimportant points, it was to commemorate certain
extraordinary performances of the tutelary deities, or to perpetuate some
remarkable circumstance attending their first institution in a
particular
country. Hence the same, or similar ceremonies, which were applied
to Osiris and Isis in Egypt, the great source of secret and mysterious
rites, (Lucian de Dea Syr,) were celebrated in Greece, in honor of
Bacchus and Rhea; at Eleusis, they were applied to Ceres and Proser~
pine ; in Tyre and Cyprus, to Adonis and Venus; in Persia, to Mithras
and Mithra; in India, to Maha Deva and Sita; in Britain, to Hu and
Ceridwen; in Scandinavia, to Odin and Frea; and in Mexico, to Tla-
loc and the Great Mother; for these appear to be but different names
for the same deities, and most probably referred to Noah and the Ark.
They were all originally the same
system. -
They used as most significant emblems, the Theological Ladder
-the triple support ofthe universal lodge, called by masons, wisdom,
strength, and beauty; the point within a circle, and many other
legitimate emblems of masonry; they used the same form of government
-the same
system of secrecy, allegory, and symbolical instruction; all
tending to the same point, the practice of moral virtue. None were
admitted without previous probation and initiation; the candidates were
bound by solemn oaths; united by invisible ties; taught by symbols;
distinguished by signs and tokens; and, impelled by a conscientious
adherence to the rules of the order, they professed to practice the most
rigid morality; justice towards men, and piety to the gods.
ou rasmusosav. 241
If primitive masonry was a
system of light, the initiated heathen
equally paid divine honors to the sun, as the source of light, by cir-
cumambulating inthe course
of that luminary, during the ceremony of
initiation. _
Did the initiated refer to the four elements? They were portrayed
by certain prismatic colors. White represented the air; Blue the
water; Purple the earth ; and Crimson the tire.
The Zodiac was considered as the great assembly ofthe twelve gods ;
the sun being supreme, and the planets his attendants.
'
The emblems which masons now make use of as the secret reposito-
ries of their treasures 6f morality, were adopted by the ancients in very
early times, as signs and symbols; and were even substituted for
alphabetical characters.
The triangle, now called a trowel, was an emblem of very extensive
application, and was much revered by ancient nations as containing the
greatest and most abstruce mysteries. It signified equally the Deity,
Creation, and Fire.
`
On the name of the Deity.
'1`he great name of the Deity, which is termed by Josephus, incom-
municable, is said to be preserved in the system of freemasonry. Cal-
met observes, "when we pronounce Jehovah, we follow the crowd; for
we do not know distinctly the manner wherein this proper and incom~
municable name of God should be pronounced, which is written with
Iod, Hi, Vau, Hi, and comes from the verb haiah, he has been. The
ancients have expressed it differently. Sanchoniathon writes Jevo;
Diodorus the Sicilian, Macrobius, St. Clemens Alexandrinus, St.
Jerom, and Origen, pronounce Iao," etc.
'
`
The Tetragrammaton was
preserved and transmitted by the
Essenes. It was
always communicated in a
whisper, (R Tarphon,
apud. Ten. ldol. page 395,) and under such a disguised form,
that while its component parts were
universally known,'the con-
nected whole was an incommunicable mystery._ They used, in
common with the whole Jewish nation, the ancient and significant
symbol by which this name was designated, viz. three jods, with
the point kametz placed underneath them, thus, to express the
equality of the three persons of which they believethe godhead to be com.
posed. This holy name
they held in the utmost veneration. Calmet,
3 1
242 opinions or wnrrsns
says, they believe the name of God to include all things. "He who
pronounces it, say they, shakes heaven and earth, and inspires the very
angels with astonishment and terror. There is a sovereign authority
in this name; it governs the world by its power."
The letter schin, ug, was adopted as a
mysterious emblem to desig-
nate the Tetragrammaton; and hence this letter was
supposed to com-
prehend many valuable qualities. It was, therefore, deeply engraven
by the Jews on their phylacteries, both before and behind: to induce the
protection of the omnipresent deity it represented. Another symbol
was,an equilateral triangle illuminated with a
single jod, A This
initial letter jod, "denotes the thought, the idea of God. It is a
Ray of
Light, say the enraptured cabbalists, which darts a lustre too transcen-
dent to`be contemplated. by mortal eye; it is a
point at which thought
pauses, and imagination itself grows giddy and confounded. Man, says
M. Basnage, citing the rabbies, may lawfully roll his thoughts from
one end of heaven to the other; but they cannot approach that inacces-
sible Light, that primitive existence contained in the letter Jod." (Maur.
Ind. Ant. vol. iv.)
The chief varieties of this sacred name amongst the inhabitants of
different nations, were Jah, and Bel or Baal, and On or Om. The first
of these, as we have just seen, had many fluctuations. Jupiter, Jove,
Evohe, etc. were but corruptions of Jah or Jehovah. Iao, was
pro-
nounced by the oracle of Apollo, to be the first and greatest of the dei-
ties. (Macrob. Saturn. l. 18.)
The compounds of the second name Bel, are of great variety. Belus,
was used by the Chaldeans; and the deity known amongst the ancient
Celtia, by the name of Bel or Bel-enus, which title, by the modem
authors, is identified with Apollo.
The third variation was On. Under this appellation the deity was
worshipped by the Egyptians; and they professed to believe that he
was eternal, and the fountain of light and life; but, according to their
gross conceptions, being necessarily visible, the sun was adored as
his representative, and was, most probably the same as Osiris. They
knew the general purport of the name and little more. If they believed
ON to be the living and eternal God, they allowed the same attributes
to the sun, which they undoubtedly worshipped as the Lord of the
creation. Oannes was the god of the Chaldeans; and Dag-On of the
Philistines, both of which are derivations of the same name. On, was
on 1-'nllr|AsoNn'. 243
evidently the same
deity as the Hebrew Jehovah; and was introduced
amongst the Greeks by Plato, who acknowledges his eternity and
incomprehensibility in these remarkable words;
"
Tell me of the god
ON ; which ls, and never knew beginning." (In Timceo. v. iii. p. 27.)
And the same name was used by the early Christians for the true God;
for St. John in the Apocalypse, (Chap. l. v.
4.) has this expression-
On, kai 6 en. kai 6 era/tomenos, which is translated in our authorized
version of the Scriptures, by, "Hur, whicli is, and which was, and
which is to come."
The same word with a small variation, was one of the names of the
supreme deity in India; and a devout meditation on it was considered
capable of conveying the highest degree of perfection! In the ordi-
nances of Menu, we are informed how this sacred word was produced.
"
Brahma milked out, as it were, from the three Vedas, the letter A, the
letter U, and the letter M; which form, by their coalition, the triliteral
monosyllable,- together with three mysterious words, bhur, bhuvaht
stver; or, earth, sky, heaven." (S. W. Jones. Works, vol. iii. p. 93.)
These three letters, which are pronounced ol, refer to the deity in his
triple capacity of creator, preserver, and destroyer. The method
of using it is given in the same code. "-Three suppressions of
breath, made according to the divine rule, accompanied with the
triverbal phrase, bhurbhuvahswah and the triliteral syllable ol, may
be considered as the highest devotion of a Brahmin." (Ibid. p. 235.)
Mr. Colebrooke informs us that "
a Brahmana, beginning and ending a
lecture of the Veda, or the recital of any holy strain, must always pro-
nounce to himself the syllable Ol; for unless the syllable Om precede,
his learning will slip away from him; and unless it follow, nothing
will be retained; or that syllable being prefixed to the several names
of worlds, denotes that the seven worlds are manifestations of the power,
signified by that syllable." (Asiat. Res. vol. v. p. 352.)
On the Chcrubina.
_Every branch of science is progressive. In the first degree of
masonry, we are taught the several duties of our station, whether to
*
Seneca, the stoic, says, "It is oflittlo consequence by what name you call tlujnt
nature, and tha divine reason that presides over the universe, and fills all the parts of it
-he is still the same God. You may give him as many names as you please, provided
you allow but onualc principk, every where present."-Edit.
244
_
ominous or wnvrans
God, our neighbor, or ourselves ;-the practice of the Theological and
Cardinal Virtues, and every moral and social work. In the second
degree, we are admitted to a
participation in the mysteries of human
science; and catch a
glimpse of celestial glory. But in the third
degree, the vail is removed; we are admitted to the /wly of holies-
we view the Clterubim in all their brightness; and are blessed with a
joretaste ofheaven, through the resurrection of the dead. And if we
pass on to the royal arch, we receive a wonderful accession of know-
ledge, and find every thing made perfect ; for this is the ne plus ultra, of
masonry, and can never be exceeded by any human institution.
In the peculiar lectures of masonry, much importance is attached to
that great symbol of the glory of God, the cherubim. It is a subject
which adds much to the dignity and authority of our science; inas-
much as its illustration has formed an
important part of speculative
masonry. _
When the true invisible God was renounced and forgotten, this
symbol fumished mankind with plausible substitutes; and hence in
almost all the heathen nations of which we have any account, the
Supreme'Being was
worshipped under the corporeal form of one or
other of its component parts; and they all ultimately referred to the
sun; and hence this luminary, in connection with the cherubic animals,
became a chief object of Gentile worship throughout the world. -
The ox was adored in Egypt, India and Britain ; China and Japan;
Persia, Greece, and Peru. (Plin. Nat. Hist. l. viii. c. 46.-Asiat_
Research. vol. i.
p: 250.-Dav. Druids. p. l28.)
As the ox was the predominating figure in the cherubim, so it was
the most universal symbol of idolatry, and was frequently worshipped
in a
compound form. ~
`
He was an emblem of the great father or Noah; and the ark was
called Ken- Taurus, the stimulator of the hull. (Bryant. Anal. vol. ii. p.
440.) He was
worshipped with splendid rites, at that season ofthe
year particularly vhen the sun was in Taurus. ~
'
In India, the bull was held in high veneration; and honored with
diumal worship in conjunction with the Linga or Phallus, as an emblem
ofjustice and prolific power.
~
A bull was also the well known symbol of Bacchus; who is styled
in the Orphic hymns,
"
the deity with two horns, having the head of a
bull." (Hymn 29.) '
'
The Lion was adored in the east and the west, by the Egyptians and
the Mexicans as a most powerful divinity. (Diod. Sic. Bihl. 1. i. c. 6.)
»
on rnnsrusormv. .
245,
The same animal was emblematical ofthe sun in Tartary and Per-
sia; (I-Iesych.) and hence, on the national banner of Persia, a lion was
emblazoned with the sun
rising from his back, "
The sovereigns of
Persia have for many centuries preserved as the peculiar arms of their
country, the sign or
figure of Sol in the constellation Leo; and this
device, which exhibits a lion couchant and the sun rising at his back,
has not only been sculptured upon their palaces, and embroidered upon
their banners, but has been converted into an order, which in the form of
gold and silver medals, has been given to those who have distin-
guished themselves against the enemies of their country." (Sir John
Malcoh1's Hist. of Pers. c. xxv.)
The Egyptian astronomers taught that the creation of the world
took place at the precise period of time when the sun rose in Leo;
which sign was hence esteemed the peculiar habitation of the sun;
and this belief gave an additional stimulus to the veneration which man-
kind entertained for the king of animals. Mr. Bryant observes in
reference to this superstition;
"
as the chief increase of the Nile was
when the sun was
passing through Leo, the Egyptians made the lion a
type of an innundation. All effusions of water were
specified by this
characteristic. And from hence has been the custom of making the
water which proceeds from cistems and reservoirs, as well as spouts
from the roofs of buildings, come
through the mouth of a lion."
(Bryant's Plagues oi Egypt, p. 86. note.)
The eagle was sacred to the sun in many countries, particularly in
some
parts of Egypt, Greece and Persia. In our
Scriptures the king
of Babylon is termed an Eagle. It was
reputed to have fed Jupiter
with nectar in the Cretan cave, and was certainly au emblem of his
dominion. With the British Druids it formed a
symbol of their
supreme god; it was embroidered on the consecrated standard of the
Mexican princes; and the common ensign of the Roman legions was
a golden eagle. Indeed the peculiar property which this noble bird
possesses of beholdiug with impunity the undiminished vigor of the
sun's meridian rays, would naturally procure for it an emblematical
distinction. ,
The man, or idol in human shape, was
worshipped all over the
world; for which custom this reason has been assigned by Porphiry,
when charged with worshipping God under the figure ofa man. He
allowed the deity to be invisible, but thought him well represented in
that form: not because he is like him in external shape, but because that
which is divine is rational. (Porph. In Euseb. de prep. evan. l iii. c. 7.)
O
246 /
opinions or wnrnzns
The Cbsrubim, according to the author, consist of the tigures of s man, an ox, a
lion, and an eagle: which combination he represents as awfully sacred and sublime,
evidently with the view of heightning the mystical importance of royal arch masonry,
whose nrmorial ensigns it composes.
Dr. Rees remarks, that "
Cherub, or Chcnibim, in Hebrew, is sometimes taken fora
cralf or on ox. In Syriac and Caldee, the word cherub signilies to till or plough, which
is the work of oxen. According to Grotius, the Cherubim were iigurcs resembling a
calf- Bochart and Spencer think they were similar to an ox. The figure of the Cheru-
bim was not always uniform, since they are differently described in the shapes of men,
eagles, oxen, lions, and a composition of all these figures put together! After all the
suggestions and conjectures of leamed persons, it still remains to be determined, what
these emblematic tigures were intended to represent-
Thcy form a part of the machinery ot' pagan worship, each Iigure being symbolical
of the great object of adoration, the sun. This Mr. Oliver himself has fully shown.
Thus it appears that the masonic Cherubim, composing its arms, consists of
representations of the sun under various figures, conformible to the fanciful super.
stitious notions of ancient nations. »
"Ye inhabitants of India! in vain you cover yourselves with the vail of mys~
tery : the hawk of your god Vichenou is but one of the thousand emblems of the
sun in Egypt ; and your incarnations ofa god in the fish, the boar, the lion, the
tortoise, and all his monstrous adventures, are
only the metamorphoses of the sun,
who, passing through the signs ofthe twelve animals, was
supposed to assume their
iigures, and perform their astronomical fimctions. People of Japan ! your bull
which breaks the mundane egg, is only the bull of the zodiac, which in former
times opened the seasons, the age of creation, the vernal equinox. It is the same
bull Apis which'Egypt adored, and which your ancestors, Olewish rabbins 2 wor-
shipped in the golden calii This is still your bull, followers of Zoroaster! which
sacrificed in the syrnbolical mysteries of Mythra, poured out his blood which fer.
talized the earth." Ruins, p 138.
The supporters of the armorial ensigns of royal arch masonry, according to
Cross's chart., are two Sgures representing the god Pan ; who may be considered
as one of the most. ancient divinities of paganism.
"
Orpheus says that Pan signihes universal nature, proceeding from the divine
mind, of which the heaven, earth, sea, and the eternal tire, are so
many members-
He was generally represented with the body and head of a man, and the lower
parts were those ofa goat." Bailey.
On the mysterious darkness ofthe Third Degree.
In thea ncient mysteries, the Epoptes, or
perfectly initiated aspirants,
were
reputed to have attained a state of pure and ineffable Light, and
~
*At the end ofthe lanetary system, the mystagogue presents us with a picture of
the fixed heavens, and,the four celestial figures which were placed at the four comers of
heaven, according to the astrological scheme.
These four figures were the lion, the bull, the man (A arius,) and the ea le, which
divide the whole zodiac into four parts of three signs each?in the points of the sphere
called fixed and solid. The stars which correspond to these are called the four royal
stars.-(Dupuis, p. 551-)-Edit.
'
on raaaiutsonav. 247
pronounced safe under the protection of the celestial gods; (Drod. Sic.
Bibl, l. v. c. 3.) while the unhappy multitude who had not undergone
the purifying ceremonies, were declared reprobate; said to wander in
all the obscurity of darkness, to be deprived of the divine favor, and
doomed to a
perpetual residence in the infernal regions, amidst a
cheerless and overwhelming contamination. (Plato Phmdone.--Arist.
Eleusinin et apud Stobaaum. Serm. 189, etc. Schol. Arist. Ranis.)
During the Persian
initiations, this doctrine was enforced us cathe-
dra, (from the desk or
pulpit.) The Archimagus informed the candi-
date at the moment of illumination, that
me divine lights were displayed
before him; (Psell. in Schol. in Oraek Zoroast.) and aber explaining
the nature and purport of the mysteries in general, he tadgh! till! the
universe was
governed by a good and evil power who were
perpetually
engaged in contest with each other, and as each in turn prevailed, the
world was characterized by a
corresponding succession of happiness
and misery; that uninitiated and immoral men were votaries of the
evil power, and the virtuous initiated of the good; and that at the end
of the world, each, with his followers will go into a
separate abode; the
latter with Yazdan shall ascend by means of a ladder to a state of eter-
nal Iight, where exists unalloyed happiness and the purest pleasures;
the former with Ahriman, shall be plunged into an abode of darkness,
where they shall suffer an
eternity of disquietude and misery, in a deso-
late place of punishment situated on the shore of
'
a
stinking river, the
vatcrs of which are black as
pitch and cold as ice. Here the souls of
the uninitiated eternally iioat. Dark columns of smoke ascend from
this streamwthe inside of which is full ofserpents, scorpions, and veno-
mous
reptilesf (Hyde. de relig. vet. Pers. p. 399.)
The multitude, being thus amused with fables, and terrified with
denunciations, were
eH`ectually involved in uncertainty, and directed to
paths where error
only could be found; for every proceeding was
mysterious, and every mythological doctrine shrouded under a corres-
ponding symbol. These allegorical fablesbecoming popular, the simple
rites of primitive worship soon assumed a new and more
imposing form,
and religion was at length envelloped in a veil so thick and impervious
as to render the interpretation of their symbolical imagery extremely
difficult and uncertain. The slender thread of truth being intimately
blended and confused with an incongruons mass of error, the elucida-
tion was a. task so
complicated and forbidding, that few had the courage
to undertake it; and men were rather inclined to bow implicitly to popu-
lar tradition, than be at the pains to reconcile truth with itself, and
248 ormloua or warns:
separate, with a nice and delicate hand, the particles of genuine know-
ledge from the cumbrous web of allegory and superstition, in which
they were interwoven. _
It is an
extraordinary fact, that there is scarcely a
single ceremony
in freemasonry, but we find its corresponding rite in one or other of
the idolatrous mysteries; and the coincidence can
only be accounted
for by supposing that these mysteries were derived from masonry. Yet
however they might assimilate in ceremonial observances, an essential
difference existed in the fiindamental principles of the respective insti-
tutions.'
`
In all the ancient mysteries, before an
aspirant could claim to par-
ticipate in the higher secrets of the institution, he was placed within
the Pastas, or Bed, or Codin; or in other words, was subjected to a soli-
tary confinement forga prescribed period of time, that he might reflect
seriously, in seclusion and darkness, on what he was about to under-
take; and be reduced to a
proper state of mind for the reception of great
and important truths, by a course of fasting and mortification. This
_was the symbolical death of the mysteries, and his deliverance from
confinement was the act of regeneration, or being born again ; or, as it
was also termed, being raised from the dead.
'
"
Clement of Alexan-
dria tells us, that in the formulary used by one who had been initiated,
he was taught to say, I have descended into the bed chamber. The
ceremony here alluded to was doubtless the same as the descent,
into Hades; and I am inclined to think, that when the aspirant entered
into the mystic cell, he was directed to lay himsetf down upon the bed,
which shadowed out the tomb 07
cajin of the Great Father. This pro-
f The author, in the commencement of his work, says :-" One important question
which appears to
have been almost wholly neglected, by masoniewnters is, whether
irseniasonry be a servtle imitation of certain ceremonies in the ancient idolatrous mys-
tenes, as is asserted by some writers; or whether it be the great original from which
the mysteries themselves were derived. On this inquiry I have bestowed much deliberate
eonssideration; for I found it impossible to be satxshed with practising s science denved
from the
polluleduiregp
of idolatry." And, he comes to the conclusion, that freema-
sonry is "in reality, t e original institution from which all the mystenes were
denved."
And adds, "We_h_ave ample testimony to establish the fact, that the mystenes of all
upper; were
ongmagly tihecttdamet
and
diysrsitied only by the accidental circumstances
o oc situation an tu soonom .
That an essential di_%`erence exists lietween the ancient mysteries and freemasonry,
wants evidence. _The whole of bishop War-burwn's dissertation on the subject ot' the
former, goes tp disprove the assertion. However erroneous both may be in a
theologi-
cal QOH!! 011 view, they agree in moral principles, and are unexcepuonable. _
And that
any institution called freemasonry, or having a relation thereto, existed antenor to that
which is termed the mysteries, is a
_gratuitous assumption, without s shadow of proofl
The
myst?n;s,ét_r:der_
the name of eemasonry, were first introduced in the eleventh
century o t e rumen era.
_ _ _
-
_
The Reverend author, _it is evident, mstead of having any
tgralrns of conscience on
the subject, was
sndeavo__r:_r_§__tp satisfy the scnlples which mig t anss in the mmds ot'
some of lus lcss liberal p ners.
on rnnrnsosar. 249
£188 was equivalent to his entering into the infernal ship; and while
stretched upon the holy couch, in imitation of hisfgnratizve deceased
prototype, he was said to be wrapped in the deep sleep of death. His
resurrection from the bed 'wax /tis restoration to life, or his regenera-
tion into a new world; and it was virtually the same as his return from
Hades, or his emerging from the gloomy cavern, or his liberation from
the womb ofthe ship-goddess! (Fab. Pag. Idol. b. v. c. 7.)
'
The candidate was made to undergo these changes in scenic repre-
sentation; and was
placed under the Pastos in perfect darkness, gene-
rally for the space of three days and nights. The time of this solitary
confinement however varied in different nations. In Britain nine days
and nights was the specified period; (W. Arch. Tri. 50 apud Dav.
Druids. p. 404.) in Greece, three times nine days; (Porph. vit. Pyth.)
while in Persia it extended to fifty days and nights of darkness, want
of rest, and fasting! (Porph. de abstin. c. vi. s.
18.) To explain the
nature of these places of penance and mortification, I need not carry
you to
distant shores; the remains in our own
country are both numer-
ous and open to public inspection; for I have no doubt but the British
Cromlech was the identical vehicle of preparation for the Druidical
mysteries.
Acelebrated piece of antiquity was
recently standing near Maid-
stone, called Kit's Cotti House. This was a dark chamber of proba-
tion; for Kit is no other than Ked, or Ceridweu, the British Ceres;
and Cotti or Cetti meant an Ark or Chest; hence the compound word
referred to the Ark of the diluvian god Noah, whose mysterious rites
were celebrated in Britain; and Ceridven was either the consort of
Noah, or the Ark itself; symbolically the great mother of mankind.
_
U Thisis exactly imitated in the third degree of masonry ; where the candidate person-
ates his
45:1-ation
deceased prototype, Hiram. Of this Mr. Oliver is fully aware, yet
with nil
`
pitiful mummery before him, he, as we have seen above, says:
"In the third degree, the veil is removed ; we are admitted to the holy oflwlies ; we
view the dterubim, [the ox, the lion, etc.] in all their
brightness; and are blessed with
afordaate Jlteaven,
throupgt
the resurrection ofthe dead.
°
Voltaire, in speakingof t e Eleusinian mysteries, says,
"
This pure religion consisted
in the acknowledgment of one Supreme l'od, of his providence, and of his justice.
That which disfigured these mysteries was, if_wa can believe Tertullicn, thé ceremony
of 1- eneration. It was necessar that the initiated h ld . b
`
d -
_ eg _
y s on 'tppeur to e rcsuactlale ,
it was the symbol ofthe new life he was about to embrace. The hiemphnnt raised over
him the sacred knife: they feign to strike him, and he also feigus to fall dead; after
which he appears to be resuscitated. Thcrfis still a
ng the freemasons, a remnant
of this ancient ceremony."-(0euvres, tome~l6, p. 16(3)
The whole of this nonsense
grows out. of the fabled death of the sun. .
"
It is he,
[the sun] that, under the name of Osiris, persecuted by Typhnn and by thc t 'rants of
the ur, was pulto death, shut up in a dark tomb, emblem qf the hemisphere q/:winter ;
and
afterwards, ascending from the inferior zone towards the zenith of heaven, arose
( efflfroniaggdead, triumphant over the giants and the angels of destrucnon."--
Rising p. .
32
250 _ormxoas or warrzas
The Phallus was the gross Symbol under which Noah, or the
great father of the mysteries was worshipped; and it was
usually
represented by a
pyramidal stone.
Coincidences like these are too striking to be overlooked; particu-
larly when we consider that the initiations formed a most important and
essential part 6f religious worship; and no person could hold any dig-
nified appointment as a
priest, or legislator, without passing through
these forms, which included, as an
indispensable preliminary rite, the
solitary confinement of thc darkened Paslos.
On the three pillars, wisdom, strength, and beauty.
In the British and other mysteries, these three Pillars represented
the great ernblematical Triad of Deity, as with us
they refer to the
three principal officers of the lodge. We shall find however that the
symbolical meaning was the same in both. It isa iirct, that in Britain,
the Adytum or lodge was actually supported by three stones or pillars
which were
supposed to convey a
regenerating purity to the aspirant,
alter having endured the ceremony-of initiation in all its accustomed
formalities. The delivery from between them was termed a new birth.
(Hanes Taliesin, c. iii.-Dav. Druids, p. 230.) The corresponding
pillars of the Hindu mythology were also known by the names of wis-
dom, strength, and beauty, and placed in the east, west, and south,
crowned with three human heads. They jointly referred to the crea-
tor, who was said to have planned the great work by his infinite wil-
dom; executed it by his strength ; and to have adomed it with all its
beauty and usefulness for the benefit of man. These united powers
were not overlooked in the mysteries, for we find them represented in
the solemn ceremony of initiation, by the three presiding Brahmin: or
Hierophants. The chief Brahmin sat in the east, high exalted on a
brilliant throne, clad in a flowing robe of azure, thickly sparkled with
golden stars, and bearing in his hand a
magical rod; thus symbolizing
Brahma, the creator ofthe world. His two compeers, clad in robes of
equal magnificence, occupied corresponding situations of distinction.
The representative of Vishnu, the setting sun, was
placedon an exalted
throne in the west; and he who personated Siva, the meridian sum
occupied a splendid throne in the south. The masonic lodge, bounded
only by the extreme points of the compass, the highest heavens and the
lowest depths of the central abyss, is said to be sppported by three pil-
lan, wisdom, strength, and beauty. In like manner the Persians, who
OI( FREEMASONIXY. 25
termed their emblematicnl Mithratic cave or lodge, the Empyrean,
geigned it to be supported by three intelligences, Ormisda, Mithra, and
Mithras, who were
usually denoniinatcd, from certain characteristics
which they were suppored individually to possess, eternity, fecundity,
and authority. (Vid. Ramsay's travels of Cyrus and dissertation
thereto annexed.) Similar to this were the forms of the Egyptian
Deity, designated by the attributes of wisdom, power, and goodness:
(Plut. de Isid. and Osir. p. 373.) And the sovereign good, intellect,
and energy of the Platonists, which were also regarded as the respec-
tive properties ofthe divine Triad. (Plat. in Timzno.) -
It is remarkable that every mysterious system practised on the habit-
able globe, contained this Triad of deity. The oracle in Damascius
asserts that "throughout the world a Triad shines forth, which resolves
itself into a Monad ;" and the uniform symbol of this three-fold Deity,
was, an
equilateral triangle; the precise form occupied by our pillars
ofwisdom, strength, and beauty. In the mysteries of India, Brahma-4
Vishnu-Siva, were considered as a tri-une god, distinguished by the
significant appellation of Tri-murti." Brahma was said to be the crea-
tor, Vishnu the preserver, and Siva, the judge or
destroyer. In the
east, as the pillar of wisdom, this deity was called Brahma; in the
west, as the pillar of strength, Vishnu; and in the south as the pillar
of beauty, Siva: and hence, in the Indian initiations, as we have jus*
observed, the representative of Brahma was seated in the east; that of
Vishnu in the west; and that of Siva in the south. A very remark-
able coincidence in the practice of ancient masonry.
'
Oh the point within a. Circle.
'
The tribes contiguous to Judea, placed a jod (,) in the center of a
circle, as a symbol of the Deity surrounded by eternity, of which he
was said to be the inscrutable author, the ornament and support. The
Samothraeians had a great veneration for the circle, which they con-
sidered as consecrated by the universal presence of the deity; and
hence rings are distributed to the initiated,1' as amulets possessed of the
power of averting danger. (Plin. Nat. Hist. l. xxxiii. c.
i.) The
Chinese used a
symbol which bore a
great resemblance to that which
¢ "The word murti or form, is exactly synonymous with ddolon; and in a secon-
dary sense means an image; but in its primary acccptation, it denotes any shape or
appearance assumed by a celestial being.'_' Wilford in Asian Res. vol. lu. p. 359. _
#Rings are also presented to the initiated mto the masomc degree of Noecludm.
Edit.
252 ormrous or warrxav .
is the subject of this lecture. The circle was bounded north and south
by two serpents, equivalent to the two perpendicular parallel lines of
the masonic symbol; and was emblematical of the universe, protected
and supported equally bythe power and wisdom of the creator. The
Hindus believed that the Supreme Being was
correctly represented by
a
perfect sphere, without beginning and without end. (I-lolwel. Hist.
Events.) The first settlers in Egypt transmitted to their posterity
an exact copy of our
point within a circle, expressed in emblematical
language. The widely extended universe was
represented as a circle
of boundless light, in the center of which the deity was said to dwell;
or in other \'0I'(lS, the circle was
symbolical of his eternity.
The point within the circle, afterwards became an universal emblem
to denote the temple of the deity, and was referred to the planetary cir-
cle, in the center of which was fixed the sun, as the universal god and
father of nature ;- for the whole circle of heaven was called God;
(Cicero. de nat. deor. l.) Pythagoras esteemed them the central fire, the
superna] mansion of Jove; (Stob. Phys.-Aristot. de Caalo. l. ii.) and
he called it Dlesoura-neo, because the most excellent body ought to have
the most excellent place: i. e. the center. (Plut. Simplic-) And
Servius tells us it was believed that the center of a temple was the pecu-
liar residence of the deity z the exterior decorations being merely orna-
mental. (Serv. Georg. 3.) Hence the astronomical character used to
denote or
represent the sun, isa point within a
circle; because that fig-
ure is the symbol of perfection. The most perfect metal gold, is also
designated in chymistry by the same character.
With this reference, the point within a circle was an emblem of
great importance amongst the British Druids. Their temples were cir-
cular; many of them vith a
single stone erected in the center; their
solemn processions were allarranged in the same
form; their weapons
of war, the circular shield with a central boss, the spear with a hollow
globe at its end, etc. all partaking of this general principled: and with-
out a circle it was thought impossible to obtain the favor of the gods.
The rites of divination could not be securely and successfully performed
unless the operator was
protected within the consecrated periphery ofa
magical circle. The plant vervain was supposed to posses the virtue
of preventing the effects of facination, if gathered ritually with an iron
instrument, at the rising of the dog-star, accompanied with the essen-
tial ceremony of describing acircle on the tur£ the circumference of
which shall be equally distant from the plant, before it be taken up.
(Borl. Ant. Guru. p. 91. from Pliny.)
_ ou rnnanssouav. 253
t
Specimens of British temples founded on the principle of a point
within a circle are still in existence to demonstrate the truth of the
theory.
The body of the temple at Classerniss, in the island of Lewis, sacred
to the sun and the elements, will illustrate the principle before us.
This curious Celtic temple was constructed on geometrical and astro~
nomical principles, in the form of a cross and a circle. 'I'he circle
consisted of tvelve upright stones, in allusion to the solar year, or the
twelve signs of the Zodiac; the east, west, and south are marked by
three stones each, placed without the circle. in direct lines, pointing to
each of those quarters; and towards the north, is a. double row of twice
nineteen stones, forming two perpendicular parallel lines, with a sin-
gle elevated stone at the entrance. In the center of the circle, stands,
high exalted above the rest, the gigantic representative of the Deity, to
which the adoration of his worshippers was
peculiarly directed. (Olaus
Magnus, apud Borl. Ant. of Corn. p. 193 .Toland. Druids. Vol. l. p. 90.
This extraordinary symbol was also used by the ancient inhabitants
oi`Scandinavia; and had an undoubted reference to the hall of Odin, or
the Zodiac; which, the Edda informs us, contained twelve seats dis-
posed in the form of a circle, for the principle gods, besides an elevated
throne in the centre for Odin, as the representative ofthe great father.-
It is remarkable that in all the ancient systems of mythology, the
Great Father, or the male generative principle was uniformly dymbol-
ized by a
point within a circle. This emblem was placed by the Scan-
dinavian priests and poets, on the central summit of a Rainbow, which
was fabled to be a
bridge leading from earth to heaven; the emblem
therefore represented Valhall, or the supernal palace of the chief celes-
tial deity. It is said in the Edda, that this bridge "is all on fire; for
the giants of the mountains would climb up to heaven by it, if it were
easy for any one to walk over it." The palace thus elevated, was no
other than the celestial system, illuminated by a central sun, whose
representative on earth was Thor, a
god depicted by Verstegan with a
crowned head placed in the center of twelve bright stars, expressive of
the sun's annual course
through the Zodiacal Signsf _(Rest. of Dec.
Int. p. 74.)
Circumambulalion.
The author, in conclusion of his course of lectures, among other
remarks, observes:
"It was an ancient custom to use circumambulation during th-
254 omrrons or wurns.
`
performance of religious ceremonies. In Greece, while the meriiice
was in the act of consuming, the priests and people walked in proces-
sion round the altar thrice, singing the sacred hymn, which was divided
into three parts, the Strophe, the Antistrophe, and the Epode. While
the, first part was chanted, they circumambulated in a direction from
east to west, emhlematical of the apparent motion ofthe heavenly bodies ;
at the commencement of the second part, they changed their course
and proceeded from West to east, pointing out their real motion;
and during the performance of Epode, they remained stationary around
the altar, a
symbol of the stability of the earth, waiting for some propi-
tious omen which might announce the divine acceptance of the sacri-
fice. _
~
In Britain, the devotional exercises of the insular sanctuary were
conducted on a similar principle. Ceremonial processions moved
round it, regulated by the mystical numbers, and observing the course
of the sun ; sometimes mo'ving slowly and with solemn gravity, chant-
ing the sacred hymn to Hu; at others, the devotees advanced with great
rapidity, using impassioned gestures, and saluting each other with
secret signs. This was termed, "the mystical dance ofthe Druids."
The circular movement was intended to symbolize the motion of the
earth, and to give an idea of God's immensity which fills the universe.
The foundation stone of every magnificent edifice was usually laid
in the north-east; which accounts in a rational manner for the general
disposition of a
newly initiated candidate when enlightened but unin-
structed, he is accounted to he in the most superficial part of masonry.
This stone, to which some portion ofsecret influence was
formerly attri»
buted, is directed in Alet's Ritual to be "
solid, angular, of abouta foo*
square, and laid in the north-east."
A
It was incumbent on the author, in the first place, to account in a rational manner
for the origin of the custom of laying the foundation stone of buildings in the north-
east. As the whole machinery of the religion from which masonry is derived, was
founded on the movements of the heavenly bodies, there is doubtless an astronomical
reason for this practice.
`
Now, we are told by Mr. Bryant, quoted by our author, that the "Egyptian astro-
nomers tsught that the creation of the world took place at the precise period of time
when the sun rose in Leo." And admitting that this notion was got up when that eau-
stellstion was situated in the north-east at the rising of the sun, this circumstanc°
would naturally, in accordance with the Egyptian mode of worship, induce the custom
of commencing magnificent editioes at the north-east comer, in imitation of that glori-
eusluminary, believed by the Egyptians lobe the Supreme Architect ofthe world. This,
on raxslasosav.
amongasapsrstitioaspsuplqwould bedeemed a certainmeans ofiasm-ingthdrsta~
bility and usefulness.
Mr. Oliver has bestowed great labor in his researches into the original meaning and
intention of the ancient pagan symbols, and shed much light upon the subject. But by
endeavoring to place freemasonry, or something like it, before the pagan mysteries, he
has thrown a veil of darkness over the investigation, tending to bewilrler his readers
who have any wish to arrive at truth in this inquiry. By this course he expects to clear
freemasonry from the imputation of having descended from what he considers a vitia-
ted source, and, on the contrary, to show it to be derived from a pure institution, of
which in his opinion, the mysteries are a corruption.
In this way he thinks to connect Christianity with ancient masonry, and conse-
quently show that he, as a minister of the gospel, may without impropriety ally him-
self to the order. There is no need of this fastidiousness. Andent masonry is a pure
moral institution, but has no connection or relation whatever with Christianity. Its
original dogmas are totally different; but these at present are not regarded, nor even
known to the craft, who perform the ceremonies for mere sociability and pastime.
The Secret Discipline,
Menlioned in ancient Ecclesiastical History explained.
A small, but learned work bearing this title has lately been issued from the press, in
this city, under a Gctitious signature, edited by Samuel L. Knapp, Esqf _
This author adduces many authorities, in addition to those before cited in this vol°
nme, which go to pro_ve that the fathers of the church adopted the terms and OBIBIDO-
nies used in the ancient mysteries.
The following are extracts from the work.
St. Cyril, Bishop of Alexandria, in 412, in his Vllth bool; against
Julian, declares,
"
These mysteries are so
profound and so exalted, that
they can be comprehended by those only who are enlightened. I shall
not therefore 'attempt to speak of what is most admirable in them, lest
by discovering them to the uninitiated, I should offend against the
injunction not to give what is holy to the impure, no to cast pearls
before such as cannot estimate their worth." And elsewhere, "Ishould
say much more if I were not afraid of being heard by those who are
uninitiated; because men are apt to deride what they do not under-
stand; and the ignorant, not being aware of the weakness of their
minds, condemn what they ought most to venerate."
`
Theodoret, Bishop of Cyzicus, in Syria, 420, in the first of his three
dialogues, that entitled "
The Immutable," introduces Orthodoxus,
speaking thus-" answer me if you please in mystical and obscure
terms, for. perhaps, there are persons present who are not initiated in
956 A
OPINION! or wm'rl:a|.
the mysteries." And in his preface to Ezekiel, tracing up the secret
discipline to the commencement of the Christian era, says,
"
theseimys-
teries are so august, that we ought to keep them with the geatest cau-
'
77 _
uoniTo show that these mysteries were retained under ecclesiastial
saction to a still later period, I refer to the Seal ofthe ancient Abbey of
Arbroalh, in Scotland, and to the explanation given of it by the Rev.
Charles Cordinet, in his "
Description ofthe Ruins of North Britain,"
2 vols. 4to.
i
s
/g stllpl
/ fl/1"
9 ,,'l¢
° ""
lj,;,l&lr,,,,na|lll@ Q
iq'
"
The figures sculptured on the seal marked INITIATION, evi-
wlently reprerent (says hc) some formidable ceremony in a sacred place
where a
pontiff presides in state; one hand on his breast expressive of
seriousness, the other stretched out at a
right angle holding a rod
and cross, the badge of high oiiice, while he makes some awful appeal
respecting a
suppliant, who, in a loose robe, blindfolded with seeming
terror kneels before the steps of an altar, while several attendants with
drawn swords brandished them over his head." Mr. Cordinet inti-
mates the resemblance of' these figures to an
engraving which made the
frontispiece to a book about freemasonry: and then adds, that both
bring to remembrance a
description which Plutarch, in his famous
essay
"
De Osiris," gives of the engraving ofa seal which the priests of
Isis used in their solemnitics,-namely, that of a man kneeling with
ON rlumnutsonmr. _
257
his hands bound, a ku# at his throat, etc. "And (says he) it is not a
little remarkable, which is more to the present purpose, in how many
particulars the mysterious fate of Osiris, as recorded by the above cele-
brated author, corresponds with the account of Hiram ; a strong insinu-
ation that the annals of the latter, however` mutilated and defaced,
have somehow or other been descended from the Eleusinian Mysteries,
and that the Masonic rites of initiation into a
lodge, are a faint sketch,
an
imperfect epitome of the august ceremonies which took place at
initiation into the secrets which hallowed the primeval fanes : and this
high origin, when discerned, may have been at the bottom of that gen-
eral respect which men of learning have avowed for them.
This subject as an amusing research into antiquity, may be resumed;
it only remains at present to specify that Hiram coming forth in hal-
lowed dignity of character from within the veil of the sanctuary; vio-
lated in the open temple ofthe world by the ignorant and profane;
concealed for atime in awful secrecy; the want of his presence patheti-
call y deplored; the ardent solicitude with which he is sought for;
the acclamation ofjoy at finding him again; and consequent discovery
ofthe word, almost ofitseU'developes the secret which the personyication
had invoiced."
It does indeed develope the secret, that the Hiram of masonry is substituted for
Osiris, one ofthe pagan gods of the mysteries. Mr. Cordinet understands what is meant
by the lost word, which is declared in the royal arch degree, to be recovered, and proves
to be the Logos, the second person of the ancient trinity, the lost sun.
"
The rod and cron, the badge ofhigh qjice," held by the pontifi is precisely acopy
ofthe measure of the Nile, which was originally put into the hands of a figure of Anu-
bis, to indicate the rise of the inundation, upon which mainly depended the subsistence,
or temporal salvation of Egypt.
This pole or rod afterwards obtained, says Pluche, the name of Caduceuz, or Mercu.
ry's wand, and was bome as a ueptre or stqf qfhonor, indicating a sacred person.
The figure (10), a cabalistic number, supposed, says Bailey, "to conjoin the virtue of
all numbers," marked upon this copy, shows its original to have been a measure. Mr.
Oliver observes, that "
the amount of the points contained in a Pythagorean circle, ia
exactly ten, which is the consummation of all things."
33
CHAPTER VI.
AN INQUIRY INTO Tlil ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF FREEMASOKRY.
"The spirit of innovation had seizai all the Brethren. No man can give a tolerable
account of the origin, history, or object of the Order, and it appeared to all as a lost
or
forgotten mystery. The symbols seemed to be eqally susceptible of every inter-
pretation, and none of these seemed entitled to any decided preference-"-Prqfusor
Proofs of the existence of the society of freemasons at certain remote
periods, added to the occurrence of events that would naturally tend to
create it, will point out its origin with suflicient accuracy for the present
inquiry. No regular history of the order is attainable at this time, nor
is it essential to our purpose.
It is highly probable, as asserted by Dr. Anderson, that many valu-
able documents relating to the society, were
destroyed at the revolution
of the order in 1717, by some
scrupulous brethren, for fear that an
improper use might be made of them.
I shall endeavor to show that the British Druids instituted this
society, and the first consideration will be to point out the period when
they were in a condition that required a resort to such secret means for
the preservation and continuance of their religious rites.
We have seen that their open worship was
entirely prohibited by the
edict of Canute, who reigned from l0l5 to 1035. Within those
periods, therefore, this edict was issued; by which the very existence
of the Druids in England_was put at hazard' Cut off from their
hvorite devotional retreat, no means were lefi them but to devise some
mode to evade the scrutinizing eye of the ministers ofthe law.
-
"
About the beginning of the fiiih century, (says Lawrie,) Theodo-
sius the Great prohibited, and almost totally extinguished the pagan
theology in the Roman empire, (Gibbon ;) and the mysteries of Eleusis,
sufered in the general devastation. (Zosim. I-list.) It is probable,
however, that these mysteries were secretly celebrated, in spite of the
severe edicts of Theodosius; and that they were
partly continued dur-
* It appears that agauism existed at this time, not only in England, hut in most of
the other states of Eiiirope. Dr. Iingard, ot'_ 0lave,_king of Norway, says,
"
That prince was a zealous Chnsttan; but his religious innovations irritated the Jealousy
of the pagan priests; and he was murdered in an insurrection of ins subjects," [in 1028]
onrum sub rnsronv or ranlutsouav. 259
ing the dark ages, though stripped of their original purity and splen-
dor: we are certain, at least, that many rites of the pagan religion
were performed, under the dissembled names of convivial meetings,
long after the publication of the emperor's edict. (Gibbon.) And Psel~
lus, inform us, that the mysteries of Ceres subsisted in Athens till
the eighth century of the Christian era, and were never
totally sup-
pressed." (p. 22.)
A similar course would naturally suggest itself to the Druids: that
such a course was adopted, and that they fixed on the craft of masonry,
as a cloak under which to screen their mystic ceremonies and dogmas
will, it is believed, appear so evident in the sequel as to leave no room
for doubt upon the subject.
' `
During the reign of Canute, therefore, it may fairly be presumed,
the famous freemason society was first established.
The conquest of England, by William, duke of Normandy, occur-
red in 1066, and it is highly probable that many of the artisans who
were induced by him to emigrate from France into England, were
initiated into the order of freemasons, and greatly contributed to raise
its fame as an
operative masonic institution. "King William, (says
Dr. Anderson,) brought many expert masons from France. He died
in Normandy, in l087."
It is probable that many of these masons were attached to the
Druidical religion, as the rites of Druidism are said to have been
openly practiced in France, upwards of a hundred years after the edid
of Canute prohibiting them in England.
The condition and character of the people of England, at the time
of the conquest, is thus portrayed by Guthrie:
'
"With regard to the manners of the Anglo-Saxons, we can
say
little, but that they were in general, a rude, uucultivated people, igno-
rant of letters, anskilful in the mechanical arts, untarned to submission
under law and govenunent, addicted to intemperance, riot, and disor-
der. Even so late as the time of Canute, they sold their children and
kindred into foreign parts.
Their best quality was their military courage, which yet was not
supported by discipline or conduct. Even the Norman historians, not-
withstanding the low state of the arts in their own country, speak of
them as barbarous, when they mention the invasion of the dulre of
Normandy. Conquest placed the people in a situation to receive slowly
from abroad the 'rudiments of science and cultivation, md to 60|'l'$¢
their rough and licentious manners! _
260 onlom AND msronx'
"He (William) introduced the Norman laws and language. He
built the stone square tower at London; bridled the country with forts,
and disarmed the old inhabitants; in short, he attempted every measure
possible to obliterate even the traces of the Anglo-Saxon constitution;
though, at his coronation, he took the same oath that had been taken
by the ancient Saxon kings." Great advancement however in the art of
building it seems, soon followed this event. Dr. Henry, in his "
His--
tory of the necessary arts in Britain, from 1066 to l2l6," says:
"
Architecture, in all its branches, received as great improvements
in this period as
agriculture. The truth is, that the twelfth century
may very properly be called the age of architecture, in which the rage
for building was more violent in England than at any other time.
"'l`he great and general improvements that were made in the
frabrics of houses and churches in the first gears of this century, are
thus described by a
cotemporary writer: 'The new cathedrals and
innumerable churches that were built in all parts, together with the
many magniicent cloisters and monasteries, and other apartments of
monks, that were then erected, afford a sudicient proof of the great
felicity of England in the reign of Henry I.' "
Henry I. was the third son of William, and ascended the throne in
1100; only thirty-four years alter the conquest. To enable him to
carry on such extensive works in architecture, required that his sub-
jects should have been previously instructed by his predecessors
Under the patronage, therefore, of King William, there is the strong-
est reason to believe, the masonic society was fostered and protected.
And although the principal purpose of the leading members of the
institution was the preservation of their religious rites, yet attention
was required to _be given by them to the ostensible object of the estab-
lishment. Through this means, there is no reason to doubt, that arch-
itecture was improved to a greater extent in England, at this time, than
it would have been but for this adventitious circumstance.
The mere craftsman, however, knew nothing ofthe secret views of
his superiors. The symbols made use of in the lodge were unintel-
ligible to him. But he was
pleased with the tinsel show of the repre-
sentations; and when he was found sufficiently intelligent, and was
thought worthy to be trusted, he was raised to the sublime degree of
Holy Royal Arch, and gained the honorary appellation of companion.
Here, if duly attentive to the symbols and ceremonies, he might make,
some progress towards discovering the hidden scheme upon which free
masonry was founded.
or rar-zslssouar. 261
Lawrie observes, "
The principles of the order were even imported
into Scotland# where they continued., for many ages, in their prim-
itive simplicity, long after they had been extinguished in the conti-
nental kingdoms. What those causes were which continued the socie-
ties of freemasons longer in Britain than in other countries, it may not,
perhaps, be easy to determine; but as the fact itself is unquestionably
true, it must have arisen either from favorable circumstances in the
political state of Britain, which did not exist in the other governments
of Europe; or from the superior policy, by which the British masons
eluded the suspicions of their enemies, and the superior prudence with
which they maintained the primitive simplicity and respectability of
the order. In this manner did freemasonry flourish in Britain when
it was
completely abolished in every part of the world."
`
"
That freemasonry was introduced into Scotland by those archi~
tects who built the abbey of Kilwinning, is manifest, not only from
those authentic documents, by which the existence of the Kilwinning
lodge has been traced buck as far as the end of the fifteenth century,
but by other collateral arguments which amount almost to a demon-
stration.
"
In every country where the temporal and spiritual jurisdiction of
the Pope was acknowledged, there was a continual demand, particu-
larly during the twelfth century, for religious structures, and conse.
quently for operative masons, proportional to the piety of the inhab-
itants, and the opulence of their ecclesiastical establishments; and
there was no kingdom in Europe where the zeal of the inhabitants
for popery was more ardent, where the kings and nobles were more
liberal to the clergy, and where, of consequence, the church was more
richly endowed, than in Scotland.1 The demand, therefore, for ele-
gant cathedrals and ingenious artists, rnust have been proportionably
greater than in other countries, and that demand could be supplied
only from the trading associations on the continent. We are author-
ized, therefore, to conclude, that those numerous and elegant ruins
which still adorn the villages of Scotland, were erected by foreign
masons, who introduced into this island the customs of their order.
"
It is a curious fact, that in one of those towns where there is an
elegant abbey, which was built in the twelfth century, the author of
this history has often heard that it was erected by a
company of indus.
*
A._D. 1140.
Vid._ Statistical account of Scotland, vol. xi. Parish of Kilwinnilll;
or, Edinburgh Magazine for April,
IN2,
234. _ _
,
rTho church possessed about one ha of the property m the kingdom. Robertlous
Hut. of Scotland.
262 onions AND msronv
trious men _who spoke in a
foreign language, and lived separately from
the town's people. And stories are still told about their petty quarrels
with the inhabitants. _
_
"
It was probably about this time, also, that freemasonry was intro-
duced into England; but whether. the English received it from the
Scotch masons at Kilwinning, or' from other brethren who had arrived
from the continent, there is no method of determining. The fraternity
'in England, however, maintain that St. Alban was the first that brought
masonry to Britain, about the end of the third century; that the brethren
received a charter from King Athelstane, and that his brother Edwin
summoned all the lodges to tneet at York, which formed the first grand
lodge of England, in 926. But these are
merely assertions, not only
incapable of proof from authentic history, but inconsistent, also, with
several historical events which rest upon indubitable evidence.-(See
Dr. Plot's Nat. Hist. of Staifordshire, chap. viii, pp. 316-3l8.) In sup
port of these opinions, indeed, it is alleged, that no other lodge has
laid claim to greater antiquity than that of York, and that its jurisdiction
over the other lodgesof England has been invariably acknowledged by
the whole fraternity. But_this argument only proves that York was
the birth place of freemasonry in England. It brings no additional
evidence in support of the improbable stories about St. Alban, Athel-
Stane, and Edwin. If the antiquity of freemasonry in Britain can be
defended only by the forgery of silly and uninteresting stories, it does
not deserve to be defended at all. Those who invent and propagate
such tales, do not surely consider that they bring discredit upon their
order by the warmth of their zeal; and that by supporting what is false,
they debar thinking men from believing what is true."
Mr. Lawrie has made it appear very probable that the churches
erected in Scotland in the twelfth century, were built by foreign masons.
Indeed, the want of skill in the natives is a sufficient evidence of the
fact. But this is no
proof that they belonged to the freemason society.
And the dissolution of the trading associations on the continent, of
which he speaks, as soon as the rage for church-building ceased, while
freemasonry held its ground in England, is conclusive that there was
no connection between them.
But even admitting that the foreign masons who built the abbey of
Kilwinning, were freemasons, the presumption would be, that they had
been
initiated in England; and there is no evidence that the secrets of
the society were communicated to the Scotch. They could be of no
possible advantage to operative masons, and the people of Scotland
or rasnrusonav. 263
appear to have been thoroughly imbued with popery toembrace them
in a
religious point of view. Besides, if these foreigners were free-
masons, and had admitted into their society a
portion of the inhabitants
of the places where they were employed, it is not probable that the
petty quarfels mentioned by Lawrie, would have occurred.
The case was diiferent in England, where Druidism had been
revived by the Danish emigrants, alter its conquest by that nation.
`
Upon the whole, there is no conclusive evidence that freemasonry
was established in Scotland, till alter its reorganization in England, in
1717.-The mason-associations in that country before this period,
appear to be no other than common trade-companies, such as those
incorporated in London.
_
They had a chief or
grand master, with deputies in the different
counties; all appointed by the king; tho sometimes by consent of the
craft. The master was
styled the patron, protector, judge, or mister
ofthe masons of Scotland; and the craft styled themselves "
free of the
masons and hammermen." Lawrie cites the following:
"
In the Privy Seal-book of Scotland there is a letter dated at Holy-
rood-house, 25th Sept. 1590, and granted by King James VI. '
to Patrick
Copland of Udaught, for using and exercising the oflice of War-
danrie over the art and craft of masonrie, over all the boundis of
Aberdeen, Bail; and Kincardine, to had warden and justice courts
within the boundis, and there to minister justice'
"
Lawrie also ob-
serves, that "
In the year 1645, a particularjurisdiction for masons was
established in France. All differences which related to the art of
building, were decided by particular judges who were called overseers
ofthe art of masonry; and several counsellors were appointed for plead-
ing the causes which were refered to their decision. This institution
has such a
striking resemblance to the warden courts which existed in
Scotland in the sixteenth century, that it must have derived its originfrom
these. In both of them, those causes
only were decided which related
to masonry, and overseers were chosen in both for bringing these causes
to a decision."
There is nothing of freemasonry in all this; there is nothing of
Druidism, the very spirit and soul of the order, to be seen in it.-There
is every reason to believe that freemasonry was first established in Eng-
land, and that there it remained till the famous meeting of the brother-
hood, at the Apple Tree tavern, in 1711, when it took wing, and visited
all parts of the civilized world.
In fact, there was no cause for its institution in any other country
264 onions ann airronv
than England, where the edict of Canute had compelled the Druids to
relinquish their religion altogether, or practise its rites and ceremonies
covertly.
"
As the Druids (says Hutchinson) were a sect of religious peculiar
to Gaul and Britain, it may not be improper to cast our
eyes on the
ceremonies they used: their antiquity and peculiar station, render it
probable some of their rites and institutions might be retained, in form-
ing the ceremonies of our society. In so modern an era as 1140, they
were reduced to a
regular body of religious in France, and built a col~
lege in the city of Orleans. They were heretofore one ofthe two estates
of France, to whom were committed the care of providing sacrifices, Of
prescribing laws for worship, and deciding controversies concerning
rights and properties," etc.-(Spirit of Mas. p. 37.)
As, therefore, it does not appear that Druidism at any time, was
under a
positive legal restraint except in England, it may be reasonably
inferred that its offspring freemasonry existed no where else, till the
period above stated.
"
All the brethren on the continent agree in saying, that freemasonry
was
imported from Great Britain about the beginning of this [the eigh-
teenth] centnry, and in the form of a
mystical society."--(Robison's
Proofs, p. 393.)
`
Robison, in speaking of freernasonry in Germany, observes,
"
Tho
no man could pretend that he understood the true meaning of free-
masonry, its origin, its history, or its real aim, all saw that the interpreta-
tions of its hieroglyphics, and the rituals of the new
degress imported
from France, were
quite gratuitous. It appears, therefore, that the safest
thing for them was an appeal to the birth-place of masonry. They sent
to London for instructions. There they learned, that nothing was
acknowledged for genuine, unsophisticated masonry but the three
degrees; and that the mother lodge of London alone, could, by her
instructions, prevent the most dangerous schisms and innovations.
Many lodges, therefore, applied for patents and instructions. Patents
were
easily made out, and most villingly sent to the zealous brethren;
and these were
thankfully' received and paid for. But instruction was
not so
easy a matter_
"
They afterwards sent a
deputatiovn to Old Aberdeen, Scotland, to
inquire after the caves where their venerable mysteries were known,
and their treasures were hid. They had, they thought, merited some
conddence, for they had remitted annual contributions to their unknown
superiors to the amount of some thousands of dollars. But alas! their
_
or rnnlasownr.
'
265
ambassadors found the freemasons of Old Aberdeen ignorant of all this,
and equally eager to learn from the ambassadors, what was the true
origin and meaning of freemasonry, ef which they knew nothing but
the simple tale ofold Hiram." _
Mr. Ward, in his Anti~Masonic Review, v. 1, p. 345, quotes the
following from a French work, entitled "
Essais sur la Franche Ma-
gonnerie," by J. L. Laurens, which shows very conclusively that the
lieemason society originated in England. Mr. Laurens says :
"
Impossible as it is, to determine the precise era of the establish-
ment of freemasonry in Europe, so easy it is, to show in what manl
ner and by what means it spread and propagated itseli Many reasons
concur to make us believe that the English brought it into Europe ; and
that they have given it the exterior form, and the diiferenrhames by
which we know it at this day. Independent of the historical monu-
ments, which prove that long before the l4th century it was known in
England, it appears indispntable that in that country of Europe it has
been furnished, if I may so express myself; with the form in which it has
come to us. There is not a doubt that the names Franche-Magonnerie
and Frascswnagons are
purely of English origin. Freemason-ry-free
muon ; that is to say, magonneric libres, magons lebrex, literally rendered
into French, have produced those strange terms, a manner of speaking
ir enough removed both from our customs, and the genius of our
language; for it is certain if what we understand, by freemasonry and
freemasons, had received in Franco, or in any other country besides
England, any name whatever, that name could not have had so cha-
racteristic a mark of the English tongue. A slight knowledge of the
principal languages of Europe, and especially to know, that in Eng-
lish the adjective commonly precedes the napa, is enough in order to
become convinced that these names have been formed by the genius of
the English tongue!
"
After criticising the masonic word lodge at some length, he goes on
to say:
'
I might further push the investigation ofthe terms of English
etymology peculiar to freemasonry, did I not fear to enter upon details,
which I am not permitted to publish. The usages and practices of the
lodges in what concerns only the exterior offreemasonry, present some
points of resemblance not less striking; and it is this intimate relation
with the peculiar character of the English people, that I cite in support
of my proposition.
`
'
What is the origin of that wearisome quantity of healths, with which
the masonic entertainments were formerly burdened, which have been
34
266 onmxx AND HISTORY
the occasion of so much sarcasm
against freemasonry, and which a
good taste has now wisely reformed? Is not this immoderate use of a
custom innocent in itself] an image of the too often repeated toast, which
so much distinguishes English Clubs?
'
The love of good cheer, the
profusion, the lengthening out of the feast,' the intemperate drinking,
which are
contrary to French sobriety, and which reason and decency
have long since banished to the taverns of London, to which they legi-
timately belong, can these have any relation to the object of masonic
fellowship, of which they are at best only a
despicable parody? The
grossness of these practices, introduced into France with freemasonry,
is too nearly allied to the taste ofthe English nation, not to be attributed
to their invention.
'
The nature of the customs connected with freemasonry, its pecu-
liar name, the most of the words that express the matters which nialce
up its exterior form, are precisely conformed to the taste and peculiar
genius of the English, and prove that in England it began to have being
as a
society.'
"
After further argument from the geographical position, free insti-
tutions, and melancholy temperament of the English, Mons. Laurens
adds : 'all these observations incline us to believe, that it is from Eng-
land freemasonry comes to us, as it exists now; that is to say, dressed
in this whimsical fashion, which almost entirely disguises it, and
scarcely permits us to discover it in the precious allegory of the Egyp-
tian philosophy.' "-p. 2| 5.
The allegories of the Egyptian mysteries required to be disguised,
to prevent the real purport of masonry's being discovered. The idea
of the author, that the English first established freemasonry is very
correct, but inaccurately expressed 1
they did not bring it into Europe ;
they manufactured it themselves at home, from what he calls "
the
precious allegory ofthe Egyptian philosophy."
I will now produce such proofs of the long standing of the society
of freemasons in England, as have survived the wreck of time.
Examination 'of a lllason, by King Henry VL
One of the documents referred to by freemasons in proof of their
antiquity, and which is considered as more decisive than any other, is
a
paper said to have been found in the Bodleian library, in 1696, and
supposed to have been written in about the year 1436. It purports to
be an examination of one of the brotherhood by King Henry VI.
Altho there are suspicious circumstances attending this manu-
or rnaamtsounv. 267
script in regard to its authenticity, yet it appears tb possess an internal
evidence of genuineness. The objections to it are, that it was first
printed at Frankfort, in Germany, as late as 1748, and is accompanied
with annotations attributed to the learned John Locke, a most absurd
supposition, tending to cast a doubt upon the original document itself
The annotations never eminated from the philosophical mind of Locke.
'1'hey were written by a zealous mason
superstitiously credulous in
the mysteries of the craft, or intending to impose upon the credulty of
others. Locke was not a mason, and if he had been, he would not have
given countenance to the absurdities set forth in this manuscript.
It would seem, that the Frankfort editor had heard of the learned
John Locke, and in order to give the greater respectability to the record,
he singles him out as a
proper person to write a
commentary upon
it. But not having a sutiicient knowledge of English characters to
select a suitable person to be addressed by Locke on the occasion, he
directs his letter enclosing the record and comments, to the Rt. Hon.
' '
°, Earl of ° " '
'; and for fear of detection by what is technically
called an alibi, he dates the letter, without giving the place from whence
it was written, May 6, 1696. The address continued to be thus printed
in copies issued in England as late as 1764, when Dermott first pub-
lished his Ahiman Rezon. Since that period, some English editor, to
rid the document of this awkward appearance, substituted for the blanks
Thomas Pembroke. Hutchinson gives this amendment in 1772.
Where did he obtain the information? The parties concerned, how-
ever, were all defunct, and there were no means of detecting the fraud.
But, altho the connecting of the name *of John Locke in this affair, is
evidently a
forgery, still that does not destroy the validity of the record,
which accords in every respect with Druid ical masonry.
This paper is said to have been found inthe desk of a deceased
brother at Frankfort, but how it came into his possession is not
accounted for. If believed to be authentic, it would no doubt, be highly
prized by a
superstitious mason, and preserved with great care.
Every
thing, at the time of its supposed discovery in 1696, relating to the
origin and purport of masonry, was
kept a
profound secret; and this
document went to expose both. It is, therefore, not a little surprising
that the fraternity should ever have acknowledged its authenticity. The
pride of antiquity seems in this case to have prevailed over discretion,
for all masonic writers claim it as
genuine. The author ofa work
entitled, Annales Magonnique, speaking of this document, says,
"
We
ought to value this piece the more, because it is an historical monu-
268 oruom ann ntsroav
ment of the dawn of the fifteenth century, a time when we march
through a vast wilderness. So the thirsty traveler, finding an unex-
pected fountain in the desert, rests and refreshes himself, and quits it
only with painful regret."-(See Anti-mas. Review, vol. 2d. p. 23.)
I shall give the whole of this curious document. In copying it,
however, I have changed the ancient orthography to t-he present, and
corrected, according to the annotations, the errors it contains in respect
to persons and places.
`
-
The title of the paper is, Certain questions, with answers to the same,
concerning the mystery of masonry, written by King Henry, the sixth,
and faithfully copied by me, John Leylande, antiquarius, by command
of his highness.
»
,
They are as follows:
What mote it be 'Z-It is the knowledge of nature and the power of
its various operations; particularly, the skill of reckoning, of weights
and measures, of constructing dwellings and buildings of all kinds,
and the true manner of forming all things for the use of man.
Where did it begin 'I-It began with the first men of theeast, who
were before the tirst men of the west, and coming westerly, it hath
brought with it all comforts to the wild and comfortless.
Who brought it to the west 2-The Phenicians, who being great
merchants, came first from the east into Phenicia, for the convenience
of commerce, both east and west, by the Red and Mediterranean seas.
Hov came it into England 2-Pythagoras, a Grecian. traveled to
acquire knowledge in Egypt and Syria, and in every other land where
the Phenicians had planted masonry ; and gaining admittance into all
lodges of masons, he learned much, and retumed and dwelt in Grecia
Magna, growing and becoming mighty wise, and greatly renowned.
Here he formed a
great lodge at Crotona, and made many masons,
some of whom traveled into France and there made many more, from
whence, in process of time, the art passed into England.
Do masons discover their arts to others 'I-Pythagoras, when he
traveled to gain knowledge, was first made [initiated] and then taught;
this course should rightly be applied to all others.-Nevertheless
masons have always, from time to time, communicated to mankind
such of their secrets as might be generally useful; they have lrepi
back such only as might be hurtful if taught to improper persons, or
such as would not be beneficial without the necessary teaching joined
thereto in the lodge; or such as do bind the brethren morrstrongly,
by the profits and convenience accruing to the fraternity therefrom,
or rasnlssouav. 269
What arts have the masons taught mankind 'l-The arts of agricul-
ture, astronomy, arithmatic, music, poetry, chymistry,' government and
religion
How does it happen that masons are better teachers than other
men '¢-They only have the art of fading new arts, which the Hrst
masons received fron God; by which they discover what arts they
please, and the ,true way of teaching the same. What other men find
out, is only by chance, and therefore but of little value, I tro.
What do the masons conceal and hide 'I-They conceal the art of
Ending new arts, and that for their own profit and praise: they conceal
the art of keeping secrets, that so the world may hide nothing from
them. They conceal the art of wonder-working and fortelling things
to come, that so the same art may not be used by the wicked to a bad
end; they also conceal the art of changing, the way of obtaining the
_faculty of Abfae, the skill of becoming good and perfect without the
aid of hope or fear, and the universal language of masons.
Will you teach me the same arts 'Z-You shall be taught if you be
worthy, and able to learn. ~
Do all masons know more than other men 'I-Not so.
They only
have a
right and opportunity to know more than other men, but many
fail from want of capacity, and many more from want of industry,
which is very necessary for gaining all knowledge.
Are masons better men than others 'l-Some masons are not so
virtuous as some other men; but for the most part, they are better than
they would be if they were not masons.
Do masons love one another mightily, as is said 7-Yea verily,
and that can not be otherwise: for the better men are the more they
love one another.
"
Our celebrated annntator, says Hutchinson, has taken no notice of
the masons having the art of working miracles, and for-esaying things to
come." This circumstance alone, renders it sumciently evident, that
Locke was not the annotator; for such a bold assumption would not
have escaped his observation and severe animadversion. The annota-
tor was doubtlen fearful of involving thecraft in difficulty by touching
upon this subject; altho he might have cited the mysteries in support
of the pretention.
The universal language of masons, so much vaunted oi ,extends no
°
Ithasbeen objected, that the word ohgmiotry was not in use in the time of]-Ienry
VI.-Its appearance, however, in this document
mow
accounted for, by supposing
that the Frankford editor substituted it for aldtymy.-» t.
270 _
onion: Ann nxsronv
further than to a few words, signs, and grips, by which they can com-
municate to each other that they are masons, and have been initiated
into certain degress. They may also learn a
cypher that is given in
the royal arch, but which not one in a thousand takes the pains to
acquire, and if obtained, can be of no masonic use, that is, to communi-
cate any secrets of the craft, for masons are
prohibited from committing
these to writing, printing, carving, or engraving.
John Guillim.
In a work entitled "
The Display of Heraldry," by John Guillim,
it is stated, that the company of masons, being otherwise termed free-
masons, of ancient standing, and good reckoning, by means of affable
and kind meetings, divers times did frequent this mutual assembly in
the time of King Henry VI. in the twellih year of his reign, 1434.
Elias Ashmole.
Ashmole, in his diary, p. 15, says,
"
I was made a freemason at
Warington in Lancarshire, 16th of October, 1646.-On March the 10th,
1682, I received a summons to appear at a lodge, to be held the next
day, at masons' hall, in London. March 11th, I accordingly attended,
where I was the senior fellow among them, it being nearly 35 years
since I had been admitted into the fraternity. We all dined at the half
moon tavern, where we partook of a
sumptious dinner, at the expence
of the new accepted mason.
Lawrie, in recording this anecdote, says, "This gentleman was the
celebrated antiquary who founded the Ashmolean museum at Oxford.
His attachment to the fraternity is evident from his diligent inquiries
into its origin and history, and his long and frequent attendance upon
its meetings.-See Diary, p. 66."
Robert Platt, L.L.D., keeper of,the Ashmolean museum, etc. says,
in his Natural History of Stadbrdshire, (1686) that "
They have a
custom in Staffordshire of admitting men into the society offreemasons ;
that in the moorelands of this country seems to be of greater request than
any where else, tho I End the custom spread more or less all over the
nation; for here I found persons of the most eminent quality, that did
not disdain to be of this fellowship; nor indeed need they, were it of
that antiquity and honor that is pretended in a large parchment volume
they have among them, containing the history and rules of the craft of
masonry, which is there deduced not only from sacred writ, but pro-
_, -_ .*...._
'
_ _ _ _,
.
_ ,, ' L
or ranlssonnv. e
271
fane story," etc.-(Freemas. Poc. Comp. p. 192. Antimas. Review,
vol. 2d.
p, 334. r
New Regulations.
According to a copy ofthe old constitutions, says Anderson, a gene-
ral assembly and feast was held, on St. John's day, 27th December,
1663 ; when Henry Jermyn, earl of St. Albans, was elected grand mas-
ter, who appointed Sir John Denham his deputy, and Mr. (afterwards
Sir) Christopher Wren, and John Webb his wardens. At this assembly
the following regulations, among others, were made:
"
That no
person of what degree soever, be made or accepted a free
mason, unless in a regular lodge, whereof one to be a master or war-
den in that limit or division where such lodge is kept, and another to
bea craftsman in the trade offree masonry."
This regulation shows clearly that the society was not confined to
opperatives. It shows also, that it was at this time, in a
very disorderly
condition.
3' That for the future, the fraternity of freemasons shall be regulated
and governed by one grand master, and as many wardens as the
society shall think tit to appoint at every annual general assembly.'
It appears by this, that at the period here spoken of whatever may
have been the case
formerly, the freemasons had no grand master, and
that each lodge regulated its own atfairs.
'
"
That no person shall be accepted, unless he be twenty-one years
old, or more."
It is evident that this regulation was an innovation, and that pre-
viously apprentices were entered at the usual age in which they are
taken in other trades. _
_
Sir Christopher Wren, says Anderson, was chosen grand master,
in 1698. He then enumerates the public buildings that were erected
by freemasons under his superintendance, and adds,
"
some few years
alter this St. Christopher neglected the office of grand master; yet the
old lodge near St. Pau1's and a few others, continued their stated meet-
ings."
Previously to this period, the government "enacted the building of
fifty new churches in the suburbs of London," to supply the places of
those consumed, at the great fire in London, in 1666; and Sir Christo-
pher Wren, an eminent architect, was
appointed one of the commis-
sioners to superintend the construction of these edifices.
It is highly probable that Wren was at this time master or president
¢
272 oaront no msroav _
of the company of operative masons of London, and may perhaps have
been a member of the freemasons' society; but that the latter as
ahody,
was employed to construct public works is not probable. It was not
acknowledged by the government as a
company ofarchitects, and what-
ever may have been its standing in the time of the Druids, it was at
this period, in little repute.
Anderson gives the following account of the revolution of the order
which took place at this period.
"
In 1716, the few lodges in London,
finding themselves neglected by Sir Christopher Wren, thought fit to
cement under a grand master as the center of union and harmony." Il
here appears that the order made in 1663, in regard to a grand master,
had become neglected. These lodges were those "
that met, 1, at the
Goose and Gridiron Ale-house, in St. Paul's church yard; 2. at the
Crown Ale-house, in Parker's lane; 3. at the Apple-tree Tavern, in
Charles-street, Covent Garden; 4. at the Rummer and Grapes tavern,
in Channel Row, Westminster.
"
The members of these lodges and some old brothers met at the
said Apple-tree, and having put into the chair the oldest master mason
they constituted themselves a
grand lodge, pro tampore in due form,
and forthwith revived the quarterly communication of the odicers of
lodges, called the grand lodge, andresolved to hold the annual assem-
bly and feast ; and then to choose a
grand master from among them-
selves, till they should have the honor of a noble brother at their head.
"Accordingly, on St. John Baptist's day, [the 24th June, the sum-
mer solstice,] 1717, the assembly and feast of the free and accepted
masons was held at the aforesaid Goose and Gridiron Ale-house."
The freemasons at this time, seem to have rummaged their old
records, and found out what the society formerly was, and come to a
determination to revive old Druidical, Hiram masonry.
At this assembly,
"
Mr. Anthony Sayre, gentleman, was elected
grand master ofmasons, who being forthwith invested with the badges
of ofhce and power, and installed, was
duly congratulated by the assem-
bly, vho payed him the homage. Capt. Joseph Elliot, and Mr. Jacob
Lamball, carpenter, were appointed grand wardens."
The brethren did not wait long before a noble brother canducended
to be placed at their head; for on the 24th of June, 1721, the duke of
Montague was elected and accepted the oflicc ofgrand master of masons.
From that time to the present, a nobleman or a
prince has constantly
presided over the lodges of England. The society soon became Bish-
ionable. The brilliant processions and luxurious feasts now got up,
__i _ _ _._ ,__ ,,..__.. .___
or ranliuisouiw. 1
273
which had for a long time been neglected, added to the sublime myste~
ries and secrets held out to the initiated, allured the young, the gay.
and the inquisitive, to the standard of the order, which now assumed
such an imposing appearance as caused it to spread, with astonishing
rapidity, over Europe, Asia, and America. The year 1717 forms and
important epoch in the history of freemasonry. It had till then been
for some centuries, almost exclusively, in the hands of mere craftsmen
who knew not what to make ol' it. Druidism being extinct, the reli-
gious cement which had bound them together, was dissolved ; and the
incorporated company of masons, no doubt, rendered its combination
in respect to that profession inefficient.
As operative masons, the incorporated company would naturally
take the lead ofa society not sanctioned by the laws, and the utility of
whose mystic rites could not be estimated, alter the religion which
gave them birth, was no lohger knoyvn.
Dermott names eight persons, among whom is the Rev. Dr.
Desaguliers, who was elected grand master in 1719, as the authors of
this remarkable revolution. At this revival, the ostensible ground
upon which the society was
originally founded, the craft of masonry, as
though in derision of the pretention, was
utterly abandoned, and no
longer considered as a recommendation for admission into the'order.
The society, however, keeps up a show of respect to the craft by
marching in processions, to lay the corner stone of masonic halls, and
other public edifices. This, was an ancient religious custom, having
no reference to the art of building.
Incorporation of Masons in London.
Masons No. 30.-By the arms granted this society by William
Hanckestow, Clarencieux-king at arms,° in the year l477, it appears
to be of considerable antiquity; however, it was
only incorporated by
Letters Patent of the 29th, of Charles 2d, Sept. 17, anno 1677, bythe
name of the master, wardens, assistants and commonalty of the com-
pany of masons of the city of London.
"
They consist ofa master, two wardens, twenty-two assistants, and
seventy livery men, whose fine of admission is tive pounds. They
have a small, but convenient hall in Mason-alley, Basirig-hall street.
Their armorial ensigns are azure on a chevron between three cas-
*
Kings at arms, arsomcen of eat antiquity, and ancisntly of great authority;
they direct the herald presid t tg' h t d h the' 'sd`cti of armory.
There are time in nuniher, Gaitzr, Ne¢irn$>yTpaneds'Ciali'a|\cie'iiax. me;
on
. 35
274 carols Asn ursroav or rnnsrusonav.
`
tles argent, a
pair of compasses somewhat extended of the first. Crest
a castle of the second."-(Maitland's History of London, from its foun-
dation to 1756.)
if i
7
This incorporation of course included the operatives of the freema-
sons, who in their society make use of the same armorial bearings.
which it is very probable, originally belonged to them.
To what period the pagan rites, under the name of Druidism, were
sustained in different parts of Europe, is uncertain: but that they were
not concealed, under the title of freernasonry, in any other quarter than
Britain, is evident from the charters of all lodges on the continent's
emanating from either the grand lodge of England or that of Scotland.
The latter, however, was not instituted till 1736.
The grand lodge of Ireland was formed in 1730. And 'in 1733, a
charter for a lodge was obtained for Boston. So, it is seen, that Amer-
ica was not far behind in availing itself of the earliest opportunity to
become a partaker in the advantages resulting from a knowledge of
this wonderful secret
To suppose, as some writers have done,'that the freemasons' society
first sprang up in 1717; that such a mass of curious ceremonies, bear-
ing on their very front the most palpable marks of remote antiquity, was
then for the first time concocted by doctors of divinity and other learned
men, is to my mind preposterous.
Freemasonry is based on Sabeism, the worship of the stars; but, as
before observed, its original intention has long since been lost sight of
and abandoned. Modern masons not only continue the ceremonies of
ancient masonry, consisting ot' seven degrees, which relate exclusively
to pagan rites, but have added thereto about fifty others. These are
founded partly upon pagan mysteries, and partly upon Jewish and
Christian doctrines; forming altogether an incoherent medley of oppo-
site principles. The partisans, however, of opposing sects seem to be
reconciled to it, not
stopping to inquire into the meaning of the symbols,
or willing to be deceived by the false explication given of them, con-
gregate together in great harmony. And, although the ceremonies
relate wholly to religion, either Pagan, Jewish, or Christian, discus-
sion on the subject is absolutely prohibited in the lodge.
_
CHATER Vll.
ANALYSIS OF FRBEMASONRY..
Introduction.
I shall now proceed to analyse Freemasonry. And as I conceive
it to be no other than the forms and ceremonies of the ancient Pagan
religion; that is, Sabeism or the worship ot' the stars, the following
remarks of Volney, on the natural causes which led to this species of
worship, will not be amiss:
"The unanimous testimony of all ancient monuments, presents us
a methodical and complicated system, that of the worship of all the stars,
adored sometimes in their proper forms, sometimes under figurative
emblems and symbols; and this worship was the effect of the know-
ledge men had acquired in physics, and was derived immediately from
the first causes of the social state, that is, from the necessities and arts
of the first degree which are among the elements of society.
"
Indeed, as
soon as men began to unite in society, it became`neces~
sary for them to multiply the means of subsistence, and 'consequently to
attend to agriculture; agriculture, to be carried on with success,
requires the observation and knowledge of the heavens. It was neces-
sary to know the periodical return of the same
operations of nature, and
the same phenomena in the skies; indeed, to go so far as to ascertain
the duration and succession of the seasons and the months of the year.
It was
indispensable to know in the first place, the course of the sun,
who, in his zodiacal revolutions, shows himself the Erst and supreme
agent of the whole creation; then, of the moon, who, by her phases and
periods, regulates and distributes time; then of the stars, and even
planets, which by their appearance and disappearance on the horizon
and noctumal hemisphere, marked the minutest divisions; finally, it
was necessary to form a whole system ofastronomy, or a calendar; and
from these works there naturally followed a new manner of considering
these predominant and governing powers. Having observed that the
* The author of "
the Master Key_ to the door of Freemasonry," has judicious]y
remarked,
"
that the word f_1-ee was added to masonry by the society, because none but
dxefregbom were admx into it." And for _a very obvious reason, for there conld be nn
safety in
conidmg secrets to slaves, which might at
any
time be extorted [rom them by
their masters. Besides, this was in eonfonmty with e rule established ln the Egyp-
tian mysteries.
276 annuals or
productions of the earth had a
regular and constant relation with the
heavenly bodies; that the rise, growth, and decline of each plant kept
pace with the appearance, elevation, and declination of the same starv
or group of' stars; in short, that the languor or
activity of vegetation
seemed to depend on celestial influences, men drew from thence an idea
of action, of power in those beings, superior to earthly bodies; and the
stars dispensing plenty or
scarcity, became powers, genii, gods, authors
of good and evil.
"
As the state of' society had already introduced a
regular hierarchy
of ranks, employments and conditions, men, continuing to reason
by
comparison, carried their new notions into their theology, and formed
a
complicated system of gradual divinities, in which the sun, as first
god, was a military chief; a
political king; the moon was his wife, and
queen ; the planets were servants, bearers ofcommands, messengers ; and
the multitude of stars were a nation, an
army of' heroes. genii whose
oflice was to govem the world under the orders of' their chiefs; and all
the individuals had names, functions, attributes drawn from their rela-
tions and influences ;' and even sexes, from the gender of their appel-
lations#
"
If it be asked to what people this system is to be attributed, we
shall answer that the same monuments, supported by unanimous tradi-
tions, attribute it to the first tribes of Egypt; and when reason finds in
that country all the circumstances which could lead to such a
system;
when it finds there a zone of sky, bordering on the tropic, equally free
from the rains of the equator and the f`ogs of the north; when it finds
there a central point ofthe sphere ofthe ancients, a salubrious climate,
a
great, but manageable river, a soil fertile without labor or art,
nnd plceed between two seas which communicate with the richest coun-
tries it conceives that the inhabitant of' the Nile, addicted to agriculture
from the nature of' his soil, to geometry from the annual necessity of'
measuring his lands, to commerce from the facility of' communications,
to astronomy from the state of` his sky always open to observation, must
have been the first to pass from the savage to the social state, and con-
° A pretty fair description of a masonic lodge, with the uorahiyjul matter at the
hex persomfymg the sun, and taking his place in the east; surrounded by the senior
w en, who acts the part of the moon: the junior warden, who takes that of Orion,
and the other subordinate omcers and privates, all under the command of their chief;
the Worshipful master.-Edit.
`
t According ss the gender of the object was in the
languzfe
of' the nation masculine
or feminine, the divinity who bore its name was male or fem e.
Thus the Capadocians
eailed the moon
god, and _the sim goddess; a circumstance which gives to the same
beings s perpetua vanety in ancient mythology.
i
___
ruunsosnv. 277
sequently to attain the physical and moral sciences necessary to civil-
ized life.
"
It was then on the borders ofthe upper Nile among a black race
of men, that was organized the complicated system of the worship of
the stars considered in relation to the productions of the earth and the
labors of agriculture; and this first worship, characterized by their ado-
ration under their own forms and natural attributes, was a
simple pro-
ceeding of the human mind; but in a short time, the multiplicity of the
objects of their relations, and their reciprocal influence, having compli-
cated the ideas, and the signs that represented them, there followed a
confusion as singular in its cause, as pernicious in its etl`ects."
It has been sumciently made to appear, it is believed, that the Soci-
ety of Freemasons, has existed in England for upwards of six hundred
years. How far its principles and objects were
generally understood
by its members in the early stage of its establishment, is unknown.
But, judging from the enigmatical manner in which its ritual, as handed
down to us, is explained, we
may conclude that the brethren, particu-
larly the craltsmen of the three first degrees, were kept as
closely hood-
winked in respect to its true import, after, as
they were before their
initiation. The personal safety of its founders required this course,
Hence the awful oaths exacted of them to keep secret the rites and cere-
monies in which they were
permitted to participate.
These ceremonies were manufactured for the occasion; and were
so
obscurely framed as to be rendered incomprehensible to all those not
intrusted with the secret object of the institution. Besides artifice was
made use of to mislead the brethren, answers to questions propounded
being oflen given that have no relation to their true interpretation. In
short, freemasonry is allegorical throughout, and is an imitation of the
astronomical worship of the Egyptians, Hiram being substituted for
Osiris. There are occasional departures from the original, to accom-
modate it to the craft or trade of masonry, which, as before observed, is
8 mere finesse to cover the real design. There, otherwise, would have
been no necessity for dividing the subject matter of the three first
degrees; which may be considered as substituted for the ceremonies
and secrets of the lesser mysteries; and that of the royal arch and its
appendages, for those of the greater. It may, however, have been the
policy of the Druids, to deal out their mysteries in small parcels, to
try the good faith of their pupils by degrees, and to stop short, or pro-
ceed with them accordingly.
No account ofthe secret practices of masonry, had been given to
_
278 _
numvms or
the public, till alter its revival in 1717. The first writers who under-
took to expose them, were Prichard, in 1780; Master Key to the door
ofFreemasonry, in 1768; and Jachin and Boaz, in 1776. As material
alterations in the ritual have been made since the report of Prichard,
whatever may be said of "old land marks," in making this Analysis, I
shall rely chiefly upon him and the two following expositions for an
explanation of the three first degrees, which was the extent of their
labors, although the author of Master Key, sig-ns himself "
A member
of Royal Arch."
On the revival ofthe institution, the surviving heirs ofthe myaery,
no doubt, gave to the society as far as recollected, the very words and
ceremonies as delivered to them; and which Prichard testifies under
oath, to be truely reported by him.
This expose particularly indicates the order to be of ancient date.
Alier perusing it, it would seem
impossible to believe that men of lear-
ning, talents, and standing in society, would, in the eighteenth century of
the Christian era, seriously form de novo such a
medley, *void of the least
claim to wit or rationality, except in reference to the scientific worship of
the heavenly bodies and other physical powers of nature. According to
Prichard, many of the questions and answers, are in verse, which suf-
ficiently indicate their Druidical formation; the sense of which, how-
ever, has been changed to prose, thereby rendering the dialogue more
conformable to the present taste, and at the same time divesting it of its
Druidical dress.
In adapting this parody of the mysteries to the uninfonned state of
the initiated to the three first degrees of masonry, although a
trinity is
acknowledged under the title of wisdom, strength and beauty, still the
true-first person is kept out of view.
"
The maintainers of the Egyptian philosophy held, that the
Supreme Being, the infinitely perfect and happy, was not the creator of
the world, nor the alone independent Being. The Supreme Being,
who resides in the imvhensity of space, which they call peteroma or
fullness, produced from himself; say they, other immortal and spiritual
natures, styled by them Eons, who filled the residence of the Deity
with beings similar to themselves."-(Key to the New Testament.-
Hutchinson, p. 36.) _
This Divinity is spoken of by Jamblichus, under the name of Emeplt
or Knepll. He says, that "
This God is an intellect, itself intellectu-
ally perceiving itseUf and converting intellections to itself; and is to
be worshipped through silence alone."-(Taylor's Trans. Jam. p. 302.)
IRIIIAIONRX- 279
Altho this god was secretly acknowledged by the philosophers and
leamed priests of Egypt, he was
utterly unknown to the common peo-
ple; and this is supposed to be the case with the mason of the three
Erst degrees. But when he arrives at the holy royal arch, the discovery
is made known to him. This is the awful Divinity,'on coming into
whose presence, the shocking exhibitions of thunder, lightning,etc.
produce such excessive trepidation and fear. This is the Wisdom,
the first person of the Egyptian trinity; Osiris the sun, the Strength,
the Demiurgus or
supposed maker of the world, is the second person;
and Isis the moon, the Beauty of masonry, is the third. But as the
first person is not revealed to the initiates of the minor degress, the
trinity for these grades is made up wholly of visible, physical powers,
adapted to the gross conceptions of the uninlightened; viz. Osiris, Isis,
and Orus; that is the sun, moon, and Orion.
To prevent that satiety arising from the perusal of long rituals, par-
ticularly those in which the reader has no faith, I shall confine myself
to as few items in' that respect, as is consistent with the necessary
developement of the subject. This analysis is not intended as a
regular
expose of the ceremonies of masonry.
After these preliminary remarks, I commence with the
Manmr of Opening a,
Lodge;
and preparing a candidaufor talmsfrorn Jadtin and Boaz.
Masonry throughout is in the catechetical form, in the same manner
as instruction is given to novices in all other religions. The master,
before opening the lodge, demands of the officers their varions stations
and duties (which will appear in what are called lectures further on,)
ending with those of the master; whose station is in the east, because
the sun 'rises in the east to open the day, so the master stands in the east
to open /tis lodge, and set the men to work.
After the conclusion of this ceremony, the master puts on his hat,
and declares the lodge to be opened, in the name of holy St. John, for-
bidding all cursing, swearing, whispering, and all profane discourse
whatever. He then gives three knocks upon the table, and puts on his
hat, the brethren being uncovered. Provided a candidate has received
the approval of the lodge for admittance, the master asks, if the gentle-
man
proposed last lodge-night is ready to be made; and on being
answered in the ammative, he orders the wardens to go out and pre-
pare the person, who is generally waiting in a room at some distance
from the lodge room by himself; being lefl there by his friend who pro-
280 an/u.vsls or-°
`
posed him. He is conducted into another room, which is totally dark ;
and then asked, whether he is conscious of having the vocation neces-
sary to be received? On answering yes, he is asked his name, sur-
name, and profession. When he has answered these questions, what-
ever he has about him made of metal is taken away, as buckles, buttons,
rings, etc. and even the money in his pocket. Then they uncover his
right knee and put his left foot with his shoe on into a
slipper, (this is
not practised in every lodge, some only slipping the heel of the shoe
down ;) hoodwink him with a handkerchieti and leave him to his
reflection for about half an hour. 'I'he chamber is also guarded within
and without by some of the brethren who have drawn swords in their
hands. The person who proposed the candidate stays in the room with
him; but they are not permitted to converse together.
During this silence, and while the candidate is preparing, the
brethren in the lodge are putting every thing in order for his recep-
tion there; such as drawing the annexed figure [omitted] on the floor
at the upper part of the room; which is generally done with chalk
and charcoal intermixed. It is drawn east and west. The Master
stands in the east, with the square hanging at his breast, the holy bible
opened at the gospel of St. John, and three lighted tapers are
placed in
the form of a
triangle in the midst of the drawing on the floor.
The proposer then goes and knocks three times at the door of the
apartment, in which the ceremony is to be performed. The Master
answers within by three strokes with the hammer, and the Junior
warden asks, who comes there 'I The candidate answers (alter
another who prompts him)
"
One who begs to receive part of the bene-
fit of this Right Worshipful Lodge, dedicated to St. John, as
many
brothers and fellows have done before me." The doors are then
opened, and the senior and junior wardens, or their Assistants,
receive him, one on the right, and the other on the left, and conduct
him blind-folded three times round the drawing on the floor, and bring
him up to the foot of it, with his face to the master, the brethren
ranging themselves on each side, and making a confused noise, by
striking on the attributes of the order, which they carry in their hands.°
In some
lodges the candidates are led nine times round; but as
this is very tiresome to the person who is to undergo the operation, his
patience being pretty well tried by being blinded so long beforehand,
it is very justly omitted.
* This custom is not observed in all Lodges.
_
rnssnnsomtv. 281
Apprenticehs Degree.
I commerce this degree with Prichard's report, called "
Masonry
Dissected," as inserted in the Antimasonic Review; which Mr. Ward,
the Editor, informs me, he printed from a
manuscript copy. It is evi-
dently an
abridgment of the original: for it opens with the examina-
tion of an
Apprentice previously initiated. It contains, however,
enough for the present purpose.-An attestation to the truth of the
statement is prefixed to the document, as follows :
"
Samuel Prichard maketh oath, that the copy hereunto annexed is
a true and genuine copy in every particular. Jur. 13 Die Oct.
1730_
Coram me R. Hopkins."
I shall not confine myself to any one of the books on the subject in
regular order, but take the questions and answers, or the purport of
them, from either as
may best suit my purpose.
'Question From whence came
you? Answer. From the Holy
Lodge of St. John. [YVhy the Druids gave this name to the lodge
will be explained in the sequeH \Vhat recommendations brought you
from thence 'I-The recommendation which I brought from the right
worshipful brothers and fellows of the right Worshipful and holy lodge
of St. John; from whence I came, and greet you thrice heartily well.
What do you come here to do T-
§f.'f ffl §$'JiL'l '?§§"p'li's'i§.§$'iil|,
The rules of maso in hand to take,
And daily progresialrtyherein to make.
Are you a mason ?-I am so taken and accepted to be 'mong broth-
ers and fellows. Where were
you made a mason 'I--In a just and
perfect lodge. What makes a lodge 'I-Five.-Masons are deceived
by the reason given for this number's making a lodge.
"
The ancient
theology (as before observed) being nothing more than a
system of
physics, n
picture of the operations of nature, wrapped up in myste-
rious allegories and enigmatical symbols," a solution of the enigma
must be sought for from that source.
"
The Egyptians represent the world by the number jioe, being that
of the elements, which, says Diodorus, are earth, water, air, fire and
ether or
spiritus (they are the same amongst the Indians ;) and accord-
ing to the rnystics, in Macrobius} they are the supreme God of primum
mobile, the intelligence or mens born of him, the soul of the world
which proceeds from him, the celestial spheres and all things terres-
36
282 sinners or rannuomzv:
trial. Hence, adds Plutarch, the analogy between the Greek pente,
five, and Pan, all." (See Ruins, p. 26.)
What makes a just and perfect Lodge? Seven.-This is in conse-
quence of its being formed by the union of three and four; which,
as before observed, renders this number superlatively perfect.
Masonry teaches that the above numbers are required to make a
lodge, because man has tive senses, and there are seven liberal scien-
ces; and much ridiculous parade is made in the definition of these
sciences; which are thus arranged :-Grammar, rhetoric, logic, arith-
metic, geometry, music, and astronomy. What doth geometry teach 2-
The art of measuring whereby the Egyptians found out their own
land, or the same quantity which they had before the overflowing of
the Nile.-How were
you prepared to be made a mason 2-I was
neither naked nor clothed, barefoot nor shod; deprived of all metal;
hoodwinked, with a cable-tow about my neck, when I was led to the
door of the lodge, in a
halting moving posture.-This preparation, as
before noticed, is in conformity to the ancient usage in the mysteries:
it is a scenical representation of the
fogorn condition of man in a state
of nature. The rope about the neck of the candidate, like the chain
required by the Druids to be carried by their followers in the perform-
ance of their sacred rites, was, as before stated, in testimony of his
submission to the will of God [See Mayo's Myth. v. 2d. p. 210.
How got you admittance 'I-By three great knocks.-Who received
you 'I-A junior warden.-How did he dispose of you 'Z-He carried
me up to the northeast part of the lodge, and brought me back again
to the west, and delivered me to the senior warden. (Why the candi-
date begins his labors at the _northeast part of the lodge has already
been explained.)
Where did our ancient brethren meet, before lodges were erected 'l-
Upon holy ground, or the highest hill or lowest vale, or in the vale
of Jeltoshaphat, or
any other secret place; the better to guard against
cowans' and enemies, either ascending or
descending, that the brethren
might have timely notice of their approach to prevent being surprised.
These ancient brethren were Druids ; and the places mentioned are
such as
they used to assemble at, before the edict of Canute entirely
'Cowan seems to be a
cornrption of Covin, which the author of The Secret Dimi-
plisu, &.c_ noticed above, substitutes for it. This word is thus defined by Webster :_
'Covin (Qu. Arabic-to defraud.) More probably this word belongs to some verb in
35- 1° C°lC°°l» or to agree. In Norm. Fr. covyneis s secret plaoc or
|1100 -
arrasN'r1ca's naoaxs. 283
prohibited their public meetings. In consequence of which Druidism
was changed into frcemasonry, and lodges were erected It cannot be
shown, that a lodge of masons ever held n meeting for the performance
of their mystic rites, except in a close room, properly tiled. The
groves and other places where the Druids assembled for worship,
were consecrated to some
divinity, and considered holy ground.-The
vale of Jehoshaphat is here introduced as a mere
juggle. It is a
valley near Jerusalem, where, or in Jerusalem itself] a
lodge of kee-
masons never held a
meeting. The following extract from Holwell'a
Mythol. Diet. will show the reasons given by the ancients for worship~
ing the gods upon high hills or mountains.
High Places.
Many of old worshiped upon hills, and on the tops of high moun-
tains; imagining that they thereby obtained a nearer communication
with heaven. Btrabo says (L 15.) that the Persians always performed
their worship upon hills. (Some nations instead of an
image wor-
shiped the hill as the deity. Max. Tyr. Dissert. 8. v.
Appian. de
bello Mithridatico.) In Japan most of their temples at this day are
upon eminences; and often upon the ascent of high mountains: com-
manding fine views, with groves and rivulets of clear water; for they
say, that the gods are
extremely delighted with such high and pleasant
spots. (Kiempfefs Japan. v. 2. b. 5.) This practice in early timel
was almost universal; and every mountain was esteemed holy. The
people, who prosecuted this method of worship, enjoyed a
infatuation, which flattered the gloom of superstition. The eminencel
to which they retired were lonely, and silent ; and seemed to be hap-
pily circumstanced for contemplation and prayer. They, who ho-
quented them, were raised above the lower world; and imcied tht
they were brought into the vicinity of the powers of the air, and of the
deity who resided in the higher regions. But the chief excellence br
which they were frequented, was the Omphi, interpreted Theia cledon,
vox divina, being a
particular revelation from heaven. In short, they
were looked upon as the peculiar places where God delivered hi!
oracles.
Many times when a reformation among the Jews was introducedby
some of the wiser and better princes, it is still lamented by the sacred
miie? (1 Kings Ixii.) that the high places were not taken away; #M
people still nmred, and burnt incense on the high places.
The lodge is described as extending in length Bomclltto welt; in
284 susmzsxs or FREEMABONRY :
breadth from north to south; as high as the heavens; as deep as from
the surface to the center; and supported by three large columns or
pillars, named Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty.
"Our institution is said to be supported by wisdom, strength, and
beauty; because it is necessary that there should be wisdom to contrive,
strength to support, and beauty to adorn, all great and important under-
gakings. Its dimensions are unlimited, and its covering no less than
the canopy of heaven. To this object the mason's mind is continually
directed, and thither he hopes at last to arrive, by the aid of the theolo.
gical ladder, which Jacob, in his vision., saw
ascending from earth to
heaven; the three principal rounds of which are denominated faith.
hope, and charity." (Webb.)
It is evident from the foregoing, that a masonic lodge is supposed
to represent the world; upon which plan the ancient pagan temples
were formed. The flooring of the lodge is intended to resemble the
mee of the earth, and the principal ceremonies performed in it, are au
imitation ol' the movements of the heavenly bodies, particularly of that
great luminary the Sun, the god of Egypt.
The Rev. R. Taylor, in his Lecture on
masonry, very ingeniously
solves the 'enigma ofthe three principal rounds of the aforesaid theolo-
gical, or rather astronomical ladder, thus:
._ {' Faith is the Genius of Spring; Hope of Summer; and Charity
of Autumn.-Faith, in Spring, because faith and works must always
come together.-Hope, of Summer, because from that point, the sun
loplts vertically down upon the seeds which have been committed in
to the fertilizing womb of the earth.-Charity, of autumn, because
then the sun empties his cornucopia into our desiring laps.-Faith is the
eastern' pillar; charity the western; and hope the key stone of this
gjhgal nrch."+This theological ladder has seven rounds, and is enig-
matically described inthe degree called Knight of Kadosh, which I
shallfhereafter notice. It marks the course of the sun through seven
signs of the zodiac, commencing at the vernal equinox, and ending at
the autumnal, both inclusive. The semicircle made by the sun in
passing these signs, forms the celebrated royal arch; and a mason to
attain the degree so called, must pass through the seven grades of the
order. The three principal steps above noticed, allude to the equi-
ppges, and the northern solstice.
._,., ,,Why~should the master represent the pillar of wisdom, and be sta-
tioned in the east? As the sun rises in the east to open and adorn the
day, so rises (at these words the master rises,) the Worshipful master in
,the past, to open and adorn his lodge, and set the craft to work. Whv
APPREN'l'ICE,B nuance. 285
should the senior warden represent the pillar of strength? As the
sun sets in the west, to close the day, so stands the senior warden in the
west, to close the lodge, and dismiss the men from labor, paying them
their wages. The junior warden represents the pillar of beauty,
because he stands in the south, at high twelve at noon, which is the
glory and beauty ofthe day, to call the men off from labor to refresh'
ment, and to see that they come on again in due time.
The above arrangement is evidently deceptive. Wisdom, applica-
ble to the true God, who, according to pagan theology, resides in the
immensily of space, is kept out of view, and Osiris the sun is substituted
in his place. Strength which is required for labor, at the opening of
the day, and which is applicable to the sun, is transferred to its close,
when the men are called from labor. The senior warden properly per-
sonates Isis, indicating the productions of the earth in the fall, which
ornaments and beautifies the creation. The sun, rnoon, and Orus or
Orion, (which lies directly over the equator,) form the wisdom, strength
and beauty ofthe three first degrees; and they also composed the vul-
gar trinity ofthe Egyptians.
The two principal pillars are called Jachin and Boaz, and are
sup-
posed to be placed at the equinoctial points; Boaz in the east, and
Jachin in the west; the former being on the left hand, and the latter on
the right, to the inhabitants of the northem hemisphere, the seat of
masonry.
"
The equinoctial points are called pillars, because the
great semicircle, or
upper hemisphere, doth seem to rest upon them."
(R. Taylor.)
In the degree ofperfect master, these two pillars are said to be jized
crossways. It is asked, are
you a
perfect master? Ana. I have seen
the circle and the square enclosing the two columns. What do
the columns represent? Jachin and Boaz, through which I must
have passed to arrive at the degree ofperfect master. What have you
done in entering the lodge? I came to the altar, worked as an entered
apprentice, fellow-crah, and master, to cross the two columns. "
Now,
(says Taylor,) what are
cross-ways but two ways of which one crosses
the other 'I '1'hese cross-ways, Boaz and Jachin, are the equinoctial
points, at which the line ofthe ecliptic crosses the linerof the equator-
that is, the sun in his apparent path, the ecliptic, comes to shine directly
over the line of the equator: this he does in spring and autumn, and
only then."'
'
The fellow-craft is said to receive his wages in the middle chamber,
at which he arrives by seven winding stairs, passing the two pillars of
286 Auuvsrs or rluzmuxsomtvz
Boaz and Jachin. This is embematical of the seven circular stages,
made by the sun in his tour round thosc imaginary columns. The
emerging of the sun from the lower hemisphere, on the 21st of March,
and his return on the 27th of September, may, in figurative language,
be denominated his rising and setting in regard to our
hemisphere.
Thus Osiris, the sun, sets the husbandmen to work on his rising at the
former period, and Isis, the emblem of harvest, pays them in the fruits
of the earth, on his return to the latter.
The following figure is that by which the symbol of harvest
is represented in mythology; The torch, however, was
peculiar to
Ceres. -
7
`
il'
A'
'd [F
17% 5
,ig
"5
,QQ .
3-` /'
In
l
'
/WM
'
'WV V'
'ffiil
Isis, Ceres, Cybelc, etc.
.u»1»azN'rrcn's pecans. 281
So the master ofthe lodge, who stands in the east, representing the
sun, rises and sets his men to work; and the senior warden, who
stands in the west, representing Isis, pays them their wages. To ren-
der this personification of Isis perfectly plain, a
painting ofa sheaf of
wheat, is hung back ofthe senior warden's seat.
°
It is also worthy of remark, that as the pagans constructed their
temples in a manner to represent the world, they would naturally for
that purpose, imagine the world to be divided into three departments or
chambers ; the upper, the middle, and the lower. The middle cham-
ber would of course include the autumnal equinox : and on the arrival
ofthe sun at that point ofthe heavens, the laborer, the husbandman, is
paid his wages in the fruits ofthe earth.
Freemasons hall, in London, is a
partial imitation of a
pagan
temple.
"
In the center of the roof of this magnificent hall, says Smith,
a
splendid sun is represented, surrounded with the twelve signs of the
zodiac." And he adds, "The scientific freemason only knows the
reason why the sun is thus placed in the center of this beautiful hall."
How is the lodge situated? Due east and west, because all
churches and chapels are or ought to be so.
All pagan temples were so situated in consequence of the sun's
being the universal object of worship.
"
The Egyptians, Chaldeans,
Indians, Persians, and Chinese, all placed their temples fronting the
east., to receive the first rays of the sun. Hence the worship of the
sun has been the religion ofthe ancient people from which these, [the
present race] are
descended."-Tytler's Elem. of Hist.
It is true this custom continued long after the cause which pro-
duced it, ceased to be respected. Preston, in his illustrations ofmasonry,
in giving a.
description of St. Paul's Cathedral, says,
"
A strict regard
to the situation of this edifice, due east and west, has given it an oblique,
appearance in respect to Lutlgate street in front." This building was
finished in 1696. Its architect, Sir Christopher ¥Vren, in a letter dated
1707, addressed to a joint commissioner with_ himself for building
churches to supply the places of these destroyed by the conflagration of
__.i1.ii_._, A
_- -
0
Henry 0'Brien A. B. in a late work entitled : "Phenocian Ireland," Dublin, 1833 g
liter treating of some other of tht- pn qnn divinitics, snyn :
"But our decision on the word sibbol, n name hy which the Irish, se well as almost
all other nations, designated and worsliipul Cybele, must be guided altogether hy
mother principle- For here I at once recognise the Syriac character as dcnved from
ribota, an ear of com, under which guise the l'lic~n`-r-inns used to worship the earth as
the mother of all harvests, and vegembles. All minions, therefore, by one common
consent,
rqgresented Cybele holding in her right hand some ears ot'_eorn." [wheat]
(p. l07.)- ow, Cybele has been shown to bc but another name for Isis.
288 ANALYSIS or ranznusonavz
1666, observes, "As to the situation of the churches, I should propose
they be brought forward as far as
possible into the *larger and more
open streets. Nor are we, I think, loo nicely to observe east or west
in the position, unless it falls out properly." See Anderson's Const.
of freemasonry.
Have you any omarnents in your lodge 2 Yes, the masonic pave-
ment, the blazing star, and the indented or tesseled border. The
Mosaic pavement is the flooring ofthe lodge. This points out the
diversity of objects which decorate and adorn the creation, the animate
as well as the inanimate parts thereof "
The same divine hand which
hath blessed us with the sights of his glorious works in the heavens,
hath also spread the earth with a beautiful carpet: he hath wrought it
in various colors, fruits and Bowers, pastures and meads; he hath
wrought it as it were, in mosaic work, giving a
pleasing variety to the
eye of man."-Smith. '
The blazing star in the center, indicates that prudence which ought
to appear conspicuous in the conduct of every mason. The indented
or tesseled border refers us to the planets which in their various revolu-
tions, form a beautiful border of skirt-work round that grand luminary
the sun. The furniture of the lodge is the volume of the sacred law,
the compass, and the square.
The origin of what is called mosaic work, as well as the term by
which it is designated, appears to be lost through the lapse of time.
"The ancients, especially the Greeks, says Bailey, adorned their
floors, pavements of temples, palaces, etc., with mosaic, or rather musaic
work. A work composed of many stones, or other matters of differ-
ent colors, so
disposed as to represent divers shapes of ornaments, birds,
etc." Dr. Rees observes,
"
The critics are divided
`
as to the
origin and reason of the name mosaic." He then gives unsatisfac-
tory hypotheses of several writers on the subject, and coucludes by say-
ing,
"
Mosaic appears to have taken its origin from paving z" leaving
the question as to the propriety of thus denominating any kind of paving
unsolved. This matter having eluded the researches of the learned for
so many ages, that it is with ditfidence I oifer the following remarks
"
The rural works, says Pluche, not being resumed in Egypt till
aher the Nile had quitted the plain, they for this reason, gave the pub-
lic sign of husbandry the name of Moses or Museus, saved from the
waters ; and on the same account, the nine moons
during which Horus,
Apollo, or husbandry continued his exercises, went by the same name."
Hence, as we have seen, originated the fable of the nine muses.
"
Isis
At»rut|'rtc|:'s arena.
-
289
says the same writer, was so far the proclamation of the year, that she
put on such clothes and dresses as were
agreeable to the four seasons.
To announce the beginning of spring that overspreads and enamels
the earth with flowers and verdure, she wore
carpets of different
colors," etc.
Now, what could be more appropriate than to denominate the vari-
egated and beautiful face ofthe earth in Egypt, during the nine months
that bore the name of Moses or Museus, mosaic or musaic work, and
to give the same
appellation to its imitation?
The Egyptians and other ancient nations held high hills, groves,
etc. in superstitious veneration; and although when more civilized, in
order to shelter themselves from the weather, they quilted these favorite
retreats, and worshipped their gods in temples; still it was natural that
they should endeavor to imitate the scenes which they venerated, and
had been accustomed to contemplate in their former devotions. With
this view then, they decorated their temples so as, in some mea-
sure, to resemble the works of creation as exhibited in the places where
they before assembled for religious worship. And the name Mosaic
or Musaic would naturally occur to them as
proper to be given to this
ornamental work, intended to represent the face of the earth during the
nine mosaic months.
How many principles are there in masonry? Four: point, line,
superfices, anti solid. Point the center, round which the master can-
not err; line, length without breadth ; solid comprt-bends the whole,
(Prichard) This as before observed, is the definition ofthe science of
geometry.
A point within a Circle.
"
In all regular, well constituted lodges, there is a
point within a
circle, which is bounded between north and south by two parallel lines
one
representing llloses, the other king Solomon. On the upper part
of this circle rests the volume ofthe sacrctl law, which supports Jacob's
ladder, the top of which reaches lohea1:en.' In going round this circle
u "In the factitious caves, which priests every where eonstntcted, they
celebratgd
mysteries which consisted, says Origvn against Celsius, in inntuttng the motion of t a
stars, the planets, and the heavens. The initiated took the name utconstellations, and
assumed the figure of animals. In the cave of JI!!/tra was
tt ladder of sevmlrlcps
representing the seven
spheres of the planets, by nn
:nts of which souls asmrntletl and
deseatdedg this is precisely the lutldtr in J.|~'t»l»'s ;sft>n; which shows that at that
epoch, the whole system was fanned. 'l`ht-rt- .s in tht- mval
ltbrarg
a superb volume of
pictures of the Indian "ods, in which the ladder is represented wit the souls of men
ascending it. See Bailcy's ancient astronomy." (Ruins, p- 239-) _ _
_
I apprehend that the author is mistaken in regard to the steps of this allegortcs1lad~
`
37
290 urtnvsrs or ntaarnsomur
we must necessarily touch on both these parallel lines, and on the
sacred volume, and while a mason keeps himself thus circumscribed,
he cannot err."-Carlile.
Although our ancient brethren dedicated their lodges to king Solo-
mon, yet masons
professing Christianity, dedicate theirs to St. John the
Baptist, and St. John the Evangelist, who were eminent» patrons of
masonry; and since their time there is represented in every regular and
well governed lodge, a
point within af circle ; the point representing
an individual brother, the circle representing the boundary line of his
duty to God and man, beyond which he is never to suffer his passions,
prejudices, or interest, to betray him on
any occasion. This circle is
embroidered by two perpendicular parallel lines, representing St.
John the Baptist, and St. John the Evangelist, who were
perfect paral-
lels in Christianity as well as
masonry; and upon the vertex rests
the book of Holy Scriptures, which point out the whole duty of man.
In going round the circle, we
necessarily touch upon these two lines,
as well as
upon the Holy Scriptures; and while a mason
keeps him-
sell thus circumscribed, it is impossible that he should materially err.
(Webb)
'
That expositors of masonry should differ in their interpretation Of
this figure, is not surprising. It is an astronomical enigma, the sense
of which was
probably lost sight of during the centuries in which the
dar. The spheres ofthe planets being mere imaginary lines, and not so well adapted
as the permanent constellations. And, in order to imitate the sun, the principal object
of the pagan religious ceremonies, these wouldfnnturally be lixed upon for the purpose.
The actors, in the scenical representations in the cava of Mithra., by taking the name of
constellations, and assuming the Egura ofanimals, corroborate this opinion.
l>`RRR)IABONRY.'
adhirs of the lodge, with very few exceptions, were in the hands of
ignorant craftsmen,
The solution of the symbol I take to be as follows: The point in
the center represents the Supreme Being; the circle indicates the
annual circuit ofthe sun; and the parallel lines mark out the solstices
within which that circuit is limited The mason by subjecting himself
to due bounds, in imitation of that glorious luminary, will not wander
from the path of duty. The device is ingenious, and its meaning ought
to be restored in the lodge to its original intention.
The assertion that lodges were
formerly dedicated to Solomon, is
gratuitous, and I believe will not admit of proof I am not sensible of
any historical document that substantiates the fact. We know very
little of masonry prior to the revival of the order in 1717. And we
learn by the earliest report nf its practices, that the old masons hailed
from the holy lodge of St. John. It is evident, as before observed, that
the Druids adopted the names oftheir solstitial festivals, which had been
assumed for them by the Christians, calling them St. Johns' days; and
it is highlyprobable that they resorted to the same finess to delude
their enemies, as well as those ofthe fraternity who were not fully ini-
tiated into their mysteries, in dedicating their lodges to these saints.
This artifice of introducing the St. Johns among the symbols of
masonry, has put the crall to their wits to invent a
plausible story to
meet the ease, and they have come, it is presumed, toan erroneous con-
clusion, that this was done by Christian masons.
What do youllearn by being a
gentleman mason I S¢61`¢6y,I0fd»lify,
and good jellowsltip. What do you learn by being an
operative
mason? To hew, square, and mould stone; laya level and raise:
perpendicular. Have you seen
your master to-day? Yes. How was
he clothed 7 In 4
yellow jacket and blue pair of breeclter. (The mas-
ter is the compasses, the yellow jacket is the brass body, and the blue
breeches are the steel points.) How old are
you? Under seven.
(" Denoting he had not passed master.") Or rather that he had not
passed to the fellow-craft's degree, seven years being formerly the term
of an
apprenticeship in freemasonry as in other trades.
The five last questions and answers are from Prichard ; and from
the simplicity of the dialogue, it may be concluded the original lan-
guage and facts have not been perverted, and consequently that
there were
accepted, gentlemen masons, that is not of the craft, from the
foundation of the institution.
~
292 n|.u.n.rs or ruannsouav :
Fellow-Craj7's Degree.
Are you a fellow-craft? I am. Why were you made a fel1ow~
craft? For the sake ofthe letter G. What does the letter G denote?
Geometry, or the _fifth science. In another part ofthe same degree, G
is said to denote "
the grand architect and contriver of the universe."
On being further questioned, the respondent replies, by letters four and
science five this G aright doth stand, in a due art and proportion. You
have your answer, friend. (N. B. Four letters are Boaz, fifth science,
geometry.) (Prichard) The importance bestowed upon geometry, the
fifth science, according to masonic classification, may be another reason
why five should compose a
lodge.
How did you attain to this degree 7-By the benefit of a grip and
pass-word. The name of the grip is Jachin; that of the pass-word
Shibboleth, which denotes plenty, and is represented by a sheaf of wheat
suspended near a water-ford. (Allyn) Did you ever work? Yes, in
the building of the temple. Where did you receive your wages? In
the middle chamber, which I entered through the porch, by seven
winding stairs, where I discovered two great columns or pillars. The
name of the one on the left hand is Boaz, and denotes strength; that on
the right, Jachin, which denotes to establish; and when combined, sta-
bility; for God said, in strength will I establish this mine house, to
stand firm forever. The house of God is the universe, which is doubt-
less established upon principles that will sustain it forever. The pil-
lars Boaz and Jachin are
imaginary props, standing at the two equi-
noxes east and west, to support the world. Here it may be remarked,
that the pillar representing Boaz, or the sun, is properly said to denote
strength, whereas in the apprentice's degree it is made to denote wir-
dom. Jachin signifying Isis the moon, was a
necessary appendage to
the creation, and perhaps may be applied metaphorically, to establish.
* Xt has been soon, that by the doctrine of the
Pythagoreans, as well as that of
masonry,
tho Supremo _Being is often confounded with geometry as containin the
rineip es of tho
material world. This is in conformity to the source from which
goth derive their origin.
"
The secret
doctrine of the Egyptian priests, like that of the Brahmins of
India and the Magi of Persia, presents itsolf under the double fonn of a
Theologi.
cal and Cosmogonical system. It had for u basis, a
species ofpantheim, at one
moment more
physical, at another more intellectual in its character, and at times,
again combining both of these attributes ; a personificntion ofthe powers ofnature
more or less identified with the powers of mind, and conceived in a point of view
having reference to a mysterious unity in which the Deity and the univerlv WGN
blended together," (Professor Anthon's Class. Diet.)
___ 1
rst.r.ow-ciulra-'s nnonn. 293
"The sun is the creator and father, the moon the mother of all
things. These two deities govern, produce, and nourish every thing
connected with the visible universe. The sun is the third Demiurgus,
the supreme creative intelligence under the third form: incarnate he
becomes Osiris, the author of all good, and it is he that completes the
Egyptian trinity." (Anthon's Class. Diet.)
Osiris, the sun, by his genial influence in the spring season, pre-
pares the earth for cultivation, gives life to its various productions, and
consequently enables the husbandman to commence his labors. Isis,
the teeming mother, who personifies the earth as well as moon. nour-
ishes during the summer, the seeds committed to her bosom, and in the
fall season rewards the laborer.
The pillars of Boaz and Jachin, are described to be eighteen eubits
high, twelve in circumference, and four in diameter.
The eighteen cubits refer to the inundation of the Nile, being the
highest elevation it is known to have attained. The twelve cubits
relate to the twelve signs ofthe zodiac, through which the sun
passes;
and the four cubits have reference to the tetmelys, which comprehends
the principles of geometry, point, line, superfices, and solid.
The pillars are adorned with two large chapiters, which are orna-
mented with net-work, denoting unity; lily-work, denoting peace; and
pomegranates, which from the exuberance of their seeds, denote plenty.
It is only the pillar of Jachin, which represents Isis, the emblem of
harvest, that is decorated with pomegranates in the figures of these
columns among the masonic symbols. They are further adorned with
two globes, one celestial, the other terrestrial. ~
This display of globes, like most of the customs of masonry, may
he traced to Egypt. Dr. Richardson, as recorded in a former part of
this work, in describing the gateway or porch, leading to the temple of
Isis, in Tentyra, says
"
Immediately over the centre of the doorway, is
the beautiful Egyptian ornament usually called the globe, with ser-
pents and wings, emblematical of the glorious sun
poised inthe airy
iirmament of heaven, supported and directed in his course by the eter-
nal wisdom ofthe Deity."
Voltaire, however, is of opinion that this globe indicated the
Supreme Being; he says,
"
It may be remarked, that the globe placed
over the door of the temple of Memphis, represented the unity of the
divine nature, under the name of Kneif"-(Oeuvres-T. 16, p. l00.)
The candidate having learned the grip, token, and pass-word (Shih-
boleth, plenty.) of the fellow-craft, receives his wages, and passes the
294 IXPLAIIATION OF THE TRAVILI 0)
pillar of Jachin. He is then placed in the south-east part of the lodge,
and thus addressed by the master:
Brother, masonry being a progressive science, when you were made
an entered apprentice, you were placed in the north-east part of the
lodge, to show that you were newly admitted. You are now
placed in
the south-east part, to mark the progress you have made in the science.
Thus the candidate commences his labors at that point where the
gun is supposed first to have risen at the period of the creation, and by
pursuing the course of that luminary till he has completed the circuit,
becomes then worthy of the master's degree.
Master Ma.son's Degree. _
The degree of master mason follows that of fellow-craft. And as it
contains the story of the murder of Hiram upon which the entire fabric
of masonry is erected; the very gist of the order, to which all other
considerations are subordinate; which meets us at every tum through
all the varied scenes of the institution, it becomes necessary to possess
a due knowledge of the original upon which it is founded. This is
the fable of Osiris and Isis; which I, therefore, place as au introductory
preface to the master's degree. I take the fable fromL'0rigine de tous
les Cultes, par Dupuis.
Explanation of the Travels of Isis, or the Moon.
The moon was associated, by the ancient Egyptians, with the sun
in the general administration of the world, and it is she who represents
the character of Isis in the sacred fable, known by the title of the his-
tory of Osiris and Isis. The first men who inhabited Egypt, says Dio-
dorus of Sicily, struck with the grandeur of the heavens, and the
admirable order of the universe, thought they perceived two primary
and etemal causes, or two grand divinities, and they called one of them,
or the sun, Osiris; and the other, or rnoon, Isis.
The denomination of Isis, given to the moon, is confirmed by Por-
phyry, and other authors; whence we draw a necessary conclusion,
that the courses or
journeying of Isis are no other than the courses of
the moon; and as the regions of the heavens are those she traverses
in her monthly revolutions, we will there fix the scene of her adventures.
This conclusion is justified by the passage from Choremon, where
this learned Egyptian tells us, that the Egyptians explained the fable of
Osiris and Isis, as well as all other sacred fables, by the celestial bodiesw
_
ms, on rm: loom. 295
by the phases of the moon, by the increase and diminution of her light,
by the division of time and of the heavens into two parts, by the para.
natellons or the stars which rise and set in aspect with the signs. It is
upon this principle we have explained the poem of the Twelve Labors
of Hercules; we shall follow the same principle in the explication of
the Legend of Isis; of which we shall give also a
comparative table,
with those presented by the heavens, at the moment when the sun has
departed from our hemisphere, and left to the moon, then at her full, the
empire over long nights, up to the moment when he returns again to
our regions.
Let us take then Isis at the epoch of the death of Osiris, her husband,
and let us follow her steps, from the moment when she is deprived of
him, up to that when he returns to her from hell; or, to drop the figure,
from the moment when the sun has passed into the southern or inferior
regions of the world, up to that when he repasses conqueror into the
northern or
superior hemisphere.
Plutarch supposes that Osiris, afier his travels, being on his return
through Egypt, was invited to a
repast by Typhon, his brother and
rival. The latter put him to death and threw his body into the Nile.
The sun, says Plutarch, then occupied the sign Scorpio, and the moon
was
full; she was then in the sign opposite to Scorpio, that is to say, to
Taurus, which lent its forms to the sun of the spring equinox or to
Osiris; for at that distant period, Taurus was the sign which answered
to the spring equinox. As soon' as Isis was informed of the death of
the unfortunate Osiris, whom all the ancients had denominated the
same god as the sun, when she learned that the genius of darkness had
shut him up in a czyin, she commenced a search after his body. Uncer-
tain ofthe route she ought to pursue, uneasy, agitated, her heart lacer-
ated with grief] in mourning garb, she interrogates every one she meets.
She is informed by some
young children that the cotiin which contains
the body of her husband, had been carried by the waters out to sea and
thence to Biblos, where it was
stopped; and was now
reposing upon a
plant, which had immediately putforth a supetb stalk. The coffin was
so enveloped, as to bear the appearance of being but a
part of it. The
king of the country, astonished at the beauty of the bush, had it cut, and
made of it a column for his palace without perceiving the coffin which
had become incorporated with the trunk. Isis actuated by a divine
impulse, arrives at Biblos,; bathed in tears, she seats hersetf near a,
fountain, where she remained overwhelmed with grief; speaking to no
one until the arrival of some of the queen's women. She salutes
-_
._
_...__ . _____ _
296 EXPLANATION or 'ras 'riuvsns or
them politely, and commences dressing their hair in such a manner as
to spread in it, as well as over their whole body, the odour of an exqui-
site purfume.
The queen learning from her women what had happened, and per-
ceiving the exquisite odour ofthe arnbrosia, desired to know this stran-
ger. She invites Isis to her palace, attached her to her household; and
placed her as nurse to her son. '1`he goddess then made herself known
and demanded that the precious column should be given to her.
She drew from it easily the body of her husband, by disengaging
the coffin from the branches which covered it; these she found to be of
light texture, which she perfumed with essences; she sent to the
king and queen this envelope of strange boughs, which was depos-
ited at Biblos, in the temple of Isis. She then embarked and returned
to Egypt, to Orus her son; and deposited the body in a secluded
place. Typhon having gone that night to the chase, finds the coin'
recognized the corpse, and cuts it into fourteen pines," which he scat-
tered here and there.
The goddess seeing this, returned to collect these dispersed frag-
ments; she interred each part in the place where it was found. Of all
the parts of the body of Osiris, those of propagation were the only ones
Isis could not find. She substituted for them the phallus, which was
the image of them, and which was consecrated in the mysteries.
This is the precise Egyptian legend concerning Isis, which has not
been handed down to us without much mutilation, and which make part
of a sacred poem upon Osiris, Isis, and Typhon, their enemy.
Notwithstanding the immense deficiencies discoverable in this alle-
gorical history, it will not be diflicult for us to trace a
perfect corres-
pondence between the principal features of this sacred fable which
remain to us, and the representations which the heavens offer, at the
* That is, into as many parts as there are days between the full moon and the new-
This circumstance, says Plutarch, has reference to the gradual diminution ot` the lunary
light, during the fourteen days that follow the full moon. The moon at the end of
fourteen days, enters Taurus and becomes united to the sun, from whom she collects
tire upon her disk,
during
the fourteen days which follow. She is then tbund every
month in conjunction wit him in the superior parts of the signs.
_
The equinoctinl year finishes at the moment when the sun and moon are found united
with Onon, or the star ot` Orue, a constellation placed underTaurus, which unites itself
to the Ncomenia ot' Spring.
The moon renews herself in Taums, and a few days after, is seen in the form ofa
crescent, in the following sign, that is, Gemini, thc home of Mercury. Then Orion,
united to the sun, in the attitude of n formidable warrior, precipitates Scorpio, his rival,
into the shades ot` night; for he sets every time_ Orion appears above the horizon.
The day becomes lengthened, and the germs of evil
urerzy
de 'rece destroyed. It is
thus that the poet Nonnus pictures to
us Typhon conque nt the end of winter, when
the sun arrives in Taurus, and when Onon mounts into tho heavens with him.
or Isle, on 'ral noon. 297
diferentepoehs of the movements ofthe two great llafl which regulate
the course of the seasons; the periodical march of vegetation, the divi-
sion of time, and the succession of days and nights.-We will now
proceed as in the poem on Hercules, to bring together these different
representations, those which are presented by the fable, as well as those
exhibited by the heavens. We will divide them into twelve parts.
[Here follows a critical comparison between the wanderings of Isis
in search of the dead body of Osiris, and the courses of the moon in
the heavens; but as the fable alone answers the purpose here intended,
I omit the comparative representations. The foregoing note, how-
ever, is drawn from the part omitted The author concludes as fol-
lows :]
A conformity so complete, and one which bears so many points of
resemblance between the representations of the legend and those of the
heavens, and which, mutilated as the legend or this ,sacred history may
be, is so well sustained from one end to the other, as not to permit u to
doubt that the astronomical priest who composed it, did nothing more
than write down the courses of the moon in the heavens, under the title
ofthe wanderings of Isis; especially when it is known that Isis is the
name given to the moon in Egypt. We have, in our explanation, only
made use of the method laid down for us
by Cheremon to analyse these
sacred fables, and especially that of Osiris and Isisfwhich he said was
relative to the increases and dirninutions of the light of the moon at the
superior and inferior hemispheres, and to the stars in aspect with the
signs, otherwise called paranatellons. The learned men of Egypt hav:
themselves traced out the plan which we have adopted.
'
Here we
have{liQ an ancient queen of Egypt and an ancient king.
wlmse ima.ginary'd¢vehtures have been described in the fomi of his-
tory, but who, however, as the Hercules of the Greeks, are only physi-
cal beings, and the two principal agents of nature. Ve are led to
judge, by these examples, of the allegoric character of antiquity, and to
gon ider how much we should be on our guard against traditions which
place physical beings as characters in history.
It is important not to lose sight of the fact, that formerly the history
of the heavens and particularly of the sun, was written under the form
of a
history of men, and that the people, almost universally, received it
as such, and looked upon the hero as a man. The
tonihs Offhe god'
were shown, as if they had really existed; feasts were celebrated, the
object of which seemed to be to renew every year the grief wllish had
been occasioned by their loss.
38
'
298 lxr»r.sN1i'r1oN or 'ras 'nuvnns ~
Such was the tomb of Osiris, covered under those enormous masses,
known by the name of Pyramids, which the Egyptians raised to the
star which givesus light. One of these has its four' fronts facing the
four cardinal points of the world. Each of these fronts, is one hundred
and ten fatlioms wide at its base, and the four form as
many equila-
teral triangles. The perpendicular height "is seventy-seven fathoms,
according to the measurement given by Chazelles, of the Academy of
Sciences. It results from these dimensions, and the latitude under
which this pyramid is erected, that fourteen days before the spring equi-
nox, the precise period at which the Persians celebrated the revival of
nature, the sun would cease to cast a shade at midday, and would not
again cast it till fourteen days alter the fall equinox. Then the day- or
the sun would be found in the parallel or circle of southern declension,
which answers to tive degrees fifteen minutes; this would happen twice
a year, once before the spring equinox, and once alter the fall equinox.
The sun would thenappear exactly at mid-day upon the summit ofthis
pyramid. Then his majestic disk would appear for some moments,
placed upon this immense pedestal and to rest upon it, while his wor-
shippers, on their knees at its base, extending their view along the
inclined plane of the northern side of the pyramid, would contemplate
the great Osiris, as well when hc zlcszcndcd into the darkness ofthe tomh
as when he arosefrom it triumphant! The same
might be said ofthe
full moon of the equinoxes, when it takes place in this parallel.
It would seem that the Egyptians, always grand in their concep~
tions, had executed a
project the boldcst that was ever
imagined, of giving
apedestal to the sun and moon, or to Osiris and Isis, at midday for the
one, and at midnight for the other, when they arrived in that part ofthe
heavens near to which passes the line which separates the
northern from
the southern hemisphere, the empire of good from that of evil, the
region of light from that of darkness. They wished that the shade
should disappear from all the fronts of the pyramid at mid-day, during
the whole time that the sun sojourned in the luminous hemisphere,
'and that the northern front should be again covered with shade when
night began to attain her supremacy in our hemisphere, that is, at the
moment when Osiris descended into the tomb or into hell. The tomb
l_
_
°
Here we had an explanation of_ the time that it is said the body of grand master
Hiram reposed in the tomb before it was discovered, and raised by kin Solomon.
Which, says Bernard, "nt is said, had lain therefourleen da s; some say ifteen." To
have suffered the body of Hiram to have remained in this
tomb days, would have
.rnsrred the onginsl design: it would have entirely destroyed t e astronomical allusion
intended by the incarceration.--Edit.
or isis, on 'rua noon. 299
'of' Osiris was covered with shade nearly six months; after which light
surrounded it entirely at
mid-day, as soon as Osiris, returning from hell,
regained his empire in passing into thc luminous hemisphere. Then
he had returned to Isis and to the god of spring, Orus, who had at
length conquered the genius of darkness and of winter. 'What a sub-
lime idea! In the centre of the pyramid is a vault, which is said to
be the tomb of an ancient king. This king is the husband of Isis,
the famous Osiris, this beneficent king whom the people believed to
have reigned formerly over
Egypt, while the priests and learned men
saw in him the powerful planet which governs the world and enriches
it with his benefits. And, in fact, would they have ever
gone to so
great an expense if this tomb had not been reputed to contain the pre-
cious remains of Osiris, which his wife had collected, and which she
confided, say they, to the priests, to be interred at the same time
that they decreed to him divine honors? Can we
suppose that there
was any other object among a
people who spared nothing to give all
pomp and magnificence to their worship, and whose greatest luxury
was a religious luxury'2' It is thus that the Babylonians, who wor-
shipped the sun under the name of Belus, raised him a tomb which
was hid by an immense pyramid; for as soon as the powerful planet
which animates nature, became personified, and in the sacred fictions
was made to be born, to die and to rise again, imitative worship, which
sought to retrace his adventures, placed tombs beside theirtemples.
Thus is shown that of Jupiter, in Crete; of Mithra, in Persia; of
Hercules, in Cadis; of the Coachman, the Celestial Bear, of Medusa,
of the Pleaides, etc., in Greece. These _various tombs prove nothing
for the historical existence of the feigned personages to whom the mys-
tic spirit of the ancients had consecrated them.
They show, also. the place vhere Hercules bumed himself up, and
we have shown that Hercules was no other than the sun personified in
the sacred allegories; at the same time that we have proved that the
° This seems to me to be the most reasonable conjecture that has appeared, respec-
tingsthe
motives which caused the erection of those stupendous monuments, the pyra-
mi
On the sub' t of the S h nx, which lisa also caused great speculation in rd to
its
origin and Jeiirport, the puuyihor of the "
Identity of the Druidical and Heblfgvl reli-
gions,
'
gives rliie following solution: _
` _ _ _
The Sphynx was a representation ofthe signs Leo and Virgo jomedtogether, in
com;
mamoration of the inundation of the Nile, which occurs
when the sun is in those signs.
The Egy tians had always a sort of astronomical mystic reverence for the three signs,
Cancer, lgeo, and Vir o." M. Maillet is of the same opinion. (See Anthon's Class.
Diet.) The
great utihty of the overflowing of the Nile to
Egypt, which was
considered
a providentia occurrence, was
sufficient, among a superstitious people, toeause its com-
memoration in this manner.-Edit.
/
390 snsnvers or rnulssounvz
adventures ofthe queen Isis were those of the moon. slmg by her wor-
shippers.
c
I now
proceed with the
_
Master Mason's Degree.
This degree, as before observed, is chiefly occupied in the pretended
assassination of Hiram Abiflf'
The Temple of Solomon, like the temples of the Egyptians and
other nations of the east, is said to have been constructed with a view
to a representation of the world in miniature; thereby the better to
adapt it to the popular prejudice in favor of performing religious rites
in places where the operations of nature were exhibited before the
worshippers. This temple, therefore, was well adapted for those astro-
nomical allusions which composed the mystic rites of the ancients ;
and was for this reason
probably selected, by the Druids, a an
appro-
priate place in which to lay the scene of masonic mysteries.
`
The equinoxes and solstices are called the gates of heaven through
which the sun
passes. It was
only at the latter, however, that any
pbstructions were believed to occur to his free egress and regress-
The scene, therefore, of the death of Hiram, who takes the part of
Osiris, as now acted in the lodges, is not a close imitation of the origi-
nal, which has been lost sight of; but is sufliciently so to show from
whence the copy is derived.
Are you a master mason ?-I am; try me; prove me; disprove
me, if you can. Where were
you passed master 7-In a
perfect lodge
of masters. What makes a perfect lodge of masters 7;-Three. Why
do three make a
lodge? Because there were three grand Masons
in building the world. (Master Key, and Jachin and Boaz.)
`
Here the Kneph, Osiris, and Isis of the Egyptians; the Agathon,
Logos, and Psyche of the Platonists; and the Wisdom, Strength, and
Beauty of masonry, are too clearly indicated to admit of misinterpre-
tation.
From whence came you 'I-From the east. Where are
you
going 2-To the west. For what purpose 'I-To search for that which
° There is no propriety in the addition of AbiG` or Abbif to the name of Hiram.
'
In
the original Hebrew from which it is taken, the atlix is Abbi, the possessive case of
Abba; which signifies father, and Eguratively, a
superior. His proper address, thera-
fore is m or, in court style, my lord. In this sense, it is equivalent to Adonis,
Paal, or all names of the _mn. And as
8olomon's
was built so as to
imitate the world, the grand architect was vary properly an .
anna |usoN'| nseaaa. 301
was lost. What was that which was lost 'I-The master mason's
word. How was it lost ?-By three great knocks, or the death of our
inaster Hiram. Where do you hope to iind it 2-With a center.
What is a center?-A point within a circle, from which every part
of the circumference is equally distant. Why with a center '1-
Because, from that point, no master mason can err.
The allusion here to Osiris the sun is very plain: and, when found,
it is evident he must be on the imaginary circle made by his annual
course, unless he should deviate from the order of nature. And the
point in the center of that circle, according to the meaning evidently
intended, it is equally certain, would be found in its proper place.
The story of Hiram is as follows:
At the building of Solomon's temple, fifteen fellow-crafts, perceiving
that the work was nearly finished, and not having received the master's
word, grew impatient, and agreed to extort it from their master Hiram
the first opportunity they could find of meeting him alone, that they
might pass for masters in other countries, and receive wages as such;
but before they could accomplish their scheme, twelve of them recanted.
The other three, being of amore determined character, persisted in
their design: their names were Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum.
Hiram having entered the temple at twelve at noon, as was his
custom, to pay his devotion to God, the three assassins placed them-
selves at the east, west, and south doors; Hiram having finished his
prayer, came to the east door, which was guarded by Jubela, who
demanded of him the master's grip and word in a 'resolute manner ;
he received for answer from Hiram, that it was not customary to ask
it in melt a strain; that he himself did not receive it so. He told him
farther, that it was not in his power alone to revealit, except in the
presence of Solomon, and Hiram, king of Tyre. Jubela being dissa-
tisfied with this answer, stmck him across the throat with a
twenty-
four inch guage. Hiram then flew to the south door, where he received
similar treatment from Jubelo; and thence to the west door, where he
was struck on his head by Jubelum, with a
gavel or
setting maul,
which~occasioued his death. (Jachin and Boaz.)
'
Carlile places the conspirators at the east, north, and south entrances
of the temple; and makes Hiram receive the finishing stroke at the
east door. Whereas, to render the parallel in strict accordance as an
allegory of the death of Osiris, Hiram should expire at the north or
south gate or door.-The story is badly conceived, as there is as
302 Anensn or rnssnnonlw:
pretext for confining the word to Solomon and the two Hirams, nor for
requiring that it should not be communicated except in the presence of
the three. Besides, according to masonic tradition, there were at the
same time 3,300 master masons
employed on the temple, who must of
course have been furnished with the master's word. To make out the
parody, however, it was
necessary that Hiram be put to death, and a.
cause must be invented to procure it; and altho the one fixed upon for
the purpose, appears very mal ai propos, it seems to be satisfactory to
the craft.
It may be remarked, however, that Solomon and the two Hirams
are here intended to represent the trinity in unity, and therefore, it
may be supposed, couldlnot act separately. ~
How did the ruflians dispose of the body ?-They carried it out at
the west door (according to the apparent course of the sun) and hid it
till twelve o'clock the next night, when they met by agreement, and
buried it on the side of a hill, in a
grave six feet perpendicular, dug
due east and west; and stuck down a
sprig of cassia," to mark the
place.
Master Hiram not coming to view the workmen as usual, king
Solomon caused search to' be made for him in and about the temple;
which proving ineffectual, he ordered the roll of workmen to be called;
when it was found that three were missing, namely, Jubela, Jubelo, and
Jubelum. The twelve fellow-crafts who had recanted, then went to
Solomon with white aprons and gloves, emblems of their innocence,
and informed him of every thing relating to the affair, as far as
they
knew, and offered their assistance to discover the three others who
had absconded.
Solomon then ordered twelve trusty fellow-crafts to be selected,
and sent three east, three west, three north, and three south, in search
of' Hiram. Elder Bernard gives fifteen as the number selected for this
purpose, and adds, "In some lodges they send only twelve, when their
own lectures say fifteelwere sent." The Elder was not aware of' the
vast importance of confining the number to precisely twelve. Those
who were
deputed for this service represented the twelve signs of the
zodiac; one of whom would be sure to find their grand master Hiram,
the personification of Osiris the sun.
The party that took a
westerly course, fell in with a
way-faring
°
"Cassie, my friends, did not grow about Jerusalem." (Dr. Dnlcho.)
I
rnsrln )|A80N'S nr-zosn. , 308
man, near the coast of Joppa, who, on
being interrogated, informed
them that he had seen three men
pass that morning, whom from their
appearance, he took to be workmen from the temple. '1'hey had been
seeking for a
passage to Ethiopia, and not being able to obtain it, had
turned back into the country. This party then returned, and made
their report to Solomon. Of the three who steered an
easterly course,
one, being weary, sat down at the brow of a hill to rest and refresh
himself; and in rising, he caught hold of a
twig, which coming easily
up, excited his suspicions; and perceiving the ground to have been
recently broken, he hailed his companions, and on
searching, they
found the body of their grand master Hiram, decently buried in a
handsome grave, six feet east and west, and six feet perpendicular; and
its covering was green mass and turf which surprised them: where-
upon they exclaimed, mu-scus dornus Dei gra,tia,' which, according to
masonry, is, thanks be unto God, our
_master has got a
mossy house.
So they covered him closely, and went and acquaintedking Solomon.
In regardito the conspirators, it shall suffice here to say, that
according to the story, they were discovered, arrested, and executed.
"J ubelum's body 'was severed in two, and scattered in south and
north."-(Jachin and Boaz.)
After which Solomon ordered twelve crafts to take up the body of
Hiram, in order that it might be interred in a solemn manner in the
sanclum sanctorum ; he also told them, if they could not find a
key-
word about him, it was lost; for there were
only three in the world to
whom it was known ; and unless they were
present it could not he
delivered; and Hiram being dead, it consequently was lost. But the
first sign and word that were made and spoken at his raising should
be the master's word ever after. The twelve crafts went and cleared
the rubbish, and found theirmaster in a
mangled condition, having
lain fourteen days ; upon which they lifted up their hands above their
heads andfexclaimed, 0 Lord my God! They failed in their attempts
to raise the body, either by the grip of the apprentice, or that of the
fellow-craft, the flesh cleaving from the bone: upon which they all
raised their hands, and exclaimed, O Lord my God ! I fear the master's
word is forever lost; was there no
help for the widow's son?
King Solomon then ordered a
lodge of master masons to be sum-
moned, and said, I will go myself in person, and try to raise the body
by the master's grip or -lion's paw. Some say, by the strong grip or
*The Latin tongue seems to have been familiar to the Hebrew masons of king
So1omon'o temple.
1
`ANALYBlB Ol' IRIIIAIOIBYZ
lianls paw. (Bernard.) By means of this grip the body of grand
master Hiram was raised!
fffiiisl* e
s
þÿ'¢F"f`|11x!""¬'""W .
'=,,§§\l
f
_
J ? `
M
_;;,___` _ ___ _ _ __
M. r
The mixing of Osiris, the prototype of Hiram. (See page 15.)
-
Ifthis affair would admit of serious criticism, upon the supposition
that this word was a mere name, term, or
phrase, it might be asked
what was the use in seeking for that which when found, could not be
made use of; unless the finders tumed traitors, and exposed it unlaw-
fully. The story, as before observed, wants plausibility. .
`
-
This word, however, is not a name, it is the personiied Logos, the
key stone of the arch," the absence of which rendered the structure
incomplete.
That Solomon and the two Hirams are made to personate the pagan
trinity is evident from the following:
Master-What supports our lodge? Ans. Three pillars. Pray
what are their names, brother 'l- Wisdom, Strength. and Beauty.
What do they represent 'I-Three grand masters; Solomon, king of
*The author of the Sec-re!
Discipline,
&,c. before noticed, remarks on the pas!-
word of this degree
thas "By a singu ar lapeus lingvm, the modems have substituted
Thbal Cain in the
`
degree for Tymbozein, to be entombed. This in the ancient
Caudtuia Areoni, was the pass-word, from the lymbolical representation of the state
of death, to the restored and undying existance."
0
lusrsa MASONiS nsunns. 305
lsrael; Hiram, king of Tyre; and Hiram Abitf; the three grand
masters concerned in the building of Solomon's temple. And we
were before told, there were three grand Masons in building the
world ;-of which Solomon's temple was an epitome.
The names Jubela, Jubelo,`Jubelum, given to the pretended assas-
sins of Hiram, I take to be a
play upon the word Jubilum, the Latin
term answering to Jubilee. They were of course formed at the time
freemnsonry was first established. The inflections of this word will
give Jubili, Jubilo, Jubilum. 'I'hat a
slight variation should have
taken place in their
pronpnciation, will not appear surprising, when it
is considered that they have been handed dovn orally, by illiterate
men, through many ages. Jubilum is derived from jubeo, to_appoint;
it also signifies to bid, order, charge, or command. Now, these reputed
assassins are
represented as
demanding, in an imperious and authori-
tative tone, of grand master Hiram, the master's grip and word; and
their names were
probably given in allusion to this circumstancev
being appropriate to the character assumed for them.
Besides the relation which the story of Hiram bears to that of
Osiris, there is a singular fancy set forth in ancient astronomy in
regard to the reputed murderers of Chrisna, which contains a strict
analogy to the supposed assassination of Hiram.-Chrisna, among the
Hindoos, is the same as Osiris with the Egyptians, and is worshipped
by them in like manner. Nothing could be more
explanatory of the
fable of Hiram than this astronomical notion; which is given in
Mackey`s mythological astronomy, as follows:
'
"The stories which have been the result of the particular method
made use of by ancient historians to express the various changes of
the constellations and seasons of the year; and the causes of those
changes, may be worth our while to examine.
"
The Elohim, the Decans, or the Symbols which presided over the
thirty-six subdivisions of the zodiac, or more
properly speaking, of the
year, each month having three, were those gods, whose care it was to
regulate the weather in the different seasons, and who were supposed
to vary it according to their will.
"
These Decans or Elohim are the gods, of whom it is said, the
Almighty created the universe. They arranged the order ofthe zodiac.
'l'he Elohim of the summer
_were gods of a benevolent disposition:
they made the days long, and loaded the sun's head with topaz. While
the three wretches that presided in the winter, at the extreme end of the
year, hid in the realms below, were, with the constellation to which
they belong, cut otl' from the rest of the zodiac
kxand, as they were
-
39
306 ANALYSIS or raasmssosav ;
missing, would consequently be accused of bringing Chrisna into those
troubles which at last ended in his death."
Eleven is one of the numbers singled out to make a lodge, which
like the rest, must have an astronomical allusion; and there is little
doubt that it refers to thc fanciful notion just detailed in regard to the
defection of one of the great gods composing the zodiaz, with his
attendant satellites, the Decans or Elohim. In consequence of this
treachery, but eleven of these great chiefs remained faithful to their
lord, the supreme ruler, the sun. This circumstance would be sutii-
cient to cause the commemoration of that number, in the manner it is
done in masonry.
It may be remarked, that the lamentations uttered for the death of
grand master Hiram, is in exact accordance with the customs of the
Egyptians in their celebrations of the fabled death of Osiris the suni
of the Phenicians for the loss of Adonis; and of the Greeks, in their
mystic rites of the Eleusinian Ceres.
It is through the instrumentality of Leo, that Osiris, the sun, is
relieved from his perilous condition. The strong paw of the lion
wrests him from the clutches of Typhon, and places him in his wonted
course. Anubis, the dog-star, is the herald of this event. Here we
see the archetype of the raising of grand master Hiram, by the "
strong
gripe or lion's paw."
In short, the attentive reader must have perceived, that the story of
Hiram, is only another version, like those of Adonis and Astarte, and
of Ceres and Proserpine, of the fable of Osiris and Isis. '1'he likeness
throughout is so exact as not to admit of doubt. The search for the
body of Hiram ;-the inquiries made ofa wayfaring man, and the
intelligence received ;-the sitting down of onerof the party to rest
and refresh himself, and the hint conveyed by the sprig over the
grave ;-the body of Hiram remaining fourteen days in the grave pre-
pared by the assasssins, before it was discovered, all have allusion to,
and comport with the allegory of Osiris and Isis. The condition even
in which the grave of Hiram is found, covered with green moss and
turf] corresponds very much with that in which Isis found the coffin of
Osiris.
Again, the cutting up and scattering the parts of the body of
Jubelum, is a fac simile of the treatment which the body of Osiris is
said to have received. By the way, the oath imposed upon the master
_i_i___._ _ ,__
_1i.,__lt_
° This is s sketch of thc life of the sun, who, tinisltinghis career at the winter sol-
stice, when Typhon and the rebel angels gain the dormmon, seems to be put to death
by them; but who soon after is born again, and rises into the vault of heaven where
he reigns.-Ruiru, p. 165.-Edit.
ssuzcr lA8'l'ER,B DEGREE. 307
mason
very likely grew out of the fable of Typhon's murder of Osi-
ris, and afterwards cutting up the body into fourteen pieces, and scatter-
ing them hither and thither on the plains of Egypt.
Select ]lIa,ster's Degree.
Mr. Cole, Editor of "
The Freemasons' Library," says,
"
There are,
I am bold to assert, but four degrees in ancient freemasonry. This
opinion accords, not only with the sentiments of the oldest and best
informed masons, with whom I have conversed, but is also agreeable to
written and printed documents; some of the latter of which are almost
as old as the art of printing itselfl" The intermediate degrees between
the master's and that of royal arch, which he considers the fourth,
which have, he says, within a few years past, been manufactured
into degrees, are
merely elucidatory of the second, third, and fourth.
VVhy, Mr. Cole need not have gone farther back into antiquity than to
l750, to learn that, at that time, but three degrees of masonry were
known to the world. The party who styled themselves ancient
masons, about this time, discovered the royal arch among the archives
of the order, as has been shovn above; but which those called mod-
ems were
strangers to, and did not then acknowledge.
The division of masonry into degrees is entirely arbitrary, and since
operative masonry is no longer taught in the lodge, unnecessary. The
reasons which governed in the administration of the pagan rites, which
concealed from the initiates of the lesser mysteries the aporreta. or
granrl secret, which was communicated to those of the greater, are
inapplicable to masonry. For that secret, the existence of one
Supreme
God, and the error of polytheism, is now
openly taught amongst all
nations where freemasonry is established. The affectation, therefore,
of confining this knowledge to the companions of the royal arch, is at
this time extremely absurd.
i
What Mr. Cole advances, however, in regard to the connection in
the matter of the several degrees which he notices, is evidently very
correct; and the same
might be said of the two first degrees, which
are merely preparatory to the third. Still, I am inclined to believe
that the founders of the order divided its secrets or ceremonies origi-
nally into seven grades. It was incumbent upon them to move
slowly,
andto manage the subjects, with whom they had to deal, with much
caution, for fear of a disclosure. Besides seven steps seem necessary
to complete the rounds of the holy royal arch, the grand desideratum
of masonry.
ANALYBII Ol' F#RElMASONl'f
Of the mark and pass~masters' degrees there is nothing worthy ol
notice, excepting one circumstance in that of the latter; which is, the
electing of a newly initiated member, on the night of his admission, to
preside, pro tempore, as master of the lodge. And then for the breth-
ren to exercise their wit at his expence, by exposing his ignorance of
the duties of the office imposed upon him; finally knocking otfhis hat,
and dragging him from the master's chair.
This, as has been noticed above, is in perfect accord with the cus-
toms ofthe Pythagorean school, which treated novitiates in like manner.
In regard to the select master's degree, Mr. Cole observes, "
W'e
know of no degree in masonry, that has a more needful, or more
important connection with another, than the select with the royal arch.
It fills up a chasm, which every intelligent mason has observed, and
without it, it seems difficult, if not impossible, to comprehend clearly
lome of the mysteries that belong to the august degree of royal arch.
Indeed, such is the nature of the degree, that we cannot feel freedom to
allude remotely to its secrets." And Mr. Cross remarks, "Without
this degree, the history of the royal arch cannot be complete. It mtinn~
ally accounts for the concealment and preservation of those essentials
of the craft, which were
brought to light at the erection of the second
temple, and wl1ich lay conccalcd from the masonic eye, 470 years."
The fact is, the grand omnific (all-creating) lost u-ard, it will be seen
in the sequel, was eveptually found in a vault under the ruins of Solo»
mon's temple; and the difliculty was
rationally to account for the
manner in which it got there. This, therefore, is the grand object
of the select master's degree; and at the same time so to locate the
word as
symbolically to represent its archetype, the sun lost in the
inferior hemisphere. For this purpose, a
history of the order was
manufactured by its founders, of which the following is a sketch;
The three grand masters, at the building of the temple, entered into
a solemn agreement not to confer the master's degree until the temple
should be completed, that all three must be present when it should be
conferred, and if either should be taken away by death prior to the tin-
ishing of the temple, the master's degree should be lost.
After this wise arrangement, lest the knowledge of the arts and sci-
ences, together with the patterns and valuable models which were con-
tained in the temple, should be lost, they agreed to build a secret vault
mder ground, leading from So]omon's most retired apartment, ri due
west course, 'and ending under the sanctum .umclorum of the temple,~to
bs divided into nine separate arches. The ninth arch wal to be the
`
si:|.|:c'r nAsrsa's unease. 309
place for holding the grand council, and also for a deposit of a true
copy of all those things which were contained in the sanclum sancto-
mm above.
Alter the ninth arch was
completed, the three grand masters depos-
ited therein those things which were
important to the cralt, such as the
ark of the covenant, a
pot of manna, the rod of Aaron, the book of the
law, etc.
Prior to the completion of the temple, grand master Hiram Abiff
was assassinated, and by his death, the master's vord was lost. The
two kings were willing to do all in their pover to preserve the sacred
Word, and as
they could not communicate it to any, by reason of the
death of Hiram, they agreed to place' it in the secret vault, that if the
other treasures were ever brought to light, the Word might be found
also, _
The allwreating or omnific "ford was
deposited in the royal vault,
(the term used in this degree,) as is said, in three languages, Jah, Bel,
On, which are all names ofthe sun. The direction of the arches, from
east to west, is following the apparent course of that luminary; the
royal vault therefore, is a
symbol of the lower regions, in which the
sun, the king and governor ofthe world, was
supposed to be lost. Who
"under the name of Osiris, persecuted by Typhon and the tyrants of
the air, was
put to death, shut up in a dark tomb, emblem ofthe hemis-
phere of winter; and altewards, ascending from the inferior zone
towards the zenith of heaven, arose again from the dead triumphant over
the giants and the angels of destruction."-[Ruins, p. l39.]
The nine arches have an astronomical allusion in regard to the lati-
tude of the place where the scene is intended to be laid.
Mackey accounts forthe origin of the mysterious numbers among
different natiohs in the following manner :-" In the Asiatic Researches
(vol. 8, p. 289,) we are told, 'that '
seven was
formerly a favorite and
fortunate number among the Hindus; eight among the Baudhists; and
nine formerly in the west, and in the north of Asia. Nine was held a
racred and mystical number in the northern parts of the continent, from
China to the extremity of the west' And why? Because the people
there lived under the same elevation of the pole. They all saw the
great Dial of the Deity from the same
point` of view ;-they all saw
the pole from the ninth stage of the world, that is, the ninth climate,
from which, it would be seen as a pyramid with nine steps; while
from the lattitude of 32, the eighth stage of the world, it would be seen
as a cone or pyramid with eight steps. At Delhi, in latitude 28, which
310 ANALYSIS or rnnenrssormv.
is in the seventh stage, or climate, the pole was represented by a cone
of seven steps. Hence, we find, the cause which induced the ancients,
in the above latitudes, to venerate the numbers 7-8-9, was
astro-gem
graphicaly and hence also we see the impossibility of making the
astronomical numbers ofa large empire agree with one
capital.
"
According to Herodotus, the Tower of Babel, which was in the
latitude of 32 degrees, had a
road-way up on the outside, which went
eight times round in its ascent. so as to give the whole the appear-
ance of eight towers, one above another. These were no doubt intended
to commemorate the eight revolutions of the pole, which represented a
serpent coiled eight times round a mountain. Besides the eight volved
Tower of' Babel, in the latitude of' 32 degrees, we find at Pekin, a
Tower of Porcelain ten stories high, thereby indicating its latitude to
be 40 degrees; for in that situation, the north pole'is so far elevated
above the horizon as to admit ten volves of the serpent.
'
"
Again, in Egypt, we find the statue of Pluto with a
serpent coiled
six times round him, which represents the six volves of the pole of the
ecliptic round the south pole of the earth; which shows that the statue
must have been erected at or near Thebes or
Elephantine. Thus we
see, that from Pekin to Elephantine, the men of learning agree in
coupling the histories of their countries with that of the heavens."-
[Mytho. Astro. part lst, p. 68.1
I am induced to add the following curious remarks of the same
writer, as, in some measure, explanatory of the preceding.
"
The stories of the Pagans concerning the ascension of their gods
into heaven, and their descent intci hell, have produced in the minds of
modern Europeans the most absurd notions,-such as never entered
the minds of the first astronomers, who divided the heavens into three
grand divisions, in the most simple manner imaginable. They observed
towards the north, that a circuit in the heavens always appeared above
the horizon: this they denominated one
great empire; and as there is
a point in th`e middle of it which is always stationary, this they made
the seat of that empire, and subjected it to the government of a mon-
arch, who could from his throne, that is the pole, behold all the nations
of the earth, both by night and by day.'
"
They could not but be sensible of that part of the vast concave that
is forever hid from our sight, surrounding the south pole; this was dis-
tinguishcd as another grand division, and called the pit, in contra-dis-
wi:hT:Eor:¢;:lioi;1sd°t';:ll;;lles_§'EeLnse
to the custom of symbolizing the Deity by n circle
losr :xc1:u.mN'r |ns'rzn's nraonsz, 31|
tinction from the opposite, which was called the mountainj Hence
among the ancients, arose the epithets of Hclion and Achcron, which
meant nearly the same; as Ilelfi-on is the sun in his highest, which the
Greeks pronounce Hcli~os, that is, Elias, the most high. Acheron is
generally translated /tell. It is compounded of Achar, the last state
or condition, and On, the sun. Achar-on, therefore, signifies the last
state or condition of the sun, alluding to his annual disappearance in
those constellations which were in the neighborhood of the south pole.
"
We sec, by the precession of the equinoctial points, that while one
sign is sinking into the bottomless pit, another sign is ascending into
heaven, that is, rising up towards the pole. And as the inhabitants of
the earth are insensible of its motion, they thought the pole of heaven
revolved round that of the earth, describing a Hgure like a
serpent
coiled eight times; which would seem like a ladder with eight rounds,
reaching from the earth up to the pole, that is, the throne of Jove. Up
this ladder then the gods, that is, the signs of the zodiac, ascended and
descended."-[Myth. Astr. part l, p. 55.1
Most Excellent
Itfastefs Degree.
This degree is introduced in masonic books as follows:
"
None but the meritorious and praiseworthy, none but those vho
through diligence and industry have advanced far towards perfection,
none but those who have been seated in the oriental chair by the unan-
imous suffrages of their brethren, can be admitted to this degree of
masonry.
"
In its original establishment, when the temple of Jerusalem was
finished, and the fraternity celebrated the cope-stone with great joy, it is
demonstrable that none but those, who had proved themselves to be
complete masters of their profession, were admitted to this honor; and
indeed the duties incumbent on
every mason, who is accepted and
acknowledged as a most excellent master, are such as render it indis
pensable that he should have a correct knowledge of all the preceding
degrees." ~
'l'his degree contains a detail of the ceremony in the celebration of
the passage of the sun through the first celestial gate, the winter sol-
stice, that is the twenty~fifth day of December, which, as we have seen.
was commemorated as the birth day of the god Sol.--The sun was
1 An allusion to this idea seems to be made in the ex ression "
Who shall ascend to
tl`;_e gt' the Lord 'P' or as Cole, in his Frecmasons' Iliibrary,has it,
"
nate the mount
U »
312 Auuvsxs or rnuzmasonny.
the key or cope-stone required to complete (or rather to form) the arch;
and this raised by masons; is a
symbol of that made by the sun in the
hea vens, and is commemorative of the commencement of his retum to
the upper hemisphere, in which that arch is formed. This degree, in
some measure, anticipates the subject of the royal arch, in which the
story of the finding of the lost sun, logos or word, is consummated.
For the purpose of opening the lodge, the brethren assemble round
the altar, and form a circle, leaving a
space for the master. All then
kneel and join hands, and the master reads the following passages from
scripture:
"
Psalm xxiv. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof; the
world, and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the
seas, and established it upon the Hoods. Who shall ascend into the
hill ofthe Lord? or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath
clean hands, and a
pure heart; who hath not lihed up his soul unto
vanity, nor sworn
deceitfully. He shall receive the blessing from the
Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is the
generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah.
Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors,
and the King of Glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory?
The Lord, strong and mighty; the Lord, mighty in battle. Lift up
your heads, O ye gates, evcn lift them up ye everlasting doors, and the
King of Glory shall come in. VVho is this King of Glory? The Lord
of Hdsts, he is the King of Glory. Selah."
"
2 Chron. vi. Then said Solomon, the Lord hath said that he would
dwell in the thick darkness. But I have built a house of habitation for
thee, and a
place for thy dwelling forever. And the king turned his
face, and blessed the whole congregation of Israel."
As the master reads the words, "lift up your heads, O ye gates,"
each brother raises his head; and as he continues, "andthe king of
glory shall come in," he steps along a few steps towards the space left
for him inthe circle. _
The foregoing passage from the Psalms is very appropriate to the
object of commemoration in this ceremony. For, although the Psalm-
ist alluded to the true God, the language made use of, would equally
apply to the Pagan god, the sun. The Abbe Pluche observes, as before
noticed, that the tongue and religion ofthe Hebrews, were
originally the
same as the Egyptians: and, notwithstanding the variations which
afterwards took place between them,
"
the forms of prayer remained the
same." So in this case, the expressions, the /till of the Lord; the king
losr axc|u.art'r lAl'l'll'S nzortaa. 813
ofglory; the Lord stigltty in battle, may be applied to the course of
the sun; the veneration in which he was held, and his wars and victo-
ries over
Typhon, the genius of evil. King, moreover, was one of the
peculiar titles bestowed upon Osiris the sun. He was
denominated_
says Pluche, "the leader, the Icing, the moderator of the stars, the soul
of the world, the govemor of nature." Besides, the term made use of
above, Hazis or I-Iesus, and translated Lord, is a
pagan name of the
Deity, and answers, says the same author, to the Warts or Mars of the
Babines and Latina.
So the idea in Chronicles, of the Lord's dwelling in darkness, might
aneiently, among the pagans, have alluded to the sun, in the lower
hemisphere, or enveloped in clouds for a time, in the tropic of Cancer.
The reading being ended, the master kneels, and joins hands with
the others, which closes the circle. They then rise, disengage their
hands, and lilt them up above their heads; east up their eyes, and then
sufer their hands to fall by their sides.
This sign, it may be presumed, is intended to express admiration
and gratitude for the return ofthe sun.
Alter some further ceremonies, the senior warden demands ofthe
most excellent, if this be not the day set apart for the celebration of the
cope-stone? Which being ascertained to be the iiact, the brethren form
a
procession double file, and march :iz times round the lodge, against
the course ofthe sun, singing the following song:
All bail to the moming, that bids us rejoice;
The temple's eom leted, exalt high each voice;
The cope-stone is fihished-our labor is o'er,
The sound of the gavel shall hail us no more.
O O O O O O I
Companions, assemble on this joyful
dar, _
The occasion is glorious, the key-stone to ay;
Fulhlled is the promise, by the ancient q/days,° _
To bring forth the cope-stone, with shouting and praise.
I I O O O O O
Thy wisdom inspired the great Institution;
Thi slrmgth shall support it till nature expire;
An when the creation shall fall into min,
Its beauty shall rise through the mldst ol' the Bro.
The keystone is now
brought forward, and two pillars or columns
are setup, and an arch placed on them, made of plank, in imitation of
block work; in the center of which is a mortice left for the reception of
a key-slime, which the master takes, and, placing it in the arch, drives
it down, by giving it six raps with his gavel.
°Thisisatitlsgiventolsis. _
_ 40 _
'
314 uunrsu or runnsosav;
The ark, which all this time had been carried round by four ofthe
brethren, is now
put upon the altar, and a pot of incense placed on it.
The members all kneel, and while in this attitude the master reads
the following passage of scripture: 2 Chron. vii. l, 4. Now when Solo-
mon had made an end of praying, the tire came down from heaven, and
consumed the bumt offering and the sacrifices; and the glory of the
Lord filled the house, and the priests could not enter into the house of
the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the lArd's house.
And when all the children of Israel saw how the tire came down, and
the glory of the Lord upon the house, they bowed themselves with their
ices to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped and praised the
Lord, saying, for he is good, for his mercy enduretlt forever.
As the master reads the last clause of the above extract, a brother
touches a piece of gum camphor to a candle, and throws it into the pot
of incense, of the same combustible matter, which stands on the altar
before the e
kneeling brethren, which immediately ignites and makes a
very brilliant light. _
`
gy _`f~'f" ,
s~
31%,
.
Q
vi
V ;
5), ra ,
i
I 1'_'_
_
a
i
*Ki Q ""'i4§
lygp
*Qt T
Here the emblem of the restoration of the lost sun, is too plain to
be mistaken. The reader may recollect the account, given in a former
part of this work, of a similar ceremony in the ancient mysteries; in
which, atier great lamentation for the loss of Adonis or Osiris, the
sun, there was also great joy at his finding.
"
It is said, that this
lamentation was performed over an image in the night season; and
when they had sudiciently lamented, a candle was brought into the
nos-r nxcnuenr uu'r|a's nsonna M5
room, which ceremony might mystically denote the return of the ann,
then the priest with a soft voice, muttered this form of words,
'
Trust ye
in God, for oat ofpains salvation is some unto us.'
"
~
After the above, the brethren all repeat in concert the words, For
be is good, for his mercy endurelh forever, six times, each time bowing
their heads low towards thej%oor."
The members then balance six times as in opening, rise and bal-
ance six times more, and the lodge is closed.
Ancient freemasonry could have no connection with the Hebrew
Scriptures, any farther than they contained sentiments and expressions
in common use among other nations. Or if the founders ofthe institution
adopted passages of scripture, they perverted them to suit their own
peculiar views. We have seen that the prospect of the return of the
sun to the northern hemisphere, caused great rejoicings among the
ancient pagan nations; and the expression, "For he is good, for his
mercy endnreth forever," is peculiarly applicable to that circumstance.
The sentiment conveyed in the first verse of the foregoing song,
calling upon the lirothcrliood to rejoice in consequence of having
arrived at the end of their labors, is well illustrated in the following
extract from Bryunfs mythology, ('ol. iii. p. 38.) which alludes to I
fact noticed above.
'*
Part of the ceremony in the Eleusinian mysteries was a night
scene, attended with tears and lamentations, on account of some person
who was
supposed to have been lost; but at the close a
priest used to
present himself to the people who were
mourning, and bid them to be
of good courage, for the- Deity whom they lamented as lost, was
pre-
served ; and that they would now have some
comfort, some respit after
all their labor. To which was added, I have escaped a calamity, and
-_
*The companions of royal arch,
previously to_giving the grand omnqlc word, bal-
ance three times three, with their hands join ,bringing them down on
their imees nine
times, making a pause between each three.--Similar customs prevail in China at this
day, which no doubt are derived from the same source as those of masonry. The fol-
lpxivrpg
extract from the Chinese Courier, pubhshed at Canton, Nov. 1832, establishes
act.
"Pekin T
His Majesty, a few days ago, when worshippin and one
`
sacri-
Eca on theiltar of Hwang Te, the Yellow Emperor, and divine
here, drank the 'cup qf bliss,' and performed the grand cerevnonyqf rice lmee1ing,and
nine times
putting
hisforehead to the ground.
It seems he di not much like nt, for he has censured the master ofthe ceremonies
for giving the words, kneel-/mock ;-/mal-lmoclr ;-kneel-lnwek, too slowly. Hs
complains also, that the man who read the prayer,-had but a poor voice, and commands
that another be chosen who has s strong, clear voice, and is perfectly acquainted with
the detail
o{rit¢i
and ceremonies.
On the 3th of
May,
the Em mr went in person to the altar of the Blade Dragon
to prayfor rain ; sn appointed"select Bndh priests, with several rincu and kings, to
form two parues, and alternately lodge at the temple, to condense lfdr supplication till
Ylfh should be granted.
316 Ansusxs or rnulasonnrz
met with a better portion. This is the same rite as that which was
called in Canaan, the death and revival of Adonis or Thamuz, who was
the Osiris and Thamas of Egypt."
Again the same author observes, (vol. 3. p. l79,) "The principal
rites in Egypt were confessedly, for a
person lost, and consigned for s.
time to darkness; who was at last found. This person I have men-
tioned to have been described under the character of Osiris. Hence
these exclamations at the feast of Isis: Eurekamea, Sagcharomen. [We
have found him, and we rejoice together]
"After Osiris. had been reputed for some time lost, it was a custom
among the Egyptians to go in quest of him; and the process, as
described by Plutarch, was
very remarkable; upon the nineteenth ofthe
month, the Egyptians go down at night to the sea: at which time the
priests and supporters (the Paterae) carry the sacred vehicle. In this
is a golden' vessel in the form of a
ship, or boat, into which they
pour some of the river water. Upon this being performed a shout of
joy is raised, and Osiris is supposed to be found."
The blaze of the gum-camphor of masonry seems more appropri-
ate than the above, to typify the restoration of the lost sun.
The last verse ofthe song cited above, contains a beautiful allusion to
the masonic trinity; and at the same time forcibly conveys the idea that
the writer meant by the establishment of the great institution, the cre-
ation ofthe world, planned by infinite wisdom, supported by strength,
and adorned by beauty.
Jubilee at Rane.
The church of Rome practices a rite very similar to that of the
masonic order in laying the cope-stone. It is called the Jubilee, and
the manner of perfbrming it, says Bailey, is as follows:
"
The Pope goes to St. Peter's church, to open what they call the
holy gale, knocking at it three times with a golden hammer, repeating
the 19th verse of the ll8th psalm,
"
Open to me the gates of righte-
ousness, and I will go unto them and praise the Lord." At this time
the masons break down the wall, and the pope kneels before it, while
the penatentiaries of St Peter wash him with holy water, then taking
up the cross, he begins to sing the Te Deum, and enters the church,
the clergy following him.
"
In the mean time the cardinal legates are sent to open three other
holy gates, with the same ceremonies, in the churches of St. John of
Lauren, St. Paul, and St. Mary I/Ae greater. This is performed at the
loss axcauaar |as'raa's naoaas. 77
first vespers of Christmas eve, and the next morning the pope gives his
lmediclion to the people, in the Jubilee form. When the holy year is
ending, they shut the gates again in the following manner: the pope
after he has blessed the stones and mortar, lays' t/te jirst stone, and
leaves there twnlvrboxes of gold and silver medals.
"
Formerly much people resorted from all parts to Rome, to enjoy
the bane/il: of the jubilee. but now-a~days but few, except those who
dwell in Italy, the pope allowing them to observe the Jubilee in their
own country, granting the same bane/its as if they came to Rome."
There can be no
possible meaning in this ceremony, unless an
astronomical bearing be attributed to it, by considering the four gates
as symbols of the equinoctial and solstitial points, which by the pagans
were denominated gates of heaven; and through which souls were
supposed to pass to arrive at the mansions of bliss. And as the popea
hold the keys of these gates, it is kind in them occasionally to open
them, in order to admit a few at least of their own flock.
The twelve boxes of medals deposited by his holiness, are emblem-
atical of the twelve signs of the zodiac; which he, perhaps considers,
as resting places on his celestial tumpike.
~This farce is still continued at Rome, of whicha latetravelerin
Italy, gives the following account:
Closing the holy door.
At four o'clock onthe day of the Jubilee, the sound of trumpets
was heard ; in the midst of a
procession which issued from the church
passing through the holy door, was his holiness the pope, clothed
in white robes, and wearing a
golden mitre. He seated himself on his
white throne, and remained quiet for a minute or two. He then descended
from his throne and performed some ceremonies or mummeries. I sin-
cerely pitied the poor old man, he looked the picture of death, and had
been raised from his bed to personate St. Peter; he appeared to sink
under the weight of his robes; his cumbrous mitre oppressed his
aching head; he raised his heavy eyes and held up his skinny fingers_
and seemed to say,-" How painful are
hypocrisy, folly, and fraud, to
a sick and dying man." The cardinals came about him in a fawning
manner, and changed for him a
part of his dress. At the closing ofthe
holy door, we were somewhat disappointed. We beheld only the feeble
pattering of an
impotent old man : he blessed the golden trosvel and its
handle of mother-ofpearl; he blessed the mortar and the bricks. He
contrived to lay three bricks in the holy door-way, using his holy mor-
tar sparingly as though it were lip-solve. The door-way being that
318 Aturvsrs or rauluouavz
closed, a white satin curtain, decorated with a cross in golden embroi-
dery, was drawn over it. The holy father, with as
muchtheatrical
jesticulation as he was capable of, gave his blessing, which concluded
the farce of closing the holy door. '
The opening and closing of the holy gates or doors, must be an
annual ceremony, and therefore differs from what is generally called
the Jubilee.
i
Jubilees were formerly celebrated, by the Jews, every iiftieth year.
Pope Sextus IV. in 1475, appointed it to be held every twenty-filth
year, to give a greater chance for every person to receive the benedt of
it once in his life. They afterwards became more frequent, and the
popes granted them as often as the church, or themselves, had occasion
for them. There is usually one at the inauguration of a new pope.
At these Jubilees, the pope grants full pardon to all sinners who are
present at their celebration.-See Rees' Cycl.
We have seen in the masonic ceremonies a constant reiteration of
the number three, and sometimes thrice repeated, which' is called giv.
ing the grand honors of masonry. There must. have been some cause
or reason for this custom, now unknown. And I will venture to say that,
(as suggested by the author of the Defence of Freemasonry, before
noticed,) its original intention was in honor and out of reverence to the
ancient trinity. The practice seems to be kept up by the church of
Rome, which goes to corroborate this opinion. One ofthe rules estab-
lished by the reverend mother abbess of the Ursuline Convent at
Charlestown, as
reported by Miss Reed, one of the novices in that insti~
tution, is,
"
before entering the room to give three knocks on the door,
accompanied with some religious ejaculation, and wait until they are
answered by three from within." 'I'he ma on will see that this is an
exact copy of his rules and practice.
The reader has observed, that the number six, in the degree under
consideration, is particularly respected. In the opening scene of ini-
tiations, not noticed above, the candidate is prepared with a
rope wound
six times round his body, and is then conducted tothe door of the lodge,
against which he gives six distinct knocks, which are answered' by the
same number from within; and when admitted, he is walked six times
round the lodge, moving with the sun. On the contrary, the brethren
more advanced, form a
procession, as above stated, and march six times
round the lodge, against the course of the sun. Masons from habit
pass through these ceremonies, without stopping to examine into their
meaning and original intention.
The Druids also paid great veneration to the number six. "As to
los-r sxcunsnr |us'rn's` axons. 819
what remains, says Mayo,-vol. ii. p. 239, respecting the superstitious
of the Druids, I know not what was the foundation of the religious
respect which they had for the number six ; but it is certain they pre-
ferred it to all other numbers. It was the sixth day of the moon, that
they performed their principal ceremonies of religion, and that they
began the year. They went six in number to gather the Misseltoe;
and in monuments now extant, we often find six of these priests
together."
In every movement of the masonic order we discover traits of its
derivation from a
religion founded on
astronomy. .The Egyptians wor-
shiped astronomy. They were the first people known to have
acquired a knowledge of it. Their priests, shut up in the labyrinth,
had nothing else to do but to study the movements ofthe heavenly bodies,
and they communicated their discoveries in such a manner as to be
incomprehensible to the common people.
So in masonry, the novice is marched round the lodge in conform-
ity to the apparent movement of the sun; but afterwards the direction
ofthe procession is reversed, showing that this appearance is produced
by the actual movement of the earth, from west to east, round the sun.
But this explanation is not given, and consequently the purport of the
ceremony is not understood by the brethren.
Making the processions six times round the lodge, is in honor of
the six benevolent divinities of the upper hemisphere. Volney, in
treating of the notion the Persians had of the future world, and that
paradise is placed under the equator, with this singular attribute, that
in it the blessed cast no shade, observes,
"
There is on this subject a
passage in Plutarch so
interesting and explanatory of the whole of this
system, that we shall cite it entire; having observed that the theory of
good and evil had at all times occupied the attention of naturalists and
theologians, he adds: 'Many suppose there are two gods of opposite
inclinations, one delighting in good, the other in evil; the first of these
is called particularly bythe name of God, the second by that of Genius
or Demon. Zoroaster has denominated them Oromaze and Ahri-
manes, and has said that of whatever falls under the cognizance of our
senses, light is 'the best representative of the one, and darkness and
ignorance ofthe other. He adds that Mithra is an intermediate being,
and it is for this reason that the Persians call Mithra the Mediator or
intercessor.
'
The Persians also say that Oromaze was bom or formed out of the
purest light; Ahrimanes on the contrary, out of the thickest darkness,
1
820 srunvsts or rnnslssormv :
that Oromsze made six gods as good as himselti and Ahrimanes
opposed to them six wicked ones. ~
That afterwards Oromaze trebled
himself (Hermes tris-megistus,) and removed to a distance remote from
the earth ; that he there formed stars, and among others, Syrius, which
he placed in the heavens as a guard and sentinel. He made also
twenty-four other gods whom he inclosed in' an egg; but Ahrimanes
created an
equal number who cracked the egg, and from that moment
good and evil were mixed (in the universe.) But Ahrimanes is one
day to be conquered, and the earth to be made equal and smooth, that
all men
may live happy."
Royal Arch Degree.
The royal arch degree seems not to have been known to what are
called modern masons as late as about 1750. That portion of the old
freemasons who met at the famous Apple Tree tavern, in 1717, and
formed the society upon somewhat new principles; that is, so far as to
admit into fellowship indiscriminately respectable individuals of all
professions, were denominated by the non-adherents to this plan, nod-
ern masons. This affair caused the division of the masonic society
into two parties, which continued till 1813, nearly one hundred years.
To the rivalry occasioned by this schism, masonry, it is presumed, is
mainly indebted for the great celebrity it has obtained in the world.
It appears, that the non-conformists to this new scheme, who con-
sidered themselves the orthodox party, by rummaging among the old
records ofthe order, first discovered the royal arch degree, which had
probably lain dormant for centuries. During which time, it would
appear. the society had been confined almost exclusively to operative
masons; who continued the ceremonies only of the apprentice, fellow-
craft or
journeyman, and master mason, these being deemed appropri-
ate to their occupation.
This fact Dermott proves, by the production of an answer of a Mr-
Spencer, one ofthe grand secretaries of a
lodge of modern masons, to
an
application of W. C., a
petitioner from Ireland; which is as fel-
lows : ,
'
"
Your being an ancient mason, you are not entitled to any of our
charity. The ancient masons have a lodge at the Five Bells in the
Strand, and their secretary's name is Dermott.-Our society is neither
arch, royal arch, nor ancient, so that you have no
right to partake of
our charity."
"
Such (says Dermott) was the character given of them by their ovm
aovxx. neu nlonns. 321
grand secretary, about fourteen years ago."-Dermott published his
book in 1764.
If the knowledge communicated in this degree had not been recov-
ered, the loss to the society wouldihave been incalculable, provided its
value be not overrated in thc following estimation of it by masonic
writers :
Webb says,
"
This degree is indcscribably more august, sublime, and
important, than all which precede it; and is the summit and perfeu
tion of ancient masonry. It impresses on our minds a
belief of the
being and existence of a
Supreme Deity, without beginning of days or
end of years; and reminds us of the reverence due to his holy name."
Dermott calls it the root, ltca rt, and marrow of masonry.
Cole adopts the following sentiment of a brother mason :-" In the R.
A. [royal arch] mason`s degree lbeheld myself exalted to the top of
Pisgah, ar: extensive scene
opened to my view ofthe glory and goodness
ofthe M. E. H. P. [most excellent high priest] ofoursalvption.
I dug
deep for hidden treasures, found them, and regained the omnjc word."
"
If we
pass on to the royal arch, (says the Rev. G. Oliver, in his
Lectures on
Freemasnnry,) we receive a wonderful accession of know-
ledge, and find every thing made perfect, for this is the ne plus ultra of
masonry, and can never be exceeded by any human institution,"
By the manner in which this subject is treated, it would seem that a
mason is supposed to be ignorant of the existence of the one Supreme
Beingtill admitted into the royal arch. This arises from copying afier
anl institution established when this doctrine 'was not taught to the
common
people. Polytheism was tho prevailing religion. The one
Supreme was revealed only to a select number who were initiated
into the greater mysteries, ther royal arch of the ancients.
'l'he members of this degree are denominated companions, and are
"
entitled to a full explanation ofthe mysleries ofthe order ;" whereas,
in the former degrees they are
recognized by the common, familiar
appellation of brothers, and kept in a state of profound ignorance of the
sublime secret which is disclosed in this chapter. This accords with
the custom of Pythagoras, who thus distinguished his pupils. Alter a
probation of five years, as before slated, they were admitted into the
presence of the preceptor, called his companions, and permitted freely
-to converse with him. Previously to the expiration of that term, he
delivered his instructions to them from behind a screen.
The royal arch degree owes its title to the imaginary arch made in the
holvens by the course of king Osiris. the sun, from the vernal to the
41
'
322 sruuua or snasanaormr:
autumnal equinox. The signs through which he passes in forming
this semicircle, including those of the equinoxes, being seven, the
number of' grades or
steps required to be taken by the mason, to entitle
him to the honors of this degree.
This order is called a
chapter, which requires nine officers; the
principal of which are three, who compose what is called the grand
council, and one denominated captain ofthe host.
'I'here is, or should be, when convenient, an
organ in the room in
which the chapter is held. The companions enter the chapter in pro-
cession.
'
At the entrance each gives the sign of sorrow, which is done
by bowing the head and body, placing the right hand on the forehead-
This sign is repeated as they approach the altar. They then place
their scepters in their left hands, with the right on the leti breast, and
make the following dbclaration 1-In the beginning was the 'word : and'
the word was with God: and the 'word was God. 'I'he sign of sorrow
is now
givep the third time, and each advances to his proper place-
They are so arranged as to form an arch or semicircle.-[Carlile]
The sorrow here expressed, is an imitation of that of the ancients
for the loss of the word, logos, or Osiris, personated by Hiram. The
use of the organ agrees with the ancient manner of celebrating the
orgies, and is in accordance with the custom ofthe Pythagorean school.
The semicircle formed by the companions, confirms my opinion in
regard to the name of this degree.
The grand council consists of the most excellent high priest, Ling,
and holy scribe. The high priest is dressed in a while robe, with a
breastfplate of cut glass. consisting of twelve pieces, [to represent the
twelve signs of the zodiac,] an
apron and a miter. The king wears a
scarlet robe, apron and crown. The miter and crovn are
generally
made of pasteboard; sometimes they are made of most splendid materi-
als, gold and silver velvet; but these are kept for public occasions.
'l he miter has the words Holiness to the Lord, in gold letters, across
the forehead. The scribe wears a purple robe, apron and turbant
The color of the robes wom by the respective members of the grand council, the
reader may be assured, has not been fixed upon through the mere fancy of the masonic
order. There must be a mythological authority to sanction ix.-The ancient astrologers,
says the most learned of the Jews, (Maimonides) having consecrated to each planet a
color, an animal, a tres, a metal, a fmit, a plant, formed from them all a tigurs or rqzra-
sentation of the star, taking care to select for the purpose a proper moment, a fortunate
day, such aa the conjunction or some other favorable aspect; they conceived that by
their (magic) ceremonies they could introduce into those figures or idols the intlaenoea
of tha lUP°fi°l' þÿb¢lD ¬!
after which they were modelled. Theaa wars the idols that-:tha
torn. non nnenss. 123
Chaldean Sabeans adored; and in the performance of their worship`_they`were obliged
to be dressed in the proper; color-_-. Thus, the astrologers, by their practices
introduced idolatry, desirous ot' being regarded as the dispensers of the favors of
he aven.
"The Egyptians, says Porphyry, call Kneph, the intelligence or eflicient cause (of
the universe.) They represent hint under the form of u man in deep blue, (the color of
the sky,) having in his hand a sccptre, a belt round his body, and a small bonnet royal
of light feathers on his head, to denote how very subtile and fugacious the idea of that
beingis." Upon which l shall observe that Knoph in Hebrew signihes a wing, a feather,
and that this color of sky blue is to be found in the majority of the Indian gods, and is,
under the name of narayan, one of their most distinguished cpithets.-See _Ruins, p.
230-234.
Porphyry,l presume, is mistaken in supposing this god dressed in blue, to be Kneph;
for as he was the Supreme God of the Egyptians, his pmper dress would be white.
"
The Roman Catholic cardinals, (says Mr. Buck, in his Theol. Dict-) dress in ecar-
let, to signify, that they ought to be ready to shed theirlblood for thefuith and church,
when the defence and honor ol' either require it." This, Iimaginc, is a mere conjec-
ture, and not founded in fact. The custom, has, doubtless, an astronomical bearing.
The pope, on gala days, is clothed in a u~hi!e»robe, wearing a
golden miter,`andis
seated on his while throne; and as the cardinals are second in rank,|like the kingin
the royal arch, their appropriate color i , no doubt, scarlet.
The habit required for the person representing the sun, in the Dyoriian mysteries,
says Taylor, is thus described in the Orphic verses preserved by Macrobeuqin the nm
book of his Saturnalia, cap. 18.
-
`
He who desires in pomp of sacred dress
The sun's resplendent body to
express,
Should first a veil assume of pnrp e bright,
Like fair white beams oombin'd with fiery
light:
On has right shoulder next, a mule's broad ide,
Widely diversiIi'd_ with spotted pride
Should hang, an image of the pole divine,
And diedal stars, whose orbs ctemal shine.
A golden splendid zone, then, o'er the vest
He next should throw, and bind it round his breast;
In mighty token, how with golden light,
The rising sun, from earth's last bounds and night
Sudden emerges, and, with matchlcsa force,
Darts through old 0cean's billows in his course.
A boundless splendor hence, enshrin'd in dew
Plays on his whirlpoola, glorious to the view;
While his circnmtiuent waters spread abroad,
Full in the presence of the radiant god:
But 0cean's circle, like a zone of light.
The sun's wide bosom girds, and charms the wond'ring aight.
`
Eleus. and Bac. Myst, p. 160.
The officers and companions of the chapter being stationed, the
high priest says, companions, I am about to open a
chapter of royal
arch masons, and will thank you for your attention and assistance. If
there is any person present who is not a
royal arch mason, he is
requested to retire. Companion captain of the host, the first care of
congregated masons?-Captain. To see the tabernacle duly guarded.
High priest. Attend to that part of your duty. The captain of the
host stations the guard at the outside ofthe door, gives him his orders,
closes the door, and makes an alarm of threet imes three, on the inside,
to ascertain that the guard is on his post; the guard answers by nine
324 ANALYSIS or rnlluasolnr :
corresponding raps; the captain then gives one, and the guard doeg
the same. He then reports that the chapter is duly guarded, by a
companion of this degree at the outer avenue, with a dra\ n sword in
his hand. The high priest then gives two raps with his gavel, and
asks the following questions: Captain ofthe host, are
you a
royal arch
mason ?-I am, that I am. How shall I know you to be a
royal arch
mason
?-By three times three. He thus proceeds, as is done in the
other degrees, to demand the stations and duties of the officers of the
chapter; which are as follows : ,
p
The captain of the host is stationed at the right hand ofthe grand
council, to 'reccirc their ordrrs, and see them dulylexecuted.
The station of the principal snjourner is at the left hand of the
grand council, to bring the blind, by a
way they know not, to lead
them in paths they have not known, to make darkness light before
them, and crooked /hings straighlf
The duties of the two last mentioned ofliccrs, in the ancient myste'
ries, appermin to one character, Mercury, who was the messenger of
thc gods, and the conductor of souls to the other world, through the
dark regions below.
The royal arch, like the greater mysteries, contains a scenical
representation of a
journey from this world tothe next. In the way
are four guarded passes, called rails, emblcmatical of the cquinoxes
and solstices, allegorieally denominated gales ol' heaven, through
which lies the sun's course.
'
Three of the officers stationed at these passes, are called grand
masters of the first, second, and third vail; who require certain tokens
and pass-words of the candidates on their admission through them.
The fourth officer is styled royal arch captain. He is stationed at the
inner rail, or entrance of the sanclum sanclorum, to guard the same,
and see that none pass but such as`are duly qualified, and have the
proper pass-words and signat of lruthf The colors of their several
banners are, the first blue, the second purple, the third red, and the
i____}__-*_;?_
° In the lower degrees, the duty of messenger. as well as that of regulating alll
conducting the ceremonies, is performed by two officers who me denominated deacons.
These, like the rest of the mnsonic drama, I find to be astronomical characters. "
The
ancient Egyptians, says the astrologcr Julius Firmicns,_ (Astron. Lib. 2, c._4,) divide
each sign ofthe zodiac into three sections; and each section was under the direction of
an
imaginary being whom they called Dccan, or chief of ten : so that there were three
decans in a month and
thirty-six
in
akycar.
Now, these decans, who were
also_ca|led
gods, ('{'h(»0§,) ycgulm--ft the estinics o mankind,-and were placed particularly in cer-
ain stars." (Ruins p, 237.) _
In the course of time, a trifling variation in thc
orthokgraphy
of the name of these
ofiiccrs, admitting of little or none in the pronunciation, ma tn
_en place. The duties
of the decans aiu' those of the deacons are sutiiciently allied to idequfy them.
"Among the Greeks, those youths who served the tables were called didC01l0i, dem
coal; that is ministers, attendants." (cllllléfl Diet.)
-
norm. Anon naoiuzs. 325
fourth white; which have the same astronomical reference as the
dresses of the grand council. The white banner, as
masonry asserts, is
emblematical of that purity of heart, and ractitufle ofconduct, which is
essential to obtain admission into theidivine sanctum sanctorum above.
,In the duty assigned to the royal arch captain, there is' evidently an
allusion to that required of the "severe and incorruptible boatman,
Charon ;" who was
prohibited from transporting souls across the luke
or river Ac/te-ron to the Elysian fields, the heaven of the ancients,
without the signet of the judges, who were appointed to examine into
the characters of the deceased, and to allow or withhold their permis-
sion accordingly.-" To arrive at Tartarus, or
Elysium, souls were
obliged to cross the rivers Styx and Acheron, in the boat of the ferry-
man Charon, and to pass through the _gates ol' horn or
ivory, guarded
by the dog Cerberus." (Ruins p. I48.)
Nine companions must be present at the opening of a
royal arch
chapter. Not more nor less than three are permitted to take this
degree at the same time. The candidates are
prepared by tyinga
bandage over their eyes, and coiling a
rope seven times round the body
of each, which unites them together, with t/tree feet ol"slack rope
between them. ,
_
Thus prepared, they are led into the, royal arch chapter; which,
they are told, is dedicated to enlighten those that are in darkness, and
to show forth the way, the truth, and the IUL.
On entering the chapter they pass under what is called a
living
ari:/|, which is formed by a number of companions arranging them-
selves on both sides of the door, each joining hands _with the one
oppo-
site to himselfl The conductor says, stoop low, brothers; remember
that he that humbleth himself shall be exalted; stoop low, brothers,
stoop low; we are about to enter the arch; which is raised up for
him, but lowered when the candidates come under it. They seldom
pass the first pair of hands without being obliged to support themselves
on their hands and knees. Their progress may well be imagined to
be very slow; for, notwithstanding their humble condition, they are
under the necessity ol' sustaining on their backs, nearly the whole
weight of the living arch above. The conductor, to encourage them,
calls out occasionally, stoop low, brothers, stoop lowl If they go too
slow to suit the companions, it is not unusual for some one to apply a
sharp point to their bodies, to urge them on; alter they have endured
this humiliating exercise as long as suits the convenience of the com-
panions, they pass from under the living arch.
'
328 siuugsn or nnusorrav,
The reader will readily perceive, that this scene is an imitation of
the trials of the greater mysteries: and although a faint one, the like-
ness is too apparent to be mistaken. It nfas anciently a religious rite
and the ceremony has outlived the principle that produced it.
Having got through the arch, the candidates are conducted once
round the chapter, and directed to kneel at the altar to receive the ohli~
gation. The principal sojoumer then thus addresses them: Brethren,
as
you advance in masonry, your obligation becomes more binding.
You are now kneeling at the altar for the seventh time, and about to
take a solemn oath or obligation: if you are willing to proceed, say
stier me:
I, A. B,, of my own free will and accord, in presence of Almighty
God, and this chapter of royal arch masons, erected to God, and dedi-
cated to Zerubbabel, do hereby, etc. At the conclusion of the oath, the
candidates kiss the book seven times.
Here the farce of dedication to St. John, which was
originally
intended as a sheer hoax upon the mystics ofthe minor degress, is no
longer continued. 1 shall hereafter endeavor to analyze the name ot'
Zerubbabel.
The candidates are now conducted once round the chapter, and
directed to kneel; while the sojouruer reads a
prayer. (See Webb's
Monitor, p. l34.) /
Alier prayer, the principal sojoumer says,
'
Companions, arise, and
follow me.'
He conducts them once round the chapter, during which time he
reads from Exodus, iii. I-6.
'
Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in~law, the»priest»of
Midian; and he led the tiock to the back side ofthe desert, and came to
the mountain of God, even Horeb. And the angel of the Lord
appeared unto him in a Hama of fire, out of the midst of the bush ; and
he looked, and behold the bush burned with fire, and the btish was not
consumed?
'
_
By the time this reading is ended, the candidates have arrived in
front of a
representation of the burning bush, placed in a corner oflthe
chapter: ~when the principal sojoumer directs them to halt, and slips
up the bandage from their eyes.
A companion who performs this part of the scene, viz :
personatiug
Deity, steps behind the burning bush, and calls out vehemently,
'
Moses ! Moses ! I' The principal sojoumer answers for the candidates,
'
Here am I.'
morn. Anon nuoau. 827
'1'he companion behind the bush exclaims still more vehemently,
'
Draw not nigh _hither; put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place
where thou standest is holy ground. [Their shoes are now taken ofif]
I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac,
and the God of Jacob?
The principal sojourner then directs them to kneel down and cover
their faces, and says, 'And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid t°
look upon God'
'
The principal snjourner then says to the candidates, '
Arise and fol-
low me,' and leads them three times round the chapter, during which
time he reads from 2 Chorn. c. 36-v. ll-20.
The terror in which the initiated into the ancient mysteries were
thrown, by the counterfeiting of thunder, lightning, etc., is here imita-
ted. This occurs alter the words, "and brake dovn the walls of Jeru_
salem ;" the companions then make a tremendous noise, by firing
pistols, clashing swords, overturning chairs, rolling cannon balls
across the floor, etc. The candidates being blindfolded, must ofcourse
be surprised and terrified at such a scene.
In the meantime, the candidates are thrown down, bound, and
dragged out into the preparation room, and the door closed. On being
brought again into the chapter, they pass under the living arch.
This is formed on one side of the hall or
chapter; on the other side
is what is called the rugged mad, which is generally made of blocks of
wood, old chairs, benches, etc. The conductor consoles the candi-
dates, by observing, this is the way many great and good men have
traveled before you; never deeming it derogatory to their dignity to
level themselves with the fraternity. I have often traveled this road
from Babylon to Jerusalem, and generally find it rough and rugged_
However, I think I never saw it much smoother than it is at the pres-
ent time.
By this time, the candidates have stumbled over the rugged road,
and arrived again at the entrance of the living arch. The conductor
says, companions there is a
very difficult and dangerous pass ahead.
which lies directlyin our
way. Before we
attempt to pass it, we must
kneel dovn and pray.
Sundry prayers and passages of scripture are recited before 'the
rugged path is got rid of There are clauses in one of them. which
make it appear that it vas
originally addressed to the sun when in the
lower hemisphere, imploring his return to the upper regions, as fol-
lows:
Y
328 Axunrsrs or rnssxasouay.
I
"
Hear my prayer, O Lord! give ear to my supplications: for the
enemy hath persecuted my soul : he hath made me to tl-wail in dark-
ness.
:Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within ine; my heart within
me is desolate. Hear me
speedily, O Lord! my spirit faileth: hide
not thy _/Iwi: from me, het I be like unto them that _go down into I/te
pil. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning; for in
thee do l trust. Bring my soul out of trouble. And oi' l/ty mercy cu!
of my eiwmies; fur I am
l/ty servant."
'1'he H1051 appropriate prayer, as regards the mysteries of masonry,
is, perhaps, that recorded by Dermott, which is used in the lodge of
Jewish freemasons.
"
O Lord, excellent art thou in thy truth, and there is nothing great
in comparison to thee; for thine is the praise, from all the works of thy
hands, forevermore.
"
Enlighten us, wc beseech thee, in the I/'ut' knnirlctlga ff masonry;
by the sorrows of Adam, thy first made man ; by the blood of Abel, the
holy one; bythe righteousness oi`Seth, in whom thou art well pleased;
and by thy covenant vith Noah, in whose architecture thou was
pleased to save the sertl of thy beloz-ctl; number us not among those
that know not thy statutes, nor the divine mysteries of the secret
Ca,ba1a.' _
"But grant, we beseech thee, thatthe ruler of this lodge may be
endued with knowledge and visdom, to instruct us and explain his
secret mysteries, as_our holy brother Moses? did, in his lodge, to Aaron,
to Eleazar, and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron, and the seventy elders of
Israel.
"
And grant that we
may understand, learn, and keep all the stat-
jr,.
* Csbal or Cabala is it secret science, professed by the Hebrew Robbins, concerning
the allegorical interpretation of the bible.-Edit.
tln the preface to the Mishna, we find this tradition of the Jews, explained as
follows:
~
God not only delivered the law to Moses on Mount Sinai, but the explanation of it
likewise: when Moses came down from the mount, and entered into his tent, Ast-un
went to visit him; and Moses acquainted Aaron with the laws he had received from
God, together with the explanation of them; after this Aaron placed himself at the right
hand of Moses and Eleazar and llhamar, the sons of Aaron, were admitted, to whom
Moses repeated what he had just before told to Aaron: these being seated, the one on
the right hand, the other on the left hand of Moses; the
seventyl
elders of Israel, who
composed the Sanhednm, came tn; and Moses again declared t e same laws to them,
with the interpretation of them, ns he had done before to Aaron and his sons. Lastly,
all who pleased of the common people were invited to enter, and Mosesinstructed them
likewise in the same manner us the rest: so that Aaron heard four times what Moses
had been taught by God upon Mount Sinai. Eleazar and lthsmar three times, the
sevent elders twice, and the people once. Moses afterwards reduced the laws which
he hatfireceived into writing, but not the explanations of them ; these he thought it suf-
tigignt to trust to the memories of the aboveymentioned
persons, who, being perfectly
instructed in them, delivered them to their children, and t ess again to theirs from up
so ago.
»
lovn non mann. 820
utes and commandments of the Lord, and this holy mystery, pure and
undeliled unto our lives end. Amen, Lord." V
The candidates after having passed the four vails, by giving the
signs and pass-words appropriated to each, _are admitted into the pres-
ence ofthe grand council, by means ofa signet, being a triangular
piece of metal with the word Zer-ubba-bel engraved upon it.
I have had the curiosity to look into the derivation and meaning of
the word Zer-ubba-bel. As it is a
compounded word, some of its corn-
pounds are of course abbreviated. Zer, it is likely, is a contraction of
zerah, which means east, brightness : ubba, is probably a corruption of
abba., father, which the Deity is sometimes styled; and bel is well
known to mean the sun, or lord. Zerubbabel is defined dispersion of
confusion. -_
What could more
clearly point out the glorious luminary of day,
rising in the east, and dispersing the clouds and darkness? His seal
ought, of course, to entitle the bearer to admittance into the sanctum
tanctoru-m.
Finally, the grand council, being satistied as to the pretensions of
the candidates, directs them to repair to the north-west corner of the
ruins of the old temple, and commence removing the rubbish, to lay
the foundation of the new.
(The reader will remember, that it was in
the nortlmoest that the Deity was supposed to have commenced his
operations in the erection of the vorld.) While thus engaged, they
discover a secret vault, in which is found 'the key stone of the arc/t ;
which, by the by, had already been put in its place, in the preceding
degree.' On a second descent of one of the party, he discovers a
small box or chest, standing on a
pedestal, curiously wrought and over-
laid with gold: he involuntarily found his hand raised to guard his
'eyes from the intense light and heat reflected from it. This proved to
be the ark, containing the lost tfoul, logos, or sun; which accounts for
the intense light and heat reflected from itil' It contained also, the
book of the law-Aaron's rod--a pol of marina, and a key to the .nef-
able characters of this degree.
'
'
* This circumstance, as well us that of the pass-word, Rnbboni, bein the same in
the most excellent master's degree as in this, shows, as noticed by Mr. 5011; the inti-
mate connection between the two degrees.
'
1' "The god of day, personified in the sacred allegories, was subjected to all the dea-
tinies of man ; he had his cradle and his tomb, under the names of Hercules, Bacchus,
Osirid, etc. He was an infant at the winter solstice, at the moment when the day
began to increase: it was under this form that his
imnie
was exposed in the ancient
temples, there to receive the homage of his aflorers. '
ecause then, says Mncrobeus
the day being the shortest, this god seemed to be but a feeble child- This is the child
ofthe niysteries, he whose image the I;4L'_|/[IUUIIJ dl'f1f'_/_FOVII the bottom qftheir sanctua-
ries every year mt ajixed doy.'
"
(Origino de tous les Cultes, -
313.)
Here is the onginsl of thc drawing u , from beneath the tiiuudation of Solom0n'|
temple ot' the omnijc (al1~crcating) word: logos, or sun.
42
'
~
880 'nunus or nnlnoun:
ui( Q
`n S? Q o
Wi: "
sf'-3 "5
ff-xo M n
y
's o
,` ,
e
`
5 ;,
"
___i___.. ..;.__i_i.
The candidates passing under the living arch; also, the descent of
a companion into the vault of nine arches.
This ark of masonry is but a copy of the old mysterious chest of the
f h ncient
ancient Egyptians; which, among other monuments o ~t e a
k' d contained "acorns heads of poppiesk bay-berries.
state of man m , ,
branches of ig-tree." etc.; which, like the mannsof the Jews, are
-
sont. non nsoan.
'
ISI
said to have served as their main sustenance, in the early ages of the
world.
Although the masons pretend to inherit Aaron's rod; in their hands
it has lost its miraculous powers And as to the book of the law, by
which modern masons at least, mean the law of Moses, it was not in
the Jewish ark; for, according to 1 Kings c. 8, v. 9, "There was
nothing in the ark save the two tables of stone."
The following questions and answers occur, in what is called lec-
tures, aller the ceremonies of initiation are
passed; which are, in het,
statements of what had been before detailed. I have endeavored to
avoid repetitions, by previously omitting part of what takes place at
initiations.
After receiving the obligation, what was said to you! We were told
that we were now obligated and received as
royal arch masons, but as
this degree was
infinitely more important than any'ofthe preceding, it
was necessary for us to pass through many trials, and to travel in
rough and ragged ways, to prove our
fidelity, before we could be entrus-
ted with the more important secrets of this degree. We were further
told, that, though we could not discover the path we were to travel, we
were under the direction of a faithful guide, who would bring the blind
by a
way they know not, and lead them
in paths they had not known;
who would make darkness light before them, and crooked things
straight ; who would do these things, and not forsake them. (See Isa.
42, v.
16.) Follow your leader and fear no danger. Let your advance
be by seven solemn steps, and at each step, you must halt and make
°bei|ance, with the awe and reverence suited to this grand and solemn
occasion; for every step brings you nearer to the saered nasts
of
God.
The following remarks of Plato, in his "
Phcedon, or Dialogue on
the immortality ofthe soul," will tend to explain the inference intended
to be drawn from the above passage, by showing the idea_entertained
by the ancients in regard to the difficulties to be encountered in the
ioumey to the other world; to which the extract from Isaiah is here
made to apply.
W
"
If the soul is immortal, it stands in need of cultivation and improve-
ment, not only in the time that we call the time of life; but for the
future, or what we call the time of eternity. For if you'think justly
upon this point, you will find it very dangerous to neglect the soul.
Were death the dissolution of the whole man, it would he a
great advan-
tage to the wicked alter death, to be rid at once of their body, their
soul, and their vices. But forasmuch as the soul is immortal, the only
331 »
ugnnn or rnunnormrz
way to avoid those evils and obtain salvation, is to become good and
wise. For it carries rrothing along vith it, but its good or bad actions»
and its virtues or vices, which are the cause of its eternal happiness or
misery, commencing from the first minute of its arrival in the other
world. And it is said, that afier the death of every individual person.,
the demon or genius that was
partner with it, and conducted it during
life, lea,ds.it to a certain place, where all the dead are
obliged to appear
in order to be judged, and from thence are conducted by a guide to the
world below. And after they have there received their good or bad
deserts, and continued there their appointed time, another conductor
brings them back to this life, after several revolutions of`ages. Now this
road is not aplain road, else there would be no occasion for guides, and
nobody miss their way. But there are several by-ways, and cfrossways, as
I conjecture from the method of their sacrifices and religious ceremonies.
So that a
temperate wise soul follows its guide, and is not ignorant of
what happens to it; but the soul that is nailed to its body, that is
inflamed with the love of it, and has been long its slave, afier much
struggling and suffering in this visible world, is at last dragged along
against its will by the demon allotted for its guide. And when it arrives
at that fatal rendezvous of allsouls, if`it has been guilty of' any impurity,
or
polluted with murder, or has committed any of' those atrocious crimes
that desperate and lost souls are
commonly guilty of; the other souls
abhor it and avoid its company. It finds neither companion nor
guide,
but wanders in a fearful solitude and horrible desert; till after a certain
time, necessity drags it into the mansions it deserves. Whereas the
temperate and pure soul has the gods themselves for itsguides and
conductors, and goes to cohabit with them in the mansions of pleasure
prepared for it." ,
'
What further was said to you? The high priest first read the fol-
lowing passage, (Exodus vi. 2, 3.)
"
And God spake unto Moses, and
said unto him, I am
the Lord, and I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac,
and unto Jacob, by the name of God Almighty, but by my name Jeho-
vah, was I not'known to them."
`
He then informed us that the name of Deity, the divine Logos, or
ward, to which reference is had in John, (I, v. l, 5.)
"
In the begin-
ning was the word, [Logos] and the word was with God, and the word
was God; the same was in the beginning with God: all things were
made by him, and without him was not any thing madethat was made; in
him was
ZW, and the ZW was the light of men: and the light shineth
in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not." That this Logos,
or word, was
anciently written only in these sacred characters, ( bowing
____ _
-noun Aacu moan. -
333
them,) and thus preserved from one generation to another. That this
was the true masonic word, which was lost in the death ofHiram Abifl
and was restored at the building of the temple, in the manner we had
at that time assisted to represent.
Here the whole mystery of masonry is unveiled ; here is a candid
confession of what the masons
had been so
long in search oi] which
proves to be the lost Logos, the second person in the pagan trinity_
Logos is the same as Osiris, the sun, considered as the Demiurgus, the
maker of the world, under the direction of the Supreme Being.
It has been asserted by Dr. Priestly and others, that the above pas-
sage in John, is an
interpolation; and the use here made of it, by an
institution derived from paganism, corroborates the fact.
"
Those who believe that the Logos was the personification of the
divine intellect, or of the divine attributes of wisdom, power, etc., trace
this doctrine to the ancient Platonists; from whom, as
they conceive, it
was
adopted by the Christian fathers." ° ' '
"In the writings of
Plato, Logos has two acceptations, via. those of speech, and of reason,
such as is found in man. But when this philosopher speaks of mms or
Logus, as something distinct from the Divine Being himsel£.as a
power
or property belonging to him, and all divine powers and properties being
Substance, it would be very natural and easy to transform this divine
power into a substantial person; and this we shall find to have been the
case with respect to the latter Platonists, agreeably to one of the Pla-
tonic maxims, viz. that being and energy are, the same
thing."-
(Rees' Cycl.)
"
Never any philosophy was so
fashionable, as that of Plato during
the first ages of the church : the Pagans interested themselves amongst
all the different sects of philosophers, but the conformity which Plato's
was found to have with religion, made almost all the knowing Chris-
tians of that sect. Thence came the mighty esteem they had of Plato:
they looked upon him as a sort of prophet who had foretold many
important points of Christianity, especially that of the holy Trinty :
nay, 'they went so far as to take his works for comments on the scrip-
ture; and to conceive the nature of the Word, as he conceived it. He
represented God so elevated above his creatures, that he did not believe
that they were immediately made by his hands; and therefore he put
between them and him this Word, as a
degree by which the actions of
God might pass down to them; the Christians had the like idea of
Jesus Christ : and this may perhaps be the reason why no
heresy has
been more
generally received and maintained with greater heat than
Arrianim.
334 uunnrs or nunnotravz
This Platonim then (gvhich seems to honor the Christian reli-
gion by countenancing it) was
very full of notions about Demons: and
thence they easily passed into that opinion which the old Christiana
had of oracles.
Plato said, that Demons were ofa middle nature, between God and
man; that they were the aerial genii appointed to hold a commerce
between God and us; that although they were near us, yet we could
not see
them; that they penetrated into all our thoughts; that they had
a love for the good, 'and a hatred for the bad; and that it was for their
honor that such variety of sacrifices, and so many different ceremonies
were appointed: but it does not at all appear, that Plato acknowledged
any evil demons, to which might be attributed the management of the
illusions of oracles. Plutarch, notwithstanding, assures us, that Plato
was not ignorant of them; and amongst the Platonic philosophers, the
thing is out of doubt. Eusebius, in his Evangelical Preparations,
recites a great number of passages out of Porphyrins, where that
Pagan philosopher assures us, that evil demons are the authors of
enchantmcnts, philtresand witch-crajls ; that they cheat our
eyes with
spectres, phanloms, and apparitions; that lying is essential to their
nature; that they raise in us the greatest part ofour
passions; and that
they have an ambition to pass with us for gods; that their aerial and
spiritual bodies are nourished wifh suffumigations, and with the blobd
and fat of sacrifices; and that it is only these that employ themselves in
giving oracles, and to whom this task so
full of fraud is assigned: in
short, at the head of the troop of evil demons he places Hecate and
Serapis.
Jamblichus, another Platonist, has said as much. And the greatest
part of these things being true, the Christians received them all with
joy, and have added to them besides a little of their own: as for exam.
ple, that the demons stole from the writings of the prophets some know-
ledge of things to come; and so got honor by it in their oracles.
This system ofthe ancient Christians had this advantage, that it dia-
covered to the Pagans, by their own principles. the original of their
false worship, and the source of those errors which they always
embraced. They were
persuaded that there was something superna-
tural in their oracles; and the Christians, who were
always disputing
against them, did not desire to confute this opinion. Thus by demons
(which both parties believed to be concerned in the oracles,) they
explicated all that was supernatural in them. They acknowledged
indeed that this sort of ordinary miracles were wrought in the Pagan
1-eligion: but then they ruined this advantage again, by imputing them
aovu. non nsoan. 385
to such authors as evil spirits. And this way of convincing, was
more short and easy, than to contradict the miracle itseli, by a long
train of inquiries and arguments. Thus I have given you the manner
how that opinion which the Brst ages of the church had of the Pagan
orscles, was grounded, I might, to the three reasons which I have
already brought, add a fourth of no less authority perhaps than those:
that is, that in the supposition of oracles being given by demons, there
is something miraculous: and if we consider the humor of mankind a
little., we shall find how much we are taken with any thing that is
miraculous. But I do not intend to enlarge myself on this reflection;
for those that think upon it, will easily believe me, and those that do
not, will perhaps give it no credit, notwithstanding all my arguments."
The physical properties of the sun are plainly set forth in the
extract from John.-The language is in the mystic style of the Platonic
school, and not in the plain, simple manner of the gospel writers; but
notwithstanding, if put in the shape of interrogatory, "What is that
which contains the principles that produce ZW, and is at the same time,
the light of men 7" It would not form a conundrum di$cult of solu-
tion.-" The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended
it not," alludes to a time past, when tthe sun was
enveloped with
clouds in either of the tropics ; and his extrication, and triumph over
Typhon, the prince of darkness, was the very cause of the celebration
hare imitated by the masons.
Besides, it is said,
"
That was the true light, which lighteth every
man that cometh into the world." Now, this could not properly be
said of Christ, as it would not apply to -those who never heard of his
name; but is very applicable to the sun, which lighteth every one in
all parts of the earth.
Mr. Dupuis,taking for granted that the above passages are genuine,
that is, actually written by St John, makes great account of them, as
well he might, to prove that Christ and the :un are the same, and con-
sequently that Christianity is sun-worship. He says,
"
The theology of Orpheus taught that light, the most ancient and
the most sublime of all beings, is God, that inaccessible God, who
envelopes all things in his substance, and who is called reason, (con-
seil) light and life. These theological ideas have been copied by the
evangelist John, when he said 'That the life was the light, and that
the light was the ZW, and that the light was the Word, or the reason,
and the wisdom of God.' "
Again,
"
The Guebres still at this day reverence the light as the
836 nunvsrs or raninlonar:
most beautiful attribute of the divinity.
'
Fire, say they, produced the
light, and the light is god." This is the ethereal fire, in which ancient
theology placed the substance of the divinity, or universal soul of the
world, from whence emanates light and life, or, to use the expressions
of the Christians, the Logos, or
the word, which liglttetlt every man that
cometh into the world, and giveth life to all beings."
But, admitting the passages above quoted from St. John's gospel, to
be interpolations, as I believe has been made evident, the argument of
Dupuis on this head, falls to fthe ground.
°
There is much confusion, after all, in regard to the omnifc word.
Whether this was created by the original founders of the order, for the
purpose of deception, or has been introduced by modern masons, is
unknown. After declaring the Logos to be the recovered long lost
word, another compound name, intended to bear the same import, is
substituted in its place.
This the English masons call Jao~Bul-On, and the American masons,
Jah-Buh-Lun. .
They both say the word is compounded of the names
of Deity in three languages, Hebrew, Chaldean, and Syriac; leaving
Egypt, the mother of the mysteries, from which masonry is derived,
out of the question, although On, which composes part of the compound
word, used by English masons, was one of the names of the Deity,
peculiar to that country.
~
Neither Buh nor Lun, it is believed, was ever the name of a
Deity
in any language; and although the sun was
worshipped under the
symbolieal figure df the bull, either on account of his great use in agri-
culture, or because the celestial sign of the bull was
formerly in the
vernal equinox at the opening of the year; yet it is evident that the bull
was looked upon merely as a
symbol, and not as
actually constituting
the name of the Supreme Being. Whereas Jah-Bel-On, were
perma-
nent names, universally, and at all times bestowed upon the Deity, by
one or other of the nations above mentioned.
"The chief varieties of this sacred name [of God] amongst the
inhabitants of different nations (says Oliver,) were Jah-Bel or Baal, and
On or Om.
"Bel or Baal, (says Mayo.) was the same
god with Moloch. Their
names, both of which signify the king, the lord, are titles applicable to
the sun." _
It is not permitted to utter this omnyic word above the breath, and
three companions are
required to perform it, each pronouncing a
sylla-
ble alternately. And admitting Jah-bel-on to be the word, onegwould
H
_
morn. Ancn Dreams. 337
say Jah, another Bel, and the third On; and then interchangeably until
each had pronounced the whole compound. A similar superstition
prevails among the Jews, in' regard to what is called the Tetragam-
maton, or word ot' four letters, which, in Hebrew, compose the name
Jehovah. The Jews, however, are not permitted to pronounce this
name, even
by dividing the syllables in the manner of' the companions
of royal arch masonry.
'
'
'The very attribute given to the lost word, omnMc, (all-creatingg)
indicates the Demiurgus, the Creator of the world, which as before
observed, was believed by the ancients to be the sun.
It was ol' no
importance to investigate the composition of the omnyic
word of masonry, any further than to show, that in all theymovements
of the order, the sun is ,kept constantly in view; and that the lost
master mason's word meant nothing but the lost influence of that lumi-
nary, when in his greatest northern, or southern declination.
But to return to the lecture: it is stated by the candidates, that the
high priest placed crowns
upon their heads, and told them they were
now invested with all the important secrets of this degree, crowned
and received as worthy companions, royal arch masons.
This custom, it has been shown, is not without authority, or prece-
dent, in the ancient mysteries.
I will repent, from Dupuis, the purport and end ofthe mysteries z-
"The mystagogues make darkness and light successively to appear
before the eyes of the initiates. Night the most obscure, accompanied
with frightful spectres, is replaced hy a brilliant day, whose light envi-
rons the statue ofthe divinity. This sanctuary is approached with
trembling, where all was
prepared to exhibit the spectacle of Tartarus
and Elysium. It is in this last stage that the initiated, being ultil
mately inducted, perceives the picture of beautiful prairies_ enlightened
by a clear shy; there he hears harmonious voices, and the charming
songs of the sacred choirs. It is then that, become absolutely free and'
disfranchised from all evil, he mixes 'with the crowd of the initiates,
and when, his heald being crowned with flowers, lie celebrates the holy
orgies with them.
"Thus the ancients represented here below, in their initiations,
that which would, they said, one
day happen to souls when they should
be disengaged from bodies, and drawn from the obscure prison in
which`destiny had enchained them in uniting them to terrestrial
matter."-(Orig. de tous les Cultes, p. 50l.)
43
338 uunrns or rasnusosxr:
As this crowning`is the closing ceremony of initiations into the
mysteries, so is its imitation in the royal arch included in the last act
of the drama of ancient freemasonry.
`
The following address, copied from Webb's Freemason's Monitor,
is delivered to the newly initiated companion 1
"
Worthy companion, by the consent and assistance ofthe members
of this chapter, you are now exalted to the sublime and honorable
degree ofa royal arch mason. Having attained this degree, you have
arrived at the summit and pe/faction of ancient masonry, and are con-
sequently entitled to a full explanation ofthe mysteries ofthe order.
"The rites and mysteries developed in this degree have been handed
down through a chosen few, unchanged by time, and uncontrolled by
prejudice ; and we expect and trust they will be regarded by you with
the same veneration, and transmitted with the same scrupulous purity
to your successors.
"
N0 one can reflect on theceremonies of gaining admission into
this place, without being forcibly struck with the important lessons
which they teach.
'fllere we are
necessarily led to contemplate with gratitude and
admiration the sacred source from whence all earthly comforts
flow;
here we find additional inducements to continue steadfast and immove-
able in the discharge of our respective duties; and here we are bound,
by the most solemn ties, to promote each other's welfare, and correct
each other's failings, by advice, admonition, and reprooii"
I shall conclude the notice of this chapter, with a few remarks on
the Jewel and Badge of the order. The following is an
abridgment
of a description given by Carlile:
The jewel is composed of tvo intersecting triangles, surrounding
another triangle, with the sun inthe center, an emblem of the Deity.°
Under these is the compound character, the Triple Tau., (triple
T,) which is the royal arch mason's badge; by which the wearer
aeknowledges himself the servant of the true god.
The T,it has been seen, is the figure of the old Egyptian Nilorneter,
used to ascertain the height of the inundation, on which depended the
subsistence, the life of the inhabitants. The Nilometer, in conse-
quence, became the
symbol of IW, health, and prosperity; and was
°
Or rather a deity itsell
noni. uzcn Deanna. 389
supposed to possess the power of averting evil. It was, therefore, in
an abbreviated form, suspended to the necks of the sick as an amulet
or cltarmf'
Thus has originated the badge of royal arch masonry: its triple
form, as usual, relates to the Egyptian trinity.
It is generally conceded by masonic writers, that ancient masonry
closes with the royal arch. In an edition of "The Illustrations
of Masonry," by the late Mr. Preston,'publish`ed in London, 1829,
the editor, Mr. Oliver, author of the lectures from which quotations
have been made above, observes:
"
All degrees beyond the royal arch ought to be carefully separated
from genuine masonry, as
they aremostly founded on vague and
uncertain traditions, which possess not the shadow of authority to
recommend them to our notice."
The additional degrees, including those considered legitimate,
amount to upwards of fifty. These are founded, partly upon astrono-
mical principles, agreeing with the ancient worship of the Egyptians;
and partly upon the Hebrew and Christian doctrines; of two or three
of which a
slight notice will he taken.
It may be remarked in general, that many of the degrees of knights
are founded on the Christian knighthoods, got up in the time of the
crusades, in the twelfth century; and that the ceremonies thereof are
an imitation of those superstitious establishments. A former grand
high priest of the chapters in the state of New-York, informs me, that
he initiated a French gentleman into the degree of knight of Malta,
who told him he was a member of the ancient order of that name, and
that the ceremonies were
very similar.
'At the time those old knighthoods were founded, "Superstition
mingled in every public and private action of life; in the holy wars,
it sanctilied the profession of arms; and the order of chivalry was
assimilated in its rights and privileges to the sacred orders of priest-
hood. The bath and the white garment of the novice vere an inde-
cent copy of' the regeneration of baptism; his sword, which he offered
on the altar, was blessed by the ministers of religion; his solemn
reception was
preceded by fasts and vigils; and he was created a
knight in' the name of God, of St. George, and of St. Michael the
archaugel."-(Rees's Cycl.)
° The letter T (Tau) was used by ca tains and heralds, and signed on their namsa,
who remained alive after a battle; as the letter Theta( Q) was used aa a mark ol
death, ao was T of life.-(Bailey.
340 nunrsn or rnnllasonnr
Order rf High Priesthood. _
The ancient priests of Egypt, and the Druids of Gaul and Britain,
pf course, officiated in the administration of the mysteries. Soon alier
Druidism was extinct, it is probable, the royal arch was neglected, and
lay dormant for several centuries. On its revival, about the middle of
the eighteenth century, it was found that priests, or
persons to officiate
as such, were
necessary to preside in this chapter. Accordingly they
were cho en from the laity among the brethren, or from such clergymen
as had joined themselves to the order; and there were doctors of divinity
among the first promoters of the revival, or revolution of the society.
Here the English clergy had an
opportunity, which they did not
neglect, to mould the ceremonies connected with the order of priest-
hood, to suit
their purpose. The odious tithes-system is openly advo-
cated, and the awful fate of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, held out as.
the due punishment of all those who should dare to resist it.
The following remarks upon his subject are abstracted from Cross
and Webb:
This order appcrtains to the office of high priest of a
royalarch
chapter: it should not be conferred when aless number than three high
priests are
present, Vhenever thc ceremony is performed in due and
ample form, the assistance of at least nine high priests are
requisite:
A convention notified to meet at the time of any communication of the
grand chapter, will afford he best opportunity of conferring this impor-
tantand czalted degree of masonry, with appropriate solemnity.
The reading ofthe following passages of scripture composes a
part
of the ceremonies appertaining to this order.
The
tirst passage read is the 14th chapter of Genesis, relating to
the successful expedition of Abram against certain kings, and on his
return, giving to Melchisedec thithes of all he had obtained.-A refer-
ence is then made to Hebrew 7, v.
I-6; wherein it is said, "This
Melchisedec, king of Salem, which is king of peace, was ufitltost
father, without mother, without descent ; having neither bzgimling qf
Hays, nor end aflyfe; but abideth a
priest continually. Now consider
how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham
gave the tenth of the spoils. And verily they that are of the sons of
Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, hate a commandment to
take tithe: ofthe people, according to the law, that iruof their brethren."
Now, this alludes particularly to the Levitical law, and had a
spe-
cial reference to that portion of the tribe of Levi who were
admitted
I
-|
HIGH PRIESTHOOU.
into the sacerdotal order, and is totally inapplicable to the Christian
dispensation. It was a peace-offering ol' St. Paul, the author of the
book of Hebrews, to the Jewish priests, to prevent their persecution ;
for surely the apostle did not pretend to the right of demanding tithes
of the Christian laity of his day; for he boasts of having been ol" no
charge to them, laboring for his own support. The English clergy,
however, claim the benefit ol' this law, and have duped the masons
into an acknowledgement of their pretensions.
The next passage cited is Numbers 16, v.
I-33; vhich gives the
horrid catastrophe of Korah and company, for resisting Moses and
Aaron. This example is evidently adduced to deter the laity of
England from opposing the tithes~claimers, the would-be legitimate
heirs of the sons of Levi, who receive the qpice of the priesthood.
Moses here accuses the body of the Levites of seeking the priest-
hood, and asks, "What is Aaron, that ye murmur against him !"
Which shows that tithes were the bone of contention, even in the time
of Moses, the priesthood obtaining a greater share, in proportion to
their numbers, than the rest of the tribe. The passage concludes as
follows :-" And it came to pass, as he (Moses) had made an end of
speaking all these words, that the ground clave asunder that vas under
them: and the earth opened her mouth, and svalloved them up, and
the houses, and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and all their
goods. They, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into
the pit, and the earth closed upon them: and they perished from
among the congregation.'.'
The American masons ought, at least, to have so modified the
ordination of priests into the order, as to render it consistent with our
republican institutions, and not given the least countenance to the
iniquitous exaction of clerical tithes.
It may be said, that there is no immediate cause of alarm on this
head; yet the reiterated admission of such a claim, by a numerous,
respectable society, may in time be the means of rendering it popular_
It may be remarked, that Christian clergymen who are inducted into
this order, assume the duties of pagan priests, and of course
per-
form ceremonies appropriate to the worship of the heavenly bodies, all
I/te hos! of heaven. This, to be sure, may be done very innocently,
as they are not necessarily diverted from the integrity of their faith;
and moreover, are
probably not aware of the real import of the rites
and ceremonies in which they participate.
After the election of a candidate to the office of high priest, he is
thus addressed by the grand high priest :-" You are appointed chap-
342 Amnsts or rnaaiusomtr:
lain to this chapter, and I now invest you with this circular jewel, the
badge of your otiice. It is emblematical of eternity, and reminds ua
that here is not our
abiding place," etc. Now, we have seen, that a
circle, owing to its figure, was esteemed by the ancients, a
symbol of
their god, the sun. `
"
Let the mitre, with which you areinvested, remind you of the
dignity of the office you sustain, and its inscription impress upon your
minda sense of your dependence upon God," etc.-The inscription
upon it is holiness to the Lord; the same as that which surrounds the
mitre of the hierophant of the mysteries, and also that of the Roman
pontifif ~
"
The breast-plate, with which you are decorated, is in imitation of
that upon which were engraved the names of the twelve tribes, and
worn
by the high priest of Israel," etc.-The breast plate is the same
as that worn
by the hierophants of Egypt, which had described upon it
the twelve signs of the zodiac.°
"The various colors ol' the 'robes you wear, are emblematical of
every grace and virtue, which can adorn and beautify the human
mind."-The various colors of the robes of the high priest are
sym-
bolical ofthe seasons, when the sun is in the different constellations of
the zodiac.-" Ye priests! (says Volney, alluding to Catholic priests,)
you wear his [the sun's] emblems all over
your bodies; your tonsure is
the disk of the sun, your stole is his zodiac, your rosaries are
symbols
of the stars and planets. Ye pontiffs and prelates! your mitre, your
crosier, your mantle, are those of Osiris."-( Ruins, p. l39.)
-
Although, after the extinction of Druldism, it was
necessary for
mason
ry to create an order of priests to otiiciate in the royal arch chap-
ter as
representatives of the deity, still it is evident that the English
clergy, who undoubtedly took a
principal part in arranging the cere-
monies appropriated to initiations into the order, have managed the
affair to suit their own sinister purposes. They made up a
medley,
compounded of Paganism, Jewism, and Christianity. Little of ancient
masonry is to be' seen in it, excepting the dress of the high priest,
which is purely of pagan origin. And here it may be proper to
remark, thatalthough it has been shown, that the prayers ofthe ancient
pagans and those of the Jews were couched in the same terms, the
° Volne , in
taking notice of some customs of the Hebrews, which are also strictl
masoni ogserves:-- '
In vain did Moses prescribe the worship of the symbols which
prevailelil in lower Egypt and Phenicta; in vain did he wish to blot from his religion
every th' which had relation to the stars; many traits call them to mind in spite of
all he halsdone." He cites as
instances,
"
The seven luminaries or planet: ot' the great
oandlcatick; the twelve :tuna or sign: in the uv-im ot' the high priaat, and the feast of
tha two cquiswan, cntrancuand gala of the two lumioph¢r»."
auteur or 'nn rAou:. 343
objects to whom they were addressed only being changed, neverthe-
less it may be doubted that the frequent introduction of texts of scrip-
ture in the ceremonies, is in strict conformity to original masonry-
'l'wo doctors of divinity, Dissanguliers and Anderson, were engaged
in the collection, or forming anew, of the ceremonies, and had it in
their power to mould them at will.
Whether innovations, in this respect, were made or not upon this
occasion, is of no consequence any farther than thereby to give an
impression that masonry might have some connection with the Jew-
ish religion. These observations are, therefore, made to guard against
such a conclusion.
'
Knight of the .Eagle and Sovereign Prince of Rose-Croiz de Heroden.
This degree is a
parody on the royal arch; and, as such, tends to
confirm our interpretation of the purport of that chapter.-Here the
last word is Jesus of Nazareth, instead of Hiram.
The time and circumstances attending the losing of the word, are
thus stated:
`
,
_
The moment when the vail ofthe temple was rent; when darkness
and consternation covered the earth; when the stars disappeared, and
the lamp of day was darkened; when the implements of masonry were
lost, and the cubic stone sweated blood and water; that was the moment
when the great Masonic W'ord was lost.
Nevertheless, says the master, we will endeavor to recover it, and'
addressing the candidate for initiation, says, are
you disposed to follow
us? Answer.-Yes, I am. Master,-Brother wardens, make the candi-
date travel for thirty-three years, to learn the beauties of the new law.
The junior warden then conducts the candidate thirty-three times round
the lodge without stopping. (Bernard reduces the number to seven.)
The candidate is now conducted to the darkest of places, from which
the word must come forth triumphant, to the glory and advantage of
masonry. He is then ordered to parade the room three times, in mem-
ory of the mysterious descent, which lasted three days.
Alter some further ceremony, the master questions the candidate as
follows:
1
From whence came
you 't-From Judea. Which way did you
come
't-By Nazareth. Who conducted you 'I-Raphael. Of wha*
tribe are
you descended 't-The tribe of Judah.
What do these four initial letters, I. N. R. I., signify?-Jesus Naz-
arenus, Rex Judmorum. (Jesus of Nazareth, King ofthe Jews.)
944 ANALYSIS or rnusnmsorrav:
Master. My brethren, what happiness! the word is recovered;-
gioe him the light. The vail is taken off and all the brethren clap
their hands three times, and give three huzzas.--(Carlile)
The master says to the candidate, approach, my brother,I will
communicate to you our perfect mysteries. I congratulate you on the
recovery of the word, which entitles you to this degree of perfect
masonry. I shall make no comment or eulogium on it. Its sublimity
will- be duly appreciated by you. The impression which, no doubt, it
has made on
your mind, will convince you that you were not deceived
when you were informed that the ultimatum of masonic perfection was
to be acquired by this degree. It certainly will be a source of very
considerable satisfaction to you, that your merit alone has entitled you
to it.
The above is a mere sketch of this degree: its scenery, some
parts
of which has already been noticed, is very imposing. In the repre~
seutation of the infernal regions, the awfulisights of the greater myste-
ries are more
closely copied than is done in the royal arch. Whether
the inventors of the order expected any serious effects to be produced
by it; or vhether it was got up for amusement, and to show the inge-
nuity of its projectors, is uncertain. But it is pretty evident that
such exhibitions, introduced amidst scenes ofmerriment and recreation,
would' not tend to make a
very strong impression.
Knight of Kadosh.
Chapter of the grand inspectors of Lodges, grand elected Knights of
Kadosh, or the White and Black Eagle. ~
The c-hieifiis entitled Grand
Commander.
Altho this degree is~not recognized in ancient masonry, it has _never-
jheless, such a decided astronomical bearing as to render it probable that
it is derived from the Egyptian rites. f will, therefore, attempt to gihe
an
explication ofits enigmuticul allusions.
When a
reception into this degree is made, the grand commander
remains alone in the chamber, and must be so situated that the candi-
date cannot see him, as he is not to know who initiated him. A part
of this obligation is, that' he never will.declare to any one who received
him or assisted at his reception to this sublime degree. This is sheer
affectatiorl, and intended for no other purpose than to impress upon the
candidate the awfulness of the mysteries in which he is about to be
instructed. It is, however, an imitation of an ancient custom. Warbur-
ton says, "A passage in Eunapius seems to say, that it was unlawful to
xNron'r or xanosn. 345
reveal the name of the hierophant." And Pythagoras, it has been
seen, gave his lessons from behind a screen to his newly entered pupils_
The saluting sign of Knights of Kadosh is, to hold the svord in
the left hand, and place the right hand on the red cross which covers
the heart. The question, Are you Kadosh I is answered by placing
the right hand on the forehead) and saying, Yes, I am.
'
The mounting of what is called the mysterious ladder, is the mos*
distinguished ceremony in this degree. It is thus represented:
7
__
,__
i
-6 _.___ ___
___
5
_ ____ _
_,
_4 _"___," __Yk____
_
3 ______
2
.
_
,___!,
1
__
x ,
t
'Nsp1ma.. I I
/
This ladder is an astronomical riddle, founded on the progress of
the sun
through seven signs of the zodiac, namely from Aries to Libra.
inclusive.
In expounding this riddle, I shall avail myself of the solution, by
'In the East,
an?
person preferred to honors. bore a soepter or stat! of honor, and
sometimes s plate o gold on theforcluad, called Cadoch, or CG¢l|0¢|6l| |181-llfillll I
sacred person. (See supra.)
44
'
34.6 ANALYIIB or rasnusosavz
f
Dupuis, of the fable of Hercules, one of the names of the sun, whose
pretended labors are shown to be a mere
allegory ohhe course of that
luminary.
A
Whether the names given to the steps of the ladder, have a mean-
ing in any language, or are here used arbitrarily, I know not. I give
them as
published by Bernard, with the signilications annexed.
Previously to the candidates mounting the ladder, he is taught to
pronounce the names of the seven steps, and is sworn to observe the
injunctions pretended to be indicated thereby. Alter he has pro~
nounced the last word, in the seventh step, the Grand Commander says,
by the seven conditions, and by the power that is transmitted to me,
which I have acquired by my discretion, my unlired travels, zeal, fir-
'vor and constancy, I receive you Grand Inspector of all lodges, Grand
Elect Knight Teazplar, and to take rank among the Knights of
Kzuioslt, or White and Black Eagle, which we bear the name of: I
desire you not to forget it. It is indispensable for you, my brother, to
mount the mysterious ladder, which you see
there; it will serve to
instruct you in the mysteries of our order, and it is absolutely necessary
ghat you should have a true knowledge of it. The candidate then
ascends the ladder. When he is on the seventh or highest step, and
has pronounced the three last words, the ladder is lowered and the
candidate passes over it, because he cannot retire the same
way, as he
would in such case be obliged to go back, against which he has taken
an obligation. He then reads the words at the bottom ofthe ladder,
ne plus ultra. _
It has been the custom of the manufacturers of masonic degrees to
entitle the last, for the time being, the ne
plus ultra; which being suc~
ceeded by others, the latter, like more ofthe last words of Mr. Bazten
throw the former into the back ground. So, the Grand Commander,
in addressing the candidate, calls "
This order the last degree of
masonry." The attention, therefore, of the candidate, when arrived
at_the top of the ladder, is directed to the ne
plus ultra below.
The candidate's retiring by a different way from that by which he
ascended, is in imitation of the course of the sun. The following
ihaciful
description of the laws which govern the stellary system, is
given by Mackey, (p. l39.)
"
In the oblong zodiac of Tentyra, each of the twelve signs is divided
into three ports of ten degrees, and each part is represented by a human
iigure, (with attributes expressive of his functions,) called a Decan;
and I3 elnh sign of the zodiac has three of these, the first of each was
f
'
xsrsirr or nsosn. 341
called a powerful leader of three. To this company ofthirty-six Decans
they attributed the management of the seasons. These were the paw-
crs whose functions were more durable than those of the twelve zodi-
acal constellations, which are still found to alter their position every
2,000 years, relative to the season: and to move, in that time, through
a
space of thirty degrees from the equinoctial points. Not so the more
powerful and constant gods, called the Decans, or Eloim; those of that
rank which are fixed at the equator, are still suppoqed to compel the
sun to shine twelve hours a
day all the world over; and those at the
opposite parts of the equator, constantly propel the ,run the .mate
way
through their dominions, that is, those at the spring node will not'
suffer the nm to pass out of their palace the same way by which he
entered; but order him to move on to the sign more northwardf
This is known to be the constant order ofthe sun, moon, and planets."
I
Fin! Step ofthe Mysterious Ladder. ,_
The name
designating the first step, is Iscdakah, which is de6ned
rig/tteourtess.
This, I apprehend, has an allusion to the sun in the vernal equi-
nox, in the month of March, when the days and nights are
equal all
over the world, and when the sun, after having been long in the
southern hemispheie, passes the line, in order to dispense his iivors
equally to the north; which is doing justice to all, agreeably to the
above definition.
Second Step.
The second step is Shar-laban, (white os, figuratively.) This is
the only step, the deinition of which is literally true; which, as it
might lead to an interpretation of the meaning of the mysterious lad-
der, is thus falsely denominated ligurative.
Taurus, the bull, is the second sign of the zodiac, into which the
sun enters on the 21st of April. His entry into this sign is marked
by the setting of Orion, who, in mythological language, is said to be in
love with the Pleiades; and by the rising of the latter.
'
Third Step.
The third step is called Matltok, (sweetness)
The third sign of the zodiac is Jemini, into which the sun enters
inthe mild, pleasant month of May. °°°
Canst thou hinder the sweet
348 nunsts or rtunnnsounv :
influences of Pleiades or loose the bands of Orion.'#(Job.) Now,
the Pleiades were denominated, by the Romans, Vergilia, from their
formerly rising when the spring commenced; and their sweet influ-
ences blessed the year by the beginning of spring."--(Identity of the
Hebrew and Druidical religions.)
.Fourth Step.
The fourth step is Emunah, (truth in disguive.)
The fourth sign is'Cancer, into which the sun enters in the month
pf June. Egypt, at this period, is enveloped in clouds and dust, by
which means the sun is obscured or
disguised; and which figuratively
may be denominated truth.
Fifth Step.
The fifth step is "
Hamal saggi, (great labor,) advancement to the
practice of Heaven."
The fifth sign is Leo, or that of the celestial lion, called the lion of
Named, under which the sun passes in July.-The great labor and
difficulties to which the sun was
supposed to be subjected in passing
this sign, have before come under notice: which, also, is in perfect
accord with the fable of the eminent exploit of Hercules, in killing
the lion of Nemea.
The sun, when in the sign Leo, is on his advance towards the
equator, where the ancients supposed heaven to be situated.
'
p
sim sup.
The sixth step is Sabbal, (a burden, or patience.)
The sixth sign through which the sun
passes is Virgo, marked by
the total disappearance of the celestial Hydra, called the hydra. of
,Lerns, from whose head springs up the great dog and the crab.
Hercules destroys the hydra of Lerna, but is annoyed in his opera~
tion by a sea-crab which bit him in the foot.-Appolodorus says, that
whenever Hercules lopped off one of the monster's heads, two others
sprang up in the place of it, so that this labor would have been endless,
had he not ordered his companion Iolas to sear the blood with fire,
and thereby _put a stop to their reproduction; and thus was that event
actually represented in a fine picture in the temple of Delphi.-
(Maya)
xmoum' or lunosn. 349
Seventh Step.
'The seventh step is named Gemulah, Biwah, Tebunah, (retrilrution,
intelligence, prudence.)
The seventh sign is Libra, into which' the sun enters at the com-
mencement of autumn, indicated by the rising ofthe celestial Centaur,
the same that treated Hercules with hospitality. This constellation is
represented in the heavens with a
flask full of wine, and a
thyrsus,
ornamented with branches of leaves and grapes, the symbol of the
productions of the season.
The sun has now arrived at the autumnal equinox, bringing in his
train the fruits of the earth; and retribution is made to the husband-
rnan, in proportion to his intelligence and prudence.
The allegory is certainly beautiful, and the mysterious ladder is
well worthy to be called the nc
plus ultra of mason
ry.
`
Since preparing the above, my attention has been drawn to a
learned article on the same subject, in a work, before noticed, by the Rev.
G. Oliver; which confirms my conjecture that the ladder composed a
part ofthe machinery of the mysteries, and consequently has a
legiti.
mate standing in masonry. It probably constituted a
component part
of the royal arch degree, illustrating the seven steps required to con-
summate that exalted grade.-The following is a sketch of this article:
The ladder with seven steps, was used in the Indian mysteries to
designate the approach of the soul to perfection. The steps were usu-
ally denominated gates. The meaning is undoubtedly the same; for
it is observable that Jacob, in referring to the lower stave of his ladder,
exclaimed, "this is the house ofGod, and the gate of heaven." Here
we find the notion of ascending to heaven by means of the practice of
moral virtue, depicted by the Hebrew patriarchs, and by a remote idol-
atrous nation, under the idea of a ladder. These gates were said to
be composed of dilferent metals of gradually increasing purity: the
uppermost tave, which constituted the summit of perfection, and opened
a way to the residence of the celestial deities, was
composed of the
pure and imperishable substance of gold, and was under the protection
of their most high god, the sun.
The ascent to the summit of the paridisaical mount of God, by
means of a
pyramid consisting of seven
steps, was an old notion, cer-
tainly entertained before the vision of Jacob; for it prevailed amongst
the Mexican savages'; and the original settlers on.the vast continent
* Soo HTlll1b0|dl'l Researches in America. v0l~ l» P~ 95-
350 mnsrs or nsaxuonav :
of America-could have no knowledgeofthis vision, either by tradition
or personal experience.
`
In these mysteries, during the ceremony of initiation, the candidate
was passed successively through seven dark and winding cavern;
which progress was
mysticnlly denominated, the ascent of the ladder.
Each cavern terminated in a narrow stone orifice, which formed an
entrance into its successor. Through these gates of purification, the
mortiiied aspirant was
compelled to squeeze his body with considera-
ble labor; and when hehad attained the summit, he was said to have
passed through the transmigration of the spheres, to have accomplished
the ascent ofthe soul, and to merit the favor of the celestial deities.
In the Persian mysteries, the candidate, by a similar process, was
passed through~seven spacious caverns, connected by winding pas~
sages, each opening with a narrow
portal, and each the scene of some
perilous adventure, to try his courage and fortitude before he was admit-
ted into the splendid Sacellum, which being illuminated with a thou-
sand torches, reflected every shade ol' color, from rich gems and amulets,
with which the walls were
copiously bedecked. The dangerous pro~
gress was denominated, ascending the ladder of perfection.
From this doctrine has arisen the tale of Rustam, who was the
Persian Hercules, and Dive Sepid, or the White Giant.-(Fab. Pag.
Idol. v. iii, p. 328.)
'
"
"Cai-Caus, the successor of Cai-Cobab, the tirst monarch of the
Caianian dynasty, is instigated by the song ofa minstrel to attempt the
conquest of Mazenderaun, which is celebrated as a
perfect earthly
Paradise."
This celestial abode refers to the splendid saeellum of the Persian
Epopla, which was an emblematical representation of heaven.
"
Cai-Caus fails in his enterprise; for the sacred country is guarded
by the White Giant, who .miter him and all his troop: with blindness,
and makes them his prisoners."
l
This is a literal account ofthe first stage of initiation, which in the
mysteries always commences with darkness. In those of Britain, the
candidate is designated as a blind man. And the captivity of Gai-
Caus and his Persians in the cavern, under the rigid guardianship of
the Dive, is but a
figurative representation of the candidate's`inclosure
under the Pastos; and this place of penance in the Celtic mysteries,
which had many ceremonies in common with those of Persia, (Borl-
Ant. of Corn., b. ii. c.
22,) was said to be guarded by the gigantic deity
Buanawr, armed with a drawn sword, who is represented as a most
lsrein' or xsnosu. 351
povverful and vindictive being, capable in his fury of making heaven,
earth, and hell to tremble.-(Dav. Notes on Taliein's Cad Goddeu.)
In the Gothic mysteries, the same place of captivity and penance is
fabled to be guarded by Heimdall, whose trumpet emits so loud_a
blast, that the sound is heard through all the worlds.-(Edda Fab.)
"
In this emergency the king sends a messenger to Zaul, the father
of the hero Rustsm, begging his immediate assistance. For the
greater despatch, Rustam takes the shorter, though more dangerous
road, and departs alone, mounted on his charger Rakesh."
Here Rustam enters upon the dreadful and dangerous business of
initiation, mounted, says the legend, upon the charger Rakesh, or more
properly Rakshi. This was a horrible winged animal, whose com-
mon food is said to have been serpents and dragons. Now these rep-
tiles, together with monsters compounded of two or more animals, were
the ordinary machinery used in the mysteries to prove. the courage
and fortitude of the aspirant, during his progress through the seven
stages of regeneration.
~
"The course which he chooses is styled, the road of the seven
stages; and at each of the first six he meets with adiiferent adventure,`
by which his persevering courage is severely tried." <
,
At each of the seven stages the candidate really encountered many
dangers; and vanquished a multitude of Dives, dragons, and enchanters,
who in succession opposed his progress to perfection.-(Shah name, in
Richardsorfs Dissert. East. Nat) Being pantomimically enacted
during the process of,initiation and the reiterated attacks prosecuted
with unrelenting severity, instances have occurred where the poor
afrighted wretch has absolutely expired through excess of fear.
"
Having at length however fought his way to the seventh, he dis-
covers his prince and the captive Persians; when he learns from Cai-
Caus, that nothing will restore his sight but the application ol' three
drops of blood from the heart of the White Giant."
The symbolical three drops of blood, had its counterpart in all the
mysteries of the ancient world ; forthe number three wo: injoble, and
_the conservator of many virtues. In Britain, the emblem was three
drops of water; in Mexico, as in this legend, three drops of blood ; in
India, it was a belt composed of three triple threads; in China, the
three strokes of the letter Y, etc. etc.
"
Upon this, he attacks his formidable enemy in the Cavern where
he was accustomed to dwell; and having torn out his heart, aiier an
obstinate combat. he infuses the prescribed three drops into the eyes of
Cai-Caus, who immediately regains his powers of virion."
I
352 .warmers or rnssnnsossrz
'
In this tale we have the theological ladder connected with the system
of Persian initiation transferred from mythology to romance; and the
coincidence is suflicientl y striking to impress the most ordinary
observer with the strict propriety of the application. The candidate
comes off conqueror, and is regularly restored to light, after having
given full proof of his courage and fortitude, by surmounting all oppos-
ing dangers. Father Angelo, who went out as a
missionary into the
East about 1663, says, that in the midst of a vast plain between Shiraz
and Shuster, he saw a
quadrangalar monument of stupendous size-
which was said to have been erected in memory of this great enter-
prize of the hero Rustam. The fact is, that this quadrangular inclosure
was an ancient place of initiation ; and from a confused remembrance
of the scenes of mimic adventure which were reprepresented within
its seven secret caverns, the fabulous labors of Rustam had doubtless
their origin.
Here the author has evidently mistaken the copy for the arche-
type. The scenes
of mimic adventure, alluded to, undoubtedly origi-
nated from the fabulous laliorx of Rustam, the Persian Hercules. It
has been shown that Hercules was one of the names
by which the sun
was designated! and that the perilous adventures attributed to a fabu-
lous character to whom the name was given, was a mere
allegory on
the progress of that luminary through the signs of the zodiac; of
which the tale of Rustam is another version.
The order of Noachites, or Chevaliers Prussian.
This order, there is reason to believe, was instituted by the ancient
Prussians. It claims priority over that of the freemasons of England.
The author of an expose of the ritual of that institution, which will be
noticed below, gives just fifty-three years between the periods of the
two establishments ; and says,
°'
This tradition is firmly`believed." In
cprroboration of this fact, Dr. Anderson observes, "The first name of
Masons, according to some old traditions, was Noachidm."
The ceremonies of the Noachites seem to have served in some
measure, as a model upon which those of freemasonry are founded-
Although the scene of the establishment of this order is laid at the
Tower of Babel, instead of the Temple of Solomon, the craft of masonry,
as in the freemasons' society, is made use of to cover the real design of
~
°
Osiris, Bacchus, Crqnus, Pluto, and Hercules, are all equally the sun.-(Faber Dis.
on the Myst. ofthe Cabin, v, l, p. 17.)
oausa or NOACHITES. $53
the institution, the maintaining of religious dogmas, if not the recovery
of independence.
The following_ remarks, in Guthrie's sketch of the history of
ancient Prussia and Poland, will tend to show at what time this insti'
tution was
probably formed.
Speaking of Poland, he says, "From this period [830] for some
centuries \ve have no
very certain records of the history of Poland.
The title of fluke was retained till the year 999, þÿ\\'h ¬l'l
Boleslaus (the I.)
assumed the title of king, and conquered Moravia, Prussia, and Bohe-
mia, making them tributary to Poland."
Of Prussia.-" The ancient history of Prussia, like that of other
kingdoms, it lost in the clouds ol Hction and romance. 'l`he inhabi-
tants appear to have been a brave and warlike people. They were
descended from the Sclavonians, and refused to submit to the neigh-
boring princes, who, on pretence of converting them to Christianity.
wanted to reduce them to slavery. They made a noble stand against
the kings of Poland; one of whom, Boleslaus IV. they defeated and
killed in 1163. They continued Pagans, till the time of the latter
crusades, about the year l227." .
From the foregoing statements, it appears that the sway of Poland
over Prussia, obtained in 999, was not of long duration; and it is
reasonable to conjecture, that soon after the conquest, the people of
Prussia established the order ol' Noachites. It was
evidently a
military
institution, and undoubtedly intended as a
rallying point, to operate as
occasions might occur, for the recovery of the civil and religious
liberties of the nation.
Admitting that the society of Noachites was founded in the year
1000, which is highly probable, and provided the foregoing tradition
be correct, the establishment of freemasonry in England, would have
occurred about the middle of the eleventh century, which is as late as
it is likely to have been neglected, alter the edict of Canute prohibiting
the open worship of the Druids.
Bernard, in his account of this order, says,
"
The grand master,
general of theorder, whose title is chevalier grand commander, is
Frederic William, king of Prussia. His ancestors, for three hundred
years, have been protectors of this order. The knights were
formerly
known by the name of Noachites.
"The Noachites, now called Prussian Chevaliers, are descended
from Peleg, the grand architect ol' the tower of Babel, their origin
being more ancient than that of the masons descended from Hiram.-
45
' _
|54 ANAIJIII Ol' YIIIIAIONBYI
The knights assemble on the night of the full moon in the month of
March, [the vernal equinox] in a secret place, to hold their lodges;
and they cannot initiate a candidate into the mysteries of this order
uuless by the light ofthe moon."
Great innovations have been introduced into the ceremonies of this
order. 'I have a
copy of its ritual, which, from its antiquity and
Druidical style, may be presumed genuine. It was reprinted from a
London copy, by John Holt, New-York, 1768. As a
curiosity, and as
bearing a
relationship to the ancient mysteries, I will give an abstract
of it.
'
The order consists of two degrees, called Minor and Major ; and
the ollicers form what masonically may be termed_a Chapter, to which
the other members are not admitted. This chapter comports with the
royal arch of freemasonry; for here the secret word, Belus, is revealed,
which, the reader is aware, is .the same as Osiris, personated by
Hiram. The expoundcr of the order appears to have committed an
error, in giving this word at the opening of the minor's degreei
because it is expressly said afterwards, that it was unkrwwn to all but
qjcsrs.
" `
i
Minor's Degree.
`
Examiner. When did Masonry begin 'Z Respondent. About one_
hundred and fifty four years after Noah's flood, at the building of
Babel's tower. Who was
grand master there? Nimrod,' called by
masons Belus. [Not Peleg, as modern masons have it.] Wht-re was
the Grst lodge held 'Z-In a
pleasant plain of Babylon, called S/tinar,
on the banks of the river Tygris.
'
In what manner were
you made 'I--I was led to a door, where a
man stood with a drawn svord in his hand, who asked my friend what
he wanted. What did your friend reply ?-To have mei made a
mason. Did he admit you 'Z-Yes, he struck the door with his sword,
upon which it instantly flew open; my friend then led me
by the hand
into a very dark room, and then the door was shut. What succeeded
this 2-My friend then said with a loud voice, I
Here stands s candidate for masonry,
`
Who fain would know our art and mystery :
Shaw him the light by which we work, and than
Perhaps ha'l1 learn the art, like other mon.
*Nimrod, which signifies a rebel in the Jewish and Chaldean language, was the
name given him by Moses; but in Chaldea he was called Belue, which signitied lord ;
and afterwards was worshiped as a
god by many nations, under the name of Bel, or
Baal, and became the Bacchus of the ancients, or Bar-Chus, the son of Chus.
oanla or uoacnrrss.
Upon this a door flew open, and discovered a roost eztrestely light,
out of which came three men, with drawn swords, one of whom said,
deliver yourfrie/td to us.
Upon this my friend delivered me into their
care, and I was ushered into the lodge, one
walking before, and one
on each side, and my friend in the rear. Thus was I brought out of
darkness into light.
What was done alter this 'I-I was
stripped naked, in order that
all the lodge might be well assured they were not imposed upon by a
woman* What was then done 'I--The master clothed me with the
badge of innocence. (This is a loose white garment, generally made
of fine linen, and sometimes of silk.) He then took me
by the right
hand, and placed me in the centre of the brethren; he then ordered me
to kneel down on both my knees, and held to my throat the point of s.
sword which he had in his hand, and then addressed me as follows:
'
"
Stn,-You are now
going to he admitted a member of this ancient
and honorable fraternity, and it is expected that you will lay yourself
under the subsequent obligation.
_" You shall not reveal to any person or
persons, either by word of
mouth, or
your ovn hand-writing, or cause to be revealed in any man-
ner whatever, any pa rt or
parts, point or
points, or
any traditions.
which have been, are now, or shall hereafter be held as a secret among
masons, unless to an honest man, who you know is a mason, or to
the master or wardens of any regular Lodge.
"
And as it was always esteemed by the masons of old, that to swear
by the sword was the most binding of all obligations, so we do insist
and require you solemnly to kiss the edge of this svord presented to
your throat, as a signification of your full consent to, and approbation
ol: the above particulars. ~
l
"
Your well performing this. injunction, will make you ever
esteemed by this venerable body, us the contrary will render you guilty
ofa breach of the most sacred band of human society, and consequently
degrade you from the character ofa man of honor, which every mason
ought to preserve more
carefully than his lile."'
Are you desirous of knowing the Major's secrets 7-Yes. Ex_
Your good behaviour alone will not obtain them.
_ _ __ _j___"_____
*This is a sheer hoax upon the order. The real intention, as in the mysteries and
freemasonry, is to represent-man in a state of nature, be-fore the-_nrts, and particularly
that of making clothing, were invented. The candidate bclbreinmatton is
io »ked upon
as an unculuvated savage; his initiation civilizes and regenerates him -Edit.
° The freemusons, at the revival ofthe order in l7l7, would have done well to have
adopted this oath, instead of those of Hiram-masonry.-Edit.
336 Annals or rnsnusoruu, uc.
R. By that alone they could not be obtain'd,
But I by that a
Golden Signet
§ain'd;
'l/'hich will admit me into that egree,
That I may work among the Majors Free:
What is that signet 'I-A ring. Ex. Produce it?-R. Behold it
here. (Shewing the ring,)
i ~
Ex. Attend my brethren, all that round me stand,
While l obey great Belus' dread command.
Our _brother here, uyon examination, _
Desires I'1l
"lace
him in a
h1¥her
station ;
A Minofs c aracter has wel maintain'd,
And unawer'd all
things well;
bly
which he's gain'd
The Si net rare, whie Belus di ordain
For sngh as could the Minor's art attain,
That they may to the tow'r repair, and be
Rf-ceiv'd to work among the Majors Free.
'Tis then my will and pleasure that he may
Begin to work, and enter into pay.
Ceremony of Installment of Ojicers.
Where were
ybu installed ?-In the observatory. How high was
it 'I--On the top ol` the tover. How got you there 'I-By a
winding
ascent. In what manner were
you installed 'I-I first passed the
Minor's examination, and then the Major's; after which Belus informed
me, the brethren had unanimously agreed to elect me into the office of
which he invested me with the budge. Have the oflicers a secret
'word ?-Yes. How did you receive it?-
On my two knees he ordered me to kneel,
Before he could the secret ward reveal;
A word to all but qjicers unknaum,
Because we give it when we are alone ;
The word is Bcluc, be it known to thee,
'
Twas that great man gave lrirlh to Masonry
CHAPTER VIII.
HISELLANEOUS anrxctss.
Ceremonies observed in laying the foundation stone ofFree mason's-Hall,
London, 1775; and its dedication, in 1776. _
The similarity of practices in masonry and the ancient rites of Bac-
chus, is fully exemplified in these ceremonies. The Caduceus or magi~
eal wand of Mercury, the lmysterious chest, and the three pitchers, con-
taining corn, wine, and oil, are
appropriately used. This vill appear
by the following short abstract of the transactions on those occasionso
as
published by Smith: -
'
"
The first stone of mason's hall was laid by the Rt. Hon. Robert
Edward Lord Peter, baron of Writtle, grand master of the masons of
England, accompanied by the worshipful Rowland Holt, etc.
About twelve o'clock the procession arrived, and continued three
times round the ground, where the hall was
to be erected. The grand
master then deposited the foundation stone with the usual formalities.
After which the deputy grand master présented the square to the grand
master, when his lordship tried the corners of the stone, and then
returned it to the deputy, who gave it to the architect. The senior
grand warden next presented the level to the grand master, who there.
with tried the stone horizontally, and returned it as before. The
junior grand warden then presented the plumb-rule to the grand master,
who applied it properly, and returned it as before. His lordship then
struck the stone three times with a mallet, on which the grand treasurer
waved his wand, and the brethren joined in the grand honors of masonry-
(This is done by clapping _hands three times three.)' The following
anthem was then sung: g
To Hesvsn's high Architect all praise,
All praise, all llratitude be given,
Who deignnd the human soul to raise,
By mystic secrets sprung from heaven.
Choms. Thrice repeated.
Sound aloud the great Jehovah's praise,
To him the dome, the temple raise.
'On laying _the foundation ofthe Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, in 1738, each ofthe
brethren ln their turns gave three strokes upon thc corner stone with an iron mallet,
which was
succeeded by three clarions of the trumpet, three huzzas, and three elaps of
hands.-(Soo Lawns, p. l56L)-Edit.
358 nxniorrron or _
An oration was then pronounced. At the conclusion of which, the
grand treasurer again waved his wand, and the grand honors were
given as before. A grand piece of music was then performed by the
instruments, and an ode on
masonry rehearsed; after which the pro-
cession was resumed, and continued three times round as before.
The whole ceremony was conducted with the greatest order and
decorum. The grand master and the rest of the brethren then pro'
ceeded through the city in procession in their carriages, without expos-
ing any of the ensignia of the order, to Leathersellers hall, where an
elegant entertainment was
provided, and the evening concluded with
great joy and festivity."
v
_
Dedication of the Hall, in 1776.
At half past twelve the procession entered the hall in the following
order;
_
.
Grand Tiler, with a drawn sword--four tilers, carrying the lodge
[the mysterious chest,] covered with white satin-master of the seventh
lodge, carrying two silver pitchers, containing wine and oil-the master
ofthe sixth lodge, carrying a gold pitcher, containing corn-the first
light carried by the master of the filih lodge-architect, carrying square,
level, and plumb-rule-master of the fourth lodge, carrying the bible'
compasses, and square, on a velvet cushion-grand chaplain,-grand sec-
retary, with the bag, [purporting to contain private papers appertaining
to the affairs of the lodge-a mere
formality]-grand treasurer, with
the staff [vand,]-second light, carried by the master of the third
lodge-the third light, carried by the master of thesecond lodge-
master of the senior lodge, carrying the book of constitutions-grand
sword-bearer, carrying the sword of state-grand master.
On the procession reaching the grand master's chair, the brethren
who formed it were proclaimed, and from that station walked round the
hall three times. The lodge was then placed in the center ofthe hall.
and the three lights, with one gold and two silver pitchers, con-
taining corn, wine, and oil, were placed thereon; the bible, com~
passes, square, and book of constitutions, on a velvet cushion, being
placed on a
pedestal, the foundation stone anthem was sung.
His lordship then expressed his approbation of the architect's con*
duct, and commanded the proper officers to receive back the implements
which had been delivered him at laying the foundation stone. A sol'
emn piece of music was next performed, during which the ladies, and
those who were not masons, retired. The grand master then ordered
the hall to be tiled, on which the lodge [the little chesl,] was uncov'
FRIIIAIONS' HALL. 359
ered, and the grand secretary infonned the grand master, that it was
the desire of the society to have the hall dedicated to masonry; on
which the grand master commanded the grand otiicers to assist in that
ceremony, during which the organ kept playing solemn music. The
grand officers then walked round the lodge in procession three times,
stopping each time for the ceremony of rlefliration; when the grand
master in solemn form declared the hall dedicated to masonry, to virtue,
and to universal charity anrl benevolence ; which being proclaimed,
the grand honors were given as before: the lodge was then covered,
and the ladies introduced amidst the acclamation of the brethren : next
a grand anthem was
sung. An oration on
masonry was then deliv-
ered by William Dodd, L. L. D. grand chaplain."
As the method of disposing of the corn, wine, and oil, is not stated
in the foregoing account, I will subjoin the custom in this respect, which
is observed at laying the foundation stone of public structures, and at
the dedication of mason's halls, as
given by Webb and others.
"The gold and silver vessels are presented to the grand master;
and he, according to ancient ceremony, pours the corn, the wine, and
the oil, which they contain, on the stone, saying,
"
May the all bounteous Author of Nature bless the inhabitants of
this place with all the necessaries, conveniencies, and comforts of life;
assist in the erection and completion ofthis building; protectthe work-
men against every accident, and long preserve this structure from
decay; and grant to us all, in needed supply, the corn of nourishment,
the wine of refreshment, and the oil ofjoy.
_
'Amen! So mote it be! Amen !'
"
He then strikes the stone thrice with the mallet, and the public
honors of masonry are given."
In the dedication of mason's halls, the horn, wine, and oil, are
poured
upon the lodge, that is, as before observed, the little mysterious chest,
Aaron, or ark.
The processions three times round the foundation, and the hall
when finished; the three lights; the clapping hands three times; strik-
ing the stone thrice, etc. are in conformity to the customs of the ancients;
which was done by them in reverence of the deity, and in acknowledg'
ment of
thfir belief in the triplicity of his nature or attributes.
g
"
The Druid priests, in their worship, looked towards the sun-
they retained many of the Ammonian rites,-they are said to have
made mystical pracessions round their consecrated fires sunwise before
they proceeded to sacrifice."-[Hutchinson, p. 69.1
I
360 DEDICATION or
In short, the agreement of the foregoing customs of masons with
the observances of the ancients on similar occasions, will appear evi-
dentfrom the following historical facts:
"We learn from Festus, that the Etrurians had books concerning
the ceremonies observed at the founding of cities, altars, temples, walls,
and gates. Plutarch tells us, that Romulus, before he laid the founda-
tion of Rome, sent for men from Etruria, who informed him in all the
punctilios of ceremony which he was to observe. According to Dio-
nysius, they began vith offering a sacrifice. They then dug a ditch,
into which they threw the jirstfruits ofall things that served for human
nourishment; at the same time they consulted the gods, to know if
the enterprise would be acceptable to them, and ifthey approved of the
day chosen to begin the work. They then chalked out the bounda-
ries by a score of white earth, vhich they called Terra para. While
they were
forming the boundary, they stopped at certain intervals to
renew the sacrihces. In these sacrifices they invoked, besides the gods
of the country, the gods to whose protection the new
city was recom-
mended, which was done secretly, because it vas
necessary that the
tutelar gods should be unknown to the vulgar. In fine, so much re-
garded was the day on which a
city was founded, that they kept up
the memory of it by an
anniversary festival.
'
Among the Romans, when they were to build a
temple, the Aurus~
pices were
employed to choose the place where, and time when, they
should begin the work. This place was
purified with great care
; they
even encircled it with fillets and garlands. The Vestals accompanied
with young boys and girls, washed this Spot of ground with water.
pure and clean, and the priest expiated it by a solemn sacrifice. Then
he touched the stone that was to be jirst laid in the foundation, which
was bound with a
fillet; when the people, animated with enthusiastic
zeal, threw it in with some pieces of money/ or metal which had never
passed through the furnace. When the edifice was finished, there
was also a consecration of it, with grand ceremonies, wherein the priest,
pr, in his absence, some of his college presided.-(Mayo's Myth. vol,
r, p. 141 and 291.)
"
The same author, in treating of the festivals and processions ofthe
Egyptians, observes:-" The Hebrews, who derived from the Egyp-
tians that fatal propensity which they had towards idolatry, imitated
them but too often, not only in the solrnnity of the golden cam but also
in the ceremony of their proeessions. The prophet Amos upbraids
,them for having led about in the wilderness, the tabernacle ofthe god
1
»
rmzmrssons' rum.. 361
Moloch, tlie image of their idol, and the star of the god Rempliam.
St. Stephen, in the acts of the apostles, taxes them with the same
piece
of idolatry.-Several other people practised the same ceremonies,
whether they had learned them from the Egyptians, as is very proba-
ble, or had invented them themselves."-(Vol. I, p. 303.)
In regard to sacrifices, 'I-Iarwood, in his Grecian Antiquities, says,-
"When the fruits of the earth were the only food of men, care was
taken to reserve acertain portion for the gods. The same custom
was observed when theybegan to feed upon theiiiesh of animals.
Someiimes water was poured on the altar or the head of the victims,
sometimes honey or oil ; but in general they were
sprinkled with
wine, and then the wood of the Eg tree, the myrtle, or the vine, were
burnt upon the altar.-There was scarce
any sacrifice without corn or
bread, and more
particularly barley, as it was the first sort of corn used
by the Greeks, after the diet of acorns was given up."-(p. l46.)
Although masonry copies the customs of the ancient nations, it
rnustnot be supposed that there is any idolatry connected with it. It
is merely an idle imitation of their rites and ceremonies, without any
referenceto the original import of them.
Antimasonic Writers. -
The Abbé Barruel and Professor Robison, by their malignant and
false allegations against the masonic society, have so far prejudiced the
minds of a
portion of the reading public, as to cause a belief that free-
masonry was hostile to'christianity, to good order, and to civil govern-
ment! This calumny was founded solely upon the aid given by the
freemasons of France to the revolution of government in that country,
A revolution which certainly in its commencementwmet with the appro-
bation of every friend of liberty throughout the civilized world.
Both these writers were ultra royalists. Barruel was a French
Jesuit priest, who, on the breaking out of thé revolution in France fled
to England, where he published his phillipic against republicanism
and freemasonry, under the title of "
Memoirs, illustrating the history
of Jacobinism." Robinson was Professor of natural philosophy, and
secretary to the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His attack on
masonry
and free governments, is entitled "
Proofs of Conspiracy against all the
religions and governments of Europe, carried on in the secret meet-
ings of Freemasons, Illuminati and Reading Societies."
These writers pursue the common, hackneyed course of aristocracy
against liberty, by
calumniating6
and vilifying its supporters. No
862 ANTIMAIONIC wrnrsas.
crime is too infamous to be laid to the charge of the most talented and
virtuous of men. This disengenuous course shows the turpitude of the
cause they espouse. It is most base to divert the reader from princi-
ples to men, and by false allegations against them, to prejudice him
against their principles. Many an
unsuspecting reader has suffered
his mind to be perverted, by this flagitious mode of argument.
Barruel makes the following charge against the order of masons:
"
I saw masons, till then the most reserved, who freely and openly
declared, 'Yes, at length the grand object of freemasonry is accom-
plished, equality and liberty; all men are equal and brothers; all men
are free. [Monstrous.] That was the whole substance ofour doctrine,
the object of our wishes, the whole of our
grand secret. Sach was the
language I heard fall from the most zealous masons, from those whom
I have seen decorated with all the insignia of the deepest masonry; and
who enjoyed the rights of venerable, to'preside over lodges. I have
heard them express themselves in this manner before those whom,
masons could call the profane (uninitiated,) without requiring the small-
est secrecy, either from the men or women
present. They said it in a
tone as if they wished all France should be acquainted with this glori-
ous achievement ofmasonry.-(Vol. ii. p. 149.-Hartford ed. l799.)
Barruel also extracts the following sentiment, from Condorcet's
"
Progress of the human mind," as
worthy of reprobation. Condorceh
speaking of the secret associations which existed in France, previously
to the revolution, says,
"
They were the associations of those generous
men who dare examine the foundations of all pover or authority, and
who revealed to the people the greaf truths, that their liberty is inal-
ienable; that no
prescription can exist in behalf of tyranny; that n0
convention can
irrevocably sublect a nation to any particular family :
that magistrates, whatever may be their titles, functions or powers, are
only the officers, and not the masters of the people: that the people
always preserve the right of revoking those powers emanating from
them alone, whether they judge it has been abused, or consider it to be
useless to continue them] In short, that the people have the right of
punishing the abuse as well as well as of revoking the power."
"Thus we see
(says Barruel,) Condorcet tracing back the germ at
least of all the principles of the French revolution, to these secret asso-
ciations, which he represents as the benefactors of nations."
-` Had not masons a right equally with other citizens, to take part in
the glorious cause of freeing their country from despotism? Was it no*
their duty, and would they not been infamous not to have done co2
nnnuzr. AND nosrsou. 863
The American masons were as zealous, I believe, in the cause of their
country in our revolution as other men, and have never, to my knowl~
edge, as a distinct class, been reproached for it.
The French revolution, however objectionable its course in some
stages of its progress, and however unfortunate its termination, was
holy and just. Its projectors and the French people as a nation, are
no more responsible for the atrocities of Robespierre, than are the soci-
ety of masons for the murder of Morgan.
~
But how were the enormities complained oi, produced? By the
combination of the despots of Europe for the purpose ol' reducing the
French nation to its former state of bondage. Among the means
employed, a civil war was fomcnted in La Vendee, comprehending
three departments of the republic, and money was furnished to the
rebels against their country, by England, to prosecute this nefarious
warfare. ~
_
Besides, almost all the nobility andiclergy of France, were in oppo-
sition to the cause of liberty, and carrying on every possible intrigue
to reinstate the monarchy. They were sensible of the benefits resul-
ting to them from the services of an enslaved people, and they wished
to bring them back to their former debased state.
'
Thus was the French nation situated: surrounded by external foes,
and harrassed by those within; to kill or be killed became the only
alternative, and acts were committed, under the sway of Robespierre,
that tarnished the glorious cause inwhich they were
engaged.
But, alter all, it is a
pretty vell ascertained fact, that Robespierre
was in the interest of the powers combined against France, which
caused him to disgrace the revolution in the manner he did.
If any country ever had-cause to revolutionize its government, it
was France, under thc ancient regime. Where America had one just
complaint against the abuses of government, France had a hundred: it
would require a volume to enumerate them. I have not a list before
me; but one was so
degrading to the character of man, that it made a
strong impression upon my mind when examining the catalogue. It
was this: in some
places, in certain seasons of the year, the peasants,
by the law called the Gabelle, were
obliged in turn,`to beat the ponds
and brooks all night, to prevent the scigneur or lord of the manor and
family's being disturbed by the croaking ofthe frogs.
By this single example the debased state of the people of France
may easily be imagined.
The horrors of the Bastile, the famous prison at Paris, is pretty
well understood. `A Mr. Caritat, well known in the city of New
364 mrinnomc warrxns.
York, as a bookseller, informed me, that he had been employed as a
clerk in one ef the offices of' government in Paris, and that he had filled
up hundreds of letters de cachct, signed in blank by the king. These
letters were orders to the keeper of the Bastile, to receive under his
charge the persons named in them; and which might be obtaiqed for
a few guineas, by any influential character. Thus were
persons
thrown into this dismal place, without trial and without any charge of
crime. One man released from it, on its demolition, had suffered con-
finement for forty years, and was
entirely ignorant of the cau e of his
imprisonment.
In the mean time the king, good easy soul, was
enjoying the plea*
sures of the table and the chase, unmindful of the sufferings of his fel-
low men, inflicted through his instrumentality. In fact, whatever may
be said of Louis XVI, it is very evident, that he was a complete gour-
mand, and very little endowed with the active virtues.
Thomas Paine, in his "Rights of' Man," in answer to Edmond
Burke's attack on the French revolution, observes, "
Through the
whole of Mr. Burke's book, I do not observe that the Bastile is men-
tioned more than once, and that with a kind of implication as if' he was
sorry it is pulled down, and yvished it was built up again.
'
We have
rebuilt Newgate, says he, and tenanted the mansion; and we have
prisons almost as
strong as the Bastile for those who dare to bclic tlt¢
Queen of Franca'
"
Not one glance of compassion, not one commiserating reflection,
that I can find throughout his book, has he bestowed on those that
lingered out the most wretched of lives, a life without hope, in the
most miserable of prisons. It is painful to behold a man employing
his talents to corrupt himselff Nature has been kinder to Mr. Burke
than he has been to her. He is not affected by the reality of distress
touching his heart, but by the showy resemblance of' it striking his
imagination. He pilies the .plumage, [mt forgets the dying bird.
Accustomed to kiss_ the aristocratical hand that hath 'purloined him
from himself; he degenerates into a
composition ofart, and the genuine
soul of nature forsalces him. His hero or his heroine must be a tra'
gidy-victem, expiring in show, and not the real prisoner of misery,
sliding into death in the silence of a dungeon."
Mr. Burke for his apostacy from the whig cause, and writing his
philippic against the French revolution, received from the British king
of the people's money, a
pension of fifteen hundred pounds sterling:
Six thousand, six hundred and sixty dollars.
By this work, says Joel Barlow, in a note to his "Conspiracy of
BAIIRUIL AND ROBISOK.
Kings," "
He (Burke) conjured up a war, in which at least two mil.
lions of his fellow creatures must be sacrificed to his unaccountable
passion. Such is the condition of human nature, that the greatest
crimes have usually gone unpunished. It appears to me that history
does not fumish a
greater one than this of Mr. Burke; and yet all the
consolation that we can draw from the detection, is to leave the man to
his own reflections, and expose his conduct to the execration of pos-
terity."
Many misstatements have been published, charging the legislatures
of France in the time of the revolution, with an
open avowal of infi-
delity to the Christian religion, and with persecuting the clergy,'with
a view of
prejudicing mankind against their cause. All this has been
grounded upon a single expression of Anacharsis Cloots, one of the
assembly, which received, however, no countenance from the other
members. Robespierre, who, above all others, deserves the severest
censure, professed the greatest regard for religion, and introduced to
the assembly a long report, expressly upon that subject, which was
received with approbation. -
The following extract from the History of the Revolution, by M,
Rabaut de St. Etienne, will correct the errors that have been circula.
ted respecting the treatment of the priests.-Rabaut was a protestant
clergyman, a member of the National Assembly, and a man of Hrs!
rate character and talents.-He says,
"
The oath required of the clergy was one of the pretexts used for
endeavoring to create one of those quarrels which are termed schisms,
and in which men separate into parties, and then fight, for the sake of
abstract questions which they do not understand. The National
Assembly had given the title of Civil Constitution ofthe Clergy, to
what was nothing but its organization. It hould seem that the Assem-
bly would have done better, in not engaging in this affair, since each
profession and each professor can arrange themselves agreeably to
their own mode of proceeding, saving the superintending power of the
government. It ran the hazard of reviving, under one form, a
body
which it had destroyed under another. But priests maintain such a
fast'hold of all temporal affairs, and attach themselves so
closely to the
interests of the government, that it is difiicult to separate them from
these affairs and these interests; and, take the matter up in what shape
you will, the the priesthood still meets you at every corner: this cre-
ates a degree of embarrassment in every country, where the sove-
reign, be it what it may, hath a serious inclination to be master.
366 Anrruasourc Wllrraas.
,
'°
The National Assembly, then, having organized the clergy,
'according to the principles of the French constitution, required of the
priests the oath, which had been taken by every citizen, to support the
constitution; but it required, at thesame time, that they should swear
to maintain the civil constitution of the clergy. Of all the military
men who have taken, and broken, the civic oath,`not one ever thought
of saying, that Heaven vas injured by the military organization, their
pretext hath been, that they had already taken an oath to the king,
which rendered the latter null and of no effect. But priests are in the
habit of identifying themselves with God, and whoever offends them,
offends heaven. Accordingly, certain subtle minds soon 'discovered
the means of creating a schism, in asserting, that this constitution was
a
spiritual affair, nay more, that it was another religion; that to require
such an oath was a restraint of the freedom of conscience, that it was
putting priests to the torture, and exposing them to suffer martyrdom.
They even desired death, and that they might be led to execution, well
assured that the national convention would never do any such thing.
"
There was found in the Kingdom a considerable number of well-
meaning persons, who imagined, that their consciences had received a
material injury by this new organization of the clergy: for what men
most believe, is very often. what they least understandi
i
Meanwhile
the nonjuring priests were dbliged to quit their parishes, and pensions
were allotted to them: but they endeavored to preserve their infiuence
over their parishioners, and to interest them in their favor, by all those
means which continually lie within reach of those, to whom men have
committed the government of their reason. This division inspired the
enemies of the constitution with the hope, that the French mightbe
seduced into a Hvil war for the sake of the priesthood, since they
would not go to war i`or the sake of the nobility, which, in truth, had
no abstriact ideas to present to the subtle minds of the discontented.
The courtiers and the friends of privileges, on a sudden became devout ;
they were devout even at court; nay, they were devout even at Worms
and at Coblentz. But the citizens of Paris, even such as were least
enlightened, did not become the dupes of this mummery; now without
Paris, there can be no civil war."-(Lond. ed. p. 200.)
Mr. Robison maintains the same
tyrannical doctrines as Barruel§
in support of which he quotes the arguments of one of the kings of
France in vindication of his claims to power.
"
Hear, says he, what opinion was entertained of the sages of
France by their Prince, the father of Louis XVI. the unfortunate
_ _ __,
ndnnusr. nm nonxsox. 367
martyr of monarchy. '
By the principles of our new philosophers the
throne no longer wears the splendor of divinity. They maintain that
it arose from violence, and that by the same justice that force erected
it, force may again shake it, and overturn it. The people can never
give up their power. They only let it out for their ovn
advantage,
and always retain the right to rescind the contract, and resume it
whenever their personal advantage, _their only rule of conduct, require,
it. Our philosophers teach in public what our
passions suggest only
in secret!"-Then follows the reasoning of Louis, intended to show
this doctrine to be heretical and absurd; and Robison adds, "This
opinion of a
prince is unpolished indeed, and homely, but it is just."
tp 3-ta.)
~
The author attempts, without a shadow of proof to connect free-
masonry with the Order of Illuminati; and then, by calumniating the
latter, to disparage the former. But in this he has miserably' failed:
for, alter all thatvhas been said against the society of Illuminati, it
appears to have been instituted for the sole purpose of lessening the
evils which result from the want of information, by enlightening the
public mind, and diffusing useful knowledge among all classes of the
community.
l
To suppose, as the author pretends, that this society, composed of
men of the first respectability and standing, wished to destroy all order
and government, is too preposterous for a moments consideration.
Theiorder is said to have been founded in Germany about the
year 1777; and Dr. Adam Weishaupt, professor of Canon Law in the
university of Ingolstadt, was the projector.
~
The author gives Dr. Weishaupt's prospectus of his views, by
which the reader may form his own opinion of the merits of his
scheme.
_" The order of Ir.r.unrN1t'rr appears as an
accessory to freemasonry.
It is in the lodges of freemasons that the Minervals are found, and there
they are
prepared for Illumination. They must have previously
obtained the three English degrees. The founder says more. That
his doctrines are the only true freemasonry. He was the chief promo-
ter of the Eclectic System. This he urged as the best method for
getting information of all the explanations which have been given of
the masonic mysteries. He was also a Strict Observanz, and an adept
Rosycrucian. The result of all his knowledge is worthy of particular
remark, and shall theretbre be given at large.
368 ANTIlIA!0!hIC warrsns.
'I declare, says he, and I challenge all mankind to contradict my
declaration, that no man can give any account of the order of freema-
sonry, of its origin, of its history, of its object, nor
any explanation of
its mysteries and symbols, which does not leave the mind in total
uncertainty on all these points. Every man is entitled, therefore, to
give an explanation of the symbols, and any system of the doctrines,
that he can render palatable. 'Hence have sprung up that variety of
systems, which, for twenty years have divided the order. The simple
tale ofthe English, and the fifty degrees of the French, and the knights
of Baron Hunde, are equally authentic, and have equally had the_sup~
port of intelligent and zealous brethren. These systems are in fact
but one.
They have all sprung from the blue lodge of three degrees;
take these for their standard, and found on these all the improvements
by which each system is afterwards suited to the particular object
which it keeps in view. There is no man, nor
system, in the worldf
which can show by undoubted succession that it should stand at the
head ofthe order. Our ignorance in this particular frets me. Do but
consider our short history of one hundred and twenty years.-Who
will show ine the mother lodge? Those of London we have disco-
vered to be self-erected in 1716. [l7l7.] Ask for their archives. They
tell you they were burnt. They have nothing but the wretched
sophiatications of the Englishman Anderson, and the Frenchman
Desaguiliers. Where is the lodge of York, which pretends to
the
priority, with their king Bouden, and the archives that he brought
from the East? These too are all burnt. What is the chapter of Old
Aberdeen, and its holy clericate? Did we not find it unknown, and
the mason lodges there the most ignorant of all the ignorant, gaping
for instruction from our
deputies? Did we not find the same thing at
London? And have not their missionaries been among us, prying
into our mysteries, and eager 'to learn from us what is true freemasonry 2
It is in vain, therefore, to appeal to judges; they are no where to be
found; all claim for themselves the sceptre df the order; all indeed are
on an
equal footing. They obtained followers, not from their authen-
ticity, but from their eonduciveness to the end which they proposed,
and from the importance of that end. It is by this scale that we must
measure the mad and ~wicked explanations of the Rosycrucians, the
Exorcists, and Cabalists. These are rejected by all good masons,
because incompatible with social happiness. Only such systems as
promote this are retained.
l
But alas, they are all sadly deicient,
nanvsr. urn adsuost. 369
because they leave us under the dominion of political and religious
prejudices; and they are as inefficient as the sleepy dose of an ordi°
nary sermon.° _
_' But I have contrived anexplanation which has every advantage;
is inviting to Christians of every communion; gradually frees them
from all religious prejudices; cultivates the social virtues; and ani-
mates them by a
great, a feasible, and speedy prospect of universal hap-
piness, in a state of liberty and moral equality. freed from the obstacles
which subordination, rank, and riches continually throw in our way.
My explanation is accurate, and complete, my means are eH`ectual, and
irresistible. Our secret association works in a
way that nothing can
withstand, and man shall :bon be free and happy.
`
'This is the great object held out by this association; and the
means of attaining it is Illumination, enlightening the understanding
by the sun of reason, vhich will dispel the clouds of superstition and
of prejudice. The proficients in this order are therefore justly named
the Illuminati-d. And of all Illumination which human reason can
give, none is comparable to the discovery of what we are, our nature,
our obligations, what happiness we are
capable ol] and what are the
means ot' attaining it. In comparison with this, the most brilliant sci-
ences are but afnusements for the idle and luxurious. To fit man
by
Illumination for active virtue, to engage him to it by the strongest
motives, to render the attainment of it easy and certain, by finding
employment for every talent, and by placing every talent in its proper
sphere of nction, so that all, without feeling any extraordinary effort,
and in conjunction with and completion of.ordinary business, shall urge
forward, with ,united powers, the general task. This indeed will be
an
employment suited to noble natures, grand in its views, and delight-
ful in its eiercise. _
'
And what is this general object? Tru: unrrusss or 'ral
IUIAN uses. Is it not distressing to a generous mind, after contem-
plating what human nature is capable oil to see how little we
enjoy?
When we look at this goodly world, and see that every man
may be
happy, but that the happiness of one
depends on the conduct of another;
° Dr. Weishaupt has made a declaration rather too bold in the opening of his views,
in respect to freemasonr . He might possibly be justifiable in saying that the origin of
the order had not been discovered; but that it can not be, remains to be proved._ I-Ip,
however, had DOI, perhaps, perused the German work, noticed in the introduction of
this volume- the author of which, I will venture to say, had found the nght_ clue
to lead to a development of the secret Whetherit conducted him to a result satisfac-
tory to his readers, or whether his book fell into the hands ot' those "wha can andor-
daad," I knew not.
U
'
/
l7Q Arrrnanomc warrlasx
~
when we see the wicked so
powerful, and .the good so weak; and that
it is vain to strive, singly and alone, against the general current of vice
and oppression; the wish naturally arises in the mind, that it were
possible to form a durable combination of the most worthy persons,
who should work together in removing tho obstacles to human happi-
ness, become terrible to the wicked, and give their aid to all the good
without distinction, and should by the most powerful means, first fetter.
and by fettering, lessen vice; means which at the 'same time should
promote virtue, by rendering the inclination to rectitude, hitherto too
feeble, more
powerful and engaging. Would not such an association
be a ble sing to the world?
'But where are the proper persons, the good, the generous, and
the accomplished, to be found 1 and how, and by what strong motives,
are they to be induced to engage in a task so vast, so incessant, so dif-
Dcult, and so laborious? This association must be gradual. There
are some such persons to be found in every society. Such noble
minds will be engaged by the heart-warming object. The first task of
the association must therefore be to form the young members. As
these multiply and advance, they become the apostles of beneticence,
and the work is now on foot, and advances with a
speed increasing
every day. The slightest observation shows that nothing will so much
contribute to increase the zeal of the members as secret union. We
see with what keenncss and zeal the frivolous business of freentaronry
is conducted, by persons knit together by the secrecy of their uni¢m_
It is needless to inquire into the causes of this zeal which secrecy pro-
duces. It is an universal fact, confirmed by the history of every age.
Let this circumstance of our constitution therefore be directed to this
noble purpose, and then all the objections urged against it by jealous
tyranny and affrighted superstition will vanish. The order will thus
work silently, and securely; and though the generous benefactors of
the human race are thus deprived of the applause of the world, they
have the noble pleasure of seeing their work prosper in their hands."
"
The candidate, before his admission, is required to peruse and sign
the following oath :
'
I, N. N., hereby bind myself; by my honor and good name, for.
swearing all mental reservation, never to reveal, by hint, word, writing,
or in any manner whatever, even to my most trusted friend, any thing
that shall now be said or done to me
respecting my wished-for recep-
tion. and this whether my reception shall follow or not; I being previ-
ously assurodthatit shall contain nothing contrary to religion, the
H
I
sniwsr. mn nosuos. |71
slate, nor good manners. I promise, that I shall make no intelligible
extract from any papers which shall be shewn me now or during my
noviciate.- All this I swear, as I am, and as I hope to continue, a man
of honor.'
'
"
The urbanity of this protestation .must agreeably impress the
mind of a
person who recollects the dreadful imprecations which he
made at his reception into the different ranks'of freemasonry."
The difference in the style of the oath, administered in the two
orders, must be attributed to the customs of the times in which they
were formed.
Mr. Robison, alter bestowing the most vulgar abuse upon the
learned and amiable Dr. Priestly, adds,
"
But I do not suppose that he
has yet attained his acmé of illuminatism. His genius has been
cramped by British prejudices. These need not sway his mind any
longer. He is now in that 'rara tentporis (et loci) felicitate, sbi sen-
tire que oelis, gf qua sentias dicere licit.' "-That is, he now
enjoys
the rare felicity oftime and place (America) where it is lawful to think
what one pleases, and to speak what one thinks.
The liberty ofspeech which we claim in this country, must
bevery
grating to the feelings of a man
possessing the principles of Robison.
He would have no
person, except the mean
eulogists of power, like
himself, permitted to utter his sentiments. .
"
Does Dr. Priestly think (says he) that the British will part more
easily than their neighbors in France with their property and honors,
secured by ages of peaceable possession, protected by law, and acqui-
esced in by all who wish and hope that their own descendants may reap
the fruits oftheir honest industry."-(p. 367.)
The following deed of the ferocious robber, William of Normandy'
will serve as a general example of the manner in which the British
nobility obtained their property. It is taken from the National Portrait
Gallery, London, l829:
'
Francis Rawdon Hastings, Marquis of Hastings, K B. The fam-
ily of Rawdon is of great antiquity, and of Norman extraction. But
the English pedigree is deduced from Paulin, or Paulinus Roydon, who
oommanded a
body of archers, in the army of William, at the battle of
Hastings. For this service he received from the Conqueror a
grant
of lands in the West Ridings of Yorkshire, near Leeds. The tenure
was by grand sergeantry; and the condition, that of presenting to the
king and his successors a cross-bow and arrow, whenever any ofthen
lhUld~GOK to hunt there. Ot' the title deed conveying these male-
a
372- uvrxxuoxuc warren:
rial rights, Weever, in his "
Funeral Momuments," gives the following
as a faithful transcript : .
e
r
l. W'lli m K . the thurd yere of my reign
Give to :hee lzlngyn Rnyidon, Hope and Hopetowno,
With all the bounds bot up and downs;
From heaven to yerthe, from yerthe to hel,
For thee and thyne there to_dwel,
_
As truly as this king-1-ight is myn:
~
For a crosse-bow and an arrow,
When I sal come to
hunt on
_yarrow.
And in token that this thing ts sooth,
I bit the whyt wax with my tooth,
Before Meg, Mend, and Margery,
'
And my third sonne Henry.
The armorial bearing is that of fess between three pheons, or
arrow-heads, with this motto,-Et nor qtwqu tela spanimur: We
too have scattered our arrows.
The following statement exhibits the amount drawn annually from
the hard earnings of the people, to support the proiligate luxury of the
nobility and clergy of Great Britain.
Nice British Pickings,-Expressed in British Pounds.
399 Peers sittitfg in Parliament, and their families, receivefrom the
taxes £2,754,336
309 Peers not sitting in Parliament, '
`
.
and their families, receive 978,000
123,732,336
The Marquis ofBute and family reeeive 65,811
Lord Eldon 50,400
The Dulce of Beaufort, 48,600
The Earl of Lauderdale 33,600
Lord Beresford 29,000
The Duke of Newcastle 19,900 _
Archbishop of Canterbury 41.100 and 116 liviags
Bi=sh°x» °f Durham 61,700 living: unknown
Bi'|'°P 01' London,
Bishop of Litcltield
Bishop of St. Asaph
Bishop of Bath and Wells
Bishop of
Chester
BiSh°n of Chieltuster
§§|hepofE.ly-._~
10,200 with 95 livings
12.590 with 48 living:
7.000 with 90 liviug§
1,830 with 27 livinjs
4.700 with 80 living:
6,210 with 36
i1f0Uwhh lllillvilf
annual. nn aousorl. 373
Bishop of Lincoln -
, 8,280 with 36~ livings
Bishop of Norwich 8,370 with 40 living:
Bishop of Oxford ~
3,500 with li livings
Bishop of Rochester 5,400 with 21 livings
Bishop of Salisbury 14,420 with 40 livings
Bishop of Cloyne 7,500 and great patron-
._...__..
age,
467,511 .
Which added to the aforesaid sum of 3,732,336
Amounts to the sum of £4,l99,847
Which will maintain 83,997 families, at £50 a year and upwards
each family.
Hers we see the honest industry hy which the privileged orders
acquire their property. By livings are to be understood parishes, in
which curates are located by the bishops, and from which the latter
receive every tenth animal, sheaf of wheat, etc., which are raised
therein ; whilst the iamished curates, who actually do all the service,
in reading prayers, sermons, etc., receive but sixty or
seventy pounds a
year. This is`English Christianity, but it is notthe religion of Christ.
I will add to these notable instances of acquring wealth, in Eng-
land, by honest industry, a late communication from a writer in Liver-
pool to an editor of a
paper in New-York. After giving a list of the
present Cabinet and other officers of state, he says 1-"
American
notions of economy will be shocked, when I add that for the privilege
ofbeing suis-govemed by these gentlemen, the tax-ridden, church-rate,
and tythe-'stricken people of England, Scotland, and Ireland mul pay
the enormous yearly sum of siz hundred thousand dollars! Yes. the
mere salaries to the members ofthe government-I say nothing of the
fees, perquisites, peculation and patronage-amount to this sum. Nor
is this all: supposing the members of the government remain in omce
only a week-a day-an hour-nearly every one of them is entitled to
a retiring pension varying from one-half to one-third of his salary.
Thus Lord Brougham, after a
Chancellorship of four years, receives
a pen ion of twenty-five thousand dollars a
year for life !-The Dulce
of Wellington, who has obtained grants, amounting to upwards of iiva
millions of dollars, allows his motherto draw a small pension from tha
country.
'
"
These things are worth knowing, in case any attempt should be
made-as made it one
day will be-to trammel the free institutions of
America with tha trappings of royalty. If you are wise, remain as
314 nrrraasoltro warraas:
you are-blessed with a
cheap government, and a corrective control
over it." ,
For opposing these outrageous impositions, is Dr. Priestly abused»
by this defender of the oppressions and degradation to which the people
of European monarchies are subjected.
i
"The Assembly, says Robison, had given the illumination war-
rohoop-'Psacc with cottages, but war with palaces' A pouvoir revolu-
tionairs is mentioned, which supercedes all narrow thoughts, all tier
of morality. Lequinio publishes the most detestabls book that ever
issued from s
printing press, Les Pejugér vaincur, containing all the
principles, and expressed in the very words of 1llaminatisat."-(p.3l7.)
Any pretence of regard for the ties of morality, by Mr. Robison,
aier having vindicated the most tyrannical and pernicious doctrines, is
adding insult to injury.
There was never a more moral and humane sentiment proclaimed
byany government in the world, than that quoted above. What ani-
mosity existed between the people of France and those of other coun-
tries? None atall. The crowned heads supported by the privileged
orders of Europe, had combined against Fra nce, with a view of
destroying her free institutions, andthereby secure their own ill-gotten
power and emoluments. They alone were her enemies.
Lequinio and Robison were antipodes to each other in principle.
While the one wished to destroy prejudices, the other endeavored to
cultivate and support them. A
Lequinio was a member of the National Convention of France, and
published the book in question, Prejudice: Vanquisltcd or Destroyed,
in 1794. It has not, to my knowledge, been translated into English,
nor have I a
copy of the original before me. It was, however, favora-
hly noticed by a British Reiriew, at the time of its publication; from
which the following sentiments are extracted. These will show the
tenor ofthe work, and enable the reader to determine which book, that
of Robison or Lequinio, is entitled to the epithet detestable.
Of Prejudices.
"
Prejudices arise out ofignorance and the want of
rellection; these are the basis on which the system of despotism is
erected, and it is the master piece of art in a
tyrant, to perpetuate the
stupidity of a nation, in order to perpetuate its slavery and his own
dominion. If the multitude knew how to thinlr, would they be dupes
to phantoms, ghosts, hobgoblins, spirits, etc., as
they have been _at all
times, and in all nations? What is nobility, for example, to a man who
thinks! What are all those abstract beings, children of an exalted
snausr. sun sosuert. |15
imagination, which have no existence but in vulgar credulity, and who'
cease to have being as soon as we cease to believe in them.
"The greatest, the most absurd, and the most foolish of all preju-
dices, is that very prejudice which
induces men to believe that they are
necessary for their happiness, and for the very existence of society.
Of Kings.
"
Kings have ever been tyrants, more or less despotic»
more or less cruel, more or less unjust, but equally smitten with a love
of power, intoxicated by the spirit of domination, forgetful that they
were men, anxious to place themselves on a level with.gods, and averse
to recollect that all their power and authority was derived from the
very nations whom they oppressed.
"
It may easily be perceived, that by the word tyrant, I do not mean
solely those monsters of the human race, such as Nero, Caligula,
Charles IX., etc., my definition extends to almost all kings, past and
present; l do not even
except that king of France so often vaunted is
the '
good Henry ;' (Henry IV.) although less cruel than most of his
predecessors, he was
assuredly no less despotic, and thought no~less
than they, that all France was destined for his pleasure and his glory;
ifan innovator during his reign had dared to have recalled thc memory
of their unalienable rights to the minds of the people, he would have
been crushed under the weight ol' the royal authority. Let any one
recollect the game laws enacted by this monarch, and then ask himself
if he were
really a
good king. By an article of his ordonanee on this
subject, it was decreed, that every peasant, found with a gun in his
hand, near a thicket, should be stripped naked, and beaten with rods
around it. It was thus that the life of man was sacrificed to the reprise
and the existence ol' hares and patridges, destined for the pleasures ofa
prince, more culpable, perhaps, in respect to this barbarous law, than
any of his predecessors, because, educated among the indigent and
unfortunate, he ought never to have permitted any other sentiments
than those of gentleness and humanity to penetrate into his mind.
"
What should a king be, if he were as he ought? A man covered
with a
paper jacket, on which is written, (De par la nation 4' la loi.)
'
By order ofthe people and the law ;' the herald of the nation,the pro-
claimer of its orders, and nothing more. It is ridiculous enough to see
royalty propagated from father to son, like the king's evil; it is still
more ridiculous to see nations so deceived by being accustomed to
slavery, as to become the servile idolators of that power by which they
are oppressed, without once recollecting that it is their own.
0f War. "
Who is that perverse, and ever exeerable man, who inf
476 nvrxlnomc wxrnu:
`
invented the murderous art of war, and that famous science of tacticq
which consists in the best means of massacreing whole nations?
'
One
creature may assassinate another in a moment of passion, and, how-
ever barbarous this act really is, and however much it may be repug-
nant to the sensibility of a
good man, yet he can conceive it: but for
two men, in cool blood, to think of assassinating one another, or thou-
sands of men of assassinating other thousands, with whom they are
utterly unconnected, and can have no
quarrel or even diference with;
of this he can form no idea.
'
"
0 shame to the_human species! Nations, blind, and asleep, will
you never awake? What? shall not an individual whom you have
placed upon the throne, and whom you have overwhelmed with your
bounties, be satisfied with consuming the fruit of your sweat and of
your toils, in the bosom of indolence and voluptuousness, and with lay-
ing your industry and your fortune under contribution! And shall he
wish to dispose of your very existence? must you be the instruments
of his anger and his vengeance, of his ambition and his mad desires?
`
"
He wishes to conquer a
province, that is to say, to usurp the domin-
ion over a
country, and pillage the inhabitants ; and it is to assist this
audacious robbery, of which you will enjoy no lucrative portion, that
you are about to desolate the territories of a
people who never offended
you, to burn their villages, and to spread death and desolation over
their fields; while in this attempt you expose yourselves to excessive
fatigues, to continual privations, and even to death itself; or, what is
still worse, to wounds, which but prolong a miserable existencel"
A philanthropist, a man who wishes to promote the general happi.
ness of his fellow men, can see
nothing detestable in the foregoing senti-
ments of Lequiuio. But professor Robison, as well as the Abbe Bar.
ruel, had his own private interests to subserve. He possessed a lucra-
tive otiice in the university of Edinburgh; which he could neither have
obtained nor held, had he advocated the cause of oppressed humanity.
Thus, unhappily for mankind, it becomes the interest ofthe learned in
monarchies, to support the power of tyrants.
Barruel held a
place, perhaps, equally lucrative in the church; and
although the republic, as has been seen, exercised much forbearance
and generosity towards the nonjuring priests, he did not possess audi-
cient liberality of soul to make the least sacrifice for the benefit of the
nation under its embarrassed situation. He would neither take the
oath of allegiance to the republic, nor retire upon a moderate pen-
IIOIL
`
annul. uw aonsox. . 877
I shall now make- some remarks onthe calumnies that have been
industriously spread throughout the world against the French revolu-
tion. And although none can reflect without detestation on the tyranny
and cruelties of Robespierre, and some others who obtained power in the
course ofthat revolution, I shall be able to show that these are inferior
in atrocity to the barbarities which took place in the American revolu-
tionary war.
_
It should be remembered, also, that a
great part of the enormities
which occurred in France, were perpetrated hy mobs. The people,
driven to madness by theintrigues of their internal foes, gave tr loose
to their fury, which the government could not control.
It was the policy of kings and. their adherents, to stigmatize the
actors in the French revolution, as well as the just principles upon
which it was founded. Hence the cry of awful, horrible, detestablg
revolution, was echoed from court to court throughout Europe ;< and,
without correct -information, relying upon the reports of the corrupt
presses of the enemies of France, the same
cry, I am sorry to say, was
reverherated by a
portion of the press, from the republican shores of
America.
The same course was
pursued to scandalize the American revolu-.
tion: and Europe was Elled with the lies which were daily issued from
"
Rivington's lying Gazette," printed in New-York when in posses-
sion of the British. A
Which is most criminal, it may be asked, to rebel against ono's
country, against a nation, or to rebel against one man, a king, who
arrogantly claims the right to govem a
country, because one of his
ancestors, in a former age, like William, the Norman, or Canute, the
Dane, compelled the people of that country by force of arms, to submit
to his authority?
The grand and ultimate object of these writers was to bring the
French revolution into disrepute among the people of Europe. in order
to check its progress in other countries. And to effect this, nu means
were thought too vile to be resorted to. The principle of liberty itself;
as though mankind were unworthy of enjoying it, was to be calumnia~
ted and denounced. "
The French oflicers and soldiers, says Robison,
who returned from America, imported the American principles, and in
every company found fond hearers who listened with delight and
regret to their fascinating tale of American independence. During the
war, the minister was
obliged to allow the Parisians to amuse them-
selves with theatrical
entertainmentsérvhereevery extravagsnce of the
878
~
nvrunsoxue watnas :
Americans was
applauded as a noble struggle for native freedom All
wished for a taste of that liberty and equality which they were allowed
to applaud on the stage; but as soon as
they came from the theatre into
the street, .they found themselves under all their former restraints.
The sweet charm had found its way into their hearts, and all the luxu-
ries of France became as dull as common life does to a fond girl when
she lays down her novel. ~
"
In this irritable state of mind aspark was sufficient for kindling a
flame. To import this dangerous delicacy of American growth.
France had expended many millions, and was drowned in debts." -
The author then states sundry circumstances, either true or false,
to prove that the Illuminati and Freemasons took a
part in the revolu-
tion of France; and says, "After all these particulars, can any person
have a doubt that the order of Illuminati formerly interfered in the
French revolution, and contributed greatly to its progress?" He at the
same time acknowledges that,
"
There is no denying the insolence and
oppression of the crown, and the nobles, nor the misery and slavery of
the people, nor that there were sufficient trovocation and cause for a
total change of measures and of principles."
'But he finds fault with "
The rapidity with which one-opinion was
declared in every corner, and that opinion as
quickly changed ;" as
though it were to be expected that a whole people, who had just burst
the bonds which had held them enchained for centuries, should simul-
taneously adopt the same
opinions in regard to the manner of securing
their fixture liberties.
"
In 1789, or the beginning of 1790, a manifest was sent from the
grand National Lodge of Freemasons (so it is entitled) at Paris, signed
by the duke of Orleans as
'grand Master, addressed and sent to the
Lodges in all the respectable cities of Europe, exorting th_em to unite
for the support of the French Revolution, to gain it friends, defenders.
and dependents; and according to their opportunities, and the practica-
bility of the thing, to kindle and propagate the spirit of revolution
through_all lands. This is a most important article, and deserves a.
very serious attention. I got it first of all in a work written by L. A.
Hoffmann, Vienna, 1795.
"
The author says, 'That every thing he advances in these memo-
randums is consistent with his own
personal knowledge, and that he is
ready to give convincing proofs of them to any respectable person who
will apply to him personally. He has already given such convincing
documents to the Emperor, and to several Princes, that many of the
annum. Ann nonson. |79
machinations occasioned by this manifesto have been detected and
stopped ; and he would have no
scrnple at laying the whole before the
public, did it not unavoidably involve several worthy persons who had
suffered themselves to be misled, and heartily repented of their errors'
He is naturally (being a
Catholic) very severe on the Protestants (and
indeed he has much reason) and by this has drawn on himself many
bitter retorts. He has however defended himself against all that are
of any consequence to his good name and veracity, in a manner that
fully convinces any impartial reader, and turns to the confusion of the
slanderers.
"
Hoffmann says, that 'he saw some of those manifests; that they
were not all of one tenor, some being addressed to friends, of whose
support they were
already assured.' One very important article of
their contents is earnest exhortations to establish in every quarter
secret schools of political education, and schools for the public educa-
tion ofthe children of the people, under the direction of well-principled
masters; and offers of pecuniary assistance for this purpose, and for the
encouragement of writers in favor of the Revolution, and for indemni-
fying the patriotic booksellers who suffer by their endeavors to sup~
press publications which have an
opposite tendency."
There is nothing in all this but what common prudence would
dictate. Shall monarchs and their satellites be applauded for exerting
every means to secure their power, and to prevent the spread of liberal
political opinions; and shall the friends of liberty be reproached for
using the same means for the support and security of free govern-
ments ? '
From what is said of Hoffmann, here spoken of it is probable he
was a worthless character, on whose vord no reliance could be placed.
His complaints against the Protestants were, doubtless, that they
favored the revolution, which, in the eyes of Professor Robison, would
be sufiicient to justify every abuse. He was, no doubt, rewarded for
his base officiousness.
"
I conclude, says Mr. Robison, this article (on the French revolu~
tion) with an extractor two from the proceedings of the National
Assembly and Convention, which make it evident that their principles
and theirpractice are
precisely those of the Illuminati, on 'a great
scale.
"
On the 19th of November, 1792, it was decreed, '
That the Con-
vention, in the name of the French nation, tenders help and fraternity
to all people who would recover their liberty)
380 nrrmuorue waxrns:
"
On the 21st of November, the President of the Convention said to
the pretended deputies of the Duchy of Savoy,
'
Representatives of an
independent people, important' to mankind was the day when the
National Convention of France pronounced its sentence, Royal dignity
is abolished. From that day many nations will in future reckon the
era. of their political existence. From the beginning of civil establislr
ments Kings have been in opposition to their nations-but now
they
rise up to annihilate Kings. Reason, when she darts her rays into
every corner, lays open eternal truths-she alone enables us to pass
sentence on
despots, hitherto the scare-crow of other nations.'
"But the most distinct exhibition of principle is to be seen in a.
report from the diplomatic committee, who were commissioned to delibe-
rate on the conduct which France was to hold with other nations.
0.1 this report was founded the decree of the 15th of December 1793.
The reporter addresses the Convention as follows:
"
'The Committees of Finance and War ask in the beginning,
'What is the object of the war which we have taken in hand? _With-
out all doubt the object is the annihilation of all privileges, war with
#lee palaces, and peace with the cottages. These are the principles on
which your declaration of 'war is founded. All tyranny, all privilege'
mustbe treated as an
enemy in' the countries where we set our foot.
This is the genuine result of our
principles. But it is not with Kings
alone that we wage war-were these our sole enemies, we should only
have to bring down ten or twelve heads. We have to hght with all
their accomplices, with the privileged orders, who devour and have
oppressed the people during many centuries.
'
"
'We must therefore declare ourselves for a
revolutionary power
in all the countries into which we enter, (loud applauses from the
Assembly)-nor need we
put on the 'cloak of humanity, we disdain
such little arts. We must clothe ourselves with all the brilliancy of
reason, and all the force of the nation. We need not mask our princi-
ples-the despots know them already. The first thing we must do is
to ringlthe alarm bell, for insurrection. We must, in a solemn man-
ner, let the people see the banishment of their tyrants and privileged
casts-otherwise, the people, accustomed to their fetters, will not be
able to break their bonds. It will effect nothing, merely to ercite a
rising ofthe people-this would only be giving them words instead of
standing by them.
" '
And since, in this manner, fwe ourselves are the Revolutionary
Administration, all that is against the rights of the people must be
DARIUIL an aosrson.
~
'
381
overthrown, at our entry-we must display our principles by actually
destroying all tyranny; and our generals, after having chased away
the tyrants and their satellites, must proclaim to the people that they
have brought them happiness; and then, on_ the spot, they must sup-
press tithes, feudal rights, and every species- of servitude.
,
"
'But weehall have done nothing if we
stop here. Aristocracy
still domineers-we must therefore suppress all authorities existing in
the hands of the upper classes. When_ the revolutionary authority
appears, there must nothing of the old establishment remain. A popu-
lar system must be introduced-every office must be occupied by new
fimctionaries-and the Sansculottes' must every where have a share
in the administration. -
"
'Still nothing is done, till we declare aloud the precision of our
principles to such as want only a half freedom. We must say to
them-if you think of compromising with the priviledged casts, we
cannot suffer such dealing with tyrants-they are our enemies, and we
must treat them as enemies, because they are neither for liberty nor
equality. Show yourselves disposed to receive a free constitution-
and the Convention will not only stand by you, but vill give you per-
manent support; we will defend you against the vengeance of your
tyrants, against their attacks, and against their return. Therefore
abolish from among you the Nobles-and every ecclesiastical and
military incorporation. They are
incompatible with equality. Hence.
forward you are citizens, all equal in rights-equally called upon to
rule, to defend, and to serve
your country. '1'he agents of the French
Republic will instruct and assist you in forminga free constitution,
and assure
you of happiness and fraternity.'
°'
This report was
loudly applauded, and a decree formed in pre-
arise conformity to its principles. Both were ordered to be translated
into all languages, and copies to be fumished to their generals, with
orders to have them carefully dispersed in the countries which they
invaded."
._
° Sansculotte literally mesnswithout small clothes. It was bestowed in derision
by the well dressed royalists upon the republicans of France; who acknowledged its
applicability, and assumed the term ;
aay1ng);ir
condition is the result of the ini uitoul
s stem of government, which hithemrhas n conducted for the benefit of a few, to
the degradation and bebasement of the great mass of the people. The French republi-
cans were also Bl led Jacobins, which arose merely from the circumstance of their
meetings being held in a monastery formerly
belongingeéo
an order of monks thus
denominated. And this name, in foreign countnes, has n made to mean something
awfully atrocious. The a state, Cheetham, attempted to play this pitttiil game, by
lfilillg
the
republicans
of lsZwfYork, Martlingmen, m consequence of their meeting at
_a cuss kept y Abraham Martlin . Such contemptible resorts :how the baseness of
theeauseintsnded tobe benedtedby them.
882 Awrnnsorno warrsu: -
V
The reader is aware, that the principal powers of Europe had com-
bined for the purpose of putting' down the French Republic, and rein-
ring the ancient regime; and still they complained of these retaliatory
measures.
What course did the American revolutionists take, under similar
-circumstances? In the confederation ofthe American States; in 1785
the llth article says,
"
Canada acceding to the confederation, and join~
ing the measures of the United States, shall be admitted into the
Union." An army was sent into Canada, for the purpose of inducing
and aiding the people of that province to assert and maintain their
independence. _
Let us see how the government of the United States treated this
revolutionary principle in latter times. The following is an extract of
.a speech delivered by Henry Clay, in the House of Representatives,
in 1818, in favor of acknowledging the independence of the provinces
of La Plata, in South America:
"
I maintain, mid he, that an
oppressed people are authorized, when-
ever they can, to rise and break their fetters. This was the great prin-
ciple of the English revolution. It was the great principle of our own.
We must, therefore, pass sentence of condemnation upon the fouhders
of our liberty ;-say that they were rebels, traitors,-and that we are,
at this moment, legislating without competent powers, before we can
condemn the cause of Spanish America. Our revolution was
mainly
directed against the theory of tyranny. We had suffered compara-
tively but little,-we had in some respects been kindly treated,-but
our intrepid' intelligent fathers saw, in the nsurpations of the power to
levy an
inconsiderable tax, the long train of oppressive acts that was to
follow. They rose-they breasted the storm-they conquered, and left
us the glorious legacy of freedom. Spanish America, for centuries,
has been doomed tothe practical effects of an odious tyranny. If we
were justified, she is more than justified."
The sentiments of Mr. Clay were
responded to by Congress, and
La Plata was declared by our government free and independent.
The French revolution was bailed with joy by the friends of lib-
erty, in England, as
appears by the following document. Mr. Robi-
son states, that while his book was
printing, he obtained a work then
just published in Paris. It confirms, says he, all that I have said
respecting the use made of the freemason lodges. It gives a particular
account of the formation of the Jacobin Club, by the Club Breton. The
author writes: We may judge of what the _duke of Orleans could do
annum. mn nonrsou. '883
ia other places, by what he did during his stay in England. He
gained over to his interest Lord Stanhope and Dr. Price, two of the
most respectable members of the Revolution Society. This society
even sent to the Assembly an ostensihlc letter, in which are the follow-
ing passages;
'
,
"
'l`he Society congratulates the National Assembly of France on
the Revolution which has taken place in that country. It cannot but
earnestly wish for the happy conclusion of so
important a
Revolution,
and, at the same time, express the extreme satisfaction which it feels in
reflecting on the glorious example which France has given to the
world.
"The Society resolves unanimously to invite all the people of Eng-
land to establish Societies through the kingdom, to support the princi-
ples of the Revolution, to form correspondences between themselves,
and by these means to establish a great concerted Union of all the
true Friends of Liberty."
Accordingly (says the French author) this was executed, and
Jacobin Clubs were established in several cities of England, Scotland,
and Ireland. _
The following passages are quoted by Mr. Robison from a vindica-
tion published by Professor Weishaupt, against the charges brought
against him, by those who wished to. retain the mass of the people in a
state of vassalage:
'
'All men, says he, are subject to errors, and the best man is he
who best conceals them. I have never been guilty of such vices or
follies: (as he had been accused of ) for proof I appeal to the whole
tenor of my life, which my reputation, and my struggles with hostile
cabals, had brought completely into public view long before the insti-
tution of this Order, without ubating any thing of that flattering regard
which was
paid to me
by the first persons of my country and its neigh-
borhood ; a regard well evinced by their confidence in me as the best
instructor of their children.
'
It is well known that I have made the chair which I occupied in
the University of Ingolstadt, the resort of the first class of the Ger-
man youth.
'
'
The tenor of my life has been the opposite of every thing that is
vile; and no man can
lay any such thing to my charge. I have rea-
son to rejoice that these writings have appeared ; they are a vindication
of the order and of my conduct. I can, and must declare to God, and
I do it now in the most solemn manner, that in my whole life I never
384 nvrnusomo walnuts; ,
saw or heard of the so much condemned secret writings; and in particu-
lar, respecting these abominable means, such as
poisoning, abortion,
etc., was it ever
lrnown to me in any case, that any of my friends or
acquaintances ever even
thought of them, -advised them, or made any
use of them.
'It was the full conviction of what could be done, if every may
were
placed in the,otiice for which he was fitted by nature and a
proper education, which first suggested to me the plan of illumination.
'
I am proud to be known to the world as the founder ofthe Order
'of Illuminati: and I repeat my wish to have for my epitaph,
'
En thu ect Phacthan, can-Qs auriga paterni,
' Qucm si non. tcnuil, rnognis lumen crcidil aus-is."
This is the resting place of Phaéton, son of Apollo; he failed to
guide the chariot of thesun, and fell-yet nohly fell, so
lofty the
attempt.
'It is reproachful to human nature, that men
respectable for their
acquirements, and of good standing in society, should be induced
through selflinterest, to use
every possible means
by calumny and Salsa-
hood to destroy the character and usefulness of persons like professor
Weishaupt, who exert their talents with a view of bettering the condi-
tion of their fellow men. And it is to be lamented that many of those
for whose benetit such pbilanthropists labor, join in the hue and cry
against them. . _
~
~
The following appropriate language is applied to the writings of
Messrs. Barruel and Robison, in an address of De Witt Clinton, past
grand master of the State of New York, at the installation of Stephen
Van Rensselaer, as
grand master ofthe lodges ofthis State, September,
1825. _
`
"
Our fraternity has suffered under the treatment of well-meaning
friends, who have undesignedly indicted more injuries upon it than iti
most virulent enemies. The absurd accounts of its origin and history,
in most of the books that treat of it, have proceeded from enthusiasm
operating on credulity and the love of the marvellous. An imbecile
friend often does more
injury than an avowed foe. The calumnies of
Barruel and Robison, who labored to connect our
society with the
Illuminati and to represent it as inimical to social order and good
government, have been consigned to everlasting contempt, while exag-
gerated and extravagant friendly accounts and representations continu-
ally stare us in the face, and mortify our intellectual discrimination, by
ridiculous claims to
unlimited antiquity. Nor ought it to bc forgotten.,
unseat. mn nosraou. 385
that genuine masonry is adulterated by sophistications and interpola-
tions foreign from the simplicity and snblimily of its nature. To this
magnwccnt Temple of the Corinthian order, there have been added
Gothic erections, which disfigure its beauty and derange its symmetry.
The adoption in some cases of frivolous pageantry and fantastic mum-
mery, equally revolting to good taste and genuine masonry, has
exposed us to much animadversion: but our institution, clothed with
celestial virtue, and armed with the panoply of truth, has defied all
the storms of open violence, and resisted all the attacks of insidious
imposture; and it will equally triumph over the errors of misguided
friendship, which, like the transit of a planet over the disk of the sun,
may produce a
momentary obscuration, but will instantly leave it in
the full radiance of its glory."-(Freemasou's Library, p. 338.)
Horrors of the American Revolution, etc.
The revolution of France was
agreeable to the will, doubtless, of
ninety-nine out ofa hundred of its inhabitants. The republic was the
rule ofthe people; the French citizens, therefore, who resisted it, were
rebels, were traitors to their country. And although the severities
exercised towards them in many cases, can
by no means be justified, yet
reproaches against the republic, on the score of cruelty, come with a
very ill grace from its enemies.
In proof of which, I will call to remembrance some of the appalling
scenes of the American revolutionary war, showing how rebels to a
king were treated by his myrmidons; which ought to be ollen recur-
red to, and held up to the eternal execration of posterity. This would
be more becoming Americans than to dwell upon the horrors of the
French revolution, relying on the garbled accounts of its domestic and
foreign foes. For this purpose I shall give the following indtrbitable
facts.
The policy ofthe British government evidently was to waste
away
the small number of troops which America had raised, and to deter
others from entering into the war, by the inhuman means here detailed.
Extracts from Mrs. Warner's History of the American Revolu;
tion, (v. iii, p. 34.)
"Many of the captured Americans were sent to Great Britain'
where they were for a time treated with almost every severity s`hcrt o
death. Some of them were transported to the East Indies; others pu
to menial services on board their ships: but alter some time had
elapsed, those in general who
wi;
conveyed 'to England, might be
386 uonaons or 'ral
deemed happy, when their sufferings were compared with those of
their countrymen who perished on board the prison ships in America,
under the eye of British commanders of renown, and who in many
respects, were civilized and polite.
,
"
No time will wipe oH` the stigma that is left on the names ofClin-
ton and Howe, when posterity look over the calculations, and find that
during six years ofvthcir command in New-York, eleven thousand
Americans died on board the Jersey, a single prison ship, stationed'
before that city for the reception of those victims of despair. Nor was
the proportion smaller of those who perished in their jails, dungeonsv
and prison hulks.
"
It is true that in England, the language of govemment held up
all the American prisoners as rebels, traitors, insurgents, and pirates;
yet this did not prevent the compassionate heart from the exercise of
the benign virtues of charity and brotherly kindness. The lenient
hand of many individuals was stretched out for their reliell While
their sorrows were thus softened, their brethren in America, in the
neighborhood of parents, children, and the most adectionate partners,
not being permitted to receive from them the necessary relief; were
dying by thousands, amidst famine, filth and disease."
In speaking of the ravages of the British on the borders of the
state of Connecticut, under the command of the traitor Arnold, Mrs.
Warren observes:
"
New London was more
seriously attacked; and alter a short and
brave resistance, plundered and burnt. As soon as the town had sur-
rendered, a number of soldiers entered the garrison: the ollicer who
headed the party inquired who commanded it? The valiant Colonel
Ledyard stepped forward, and replied with ease and gallantry,
'
I did,
but you do now ;' and at the same time delivered his sword to a Bri-
tish oiiicer. The barbarous ruflian, instead of receiving his submission
like the generous victor, immediately stabbed the brave American.
Nor was his death the only sacrifice made in that place, to the wanton
vengeance of the foes of America: several other officers of merit were
assassinated, alter the surrender of the town ; while their more help-
less connexions experienced the usual cruel fate oi* cities captured by
inhuman conquerers."-(Vol. iii, p. 90.)
Fort Griswold, above alluded to, was
probably defended with as much
bravery as was exhibited on
any occasion during our revolutionary
war. The whole garrison, with the exception of one who secreted
himself; were
inhumanly butchered. Those who had been wounded
Anaaxoax anvonurxos, arc. 887
during the action, were crammed into carts, and precipitated down the
steep hill on which the fort stand among the rocks below ; where those
who were not instantly killed, were lelt to perish. 'l his is the man-
ner in which British olficers reward bravery in an
enemy. The state'
ment here made I have from an
eye witness, Thomas Herttell, Esq.»
who will substantiate the facts, if denied. Mr. I-Ierttell was in sight of
the fort at the time of the action, and learnt all the particulars soon
alter.
The following account ofthe treatment and sufferings of the Amer-
ican prisoners on board of the Jersey prison ship, is taken from the
recently published Narrative of the Rev. Mr. Andros, of Berkley
Massachusetts:
"
"Te were captured, on the 27th of August, by the Solebay Frigate-
and safely _stowed away in the old Jersey prison ship at New-Yorlr
This was an old 64 gun ship, which through age had become unfit for
further actual service. Her dark and filthy external appearance per-
fcctly corresponded with the death and despair that reigned within;
and nothing could be more foreign from the truth than to paint her
with colors dying, or
any circumstance or
appendage to please the eye_
She was moored about three quarters of a mile to the eastward of
Brooklyn Ferry, near a tide mill on the Long Island shore. The
nearest distance to land was about twenty rods. And doubtless no
other ship in the British navy ever
proved the means of the destruc-
tion of so
many human beings. It is computed that no less than eleven
thousand American seamen
perished in her! But after it was known
that it was next to certain death to confine a prisoner there, the inhu-
manity and wickedness of doing it was about the same as if he had
been taken into the city and deliberately shot on some
public square.
But as il' mercy had fled from the earth, here we were doomed to dwell_
And never, while I was on board, did any Howard, or angel of pity, ap.
pearto inquire into, or alleviate our woes. Once or twice, by the order
ofa stranger on the quarter deck, a bag of apples were hurled promis.
cuously into the midst of hundreds of prisoners crowed together thick
as
they could stand; life and limbs were endangered by the scramble_
This, instead of compassion, was a cruel sport. When I saw it about
to commence, I fled to the most distant part of the ship. On the com.
mencement of the first evening, we were driven down to darkness
between decks secured by iron gratings, and armed soldiery. And
now a scene of horror, which baflles all description, presented itseli
On every side wretched, desponding shapes of men could be seen.
383 .
aoaaoas or 'rua
Around the well room an armed guard were forcing up the prisoners to
the winches, to clear the ship of water and prevent her sinking, and little
else could be heard but mutual execrations, reproaches and insults.
During this operation there was a small dim light admitted below, but
itserved to make darkness more visible, and horror more terrific.
"
When I became an inmate of this qian abode of sulfering, despair,
and death, there were about four hundred prisoners on board, but in a
short time they amounted to twelve hundred. And in proportion to
our numbers, the mortality increased. All the most deadly diseases
were pressed into the service of the king of terrors, but his prime min-
isters were
dysentery, small pox, and yellow fever. There were two
hospital ships near the Old Jersey, but these were soon so crowded
with the sick, that they could receive no more. The consequence was,
that the diseased and the healthy were mingled together in the main
ship. In a short time we had two hundred or more sick and dying,
lodged in the fore part ofthe lower gun deck, where all the prisonerswere
confined at night. Utter derangement was a common
symptom of yel-
low fever, and to increase the horror of the darkness that shrouded us.
(for we were allowed no lights betwixt decks,) the voice of warning
would be heard, '
Take heed to yourselves. There is a mad-man
stalking through the ship with a knife in his hand.' I sometimes found
the man a
corpse in the morning, by whose side I lay down at night.
At another time he would become deranged, and attempt in darkness
to rise, and stumble over the bodies that every where covered the deck.
In this case I had to hold him in his place by main strength. In spiteof
my eH`orts he would sometimes rise, and then I had to close in with him,
trip up his heels and lay him again upon the deck. While so
many were
sick with raging lever, there was a loud cry for water, but none could he
had except on the upper deck, and but one allowed to ascend at a time.
The suH`ering then from the rage of thirst, during the night, was
very
great. Nor was it at all times safe to go up. Provoked by the contin-
ual cry for leave to ascend, when there was
already one on deck, the
sentry would push them back with his bayonet. By one of these
thrusts, which was more
spiteful and violent 'than common, I had a
narrow escape of my life.-In the morning the hatchways were
thrown open and we were allowed to ascend, all at once, and remain
on the upper deck during the day. But the first object that met our
view in the morning was a most appalling spectacle. A boat loaded
with dead bodies, conveyed them to the Long Island shore, where
they were slightly covered with sand. I sometimes used to stand to
nrxnrout nnvonunou, rrc. 889
count the number of times the shovel was filled with sand to cover a
dead body. And certain I am that a few high tides or torrents of rain
must have disinterred them. And had they not been removed, I should
suppose the shore, even now, would be covered with hugepiles of bones
of American seamen. There were
probably four hundred on board,
who had never had the small pox,-some, perhaps, might have been
saved by inoculation. But humanity was wanting to try even this
experiment. Let our disease be what it would, we were abandoned to
our fate.
"
Now and then an American physician was brought in as a
cap-
tive, but if he could obtain his parole he left the ship, nor could we
much blame him for this. For his ovn death was next to certain, and
his success in saving others by medicine in our situation, was small.
I remember only two American physicians who tarried on board a few
days. No English physicians, or
any one from the city, ever, to my
knowledge, came near us. There were thineen _ofthe crew, to which
I belonged, but in a short time all but three or four were dead. The
most healthy and vigorous were seized first with the fever, and died in
s. few hours. For them there seemed to be no mercy. My constitu.
tion was less muscular and plethoric, and I escaped the fever longer
than any ofthe thirteen, except one, and the first onset was less violent.
There is one palliating circumstance as to the inhumanity oil the
British, which ought to be mentioned. The prisoners were furnished
with buckets and brushes to cleanse the ship, and with vinegar to
sprinkle her inside. But their indolence and their despair was such
that they would not use them, or but rarely. And, indeed, at this time,
the encouragement to do it was small. For the whole ship, from her
keel to the ta&`erel, was
equally affected, and contained pestilence sufii-
cient to desolate a world; disease and death were wrought into her
timbers. At the time I left her, it is to be presumed a more filthy, con-
tagious, and deadly abode for human beings, never existed among
Christianized people."
The following is extracted from an account of the war, by an
Eng-
lish historian, William Gordon, D. D.
"Great complaints are made of the horrid usage the Americans
met with alter they were captured. The garrison of Fort Washington
surrendered by capitulation to general Ilowe, the 16th of November.
The terms were, that the fort should be surrendered, the troops be
considered prisoners of war, and that the American officers should
keep their baggage and side arms. These articles wefe signed and
390 noaaon or 'rat
afterwards published in the New-York papers. Major Williams, of
Rawling's ride regiment, in doing his duty that day, fell into the hands
of the enemy. The haughty, imperious deportment of the ofiicers, and
the insolent scurrility of the soldiers of the British army, soon dispelled
his hopes of being treated with lenity. Many of the American omcers
were plundered of their baggage, and robbed of their side arms, hats.
cockades, etc., and otherwise grossly ill-treated. The fourth day of
their captivity, Rawlings, Mclntire and himself all wounded omcers,
were put into one common dirt cart, and dragged through the city of
New-York, as objects of derision, reviled as rebels, and treated with
the utmost contempt. From the cart they were set down at the door of
an old waste house, the remains of I-Iamden Hall, near Bridewell.
The privates in the coldest season of the year were
closely confined in
churches, sugar houses, and other open buildings, which admitted all
kind of weather, and were
subjected to the severest kind of persecution
that ever unfortunate captives suffered. Otiicers were insulted and
otten struck for attempting to afford the miserable privates some relie£
"
Major Williams verily believed, that not less than fifteen hundred
prisoners perished in the course of a few weeks in the city of New-
York, and that this dreadful mortality was
principally owing to the
want of provisions and extreme cold.-( Vol. ii. p. 427.)
An extract from Gen. Ethan Allen's narrative of his capture and
treatment by the British, in the American revolutionary war:
"I next invite the reader to a
retrospective sight and consideration
of the doleful scene of inhumanity, exercised by Gen. Sir William
Howe, and the army under his command, towards the prisoners taken
on Long Island, on the 27th of August, 1776; sundry of whom were,
in an inhuman and barbarous manner, murdered after they had surren-
dered their arms; particularly a Gen. Woodhull, of the militia, who
was hacked to pieces with cutlasses, by the light horsemen, and a Capt.
Fellows ofthe Continental army, who was thrust through with a
bayo-
net, of which wound he died instantly. _
"Sundry others were hanged up by the neck till they were dead,
five on the limb of a white oak tree, and without any reason assigned
except that they were fighting in defence of the only blessing worth
preserving: and, indeed, those who had the misfortune to lall 'into
their hands at Fort Washington, in the month of November following,
met with but very little better usage, except that they were reserved
from immediate death to famish and die with hunger; in fine, the word
rebel, was thought, by the enemy, audicient to sanctify whatever cruel-
nnruont aavonurloxr, src. 891
ties they were pleased to inflict, death itself not excepted; but to pass
over particulars, which would swell my narrative far beyond my
design.
"
The private soldiers who were brought to New-Yorlr, wer0
crowded into churches, and environed with slavish Hessian guards, a
people of a strange language, who were sent to America, for no other
design but cruelty and desolation. I have gone into the churches, and
seen sundry ofthe prisoners in the agonies of death, in consequence of
very hunger, and others speechless, and near dcath, biting pieces of
chips; others pleading for God's sake, for something to eat, and at the
same time, shivering with cold. Hollow groans saluted my ears, and
despair seemed to be imprinted on every of their countenances. The
'filth of these churches, in consequence of the fluxes, was almost beyond
description. I have seen in one of themjseven dead, at the same time,
lying among the excrements of their bodies.
"
It was a common practice of the enemy, to convey the dead from
these filthy places, in carts, to be slightly buried; and I have seen
whole gangs of tories making derision, and exulting over the dead.
saying, 'there goes another load of d-d rebels.' I have observed the
British soldiers to be full of their insulting joltes, and vaunting on those
occasions; but they appeared to me less malignant than tories.
"
The provisions dealt out to the prisoners, were by no means audi-
cient for the support of life: It was deficient in quantity, and much
more so in quality. The prisoners often presented me with a sample
of their bread, which was
damaged to that degree, that it was loath-
some, and unfit to be eaten. Their allowance of meat (as they told me)
was quite trifling, and of the basest sort. I never saw any of it, but
was informed, bad as it was, it vas swallowed almost as
quick as
they
got hold of it. I saw some of them sucking bones after they were
speechless; others who could yet speak, and had the use of their rea.
son, urged me in the strongest and most pathetic manner, to use
my
interest in their behalf;
'
for you plainly see," said they, 'that we are
devoted to death and destruction ;' and, after I had examined more
par-
ticularly into their truly deplorable condition, and had become more
fully apprized of the essential facts, I was
persuaded that it was a
pre~
meditated and systematical plan of the British council, to destroy the
youths ofour land, with a view thereby to deter the country, and make it
submit to their despotism; but that I could not do them any material ser-
vice, and that, by any public attempt for that purpose, I might endanger
myself by frequenting places the most nauseous and contagious that
392' nortaons or 'nn
could be conceived of I refrained going into the churches, but fre-
quently conversed with such of the prisoners as were admitted to come
out'into the yard, and found that the systematical usage still continued.
The guard would often drive me
away, with their fixed bayonets.
"
The integrity of these suffering prisoners, is hardly credible.
Many hundreds, I am confident, submitted to death, rather than enlist
in the British service, which, I am informed, they most generally were
pressed to do."
"
The success of the American arms at Princeton, had a
mighty
efect on Gen. Howe and his council. Their obduracy and death-
designing malevolence, in some measure, abated or was
suspended.
The prisoners who were condemned to the most wretched and cruelest
of deaths, and who survived to this period, were immediately ordered
to be sent within the American lines for exchange. Several of them,
however, fell dead in the streets of New York, as
they attempted to
walk to the vesselsiin the harbor for their intended embarkation. Most
ofthe residue, who reached their homes, having received their death
wound, could not be restored by the assistance ofphysicians and friends;
but, like their brother prisoners, fell a sacrifice to the relentless and
scientific barbarity of Britain. Itook as much pains as
my circum-
stances would admit o£ to inform myself not only of matters of fact,
but likewise of the very design and aims of Gen. Howe and his coun-
cil: 'I'he latter of which I predicated on the former, and submit it to
the candid public."-(See Moore's Memoir, p. I57.)
Journals of Congress.
The following is an abstract of a
report made to Congress, by the
Board ofWar, January, 1778:
"
It appears that the general allowance of provisions for each pri-
soner
per day, does not exceed four ounces of meat and the same quan-
tity of bread, and otitimes much less, and frequently so damaged as n0t
to be eatable; although the professed allowance is from eight to ten
ounces; and that the prisoners have been treated in general, officers no!
excepted, with a
cruelty scarce to be paralleled, and with the mos;
studied and illiberal insult.
'
"
That it has been a common
practice with the enemy, on a
pri-
soner's being first captured, to keep him three, four, and even five day s
without a morsel of provisions of any kind, and then to tempt him
to enlist with_the new levies, in order to save his life :-that there are
numerous instances of prisoners of war
perishing in all the agoniea o
annxcut alvonurrotr. Q98
hunger :-that, being generally stript of what clothes they have when
taken, they have suH`ered greatly for want thereof during their conhno-
ment."
The British prisoners, on the contrary, were treated with the
greatest humanity, as
appears by the following resolution of Congress,
passed January 27, 1776:
`
"
Resolved, 'I'hat the committee of inspection of Esopus, or Kings-
ton, be directed to supply the prisoners there with necessary clothing,
and also provide them with lodgings and provisions, not exceeding the
rations allowed to privatw in the continental army, on the mom reason-
able terms they can."
But the worst is not yet told. The most horrible, the most appal-
ling to civilized humanity, is the employment of savages as auxiliaries
in war, and then paying them a stipulated price for the scalps of men,
women and children. This was done in the American revolutionary
war. A graduated price was fixed upon by British commanders for
the scalps of soldiers, farmers, women and children.
The late Col. WiUet, who was second in command, at a
period of
the war, of a
body of American troops stationed at Fort Stauwiclrs, at
the head
of the Mohawk river, and hearing one day the firing of muslreta
in the woods adjacent to the fort, he issued out with a party ofthe garri-
son and soon met a little girl running with a basket of blaclrberries in
her hand,-on advancing further he found her companion tomahawked
and scalped. He aiierwards overtook a
party of Indians, some of
whom he killed, and made prisoners of others; on one of whom he
found an oflicial paper, signed by a British officer, stating the amount
that was
paid for the various scalps as above enumerated.
He sent this document to Gov. Livingston of Jersey, who then
contemplated to write a
history of the war; but which he did not
accomplish, and the paper, perhaps, has never been published.
This statement was made by Col. Willet, a short time beibre his
death, in the office of the Recorder of this city, in the presence of Mr.
Rilrer the Recorder, Gen. Lamb, and several others, among whom
was
myself
`
Even in the last war of America with England. at the taking of
Little York, in Upper Canada, a womau's scalp, with long hair, was
found in the council chamber, hanging behind the Speaker's chair
along side the mace. This must have been a signal to the Indians to
prepare for profitable
ernployment.50
894 rronaoas or 'ral
This fact is otiicially stated by Gen. Dearborn and Commodore
Chauncey.
V
The scalp agent in this war resided at Malden, and was well known
to a friend of mine, the late Dr. LeBaron, United States' apothecary
general; who told me that the office and duty of its incumbent, were
notorious, and admitted of no doubt. After, however, the American
government had taken into pay some Indian tribes, and a retaliation
was apprehended, a council of war of British oflicers was convened at
Kingston, when it was determined to pay the Indians in future for
prisoners brought to the_ camp alive, instead of scalps.
The legislature of New-York passed an act granting a
bounty on
wolves' heads, on
account of the depredations made by them on the
sheep of the farmers. This was a
justifiable mode of warfare against
wolves; but the British government, it is believed, stands pre-eminent,
without a parallel among nations, in paying a
bounty on-Luna: rcolpr.
And, however barbarous were the native executioners of its ven-
geance, they never violated the chastity of females that fell into their
power, as the British soldiers were
permitted to do, at sundry places
during the last war; and they were led also to expect an opportunity
to commit the same outrage at New-Orleans, as
appears by the watch-
word, beauty and booty, given out on the night of the attack.
I will' make a short extract from the Memoirs of William Sampson,
Esq., as an example of the manner in which kings treat rebels to their
assumed authority, in case
they do not succeed in ridding themselves
of it.
'
"
I remained in Dublin until the 16th of April, when the terror
became so atrocious that humanity could no longer endure it. In
every quarter of the metropolis, the shrieks and groans of the tortured
were to be heard, and that, through all hours of the day and night.
Men were taken at random without process or accusation, and tortured
at the pleasure of the lowest dregs of the community. Bloody theatres
were opened by these elticonstituted inquisitors, and new and unheard
of machines were invented for their diabolical purposes. Unhappily,
in every country, history is but the record of black crimes; but if ever
this history comes to be fairly written, whatever has yet been held up
to the execration of mankind, will fade before it. For it had not hap~
pened before, in any country or in any age, to inflict torture and to
ofer bribes at the same moment. ln this bloody reign, the coward and
the traitor were sure of wealth and power; the brave and the loyal to
|uBBr death or torture. The very mansion of the viceroy was peo-
5
AIIIICAN nzvourrxos, nc. 395
pled with salaried denouncers, kept in secret, and leiout only for pur-
poses of death. Some of them, struck with remorse, have since pub-
lished their own crimes, and some have been hanged by their
employers. Men were hung up until their tongues started from their
mouths, and let down to receive fresh offers of bribe to betray their
neighbor or discover themselves. If they neither knew nor would
discover any thing, these intervals of relaxation were followed by new
and more poignant inilictions. And vhen that courage, which is the
noble attribute of my unhappy countrymen, spurned in the midst of
agony at the tempter and the bribe ; the nearest and the tenderest rela-
tives were often brought to witness these horrors; that out of their
feelings might be extorted some denunciation, true or false, which the
virtue of the suferer had withheld."
Among other means of torture made use of for the above purpose,
I am told by an Irish gentleman, who now holds a
respectable office in
our republic, that caps made of pitch mixed with powder were not
nnfrequently placed upon the heads of these unfortunate victims, and
then set on fire.
Unfortunate Poland, like Ireland, made a brave but ineffectual
effort to shake oil' the despotism vith which it is oppressed; and the
following statement shows the humanity of its conquerors:
"
Poland fell, neither from the valour nor from the number of her
enemies; she fell from their all-pervading intrigues and the power of
their gold. There was
treachery in the midst of her camp, and in the
bosom of her councils; and to this foe, no citadel was ever
impregna-
ble. Her fall was followed by greater outrages upon civilization and
humanity than have ever been perpetrated in modem ages. Warsaw
immediately became a
pundemonium of massacre, rapine, and cruelty'
of which not half the horrors have been breathed or written. The
Russian prisoners were liberated, and revenge added its fury to the tide
of their passions. Fathers and husbands, pinioned for the dungeon
and the gallows, witnessed the dishonor of their daughters and wins,
The sleeping infant attracted no compassion, and kneeling children
were not spared. Similar scenes occurred in all the principal cities of
the kingdom, Of the military and civil oiiicers, great numbers were
shot or hanged: hundreds of others were chained together and
marched off to the mines of Siberia. Some, however, escaped, and are
fugitives in England, France, and the United States. An English
traveller who has very recently passed through Poland, met on its
northern frontier, some hund.reds.of Poles, many of them apparently
895 nonoaa or 'rss
i
of the higher class of the population, chained five abreast, to an iron
bar, and marching to hard labor for life, in mines where the light of
day never enters. But one of the latest means employed for the
destruction of the Polish people, is the exportation of children. The
imperial ukases for this measure
spread terror and desolation through-
out the kingdom. Entire schools of children have been seized, and
hurried off in caravans to the interior of Russia, without being allowed
a sight of their parents; and parents, whose natural yearnings over
their little ones impelled them to attempt their rescue, were immedi-
ately delivered over to the military tribunal, to be tried for insubordina-
tion. But a
peculiarly diabolical feature of this ukase remains to be
developed. It only mentions orphan children; yet it defines these to
be either children without fathers, though having fortunes, or those
having fathers but in indigent circumstances. '1`hus the two branches
of this definition are made to embrace nearly the whole youthful popu-
lation. The commissaries of police, in the cities, and the comniuaires
d'a/rrerrdissmens in the provinces, were ordered to invite all parents,
having families in distress, to send in declarations to that-effect, that
they might obtain relief from the government. Many, sulfering from
the prevailing misery of the country, were seduced by this apparently
benevolent offer, to do so. The children of all these came within the
regulation of the ukase, and were
speedily tom from their arnis. An
eye witness has assured us that out of 450 childrenof the first division
transported, scarcely ll5 reached Bobruyslr alive. They were com-
pelled to walk the moment they crossed the frontiers; and when any
were unable, from sickness or
fatigue, to proceed further, they were
abandoned, with a
portion of
`
bread and water. Several persons
recently arrived from Siberia, have fallen in with the corpses of many
of these unfortunate innocents, stretched beside the bread of which they
could not avail themselves. The next step was to seize all the male chil-
dren of the parochial schools; and by this means, and that of the recent
military conscription, the population of brave but unhappy Poland has
already been reduced to half its former number."
Extracts from Foreign Papers.
The whole province of Lithuania was traversed in different direc-
tions bythe Russian troops, who burnt the towns and villages, mas-
sacred the prisoners, and killed even the women and children.
"Three of the confederates of Dziewicki, who has poisoned him-
self; have been shot at Warsaw, in the public place of execution, with
AIRIICAN IIYOLUTION, ITC.
out the walls They all died with a
display of courage and firmness,
hoping that their deaths might be useful to their unhappy country.
Olkowski, in particular, showed great selfcommand. While on his
way to execution, he gathered up a handful of the soil, and exclaimed,
'For this we have fought, 'and for this we are
willing to diel' The
tombs of these young heroes have become objects of veneration to the
people, who strew flowers and garlands upon them. Many women
have compromised themselves. A young lady, named Helen Nowa-
lrowaka, has received 200 stripes, for having sent provisions to some
unfortunate insurgents who were
dying of hunger in the woods. The
horrible punishment was inflicted in one of the barracks of Lublin, to
the sound of military music; and to render it more severe, they after-
wa-rds shaved her head, and confined her in a' convent, and no one can
tell when she will be released. The wife of Orlowska had been con.
demned to receive 500 stripes for having sheltered one of her relations.
She entreated that her punishment might be inflicted publicly at War.
saw, in order that it might inflame the courage of the patriots. This
favor, however, being denied her, on the day her sentence was to have
been executed, she was found dead in her prison, having forced pins
into her bosom." (The Polonaise.)
"Gallicia, of all the provinces of Poland, seems to be suH'ering
under the most cruel persecutions, and that at the hands of the cold-
blooded diplomate, Metternich. Count George Tyskiewiez, though an
old man, has been confined in asubterranean cell for more than a
year;
his wife, who went to Vienna to supplicate the late emperor, was
received by him just before his death, but repulsed by Metternich.
Colonel Lariski is attached to a wall by an iron bar in another dun-
geon; etc."
'
We see nothing in revolutionary France, like the cruelties I have
detailed. Many rebels and traitors to the republic were executed, but
there was no torture, no
protracted sufferings.
'
And shall the autocrat of Russia, and his miserable slaves, the
instruments of his vengeance :-shall the government of England, and
those who approve and support it., exclairn against the horror: of the
French revolution? And will the present generation in America,
forgetful of the consideration due to themselves, and the toils and suf-
ferings of their virtuous fathers in purchasing their liberties at so dear
a rate, bestow all their sympathies upon the suH`erings of a few crowned
heads, and others impudently styling themselves noble,-who are the
enemies of freedom, and whose sole aim is to support rank and privi-
398 AN nrrnacr' or
leges, at the expense of the degradation and misery of the rest of man.
kind, with whom they have no feelings in common.
Above all, while irreligion is urged against France as the cause of
cruelties in her revolutionary struggle, let not the profession of piety in
other nations sanctify the commission of deeds infinitely more atro-
cious; for well might the French exclaim, in the language ofa Scotch
marshal, "
If we are sinners, our enemies are na saints."
It is, moreover, worthy of remark, that the atrocities imputable to
France, were committed during the sway of Robespierre, who pro-
fessed as
great regard to religion, as did the monarchs that combined
against the republic, under a
pretence of preserving it. He denounced
the Moderates, commonly called the Geronde party, for want of faith
in Christianity: the most prominent characters of which were Condor-
cet, Brissot, Lafayette, Thomas Paine, etc. Religion, in fact, has
been the hobby-horse of tyrants in all ages and in all countries ; _and
mankind have too easily been gulled by their hollow pretensions. In
the practice of monarchs professing Christianity, we do not perceive
the humble, charitable, forgiving spirit recommended by its benevolent
founder. These virtues, they seem to think, do not properly belong to
them. They must be arrogant, proud, and vindictive; and the most
appropriate ensigns of their escutcheon would be a
bloody cross, sup-
ported by deaths-heads and cross-bones.
An Abstract of
"
A Defence of Masonry ;
"
Occasioned by a Pamphlet called Masonry Dissected." London, l730.
This pamphlet is that written by Samuel Prichard, and made U86
of in this volume.-The Defence was
published by Dr. Anderson, and
appended to his History of the Constitutions of freemasons. The
author, though probably a member of the masonic society, would wish
to make it appear, that he drew all his information of it from the work
he pretends to answer.
"
I was exceedingly pleased (says he) to `find the Dissector lay the
original scene of masonry in the East, a country always famous for
symbolical learning supported by secrecy. I could not avoid immedi-
ately thinking of the Egyptians, who concealed the chief mysteries of
their religion under signs and symbols, called hieroglyphics.
"
Pythagoras, by travelling into Egypt, became instructed in the
mysteries of that nation; and here he laid the foundation of all his
symbolical learning. The several writers that have mentioned this
philosopher, and given an account of his sect and institutions, have
A mzrrncx or auotmv. 899
convinced me
fully, that freemasonry, as
published by the Dislector,
is very nearly allied to the old Pythagorean discipline; from whence,
Iam persuaded, it may in some circumstances, very justly claim its
descent." Here the author details some of the leading doctrines and
customs of the Pythagoreans, in proof of his opinion; which have
been before noticed. After mentioning some other sects whose prac-
tices corresponded, he says, in many particulars with those of the
fraternity, he adds,
"
The last instance I shall mention, is that of the
Druids of our own nation, who were the only priests of the ancient
Britons. In their solemnities they were clothed in 'white ; and their
ceremonies always ended with a good feast."
"The number three is frequently mentioned in the Dissection;
and I find that the ancients, both Greeks and Latins, professed a
great
veneration for that number. Theocritus thus introduces a
person who
dealt in secret arts:
" '
Thrice, thriee I pour, and thrice repeat my charms !_
Verbaque ter dixit : Thrice he repeats the words. (0vxd.)
Three colors ln three knots unite.' (Virg.)
"
Whether this fancy owes its original to the esteem the Pythagore-
ans and other philosophers had for the number three, on account of
their triad or trinity; or to its aptness to signify the power of all the
gods, who were divided into three classes, celestial, terrestrial and
infernal ; I shall leave to be determined by others.
"
The gods had a
particular esteem for this number, as Virgil
asserts:
`
~
" '
Numero Deus impure gaudetf Unequal numbers please the
gods. The sons of Saturn, among whom the world was divided, were
three : and for the same reason we read of Jupiter's Fulmen trzfdum,
or three-forked thunderbolt; and Nept}1ne's trident, with several other
tokens of the veneration they bore to this particular number.
"
A particular ceremony belonging to the oath, as declared by the
Dissector, bears a near relation to a form of swearing among the
ancients, mentioned by a learned author. The person who took the
oath was to be upon his bare knees, with a naked sword pointed to his
throat, invoking the sun, moon, and stars to be witnesses to the truth
of what he swore." (Alex. ab Alexandro, Lib. V. cap, 10.)
"The accident, by which the body of Master Hiram was found
after his death, seems to allude in some circumstances, to a beautiful
passage in the sixth book of Virgil's Eneid." The author here recites
the story of the golden bwgh, as being a
necessary passport for Eneas'|
descent into the infernal regions, and adds:
I
400 aourcaucrau nloass.
"
Anchises, the great preserver of the Trojan name, could not have
been discovered but by the help of a bough, which was plucked with
great ease from the tree; nor, it seems, could Hiram, the grand Master
of masonry, have been found but by the direction of a shrub, which,
says the Dissector, came easily up. The principal cause of Eneas's
descent into the shades, was to inquire of his father the secrets of the
fates, which should s9metime'be fulfilled among his posterity: the
occasion of the brethren's searching so
diligently for their master was,
it seems, to receive from him the secret word of masonry, which
should be delivered down to their fraternity in after ages. This
remarkable verse follows:
"
The body of your friend lies near
you dead, Alas, you know not
how l-This was Misenus, that vas murdered and buried, Monte mb
aerio, under a high hill; as, says the Dissector, master Hiram was.
"
Bnt there is another story in Virgil, that stands in a nearer rela-
tion to the case of Hiram, and the accident by which he is said to have
been discovered; which is this: Priamus, king of '1'roy, in the begin-
ning of the Trojan war, committed his son
Polydorus to the care of
Polymnestor, king of Thrace, and sent with him a great sum of
money; but alter Troy was taken, the Thracian, for the sake of the
money, killed the young prince, and privately buried him. Eneas
coming into that country, and accidentally plucking up a shrub that
was near him on the side of a hill, discovered the murdered body of
Polydorus. Eneid, III. _
"
By Dryden:
"
'Not far a risin hillock stood in view,
Sharp myrtles on the sides and camels grew;
There while I went to crop the Sylvan scenes,
And shade our altars with the leafy greens,
Ipull'd a plant: with horror I relate
A pmdi so
strange
and full of fitel
~
Scarce dire I tell t e sequel! from the womb
Of wounded earth, and cavems of the tomb,
A groan as ofa troubled ghost, renew'd
M tri ht; and then these dreadful words ensued:
Whyzgmst thou thus m buried body rend 'I
0 spare the corpse of thy unhappy friend I'
"
The agreement between these two relations is so exact, that there
wants no further illustration."
-
Rosyerucian Degree.
I have lately noticed that some writers, (and particularly William
L. Stone, Esq., who is the author of a very interesting work on [ree-
nosvoaocnu mens. 401
masonry.) have conjectured that this institution sprung from the
hmous society of Rosycrucians, I will, therefore, here add a short
account of that association, as well as of the masonic degree founded
upon it.
'°
The Rosycrucians, that is to say, brothers of the Rosy-Cross,
were, says Bailey, a sect or cabal of hermetical philosophers; who bound
themselves together by a solemn secret, which they swore
inviolably to
observe, and obliged themselves, at their admission into the order, to a
strict observance of certain established rules. Their chief was a Ger-
man gentleman educated in a
monastery, where, having learned the
languages, he travelled to the holy land, Anno 1378, and being at
Damascus, and falling sick, he had the conversation of some Arabs and
other oriental philosophers, by whom he is supposed to be initiated into
this mysterious art. At his return into Germany, he formed a society,
and communicated to them the secrets he had brought with him out of
the East. I
_
"
They pretended to know all sciences, and especially medicine, of
which they published themselves the restorers; they also pretended to
be masters of abundance of important secrets; and among others that
of the phi1osopher's stone; all which they affirmed they had received
by tradition from the ancient Egyptians, Chaldeans, the Magi, and
Gymnosophists. They pretended to protract the period of human life
by means of certain nostmms, and even to restore youth. They pre-
tended to know all things; they are also called the invisible Brothers,
because they ,have made no appearance, but have kept themselves
ineognito for many years.
"
This society is frequently signified by the letters R R. C., Fra-
'tres Roris Cacti, it being pretended that the matter ofthe philosopher's
stone is dew, concocted andexhaled."
The mystical importance which this society had obtained, rendered
it a fit subject for the manufacturers of masonic degrees to found an
order upon, which, therefore, was not neglected.
The Rosycrncian degree seems, in Carlile's report, to be confounded
with that of the Knights of the Eagle, and Sovereign Prince of Rose-
Cross, before noticed. Tfhe subject of both is the death and
resurrection of the Saviour. The master bears the same title in each
In the latter he is said allegorically to represent' the person of Wisdom
and Perfection, which gives him the title of most 'wise and perfect mas-
ter. The wardens are styled most excellent and perfect. The other
odicers swat puinont and
peréelst
brothers. The brethren are called
403 aosrcauens nears.
nor! respectable and perjlzct masons' The allegory of the peljcan
forms a part of both degrees; The Jewel of that of the Rosycrucian is
a triangle formed by a compass and a
quarter of a circle. In the cen-
ter is a cross, upon which is a rose, and upon the quarter of the circle
is a
pelican, bleeding to feed her young. The Jewel is tied to a black
rose, and pendant to a black collar, in the first point, and to a crimson in
the second. -
The decorations ofthe lodge, in the principal apartment, are first, a
triangular altar on seven steps. Behind it is s. large transparency,
with a cross and a rose painted on its middle, and this inscription over
it, "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews." Broken columns are
visible on one side of the transparency, and a tomb on the other in the
east, with three large lights in the west.-Jam satis.
The Rosycrucian society is of a
very different cast from that of
ancient freemasonry, which bears the most palpable marks of adescent
from an institution established anterior to the Christian era.
i
In concluding my work, I repeat that the freemasonsfsociety was
founded for the purpose of concealing the rites of the ancient pagan
religion, under the cover of operative masonry; and that, although the
religion is extinct, its ceremonials remain, and clearly develope the
origin of the institution. Sabcism, or the worship of the stars, is con-
spicuous in every grade of the order: the frequent quotations from the
bible betray its religious cast, and, moreover, confirm, what has before
been advanced, that the forms of prayer, and
consetiuently
other acts ot
devotion among the Pagans and Hebrews, were de ivered in the same
terms, tho
applied to different objects.
The ceremonies of masonry, however, by no means impeach the
morality it inculcates, which is unexceptionable, whatever may have
been the conduct of some of its deluded members, impelled by a fanati-
cal zeal for the preservation of its supposed secrets, or whatever inno-
vations may have been introduced by aspiring, political demagogues,
adverse to the established principles of the order. But at the same
time, it must be confessed, that its moral precepts are conveyed in a
style mal a propos at the present day. Moral action can now be tanghl
without the aid of the Mosaic or Musaic pavement, the tesseled bor'
der, the square, the compass, the bee-hive, the plumb-line, etc. And
as to any useful art or science, about which great parade is still made
in masonic books, nothing of the kind is now
practised in lodges.
Among the ancient ignorant, operative masons, a little instruction in
the rudiments of learning, including rough architecture, were, no doubt,
aoavcaucnx neun. _
`
403
given; but operative freemaaonry has been'abandoned for upwards of
one hundred years, and no more of it remains to the order than the
record of its former practice.
I will close the volume with the following apposite remarks of
Dupius, applied to the original school, from which masonry received
its lessons. ~
The author, alter giving a specimen ofthe extravagant and absurd
cosmogonies of different nations, observes:
"We will not pursue farther the parallel of all the philomphical
opinions which each of the mystagogues has delivered in his own
manner. We confine ourselves to this example, which is sumcient to
give an idea of the allegorical genius of the ancient sages of the east,
and to justify the use which we have made ofthe philosophical dogmas
that are known to us, to discover the sense of these monstrous lictions
of oriental mysticism. This manner of instructing men, or rather of
imposing upon them under the pretext' of instruction, is as far removed
from our customs as
hieroglyphics are from our writing, and as the
style of the sacred science is from the philosophy of our days. But
such was the language that was held to the initiates, says the author of
the Phenician cosmogony, in order to excite in mortals astonishment
and admiration."
Till IIB.
LPPIIDIX.
Buses this volume was issued, I have accidentally discovered sundry points
relating to the discussion, which, as
they generally tend still further to establish
U19 connection of freemasonry with the ancient Pagan religion, I have thought
proper to add in au appendix.
I shall also take this opportunity to make a few corrections not before noticed,
and snbjoin some observations which have, no doubt with too much partiality,
been bestowed upon the work.
I claim no merit as a writer. If my book possesses any, it consists in s judicious
arrangement of facts stated by ancient and modern authors, accompanied with
such comments as were calculated to produce the result intended. I am sensible
that it would have comported more with the art of hook~making to have given
the facts in my own language, with references to authorities; but, I humbly con.
ceive that this manner would not be so satisfactory and convincing to the reader.
The main subjects composing the work depend intirely upon the authority of
ancient writers; and to prevent all cavil, and give due justice to their sentiments,
they require to be expressed in their own terms. Bishop Warburton's dissertation
on the Mysteries is, in a
great measure, a compilation fiom a compilation by
Heursiue. In fact, the nature of that work, as well as
my own, required this course.
Nov¢s.`
(ru emu mm. mmlsud an wa [Min] Plsiades .aa Pzéfm,
Ilicl signify tlu multitude. Page 51, line 4 from bottom.)
It appears that the author has mistaken the derivation of the word Heidi.
which, although it makes no difference in his argument, still, as the deinition of
Hr. Bryant, who is well supported by authority, tends to give [Nat importance to
the Pleiades or'Seven Stars, in a
religious point of view. and otequently to
account more thllyibrthaireenstantintruduotion among the sy'uabolsof$#\ly»
lamindueedtosubjoin hiaremarks.
PELEIADES.
Sometimes expressed Pleiedes, sresaid to have been the daugh\s|uefAtlas by
the nymph Pleione. Among mariners the dove wu thought tube partioukriy
auspicious : who in their voyages used lo let a dove or
pigeon dy from their ships,
f
3 urssom.
la Gall' to judge kem its movements of the success ot' their voyage. The most
hvorable season for setting sail was at the Heliacal rising of the seven stars near
the head of Taurus, and they are in consequence of it called Peleiade, or the
Doves. (Vid. Ovid. Fast. l. 8.)
These Peleiai and Peleiades were certainly female attendants; prophetessu, by
'horn the oracles ofthe deity were promulgated. Herodotus (I. 2.) specihes that
they gave out the oracles, and administered at the altar; whence they were said
to feed Zeuth. [Zens, Jupiter.] They were called diaconoi tes trophes ton theon,
[deacons or ministers who served at the table of the gods,] because they offered
up cakes and fruits at their shrines, attended with libations of wine, oil, and
honey. And' as in many tomples the deity was represented under the symbol
of a dove, he was supposed to have taken the shape of that bird. Hence it
is said of Zeuth himself (Atheneus,'l. 9.) that he was
changed into a
pegion:
which notion prevailed in Achain, and particularly among thc people of Egium.
In short the persons that administered to the deity, were styled Peleiai and'
Peleiades; which was l translation of tlc'Ionah and Ionim, introduced from
Egypt and Chaldea. Priests and soothiaycrs were
styled Jonah, or Doves;
which was rendered by the Greeks Peleiai and Trerones. (See Holwell's Com.
pendium of Bryant's Analysis of Anc. Myth. p. 24L327. N. B. Whore Hol.
well's Diet. has been heretofore referred to, it should have been as here eps.
ciied.)
(There were eighty degrees of these lahors, from less to greater; and when the
upfront has gone through them all, he is initiated. Page 15I.) I apprehend
there were
nominally eighty-one of these trials, in reference to the square of the
mystical number nine. In the modern masonic degree of Perfection, this num.
her ls adopted. The master says to the most venerable senior warden, "What
are you? B. W. I am three times three, the perfect number of eighty.one,
socmding to our mysterious number. M. Explain that. S.hV. I ama
grand'
elect, perfect, and sublime mason; my trials are finished, md it is now time I
should reap the fruit of my labor." (Bernard.)
(The idea that this ojicer |King] was the representative of an
earthly monarch
was never entertained by masons. Page 140.) Although the fraternity are sen.
sible of this fact, yet, not knowing the origin of his title and badge, in the
address made to him by the grand high priest at his installationyhe is dubbed
"
The representative of a
King."
(The prsaspt prolnhiting the use of beans, is ons of the mysteries which the
llseisnt Pythagoreans never disclosed. Page 207.) _
It is highly probable that Mr. Bryant's conjecture is correct, that this pro_
hibition originated from superstition. He observes,
"
Most of the Acqustics ot'
the Nile were esteemed sacred: among these was the Faba Egyptica. It was
I. species of bean, styled colocasia ; and was reverenced on account of its shape,
being like the Napis biprora, or sacred ship of Isis. The common bean had
the some appearance. This perhaps was the reason why Pythagoras abstained
arrutoxx. U
#mms beans; for his whole system seems to have been borrowed tl-an Egypt.
It was undoubtedly on account of this resemblance, that the Faha was called
Caamon, and Cibotium, from Cibotus, a boat." (Holwell's Cemp. p. l95.)
(Where did our ancient brethren use to meet before lodges were erected 7-Upon
holy g-round, or the highest hill or lowest cole. Page 282.)
In Greece "
The celestial gods were worshipped upon eminenees, the terrestial in
low places. Before the use of altars they sacriiiced upon the dry ground, or upon s
green torti" (See I-Iarwood's Grecian Antq.)
(Casio. my friends, did not grow about Jerusalem( Note, p. 309.) Cassie or
mcaoia appears, however,`to be common in Egypt, the birthplace of masonry; and
a superstitious use seems to have been made of its leaves by attaching them to the
bodies of deceased persona.
llslte.Bran, in his description of EUPL observes,-" With respect to the mum-
mies, some are
placed in wooden cases shaped like the human body, round which
leaves and flowers of scacia are ohen found." ~
'
(That this Logos or word was snciently written only in these sacred characters
(showing them) and thus preserved from one generation to another.) Page 331,
bottom line.
These characters may possibly be the same as those used by the ancient Egyp.
tians. "
The Copts, say the above author, Malte-Bron, may be regarded as the
rightful proprietors of Egypt. They bear the same relation to the Arabs that the
Gaula did to the Franks, and the first race of tha French kings. Eight or ten
centuries ago the Copts spoke a
peculiar language, which is still employed in
their worship. It is a reloct ol' the ancient Egyptian, mixed with many Arable
and Greek words."
For the adoption of Egyptian technical terms, which, it seems, was done by the.
Greeks in their worship, the priest, Jamblichua gives the following pitiful reasons,
in answer to certain queries or
objections made by Porphyry ;-" You ask,
'
Why of sigmfcant names, we
prefer such as are Barbarie to our own 7' Of this,
there is a.
mystic reason. For the gods have shown that the whole dialect of
sacred nations, such aa those ofthe Egyptians ahd Aasyrians, is adapted toeaorod
concerns; on this account we
ought to think it necessary thatour conference
with the gods should be in a language allied to them. Because, likewise, such
a mode of speech is the iirst and most ancient. _And especially because those
who first learned the names of the gods, having mingled them with their own
proper tongue, delivered them to us, that we might always preserve immoveahls
the sucrod law of tradition, in alanguage peculiar and adapted to them. For
if any other thing pertains to the gods, it is evident that the eternal and immut-
able must be allied to them. The Barbarians are stable in their manners, and'
tirmly continue to employ the same words. Hence they are dear to the gods,
and protfer words that are grateful to them; and which it is not lawful Ser any
maaby anymoanstochange. Thusmuohwe havesaidinanswer to yooou-
6
'-
nrsnsrx.
el'|in|nsmes,whiohthou|htheyue inexpl.iosbie,shdsrseelled Bsrhsrie, yet
ers sdnptsd to sscred concerns." (Teylm-'s trsns. Jsrnb. on Myst. p. 293-298.)
It is upon the principles set forth by Jsmbliehus, doubtless, thst the Jen
eontinus to perform their worship in the Hebrew lsngusge.
There is s. plete in Cx-ess's Chsrt, eontsining the figures of sn eye, theua,
moon, seven stars, sud Siriusthe blszingstsr; snd under these theigure ofs
heart. This I find to be sn emblem of Egypt.
'
"
Ait, says_Brysnt, wss e title of Hem, or thesun ; it relates sho to Gro, light,
hest, md the consequences of heat. Egypt wu likewise called Ait; snd es the
hart in the body msybe estsemedwhsttheeunisinhis system, theeourceof
host and life, it wss therefore called Ait; which wss the reason why the Egyp-
tisns mnde s. hurt over e vue of burning incense, sn emblem of their country."
(See Holwell's Compendium, p. 14-I77.)
Perheps s more substsntisl reason for this symbol srises from the supposed
pegrsphieel position of Egypt. It will be seen by reference to the "hlspofths
world sccording to Herodotus," which is ettsnhed to "A Dessertstion on tht
Geognphy of Herodotus," &.c. by B. G. Niebuhr, Oxford, 1830, that Egypt, and
lsnrphis in perticulsr, was in the dey of that historian, the geogrsphiesl
oenter, or heart, of the world ss then known.
Masons, not knowing the meaning of the symbol, have meds s Nsked Hurt
qnhlemstieel of the peuetrstion of the Deity, depicted by sn
eye. which they
dsuominste the All.seeing-Eye.
_
Ennou.
Title pegs, Motto, for L'Unity reed L'Unit6. For Werner p. 385, l. 7 &om
bottom, resd Warren.
The title of the work by Smith, referred to in this volume, s.nd omitted
through mistake, is:
"The Use end Abuse of Freemasonry, by Capt. George Smith, Provincial
gnnd muster for the county of Kent." London, 1783.
The title of the work of Lswrie, also omitted, ls:
"
The History of Freemasonry; with en Account ofthe Grsnd Lodge of Scot.
had, hom its institution in 1736, to the present time." By Alex. Lawrie.
Edinburgh, 1804.
Remarks on the Work.
The following remarks iirst sppeared in the 'I
New York Sunday Morning
News r" end I sm authorised to ssy, were written by Samuel L. Knspp, lkq.
The Author, sits giving the title of the werk, observes:
°°
It is well known that there hsve been mysteries in every nge, end srnong sll
mtions ofthe civilized world. These mysteries were incorporated with their reli»
gious deeds, ma thoroughly mme up .ms me ms, niisnm, snd leims they
pexsssd. Egypt hu been fsmous for these mysteries for four thoussud yesn.
Thsbedy of Egyptian priestswere the lieerstisnd esooneofthecountry; and
with the outlines of their swirl mysteries, we heve proofs of their advancements
arrsamu. B
I knowledge. The Magi of Persia had mysteries of equal selemnity, and te
them, of the same dread importance. The Gymnosophists, the Samansans and
Hylobians, in all their wild and wonderlial forms of Indian worship on the banks
of the Ganges, who gased upon the sun without blinking, or stood barefoot on
burning sands in the contemplation of divine wisdom, all had their mysteries
ditlieult te loam and hard to practise. Greece borrowed and refined them, and the
Romans took them from Greece. The mysteries of the Christian ages all came
&om these sources, but had little to do, perhaps, with the mysteries of godli-
ness, tkrther than as bands to hold the first Christian converts together. Some
of the great minds of modern times have been engaged in searching out these
mysteries, and with no small share of success; the last of these results we have
before us in this work by Mr. Fellows. He was induced to take up the subject by
the late agitation about masonry, which produced so much conjecture and_ non-
sense, with only a few good works on the subject, and these not sudiciently expan-
sive to cover the whole ground. He came to the task with the calmness of philo-
sophical enquiry, and with a spirit of perseverance that no labour could break
down,-and he has rffw, after several years research, presented the public with a
book that all should read who take an interest in the developernents of knowledge.
He has presented the subject in a clear and satisfactory manner. The book is Hill
of learning that does not lie on the surface of general reading. This learning is
all useful to those who would know the rise and progress of knowledge.
"
If life is a web of mingled yarn, certainly human knowledge may with more
propriety be said to be sc; and we cannot pull a thread of warp or weof without
Ending out that there is magic in all its weavings; and no one can be said to be
learned, without understanding something of these mysterious combinations from
the looms of ancient days.
"
In this book the youth may get more infomation in a few days than he would
collect from scattered volumes which treat on these subjects, for years, even if he
knew where to look for them, and there are an hundred chances to one he does
not, nor has any one to assist him to tind them. Our public libraries should pnr.
chase this work as one of reference when any question of this nature should arise;
and there is not a village in our
county where great matters of history, philosophy,
and religion, are not discussed."
Extract from a notice of the work given in the "
New York American r"
"
This book," says a
capable correspondent who took the volume from our table,
and returned it with this notice, "
treats a subject of great interest to the leanmd
world. It is composed of translations from eminent writers, on the subject of
Ancient Mysteries, accompanied with notes by the author, and dissertations upon
the ceremonies of Masonry, their relation to the rites of the Egyptians, and those
practised in the celebration of the mysteries of Eleuais. The work is characterised
by industry, and the love of truth, and we think will aford to the reader many
new ideas, and lead to some startling inferences. It is curioug that a work on the
same 'subject, has just appeared in England, which is highly spoken oi but
which has not reached us. We have no time to follow the writer through his
book, orto give any quotations from it. His object is to prove, that in the higher
I
'
arrnmnx.
mysteries of Greece and Egypt, the unity of God was
taught to the initiated, in
opposition to the Polytheism which formed the debasing creed of the common
people. Ot' this there has long been no doubt. That Masonry also iuculcated
the existence of one Supreme Governor of the Universe-that its emblems are
mainly derived from Egyptian Mythology, from the worship of Isis and Osris, and
the strong astronomical character, which every thing Egyptian bears. And so ii!
as we can judge, we think the writer has been successful."
The following observations were
publishedin the "
New York Commercial Ad-
vertiser," written by the editor, Col. Stone; who is a freemason, has paid greet
attention to the subject, and written a very candid and valuable work on the order,
including a History of Anti-masonry in the State of New York. I sm sensible
it is diicult to relinquish preconceived opinions, especially when those opinions
_have been committed to the press and are before the public. Besides, I flatter my.
salfthet the editor has not thoroughly examined the proofs I have aduced to sub-
lsntiate the positions I take; but rather taken a bird's eye view of the work.,
according to the ganeral custom of Reviewers. Be that as it may, altho' Colonel
Stone and myself are at complete issue, 1 give the whole of his remarks, and sub-
mit the case to that tribunal, to which he appeals, to decide the question.
"
Mr. Fellows is an iuveterate bookworm, and has received the credit in
England of coming the ncurcst to a solution of the question,
'
who was the out/mr
of Juniusf' of any other investigator of that mystery. But whether he has been
equally successful in tracing the mysteries of free-masonry to their origin, or
Exing the date of the institution, we shall leave it to the public to dccide.- His
theory ie, that modern freemasonry has been derived, in direct succession,
from the Egyptian, Hebrew, and Grecian mysteries, connected also with the
mystic rites of the Druids. Ve believe no such thing. Our opinion is, that
modem f`ree.ma.sonry is a continuation of the operative masonic associations, or
schools of architecture, derived from Rome, from Frauce, and Flanders, when,
centuries ago, in building the ancient abbeys and monasteries in England, they
were obliged to send abroad for builders, and as an encouragement to such as
would como to England, declared them to be free to obtain such wages as
they
could co nmand, albeit the wages of all trades were at that time regulated by law.
Hence the term free-masons, in its literal import. Thomas Ashmole, the founder
of-the great Ashrnolean library in England, was the first man who was not an
operative, who was elected to the lodge in London and accepted as s mason, albeit
he was not s tradestnsn. Hence the term-'free and accepted maso`ns.' Ashmole
was the last of the Rosicruciaus; and in joining the fraternity, he introduced
various Rosicrucian ceremonies-which ceremonies had been derived from the
Druids, and other ancient mystics. On the revival of £`ree.masonry in England,
during the reign of Queen Ann, various other forms and ceremonies were
engratt-
ed upon the institution, now become an entire new order, as it were,-the notion,
or idea, of which mysteries and ceremonies, had been derived by the members
from their reading of ancient history. Such, in brief terms, in our view, was the
origin of the rites and ceremonies of modern masonry. And so fu, and no farther,
is it connected with Pytlugoras, sud the Egyptians. But aside from the question
Affllibii. 7
offteemasenry,Mr. Fellows's volume is valuable in many respects-most especially
as a
repository of old'and curious learning, upon all matters and points connected
with the subject which he has been investigating with so much diligence and labor.
It is well worth double its coat. ln one thing we
entirely concur with the author,
viz: the fnvolousnoss of the masonic ceremonies, and the folly ot' continuing
them." f
Copy of a Letter from Mx. Benjamin Mayo.
"
Philadelphia, Sept. 1835.
Sir-I received a letter with a volume, "
Ancient Mysteries and Freemasonry,"
as I.
present by Mr. Morrison, superscribed to my name and residence. Being at
the moment engaged in a Lecture to a class, I did not open it till after Mr. M.'s
retitsment, when I presently discovered the mistake. Dr. Robert Mayo is the
author of Ancient Geography and History, as will be perceived'on reference to the
title page ofthe work. He published it about the time that I published two works
on Natural History and Philosophy; and that is the reason, probably, that I have
been frequently taken as the author of Ancient Geography and History. The
Doctor is not in this city at present, nr I should have done myself the pleasure to
transmit the receipt to him immediately.
Having accidently got possession of Ancient Mysteries and Freemasonry, I did
not fail to take a
rapid glance at the contents of the work. I could not but admire
the seasonahle moment of its appearance, and hpw well adapted it is to correct a
thousand errors, and do away the numerous false impressions which prevail at pre-
sent on the subject ofwhiclx it treats ; parti .ularly as it has been made a
step in the
ladder for political aspirauts. It has lffled the veil ; resolved the arcane, and sue.
ceufully traced to its legitimate source, alike the mystery and the insignia. The
work ought to be in the hands of every one who will suffer his tongue to utter an
opinion on the subject. The style in which it is written, its manifest candor and
impartiality, and the handsome execution of the work itself] are at once calculated
to do honor to its author, render it a vehicle of valuable intelligence, and an orna-
ment to the library.
Wishing you success, Sir, commensurate with your patriotic design, and your
arduous labors, I am, &.e. BRNJAIIN Mare.
Mr. John Fellows.
Letter from Ex-President Adams.
John F.1lows, Esq. New York.
~ "
Quincy, 2d Nov. 1835.
Sir,-Accept my thanks for your obliging letter, dated in September last, which
I duly received, together with a
very learned work upon the mysteries of the
ancient Egyptians. Pythagoreans, and Druids; and an
inquiry into the origin,
history, and purport of Frcemasonry.
Considering the Institution of Freemasonry as founded in imposture, historical,
religious, moral, and political, every historical research relating to it becomes
interesting to me-because no honest inquire! after truth can come to any
8 Arrnxnzx,
otha: conclusion oonooming it-that "Tho only menu
ofwiping uuy the
ohinatpre|ontottaohodtohoSooioty,i|ototdbondonmontoftheo|thL" I
om hoppytolindthiois your unequivocal opinion; mdutheouthouothovitol
put ofthe In|ti1.ution,Iu~|utthegood gonna ofthe momborowillnxnoditont
dopinduoo thomw sbmdon with UIOOIQII tho whole oyotomol' hntutioal ob-
mrditioo connected with them. e
I un, loc.,
Jomc Qmscr Annu."
S
,
.
'fffi
/
.Sl
