{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__howitt___pantika.pdf","mytitle":"Pantika","mylang":"de"}
PANTIKA:
OR,
TRADITIONS
OF THE
MOST ANCIENT TIMES.
BY WILLIAM HOWITT.
'\
ht nicbt die ganze Erde des Herro ein Wohoplalz der Menscheilt Weno
Agaolppe, Arethuae, Derce and der Cepblaaua aogeoehm rauschen, warum
solte olcht dort auch der lordao, der Kar, der Gao&es labende Wellen
lrelbeo 1 Warum oicht auch elo Bach iu <ler thebalscben Wiiste t
HERI>IR.
IN TWO V~UMES.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
WHITTAKER AND CO., AVE-MARIA LANE.
1835.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
PR
~eo~
.t-\3P3
\e,35
.lfi0241
-./. \ I
LONDON:
PRJNTBD BY IIAJINING AND SKITBION,
lVY•LA.NB, PAT.R!COITER·ROW.
'··
CONTENTS.
Page.
THE PILGRIMAGE OF PANTIKA • I
NICHAR, THE ExiLE OF HEAVEN 101
I THRAN, THE DEMONIAC • • •• • 255
BEELTUTHMA, THE DESOLATE AND THE
FAITHFUL •••••••••• •.• 281
•
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
PREFACE.
AN excellent critic said lately, that the Germans
regard productions of this kind as poems. That is
exactly my idea of them. Poetry is not necessarily
confined to verse-much less has it any thing to do
with prose run mad : but in the soberest and freest
diction, the highest qualities of poetry-imagin-
ation, sentiment, and feeling-may be developed.
A most absurd doctrine respecting works· of
imagination, has been broached of late years, and
one that I have been surprised to see avowed in
the criticisms of some, who ought to know better
the principles of their own art. If it has been their
lot to review a work which has been deficient in
interest, they have thought it ample explanation of
the cause of that deficiency to say,-the author
has, unfortunately, laid the scene of his work
beyond the range of our sympathies; it is too
distant in time or in country. Now, if this doctrine
must be received as truth, then will follow one of
the most singular and amazing deductions imagina-
ble. What, indeed, becomes then of the historic
interest of the early books of the Bible? What
becomes of Homer? They are surely as distant in
point of time, as any work written in the present
day can be. Nay, what becomes of the most
splendid productions of the ancients 1 If distance
VOL. I, b
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
iv PREFACE.
of time bounds our sympathies, then must they all
be swept away together. The Greek and Ro~an
Epics; the magnificent Dramas and Lyrics, which
roused the ancient world with trumpet-tones; all
are consigned to oblivion;-~chylus, Euripides,
Sophocles, and Pindar, are become empty names ;
their works-dreams, which have evaporated in the
night of time, into vague shadows, and have ceased
to stir the spirit and the blood of the living world.
But is it thus? We know it is not: but we
may, perhaps, be told, that this doctrine does not
apply to the works of the ancients, written on the
active events, or built upon the living spirit of their
own ag~ ; but to those of modern writers, who go
now back into far centuries for their themes. The
names of Milton and Shakspeare-of almost every
truly great modern writer, falsify the assertion. If
we admit this creed, we must give up the Dion
and Laodamia of Wordsworth,-poems which the
highest judges have ever pronounced amongst the
noblest of his productions; we must give up Tha-
laba and the Curse of Kehama, for they are laid in
countries with which we have few local sympathies
-little, except the groundwork of human nature to
excite us; and which, in fact, travel on into the worlds
of pure imagination, and occupy themselves with airy
creatures, far beyond the range of humanity. The
same charge applies as well to Lalla Rookh, and
the Epicurean, and to the splendid tales of Salathiel
and Valerius. All these works must, on this theory,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
PREFACE, v
be_ pronounced totally dull and uninteresting to the
present generation-a confession, if once admitted,
that must make this generation appear most dull
and uninteresting itself.
But should it be said, that the early incidents of
the Bible derive their interest from their influence
on our present and eternal destinies,-that Milton's
Epic is recommended by the same cause,-1 deny
the inference; for who does not know so much of
his own feelings, as to perceive that while his
imagination is occupied with the early narrations
of Scripture, he thinks of nothing less than their
religious influence? He is at first absorbed by their
beauty,-he afterwards reflects on their importance.
I assert their interest to arise, if not entirely, yet
in a powerful and preponderating degree, from
their own intrinsic beauty and conformity to the
great principles of human nature, and to the
quenchless thirst of the human mind after whatever
is beautiful, pathetic, or sublime.
To put the matter to the severest test,-whence
derive the Arabi~ Nights' Entertainments their
intense interest? Not surely from time or place;
not surely because they have aught to do with our
destinies, or can gratify, for a moment, the feverish
thirst for fashionable scandal, which confers its
charm upon the novel of what is called High Life.
These wild tales are laid in distant times,-in dis-
tant countries,-in which there exists for us no
further cause of interest than in a hundred other
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
vi PREFACE.
distant nations. They violate every probability a
thousand ways. They abound with creatures that
partake of no one human property; yet, spite of
this, they are, and willbe, till the world grow old,
possessed of a mighty and absorbing interest.
In what, then, does this interest consist ?-in
what the true and lasting interest of every good
work? Not so much of it is dependent on the
times, and people, and manners, that are about us,
as on their foundations being laid in human
nature, and their superstructure raised In a true
knowledge of that love of the marvellous, the beau-
tiful, the new, the magnificent, and the tender,
which for ever haunts the human soul; and as far
as the range of human nature extends,- ay,
farther, infinitively farther, into. the illimitable and
inexhaustible worlds of creative imagination-will a
living and breathless interest follow the flight of
genius.
It is easy, then, to demonstrate that almost all
the really good works of ancient and modern times
have succeeded, independent of the scene or time
of their action ; and on the other hand, we would
ask, what bad work have such causes long buoyed
up ?-with?ut them, what good work has failed?
'Ve ask in vain. A good work will succeed, in
spite of time and place-a bad one will not succeed,
with th-em, beyond that short and contemptible
moment which the hankerers after personalities
devote to the hurried act of devouring them.
oigi .. eabvGoogle
PREFACE. vii
If, therefore, a work comes before us, that fails
to seize upon our attention, and to warm our hearts,
let us be sure that it is not because it is laid in this
or that time,-amid this or that people ; but because
it is not constructed in accordance with the great
principles of human nature; or, if it do not violate
these, it is because it is too feeble to compel the
secret springs of the heart, or too heavy to climb
up into the region!il of the imagination. Let us
be sure that a master hand can clothe the wildest
dwell.er on the outskirts of the world with interest;
nay, that he can throw an attractive glory over the
imaginary habitants of the remotest regions of
the universe ;-over a shadow-a thought-a non-
entity. It is therefore with the firmest confidence
that I again ask, in the words of Herder, which I
have taken for my motto; " Is not the whole of
God's earth the dwelling-place of man? If Aga-
nippe, Arethusa, Dirce, and Cephissus, rush on
pleasantly; why should not the Jordan, the Cyr,
the Ganges, also pour refreshing waves ?-why !lot
even a brook in the Thebaic desert ?"
And in this confidence, I have dared to travel
back to the earliest days of the world for subjects
of imagination. It is true that Milton, Gesner,
Montgomery, and Byron, have been there before
me in poetry, and have proved that in that deli-
cious art, there is a power to draw glory and delight
from those dim and partially reveale.d times; but it
has long appeared to me, that those brief glimpses
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
viii PREFACE.
into the fate and fashion of the primitive nations
might be followed out, here and there, by the
imagination, without at all interfering with the
current of divine history, into prose stories of no
trivial power and pathos. I have made the attempt;
and if it be a failure, I seek no shelter from the
plea of the antiquity of my theme; for, in truth,
neither time nor space can afford such apology ; t4e
cause of success or failure, must be sought in the
work itself. It is not the date, nor the scene of a
fiction which must stamp its value, but the manner in
which it is executed. It need not be asked where,
or when the plot of a work is laid, but whether
it is alive with the fervid energy of creative genius.
There is one recent work, which has been par-
ticularly pointed out to me, as an instance of the
danger of laying a story too far from our own
times,-" The Temple of Melekartha." If this
remarkable production has disappointed its anony-
mous, but highly gifted author, let any one look
into it and he will see far other causes than the
epoch it celebrates, to militate against its popu-
larity. It has split upon a rock where many a fine
spirit has been wrecked ;-it has suffered in a vain
attempt to combine into a harmonious whole, what
never can be so combined to any extent-popular
narrative and philosophical disquisition. A little
narrative, it is true, may be mingled in a large
quantity of grave argument with advantage, or a
little grave argument in much narrative ; but if
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
PREFACE. ix
they bear any sort of equality of proportion, they
destroy each other. Narrative is a stream ;-if it
be eloquent and impassioned, it is a rapid stream;
-but disquisition is a rock ;-he whose spirit is
borne vehemently along the torrent of impetuous
narrative, must avoid it, or be dashed to pieces.
In the heated temper of our minds, in the glow
and gush of our imaginations, we turn aside from
anything like disquisition, not with indifference,
but with abhorrence and contempt. Let any one
recall the effect of the reading of Rousseau's
"Novelle Heloise" upon him,-the u~natural
and intolerable alternation of the rush of impetuous .
incident, and of pages of sentiment, which even its
unequalled eloquence ·could not teach you to
endure,- and then let him not wonder at the
desolating effect of mingled narrative and disqui-
sition. The "Temple of Melekartha" abounds
with some of the· most splendid· instances of
imaginative description in the language; it is also
rich in pages on pages of deep and practical
wisdom,-but it is the misfortune of these great
things, to be compelled into an unpropitious union.
In either department-in pure narrative, or in pure
disquisition on the philosophy of government, and 1 A ,
I ' (t.
of human society", the aut~or of " The Temple of' ·- 1
Melekartha" could only shew himself, to be at once
acknowledged a great master."*
• Since writing this, I have had every reason to believe
that he has shewn himself such, by a senes of works of the
latter class well known to the public.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
X PREFACE.
Another instance, that it is genius that con-
secrates a subject, has just occurred to me. The
'' Telemachus" of Fenelon, and the " Sethos"
of the Abbe Terrasson, are parallel works. Both
were written in the same age ; both imbraced
antique subjects ; both were written with a similar
purpose ;-to develope in a fiction, a philosophical
design. Fenelon has mingled so much didactic
matter with his story, that he has rendered his
work in places very heavy, yet he has imbued it
with so much genius, that it is still read by the
young with delight; Terrasson has deluged his
narrative in the driest .antiquarian details, and
wanting; moreover, the genius of his prototype, his
work never became popular, and exists now only
an obscure treasure. cell, whence modern adven-
turers may fetch much convertible matter, as Moore
has freely done, in the marvellous ordeals of the
Neophyte, in his " Epicurean."
It only remains for me to say, that these legends
·have been written three years, and that their pub-
lication has been delayed by causes beyond my
control. One of the smallest has been published
in the " Literary Souvenir" for 1830.
Nottin!Jllam, Jan. 1835.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE
PILGRIMAGE OF PANTIKA.
CHAPTER I.
I, Pantika, whom men call the venerable Pantika
of Mount Taurus, have this day completed my
hundred and twentieth year. By the blessing of
God, I am full of health and peace. I could not, it
is true, spring over·the hills with the vigorous step
which once was mine; I could not sustain the toils
and privations of boundless travel, as once I did;
but in my cave, I am unconscious of any decay.
My heart beats strong and happily; the zest of
life is unabated within me ; my hand guides the
pen steadily as of old; my spirit directs it with
keen ardour along the unwearying line; a thousand
glorious memories float undimmed from many years,
from · many lands, from the cogitations and con-
versations of many triumphant hours; and though
my hair, which once curled short, dark, and thickly
VOL. I. B
[•9•- jb,Google
2 THE· PILGRIMAGE
around my head, now hangs in long and snowy
locks upon my shoulders, my eye is sharp and
percipient as ever. I can look round my cave,
and cast a clear and rapturous glance upon the
hoarded treasures of a long, long life,-not the
sordid earth which feeble men call wealth, but the
wisdom of the wise of many regions; the science,
the records, and the experience of many famous
states,-one day to enrich and emblazon my own;
-and when I look abroad, God ! what a transport
is mine ! Below me shine the roofs and fanes of
my native Tarshish. I hear the hum of its busy
streets and quays; I hear tlu! songs~ and cheery
voices of itB bold and reckless mariners ; I see its
ships issuing forth and coming in from the great
Lavant 11ea. I see its shores, green with luxuriant
laurels and myrtles, as when I was a boy : and
when I think that two generations have passed
away, and a third is fast hurrying on,-that they
who staid at home only to amass wealth, or went
abroad only to discover it, are dead ; and I, who,
careless of life, yet greedy of knowledge, have
dared all the perils of all the lands of the peopled
earth, am here, as hale, as dauntless, as joyous as
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTJK.A. 3
ever-God! I again exclaim, it is the most mar-
vellous of all the marvellous things which the wide
and wonderful earth has shewn me. And where-
unto can I attribute it ?-,-but that, whereas men
when they commence the career of life, continually
pray to the gods to grant them riches and hondtlrs,
I most fervently prayed (boy as I was, and I now
know whence the wisdom came), that my he~t
might be saved from those insatiable and universal
passions ; that I might never for a moment care one
iota for gold, or the homage of the vulgar mul-
titude : but that it might be my lot to go through
.. .
the broad and unknown earth ; to behold men of
all countries ; to witness their various fortunes ; to
glean up their choicest wisdom ; and, deeming thai
their destiny is ·one, since their nature is one, to
draw from the whole of my experience, 1;1·clear and
confident persuasion of what that destiny may be ;
-and, oh God ! how hast thou enriched me ! That
prayer and desire must have proceeded from thee,
and therefore thou hast blessed them wonderfully.
When I was but a youth, and ranged the fields
and mountains round my native city, with my com-
rades, lying in ambush for the coneys, as they ·
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
4 THE PILGRIMAGE
issued in troops from the clefts of the rocks, to
sport or bask in the sunshine ; climbing to the nest
of the falcon, or vulture; or sending our arrows
after the ldd of the hills ; the spirit of my life was
so sweet to me, that I desired to possess it for ever.
I shuddered at the thought of death, and I asked
my fellows if this life in the heart, which was so
strong and so pleasant, might not live on, though
the heart itself died ?-but they only laughed at
my question, a~d said-" What mattered it? We
were alive then,-and when we were dead, what
mattered it ?" I asked the old and the wise in the
city, but they said they knew not; and went away .
to ask of the changes of the winds,-of the arrival
of vessels,-of the success, or disasters of voyages ;
and as they walked along the streets, they said to
one another, with solemn nods, and significant
looks,-" Ah, ah ! merchant Mardius has had good
fortune; or merchant Dictanus has sped no worse
than I predicted : the vessels are lost ; the caravan
has been assaulted and plundered; or this new
_ country, which these speculators have sought, and
of which we have heard such golden stories, turns
out to be nothing." But of my question, and of
[•9•- jb,Google
OF PANTIKA. 5
the life within them, they seemed to care little
beyond the present.
But I could not rest like them. I was desperate
to keep, and to hold the life of my thoughts ; and
often, when I sate in the desert alone, beneath
some great rock, or woke at midnight in my bed,
the thought that I must one day utterly perish,
wrung my spirit with indescribable agony. I
rolled to and fro in a cold and convulsive pain ;
and with my. forehead gushing with the dews of
terrible anguish, I cried unto any god that would
hear me, and tell me that I should live for ever.
As I grew up, these terrible apprehensions sent
into me, thoughts and feelings that seemed to be
solely my own. I deemed that there must be
truths and knowledge that my countrymen, ar-
dently devoted to commerce, knew not; and I
determined to seek them through the unknown
earth. I have sought ! I have found ! oh, many
are the evils, measureless the darkness, the vileness,
the cruelty which I have seen in the abodes of
men. How they wound, persecute, and destroy
each other ; how they pervert, or see not the
blessings of fairest climates; how they are crushed,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
6 THE PILGRIMAGE
and stupified, and debased, and disfigured into
something worse than the apes of the forest, by
the everlasting and unrelenting savageness of
others. How they cling unto their bitter regions,
like desert plants, because they sprung there ;
how others, restless in their own abundant places,
pluck from the earth ~e iron which God concealed
in it, that they might find it, and cultivate with it
their rich soil; but they go forth, and with it smite
to the dust the possessors of other lands, who are
. better than they ; and how the destroyers of men,
and the propagators of idolatrous fables, subdue
and dominate over foolish nations, far and wide.
Thes,e things have I seen ;.and have trodden many
a thousand leagues, with a heart full of indignation
and pity. But I have also seen better things. I
have found the God of the World ! I have found
his people-the guardians of his oracles ! These
oracles are mine ! Ther~ ! there I are the blessed
and holy ·scrolls for ever in my sight. Keenly as
the Gryphons, who in the Scythian wilds are said
to guard the gold from the thievish Arimaspians,
do I watch them :-but my soul is at rest ; I know
that I shall live for ever !
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 7
Two generations are gone : I am dwelling with
the third. The elders are dead; my companions
have followed them; and from vast and repeated
wanderings, I have returned to live amongst a race
which is mine, and yet seem strangers. Yet amongst
them I have not lacked either honour or love.
Who is more happy than Pantika? My cave aloft
in the southern slope of the mountain, is spacious
and dry. The noblest vines cling to the rock in
front, and hang their long, pliant shoots, and heavy ·
purple clusters down before my windows, on which
the sun pours his cordial rays. I rise with the
earliest dawn of summer, and still behold below me
the city which-gave me birth; the hills around which
my boyish feet have trod, all green, and shining with
a dewy freshness ; and my heart leaps with gladness
as I behold the sun rise from the eastern ocean,
cast his ruddy flames over the flickering waters, that
flash and blaze, and roll themselves far and wide, as
with an immortality of beauty and power. I see
him climb in his strength till all the ranges of the
hills below, which rise one above another iike giant
steps, as they approach these mountains, gleam
with the opal hues of morning. I see th~ mists
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
8 THE PILGRIMAGE
rising and melting from the intervening valleys;
I:Uld the sky above them, all crimsoned with clouds,
or filled with a pearly radiance. I see the herds-
man drive forth his cattle to their pastures, and hear
his ascending songs. I see the fair damsels speed
to the mountain brook, and go carolling back, bear-
ing the pitcher on their hand. I see the hunter
mounting from steep to steep, vigorous as the roe
which he hopes soon to discover in the upland
thicket; and, from the far sea, a white sail, fiashing
at intervals, bears my spirit to distant lands. These
do I witness, with the flight and cries of many bril-
liant birds, and the voice of many a creature re-
joicing in the wild; and I am silent and glad.
During the sultry silence of the day, I repose in
the shade of my cave, and unfold and trace many
a precious scroll gathered in my wanderings; or ·
pen down what I have seen and heard. As the
coolness of evening approaches, I hear the .mea-
sured tread of grave elders advancing to my cave,
who love to listen to the laws and religions, the
wealth and wars of other lands, and do not disdain
to seek for my experienced guidance in the difficult
momen.ts of their own government. I hear the
DogotozedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 9
light laughter and sportive voices of the young
as they ascend merrily to my abode, t~· learn of
the loves and adventures of strange and far··off
people ; and to pluck with jocund words the clus-
ters, which they tell me, sadly encumber my vine.
Blessings on them ! I love the sight of their .
happy countenances,-:- the sound of their happy
tongues. They cast a sunshine round the peaceful
evening of my days; and I felicitate myself, that
I have made the morning of theirs beautiful, by
that knowledge which renders men triumphant
over every mortal fear.
But Cydna ! sweet Cydna ! thou grand-child of
an early playmate,-tenfold blessings upon thee!
• When I see thy light and lovely form in succinct
and buskined array, and thy rattling quiver fllung
from thy fair shoulder; thy horned bow in thy
hand, bounding with thy gallant brother, like
fabled Dian, to the hills; or when I see thee in
the simple elegance of evening; see thy laughing,
beauteous face ; hear thy frank and meiry tongue,
I think on many lovely creatures in many distant
lands, but I find none so pleasant as thee. Come
to day ! Come as thou art wont ! Make merry
B3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
10 THE PILGRIMAGE
with my cave,-with my cylindrical cases, stuffed
with endlf!SS scrolls; and say, as thou hast often
said, " Dear Pantika, when thou art gone, who
will read all these musty books? They are very
wise, I doubt not; but wisdom is little set by at
Tarshish, so just write down a little thin roll, for
my especial use ; and let it be of those pleasant
stories which thou hast told us young and giddy
people, who love nothing wiser half so well.
Write them down, good Pantika, and they shall
last for ever I" Come Cydna, thou laughter-loving
and irreverent maiden, and behold, this day-this
memorable day of my hundred and twentieth year,
thy wish about to be fulfilled. This day wilt thou
find me . already engaged in writing thy ehoice
volume. Forty-five large tomes have I already
indited of my travels; seven, of the precious maxims
of the wise of all nations; twenty, of the laws;
seventeen, of compressed and select histories;
nine, of the origin and varieties of religions; and
five on tlie philosophy of all these learned works,
wherein I have recorded my own deductions and
opinions, founded on a century 9f perambulatory
observations, anxious scrutiny and reflection,-a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PAN'fiKA. II
precious legacy to some future genius of my
country.
In these might be found copious details of my
travels; the strange deeds and curious manners
of the people whom I have visited; my own perils
and wonderous escapes. For I have crossed
dreadful mountains, and more dreadful deserts ;
and have often been in imminent jeopardy from
savage beasts, and more savage men ; the blood-
thirstiness of superstition ; the suspicious cunning •
of fearful policy ; the insolent outrage of proud
and domineering warriors and chieftains. I have
gasped in the desert sands, in the last stage of
horrible exhaustion ; frozen in the dark and dreary
north; and shivered in midnight thickets and caves;
but of these I now relate little, for I have already
left them on record, and they who seek may find.
As in my painful pilgrimages, I have passed over
vast and various wildernesses in order to reach
some small paradise! or the scene of some mar-
vellous event, so shall I now pass over the ordinary
wilderness of my life, and pause upon some few
and choice histories, which I. have gleaned up for
thee Cydna, and hearts like thine. Whoever
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
12 THE PILGRIMAGE
would know more than I here give of the countries
I mention, I again say, once for all, let him con-
sult my forty-five volumes of travels, the seven
of maxims, the twenty of laws, the seventeen of
history, the nine on religions, or the five of general
philosophical disquisitions and comments, as his
particular inquiries may happen to direct him.
As I traversed immense and famous regions,
and encountered some very remarkable passages in
my first pilgrimage, I am disposed here to speak
of them, because, as I am especially inditing these
pages for the young, it may not be uninteresting
to them to know something of my youth, which
many affect to doubt of ever having been ; and
which, indeed, is a thing of other times ;-because
it is very pleasant to me to live again in those
days,-and because, moreover, it made me ac-
quainted with a people, and a knowledge, which
will be transcendently conspicuous in these pages.
•
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 13
CHAPTER II.
I have already spoken of my boyhood, and the de-
sires of a clearer knowledge of man and his destiny
which early haunted me ; and of my resolve_to tra-
verse the world in quest of this knowledge. Well,
strangers of many divers nations were collected
continually in Tarshish. As the most ancient of
maritime states, as the school ofwisdom and elegant
arts, and of adventurous commerce, notwithstand-
ing the wayward speech of the jocular Cydna-that
wisdom is little valued at Tarshish-the bold and
the speculative, those desirous of acquiring science
or wealth, were drawn hitherr as at this day, from
every known land. Tyre and Zidon, the flourish-
ing daughters of our ancient city, sent their hardy
sons, scorched with the heat and tinged with the
darkening winds of every climate ; the far-traffick-
ing people of Aramea and Madai, who cross with
numerous caravans the immense, torrid, and dread-
ful deserts to the remote India, carrying thither
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
14 THE PILGRIMAGE
our wares, and bringing thence spices, gold, rare
gems, vessels and fabrics of singular fashions and
wondrous dyes : Ethiopians, Bgyptians, natives of
the western isles of Javan ; and the traders, and
. .
swarthy wandering warriors and magians from the
eastern plains of Cush, and Elam, and Havilab.
These I sought after diligently ; and with continual
labour a~d insatiable avidity made myself familiar
with their various tongues, and inquired after their
different lands, customs, faiths, and traditions. A
new world was opened to me. Each described his
own country in such terms that, beautiful as Tar-
shish seemed to me, I began to imagine that it
must be the meanest corner of the earth; and my
spirit was on fire to visit realms so much more glo-
rious. Much did I hear too of their histories and
their gods ; much that dazzled my imagination and
stirred my desires, but at the same time confounded
and perplexed me with inexplicable contradictions.
Yet amid all, I discovered traces of great events
which had happened alike to all people ; my eye
was continually pointed backward to an ancient
time, when all men dwelt together, and had one
tongue, one abiding, and one God. I perpetually
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIK.A. 15
heard of marvellous events which had occurred in
the regions of the east-where ati agreed the first
human abode had been-the destruction and reno-
vation of man. My soul was kindled to inexpres-
sible fervency of desire. I longed to tread the very
glades of Eden ;-to behold the mo.unt once crowned •
with the ship of the Great Father-of that ancient ·
and mysterious being known by the many names of.
Ilus, Cronus, Noe, Nu, Menu, Menes, Hu, Bodhu
or Yatyavrata, when he escaped from the howling
dales of the grievous waters. I longed to plunge
into the far immensities of unknown lands, where I
deemed that vast treasures of ancient .knowledge
yet lay concealed.
The distress that prayed upon my spirit when it
first was roused to inquiry, had now given way to
a far different feeling. I was filled with a trium-
phant ardour and buoyancy of heart, that led me to
thirst for adventure, to despise all danger, and even,
while I was overflowing with the luxurious con-
sciousness of life, to reck little for life itself; for a
new spiritual horizon had spread its boundless circle
around me. I found all the various people with
whom I conversed, possessed of as various a belief
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
16 THE PILGRIMAGE
of a multitude of gods; but all uniting in some
great, leading principles, that converged, in the
shadowy distance of antiquity, as to a common
centre; and that centre was the great Nous, or
primeval, eternal, and infinite Mind, whence all,
both gods and men, proceeded.
It was here that my soul flew, and clung as unto
its most precious hope. It was this dimly known, yet
universally accredite~ principle, which seemed alone
to respond to that cry and agonising desire of my
innermost being, after the source of its existence;-
it was this alone which seemed to form a centre of
sure dependence, for the continuance and inviolable
safety of that life in the heart which vehemently
craved still to be, and fought_
with tears and agonies
against the apprehensions of annihilation. It was
this which seemed to breathe, and develope itself
in the harmonious unity of nature ; in the one
fair and crystal sky overarching all lands; in the
eternal order of the seasons; in the rejoicing spirit
which animated the vagrant winds,-the gladsome
rolling or leaping waters,-in the sustenance and
joy of all living creatures; and which the one-
ness of human nature, under all the modifications
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF . PANTIKA. 17
of minor beliefs, of national customs, of soil and
climate, seemed to claim a8 its only and common
parent.
I had seized upon this great faith of the whole
human tamily, as upon the precious charter of life-
immortal life, and nothing could shake it from my
soul; therefore was my bosom full of light and joy:
and I confidently trristed, in the regions of the east,
in the birth-place of man, to discover yet brighter
and SUJ'er knowledge of what we are, and are to be.
I was of one of the wealthiest and most respected
families of Tarshish; but I never enjoyed much
parental love and cherishing. My parents both
died in my infancy, and left me to the charge of
iny father's bosom friend, Podonius; and well had
he justified that charge. In my childish years he
had caressed and watched over me with the love
which he had borne my father; and with the tears
and tenderness with which his loss had left him for
ever .impressed. I was placed in the hands of the
most discreet and affectionate females, and, as I
grew, was transferred to the most renowned and
grave philosophers for instruction. Under them, I
had reaped all the knowledge which Tarshish, the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
18 THE PILGRIMAGE
great school of science, could confer upon my
years: and Podonius was elated with satisfaction in
me, and with golden hopes for me in the future.
He had seen the assiduity with which I had sought
the society of the most distinguished and intelligent
foreigners frequenting our city; the knowledge I
had gathered of their tongues, countries, and insti-
tutions ; and he regarded it with the highest satis-
faction, as a foundation on which I should here-
after build a superstructure of vast wealth a~d
mercantile distinction. He had seen the ardour
with which I had likewise followed the chase with
my comrades in the neighbouring mountains; and,
so fur from checking, had encouraged me in hardy
and adventurous habits. They would, be said, fit
me the better to .sustain the character of a merchant
of Tarshish, who should not merely be qualified to
sit at home in his counting-house, and preserve the
balance of his books; but should know how to
estimate and sympathise with his crews and cap-
tains, in the toils and dangers of their various and
arduous voyages : nay, should be able, on any
emergency, to go forth himself, and lead the way to
the execution of some necessary, but nice and diffi-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF P,\NTJKA. 19
cult enterprise. It would provide me, moreover,
with that siock of health and robust vigour, which
the cares and anxieties of a merchant, who holds in
his hand so many important and precarious inte-
rests, render so peculiarly desirable.
When, therefore, I was nearly arrived at man-
hood, the good old Podonius one day took me aside
into his summer parlour, with an air of anxious,
bustling gravity; and closing the door carefully
behind him, without a word, pointed briskly to a
place on the divan, where I might seat myself;·
took his s~at also opposite, at some little distance;
and fixing his eyes upon me with a solemn eager-
ness, remained some time in silence.
I was sensible that some important disclosure
was at hand ; but what, I knew not; and my brain
began issuing to itself a host of queries, but to no
purpose. I shall never forget that moment, nor its
sensations. Bold as I am by nature, there is some-
thing in the solemn gravity of the aged, that has
always awed and subdued me in a mysterious man-
ner, as if the spirit of the divinity dwelt in them,
and, turning its regards upon me, transfixed me
with sensations of its high sanctity, and my own
unworthinesS.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
20 THE PILGRIMAGE
Such were the feelings 'which then rushed over
me, from the ceremonious air and proceeding of the
good old man ; and they have left impressed upon
me, with the vividness of life~ the minutest features
and circumstances of the time and place. It was a
fine summer .evening. The ample windows look-
ing into the venerable man's garden, were thrown
wide; the rich azure and gold-bordered curtains
flung back. Above, the sky shone in clear and
tranquil splendour; below, the sunshine as tran-
quilly lay upon wall, and leaf, and flower; and lit
up, with a variety of rainbow hues, the falling
waters of the fountain that played in the lawn
before us. By its side the two aged storks, which
during my memory were tenants of that garden,
reared, in slumbrous stillness, their :uerpendicular
forms. . The turtle-doves, which made their abode
in the wide-spreading cedar in the centre of the
garden, had come out, and lay basking on the
broad, flat masses of dark foliage towards _the west;
and not a sound invaded the repose of the retired
and enclosed garden, but the hum of the city, that
poured murmuringly over its walls.
When the old man had gazed upon me for a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 21
little time, he thus addressed me, with a sigh, and
in a tone that seemed to augur some rather melan-
choly detail:-'' My· ~ear Pantika, thy form and
face bring so strongly before me the remembrance
of one, to me the pleasantest of men, that, joined
to this day which ·is the anniversary of that on
which he was lost to thee and me, they nearly
overpower me, and may make my present busi!'ess
with thee seem something sad, whereas it ought to
be much the contrary. .
" I praise the gods that they have denied the
prayer of my passion, and fulfilled the better one
of my hope. I prayed to them, on the day that
they took away the friend and brother _
of my soul,
th:at they would take me also ; but when I called to
mind thy father's dying charge, and looked upon
thy innocent helplessness, I prayed again that I
might live to see thee what I once saw him. My
better desire is fulfilled. I have watched thee, like
a full and glad river, rolling through the plain of
life. I hav:e seen thee, like the bold ibex, bound-
ing from cliff to cliff in the strength and joy of
youth. I have heard thy praise from the lips of
the wise around me, and my heart has been like
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
22 THE PILGRIMAGE
the roe, wlllch in its fulness hides its head in the
thicket, and is glad. But ·life flies fast, Pantika;
thou hast enjoyed thy youth to the full: it is now
fit that thou shouldest take up a little of that load
of care which every good citizen must sustain.
Thy father was an adventur6us merchant: men
saw and acknowledged his sure sagacity ; and had
not. death cut him off too soon, he would have
shone one of the noblest senators of Tarshish.
That merchant,-that citizen,-that senator, be
thou ! To-morrow thou shalt begin a new era of
life :-to-morrow thou shalt be a merchant of
Tarshish !"
The old man's words had tendered my spirit;
but surprised at the nature of the disclosure,·when I
expected something mysterious and melancholy, I
• did not sufficiently consider his feelings, and ab-
ruptly replied that I declined all idea of commerce.
As I spoke, the aged Podonius sprung like a
youth, from the divan to his feet; fixed his eyes in
flashing astonishment upon me, and exclaimed,-
" Pantika ! Pantika ! art thou mad? Wilt thou
break my· heart? Dost thou desig~ to imitate the
foolish youths of this generation, that., instead of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 23
emulating the grave reputation of their fathers, ·use
their wealth, only to cover themselves with shame?
-to spread their tables for the vain and profligate ;
. open their halls to the dancer and courtezan ; listen
to the strains of those Ionian rhapsodists, that
infect them with dreams of foolish renown ? Wilt
thou moUJit thy chariot glittering with chased gold,
with carved imagery, and soft with purple cushions,
-and with thy steeds, four a-breast, whirl through
the astonished and indignant city? Shall I see
thee, instead of sendirig forth thy stout-built ships,
fraught with substantial merchandise, to a hundred
ports,-trimming and spreading to the breeze, the
silken sails of thy sumptuous pleasure-barge, and '
sailing along the shore, the admiration of fools ?
Wilt thou assume the garb and manners of every
country but thy own; and look with contempt
upon all those homely and sober modes and
maxims, which have raised Tarshish from nothing,
to renown ?"
The old man sunk exhausted with his .excite-
ment, drew the curtain before his face, and wept
aloud. I perceived my error. · I threw myself at
his feet, and hastened to explain that no such views
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
24 THE PILGRIMAGE
were mine; but that I had set my heart upon travel,
and trusted to gather knowledge, and return to
benefit my country, more than by the wealth of a
life of prosperous commerce. In an instant, though ,
I saw that his soul was wounded to the quick, by
the disappointment of his views, and by his fears
for my safety in foreign travel, the good Podonius
~ laying plans, and writing letters on my behalf,
to his numerous correspondents in the most distant
corners of the world. When he found that my
views tended towards the ea8t, he immediately se-
cured me friends in a caravan, about to commence
its march ; and would have sent servants, camels,
and stuff, sufficient to ~upply a caravan themselves;
had I not, again to his amaze, declared that I
should take no creature but myself. I dared not,
however, unfold to him my real views. I received
on rpy head his blessings and his tears. I clasped
.the old man in an affectionate embrace, and de-
parted from the city with the caravan. It was
not long, however, before I turned aside from its
course, and, with my bow in my hand, I bounded
like a hunter to the hills.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 25
CHAPTER III.
WHEN I bad ascended the heights above my native
city, and saw its roofs and fanes glittering below
me ; I stood for a moment, and bade it from my
heart an affectionate farewell. " Adieu !" I ex-
claimed, " thou beloved spot, and all the beloved
beings within thee. Though I fly thee, yet art
thou to me the dearest spot on earth. I know not
whether heaven has decreed my return to thee ;
but if I come not back, thou wilt never miss one
solitary being from thy multitude. I see thy gal-
lant ships, even now, stretching away from thy
port, to those of every shore of the known world;-
to Syria, to Egypt, to Cyrene, to Mauritania, to
the isles, and the fair and far Atlantis of the west.
In those voyages, many of thy sons will fall;-
those that return, will return to pour wealth into
thy bosom. If I fall, what matters it that it be in
some yet unknown land; but if I return, it shall be
with treasures that shall enrich thee for ever."
VOL. I. c
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
,
26 THE PILGRIMAGE
I cast one eager glance over all those beloved
scenes, and darted away, seeking to drown reflec-
tion and emotion in the rapidity of flight. I
directed my course to that wild and jagged gap in
the mountains, through w~ich flows the rapid
stream of the Aratus. Above my head, frowned
its dark and shattered rocks; at my feet rushed
the resounding and impetuous torrent: here scarcely
leaving me room to thread my way between the
cliffs and itself; here fairly obliging me to ~ brave
its strong, clear waters, that threatened to bear me
back to my native fields. Having issued from these
defiles, I turned eastward, and traversed, with an
exulting heart, the land of Aramea. Oh, that I
could depict the joyousness of my soul as I went
along ! But who can tell the sublime passion of
the eagle, as he soars from mountain to mountain,
through the liquid ocean of heaven ? Who can
display" the fiery heart of the wild white steed, as
he scours with his fellows, the boundless Cuthean
plains? I seemed to have cast behind me every
earthly care and fear; and to have found, in- the
perfect communion with nature, the true secret of
life. And verily, I was moving amid scenes where
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 27
nature appears in all her power and beauty. From
day to .day I advanced, as in a radiant dream,
through the most luxuriant and delicious fields; by
the swiftest and most living streams, which here
wound brightly between banks overhung with
flowers, and here came da,~hing ·down riotously
from the hills. I trod through deep grass, and a
wilderness of blooms; and my eyes wandered with
unwearying delight, amongst forests, and upland
fields, and far-winding vales, embossed with rustic
dwellings of the natives; and, far on either hand,
to the summits of mountains that clothed them-
selves, morning and evening, with every lovely
and ever-rdrying hue of rose, and purple, and
violet; and in the bright noon, with the ra-
diance of sunshine flung from the mirror of their
eternal snows. I rested at will, and ;conversed
with the hospitable people ; and beheld, with equal
admiration, the riches with which nature has en-
dowed them, and the active spirit with which those
riches are enjoyed. Magnificent vines threw th~ir
pliant arms from tree to tree, and hung down to
the. admiring eyes, their heavy purple bunches.
The fig, the olive, the pomegranate, and innumer-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
28 THE PILGRIMAGE
able other fruits, solicited the hands; their bees
murmured over the fields, and brought home plen-
tiful sweets, and their indefatigable nature laid.hold
on this abundance, and prepared from it wealth
and happiness. With their wines, their preserved
fruits, their steeds, which ranged the rich pastures
in thousands, - the careful Arameans daily set
forth to distant lands, and brought back the sources
of refined enjoyment and independence.
One eve I approached a fair, broa~ lake, in the
centre of mountainous woods. The sky was cloud-
less,-the air was transparent as crystal; but still,
as if nature slept. Not a breeze moved; not a
leaf quivered on the trees ; not a flower that
stooped,over the water, and was mirrored therein,
bowed its beauteous head. All was still, bahpy,
and lovely. The broad face of the water was
smooth and bright as the heavens above it. Not a
fish, leaping from its depths, disturbed it with a
momentary circle ;-a blossom, falling from some
overhanging tree, scarcely dimpled it. Save that
the birds in the woody heights around, sung and
called to each other with the shrill earnestness of
life,- I should have deemed myself in some
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 29
splendid dream : as it was, I marvelled at the
profound, slumbrous, beamy quietness of the spot,
and hardly ·ventured to move lest I should break
the spell of its sacred repose. A mingled odour of
exquisite richness rose from the flowers at my feet;
and my eyes fixed themselves in contemplative
astonishment at the magnificent woods and cliffs,
which, in a variety of light and shade, stood around,
and Qlirrored themselves gloriously in the hushed
water, and on the soft, beauteous colours that clad
their summits.
As I stood, a girl issued from a shadowy glade,
that opened itself between the mighty and mossed
stems of aged trees, driving before her a troop of
goa~, with a large scarlet lily of many resplendent
heads; and her flowing ringlets intertwined, in
girlish phantasy, with blossomed twigs of myrtle
and jasmine, and the bells of hyacinths. I asked,
"where am I?" and she replied, "in Eden!" Eden!
-tl1e name fell upon my heart With a shock. Was
I truly in Paradise, and gazing on its hallowed fea-
tures ! I seemed yet more wrapped in a dream
than before. A glad perturbation filled my spirit.
I moved to and fro in the restlessness of delight;
oigi .. eabvGoogle
30 · THE PILGRIMAGE
and wandered, again and again, in half-doubting,
half-triumphant wonder over all the fairy scene. I
flung myself on the margin of the lake, and my
tears dropped into the flood. My soul wandered
away into a thousand glorious traditions,-into a
reverie of winged thoughts. Night fell over me.
I slept; and my dreams brought before me our
first radiant parents, and all the moving incidents
of the opening world. When I woke in the morn-
ing, a change had passed over the scene. The
dreamy charm of evening was gone. A breeze
was shaking the boughs of the odoriferous forests,
and waking their solemn voices to music. It
curled the water into living waves, over which a
thousand light-winged birds sported to and fro; a
thousand glad cries of living things were heard
around ; and myriads of the fairest flowers trembled
and bowed in the breeze, rejoicing in the general
joy. I gazed with still deepening wonder, at the
rich beauty of everything around me. The woods,
here and there, threw their dark splendid masses
of foliage over the water ; gorgeous flowers, like
cups of silver and gold, glowed amid their affiuent
boughs; and creeping plants, all interwoven with
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIJC.A. 31
aromatic blooms, flung themselves from tree to
tree : here hanging in garlands and festOOns from
the lower branches ; here twining in festive wreaths
round the tall grey stems, or issuing to light on
the summit of the loftiest tree in the forest, and
crowning it with a tiara of glory ; while below, the
jasmine twined its starry blossoms through every
odorous thicket.
I sat upon a large stone upon the shore : behind
me rose those glorious scenes !-lilies, hyacinths,
and a thousand floral creations glowed on the green
banks; and violets, in legions, breathed from their
hidden abodes, their sweetness upon me. The
wav~ came curling and breaking at my feet, full
of ,life and music; and far, far before me, creation
smiled in warm and boundless beauty. I looked
to the skies, and thanked the God of gods, that he
had set me free from earthly cares and desires, and
had given me to feel all the wild glory of his
eternal works. I felt that he had already blessed
me in my choice,-that gladness which clothes the
bosom of creation like sunshine, was mine ; and it
mattered not, whither I carried, or where I laid
down my life.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
32 THE PILGRIMAGE
But why do I delay here? For days, for weeks,
for months, I wandered on ; borne by a spirit of
delight, such as must possess the inhabitants of hea-
ven. I beheld Ararat, the mountain of the ark. I
gazed on its stupendous bulk ; on its two summits,
glittering with eternal ice, and clad in colours of the
rose. I paced its wide and peopled plain ; I lin-
gered on the bosky shores of t_!le great sea of ·
Kasp; l traversed the sultry land of Havilah; I
crossed th"e burning deserts, where nothing lives
but the scorpion and the fierce ostrich, that in
winged troops scour the torrid wilds ; and, like
spirits of evil, vent their rage in hissing and
laughter, and fill the night with their groans and
horrible complainings. I ascended into the moun-
tains of Sephar.
oigi .. eabvGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 33
CHAPTER IV.
CouLD I consent to dwell in any other land than
that which gave me birth; could I be content to
lead a free and jocund life, untouched by the cares
which, in civilized existence, consume and wither
away being, in the anxiety to preserve and embellish
it; could I abandon myself to the enjoyment of the
amenities of earth and air, the beauty of nature's
I
boldest scenes, the spontaneous luxury of its richest
spots ; the exulting transport of the chase; the
society of the fairest women, and no mean i~telle<;­
tual delights, exempt from the restless fever of am-
bition,.- in these mountains of Sephar would I have
planted my abode. There, every variety of climate
is known. Northward, the stupendous range of
the Caucasus, hoary with perpetual winter, breathed
its cool influence over a glorious region that exhi-
bited the boldest features of mountain scenery, yet
gradually declined in altitude to the very plains of
torrid India. Within these limits what an endless
c3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
34 THE PILGRIMAGE
variety of landscape presented itself! Mountains
of every character-the cold, the scathed, and
ruinous-the forest-crowned, the green, and gently-
swelling; dark precipices; wild, winding valleys-
others, again, gentle and fair, and expanding their
ample bosoms to the sun,-lakes, and woods, and
undulating fields, and dwellings scattered through
them in a divef!!ity of groupings. Here some
gloomy pine forest stood on a ·broad, airy height,
between the lofty regi<ms of lifeless winter, and the
lower scenes of summer; where the hunter lay in
ambush for the bear, and heard the wind sounding
in the dark tops with a solemn sea-like roar. Here
again were, lower down, wide mountainous fields,
green as an emerald, scattered with light-waving
flowers, fanned with cool fresh breezes, and beauti-
fied with scattered olives, tamarisks, and spreading
forest trees. Again, lower down, were warm, luxu-
rious valleys, huts of cane and palm leaves, and a
beautiful people, living atease amid beautiful scenes.
They were a branch of the great Cuthean race;
possessing all their pride and untameable spirit;
disdaining to labour the earth for their support; and
nature seemed here to have indulged their disposi-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OJ!' PANTiltA, 35
tion to the utmost. Pines, melons, the fruit of the
vine and the date, of the palm and the pomegranate;
nut~ of many species; oranges and apples like gold;
and a thousand l\IXurious and melting productions
oftree, and shrub, and trailing plant, were presented
to their hands. The men, in a cap, a light, close
tunic, and buskins of the skins of beasts, prepared
in the smok~ of a fire of aromatic woods till they
were as pliant as silk, and impregnated with a de-
lightful odour; armed with a bow and arrows of
cane, and a short javelin, mounted their fiery steeds,
and went to war, or the chase, with equal gaiety;
lurked in the thicket for the savage beast, or pur~
sued, with steps of wonderful elasticity and speed,
the flying antelope; and returned to their abodes
to dance, to sing, and to enjoy the charms of love.
The children, wandering through the airy fields,
plucked the waving cotton from the tree, and the
silken cones of the moth that hung in myriads in
the mulberry groves; and the fair damsels wrought
from them their elegant veils and vests, and dyed
them with many a brilliant stain.
It was delightful to gaze on these lovely dames.
A complexion of rich olive; large, dark, and ex-
36 THE PILGRIMAGE
pressive eyes ; a firm, yet graceful form, were set
off by a tasteful simplicity of costume that could
only accord with a happy climate. A silken veil,
folded artfully round the head, leaving the locks full
freedom to play upon the shoulders, and thrown
hack over them, constituted their head-dress. A
pair of large pendant ear-rings glittering with gold
and their own jewelled light; bracelets of headed
pearls, and long chains of the same, hung from the
neck over the silken bodice of purple, azure, or
brigllt yellow, wrought richly with silver flowers
and stars; a full skirt that descended little lower
than the knee, and anklets of twisted gold resting
upon feet tlmt touched tl1e warm ground in naked
beauty, completed their array.
As· these fair creatures pursued their pleasant
1abours, sitting beneath the trees in front of their
dwellings, the warriors would throw themselves on
the green turf around, and join them in songs which
had descended from the most ancient times.
They have no mode, or idea of recording their
poetry, or history; but, from age to age, a flood
of stirring traditions, and poems bearing along
with them the quaintness, fire, and simplicity of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
•
OF PANTIKA. 37
antiquity, has flowed from mouth to mouth, and
kept alive amongst them, a soaring and indomitable
spirit. They love their country with a passionate
love ; yet do they tell of thousands, who have gone
forth to fight, and to rule in other regions ; and
they themselves will pour forth spontaneously, such
strains of living and glowing verse, as wonderfully
agitate the spirit ; and the women will take up
those strains, and breathe, in the most melodious
voices, tones, and sentiments, so thrilling and
magical, that the soul is intoxicated with a strange
extravagance, and is ready to .arise and rush on
danger to the death.
I accompanied the gallant mountaineers on a
hunting expedition to the great sultry plains of the
south; .and beheld scenes of strange aspect. ·I saw
the ponderous hippopotamus stalking through the
towering reeds on the great river banks, and
plunging sullenly in the waters ; the gigantic
elephant roamed the forests; stupendous serpents,
and creatures as cruel, as lithe, and gliding as they ;
the brindled tigers, wound amongst the tall grass
and canes-the hunter's terror. God of gods !
these regions hast thou evidently appointed to be
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
38 THE PIT.GRJMAGE
the paradise of beasts. Thou hast crowned them
with a terrible beauty :- thou hast made their life
within the'm like a flaming fire, that, at a sound, a
motion, kindles up into magnificent rage, and men
tremble at their dreadfulness. To them are given
the solitary places of the earth, and many a splendid,
yet innocent creature, partakes their abode. . I
beheld troops of peacocks ranging over the sultry
plains, spreading and shaking to the sun all the
pageantry of their gorgeous, starry trains. Troop
by troop, they swept by, like a sea of green and
purple, and rainbow dyes; while amongst the forest
boughs, glanced glorious birds, scarlet, green, and
azure, of strange, quick aspects, and wondrous
cries.
But my object was not to linger amid pleasant
abodes. I hastened on. I ascended th~ mighty
northern mountains; those dismal abodes of eternal
cold, and for a time bade adieu to all life but my
own. I advanced through regions of horrible
solitude, where clouds and tempests were cast far
below; where the silence itself was dreadful ;
where every object-the dark, gigantic crag, the
glittering plains, the rent and pitch-dark chasms,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 39
the icy path along the dizzy precipice, assumed
features of dreary awfulness. Nature seemed to
lift up the -most tenific baniers to obstruct my
progress, and each night came with the visage of
sure destruction. I clambered through piercing
cold and darkness, ·along the only path which
offered, and that exhibited innumerable evidences
of its own savage character. Steeds and men, who
had, from year to ye~, suuk down and perished·;
nay, the very vultures which came to prey upon
them, lay, fixed for ever, in crystal cerements of
ice ; and it seemed my fate to add one more to the
number. I was in the midst of darkness: cold
paralysed my weary limbs;' and sounds full of
fear and melancholy filled all the dolorous regions.
The thunder of rocks, split by the power of frost
from the mountain mass, ever and anon resounded
through the night ; and the wind, amid the ch~nks
and chasms of the cliffs, wailed like sad, but
malicious spirits. By marvellous good fortune,
which has often attended me, I at length escaped
from the terrible hills, and entered upon the great
Cuthean plains.
A mighty change of scenery was now before me.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
40 THE PILGRIMAGE,
No longer a glowing climate ; mountains, fertile
hills, and flowery fields: but boundless plains,
white with saline incrustations ; brackish lakes,
and streams margined with glittering salt. Behind
me shone the great, snow-capped mou'ntains;
before me, an endless level,-here bare, here scat-
tered with a few saline plants, and here green with
patches of wild liquorice. A cool, fresh air braced
the frame, and filled the spirit with an elastic
buoyancy that bore me fleetly on. Anon, I beheld
a wide river winding through the desert, red as
gold in the mists of morning ; and as these mists
dispersed, I beheld the whole fiat vale, clothed in
verdure of vividest green, and filled with troops of
wild, white. horses. They descried me, and at
once, the whole were in motion-in flight! A
shrill neigh rung around-a sound, as of thunder,
arose from the earth, beaten with a thousand hoofs,
and away dashed the strong, wild creatures, like a
sea of impetuous billows,-their flying manes and
tails, like snowy foam on its surface. Away !
away ! drove the powerful and triumphant animals
-now wheeling and snorting in angry pride-
now pausing with uplifted heads, vapour-breathing
I
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 41
nostrils, and bodies that quivered with the ex-
uberance of their animal life and winged velocity,
till lost in the dim, distant desert. Glorious
creatures ! who can behold them, nor long to
partake of their strength of heart, to rush through
the free wilderness like a meteor.
CHAPTER V.
BuT now a novel scene opened upon me. I found
myself at once transported into the theatre of war.
From the great southern mountains had descended
the Indian king. Ambition, that blind and yet
quick-sighted passion, blind to all it possesses, sharp
to discern the possessions of others, suffered him
not to rest in peace in his own immense territories;
a tenth of which he had never seen. His palace, or
his camp pavilion was ·his world, in which he had
all that pampered man can desire ; slaves, beauty,
wealth, wine, and adulation. His slaves ruled him
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
42 THE PILGRIMAGE
, with soft lies, and his provinces with hard steel and
stripes. He was satiated with the immediate
accomplishment of his wishes, yet he was not at
rest; he heard of nations that were free, and he
was indignant at the news; he heard of the wealthy
mountains of the Cutheans, and he instantly re-
solved to possess them. Accordingly, his armies
were put in motion ; men, steeds, and elephants in
thousands marched towards the northern hills. One
would have thought that the passage of those dread-_
ful mountains would have cooled' his ardour ; that
his men and animals sinking by hundreds daily,
cut down by excessive toils, by the rigorous cold
to which their tender, sun-cherished bodies were
totally strangers, by a ·variety of hardships and dif-
ficulties, would have softened his soul to pity, and
have induced him to march back to ease and plenty;
but ambition has no bowels of compassion. We
talk of the universal gifts of nature, but it is certain
that all her gifts are not universal; some men are
born without coqsciences, and some without bowels
of compassion : to martial monarchs, men are but
so many targets, in which to fix their arrows when
they please. For mountains, and ice, and snow,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 43
and darkness, to cross the will of a great king, to
whom. millions of men bowed 'themselves to the
dust, was enough to rouse the -indignation of that
human idol which men worship, as savages worship
theirs-exactly in proportion as it is feeble and
bloody. He commanded the obstacles to be swept
away, and they were swept away; and with them
the lives of some thousands of his followers. But
what matters it? He saw it not; he felt it not ;
his tent was as warm ; his couch as soft; his wine
flowed as freely; his slaves bowed as low, and
praised his tender mercies as much as ever ;-so the
. miserable victims of his royal will, were left to
bleach where they perished ; and many steeds and
elephants descended into the great Cuthean plains.
The mighty king, if he wished to possess the
country, might easily do it, for he found in it
neither men, beasts, nor abode. Before him, far as
the eye could reach, were empty, solitary plains;
and when he had made six days' march! he still
beheld before him-vast,..empty and solitary plains.
They might still march on-but for what? There
&Jipeared no enemy to fight, no people to subdue,
no emerald mountains to seize upon ; and having
[•9•- jb,Google
44 THE PILGRIMAGE
trusted to find a plentiful prey in the rich herds of
the Cutheans, the army stores had been small, and
now threatened famine.
The monarch was highly wroth on many accounts.
He was wroth that nothing was brought to eat,
when he commanded, except horse-flesh and the
roots of wild liquorice ; no, IIOt even after he had
kicked the slaves out of his tent, and ordered the
head of the purveyor of his household to be struck
off. He was angry at the scouts and foragers,
because, instead of bringing tidings of flocks and
herds, they still brought only tidings of great plains;
and he was angry because there were men in the
world who presumed to be free; and because na-
.ture mocked at his magnificent impotence. Back,
therefore, rolled the Indian multitudes ;-men,
steeds, and elephants, towards' the Caucasian hills.
But now the scene changed ! Behind them, on the
distant horizon, suddenly appeared a black cloud,
which poured down, not rain, but men. Like a
hail, they came whirling along, battering, cutting
down, and laying waste all before them. They
harassed the rear of the Indian army terribly: and
when it turned to oppose them, galled it not less
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 45
in front. The homeward march was kept up ; for
famine in the camp admitted of no pause ; but
when they caught sight of the Caucasian moun-
tains, they saw also, at the same time, another hos-
tile army, posted between themselves and the hills.
It was just at this crisis that I came upon the
scene ; and a new and most animated one it was.
fn the middle of the plain was seen the great
Indian- camp,-its thousands of tents glittering in
the sun, with all their barbaric colours ; in which
red, yellow, and white predominated. Around
were seen drawn out, its innumerable warriors,
conspicuous by their dark forms, vests of cotton,
and feathered tiaras;-here the elephants, shewing
their gigantic bodies amongst them, covered with
scarlet cloths, bordered with rich yellow fringe, and
with bells and tassels of gold; and bearing on their
backs, canopied cars filled with archers. Here rows
of glittering war-~;hariots, files of cavalry ; and all
the vast intervals between them bristled with the
spears of countless infantry. Beneath the moun-
tains stood the battalions of the mountaineers; so
posted, as evidently to shew their intention to
defend the defiles, and prevent the return of the
army.
46 THE PILGRIMAGE
North of the camp, shone the Cuthean chivalry,
-a host of fine, active men, clad in close woollen
vests; on their heads, brazen helmets; and mounted
on impetuous white horses, that, as they pawed
the ground in impatience, flashed to the sun their
trappings and the breast-plates of brass, with which
they were armed. Brass, either from partiality or
necessity, appeared the common metal of the Cu-
theans,-of it were the heads of their arrows and
javelins made.
The Indian army deemed it necessary to dis-
perse these equestrian troops before it attacked
the mountaineers, that they might not disturb its
rear during the engagement. Therefore, at the
sound of trumpet, kettledrum, and cymbal, forth
spurred some thousands of Indian horse toward
the Cutheans. These stood silent, as awaiting the
onset, till the Indians came within javelin-throw;
when suddenly they wheeled, as panic-struck, and
fled northward before the enemy. The Indians
raised a yell of triumph, and pursued with light-
ning speed. It was a glorious sight to see, that
chase of innumerable numbers !-the white steeds
that flew like the wind ; the glittering brazen
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA, 47
appointments of the Cutheans; and the pursuing
many-coloured Indian horsemen. Far over the
plains they flew. The Indians were all on the
stretch of eager curiosity. From the chariots,
from the elephant-~wers, protruded innumerable
heads, following the flying pageant with devouring
eyes of wonder and delight. But at once, whea
the horse were in the very horizon, suddenly was
seen a pause--a stir-a confusion : suddenly it was
discerned, that the Cuthean cavalry had wheeled
right and left, with incredible velocity, and .had
thrown themselves into the rear of the Indian file.
In a moment, these warriors found themselves, not
in the rear of a flying enemy, but in the centre of
furious troops, that poured in, on all sides, a tem-
pest of blinding and destructive arrows. The
white horses of the desert, with flying manes, dis-
-tended nostrils, and red fiery eyes, rearing on the
astonished Indians, struck them down, tore them
from their seats with their terrible mouths, while
their riders smote right and left with their brazen
javelins. A little time, and the whole Indian
squadron must be annihilated. The tumult was
seen from the Indian camp ; a salutary fear pos-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
48 THE PILGRIMAGE
sessed the king, and fresh horsemen galloped
forth to support the first, and these were followed
by the chariots,- these by the infantry. But
scarcely had they set forth, when a troop of Cu-
thean horse was seen careering towards them, from
the eastern and western extremities of the battle.
They came, shaking the ground with the thunder
of their horses' hoofs. Immediately they were at
hand; but, instead of closing with the advancing
Indians, they scoured past, likll a hurrying tem-
pest; shot in their faces a shower of arrows, and
were gone. The Indians, warned by what had
before befallen their fellows, attempted not to
pursue ; but, gazing for a moment of confusion
and wonder on the multitude of their slain, ad-
vanced towards the distant battle. But again
came the careering Cutheans, and, by a second
passing volley, committed equal havoc. The
Indian horse, confounded and thrown into disorder,
yet attempted to hold on ; but now they saw, at
once, a wonderful change in the scene of contest.
That which the moment before, was like the dark
and terrible cloud of a tempest,-now, like a tem-
pest cloud, dispersed and was gone. The shouts,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 49
the struggling, the clash ~d flash of arms was
hushed, and the white horses of the Cutheans were
seen vanishing on the horizon. The Indians
·knew not what to think of it : they paused and
gazed for a few moments ; then, advancing to the
scene of action, beheld all their advanced detach-
ment lying in one promiscuous heap of slaughter.
The whole were destroyed,-the foe departed.
At this intelligence, terror and astonishment flew
through the Indian camp ; but the king was seized
with a paroxysm of ungovernable rage. Day was
declining; yet could he scarcely restrain himself
from ordering a pursuit of the Cutheans. Reason
would have said,-What avails pursuing so wild
and fugitive a foe ? what avails attempting the
conquest of barren plains? Humanity would have
said,-Look on the slai~, and depart: evil enough
is done: crime enough committed; return, and
:repent of the useless waste of human life ;-but
:reason and humanity have nothing to do with great
monarchs,-rage is more becoming ; men are
merely moving machines, made to be cut down-
he ordered the march at break of day. Day came:
the whole immense and unwieldy multitude again
VOL. I, D
oigi .. eabvGoogle
50 THE PILGRIMAGE
set out: again they toiled slowly, heavily,-con-
sumed with thirst, for the waters were saline,-
faint with famine, through immeasurable plains.
Again they were on the point of returning, for no
foe, no habitation appeared :-when, behold ! the
gleam of brazen accoutrements ! the white horses
·coming, like the billows of a stormy ocean, rushing,
raging onwards. They were speedily at hand,
dashing, with wild cries, along the Indian lines,
pouring in millions of arrows. The whole Indian
army was in confusion. Against such a foe, the
chariots were · useless ; the infantry equally so ;
they wheeled here and there, now appearing to be
gone, -now again returning, ~nd charging with
terrible destruction. Arrows mowed down the
charioteers,-if horsemen advanced, the foe against
whom they directed their charge, dispersed-fled-
and again gathering, came from some other quarter
-some sending arrows as they passed,-some with
long, flying nooses, dragging the riders from their
steeds, and dashing them to pieces with the hoofs
of those furious white horses.
What could combat with such a foe avail ? The
king, enraged t_
o madness, made many ch?J"ges on
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
' OF PANTIKA. 51
•
the foe, and beheld himself in all, baffled and con-
foWlded. His troops, unused to such volant
antagonists, could give no effect to their arms.
At once he commanded the army to retreat ; and,
foll~wed by the Cuthean cavalry, like a determined
swarm of demons, charged with all the fury and
the weigltt of the whole army upon the moun-
taineers. They stood and fought like lions; but
the Indian army bore down heavily ; dreadful was
the slaughter. The brave men were mowed, and
crushed down by the ever-pressing host, that, with
tremendous .force drove the front on death, or
deliverance. With dr~adful fury the mountaineers,
climbing on the ramparts of dead, fought, till som_e
wounded elephants at length broke through them,
sweeping them down by hundreds. They dispersed!
and the Indian army, ahorrible mass of terror and
confusion, men and beasts crushing and treading
down each other, escaped into the defile.
Scarcely had the Indians disappeared in the hills,
when a new scene exhibited itself. A whole army
of wagons, drawn by oxen, and followed by
women and children, flocks and herds, came over
the plains. The cavalry, dismounting, threw loose
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
52 THE PILGRIMAGE
their steeds to graze where they pleased ; embraced
their wives, and proceeded to join them in strip-
ping and burying the dead. In a day, what had
been the seat of war, was a populous country.
Fearing no return of the Indians, they again struck
their tents, and quitting the plains polluted by
slaughter, and trodden by the combatants, advanced
to more fertile fields.
The Indian monarch proceeded through the
mountains, sullen and wrathful: and now he came
upon a part where he determined to let loose his
struggling passions ; and satiate his soul with a
mighty revenge. There was a beautiful valley in
the midst of the mountains, inhabited by a pastoral,
yet warlike nation. It was surrounded on all sides
by hills ; and a single river, rising westward, watered
it. The inhabitants had composed part ofthe army
of brave mounf.a:ineers which had opposed the return
of the Indians:·therefore the king doomed them to
destruction;. and, as their valley was of no great
extent, he deemed his purpose easy of execution.
He ordered his troops ~ take possession of all the
passes in the surrounding heights; and having done
this, he marched·the rest of his army right through
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 53
the valley, from end to end. He descended from
the hills like an avalanche, which nothing can stop
-which sweeps all before it. He passed through it
with fire and sword. It was vain for the inhabitants,
few in number, compared with his myriads, to stand
against him; they fled to the hills. But here again
the king's troops met them, and drove them back.
They turned, and beheld the Indian army coming
in the strength and exercise of that martial power
which, if exerted by devils, would be called by its
right name; but which constitutes _the glory of
kings; a race of beings, whom men have, at once,
made their idols 'and their pWiishment. They
beheld their pleasant groves stoop to the axe of
the pioneers; their habitations kindled to fianies
by their hands ; their fertile fields and gardens
laid waste an~ trodden down by thousands, till
all was one black and lifeless waste. The flocks
and herds were collected and driven off; and
they themselves, anticipating their fate, came forth
from their hiding··places, and prepared to sell their
lives as creatures driven to· desperation do. But
such was not the monarch's good pleasure. Having
made the late beautiful valley a black desert, he
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
54 THE PILGRIMAGE
drew up with his troops into the hills, and sate down
to watch the progress of his royal views. By de-
grees the inhabitants, urged by hunger, came forth.
They looked around them-all was silence and
desolation. They traversed the land, seeking care-
fully in every nook, amidst the ruins of yet-smoking
houses, for some fragment of food to still the cries
Qf clamorous children ; to appease the sufferings of
their languishing wives and daughters: but it was
in vain. The human monsters had destroyed every
thing capable of sustaining life with the most per-
fect exactness. They had completed their task in
the most masterly manner, and, no doubt, would
receive the highest praises of the historians of the
war. The wretched creatures, on this discovery,
were filled with the most fearful dismay. Female
misery vented itself in cries, tears, and tremblings;
that of men in silent despair. For a while they sate
stern-still-and with their eyes on the ground :
then raising them, and turning them on each other,
a fury kindled in them that rose to a terrible height.
They sprang up,-vowed th~ most dreadful vows;
. swore on each other's swords, tinctured with their
own blood, to assail the enemy to the death ; and,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 55
once more, they bent their united force towards one
of the mountain passes. They ascended; night
favoured them ; they fell upon the sentinels ; slew
them ; and, for a moment, fortune seemed to second
- their enterprise. But speedily the enemy in end-
less numbers came swarming to the spot; innu-
merable fires blazed out upon the heights, shewing
the desperate men to their foes, and exposing thein
to all their power. From above poured tempests
of arrows; huge stones were hurled down, which
whirling and bounding along the hollow where the
mountaineers were assembled, cleared their way,
dashing men to pieces.by hundreds in their course;
and rushed headlong, smoking to the valley. Yet
did these desperate men strain towards the height,
with the hearts and the visages of lions. Death
was before them whichever way they turned; and
death mingled with vengeance, seemed something
even sweet. Therefore, in defiance of arrows,
javelins, down-thundering rocks, and flaming trunks
of trees which came whizzing and rebounding from
above, they pressed on with Hashing daggers, and
fearful yells, and eyes that flung back the flames
with a terrible' expression. From the heights
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
56 THE PILGRIMAGE
around protruded tens ·of thousands of dark heads,
seen amid the redness of the fires, gazing upon the
scene with abundant satisfaction.
All night was the horrible and unequal contest
maintained: when morning dawned, numbers of
the unhappy mountaineers clogged the defile with
their bodies: and the Indians, descending in a dense,
continuous column from the heights, swept away
the remaining combatants, as a flood would have .
swept them away. Most perished; the rest, yield-
ing to the weakness ofovertried nature, returned to
the valley, or crawled into the neighbouring thickets
and crevices of the rocks. The sun rose higher,
and with it the tide of human suffering. Faint by
the river brink sate the women, striving to alleviate
the craving agonies of their children by cooling po- -
tations ofwater, themselves taking patient draughts
of the same, to relieve their burning, parched
throats. Fatal, yet not unhappy draughts ! The
sole river of their once happy valley was poisoned-
poisoned at its source-poisoned with those virulent,
sure, and enduringjuices which the Indians are so
well acquaint~d with.
Scarcely had they swallowed the infected water,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 57
when both mothers and children shrieked with
dreadful shrieks, and rolled on the ground in terrible
agonies. They rolled and writhed to and fro ; be-
came covered with large, livid, or crimson spots,
swelled hideously,-blackenea and died. They
who were about to taste of the fatal river, recoiled
at the sight, and ran to a distance. But whither
could they ·go? They beheld the remaining warriors
return-; they heard the doleful tidings, and filled
the air with their wild lamentations. For some time
they wandered about, filling the valley with the cries
of despair ; but nature gave way to her own tempta-
tions; the sight of the clear, gushing river was too
alluring, even with the dreadful evidence of its
effects before their eyes : - again they rushed
towards it; sprang in-rolled in its waves, gazed
on it with fearful, yet devo'uring eyes ;-drank, and
died.
From the heights, the Indian monarch beh(ild
this scene of misery with singular satisfaction. He
watched and waited like a vulture, while there
remained the smallest symptom of life in the black
and torrid vale ; and, as the fumes ·of the putri-
fying carcasses began to taint the winds, and ascend
D3
oigi .. eabvGoogle
58 THE PILGRIMAGE
to his nostrils, he sounded his trumpets, and
marched homewards, somewhat consoled for his
defeat and disasters.
I had occupied a cleft in a rock, to behold this
direful deed ; to see what nature was capable of:
and "Almighty Avenger!" I exclaimed, "canst
thou behold and suffer this ?" He did not ! With
the putrifying fumes, rose the pestilence; and
striking into the path of the savage monarch, pur-
sued him on his march. Fierce, terrible, wide-
sweeping were its destructions ; more fierce, more
destroying than the arrows, the javelins, the pre-
cipitated rocks of the Indians. With its silent
wings it hovered over the devoted army, that
hurried fearfully on,-and spread all the mountains
with its dead.
I have since heard, that it pursued the haughty
king even into his own land, and spread through
the provinces which he traversed ; into his popu-
lous cities; and slew more in its course than he
had destroyed by the strength of his cruelty.
Fearful and indignant, the people rose, and drove
forth into the wide, waste field, an army that
brought back, instead of victory and wealth, such
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 59
a baleful gift. There they fell, in their lawless
rage, on the flocks and herds of the countrymen,
who turned in wrath upon them. There arose a
dreadful and exterminating warfare. The peasants
prevailed,-the soldiers, driven to despair, plunged
their swords into each other's hearts, and they and
their king perished together. Thus does God
punish what foolish man praises to his own cost.
CHAPTER VI.
STRENGTHENED in heart by such a display of a
watchful and retributive Providence, I went on.
A plain of a different character now presented
itself. It was sandy, and covered with a thin crop
of pale yellow grass, tall as the knee, and so dry
that it whistled and sighed in the wind. Above,
the sun shone mildly; and fleecy clouds, driven
swiftly across the sky, created on the plain rapidly-
sweeping shadows. Here and there, ran along
slight elevations ; and a few scattered trees af-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
60 THE l>ILGRIMAGE
forded pleasant objects to the eye, and shade to
shepherds, who there watched large flocks.
At a distance, I beheld a thick and confused
mass of building, closely intermingled with trees ;
and I sate down by a shepherd, and asked what
the object was. "It is," he replied, "an ancient
city,-a city whose name no man pronounces; but
we call it the City of Fear. But a few generations
ago, there dwelt a warlike and populous people,
whose king, Huonnec, had subjugated the coun-
tries from the southern mountains far to the north,
ay, even to the Gomerian land of darkness.
Numerous nations poured into the city their tri- •
bute,-fl.ocks and herds, steeds for their iron war-
chariots and their horsemen, gold and jewels from
the rich, Hyperborean hills ; and the people be-
came proud, luxurious, insolent, and cruel. The
cries of oppression rose in many a province, but
they could not penetrate the city,-they were
drowned in the noise of perpetual revelry.
There came a prophet from some far land. He
advanced towards the city; and as he went along,
wrapped in his long robe, with his head and feet
bare, the rural people did him reverence, and knelt
[•9•- jb,Google
OF P.ANTJK.A. 61
at his feet for a blessing. He reached the city; and
at on.ce, his voice, loud as the brazen trumpet of the
king, rose above the hum of many idle and jocular
voic~s in the thronged streets ; and struck through
all the airy gossipers a chill silence. He trod on
with a lofty, but slow step, crying-" Repentance!
or death !" Through street, through gay square,
past palace and temple, he went on, crying that
solemn cry. The people gathered about him,-
gazed on him with fearful faces,-and followed, in
thousands~ at his heels. At length he came before
the royal abode. The king sate in his brazen
chariot, and saw his glittering troops perform their
martial movements before him. He turned, looked
sternly on the coming throng, and, at a motion
from his hand, a soldier spurred his steed from his
presence into the midst of ·the press, and ordered
the stranger to approach the imperial throne. He
advanced, but not as a suppliant; nor suffering
himself to be touched by the soldier. He waved
his hand with a majestic motion, and strode
forward with an air that daunted the fiercest
warriors, and made the monarch himself look on
him with amaze. Again he lifted up his hand, and
62 THE PILGRIMAGE
cried-" Repentance ! or death I" The king and
his warriors stood mute and thoughtful; when,
behold ! the priests came hurrying on with wild
and eager eyes; and, glaring on the stranger with
ferocious glances, called upon the king to punish
him as a vile impostor, that sought to blaspheme
the gods, to disturb the people, and bring into
contempt the victorious glory of the king. The
potentate raised his eyes, and cried to the priests
-" Be it as ye will !" They pounced on him,
like vultures in their prey, and bore him off to the
temple of Bal-Rama, followed by the shouting and
changeful multitude. They smote him to death
in the temple of their god; and all that day, and
far into the night, loud were the sounds of festive
rejoicing-the mingled din of cymbal, and tabor
and horn ; but in, the morning, when the country
people, who supplied the city with daily, rural
necessaries, entered the gates with their mules, all
was still as midnight : and, anon, they returned,
rushing from the gates, like men mad with some
_
terrible vision. Their eyes glared aghast; every
feature fixed i_
n strong terror ;-they ran,-and ran
far over the plains as men run for their lives.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 63
From that day, they approached not the city; no
one approached it; no one dared to tell what had
befallen within ; but it stood silent-silent for eve~;
and has fallen gradually to decay. Who dare
approach it? Terrible sounds, shrill cries, howl-
ings as o,f evil.spirits, are continually heard within
•
it ; and wings, as of harpies, are often seen flapping
above its now weed-grown walls. Its very aspect,
as thou seest, is baleful. We avoid it, and never
approach nearer than this."
"Dare ye not enter it?" I exclaimed; "then I
will !" As I pronounced these words, the shep-
herd started, as from a basilisk ; gazed upon me
with superstitious terror; and when I advanced
towards the ancient city, hastily collected his Bocks,
' -
and drove them far over the plain. I approached
the place, and truly its aspect was. enough to inspire
a superstitious awe. Its old and m~y gates were
sunk by age half into the ground. They leaned
hither and thither, disrupted from the ponderous
walls; between which and them gaped huge chasms.
The walls themselves leaned variously; here, over-
hanging the plain; here, inclining to the city: and
huge drifts of sand had, in others, fairly buried
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
64 THE PILGRIMAGE
them, forming an inclined plane, by which you
might ascend, and look into the melancholy place.
·I passed through the ruinous gates, and beheld
before me a wood mingled with buildings. Trees
had grown up throughout the city;- they had
grown to colossal vastness; here, heaving up pave-
ments and foundations by their huge roots and
trunks ; here, pushing down, by their extended
arms, the strongest walls. Close within the gates,
had stood two enormous ·statues. .· The one, a
Titanian man, with a long and bushy beard, and
holding in hi,s right hand a serpent by way of a
staff: the other, a female of equal height, holding
in one hand .a ring of stone; in the other, a small
winged figure. The man, or god, stood erect and
stern; th~ female was pushed back by a mighty
branch ofa tree, and le~ed against the wall.
The pavement whereon I walked was overgrown
with a matting of creeping plants, whose long,
wiry runners, knit closely together, f-?rmed a damp
and melancholy cai"pet. ' As I trode upon it, some-
thing long and cylindrical rolled beneath my feet,
and made my progress unsteady. I turned aside
the creepers, and beheld that they were bones;-
o; ,;. byGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 65
bones in millions strewed through the long, solitary
streets,-the bones of men, shrouded alone by this
green tapestry-work of nature; and in the skulls,
and within the naked ribs, numberless reptiles h~d
made their nests. I strode forward in shuddering
horror. I reeled to and fro, over the loose remains
Qf destroyed thousands. But other objects of fear-
ful wonder called my attention. From the thickets
and hollows of the broken walls darted forth, at my
approach, the jackal ; the long, gliding tiger
glared upon me with fiery eyes,-grinned fiercely,
and fled. The heavy bear growled hoarsely,-
dashed through the crashing branches, clambered
over the loose ruins, and disappeared. I found it
was a dreadful place to abide in; but my curiosity
lured me on.
As I neared the centre of the city, the bones
beneath my feet became continually more thickly
spread ; till, in an open square, they covered the
whole area in heaps, and the shrouding creepers
could but partially cover them :-they gleamed by
intervals in bleached whiteness. I advanced, and
beheld the crumbled remains of a massy chariot,
and upon it lay glittering-a sight of wonder-a
66 THE PILGRIMAGE
glorious jewelled diadem ! lay glittering on a heap
of bones, which, as I touched them, crumbled into
dust. Around were readily discernible, amid the
heaps, the brazen heads of spears, swords, and
harness of man and horse; the skeletons of whole
platoons of steeds and their riders ! Could there
be a doubt of the place, and the event which oc-
curred there ? It was the spot where some awful
judgment had annihilated both king and people in
the hour of their impious pride. I turned away,
soul-struck at the terrible dispensations of heaven.
Around me were the roofless walls of temples,
palaces, and thousands of private abodes ; but trees
stood in their innermost apartments, - bushes
waved from their summits and crevices, and long
creeping plants hung down from sculptured arches.
I trod over heaps of ruins, and beheld amid them
the gekko - the most hideous and venomous of
reptiles-start forth at my feet. I saw its large
lizard form,-its green clammy body, studded with
ugly vermilion warts: I saw its throat inflated with
its malignant poison ; and its claws, distilling as
they went, a loathsome, yellow virus, so acrid that
it blistered the very grass and leaves over which it
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTiiA. 67
passed. Horrible creature ! I shuddered at its
repeated cry-the sound of its own baleful name-
and trod with hesitating steps through the confused
place.
An ancient temple was before me. I knew it
for the dome of Bal-Rama. On its walls were
sculptured many an Arkite symbol ;-the ship of
Argha,-the fierce Typhonean serpent,- the flying ·
dove, - the golden mundane egg, in which the
Great Father Boated in divine dreams over the
universal waters,-the spirit-wings that bear the
orbicular world through the ethereal wastes of
eternity. I entered : it was gloomy and vast; its
roof of pyramidal stone had resisted the effects of
time. Thick dust lay on the Boor, in which the
feet left their impressions, as in snow ; seeming
as if it had not been disturbed for ages; and a faint
cadaverous odour pervaded the whole dusky fane. I
looked up, and beheld enormous bats hanging by
their lank legs from the roof; and the round,
green-fire eyes of owls, that opened and shut with a
strange, demoniac effec.t. The skeletons of nu-
merous small creatures lay on the Boor, thin as
bents of grass, and light as withered leaves: but a
more striking object arrested my attention.
/
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
68 THE PILGRIMAGE
I beheld the pedestal where the great idol bad
stood; but it was unoccupied : and, behold-! on
the ground beneath it, lay a heap of dust. I could
discern the colours of blue and vermilion which had
once adorned the perished god, but at my touch
they crumbled to powder; and the large, golden
horns, alone lay fresh and glittering as ever.
Around were numerous skeletons in a confused
circle, and one in the midst, between whose ribs
yet lay the green remains of a brazen poniard-the
priests and their prophet-victim ! A dark and
trembling awe fell on me ;-my limbs failed;-
my eyes grew dim ;-I dropped on my knees, and
adored the unseen, but mighty Power, who had
thus signally inade known his being, and anni-
hilated, at a stroke, a great people in the hour of
their impious triumph. When I had ·gathered
together a little of the force of mind and frame,
I stole soberly out of the fallen city; and pursued
my way, filled with a multitude of dark and bright
thoughts. The shepherds, who beheld me return,
fled as I attempted to approach them; holding me,
doubtless, for some dubious, or unearthly being.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA, 69
CHAPTER VII.
I had a great desire to see something of the Cuthean
tribes in their peaceful habitations ; I, therefore,
now turned my steps northward, and went far into
their lands. Of these I speak not now; I have
already recorded these things. One circumstance
only I cannot pass, for with it are connected the
sweetest and bitterest events of my life. There I
found a friend ! Yes, there where I looked not
for it, I found a soul which I could take to my soul,
and love as my own; and go on, from day to day,
rejoicing in the unity of our tastes, and the excur-
sive exercise of our· ·intellects. As I entered one
evening a Cuthean tent, I beheld a youth of a garb
and aspect different to that people. I looked at him,
and deemed him the noblest youth I had ever seen.
Tall, finely proportioned, full of vigour and activity,
he appeared made to endure the fatigues, and enjoy
the pleasures of the earth, and, unscathed by the
one or the other, to still go on in gladness. I saw
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
70 THE PILGRIMAGE
that he also regarded me with looks of curiosity
..
and interest; and,, in the course of the eve, as we
sat~ round the fire, and talked of many matters, and
I had unfolded to the hospitable family somewhat of
my wanderings and views, he suddenly leaped up,
clasped me to his heart, and exclaimed, " I have
found a spirit like my own!" I was much asto-
nished, but I was much rejoiced; for I had regarded
him with continually increasing admiration. He
forthwith related his own story. He was a native
of the city of Babik, in the southern hill-country.
A like spirit to my own had disturbed him in his
native place. He had gone through many lands in
quest of knowledge. As we sate and compared
our individual experience, our thoughts, adven-
tures, and speculations·on man and his destiny,-
our joy continually grew higher and higher, and
the good people of the tent sate ·and gazed on us
'in wonder. . All night we sate and conversed, and
in the earliest dawn, departed. Together we
travelled far northward, and I daily found my heart
bound up closer with that of Lodemmil. I found
that the same desire of seeing men of many '
nations ; the same belief in the existence of some
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 71
great original ·truth, possessed him as myself: but
what constituted at once, the failing, and the crown-
ing charm of his character, was an inexpressible
indignation and contempt of the base and bloody
arts of priest and rulers. ·What .glowing and noble
sentiments! what eloquent expesitions of his faith
and soaring desires have I heard him pour forth,
as we trode, side by side, like two gods in our
soul's joyful strength, through strange regions !
Much ancient knowledge was preserved and culti-
vated in his native city, and he had made it all his
own. It was to me a source of triumphant delight,
that in far separate countries, in hidden and soli-
tary places of the earth, the same aspiring thoughts
and sensations were agitating the human heart.
It declared to me that they sprung from one
source,-the unseen soul of the power that made us.
We were now in the land of the northern
Magogians-a people rude in aspect and in life.
In winter, they wrapped themselves in sheep-
skins,-an uncouth and grotesque generation. In
their short summeis, they threw off their savage
ru:ray, and appeared only in a short shirt of varied
colours; their bodies painted with stars, serpents,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
72 THE PILGRIMAGE
and strange beasts of blue and red ; bearing in a
belt of hide, a stone hatchet; and in their hands, a
bow and arrows, whose barbs were also of stone.
War and the chase, were their employments.
One night, as we passed along a tract of rugged
hills, scattered with huge blocks of stone, over
I
which the western wind drove the fiying mists and
clouds ; and the moonlight, the moving shadows,·
and the moaning gale, gave the whole scene a sad
wildness; we came upon one of those stupendous
circles of great stones which are found in various
regions, but especially in the north. Many had
we seen, but this surpassed them all; we therefore
turned in to contemplate it. To our astonishment,
we saw a figure seated by the great central stone,
that, amid all its wildness, still appeared human.
As we approached, it arose, and we beheld a man
naked, except that the hairy skin of a beast
was bound, round his loins by a dried serpent.
His face was pale, his features prominent and
ghastly,-his eyes hollow, yet lit with a strange
wild fire; and his black haggard locks, hung matted
about his neck. "Who art thou?" we cried. And
he answered, "Who am I ?-1 am Baldoc, the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 7.3
friend of the gods ! I have wandered over the
earth to see whether the nations honour their
shrines. I have gone far to the west, over the
great mountains, through the great black forests,
across the great waters, into the isles at the e:nd of
the world ; and in them all, the great god Hu is
worshipped as he ought. Now am I bound to Ind;
for the world comes to an end. Yes, you smile !
So have I seen_men smile, when I have proclaimed
the same tTuth in the very hour of destruction.
But you shall soon behold my words verified.
What! have I not lived-do we not all live, in one
eourse of the world as in another? Nature is fixed:
the world dies and revives-but nothing can change.
I have but lately seen the great, wailing Nath de-
scend, as I have seen him descend in former worlds
-with his woful countenance, black flying locks
-his dark, funereal robe. I saw him go from land
to land, from town to town, wringing his hands,
dropping his tears on the earth, and crying, in.the
lamentable voice which sends into the hearts of all
that liear him an incurable woe-" The end ! the'
end is come !, yes ! the end ! the end is come ! .
He will speedily absorb all things into his own
VOL. I E
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
74 THE PILGRIMAGE
being-his wife, his sons, all living creatures, all
seas, all forests, all lands ; and, wrapped in the
sleep of ages, he shall sail in his serpent bark on
the endless wat~rs. We cannot avoid it-the God
cannot himselfdo otherwise; but we may strengthen
and refresh our spirits for the mighty time !"
With that he arose with a wild and inspired mr ;
and, in an erect and solemn attitude, marched
through one of the doorways formed of the huge
stones which surround the circle of Hela. Out
he passed at one, in at _
another, crying with im-
mense satisfaction, at every transit,-" Oh divine !
divine refreshment! It falls on my spirit like the
dew of the sacred mount. Again, and agajn, am
I regenerated, and purified, and filled with strength
for my great trial !" With that he passed away in
the gloom, and was gone.
" Go; thou poor maniac-victim of dark supersti-
tions!'' excwmed Lodemmil. " Seest thou,"
he said, " the daily effects of the black arts of the
priests?" We went on; and as day fully broke,
we descried immense numbers of people all directing
their course to an elevated part of the wilderness.
It was a lofty plain, rising to a considerable height -
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
...
OF PAN1'IKA. 75
in the centre, and commanding extensive views
over a savage country. Vast masses of rock were
thrown as by a giant hand, and lay in heaps on the
heath, giving a most rude and chaotic aspect to the
place. Here and there, great square blocks of it
lay apart, half buried in the spongy moss and wild .
fern. On the top of a large, solid rock we beheld
a stupendous stone, which appeared as balanced on
a point, and moved to and fro with the breeze.
Around this were assembled thousands of those wild
people with looks of deepest awe. On it they fixed
their eyes, fearfully and stedfastly; and at length,
as if of its own accord, or moved by some invisible
power, it began to rock to and fro violently, and
with a sound as of low thunder, amid which might
be heard the mutterings of a deep, unearthly voice.
At once, the whole multitude fell upon their faces;
and an aged figure with hoary, flowing beard, and
long, loose robe, rose; as out of the .ground, and
lifting up his hands, cried,-" Honour the God
with an acceptable gift !" Instantly the people
sprang upon their feet, and gazed upon a dark cre-
vice in the neighbouring rocks, whence soon ap-
peared a band of those old and robed priests bearing
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
76 THE PILGRIMAGE
· a young virgin bound. My heart sickened at the
sight, for she was young, and tender, and.fair; but
the multitude began to dance; and in a low singing
tone to cry, " Hu ! Hu ! Ewah !., I saw the maid
extended, already apparently half dead with terror,
on a large stone ;-I saw the hand of the hoary
priest, armed with a heavy stone poniard, raised to
the sun, to which he seemed pouring out his orisons,
-and I turned away, lest I should witness th~
murderous deed. As we went, we still heard the
loud and melancholy song, " Hu! Hu! Ewah!,
and it added wings to our speed.
Sick of blood and darkness, we hastened from
the nortb. The light which we sought was not
there ; and, through a long period we sought it in
lands where it was as little to be found : in the
populous, but servile-spirited Tzin ; in the pleasant
islands of the great South Sea, where nature has
constructed a thousand paradises in the midst of the
crystal waters ; where the people dwell amid fruits,
and flowers, and richest spices, but are contented
to feed their souls on the fragments of the far-spread
Sabean superstitions. At length, a trading ship of
Ormuz landed us in the ancient India, and we looked
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 77
with anxious hope for some traces of the earliest
knowledge.
Let my former tomes speak of the mighty cities;
the marvellous caves; the wealth, the arts and
manners ofthis ancient people : I am too sadly bound
to one event. We hoped, I said, to find traces of
the earliest knowledge ; and we did so: but mixed
in such a manner, with a thousand inventions of a
wild and fabling imagination, that our spirits were
confounded and perplexed. The multiplied deities
of the Brahmists, their intermingling names and na-
tures, their incarnations, their ludicrous adventures;
the simple, the gentle, but irrational doctrine of the
Budhists, filled not the crying void in our souls. We
thirsted to descend to the lowest fountain of Truth;
which gleamed indeed upon us, but so overgrown
with the thiek branches of an extravagant fancy,
that it gleamed only to trouble and bewilder. We
passed through the utmost ordeals of their vaunted
mysteries; but in vain-around us were shadows,
ever-growing shadows. We might have admired
the ingenuity of the Brahmist, the humanity of the
Budhist; but unfortunately we entered the temple
of Jagan-Nath, and beheld the votaries of these
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
78 THE PILGRIMAGE
rival faiths bowing to that hideous god ; beholding
the hateful and licentious orgies ef his temple; the
bloody rites of his sacrifice. We saw the baleful
monster, ugl_y as night, detestable in shape and
aspect, as the deeds which are done in his shrine ;
we saw him, on his towering car, borne into the
open day. Amid the millions assembled to worship ·
hi,m, numbers of wild wretches immolated them-
selves beneath his ponderous wheels. We saw ihe
wandering Baldoc,-he whom we had met in the
circle of Hela,-with the same elated air, there
terminate his career by flinging his life to the
horrid god.
Oh, great Lord of the universe! the memory of
what now befel me, makes me weep, even in my
old age. Didst thou there punish me because I
too earnestly sought at so many heathen shrines for
thee ? Or didst thou suffer my heart to be rent
a8under by the most dreadful event, that thou
mightest infix in it a terror of pagan creeds for
ever, and make the light of thy own more fair and
precious?
.
Lodemmil and I were sitting in our temporary
abode, conversing on the horrors we had seen at
o; ,;. byGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 79
the shrine of Jagan-Nath. My friend, with his
wonted fire of spirit was warmly expressing (as in-
deed ·he had not hesitated to do publicly, to my
· alarm) his abhorrence of the detested god; and we
were mutually lamenting the disappointment of our
hopes in the religious lore of this ancient realm.
" Pantika," he repeatedly said, "we are, I fear,
seeking what is not to be found on earth. Perhaps
our young and ardent spirits may have deluded us
with hopes that may have no fulfilment. Perhaps
it may be part of the folly of our nature,__,for we
see folly is the leading character of this nature,-to
dream of truth, and beauty, and immortality, and
follow them as shadows follow the sun. Such
things there may be, and yet not given to men.
For what men possess them ? Think of the
immense regions we have traversed,-and are they
there? No! ignorance, cruelty, and selfishness-
these abound everywhere-in all men,-:-and shall
thou and I be unlike the universal race ? Thou
wilt say-whence then come these glorious desires?
Oh ! are they not the fragments of a on~e proud
estate, which eXists, and is destined to exist, no
more? For though they prove that such a state
oigi .. eabvGoogle
so · THE PILGRIMAGE
once was man's, they cannot prove that it shall
again be his, any more 'than that the fragments of
a broken vessel can gather themselves into their
former unity. Are truth, and knowledge, and
goodness, gone then for ever ? If we· answer from
experience, we must despair-for where are they?
And if they be destined for the possession of men
at all, where can· such brightness be hidden? I
sigh as I ask the question ;-here, at least, they
are not ;-let us hasten to quit this land f"
'Ve resolved on the morrow to set out home-
wards. He had yielded to my solicitations to come
and partake my lot here. On my first setting foot
in India, I had hastened to assure Podoniqs,
through the means of a caravan, of my existence
and hopes of return at no distant period. That
time now seemed hastening on ; when, in the
midst of our converse, entered some of the priests
of Jagan-Nath, denounced Lod~mmil as a despiser
and blasphemer of the god, and seized on him as a
victim to his vengeance. Stunned, but at the same
time rendered wild by the horrible circumstance,
I sprung upon the bloodly emissaries of cruelty,
and pierced several of them with my dagger : but
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF P.A.NTJKA, 81
a blow on the head, with some heavy weapon,
felled me; my consciousness departed; and when
it returned, I found myself lying chill, stiff, and
faint with the loss of blood, on the same spot. It
w3:9 night ;-at one instant, the recollection of the
horrible event, and the sound of music, the glare
of lights bursting from every aperture in the tower
of Jagan-Nath,-the cries of maniac revelry,-
broke into my soul, and bore it back into the
darkness of insensibility.
Henceforward, a large period is to me a dreadful
dream. I wandered through a land of dreams-of
terrible heat-through seas of raging fire, in which
the great serpent Typhon pursued me to devour
me: thousands of fearful shapes lived and moved
around me. Isis played on her sistrum : Osiris
and Apis exchanged, and re-exchanged shapes;
Vishnou floated in his snake-ship ; the lotus
bloomed,-Brahma sate in ·the expanded flower,
and gazed over the waters, where the gloomy
Siva pursued and cried to his perverse and obsti-
nate Parvati. Baal now stood before me as the
sun, now as the moon ; Gad flew rapidly over the
waters in his skeleton bark; and Nergal, with her
E3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE PILGRIMAG£
harnessed .chanticleers, smiled on me as she came
showering, from her half-shadowed car, the light of
morning on . the world. Endless fantastic shapes
were busy around me; endless varieties of dismal
cries. I heard the dogs of hell barking ; I
stumbled and groped in caverns of interminable
darkness, where pale, gleaming phantoms, of every
ghastly and unearthly character, glided thinly on
the walls. I was in the land of wild phantasy, and
idol-shapes of various nations on which I had so
often gazed, haunted me to distraction. A sword,
anointed with blood, stood out of the ground, and
spoke oracles ; an empty skull whispered to me of
shuddering things; the three-headed gods declared
~emselves to be Lodemmil, and would accompany
me on my travels.
When I emerged from these swarming visions,
the hour when the tbunderbolt of man's· cruelty
fell upon me, seemed far, far off; yet was the
weight and anguish of my heart strong, and
grie!ous as ever. I sickened at the light of day,
and longed to pass away into that unknown region,
whither the beloved of my soul had gone. A
little, dark-yellow old woman was waiting upon
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTlKA. 83
me; and importuning me to eat of her boiled rice,
as yellow as herself;-but I desired rather to die.
I lay for many days in an unbroken, yet sleepless
dream, in which I wandered again over all the
wide lands which we two joyous and united souls
had traversed in our strength : again, I recalled all
the stirring and delightful converse we had held ;-
our hopes,-our soaring dreams and·aspirations,-
our troublesome doubtings-all now were precious,
precious to my soul. In them I lived ; in them I
desired only to live : I would gladly fail, and fade
away, following my beloved friend into the un-
known life. When I thought of the real world
about me, of the wide distance between me and
my own coun_try, I turned, in the lassitude of
terror, from the contemplation; and watered my
couch with my tears. Lodemmil was no more !-
Hope had lost its fascinations ;-and then-the
terrible idea of his death, -that noble, generous,
delightful soul, perishing in the hateful hands of
the ministers of Jagan-Nath; in that baleful
shrine,-it was too much for the tortured and
writhing iinagination. But that idea gave me
strength. I loathed the land where the deed was
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
84 THE :PILGRIMAGE
perpetrated,-it seemed, in my eyes, swimming
with blood. I longed for wings, that I might dart
from it in a moment; and in that spirit of shud-
dering abhorrence I sprung up, and hastened to
depart.
CHAPTER VIII.
I soon found a caravan setting out, and with it I
commenced my homeward journey. Whoever ex-
amines my travels, will here find a broad vacuum;
for of ~he countries through which I passed, I
knew nothing-saw nothing. I journeyed in the
midst of busy people-busy sounds; but I jour-
neyed alone. The mists and the darkness of a
mighty sorro:w were around me. It was not till
I was in the land of Media, that my attention
was excited by external objects; and it was the
voice of sorrow, that struck with its kindred tone on
my heart, and startled me as to life• .
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 85
We had encamped by the river Gozan, in a
luxuriant vale. l·t was eve : and somewhat soothed
by the amenity of the spot,_I had wandered a little
way from the camp, and thrown myself down
beneath a tamarisk tree, by the water, when sud-
denly. my heart was struck by the sound of female
voices,-sweet, -melancholy voices,-singing, in
chorus, the following song:-
Low ! low ! in our darkness, low !
By the alien-river's side,
Where blow the weeping lilies,
Qur tears how can we hide!
Father ! how hast thou cast us
From thy loving arms away,
Where once, like happy infants,
·All fearlessly we lay.
Father! how hast thou chang'd
Thy smile, that o'er us shone!
When the earth was all in darkness,
And peace beside was none!
Father ! how hast thou hidden
Thy arm that once was bare,
When the giant nations trembled,
And melted in despair.
Thy banner then was o'er us ;
Thy pillar, and thy light
Went on with us, thy children,
Rejoicing in thy sight.
..l• , e bvGoog(e
86 THE PILGRIMAGE
Low ! low I in our darkness, low I
By the alien-river's side,
Where blow the weeping lilies,
Our tears bow can we hide !
In thy pleasant land all pl~Anted
Beneath the palm and vine,
Where the rocks o'erfiowed with honey,
What race was like to thine !
But we knew not all our blessing;
Our feeble spirits fell !
We felt thy rod-we sorrowed-
And all again was well !
But now, thus peeled and banished,
The prophet-voice is o'er:
And thy love, and thy loving-kindness,
Return ! return no more!
Low ! low ! in our darkness, low !
By the alien-river's side,
Where blow the weeping lilies,
Our tears how can we hide !
That woful song penetrated to my inmost soul.
The very tone in ~hich it was sung had a. power,
that no other sound ever had, over my spirit.
Once I might have listened to it, and felt its pen-
sive beauty, and have been impressed with ten-
derest pity for those who sung it so evidently with
the vitality of sad experience; but now, my bruised,
broken heart, had been baptized into the lowest
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OP PANTJKA. 87
depths of human aftl.iction, and could interpret its
faintest breathing. That was its own living lan-
guage; that was the lamenting music which had
been sounding for months in its farthest recesses ;
and was here made vocal in other beings, and flung
back upon it as a mournful, but sweet reflection.
But, besides this, it had a far more astonishing
charm ; for what did I hear ? Words glowing
with the very spirit which had sent me round the
globe ; words, which responded, with a startling
thrill, to that great cry in my heart which I had
held as the cry of universal nature : words which
unfolded to me, even in their fewness and simpli-
city, a world of facts and ideas! I heard a people
calling upon their God as their father,-as their
living, fostering father, who had made himself
clearly and familiarly known to them ; in whose
favour they had enjoyed glory, and power, and
felicity ; but this favour they had lost by their
crimes. For this they were punished; outcast and
hopeless. For their crimes ! What a novel, and
yet, to me, rational doctrine. What a novel doc-
trine as it regarded the practice and experience of
all other nations. For where was the nation which
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
88 THE PILGRIMAGE
professed to have suffered the loss of the favour of
their deities by their crimes i' So that they duly
paid them their homage and their sacrifices, their
gods were, in their belief, contented. They went
on with their self-indulgence, fearless of evil : nay,
evil itself appeared the very essence of that worship
by which most people soothed these strange deities.
What nation had ever, as a nation, confessed that
their gods had abandoned them for their evil·deeds,
and given them up to their enemies? Yet how
conceivable to my heart and mind was it, that the
true deity should do thus? How often had Lo-·
demmil and myself exclaimed that the God, who-
ever he might be, who had stretched out the pure,
heavenly concave,-had breathed on earth the pure
enveloping air,-had filled the hollows of the globe
with the pure and living waters, must be himself
inconceivably pure ! How often had we said, as
we stood at famous shrines, " No, these are not the
shrines of the true God; for here are blood and
cruelty, here are ugliness and obscenity; but in
this fair world, in our hearts which he has moulded,
are nobility and gentleness, beauty and pure de-
light." How often had we exclaimed, "The true
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTJKA. 89
God must be the father of his people, and can only
smile upon them as they honour and obey the
traces of his own nature. Alas ! no such people
had we found ! yet here must they be !
I started up, and advanced towards the place
whence the sound had proceeded. Immediately I
beheld a beautiful sight. By the river side, in the
deep rich herbage, sate four women, weaving light
baskets of the broad river-grass ; and along the
banks strolled a troop of children, cutting this grass
with small hooks ; selecting from it the best.
Others were lying in playful luxury amongst the
.flowers; and others with long rods of willow at-
tempting to draw towards them and secure large
lilies, that, like cups of silver and gold, floated on
the water. The women were fairer in complexion
than any I had seen for a long time-fair as my
own country-women ; but their eyes and beautiful
hair, were as black as jet. They had a style and
intelligence of countenance that surprised me.
The contour of their faces was a rich oval; their
noses long, and rather aquiline ; their eyebrows
thick, finely arched, and giving a strength of ex-
pression to the whole visage. Their mouths ex-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
90 TH:Ji; PILGRIMAGE
pressed a living character, as if they were accus-
tomed to vary from the keenest sense of wit and
satirical mirth, to tenderness and benevolence.
One, a young mother, held her infant to her bo-
som; one, who appeared in the prime of woman-
hood, had a matronly dignity of air that could not
be severed from the idea of superior rank. Yet
how different from such ideas their present situa-
tion ! She, and the other two young damsels, were
busily plaiting baskets of grass. They had crowned
themselves with a wreath of wild myrtle, mingled
with the large lily flowers which the children had
collected about them·; and the matron wove 'a sort
of little bark of bulrushes, and filling it with lilies,
set it afloat, saying, " In such a vessel our great
prophet once _was committed to the waters of
Egypt. Alas ! no such prophet shall appear in
this heathen land, to lead us back to our own lovely
one !" At this I beheld the group stand watcning
the departing bark, which, after making several
circuits with the eddies on the borders of the
stream, shot rapidly away ;-with looks of·saddest
expression, they watched it, and again they sung
the melancholy chorus of
Low ! low! in our darkness, low !
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTJK.A, 91
I advanced, and inquired·whom they might be.
They were Hebrews ! Of that nation almost
bordering on my own-yet so little known to us.
Of that nation which had excited my curiosity,
only to awake my aversion and disgust. I had
heard that they were a singular and proud people,
whose gods were mighty ; and I had sought such
of them as came ·to Tarshish to trade, and inquired
of their laws and religion. They repelled me
with sullen scorn ; and I turned away from them
with unutterable aversion.
But here they were in sorrow, and my heart
opened to them; and I found these females, far
from reserved or disagreeable. Unlike the gene-
rality of the women of the east, they shrank not
from my presence, shrouded themselves not in
their veils, but looked in my face with the kind
yet modest familiarity of sisters ; and answered._
all
my eager inquiries, about their nation, with a
perspicuous frankness, yet with sighs and tears.
And what a wonderful history was now unfolded
to me ! From the very construction of the W?rld
to the present hour, was the whole laid open, as
if the light of a new day was poured upon me.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
92 THE PILGRIMAGE
" Come with us," said these fair exiles,-" come
with us to the city. There our husbands will
converse better with thee upon these things. There
thou shalt behold our ancient books !"
I went, I talked, I read. I was in an Elysian
dream. I found thousands of these wonderful
but unhappy people, planted by the Assyrian
conqueror, in the cities of these regions. And
when I looked upon the native inhabitants, sallow,
and dwarfish, and heavy of countenance, I won-
dered not at the policy of the monarch, that had
peopled this fair tract with so fine a race. Cities,
fertile fields, and pleasant mountain ranges, with
all their varieties, were theirs. The ruler was far
distant,-they lived well-nigh as they would; but
the memory of their native land was in their souls,
and they were sad and despondent. For me, I
began to love and honour them as my own people.
Aflliction had broken their haughtiness, which
they freely confessed, had been strong in them,-
regarding themselves as the favoured people of
heaven. They were kind and communicative, and
I ran through their treasured volumes, as I would
through the valleys of God. My amaze at their
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 93
truth, their simplicity, their sublime doctrines e"ery
day increased,-every hour I marvelled that such
.precious knowledge had not broken forth like a
flood, and overflowed the world. Their annals,
unlike those of other nations, were free from sha-
dows and perplexities; clear, continuous, simple,
yet abounding with the most wondrous events.
Their religion-the religion which had unfolded
itself to my heart as something native to it, was
one flood of pure and undazzling light,-the wor-
ship of one ~nfinite God, at whose presence all
other gods fade into nothing,-the Creator and
Father of all the earth.
With what avidity did I dwell upon their touch-
ing pictures of the simple, ancient times : on the
miracles God had wrought for them : on the pro-
phets-those awful beings, whose words had proved
themselves, in the events oftheir own and surround-
ing nations, to be the words of God himself: ~n
the glorious strains of their royal poet: on the
sapient maxims, the idylls, and philosophy of the
llllloanificent Solomon. I was impatient to be gone
into Judea itself, to possess myself of those inesti-
}llable treasures,-the treasures which I had sought
•
94 THE PILGRIMAGE
throughout the earth, and had found more splen-
did, more abundant than I had dreamed of " Oh
thou dear, and lost Lodemmil!" I repeatedly
exclaimed, " couldst thou, noble soul, couldst thou
now behold the reality of our dreams-the fulfil-
ment of our desires, how wouldst thou rejoice!"
I was impatient, I say, to be gone; for here these
writings were but rare, and were guarded and kept
with far more care than life itself. But w~n I
talked of departing for Judea, again I saw the
cloud of grief darken in their faces. '' Alas !" they
said, "to what a land wilt thou go ! Not to that
lovely and peopled land which once it was: but to
a frightfuJ desert,-a waste of horror and desola-
tion. Twelve years have we sojourned here; and
now, even now, is the mighty Sennacherib gone
up to bring away the last remnant of the nation ;-
Benjamin and Judah, the royal tribe ;-the dwellers
in the royal city, whence we have looked for the
great Messiah to come. Yes! he is gone up now;
and, in brief space, the trace of our ancient kingdom
will be probably obliterated."
While we talked on this subject, this very event
seemed to have occurred. A fearful rumour spread .
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 95
through the land, that the king had seized Jeru-
salem, and had put all to the sword; plundered its
holy shrine ; razed the city to the ground ; and
was returning with the spoil. The tidings fell on
their hearts like a thunderbolt. Through every
city there was a deadly silence, as if life itself were
stopped: and, day after day, the rumours grew,
and spread, and came aggravated with fresh details
of h?rror. At this confirmed and augmented news
of the extirpation of their kindred, the whole
people broke into the most bitter cries and
lamentations. Nature could no longer contain
itself. They exclaimed-" Now is the glory of
Israel departed for ever. Now is hope ceased in
Zion for ever ! God has clean removed his re-
jected race. He will call-we shall return no
more ! In this far land we shall lay our bones.
Here will our children, and our children's children
grow ; and as God has forgotten us, so, perhaps,
will they forget the God of their fathers. Woe !
woe to the once glorious race !"
They threw themselves ·on the ground-they
rent their clothes-scattered ashes and dust upon
their beads, and lay, day and I,ligbt, moaning and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
96 THE PILGRIMAGE
lamenting. The women cut. or rent away, without
remorse, their beautiful dark locks; and careless
of food, of the refreshments of bed and bath, they
lay, and gave themselves up to despair. It was a
fearful sight to behold a whole people cast into
such utter misery; and I hastened to quit a scene
where my condolence was unavailing, and my
heart was wrung with the woe around me. I was
in the very gates of the city, when I observed
groups of the Hebrew people collected in eager
and muttering knots; and a murmur passed around
me, which seemed full of wonder. When I was
about to inquire what was the cause, I beheld a
man come running, with his loins closely girded,
and with a short staff in .his hand. He came
speeding on, covered with dust ; with wild eye$-
parched, gasping lips, and frantic gestures, that
seemed to strive to express some momentous
thing, which his tongue was incapable of uttering.
All rushed towards him. He stood, and gazed
wildly around upon them for a moment; then
his eyes turning upwards, and shewing only balls
of ghastly whiteness, he stretched forth his arms,
and fell prone upon the earth. Instantly the busy
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 97
multitude cut his girdle, scattered water upon him,
and watched, with intense anxiety, the result. Soon
he began to breathe in deep, convulsive sighs-his
eyes rolled, his limbs quivered; and gazing vaguely
around, he sat up, and made signs for w.tter. It
was given him; and instantly recovering much of
\
his vigour and vivacity, he spoke in a loud, sibilant
whisper, tidings that made the whole multitude
stand fixed like so many statues of inexpressible
wonder. He told, that so far from Jerusalem being
destroyed, God had once more made bare his arm
for its preservation; that the Assyrian monarch
and all his army at eve triumphed in the prospect of
the morrow's capture, and. uttered great, swelling
words against .the boasted God of Israel. In the
morning the whole army lay lifeless-destroyed-
utterly destroyed ! The king alone, with feeble
and dismayed troops of his servants escaped, and
was suffered to return full of shame to l1is own land.
At these awful tidings, the whole nation arose in
troubled and restless excitement. Should it be
true, who could contlln their joy? If false-l10w
cruel must be the ensuing darkness! All was agi-
tation and disquiet, ,running to and fro, and insa-
VOL. I. F
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
98 THE PILGRIMAGE
tiate inquiry. But hour after hour, day after day,
brought but additional confirmation of the terribly
joyful event; and, leaving the exiled people to this
new gleam of hope and happiness, I set forth to
visit a country so wonderful, and so dread.
I passed on, and on, but everywhere ar01md me
were hurry, confusion, and discord. The vast
empire seemed in one wide fever ofanarchy. The
destruction of the army-the unprotected weakness
of the king, seemed to have set at liberty the spirit
of a great unwieldy realm, smarting beneath the lash
of his heavy military exactions ; and sedition was
actually at work. The Medes were aiming to fling
off their unwilling allegiance : the sons of the king
looked with the murderous eyes of royal ambition
on their fallen father, and afterwards slew him with
their own hands. Everywhere were flying couriers,
careering cavalry, and strong encampments. I
passed safely through all, an_
d entered the land of
Israel. Alas! how would its exiled children have
wept, could they have seen it ! Ruin and desolation
were everywhere. The traces of former fertility
and culture-cities, terraces, reservoirs, buried in
blackness, trampled by passing armies-peopled
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF PANTIKA. 99
· _
only by wandering hordes of Idumeans. I walked
through the oncelovely land in gloom of heart, till
I beheld the lofty hills, the rock-built citadels, the
glorious_temple of Jerusalem, before me. Around,
were terrific traces of the preceding siege ; within,
even throtigh the temporary joy of this great deli-
verance, the sadness of a great people's decline was
but too visible. Yet, to me, what a city ofgladness
and desire was that ! There I wandered, over a
thousand spots celebrated in their annals for the
most marvellous and incontestible events. I con-
versed with the sages; I revelled ~ that lore which
grasps the world in its embrace, from the first morn-
ing of creation to the last night of futurity; and
which establishes the heart on the everlasting rock
of spiritual life. I sung the glorious strains of
David, as I trod his halls; I possessed myself of
boundless treasures, and departed to my native land.
Btessed be God ! I found the good Podonius
alive ! The old man fell on my neck, and wept
like a child. He had hoarded up my wealth into a
mountain. I· rejoiced him with my presence ; I
soothed his latter days with the marvels of my wan-
derings ; I laid him at peace in the tomb of his
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
100 PANTIKA.
fathers. Since then, I have built schools for the
teaching of true knowledge-the knowledge of the
Hebrews separated from their national customs
and prejudices; and I have seen these schools grow
into a renown far higher, because purer, than those
of Egypt and Athens. There, one day, shall all
my volumes be deposited.
But now, Cydna, I cease my narrative, and de-
vote my pen to the record of a few of the many
traditions that float amongst this ancient people. of
God.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
NICHAR,
THE EXILE OF HEAVEN.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
o
!g;t,zedbyGoogle
NICHAR,
THE EXILE OF HEAVEN.
CHAPTER I.
AMONGST that joyful and illlll!triolll!- troop of
angels which accompanied the Almighty in his
progress of creation, and beheld with exulting
wonder the miracles of his power, few were more
glorious, none more blessed, than Nichar. He had
floated amid the eternal and uncreated splendours
of the Divine Presence through the wilds of
space; he had seen revolving systems suddenly
burst upon the sight ; the light of suns kindle with
instantaneous, and, to all but a spirit's eye, intoler-
able radiance, and cast far and wide their beams
into the bosom of darkness and vacuity. He had
beheld comets sent flaming on their wild and
mysterious career ; and the gentler planets take
their prescribed courses around their central orbs,
like young, vast, and vigorous existences, beginning
oigi .. eabvGoogle
104 THE EXILE
their race full of harmony and rejoicing. He had
seen the pure and pellucid air wrap each beautiful
globe as with a spiritual garment; and the young .
winds, as if impatient to essay their strength, rush
triumphantly abroad, over the face of yet nameless
lands. He had seen the mighty deep spread out
its majestic bosom to the newly created rays ; roll
proudly its host of waves from pole to pole;
and send up to the throne of the Creator, the
solemn murmurs of that voice, which, through its
destined term of ages, should fill the world which
it embraced, with alternate terror and sublime
delight. He had seen mountains raise their glit-
tering heads ; valleys assume their gloom; rivers
-
and cataracts commence their thundering leaps-
their. beneficent careers; forests in all their wild
grandeur, stretch from hill to hill; a flowery ver-
dure flush, with a sunny gleam of beauty, the
face of each perfected world; and the countless
tribes of anim!lted things, at once fill creation with
the gladness of their voices, and the vivacity of
their restless forms.
He had heard the morning-stars burst into one
wide triumphal pean, and had joined it with all
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 105
his soul, as the Paternal Spirit gave to his innu-
merable worlds their perfecting touch ; gave to those
glorious habitations, the rational creatures which he
had destined for each,-creatures with natures con-
sonant to their abodes, capable of comprehending
the majesty and felicity of life, and of adoring
worthily the Universal Father. He had seen all
this, progressing with that glad celestial company,
from space to space, from world to world; and had
experienced in it a joy, equal to the amplitude of
his own being. It was not merely the display of
wisdom and of power; it was not merely the
measureless development of beauty and harmony
which he witnessed, that affected him, great and
glorious as they were, so much as the contempla-
tion of the flood of life and immortality, which was
opened in the pniverse; which should daily, hourly
-through all time, through all eternity, spread
farther, wider, strike deeper into the profundities
of boundless space; yet should every day seem
equally distant from its termination,-inasmuch as
God and the universe are alike infinite. The
human soul may glance into this awful flood of
being and duration, till it shrink back, dazzled,
E3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
106 THE EXILE
blasted with light, and bewildered with boundless-
ness : but his serene and capacious spirit looked
fearlessly abroad over the shoreless ocean, and saw,
not what the Omnipresent eye can see alone, but
far, immeasurably far beyond the strongest facul-
ties, the fleetest imagination of man, and contem-
plated the consequences of creative energy through,
to us, incalculable ages;-saw the ever-springing
and abounding fountains of intellectual life; saw
the lights and glooms of mortal actions, the clouds
and gleams of hopes and fears, of crime and virtue,
of pleasure and pain, that swept over the ocean of
existence ; and the voices of innumerable multi-
tudes of souls which yet were not, but which should
inevitably be, seemed to fill his spirit with their
sound.
Yet, as he stood upon the earth, in the radiant
circle of heavenly spirits, and beheld God form
from the dust the human pair, his heart ques-
tioned with itself, whether woman might not have
been made a more perfect creature. Why should
so lovely a being be made less vigorous in frame,
less bold and excursive in intellect, than her com-
panion? Why should she not be qualified for the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. Hl7
highest companionship, by the highest endow-
ments of physical and mental force? Why should
not a being, so splendidly gifted with beauty, be
made at once perfect ? That light form, be un-
wearied as it w-as agile-enduring as it was grace-
ful-as full of majesty as man? That, ordained
to be the inhabitant of a noble world-the com-
panion of a noble being-the mother of a mighty
and innumerable race,·-she might rejoice like an
immortal spirit in her abode ; lead on her husba}!d,
like a fair and guiding star, in the race of life,
rather than hang upon his labouring arm, a hin-
drance and a we.ight; and dwell amidst the love
and the admiration of her posterity, to far distant
generations ?
Wrapped in this fascinating speculation, the
aroiable Nichar forgot, for a brief period, all the
works of God's creative hand, all the marvels of
God's consummate wisdom, which he had seen ; the
subHme prospects which they opened to his spirit
were veiled as by a cloud, and the thought of the
present, perfectly absorbed .him. He stood amid
tl1e shadowy foliage of Paradise, by the very Tree
of Life; and so concentrated ~as his spirit upon
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
.108 THE EXILE
its object, that he heard not the jubilant shout,
and the song with which the heavenly troop hailed
the newly created pair, walking in their beauty:
he heard not the rush, saw not the flash of their
thousand wings, as they rose and soared heaven-
wards in the train of the Ineffable Splendour ; but
he stood, as if the same power which had given life
f~;nd motion to the earthly pair, had fixed him
for ever to the spot. The idea which his soul had
conceived, was brighter to him than the external
creation ; the impulse which he had allowed to
move him, became speedily strong as his own
being. He turned aside into a desert-place, be-
yond the precincts of Eden; he stooped to the
earth-he moulded a form-he breathed into it
his·o\vn br.eath : it was the work of a moment; and
it arose a living, glowing, reasoni~1g creature-the
radiant reality of his thought! He had seen the
Almighty exert the spell of life, till it was familiar
to his vision.: he had never inquired whether this
power resided in any other spirit; but he beheld
the truth now evidenced in his own unconsciou~
act, ~d he gazed in a transport of pride and joy,
on the work of his han'ds. l!er movement was to
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 109
him a dream ofdelicious wonder; the sound of her
voice, was a trance of music to his ears; her
thoughts came upon him more freshly than the
bre~zes of heaven. "Yon garden," he exclaimed,
''1s for the pair who are doubtless destined to a
confined and humble existence ;-the world, the
free, wide world be thy abode !" and he led her still
farther from the boundaries of Paradise. For awhile
he lingered to gaze upon 'her-to contemplate the
perfection of her figure, the grace of her motion,
the beauty of her countenance, the glowing purity
of her complexion, the intelligence in her glance,
the atmosphere of irresistible fascination which
surrounded her; to drink in the tones of her
thrilling voice ; to admire the wondrous and har-
monious power of thought alive within 'her; in a
word, to experience the intoxicating rapture of a
creator, who beholds for the first time the most
glorious creature which he could shape in thought,
set, by the act of his own will, livingly before
him, splendid in intellect and perfect in form.
, In another moment, awaking as from a trance,
he beheld himself alone with his fair cr~ation-the
divine company had departed from the earth :-he
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
llO THE EXILE
looked up, and beheld the last glimpse of its glory
as it neared the threshold of heaven. He followed
in the full speed of his spirit.
Already the blissful host had entered the hea-
venly abodes when he arrived. He was about to
enter ; hut alas ! he felt that his progress was
arrested by that invisible bar, which expels from
heaven every creature that is not all pure and
holy ; and that voice, which, without a sound, is
heard through the infinite expanse, pronounced in
his soul: " Nichar ! art thou wiser than the Ancient
of Days? Is thy work more perfect than that of
him who made thee ? Be thou the judge of thy
own deeds!-go, and contemplate through ages the
effects of a moment!"
At those words, he fell prostrate on the crystal
threshold of heaven, as one dead. The enormity
of his offence, which his spirit had before vainly
attempted to conceal completely from itself, now
rushed over him like a blaze of intolerable light;
the sense of all that he had lost by his guilty pre-
sumption, pierced him with an agony such as only
an immortal spirit can feel. . Lost ! lost for ever !
for ever !-his birthright-his home-his native
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. Ill
home-the precious abode of numberless ages in
heaven ! Oh ! that fair and ineffably bright land,
'!here God alone is seen in all his glory and his
goodness, face to face ! Where that eternal Efful-
gence-which, if revealed, would devour all its own
works more utterly, more swiftly than the fiercest
furnace would devour a blade of grass-moved
abroad amidst his highest and purest children, softly
and sweetly as a moonlight splendour amongst the
children of earth, and smiled upon his wise and
mighty archangels, and upon the slightest beings
of that holy place, with a paternal love and beauty
that filled every moment with ages of unspeakable
gladness. That happy land, which stretched far,
far through the vastness of eternity; most glorious
in feature, most delicious in climate ! Its moun-
tains, its flowery vales, its broad, living waters, its
groves, its perennial fields, basking in the blessed-
ness of the imperishable light; and everywhere
through its fragrant quietudes, through its gorgeous
and multitudinous cities, the heavenly people
dwelling in knowledge and love, and in that elasti-
city of spirit, which, knowing no languor, no
weariness, feels every moment the fulness of its
oigi .. eabvGoogle
112 THE EXILE
life, and looks onward through the interminable
future with triumphant delight, unknown to the
most glorious hope. What thousands of beautiful
creatures were dwelling there, with whom his soul
had entwined itself in tenderest and most animating
bonds of love,-begun with life, and strengthened
through the lapse of ennobling ages. That now-
0 misery of miseries, he had lost for ever !
For ever! for ever !-a spirit alone knows the
meaning of that word. For ever ! Cut off from
all the glowing union of pure, splendid, and sera-
phic minds ; from that boundless alliance of rejoic-
ing hearts, which heaven only- knows; banished
from the shine of God's own presence-that Sun of
suns, which ·warms the whole universe, but pours
upon the children of heaven the infinitude of its
glory. For ever was he thence expelled; and,-
horrible idea !:_for ever cast out to the communion
of the blasphemous and damned crew ! The
_thought passed through him like the two-edged
sword of judgment, and he cried aloud in the
intensity of his agony; and, clinging to the sacred
threshold, called vehemently on God for pardon.
But no answer issued from the Holy Tabernacle ;
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
I
OF HEAVEN. 113
and in the madness of despair, he prayed for anni-
hilation; but there came no reply-no winged
shaft, which should, at a stroke, scatter his spirit
into nothing. The blackness of condemnltion was
in his soul, making horrible the tempest of his tor-
tured feelings; and the heavenly messengers, stop-
ped fo;a moment as they went by in tl1eir lightning
flight, gazed on him as he lay, exclaimed, "Is
Nichar also fallen?" shuddered, trembled, and fled
on. Crushed, agonized to the limits of his mighty
nature, he lay prostrate on the sacred pavement ;
and if a spirit could die, he had then died. But
alas ! no such blessing was within his reach ; and
when he felt that he was irrecoverably lost, when
no pardon came from the father and fountain of
Love ; when not even annihilation was vouchsafed
to him, he sprang up, like a suddenly kindled
meteor, and plunged from the crystal \'erge of
heaven into the abyss of space.
Downward and desperately he precipitated him-
self headlong, in that wild fury of heart which
would fain hurst away from its own misery, when
lo ! he beheld himself near the earth, the scene of
his fatal temptation, and it instantly occurred to
•
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
114 THE EXILE
him to enter and destroy the cause of his ruin. It
was the hardest sacrifice that pride could make to
duty; but might there not be a ray qf hope in the
deed ? When the cause of offence was removed,
might not the offence he forgiven? Would God,
so gracious, so full of loving-kindness to millions of
.
beings, keep his wrath for ever, when that which
caused it was no more ? When the soul that had
sinned, hastened to obliterate ·the sinful work ;
when the heart which had for ages partaken of his
love, with the speediest and most unshrinking de-
votion, rushed to demolish its fondest idol, to lay
itself once more prostrate at the footstool of that
Goodness, which it had wounded rather by a mo-
mentary forgetfulness, than by premeditated evil-
could there be no relenting? Oh ! might this
boon be won ; were it only through centuries of
painful penance, how gladly would he undergo it !
He entered the wilderness where he had left
Lilith,• for so he had named the living work of his
hands. He sought her with feelings that warred
• The Jews have preserved the name of this being in their
traditions, but erroneously attribute her creation to God, and
make her the first wife of Adam.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 115
-
mightily in him. The tenderness, the far more
than tenderness of a parent towards his child, drew
him towards his beautiful creation, and filled him
with bitter anguish; but the loss of God's favour,
the anger of the beneficent framer of all happy
spirits, penetrated him with far deeper feelings,
and steeled him .to the most desperate firmness.
" She shall die !" he exclaimed, " she shall die !
though she be more beautiful than Zumiela, the
fairest shape of heaven ; more spiritual than a
seraph, more tender than a cherub, that daily dips
its wings in the ancient fountain of love. And,
oh God ! blot out her memory with her life ! "
He beheld as he spoke, the object of his search
before him. There was a deep valley. From a
wild and desolate chaos of mountains, rushed down
a roaring, foaming torrent, and, reaching the bot-
tom of the dell, spread itself out into a fair lake.
Rocks run at a little distance from its southern
bank, and trees spread their arms from the crest of
the cliffs towards the water, forming a living
canopy to the green margin beneath. There Ni-
char beheld Lilith radiant in her beauty, and
evidently pleased with the reflection of her image
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
116 THE EXILE
in the lake ; but what was his astonishment to ob-
serve her surrounded by a troop of ministering
spirits, busily employed in paying homage to her
charms, crowning her with flowery garlands, and
dancing around her with the most lively gestures,
to the sound of the most voluptuous music.
He knew instantly that they were not celestial
natures. God's children would not approach a
being for whose creation a great Spirit was exiled
from heaven ; and rapid as is the intelligence of
immortal essences, he was sure that already the
tidings of his deed and of his fall, were known ill
the farthest corners of the universe. He knew they
could not be such, though they wore distantly their
semblance, and as he drew near he saw through
their assumed beauty and brightness, the scars and
the tarnish of hell ; he 8aw on their plumes the
indelible evidences of the indestructible fires ; he
saw the air of that misery which no disguise can
conceal, no bravery subdue, no affectation of mirth
obliterate ; and he traced on their brows the brand
ofthat malignancy, that burning bitterness ofheart,
which must for ever writhe under the memory of
crushed ambition-shattered glory-lost felicity,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 117
and seek to vent itself in maledictions on God, and
in the perdition of his creatures. He gazed on them
in astonishment and indignation ~ astonishment at
their audacity, which had led them to invade thus
early and fearlessly this newly-created world; and
indignation that they should presume to claim
fellowship with a life which he had designed to be
so perfect and glorious. But if they regarded not
God, were they likely to. reverence himself? He
marched hastily towards them, to drive them from
their prize ; to his astonishment they beheld him
not with fear, but with joy. At once they raised
a wild cry, clapped their hands in exultation, and
advanced rapturously to receive him. " Welcome,
Nichar ! welcome, mighty angel ! welcome, thou
noble friend and benefactor !" they exclaimed.
" Thou hast opened to us a new and magnificent
world, and hast placed in it a fair creature, worthy
of our love and adoration. Welcome from the
slavery of Heaven to the free hearts of the free
rangers of creation ! Thou hast extended our
regions; thou hast boldly stretched out thy hand~
and formed a new creature for our pleasure; thou
art worthy to be a prince and a leader amongst us.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
liS THE EXILE
Welcome, Nichar ! welcome, mighty angel ! to the
world which we might have panted after in vain
but for thee. Long had we watched its growth
and progress to perfection ; long had we hovered
round it, and yearned to alight upon it ; to cool our
burning feet on its fresh bosom; to bathe our tor-
tured temples in its cool gales: but the spell of the·
starry tyrant was upon it, his invisible chain was
around it, and we looked and longed in vain. Thou
hast dared to shiver the chain; to annihilate the
ban, and we are here to welcome and follow
thee!"
Had the God ·of heaven appeared before the con-
founded angel, and cast upon him some new sense
of his anger, he could not have been more blasted
and dismayed. He stood like a gigantic statue of
exquisite form; pale as the chiselled marble; silent
as death; his large eyes fixed stonily; his hand
upon his brow, and ~is strong, angelic faculties
plunged into the confused and whirling wildness of
a delirious dream. Slowly his consciousness re-
~umed ; slowly he saw where he was; recalled what
he had seen and heard; and felt in his spirit a
gathering passion of amazement, agony, and re-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 119
morse, than which hell itself could afford no more
terrible commingling of pain. He saw the wide
waste and ruin of his deed. He saw its awful and
immeasurable consequences coming rapidly upon
the world which he had marred. Never before,
though he had beheld the monstrous war which had
whirled chaos through the lovely realms of heaven,
and had hung over the hideous gulph which swal-
lowed up in its howling depths of struggling flame
and darkness, the rebellious legions,-never before
had the yawning and disastrous gates of death and
destruction,-vice in its loathsomeness and fearful-
ness,-misery in its sickening vastness, stood open
before him thus wide and terrible. He !-he ! had
set open their infernal portals ! He ! unhappy
wretch ! had thus scathed in its infancy the bright
creation of God. He who had for ever shrunk
back with abhorrence from the diabolical natures,
had thus given to their swarming myriads free
charter-had thrown open to them the full range ·
of earth, and made all its coming generations the
prey of their insatiate and indefatigable evil. Well,
he thought, might the vengeance of God burn
against him ! justly the gates of mercy be im-
120 THE EXILE
moveably closed ! He had thrown the brand of
wickedness and rebellion upon earth, and it must
be his destiny to see it shoot forth its fires in ten
thousand terrible and devastating forms.
The overwhelming misery of Nichar's spirit
nothing but such a spirit can know. H~ groaned,
and_ sickened through the farthest depths of his
soul, and turned to escape from the fiery scourge of
his own thought; but there was no hope-no peace·
-no escape;- eternity was before-vengeance
behind; and pain, and evil, and remorse, moulded
into the very vitality of his being.
But the rage of his agony gave him power. He
rushed furiously upon the demonian troop, and
attempted. to snatch Lilith from among them. It
was vain ! They closed fearlessly and firmly round
her, and he beheld her smile upon them in cordial
approbation. He had given her splendid gifts,
he had clothed her with beauty like a star ; he
' had endowed her with smiles and words, whose
fascinations had strange 'might even upon spirits, •
and with the sagacity of an angel; but he had not
given her, what in his seditious act was not his to
bestow-the spirit of goodness. She was made to
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 121
be a glittering, but disastrous meteor. ·To scatter
'
contagious fire amongst men ; a radiant creature,
whom to behold was to worship; and whose wor-
ship was intoxication, discord, and death. Nichar
saw in a few moments most wounding and humi-
liating evidences of this. He call~d upon her to
come forth from amongst those lost spiritS to her
own maker, but she smiled contemptuously on him,
and said :-" Art thou my maker? If thou art, why
do I not remember it? But I know it not. I am,
and I have been as I am, to my thinking, for ever.
I found myself as thou, and these-but who made
us? Is it necessary that we should have been made?
To my thought we are immortal as this fair world,
and as the stars above us. But I seek thee not-
why seekest thou me? Thou art stern, and dark,
and furious-these are gentle, and kind, and happy.
They love me-why should I leave them? If thou
wilt join them, do me hom~ as they; but, if not,
depart !-and if thou hast made me, what hinders
that thou mayest make others like me for thysolace?"
She ceased, and looked round upon her worship-
pers with smiles that were expectant of applause-
and she received it,-the whole company shouted_
\'OL. I. G
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
12"2 THE EXILE
and clapped their hands for joy. But Nichar,
burning with the agon.y of his tortured feelings,
rushed once more forward to seize her. It was as
vain as before. Hundreds were now around her.
A host confronted him, blazing out in all their
hideous aspects, and gigantic, native statures, and
brandishing those meteor-swords which had been
terrible in heaven. He rushed impetuously upon
them, but felt at once that God was no longer with
him ; no longer that power which had enabled him
to sweep down whole ranks before him, dwelt in
his arm; he was hurled back as by the stroke of an
arbalast, and amidSt the hellish laughter of his foes,
I
stood overwhelmed by grief and shame. At once,
he beheld the infernal crew resuming their. heavenly
semblance, rise from the earth in a dense phalanx ;
a golden cloud instantly rolled i~elf into the midst
of them, and, enthroning Lilith upon it, they
sailed majestically away to the sound of triumphal
music, which they bad learned of old in the Happy
Land, and which transfixed Nichar in this moment
of sorrow and degradation, with the most melting
and agonizing memories.
The forlorn angel stood, at that instant, the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 123
most miserable of all created beings. The universe
had nothing to shew in its darkest, or its direst
regions, that could bear a compar~on in wretched-
ness with him. The fierce pride and blasphemous
rage of the damned, steeled them in degree to.
endurance, and even to a something resembling
. victory over their pains; but far was Nichar from
such desperate consolations. An exile, a reluctant
exile from heaven, where his heart and liis memory
only lingered, he was a creature utterly solitary
in his crime, his doom, and his sorrows. There
was no congenial nature to partake his destiny, to
whisper words of pitying love and of encourage-
ment; he had offended God, but every feeling of
his soul refused to rebel against him ; the fallen
spirits offered for him no fellowship, they were in
his eyes totally abhorrent, fearful, and disgusting;
and the very being to whom he had given life,
identified herself with these detested spirits, and
appeared destined to fill him with perpetual and
accumulating griefs. The evil ones had evidently
seized upon her as the ~entral object of their-
intrigues and delusions upon earth. From her,
and consequently from him, were to be made to
,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
124 THE EXILE
flow all the vices and horrors with which they
would affiict mankind. Already the world was in
their possession, and the human pair-at the
thought of them a sudden pang passed t~rough
him, and a fearful question of what might already
be their fate. Had these ruinous and ·malicious
beings succeeded in injuring or deluding them?-
for nothing was more certain than that they would
assail them by every art and power, and fearful
was the chance of unsuspicious innocence, and
inexperience, · against the subtlest and cruelest
enemies of the world-of happy and noble natures,
against the vile and desperate. He trembled at
the idea; and half forgetful of his sorrows, hastened
towards Eden to learn how it went with them. A
very little time shewed him the truth. He beheld
afar off the cloudy and flaming terrors that sur-
mounted the gates of Paradise; he saw the stern
and fiery countenances, and flickering swords of the
cherubims of judgment; and soon discovered the
dejected parents of men in a situation, how dif-
ferent from their garden-home ! They had taken
up their abode in the open wilderness. By the
margin of a rivt>r, beneath a spreading tree, Adam
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 125
was at.tempting to construct a sort of shed of reed~
and boughs to protect them from 'the cold nightly
dews which fell here, and from the scorching noon
sun, which burned up the ve~etation around. Eve
was returning from the heath, laden with wild
flowers, which she had rooted up from the desert
turf, and was bringing homewards in a large lotus
leaf. Their fine forms were disfigured by being
wrapped in shaggy skins, and a shade Md passed
over that joyous beauty which was once theirs.
Adam pursued his labour silently, and with a
melancholy look; and Eve, as she planted her
flowers around their dwelling, and strove to dispose
them in the most tasteful order, evidently was
thinking of the bowers, the glorious blossoms, the
ric~ spontaneous fruits of the lost Eden, for as she
stooped over her drooping plants, .she watered
them with her tears.
The scene was too much for Nichar-these were
his works. To him they owed their toils and
sorrows,-toil full of bitterness, sorrow full of fear
of its future increase,-he fled.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
126 THE EXILE
CHAPTER II.
" Oa ! for some desolate region," Nichar exclaimed,
inwardly, "where I might at least be spared the
pain of witnessing what I long in vain to redress !"
The bright summits of the distant mountains caught
his eye, and he directed his course thitherward.
They were regions desolate enough, even for his
wish. High and higher, far and farther he as-
cended, amidst crags, chasms, and nodding pre-
cipices, till he beheld before him a wide ocean,
as it were, of peaks stretched in every direction,
and all wrapped in the whiteness of eternal winter.
There was neither tree nor shrub, nor the voice
of any bird, nor the foot-prints of any beast. ·
Heavy rocks stooped here and there over narrow,
frozen glens ; in some places natural pyramids, and
sharp taper obelisks shot up high into the clear, cold
heavens; in others, stupendous precipices, reared
themselves in opposition, till their foreheads nearly
met in tl1e gloom of their own deep shadows ;
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 127
and dark rents, which seemed unfathomable, were
horrid with dependent ice, and the sound of falling
waters. In the calmest moments a wind sighed
and moaned amongst the hills, and ever and anon
came blustrous tempests, that filled the whole
region as with thunder, and wrapped everything
in a black chaos of clouds and fiercely-driving
hail. By day, the sun shot down his naked rays
fiercely, and the snows rushed in melted and
resounding torrents down the dells and abysses;
but night came, and frost, with a sudden and iron
grasp, checked every stream, hushed every sound,
·and the moon and stars in resplendent beauty,
sailed over realms as silent as their own. It was
a region to have appalled and subdued the stoutest
human spirit, and to have aroused a longing after
human society in the soul of the saddest misan-
thrope, could human life have there existed ; but
Nichar had within him, a desolation which made
all without dim and insensible. The spirit of self-
accusation was in his soul like an undying fire,-
batlled hopes clung round him like adamantine
chains-and despair, with a dull and consuming
weight, pressed upon his soul, and rendered him
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
128 THE EXILE
feeble as a dying man. At times he would sit
day and night, for the space of a moon, on some
lofty crag, as if contemplating the scene below,
but unconscious of its presence. At times he
threw himself into a chill cavern which overlooked
a horrible abyss, that swallowing a mighty torrent,
sent up an eternal dissonance and vapour. Thus,
in the deadly lassitude of demolished hope, or
when his spirit awoke to some more lively per-
ception of its·energies, in vain dreams of all he
once enjoyed, and an equally vain labour of his
faculties to strike out some scheme to which hope
might link itself and arouse him to his fondest
object,-the destruction of Lilith,-days, weeks,
months, and years passed away. At length he
once more shook from his wings the lethargy that
had so long oppressed them, and in the strength,
not of exultation, but of despair, he bent his flight
to the lower earth.
He speedily saw that striking changes had been
wrought in the wi>rld, since he last gazed on it.
Dense and shaggy forests had spread themselves
over immense regions. The inferior animals had
multiplied by thousands, and peopled air, water,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 129
and field. The clang and cries of birds, the roar
and bellowing of beasts, everywhere resounded.
Many-coloured wings flitted amongst the tree-
tops ; the wild ass, the horse, and striped zebra, in
untamed troops, scoured the hills and plains, and
the lordly elephant moved in calm majesty through
the woods. But evil ! evil was amongst them !
There was blood and oppression, the roar of
devouring rage, the shriek or' the suffering victim
everywhere : and Nichar ·knew that the curse of
his deed was going on in its strength.
He again beheld the human habitation. It had
assumed a more cheerful and home-like aspect.
Climbing plants had hidden the reeds, and over-
grown them with beauty and blossoms. The more
gentle creatures had congregated around it, as if
they retained their primal allegiance to man. The
milk-white dove, like an !!mblem of purity and
domestic affection, basked upon its roof; the
swallow made its nest there, and twittered as with
the voice of contentment; beasts of various kinds
reposed in the fields around; and, sporting with
the kid and the lamb on the heath, he beheld the
first two children of the mce-creatures fair as the
G3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
130 THE EXILE
cherubim of heaven. Could he have banished from
his bosom all prescience and reflection, over these ·
he would have wept tears of joy, and have lingered
near them .with a feeling of reviving happiness ;
but he knew too well, what woe and change hung ·
over them ! He knew how the leaven of darkness
would mould their forms and natures into some-
thing widely different ·to what they then were.
How from those. 11oft and blooming germs, must
spring stems of ruggedness-hardness that would
inflict-or gentleness that must suffer evil; and he
turned away in bitterness, that his deed could blast
things lovely and happy as these.
He beheld Adam come forth to his morning
sacrifice. Time had yet made no sensible change
in his person, except conferring a deeper gravity
of aspect ; but in his fallen state, he still walked
erect as the lord of the world ; and his stately·
tread-his majestic frame and countenance-his
locks, that shook their crisped gold upon his ample
shoulders, were kingly. Eve followed, glowing
in matronly beauty, and with looks of reverence
and regard, that proved that the fall had not been
able to alienate the first affections of the pair.
o; ,;. byGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 131
Nichar gazed on them with wonder and admi-
ration. The father of men stood and raised his
noble countenance to heaven·
; the universal mother
knelt by the altar of turf,-her figure bending in
the most graceful attitude, and her face hidden
by her affluent locks, that fell in a cloud to the -
ground. The sun ascended the eastern sky and
cast his freshest beams on them, on the dewy earth,
and on the woods around, loud with the matin
melodies of birds. It was a beautiful and an
animating picture, and the silent angel was ready
to exclaim-" Evil has yet achieved no important
victory over these happy beings !" When, how-
ever, Adam lifted up his voice to God, the spirit
of thankfulness and of fervent piety gave a solemn
eloquence to his tongue, but ~hese were soon lost
in prayers for he1p and comfort ; help against the
indefatigable malice of the tempter-against the
continual failings and feelings of his own corrupted
nature ! and for comfort to his spirit, assailed by
bitter memories from the past, and fears and
despondence from the future-by fears of death
here, and of deluded hopes in the hereafter.
While the first man uttered these melancholy
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
132 THE EXIL£
aspirations, and every moment grew more and
more vehement in supplication, Nichar cast his
eyes to the ground, and beheld Eve fallen pros-
trate at the foot of the altar, her hands wreathed
wildly in her hair, and her whole frame trembling
with the agitation ofwretchedness-.
It was here !-he beheld it I His work had not ·
missed its effect. Misery had made man his
certain prey. The light and glory of his life
were gone-he was a creature of fear and mortat
care. Calmness might assume its place on his
brow, but it had no security, or permanent abode
there : passion and pain soon hurled it from iw
station-the barb was stiH in the wounded heart,
and would rankle for ever !
The weeping and self:.accusing angel turned
away•. His woe admitted of no aggravation,-tO'
have lost' his own happi.pess, and have destroyed
that of a world, were his crime and his doom; the
only pooo- consolation yet left ·him, was to fly from
the presence of the evil which he had awoke, but
had no power to arrest,-he fled.
He pursued his flight indifferent to its direction ;
his thoughts were in the scene which he had wit-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 133
nessed; but presently his attention was aroused
by the appearance of an angel whom he beheld
rapidly careering in the distance. Another and
another followed. At the first view they appeared
spirits of heaven, but he quickly recognised them
as belonging to the fallen legions. He observed,
too, that more every moment shewed themselves in
the same track, issuing from or speeding to one
point in the horizon. In that direction, he felt
persuaded, lay the place of their resort-the place
whither they bad conveyed Lilith. An instant, an
irresistible desire seized him to discover it. As
his only means of effecting his design, he took the
hated form and aspect of one of the accursed tribe
.
-the assumed shape of heaven, which they were
proud to .wear, but which shewed through it the
traces of internal ruin. He loathed the disguise,-
he would fain have nought in common with the
detested race ; but could he effect through it the
destruction ~f their pernicious prize-of Lilith,
he deemed it cheaply won.
It was near sunset, when, as he reached the
I
summit of a lofty chain <Jf hills, he beheld, at once,
below him, a mighty and most magnificent city:
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
134 THE EXILE
It occupied the whole area of a wide, delicious
valley, round which the hills on which he rested,
ran in a fine but irregular sweep, leaving at the
east an opening through which a great river, after
having trav~rsed the city in a multitude of separate
streams, rolled its re-united waters. The walls,
which glowed in the last rays of the west, like
molten gold, were of a stupendous height, crowned
at intervals with towers, and stretched along the
feet of the hills in a sinuous ·circuit of twenty
leagues. It was a city, calculated by its rupplitude
and splendour, for the capital of the world. Within,
palaces and temples of glorious aspect and vast
•
dimensions. were seen, scattered amidst the most
delightful gardens, groves, flowery fields, and
gleaming waters ; around it, the mountains sloped
away in many wild and beautiful forms, exhibiting
open, heathy tracts, deep glens, dark forests, and
every feature that can attract the eye and the
imagination ; while the very heavens, as if emulous
to do honour to so noble a city, glowed westward
one wide flush of crimson ; and its clouds, resting
their extremities on the glittering peaks of the -
mountains, stretched through the blue concave in
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 135
vaulted lines and masses of tumultuous, billowy,
and fretted gold, of the intensest lustre and of
various hues, - a gorgeous and indescribable
canopy!
As Nichar gazed upon it, in sad and boding
wonder, a passing spirit alighted, and fixed upon
him a regard full of surprise and · curiosity.
" Whence comest thou, mel_
ancholy spirit?" he
said advancing, "f9r I recognise thee not. Yet,
methinks thou art one of our race, and shouldst
not therefore be all unknown."
" It matters little," Nichar replied, "who I am,
it is enough that I am wretched. Canst thon give
me rest?"
" Rest! Are not thine eyes, even now, on the
city of rest ?" he asked.
" I see a city," said Nichar, "but I know not
whether rest be there-I know not even its name."
" Knowest thou not its name !" exclaimed the
spirit in the highest surprise, " then ~ I say,-
who art thou? Art thou from the Fiery Land,
and hast thou no~ heard of Ukinim, the city of the
bricks of gold? Hast thou trodden the burning
soil of Tartarus, and sighed for ages to escape to
. .
''9'' JbyGoogle
136 THE EXIL'E
some more temperate clime, and didst not hear
that triumphant acclaim which resounded through
the dolorotis regions,-that earth, the new, the
fair, the delightful earth was ours? Didst thou
not• hear it? Didst thou not echo it, with a
million of roices, that with one sudden and astound·
ing shout, burst wide the gates of torture, and
gave egress to ten thousand uncontrolable spirits,
that with frantic avidity fled forth at the glorious
tidings? Wast thou not one? Canst thou be
but newly arrived? Hast thou wandered far into
some obscure corner of the universe, and hast not
heard ; but what nook is so obscure, so distant,
that the glad news has not reached.? The wingless
and unwieldy natures of the fiery deeps,-those vast
monsters which are pllinged into the molten floods
of pain, to make torment more horrible,-lift up
their dragon heads, and fill hell with their hideous
cries, at the d~cription of these delicious abodes.
How, I ask thee again, art thou a stranger here?"
" I am not ignorant of this," said Nichar,-
'' these tidings have not escaped me. I have heard
too of Lilith; dwells she not here?"
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 137
"Yes," said the spirit, "seest thou not the
august fabric which crowns the central mount of
the city ? Seest thou not its glittering roof, its
fair front, its long colonnades, its groves and
. .
gardens that stretch far down the slope ?-that is
her abode, her palace, and her temple. Thou
hast not seen her ? Thou shalt see her in all her
beauty. The fairest thi~g that ever yet was
formed ! She was the work of an angel. Let
the despot of heaven boast no more of his omni-
.
potent skill ! An angel has moulded the most
glorious of created beings; and God-a jealous
God, well doth he call himself-has expelled him
from heaven. Thou shalt see her ! There sh~
·dwells in her radiant loveliness. There also stands
her image, fair as herself, though but a lifeless
marble, ready to receive the homage of mankind-
that one day shall pour in thousands through
these gates. Yes ! her charms, moulded in the
similitude of their race, but infini!ely transcending
those of the w~man, or those·of all her daughte_
rs
yet tO be; shall lead the whole tribe captive. They
are ours, yes, even before they are born ! We
shall be their gods ! Already a thousand temples
[•9•- jb,Google
138 THE EXILE
are in Ukinim, each tenanted with the marble or
molten image of our chiefs ; each standing with
open portals; and men shall enter and worship.
Wouldst thou win a shrine ? Be bold, and thou
mayesL But come, let us enter, and see how
fair Uk,inim is."
At once they stretched their wings and descended.
As they approached, :Nichar was impressed with .
increasing astonishment. ' The walls were lofty, as
though they would defy all but spiritual ingress, and
massy as if built for eternity. The bricks, of solid
and refulgent gold, were such as men with all their
science could not raise. The gates were of sheeted
adamant, set in a heavy frame-work of embossed
gold, and imbedded in pondrous towers of the same
precious metal. Their opening was like the re-
moving of a mountain, but effected with the har-
monious ease of the lightest wicket: But when
they entered, how enchanting was the effect ! In-
numerable flowers, of wonderful forms and colours,
filled .the air with their balmy odour; the fig, the
vine, the date, and pa!m, exhibited every where
their luxuriant forms, and a thousand other beau-
teous trees showered their blossoms on the path,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 139
and extended their fruits to the hand; ·fountains
were seen scattering their silvery waters on fair
lawns, and the most exquisite statues discovered
the~elves at every turn.
Round the whole city ran a broad terrace of
white marble, so broad that a nation might ~k
there, leading on the one hand by flights of easy
steps up to the towers on the wall, and on the other
by similar ones down into the gardens .and groves
of the city, which from this elevation lay in one
wide view of beauty and magnificence. Fountains
,and statuary adorned the terrace through its whole
extent, and the softest breezes reached it with their ·
inspiriting freshness. It was a work on which the
eye of Nichar, although accustomed to the architec-
ture of heaven, rested with the deepest wonder.
But the wonder was increased when he turned to
the city itself. It was a city of palaces! Vast
chains of those splendid buildings stretched far as
the· eye could reach, overlooking the lo~eliest
scenes; but the far greater number were situated
each in the midst of its own paradise. Magnificent
arcades, formed of columns of surprising loftiness
and ofthe richest material and workmanship, formed
,...
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
140 THE EXILE
imposing approaches to many, keeping the spec-
tator, as he advanced, in equal admiration of their
own nobility, and ofthe varied openings which pre-
sented themselves on either hand into delicious
gardens, lawns beautified by the choicest creations
of the sculptor, and cool, shadowy labyrinths of
wood and copse. The structures the~elves were
of various species of marblC-the roofs uniformly
of burnished gold; colonnades and peristyles whose
towering columns were of pure sardonyx or sa-
phire, adorned their fronts, and bore pediments and
freizes where the most animated groups were
. wrought in bas-relief. Within, the scene of luxu-
rious splendour was marvellous. Halls of imperial
amplitude presented on all sides paintings in which,
to the truth and vivacity of life, were added the
richness of imagination, and the intensest interest
of extraordinary events. We gaze iri. enchantmeni
on the works of our fellow men, and are ready to
deify those whose hands have portrayed scenes in
which we live a higher life than that of earth,
and gather feelings and aspirations that lift us to-
wards more intellectual worlds: but here the artists
were amongst the highest intelligences of God's
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN; 141
formation ; they had seen, themselves, in the h~aven
of heavens, those mysterious shapes of loveliness
and grandeur which enter only feebly into the
dreams of men ; they had been themselves agents
in tb~ mighty events which they recorded, and
limned them with the pencils of an immortal regret.
They were the wars of heaven ;-faithful in their
enchanting scenery, but ingeniously disposed so as
to develope all the heroic strength and daring, but '
to conceal the defeat of those who fell. Nichar
wandered from scene to scene in a dream of wonder
and memory. At every step he encountered forms
and features, which were now lost for ever to bea·
ven; fallen, darkened, and disfigured by woe and
evil passions, or which still blooming in heaven,
were for ever lost to him. Oh ! spirits of ancient
friendship ! divine creatures of his everlasting at-
tachment ! how his eye fixed itself on their celestial
lineaments, beaming with benignity and bliss, and
refused to withdraw till the sense of the gulf be- ·
tween them rushed upon him ; and he groaned
bitterly, and passed on. When he turned his gaz·e
from these, it was met on all sides by cltiselled
forms, which be recognised as wholly belonging to
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
142 THE EXILE
the fallen race. There they stood, imaged in their
primeval beauty, without one trace of the scathing
thunder, or one withering stain. Nichar gazed in
trembling amazement at the audaoity of their pre-
sumption. One arch-rebel had even assumed the
li~htnings of the Most High; others had clothed
themselves in the attributes of strength, wisdom, or
benevolence; all bore the insignia of godhead a~d
dominion; forms that in after ages won the worship
of wisest nations, and spread their power and re-
nown through the earth.
A strain of wild music suddenly awoke? and
Nichar started from the reverie, into which these
objects had thrown him, to behold a scene of the
most magical fascination. A thousand brilliant
lamps filled with splendour those superb halls, .and
cast their blaze, like stars, upon those transparent
floors of ruby or amethyst; where he who trod be-
held his reflection below him as in a mirror; around
him numberless spirits, in glorious shapes, went to
and fro, in sportive or eager converse, and through
a lofty, open door, he saw various groups, dancing
to the eound of that music which had startled him.
Without, gleamed_far and wide innumerable lights,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 143
diffusing a fairy splendour over the gardens and
bosky walks, where creatures, as apparently happy
as they were beautiful, were enjoying the evening
coolness, and the fresh flowery odours that belong
to it. It was a spectacle to deceive all but a spirit
-it deceived not Nichar; he saw in it the maniac
mirth that laughs in the grasp of perdition, and
wears only the semblance of happiness that it may
destroy its reality in others. He felt a sense of
guilt in lingering amongst them ; but he thought of
Lilith, and determined to proceed. He ascended
the mount of her abode. He surveyed that abode
with wonder still more excited;-it was the perfec-
tion of spiritual workmanship ; and her image,
placed in her voluptuous shrine, was so living a
resemblance, that he was near rushing upon it to
strike it to the ground for herseTr. But she !-
who can describe the enchantments of her inner-
most pavilion, and of herself? There, amidst
..every miracle of art which the .mo8t subtle and
ingenious spirits could execute-in an apartment
furnished for luxurious ease, with every combina-
tion of silken softness' and imperial grandeur which
the loftiest and most refined beings could sigh for,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
144 THE EXILE
or cQmmand, sate that refulgent and voluptuous
figure, worshipped in after ages at a thousand
shrines with passionate devotion, as the goddess of
Beauty and Love. Innumerable spirits thronged
around, ready with unwearied zeal to spread before
her the luxuries of every clime, and to solace her
with music and the incense of flatteries and sighs.
By night, they guarded the apartment of her repose
with sleepless vigilance, and in forms of living fire;
by day, when she issued abroad into her luxurious
gardens, or trod majestically the cool pavement of
some breezy colonnade, they attended her in
various guises : some, as great and gallant spirits;
some, as light and laughing nymphs; and others,
sporting before her as winged and infantine
cherubim ; or mounting her gorgeous bark, to the
sound of triumphal music, they spread their purple
sails, and glided in dreaming luxury through the
fair scenery which the great river commanded !
Such was this dazzling creature-such the mode
of her existence. Even Nichar could not avoid
the admiration which her presence excited, but it
was fraught with no feeling of attachment or of
homage. He llad suffered too severely for her
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 145
sake ; he had seen too clearly the determined evil
of her nature ; he,beheld with too deep and indig~
nant a sentiment, the ruinous lure which through
her was spread for mankind. A fixed and deadly
purpose possessed his soul, which these scenes
only seemed to strengthen ; it was to strike at
once, and for ever, this fair mischief from the
earth. She was moulded of dust, and therefore
partook of mortality,-but she was surrounded by
watchful and unclosing eyes. Day and night he
waited anxiously for some moment of incaution,
but in vain. He mingled in the crowd that sur-
rounded her, but he came not too near, for he
disdained to bow his head before her ; he could
launch an arrow from some shadowy nook, but
numberless hands, with the speed of lightning,
would dart fo~th to snatch it ere it reached her,
and all hell would turn upon him, and overwhelm
him with vengeance for his vainly attempted deed.
Days, months, years, he followed his object with
invincible patience and admirable art, but it
brought him no nearer to his aim; whilst it every _
day became inore and more arduous. His melan-
choly aspect often caught the quick eyes of the
VOL. I. H
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
146 THE EXILE
spirits of evil. It did not escape them, that he
failed to adore their idol. Th~ir suspicions were
awoke, and many eyes were on him when he ob-
served them not ; yet he felt that he was an object
of distrust, and knew not how soon they might
penetrate his intention. It was necessary to be at
once circumspect and resolved. His object was
dear to his soul as heaven itself, but it must be
speedily accomplished, or abandoned fQl' ever. He
was consumed by inexpressible anxiety. Still he
watched, and waited, and hoped in vain. The
same pageants were before him, the same eyes
around; but not a moment came, in which he might
dare his attempt with probability of success, though
he himself were overwhelmed with the whole
weight of infernal vengeance. At length, such an
instant seemed his. Unexpectedly-suddenly it
came upon him. As he entered a grotto in the
gardens of Lilith, about noon, he saw a figure
reposing in the shade. It was her's ! in all her
glowing beauty !-She lay, and slept !-He stood
during a moment of suspicious wonder;-it was
she ! and no creature near- not one attendant
!iOpirit-not one living and vigilant eye! · It was a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 147
crisis not to be lost,-he darted towards her, and
grasped her throat with the energy of unutter-
able hate. Her features darkened-they changed !
-her wild eyes flashed open with a dreadful glare,
and instead of Lilith's, the hideous visage of Mel-
drec, the most cunning and malignant of the
fiendish crew, was fixed on him with a sneer of
triumphant scorn and rage. He recoiled from the
detested vision ! he relaxed his grasp,-and the
fiend, starting up in his own stature and likeness,
uttered a laugh, whose infernal horror woke a mul-
titude of echoes diabolical as itself. "Traitor !"
he exclaimed, " have I unmasked thee ? And now
thou shalt pay the price of thy temerity and de-
ceit !" A moment, and the whole tribe would be
upon him. At one bound, Nichar cleared the
adjoining wall, shot from the city, and darted with
all the velocity of his nature into the depths- of
space. Shame, disappointment, cruel and irreme-
diable disappointment, stung him to madness, aod
gave impetus to his wing. Another moment, and
a host of infuriated spirits swept like a dark cloud
over the walls of Ukinim, and pursued him with
the impetuosity ·of hate. The strife was keen, and
J48 THE EXILE ·
arduous, and uncertain. The most powerful pas~
sions, both in pursuers and pursued, urged them
on. But Nichar reeked little for their malice;
fiercer tormentors than they, were in his bosom;
be was a mighty angel, and perhaps, though he
deemed himself adandQned, heaven might.favour
h~ flight :-he prevailed ! His implacable foes
returned to earth, and he, abjuring it in his soul
for ever, pursued his solitary flight through space.
CHAPTER III.
IT was a melancholy journey on which Nichar
was bound. In the earth which he left, hope had
abandoned him; in the ten thousand worlds which
lay before him, it dwelt not for him. His spirit,
perpetually mourning over its error, and its tre-
mendous consequences, had exerted all its powers,
called forth all its ingenuity, consumed .all its
prayers to quench the evil which it had elicited;
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 149
but it had now assumed a shape and vigour which
mocked his individttal efforts. It was not for him to
cope with united hell ; and God shrouded himself
in inexorable silence. Earth therefore offered to
him but despair and its worst agonies; and the
wide world-peopled universe, what did it promise?
the melancholy liberty of the restless spirit, which,
wrung with its internal and ever-urging pain,
" seeketh rest but findeth it not." He sped on-
and as he winged his way across the mighty flood
of eternity, and beheld his form imaged in its-
silent depths, he was struck with horror at the
change which woe and despair had wrought in
him. That high and glorious form which he wore
in the glad land of heaven, now floated onward
like a dim and waning meteor; and his grief-
darkened countenance, changed as that of a spirit
· of evil, was the saddest sight in nature, since its
expression was not that of malignancy, but woe.
He involuntarily shrunk back from his course-
that star, towards which he was advancing, though
beaming at the distance of many million leagues,
appeared already too near. On what light and
happy coast would he dare to shew that melancholy
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
150 THE EXILE
ruin of a form ? What had he to do with sun-
shine, and the sounds of contented existence?
No! some dismal glob~, some chaos of death and
silence, would be more welcome objects. He
turned aside, pursued another course, and anon
descried a faint orb glimmering before him. He
approached. It was a dreary and lifeless object ;
a globe covered with an universal sea. No moun-
tains broke its surface, no island~ studded its watery
bosom, no creatures were visible in its mighty
depths,-it was a regular, but unanimated sphere.
But Nichar saw that the presence of God was
there; his spirit hovered over it, preparing it for
the future abode of life. Anon it reeled, as with
some mighty but unseen stroke; a low, hollow
murmur came as from its heart. Its waters, one
moment motionless as a mirror, the next were
hurried to and fro, and became covered with a
dark foam. Louder, more threatening sounds,
like internal thunders, broke from the bosom of
the labouring globe ; it shuddered and staggered,
as if its huge frame was rent with convulsive
pangs. Its waves were thrown against the very
heavens; louder and wilder became the internal
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 151
roar of wrath, till with one astounding explosion,
rocks, Barnes, tempests of smoke and darkness,
rushed up from the very depths of the waters into
the sky, with the most horrible and indescribable
combination of all furious and raging sounds. The
whole frame o( the planet seemed shattered at a
stroke. The ocean recoiled with inconceivable
precipitancy, leaving bare the torn and slimy ribs
. of the submarine rocks ; but returning with instant
and headlong force, its turbid waters plunged into
the flaming gulph, and filled it with tenfold and
horrible uproar. An once a howl, as of a million
of spirits in pain, was heard; and immense columns
of hissing, roaring, shrieking steam, tore wider the
monstrous abyss, and flashed into the sky, mingled
with the voracious flames. The thunderings, the
lightnings, the rage of the tremendous, conflicting
elements, the whirling volumes of clouds, the
darkness, the flames, were confo.unded together
in one scene of ineffable- and chaotic horror. The
angel looked on in silent awe; and marked that it
was not in one spot only that the tumult had broke
out, but that in a thousand places the affiicted
globe was disrupted by its rebellious elements, and -
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
152 THE EXILE
poured forth deafening thunders, and torrents -of
liquid Barnes. As he gazed silently, he saw sud-
denly a still more marvellous spectacle. He saw
the solid mass of the globe heave itself from the
waters which had covered it, and lift· itself here
and there, in mountains and chains of mountains,
to the very clouds. Like giants rising from the
sleep in which they were created, these enormous
masses of eternal rock raised themselves,-huge, .
dark, and silent, and stood where they should stand
for countless ages,-the bulwarks and the wonder
of future beings. By_ degrees the fiery.evolutions
abated, but the world was .not at rest. Its whole
surface, from hemisphere to hemisphere, heaved
and undulated like heavy waters, and the most
dolorous and ·melancholy sounds and wailings were
heard throughout all its regions. But Nichar saw
that the most astonishing changes had been
effected. The ocean, which before had covered
the whole world, had shrunk into half its former
apparent size. It had retreated into the depths
and hollows of the lacerated globe ; and· bad left
bare, vast continents and islands, and ridges of
awful hills. It was a scene of the most terrific
o; ,;. byGoogle
•
OF HEAVEN. ' 153
desolation. The world appeared shattered to
pieces, rerit, and dislocated, and thrown back into
primeval chaos. All was naked ruin, dreary and
repulsive; but Nichar saw that a great and bene-
ficent work was done. He saw that valleys, and
hills, and the sources of a myriad streams were
prepared; he saw that time would clothe their
grim and ruinous regions with beauty and fertility;
and that God would one day kindle there, the lif~
which should rejoice in itself, and in him who gave
it. He felt how wide was the space between him,
who out of confusion produces harmony and hap-
piness, and him, who in the midst of what is good,
scatters crime and misery ; and he wept, confessed
his guilt, and went softly on his way.
It was not long ere he approached another and
larger planet of the same system. It was already
the abode of life-but what life? That of vast and
bestial natures. It had passed, he discovered,
through preparatory convulsions similar to those of
the one he had just quitted. Its oceans and conti-
nents, its mountains and valleys, had assumed their
places and characters, and were becoming daily
more fitted for existence. The deep slime which
H3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
154 THE EXILE
the displaced ocean had left upon its plains, was
becoming gradually dry and solid; and vegetation,
with a wonderful luxuriance, bad sprung up and
covered them. There were, it was true, immense
regions of dreary and impassable morasses;.and the
streams not having yet worn for themselves well-
defined channels, spread far and wide, and made
vast tracts, unapproachable except to birds and am-
phibious creatures. The ocean abounded with life.
Whales, almost numberless, sported unwieldily in
wide, solitary waters, undisturb~d by enemies; and
wonderful creatures, like large and living ships,
furnished with paddles instead of feet, with long
and finely tapered bodies, glittering with scales of
every hue, and rearing aloft their arched, serpentine
necks, darted to and fro on the waves with the
speed of lightning. Their keen, sharp heads fur- •
nished with large resplendent eyes, plunged ever
and anon into the deep, and brought up their
,never-failing prey. By the broad and abundant
rivers, similar creatures basked with the ferocious
crocodile amongst the floating lilies and lotus flow-
ers, or lurked amid the lofty reeds and palm-like
ferns. Throughout the vast plains, the mammoth,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 155
the mastodon, the megalonix, the elephant, and
other colossal animals ranged in lordly freedom and
power, and filled the whole world with their bel-
lowings. They lay hidden in the rank and reed-
like grass, that tall as a moderate tree, spread over
the plains and concealed their gigantic bodies even
as they walked;-they roamed through the thick,
dark forests, or col.lecting on the open, bare emi-
nences in infinite numbers, engaged in unwieldy
gambols, or rusbed to combats of tempestuous fury.
A dreamy intelligence lit up their eyes, which fixed
in heads of such gigantic proportions, gave them
the appearance of spirits imprisoned in moving
mountains of matter. They were the rulers of the
world! but there was nothing of a smaller fabric to
suffer from their oppressions, and nothing to resist
their will, except serpents of equally monstrous
bulk, that coiled round the forest tree, or moved
across tl1e immense savannahs, their crested and
glittering heads seen gliding like gorgeous meteors
above the oc~an of waving grass; or flaming at the
foot of a' sunny cliff in their dazzling scales of
green and gold and scarlet, warned the strong beasts
with their brandished whispering tongues from
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
156 THE EXILE
their haunts. It was a scene which filled Nichar
with wonder. He watched the crimson-crested and
winged dragons pursue from cliff to cliff the large
birds ofocean ; he saw the ponderous hippopotamus
and tapir, plunge sullenly in the _
river deeps as he
approached; he ~eheld the jocund and wind-winged
unicorns scour the rocky hills, and great and won-
drous brutes for which we have.now no names, and
he queried wherefore the divine Wisdom had created
a world only to give it up to such monstrous and
irrational natures. A moment's reftection, however,
suggested to him, that it might be only produced
by that benevolent spirit, which fills every portion
of the universe with life and its attendant enjoy-
ment, whilst it prepared the world for future and
nobler existences; to convert its rapid and rampant
vegetation into soil, till another change should sweep
them away; and even now, while he pondered on
their destiny, their time was come. The ocean
rising with all its billows, rushed over the lands,
and again retiring, left the huge carcasses of the
bestial generation imbedded in its mud. The sun
again speedily dried the reeking surface, green and
tender herbage began to spring, trees to shoot
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 157
vigorously from the deep, soft earth to replace
those which the torrents had laid prostrate; and
Nichar beheld a world preparing itself speedily for
its last and noblest family. Already he felt the
approach of the divine presence, hastening to com-
plete the work ofages, and he sped into the wilder-
ness of space.
Whither he directed his ~ight, we know not.
Like a mysterious comet, he passed beyond the
boundaries of our system, and visited worlds and
forms of being, of which we have no intelligence,
and after which our flagging imagination pants in
vain. At length-it was after the lapse of centuries
-he stood once more upon . the earth. As we
know not the mysterious realms through which he
passed in his long and unrevealed sojourn, neither
do we know what he had suffered, not what llad led
him back again to the scene of his former sorrows.
But it is probable, that the rest which he found
not here, was indiscoverable in every other region
of the universe ; it is probable that his fate had
bound him to our little planet; that his curiosity
and anxiety drove him hitherward, to inquire once
more into the consequences of his presumptous act.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
158 THE ElUJ.E
Perhaps too, he might hope that time_had effected
more than he himself had been able to do; that
God, perhaps, had ere then arisen to rescue his
creation from the infernal natures, and had expelled
them from the earth. Whatever were the hopes
or motives which had attracted him, he stood once
more on our planet, and in a moment's glance com-
prehended an infinitude of pain and disappointment.
The curse was still operating there, with tremen-
dous, far-spread, and daily accelerating force. The
demons were in power arid multitude resistless.
Man had multiplied in incredible numbers, and
crime and toil had rolled over the earth like a vast
and desolating torr~nt. The first-born man had
killed his brother. Those two cherub-like creatures
on which he had gazed with tears of affectionate
and painful sympathy, had grown up, one to a
murderer, the other to his victim ! The race had
been rent into two tribes; the one abandoning, the
other abhorring its counterpart. Had not Nichar
beheld the first parents still dwelling in their ori-
ginal station, and with numbers of their descendents
still adhering humbly, but firmly to their faith and
attachment to heaven, he would have suspected that
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 159
God bad totally surrendered the world as a ruin to
the rebellious powers. Yet how melancholy a sight
was even the best which earth had to shew! The
majesty of·Adam, the peerless beauty of Eve, were
sorely dimmed and wasted by time~ Grey locks,
stooping and trembling forms, announced that their
earthly vigour was well nigh exhausted. Around
them were scenes which must fill them with perpe-
tual sighing and sadness ; scenes of lawless evil,
which must continually remind them of the curse-
dispensing tree ; countless numbers of their child-
ren gone over for ever to the agents of evil; and
before them their last and great enemy,-Death!-
never lost sight of-every day drawing nearer-and
now standing grimly and triumphantly in their
path, brandis1ling his dismal arms, and filling them
with apprehension, perhaps even worse than his
stroke. This was sad, but it rested not here. The
evil spread through every dwelling, every bosom
of their most pious children. They toiled beneath
the sweltering curse, which clasped the earth,
breathed in the air, and smote them in the sun and
wind. They rolled in burning fevers, they sickened
and died, leaving even their parents .to weep and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
160 THE EXILE
· lament over their graves, and the hearts which
clung to them for comfort and support, to bleed
with the sudden and rude rending of their ·affec-
tions. Abroad, they were ofte~ compelled to stand
for their lives against the bloodthirsty sons of Cain,
and to be perpetually on the watch against sur.-
prise, plunder, and death ; and ~ven on their do-
mestic hearths, spite of all their prayers and efforts
to suppress it, the evil leaven pervading and in-
flaming their passions, roused the cry of discord,
and made wounds in the very heart of lov~.
A joyless scene was this for Nichar to contem-
plate; but it was a paradise to what awaited him
in the citi_
es of Cain. There evil had so perfectly
triumphed, that human nature was no longer dis-
tinguishable from that which corrupted it-men
from devils. Nichar .gazed in astonishment at the
determined and ingenious perversion of every
understanding and faculty ; every blessing woke,
instead of its appropriate feeling, one hateful and
revolting. ~e saw with wonder, how profusely
God showered his gifts of strength and beauty
upon the race,-such forms and countenances had
scarcely their superiors in heaven; but in their
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 161
hearts, instead of thankfulness for these splendid
gifts, arose a haughty pride, and a desire to compass
by their means, objects most offensive to their
giver. The strength of ·the men, instead of a
means of good, was but an instrument of cruelty ·
and oppression; and female beauty, given to soothe
and embellish social life, was a fatal and pernicious
snare-a fountain of pitiful vanity-a prize for
contention-an incentive to dark jealousies and
bloodshed. Every crime and outrage on which
the world, accustomed to thousands of years of evil,
now looks with complacency and sometimes with
applause, rose before the eyes of Nichar in its
n~ked deformity, hideous, horrible, and devilish.
The envious came by night, and bore away the
possessions of his neighbour; the daring and law-
less fired the cottage of the sleeper, smote the
shrieking family as they rushed from the flames,
and plucked from the ashes the wealth which they
coveted. The forest path, which by day echoed
the songs of the happy bird, at night saw the
desperate arm launched from the gloomy hiding-
place, and the traveller fall weltering in his blood.
The vain-glorious collected about them "the indo-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
162 THE EXILE
lent and greedy, and falling upon the neighbouring
lands or cities, slew the inhabitants, took possession
of their homes, and instead of curses, were hailed
with acclamations of praise. The wretch who had
scraped together wealth, which he had not a soul
to diffuse in happiness, piled it in secret vessels,
and received homage for it, as if the contents of
his pots had been virtues of the soul. The eye of
merciless desire wandered abroad upon everything
that was fair, and sought darknes..'l, to perpetrate
its unhallowed purposes. Mirth wore but the
mask of joy ; it was an effervescence of reck-
less licentiousness. The good things of Pro-
vidence, raised not their eyes to heaven in
gratitude, but turned them on the earth in callous
and swollen pride. The poor was not regarded
with sympathy, but contempt. All was evil : the
sun revealed it; the night fostered it; it grew
from day to day ; it spread from land to land.
The innocence of childhood speedily vanished in
the turbulence of distempered passion : manhood
hardened into malice, ·oppression and revenge ; and
terminated in blasphemy and despair. Such was
human life!
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 163
The weeping angel wandered far and wide, but
found only more terrible evidences of the full-
grown and universal curse. He entered, in the
guise of an old man, into city after city of the
progeny of Cain. They were everywhere alike,
full of beauty, prosperity and crime. The god of
this world appeared conspicuously their god, and
crowned them with his favours. The curse under
which the earth lay, seemed almost annihilated on
their behalf. The children of Seth dwelt in lowly .
huts of reed, or skin-covered tents, and tilled their
ground, and preserved their flocks with pain ; but
for these, their children sprung in overflowing
multitudes, grew i'nto wonderful strength and
beauty, and spread themselves through fertile
lands and splendid cities-a rejoicing, aftluent, and
festive generation. For them, the earth gave up
freely its riches ; for them, the clouds dropped
fatness. Nichar went on from city to city,-far
to the east they stretched in a brilliant chain.
Everywhere he beheld feasting, riot, and contempt
of every moral law. Everywhere he asked for ·
Cain, the father of the race, and was still pointed .
to the east.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
164 THE EXILE
At length he came into a wide wilderness-a
wilderness of dry and burning plains. A few
scattered rocks shewed themselves here and there ;
a solitary palm-tree lifted up its head at distant
intervals; but all besides, was bare and torrid
sterility. The air glowed and glimmered over the
ocean of burning sands, like the atmosphere of a
furnace ; and nothing but a few stunted and
prickly shrubs dared the inclement heat. Afar
he beheld an object, which gradually assumed the
appearance of unfinished buildings : as he drew
near, he deemed it a city in progress -a city in
this fiery region ! When he came upon it, he
beheld a wide circuit, inclosed with uncompleted
walls of bricks shaped of a stupendous size, and
baked in the sun's raging blaze. A few skeleton
fabrics, a few scattered and unraised columns were
seen within the area, and amongst them stood a
rude tent, with work,tools thrown about on the
ground ; and at some distance, he descried a group
of people busy at their labour. He drew near and
gazed in increasing wonder, at the scanty numbers,
so enormously disproportionate to the task before
them. It was a circumstance which appeared to
f
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 165
hini as strange as the choice of site for the city
itself. Exposed in this sterile plain, to the burning·
beams of the sun, unbroken by a single tree;
around, not smiling fields offering support and
refreshment to both body and mind, but ferocious
expanses, which threatened famine and exhaustion;
wltich did not give birth to one scanty spring.
As he pondered on these singular facts, he
beheld a man issue from the tent, and _
advance with
a solemn,-and, as it seemed to him, sad step towards
the builders. He paused near him, leaning on a
rugged and knotted staff, and gazed upon the
labourers in silence. They also in silence pursued
their toil. Nichar glanced at him for a ,JDOment-
it was the first-born of men, Cain the fratricide !
He gazed on him with a strange and fearful feeling.
He ran with admiration over his tall and tower-like
form,-built as for eternal dominion,-sinewed as
for invincible strength and fleetneSfl. He looked at
his countenance ;-but his eye recoiled, smitten as
with the blinding flash of the Almighty. God !
what a stamp hadst thou affixed on that brow! It
was as if the thunder of Omnipotent Vengeance
had launched itself full in the centre of that ample
oigi .. eabvGoogle
166 THE EXILE
forehead, shielding the life from its power, but
leaving an everlasting and terrific scar. Sanguine
in hue, and seared to adamantine hardness, deep-
ploughed corrugations encircled 'it, meeting there
as a fearful centre of lines drawn from every
feature, and drawing thither the eye of the spec-
tator, fall where it would, as by an irresistible
spell. The first glimpse of that disastrous brow,
produced in the beholder a sense of terror that not
even an angel could escape ; but that once past,
it gave place to a feeling of commiseration, that
again drew the eye, and enabled it to endure the
baleful vision. Nichar again fixed his glance upon
this awful man, and read with a pitying heart the
_traces of pain and cruel vengeance upon him.
Time had not bowed, nor weakened him; but tem-
pests from without and from within had grizzled
his short clustering locks and crisped beard, and
stamped on his countenance the hardness of invin-
cible endurance. His eye was large, and appa-
rently calm; but there came from its depth some-
thing mingled with the expression of his other
features, which told that it was not the calmness of
repose of which it testified, but that of stenn sup-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 167
pression of the heart's deathless bitterness. He
stood like a fortress which besiegers have battered,
and internal traitors -have attempted to dismantle ;
and which, though it has stood through its own
resistant strength, has not stood scathless.
"First-born of men," said Nichar, advancing to
him with a grave salutation, " I would venture to
ask thee what motive may have decided thy pre-
s.ent choice of situation? I have traversed the
regions peopled by thy children, and have admired
the beauty of their cities, and the plenteous lands
in which they are raised ; what, then, leads thee
here?"
"Stranger," replied Cain, still gazing stedfastly
on his work-people, "thy query is not irrational.
But hast thou traversed those regions, and in-
quired not who cultured them? Hast thou dwelt
in those cities, and asked not who raised them ?
They are my- works! Is this land barren ?-So
were they ! Is this city poor and rude ?-So were
those in which thou bast sojourned ! And wouldst
thou dwell with us awhile, thou shouldst see this
place become like those, in all things. The curse
is not past!''
168 THE EXILE
" But why," said Nichar, " shouldst thou toil,
.who art the father of mighty and aftl.uent nations,
while they, thy children, live in ease and festivity?
Methinks it were better to dwell amongst them, at
once the parent and the prince ; to behold their
prosperity, and receive their affectionate reve-
rence."
" I tell thee," replied Cain, " the curse is not
past ! and where there is abundance, there it is in
its strength. HMt thou not seen in those cities,
what thou fain wouldst not have seen? Thou
hast ! I know it. I have seen the curse, creeping
like a pestilence amongst the riches which my
children have gathered-beneath the vines where
they revel, round the couches where they repose.
I have turned, and spurned it, and stamped upon
it, and fought with it as with a dragon ; but it was
too strong for me, and I have fled from its presence.
I tell thee, the barrenness and the fierce burning
which thou seest here, exhibit not the invincible
curse a thousandth part so hatefully, as do those
~hining halls and flowery gardens. He has cursed
the ground, and so be it ! I seek not to enjoy his
gifts for nothing. I would have nought but what
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 169
I wring from this cursed soil. I would have
nought but what I win with my weary _and
laborious handS."
"Oh, great patriarch!" exclaimed Nichar fear-
fully, as he heard the bitterness of his words, and
saw the fierce light w}lich flashed over his coun-
tenance, " say not so ! God is good !-say not so !''
" If thou have found him so, it fs well !" he
replied. " For myself, I have not. I speak what
I have learnt and know."
" Perhaps, thou hast offended."
" Perhaps!-Thou know'st I have," returned
Cain vehemently. " All men know it :-it will
be known while there are men,-even now it is
a proverb. I know I have offended-and I have
wept tears of blood for it! I have wept I say, and
bowed myself to the dust, and prayed, and cried to
heaven day and night; and what have I won?-
silence, everlasting silence-inexorable contempt!"
"Nay! say not so !-say not so, Cain !" Nichar
replied with sympathetic emphasis : " Let us not
judge too hastily of Him. Let us not expect,
since man has fallen, and wickedness abounds on
earth, that God should send, as of old, his angels
VOL. I. I
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
170 THE EXILE
to manifest his will ; or should call from the
darkness of his invisible sanctuary, to announce
to us what it is. Let us rather seek that mani-
festation in his goodness thl;lt surrounds us. And
l1as he not sent thee much good? Let this per-
suade thee of his forgiveness and acceptance. Has
he not given thee children numerous as the stars,
fair as the children of heaven, and planted them in
prosperous habitations '? Thou hast been the_ first
to destroy life ! It may be wise to mark the deed
with disapprobation, that it be not imitated. But
since that testimony of disapproval, hast thou not re-
ceived from his hand continual and manifold good?"
" I have destroyed a life ! Ah ! a precious life!
Precious to me, even in the memory of many
hundred years. I have destroyed a life !-but I
have given origin to thousands. Can there be no
cancelling of the single evil ? Can there be no
compensation?" " Compensation!" said Nichar;
" dost thou talk of compensation? Thou hast de-
stroyed a life, thou sayest; but hast given origin to
.thousands. Dost thou forget that the one life de-
stroyed was afountain oflife as prolific as thy own ?
that thine is the gift of the same divine being of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 171
whom thou complainest Alas ! speak not of com-
pensation, but of forgiveness. That is wliat man
should ask of his Maker; and that surely may be,
and is thine." "·Tell me not of forgiveness ! I
see it not ! I feel it not ! Is it in these burning
plains ? in these perpetual labours ? Is it in this
bosom more arid and desolate than these deserts ?
in these haunting thoughts which will. not rest? in
a progeny that revel with impunity in crimes, one
of which was enough to brand me with this last
and worst CQI'Se-this burning scar of infamy and
despair. No! if thy God be merciful-trust him!
For me-l ask him for nothing-I can yet endureI"
He turned, and re-entered his tent. Nichar,
wrapped in a cloud of devouring- thoughts, de-
parted. He had attempted to pour comfort into
the miserable soul, but his words had recoiled upon
himself with terrible vehemence. If God forgive
not Cain, he inly exclaimed, what hope f~r him
through .whom not only Cain sinned-but vice
and woe have rushed like a flood upon earth ! It
was bitter food for the cogitations of a wounded
spirit ; and as he travelled through the wilderness,
it piled upon his heart a fresh burden of despair.
172 THE EXILE
CHAPTER IV.
NrcHAR now directed his steps toward the hill-
country of the Azims. These were of the celestial
race ; the children of the spirits of heaven and the
daughters of earth. They were giants and men of
renown. The singular fame of such a race had
met him afar off, even amid the dwellings of Seth;
and as he advanced across the territories of Cain,
it continually increased. They were daughters
of the Cainite family, who had won these spirits
from their skies, and by such a triumph of beauty
bad cast a splendour on their generation of which
they were in no small degree proud. The might,
the stature, the spirit, and enterprise of these
super~uman beings, were the theme of boast and
wonder wherever he came. Their land was now
' before him. He advanced in his assumed form of
an old .man, and entered their regions. They
were wild, but beautiful. Along the feet of the
hills stretched a delightfully rude wilderness of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 173
heaths, aromatic herbs, and odorous flowers of
innumerable varieties, where troops of antelopes,
goats, wild asses, and the shy ostrich, were occa-
sionally seen between thickets of dates, myrtles,
jUI\ipers, and fragrant balsam trees. Deep valleys
ran up amongst precipitous ridges, watered by
dashing streams, and here and there spreading
themselves out into sloping lawns of brilliant
verdure, shadowed by dark cypresses and pines,-
scenes of rich and retired beauty, which might
have inspired the hand of the painter or the heart
of the poet, had they then existed. As Nichar
ascended, broad tracts of mountain forest expanded
before him,-here dense and dark, there scattering
their mighty trees of oak and kingly cedar widely,
shewing beneath their ample range of boughs,
. mossy turf, where the hunter or the shepherd
might delight to lie, and send their gaze far around
through scenes of solitary beauty and stirring
grandeur ; into nooks and retreats of silence and
shadow, where quiet water trickled, or lay in pro-
found repose ; where the wild ferns and flowers
nodded from the rocks, and some nimble and
climbing animal amused itself with its own activity,
174 THE EXILE
all unconscious of the solitude around ; then again,
over some deep and rock-rent dell, where·cataracts
were heard but not seen, except by the ascending
spray, where swift-winged birds darted to and fro,
and the lordly eagle came soaring in solemn
majesty, and ever and anon filled the desert with
his clanging cry ; where the palm and the acacia
lifted their graceful heads from their rocky stations,
as if to look down into the awful depths below ;
or again, up green and sunny slopes, where rich
and velvet twf, sprinkled with bright and golden
blossoms that trembled to the breeze, tempted the
foot to approach it; and finally, to the bare and
azure summits of the mountains themselves.
Such were the scenes which the poet or painter,
the hunter or shepherd might have found; _
sucb
were they which Nichar explored, as he ascended
to the dwellings of the Azim chieftains. It was a
land of unreclaimed and bold beauty. He saw no
traces of cultivation, but in many a lovely valley
scattered herds, and on the hills flocks of goats,
and sheep as wild and active as the goats them-
selves. He beheld youths and damsels watching
their flocks, and making the rocks echo to their
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 175
simple pipes. He passed, in sheltered hollows on
the mountain sides, little clusters of rustic abodes.
He met troops of children roaming through the
upland fields, and hunters in ardent pursuit of their
game. It was a land full of pastoral and mow1tain
beauty ; every creature that he met, seemed full
of youth, and the strength and gladness of life.
As he passed the lowest door, forth came to greet
the stranger, dames of rich, but staid and matronly
comeliness; and behind them glanced the bright
inquisitive eyes of nymphs, whose exquisite forms
and blooming, sunny countenances, have beeu
fabled only of Arcadia or the age of gold : and
Nichar inly persuaded himself, that innocence and
happiness had lingered here ; that the angelic
parents of the race, had impressed upon their pro-
geny as much of their felicitous taste, as of their
beauty of form and feature. When he stood upon
the summit of the mountains, most glorious and
animating were the prospects spread around and
beneath on every side. Everywhere tlle mountains
were clothed with the same beautiful features,
cloven by the same charming valleys, which
"'
stretched away into the wilderness of plains, bright
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
1'76 THE EXILE
with gleaming rivers, dotted with palm·groves,
crimsoned with ocean·like expanses of billowy
roses, lilies, and amaranth; and terminated only by
the failing powers of vision.
Along the airy heights of the hills, were built at
considerable distances, twenty strong towers, each of
princely extent, of massy architecture, of impreg-
nable strength of fabric and position. Nichar
entered them successively, and claimed the hospi-
tality due from the happy possessor of a stationary
home to the wanderer. In all, it was accorded
with a free and cordial grace. He beheld halls
and courts f){ great extent; but distinguished only
for their massive simplicity. They were evidently
the abodes of mighty hunters, of powerful chiefs;
but chiefs unacquainted with, or despising the
splendid luxuries of the rest of the race of Cain.
A solitary stateliness reigned around their moun-
tain ramparts, and in their ample courts, open to
the silent heavens. The monarchs dwelt in unos-
tentatious simplicity; they pursued the chase with
ardour; they returned and feasted with zest on the
produce .of their toils. · Few servants were seen
passing to and fro in their halls, or attending on
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVJ;;N, 177
their tables. They dwelt in a lordly solitude, and
the harp poured around them the music of their
heroic spirits. Nichar dwelt for a long period with
these noble beings. His agitated heart found
something like repose, in the contemplation of
their high and simple lives ; in their great and
soaring aspirations. A thirst of glory and do-
minion burned vehemently in their souls ; but they
shrunk from the oppression and slaughter of men.
They panted to extend their power over multitudes
and realms; but they fain would achieve their
views by righteous means, and they looked and
waited for tl1ese in vain. In the meantime, a fair
and happy race spread through the hills and
valleys of their beautiful regions-the animating
spirit of tl1e chase, the kingly voice of music, and
the charms of love fille~ their days. Nichar con-
templated their noble forms with perpetual delight.
Their stature was gigantic, but of the finest propor-
tions. The grace and agility of youth ; lineaments
of divine mould, beaming with lofty sentiments,
with candour and benevolence, gave them and
their wives a glory and godlike beauty, such as
none other on earth possessed. Their angelic
I 3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
178 THE EXlLE
parents had impressed them with the highest and
purest notions of the divine nature, and warned
them to avoid the licentious idolatry, but too
prevalent in the race of Cain. From time to time
they appeared amongst them, to strengthen their
spirits, and to guard them from some pressing evil
or temptation. Nichar commWled with them on
the creation and destinies of man : he went back
with them into regions of earlier and higher
l1istories. The creation of angels in far-off ages;
the happy realms, occupations, and blissful lives of
spiritual natures ; the dark temptations ; the secret
and widely-creeping seditions ; the dreadful burst-
ing forth of rebellion ; the wars, the horrors, the
sweeping destruction, which almost emptied the
glorious land of its inhabitants ; the realms of
infinite torture ; the unlocking of the penal gates ;
the escape of the blasted and malignant hosts to
-£rth ; their haughty and arrogant ·seizure of it ;
their audacious abode in the face of heaven itself,
and all their arts and designs upon men ; the
$!rimes and miseries they spread wide amongst
them,-were frequent themes of the Azims and
the concealed angel. He heard more than once
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 179
his own history detailed; his crime and its con-
sequences; the origin, the triumphant beauty, the
splendid and idolized existence of Lilith, were
related, not with the half-unconscious malice and
innumerable variations ofhuman narratives, but with
the transparent and undeviating truth of celestial
knowledge. The pain which these relations sent
into his soul, was acute as the stroke of an arch-
angel's sword of judgment; but he bowed himself
; in silence, and bore it; for with these noble intelli-
gences, he enjoyed what the whole universe beside
denied him, social and rational communion. He
accompanied them in the chase ; and, far in t1te
solitudes of. the mountains and the wilderness,
themes of this nature filled the pauses of their pur-
suit, and tinged the caves of the desert with their
enthusiastic hues. He sate with them at their
table on their return, or walked with them in their
open courts at night, when all the stars of 'heaven
burned above them; and their minds were drawn,
by a kindling spell, towards those open but unex-
plored and inaccessible regions, where their fathers
dwelt. Their beautiful wives, who partook of their
own celestial natures, would on such occasions cast
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
180 THE EXII,E
their ardent eyes upon the glittering, starry ex-
panse, and dream and speculate, with the fond
affection of the female bosom, on all the charms of
the spirit-realm-on all the affectionate happiness
of its fair inhabitants; and Nichar, filled with a
languishing and inextinguishable regret, would
give, by his words, such a colouring to their de-
sires and imaginations, as diffused th:rough them
inexpressible sensations of astonishment and de-
light. Unsuspicious of his real nature, they
regarded him as the highest and wisest of men ;
as one who had communed long and ofte11 with
the celestial natures,-who was intrusted with the
knowledge of mysteries, which even thei:r fathers
had not dared to open to their yet inexperienced
youth. They looked on'him with love and wonder.
His words were full of a sad but irresistible elo-
quence, which disturbed them with its sound, but
yet more -by its, cessation. They listened to hi&
solemn language, delivered in a gentle but pene-
trating tone, with a quiet and apparently composed
manner; yet with a power, which roused them
like the sound of a trumpet, and poured through
their hearts the most restless and ineffable desires.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
181
He saw the lofty and aspiring enthusiasm of their
natures; he saw in them the elements of a vast
but magnanimous ambition, working with daily
incr~asing force, and wanting but a little time and
some mighty object, to burst forth in deeds which
should startle the world ; and he founded upon it a
hope most precious to his soul.
Wherever he had gone through the cities of
Cain, he heard the fame of Ukinim. The splen·
dours and enchantments which the demons had
there raised to intoxicate mankind, had taken full
effect. From all regions they flocked with avidity
to behold the grandeur) to partake of the luxurious
delights, of that famous city. Every where the
name of Lilith resounded. Her beauty and fasci-
nations were the theme of perpetual converse,
of passionate admiration, of profound idolatry.
Temples were raised to her honour in every city,
groves and gardens planted; her image, wrought in
Ukinim itself and purchased at infinite cost, was
erected in each splendid shrine ; rites were insti-
tuted; hymns of adoration composed ; and the
fairest creatures dedicated themselves to her ser-
vice. With her worship spread that of all the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
182 THE EXILE
evil powers; their molten or graven images were
seen in a thousand temples--towering in awful and
soul-subduing majesty-they shone in miniature
shapes in the secret recesses of palaces and halls,
and were borne in the bosom, wrapped in the
mantle-folds of innumerable votaries. The tide of
demon-worship had rolled over the world, bearing
with it every species of crime and vileness, and had
assailed these delightful hills of the Azims them-
selves. Hitherto they had repelled the pestilential
contagion, as their cliffs repelled the rolling vapours
which arose from the rivers of the plain and undu-
lated around their bases. But even this happy
land, guarded by the vigilant eyes of its chiefs,
strengthened by its own internal felicity, and the
repeated appearance of the celestial parents with
awful warnings and zealous denunciations of the
spreading impiety, was beginning to fail. The
minds of many of the youth began to be dazzled
by the rumours of splendour and joy which perpe-
tually came from Ukinim. Some had gone recently
forth, but came not back; and others, weak and
wavering, hence inferred that they had found a life
too enchanting to be again abandoned. The Azim
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OP HEAVEN. 183
princes saw with grief and indignation the spread-
ing mischief. Day and night the imminent peril
of their happy people haunted them. They watched,
warned, and expostulated; but saw, with increasing
anger, the faces of those amongst their hearers who
heard in silence, but with eyes in which lived
neither conviction nor content. Day after day
brought the news of some fresh and sorrowful de-
fection, Now some troop of youths suddenly arose,
and calling on their companions to join them,
marched forth amid the vain cries and prayers, and
clinging arms of parents, friends, and betrothed
maidens. • Now secretly stole away some staid or
distinguished man, on whom a thousand hopes and
duties had rested, perhaps from the very presence
and confidence of the chiefs themselves. The evil
was become urgent and alarming; and there wanted
but a word to rouse all the valour of the land into
open warfare on the apostate race. That word
hovered on the lips of Nichar. The cause was his.
It involved the whole strength and deathless desires
of his being: the sole hope-if hope it might be
said to be-which could give that being a motive.
To rush down, followed by a powerful and zeal-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
18! THE EXIl.E
inspired nation, upon the accursed city-to extin-
guish the accursed life-the object of all his toils
and cogitations through ages -to break up the
strongholds of the demon-powers-to disperse and
chase them from the earth-to throw down their
images- to annihilate their temples and their
worship-to break the insolence of their devotees
-to put them to shame and confusion, for their
foolish and grovelling idolatry - to restore the
homage of the Most High, and to diffuse it
through the earth ··with all its purity and light,
and its unnumbered and everlasting blessings.-
Oh! the thought was too much, for .even the
equanimity of an angel!
Nichar and the Azim chiefs sate one day in
the mountain cave of the valley of Heph, by
the mountain lake · Zodarn. It was in the most
naked and desolate tract of the hill-country of
the Azims. It had neither tree, nor human abode.
It bordered on the northern desert, and was itself
a place unblest with a single trace of vegetation.
Bare, red, rocky mountains enclosed a narrow vale
of sand. The lake was a sheet of dark water,
surrounded by high cliffs of sullen red, which
o; ,;. byGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 185
rose perpendicularly by the flood in an irregular
and yet ungraceful wall, an:d terminating in heavy,
broken and melancholy summits, seldom allowed
the winds to visit the locked-up waters. The
hunters had retired thither at noon, not from
choice, but necessity. The heat of the day was
unendurable ; and they recollected the small spring
which welled up in this desert cave. They had
drunk of it, and lay down to repose; but repose
was not there. The atmosphere was still and
stifling; the sun glared fiercely upon the red crags;
upon the lake, which lay like a sheet of hot and
molten m~tal; furnace-like glimmerings flung from
the burning, adamantine precipices around, pre-
sented the only visible motion-everything else
was silent and still as death. They lay on the
floor of the cave, which burned beneath them ;
thick perspiration covered them; and an oppressive
languor, and a sense. like despair, weighed upon
their hearts. They felt as though they fain would
rise, but had no power of frame or of will to enable
them.
Yet at that crisis, in stalked Teleg, one of their
number, who had been left at a league's distance.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
186 THE EXILE
· He strode into the cave with a fierce and hasty
step; a stem wildness was in his face, and blood
was on his garments and his hand. In .a moment
the spell which seemed to bind them, was broken.
They sprung up, and gazing eagerly at him, cried
"What ails thee, Teleg? what hast thou done?"
"The curse is in the mowi~ns," said Teleg;
"The day is come ! We must strike ! We can
pause no longer !-we have given it hut too much
peace already !-we have helped to cherish the
pestilence by our supineness!" The Azims gazed
on him in wonder, and would have spoken; but
he waved his hand with impatience, and said, " Ye
shall hear! I called to mind the little mountain
hollow and fountain of Akeila ; and turned aside
thither. Its ever bubbling and translucent basin of
water; its broad-spreading sycamores; its cluster
of palm-thatched huts, came deliciously to my
thoughts, and I pressed forward to share the sweet
repose of its inhabitants. As I came to the opening
of the rocks which shewed it before me, and felt
the living breeze which for ever plays there, I
heard the sound as of a rural festival. I drew
near, and beheld a hideous sight. Beneath the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 187
sycamore of the fountain, stood an image of marble
-a small image of a woman ! Truly it was fair
as an angel !-hut it was the image of a woman !-
and arouild it kneeled, a circle of grovelling wor-
shippers ! I rushed forward, and seizing the
worshipped form, dashed it against the tree. Its
head flew against the rock, and dispt>rsed in atoms.
The throng stood pale and dismayed. But a
fiendish yell arose near me ; and Mogunn, once ·
my chief herdsman-now dark and sallow, and with
a countenance devilish with disturbing passions,
darted towards me with fixed and grinding teeth,
and smote at me with his dagger. With the
fragment of his goddess yet in my hand, I heat
him with a blow to the earth. The rest fled,
shrieking to their huts."
The Azims gazed for a space on each other,
in awful amaze ; Nichar stood and trembled.
Anguish and remorse again seized him; but
speedily indignation kindled upon his heart; and
turning to his friends, he exclaimed, " Yes !-the
time is come !-the demons have too long been
permittei to spread their power, - to destroy
human peace. Chieftains, will you wait till
188 . THE EXILE
idolatry and all mortal evils, its inseparable com-
panions, ·overrun your land, and curse your people
with all the curses of hell ? You are formed for
mighty deeds; and a mighty field is before you !
That great Ukinim-the marvel and the misery
of the earth, lies contiguous to your borders.
There is a glorious seat of empire to be won !-
a vast people to be subdued !-and God's fair
cr~ation to be rescued from the malignant hosts!-
You mu'!t conquer, and be glorious! or tremble,
and perish in the everlasting perdition of infamy !"
As he spoke, they pressed around-they gazed
vehemently upon him-they reared their gigantic
right-arms, each grasping aloft his ponderous
hunting-spear; and as he ceased, with a simul-
taneous shout, vowed themselves to the extermi-
nation of the vile shrines.
In the whirlwind..impetuosity of their zeal,
they rushed homeward. In the fortress of Teleg
the day fled by unnoticed, in impassioned discus-
sions of their projects. They dispatched mes-
sengers to assemble thither their wives, who came
full of fearful anxiety at the tidings ; but after ·a
few tears of female weakness, rose rapidly into
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 189
the glowing spirit of their ·consorts, and added
flame to their zeal.
They resolved to consult their celestial sires on
their enterprise. This was a measure of terrible
anxiety to Nichar. It was in fact to discover
to those angels, and to the Azims, his real nature ;
and then, what fearful questions arose from that
unveiling ! Would those heavenly spirits asso-
ciate themselves with him in any undertaking ?
Would his presence mar and dissipate the glorious
design ? Would it be pursued and accomplished
without him ? There was a~ immensity of anguish
in these contemplations; but it must be endured.
And he had endured despair and despairing re-
morse for ages. He had suffered all the pangs
which the contempt and the rejection of the
virtuous could inflict ; and if even through these
fiery means, Lilith should be destroyed, · and
human happiness triumph, it was worth the en-
durance. He shrouded his agony in his bosom,
and awaited the trial.
Night descended. The Azims with their wives,
glowing with the anticipation of mighty good
_ achieved, of immortal renown won, ascended the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
190 ' THE EXILE
tower of Teleg. A golden cresset and a gigantic
harp, were placed in the centre of the marble-
paved roof. They stood round in a wide circle-
such a circle of noble and beautiful forms, as earth
has never since beheld. Phanul, the eldest of
the tribe, distinguished for the mild dignity and
generosity of his character, advanced to the cresset
--Taleela, his queenly bride, to the harp. There
was a pause of awful solemnity. Above them,
the great arch of heaven displayed in its deep
azure, its glittering, silent hosts ; around them,
all was obscurity; and the night-breeze which
sighed amongst the low, massy pillars of the
parapet, seem to wander up from depths of in-
fathomable gloom. All eyes were fixed upon
Phanul. He dung into the cresset a fragrant
powder from a goldert box, the workmanship of
Tubalcain, and immediately a bright dame burst
forth ;-a stream of blue and starry meteors rose
into the heavens, and the most delectable odours
floated around them. At the same moment,
Taleela struck the towering harp with slow and
solemn strokes, and gave life to a music, which
fixed the soul in breathless wonder at its deep
and mystery-breathing power.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 191
At once appeared, as it were, a new constella-
tion kindled in the heavens,-a cluster of stars
more resplendent than all others of the nightly
hosts; and every moment they became more and
more brilliant. A mortal might have seen them,
and wondered at the magnificent phenomenon;
but Nichar knew its real nature ; the Azims knew
it, and stood with their faces fixed with immove-
.able earnestness upon the glowing effulgence. In
a moment they became distinct-a troop of career-
ing angels, -in a moment they were at hand.
They alit with a rush of mighty pinions, and in
an atmosphere of their own brightness which made
night roll back from the tower on whose top
they stood,-a ·vision of glory and beauty incon-
ceivable to our pale and far-off fancies. They
were in number, nearly equal to the Azims them-
selves,- winged forms of heaven's ()Wn unap-
proachable grace and sublimity. Their plumed
pinions were as of the sunshine itself, and quivered
with a pearly radiance that varied at every motion.
Their countenances-Oh ! how unlike the earthly
visage of man-dimmed and ploughed with fierce
passions, darkened with crimes, and saddened with
192 THE. EXILE
care, warped and debased by pain, by cunning
and the fleshly dominance ! In the pure blossom
of immortal youth and beauty, no scar, no scath
of time,-no ruinous trace of the internal canker
were there! Thought, which stamps on our brows
shadow and deformity, shed on them the spirit
of rejoicing; and the serene azure of their large,
love-inspiring eyes, threw forth streaming rays .
of the felicity which filled all their being with an
inexhaustible fulness. But alas for Nichar ! it was
a cruel moment for him. He beheld before him,
creatures of his ancient love-souls to which his
soul had clung through ages of immeasurable joy!
The tones of heaven were again in his ears-the
atmosphere of heaven around him, and he lost!-
fallen ! perhaps in the moment of recognition,
doomed to feel another cruel evidence of his
perdition. His anguish tempted him to plunge
from the battlement where he stood, and to avoid
the rencontre, but motives stronger than pain with-
held him. He saw the sons of heaven clasp their
children in their embraces,-he heard the blissful
murmur of voices mutually exchanging words of
love and congratulation ; and he shrunk deeper
o;g""odbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 193
into the gloom of his own stripped and solitary
being.
"But wherefore," said a majestic spirit, "where-
fCM"e have you called us hither? It is not alone
that we may meet and rejoice in our love, that
ye have raised the invoking sign ; some cause of
high import moved you to this act."
" We would break the pernicious spell of
~inim," replied Phanul. "We would assert
God's right upon earth, against the hosts of hell
and of idolatry ; and we seek your approval and
support."
The angel-troop were silent. Sadness sate even
on celestial brows. For awhile they communed
with ~ach other in rapid glances ; and then the
same great spirit replied: " My children, your
attempt is high and noble,-worthy, oh ! well
worthy of your celestial birth,-but it is vast and
fearful, and incalculable in its consequences.
Know ye not that it is no other than to attack ali
the powers of hell? Those powers which dared
to invade the very kingdom of the Highe.st, and
have now spread their dominion over this lower
world ! It is a terrible en~erprise ; and we know
VOL. I. K
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
194 THE EXILE
not its end. The Omniscient has not·opened, on
these heads, to us his awful will. With.that will
_you may safely assault all the hosts of evil-
against it, defeat and destruction await you.
Alas ! shall it be our lot to behold these fair and
happy seats laid waste by your enemies; your
people slaughtered, enslaved, or corrupted, and
your own noble forms smitten to the dust? God
grant you a far different fate ! Yet, far be it from
us to counsel you to an ignoble life. Dare nobly
. ~
for God and for man,-if it accord not with G~d's
design to crown your attempts in his. cause with
success, there is another world where his smile
will await you ; and so far as is permitted us, our
warning and approving voice-our helping and
defending hand, shall be with you !"
" Then success is ours!" exclaimed the Azims.
" Courage and sanguine hope are ours-we want
ne,ither strength nor numbers; and this venerable
sage-"
At once all eyes were turned upon Nichar. .At
once every celestial spirit in wonder, cried
"Nichar !"-and Nichar, startled from his disguise,
stood before them in his own form. It was a scene
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 195
of multiplied astonishment. The spirits marvelled
to. behold Nichar thus in their presence, and the
Azims to discover in their guest that most unhappy
soul. It was an agonizing moment. The angels
gazed upon each other with qu~stioning looks ;-
" Can we make common cause with this woful
spirit?" said one. " Shall we forbid him to make
cause with us?" said another. " Shall we crush
the sorrowful ? Shall we banish still farther the
exile?" asked a .third: and another replied,
" Heaven is denied to him ; but the earth is
open ; and shall he not, if so he willeth, serve
-God in it·? Shall we bruise the broken reed?
Shall we push the penitent heart from the foot-
stool of the Eternal Mercy ? Shall we, who -have
made alliance with earth, which God designed not,
and- yet have escaped condemnation, shall we
judge him, who is already judged with a fearful
severity?-No, we are not so commanded;-surely
it will not be thus required !" "Nichar," they
exclaimed, _" our hearts have followed thee in thy
unhappiness-we will not quench thy righteous
desires. Indulge them, pursue them, and stand
up zealously with these for God ! Rut our time
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
196 THE EXILE
is expired.-Prepare your forces. ·Draw cautiously
towards the accursed city ; and if God forbid not,
we shall speedily hasten to your aid. Till then
beware !-forget not for a moment that you have
to deal with the subtlest of spirits !"
The glorious troop sprung forth like living
lightnings towards heaven. The Azims turned
and beheld Nichar, again shrouded in the form
of age, kneeling on the floor, on which his tears
fell like rain. He had heard words of kindly
sympathy- precious words !- unheard through
desolate ages-and his soul melted within him.
They embraced him with affectionate joy-and
they descended to their common enterprise.
OF HEAVEN. 197
CHAPTER V.
FRoM mouth to mouth, through all the hills and
vales of those fair regions, ran secret but startling
words. No alarm-fires blazed upon the steeps; no
trumpet's voice was heard; but a spirit had passed
through the land, and become its one moving
spirit. Every man left his threshold-every man
directed his course through the defiles of the moun-
taill8, through the covert paths of the forests ; not
in bands nor in martial array, but in their hunter
garbs, with their hunter weapons in their hands ; .
apd pursuing, as with individual aim, the bea'lts of
the chase. Yet whatever seemed their object,-
however various and oblique their courses might
appear,-by evening the whole body of the people
had advanced far in one direction ; and that
frection was towards Ukinim. On the second
e~e, thousands of the Azims were secretly congre-
gated in the very hills that surrounded that famous
city; and if a judgment could be drawn from
K2
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
198 THE EXILE
appearances, without their presence being sus-
pected. Nichar sate upon the same eminence that
he had occupied ages ago, and beheld the city
lie below him in all its princely and paradisiacal
beauty. Thousands and tens of thousands of
dwellings had arisen in it since then. Myriads of
lives swarmed within it ; and the hum of peace, of
secure rejoicing, came up to his seat. He beheld,
too, the infernal spirits passing to and fro across
the mountains, and marvelled that they appeared
all unconscious of the ambushed enemies. He
trusted God had smitten them with blindness
preparatory to their confusion. Anxiously he
awaited the coming of the heavenly spirits. Night
came down. He descended into the camp, if camp
that may be called, in which was neither tent nor
enclosure, except such as thick-spreading trees,
caverns, and towering crags presented. There he
found the whole host of the Azim people, who had
lain down in the ravines and woody sides of the
mountains during the day, were equally impatient
with hi.Ipself, for the command of their leaders to
·cross the naked summits of the hills, and descend
I
upon the town. The army occupied the whole
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 199
circle of hills which we have before described as
surrounding Ukinim; and the different chiefs
were at considerable distances from each other,
each in the midst of niS own tribe, ready at the
word Of the expected angel, to lead.his people to
the gate immediately below him. They presented
the singular anomaly of an army with many leaders,
but without a commander-in-chief. They confi-
dently looked for the speedy presence of those
who were, to them, more than the ablest· general
which earth could produce.
Nichar found posted nearest to him the youngest
of the chiefs,-the glad-hearted Mochal. The
youthful beauty of his large, yet not fully matured
person, and his overflowing good-humour and
pleasant wit, had been Mochal's chief distinguish-
ing qualities. They had given him a brother's
place in every heart that approached him. It
seemed as if the superior being, from whom he
derived so beautiful and buoyant. a form, had also
endowed him with a heart of perpetual gladness.
He seemed to breathe an atmosphere of delight,
and to pour out, with his breath, upon everything
around him, pleasure, mirth, and love. At the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
200 THE EXILE
festal table, Mochal's radiant face and happy voice,
kindled the countenances and the words of all
others ; and in the -chase, that voice was heard
where, far a-head, he dashed in reckless extrava-
gance of physical power and spirits, sending its
jubilant echoes through the wilderness. In the
hours of social ease and retirement, there was
Mochal as full of gambol as a c~ild. All eyes
sparkled at his approach ; in every mouth, he was
the happy Mochal,-the dear, good Mocha!! a
being that dreamed not of power, or dignity, or
evil. He found life a joyous gift in his boyhood ;
·and he was a boy still. Time had hitherto wrought
no change in him; and who could tell how it
would hereafter influence him. Nichar loved him.
The frank gladness of his spirit, communicated ill!
sunny contagion even to his darkened soul ; and
Mochal seemed to love and lean upon Nicha!, as
youth is apt t~ do upon aged wisdom that is clothed
with kindness. Nichar now found him gay and
careless of the future, as in his own native haunts.
He was impatient, indeed, of the restraint of am-
bush; impatient of delay; impatient to rush down
to the stir and conquest of Ukioim.
oigi .. eabvGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 201
And behold ! there came the expected paternal
spirit,-not shining in his glory as on the former
eve, but shrouded in a dim form, and ~ull of
anxious haste. " The spirits are descended," he
said; " each has sought his kindred chief,-each at
this moment commences his march to the city, at
the head of. his host. Let us begone ! Let us
speed in cautious silence. Already the gates are
loosed-the watche~ laid to sleep. The moment
w~ enter the city, the spirits will dart forward to
the abode of Lilith. 'Ve must come upon her
suddenly, or our quest is in vain! If she escape us,
all is lost !-our enterprise is vain. Destroy her,
and the spell is broken !-the tie which binds the
demons to this spot, is severed ! They rnay still
linger upon earth ; but their central· attraction is
gone ! Let her escape ! and vainly do you seek
to hold Ukinim ;-all hell will rise, and overwhel~
you! Let us go!"
At once the signal was given by Mochal~it
flew from man to man. At once a mighty host
sprang up from ·cave, ravine, and thicket, and with
swift, but silent steps, hastened over the hill-tops,
and descended the hollow way towards the city.
K3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
202 THE EXILE
At the same midnight hour, descended tens of
thousands, each headed by its own gigantic chief,
and by a mighty angel. Darkness and clouds
favoured them. The city lay in profound gloom
and silence. No light was visible-no sound-not
even the solitary foot-fall of the watchman told of
the presence of life. The hosts approached ·the
walls: the angels pushed open the mighty gates
before them. On twenty sides, at the same in-
stant, the hosts entered the city. The spirits bade
them haste onward, and were gone. The Azims
beheld around them in the obscurity of night, the
shadowy bulk of vast p~laces. They passed by
colossal statues-by fountains, dashing their waters
sonorously on the night air-by groves and gar-
dens, which breathed forth delicious fragrance ;
but all was gloomy and indistinct, and not a living
being was abroad. So deep was the silence, that
the hosf:s heard the regular tread of the counter-
hosts across the city; they heard the river roaring
over some distant cataract, alternately louder and
fainter: with the variation of the breeze. The
myriad inhabitants slumber~d beneath the heavy
spell of the invading angels, and even the watchers
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 203
lay stretched in sleep by the way-sides. Anxiously
the hosts looked before them, expecting every
moment some sign of contest-some sound of
assault or victory; but little did they anticipate the
scene that awaited them. The huge mount and
palace of Lilith was before them ; already they
descried its monstrous gloom, when at once, a cry,
such as might startle the globe on the night of
judgment, rung forth ; and a sudden, dazzling,
blasting flame ~urst from the palace. The whole
stupendous .fabric was in an instantaneous glow of
fire, that rushed through every apartment, wrapped
it from end to end, from foundation to roof, in a
clear, liquid, raging splendour, and roared up in
terrible volumes to the sky. Higher and wider it
spread ! rushing and rolling in a fierce and vora-
cious mass, that seemed not to be merely fed by
~he burning bulk of the palace and temple, but to
gush up with inextinguishable vehemence from the
central fountain of flame. Aloft it stood,-a v~t
trunk of angrily' mingling red, yellow, blue, and
the whiteness of the intensest furnace; throwing
out immense volumes of sulphurous and fire-
streaked smoke, that formed a terrible canopy to
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
204 THE EXILE
the city, which glared on all sides like a wide con-
gregation of spectral towers, and shewed thousands
and tens of thousand~ of closely-pressed faces, up-
turned in ghastly pallor and silence. But aloft!.
aloft !-what a spectacle ! There, in the midst of
that up-rushing torrent of fire, was seen a host of
spirits in fierce contention. They rose---: they
soared up into the loftiest waves of turbulent flame,
furiously smiting at each other,. as if WlConscious of
the devouring. element. But it was speedily seen
that the greater number of the combatants were
infernal natures, who assaulted the few brighter
beings with bitterest malice. It looked a far un-
equal contest. The heavenly spirits were at once
surrounded by vast numbers, and seemed to be
sorely oppressed by the terrible element, in which
their dark opponents moved their forms, and ex-
panded their huge wings, as totally untroubled by
its hot embrace. But fierce and desperately each
bl;lttling spirit struck. Their swords 6ashed, even
amid the bright flood of fire, like lightnings; their
waving and writhing forms were seen amid alter-
nate smoke and light,-now linked convulsively
together, now furiously grappiing, and striving to
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 205
hurl each other downwards through the flame.
Dreadful yells announced,_ ever and anon, the
triumph or the torment of the malignant natures:
the fair spirits, if they suffered, suffered in silence.
Fearful and full of wonder, was the scene to those
below; more fierce and dreadful it became every
moment; while the burning palace, which now
glowed like one clear, molten mass of the intensest
heat, exploded, with tliunderous sounds, red-hot
stones into the air. Fragments of glowing columns
were projected, hissing far and wide; and showers
of molten gold, from liquescent roofs, scattered
their fearful drops upon the gazing multitude, and
rais~d sltrieks of sudden agony. Aloft, unconscious
of all around, fought the furious spirits. Their
anger seemed to inve~t them with momeHtarily
augmenting energy ; their forms appeared to glow
brighter than the element in which they contended,
and to expand into a terrific vastness. But anon,
it became apparent that ~e infernal natures
quailed. Every stroke of their enemies' weapons
was answered by groans and yqlls. Their forms,
although accustomed to the power of fire, had lost
the heavenly vigour which resisted and extin-
oigi .. eabvGoogle
206 THE EXILE
guished pain ; while their foes, though smitten
through and through, fortified by the celestial
strength of felicity within, appeared unconscious of
endurlllg harm. Fearful and more fearful, grew
the fallen spirits of the celestial swords ; shriek
followed shriek, as they played through their
writhing forms ;-they turned, and with a howl of
inconceivable agony, fled headlong.
Instantly the gloriously dreadful phenomenon
vanished. The flames of the burning palace sunk,
and left behind a black and reeking mass ; the
heavens shone clear, freed from the volumes of
rolling, fiery vapours, and illumed by the pale
beams of approaching daY.·
The Azims gazed around them in amazement.
The whole appeared like a wondrous dream. The
terrible vision had disappeared,-and around them
lay the wide, magnificent city, with all its palaces
and gardens; a scene of splendour such as they
had never beheld. The inhabitants, roused by the
burst of flame which threw over the whole city a
sudden day-by the awful spectacle of the combus-
tioll of the palace of their queen-by the fiery con-
test above it, and the c.ries of the contending spirits,
DogotozedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 207
beheld with astonishment little less, their streets
occupied by a hostile army. They looked with
wonder on so vast a multitude come upon them
they knew not how; upon the singular aspect of
a host of bunters; upon the Titanian and god-like
stature of their leaders. The Azims, with equal
.surprise and curiosity, contemplated the soft, effe-
minate forms, the gay, luxurious dresses of the
voluptuous city. Their eyes wandered over the
vast assemblage of superb abodes, the sculptured
fountains, the g-ardens, the airy grots, and gorgeous
pavilions scattered through them; the sunny waters
and flowery fields every where spread before the
charmed sight. It seemed a fit region for the abode
of gods-a glorious prize, to be won for themselves
and their posterity for ever. And won, it seemed
already. The city tribes regarded them with awed
hearts, ·as their conquerors; and their "Princes and
sena~rs, in silent procession advancing, laid at
their feet the ·insignia of command, an<t bowed
themselves to the dust before them. The Azim
chiefs, accepting their homage, dismissed them with
words of courtesy, and lifting up their eyes, gave
command to their followers. to occupy the gates,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
208 THt EXILE
the towers upon the walls, and every strong position
of the city. At this moment the celestial spirits
returned from .the pursuit of their foes,-drew
them into a neighbouring temple, and exclaimed,
-" Haste, and withdraw from the city ! We have
failed_;_all is lost ! Lilith has escaped ! The de-
mons, aware of our approach, have withdrawn her
to some undiscovered recess. Nichar, furious with
disappointment, seeks her far and wide; in the
air, in the caverns of the earth beneath, in the
mountains, and the depths of the river. But vain
will be his inquest ! she is in the hands of the
subtlest of spirits. Burning with the shame 9f
their defeat, hither will t!ley return with all the
powers of -hell, and vainly should we resist. But
we, alas ! cannot even await their return. Our
time is gone. God, whose decrees are wise, has
not made them known to us; but ye know that he
has commanded all the race of heaven not to shew
themsel\res henceforth openly amid the people of
the earth. He leaves men, now numerous as the
stars. to achieve their own destinies. Man's na-
ture, now matured by time, must walk in its own
strength. His decrees are right-his will is holy
oigi .. eabvGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 209
and good-we worship and obey. Not till another
moon can we seek again even the bri~f nocturnal
interview which he vouchsafes to our parental love.
High duties in the highest heavens will till. then
detain us. Haste, haste then from -this place.
Ye cannot hold it. To remain, is to perish. Ye
have made a glorious attempt; ye have shewn
yourselves possessors of a power which will free-
you from aggression-reserve yourselves, there-
fore, for some happier opportunity to accom-
plish that vow upon the Goddess of all seductive
vanities, that cannot now be perfected. Haste,
haste away. Egress is now yours-a few hours
and it may be lost for ever. Away-and the bless-
ings of God be with you !" They clasped their
children in their arms, and were gone.
Alas ! what is the strength of human nature?.
What is its wisdom in the noblest bosoms ? The ~
chiefs stood as in a fearful and bewild~ring dream.
· Could it indeed be the voice of their victorious
parents which they heard? They had seen them
assault~ route, and pursue their foes; and did they
come back to counsel them to fiight?-to flight, now
that with all their powers they were in possession
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
210 THE EXILE
of that glorious city? " Shall we fly?" they ex-
claimed, " ere we have seen one cause for fear ?
while the whole city is ours? with our strength
untried-its exertion yet uncalled for? shall we fly
from the presence of this soft and peaceful people,
who bend at our feet, and ask only their feeble lives
at our hands? shall we depart -ere we have sought
and dragged from her· concealment, that pernicious
being whose fatal presence has drawn hither our
angry arms? ere we have beheld the result of
Nichar's quest ?-Alas ! it were to cover ourselves
with shame-to become the wonder and the deri-
sion of the earth ! Nay-let us at least behold the
face of danger, and contend with it like men, before
we flee-let us dispose our forces in full readiness
to hold and to defend·our glorious prize, and trust
in God to purge this fair city of its evil things."
It was the voice and the spirit of all. Alas ! how
little did these noble creatures know themselves,
or the work before them. Even now, while they
talked of disposing thejr forces for the maintenance
of their conquest, little ·did they know how far
more pt>tent was the influence of the place in
which they were, upon their followers' hearts than
o; ,;. byGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 2ll
their own commands ;-little did they know how
deeply that influence was operating in their own
bosoms. They had caught a glimpse of the
splendours and amenities of the city; of every
pomp and witchery that can enchain the human
soul ; and vain were all words of warning, from
within or without. To assert the cause of God ;
and to leave to their children a fair heritage of
rule and renown ;-these were the brilliant motives
which their spirits avowed and believed as the
moving springs of their deeds and designs,-but,
ah ! how many subtle impulses lay beneath ! Lost
in that intoxication of heart, which many a noble
nature _
has deemed the effect of lofty aspirations,
and has followed to its cost, they shut from their
bosoms the voice of their celestial guardians, and
went, in the fond belief of their own purity of
purpose, boldly on their way. They roamed with
wondering eyes through all the various scenes of
that metropolis of Pleasure; through its palaces, its
gardens, its elysian fields; they beheld its comely
people mirthful, and disposed to festivity even on
the day of their subjection; -its flower-crowned
daughters, beauti.ful as the children of heaven, and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
(
212 THE EXILE
endowed with a grace of motion, and with smiles
that sank like sunshine into the sternest bosom.
Everything around thein had the air of a dream-
a dream of light, and loveliness, and music, that
might be expected to melt suddenly as it came.
The odours that floated profusely ~hrough the
warm air, seemed charged with the spirit of
delight ; songs, whose tones thrilled through the
breast with a power · of delicious entrancement,
were heard issuing ever and anon from some hidden
bower, or the airy seclusion of a tent, spreading
its blue and golden curtains by the river's brim, on
some verdant and flowery lawn.
Through such scenes wandered the Azim lords,
not untouched bttheir spells; but they everywhere
entered the temples, and vindicated the honour of
their high natures by prostrating the Pagan images,
and dashing them to atoms in their indignant
cont6mpt.
The day waned. They beheld from the mount
of the palace, which they had chosen for their
abode, their guards and sentinels moving to and
fro on their appointed posts. They beheld them
slowly pacing the ramparts; they"heard the hum of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 213
the great peopled city sink into the quiet of night;
and they lay down to repose in the elating con-
sciousness of newly-acquired dominion. But short
was their slumber. At midnight, startled by some
cry, some piercing alarm, whose nature they com-
prehended not, yet felt in their inmost souls to be
terrible, they sprang up, and beheld in their midst
a spirit, whose flaming brand, and countenance
burning with an ineffable expression of indignation
and anxiety, filled them with overwhelming sen-
sations of terror and amaze. "Fly, wretched men!
fly while ye may!" he cried. " You ·have sent
pain into the innermost heavens. Fly ! the evil
ones are at hand ! Hell !-every vast and terrible
demon-the mighty potentates of craft, and malice,
and inextinguishable vengeance are at hand-Satan
himself at their head! Away, if it be yet possible,
and this extreme warning of your agonized parents
be not vain as the first !" As he spo~e, in rushed
Nichar himself. His air was wild and frenzied.
His form was black and disfigured, as by the
scorching of the' infernal fires. A host of con-
tending passions seemed written in his face ; but
his words, which broke forth like impetuous light-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
214 THE EXILE
nings, were but an echo of the spirifs. "Fly,
fly ! the damned crew have borne away the cursed
Lilith. · Through height and depth, through every
element which a spirit ean inhabit, I have sought
her in vain ; and now the impious come, hot with
implacable revenge for their routed fellows and
insulted seat of empire. Away! or ye are lost!"
At once they rushed abroad, filled with_a mighty
terror. They' bade the trumpets sound to arms,
they flew from place to place to gather their troops
into hasty array. But who might effect that now?
Who might burst that slumbrous spell, which now
'
the powers of evil had cast upon them, as heavily
as the spirits of light. had cast theirs before upon
the people of Ukinim? Wherever they went, they
beheld the terrible. traces of a night in which
they themselves had lain down to peaceful rest.
They beheld the remains of riotous feasts. Tents,
halls, vine-trellissed grots wide open to the night,
and lit with a thousand glimmering lamps, dis-
played tables with the costly apparatus of the
banquet- golden goblets still overflowing with
wine, or overturned in floods of their own nec-
tarous liquid; and strewed around lay promiscuous
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
O},' HEAVEN. 215
throngs, of every age, sex and character, in deep
and inebriate stupor. The farther they went, it
was only to see spectacles which filled them with
grief and rage ;-spectacles which we cannot paint,
but which displayed the deadly devastations of one
licentious eve. . They called upon their followers
to arise, they shook them ;oughly in their sleep,
but it was in vain ;--:-they beheld with horror, that
many were sleeping their last sleep. Amid the
prostrate groups, there were some who were
prostrate in death-amid the liquid which flowed
around them, was some of a deeper purple than
wine. Riot or treason had done fearful deeds.
Nichar, impelled by his solicitude, had also flown
forth to rouse the Azim hosts to flight; he too
had beheld with a sickening horror the destructive
agency of insidious license, and was standing in
despairing sorrow, when his eye was arrested by
an ominous sight. A sullen redness rose around
the whole city, like a dull fiery band, occupying
the lower regions of the sky, and gleaming above
the walls. It was not the light of morning; no
morning ever yet rose with so spectral an aspect.
He felt a sudden sense of horrible foreboding; and
o; ,;. byGoogle
216 THE EXILE
behold ! even then, he could discover figures
-moving to and fro on the city walls, which were
not the figures of the Azim sentinels. They were
the tall, gaunt, dusky shapes of, hell; and dusky
banners waved heavily from every tower. It was
a withering sight. Dark tents pitched all around
the city, occupied the whole space from its walls
to the feet of the mountains. On the mountain
sides themselves, he beheld martial groups, whose
waving fiery javelins gleamed dismally through the
dim, discoloured air. Eastward, before the chief
gate, stood a lofty pavilion, whose gloomy splen-
dour and dimensiqns, marked it as the station of
the Infernal King. The feebleness of despair
seemed to quench all Nichar's strength at once.
Flight for himself, was dubious-for the Azims,
impossible. But many moments were not left
him to ruminate on the coming misery. Scarcely
had he poised his floating form on the air, when
a host of dark shapes shot from various parts of
the wall, and encompassed him. To fly, was
vain-to combat, hopeless ; ~ut he disdained to
surrender, without a struggle. As these hated
beings rushed upon him with harpy hands, and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 217
eyes that glowed with the fires of triumphant hate,
he dashed them from him, as a mighty rock hmls
back a furious rush of waves. Again they closed-
again he flung them off. He turned and turned,
and gathering all the energies of his immortal
being, swept them down headlong through the air.
But it availed not! numbers grew upon numbers;
they seized and bore him to the earth. They
wrapped him in infernal chains, gave him to the
custody of two strong spirits, and departed with
lightning rapidity. Nichar found himself on the
mount of Lilith, by the smoking ruins of her palace ;
but other eircumstances suffered him not to contem-
plate that object. A sound as of a stormy ocean,
ascended to his ears, and casting his eye over the
city, what an excruci~ting spectacle was there!
On all sides, far as vision ·could reach, the inha-
bitants of Ukinim had risen in murderous fury
against the Azims. He beheld, as it were, an
ocean of tossing heads, driven by contending im- ·
pulses, swaying to and fro like mighty currents.
Now this way, now that, he saw the rush and
pressure ~f the rage of life and passion, and the
mingled congrega€ed sound~ - the cries of fury
VOL I, L
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
218 THE EXILE
and desperation, of agony, vengeance and despair,
' .
rose awfully horrible. In the midst of the fie[ce
tumult, he saw the bands of the Azims scattered
here and there, contending vehemently, but in
vain, against the swarming millions who pressed
them on all sides; while over head, the demon-
'
troop brandished their flaming darts, and excited
the spirits of the men of Ukinim, with the venom
of uncontrolable rage. Here and there, but far
separate, appeared the lofty forxns of the chieftains,
battling and beating down thousands around them,
as the mighty elephant crushes the lesser race of
men in the anger and agony of his wounds. They
fought- they exhorted their valiant followers-
they did deeds worthy of everlasting renown; but
the contest was hopeless-one by one they fell,
and a rending shout of triumph proclaimed their
fall. In one spot, Nichar beheld a touching scene.
Four of these noble brothers stood back to back,
and with vast and massy batons, cleared around
them a dreadful field. But the· arrows of the
lnfernals reached them,-they perished; and over
them rushed the tide of frantic cotnbatants. Agail!
he beheld another colossal chief, heading a nume-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 219
rous band, and cutting with irresistible strok~s, a
passage towards the northern gate. It was Teleg!
-that mighty form could not be another's--that
Sampsonian strength could be no man's but his.
On he marched ! before him the hosts inflamed
with the rabid malice of hell, recoiled; but
behind, pressed upon his dense phalanx of follow-
ers, the numberless infuriate foes. Now he turned
~d scattered them-now strode hastily forward
to secure some important station. They reached
the river,-they crossed tht> light and airy bridge
.
which spanned it like a rainbow. Teleg lingering
in the rear, with his single arm, repelled the whol~
host of assailants. Now they followed at his heels,
like a swarm of hornets-he seized the crowded
bridge with his mighty hands -it shook - it
writhed like a huge, convulsive serpent;-it fell !
and a dreadful yell arose from the perishing throng,
which the waters speedily quenched. The foe
recoiled from the river-banks in horrible astonish-
ment. Teleg led on his host towards the gate.
It was shut! Again the foe pressed upon his
diminished numbers, who looked in dismay on the
closed, massy gates ; while from above, the malig-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
220 THE EXILE
nants assaulted them with burning arrows. The
might of Teleg concentrated itself into one stu·
pendous effort. He raised the colossal shaft of a
column that lay near, and driving fiercely against
the gate with a sound of thunder, it burst wide;-
and the enfranchised band rushed through. Nichar
felt a transport of joy at the sight : it was of short
duration. Without the gates, arose the din of a
terrible conflict; he could behold through the open
portal, a partial view of fiercely struggling num·
hers : - then burst forth a shout of boundless
triumph; and be beheld two of the enemy return,
bearing into the city the head of Teleg, sus·
pended from the staffof his ponderous spear, by
its long and knotted locks.. A crowd followed
the grizzly trophy, singing a pean of victory.
Alas ! the noble Teleg! Nicbar's eye recoiled
from the sight with a dizzy wildness; but it was
only to fall upon one still more painful. Every
lofty chief had vanished from view. Many were
fallen ;-some few had escaped, and were fighting
their way up the mountains, amidst swarms of-
vindictive and harassing pursuers. One alone he
beheld, posted on a mount just within the wall-his
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 221
band stretched dead around him; and he, the only
surviving Azim, defending his life from a million
weapons. It was Mochal !-the young, the gene-
rous,-the joyous Mochal! At the sight, Nichar,
forgetting everything but the peril of the precious
youth, and writhing vehemently in his chains, called
aloud'-" Help ! help !" as if his voice could reach
the struggling remnant who now approached the
mountain top. Oh, vain !-he heard but the hellish
laugh of his grim guardians, and saw their fiery
eyes flash with a· vengeful joy. But Mochal, the
hapless Mochal! -there he was alone! Every
friendly soul had fallen, or was gone, and the rage
of war, which had apparently subsided in all the
other regions of the city, gathered only more
fiercely around him. Like a lion at bay, he bore
himself with wondrous and undaunted bravery.
Here, there, he. turned, and at every stroke his
massy spear made havock. His godlike form, con-
spicuous afar, and his stupendous deeds, might
have filled the fellest antagonist with a deathless
admiration: but what mortal, however magnifi-
cently endowed, could cope with that tempest of
rage? Below, millions of daggers aimed at his
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE EXILE
single life ; - from above showered millions of
flaming darts. They smote him- he fell, but
it was only on his knees to whelm the vigour
of his ·gigantic arms upon his astonished foes.
Struck-bleeding with numberless wounds and
infixed barbs, he still knelt, battleing with on-
quailing force;: but a stone precipitated from the
adjoining tower smote him, and he disappeared for
ever.
CHAPTER VI.
ScARCELY had Nichar witnessed this last, and most
lamentable catastrophe, when he heard the rush as
of countless iron wings, and beheld the demon-
hosts drawing near him. .They came, darkening
the air with their numbers, and alighting, formed
round him an awful circle. It was a terrible mo-
ment. He beheld himself in the midst of those
mighty•powers of evil, whose very names were a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 223
terror; whose dark renown filled the universe; and
whose malignant strength had caused confusion in
the very heart of heaven. He stood there, a soli-
tary and friendless being. God had abandoned
-
·
him ; no spiritual natures had espoused his cau8e ;
the few mortals who had shewn him kindness were
destroyed ; and with the combined hatred of all
the powers of cruelty against him, he had no hope .
to lean upon. It was a dreadful situation ; and he
felt all its horrors. When be lifted his eyes, and
glanced round the grim circle that environed him,
that horror sank tenfold more deeply into his
being. Those forms, which he had once known
glorious in majesty, and beautiful in brig~tness, he
could still recognise,-the features and bearing of
these pre-eminent spirits were never to be entirely
'
changed ; but a darkness had passed upon them,
which but rendered what once constituted the pro-
minence of their divine beauty, the exaggeration
of their present terrific disfigurement. Sin, the
violence of rancorous and rending passioiUl, the
fiery blasts and consuming ardour of their do-
lorous abodes, had rendered them hideous to look
upon. Cruelty and revenge, the evil will, the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
224 THE EXILE
base and blasphemous desire, were written broadly
. -
in their faces. But more conspicuously had this
woful metamorphosis demonized the King of Hell.
Nichar beheld him posted over against him: He
had chosen for his seat of judgment a massy pro-
jection of rock, and sate gazing upon the prisoner
in gloomy silence. His gigantic form wore a ter-
rible hue, as if centuries of habitation in his fiery
climes, the immortality of despair and blasted
ambition, had left their burning blackness upon
him. That countenance, which had retained much
of the glorious beauty which clothed the mightiest
spirit of heaven, long after he had fallen to the
monarchy of Hell, was now a horrible mien,-dark,
repellent, and portentous. Evil, more devastating
to a spiritual essence than withering age to mortals,
had given a hideous deformity to those once sub-
lime features; and a thousand demoniac influences,
for ever operating on his stormy soul, stamped
them with an expression too fiercely malignant to
be long endured, even by the eye of his hardiest
followers. Yet his spectral figure, like some regal
tower that has been scathed by the fire of belea-
guering hosts, retained amid all its melancholy
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN, 225
ravages an infernal maj~sty of beauty. He sate
like some mighty and impious being, whom the
lightning of heaven has suddenly blasted, and left
fixed on his -seat-a warning spectacle for after
tyrants; and in his right hand he held his pon-
derous spear, whose point blazed like a star.
He fixed his dreadful eyes-long upon Nichar, as
though he would annihilate in him, by their intole-
rable glare, every remaining sense of courage or
virtuous power; but when he spoke, it was with a
fiendish smile. " Thanks, Nichar !" he pronounced
in a sarcastic tone; "thanks, good spirit, for thy
obliging acts. Two good deeds hast thou done,
for each of which thou well deservest my gratitude.
Lilith hast thou made,-the fairest object on earth
-the.most potent rod of enchantment ever wrought
by man or angel,-the most transcendant stay and
extender of my empire upon earth. I could not
have devised her inestimable existence, but I can
thank thee for it now and for ever. There was a
nation, too, that resisted my influence-a single
race, that I could neither reduce nor subdue; and
these hast thou led up like a flock, wholly and
willingly to destruction-thou hast put them into
L3
[rgr. jb;Google
226 THE EXILE
my hand-and they are gone. The earth is now
mine I I were less than Satan to refuse thee thy
choice of its pleasures and dominion. Take what
thou wilt I"
As he listened to this mingled strain of taunt
and invitation, tire spirit of Nichar revived-it
kindled-it refused, with hell and all its tortures
before hint, to be still. He answered with an
indignant glance of fire, that feared not to fix itself
upon the spirit-withering countenance of Satan
with a bold unwavering regard. " Satan, I scorn
alike thy gibes and thy specious goods !" As the
words issued from his lips, the arch-fiend stooped
the blazing point of his spear to the earth·;-in the
same moment a yawning chasm opened at his feet,
through whose blackness a pale, blue vapour as-
cended ; and the two strong guards of Nichar
seizing upon him, plunged headlong down the
abyss. Their descent was a long and spirit-winged
rush, through a profound -immensity, where the
breath of life never came ;-a flight in which years
of human speed would be consumed-yet it was
'
but a brief travel, and -a sudden entrance into a
hot and withering atmosphere. Nichar, with the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 227
quick intelligence of a spirit, knew that they were
in the regions of central flame, and his vision con-
firmed that instant judgment. Above them, glowed
a concave, apparently vast as our upper sky; below
were seas of molten matter, which rolled their igne-
ous waves with a chaos of soul-confounding sounds.
The terrible roof broke into many vast and. irre-
gular concavities; for ever dropped melted matter,
like rain; and covered with curling, dusk-red flame,
flung down a heat tenfold hotter than the intensest
furnace, which the fiery ocean below reverberated;
and burning blasts, armed with torture even for the
hardiest spirit, roared through the intermediate
space. The heavy, molten seas, here rolled in
huge swells-there leaped up furiously, and coiled
in radiant rage against dark adamantine rocks; and
a multitude of sounds rose from the dolorous
abyss, full of varied and inconceivable .horror.
Cries, thrilling lamentations~ as of feeble and tender
souls; sudden shrieks, at which even the damned
place, and all its uproar, seem~d for a startled mo-
ment stilled ; bestial barkings, and hoarse and
bellowing yells, that seemed sent from iron lungs
of vast and monstrous natures, that rose above the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
228 THE EXILE
general din, multiplied their dismal echoes in
vaulted regions above, and died not but in the
far-off distance.
Nichar's keepers hurried on towards a huge .and
gloomy fane, that occupied a broad rock in the
centre of the Seas of Misery. The rock, bare and
bleak, was surrounded by a chaos of projecting
crags, rearing themselves in every wild and.deso-
late shape, as if to repel all approach. The fabric,
gloomy as night, seemed built of solid bronze.
Above, its roof was lost in clouds of fire and
smoke ; below, vast and heavy arches opened it on
all sides, and gave wide scene of the regions of
torture and despair. Within, a floor of the same
black but burning metal ; and the same ponderous
arches in rows, diverging from the centre to im-
mense distances, and bearing the roof, which, as
without, was lost in its lofty gloom, were the only
visible objects, except the towering central throne
of the infernal monarch. A flight of wide gigantic
steps ascended to it; and on each extremity of
every step, lay the crouching image of a chained
dragon. On each hand of the penal throne, hung
suspended by chains, a huge metallic sphere :
o; ,;. byGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 229
that on the right was silver; that on the left was
brass. Scarcely had Nichar time to contemplate this
melancholy abode, when he heard the dashing of
myriad iron pinions, and the hosts of the infemals
rushed like a numberless flock of evil birds into the
palace. Thousands on thousands alit, at once filling
the place. Far as the eye could reach, on every
side, the floor was crowded by dusky shapes, whose
eyes, like burning lamps, flung back the sullen
-light of surrounding hell. Nichar looked towards
the throne, and beheld on every dragon-shape, an
infernal potentate; and on his tribunal, the terrific
Lucifer himself. He held in his right hand a
heavy golden sceptre, and the assembled millions
awaited his words, in silence profound as vacuity
itself. He turned his eye upon Nichar, and thus
addressed him : " Great spirit,-for we know thy
original rank and powe:t:, as ours are not unknown
to t~ee,-perhaps my words but lately heard, were
not grave enough to declare my real meaning. I
behold thee here my captive, in my own abode,
subjected to my unquestioned will ; but I seek
not, therefore, to abate ~ne atom of the respect in
which I hold thee. Thou hast done us good
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
230 THE EXILE
service ; I avow it in sincerity ; and I say, as is
worthy of thee and us-be free ! Embrace these ·
thine ancient brethren. Thou, like them, hast
nobly asserted thy freedom : at once then-be
free ! Add to theirs thy mighty power, and make
the day when the independent spirits shall prevail,
nearer by that union. Behold thy throne ! Thou
hast well woo it. As thou wert noble and potent
in heaven, be thou noble and potent here. Mil·
lions of kindred sph-its wait impatiently to embrace
thee as a brother-to hail thee as a king !" He
smote the silver sphere with·his sceptre. A clear
inspiriting sound rung from it through all that
nether space, which struck, with its eager note, the
soul of life, activity, and daring courage in every
living form. A million glad and clamouring
voices burst forth at once ; and " Welcome !
welcome, Nichar !:• rang, in animating acclaim,
through all the air, Even Nichar himself could
not resist the sharp, spirit-stirring spell of the
wondrous sound; but he struggled with his as-
saulted heart, and answered not by look or voice
the acclamation of millions. " Dost thou hesitate,
Nichar ?" exclaimed.Satan,-" can it be possible ?
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 231
What, I fray thee, is thy destiny, present or to
come, that thou canst place it in the balance for a
moment with the dominion, fellowship, and hope
which I offer thee? Art thou not an outcast-a
solitary outcast, scorned and expelled from thy
native seats, by the good, the piteous spirits of
heaven; unallied to any living thing ? and wilt
thou live on thus joyless, friendless, and hopeless,
for ~ver? Shall this be the destiny of thy noble
nature-of thy force and faculties, capable of
achieving wonders for the oppressed and perse" _
cuted spirits ? Dost thou hope for reconcilement
with God? Oh, simple and unreflecting spirit !
Look! look back through thy miserable ages of
exile ! Look through those which have beheld our
places vacant in heaven ! What seest thou?
Mercy ? forgiveness? aught like compassion to-
wards what the self-styled Almighty-the Benefi-
cent, terms the works of his bands? Dost thou
see that love of which he boasteth himself the
fountain, overleap its bounds for a moment, to shed
one drop upon the millions of immortal creatures
that he ~ooms to pain? Awake, Nichar, from
thy dream ! Cast from thee the blinding veil of a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
232 THE EXILE
lingering attachment to what thou hast OJ;I.Ce loved,
and behold the truth ! He, he, with his obse-
quious satellites, lives in pomp, pleasure, and luxu-
rious ease; but millions of spirits weep and pine in
regions of iron and despairing wrath ; and not for
one instant does it disturb his sublime tranquillity.
No, no, Nichar, hope it not! Hast thou not wept,
and prayed, and bowed thyself sorrowfully before
him, and clung to his law, and made his foes .thy
foes ; and hath it won for thee one smile-one
moment's mitigation of thy grief-one hope, how-
ever distant ? Arise, Nichar ! Cast off that crin-
ging, suppliant air !-put on strength and dignity,
which once were thine; for hope, be thou assured,
dwells but in thine own arm ! What hast thou
done ? We who ·have .warred and resisted, and
still with heart and hate resist,-we may behold
and wonder not at his inexorable nature ; but thou,
who, in an idle moment, didst commit a venial
offence,-if offence that may be called which no
law forbade, and which gave to the earth the
brightest of its inhabitants: thou, who hast never-
theless mourned thy deed, and sought through
earth and air to expiate it,-thou art hopeless as
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 233
we ! But we are not hopeless ! Hope, .a glorious
hope is ours, and bears us through evil ages and
unworthy scorn ! We contend for power-power
which will at length determine the empire of the
universe ; and blind must he be, who does not dis-
cover whither it is tending. Millions of new
beings swell daily the great ocean of existence ;
and whose are they? To whom do they fly 'I
To us !-they are ours ! Time for eve~ augments
-will for ever augment our host, and shews more
clearly the feeble few who adhere to our haughty
foe. Time will ultimately give us a weight of
living power, boundless and irresistible. W ouldst
thou then grasp a noble revenge ? W ouldst thou
be wise, and happy, and glorious ? Behold the
evident means ! 'T is in that vacant throne !"
"Vain words, Satan!" indignantly r~plied Nichar
-"vain words ! vain boasts ! while this pavement
burns beneath my feet; while I see your hideous
aspects, and these dolours are aro_
und ! I scorn
thy throne ; I hate thy language ; and though
God forsake me, and yon burning ocean be my
eternal bed, I bow alone to God, and declare him
good, as thou and thine are base !"
[•9•- jb,Google
THE EXILE
At these words, a fierce murmur arose in the
dense million ; and Satan, writhing on his throne,
his face became too horrible for the eye in
the black deformity of rage. He smote the
brazen sphere 'fith a furious stroke, and a deep
and bellowing din burst forth, that filled every
breast with sensations of horrible and unutterable
dismay. The damned spirits shrunk trembling at
the sound, and Nichar felt in his inmost soul the
overwhelming terrors of its deadly and unnerving
power. " See then," cried the fierce demon,
" whether thy God will save thee !" He bowed
his sceptre, and the two strong spirits laid hands
on Nichar ; but at that moment, a flash of devour~ •
ing brilliancy shot down through the gloomy
dome, and smiting the iron pavement, burned
with. a terrible and blinding intensity for a moment;
then diverged in a hundred vivid and voracious
streams of flame through the dismal hall. Nichar
knew the bolt of the Eternal, and prostrated him~
self on the fioor. A confusion, as of tempests in
the deeps of chaos, was around him, but the tumult
in his soul rendered it unheard. \Vhen he raised
his head, the innumerable host of demons had
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 235
disappeared-the wide_
dome was empty, save that
on the steps of the throne the chiefs of hell lay
prostrate on their faces. Satan alone erect, in a
rigid and convulsive attitude of mingled terror,
rage, and defiance, with his clenched right hand
aloft, and dark and scowling eye, fixed on the
quarter whence the lightning came, dared horribly
the Almighty power.
But it was · only for a moment that Nichar
beheld this baleful sight; an irresistible influence
buoyed him up, and bore him rapidly away. The
rush was impetuous-at the fleetest spirit's speed ;
-it ceased, and he beheld himself with wonder
on the same eminence whence he recently looked
down upon Ukinim ; and saw again the golden
city, shining peacefully in the beams of the
evening sun.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
236 THE EXILE
CHAPTER VII.
WHO may describe the heart of Nichar at this
moment? He appeared to have escaped from a
horrible dream,-but one shining and triumphant
fact shone full upon his mind with a precious
certainty :-the arm of Omnipotence had been
stretched to save him ! He was not forsaken ! not
abandoned by God! Hope·! hope! the most
transporting hope was his once more. He, whose
eye followed him to the lowest depths of fl.ame,-
whose hand was put forth to snatch him from the
grasp of the Evil Ones, could not have cast him
off for ever ! His love, though unseen, hovere<!
about him. He was tried, but not rejected !
There was a brilliant prospect yet to open upon
him. He repeated again those awful words which
.
had rung in his ears .incessantly, with a sound of
unmingled despair : " Go, and contemplate through
ages the effect of a moment !" and now they
seemed to bear a more lenient interpretation. It
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 237
was not for ever ! For ages he had borne bitterly
the contemplation of those terrible and boundless
effects; this day's dispensation whispered to him
of a termination-perhaps an early one to his ~als.
He had discerned that the Divine love still, though
invisible, surrounded him; and it was enough. A
new and buoyant life possessed him,-a tide of
blissful feeling rushed over him. Air and earth
were t<t his vision, wrapped in new and glorious
hues ; and the heavens !- the sublime heavens
- above-again they smiled graciously upon him,
with a tender and reconciled smile. He threw
himself prostrate upon the rock, and poured out
his soul in an ecstasy of uncontrolable happiness
and thanksgiving. " God ! God ! thou art yet
with me. Thou hast beheld my sorrows, -the
withering agonies of my spirit, the black despair
which covered it like a funereal garment. Oh,
God ! they were beheld by thee, when I deemed
that thou hadst turned away from me for ever thy
eternal and undeceivable eyes. Oh, Almighty
Father ! it is enough ! it is enough ! I have erred
foolishly-! have sinned presumptuously-! have
borne thy inflictions impatiently ; - thou art
238 THE EXILE
righteous, and wise, and good. It is enough-
it is enough !-that thou still followest me with
thy everlasting love. Lay on 11till thy just and
retributive hand. Let my trials and my wander-
ings endure, while it shall seem good in those pure
and serene eyes, which the mists of ignorance
never approached, which passion never dimmed,
and which the unfathomable life of thy Infinite
spirit cannot even divert from the work of wisdom.
Yes, let me still be a poor, despised, and tempest-
buffeted outcast upon thy earth ; let me share, as
is meet, in the evil which I have contributed to
sow largely in it ; pour upon me the viol of that
holy wrath, which consumeth but to revivi~y ; but,
oh ! let·not the assurance of thy love, let not the
hope of a final restoration to thy glorious abode
evermore be quenched within me; and let me, if it
be accordant with thy sure designs, be permitted
to arrest the march of that evil, which I have let
loose so lamentably on thy creation !"
He arose like a new creature. The rosy atmo-
sphere of heaven seemed once more around; its
elastic gladness once more to clothe his spirit. For
days and weeks he walked in this intoxication of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 239
felicity; he saw not the world around him, for his
vision was turned upon his heart ; and there contem-
plated all the bright scenes which had once filled it
with rejoicing, and which hope now whisper.
ed were
about to return. But by degrees the force of his
enthusiasm abated. The pale face of the earth, and
its cold realities, became visible through the lumi-
nous exhalations of intemperate joy, and reflection
and sighs broke together into the warm sanctuary
of his heart. There, below him, was that Ukinim,
the seat of his vain enterprise, shining in its peace-
, ful glory as if nothing had· interrupted its tran-
quillity. The traces ofwar were already obliterated.
He beheld a new and lofty mount arisen in the
centre of tl!e city. It was called the Hill of Giants
-for it contained the heaped bodies of his unfortu-
nate friends; and upon that mount arose once
more in augmented splendour the temple and palace
of Lilith. As he gazed on it, many a piercing and
melancholy reflection awoke ;-the fair land of the
Azims, how fared it now? He turned and directed
his flight instantly there-it was a heart-~ending
scene I A few of the Azims had escaped the
massacre of Ukinim. A few of the mighty chiefs
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
240 THE EXILE
had cut their way through opposing thousands, and
followed by the remnant of their people, had
reached their own hills-harassed by swarms ·of
vindictive pursuers. They reached their own hills,
but it was not to enjoy peace. At their heels came
pouring the .fierce and triumphant swarmsof Ukinim.
They came streaming along those sweet valleys, up
those beloved hills, like the countless armies of the
locusts; and before them every thing fell into sorrow
or destruction. The strong warriors fell beneath
the sword; the weeping women and children be-
neath the yoke of captivity. With breaking hearts
they passed, before the spears of their foes, from
those beautiful and endeared scenes; and the Zam-
,zummims, a ferocious and gigantic tribe, armed
with ponderous clubs, clad in the skins of beasts,
and rude and bloody as the beasts themselves,
came up and possessed themselves of the hill-
country of the Azims. It was no longer the
land of pastoral and romantic beauty; those massy
towers no longer resounded to the kingly voice of
the harp ; no longer contained the fairest and the
noblest creatures on earth ; a savage and gloomy
silence brooded over them, and lay like a fearful
I
DogotozedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 241
spell upon the whole land. Nichar turned from the
scene in speechless horror and prostration of heart.
He reflected on his recent exultation as a species of
madness. Yes !·while he was pouring out his soul
in thankful gladness, his friends were perishing;
their families were the prey of the enslaver; their
country desolate~ for ever. Whilst he Battered ·
himself that God relented towards him, the direst
punishment of his sin fell upon him; and the only
race which adhered to the laws and the spirit of
heaven, was rooted out from the earth. Oh ! vain
hopes of speedy success ! where were they? The
whole earth was now overwhelmed by the tide of
sin. The tribe of Seth had by degrees fallen away
and amalgamated with the race of Cain. There
was not a single bright spot where the hope which
Nichar had so fondly entertained, could linger,-it
was one universal waste of crime and brutality.
Let us hasten on ! There is nothing to retard
our steps. It would be a joyless task to follow the
again-despairing and downcast angel, through years
of darkness. Yet such was his lot. At times he
recollected his wondrous deliverance from the realms
of dolor, and a faint hope revived that he was not
VOL. I. M
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
242 THE EXILE
utterly abandoned-that· he was more thoroughly
to be tried; but without, there was nothing to sus-
tain that belief for a moment.
Vice-lawless, bloody, sensual, and .detestable,,
every where prevailed. The spirit of evil had
grown gigantic and hideous in the extreme.
Wherever he went, there were varied scenes;
\'al'ied deeds, but their character was one-and
that was diabolical. Here, noon-day revel and
license ; here conftict and individual violence ; and
here would come sudden invasion, quenching riot
and contention in one grand and wholesale gush of
blood.
It was Nichar's destiny to abide in such scenes
for ages, loathing to witness them, .yet bound as
by a penal spell to their presence. At length a
wondrous spectacle arose before him. He beheld
one righteous family, busily employed in building
a strange and immense vessel, or .house of wood.
He heard them talk of a c()ming deluge, which would
sweep ~way mankind. He heard their neighbours
jeering and mocking them as dreamers, but beheld
them steadily toiling at the ark, with the earnest-
ness of men who are convinced of the importance
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 243
and urgency of their labours. And it came ! a
dreadful and pitiless deluge. He beheld creatures
of every kind, fly for prQtection to the ark,-all,
save infatuated men. He saw the patriarch and
his family ascend it; and th,e invisible hand of
God shut them in ; and, at once, earth and skies
seemed wrapped together in tempestuous confu-
sion ; and waters gushed abroad, as if the ,earth
would dissolve itself into an ocean. A gloomy
and spectral shade covered the world; the sun :was
hidden by the deluging rains and heavy vapours ;
winds rushed furiously through the air, and howled
amongst the mountains. The people fled preci-
pitately from the plains. At first, they loaded
themselves and their beasts with their treasure!!,
and with every household article, however ponder-
ous and worthless. But the tempest was too
urgent--the waters .rose too fast. Their labouring
beasts struggled on in vain ; and themselves were
overwhelmed with their burdens, and their anxiety.
They threw off their loads, reserving only their
most precious things, and leaving their beasts to
perish, rushed eagerly to the hills. Desperate as
their situation was become, the desperateness of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
244 THE EXILE
their wickedness rose above it. They cast fierce
glances at the ark, that now borne up by the
waters, sailed solemnly away ; and shouted with
bitter mockery, " Oho ! old man there, take us
with thee, surely we are better company than what
thou hast got!" Others cursed him and his ark,
and predicted their common destruction, regardless
of their own ruinous case : and a crowd of others
wildly swimming to the ark, attempted to climb
into it; but its doors were closed by an Almighty
hand-it flung them off as it did the assaulting
waves of that dread sea, and bore silently and
gloomily on its course. The scene was now in-
expressibly awful. The cries of children, the
lamentations of women, the fierce rage of despair-
ing and demoralized men, filled ~he mountains
with an anarchy of horror. Faster, faster the
flood pursued. Terror and despair gave strength
and velocity to some, while it quenched it in others.
All feelings were absorbed in self.preservation ;
every hour, thousands were swall~wed up ; and
the higher the fugitives ascended, it was only to
command a wider survey of their pitiless enemy's
immensity and power. The last visible summits
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 245
of the mountains, exhibited a spectacle which repels
all human description. There every fierce beast,
-every venomous serpent and reptile were con-
centred, rabid with terror, and repelled the further
advance of men; desperate as themselves. It was
a chaos of every horror and horrible sound, brute
and human force, fierce and furious in blind ex-
asperation, warring to the death.
But Nichar !-a spirit had seized him, scarcely
less vehement. A hope had burst upon him, that
kindled all his nature into a flame ; and rendered
him regardless of the immense misery around him.
The flood would destroy all mortal things-Lilith
would perish I Her doom was certain; for whither
could she fly to escape it? Fired with the mo-
mentous hope, he posted himself on the hills above
Ukinim, and watched the progress of the deluge
with an intense avidity. He beheld the river,
swelled by a thousand sudden torrents from the
hills, speedily expand into a vast lake. He saw
the outlet through the ~ountains, quickly choked
with floating trees, and the ruins of demolished
fabrics : and the waters rise above the guilty city,
with a rapidity which left no chance of escape.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
246 THE EXILE
He saw mount after mount submerged, paJace
after palace disappear, till alone their golden vanes
were visible above the waters. The palace of
Lilith being the highest, was the last engulphed,
and he gazed with trembling agitation, as the flood
rose rapidly up its sides. " There ! there !" he
exclaimed, in irrepressible transport, " there! thy
doom, detestible creature, is sealed. Where, now,
.
are the arts of thy servile and zealous demons ?
Thou art gone ! Omnipotence has reached thee
at last !" What, then, was his amaze, as the
billows dashed upon the roof, to behold a radiant
car sustained on the shoulders of strong spirits,
rise from the dome, and Lilith, glorious in appa-
rent youth and beauty, as .at the hour of her
creation, sitting beneath a gorgeous canopy, was
home triumphantly away! 'At the sight, the spirit
of a demon seemed to possess Nichar himself. He
groaned and stamped with furious rage, and utter-
ing words of hate and vengeance, pursued the
pageant with impetuous speed. On, on it went:
but whither should it go ? The flood had swal-
lowed up the mountains th~mselves; then, whither
should it go? As Nichar followed it, and gazed
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 247
upon the illimitable expanse .of ocean, a savage
joy rushed over his ,heart, and with triumphant ex-
•
ultation, he exclaimed,"Ay, sail on, sail on! Those
demon-slaves can bear thee far,-they will not
tire, it is true; but can they sustain thee for days,
perhaps for ¥ears? Where are the fruits and the
wines, and the delicate food with which they have
been wont to feast thee? They are perished-and
perish thou too, speedily I" On, on they went;
and Nichar still followed. It was still ocean-
boundless, lifeless ocean. For days and nights,
they still bore on. Every hour, Nichar rose in
energy and hope, for now the Beautiful One
began to languish and droop, and at length, sank
as utterly exhausted. "Joy! joy! the fatal time
is come !" he cried, " Blessed be these whelming
waters; They have freed the world from its
crowning curse ! "
But what was that which darkened the horizon
as the morning sun arose 1 Was it a cloud?-
a deceptive vapour ?-or could it be:-a spot which
the waves had not covered? It was !-a shout
_of triumph from the demons announced it, and
now his own vision confirmed their acclaim. An
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
248 THE EXILE
islet, rocky but fair, and covered with a variety
of trees b~nding with golden fruit, was there.
The demons alit, and pouring into the mouth
of their exhausted charge, the expressed juice of
the grape, Nichar beheld her arise refreshed, and
smile in pleased wonder at her novel situation.
He beheld the active .spirits speedily construct for
her a summer tabernacle, and bring from the
different quarters of the island, various :Bowers
and fruits, and lay them before her. Confounded
and mortified at the sight, he looked around, and
prayed that the waters might yet arise and bury
this spot, which they had hithertO spared, in
their bosom. But they rose not-they fell ! He
saw it, and murmured at the sight, and felt within
him a desperate desire that h.e could heave the
billows with his hand, and whelm the cursed
creature in them. But his wishes were impotent
-daily the waters fell-and fell; and Nichar turned
away, tormented with the gnawing of defeated
:rf,
hopes, and marvelling at the inscrutable designs
of God, who had destroyed mankind for their
wickedness, yet suffered the grand spring ·of that
wickedness to es~pe, as if purposely to subject the
reviving race to her enchantments.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 249
Disappointment and despair pursued him on his
flight. Daily he discerned more and more of the
re-appearing mountains. It was a scene void,
slimy, and cheerless. The world, and his mind,
seemed to wear one character--that of desolation.
He beheld the Patriarch and his family descend
from the ark ; but he paused not to contemplate
their motions ; he hastened into the high moun-
tainous regions beyond, and sate down in gloomy
meditation on the events which had recently pass-
ed. The ways of God seemed to him darker and
darker ; his own existence hopeless and loathsome.
He had long indulged these reflections, whim he
beheld seated near him, a silent spirit of venerable
aspect. It was the Spirit of the Ages. He held
upon his knees a stupendous volume, and slowly
turned over, one by one, its huge stony pages.
Nichar gazed on the book with wonder, for he saw
. there portrayed the figures of many strange and
mighty creatures-creatures of precisely similar
natures to those ~~ich he had beheld in a far
distant planet. " Spirit," he said, " what doest
thou?" " I am about to lodge," he replied, " the
Book of the World in the archives of the earth.
• M3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
250 THE EXILE
Many changes has the all-directing hand wrought
in this globe. They are now complete. Here-
after, many ages hence, when men are numerous
in the earth, and are wise in their own eyes, they
will ask of the origin of everything, and their
hearts, puffed up with the vanity of much disjointed
knowledge, shall answer them with many plausible
theories. Much will they argue, and infer, and
demonstrate to their own contentment; and shall
deny the written records of taese times. In their
eyes they will be as vain fables, and vain fables as
truth. But the earth, treasured in these her an-
cient archives, shall retain the impressions of all
her primeval changes and wonderful creatures ;
and they shall see them, and wonder, and be con-
founded."
" Oh ! happy spirit !" exclaimed Nichar, "thou
art admitted to- the couneils of the Most High !
For me, I wander in darkness and sorrow. Fierce
desires torment me--vain hopes allure me- but
disappointment and despair are the sll!e fruits of
my toils. Oh ! that I might for a moment pierce
the veil of providence-then should I at once sit
down in the stony arms of despair, or go on rejoic-
ing and invincible !" •
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
OF HEAVEN. 251
" Nichar !" replied the spirit, " hear the will of
Heaven ! That God has not forsaken thee, he
has himself made known by plucking thee from the
hands of the Evil Ones. Confide, then, and be
strong. Thou hast sinned, and must abide in trial
tt11 the results of thy error are full. Thou and I
are alike bound to the destinies of this world. It
is mine to number its times and seasons. To over-
throw the works of man ; to spread through all
things mildew and decay; not that man may labour
in vain, but that he may be for ever excited to
higher and more glorious efforts. And every suc-
ceeding age shall behold him ascending in the
scale of existence. He shall achieve lofty and
magnificent works. He shall no longer be left to
renew, in objectless ease, those evils which have
brought the flood upon the earth ; but he shall
perpetually project and execute something new,
till the world, is full of his works, and his mind has
impressed upon matter many of its own marvels.
" But his career will not henceforth be pure and
happy. A mighty contest is begun, which will not
be terminated till ages on ages have rolled away.
Evil is let loose, and will not soon be quenched.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
252 THE EXILE
Mighty powers are already in terrible cont~ntion.
Good and Evil-Light and Darkness-Knowledge
and Ignorance, are grappling with each other, and
many direful centuries shall be devasted by their
rage. I need not MY which shall triumph ;-what-
ever partakes of the nature of the Omnipotent is
itself invincible; -late but glorious will be the
victory. In the mean time wars shall rage, tyrnnny
shall prevail ; cunning and selfish priests shall per-
vert the holy name of Religion to a gainful engine,
and the multitude, easily deceived by craft and
avarice, shall be enslaved to the worst slavery-
that of wreaking upon each other the vengeance
which they ought to turn upon their deceiving.
oppressors. Yet out of the force, the conflicts,
and the miseries of evi~ shall arise the sublimity of
human nature. Thy task it shall be, through all
these years of destroying and bloody strife, to
wander through the world, raising thy hand against
evil power, and thy heart against evil knowledge.
Men shall call thee by many names-the Good
Angel,-Pity,-Mercy, and such gentle appella-
tions. Where some fierce king breathes threats of
war, thou shalt touch his heart, and turn it .to
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle~
OF HEAVEN, 253
peace. Where .the tide of war already rolls its
crimson waves, there shalt thou be, strengthening
the weak, soothing the terrified, and calming the
agony of burning wounds. Where the strong man
is ready to smite .down the feeble, there shalt thou
arrest his brutal arm. Where selfish men shall
. .
grind ~e widow and the fatherless, thou shalt
rouse the soul of the feeble to a fiery indignation,
that shall make the base, hard nature tremble in its
own vileness, and shall raise a wall of defence
around the sorrowful. Thou shall be with the
judge upon his tribunal, whispering gentle words
of the prisoner before him;-with the pirate on the
wild seas-the robber in his forest den-on the
streets of a violated town. In every human ex-
tremity, it shall be thine-as evil was by the~ let
loose-there to arrest its progress; to break its
power ; to heal its ravages. A vast, a long, an
incessant labour lies before thee, till the destined
time shall arrive-and the Son of the Highest shall
descend, to terminate the mighty conflict of Good
and Evil; and Good, Knowledge, and Light, shall
· stretch their ample wings without a foe, and spread
their splendid triumphs round the globe. I say a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
' 254 THE EXILE OP HEAVEN.
long and arduous course is thine, but not without
its reward. The human destinies and thine are
bound together, and brightly shall your restoration
finally arise !"
As Nichar heard this clear announcement of the
will of Heaven, he knelt on the earth, his hands
crossed upon his bosom, and his head bowed down.
A celestial red diffused itself over his features, and
his tears fell like rain. Where they fell, there
immediately sprang the healing Balm. It put forth
leaves and :Bowers, and breathed its animating
odours round them. As the Spirit of the Ages
ceased, Nichar arose, and plucking a branch from
the tree, placed it in his bosom, and went on his
way.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
ITHRAN THE DEMONIAC.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
I
I
j
ITHRAN THE DEMONIAC.
IT was during the latter part of that remarkable
period in the history of the world, when the
Hebrews, passing from Egypt to Canaan, had
encamped in the wilderness of Kadesh, that a
young hunter went forth one morning from the
borders of Mount Seir. He had pursued a herd of
wild antelopes across one of the wide, sandy tracts
of those regions, till he beheld them take refuge
among some rocky hills at a considerable distance
before him. When he reached this craggy soli-
tude, a variety of narrow valleys that opened
between the cliffs, distracted his attention, and,
pausing to consider which he should pursue, he
observed for the first time-what his enthusiasm
had hitherto prevented him from noticing-that
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
258 ITHRAN
the sun had nearly reached the mid-heaven, that
the heat was intense, and that a burning thirst
and a throbbing brow demanded the refreshments
of shade and water. Added to this pressing neces-
sity, he knew that to attempt to retrace those
scorching sands till the heat of the day was past,
was next to impossible ; and beside, he hoped yet
to surprise his game in some of the seclusions of
these rocks. Selecting therefore, in preference to
the other.s, a glen, which, by the dampness of the
sand in its bottom, gave indication of water higher
up, he followed its windings for a long time with
great perseverance, and, at length, found his
patience rewarded by the sight of one of those
little, paradisiacal valleys often hidden in the
bosom of these stony Oases. There the stream,
which at his entrance was absorbed by the hot
and ever-tlrlrsty sand, came murmuring along with
all the transparency and liveliness of a mountain
rivulet; and, whil~ all the tops of the eminences
around were bare and burning peaks, its banks
were brightened with the most green and flowery
verdure; the large white lily, the globe amaranth,
and abundance of other plants of the most splendid
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 259
hues, and of the richest aroma, bending over its
margin ; the aloe, here and there, spreading out
its ample round of dark-green leaves, and lifting
up its lofty bl.ossomed·stem ; thickets of tamarind,
rose-!aurel, cotton, and a variety of aromatic
shrubs, scattered about between the water and the
feet of .the dark granite rocks, aloft in whose
interstices, the lovely rose of Jericho waved its
glqwing blooms, and acacias, dates, and various
species of palm, cast at once shade and beauty.
After quenching his thirst, and cooling his feet
repeatedly . in the stream, he slowly wandered
..
farther up the valley, and soon beheld, to his
mortific::ation, that it was terminated by lofty cliffs,
down which the brook came scattering loudly its
waters. One nook attracted his steps by the
luxuriant, dependent foliage of a vast wild vine,
and he was about to seat himself beneath it, ~hen
he started back on discovering that it concealed
the entrance to a gloomy cavern. Instinctively
he glanced upon the ground to discern, by foot-
marks, what might be the nature of its inhabitants,
if any; and he beheld, not the print of the wild-
beast's paw, nor the sandal of man, but that of
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
260 l'fHRAN
a large naked human foot. He was about to
retreat ; but, on turning round, his eye fell upon
the wildest figure it had ever yet encountered.
It was that of a tall and slightly-built man, whose
only clothing was a long robe of goat and camel's
hair, and whose locks and beard had grown to a
wonderful extravagance. He reclined beneath a
sycamore tree, on a large fragment of rock ; and,
observing more closely, the youth was struck with
signs of sickness and exhaustion. His heart, at
the view, lost at once its fear; he saw only before
him an object of distress ; - he advanced, and
spoke.
The stranger lifted up his eyes, with a vague
wildness for a moment; then, closing them again,
the tears gushed silently down his cheeks. He
was silent; but it was evidently the silence of
emotion. At length, lifting up his hands, he
grasped that of the youth fervently, and made
signs for him to sit down. He obeyed,-but the
stranger still continuing silent, he asked if he
co~ld render him any service. He replied, with
a melancholy emphasis, " Thou mayest ! but start
not when thou knowest for whom. Knowest thou
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 261
for whom thou art interested? Knowest thou the
" Demon of the Desert?'' At that dreadful name
the youth started to his feet with a shuddering
groan ; but be was rivetted to the spot,-and the
stranger cried imploringly, "Nay !-fly not, fear
not, my son ! The time has been, when thy
visit hither would have bee!l death; but that time
is past-1 am not what I was.-1 am dying. At
this moment, the presence of a human soul is
precious to me. Thou canst hear me-thou canst
bury me."
The eyes of the youth attested the truth of what
his fearful companion declared; and with a strange
mixture of awe,, curiosity, and sympathy, he lis-
tened to the following narrative. ·
" I am not what thy countrymen have deemed
me-l am not originally, and altogether, a demon;
but lthran, an outcast of Israel. It is not entirely
unknown to the nations among whom that people
has now so long sojourned, that, although their
dreadful God has kept them wholly by his might,
making nature bend its ancient laws . to their
use, and surrounding them with terror as with
a wall, they have been but imperfectly sensible
o; ,;. byGoogle
262 ITHRAN
of the glory of their lot, and have often pro-
voked the Lord to anger. But it has been,
in these latter years, that this spirit of unbelief
and ingratitude has grown to the most marvellous
height. In vain were the overwhelming terrors
of God displayed on the Mount ;-in vain did
blazing serpents spread death ; and the burning
bolts of Divine .vengeance burst suddenly upon
the heads of the rebellious, in ruin; in vain was
the beautiful and ~ajestic Miri!l~' who went out
dancing before the virgins of Israel, and singing
that triumphant song of victory over Pharaoh, '
cast, a leprous object, out of the camp before
their eyes ;-since their abode in Kadesh, the spirit
of wickedness was become monstrous. God had
refused to go up before them to the Promised
Land ; the Amalekites had discomfited them, and
they were f4ll of despondency. Add to this,
famine was in the camp. Except the manna and
the quails, food now universally loathed, there was
nothing. The stock of cattle was exhausted; and
the desert seemed to become, every day more
fierce and inhospitable.
"But the day of Annual Expiation was at hand;
o; ,;. byGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 263
and hope awoke in all hearts. God had appointed,
in his mercy, a way to free Israel from its sins.
He had empowered the High Priest to lay all
crimes .on the head of a goat, which should bear
them away into the wilderness. The day arrived ;
-all Israel was assembled before the sanctuary ;
-a breathless anxiety prevailed;- the _various
offerings were made; -the devoted goat was
brought forth; the mysterious words which charged
it with the whole sin of Israel, were pronounced;
and a weight, and a gloom, seemed to pass from
the hearts of the people. It only remained to
send the goat away, by the hand of a fit man.
And now a fearful and eager curiosity ran through
the multitude, to know who this man should be.
It was an important trust. The two victim-goats
had been procured with much difficulty,-such
was our poverty ; and they had been guarded with
much care, for such was the wickedness of the
time, that some sons of Belial had attempted to
break in, and carry them off; and .it was expected
that they would lie in wait to kill the scape-goat in
the wilderness. I was a prophet, and the son of a
prophet; and young as I was, my zeal in the cause
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
264 lTHRAN
of God, and of Moses, had given me great favour
in the eyes of the elders.-! was chosen as the
fit ma~.
"It was deemed necessary that I should go
two days' journey into the wilderness. A great
number of the most illustrious of the Hebrew
youth accompanied me till the sun began to
decline ; then, with many blessings, I went on
alone. As I saw the friendly band retracing
their steps, a sensation of pride, such as I never
felt before, arose in my heart, that I should be
deemed most worthy of this most momentous
trust. l marched lightly on ; -the sun went
down ;-all night I pursued my way, unceasingly;
so strongly did that exaltation of spirit bear me
on. l never thought of food or sleep, till the
next day as the sun became hot, when I sought
the shade of a rock for rest and refreshment.
When I looked for my scrip, it was go~e ;-
during this state of self-gratulating excitement,
it had slipped off, unperceived. I was stung with
a sudden and unreasonable anger ; and rising up,
I smote the goat, and went on. The craving of
hunger-the torture of thirst-the sense of my
oigi .. eabvGoogle
~
I
THE D~MONIAC. 265
loss, the consciousness that several days must
elapse before I should regain the camp, angered
and appalled me. My frame was already debili-
tated and rendered irritable, by the effects of the
famine, and of the strict fast preparatory to the
day of expiation : in vain I all day looked out for
water, for a wild fig, a date, a melon ;-there was
nothing around me but burning sand. The goat,
as well as myself, appeared exhausted. We went
on and on; -the day seemed as though it would
never end; and, to add to my anguish, the ground
was now everywhere covered with a prickly plant,
which lacerated my feet, and filled them with its
spines. A suggestion arose in me, to return ; but
my pride instantly rejected it; and again I smote
the goat, and we sped forward with increased
exertion. The sun at length did set; and, to my
joy, I saw some rocks before me :-but there was
neither tree, nor herb, nor water; I tied the goat
to a stone, and flung myself down in despair
beneath the rocks. But if my body was spent,
my mind was full of a bitter activity. A thousand
troublous and depressing thoughts passed through
me ; the sense of my loss preyed on me ; the vast
VOL. I. N
oigi .. eabvGoogle
266 ITHRAN
distance I imagined myself from men, terrified
me ; the goat lay and slept quietly before me.
At that sight my perturbation was aggravated
tenfold. It could forget its pains; but I, who
suffered on its account, might not. I cursed the
foolish pride which led me to undertake the enter-
prise. At this moment a thought arose-kill and
eat. The horrible idea struck me like a thunder-
clap ;-I started up, and walked hastily away to
escape from it; but it pursued me, and to evade
it by action, I loosed the goat, and endeavoured
to drive it away. But it was too much fatigued;
it sank again on the ground. I had now, however,
fulfilled my mission-I might return; .but the view
of the dreary boundlessness of the desert depressed
my heart :-I despaired of ever recrossing it, and,
with a fond fatality, lingered near the goat. I
t<ndeavoured to fill my mind with a vivid sense of
the enormity of the suggested crime ; but, in spite
of myself, my sense of the guilt grew less, and
less, and my appetite became furious. ' What
avails !' I exclaimed, 'at the price of my own
existence, to spare a life which must soon be ter-
minated !' and drawing the knife from my girdle,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 267
I rushed on the goat, and plunged it into its _neck.
The blood spouted freely ; I thought not of Moses
or his laws ; to me it was the stream of life-and
pressing my parched lips to the wound, 1 drank
with ravenous avidity. I was instantly seized with
a delirious joy. I waited not for the life to
depart ; but kneeling down, I feasted on the flesh.
A spirit of triumphant intoxication, a whirl of
extravagant transport possessed me ;-my vigour
seemed restored tenfold ;-I sat and laughed over
my victim. But the wickedness of thousands,-
the inspiration and madness of all crime and
' .
outrage, had passed into me from the _
dedicated
animal, and I rushed away in its strength.
"At length I. fell, and slept-I know not how
long; but when I awoke the intoxication was past,
and the darkness and despair of inexpiabl6 guilt
was upon me. The depth of my fall-its uttern_
ess
-its hopelessness-my eternal separation from the
house of Israel,-all rushed upon my soul, and
my first impulse was that of self-destruction. For
this purpose I arose and sought for the place of my
crime ; for there were left the knife, and the cord
which had bound the goat. The spot I found;
oigi .. eabvGoogle
268 ITHRAN ·
but they and the remains of the animal were gone.
The demoniac spirit which possessed me, now
boiled up in furious anger. Now it was evident
man was near·-he had robbed me of my prey ;
and my murderous passion turned from myself
upon him.
A fierce and malignant desire of human destruc-
tion fastened upon me ; I stalked along with the
ravenous heart of a beast of prey; and it was
not long before I descried at the foot of a rocky
range, a small lshmaelitish encampment. Like
the tiger, I lurked in the crevices of the crags till
nightfall; and when I deemed sleep was upon
the inhabitants, I rushed into the nearest tent.
But the inmates were awake; at the sight of my
wild visage, they fled shrieking ; the alarm was
communicated to the neighbouring tents, and I
soon found myself in solitary possession of them
· all. At the sight of their soft couches, and various
comforts, I was seized with envy and hatred in-
tolerable. My first impulse was to set fire to the
whole ; but the wealth, the gold, the pearls, the
rich robes,-treasures of these merchants, caught
my eye, and a grasping avarice instantly took hold
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 269
of me. Thoughtless of danger-forgetting, for
the time, my thirst after human life,-! imme-
diately set about digging a pit at the foot of a
rock to bury a kingly spoil, when the people re-
covering from their surprise, returned. At the
sight of their numbers I fled-fled upwards to the
rocks. They pursued me,· accustomed as they
were to follow the wild goat and the chamois;-
but I too had, from my youth, scaled the cliffs of
the desert ; and now a spell was on me which gave
me supernatural power and speed, that annihilated
all fear :-they pursued me in vain. I leaped from
point to point, I swung by the pliant tr(:'e from
ledge to ledge, and was gone. From that hour
the terrors of my name spread through the wil-
derness-a thousand marvellous acts .were at-
tributed to me round the evening fires, and I
became known as the " Demon of the Desert.''
For months I ranged from place to place, driv(:'n
by the unquenchable spirit of the murderer, but
unable to gratify my fiendish desires. My "fame
went before me, and I found myself for ever in
_
solitude.
" Exasperated with fruitless endeavours, my
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
270 ITHRAN
wrath turned from man to God : I became filled, •
at once, with a spirit of blasphemy and of idolatrous
fear. I knelt to the sun at his rising, arid kissed
my hand to the moon and stars nightly ;-to the
Great Being who made them, I was full of hatred
and defiance. In the vehemence of my impious
rage, I traversed the deserts, and climbed by night
to the lonely summits of Horeb and Sinai. There
no longer rested the dark and threatening clouds ;
no thunders shook the hills to their foundations ;
above, the clear sky, and the myriad stars shone
silently,--around, all was one waste sea of bare
and splintered peaks. It is awful to think of the
madness of impiety which there possessed me.
I defied the Eternal on the very mountain of his
power ; and called on him, if he lived, to reveal
himself once more in his thunders ! I listened,-
but a vast silence was around; the breeze only
sighed carelessly on its way, as in mockery of my
insignificance. I descended-my heart devoured
with the ,most venomous feelings against God, and
against Moses, )Vhom I cursed as a juggling
impostor.
" But if the sacred hills were quiet, not so was
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONI A.C. 271
the earth beneath them. A sound of rushing
wings swept by me ; dark whispers were in my
ears ; shadowy shapes went to and fro, turning
upon me their eyes gleaming with strange fires;
and dusky forms arose out of the very ground
before me. I had dared to challenge God ; but
I shrunk trembling from these dismal spirits ! I
fled to my cave for refuge; but where is the
refuge for him who has surrendered the guardian-
ship of the Author of Nature ? Thunders shook
the rocks over my head ; crags fell crashing and
echoing into the dell below ; lightnings gleamed
through the more than midnight darkness of my
stronghold; and finally, a purple light issuing from
the wall of solid granite, preceded the terrible
Gods of the heathen, who passed slowly athwart
the cavern. They gazed silently upon me, b~t
spoke not ; a.'! if their only purpose were to receive
my homage. I beheld the colossal majesty of
Baal; the imperial form, and lofty, yet smiling
countenance of Ashtaroth, the queen of heaven
-diademed with the horned moon, and a con-
stellation of intensely beaming stars floating around
her. Her steps were followed by the soft, volup-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
272 ITHRAN
tuous figure of Semel, the queen of love; and by
Pibeseth, the blushing and shame-faced goddess,
with her eyes on the ground. Then came the
. hideous Dagon rolling on his fishy rear; followed
by the aged and stony-featured Chiun; the stem
and savage gloom of Moloch, enveloped in the
furnace-glow of his own flames ; and lastly,
Nehushtan, the haughty serpent, walking rather
than gliding on his undulating volumes; lifting
aloft his crowned head and human countenance ;
and clad in vivid scales, of scarlet, blue, and
yellow, from beneath which streamed the radiance
of internal fires. They passed ; but I was not the
more alone, The bottom of the cave swarmed
with the pigmy forms of the Gemedim ; and from
every nook and chink ·of wall and roof, gleamed
down the green eyes and goatish visages of the
Shoirim, grotesque but hideous.
"The idolatrous passion was extinguished. It
was impossible to worship these fearful things ;-it
was terrible to be conscious of their presence.
This vision rekindled my longing after human
society, and human sympathies ; but where were
they to be found? Far around I was to the inha-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 273
bitants what these beings were to me. I deter-
mined, therefore, to abandon the deserts ; and
travelling on, from night to night, I, at length
found myself in a cultivated land, and at the gates
of a city of stupendous walls and towers. It was
Argob, the city of Og ;-who has not heard of that
last of the Anakims, and of his great bedstead of
iron? I was surrounded by a band of fierce,
shaggy, and monstrous men, who led me into his
presence. He sate on a massy bench, beneath a
sycamore, at the gate of his ponderous palace, and
his sons, and 'his old warriors, a race of giants,
~tood around. I was overwhelmed, for a moment,
by the sight of so huge and terrible a being; tall
as I am, I reached not to his girdle. Hopeless of
life-careless of death, which to me could not be
worse than life itself,-1 avowed myself a prophet
of Israel. A lying and cunning spirit was upon me.
1 declared that I fled from the despotism of Moses,
anti would rather receive death at the hands of the
king, than live in those of the tyrant of my people.
The spirit of delusion seized the giant-monarch.
The nations of the Anakims had fallen around him
beneath the arms of the Israelites; he awaited daily
N3
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
274 ITHRAN
his own trial, and he grasped at the intelligence I
might give, as a saving branch in the moment of
his fall. I was received with favour and honour.
I encouraged him-feigned to reveal to him the
secret of the Hebrew strength, and assured him of
victory. Kindled by my words, he determined not
to expect, but to pour forth on his enemies. At
once the whole land was in motion like a swarm of
hornets. The din of arms, the tumult of proces-
sions and sacrifices, filled it from end to end. The
giant sons of the king, like inflamed demons, flew
from place to place ;-the almost equally gig-dntic
d8Jighters, creatures of a fierce and superhuman
beauty and stature, their proud necks loaded with
strings of pearls, their hair flowing on their
shoulders, glittering with gold and jewels, their
arms and ancles bound with massy clasps of gold,
and tinkling bells of silver, excited to madness the
priests by their kindled charms, and their presents
of embroidered hangings for the tabernacles of
their polluted groves. Dreadful was the rage
whic!:t boiled through the sanguinary multitudes-
dreadful were the cries of human victims-thrilling
the shrieks of tender infants cast into the flaming
furnaces of Adrammelec.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 275
" But in the midst of this tumultuous scene of
guilt and terror, one beautiful and serene object
shone like a solitary star upon a tempestuous ocean.
It was the youngest daughter of the king, the
daughter of a captive descendant of Esau. Of the
ordinary stature of humanity, the richness of her
beauty, and the gentleness of her spirit, presented
only the image of her deceased mother. She was
fair as the lily of the valley, but her eyes and flow-
ing locks were dark as night. She had heard of
the true God, and of his dealings with her ances-
tors, from her mother, in childhood; she looked on
the savage natures of those with whom she dwelt,
with horror and detestation; and my words roused
in her soul the most intense and anxious interest.
While all others were absorbed in the preparations
for war, from day to. day, she besought me with
questions. In her presence my former tone of
mind, my former happiness, seemed to return ; a
spirit of sacred inspiration was even permitted to
me; and I displayed, with glowing enthusiasm, the
true history of mao-the dispensations of God to
Israel-the speedy and utter annihilation of this
people. When I· ceased, I beheld her kneeling
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
276 ITHRAN
upon the ground, her lovely face turned with a
sllblime and adoring expression towards heaven.
She arose. ' I fear. not to die,' she meekly said,
' but I fain would not die in the midst of this
idolatrous people. Oh ! that I was but the lowest
handmaid in the tents of my mother's kindred!'
" Already deeply affected by her beauty, I was
now aroused by her devotion. 'Fly,' I exclaimed.
' I know the deserts, and vow to become thy faith-
ful conductor.'
" With much entreaty I prevailed;-but when
I counselled her to bear away the teraphim of the
king, she paused; her pure soul shrank from any-
thing like theft; and those golden and jewelled
teraphim, worth almost half his kingdom,-those
household gods from which, mom and evening, he
invoked prosperity,-it was too much. But my
zeal- my character of a prophet- my solemn
representations that it was a testimony against
idolatry demanded by God, shook her spirit-she
struggled long, but gave way. In a thicket, not
far from the city, I concealed two swift drome-
daries. At ·night, I awaited her at the foot of a
tower upon the wall, whence, with the teraphim,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. 2i7
she descended in a basket. We had already
reached the thicket, wh~n her giant-brothers sprang
forth with dreadful yells. I beheld her in their
grasp-I heard ·her cries-I saw the sword red
with her blood : resistance was vain - I fted !
Darkness and my destiny favoured my ftight ; but
the blood of that fair and gentle creature lay on
my soul like fire. Remorse-pity-love-drove
me on in desperation, I knew not whither. At
length I was stopped by a range of rocks ; I
climbed to their top, and sate down in a state of
dreamy torpor. From that height I beheld the
•armies of Israel in march; I saw the host of the
Anakims come down like a foaming s~a; anon,
they were scattered like mist, and the Israelites
pursued, slaying to the bounds of the vast horizon.
I followed, and in a few days beheld all that mon-
strous nation utterly destroyed, and walked amongst
the smoking ashes of their groves and idol-temples.
"But I saw a thing there more hateful than
even the Anakims. I saw the Israelites dwelling
at peace in the cities and in the fertile fields-in a
,plenteous possession, from which I was cut off for
ever. I retired from the intolerable spectacle once
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
278 ITHRAN
more to the desert. The tempestuous energy of
those passions, which ~d successively visited me,
seemed now exhausted. 1 was feeble and faint as
a child; yet a burning envy consumed my heart, of
the blessings of my brethren, and a malignant
cruelty towards the weak and defenceless possessed
me. I trod with -
vindictive malice on the beetle
that crawled on the sand before me ; and when the
lizard ran up the sunny rock, and looked cheerfully
in my face, I took up a stone and crushed it.
Even this petty force of evil departed, and 1 was
left a powerless prey to remorse-to a vain longing
after reunion with my people-to overwhelming •
terrors-terrors of God, of death, and of the powers
of darkness.
" Oh, praise ! boundless praise to Him, who, at
length, drew back the arm of his wrath, and for-
gave. I lay at the mouth of this cave-I know
not whether awake or in sleep, but I saw before
me two angelic beings; and, by a closer contem-
plation of them, I recognized my parents. I h~ard
my mother, as if addressing my father, say,-
' How long have we interceded for our unhappy
son, that he might be made a partaker of the
o; ,;. byGoogle
THE DEMONIAC. . 279
annual benefit of the scape-goat, and, at length, it
is granted. His latter career of crime has been
but the career of a maniac-his real crime was the
breach of his sacred trust-he has suffered as no
man ever yet did, and be is forgiven.' She scat-
tered upon me drops, as of water, from a crystal
vase, and a thrill of joy-a warm sensation of
human love and tenderness; and hope, gushed upon
my soul-tears came into my eyes, and I lay as in
a soothing trance. During the space of a moon I
have continued tranquil, breathing an atmosphere
of love, and full of adoration. But I am now
spent; and the last good gift of God is this-that
he has sent thee to learn this awful lesson of un-
faithful pride, and to save the bones of his repen-
tant servant from the desert beast."
Before the sun had risen on the morrow, the
youth had buried the prophet in his cave, and
returned to his tribe with a story destined to carry
down fear and wonder to countless generations.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
Dog ozed by Coogle
BEELTUTHMA,
THE DESOLATE AND THE FAITHFUL.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
Dog ozed by Google
•
BEELTUTHMA,
THE DESOLATE AND THE FAITHFUL.
CHAPTER I.
EvENING was closing over the wilderness of Judah,
as a solitary female approached a tower which she
had seen far across the plains. She was wrapped
in a long cwak, and closely veiled in the eastern
manner, leaving only her eyes visible. Her garb
was of the hue and fashion worn by the peasant
girls of the country; she seemed to walk wearily,
yet with an ~r of grace, that combined with her
tall, slender figure, would have anywhere turned
upon her the glance of curious observation. The
building she discerned, as she approached, to be of
recent erection, and to have the aspect of the dwell-
ing of some powerful chief. It was built of red
stone ; not very lofty, but of a great extent. It
appeared to consist of a quadrangular range en-
closing a spacious court, in the centre of which rose
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
284 BEELTUTHMA.
a massy, circular tower of a height which consider-
ably overlooked all the external erection. In the
centre of every fac;ade of the outer range appeared
a large gateway, of plain, but beautifully executed
workmanship; and every corner was defended by
a ponderous turret. The walls, instead of being
perpendicular, stretched out their feet to the plain
like the sides of a tent, indicating, with bastions and
buttresses of great bulk, the extraordinary strength
of the place. It was again enclosed on all sides, at
the distance of a furlong, by twelve towers, from
one to the other of which ran a lofty battlemented
wall, which was again rendered more difficult of
access by ·a deep ditch.
The strange female stood and gazed for some
time upon this place of solitary strength, as if half
doubtful that it would admit one so lowly as her-
self; or, as if contemplating with wonder the simple
beauty of its construction ; for beautiful it was,
not through abundance of ornament, for it was
wrought in the plainest style, but through the pro-
portion of the whole, and the clear and bold finish
of every part. The large, round mouldings of its
gateways; the projecting battlements, resting on a
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA, 285
heavy, swelling cornice; the whole surface of its
ruddy walls, marked with its small, dark lines of
joints; every portion was so boldly and perfectly
finished, that the eye delighted to rest upon it.
The clearness of every part made it like a new and
admirable picture,-not a stain of the elements yet
had touched it, and its strength seemed calculated
to battle with them for a thousand years.
As the woman, however, ceased to gaze upon it,
she advanced to the gate of the circumvallation,
and it opened to her without any visible agency.
She moved onward across the green belt of the
surrounding land, to the opposite gateway of the
building. She st~uck on the door with the iron
mace which hung by it in its iron chain, and the
porter p~tting forth his head through a small, sliding
aperture, demanded who was there, and on what
errand. The stranger, in a soft a~d melancholy
voice, craved the hospitality of the night. A small
door was thrown open, and she entered. There,
in the centre of the court, she was again struck
with the aspect of the majestic tower, and with the
various groups which met her eye. In one place
men were busy rubbing down their steeds, which
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
286 BEELTUTHI\IA.
stood tied up to the wall, with smoking sides, as
though they had just come in from some hasty
travel; others were seated ·polishing their armour;
while women, sitting opposite, or moving from one
to another, were chatting in idle merriment. Child-
ren were playing here and there~ and several large
dogs paced heavily about, or lay and slept. It had
all the air of a place of military strength, but she
had little leisure to observe it: a man descended
from a neighbouring stair, and bade her follow.- He
returned the way he came; and ascending after him,
she soon found herself on the roof, in the presence
of one whose air proclaimed him the lord of the
abode. He was seated on a stone-seat near the
battlement, where he could command, in the day,
the view of the whole wilderness; and, although
the shades of night were fast gathering on its brown
bosom, he appeared still to have his eye fized on
the gloomy distance ; but as she approached, and
knelt distantly and with an air of profound respect,
he turned slowly upon her his gaze in silence. He
was a man of a large and iron frame, as.if made en-
tirely of bone and muscle; and although apparently
in the prime of life, his short black hai~ was grizzled
o; ,;. byGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 287
as that of a warrior whose helm has pressed heavily
and long on his brow. His features were bold,
hard, and stern ; they looked as though they had
been accustomed to face the blasts of battle, and of
the elements; his beard curled short and black
around his chin; his lips were moulded as by the
iong habit of uttering high and absolute command;
there was no trace of softness breaking down their
stern decision, and betraying the occasional preva-
lence of tender feelings ; and his eye flashed with a
quick, dark glance, that denoted a prompt concep-
tion of his duty, and the most immoveable firmness
of purpose.
" Who art thou ?" said the stern chief, laying
the accent on the last word. The stranger woman
bowed her face reverently to the floor, and replied,
~
"a weary wayfarer, who seeks only at the hand of
my lord, protection for the night."
"And whence?" said the same stern voice.
"From a far abode. Thine handmaid is not of
the daughte~s of Israel."
" Let me see thy face," said the chief, his coun-
tenance moving not a muscle ; yet touched with a
deep shade of earnestness, as she declared herself
an alien.
288 BEELTUTHMA.
She removed the veil, and displayed a counte-
nance of singular beauty, forming a wondrous
contrast with that of her investigator, not more by
its loveliness, than by the dove-like meekness and
deep tenderness of its expression. Awe and weari-
ness were traced on every feature; but through these
the strength of her native character shone inextin-
guishably,-and it was that of a being born to a
bright sphere of existence, and whose soul had
, grown up amid loving hearts, ·itself a full, over-
flowing fountain of rich affections. That fair and
gentle aspect, and the soft, touching tones which
she uttered, might have soothed the fiercest of the
giants of old; but in the man before her, an
expression of surprise only exhibited itself, as
he instantly said,-" Oh ! a woman of Ammon,
and of the princely race! And wherefore," he
added, his countenance gathering a deep gloom,
"art thou wandering in Israel? Art thou seeking
to Bee from thy captivity?"
"No ! my lord ! no ! replied the fair woman,
fixing her eyes on the floor, and evidently strug-
gling with a strong emotion, that nearly over-
powered her musical but melancholy voice-" no,
o;g""odbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 289
my lord ! amid all the calamities that I have been
made t~ share with my unhappy country, that of
(:aptivity has not been yet added. I have seen the
enemies of Israel ·lay waste my country ; I have
seen her sons fall before them ; I have walked
amid the silence and the ashes of those cities,
where I once danced and sung with the glad
daughters of niy people,-and those people were
destroyed, those daughters gone into captivity, and
I remained free and alone ! Like the owl, I hid
myself but too well in the day of terror, and came
out only to wander and weep in the night of
desolation. My feet were scorched with the yet
glowing ashes of my native city-of my father's
house-of the houses of my kindred; but I felt it .
not, for my heart was deadened within me. I
called aloud the. names of those dear as my own
soul; and when I listened, I heard but the groans
of some dying wretch. I ran on, to discover some
surviving remnant of my race; but I saw only.
bones calcined by the fire, and walls blackened by
it. The burning beams of shattered palaces fell
threatening to destroy me, and filled the dismal
halls with awful thunders, and with streams of stars
VOl•• I. 0
[•9•- jb,Google
290 BEELTUTHMA.
that mounted towards the heavens, as with an
indignant beauty. Wherever I turned, I beheld
afar, vast abodes filled with flame, in which spirits
of darkness seemed to pass to and fro ; and the
hollow, rushing roar of fire, rolling its forked
volumes on the wind, filled my being with a horri-
ble sense of a vast and universal desolation. I fled
from tlie terrific scene, and would have quenched
my thirst at the fountain of the suburbs ; but it
was choked with blood. I ran forward to the
plains, and. I traced the flight of my miserable
people by the bodies of ~eir dead, that blackened
in the burning wilderness sand. Oh, mighty chief!
my heart yearned after the captives; for with them
was life, albeit bound up with sorrow, and love
which, although embittered with bondage and scorn,
was better than this terrible solitude. I have
dared to follow them even into the land of our
foes ; and many have I seen, and have sate down
and eaten my morsel with them in the tears of
bitterness. But what shall satisfy the heart of a
daughter ? What shall stay the feet of a wife ?
I seek from day to day my father and my husband;
and let it not, my lord, offend thee. I am told
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 291
that they live, and probably in this land ; and all
I ask is, to share with them their lot, be it mean
and miseJlble as it_ may. Let me then, I pray
thee, rest under the shadow of thy walls for the
night, and in the morning I will go onward."
The chieftain continued during this piteous
appeal, apparently as unmoved as the stone on
which he !!late ; and as the fair, weeping suppliant
concluded, he demanded,-" and what manner of
man was thy father ? and what device bore he in
the field of battle?"
" He was a tall, robust man," she replied, "on
whom age sate, but could not bend him, though his
hair was white as snow; and on his crest and in
his shield, he bore a flying serpent."
" And kept he not the tower of Dodekel ?"
" He did ! Thou hast seen him. Oh, my lord,
by thy dreadful god, hide not his fate from thy
handmaid !"
" And thy husband, what device bore he ?"
" In his sl1~eld he carried a bounding ibex, for
he was accustomed to leap the hills as _
a hunter; on
his crest stooped an eagle ; for like an eagle, he
stooped on his foes in war."
292 BEELTUTHMA,
" Led he not the careering horsemen to the
battle ? Those horsemen that swept to and fro
like the desert blast, as swift as it, and 1s deadly?"
" He did ! he did !"
" Methinks," said the warrior with a fearful
smile," I can tell thee somewhat of thy kinsmen.'1
He clapped his hands, and one of his followers
shewed his head above the stairs. " Have this wo-
man," he said," to a chamber for the night; see that
her wants are ministered to, and let a steed be ready
for her at the dawn ofday." The fair stranger bowed
her face to the floor, and thanked the chief with
her lips, but her soul was full of a strange mingling
of hope and dreadful apprehension, as she heard
his words and saw his awful smile. She arose and
followed with trembling steps, and a more trem-
bling heart, to her chamber.
'Vhen Beeltuthma, for such was the name of the
unhappy woman, found herself alone, she glanced
round her small chamber, and beheld a bed, and on
a small table, food and wine, and pure water to
drink, and water also to wash her weary feet: but
the anguish of her soul, notwithstanding her long
travel and long fast, made her turn with loathing
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
•
BEELTUTHMA. 293
from the sight of food: she drank of the water, and
threw herself on the couch, in the desolate misery
of her heart. She had heard, not tidings, but a
mere chance of tidings, of the beloved ones whom
she sought, and had sought for many painful
months through a hostile land, bearing scorn, and
suspicion, and rude ferocity of repulse, and dangers
of the most fearful kind to her gentle and pure
spirit : she had gone on from place to place,-she
who had known till then, but home, love, and wide
admiration; who had trod, with golden sandals,
the marble pavements of princely abodes, and re-
posed on the silken couch of ease and splendour,
soothed with the wild musie of her native land;
she had gone from place to place, now desolate
and alone, seeking with a bleeding heart and timid
eye, for the sole surviving two of her beloved
kindred ; and had everywhere seen the prosperity
of a great, hostile kingdom, and heard the songs
and music of triumph over her own fallen and
beloved country ; had everywhere seen her coun-
trymen and countrywomen wearing the yoke of
the haughty stranger, and doing his menial offices
in dumb despair, and weeping in secret over the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
/
294 BEELTUTH!\JA,
destruction of Ammon. This ahe had past through,
and now she caught a feeble glimpse of hope, that
she was on the way to learn the fate of her rela-
tives; but it was from such a man, and in such a
manner, as made that glimpse like a fearful vision
to her mind. Were they living 1 Were they
dead ? Were they in the very power of this
chief? Perhaps their proud hands were employed
in some sordid task, or tl1eir necks were heavy with
the chains of his dungeon. Such were the ques·
tions that ran through her bosom, and imagination
replied with a thousand horrors. But exhausted
nature at length closed her eyes in sleep, and she
was only awaked by the shrill blast of a trumpet,
which startled her like the piercing of a sword ;-
she arose, and it was morning. The light of day
streamed in through the narrow opening in the
ponderous walls of her chamber; and glancing
through it, she saw the brown wilderness stretching
far, dark with the hues of autumn. She saw flocks
and herds already driven from the folds, and
spreading themselves over the distant plains, fol-
lowed by their keepers with an air of peacefulness,
\
that made her sigh over the remembrance of. her
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 295
own desolated country. She saw various rustic
dwellings scattered amongst the trees on the plains,
shewing that the chief into whose bands she had
fallen, was living a powerful lord in a great and
.wealthy domain. . But she was recalled from her
observations, by the entrance of a woman bringing
a morning meal. and bidding her hasten to attend
the chief. ·With a hurried hand she assumed her
cloak and veil, ·which alone she had thrown off,
and snatching a hasty repast, turned to descend.
The woman led the way to the bottom of the
stairs which opened into the inner court; where
two armed men with drawn swords stood waiting,
and instantly placed her upon a steed, and led her
to the gate. When it was flung open, she started
to behold a band of foot soldiers, of not less than
five hundred, drawn up and ready to march ;-their
erect spears, and shields slung upon their backs,
glittering in the rays of the morning sun. Her
two guards mounted on steeds, and taking their
•
stations, one on each side of her,-the trumpet
spoke, and the band moved forward. She glanced
along the marching troop in wonder at what this
might mean, and beheld at their head a warrior
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
296 BEELTUTHI\IA.
mounted on his. strong war-horse, whom she in-
stantly recognized by his size and port, to be the
chief she had seen over night. His burnished
helm fiashed in the sunlight as he moved, and its
plumes played proudly in the fresh autumnal
breeze. A light corslet of imbricated steel, over
which was tied by a broad belt, his heavy sword ;
short skirts of embroidered work, and buskins
fastened half-way up his muscular legs with lion-
headed clasps, constituted the sole, simple dress of
this stern warrior. His followers were clad only
in a plain woollen vest, which left the neck bare
and descended to the middle of the thigh, with
sandals of the simplest fashion, and were armed
with a sword and a spear, and defended by a plain,
unplumed helm, and a light shield. They were
evidently equipped for some service that required
fleetness and activity, rather than pitched battle.
As they issued from the gate of the outworks,
they turned eastward, and a train of !aden mules
fell into the rear.
Beeltuthma was full of wonder and inward dread.
Wha~ was the object of this expedition, it was
impossible for her to divine; yet she could not but
o; ,;. byGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 297
feel persuaded, that it had some connexion with
herself, and her father and husband-Tartak and
Lohi. But were they in a condition that required
such a force ? In that case, they could not be
captives; and if not, where, and in what circum-
stances were they ? With such fruitless but
disturbing thoughts, she rode on in the rear of the
armed troops and between her guard, from hour to
hour. She could only wonder and be silent, for
it was in vain to hope for explanation till time
should give it. The haughty chief held on his way
without once turning his head; the troop went
lightly, talking in a low murmur amongst them-
•
selves, but she could not catch a syllable of their
discourse ; and her two guards rode on in unbroken
silence, with drawn swords, and countenances of
such ~xed gravity that it was hopeless to attempt
to extract from them any knowledge of the object
of the march.
Thus they held on till noon, through the plains
of the wilderness, varied only by occasional flocks
of sheep and goats, or herds of cattle; by clumps
of trees ;-thickets in the many-coloured leaves of
autumn; by the waving of the red fern; by a
o3
o; ,;. byGoogle
298 BEELTU'I'H.MA.
solitary palm; by slowly-pacing shepherds and
herdsmen ; or by small patches of green cultiva-
tion, with their buts and people. At noon they
reached a considerable lake,-the word was given
to halt; the whole band speedily ranged itself on
the margin of the water ;.food was produced from
the stores in the rear ; they ate, and drank of the
lake ; and stretching themselves on the sward, lay
talking i!l that almost boyish gaiety of spirit, which
in all countries and ages, characterises soldiers in
such circumstances. The tone of mind of these
light-hearted and thoughtless men, was in strange
contrast with that of the silent woman, whose mind
•
was full of the desolation of a kingdom, which she
had suddenly seen broken to pieces like a fair
dream, and of which she regarded herself one of
the few solitary atoms scattered by the winds of
ruin into strange lands. At one extremity of the
troop, sate this forlorn creature; at the other, the
tclciturn chief, who evinced no desire to approach
Beeltuthma.
The trumpet sounded after a short hour of
repose, and they resumed their march. They still
held eastward till evening, when they ·halted : tents
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA, 299
of a peculi!!-rly light and small description, calcu-
lated for hasty flight and easy carriage, which had
been borne by the mules, were speedily pitched ;
fires lit around the camp to prevent, more than
from any other cause, the approach of lions which
abounded in this neighbourhood ; and the soldiers,
weary with their day's hasty march, soon dispatched
their, simple supper, and were stretched in sleep.
Not a sound was to be heard, but the slow tread of
the watchers, pacing from fire to fire. The tent
of Beeltuthma was placed in the centre, and two
sentinels stationed before it,-cautionary arrange-
ments which, like those of the march, were at once
equivocal in appearance and convincing in effect :
towards a free person, they were attestations of
regard and honour,-towards a prisoner, of suspi-
cious vigilance. Beeltuthma sadly deemed herself
the latter.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
300 BEELTUTHMA.
CHAPTER II.
EARLY in the morning they again struck their
tents, and were on their way. They soon reached
and crossed the ford of the Jordan, and thence bent
their course northward. At first they passed
through a fertile and delightful region; but anon,
began to ascend long and dreary hills. At noon
they halted on a high and naked plain, destitute of
tree or bush, and covered only with a dingy yel-
low moss. Behind them was the fait region they
had left-before them the peaks of distant moun-
tains. The captain still preserved the same de-
meanour. In the march he rode steadily a-head;
in the halt he sate apart in a stern silence ; and
whenever, on their way, people collected to. gaze
upon them, he would wave his hand with an
authoritative motion, and they dispersed and were
gone. Beeltuthma marked this circumstance, and
felt that she was in the hands of some man mighty
in his nation.
oigi .. eabvGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 301
Once more, they arose and went on. They now
descended again into deep and wide valleys; pass-
ing through dark woods, and winding through
dreary morasses overgrown with gale and oleander,
and willows, and wild with reeds and rank grass.
. .
They skirted the margin of black and deep waters
that slumbered dismally in the eternal gloom of
matted trees; and at evening encamped in weary
silence, at the.feet of the mountains they had seen
at noon. With the first peep of dawn they began
to ascend the hills, and passed through narrow de-
files belted with dark pines, that were seen as they
ascended, stretching their dreary blackness far and
wide along the lower ranges. From these fastnesses
they climbed into a still and dreary region. Bare
and black rocks, shattered into various forms of wild-
ness, reared themselves around them, and waters
came with a thundering sound dashing from lofty
precipices. As they reached here and there narrow
plains as they ascended, the views they gave them
were full of silence and desolation. ~aked and
dark mountains, the summits of some of which were
clad in snow, shewed themselves above on every
side. - Their way began to grow so steep and diffi-
oigi .. eabvGoogle
302 BEELTUTHMA.
cult that the horses were unable to keep their foot-
ing. Beeltutbma and the guards were placed on
mules, and the horses were left in a cavern by the
wayside with a guard. The captain too, dismounted
and marched on foot. At noon they halted in a
narrow opening between the rocks, and ere they
proceeded, scouts were sent on before. It was
some hours ere they returned ; and when they came,
whatever was the intelligence they brought, the
whole troop was carefully removed from off the
way by which they had ascended; watches were
placed to keep a Vigilant look-out, and the whole
band stretched themselves on the ground in pro-
found silence. It was not till. night came that
~hey arose, and with still and cautious steps pur-
sued their way. After a slow and most wearisome
progress, which appeared to be up an ascent steeper
than any by which they had yet advanced, they
again turned aside through an opening of the
rocks, and with wondrous silence, pitched their
tents in what appeared to be a considerable
plain.
Beeltuthma, buried in her tent, and closely
guarded by the two sentinels, who walked to and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 303
fro before its door, could discern but little of what
was going on; but from the nature of the recent
proceedings, she had a strong feeling that they
were in the immediate vicinity of the object o_f their
expectations, whatever it was; and the persuasion
of her soul that it involved the fate of Tartak and
Lohi, filled her with an indescribable anxiety. Oh !
was she now near those beloved beings ? and were
they the mark of this terrible chief's designs?
Powerful as were the patience and gentleness of
her character, they could not preserve her in quiet
endurance : she threw herself on the ground, and
called on the gods of her nation, though they had
apparently abandoned the nation itself, to save
these sole remaining objects of her affections. She
continued to beseech their aid through the night.
But through the night all was profound silence.
A_
s,the morning, however, broke, a wild and fierce
shout, whose fearful echo was flung from place to
place amongst those desolate rocks, made her start
from her place, and rush to the door of her tent.
She could see that there was an eager passing to
and fro of men, but she could learn no farther ; her
guards were at their post, and although moved by
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
304 BEELTUTHMA.
her keenly excited'!llind, she asked them the mean-
ing of that cry, they gave no answer. All day,
however, not merely such wild cries, but sounds as
of thunder, or of the falling of rocks and stones,
mingled with the groans and shrieks of men, reached
the camp ; and, _
from time to time, she caught
glimpses of bleeding and shattered men borne past
her tent by their fellows. The silence ofthe camp
was now broken by rapid steps running to and fro;
eager words-bursts of fierce exclamation, as of
threatening and vengeance. Every face, even
those of the sentinels, had assumed an air of strange
excitement. It was evident that the troop was
engaged in some desperate contest, and was suffer-
ing severely. What it might be in those wild
mountainous regions, she was at a loss to imagine;
but the fearful conviction, that in it wore engaged
her father and husband, never forsook her. But
many days this state of things continued. The
rushing of troops-the sound as of hammers and
battering rams-the dreadful occasional pause of
death-like silence-the fresh outbreakings of shouts
and yells, and roars as of triumph, carried her mind
forcibly back to the siege ~f her native city, and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA, 305
led her to believe that some such scene must be
transacting here. But what city could exist in
these desolate mountains? It niust be some den,
or stronghold to which desperate men had retired,
and amongst these must be her kinsmen. The
agony of her soul may be imagined. From day to
day she knelt at the door of her tent, and implored
the guards to unfold to her what was passing,-
against whom they were contending,-saying that
it could not alter or affect their proceedings, that a
poor, weak, and captive woman should know them.
The guards were often ·changed; but one spirit
ruled them all,-the spirit of impenetrable silence,
a silence that was interrupted alone by heavy
groans, that now continually reached her ears from
the neighbouring tents, as of many men enduring
the utmost agonies of wounds, and mutilated frames.
Once she beheld the chieftain pass by, and she
recoiled at the dark and desperate ferocity of his
countenance. Its expression, stern and terrible in
his calmest moments, was now that of a man of
fierce and impetuous passions checked in some
momentous enterprise, and stung to the vi'!ry life of
his indignant heart, was wound up to the still1 but
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
306 BEELTUTHMA,
brooding and tempestuous strength of a lion when
beset by his enemies, pierced by their arrows, yet
retaining within all the vigour of his being, he
gathers it gloomily up into his frame for one dread-
ful onset. The sight struck her to the earth in a
stony horror. Her heart was overwhelmed with a
sick and heavy coldness; and knowing nothing, but
imagining a thousand things, she saw her husband
and father cooped in some narrow hold by this
terrible man, determined to sell their lives at an
awful price, fighting madly and without hope.
While she sate on the ground in this lamentable
state of terror, her guards were changed, and she
saw in their place only a fair and gentle youth.
Urged by her anxieties, she caught with avidity at
this promising occurrence, and flinging herself on
her knees just within the opening of her tent, she
clasped her hands on her bosom, and with a look of
anguish that made the very blood fade from· the
cheek of the youth as he turned his eye upon her,
she implored him by all he loved on earth and
feared in heaven, to reveal to her what was passing.
The youth paused for a moment, as in doubt what
he should do; then placing his finger on his lips,
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 307
as t? impress upon her the necessity of her silence,
and looking round with a careful glance, said:-
" Fair Ammonitess, I pity thee from my soul.
What I say to thee, I say at the risk of my life ;-
yet I will say it-for thou hast moved me to com-
passion;-if thou betray me-God reward thee
accordingly. Joab attacks a fortress here, held by
thy countrymen Tartak and Lohi, and some of their
followers."
As Beeltuthma heard these words, her senses
failed-and she sank as dead on the ground. The
boy beheld the effect of his communication with a
momentary glance of deepest pity; but, checking
himself, he assumed a stern calmness of feature,
and resumed his walk to and fro with a cool, and
apparently careless step.
The soul of Beeltuthma, however, speedily re-
turned, and as she recollected the intelligence she
had just received, she inwardly exclaimed, " It is,
then~ as I suspected ! These dear, dear men are
here, beset by their enemies; and even worse than
I deemed, by this most bloody and terrible of
human creatures-by the dreadful and invincible
Joab ! Oh ! thou dark and stern warrior, before
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
308 BEEL1'UTHMA.
whom I have quailed and trembled; thou, then? art
the scourge of my hapless country ! it is thou who
hast levelled its cities, laid waste its fields, over-
thrown its armies, slain its very maidens-its very
babes ; it is into ·thy awful and irresiRtible hands
that I have fallen ; and that the last living blood of
my wasted house shall speedily fall!"
As she pronounced the last word, she again
sprang to the door; and fixing her eye on the pass-
ing youth with an expression of unutterable thanks,
she softly said, " Oh thou blessed youth, my soul
thanks thee from its lowest depths, for thy words,
dreadful as they are ;-but more ! canst thou not
tell me more?"
Again the youth glanced round, and seeing all
apparently safe, " Let not my weakness encou-
rage thee," he said, "to farther speaking. I can
.tell thee little more. We hoped to surprise the
fortress, bqt failed ; the attempt to force it has
been desperately resisted,-the scenes have been
dreadful; the tower is yet nn--." As the word
was passing from his mouth, an arrow, which came
as from the opening in the rocks by which they
had entered, pierced his heart; he leaped suddenly
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 309
from the ground, and fell dead across the opening
of the tent.
Beeltuthma gave a fearful shriek, and sprang
towards the fallen youth, but a strong hand rudely
thrust her back: two Hebrews raised the body
and bore it away, and two others took the station
of guards at the tent door; walking to and fro, as
calmly as if nothing had occurred.
Struck with horror at the fate of this fair and
unhappy youth -- a fate which she felt she had
drawn upon him, Beeltuthma retired to the back
part of the tent, and seating herself 01!- the ground,
gave herself up to the overwhelming anguish and
dread of her soul. The day passed silently and
sullenly away. The night came and past also; in
the morning she was hastily summoned forth, and
led by the guards to the outlet of the camp. As
she· reached it, and found herself in the path by
which they had ascended, she raised her eyes, and
beheld the object of attack. It was a fortress
perched on the summit of a black and precipitous
rock, that soared far above the surrounding peaks
of the mountains. Its situation was such, as might
well defy the most fierce and daring efforts of men;
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
310 BEELTUTHMA,
the very brain of the beholder swimming dizzily as
he gazed at it; and the walls, built of the same
black and ada~tine·stone, appeared impenetrable
to all human force. Here the crow-foot could not
act-its crooked claws could not reach the summitS
of those lofty walls to drag them down, stone by
stone; the battering-ram-the terrible balist8, were
equally useless. Could they have been conveyed
up these narrow and precipitous mountains, where
might they have been planted to bear their mighty
concussions upon those air-hung bulwarks ? Beel-
tuthma gazed in fear and admiration, and a'!ltrange
intensity of tried affections on that lofty stronghold.
On its walls she could see men moving ever and
anon; and they were her own countrymen-per-
haps two of them, her father and her husband !
She could see, too, at a glance, the terrible deeds
that must have been done before those walls. The
gates were blackened with fire ; but they were of
iron, an~ stood unmoved; the very rock and stones
were of a nature that defied the fiercest flames.
She saw that the besiegers had erected a covered
way of massy stones to the gate, beneath which
they were even yet working with picks and ham-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 311
mers, with an apparently hopeless, but an un-
wearied assiduity. She saw that whole rocks had
been hurled down from the fortress to crush these
works, and they who raised them. She saw arrows,
and spears, and bloody stones scattered in a pro-
fuse and dread confusion around the feet of the
rock on which the tower stood; and bodies of men,
battered and shapeless, lay there also.
Her eye caught the view of a ladder formed of
short staves of wood, driven at frequent intervals
into the wall of the fortress, and ascending towards
a small outlet, or window, which was protected
from the view of the besieged above, by a large
projecting tower. The ladder had nearly reached
, the outlet. A man was busily employed cutting
out the hole for the last stave, in the joint of the
wall; and others, with cautious steps, were ascend-
ing after him, ready to follow through the narrow
window they had in view, should the first man
succeed in gaining it. Beeltuthma's brain reeled,
and her whole frame shook with terror for these
daring men, though they were her enemies, as
she saw them ascending by so frail a stair, ..at
such a giddy height, to such a hazardpus enter-
/
312 BEELTUTH.l\IA.
prise. As she gazed, she beheld the man at the
top, drive in the last stave ; she saw him plant
his iron chisel to wrench open the wooden door,
when, instantly, it flew open-a spear was pro-
truded, and the unhappy wretch upon the ladder
plunged down-down from that dreadful height,
and fell, dashed to atoms on the rock, far, far
below. A cry of horror arose from the besiegers,
followed by a fier~ shout of wrath and onset, and
it was echoed by the wild acclaim of the besieged.
In a moment a large stone was seen issuing from
the outlet, and dashing on the next man on the
ladder, bofe him also to his terrible fate : yet
the rest, instead of retreating from so appalling a
scene, only rushed with more eager steps up the
projecting staves, as if animated with a fury in
which danger, life, everything but the destruction
of their foes, were forgotten. Terrible was the
spectacle that followed : as they reached the outlet,
one by one, they were sent flying down through
the air ; yet the stream below staid not ;-as one
disappeared, another took his place ; and now,
one strong man reached the window, and instead
of sharing the fate of his predecessors, suddenly
o; ,;. byGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 313
seizing the spear aimed at him, he plucked it from
the hand which held it, and turning it.~ point,
darted it into the tower, and at a strong bound
threw himself half within the outlet. There, for
a moment, he was seen as if battling with the
foes within, the lower extremities of his body
only visible without, while his next fellow thrust
him forward, to ensure his entrance into the tower,
that he might himself follow, -when, at once,
his frame was flung backwards as by a mighty
power. He appeared to be launched into the air
like his fellows; but again, he caught the sill of
the outlet with his hands-he clung !-he wavered!
-he fell !-and the loud groan of horror of the
·besieged, drowned the dash of his carcass on the
rocky pavement. In the same instant, the white
head of an old man appeared at the outlet;-he
hurled forth the next assailant, as a stone is flung
bounding from the precipitous brow of a hill,
.which it is descending in thunder ; then, glancing
down the ladder, he launched a piece of rock
with such precision, that it cleared the fatal esca-
lade to a fearful extent of its ·climbers, who fell
like a flock of crows which the arrows of an army
VOL. I. p
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
314 BEELTUTHMA.
have pierced, as they fl.ew above it. The trumpet
of the captain sounded a retreat, and in a few
seconds, the staves were seen standing naked in_the
wall, that shone with streams of gore against the
morning sun.
Beeltuthma, whose guards had halted at the
sight of this most horrible spectacle, was found
lying senseless on the ground-she had seen her
father! ·
When she recovered her consciousness, she was
hastily led up a winding narrow ascent in the
rocks, which the assistance of her conductors alone
enabled her to climb, and soon found herself on the
summit of a lofty cliff, opposite the tower, and by
her side-the fearful Joab.
The besieged, who had paused in entranced
attention to the bloody contest which had been
going on at the window, now re-appeared on the
walls, and were preparing to send a fi.ight of
arrows at the persons who thus shewed themselves
on the opposite cliff, when Joab causing a trumpet
to be blown, and waving a small, white banner
in his hand, called for Tartak and Lobi. Immedi-
diately the hostile preparations ceased, and the
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTH!IfA. 315
two chiefs appeared. When Beeltuthma beheld
the objects of her heart's whole affections, and
of the long and sad pilgrimage thus before her,
she raised her hands, as if forgetful of the great
gulph between them, and uttered a piercing cry.
Her guards instantly seized her, lest in her emo-
tion she should leap from the cliff; and Joab, with
a voice that seemed to emulate in strength the
trumpet which had just spoken, cried,~" Know
ye this woman?" There was a deep and long
silence ; during which, even at that distance, the
workings of the countenances of the Ammonitifih
chiefs, might be discerned. Curiosity, strange
astonishment, agony of heart, and a settled gloom
as of despair, passed athwart their features-at
length they replied, solemnly, " We know her !"
" It is well!" replied Joab. "And what now may
be your determination ? Will ye submit to our
arms?" " These walls," they returned, "are yet
unbroken-these towers are well replenished with
food-why should we submit? If thou hast seized
the last fair treasure of our country, the last
precious stem of our house, whom we behold
here as one from the dead-is it needful that
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
316 BEELTUTHMA.
we should sacrifice our lives, and the lives of these
men? Yet we would gladly one of us lay down
a life for the redemption of that beloved one, could
we be assured that it would suffice !" " Come
down, then!" cried Joab, "I ask not life for life-
1 ask only that ye yield up the tower, and depart
with this woman."
" Oh, come down ! come down ! blessed ones !"
cried Beeltuthma, "accept the generous offer of
this great chief-let us away together to our own
dear country ! Come down, tha,t I may once more
clasp you to my soul !"
" Let the mighty Joab retire from b~fore the~e
walls-let him evacuate these mountains," replied
the aged Tartak-" let us see his armed train
ascending the hills beyond the marsh, and we
pledge ourselves to come down, and retire to our
own land."
" Nay!'' cried the stern Hebrew-" we will not
retire ! - we will wait, to enter in and possess
the tower, but we swear to give free egress to you
and yours." •
" 'fhat we may be pursued and slaughtered in
the plain !': cried the Ammonites. " We come
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 317
not down, then! Shall we put our lives into the
hands of him, who spared not the babe in our
houses - and gave those houses to the flame ?
Who slew the son of his own king? Who slew
treacherously the captains of the king's host?
Nay, we come not down till we see thee beyond
the marsh !"
" Bear the woman to her tent!" said Joab;
and her guards took hold on her to lead her away.
She gave one wild, long look at her kindred-one
l1eavy groan, and followed as they shewed the way.
We attempt not to describe the feelings of Beel-
tuthma, as she sate in her tent during the remainder
of that day. Her heart was a region of many wild
and woful thoughts, many fears, many speculations,
which the next moment appeared impossibilities;-
but the great wish of her soul was, that she were
in the tower with her father and husband, that she
might die with them : "but they will die," she
said, " and I shall be borne away to a living death
in captivity."
-·
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
318 BEELTUTHMA.
CHAPTER. III.
DAY closed upon her sorrow. At midnight she was
roused by a strange tumult. She started up, and
beheld her husband in the entrance of her tent.
" Follow ! follow quickly!'' he cried; but in the
next moment there was the clash of arms, the shout
of combatants, the flash of torches ; and she saw
her husband and father, and their small band of
followers, in deadly contest with their foes. It
- was evident that they had made a nocturnal sally
from the fortress, in hope of carrying Beeltuthma
off. The battle was furiously contested. She saw
the white locks of her father flying; she saw his
sword flashing to and fro, and the active form of
Lobi leaping upon his foes. But everywhere they
were beset ; and everywhere the tall, iron frame of
Joab, with grim countenance and desperate blows,
seemed to meet them. She stood, and wrung her
hands in mental agony, and called upon the gods
for once to shew their power. But the battle
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 319
rolled towards the outlet in the rocks ; in a few
seconds it had passed from the camp; there only
lay dead and dying men. The sound of the con-
ffict was heard beyond the cliffs,-farther, farther
it removed, till a faint shout seemed to announce
some distant event, and then all was still. At
length a few soldiers returned to guard the Ca.mp-
the rest returned not. All night Beeltuthma stood
and listened, with her whole soul alive to catch the
smallest sound; but non~ came. In the earliest
morning the tents were struck, and they began the
descent of the mountains. A gleam of hope
crossed Beeltuthma's soul, that her kinsmen had
escaped. Had they been slain, some manifestation's
of triumph would have been exhibited ; but now
all was silent haste and diligence,-they must be
engaged in pursuit. She cast one glance at the
tower as she departed,-the gates were open,-the
banner of Judah was waving on the walls!
Beeltuthma now cast eager looks onward. She
fancied she could hear shouts, here and there, in
the distance ; she saw men running over the hills
beyond the marsh ; her whole soul was one living,
fervent, unceasing prayer for the escape of her
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
_
,
320 BEEL'l'UTHMA.
kindred. At noon they reached the foot of the
mountains beside the marsh, where they had en-
camped in coming; and here again the tents were
pitched. During the afternoon, small parties ·kept
coming in from ·the pursuit; but she heard no
sounds of triumph-saw no evidences of the cap-
ture of her friends: her heart beat wildly with the
hope of their deliverance.
At nightfall, fires were lit around the camp; a
strong guard was set, and.everything indicated the
most active watchfulness. At midnight again Beel-
tuthma dreamed that her husband stood in the
door of her tent; that again the tumult of assault
broke out. She started up-all was darkness and.
silence. Her heart beat loudly with alarm. She
sate and listened. She fancied she heard her name
breathed softly from the back of the tent,-a tlirill
of strong surprise, like a sudden fear, passed
through her. She deemed it the work of an
excited fancy; yet she listened still. And again
she heard her name uttered as by the voice of a
scarce audible breeze. Again it came, and·it was
like the accents of Lobi. The back of her tent was
against a rocky precipice ;-could her husband in
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 321
his anxiety to rescue her, have ventured himself
there ? She sprun~ up trembling, but desperate at
the thought, and approached the place. She
paused a moment; she saw a star gleam through a
gash in the side of the tent. She fixed upon it her
eye; and in the next instant, saw a human face
applied to the aperture; and heard her name again
breathed, in a tone which she could not mistake.
Compelled by the terror of Lobi's situation to sup-
press her feelings, she drew close to the spot and
whispered-" Is it Lohi ?" "Yes,. my love, it is
Lohi," was the reply, "be silent and come forth."
In the same moment the sword of her husband
opened the curtain of the tent to the ground, and
she found herself in his arms. "Follow!" he
whispered, and led the way. With steps silent as
those of the doe on the velvet moss of the wood-
land, though with a beating and terrified heart, she
pursued, led by his hand. He disappeared through
a narrow cleft hidden by the bushes, and for some-
time they went on in silence. Anon, he began
to ascend a narrow ravine between the dark crags,
where to her, all was blindness. Onwards and up-
wards .they went with active speed, now winding
r3
[•9•- jb,Google
322 BEELTUTHMA.
this way, now that, till the free gale of heaven
blew upon them, and its stars shone brightly above
their heads. Here Lobi turned, and clasped his
wife in a close embrace ;-they stood and wept in
each other's arms. Beeltuthma had no words ; her
soul was melted into love and gratitude before
the gods. At length Lobi said,-" here for the
moment we are safe; and here would I ask thee,
how it is that I clasp my own Reeltuthma once
more? We deemed thee dead-fallen with the rest
of our friends and kindred in the burning city ; and
reckless of our lives, we pursued the conquerors,
and harassed them on their way. When they
entered their land, we turned aside and climbed
these mountains. We surprised this fortress, and
awaited some opportunity to sell our lives in a
burst of vengeance on the destroyers. But now
life is precious,-let us fly and preserve it!"
"Yes! yes ! let us fly," said Beeltuthma, "but
where shall we fly? How shall we escape these
dreadful men ? Even now I tremble lest they
leap upon us."
"Fear not," said Lobi., "I have learned to know
these mountains better than our pursuers. Whil~
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 323
they sought us to day, I lay amongst the rocks,
and looked down into their camp ; and marked
where they pitched thy tent. We will now hasten
to thy father, who lies hidden beyond the lake,-
and away to our own land. We may yet find a
remnant to gather, and restore our kingdom!"
" Oh ! to be once," cried Beeltuthmli, "in that
sweet land ! though it is lying in ashes and deso-
lation-yet will it be blessed to dwell there with
thee, and weep over our kindred that have
perished !"
Lohi grasped her arm, and led her silently on
their way. They proceeded by many paths known
only to him. At length they entered a deep
defile. " Anon," said Lobi, " we shall issue forth
by the lake near the hiding-place of thy father,
who even now expects us." They passed on with
rapid steps, but, at once, the forms of men started
up from the steep sides of the ravine ;-before-
behind, they appeared ; their swor_ds and shields
gleamed faintly in the star-light, and many stern
voices bade them stand. Lobi drew his sword, and
fell furiously upon them; but, like locu~ts, they
closed round him in numbers ; and the terrified
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
324 BEELTUTHMA,
Beeltuthma cried-" Fly ! fly, for thy life !-me
they will harm not !"
Lohi seemed to hear her not, but continued to
smite vehemently at his enemies, crying, "Tartak!
Tartak !" The stern Tattak and the Ammonites
suddenly appeared behind, and like a band of lions
roused to fury, overturned .everything in their
way; passing on like a whirlwind, and every-
where crying, " Beeltuthma ! Beeltuthma !" She
heard, and rushed forth, and sprung to the arms
of Tartak, who clasped her to his bosom, and
hurried away towards the wood on the border of
the Black lake. But the tumult had reached the
Hebrew soldiers, who were waiting to support, if
needful, the ambush. They came pouring in on all
sides, the dreadful Joab himself appearing between
them and tl1e water. He rushed furiously on
them, and the little band was speedily surrounded
by numbers. "Let us die like men!" cried Lohi;
and the arms of himself and the aged Tartak struck
down men on every side. But their little band of
followers fell rapidly, and the mighty Joab, stalking
like a giant in his wrath; now flickered his sword
in their faces, and cut the spear of Tartak in twain.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 325
In a moment, the two warriors were pres..'!ed to the
earth by numbers, and bound beneath the eyes of
the weeping Beeltuthma.
The trumpet sounded at dawn ;-the tents were
struck, and they marched away to the fertile plains
of Gilead.
Who may tell the weight of woe that lay on
the soul of B~eltuthma, as they retraced their path
towards Judea ;-the last hopes of her existence
crushed,-the lives· of her father and husband in
the hands of Joab ! The stupor of affiiction made
her day like a dreary night, and the night like a
wakeful horror. The ·next day they crossed the
...
Jordan, and at nightfall. encamped in the wilder-
ness, on the very spot where they had halted on
the first night of their going forth.
Beeltuthma sate on the ground in her tent,
loaded with the full weight of affiiction which can
fall upon a human being. The olimax was given
to the long series of evil fortune which had visited
her. From a princess in a great nation; from the
cherished daughter, the idolized wife, the beloved
and admired woman, she had sunk to a fugitive
amid burning cities, ravaged fields, and slaughtered
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
326 BEELTUTHMA.
people ; to a disguised wanderer in a hostile land,
seeking with a fearful heart, and feeble hope, the
last small remnant of her beloved ones; to a
captive in the hands of the destroyer of her nation ;
and now, the sole relics of her soul's wealth,-to
her belief, the sole remains of the nobility of her
people, were lying in that camp, in chains, uncom-
forted even by her presence~ and awaiting some
cruel and .ignominious death in the view of their
triumphant enemies. It was too much for woman's
heart, and a heart so gentle, and warm, and soft as
hers ; it seemed as though it had crushed it to a
stone. A heavy and dark load lay on her soul
like that of a mountain, which quenched all con-
sciousness but that of pain and terror. She sate
with her tearless eye fixed on one spot ; motionless
as a statue; and evinced neither by tear, nor sigh,
nor groan, her feeling of her woe ;-it was too
mighty for all expression-except that death-like
expression, whi~h is more terrible than death.
During the latter watches of the night, however,
her consciousness evinced itself by a heavy sigh;
and, as one struck by some sudden idea, she sprang
up abruptly, and moved to the door· of the tent.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 327
The stars were burning brightly in the clear, dark
sky, and her gaze was fixed on them in a burning
and stedfast intensity,, till they seemed to wake in
her some tender and melancholy feeling. Tears
sprang into her large, dark eyes, and rolled down
her pale and rigid cheeks. She turned from the
sky, and looked abroad near the dark earth . It
was a wild, autumnal night. The wind was vigor-
ously careering over the wilderness, fluttering and
swaying the tents as it passed ; and singing in its
opening with a melancholy music. She saw the
dark hill sides illuminated with the watch-fires;
and the trees, here and there as they roared in th~
blast, lit up witli a silvery whiteness by the flames.
The fires wavered to and fro in long and ruddy
volumes, now pointing this way, now suddenly
darting themselves in another direction, denoting
that the wind was eddying and variable; and the
smoke, as it rolled off in yellow clouds, was caught
up by the gale with a hungry avidity, and disap-
peared in the distant darkness.
Beeltuthma contemplated this scene with a heavy
and half-conscious perception; but as her eyes
wandered among the dark forms of the watchers
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
328 BEELTUTHMA.
around the fires, they were suddenly arrested by
one that seemed to call her spirit forth as from a
brooding dream. It was Joab himself. Like an
unresting spirit, notwithstanding the vast fatigue of
the last few days, there he was between the mid-
night and the morning, moving from outpost to
outpost, although his foes were safe in his hands,
and he was encamped in his own peaceful country.
She saw him soon move apart to a fire where there
was no one else, and stand resting one hand on the
hilt of his heavy sword, gazing on the flames with
the same stern and hard expres.'lion as be wore on
the evening she first saw him. There was nothing
triumphant nor despondent in his looks-it was the
natural, or habitual look of austere, yet unconcerned
gravity which belonged to his ordinary mood.
But what strange vision was that which then
caught her eye? It was that of three mysterious
figures, moving from the distant darkness towards
him, with the silent steps of spirits and the dignity
of gods. Could they be men ? They had the
figures and the motions of men, but their steps
seemed soundless, and they moved not the heath
beneath their tread. They carne on with a digni-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEEJ,TUTHllfA. 329
fied, and y~t a rap!d pace. One was a nobly-built
and nobly-featured man, cl~d in the peaceful habili-
ments of a leader amongst his people. His fine,
large countenance had an air of dignity mingled
with much kindliness, an.d grave good sense; but it
was bloodless as that of a spirit, though his eye
had not merely the brightness, but the human ex-
pression of life. His cap wa~ richly adorned with
the feathers of the ostrich, which swayed gracefully
over his shoulder ; and in his hand he bore one of
those light and golden-headed spears which are
carried on occasions of peace, mo~e for state than as
instruments of defence.
The second was a youthful figure, moulded like
a god. His graceful form, perfect in the. shaping
of every limb, and in the exquisite grace of every·
motion, was only to be equalled by the. frank and
manly, but somewhat dissipated and ambitious cast
of a countenance of wonderful beauty. It was like
the statue of Tammuz himself; and his hair, which
rolled from his crown on every side in volumes of
rich and heavy gold, was such as Beeltuthma had
never seen amongst all the noble youths of her land,
n9r had imagined but in dreams. He wore no cover-
o; ,;. byGoogle
330 BEELTUTHMA.
iog on his head, as if it-was too glorious to be coo-
cealed by any earthly fabric, however princely.
His v~st was of rich purple, embroidered with gold.
His outer garb was of the Tyriao dye, and was
folded around him with a grace that none but some
few highly-favoured mortals ever attained. His
sandals were of gold, fastened by richly embroidered
bands. But his face, like that of his fellows, was
pale, and-marvellous sight !-the shafts of three
darts were seen entering his breast in such a manner
that their points must meet in his heart !-Yet he
lived, and meved as if they:inconvenienced him not.
The third was a man of an open, unsuspicious
countenance; clad in a long, highly-embroidered
"military robe, on which was bound the empty scab-
bard of a sword. ius sandals, and the skirts of his
robe, were dusty as with travel ; on his head he
wore the helmet of a chief captain.
Beeltuthma gazed on these extraordinary figures
with an intensity of. interest that made her half
forget the weight of her sorrows. Were they gods?
If so, why so pale? Were they spirits of Joab'a
countrymen, who sought in him an avenger ?-for
Beeltuthma saw With wonder that the lower gar-
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTH!\IA. 381
ments of them alJ were alike drenched with blood ;
'
all had the pallid hue of death ; and the princely
figure of the youth, those three mysterious, yet un..-
destroying darts in his bosom. But if these, why
those reproachful looks with whicb they drew near?
Were they men who had fallen by his treacherous
hand ?-Her soul, and their aspects and manner,
darkly inclined her to this conclusion. The stern
man saw their approach, but he moved not. He
fixed his eyes upon them with a look of strong, but
subdued wonder, but there was no trace of fear on
his bold, unblanching features. They came on, till
t"hey stood only a few yards from him. Each with
one hand pointed to his own body, whence streams
of blood seemed afresh to flow; and with the other,
towards the camp. Beeltuthma started ; for it
struck her that the apparition bore some reference
to her fate. Were they Hebrews, whoin Tartak
and Lohi had slain in battle ? And did they come
to cry for vengeance now tho~e chiefs lay bound in
his hands ! The idea seemed filled with probabi-
lity; and chilled her with a·deadly horror. She
gazed with straining and eager eyes at them, and
with outstretched neck, longing to catch the import
'
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
332 BEELTUTHMA.
of their words. But there was no voice audible at
that distance. She saw their pale countenances
charged with a mighty indignation, and their eyes
were rivetted on the countenance· of Joab with an
expression of inextinguishable re~roach, and, as she
thought, of disdain.
Wbatev~r were their words, their errand, or the
meaning of their looks, the unshaken warrior
seemed to regard them not; and so far, were they
demanding vengeance against Tartak and Lohi, the
inference was consoling. He maintained his posi-
tion, leaning on his sword, and altered it not,
except when they appeared to menace him in their
communications, to raise his hand, and wave it with
a motion of defiance, which his stern features fully
seconded. The figures gave one commanding look,
pointed once more eagerly towards the camp, and
instantly kindling, as into an ethereal flame, grew
brighter and brighter, ·till they became forms of
intense and translucent radiance ;-then gradually
faded, dimmed, and disappeared.
The general stood alone, still leaning on his
sword, but in a more thoughtful attitude, for some
time ; then turned, and walked slowly towards his
tent.
o;gitozedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 333
CHAPTER IV.
THE morning broke upon Beeltuthma as she sate
alternately turning her sorrowful mind from the
situation of her kinsmen to this marvellous appari-
tion. It appeared as a dream; and the regular
movements of the camp seemed to her, evidence
tl1at no one partook of its consciousness with her.
The tents were struck-the trumpet sounded to
march ; and she beheld herself seated on the same
steed, betweenthe same guards, in the same situa-
tion, in the rear of the troop; and Joab riding
coldly on his war-horse at its head, as when they
set out. The only circumstances of difference
were, that the troop was much diminished in num-
bers, and in the rear came many wounded soldiers,
borne on temporary litters, and a sight that wrung
her with inexpressible agony,-Tartak and Lohi,
strongly fettered and strongly guarded. Thus
they marched; and thus they e~tered Joab's house
in the wilderness.
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
334 BEELTUTHMA.
Beeltuthma had not slept since the capture of
Tartak and Lohi; and in the same small chamber
where she had passed the night before the de-
parture for the mountain fortress, she slept not
now as she did then. She sate upon the bed, the
same image of the torpidity of e~cessive affiiction
as in the camp. In the morning, she was sum-
moned forth to the presence of Joab ; and feeble
and wasted with her consuming anguish, and filled
with terrible apprehensions, she ~ose, and with
unstable steps proceeded to the house-top. There
she beheld the chief sitting on the same stone seat,
with the same hard indifferent aspect as at the first
interview. The faded and drooping form of Beel-
tuthma, her countenance thin and rigid, and death-
pale with woe, might have touched a heart of the
hardest texture, b~t it seemed not to touch him.
She approached, and prostrated herself before him.
" Behold !" said he, " I have found that which
thou soughtest ! I have found thy kinsmen.
Thou hast seen how they have caused the blood of
the Lord's people to flow like water; thou hast
seen their pride and obstinacy; thou hast seen how
they have refused the offer of freedom at my
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA.
hands ; but have ceased not to pursue me with
inextinguishable fury. Now shalt thou behol<l the
judgment of the Lord!"
" Oh, my lord ! mighty and irresistible !" cried
Beeltuthma, laying her hand upon her head,
" spare ! spare these unhappy men ! Thou hast
done _thy will' upon our nation. Her cities, her
fields, her sons and daughters, lie they not all
·prostrate in the dust at thy feet? and these two
men~ what can their lives avail against thee ?-what
good shall their deaths do thee? Surely ! surely
thy heart is satisfied with blood ! Oh ! do whatso-
ever seemeth thee good to thine handmaid, but
spare, I beseech thee, these sorrowful men ! Let
me die,-but let them live ! They are as but .a
drop in the bucket, my lord :-let them return, and
feel in the silence of their fields, and the dust and
ashes of their cities, the greatness of thy power ;-
the dead ! the dead cannot acknowledge it ! "
" Hast thou seen their cruel deeds," steroly
replied Joab,- "to my followers ?-Didst thou see
how the sons of Jacob fell like dogs from the walls
of 'their tower, and were dashed to atoms amidst
their triumphant yells-and dost thou dare to plead
for them?"
oigi .. eabvGoogle
336 BEELTUTHMA.
" Oh, my lord !" cried the feeble and trembling
Beeltuthma, lifting up her head, and rising on one
knee in the earnest wrestling of her spirit; " and
what have they done, but as brave men, who would
defend and avenge their country to the last drop of
their blood? Would my lord see the enemies of
Israel destroying her on every side, nnd resist them
not, and avenge not his people's wrongs till his
eye grew dim with weariness, and his arm failed
with the out-pouring of his life-blood? They are
men,-brave men !-good men ! As men they
have fought, and as a man,-oh forgive! forgive !"
" Woman, thou knowest not that the Lord has
' -
given the command to destroy you as a wicked and
idolatrous race !"
" Yea !" she replied, casting her eyes on the
floor, "I know,-I feel that your God is mighty,
far mightier than our gods !-I.feel that our gods
have abandoned us, or cannot defend us,-but it
was not so in past days. Our people grew, and
spread, and their arms won safety and honour ;-
but thy God is mighty and gracious to his people
-forgive ! my lord! forgive! and let us worship
thy God with thee; and let us be the lowest of his
children ;-surely he will pity and receive us !"
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 337
The warrior cast a scornful smile at the sup-
plicating woman, and said-" Can a heathen dog
become a lion of Judah? No-no !-we ask not
the worshippers of stocks and stones to come into
the tabernacle of the Most High, bringing their
vile images beneath their garments,. and seated in
their leprous souls, to defile his courts. Woman !
I called thee not to weep, and weary me with·thy
words, but to see what God has decreed for every
rebellious idolater."
He waved his hand, and the heavy crimson
curtain, which Beeltuthma had not observed drawn
across the tower, was rolled back, and she beheld
her husband and father standing in their chains,
and on each hand an armed man. At the sight,
she leapt to her feet, and with clenched hands and
terror-fixed eyes, gazed upon them. Their coun-
tenances were pale with strong emotion ; but they
stood firm, and untouched with fear; their eyes
turned on Beeltuthma with an expression of
boundless and eternal tenderness.
At a sign from Joab, forth flashed the swords of
their keepers ; - at another, their swords were
raised, and waited but the permission to smite,
vor.. 1. Q
338 BEELTUTHMA.
when Beeltuthma, starting as from a dream, sprang
forwards to embrace them. Her steps were ar-
rested by her guards ; and once more flinging
herself at Joab's feet, she cried frantically-" Kill
me ! kill me first ! Let me not see the deaths of
my kindred!"
She was startled in the midst of her agony of
appeal by a voice behind her, and by the eye of
Joab, which, with a troubled light, was directed
towards the place whence the voice came. She
arose, and beheld an aged man, whose countenance
was fixed on that of Joab with the severity of an
indignant judge. The old man was clad in a
~oarse woollen robe, bound with a broad leathern
girdle, and leaned on his staff in the extremity of
years. His hair and beard were white as snow,
and ~is countenance was full of that spiritual
dignity, that bows the mind of the beholder in
profound veneration. At his back, stood two
youths, in the strength and bloom of early man-
hood, and clad in the same simple garb as the
aged stranger.
Beeltuthma saw that the guards had bowed their
fa~es to the earth, and that even Joab's hard and
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 339
daring features betrayed the homage due to his
visitor.
"Joab ! Joab !" exclaimed he, in a voice full of
a solemn, mysterious command, " what is this
which thou hast done ? When the word of the
Lord revealed to me the retreat of these captives,
said i( not also that thou shouldst wait the judg-
ment of the Lord? And behold ! already the
sword is raised to smite them !"
" Man of God !" said Joab, " has not the Lord
said smite the heathen, and spare them not? And
knowest thou that these bloody men have scorned
~he offer of peace, and slain abundance of the
Lord's people?"
" Man of a stubborn heart," retorted the prophet,
for such his words, and the words of Joab an-
nounced him, " shall not the Lord kill, and shall
he not keep alive as it best pleaseth him ? And
darest thou to question the command of the
Almighty? Who raised up thy kinsman to the
throne-raised thee also with him, and gave thee
might before thy enemies, and honour before thy
people ; and has given thee possessions, and an
everlasting name.?"
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
340 BEELTUTHMA.
"And have I not been zealous," interrupted the
haughty chief, "for the kingdom?"
" Thou hast been zealous, and thy zealluw be~n
approved, although it has not been tempered with
mercy, nor obedience; yet it has been appl·ove,l,
or long ere this day thy life had been as the life
of Korah in the wilderness, and as the life of Saul.
Oh ! man of blood !-thou hast smitten, and hast
had no mercy; thou hast overturned and laid waste,
and lanlented not ; thou hast also stretched out
thy hand treacherously against thine own fellows.
Who slew the right~ous Abner, when he came
to heal the divisions of Israel ? Who smote the,
young man Absalom, when his father had said,
smite him not? Who smote the unsuspicious
Amasa, as he went on the way on the king's
business.._smote him with a guileful ·look, and a
jealous hand ? Will thy soul never cease to thirst
for blood? thy spirit never bow to God's com-
mands, though he send, as he sent but yesternight,
the dead-the slain of thine own hand, to speak
his warnings? Behold ! doth the lion slay the
dove that, pursued by the kite, flies into his den?
Doth the wolf crush with his paw the lizard, that
o; ,;. byGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 341
sports amongst the bones of his lair ? Yet hast
thou no bowels of compassion on this meek, and
broken-hearted woman, on whose ways, and the
yearnings of whose spirit, the Lord hath looked
down in tender compassion ; and hast never called
to mind how the Moabitess, Ruth, found favour in
his eyes, for the love and the faith that was in
ber soul, so that he has made her the mother
of kings, and engrafted her into ihe line which
shall bring forth th~ Hope and the Blessing of all
nations; and thou-even thou-art of her lineage !
Herein, oh lover of battles ! hast thou grievously
offended ; and thy deeds of cruelty will not pass
-from remembrance.
" I see a glorious monarch coming on in the path
of years, to sit on the throne of Israel. I see
him unsheath the sword of retribution against the
offenders in his father's days. I see the altar of
God; and one who shewed no pity, and feared not
to crush the feeble and the desolate, clings to its
horns for safety-and finds none !
" Behold ! thou bruised, but obedient and meek
daughter of a chastised people, thy .heart is ap-
proved, and thy person is accepted by the Lord
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
342 BEELTUTHMA.
of the earth Go! take the lives of thy kinsmen,
and return to thine own land, and become the
mother of future kings ! and forget not to tell thy
children what thou hast seen-that the God of
Israel is the only God !-the God whom thy fathers
onee knew, but from whom they have wandered.
Let them hear this, that they may cast out from
their houses and their hearts, the im~es of hea- .
thenism, which are an offence.
"See now the work of the Lord!"
The prophet, who had become animated with the
inspiration of the moment, till his weak and bend-
ing body rose into erectness and the power as of
youth, now turned, and bade the guards bring
forward the captives ; and when they came n_ear,
he put forth his hand, and touched their chains,
which fell from them as they had melted at the
touch of lightning. Tartak and Lobi fell prostrate
in astonishment and awe ; and Beeltuthma, bathing
the feet of the prophet with torrents of tears, cried,
'' Oh ! holy man ! thy God is my God, and none
besides-for he is a God of might, and also a
God of compassion!"
" Arise !" said the seer, "and depart ! Your
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
BEELTUTHMA. 343
way is open : rest, and food shall not fail you ; nor
shall anything have power to hurt you, till ye
come into your land !"
He turned towards the stairs of the tower,-
exhibiting the marvellous doings of the Almighty,
by which such wondrous power was made to reside
in a frame, that seemed already tottering to the
grave ; and, at one and the same time, might be
seen this aged servant of God seated in his litter,
and borne by two of the sons of the prophets, and
followed by a little troop of others, ready to take
their turns in bearing him, moving over the plains
at a rapid pace; while, in another direction, went
the three ransomed ones, in tears of love and won-
der, towards their own land.
END OF VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTBD BY MANNINO AND SMITHSON,
lfY LAN.I1 PAT.KRJIOSTB& BO\Y.
oigi .. eabvGoogle
o;g;t,zedbyGoogle
PANTIKA:
oa,
TR.AD ITIONS
..
OP THE
MOST .ANCIENT TIMES.
BY WILLIAM HOWITT.
..
ht olcbt die ganze Erde des Herrn eln Wobnplata der Menacbelt f Wenn
Acanlppe, Aretbnae, Derce nnd der Cepbiuua ancenebm raoscben, warum
aolte nlcbt dort ancb der Jordan, der Knr, der Gancea labende Wellen
trelben f Warum nicbt aocb eln Bach In ller tbebalac:ben Wiiate f
Huvu.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON :
WHITTAKER AND CO., AVE-MARIA LANE.
1835.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
.H3P3
\~3-5
:tOUM42
LONDON!
JtalNTBD BY KAlCNt.NG AND SMITHSON,
IVY•LAN£, P.&TBR.NOITEa·&OW.
I - .; •.·;· ,, ~ ~
U0\1 8 .; i
Blf\IJI1'4C{ i
AUG19 '38
•
D•g•ti7•dbyGoogle
CONTENTS.
Page
THE AVENGER oF Brmon • I
THE SooTHSAYER oF No •••••• · • 247
THE vALLEY OF ANGELS • • • • • • • • • • 277
THE AVENGER OF BLOOD.
CHAPTER I.
A blessed land was the land of Israel in its hap-
piest period; and of that period, ifwe were to settle
the crowning epoch, would it not be the opening of
the reign of Solomon ? It was a land in so fair a
clime; so admirably diversified by every feature
that can delight the eye,-elevate the spirit,-and
contribute to the amenity of life ;-mountains,-
rQshing waters,-valleys and wildernesses. Moun-
tains here crowned with snow; here with wide and
solemn forests, abounding with .beasts of chase ;
here lifting up green hills of pasturage, wandered
by innumerable flocks ; valleys of wild, sweet
aSpect; and these divided from each other by wil~
demesses which were anything but what are com-
monly called by that name,-expanses of rich and
summer beauty,-wide, ,liberty-breathing tracts,
VOL, II. B
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
2 THE AVENGER
not of sand, but of thick and aromatic herbage,
where flocks and herds wandered, followed by their
keepers; where a variety of wild game abounded ;
and desert plants saluted tl1e passenger with their
delicious, rural smells. There the heath spread its
crimson blossoms ; the ff:rn waved to the wind; the
nard exhaled its spicy odour ; resplendent lilies~
some glowing scarlet, some purely white, gleamed
in the thickets; and the lovely roses of Jericho
fluttered in thousands to the vagrant breeze. Oh !
these were deserts where the herdsman, or the
hunter; the citizen escaping from his daily cares;
the traveller going on his daily track, might tread
·with exultation, and wish no fairer &Ojourn. The
tall palm was, at a distance, their landmark; and
seemed to lift up its fair head to welcome them to
it<; solitary station; the clustering copses of oak
and sycamore, and wild olive, invited them to their
shades, forming pleasant (lOntrasts to open, sunny
and glowing tracts, where the bee hummed and the
dragon-fly wheeled about them; where the gorgeous
butterfly wavered before them in the warm .light of
noon, or alit on some azure blossom of the desert;
and at every step the elastic carpet ofturf bre~thed
up its own wild aroma.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 3
The people were, for the most part, a rural and
pastoral people. Scattered through the varied
scenery of those charming regions, each family on
its paternal inheritance, they lived at ease, each
man under his vine and his fig-tree. Wherever
the eye turned, it beheld objects of delightful con-
templation. Towns small, antique, and quiet;
with their low, and varied gables; their more
ample, cool dwellings with flat roofs, where the
evening.breeze might be enjoyed; their spacious
courts; their fragrant and bowery gardens. Here,
venerable age, sitting in the shade of their native
sycamores ; here groups of children at play; fair
matrons, and fairer damsels, .all exhibiting that full
and graceful vigour of form, that beauty and hilarity
of countenance, which mark a happy and contented
people. And then, beyond the space allotted by
the law to the common benefit, the fields displayed
growing or ripened crops, or undulating pasturages
of abundant Bocks and herds. Throughout the
valleys were scattered picturesque abodes; and
along the steep hill-sides every spot was en-
riched and beautified by the hand of unwearied
industry. Terraces of stone-work supported plots
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
4 THE AVENGER
of corn, of luxuriant and odoriferous trefoil : gar-
dens, whence vines, melons, and cucumbers hung
their long, green runners; whence came the smell
of pines, citrons, oranges, and figs ; whence the
mulberry, the date, the quince, and olive shewed
their lively and varied forms; all refreshed with
streams of falling waters, and by pleasant reser-
voirs, which cast around their coolness, and were
fair with lilies and pungent calamus.
Happy land ! happy in a thousand conspiring
circumstances, any one of which would have formed
the boast of other nations. The people were a
kindred people,-one family, whose father was
God. Unlike the other nations, whose origins are
lost in clouds and oblivion, or which had been
assembled by the stress of circumstances, and com-
pounded from the fragments or refugees of various
races, they could look back and trace their rise to
to the rise of the world. They could sit in their
peaceful dwellings, or ·'!nder the garden tree, and
read in the beautiful history which God himself
had dictated, how the world began. They could
see man rise, as from the earth, before them; see
how his sons spread and peopled all regions,-
D•g•ti7•dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 5
those ancient families, whose monosyllabic names
for men, ,and their lands and cities, Pul, and Lud,
and Nod, and Ur, and No, bespeak the simplicity
of their 'ideas and language : see the fortunes and
disasters of the human colonies; see God select
from the whole, their great ancestor; see his wis-
dom, his sublime fuith, his growing renown and
atHuence; see how his children multiplied; how
they went and dwelt in Egypt, only that God
might magnify them in -the eyes of all nations ;
that he might bring them up through the wilder-
vess, and try and purify them, and spread the terror
of their name before them. They could see them
brought into this land, whieh was chosen by heaven
for them, from all the fair regions of the earth ;-
·long promised, and at length given to them, with
all its cities, wealth, and cultured fields-a ready
possession.
Unlike other people, they had not to wander in
darkness,-to dream the wild dreams of idolatry ;
to shape and bow to bloody gods; to fear before,
and torture themselves before them. God, the
God of Heaven, had revealed himself to them in his
majesty and his purity; he had framed for them a
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
6 THE AVENGER
righteous law, and breathed amongst them a clear
and intellectual life; and held full in their vision
of futurity, a Saviour,-a renovator of man, to
arise from their own posterity. He was their king,
their guardian; in his keeping they dwelt, in the
midst of hostility, of envious and ferocious nations,
and feared nothing. From its first planting, their
kingdom had been gradually extending its bounda-
ries, and progressing towar~ a higher power and
glory. It is true, it had not been without its checks
and reverses; but these had been temporary, like
clouds passing athwart a sunny sky. They had
been the direct and evident consequences of their
defection from God; and had, even while they
humbled, added to their glory, by shewing how
much they were the objects of the Almighty's ten-
derness; for they had only to bewail their evil
deeds-to call upon him for help, and they were
instantly freed from the,ir enemies.
The romantic character of their country-the
romantic incidents in their most simple and living
annals; their stirring contests with mighty nations;
their miraculous victories over them; and the sub-
lime hymns of triumph which glowed in the pages
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 7
of tb.eir history, all contributed to imbue them
with a lofty and heroic spirit. Their enemies had
fallen book on every side; many of the original
inhabitants, which retained strong-holds in the
country, had been rooted out; their population had
increased ; their towns become filled with sub-
stantial and cheerful dwellers; their country culti-
vated to an extraordinary degree of beauty and
fruitfulness;-tbe land was lovely-its people pros-
perous and happy.
All these traits had been wonderfully heightened
by the reign of David ; one of the most accom-
plished monarchs that ever filled a throne. Born
one of the people, he bad drawn the hearts of the
people after him. Personal beauty in his youth,
when he followed his father's fiock in the wilder-
ness, was in him striking; yet was it the least of
tl10se qualities wlUch gave him power over the
popular spirit. Poetry seemed to have come upon
him as the soul of the solitudes which he haunted:
nature spread out to him her fairest features; he
perused them with intense interest, and laid up in
his soul exhaustless treasures of ber beautiful
imagery. He could, moreover, give utterance to
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
8 THE AVENGER
his kindling emotions in music. Such was his
youth; how unlike the glittering barrenness, where
nature is carefully rooted out and annihilated, of
the youth of the ordinary race o( princes-the idols
and the tyrants of men ! Such .was his youth ; and
his manhood crowned these charms by a display of
a martial spirit-by a feat of.unparalleled valour-
by the salvation of his nation from a taunting
enemy. He clad himself in glory. God and man
looked on him with approval, and destined him to
reign. Till ·that period arrived, a series of the
most romantic adventures augmented the popular
admiration. He became king,-and under him
Israel assumed a new and lofty character. The
qualities which had distinguished his youth,-his
poetry,-his music,-his valour,-all shone with
tenfold brilliance in the palace, and covered his
throne as with the blaze of a rainbow light. The
songs which he poured to the harp-songs of
honour and thanksgiving to God who had blessed
him, of triumphs over his enemies, or laments over
his owu weaknesses-flew through the land, and
glowed in the hearts of the people as fire from
heaven. His victorious arms crushed his foes-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 9
extended his empire. far into the kingdoms of
Ammon and Amalek, Moab .and Edom. He rent
Jerusalem from the heathen, and acquired a fitting
.
capital for so noble a realm: he made himself lord
of Damascus, with its delicious gardens, and famed
streams of Abana and Pharphar: he made Israel
dread and. honourable in the eyes of surrounding
nations. He sunk into years ;-yet, ere his star
faded on the horizon of the world, that of his son
Solomon arose with still more glittering beams.
Magnificent in his person-imperial in his habits-
endowed with wisdom such as had never yet shed
its honours on the head of age, and with talents that
seemed more than human, he extended even his
· father's conquests, stretching his reign from the
Euphrates to the river of Egypt-a glorious em-
pire! But he extended his sway still farther; he
extended it by commerce to the affluent East, and
poured into his dominio~ the gold of Ophir, the
spices and precious stones, the silk~ and singular
and gorgeous creatures of India. He extended his
dominion into the very. dominions of Nature. He
explored all her tracts and recesses; he described
all her productions ; beasts, birds, and fishes ; all
B3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
10 THE AVENGER
her vegetable tribes. He descended into the heart
of man, and developed her operations there. As
the preacher of the sublime and melancholy truths
·of mortal life ; the poet of love ; ·the philosopher of
morals; he grasped triple glory, still higher than
the glory of his throne. He adorned his capital
with the splendours of a new and kingly architec-
ture; and through his friend Hiram, king of Tyre,
he introduced banqueting vessels of most superb
and exquisite fashion and workmanship; - the
labours of the sw.btle Phrenicians, the most cunning
artificers of the world. Above all, he reared to
the God of Heaven a temple, the wonder of the
earth : and consecrated it with an address to the
Eternal, before which all other eloquence grows
pale. It was, at once, more awfully sublime than
the structure which it dedicated-the structure of
years-the work of millions-the admiration of
ages.
Such was ~olomon in his youthful career; and
truly, therefore, may the happiest period of the
Hebrew history be pronounced to be the opening
of his reign. The kmgdom was advancing in its
progress, on a scale, and with a rapidity calculated
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. II
to fill all men with wonder. Great as it had
become, it appeared destined to be incalculably
greater. The favour of heaven shone on it with
full and unclouded splendour : it was glorious in
the eyes of all nations ; in itself filled, from end to
end, with happiness. Not a symptom of decay had
yet shewn itself amid its radiance-not a breath of
evil fortune breathed upon it. The fall-rapid
and dreary,-the fall, which commenced in this
great monarch, and continued from reign to reign,
fearful, calamitous, ruinous, was yet unknown-
undreamed of. The wisest of men, the most pow-
erful of monarchs, the most sublime and epiritual of
worshippers, had not yet displayed to the asto-
nished world the extremity of mortal feebleness.
The kingdom was not yet rent asunder. That
awful race of men-the prophets-might occasion-
ally come .for~ from their abodes, and bearding
the offending monarch in his palace, stand clad in
the strength of the Almighty, and cry,-" thou art
the man !" but they ~ad not yet begun those por-
tentous strains of wild and unexampled poetry,
· whose , burden was desolation and destruction to
this and to many nations ;-strains which sounded
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
12 THE AVENGER
dee~er and deeper, till the great monarchs of the
East came up, and sealed their truth by fire and
captivity; blackening with flames the very mount
of God. Nothing of this had yet arrived; all was
glory, and beauty, and peace; a nation such as the
world has seen not, but at this golden epoch.
It was then that a venerable pair, Jathniel and
Cutha, were dwelling in the borders of the wil-
derness of Tekoah. After leaving behind for some
time the rocky heights of Bethlehem, the plains of
Tekoah might be seen stretching eastward, to the
black and shattered hills of Engeddi, bounding the
Dead Sea. As you approached these desolate
hills, you would behold before you the country
breaking up into many pleasant ridges and inter-
vening vales, with bosky slopes, and small, rapid
streams hurrying to the Cedron. Not far from
where this hasty .torrent fell into the Asphaltic
lake, the traveller would discern lying before him,
as it were, an extensive forest, spread wide at the
feet of the Engeddi hills, but terminating in a
point westwards. At this westward point, as he
drew near, he would descry an old and spacious
mansion, surrounded by wide·spreading plane-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 13 •
trees and sycamores ; and, at some little distance,
groups of thinly scattered palms. This was the
abode of Jathniel and Cutha. It was a low, white
building of square form, with a flat parapeted roof,
which commanded a view of the surroqnding
country; ·and where the cool freshness of the eve
and night might be enjoyed. A wide colonnade
with pillars of unhewn cedar surrounded the whole
building, furnished with seats where all the aspects
and influences of the day and season might be
luxuriously obtained. At some distance, in different
directions, might be discerned, clumps of trees
overshadowing the huts of the herdsmen and shep-
herds, .who followed the numerous flocks of cattle,
sheep, and goats, the property of Jathniel, which
wandered on this wilderness and the neighbouring
hills. Their wives and daughters, employed in
their h.ousehold affairs, might be seen going in and
out, or seated in the shade of a tree, working the
.domestic mill for family bread, or spinning the
wool and cotton for family attire_
; and the cries of
the children playing on the heath, enlivened this
wide solitude.
A happier family never inhabited a more beauti-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
14 THE AVENGER
ful place. Jathniel was a venerable old man of
three-score and ten. Of a powerful constitution
~d serene temper of mind,-he had gone through
life as through the valley of peact'. No heavy
misfortune had darkened his home, and pulled down
the fair fabric of his nature. No violent passions
had wrinkled his spirit or his countenance. He
was grave, yet occasionally jocose ; calm, yet affec-
tionate ; wise by the experience of others, operating
on his clear, contemplative mi.nd. His wife who,
by consanguinity, had been destined for him from
a child, was exactly for a woman what lit was for a
man. She was tall, and had been very fair. A
rather strong and prominent style of features; large,
penetrating, yet placid eyes; and a matron)y gra-
vity of air, bespoke her what she was,-a quiet, yet
active and discreet mother in Israel.
It was beautiful to behold the system of the
daily life of this worthy pair. They rose early,
•
and assembling at the breakfast table with their
cbildren, diffused by their happy cheerfulness, the
• same spirit through the house : offered up their
thanksgiving to the God of their fathers, and dis-
persed to their different pursuits. Jathniel in his
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 15
broad hat, and copious rural robe, might be seen
mo6nted on his large, white ass, a beautiful crea-
ture, full and sleek, yet grave and gentle as its
master, slowly riding over the plains: visiting now
his herdsmen, now ~is shepherds; surveying with
undiminished interest their various charges. Hear-
ing all their details of accidents from wild beasts,
tempests, and other causes, and their propositions for
future management; now proceeding to the labour-
ers of his .corn-fields, now to those of bis vineyards.
Jathniel's possessions were princely; and they
gave him full employment, of the kind exactly
suited to his taste,-to expatiate in the quiet and
freshness of nature ; to watch and oversee her oper-
ations; to provide for the supply of corn, and wine,
and oil; to make all his creatures comfortable-all
his rational creatures contented and happy. Jath-
niel was beloved as tne common father, and h(}·
noured as a king in his own domains• .He was an
old and valued friend of David. In his youth he
had known him. He had seen him in Bethlehem•.
They had met with their flocks in the wilderness,
and Jathniel had listened with wonder and delight
to the poetry, the music, the aspirations after glory
Dir tized yGoogle
16 THE AVENGER
of the embryo poet and monarch. When David
fled from the presence of Saul, and wandered .with
his men in the neighbouring deserts, alternately
hiding in the caves of Adullam and Engeddi, in
the wastes of Ziph and Carmel ; Jathniel was ever
ready to extend to his friend his counsel, his corn,
and wine. When David had mounted the throne,
it was his delight often to steal away to.the rural
mansion of Tekoah ; and many a time had the two
friends been seen riding, side by side,, over the
fragrant heaths : often had this ancient roof re-
sounded to the glorious music of the royal harp ;
often had the children been seated on the knee,
and fondled in the arms of this famous king. Often
too, would the youthful princes come to enliven
Jathniel's dwelling, with their buoyant, rejoicing
spirits. Solomon, who, at the period concerned in
this history, bad just begun to reign, had in par-
ticular during his boyhood, loved to visit this
place,-to listen to Jathniel's affectionate recital of
his father's adventures in that neighbourhood; to
ride by his side through fields, forests, and hills,
asking.a thousand questions, of every object, bird,
beast, or pi;.mt around them. Jathniel's only son,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 17
Dalphon, was about his own age, and had been
the companion of the young prince for days and
weeks, as he followed his favourite pursuit of
natural history, in the woods and plains around.
· During the heat ofnoon, Jathniel returned home
to enjoy his wonted repose. During the morning,
Cutha had been superintending the household
affairs;-as the heat of the day again abated, they
all re-assembled to ·their evening meal ; and after-
wards enj.oyed the awakening breezes on their
house-top, and beheld thence the varying glories of
dying day exhibiti~g themselves on the distant
hills; beheld the flocks and herds driven by their
keepers towards their different folds; or they wan-
dered in the fragrant .paradise of their almost
boundless garden and garden-wilderness; giving
themselves up to the talk of domestic affection-to
the sound of the psaltery, or sackbut played by
the younger branches of the family; or listened to
tM stirring annals of their glorious nation. The
Life of David, written by Gad the prophet, and
presented to Jathniel by the monarch himself, was
an inexhaustible fund of delight; for they knew
every sp~t of every romantic event; the scenes of
>,g _ byGoogle
18 THE AVENGER
all .his exploits, his stratagems, his escapes, his
generous acts towards his persecutor ;-and the
songs of his noble and pious spirit, a similar gift,
soothed them as they sank to repose.
Circumstances might vary, in some degree, this
routine of life : the arrival of visitors from Bethle-
hem, or ·from the royal city; the excitement of
seed-time, or harvest ; of new moons and festivals ;
the great annual going up to Jerusalem, to the
Passover;-but the main tenor of their existence
was this of quiet felicity.
The house, I · have said, was a large square
building. It was built on three sides round a
court, with covered galleries ascending to the upper
stories, and a wide, cool colonnade below. In the
centre was a noble and copious fountain; and· the
area was filled with a smooth, green turf. From
this, on the south and eastern side of the square,
which was open, descended a flight of easy steps
into the garden ;-a garden which nature itself
seemed to have formed for the full gratification of
those who loved her. From west to east, close
past the walls of the house, ran the deep and rapid
Cedron, through rocky and precipitous b~ks, and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 19
.
at the distance of about four furlongs, issued
through a wild defile in the Engeddi hills into the
Dead Sea. This constituted one .boundary of the
garden. The other was formed by a sudden sink-
ing of the ground, which left a range of precipices
many yards high, and whose top was the common
level of the coimtry westward. This range of pre-
cipice stretched away southward for many furlongs
till it met the mountains, and left a space of great
extent below the house, which included in itself
a little world of wild beauty and romantic delight.
On the one side was the Cedron, with its rapidly
rushing waters, and steep banks overhung with
Willows, tamarisks, and acacias; on the other, the
wall of precipice, hollowed here and there into
caverns, but for the most part covered with vines of
richest burden, and a diversity of climbing plants;
and along the crest of the cli[s ran a profusion of
trees, that gave to the whole space the appearance
of a forest, in the eye of the distant traveller. At
the western extremity stood the house; at the
eastern stretched the subJime, desolate mountains
that enclose the Dead Sea. Thus was the whole
surrounded by barriers of the most beautiful, or
20 THE AVENGER
awful description, which bid defiance to the inroads
of evil beasts, and afforded a retreat of perfect
security and retirement. Near the house, the
whole was a bright and fragrant scene of flowery
cultivation ; but as you advanced farther, you gra-
dually entered a wilderness where,. whatever art
had done, was done so much in obedience to the
dictates of nature, that nature seemed alone to pre-
vail, and to give free scope to the spirit of delight.
Here stretched a wilderness of blossoming shrubs ;
here deep, forest-like solitudes; here again ex-
panded to the sun, wide lawns, where flowers of
. every species that the clime produces waved in
thousands to the gale, and filled the atmosphere as
with the odours of heaven. In one place, rose
.
high into the air some magnificent palm, whose
scaly stem and crest of long waving leaves glit-
tered in the sun; in another. a group of ancient
oaks,-a wide-spreading plane, or dark, imperial
cedar, beneath whose friendly shade s~ats of mossy
turf might be discerned. Nor was this elysian
place aloneallotted to the inmates of the family; a
variety of graceful and innoxious animals enjoyed
its pleasantness. The light gazelle, the gay ante·
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 21
lope, ever and anon, were visible, passing with
their own buoyant motion athwart the glades, or
reposing in its sunny dales : the cony issued from
the rocky cliff,-played its merry antics,-and
again disappeared : and birds, great and small, flew
from tree to tree, arose on whirring _
wings from the
warm, deep grass, or were heard calling to each
other from distant places; and when the nightin-
gales, which haunted in great numbers this happy
region, filled all the evening air with their peerless
voices, well might the too-happy soul of youth
forget that sorrow was in the world, or cease to
feel the nesessity of aspiring to a fairer existence.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
22 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER II.
A happier family, I said, never inhabited so
beautiful a place. Jathniel and Cutha had ~hree
children-Dalphon, their son, and Hamutal and
lene, their daughters.
In person their children resembled themselves.
They were noble specimens of a noble race; but
in mind, there was in two of them astriking dif-
~rence, which it would be in vain to attempt to
account for on any probable ground, except it
were that the circumstances of the times threw
them into contact, in their early youth, with
characters and events of a more stirring nature
than had acted upon theit parents.
Dalphon's mind and body appeared alike full of
health and activity. He overflowed with an en-
thusiasm, that grasped with equal ardour the
pleasures of nature, the excitements of the chase
and of war, and the loftiest delights of intellectual
inquiry. From boyhood he had ranged the woods
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD.
and fields, and made himself master of all the
..
mysteries of the chase ; and in these pleasures he
had been accompanied by Ahlab, his near kinsman
and perpetual companion, the possessions of whose
father, Geber, the brother of Jathniel, adjoined
theirs to the north. To pursue, on his fleet steed,
accompanied by his friend, the swift antelope over
the plains; to lie in wait, morning, noon, and
night, for the shaggy bison ; to beard the bear,
the hyena, and the lion, in their lairs, were his
delight ; nor was it less so, to mingle with the
labourers,-men who had been known to him from
childhood, and many of whom were of his own kin,
in the com-fields, in the vineyards, and the olive
hills ; to laugh and joke ; to labour for a merry
hour with them, or to see them dancing on harvest
•
eve or sheep-shearing, to the sound of his pipe.
He had devoured the wonders of their annals as
manna : he had hung over the stories of Gad, till
every circumstance of David's fascinating life was
as clearly impressed on his soul as the passages of
his own existence ; and he had sung the lofty
strains of that monarch, in every spot made im-
mortal by his adventures. He had followed Joab,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
24 THE AVENGER
boy as he was, into the field against Ammon and
Moab ; and his spirit, yet unsatiated, longed to
penetrate into the mysteries of surrounding nations.
It was fearful.-Their customs, their gods, and
dark traditions, were denounced in. terrible lan-
guage by the law; yet was there something so
gloomily awful in their demon-worship, their
sombre temples, and bloody rites, that, in his
eyes, they were sublime, and highly worthy of
inqu~ry, though not of worship and imitation.
Iene, the younger sister, was his exact coun-
terpart;-a creature of enthusiasm. Hamutal, the
elder, was of a loftier stature, of a fuller person,
and possessed a grave and majestic beauty. They
were both conspicuous for their lovely forms ; for
their dark, large eyes ; their rich, raven locks, and
for features which, although they struck the eye at
once with their eminent loveliness, every moment
impre~ed the gazer with increased wonder and
delight, at the grace and perfection in which they
were moulded. As we fix our eyes upon some
masterpiece of antiquity, and continue to look,
and look, till we are absorbed by a perfect uncon-
sciousness of every other present object, by the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 25
symmetry of form, the rich, pure, mingled air of
human and divine, which the artist has cast over
the countenance of his creation,-so, and far more
than so, did the spectator dwell entranced on the
·a.'lpects of the sisters. Every feature was chiselled
with a precision and lofty grace, and stamped with
an expression of puritY., high intellect, and tender
womanhood, that melted the sensitive heart to
irresistible love, and filled the lively imagination
with dreams of an intoxicating, and long-enduri_ng
sweetness. The eye that was turned upon the
stately Hamutal, pronounced her perfect. Her
whole air, stature, and bearing, were all that the · •
highest soul could imagine or desire ; her grave
dignity was declared noble and befitting; but
when the same eye diverged to the sweet lene, it
was entranced with such a vision of delight. Her
figure, less tall, less ample, was moulded so ex-
quisitely ; so full of harmony were all her move-
ments ; ~d over her face played such mingled
lights of a bright spirit,-of mirth, of wit, of a
frank, sisterly kindness, that minds of all tastes
and temperamen~ · were drawn by a delicious
enchantment towards her, and pronounced her
the most delightful of her sex.
VOL. II. c
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
26 THE AVENGER
Dalphon, although fondly astached to both his
sisters, could not avoid giving, from his earliest
years, a degree of preference to Iene. Ther
were the two• younger children ; and their tastes
and aspirations had grown remarkably together.
I have given a brief sketch of the character of
Dalphon ;-such, only tempered by female habits,
was that of lene. She had all his enthusiasm;-
his thirst for knowledge, even to the very bounds
of the dark and forbidden : his desire to penetrate
into the mysteries, manners, and worship of the
neighbouring nations: his fervent love of song and
music. In these latter, she excelled all of her
sex and time; for she pursued them with an un-
appeasable and impetuous passion. Her sensitive
spirit, excited by an inspiring subject, threw itself
upon it with all its life and energy. Her heart
kindled at once at an alluring topic, and became
all fire. Her admiration of whatever was great
and glorious in the mi~d, the history, or the
prospects of men, was a fever. To behold her,
when some noble piece of poetry had breathed
its power upon her; or, when the splendid and
touching events of their national history were
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 27
discussed ; to see the flashing eye, the illumined
f~atures, the frame all possessed by the dominant
spirit of her zeal and admiration, was to ~ow that
a being was before you, over which· the~ varying
chances of human life had a glorious, or a terrible
power,-were capable of bearing her to the wildest
extremes of felicity or woe. And in truth, happy
as her youth was, and had been,-little as there had
been to pain or darken her soul, it had become
well known to her family that a word, an occur-
rence of the slightest character, - ~ay, a mere
passing vision of the brain, would bear down that
fine and soaring spirit, and cover it with a strange
darkness. The very fervour and extravagance of
the joy with which she would enter with Dalphon
into the. discussion of their fuvourite topics,-with
which she would pour out the glowing feelings
of her bosom in some lofty and solemn song, would
leave her feeble and exhausted, and subject to
melancholy and brooding terrors, which were ob-
served by her family with anxious interest. Often
would the sedate, yet affectionate Hamutal, inter-
pose the steady coolness of her masculine under-
standing, to check the excursive comments of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
28 THE AVENGER
Dalphon and lene. Sometimes, gravely under-
taking to point out their fallacy,-their vanity~­
the fugacious colours in which. they had arrayed
the objects of their admiration; but oftener (for
these sober arguments only tended, in general,
to call forth on their part, more eager demonstra-
tions of the truth of their views) leading them
away from their too-engrossing theme, by smiles
and sisterly raillery. Both Dalphon and lene,
while they charged Hamutal with a want of warmth
of imagination, felt and rejoiced in the warmth
of her affection, and regarded the soundness of
her judgment, with a feeling little short of venera-
tion. Had the gift of prophecy been conferred
on Hamutal, she would have arisen another De-
borah,-staid, reverenced, and commanding : t,he
nation would have looked to her with confidence
for the sagest counsels, the most daring and de-
cided action. Had it fallen upon le~e, it would
have been a fearful gift. Like a consuming fire,
it would have kindled all her soul with a meteor
light, that would have blazed through the land,
and have astonished all men by its flashing and
terrific gleams.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 29
Such would ihey have been ;-as it was, they
were the glory and the delight of the wilderness
of Tekoah. They filled iheir paternal home with
niusic, beauty, and overflowing joy; ihey diffused
amid all iheir kindred and dependent ·people, a
sunshine of affectionate gaiety. Hamutal, it is
true, was saluted with more respectful looks, but
the people blessed her ; and the children kissed her .
hand, or the skirt of her robe. Dalphon, and the
frank and sportive lene, they met, and followed
wiih broad smiles of love and merriment.
Such was this happy family; but there was
another, who might almost be reckoned a member
of it, and that was Ahlab,-ihe friend of Dalphon-
ihe nearest kinsman of the house - the long-
betrothed of Hamutal. He was a graceful youth,
whose distirigui.tlhing qualities were gentleness and
amiability; one of ihose ·men who have in ih~ir
natures, more love than energy. Who would,
perhaps, never be found leading ihe way in enter-
prise, but who are the · first to follow a noble
example, and to second the effort of niore stirring
minds, steadily, and to ihe utmost.
Ahlab and Hamutal bad been destined for each
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
30 THE AVENGER
other, from their infancy ; and had grown up with
the perpetual consciousness, that they were so.
Their passion, as might be expected, from the
gentleness of Ahlab, on the one hand, and the
staid gravity of Hamutal, on the other; and from
its having no adverse circumstances to encounter,
had, apparently, more the air of brotherly and
sisterly affection, than that of love. They walked
and talked together, and regarded each other as
a fond brother and sister might do; and were so ·
calmly happy, that the day of their union had
never been fixed-seemed little thought of-less
mentioned. Yet the same circumstances which
gave equanimity to their fee~ngs, had fixed them
deeply in their souls. Like trees growing in a
rich soil, beneath favouring suns, and by quiet
waters, the roots of their affections had stricken
deep, had spread themselves throughout their whole
nature; so much so, that they were moulded to
the same tastes, wishes, and hopes, as one heart ;
and were perhaps more indispensably necessary to
each other's felicity, than souls of more tempes-
tuous characters, which had met under other and
more exciting circumstances.
Dir tized yGoogle
OF BLOOD. 31
And now, their marriage was determined on.
Their parents were desirous to see them united,
and they only waited the return of Dalphon and
Ahlab from a military expedition, in which they
had been engaged for some months. They re-
turned; and with them a stranger-a new friend
of Dalphon's.
This young friend was Talmai, an officer of the
same rank as Dalphon. Their acquaintance had
commenced in a casual, nocturnal meeting, .as
each visited the outposts of the camp next the
enemy, to ascertain the vigilance of the sentinels
under their separate commands. It was a glorious
night ; the moon shone brightly on the tents of
the foe, and the hostile watchfires, around which
they could discern dark figures moving, whom,
on the morrow, they would probably meet in
mortal combat. The anxiety of the coming battle,
made them disinclined to sleep ; the solemn crisis
of their affairs, engaged them in eager discourse ;
and Dalphon was not more struck with the grace
and gallant bearing of the young officer, than
with the life and intelligence of his conversation;
The stranger officer, appeared equally charmed
32 THE AVENGER
with Dalphon. They passed from topic to topic:
they compared opinions and sentiments, and found
a wonderful similarity. They inquired after each
other's name, lineage, and abode ; and before they
separated, which was not till the day broke, and
the voice of the trumpet, and the cries of the
captains called to arms, they pledged a mutual
friendship, and resolved to renew their intercourse
on the following day, if the fate of the coming
contest permitted. From that moment they be-
come inseparable friends ; and had Ahlab been
of a jealous temperament, he might have deemed
his own, hitherto exclusive, place in Dalphon's
heart, was occupied by a new and more capti-
vating attachment. · But Ahlab was not of a nature
to suspect any one of evil, or of slight towards him;.
he relied on Dalphon's tried affection, without
one uneasy, or injurious thought; and the three
friends were, when duty permitted them, for ever
together. Together they were in the camp, in the
field of battle; together they came into the wil-
derness of Tekoah.
In that quiet region, the return of Dalphon and
Ahlab, spread their wonted joy; but the presence
>,g _ byGoogle
OF BLOOD. 33
of Talmai, at first startled, then charined, then
filled every one with gaiety and animation. He
was, in person, eminently handsome; and shewed
to advantage, even in that .singularly fine family.
In dress, he was apparently unstudied, yet princely
and splendid; in manners, frank, gay, and gallant.
Nature seemed to have inade him in her prodi •
gality, and fortune to have showered on him every
gift which could render the favours of nature
effective. The happy ease and freedom of his
behaviour, could not be witnessed without pro-
ducing a persmisio!l, that his birth had been in
the lap of affiuence ; that he had known life
only as accompanied with . distinction; that no
mean cares, no petty difficulties, no contemptuous
looks ·of higher men had chilled its spirit, and
cramped its free and generous action ; and with
his language, a new light seemed cast on every-
thing around. His soul seemed formed in a freer
and more vigorous mould, than those of other men.
The hearer wondered at the poverty and sterile
contraction of his own spirit, and of the spirits
of the multitude with whom he ordinarily con-
versed. A freshness, a wealth, a beauty wru;
c3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
34 THE AVENGER
diffused by his overflowing and abounding mind
on all nature, sensible and intellectual, that, at
fil'8t, dazzled, then became communicated to the
mind of the hearer, and made him wonder that he
had not seen all things,-life, men, daily deeds,
in the same wideness and clearness of vision; then
seemed. to unfold to him a precious secret,-that
all minds were equally powerful, buoyant, and
full of the riches of nature, which indolence only
buried, and thus robbed most men of more than
half the fairness and nobility of existence : till the
deluded heart tried to expand itself into equal
amplitude and gladness, and became suddenly and
grievously sensible of its native inferiority,-be-
came .aware that some few favoured intellects, are
endowed with a power of imbibing double life
from the world in which they 'Qreathe,-of catching
double portions of the essence and beauty of all
things on which they gaze ; and of pouring forth
the bright and triumphant colours of their own
innermost being upon the smallest, the most ordi-
nary external object, and exalting it into an esti"
mabie, and even marvellous thing.
Of such a grade of intellect was Talmai; and it
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 35
may well be imagined what a sensation his coming
caused in the family of Jathniel. Dalphon had re-
peatedly trumpeted forth the matchless merits and
charms of his new friend; and 4-hlab had, in his
letters to Hamutal, not only confirmed, in his own
gentle terms, the report, but had insinuated, that
he clearly foresaw, in the visit of Talmai to Tekoah,
the destiny of lene. , And Ahlab was right.
The letters of Dalphon, the glowing affection he
expressed for Talmai, had prepared every member
of the family to receive him with open arms; and
his presence, so far from disappointing their ima-
ginations, surprised, delighted, intoxicated every
individual._ The arrival of such a guest, made all
one scene of festivity. The venerable Jathniel and
Cutha received him with the most cordial smiles
~d embraces. Their welcome of him differing
only from that of their own son, as it was less
familiar, and more markedly and ceremoniously
expressed. Jathniel put to him a thousand ques-
tions of his birth-place, his early life, his con-
nexions; told a multitude of anecdotes of David,
and praised the rising glory of Solomon, with whom
l>e found Talmai a fa,rourite officer. He enjoined
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
36 THE AVENGER
his children to make him feel himself at home, and
to point out to him the curiosities of the country.
In these respects the young people were not want-
ing. Dalphon and Ahlab led him to the chase in
the hills and forests; to the caves of Engeddi, and
the desolate shores of the Dead Sea; or received
him at home in the delicious retreats of the garden-
wilderness, to song, music, and multifarious con-
verse. Haniutal smiled on him, grave smiles of
kindness and admiration ; but lene,-the bright,
tender, poetic, and lovely Iene,-her whole soul
acknowledged him as the being of her adoration.
In him she saw a living image of manly beauty,
sue~ as her rich and winged imagination, in its
most exalted moments, had not been able to sur-
pass; in his faculties and endowments, in the graces
and affiuence of his spirit, all that her soaring and
fervent mind panted to discover, and was made to
cling to as its own life. It was indeed evident at a
glance, that two creatures never were more appa-
rently correspondent; that two' such bright and
gifted creatures could not meet in place and cir-
cumstances so favourable, without feeling the utmost
power of each other's splendid attractions. The
OF BLOOD. 37
old people saw it, and were fully contented; the
young, and were delighted. In the prospect of
so felicitous an alliance, Dalphon rejoiced doubly,
that he had found so noble a friend, and had been
the means of blessing his favourite Iene with a
consort so admirably adapted to her high nature.
It would have been, indeed, difficult to decide
whether the brother or sister were most charmed
with their new friend. One leaning on each arm
of their handsome guest, they might be seen walk-
ing for hours in their wide gardeus, or resting, an
eager, happy group, beneath some great tree, en-
gaged in interminable and intoxicating talk.
The world in all its shapes was familiar to
Talmai. He had seen much of every class of
society, from the gay courts of Solomon and many
other kings, to the inhabitants of tents, and buts,
and caves ; and to those young . and imaginative
people, whose greater portion of existence had
_passed in those quiet, simple fields, his details were
full of perpetual interest and novel surprise. He
had visited many countries; had apparently been
one of those fortunate beings that, impelled by the
curiosity and. ardent spirit of youth, throw them-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
38 THE AVENGER
selves into dangers and distant enterprises without a
fear, or a reflection; and pass on through various
countries and adventures, ever unharmed and ever
joyous. He had gone out with the Tyrian fleets
into the boundless Erythrean sea; bad seen Ophir
and Sofala, which Solomon was even now preparing
to visit with his ships, which were building at
Elath and Ezion-gaber, for a share in their gold.
He had trodden. the most southern Ethiopia, the
land of ivory and woolly-headed sable men ; he had
sojourned in the wide deserts, in the sweet valleys,
amid the martial and roving hordes of Araby; the
wider realms of ancient, sultry, and gorgeous India,
and traversed Syria and all the neighbouring na-
tions; prying into their manners and worships with
a curious and insatiable eye; and picking up their
tongues, till they became fluent and familiar as his
own. Could there have been a more welcome
guest to Dalphon and Iene, had he come in the
shape of some rugged, hideous monster, some
sallow, white-eyed dwarf? But in the mouth of
the gay, the fascinating and accomplished Talmai,
all the favourite themes of these enthusiasts shewed
tenfold more alluring. On all that they had won-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. ·39
dered and speculated upon, he could pour light and
.certainty; but such light as left them not satisfied,
but more restless and inquisitive. It is in vain to
paint to us the objects of our admiration with the
view of appeasing our quest after them ; the clear- •
ness of all descriptions, only excites to desire of
·more personal knowledge; and it is personal
knowledge alone of any object of interest, whether
it be men, their countries, arts, customs, or science,
that leaves us at rest.
CHAPTER III.
MoNTHS flew away, and still Talmai was at Tekoah,
and still diffusing through the abode of Jathniel a
new hilarity. It was in the glory of the spring; and
nature and the souls of this happy family, seemed
tuned to one spirit of rejoicing harmony. Happy
as the dwelling of Jathniel had been, at no period,
not even when David and his illustrious son
o;9,,,zedbyGoogle
40 THf: 4V~NGf:R
graced it with their presence, had it been so pervaded
by a general gladness. Yet human life in its brightest
hours, is not perfectly free from alloy; and it would
be unfaithful to say that it was so here. Much as
Jathniel was disposed to admire his intended son-
in-law, there was just a little spot in his character,
-a faint, very faint shadow on the disc of his
sunny mind, that at times brought a slight pain
into the bosom of the good old man. He feared
that the intercourse of Talmai with heathen nations,
had rendered him too tolerant of their superstitions,
and had, in some degree, weakened his reverence
for his own glorious religion-for the knowledge
and solemn institutions of the true God. He lmd
often listened to his rapid and enthusiastic details
of the manners and gods of the pagans, till he was
startled by the apparent latitude of. Talmai's
opinions-by his seeming praise of what filled him-
self with abhorrence. He feared the effect of
these relations upon the minds of his children, and
had often been compelled to interrupt the glowing
torrent of Talmai's discourse, even when the eyes
of his son and daughter were fixed on him in in-
tensest interest; and to exclaim, in his quiet,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 41
paternal manner,~" So! my young friend-so !
Let not thy feelings or fancy, carry thee beyond
the bounds of safety. Fear God! Remember!
oh, remember continually, his terrible judgments
in the eyes of our fathers ! Remember the jealousy
of his majesty ! Remember that Uzzah put not
forth his h<lnd, even to tOuch the ark for its safety,
but at the price of his life. Think on the wrath
which he has denounced on the lovers of idols !
Oh, be jealous of his honour ! be careful to love
nothing but what he loves ! Let not those seduc-
tions which have been too often potent enough to
draw aside our fathers from the bright sanctuary of
the God and Father of the universe, prevail over
thy vivid mind. Shall it ever again be said, that
the chosen people of Jehovah, whom he has taken
in his arms, and planted gloriously in the face of all
nations-oh ! shall it ever again be said, that
they are base and brutal enough to prefer the vile
fables and demon-gods of the heathen, to his
loving-kindness-to the light of his law,· and the
immortality of his hope? Never! never let it be,
or let my head ere then, be at peace in the dust !"
Such an appeal would instantly check the roving
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
42 THE AVENGER
language of Talmai, and cast a silent awe upon
the hearts of all present. He would hasten to
admit his error, while he deprecated for a moment
the idea that he could fail to love and defend, with
all the homage of his judgment, and all the fervour
of his soul, the faith and law of his fathers ; he
would ask pardon for his indiscretion in terms, and
in a manner that, without servility, put aside all
gloom from the brow of Jathniel, lightly as the
wind wafts a cloud from before the sun, and would
even win the heart of the good old mari to greater
kindness, by the candour and grace of his acknow-
•
ledgment.
Such causes of momentary pain became fewer
and fewer, as if it cost Talmai no effort to accom-
modate his feelings to his respect for Jathniel; or,
as if it was more probably a pleasure to be guided
and benefited by the'venerable man's sage piety:
at the same time, that the gaiety and freedom of his
behaviour, was not, in the least, diminished.
But while Jathniel's good opinion of Talmai
- was shaken in a slight degree, there was one cir-
cumstance that ' did not escape the keen, sober
observation of Ha.mutal. The prudence of Talmai's
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 43
conversation was preserved in her father's presence;
but in his absence, it vanished altogether. When
a1one with the younger part of the family, he ofte~
indulged in a wild extravagance of language and
sentiment, which, though it pleased and communi-
cated its contagion to Dalphon and Iene, startled
and distressed herself. Knowing how prone her
brother and -sister were to topics which, in her
mind, were full of danger; knowing with what
difficulty she had, before their acquaintance with
Talmai, restrained the .vehemence and speculative
boldness of their discussions; she was proportionably
alarmed and grieved, when she found all the weight
of Talmai's vast influence, of his rapid bewildering
eloquence, and irresistible wit, enlisted on the same
side ; and felt how vain must be all her efforts,
to check the united flame of three such vivacious
and ardent spirits. Often had she interposed, when
their dialogues had, in her eyes, led them upon
interdicted ground, only to find herself beset with
such a consentaneoits burst of raillery, as, though
not unkind in itself, left her no resource but tears.
Then, indeed, would their discussions cease ; and
all clasping her in their eager embraces, would
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
44 THE AVENGER
promise no further to pain her with their foolish
talk. And often Talmai, taking her kindly by the
hand, would lead her through the bowery garden
paths, and endeavour to explain to her the scope
and aim of their discussions,.iri such a strain of in-
genious and affectionate argument, as not even
her strong intellect could resist ; and she was fain
at times to acknowledge that she could not answer
him ; at times, that she felt that she might have
condemned them too hastily. " Perhaps," she
would say, " it is I that am weak. Perhaps I am
not made to look so far around me as you are ; and
am therefore terrified at what, to a clearer vision,
would be no cause· of terror. I know that you
have souls lighter and more soaring than mine; and
f treading only the co~moil earth, am giddy at the
contemplation M your flight. But, oh God, pre-
serve you from evil ! God ~t that you may not
offend hls holy spirit!"
Such would be the sisterly tenderness of the
moment. But when the dazzling coloQrs of Tal-
mai's language faded on the sense, and she calmly
reviewed the nature and tendency of their topics,
her strong judgment recalled all her fears ; she felt
• o.9,," .d by Coogle
OF BLOOl>. 45
that she was justified in her dissatisfaction, and she
was restless and melancholy.
But her's was not a nature to sink down in
effortless despondency. Finding that she could
effect nothing in argume~t with the enthusiastic
three together, she reasoned with them apart, in
her clear and love-breathing style, as opportunity
afforded. With Dalphon she could effect little.
His joyous and triumphant nature, fearing nothing,
seeing no cause for fear; delighting in the exami-
nation of every Dl.oral and intellectual question-in
the excursive exercise of his manly faculties, would
gaily exclaim-" Trouble thyself not, dear Ha-
mutal ! trouble thyself not ! I feel a good con-
science within ;-no sense of God's displeasure;-
no indignation of a: slighted internal monitor. And
why should I? Is it not God who has given me
a conscious, reasoning soul? And shall it not
reason and inquire?" It was in vain to tell him,
that the same God who had given him his rational
faculties, had set clear and shining boundaries to
their exercise, which could not be passed with
impunity - he heard it not ! In the buoyant
gaiety of his heart, he had kissed her, and was
gone.
o.9'"''·dbyGoogle
46 THE AVENGER
In Talmai she had a more attentive hearer. He
listened to her fears and warnings, and thanked her
for them with such an air of evident good-humour,
and of obliged kind consideration, as, spite of her-
self, half satisfied her sense of duty. But he
stopped not here. He· added so many splendid
and specious reasons for whatever he had said,
mingled with abundant eloquent and interesting
matter, with such playful wit, and shew of affec-
tion to every creature of the family, that it failed
not to weaken, for the time, the anxiety of ·Ha-
mutal,-for he was a matchless master of conver-.
sational rhetoric.
Iene took her stand on totally different ground.
" Dearest Hamutal," she said, " I marvel at thy
fears. Thinkest thou that Dalphon and Talmai
are not good as we? And can we pretend to mea-
sure our understanding with theirs? Be sure,
dearest Hamutal, be sure they will not violate the
clear purity of their consciences. They seek only
to know and understand what we are, and what are
all things about us. Thus does our young and
glorious king; and in him it is pronounced wisdom.
To seek to know something too of the strange
>,g _ byGoogle
OF BLOOD. 47
people who dwell in other regions; to know what
they have of good or gr~at amid their darkness; to
know whence their peculiar customs and traditions
have ftowed ; in short, to feel an interest in those
beyond our own borders, cannot be displeasing to
him who has condescended to make them ; and
who every day feeds them from his bounteous
hand. Cast away, dear sister, cast away thy need-
-less fears, for we are all proud of our Hebrew birth;
thankful for our pleasant heritage,-devoted to the
worship of our own gracious God, as thou art ;-if
we seek greater knowledge than our fathers, it is
because we have greater leisure."
"But our father, lene-our father ! Has he
not often felt the same alarms !-seen the same
things in the same aspects as I do ?"
" Yes, dearest Hamutal, and from him hast thou
caught thy terrors. But our father is old; and age
is apt to be over-prudent. Years may give too
much timidity for sound wisdom ; as our youth gives
too much boldness. Perhaps we may, after all, be
a little too daring; perhaps our father is a little too
apprehensive : but fear not,-age will come; and
we shall sit in our: pillowed seats, and tremble, in
turn, at the bold talk of our children."
>,g _ byGoogle
48 THE AVENGER
Hamutal gazed on the lovely and animated
creature thus pouring forth the joyous fancies of
her heart; and half forgot in the vision of sisterly
beauty-in the glory of youth-the flush of happi-
ness, full, tender, and overflowing, and unconscious
of fear or evil, which thus glowed before her,-the
earnestness of her own purpose. She beheld the
happy creature casting all the confidence of her
generous and sunny nature on the lover of her
youth; and she would not breathe a word which
might imply fear or blame of the chosen of her
beloved sister's ~oul. But when she shortly after-
wards found them again engaged in similar conver-
. sations, and heard them discussing many points of
their national history in a spirit at which her de-
votional mind recoiled, she was roused to something
like a jealous anger. She heard them debate the .
mysteries of man's creation-the primal state-the
apple-the serpent--the first homicide-the union
of the sons of God and the daughters of men-the
flood; accompanied by remarks and queries which
more than revived all her fears and anxieties. She
heard them express much . perplexity in the en-
deavour to reconcile with the clear conception of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 49
God's impartial providence, the adoption of Jacob
in preference to Esau, even before their birth ;
filling themselves with wonder that the unnatural
duplicity of Jacob and his mother could be tole-
rated by Heaven, while the generous, but impru-
dent Esau was cast off as an alien. She heard
them pitying, in no faint terms, the fate of Saul, to
whose faults, in their eyes, little charity was ex-
tended; while those of David were visited with
comparative lenity ;-the one, for a single act of
disobedience, sternly and for ever rejected, and left
to the melancholy misery of remorse; the other,
rep,eatedly reproved, but repeatedly pardoned, and
advanced to higher favour.
To such things she listened for a time, as over-
come by the weakness of surprise ; but that
weakness gave way to the power of virtuous in-
dignation, and she exclaimed, in a tone of firm
and expressive energy, and accompanied by an
air of grieved dignity, that startled, and fixed
them- in deep attention.-" Whither ! whither !
misguided creatures, do you go? To what state
of strange misery are you advancing? Dear to
me,·inexpressibly dear, as ye are; individually, I
VOL, II. D
,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
50 THE AVENGER
can no longer listen to your- impious !-yes I im-
pious inquiries. I cannot hear them without
• •
horror. Oh! were you strange, and indifferent
to me, as anything in the human shape can be in-
different, I should hear your words with terrible
affright, and should fly from you as from the
spirits of darkness. And can it be-- the souls
precious t_o me as my life, that are uttering such·
fearful things ? - I ~ill hear them no more !· You
know not your own spirit: you know not whither
your own zeal, or the cunning of the eternal-
enemy is bearing you. I have heard you, many
a time, dwelling on the marvellous events of our
annals; on the prominence of our national position ;
on the splendour, and spiritual grandeur of our
poetry ; and my heart has gone proudly with
yours, and has throbbed with. a kindred-a most
happy feeling ;-but of late, I kriow not what
fatality has fallen upon you, - what spirit has
seized you ;-but I am sure it is not a good one :
for, whatever may be your theme-wherever you
may begin, by some strange, and melancholy ten-
dency, you for ever come round to doubts and
questionings of Providence, that are fatal to peace,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 51
-fatal to the fair health and joy of the soul-fatal
to all its everlasting prospects. Oh ! precious
creatures ! open your eyes at my bidding, and see
really that an evil influence has fallen upon you.
Is there nothing in our past records, in our present
national prosperity-in this fair country,~ in which
we are placed as in anot~er Eden, to: dwell, every
man' under his own vine and his own fig-tree ;
unlike in knowledge, in purity offaith, in strength
and felicity of hope, to all other people ;-is there
nothing in all these things to arrest your attention,
and to fill your minds with thoughts and feelings
more gladdening to yoUrselves, and more acceptable
to your maker ? God ! God of Jacob, and of
all his children, which are now, as thou didst
promise, like the stars of heavan for multitude,"
she exclaimed, turning her large, tearful eyes
towards heaven:-" Oh ! send not thy judgments
on these dear transgressors ; but impress their
strong minds indelibly with the judgments thou
hast so often executed. Oh ! how is it," she
added, again addressing them, " that you should
not bear more awfully in memory the many terribl.e
judgments of the wilderness, on the doubters and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
52 THE AVENGER
dissatisfied ones with Providence, of that day 1
How is it that the tires-the yawning earth-the
flaming serpents of vengeance- the blasting
thunders-and the silent, but swift-footed plagues,.
which issued from God's dread sanctuary, to ex-
terminate a generation whose spirit was too much
like your own spirit-Can be utterly forgotten?
But enough has been done. From this hour
abandon your vain and useless speculations ; give
to God's honour the noble faculties with which he
has endowed you, if you mean not to bring to
despair and death every soul that loves you !"
The vehemence of her feelings had carried her
on in such a rapid and impassioned flood of speech
-her whole alarmed, .and indignant, yet love-
o'erflowing soul, burned so brightly through her
whole air, and gave to her countenance and figure
so perfectly the character of the inspired pro-
phetess, that her hearers gazed upon her in
amazement _
and awe. Her words seemed to flash
a light upon their hearts, that shewed them more
there than they had dreamed of: and when she
ceased, instead of those eager inquiries, and replies
they had aforetime proffered, there was silence,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 53
even to ·the loquacious Talmai. Iene sprang
forward, as she saw Hamutal, evidently oppressed
by her feelings, about to retire, and clasped her to
her heart with a throbbing bosom, and with tear-
brimmed eyes : the two youths followed· her
example, and they separated without a word.
When Hamutal was alone with Iene, that tender
and sensitive creature again flew to her bosom, and
wept upon her ·neck a fl.ooa of trembling tears.
She gazed .in Hamutal's eyes with the expression
of thanks and blessings, which no tongue ever yet
commanded : and when -the tongue itself found
utterance, it was in terms of admiration of Ha-
mutal's eloquence and exalted beauty, that to
Hamutal appeared wild and extravagant. Iene
kissed her again and again, as with an unap-
peasable emotion, and avowed that her words had
awoke in her a sense of danger and transgression
that would never forsake her. Hamutal clasped
her in her arms, fondly kissed her, a,nd was happy;
happy so -as never heart was, but in the double
feeling of the deepest love, and high duty done in
its cause.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
THE AVENGER
CHAPTER IV.
HAMUTAL had the satisfaction to see that her voice
had effected all the change she desired in the con-
versation of her relatives. They were lively, and
full of zeal as ever ; but it seemed to have taken a
new tum, or rather to have gone back to the
laudable and healthful tone of former years. For
a time she truly walked in the joy of her heart on
this pleasant revolution ; but, as the excitement of
her spirits abated, and her mind calmly reviewed
the circumstances that had passed, she found her-_
self far from happy. She found that the entire
confidence which she once felt in Talmai, was
really shaken. It was true that Dalphon and
lene had; bt!fore his arrh•al, ·often pained her
by ..the freedom of their discourse, on important
and sacred subjects; but his voice and example
had evidently carried them far, far beyond the im-
pulse of their own natures, in the fearful path they
had been treading ; and had sown in their minds
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 55
doubts and dissatisfaction with the inscrutable
doings of the Almighty, which bring with them
present melancholy ; and, like subtle venom,
once infused into the blood, are too surely
found working and creating internal distress, to
the latest .period of life) though better thoughts,
better faith would fain contend with them, and cast
them out. Hamutal, indeed, could not know what
the experience of years could alone teach her,-all
the bitterness and anguish of the evil leaven ; could
not know the detested and depressing influence of
sceptical ~kness. How it would come again ~d
again, ay,. even in the sweetest moments of exis-
tence ; when the heart was rejoicing in the amenity
of its being; when the parent was gazing on the
happy faces of his children, and was ready to exult
in their immortality; when the children, now
grown to serious man and womanhood, were con-
templating the feeble forms, and hoary, drooping
heads of tl,leir aged parents, about to depart for
ever from them, and were seeking solace in the
idea, that they should soon meet again joyfully :
and though the soul would call loudly up.on heaven
for help, for faith, for pure, substantial, childlike
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
56 THE AVENGER
faith; it could never, never more grasp it: but
with longing desires, there would still be twined
sickening uncertfn.ty ; in the ,crystal mirror of its
immortal hope, there woUld still be visible the
ruinous flaw. This misery, in its fulness, she
could not comprehend ;-time alone could teach
it,-as it does and will teach the best and brightest
natures, that have once tasted of the wine of un-
belief. They may tum in nauseating heaviness to
the unerring streams of their youth-to the dews
of their early life; but will find even their sweet-
ness lost, in the clinging, pervading bitterness of
this tartarean draught. This she knew not; but her
true and heavenly nature was full of the abhorrence
of evil, though it had not experienced all its sor-
rowfulness.
She could not help, too, calling to mind the
circumstance, that Talmai, while he seemed to
abandon the license of his opinions at her father's
reproof, preserved it undiminished in his absence,
in the midst of his children; and she could not but
see in this, a want of that honour and integrity of
character, for which she once gave him full credit,
and which she could not withdraw without her own
OF BLOOD. 57
utter misery. ~h ! to discern him capable of in-
sincerity ! to find the smallest of his virtues but
assumed ! Where, in such a case, was the hap-
piness of lene ? She turned from the idea in
horror, and would fain drive it from her; but it
was not to be so driven; it was fixed deep, in the
clear consciousness of her spirit. She called to the
aid of her desires, all the force of her reason, and
all the flatteries of her hope ; she looked through
the whole of Talmai's abode with them, and could
see a bright array of attractions, of courtesies, of.
amiability, and what had till this moment appeared
to her as genuine virtues. She could not charge
him with any actual evil, with little indiscretion
save of his tongue ; and she. fain would persuade
herself, that she had given way to a groundless and
injurious suspicion, and upbraided herself with
unkindness. She saw her beloved Iene living
without a fear, without a care, in the highest de-
pendence on Talmai's affection,-happy, happy as
human creature can be ; and blooming in the
triumphant flush and glow of beauty, with which
the gladness of the heart, and the full flowing tide
of rich affections can light up the fairest form in
n3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
..
58 THE AVENGER
the sweet spring of youth, rendering a lovely,
rejoicing woman like a child of heaven. She saw
this, and shuddered at the terrible consequences of
deception on the part of Talmai. Death ! death !
she knew could be the only alternative in that
vivid and·tender spirit, with the full reality of her
confiding hope. Could Talmai truly be aught but
what he seemed ? No ! for her sister's sake she
would not believe it; she would cast from her bosom
any doubt of his truth. So said her wishes and
affections; but her understanding accompanied not
the resolve, and she continually glided back into
doubt and misery.
Her strong and comprehensive mind suffered
not, however, her fears and unhappiness to com-
. . ..
municate themselves to a single soul. The thoughts .
which she could not annihilate, she could still shut
firmly down in the depths of her own heart. She
still acted with her wonted kindness to every indi-
vidual of the house ; and if her air was somewhat
sadder, if her complexion was somewhat paler, it
excited less attention, because she was habitually
grave, and now shewed not a single sign of languor.
She remitted not an atom of her accustomed
o.9'""·dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 59
duties. She felt that a great and momentous mat-
ter was_laid upon her. It was of vital importance-
to her sister's happiness, that she should ascertain
whether the being upon whom she had conferred all
her fervent heart, was worthy of that noble gift. If
not-woe-woe and death were before her ; and
it mattered little whether it came in the shock of
a discovery immediate and sudden, or the serpen-
tine sting of an unfolding, slow, but not the less
deadly. Better, -indeed, the first than the last !
But it was of the extremest consequence that
Hamutal should not be mistaken ; that she should ·'
not entertain, much less propagate an unjust and
most soiTowful error. To avoid this, to fix her
mind on the base of surest truth, whatever that
might be, she made her resolve, and set instantly
about it. In the first place, she postponed the day
of her own marriage, because that was decided to
he the marriage day also of lene. This was a
cause of much surprise to the whole family; hut
that surprise she anticipated, and she had only
therefore to persist, in her cool and steady manner,
to declare it the wish of both herself and Ahlah,
whom she had indeed prevailed upon to acquiesce
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
60 THE AVENGER
in the measure, under the assurance of giving him
hereafter abundant reason for it, in order to over-
come the expostulations and wonder of her friends.
She regretted, she said, that her wishes should
delay the happiness of Talmai and lene ; but
that, truly, at present, all were so l1appy under
her father's roof, that a few months' postpone-
ment could matter little. lene was greatly
astonished ; and the more so, as in pressing her
sister, in private, for her reasons, she declined
, giving any, except it was her belief that it was for
the best. On which she kissed her sister with a
tender smile, and put off the subject. But Hamutal
watched, with a careful eye, the conduct of Talmai.
She was not in the least surprised at his evident
impatience and chagrin ;-they were natural: but
she beheld in his eye an expression of bitterness,
that she felt, with a shudder, was not inherent in a
noble nature. She saw his dark, searching fixed-
ness of gaze turned upon her, as if a suspicion had
. entered his soul that Hamutal's procrastination was
aimed at him: She beheld these symptoms with a
sad and sinking heart. They rivetted more firmly
upon her the persuasion, that her gloomy doubts
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 61
were too well founded,-and she was wretched.
Day and night, the fearfulness of her own thoughts
tortured her. A melancholy conviction, that the ·
felicity of their long-blessed house was over; that
she must see the light of their life-the dear and
gifted lene - the victim of deluded hopes, and
every individual of the family bowed with her to
the dust, was perpetually with her. Like a strong
man, on whom some dark disease has, for the first
time seized, she would, ever and anon, rouse her-
self with a sighing effort, and endeavour to think
that the oppression of her soul was a dream ; but
the tide of troubled and overwhelming conviction
poured in again the next moment, and she sank
down iri still deeper sadness.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
62 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER V.
FoR weeks, Hamuta.l bore her grief in secret;
unable to fling off her besetting thoughts, yet
advancing, by no single circumstance, to a sure
elucidation of good, or evil. But now, a fact pre-
sented itself to her attention, which she wondered
had not engaged it before.
Dalphon and Ahlab had each his favourite ser.. ,.
vant, who followed him ·to the camp, and attended
him every where at home. They were, moreover,
kinsmen, and admitted to a degree of familiarity of
which modem times know nothing. Reu, the ser-
vant of Ahlab, was a slender, fair-haired youth of
his own age, who had been his play-fellow when a
boy, and still loved him as a brother. He was, like
his master, gentle in his manners, simple and un-
suspicious in his mind, and was distinguished for
his adroitness and alacrity in his duty, and his un-
rivalled fleetness of foot. Shallum, the servant of
Dalphon, was a very different person. He also
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 63
was a near kinsman of his master, but of twice his
own age. He was of a middle stature; strongly
built, and of a dark complexion. There was a
shrewdness in his sharp features, and dark, keen
eye, that marked him at once to an observer, as a
discerning and subtle-spirited fellow. A dry and
grotesque humour, and a fund of merry anecdote,
picked up in his various journeys with his master,
made him a favourite both with Dalphon, with the
whole family, and with his fellows. He was one
who saw everything, forgot nothing, and was sel-
dom deceived in his estimate of whatever characters
he had the opportunity of observing. To these
qualities, he added the most faithful attachment to
the whole house, and especially to Dalphon, whom
he had carried in his arms when a child, and had
since accompanied in many pleasant, and many
dangerous _
days. This man, Hamutal had for
some time observed, testified no symptom of liking
towards Talmai. He was civil and respectful, but
he was no more ; while Talmai, on his part, from
I
having taken much pains to t~stify his opinion of
Shallum's cleverness and quaint wit; and from
treating him with particular condescension, had, of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
64 THE AVENGER
late, left him more and more to a contemptuous
indifference.
Hamutal saw this, and wondered that she had
not been led before to inquire what might b~ the
cause. She might, indeed, have remarked, from
the first, the secret dislike of Shallum towards
Talmai, had not the same species of joyful intoxica-
tion which seized the whole family, been largely
partaken of by her; but having now observed it
well, she knew_that it was no groundless antipathy
-Shallum was but too sure a searcher of men's
hearts. The circumstance at once filled her with a
cold terror; but it was necessary to explore the
mystery, and she steeled herself to the dreary task.
In those simple times, and in that country, the
servant who followed his lord to the war, occupied
himselfduring peace in various rural acts. Shallum
was fond of gardening ; and displayed in that
ample region ofshrubbery and wilderness at Tekoah,
a happy ingenuity that was the cause of perpetual
surprise and delight to the family. He had raised
and oollected an innumerable array of the choicest
and most beautiful flowers : the walks and grassy
lawns bore testimony to the exquisite neatness of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 65
his indefatigable hands. · Shady seats and odor~us
bowers were, ever and anon, rising at his touch
with sudden reality to surprise his beloved kinsfolk
and patrons; and he had for ever some nice con-
trivance for the hives and arrangement of bees ; for
the accommodation of the larger animals that fre-
quented the groves, and lawns, and thickets. He
watched over, and guarded against the casualties to
which young fawns and other young animals were
exposed; and might often be seen bringing on his
·arm, some helpless and deserted thing, to cherish at
his own dwelling. Even for the birdS he exercised
a watchful care. He suspended gourdS and pots to
walls and trees, wherein to fix their nests : he scat-
tered various seedS through the garden-wilderness~
to grow and furnish food to their various tastes :
and walked amongst all his benevolent schemes,
one of ~e happiest of men.
It was in the garden that Hamutal, with a beat-
ing and foreboding heart, sought him ; and she
found him busy repairing the trellis-work of a
bower-o'ershaded bath, on the banks of the Cedron.
For some time she sate and talked with him of his
work; inquired after the objects of his various
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
66 THE AVENGER
cares, and then led him gradually on to speak of
the circumstances of the last campaign in which he
had followed Dalphon. Shallum, happy·in grati-
fying, at once, Hamutal's curiosity, and his own
love of relating his adventures, became speedily
and fluently afloat in his recital. Hamutal availing
herself of a momentary pause, said abruptly,-
" Well, Shallum, and what thinkest thou of our
friend Talmai, whom you brought us ? I have not
··yet heard how thou likest him !"
Shallum was stooping, in the act to drive a nail
into his trellis-work : at the question, his hammer
stood in his hand as arrested by magic, or instan-
taneous paralysis. It hung suspended over the
nail, which his left hand held upon the sp?t where
he would have driven it; but he raised not his
body-turned not ~is head. A sudden thrlll ran
through the heart of Hamutal; but she roused .the
energy of her spirit, and again repeated her query.
At that, Shallum slowly raised himself, and turning
his eyes with a strange and indescribable expres-
sion, where a want of a clear indication of the
internal feeling W'd8 more fearful than the display
of some sudden or terrible knowledge could be, he
Dir tized yGoogle
OF BLOOD. 67
said in a low voice:-" Why, honoured kins-
woman, at so late a period, ask such a question of
•
me?"
" That is a very proper answer, Shall~, to my
query, I admit; but the reason that I have not
asked this before is, that we have been all too much
occupied with one another, to think of asking ques-
tions abw.t one another."
" And is it so no longer?" asked Shallum.
Hamutal started at the interrogation. It flashed
upon her a ~uth, which she felt the shrewd Shal-
lum had at once laid bare to her ; but she sub-
dued her feelings, and rejoined :-
"Why truly, Shallum, we have lived. long
enough together now to be pretty .familiarly ac-
quainted with each other ; and it is, therefore, in
truth, but natural, that we should be not quite so
much absorbed by each other's conversation. -
Having had time tO form an opinion 9f our new
friend, we would also now know what others think
of him."
"Dear damsel," said Shallum, "why trouble
yourselves about the opinions of others, if you are
happy in your own ?"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
68 THE AVENGER
,
Hamutal again felt the truth of Shallum's re-
mark; and she felt, too, how idle now were her
conduct, if merely for a passing curiousness, she
sought, on such a subject, the private opinion of a
domestic : but Shallum's guarded rep~es told her
too plainly that his opinion, whatever it might be,
he was anxious to conceal. Waving, therefore, all
furth~r queries of a minor nature, she boldly added,
" Shallum ! I know the quick perception of thy
mind; I have seen too that '_I'almai shares no great
portion of thy esteem. I have a cause, an anxious
one, to inquire from so close an observer, so faith-
ful a servant, so tried a kinsman, what he knows 'of
the real character of our guest. Shallum ! let the
fate of our dear Iene ,induce thee to be cm1did
with me. If thou knowest aught evil of Talmai, I
implore thee hide it not from me !"
With these emphatic words, Hamutal had risen
from the rude s~at she had chosen, and approach-
ing Sba.llum, stood with pale and quivering lips,
and fixed glance, steadily gazing on his counte-
nance. For a moment he looked on her in silence,
then hiding his face in his hands, sate down on the
ground, and wept bitterly. Hamutal, at the sight,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 69
stood chilled to a stone ; till her emotion over-
powering the strength of her nature, •she sighed
deeply, reeled aside, and clasped a tree for support.
Instantly Shallum sprung upon his feet.; his
tears were dried up ; and, supporting Hamutal till
he saw her reviving, he exclaimed with eagerness :
" Let not, honoured kinswoman, vain fears over-
come thee. I know little, but what I do know,
thou shalt hear. It is true I love not Talmai; but
my dislike is grounded on slight circumstances, and
may be altogether· unreasonable. And while all
those who are most concerned admire and love him
strongly, why should I, who am but an unworthy
• worm, disturb their esteem of Talmai with vain
terrors?"
As he said this, he drew from his bosom a folded
piece of figured linen, and unwrapping it, presented
to Hamutal's astonished eyes a pair of Moabitish
armlets of gold, studded alternately with diamonds
and rubies.
"Thou seest these," said Shallum. "When my
master, Dalphon, became acquainted with Talmai,
many were the mutual queries which I heard them
make of each other's friends and fortunes. Much
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
70 THE AVENGER
praise did I hear Dalphon express .of thyself and
lene. I observed that the stranger Talmai lis-
•
tened with evident eagerness to the relation of
your beauty-of thy betrothment to Ahlab-of
lene's yet unappropriated hand. From that mo-
ment, in my eyes, his friendship for Dalphon was
amazingly quickened; and his condescending atten-
tions to my humble self very remarkable. One
eve, almost immediately before we left the camp,
while Dalphon was absent, he entered our tent,
and exhibiting these jewels, said to me, in a confi-
dential tone : - " Behold these !-there is a fair
damsel in thy master's house ;-I would that 11he
were mine. I know thy influence in thy master's
family ; · help me to the hand of Iene as much
as in thee.lies, and these, .and far more than these,
although they are worth a wide estate, are thine !"
" Why temptest thou me?" I replied; putting
back the bracelets. " Thinkest thou for these I
would sell the love of the fair Iene, had I the
power? But I have it not,-and why comest thou
to me? Is not her brother thy friend? Is not
her father's house open to thee to enter, and to ask
as becomes a worthy man? I tell thee frankly, I
shall aid thee not !"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 71
At these words Dalphon entered. With a
secret gesture Talmai si~ed to me to take up the
jewels, and I took them, moved by a secret thought
that they might enable me to deal fairly with the
tempter."
"And didSt thou tell this to Dalphon ?"
" No," replied Shallurn, " I would have told
him : I even produced the jewels, and began-
" Talmai gave me these, and I would fain tell thee
why." "Away. with thee,' he replied; 'if Tal-
mai has given them to thee, enough !-I want to
hear no more." " But it concerns," I replied; " it
concerns"-:-" Begone!" he said, hastily; ·"it con-
cerns not me. Whatever Talmai does, is right."
Thus he sent me away, and I dared not renew the
subject; but I have kept the trinkets carefully to
this day; saying, peradventure they will one day
be of avail. lf Talmai be a true man, and win
Iene, these shall be hers ;-if he be not a true
man, they shall be continually"before ~e, nnd tell
me what to do !"
" And has Talmai said no more to thee on the
subject? " said Hamutal.
" Yes,"·replied Shallurn. " We had been re-
turned some time; and he had won the love Of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
72 THE AVENGER
lene; and all around him was nothing but kind-
ness. and admiring faces. He turned suddenly
upon me one day in a narrow pass in the moun-
tains; as we were out hunting ; and with a bitter
smile, said-' Shallum ! I have done without thee I
Return me the Moabitish bracelets thou hast not
earned, and be silent-or"- Again the presence
of my master, Dalphon, as led by his good angel,
interposed; and we went on together on our way.
From that hour I have altered not my conduct to
Talmai; but Talmai has ceased his civility to me.
This is all, honoured kinswoman, this is all that I
know; and I pray thee, let it not cause thee to
think evil of Talmai. Many a good man has won
his way with gold and gifts, though I like not the
· plan myself; and if I deem unworthily of Talmai,
let the evil dwell in my own bosom. Never 1
never shall I forgive myself, if I cause sorrow or
division of souls in my master's family !"
" It is enough, Shallum," said Hamutal. " I
know thy worth ;-let these things be hidden with
thee and me. Let us wait and see what further
time will bring forth." She gave him many
thanks for his relation, and returned to the house.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 73
CHAPTER VI.
A dark house was the good old mansion of Tekoah
now become to Hamutal. That place, so long in
her eyes, the fairest, the happiest on earth, was
now gloomy and full of melancholy. It had lost
its air of peace ;-it had no sound of comfort. She
felt that its happiness was gone for ever ; and that
in her bosom was lodged the secret of a misery,
,
that must come forth ere long, and blast and deso-
late everything around. The disclosure of Shal-
lum was small, very small in its nature; it was the
mere offer of a gift by Talmai to engage his good-
will,-and might be deemed, in most eyes, a thing
of little concern. Such acts were done every day,
by men who not only stood well with the good, but
·who, for those very acts, were praised as kind and
generous. But in her view, as well as in Shal-
lum's-especially when the extraordinary value of
the gift was considered-it was the offer of a bribe
unworthily and clandestinely to attempt to warp
VOL. II. E
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
74 THE AVENGER
the affections of a creature, in herself all candour,
openness, and purity, by a person who might, had
his nature been noble, have come fairly forward to
win her heart with every chance of success, ·and of
.the approbation of her parents and friends. Com-
bined with the previous observation of his cha-
racter, it produced on her mind a persuasion of evil
design; and such had been its effect on Shallum,
in whose judgment she placed strong confidence.
Insufficient, therefore, as her evidence might be
ileemed in the common judgment, to her it had
strength enough to fix firm in her soul the belief
that all was not right with Talmai : that the peace
of lene was, in truth, doomed to a speedy destruc-
tion; and with it, that of the whole house. Under
these cir~umstances, her anguish of mind became
almost insupportable. She saw herself compelled
to carry in her heart, thoughts of overwhelming
evil ; or, with a word, and perhaps without pro-
ducing general certainty, to scatter dissension and
incurable distress.
To look upon her aged and unconscious parents,
and feel what was coming upon them,-to behold
the gay and happy Iene, and know that her peace,.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 75
her very existence depended upon the suppression
of a few fatal syllables, -to see her walking on
the very brink of the precipice, where she should
be .dashed to pieces, gathering flowers, carolling
out her joyous fancies, totally unconscious of its
proximity, was more than her nature could. bear:
her frame trembled and faded away beneath the
influence of the hidden torture ; her face con-
fessed that there was something lamentably wrong
within,-confessed it so plainly, that all eyes were
now turned upon her in wondering anxiety. The
three youths were absent at Jerusalem; and well as
Hamutal knew the virtue of Ahlab, and of her
brother, she could not help entertaining some
strange, vague fears, from the bare circumstance of
their being with Talmai, far removed from the in-
fluence of the eyes of Jathniel and his family.
This added eminently to her solicitude ; besides
that she had not even the satisfaction of one soul,
except Shallum, to whom to communicate her
apprehensions, or from whom she could ask counsel.
Many and anxious were the inquiries of her pa-
rents and Iene into the cause of her lndisposition;-
was it of the body, or the mind? What had thus
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
76 THE AVENGER
mysteriously shorn down her bloom and cheer-
fulness? Did sickness merely oppress the frame ;
or lay some hidden sorrow at her heart? With
these fond and perplexing queries did these be-
loved creatures beset her ; and she could not open
her soul,--=-one word of the truth, would, like the
Samiel of the desert, prostrate them in the dust.
She therefore admitted that she was not well, and
consented to see the physician from Be~hlehem,
who, good man, was not likely to penetrate far
inw the secret pains of the heart, however he
might detect those of the frame; and who asked
some few questions, gave so~e few remedies,
spoke some few words of condolence, and mounting
his ass, rode away soberly as he came. This
afforded Hamutal a pause from the torturing
queries of her parents, and partly appeased the
solicitude of lene; but so intimately had the souls
of the sisters been accustomed to open themselves
to each other, that the confidence which had grown
up with them from their childhood, which had been
to them uninterrupted and regular as their daily
food, as the daily air, could not be in part with-
held, even though the love in which it lived was
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 77
strong as_ ever, without being felt by both parties
with a sense of strange unhappiness. Iene would
sit for hours leaning on Hamutal's couch, gazing
on her with eyes of intensest affection and care ;
and ever and anon, saying in a low, sweet, but
emphatic tone, " Is there nothing, dearest Hamutal,
that I can do for thee ? Is there no thought,
no hidden care that I ·can participate ?" and then,
as if fearful that she was pressing unwelcomely on
Hamutal's will, she would be silent. These were
trying moments to Hamutal. To withhold from
the dear girl-the companion of her whole life,
a single thought, was itself a hardship; but to know
that the expression of that thought which now
wore her away like an internal fire, was misery and
death to the unsuspecting inquirer, was intolerable
agony. Hourly her tried and suffering soul sent
itself up in prayer to the Almighty ; not that he
would take her away from her distress, but that he
would enable her to bear it, and to administer help
to those dearer to her than her own life, whom she
saw must soon be plunged into the furnace of an
untried afBiction. Hourly she prayed for the
return of Ahlab, and he came.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
78 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER VII.
AHLAB and Talmai returned without Dalphon. A
refusal, they said, on the part of the Syrians to pay
the annual tribute, had.occasioned a sudden march
of troops upon Damascus ; and Dalphon had been
appointed to a command in the expedition. Talmai
had, on plea of his approaching nuptials, obtained
leave of absence, although his division of the army
was going on that service : and notwithstanding
Dalphon had pressed him strongly to let him have
the pleasure of his society ; stating that the mar-
riage could not, of course, take place while he, the
sole brother of the bride, was absent, still Talmai
persisted in his resolve. He had been thrown
back, and back, he said, in his hopes ; and he
would never more move abroad, or engage in any
active service, till his marriage was a,ccomplished.
This statement considerably surprised the whole
family; but much more so, that Ahlab,-the life-
long companion of Dalphon, who had never,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 79
hitherto, quitted his side~ on any important occa-
sion,-now that the conduct of Talmai could not
have failed to grieve him, and to render his own
society more necessary, could thus coldly permit
him tO depart alone. But the sad astonishment
of Ahlab, at the state in which he found Hamutal,
left no room for immediate explanation. He beheld
for a time, in speechless amaze and anguish, the
wasted being before him, scarcely capable of raising
herself on the couch to meet his embrace, whom
he had left so full of bloom and majesty. She
threw her wan, feeble arms around his neck, laid
her head on his bosom, and they both wept in
silence.
It was not till some time had elapsed, that Ahlab
could gain the command of his voice; when he
broke forth with a multitude of anxious and affec-
tionate inquiries. Hamutal, instead of reply,
beckoned the rest to withdraw, and then, seeming
to gather a sudden strength, she sate leaning on
the cushions, and looking gravely at Ahlab, said,
'!My present sickness, dearest Ahlab, may soon
be accounted for ; but first tell me why thou hast
auffered Dalphon to go alone ? It is not like thee,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
80 THE AVENGER
Ahlab !-it is not like thee ! But all ~hings are
so changed! Surely, surely, thou hast not suffered
Talmai to influence thee in this matter !''
" Talmai !" Ahlab replied, with an air of startled
sorrow, "dost thou too suspect Talmai? Dost thou
too think him capable of evil counsel ?" A deadly
paleness passed over the face of Ahlab, as he sate,
gazing on the floor, as one occupied with a strong,
inward thought ; and Hamutal felt him, as he
supported her on the couch, shake through his
whole frame. She turned, and with a mighty
effort, but with a statue-like stillness of form, and
with a low and earnest voice, gave access to the
long pent up thoughts of her bosom ; and spread
before him all that she felt and feared ; all that
had passed between herself and Shallum.
Ahlab listened to her relation, with an evident,
and increasing agony, that made him writhe to
and fro. Now he sate like a death-stricken man,
ghastly, motionless, and leaning forward; now,
flinging himself back, he seemed to give himself
up to the overpowering violence of his emotions ;
and the dews of pain gathered on his brow in
heavy drops. When she ceased, he started from
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 81
his seat, and walking to and fro, he exclaimed
" Hamutal ! Hamutal ! thou art but too right in
thy fears! My thoughts of Talmai are thine;
and these thoughts have brought me hither at
this moment. God is my witness what it has cost·
me, to suffer Dalphon·to go on without ~e ; but 1
could not suffer a serpent to glide back hither,:
without hastening to guard you from his venom.
Oh · God ! oh God ! what has not that gay and
gilded cockatrice already done ! The fair~st hopes
blasted !-the fairest happiness laid waste !-the
fairest creatures made miserable !
" Hamutal ! often have .we marvelled at the
brilliant talents of Talmai; but this wilderness
was not the place where the half of hj.s powers
could display themselves. When we reached the
city, he seemed to breathe a new atmosphere ;-to
become a new man ! Dalphon was much engaged
at court ;-much occupied with the cares of the new
charge and rank in the army, which the king has
given him; and, therefore, Talmai devoted much
of his time to myself. He was obligingly desirous
to make me acquainted with the various scenes and
society of the city ; and truly his qualification for
E3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
82 THE AVENGER
the office he assumed, soon filled rue with astonish-
ment. His dress, which we here deemed splendid,
became tenfold so ; his manners took an imme-
diate air of higher grace and gaiety ; he -
appeared
to know, and be known to all. In that countless,
and ever-moving throng, where others but rarely
met a familiar face, he appeared to see few that
were strange. Where a glittering chariot rolled
a1ong,-where a troop of noble and richly-attired
dames appeared,-or the gay and wealthy youth
wa1ked on the broad pavement, there was Talmai
known, and received with smiles and acclamations.
The whole city seemed opened to me by the wand
of a magician, and sheWn in aspects perfectly novel.
Mansion after mansion, family after family, we
entered; and in all, Talmai seemed familiar and
welcome as at home. It was to me like a splendid
piece of enchentment. I walked with wonder
through the most lordly and gorgeous abodes. I
gazed upon endless varieties of luxurious garni-
ture,-tables, couches, curtains, mirrors, all en-
riched with the flowered silks of the Zidonians,
and carved and fashioned with the exquisite skill
of the Syrian artists. I sate at tables spread with
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 83
the fruits and produce of various countries ; and
wandered, with marvelling eyes, over forms of
female beauty and princely youth, such as before I
did not imagine ado;ned our capital. Mirth,
gaiety, grace, seemed to have been hidden from
me heretofore, but to have been in the path of
Talmai, common as air and sunshine. I was sur-
prised,-but not more at the elegance·and affiuence
through which I moved, than at the spirit which
everywhere prevailed. The tongue of Talmai
seemed to possess a never-ceasing activity; and
poured forth a merriment that feared not to touch
on the mos.t solemn and sacred subjects, with a
daring and reckless brilliance that startled me; but
seemed to startle no one else. Wherever he went,
he was hailed wi~ smiles, accosted with gay and
tender words, and his eloquent trifling excited in
all places laughter and delight.
"Taimai I'' I frequently said, as we left some
such sumptuous abode, where hiS words and those
of his friends had shocked me, "is this the spirit
and conversation of Jerusalem-the holy city-
the city of God 1 The very birds are not allowed
to alight on the holy Sanctuary lest they defile it,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
84 THE AVENGER
yet your words go hither and thither, and touch
where they will, as if God was not present, and
had set no bounds to our bold fancies." At which
he would smile, and reply-" Why Ahlab, for what
purpose do I lead thee amongst the highest and
gayest ofour people ? · Those who live in ease and
wealth ; those who have no object in life, but to
enjoy and command? Is it that I would wi~ thee
to. resemble them ?-to imbibe their spirit? God
forbid! But simply that thou mayest lear.!! what
is actually the state of things ; may know what
those people do who call themselves God's people;
may know, in reality, what the ignorant deem the
wis~ and happy. Corruption of manners and
morals, follows inevitably national prosperity. I
have seen their fruits in many a famous city; and
I tell thee that here, they are purity itself compared
to what they are grown to elsewhere. And as-
suredly in the simplest, the wisest; the most reli-
gious states, a wide diff~rence will exist between
the spirit of the capital and that of the country.
In the one, the perpetual congregation of the
affiuent will produce splendour, luxury, grace,
refinemen.t of taste and mode ; and with them,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 85
much laxity of morals-what the luxur;ous wiU
call, a more reasonable and liberal conscience : in
the other, the influence of nature and solitary
thought ; and, besides these, the continual eye of
the labouring and simple-hearted people, who are
scandalized at the smallest departure from their
primitive standard of law and piety, keep up a
more rigid rule of life, and perhaps, a more sub-
stantial happiness.
" What I say to thee is-see with thy own eyes,
form thy own judgment from observation of both
sides of human existence, and then act as that
perfected judgment dictates. Depend upon it,
Ahlab, wisdom is not to be found by looking
merely on the quiet loveliness of nature; and dwell-
ing amongst the simplest and purest of our race.
We must descend into the depths of the hidden
and the dark ; we must ascend into the region of
bright and false lustres ; we must know both what·
is above, and beneath and around us; and instead
of closing our eyes when objects of evil present
themselves, we m,ust gaze boldly on them, and
learn what they truly are. If thou wouldst be
ignorant and happy-happy in thht small degree
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
86 THE AVENGER
that con'sists with ignorance, go to Tekoah-stir
not from it all thy days; but if thou wouldst be
truly wise, and truly useful, mix with thy fellow-
men in all their haunts, in all their classes, at
all their homes, and thou shalt see things that shall
startle, disgust, confound, and horrify thee ;-that
shall, in truth, re-model thy whole judgment of
human nature ; but shall, as surely, leave thee a
wiser and better man. Thou shalt not move along
in thy inexperience, ready to be duped thyself
by every artful knave, unconscious of the false
shows of society; of the evil hourly designed-the
misery hourly inflicted on thousands ;-of the
dauntless hardihood of spirit-the cunning pluming
itself as the truest wisdom, which the habitual
dwelling with sin can confer ; but knowing really
what thy fellow-creatures are, shalt be ever pre-
pared to defend thyself and. others-to repel
mischief-to unveil guile in its subtlest guise.
Thus thou shalt not waste thy goods on the ficti-.
tious sorrows of the worthless ; nor be tempted to
compare thy calm happiness repiningly with some
specious brilliancy; but shalt continually call to
mind the scenes thou hast Witnessed; the crime~
f
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 87
the terror, the remorse, that thou knowest are rife
-ay, even in the envied places of the world; and
shalt bless God with a more emphatic thankfulness,
both for thy knowledge and the happiness that it
enhances."
" But Talmai," I replied, ''will not the loss be
greater than the gain ? Can I learn to know that
men are evil, and become not evil myself? And
what happiness can I look for purer, higher, more
to be coveted, than to live with Hamutal in my
own dear plains, and with her friends and mine ?"
"Truly Ahlab," Talmai replied with a smile,
"thou dost somewhat put me to a strait for an
answer; but thou art a fortunate fellow. Yet even
that,-"
" Nay," said I, "tell me, can I pass through
scenes like these, without sullying my own spirit ?"
"Just," he exclaimed, "as that splendid insect,"
pointing to it as we passed, " that, worm-like; has
made its way through the slimy mud of that broken
fountain; and issuing forth in golden armour, and
with glittering wings, flirts its broad, filmy pinions
in the cheering sunshine-lopks eagerly abroad, and
darts off into the blue fields of air. Thinkest thou
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
88 THE AVENGER
that I am more reconciled to the frivolous, godless
spirit of the pampered multitude, than thou art ?
Not a whit ! I despise their silly pride; I abhor
their impious mirth·; but m1;1ch more their deeds
which thou hast yet seen not: and I look to the days
when, blessed with that purest of lovely creatures,
Iene, I shall sit down at Tekoab, with you good,
gallant souls-the happiest of men ! But come, let
us observe a little of another class, and one that
will probably please thee better."
He led me then amid a different class indeed.
Amid the old, the grave, the wise. We sought
them in their dwellings ; as unlike those gay and
pompous abodes we had lately visited, as they
themselves were dissimilar to the inhabitants of
those wealthy houses. These were the most an-
cient and simple fabrics of the city ; some low,
massy, and gloomy, others spacious and venerable;
but all the seats of solemn quietness. It was to
me even more surprising to see Talmai received by
aged, hoary men, whose countenances wore the
traces of habitual gravity and thought, as they
would have received a son, than it had been to
witness his reception in the palaces of the children
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 89
of wealth and pleasure. I beheld with wonder the
easy sobriety of Talmai's bearing- the evident
delight of those grey-headed sages, in a being so
totally different to theniselves. But when they
proceeded to conversation, I imagined I could
readily discern the cause of their interest in him.
" Well," said one with a paternal smile, " and
when, my son, will thy heart have satiated itself
with the fleeting pleasures of vanity ? When shall
those talents, and that knowledge with which God
has so eminently crowned thee, be devoted to the
service of him and his people ? It cannot be long,
Talmai, it cannot be long, or I shall deem that I
have augured too well of thee, and fear lest my
counsels have been lavished in vain." "Welcome,
noble youth," exclaimed another, as we entered his
domicile ; " I hear thou art about to enter the
worthy ·family of the good old Jathnie1 : soon,
therefore, wilt thou begin to practise that profound
knowledge of the law which thou hast gathered
here. SOon wilt thou become a judge and a coun-
sellor amongst thy people. I have continually
said that such a spirit as thine, was not given but
for some good purpose; and I hope, even· at my
90 THE AVENGER
advanced years, to see that I have not spoken in
vain.''
It was evident, that the :pride of their wisdom
had no small share in their interest in Talmai ; but
when I heard him, in a meek and deferential tone,
seeking their aid to solve some knotty problem of
law ; to clear some difficult point of history ; ~
decide some nice question of judicature ; my heart
despised him as a base sycophant and dissembler.
It was with angry indignation that I listened to his
mild and subdued tones, as he held with these
venerable people, various conversations, in which
his manners, his sentiments, his professions were
diametrically opposite to what he had exhibited in
the haunts of the gay. Now, you would have
deemed him some youth of transcendant endow-
ments, who had run the course of folly; had been
devoured by doubt, and led far away by the im-
petuosity of passion; but who desired nothing more
than to return to peace ; to satisfy his scruples by
the reasonings of the wise ; to strengthen his reso-
lution by their eloquence and sublimer views ; to
commence acourse of determined and distinguished
usefulness in the land. All this would a stranger
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 91
have believed, and would have listened to the
youth's confessions and inquiries, and to the bene-
volent and ~ replies of his ancient friends, with
tbe deepest and most sympathetic interest : but to
me, who had lately seen him acting in so diverse a
character, uttering opinions so irreconcilable, it was
·a hateful scene. And it was not one scene, bq.t
many; and every time I wondered more and more,
at the astonishing acuteness and inexhaustible in·
telligence of this strange being, and felt more
restless aversion to his conduct.
" Talmai," I exclaimed when we were alone,
" what impious mockery is this? Thou didst pre-
dict that I should like these people better than
those I saw before,-apd I like them well; but in
seeing them and thee together, I like thee less.
By what principle. canst thou vindicate thy du-
plicity to these venerable men ? Either now or
heretofore, thou must have assumed a character
and uttered sentiments that are not thine ; and I
see already exemplified, the effect of seeking good
through the medium of evil. Thou hast wounded
me deeply. I remember whose affections .thou
hast won, and one day she must despise thee as I
despise thee now."
92 THE AVENGER
I was vehement, for I was exasperated and
pierced to the heart. Talmai stood and looked at
me for a moment; and replied with the air of one
wltose feelings are both startled and pained. " And
is this, Ahlab, the reward of my intended kindness?
I h,ave undertaken to exhibit to thee some shades
of human life which thou hast never yet seen; and
hitherto thou hast accompanied me, not rehictantly.
Why, then, this sudden cause of anger? Thou
art displeased that I have assumed a character and
language not my own? How otherwise was I to
gain access to different. and select classes ? How
to call forth their peculiar views? But didst thou
deem that all which I spoke in the circles of gaiety,
was my own sentiment ? Surely not! And couldst
thou tolerate a little disguise there; yet here,
renounce both it, and myself for-its assumption ? I
marvel at thy conduct.
"But.perhaps it has done violence to thy feel-
ings, that I should sport with these venerable men ?
And were they venerable as they seem, thou wert
right. Rut here again, behold the necessity of
some experience of men ! Thou dost not see that
they are hoary and selfish hypocrites ;. thou dost
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 93
not see that, under the shew of wisdom, they seek
the honour of the multitude; and from that honour,
wealth and distinction. Thou dost not see that, at
this moment, with a monarch famed for his know-
ledge and sagacity; they are, each and all, hoping
to climb into the higher honours of the priesthood;
into Levitical offices ; into the dispensation of the
laws. Thou canst not see this, but I can shew
thee; and if I shew thee not to thy full conviction,
forgive me not. Permit me thy· presence to one
further triaLof humanity, and I ask no more; and
thou canst not well refuse me, or thou dos.
t me
mortal injury, and deniest me that justice, which i~.
essential to my life and happiness !"
He said this with an air so warmed and so
grieved, that I could not deny him. " Be it so,
then," I said, "and let this juggling cease, for I like
not this assumption of unreal character."
"Nor do I," he added; "and perhaps I cannot
perfectly excuse it to thee or myself; but let it
weigh in my favour, that I desired knowledge-
knowledge of many kinds, sought in many coun-
tries...:_perhaps too much so; and in that search,
the habit of accommodating myself to the people I
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
•
94 THE AVENGER
abode with, in order to approach my object, has
grown insensibly. I confess, perhaps, not without
some degree of eviL"
The candour of this confession, and.the tone of
wounded sensibility, yet of irresistible friendliness
in which it was made, disarmed my wrath, and
touched me with a painful regret of my hasty
accusation. Wonder not at my weakness, for thou
knowest the 'power of Talmai !
CHAPTER VIII.
WE withdrew to our abode. It was already night.
Talmai drew fr~m his stores, two festal robes of
singular fashion and trans~endant beauty. They
were of the richest Tyrian dye, lined with the most
radiant and pearl-hued silk; bound about with a
belt of woven gold, and fastened in front with a
jewelled clasp. .A flower-embroidered cape fell on
the shoulders, and in length they flowed to the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 95
feet. Wrapped in our cloaks, we issued into
the street, and pursued our way in silence and
darkness. At length, in a distant and poor part of
the city, we stopped before .a small door in a
wretched and ruinous-looking house. At Talmai's
knock it opened ; and to my surprise, admitted us
into an obscure place, dimly lit with a feeble
lamp. The door was instantly closed behind us,
and secured with bolt and chain. My wonder was
increased, by beholding before us an iron gate,
guarded by two men in .a savage dress, each hold-
ing a drawn sword, and demanding our pass-word.
Talmai gave it instantly ; and instructed by him to
follow his example in all things, I repeated it.
The gate drew up to the roof; we passed under;
and it again fell behind us. A stronger light now
shewed us that we were in a long passage, or arch-
way of massy masonry, without apparent opening
of any description, and conveyed to the mind a
dungeon sensation, fearful and oppressive. As we
advanced, the lights became more frequent; other
passages crossed at right angles ; and various
figures might be seen lightly passing to and fro in
the dim distance. Soon a low, faint sound of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
96 THE AVENGER
music became sensible, and, as we approached the
end of the passage, it suddenly expanded into a
kind of ante-room, where, on a broad, cool, marble
slab, lay a number of garlands of roses, and other
beautiful flowers, fresh from the garden, and filling
the vaulted place with their delicious odours.
Talmai threw off his cloak, placed a garland on his
brows, and, motioning me to do the same, he
knocked; and at once the massy door rolled back,
and revealed a scene of wonder.
It was a wide banqueting hall. The guests
.numerous, and clad in the most splendid robes,
were already assembled. From the lofty dome,
hung massy golden lamps, casting their light upon
that lordly, and to me, unexpected company. The
hall was very spacious. At its farther end the
festal table, forming a complete crescent, was
crowned with a rich banquet, served up in vessels
of the most costly and splendid description ; and
the whole was adorned by a profusion of flowers,
flowering shrubs, and even trees, in sculptured
vases, arranged in various tasteful positions awng
the whole board. The guests reclined on couches
of most luxurious and imperial fashion, covered
o.9.,".dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 97
with silken tapestry of scarlet and gold; and fur·
nished with cushions of the same, heavy with
golden tassels and fringe-. In the centre of the
apartment played a beautiful fountain, whose
waters, catching a hundred different splendours
from the suspended lamps, fell into a basin of
white marble, on whose margin stood large silver
vessels, in which were cooling, tall golden flagons
of wine. - Various odoriferous shrubs and trees
stood also round the fountain, drooping their
heavy clusters of flowers, as to catch the refresh-
ment of the falling spray: and numerous servants,
in close and brilliant habits, went to and fro,
lightly and silently as spirits. The whole fair
scene, the &olness, and the fresh, flowery odours
that floated through the place, fell on the senses
with delicious effect.
" Talmai and myself were received with smiles
and congratulations, and took our places at the
feast. When I had time to collect my faculties
into something like a steady observance, I noted
that the whole company were arranged alternately
a man and a woman ; and the women were such to
.look upon as I had not deemed it possible for one
VOL. II. F
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
98 THE AVENGER
capital to produce-magnificent alike in stature
and beauty of face ! The men wore all a robe of
similar fashion, but the women were arrayed in a
~ strange diversity of garbs; and I recognised in
some of them the costume, not of Israel, but of
neighbouring people. They had also as varied
styles of countenance; far, to my eyes, unlike any-
thing I had witnessed in my own countrywomen;
and yet they were lovely as you might imagine
the angels of heaven ;-such rich and swelling
forms-such noble lineaments -such living and
awful eyes. When I had observed this, much as I
was charmed by the whole extraordinary scene, I
was inly disturbed. I ~ed to mind the poor and
ruinous exterior of this building, so strangely con-
trasted with the airy beauty of this central hall,
and with the dim and massy approach to it, and I
felt a sudden fear that some species of evil was
connected with it. But when I looked round me
again, I recognised amongst the men, numbers
whom I had seen holding the highest and most
solemn places in society : yes! men, whose old
wh~te heads shone strangely, encircled by those
gorgeous garlands. I saw not a few of the IDI-
>,g _ byGoogle
OF BLOOD. 99
nisters and chief captains of the king, and there-
fore checked my fears as the foolish offspring of
ignorance. I beheld all giving themselves up to
the delights of a banquet, in which every delicious
viand was spread before them; and I stretched forth
my hand, and did likewise. I surveyed the dame
who reclined beside me, and saw that she was
dignified as a queen, and beautiful beyond descrip-
tion. I handed to her the best and fairest of the
meats, the fruits, the wines, and was thanked with
smiles and words which were full of the deepest
enchantment. B1ame me not, Hamutal, my heart
never for a moment forgot thee ; but thou wouldst
have confessed, hadst thou beheld that strange one,
~ she was wondrous fair. · I listened to her, and
was amazed at the wisdom of her tongue. I
looked up, and listened to the discourse that was
going on around me ; and truly it was such as
would have delighted the sage monarch himself,
had he been present. The brightest Bashes of wit
were mingled with the gravest words of wisdom.
Knowledge gathered from the study of our own
laws and history; from a hundred sources of foreign
observation and intercourse ; eloquent descriptipns
!
i
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
100 THE AVENGER
of places and things which few of our nation have
yet seen ; and stories which, while they wonder-
fully seized the imagination, threw streams of light
on the mind ;-such was the converse that was
circling from end to end of that superb table.
Truly, I thought, it is only in great capitals, and
amid the servants of great kings, that the human
mind, freed from local shackles, and local igno-
rance, attains its full vigour, and revels in its per-
fect being. I gave way to the spirit that came
powerfully upon me, to love my noble companions
in their wise and elegant sociality-to admire-to
enjoy! Truly, I said to myself, these are the
choice spirits of the eartl1, that, desiring to taste
the glory of an exalted existence without exciting
the envy and unhappiness of the poor, shroud
themselves carefully from their view.
The heavier viands were withdrawn ; the grapes
in large and purple clusters, the pine, and a profu-
sion of golden aqd melting fruits, glowed along the
table, and wine of a purer and more inspiriting
nature sparkled before us. We ate-we drank~
spirit of triumphant gladness grew amongst us, and
covered us as with a radiaRt canopy, and at once
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 101
music, faint and unseen, awoke. It swelled and
strengthened, .and filled the hall with streams of
mysterious sound. I gazed hither and thither, but
could not discover whenc~ it came. It was as if
the children of heaven sang to us in their unknown
tongue; ·and gave us, not words, but a spirit that
thrilled through us, and haunted us with a hundred
vague fancies and inexplicable emotions. I gazed
along the table;-Jor a brief space, the most ani-
mated speakers continued their discourse amid the
invisible music; but as it kindled into power, all
became silent ; and here and there, .I beheld the
guests arrested in the midst of some lively action-
fixed as by enchantment, with an extended arm, or
with a cup raised to the lips, devouring the ineffa-
ble sweetness with all their souls. Never till then
had I seemed to know what music was. I heard a
legion of spiritual natures pouring out from their
invisible sphere their delicious voices ;-some utter-
ing some teuder grief-some wailing in huge woe
-Some breathing the soul and wonder of deeds
that could be done only in immense and far-oft'
worlds-and some bursting into peans of mighty
and. inconceivable triumph. I listened, and lay as
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
102 THE AVENGER
in a heavenly tranee; my whole frame was melted
and subdued by t~& volume of celestial sound, and
I floated away in a wild, deep flood of melodious
feeling into nameless and eternal regions. I felt
then, that to die-to pass away from the chains of
compelling matter, and to become all spirit,-filled
with all the knowledge-made capable of all the
_boundless sensations -the love -the joy- the
triumphs of infinite regions, were a glorious boon
indeed!
But I was recalled by sounds of sudden acclama-
tion, and beheld with wonder a band of damsels of
transcendant beauty, wl10 had risen, as it were, by
enchantment, from the floor, and were dancing to
the sound of the music, which had now changed to
joyous sprightliness-beyond the fountain. They
were crowned, each with a flowery garland; they
wore bracelets and anklets furnished with silver
bel~, whose shrill tinkle blended wildly with.the
strains of the unseen musicians; but their only
dress was a thin and partial veil. I was startled
with offended wonder at the view. I saw that the
dames who reclined at the feast,_ turned their eyes
to the ground; but the men clapped their hands in
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 103
applause; and again the music changed to a hurried
dream of voluptuous bewilderment. A riotous
mirth kindled along the whole table; and to my
amazement, mouths that but recently were uttering
wisdom, were now loud with sinful folly. I wa.s
about to tum and upbraid Talmai for bringing me
hither, 'Yhen a vivid light glared through the whole
hall, like the livid brightness of sheeted lightning,
and I saw, with wondering eyes, figures spring up,
as it were; from the solid marble floor. They stood
along the front of the whole semi-circular board-
the gods of the heathen! In the same moment
every arm was raised, and the splash of wine' from
a hundred beakers, was heard on the floor. I
heard-" honour to Chemosh !-honour to Semel !
-honour for ever to Baal ! - to Ashtaroth !" -
resound on every side from the lips of men and
women ;-and I leaped up, thrilled with a terrible
amaze.
I sprang from the festal (..'Ouch, and beholding a
small, dark doorway behind me, I escaped through
it with a dizzy brain, and with limbs that trembled
and tottered beneath me. I heard behind me the
roar of impious acclamation :-1 saw not-1 knew
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
104 THE AVENGER
not whither I fled. I was blinded and stupified
with horror, and anger, and self-reproach ; but· I
rushed forward. I imagine that I was in a passage
similar to the one by which I had entered; but
I know not-I only know that I drove desperately
forward. Suddenly, I felt my arm grasped as I
went ; and I was about to turn and plunge my
sword into the detainer, when I saw a figure
shrouded in a cloak, and heard a female voice say,
" Hither ! for thy life !" The figure passed through
a low, narrow opening in the wall ;-I followed,
and in the next moment found myself in a small,
square r~om, and heard the door bolted behind me.
A dim lamp shewed the place,-a place of massy
walls-in which was only a mean couch, whereon
the shrouded figure which I had followed, sate-
and at its feet, a torn garland of flowers, such as
had been worn in the banqueting room.
" What wouldst thou ?" I exclaimed, addressing
this unknown person, "for my time is precious!"
, Still the figure only shrouded itself more closely,
and I discerned that it trembled exceedingly from
head to foot. I was filled with wonder at this
strange circumstance, and again said, " Who art
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 105
thou? Why tremblest thou? Why detainest
thou me ? " The figure started to its feet-the
cloak was thrown back-and-Hamutal! Hamutal!
-what did I behold? 'No other than Abital, the
fair daughter of Shemshem, the shepherd ! She,
with whom thyself and Iene were wont to play-she
who had become so conspicuous for her loveliness
as she grew up-she who was supposed to be borne
away by a tzoop of Ammonites, as she wandered
among the neighbouring hills with her companions;
and has been lam~nted in the dust by her parents,
and by the whole plain of Tekoah, with tears and
indignation. Yes ! she stood before me, as one
risen from the dead ! I was smitten by violent
surprise, as by a giant's hand ; and as men by some
sudden shock are often cured of intoxication, so
was the whirl of my spirit at once gone from
me. . I forgot for the moment the place--the scene
I had witnessed-my haste and my fear. "Abital.!"
I cried, "thou here!" She stood, evidently strug-
gling for speech. . Wild and strange expressions of
desperate emotions hurried across her face. · She
was clad lightly as the dancers in the hall ;-her
bosom bare,-her hair loosened from its garland,
F3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
106 'l'HE AVENGElt
flowing in long, luxuriant volumes ov-er her'
shoulders; her face, in which still much beauty
was left, (but a beauty, how different from that
of h~r home days l - that round and blooming
softness of feature as of the ripening peach), now
sharp, and lit up with a wild frenzy -an eye
bright with an nnnatulal splendour; and upon her
cheek vivid hues-but not the hues of health and
peace. " Ahlab !" she said, " well mightest thou
be astonished to behold me here-much am I
astonished to behold thee ! But time, as thou
sayest, is. precious.-Oh I far more precious than
thou canst tell ! I cannot therefore say all that
I would; but I must say, knowest thou where thou
art? Knowest thou with whom ?"
"Where;" I replied, "I know not,-but with
whom? With Talmai !" "Yes! yes!" she ex-
claimed, with a look that was even ferocious, and ·
stamping on the ground, as in an agony of grief
and anger, " with Talmai ! with Talmai ! With
the most specious-the most brilliant-the most
cruel of men ! Oh ! Ahlab ! dear Ahlab !-for by
the love of our childhood, I must call thee so-
behold in me one-one only of his victims! It
.'
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 107
is said that I was borne away by the Ammonites.
This he ! this, the cold, mocking miscreant himself
has told me-but those Ammonites were his hired
creatures-for him they bore me away.
" Yes ! even while he wooed the lovely Iene,
he found time and opportunity to whisper his
Batteries to me. Oh fool! fool that I was, to
listen. But while I would have abhorred treachery
to Iene-while I thought only in playfulness to
listen to a few of his words, and knew not the
man,-I paid by innocence-by happiness-by life
itself, for my folly. I had permitted him thus
to stay me as I went to and fro, and to talk in such
language as he only can talk, but I felt that it was
evil, and at once determined to see him no more.
Such demons, however, are not readily escaped;-
I was besieged by his servant-vile as himself; and
jewels, fit only for a queen, were laid at my feet.
I spurned them-I threw them from me; but it
was in vain. In the hour when I leas; suspected;
when I deemed that I had conquered his impet-
uosity, and destroyed his passion, his slaves came
upon me as I went to the olive hills with my fellow
maidens, and, singling me out, they bore me away.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
108 THE AVENGER
Oh ! I cannot! I cannot tell all that has befallen
me ! It is enough that I am destroyed for ever by
that cruel and godless monster !-it is enough that
I am here ! Ahlab !" she added, with a look of
misery that pierced through my soul, "thou knowest
not this house ! Thou hast seen a little-a very,
very little !-and art thou desperate with that'? In
this place, every wickedness,-every abomination
that can, and that cannot be named, is perpetrated.
Crime in every shade-idolatry in every shape-is
come hither from all the surrounding nations. The
women thou hast seen,· are the daughters and prin-
cesses of many a pagan people. They have sub-
dued the hearts of the king's highest servants; nay,
at this moment, these treacherous servants are
secretly striving to bring the young and ardent
monarch into the same fa~ snare ;-they propose
to him many a strange and foreign alliance, such as
were abominations in the eyes of our fathers. Oh
God ! God ! where are thy thunders ?-where thy
plagues-thy fires-thy earthquakes and deadly
serpents that overtook and destroyed thy rebellious
sons of old ? Are they spent-extinguished for
ever? or art thou wearied to everlasting endurance?
OF BLOOD. 109
It must, it must be so, or this dreadful place were
ere now, a heap of ashes, smoking in the fire
of thy indignation !"
" But Ahlab, let me effect thy escape ! With-
out me thou must perish! The word by which you
entered, is not the word by which thou canst gain
egress : without that word, the guards at the gate
would cut thee down. But I will teach it thee,
and haste thou away."
She gave me the word, and flinging herself at
my feet, embraced them in an agony of soul, and
bathed them with her tears ; then springing up,
she seized me by the arm, and cried " fly ! fly !
make thy escape; and oh ! for my sake, never,
never pronounce my name--nevei: reveal what thou
hast seen !"
"No!" I exclaimed, "I will not depart without
thee ! Thou, too, shalt go !"
" I !" she cried-" I ! alas, that cannot be !
No, never can I eseape. Name it not, lest it raise
in me a vain and delightful hope, that must be tom
away from me by the ·dreadful certainty of my lot.
No ! I know my doom. Thou hast seen my fellows
in the hall-thou canst guess my destiny. A little
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
110 TH.E AVENGER
while shall I figure, a living, glittering misery in
that detested pageant, and then !-beneath the very
stone on which thou standest, I shall sleep ! Beauty
here fades quickly-quickly; long before youth;
and then-here are daggers that come as quickly.
The world hears not the cries-knows not the
deeds that pass in this monstrous tomb. A stone
is raised, it is laid down again, and new victims
come, and weep above the heads of those that weep
no more!"
As I heard this-heard it in that thrilling and
melancholy tone, in which despair breathes from a
wronged and broken heart-I drew forth my sword,
and swore never to quit the walls without her.
" But hark I cried Abital with a -countenance of
terror, "the feast breaks up-the throng rush away
at twenty different doors-let us go!"
She wrapped _herself in her cloak-hurried me
along a gloomy archway-in a moment we were at
the gate-the word was given-in a crowd we issued
through. I thought the pressure of Abital's grasp
was still upon mine arm-I thought I still held fast
her cloak; but when I turned to recognize her, it
was another !-a reelillg and inebriate man ! I
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. Ill
sought her with furious eagerness, ·but in vain.
One by one, did the dark, cloaked figures pass
away into the streets, and I was left alone. Had
she remained in her despair in her terrible dungeon?
Or had she, equally desirous of concealment, passed
away in the crowd? I could not tell, and it was in
vain to linger. Distracted with grief arid indig-
nant horror, I hasted away to my abode, resolved
in the morning to throw myself at the feet of the
king, and lay open to him the whole horrible scene.
But I had staid by that hateful door 80 long, and
now made my way 80 blindly, that the pale dawn-
ing of day was already upori me ; and the watch-
men, as they saw my tall figure crowned with my
faded garland, and my pale and haggard counte-
nance, essayed to seize me; but I bared my sword,
and with a mien and a spirit but little short of his
in whom some demon reigns, I drove on. I reached
my abode--I entered, and fell senseless on the
tloor.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
112 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER IX.
WHEN I recovered my consciousness, I beheld
Talmai and Dalphon sitting. by niy bed. I was
consumed with a burning fever, and my head
throbbed and whirled in a dreadful manner; but
tl1e sight of that monster made me conquer the
physical inaptitude of my nature. I started up,
and commanded him to depart. He and Dalphon
gazed at me apparently in equal amazement.
" What means this, Ahlab ?" said Dalphon ; " in
what has Talmai offended thee? Thou art not
well. The strange garb and situation in which
we found thee, shew that thou bast feasted over-
night where the host's wine was not weak. Thou
art not used to such riotous gaiety as some of the
citizens of even this solemn city use; it has filled
thy head with temporary delusions. Be still, and
let us send for a physician ; and till he has restored
the wonted calmness _of thy blood, Talmai, or any
Dir tized yGoogle
OF BLOOD. 113
other person who8e presence offends thee, shall
withdraw."
" Let him withdraw for ever ! " I exclaimed :
"too long have I tolerated his society. Let him not
dare to shew his face with the followers of God ! "
Dalphon stood and looked in still greater amaze-
ment; but Talmai, with an air of concern, yet in
the most unhesitating manner, at once explained to
him all that had passed on the preceding night.
He renewed those arguments and professions
which he had already detailed to myself; his de-
sire to shew me the true nature and constitution of
society; the blame he had thence received from me;
and, the final experiment to prove the corruptions
of social life, his introduction to that assembly hi ,
• which I had beheld many of the highest officers of
state. He told everything as it had occurred; he
des<iribed all the splendour and transactions of that
hidden place; protesting his abhorrence of the
whole; and that nothing but his own desire of
knowing man thoroughly,, could have drawn him
thither; nothing but his wish to open my eyes to
my dangerous state of simplicity, could have caused
him to lead me thither. That I had, unnoticed by
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
114 THE AVENGER
him, slipped away; and that, anxious for my safety,
he had hastened to my abode, and encountered
Dalphon, arrived at the same moment, contemplat-
ing me prostrate and insensible on my threshold.
Dalphon listened to his narrative with evident
disturbance, and replied :-" At all events, Talmai,
thou hast done foolishly. I like not the matter in
any shape ; I would not seek, far less lead others to
such knowledge, at such a perilous price, through
such an awful medium ; but, believing as I would
wish to believe, that thy motives were generous,
though ill-calculated ; to say the least, it was fool-
ish-most foolish. Ahlab from his boyhood has
known, and has sought to know, nothing but what
is strictly pure and simple. It was enough for him
to enjoy the quietness and beauty of the life which
his fathers led for generations ; and the society of
those simple, yet noble and pious friends, whom
Providence has so happily given him. How, then,
could he do otherwise, than revolt at scenes, cn&-
toms, and persons, far less criminal than those amid
whom thou hast conducted him ? Thii surely thou
mightest have known : nor can I perceive at all,
the value, to a person like Ahlab, of that know-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. ll5
ledge which thou hast been so solicitous to bestow
upon him ;-a knowledge that does not enlighten,
does not ennoble; but at once grieves the heart,
quenches the confidence of man in man, and makes
the path of life more cold, and gloomy, and selfish
than it was before. Better were it, in my opinion,
to suffer somewhat from the evil and the cunning
-better to be occasionally deluded-our tender
charities to be wasted on the worthless, than to be
taught the fathomless depths of the wickedness of
our nature; and in ~at teaching, to forego some of
the warmth and brightness of our spirits. It is
foolish, Talmai, yet I wish not to blame thee
farther than for thy folly ; and I trust that Ahlab,
when he regains·his serenity, will cease to blame
thee too. In the meantime, let us withdraw.''
They went; and Dalphon speedily returned with
a physician, whose remedies soon abated the
fever of my frame. When he was gone, I
declared to Dalphon that never more should I
love Talmai. That I had seen him an idolater
in the hidden conclave of idolaters ; that I had
seen what I should not then declare, but what had
caused me to abhor and fear him. I dared not
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
ll6 THE AVENGER
however relate to Dalphon the fate of Abital; for
I knew that he would, in his irrepressible indig-
nation, immediately upbraid Talmai with his
villany; and I feared, in case Abital were still in
her dungeon, that it would bring down upon her
instant and fearful death. My words had not,
therefore, that full effect which I would fain have
given them; and Dalphon, though he was evidently
and sorely grieved, appeared not convinced, but
still with a sad, yet earnest countenance, pleaded
his cause.
His military duties, however, called him away ;
and fain would he have drawn me to accompany
him, when he saw me a little recovered-but I
dared not ! I dared not !. while Talmai, like a serpent
at large, was ready to glide back hither in our
absence, and to work unutterable evil. So Dal-
phon took his leave, fervently imploring us to be
reconciled, but in vain. The moment he departed;
I prepared to leave Jerusalem, and Talmai dis-
played equal haste. Doubtless we were actuated
by a similar impulse ;-he wished to reach Tekoah
first, to anticipate my statement- I to prevent his
evil. Both, therefore, hastened away on the same
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. ll7
day, ·and nearly at the same hour-with the first
gleam of dawn. -we rode rapidly-sometimes one
first-sometimes the other ; and as we passed each
other, Talmai would look at me with a friendly
and conciliating air ; and, in a tone which, had I
not known the fate of Abital, might have melted
me, would say-" Is there no forgiveness, Ahlab,
with the good ? Shall we go and destroy the
union of a family so united-so blest? My heart
acquits me of all intention but to shew thee men
as they really are ;-Dalphon acquits me. I may
have been unwise, but I have not been ungenerous;
-will Ahlab be so?"
I burned to pronounce the name of Abita!; but
my fears for her restrained me~ and, with a heart
swelling to almost suffocation, I held on in silence.
And now, Hamutal, a mighty task is before us
-a duty upon us, which we cannot evade-cannot
postpone. This man must be expelled from these
walls-expelled for ever ! No longer must he be
suffered to lurk like an asp in the bosom of this
precious family, till it shall please him to arise and
sting one or all to the death. But alas ! he has
already wrought too surely. I see sorrow and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
118 THE AVENGER
death hanging like a cloud ready to burst on this
house, yet bearing in their blackness a necessity
that we must obey. Let what will come, Talmai
must be expelled I
" He must ! he must !" exclaimed Hamutal, who
had li11tened to Ahlab's recital in appearance more
like a corpse than a living creature. " Oh, lene !
dear, dear sister of my soul ! . Oh, ye dear and
aged parents, .whose days have hitherto flown like
-':' the balmy dream of the summer-noon shade, what
woe is coming upon you ! God ! thou wise and
mighty spirit, strengthen us and them for the
terrible trial !"
This she '!3id, rising from the couch where she
had lain a8 in the extremity of weakness; and then,
assuming an air so firm, so wild, so motionless, yet
so evidently full of the passion and energies of a
despairing, and yet all-determined nature, that
Ahlab looked on in fear and wonder. "Yes!" she
said, "it must be accomplished. Ruin may, and
will follow on this house ! Our very act will pro-
bably scatter us like an earthquake, and lay us
dead, or more miserable than the dead: but the
desolation must come ; the evil is wrought-it is
Dir tized yGoogle
OF BLOOD. 119
amongst us-and the evil-worker must be cast out!
Oh ! we cannot ! we cannot have the wolf amongst
the sheep; we cannot suffer Satan to dwe~ amid
the children of God ! But Ahlab, we must do this
awful work as quietly as we can-as much removed
from the observation of the family. Let the sinner
go forth before his departure be even known ; that
when the tidings are revealed, his presence may be
one evil less in our number.
" There is a ruinous sheepcote in the wilderness,
at about an hour's ride hence, on the way to Beth-
lehem. Thither invite Talmai, to meet thee at
dawn to-morrow. He will hope it is for secret
explanation and reconcilement. There thou shalt
await him, and with thee, myself and Shallum.
There will we dismiss him from these plains."
Ahlab would fain have undertaken the office
himself, supported by a few servants; and pleaded
· the impossibility of Ihmutal, in her present debili-
tated state, going through so much fatigue and
excitement ; but with her usual decision, she re-
plied, " Hinder me not, Ahlab ! it is not 'a time to
consult our wills or convenience. Of what good is
our life now, but to fulfil our bitter duties? I
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
l20 'l'HE AVENGER
have cause for desiring it, and even now the night
grows late-let us act !"
The mes8age was sent to Talmai ; he immedi-
"
ately accepted the invitation ; and before the sun
arose, Ahlab, Hamutal, and Shallum, had mounted
their asses, and reached the appointed spot.
It was a place which had sometime been raised
by the shepherds as a shelter from the noon-day
sun, where they might drive their sheep to the
shade of the sycamore trees which grew around;
and themselves take their sleep. It had been con··
structed of turfs, which had fallen partl_y to decay,
and partly were overgrown with brambles and
other hanging plants. Whatever roof it once had
was gone, but its place was supplied by the thick
boughs of trees, that met in a dense mass above it.
The owl and the swallow had made it their resort;
and various shining lizards shewed themselves from
the recesses of its thickets and earthen walls. A
bank of turf gave a sort of seat: and there the
three, Shallum having tied the asses in the neigh-
-
bouring bushes, sate awaiting Talmai in profound
silence. The day dawned-the pale light grew
stronger and stronger, shewing the sorrowful
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 121
creatures to each other, a wan and melancholy
company. The sun arose in the east, pencilling
the clouds with his many-coloured glories, and
flinging over the dewy desert and green trees, that
seemed to wave their boughs ·as in welcome of him,
his cheerful beams; and the sight brought over
Hamutal's heart the memory of all their past hap-
piness. How they were wont to arise, and gaze
on the opening pageantry of a summer morning
With souls glad as creation itself; and now it was
like a dismal dream. By the wickedness of one
man, their hearts were rent from the joyous union
with nature; it was still bright, and beautiful, and
triumphant as ever,-aud they could behold it only
with sighs and groans.
Anon they heard the sounding hoofs of Talmai's
steed,-anon he entered; but on seeing not only
Ahlab, but Hamutal and Shallum, he involuntarily
stepped backward, and contemplated them in
silence. A pale gleam pass~d over his counte-
nance, leaving his features fixed, and expressive of
a suspicion of evil. The three simultaneously
arose as he entered;-and recovering from his mo-
JJtentary hesitation, he asked what could be th~ .
VOL, JI, G .
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
122 THE AVENGER
motive for so strange a meeting, at so strange an
hour,-and in so strange a place.
Hamutal, with a countenance pale with grief
and sickness, wearing a solemn and severe dignity,
that would have sent a feeling ofawe into the most
callous or reckless bosom, threw back the cloak in
which she had wrapped herself, and replied in a
firm, but melancholy voice : " Talmai ! it has been
the lot of my father's house, and of all that were
connected with its fortunes for many years, to
know nothing but a peace and happiness, such as
are said to be rarely the portion of men. Why has1
thou troubled our serenity ? But it is perhaps the
~ill of God that we should experience -
the ex-
tremes of good and evil. We have admitted to
our house and hearts, a stranger-a stranger who
came in a shining disguise, like one of those angels
that were wont to visit our fathers in their pastoral
tents; but he has proved himself far different,-the
worker of deadly sin !-the denier of the God who
made him ! Would to God that we had penetrated
the folds of his radiant mantle of sin, before he had
blighted the noblest, the tenderest, the dearest
heart that beats on the earth ! But no ! God has
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 123
not so willed it. The evil is achieved-the misery
has taken deep root; and yet we ask only of the
author of our sorrow, .to depart ! Depart in peact>,
Talmai, if peace can dwell with the wicked !"
As Talmai listened to Hamutal, he felt, or
affected the profoundest astonishment; yt!t even
the duplicity of his nature did not enable.him to
,.conceal the whole of that rage which kindled in
his soul. A ghastly paleness was in his counte·
nance; his lips, firmly pressed together, were livid
as those of death ; but his eyes rolled to and fro,
now fixing on Ahlab, now on Shallum. As Ha·
mutal ceased, he exclaimed, - " What strange
!lotions possess you ? What is the mighty crime I
have committed? Ahlab, is thy weakness so great
as to treat me thus for what I have shewn thee?
For what else have I done? Is not my love for
Iene strong as ever? Has it ever varied? Can it
vary ? In the name of God, what is my crime?"-
" Ask thy own heart !" said Hamutal. " It can
tell thee; and we wish not to hold long discourse
with thee. We wish only to assure thee that it is
necessary to depart-to depart for ever! Too long
has thy presence polluted· the hospitable mansion
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
124 THE AVENGER
of Jathniel : let not thy present conduct add
violence and confusion to the woe thou hast left on
that once blest abode. Go ! thou knowest we
demand it not without sufficient cause. Go !-at
once, and for ever !" ·
"My heart tells me not," again said Talmai,
" that I have committed any offence, any evil,
against any soul of Jathniel's family. If I must be
thus ignominiously expelled, let me at least know
wherefore?"
" Shall I tell thee," said Hamutal-" tell thee
what is already so strongly '\lntten on thy own
·soul? Shall I lay before thee thy own evil deeds?
But no ! Ahlab knows them-Shallum k:JIIows
them."
" Yes ! wretch !" Talmai cried, drawing his
sword, and rushing on Shallum furiously," it is thou
who hast poisoned the minds of those who love me,
with thy lies. It is thou who l1ast sacrificed to thy:
baseness, the richest hopes and affections ; and God
acknowledge me not, if I deal not with thee as
thou deservest !"
He took a bound like the Indian tiger ; his
sword glittered above the head of Shallum ; and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 125
another moment would have been his last : but
Ahlab smote the uplifted arm with his clenched
hand, and the shining blade Bung backward, stuck,
and quivered in the earthen wall. Sballum and
Ahlab instantly drew their weapons, and stood on
the defensive; while Hamutal, undaunted by the
fearful scene, said sternly-" Son of Belial! dost
thou plead thy innocence by attempting to kill ?
Go ! we know thee well. We would see no further
unveiling of thy evil nature!"
"Wretch!." said Shallum, "well deemest thou
that I love thee not. Could I have prevailed
from the day that I first beheld thy Moabitish
bracelets, thou hadst never come hither, to sow
sorrow where it never grew till thy arrival. But
that I hate thee not without a cause-listen ! In
Zebulon there dwells awoful woman. She dwells
-I _have seen her-with her two children, in a
little booth by the wayside ; and weeps, as she
works with her hands many a curious work of the
needle, for her daily bread. When she is asked,
whose are these little children, she says-' Tal-
mai's.' When she is asked, where is Talmai? she
replies-' If there be a spot of earth fairer than
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
126 THE AVENGER
,the rest, Talmai is there. If there be some wo-
man fairer and more gentle than her sex-Talmai
is there, to deceive and to destroy.' When she
is asked where is Talmai's heritage? she says,
-'Talmai has sold it!' 'Where is her own?-
' Talmai has sold it also.' She is full of trouble
and toil, which her fair and delicate frame knew
not till she knew Talmai, but which has now no
end : and when a stranger praises the beauty of
her boys, she prays God that he will make them
strong as the ostrich of the desert, that labour may
not weary them ; for by labour must they live, till
~e year of Jubilee restore to them their estate:
and that they may be grave and uncomely as the
owl, that they may not be cruel and deceitful like
Talmai."
" Wretch !" cried Talmai, gnashing his teeth,
and again attempting to fly upon Shallum, " is it
by such ill-coined tales thou wouldst destroy me ? .
Oh Ahlab ! Oh Hamutal ! can you indeed listen to
such clumsy fables, knowing the long-cherished
malice of this fellow against me ; and forget for a
moment, that the blow which crushes me, crushes
lene also?"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 127 '
" Nay !" said Sballum, " I deal not in feigned
tales-see ! When I was but a few days ago in
Jerusalem, a noble and most queen-like dame-
not like the woman of Zebulon in a little booth by
the wayside; but in a wide, fair bouse, clad in scar-
let, and shining with jewels; and in whose ample
halls, troops of men-servants and women-servants
went to and fro. This great woman also, called
herself the wife of Talmai ; and h<:hold the letter
which she sends thee." He handed Talmai the
letter, who opened, and read-
" To the noble Talmai.
"Thou didst well to say, let our nuptials
be known only to thee and me for a little while,
till I come again from the camp with spoil And
glory ; but thy camp, and the spoil and glory
which thou art gathering, are; it seemeth, at Te-
koah. There be silly women, who would rise in
wrath, and say-return ! or I will fetch thee home
with the force of my household train from thy new
love ; but such speech I never learned. · What I
say to thee .is-come not hither, lest thy blood
should smoke on my threshold. Thanks to the
secresy of our contract,,-it hath left me free.
"TAMAR."
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
128 THE AVENGEft
As Talmai read this epistle, his countenance fell.
He said in a low and muttered tone....:_" Fellow,
thou hast prevailed. It .is vain longer to strive
with bosoms into which thou hast plunged wounds
like these. The curse of God light on thee, for
thou hast cut asunder loving souls !"
He rent the scroll in pieces, and strewing it on
the ground, turned and went out. In another
moment, the galloping of his steed was heard; and
looking forth, they saw him taking the way to
Bethlehem.
CHAPTER X.
THE three returned to Tekoah. They had achieved
their object; .but they went not back as they who
have won .a victory;- theirs was a melancholy
triumph. They had banished the author of their
sorrow, but the sorrow itself remained ;-nay, had
yet to break forth in its greatness. They went
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 129
back in the saddest, profoundest silence; not a
word was spoken during the way. They had yet
.the hardest part of their duty to perform ; but they
knew that duty-it needed not-it admitted not
of words.
The disclosures which they had to·make, plunged
the aged pair into an astonishment of grief, which
seemed to deprive them of their faculties. Tl1ey
sate and looked on the ground in a long and dreamy
stupor. At times they would be seen lost in tears;
at times would they utter a few ejaculations of
helpless sorrow, and again relapse into silence.
A few days seemed to exhibit on their counte.
nances and forms, the weight of anguish which
pressed upon the heart, by a change as of ten years
of trouble.
But to open the matter to lene-the gay, the
tender, the sensitive lene; who still, in all the
unsuspicious cheerfulness of her nature, was living
totally unconscious of her terrible delusion-this
was arduous-this was fearful. It was impossible
to impart to her the smallest iota of the truth, till
it was time to act decisively upon it; the least
blame of Talmai would have called forth all the
G3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
130 THE AVENGER
warmth of her soul ; there must have been prema-
ture examination ; and, as a probable consequence,
inextricable confus~on and protracted evil. Thus
by a fatal necessity was the whole weight sus-
pended, to fall with a sudden shock upon her soul.
We must touch lightly here. The eye that
could witness that agonizing scene-the hand that
could portray it, must be a harder or more power-
ful one than mine. We must pass it as we would
the appalling spectacle of a murdered man, with
inward horror, but with few words.
When Hamutal first breathed into her mind
a fear that all was not right with Talmai, she
sprung up as if an arrow had suddenly pierced
her to the heart ; and with a faint shriek, fell back
into her seat. An inse~ibility of a moment seemed
not to spend itself, but to be fiung off with' the
.vehemence of frenzy, and, with a flashing eye, a
burning, crimson countenance, she called for Tal-
mai with a shrill, wild voice, which pierced through
the heart like the voice of a ghost. But when she
learnt that Talmai was not at Tekoah,-that he
was gone, perhaps for ever, she seemed to rise
into the atmosphere of madness. She demanded
Diriized YGoogle
•
OF BLOOD. 131
again and again to see him,-to hear from himself
his own justification. She could not at once, after
so long a time of trusting, reposing love, bring
herself to believe that he was base, er unworthy.
"Let me see Talmai ! Let me see and hear him-
self! Oh ! never clU1 I believe that uoble,-that
splendid mind can be unfaithful, or unjust. No,
no ! there must be some cruel mistake; some
wicked design against him. I cannot tell what, or
with whom it rests ; but I must see him, and hear
himself confess his sin, ere my heart can receive its
shadow."
It was beyond words excruciating, to hear her
perpetually thus calling for Talmai ; and nothing
but the wondrous firmness of a woman like Ha-
mutal, bearing down, subduing to the utmost, all
her own nature, besides all her boundless love to
lene, could have enabled her to calmly wait, and
expostulate, and bring to the proof, every weapon
of reason and affection, till she could induce the
wounded and almost frantic spirit of her sister to
listen. But when at length she did; when she laid
before her all the experience of Shallum,-all her
own-the strange recital of Ahlab-the restlessness
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
132 THE AVENGER
with which she first attended, gradually gave way
to a deep and settled anguish ; and when she told
the fate of Abital, the unhappy maiden lifted her
hands and eyes in a feeble effort of amaze, gave
a wild, shuddering sigh, and lay senseless on the
couch. The mightiness of her spirit's pain seemed
to have nearly annihilated the life of her body; she
lay for day11, breathing, but unconscious ; while
Hamutal, Ahlab, and. the old, sorrow-stricken
parents hung over her, expecting every moment
would terminate her being. But as they contem-
plated her fair and pallid form, in silent watching
for approaching death, at once l!he moved with
a convulsive motion,-her eyes flashed open, and
she sprung up with the wild and -terrible laugh
which announces the presence of frenzy. The
powers which had slumbered, now awoke to action
with a desperation that required strong hands to
guard the unhappy being from herself.
Her mind in its appalling vivacity and confusion,
presented the images most dear to her in strange
connexion, and she for ever called for Talmai, for
Abital-for her parents and sister; and yet, when
these last presented themselves, she warned them
away as fiends and enemies.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 133
It was the solemn, serene season of full autumn.
The sun lay with a steady splendour on the hills
and plains. The wilderness was scorched into
universal brownness ; the people were busy with
the latter harvest in the corn-fields and in the
vineyards. But at Tekoah there was no festivity.
In the field and in the vineyard, the labours went
forward amid sighs and gloom; and around that
beloved and hospitable mansion,· rested a death-like
silence.
The affiicted family, unable to give relief, waited
in anxiety and many prayers the will of God : the
domestics went. to and fro with sorrowful faces, and
with noiseless tread : and through the wide stillness
of that ample abode, yes, even to its farthest rooms,
still echoed the shrill, ringing voice of Iene, calling
perpetually for those objects of affection that might
not re-appear, or that appearing she could not
recognize.
At length this most grievous desperation of
passion,-this awful excitement of the springs of
life and soul, seemed to have exhausted itself, and
she once more sank into a state of passive uncon-
sciousness. The tried and heart-broken creature
Dir tized yGoogle
134 . THE AVENGER
lay like a wasted, though lovely corpse; but yet
she died not. As her weeping relatives stood
around her, they perceived her gently sigh ;-they
perceived tears stealing from beneath the long,
dark fringes of her closed eyes; and as Hamutal
stooped over her tace in breathless anxiety, those
eyes slowly opened, full of her own gentle and
tender spirit; and lifting her feeble arms, she
clasped her sister in a faint but fond embrace.
Who could tell the sad, but dear rejoicing over
that precious being! The paroxysm of outraged
passions was past: the fire and vehemence of their
.
anguish had spent themselves ;-the barb was still
in the soul-the immedicable woe was there-but
it was passive. The balance of her brilliant mind
was restored, not by healing, nor by hope, but by
the strong, internal persuasion, that-all was over
on tliis side the grave--that she had nothing to do
but to love, and to die. And in truth, all the
splendid powers, all the quivering sensibility, all
the lofty hopes and speculations of her gifted
spiri~ blended themselves into one deep, pure, and
fervent emotion, that filled-a sun-bright ocean·-
all the capacious depths of her being-love to every
Dir tized yGoogle
OF BLOOD. 135
living thing, but especially to her own precious
family, and to God. She lamented the fall .of a
mind like that of Talmai; she prayed daily, hourly,
that it JDight be renewe_d and restored-but she
did not for a moment doubt, that he was the fallen
creature that Hamutal represented him-she wished
not to see him any more.
To breathe out her youthful soul in the arms of
those with whom she had lived in joy and affection
all her days, was all she desired in this world; and
to enter the land of spirits-one of God's freed and
immortal children-oh ! that had for her ardent
mind ineffable charms. There, all her doubts
would be cleared-her inquiries answered; and
the boundless desires of her soul for knowledge,
and for love, would be satisfied to the full. Thus
lay that divine and lovely creature,-cut ,down at
one cruel stroke, in the glory of her youthful
existence,-feeble as a child, yet full of radiance
as an angel ; an object of sorrow and tears to her
weeping kin, yet an object of mournful joy.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
136 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER XI.
WHII.E these transactions had been taking place,
.Daliffion had been fulfilling his military duties at
Damascus. They had found it no difficult matter
~o reduce the insurgents, and to restore all things
to apparent order. Yet it was necessary to main-
tain a stronger garrison ; and that Dalphon should
continue for some time his presence there. Yet
how gladly would he have returned to Tekoah.
The circumstances under which he had parted from
Ahlab and Talmai, continually haunted his mind.
Not all the charms of that delicious place-itS
wide-spread gardens, filled with every variety of
flower and fruit, and watered with its numerous
and transparent streams; the gaiety and affability
of its inhabitants; the balmy influence of its
luxurious climate, could soothe him to content-
ment. He continually reverted to the situation
of his friends; and to the woful consequences to
his favourite sister, of any moral defect in Talmai.
Dir tized yGoogle
OF BLOOD.- 137
He was unable to account for the pertinacious
abhorrence of Ahlab, whose nature was generally
so gentle, so yielding, even by all that he had
seen in Talmai ; and the more he contemplated the
circumstances ·which Talmai himself had detailed,
the less he liked them. Had he continued with
Talmai, it is probable that these feelings would
have worn off. There is something so persuasive
.-which so undermines, and dissipates, little by
little, your suspicions, or your dissatisfactions, in
the society of one who wears well a friendly face,
speaks in a friendly tone, that with these qualifi-
cations,-and no man possessed them so eminently
as Talmai,-it is almost impossible to be truly con-
vinced that a man is a villain. But let him be
absent for a moment, and reason, freed from the
slavery of a too facile imagination, begins to exert
her power, and to bring out traits and deeds in
new lights. So it was with Dalphon. Every day
of his absence rendered him less confident of
Talmai's perfect integrity, and filled him with a
thousand vague fears.
It was therefore with a very vivid satisfaction
that he obtained leave to return home, towards which
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
138 THE AVENGER
he instantly directed his course. Day and night he
rode, scarcely allowing himself or steed rest or
refreshment, till he beheld the well-known hills
arise before him ; when he checked his speed, and
felt his heart so full of foreboding heaviness, that
he was fain to linger. He proceeded slowly till
he reached the pass in the mountains leading to
his native wilderness, and saw its brown expanse
spread like a sea, on which long flowing ridges of
dark heath, seemed its mighty waves-rollmg on-
ward to immensity.
His heart leapt with a sudden and painful bound
as he beheld a man seated beneath a ·stunted oak,
with his dark and melancholy aspect fixed on the
sky, where the sun, sinking fast into the west,
intensely illuminated the upper edge of a dense
grey cloud, and filled with glory one of pale and
\tavy gold that floated higher and more apart-a
c.lond for bright and spiritual beauty as belonging
to the firmament of heaven. It was Shallum that
was gazing upon it; and so deeply was he absorbed
in thought, that Dalphon was already at hand ere
he was aroused from his reverie. He started as
Dalphon accosted him, and turned upon his mll!!ter
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 139
a countenance so changed and dejected, that he,
in his tum, was struck with a painful surprise.
" What aileth thee, Shallum ? and how fareth it
at Tekoah?" said Dalphon.
" We fare alike," Shallum replied sadly; "w~
have one common sorrow-the nearest only having
the most." A sudden chill went through the heart
of Dalphon, and he faintly, but eagerly asked,
" What ! what has befallen you ?"
"Talmai has fulfilled his course at Tekoah,"
replied the faithful man; " in a word, he has shewn
himself,-what I fear he has been his whole life,-
a hypocrite-a shining, godless hypocrite."
At Shallum's speech, Dalphon dropped from his
steed as one falling asleep. Gently he slipped to
the ground, and lay for a time as one dead; then
raising himself, he sate and gazed on the turf be-
fore him as one in a dream. At length he turned
to Shallum, and bade him relate all the sorrowful
particulars. When he had heard them, he sprung
up, remounted his steed without a word, and rode
rapidly towards his father's house.
His reception there formed a striking contrast to
what it had been in all former times. The mansion
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
140 THE AVEl'lGER
was hushed, and gloomy; there was no joyful sal-
lying forth of people-no arch and happy counte-
nances of his sisters, with nods and smiles saluting
him from the upper windows, and then running
down to clasp him in a warm embrace. The very
servant who came forth to take his horse, spoke
not ; but turning his head as if to hide his emotion,
led the animal silently away. He entered, and
beheld his parents changed as by the flight of many
years. They received him with open arms, with a
sadly ejaculated, " my son !" and wept on his neck
as they embraced him. Hamutal came forth, and
sprung to his bosom with an emphasis of affection
that told what her tongue could not. She led him
away, that she might explain to him something of
what had occurred ; but he interrupted her by say-
ing, "I know it, dear Hamutal-I know it. I
have met Sballum-he has told me all."
She led him by the hand to the room of Iene,
who was aware of his arrival, and impatient to
behold him. He saw, raised on her couch, propped
with cushions, a shadow-a pale and spirit-like
form-what he had left the buoyant, the beautiful
Iene. And beautiful she was still ; but it was a
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 141
beauty so frail, so touched and exalted by woe ; so
sweet, yet wild and unearthly, that his only refuge
from desperation at the sight, was to rush forward
and clasp her to his heart. Like a fluttering leaf,
ready to fall at the blast of autumn-like a wan
flower seen dimly in the .summer twilight, lay in
his arms she whom he last saw gay, and vigorous
as the ibex of the hills. The tears fell warmly on
his bosom, but the agitation of the meeting was too
powerful for her full heart and enfeebled frame ;-
she sank down like a wreath of snow in the sun.
Dalphon locked her in his arms, kissed her with a
tender solemnity, and burst into a flood of pas-
sionate tears. There was a long and weeping
silence ;-the aged parents, Hamutal, Ahlab,-all
stood around, and wept.
Da.lphon sate and gazed on the ruins of his once
radiant sister, and as he gazed, his tears ·dried up ;
his countenance gradually grew from the expres-
sion of pallid sorrow to a sanguine glow of earnest
thought. In a little while lene recovered her
overwhelmed powers, and clasping her thin arms
about his neck, looked in his face, and smiled
sweetly and cheertully on him. She welcomed
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
142 THE AVENGER
him home with her old expressions of delight; she
bade him not look thus grave and concerned ; he
would soon, she said,-soon see her revive ; hia
presence, his beloved society, would give her back
all her vivacity. She inquired of his fortunes
since their parting; congratulated him on hia ad-
vancement in the king's favour, and told many
little circumstances of home occurrence which
touched not on her own case. As she spoke, some-
what of her wonted bloom, much of her wonted
,
animation kindled in her countenance, and even
her friends caught the happy infection, and smiled.
" Yes," said Dalphon, " we will rejoice together
once more. Thou shalt be thyself again, thus
restoring us to ourselves also. I must away,-ay,
even at the peep of dawn,-to Jerusalem : I have
commissions of much ~portance to discharge; but
I will hasten back to witness thy reviving looks,
thy recovering strength; and the hope of it will
gladden me while I am away.
This intelligence cast a shade over the spirits of
his friends; but they knew the imperative nature
of public duties, and opposed not his intention,
further than by saying, "Must it be so soon-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. ]43
quite so soon as the morning?" He replied, "It
must;" and turning from all sorrowful matter,-
which indeed no one had dared to enter upon,-
they sate, and conversed on numerous subjects of
mutual and domestic interest, far into the night ;
and a spirit of better tone and augury, seemed to
have come home with Dalphon.
But in his own soul it was not so. He could
not bring himself for a moment to believe, that
Iene could ever regain her first strength and happi-
ness. He knew her nature too well-he knew her
sensibility-her high and passionate temperament.
That it was not for her spirit, to cast itself with
all its hopes and affections upon another, and then
to be suddenly torn from its object, without leaving
with it the power and interest of her own life. He
knew that she would smile, and smile to the last;
that her nature, all love, would breathe nothing
but its essence upon those around her, till it melted
away into heaven-the region of its birth and
eternal abode. And when he called to mind what
she had .been-what she might have been-and
what she was, an indignation rose in his soul
against the author of her unhappiness, that refused
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
144 THE AVENGER
to be controlled. He thought to hims~lf-this is
my work; it was I who led hither this dissembling
fiend. But for me, blind fool and dupe that I
was !-all bad still been peace and happiness in
this beloved mansion. Now, this joyous, and joy-
diffusing creature destroyed-these dear and vener-
able heads bowed down-blasted with sorrow, as
with the fires of heaven-and the eternal gloom
that will rest on this abode !
He retired to his own room, that be might not
delay the repose of the family ; but he sought not,
he was incapable of repose himself. Through the
few remaining hours of darkness, he paced to and
fro in his chamber, filled with the haunting
thoughts of the woe and evil that his acquaintance
with Talmai had brought upon those he loved.
With the first trace of dawn he called Shallum1
and bade him prepare for the journey. A parting
embrace-a promise of a speedy return-and they
were on the way. Dalphon rode rapidly on till
they were beyond sight of the house, when he
suddenly turned and accosted his follower. " Shal-
lum ! I think I know thee well. Thou knowest
Talmai ;-thou knowest his deeds: He shall die !
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 145
I will pursue him to the death.-If thou wilt follow
me, it is well-if not, return and be silent. But
for me, there is no peace-no life while Talmai
lives ! Shall the godless wretch dare to practise
here his hellish arts? To mark out me, as the
dupe of his hypocrisy ?-to blast with his wicked-
ness, these dear and unoffending beings-beings
far higher in the scale of creation than himself-
shall Le do this, and live? No! if the God of
vengeance yet lives-he shall taste of vengeance-
and by my hand !"
Shallum listened gravely to his passionate speech,
and then, drawing from his bosom the Moabitish
bracelets which he had exhibited to Hamutal-
" These," said he, " I once shewed thee. I say it
not -now to upbraid, but to answer thee. Upon
these I have.sworn, that wherever Talmai goes, will
I follow him. Though he fly to the ends of the
earth-though he close himself in the heart of
mountains, or hide in the caverns of the sea, I will
pursue him till I see the drops of his blood stand
red on my dagger, as the rubies of these clasps. If
my friends forsake me-these shall be my friends.
If I become weary, these shall refresh me: naked,
VOL. II. H
>,g _ byGoogle
146 THE AVENGER
-they shaH clothe me ! They shall be my cloak-
my bed-my sandals-and my strength ; for I will
part with them only bit by bit-gem by gem-that
they may enable me to pursue him, till he or I
perish!"
" It is t-nough," said Dalphon. " In this
wilderness at least, there are hearts that will not
deceive; and cursed be they who injure them !"
They rode on, not as master and servant, but as
friend with friend. They had one heart-one de-
sign-one compact. They were bound together
for life and death; and as they dwelt on their sole
theme, they became wrapped in it beyond all otht-r
thoughts or desires.
They were speedily at Jerusalem; but they tar-
ried not. " He is not he~e," said Shallum-" he
is far to the north. My spirit has pprsued him
even to Zidon."
A glorious track was before them-one which,
&t another time, under other circumstances, they
would have traversed with exulting enthusiasm;
but now, the impenetrable mists of sortow and
vengeance hovered round them, and dimmed in
their eyes all those magnificent and stirring scenes.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 147
They passed Gibeon, Bethel, and Ai, places sancti-
fied by mightyevents in their history; by Shiloh,
where the ark had so long rested ; by Ebal and
Gerizim, the mounts ordained of God before their
fathers came into the land, for the pronouncing of
the curses on sin, and the blessings on obedience :
and where Joshua had gathered all Israel together
to witness that awful spectacle. They traversed
the wide plain of Jezreel, glowing and perfumed
with its luxuriant growth of all beautiful autum-
nal flowers; Endor, renowned as the abode of the
sorceress that called up the prophet, from the dead
to the living, that he might summon the living
monarch to the dead, they saw before them ; and
to the right, the fatal hills of Gilboah. They dis-
cerned from fa~, the lofty conical height of Tabor,
on which Barak marshalled his ten thousand, to
descend in ruin upon Sisera. These they passed,
but passed not to notice ; nor gave they scarce a
glance to the fair hills of Zebulon on the ieft, or
those of Galilee on the right, that shone in the
distance. They communed not with men nor
nature : their souls sympathised only with each
other, because both glowed with one. great and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
,/
14A THE AVENGER
absorbing object. A draught from their wine-
skin, or from the mountain brook, as they sate and
allowed their steeds to crop the wild turf, or repose
upon it, and a handful of parched corn from
Shallum's bag, were all the refreshment they
sought.
The gallant captain who, at the head of his troops
had ridden to victory in his shining armour, and
purple vest flying to the gales of Syria, was little
to be distinguished in dust and hnggard looks, and
untrimmed hair, from his follower; and both might
have passed for den-dwelling robbers,-such was
the ehange which seven days of sanguine pursuit of
their object, over mountains, across morasses and
rivers, along deserts and paths terrible with huge
stones and jutting rocks; had made upon them; for
the highways of that quiet and pastoral land, were
not calculated for speedy travellers. But now the
snow-clad heights of Hermon and Lebanon gleamed
before them on the right ; they entered the pass of
Rehob, and descended the hills towards Zidon. On
the tenth day, as evening approached, they ente:red
that ancient and famous city. In that mighty
emporium of commerce, their wild and travel-worn
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 149
aspects excited no attention. Every day, hundreds
of objects of every variety of costume and appear-
ance passed its gates ; often beneath the most
miserable exterior, bringing the most enormous
wealth. They sought out obscure lodgings in a
densely populated portion of the city, and threw
themselves on their couches to such repose as their
spirits could taste.
CHAPTER XII.
THEY rose early, and assuming the garb of Ara-
mean merchants, went forth. Possessed, solely
possessed as their hearts were, with the accomplish-
ment of their object, yet so new, so impressive
were the scenes around them-they could not help
walking through them with wonder and admiration.
The city rose eastward, steep above steep, terrace
above terrace, covering a vast extent of receding
hills, and shewing, the higher )t reached, more
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
150 THE AVENGER
ample and splendid abodes, gardenst and temples.
Below, a dense and vast mass of houses exhibited a
population numerous as the locusts of the desert.
Long ranges of bazaars and warehouses stretched
from street to street, in which were displayed the
fabrics, the jewels, the works and wealth of all
nations : and above them, innumerable artizans,
men, women, and children, plied their various
crafts. The shuttle ftew, the hammer rung, and
every busy and discordant sound of file and saw,
tinkling bell, and whirring wheel was heard. On
the roofs sate women under light linen awnings, at
their frames of embroidered work, propelling their
shining needles with incredible rapidity. The
fijrnace, and the noisy, roaring forge, as they past,
cast their hot breath upon them ; and the narrow
streets were thronged with a heterogeneous multi-
tude of every nation, making an eternal hum and
confusion of shuftling sandals and voices.
As they approached the quays, wide cellars and
store-rooms received and gave out ponderous bales
and casks, urged to and fro, and raised by men of
stature and bulk, gigantic in comparison with the
rest of the population, as if a remnant of the chil-
OF BLOOD. 151
dren of the Anakim had been preserved for this
labour; and the quays themselves struck them with
silent astonishment. Far westward they saw the
mighty sea rolling onward, its billows heaving and
swelling beneath the bright sun, as if only to send
thither wealth from the whole world. They saw
ships going out and coming in, and innumerable
small vessels glancing to and fro on every side ;
while along the tall and massy sides of the harbour,
built of ponderous stones, as for everlasting-en-
durance, were drawn up, as it appeared to them, the
fleets of the universe. Endless masts reared them-
selves far as the eye could reach ; and every fashion
and size of vessel lay before them : some savagely
showy, with their uncouth gods, or ani~als which
symbolized them, at their prows ; their sides and
stems painted with vermilion, blue, and black, and
glittering with gold. Some flapping their light
pennons to the breeze, extending their ranks of
oars J.ike wings of many plumes; and looking, with
their decks covered with Egyptian carpet, as fitted
to sail on the seas of heaven : while others, heavy
and vast, and dark, seemed like the slaves of -the
ocean, made to go soberly from shore to shore,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
152 THE AVENGER
with laborious crews and ponderous freightage.
Here they beheld some crowded with, or disem-
barking, bands of those mercenary troops-swart
Ethiopians, to whom the Zidonians committed the
defence of their city, or those grotesque and mali-
cious Nubian pigmies, who acted as archers on the
walls. Here sate grave captains and merchants,
watching with placid eyes the labours of their
people ; and in others, huge, black, and shining
Africans, with white skirts and jewelled ears, basking
in the sun, still as statues, and as if they could not
drink in enow of those beams in which they had
been nurtured. All around floated strange odours,
and incessant cries; and along those wide pave-
ments, they moved amid heaps of merchandise of
every description. Those •cedar chests wreathed
round with cords, which contained the precious
silks of the East ;-jars of wine; stores of wheat~
from their own hiUs, going forth to far countries ;
myrrh, aloes, bundles of cinnamon, and other costly
spices from Indian shores and islands; with gold,
and brass, and curious woods for the cunning arti-
ficers of the place ; horses, cattle, and bleating
sheep ; apes and peacocks ; birds of Africa and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 153
Paradise ; the tusks of the elephant in nuge piles,
and all the. wondrous and glittering works of
Zidonian and Tyrian toil ; knives and swords,
arms and armour, countless utensils for domestic
use, and baubles for the luxurious and gay. Every
step shewed them these, and more; and besides,
such a congregation of strange people as they bad
never witnessed. Every nation had there of its
children ; Arameans, Mesopotamians, Syrians and
Assyrian)!, Edomites, Philistines, Egyptians, the
/
sons of Tarshish and of the isles of Chittim. It
was a multitude endless in its varieties of costume,
stature, complexion ; clad in every mode, and in
every colour under heaven. Some with faces dark
as the fiercest suns could dye them, with eyes
flashing like their own jewels, as they turned in
the sun ; others yellow ; others, especially the
natives of the west, fair ; and with countenances of
such a lively nobility, that the two strangers beheld .
them-not without admiration.
But as they advanced, a new world seemed to
open upon them. The sounds, and sights, and
attributes of commerce ceased; they found them-
selves on a wide terrace overlooking the sea, where
H3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
·-
'154 THE AVENGER
a variety of superb and richly painted galleys and
barges swung at anchor. On the ot~er hand, the
terrace was bounded by a colonnade of marble,
whose pillars were of stupendous height, and which
seemed to extend to the very horizon. The noble
frieze of the colonnade presented an endless series
of grouped figures in bas-relief; and statues of
exquisite workmanship adorned its roof. Foun-
tains played on the terrace ; and throngs of people
in splendid costume, walked there to and fro, or
reclined beneath painted canopies, gazing on the
sea, and inhaling its fresh breezes. It appeared
truly a city of princes. Inexhaustible wealth alone
could have raised ·those structures--have arrayed
that multitude, and have given that air of dignity
and grace, which a total exemption from the com-
mon cares of earth- a total command of all its
riches and enjoyments only can confer.
They went on in silent wonder; but it was only
to find themselves in wide, magnificent streets,-in
ample squares waving with trees, and beautified
with fountains and statuary; amid noble palaces
and temples of their gods - Dagon, Baal, and
Astarte ; into which crowds of votaries were enter-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 155
ing, whilst others issued thence. They lost them-
selves in luxurious gardens which ran, up the hills,
and t]le valleys between them; and whose sylvan
arcades afforded immense views of the ocean ; and
in which, music, wines, fruits, and ices, were every-
where at command.
· Every hour as they roamed about, filled them
with increasing wonder at the stupendous wealth
which com~erce had heaped on a community whose
territory was but as a hand-breadth; but as they
crossed the centre of the city towards evening, they
were struck with the approach of a dense, great
crowd. As it drew near, they observed that every
one bowed his head to the ground, or hastlmed
aside. It was the time of new moon, and the
car of Astarte was drawn through the city by two
milk-white heifers. They stepped into a shadowy
porch, that they might not pollute themselves by
I
mixing with the idolaters, and saw it go by.
The sound of the multitude, moving as one body,
was as the sound of the neighbouring seas. They
saw the richly gilded car, chased and engraven
with numerous figures. They saw its azure cur-
tains thrown back,. revealing to the gaze of the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
156 THE AVENGER
adoring throng, the sitting figure of the goddess.
She was imaged as a fair, and large woman, crowned
with ample, upright horns of gold; her hair span-
gled with glittering stars; and in her hand she held
a silver cross. Behind, came a vast train of open
chariots, in which rode the lords and noble dames
of the city-a superb assembly ;-and the follow-
ing host of citizens, closed them in like· a flood.
The shrill blast of the trumpet, the sound and clash
of tabors and cymbals, accompanied her; and a
band of Ethiopian horsemen followed with their
upright spears.
Dalphon and Shallum had, however, scarcely
turned their eyes upon the pageant, when they
beheld an object that swept every other from their
brain. In the front ranks of the procession;-in
a splendid chariot, and accompanied by a dame of
ample form, and haughty beauty, they beheld
Talmai riding, as if idolatry had been his birth-
right, and as if he had wrought in his day no sin,
no sorrow.
At the sight, Dalpllon turned and traced his way
to his obscure abode. A darkness fell upon his
brain ; a sickness seized upon his heart ; he threw
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 157
himself upon his bed, and yielded himself up to
the trembling weakness of his confounded spirit.
It was a wretch like this, he thought, that could
go from place to place, evidently fearing not God,
caring not for man,-evidently caring not for the
evil he produced-the misery he inflicted, so that,
like the locust, or the palmerworm, he might alight
on what was green, and devour what was plea-
sant :-it was a wretch like this, that he had taken
to his bosom-to his home ;-that he had permitted
to win the pure affection of his sister ;-whom he
had defended with the zeal of a devoted friendship,
Shame, grief, and vengeance were upon him like a
mighty disease : they sate upon his soul like spi-
rits of evil ; and he lay and groaned and bled
beneath them.
It was not till late in the night that he looked
up, and saw Shallum sitting by his bed.
" Thou seest, Shallum," he said, rising up, " the
man with whom we have to do. Let us concert
the plan by which we soonest may make this daring
idolater feel that he is not beyond the reach of
punishment;-let us search out his abode."
-"It is done," said Shallum. "I followed the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
158 THE AVENGER
procession; and joining now one, now another of
the spectators, I learned that Talmai has married
Bealoth, a princess of mighty wealth and influence
amongst this people; a priestess also of the goddess
Astarte. I saw them conduct the idol's car to the
temple; 1 saw her image borne into a grove hard
by,-an ancient grove, pillared with the trunks,
shadowy with the boughs, of immense trees. I saw
them place the image on a shrine in the midst
of the grove, which was ascended on four sides
by many steps of white marble. It was in the
midst of a green, smooth-shaven lawn, on the
brink of a fair lake. There were fountains play-
ing, lamps suspended from the trees, and a table
spread in the shape of tl1e crescent moon, at which
the lords and noble dames sate down to feast :
and before they sate down, every one went up, and
bowed to the goddess seven times; and laid upon
the shrine a little cake of honey and flour,-
others wine-others, sweet incenses, which burning
in golden censers on the altar, diffused a delectable
odour through the whole grove. Then sate they
down to feast ; while the people, in crowds, still
went up to pay their offerings to the goddess;-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
/
OF BLOOD. 159
and, anon, the clash of cymbals, the sound of
tabors and pipes were heard, and a troop of dam·
sels, fair as angels, came forth from the covert of
the trees, and danced before the banqueters, Oh!
they were beautiful; but their beauty was too
much exposed to the eyes of men. Then I heard
the chiefs clap their hands, and applaud the beauty
of the dancers; and cry, "honour and triumph
to Astarte, and to her worship for ever!" And
I saw Talmai, gay and jocund, and full of his
shining words-ay, as if he had been born amid
these idolaters. These things I saw, and more,
that warned me to haste away.
I have seen Talmai's abode in this city. Thou
and I have passed it, and marvelled at its grandeur;
but about an hour's ride hence, lies his favourite
dwelling. This is it which shall aid our desires.
We may strike him in the city, and be hewn in
pieces in a moment; and although I would rather
die ten deaths, than the wretch should escape, yet
why should we sell our lives for this base idolater,
if we can save them? Let us up, and mark where
we may best lie in wait for him. Daily he goes
to and fro; we shall not tarry long for his coming."
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
160 THE AVENGER
They arose, mounted their steeds, and went
out of the city. They took the way towards
Talmai's rural palace; and as they went they noted
well the ground on either side of the road, to
discover a place of ambush. Not far from his
house they observed a little valley, hemmed in
between high rocks, and filled with a dark mass
of trees. "This is the spot," cried Shallum, "here
we may wait in safety." They turned in, and
found a place damp and obscure, and choked with
tall rampant plants. It was a spot fitted to their
purpose. They tied their horses to the trees; and
ascending the broken sides of the rocks, gained
a little ledge, where amid the leafy branches they
could look out and see, on the one hand, Talmai's
abode,-on the other, far along the road toward the
city. Yet the sun went down, and Talmai passed
not ; yes, four days, and they watched in vain;
returning to the city with nightfall, and issuing
forth with the opening of the gates in the morning.
At length, they saw two horsemen issue from
Talmai's groimd. They saw the air of the first,
and by that, and by his rapid riding, knew that
it was Talmai : and hastening down, they issued
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 161
forth to meet him. He came on with the same
vehement speed, the same bold and joyous bearing
as he was wont; and Dalphon, calling on God in
his heart to give him to execute his law upo11
the traitor-the idolater-dashed furiously on, and
baring his head, that he might at once be known,
cried, " Wretch ! thou art met !"
At the words, Talmai reining in his horse, gazed
for a moment with au inquiring look, then ex-
claimed, " What, Dalphon, is it thou ?"
"It is I!" cried Dalphon, springing forward
with his drawn sword, "it is I; come to chastise
thee, for thy crimes. Perish, heartless idolater
as thou art !" He thrust at him with all his
might; but Talmai, drawing his sword, with a
motion like lightning, warded the blow. Cool as
a powerful man who, in sport with a child, holds
him at bay with a slender wand, so sate Talmai on
his horse, in an attitude of confident, easy defence;
and, · with a countenance in which the exulting
laughter ·or a fiend played with a dreadful smiling-
ness-said slowly, " Has the sensible-the mag-
nanimous Dalphon then, really come so far to play
the fool? Could it not suffice thee, that Talmai,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
162 THE AVENGER
having amused his leisure with the simple creatures
of Tekoah, at length withdrew peaceably, and
without committing the ravage that was in his
power? Many a vain fool has paid tribute to the
experienced sagacity of Talmai, yet Dalphon es-
caped,-many a noble woman has fallen into the
pleasant snares which he loves to lay for them,
yet. I have left thy pretty sister much as I
found her; thanks to her insipidity and to my
own meritorious forbearance. What then aileth
thee? Return whilst thou mayest-return with
that black shadow of thine-that lover of Moabi-
tish bracelets-that stealer of jewels ;-return and
be great in Israel-and glorious in Tekoah: there
thou art _some-one-here, are men who- love to
liYe and laugh at the solemn follies of heaven-
dreaming, prophesying Hebrews- and who will
laugh now tenfold, that simple Israelitish youths
can go to the ends of the earth in quest of men
who will suffer themselves to be killed by hands
not able to ruffie a hair in the mane of their anta-
gonist's horse. Go! I would not hurt thee-I
only say to thee, as thy sister Hamutal said t~ me-
depart in peace !-and let me pursue my way to
the city."
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 163
While Talmai said this, Dalphon replied not,
but by smiting at him with all his might; and at
length, seeming t6 espy an auspicious moment, he
broke in upon him with a stroke, that had it suc-
ceeded, would have cleft his head in twain; but
Talmai avoided it by a quick sideward movement
of his ~horse. In the same instant, Dalphon saw
Shallum rush against Talmai, and assail him with
his dagger. Then Talmai changing the expression
of his countenance, from the bitter playfulness of
hate, to its darkest and most deadly scowl of rage,
began to fight in earnest, his follower taking his
place at his ·side ; and terrible and desperate was
the conflict.
Talmai was brave and active to a miracle ; and so
fiercely and rapidly did he deal his blows, that blood
soon stained, in various places, the vests ofboth Dal-
phon and Shallum; and it appeared a dubious combat
in which they had engaged. The past offences of
'J'almai, his present taunts, fired the soul of Dal-
phon to an anguish of desperation; he fought with
the bitter fury of a man that would cast away a
thousand lives in the ardour of his unspeakable
hate; but his anguish was heightened to despair,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
164 THE AVENGER
by perceiving. how little he prevailed against his
insolent enemy. Is it thus, he thought, that God
prospers the wicked ; and he began, in his soul, to
accuse Providence : he ran over in the lightning
rapidity of an excited mind, all the evils of failure
-the triumph of this base traitor-the dreadful
distress of his family. At this moment Shallum,
giving a yell as of anger and despair-as if the
same feelings, the same thoughts had been working
in and torturing him, reared his enraged steed
against Talmai, and aimed his dagger with a look
of furious madness at his side. Talmai shunned
the stroke by another dexterous movement of
his horse; but his follower, in the act to rush on
Dalphon, received it in his heart. He fell ; and
Talmai, awaiting not the. unequal contest, pushed
on his horse, and fled toWard the city. His en-
raged enemies pursued with frenzied velocity-
their hopes now rested on the speed of their horses
--on the fate of a few moments. They .pursued,
smiting their horses with fury, hanging forward
over their foaming, blood-discoloured heads, and
Jonging in their souls for a javelin or arrow to
send after the detested caitiff. It was a hot and.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 165
critical chase. ~ear, nearer the two avengers
drew upon their foe; but the gates of the city ap-
peared in view. A moment-and all would be over !
They made one desperate, headlong effort to reach
him; but he drew near-he dashed through the
gates ! They checked their careering ·steeds, and
wheeled round for flight.
CHAPTER XIII.
· "AwAY!" cried Shallum, "this chance is lost!-
let us preserve ourselves for another." They hur-
ried onwards towards the country; but in a few
minutes a troop of horsemen issued at full speed
from the gates, and gave them chase. " On ! on !"
cried Shallum, " let us not die like dogs. · To the
mountains! To the mountains!" They darted
away at the full stretch of their coursers' speed.
Fortunately these were of the prime race of the
desert; while their pursuers were mounted on
166 THE AVENGER
heavy Aramean horses ; and the Hebrews soon
flew far before them. Yet was it a fearful chase ;
the mountains were distant; and their enemies
knew well the country :-faint, therefore, appeared
their hope of escape through the pursuit of a day.
Yet they ceased not to fly; and still they found
themselves far before ; though seldom beyond ·the
view of their pursuers. Their steeds too, put to
most violent exertion in the pursuit of Talmai,
began to fail. They were covered with dust and
foam ; their nostrils sent out short, quick blasts of
hot, steamy breath ; and as they flagged more and
more, higher and higher ground presented itself.
" Le( us halt here," cried Dalphon ever and anon,
"and sell our lives as we may. It avails not to fly
thus!'' "To the mountains! :to the mountains!"
replied Shallum; " and see ! they are at hand !"
They flew onward, ascending through woods, vine-
yards, and scattered fields ; and as they passed,
the inhabitants in wonder gazed on their flight ;
and some, ·seeing their approaching antagonists,
joined in the pursui&, others sent after them flights
of arrows.
But now they approached the regions of naked-
OF BLOOD. 167
ness. High, black crags,-lofty, bare mountaill8
were around them ; the roads were impeded by
large stones, and fallen trees, and at length
vanished altogether. "Let us gain these heights,"
said Shallum, urging his fainting and staggering
horse onward with impatient obstinacy, "and we
are safe." Dalphon followed, but unwillingly,
and often looked back with an air of discontent, as
though he would await the foe, who came on with
curses and halloos that rose and rung amid the
high cliffs with an infernal wildness, and with
many a hollow echo.
But now they stood on a lofty elevation. All
around was a naked scene of chaotic wildness ;
black and splintered rocks rearing themselves in
every imaginable shape of hideous savageness.
They looked below-the foe still followed, but
. evidently urging their horses with difficulty amid the
fallen crags, over the beds of jagged, stony torrents
that impeded the way-and they were more distant
than ever. The two now dismounted, leading
their exhausted steeds, well as they might, through
the intricacies of that stony wilderness. At length
they stood on the brink of a deep and dark fissure.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
168 THE AVENGER
" Here," said Shallum, "let our steeds take their
rest. They are useless ;-we cannot take them
further with advantage ; if we leave them here,
they will betray our dismounted condition to the
enemy. Rut if they find them not, they will still
go onward in pursuit bf us-and in such tracts
only as they will suppose a steed can travel." He
alit, and plunging his dagger into the side of his
steed, rolled him into the gulph, and bounding
across it with the alacrity of youth, cried " hither I
hither only is safety !" Dalphon stood not to
calculate : he trusted to the tried sagacity of
Shallum, and dismounted ; slew his steed, though
with an aching heart; rolled him into the gulph,
which appeared unfathomable ; and scattering sand
on the gore, he leaped over the abyss, and fol-
lowed his trusty guide. In a moment they disap-
peared amongst the rocks, taking a sideward course,
and following the stony windings of the hills till
they had reached a distant eminence, where a few
stunted and shattered pines were the last traces of
vegetation. Here they paused, to try if they could
discern any traces of their pursuers ; and they did
not wait long for evidence. On various heights
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 169
they beheld men gazing as to discover some com-
mon object; and soon they heard cries, though far
off, as of people calling to each other.
" We must move on," said Shallum; " but we
- may proceed with safety, for they will stilllookJor
us in tracks where our steeds might go, since they
cannot find them." They pursued their way
silently, and swiftly as the nature of the place
allowed, still ascending and ascending. They
found themselves now in the solitary heights of
Lebanon. Above them shone its bright ranges
and peaks, covered with eternal snows. The wind
blew around them as with the voice of Winter ;
the torrents that fell impetuously from their
elevated beds, sounded awfully in those silent,
aerial deserts. A lonely eagle might be seen
soaring afar off; a single ibex cropping the lichens
of the rocks, and bounding away at the most
distant glimpse of them,-all besides was a lifeless
expanse of vast, towering hills, long winding vales
of bare stone, and deep, unapproachable precipices.
Night was coming down. They sate down, there-
fore, under a hollow, at the foot of a tall, impend-
ing cliff, so shallow, that it merited not the name of
VOL. U. I
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
170 THE AVENGER
a cave. Shallum had not forgotten, amidst all his
enmity to Talmai, the· chanc!i!S of a flight, nor
provision for it. His wine-bottle and his bag of
parched corn, hung at his belt; and were now
produced to good purpose.
They attempted not to sleep : they sate and
consulted on the course to pursue. Dalphon pro-
posed to return to Zidon ; to assume another garb ;
and to wait for a better opportunity of executing
vengeance on Talmai.
Shallum smiled. " Dost thou yet know Talmai
no better?" he said. " Be sure we need not seek
Talmai ;-he will seek us. ·And why should we
go to Zidon ?-he is not there. In these hills will
he pursue us ; and to the farthest limits of Israel
wilt he pursue us, if we escape so far. But no !
we have shed blood ; and for blood shall we be
sought after. We must hasten to Kedesh, the
northern City of Refuge. Take what way we
will, we shall find the emissaries of Talmai ready
to fall upon us :-there is no safety but in Kedesh,
and thither let us flee, and seek justice at the hand
of God's appointed judges."
" What !" said Dalphon, "wouldst thou flee to
OF BLOOD. 171
certain destruction ? Will not Talmai appear, and
swear that thou hast slain his follower, ·a kinsman,
and a Hebrew,--and what then can save thee or
me ? Says not the law, that if a man slay another
with a weapon of iron ; or with a stone ; or with a
weapon of wood-he is a murderer-he shall surely
die ;-the Avenger of Blood himself shall slay the
murderer? Saith it not-if he flee to one of these
Cities of Refuge, the elders of the city shall send
and fetch him thence; and deliver him up to the
Avenger of Blood, who shall put him to death?
Is not this to throw ourselves wilfully into the
snare-into the hands of Talmai-to fall meanly
and unresistingly by his hand-his hated and
triumphant hand? No ! let us ·wage war with
•
him in the great city-or in the desert, and on
the mountain ; let our lives be spent to extinguish
his life ; let us endure all the buffetings of the
elements, all toils, all watchings, all pains and
anxieties; but let it be in the hand of God, not in
the hand of men !"
"Yet," said Shallum, "it is our only chance.
Everywhere besides will our implacable foe be
upon us, and not alone by himself, but by his
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
172 THE AVENGER
hirelings. We shall be but as two to ten, or as
two to a hundred. There will be no peace, no
security ;-in the midst of our fields-on our own
hearths, the hirelings will rush on us and shed our
blood. No; let us trust to the justice of God's
appointed judges. And I fear no evil. Thinkest
thou God sways not the judge's heart, as he sways
the elements of nature ? I fear no evil. Moses
says-thou shalt not put a man to death by one
";itness :-and what more has Talmai? and, more-
over, thou shalt not suffer an idolater to live.
\Vhoever meets him, shall slay him ! What need
we more? To Kedesh! to Kedesh we must
escape ! But we must hold right on, over these
heights, and over those of Hermon : we must
touch not on the pass of Hamath, nor on that of
Rehob, for there, be sure, Talmai's people await
us. To-morrow let us pass these heights; the
next, traverse the mountain valleys; and the third,
cross Hermon, and descend to Kedesh."
It appeared the only feasible plan of action; and
with the first dawn of day the melancholy travellers
continued their course. They wound slowly and
with toil up the mountain, covered with snow,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 173
slippery with ice, and it was noon before they
reached the summit. A glorious prospect was
spread around them. Tyre, Zidon, and numbers
of other towns lay full in view ; far to the west
rolled the mighty sea; eastward, and southward,
rose still higher peaks of Lebanon and Hermon ;
to the north, the hills of Syria ; to the south, those
of their own dear land. Below them lay the dark
and renowned forests of Lebanon. They de-
scended into the woody and wide vale, and passing
through scenes, of forest grandeur, crossing many
a rapid mountain stream, they again began to
ascend the second range of hills. They reached a
place of many caverns, abrupt, shattered, and
desolate, and overhung with wild masses of trees.
They entered one vast antre; and, seeking out the
darkest nook, lay down for a brief rest. But as
their eyes were about to close in much-needed
sleep, they were startled with the cry of hounds,
and hastening to the mouth of the cave, beheld a
band of men, led by dogs, in full cry, winding up
to the very place of their retreat. " God be our
refuge !" cried the fugitives, and fled into the
depth of the cave. It opened oo, and on, before
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
174 THE AVENGER
them, till it became dark as midnight ; and waters
were heard roaring in the hidden distance. In a
moment of safety, the very sound of those daFk.
and unseen waters would have chilled the soul
with fear ; but man, in his vengeance, is still more
terrible than the most appalling works of nature ;
and pride, that shrinks at the very thought of
giving a triumph to a foe, makes men leap rather
to destruction, in the jaws of elemental horror,
than fall into the hands of a sneering antagonist.
T~e fugitives explored with cautious haste their
way, till they stood on the brink of the dark,
roaring stream, when ShaUum plunged in, and
pronounced that its bottom could not be felt. He
had not, however, time to say more, for the
impetuous, subterranean flood began to bear him
away ; and putting forth aU his strength, he at-
tempted, for he was an activ:e swimmer, to reach
its. farther shore. It was not long ere Dalphon
he&;rd him calling in tones that echoed with a deep,
sepulchral sound from the distant darkness, for
him to plunge in and follow him. He obeyed,
and soon found himself borne away by a power of
rushing water that seemed irresistible. But the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 175
example of Shallum, and his voice continually
calling upon him, excited him to put forth all llis
strength: yet he felt himself still borne away, and
heard below him a sullen roar, as if the stream
was shot down some tremendous gulph. The
terrible idea almost disabled him. He stretched
and struggled onward, and, like a man in a dream,
seemed still home away. In an agony of despair
he battled with the cold, Lethean stream, yet the
sound of Shallum's voice only grew more and more
distant; when, at once, he struck against the rock,
and clinging to it, raised himself from the fiootl,
and found himself on the solid pavement of the
other side. He had been home down by the flood,
while Shallum had kept stationary at the place of
his own landing ; thus had Dalphon seemed to get
farther and farther from his call.
Faint, and benumbed with the extreme cold of
the river, they went on, exploring their way
through the pitchy obscurity ; and soon beheld
a point of light, small, but intense as a star, far
above them. They followed, and discerned an
ascending path to the day. Fearful, however, to
emerge to the light, they still lingered in the
Digitized hy Google
176 THE AVENGER
depth of the gloom, to ascertain who were their
pursuers. Nor did they wait long. The hounds
in full cry, entered the cave; and coming to the
brink of the water, stood and howled, filling the
cavern halls with the most fearful, reverberated
yells. At their heels came a troop of eager men,
with arms and torches in their hands ; and at
their head, Talmai himself, all on fire with the
hotness of pursuit. The fugitives, placed behind
a· natural column of rock, watched with intensest
anxiety, their proceedings; and heard Talmai ex-
claim, " Here· I had looked to seize the caitiff
•
assassins; but where are they? Have they es-
caped through this solid roof of mountain? Have
these floods swallowed them up?'' He urged the
hounds to assay the stream, but they would not;
and some of his followers, who appeared to be
hunters, said, "If they have entered these waters,
they are lost. Never mortal passed this impetuous
torrent; he would be swept away, and dashed to
atoms in the abyss below." "Let us away then!"
exclaimed Talmai-" again they have escaped us ;
but if it be necessarr to_trace every height, every
cave and nook of these mountains ;-if years be
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 177
consumed; -if it cost my life to overtake and
destroy them ;-that time, toil, money, and hatred,
shall not be wanting."
They searched then, all the gloomy turnings an<l
hollows of these dark caverns with their torches
that flung their red light dismally into the upper
glooms; while .the perpetual yellings of the dogs,
and the hollow roar of the river, reverberated to
and fro, made no faint resemblance of the horror
and confusion of hell.
In a little time, the fugitives ascended the steep
track to the upper aperture; and issuing to day-
light, amid a clump of ancient trees, glanced care-
fully to and fro ; and at length discerned their foes
hastening down the valley westward. Upward,
and upward, therefore, they took their laborious
way ; and again passing the night as before, on
the following day discerned Kedesh lying in the
distance below them. They descended the woody_
steeps carefully towards it; for they knew that
Talmai or his cr_
eatures would lie in wait, especially
on the highway near the city. They kept there-
fore aloof of it , descending from ledge to ledge,
by the most rough and tangled paths ; and care-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
178 THE AVENGER
fully avoiding even the notice of the shepherds, as
they approached the lower slopes.
It was night as they drew near the walls of
Kedesh; but they dared not present themselves
at any of the gates, lest their foes should fall upon
them, but started even at the sight of those guide-
posts erected by the crossway sides, pointing
towards the city, with the word "REFUGE" painted
in large characters upon them, to direct the 1iight
of fugitives. They approached the walls in a
wilderness spot, where jutting rocks projected
from the steep, opposing slope ; and discovering
a light in a dwelling upon it, they called to the
inhabitants. The window was soon thrown open
by an aged man, to whom they declared their
situation ; and claimed the protection of the place.
Scarcely had they made the request, when they
saw a large basket descending by a rope, and
entering, one by one, were drawn up.
They found themselves in a simple dwelling,
'in the presence of an a,ncient Levite, his wife,
and daughter,- a gentle, compassionate-looking
damsel.
" I see," said the host, "by your exhausted
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 17~
looks, your torn and sullied raiment, that you l1ave
experienced the miseries of those who fly from the
avenger; I ask not what is your misfortune, or
your crime : to-morrow you must answer that to
the judges. For the present, such hospitality as
the law requires of us and the place, is yours.
Ye might, perhaps, marvel at the speed with which
,your request of access was granted; but the daily
necessities of a place of refuge have taught all
the measures and contrivances which are needful.
Along the circuit of these walls, frequent are the
basket and the pulley; for, frequent are the cries
of miserable fugitives for entrance, who dare not
approach the gates, nor trust themselves on the
highways."
This he said; then brought water-to wash their
feet; and placed on the board before them, bread
and wine, dried figs, and olives. After their repast,
he shewed them to their couch, and withdrew.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
180 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER XIV.
THE fugitives were deeply in need of rest. For
many weeks they had lived in a continual state of
anxiety and exertion ; for the last, in .violent,
unremitted watching and Bight: and Shallum,
stretched on his couch, was soon in deep sleep ;
but not so Dalphon. The excitement of their
rapid and singular retreat from Zidon through the
mountains, had in some degree, prevented the full
exercise of reflection ; but now it came upon him
like a flood, and he felt himself oppressed with a
heart-subduing melancholy. He looked back with
lively grief at the signal failure of their enterprise ;
he regretted that another, and perhaps an innocent
man, had been its victim; he was mortified at the
triumph they had given to Talmai; and their
present situation, to him so perfectly novel a one,
filled him with most gloomy feelings. Accustomed
all his life to live in freedom, and amidst friendship
and distinction, it was in his eyes ignominious and
o" tizedbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 18l
humiliating in the extreme, to be under the ne-
cessity of flying for his life; to be cooped up in
a distant town, in the character of a prisoner, and
about to be brought before the judges, to be tried
for assassination. He was moved to agony at the
idea; he rose and paced restlessly to and fro in
the most exquisite mental torture. A few hours,
and he must be led forth as a criminal, to the gaze
of the multitude-to the stem, cold eyes of the
judge, perhaps to death ! · He knew the summary
nature of the proceedings in these cities; and,
all unused to stand in the situation of a culprit, he
had no experience, and therefore no confidence in
the strength of the pleas which he must set up.
He thought on the evil that Talmai had brought
upon his family-on the added shame of his attempt
to punish him ;-he saw in imagination that base
and cruel monster ready to pounce upon him at the
judgment-seat-to claim him as his lawful prey,
and to lead him away to plunge his dagger into
his heart at the city gate-a spectacle to the crowd.
Oh ! what tidings would these be to reach Tekoah,
where, even his present absence must be adding
unspeakably to the sorrow already there ; _or if
,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
182 THE AVENGER
tidings not quite so terrible as these ; yet the very
news of llis captivity and danger, would be enough
to send that heart-broken maiden, already hovering
on the verge of death-the hoary heads of his
parents-to the grave. He groaned deeply at the
picture presented by his-own mind; the perspiration
rolled heavily from his brows ; he gasped for air and
liberty. He sought to fling open the casement of
the room, but he found it firmly secured with lock
and iron-bars, and his heart sunk at the discovery.
Ready admittance they could find to this awful
city ; but there was no egress, it seemed, but
through the court ofjudgment. It appeared like a
trap or a pit, into which they had wilfully thrown
themselves; and deeply did heo blame himself, for
having adopted the advice of Shallum, who, ap-
parently careless of consequences, slept soundly.
He gazed with wonder on him, and half impa-
tient of his slumber under such circumstances-
half impatient of his own unpartaken thoughts,
he was ready to awake him ; but he looked again
at the sunken and haggard cheeks-the wild, and
fast-fading locks of the faithful man, and his soul
was touched with a quick sense of love and com-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, ' 183
passion for him. He remembered all his unceasing
zeal, all the dangers and toil he ·had shared in his
cause, and he permitted him to sleep on.
As morning began to dawn, Shallum suddenly
lifted up his head, and seeing Dalphon sitting,
resting his forehead upon his knees, he started up,
and anxiously asked what ailed him.
" Canst thou ask that Shallum, in this place ?"
he replied. "It is well that thou canst sleep in
the face of disgrace and death. I envy, but cannot
imitate thee."
"Oh ! my honoured master !" Shallum cried,
with a look full of pity, "and hast thou been
tormenting thyself through the night with th~se
fearful imaginations? Put them away, I pray thee,
for be sure they are utterly vain. Have I not told
thee, that the law says, thou shalt not suffer im
idolater to live? Upon this rock we stand-and
upon this we are safe. Thinke!!t thou that Talmai
shall triumph ? I tell thee, nay !-but if he dare
come hither to accuse us-here will the judge
execute upon him all we desire."
" But, Shallum, · shall we · conceal our chief
motive, and say alone that we pursued Talmai as
•
•
o.g'"''dbyGoogle
184 THE AVENGEit
an idolater? No ! we cannot do that, we must
declare the truth."
" But why ?" replied Shallum, " why criminate
ourselves? We will declare the truth,-that Talmai
is an idolater; and demand the execution of the
law upon him. What need of more ?"
" But the judges, Shallum, will demand our
motives for the deed; our entire motives; we
cannot escape the truth. We cannot, Shallum !
we cannot ! we must stand by the truth, and put
our trust in God !"
" Yes !" said Shallum, " we will put our trust in
God, indeed ! and thinkest thou that God will
for8ake his zealous followers, and suffer the
apostate to triumph ? Thou shalt see God's won-
ders ! Thou shalt see the signal doings of his
hand ! The oppressor has dug a pit, and shall
fall into it; his wickedness shall come down upon
his own pate."
Shallum could not bring Dalphon to agree for a
moment to suppress one iota of truth. He dis-
dained every approach to duplicity, though it might
honour itself with the name of wisdom; but Shal-
lum's tone of confidence in the la\\"S, and in the
•
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 185,
providence of God, cheered and elevated his spirit.
He felt refreshed, and as day grew in the sky,
he strengthened himself to encounter the coming
trial.
At an early hour the host brought in a simple
meal, and inquired whether they would choose
to surrender themselves to the judges, or would
send to inquire of the President of the Court whe-
ther any one had accused them? They preferred
the latter mode, and gave in their names. He went,
and speedily returned with the message that Talmai,
the son of Shaphan, of the tribe of Zebulon, ac-
cused Dalphon, the son of Jathniel, and Shallum,
the son of Penuel, of the tribe of Judah, of the
murder of his kinsman Lod, the son of Doeg,-and
·demanded them at the hands of the judges! They
found that guards were already stationed at the door
of their host Gedaliah, and the good old.man re-
quested them to give up to· him their weapons of
offence;. according to the law which required that
no weapon should be worn, except by the guards,
nor even made in the City of Refuge, lest the
~ostile parties should fall on each other, and violate
the sanctuary of Israel. They were soon sum-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
186 THE AVENGER
moned to the tribunal; and descending to the door,
were received by the ,guards, who carried swords
and heavy spears ; and who conducted them to
the gate of the city.
The court of justice, in those times, consisted
only of a broad piazza, close to the city gate; the
city wall itself forming its back, and its open front
looking upon a wide space within the city, where
the people might stand and witness the proceed..
ings. A door, at the end of the piazza, connected
it with the lodge over the gate, where the judges
could retire to consult on any secret or difficult
questi~n.
They found the Shophetim and Soterim, the
judges and their recorders, already assembled.
The seven judges, seated on a semi-circular tribu-
nal beneath the piazza ; the scribes on low seats
at their feet, with their books open, recording the
evidence and judgment given in causes then going
on. Numbers of spectators were collected; whom
the people passing in and out o£ the city, occasion-
ally joined; and other persons stood readr. to
receive their trials.
Dalphon and Shallum soon beheld a scene cal~
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 187
culated for filling them with terrible forebodings.
A man was accused for the murder of another,
and in a few minutes declared guilty of the charge,
and handed over to the avenger to be conducted
to the place appointed, beyond the gates, for tl~
execution and burial of malefactors. They heard
the cries of the unhappy man,-they saw him
kneel, with agonized features and gestures of
despair, imploring mercy of the judges, who, with
an almost imperceptible motion of the hand, dis-
•
missed his plea; and he was borne away to death.
As he disappeared, Talmai stepped from the
crowd, and with an air and manner of assumed
gravity, ill concealing his fiendish exultation, called
for punishment on Dalphon, the son of Jathniel,
and Shallum, the son of Penuel. The guard
placed them, in the same moment, in front of
the tribunal. For a moment the judges and scribes
gazed upon them with stern and silent counte-
nances; then bade the accuser declare his cause.
With that ready eloquence, that show of tntth,
that air of lofty sincerity so eminently at his com-
mand, and which might impose on the shrewdest
and most experienced minds, Talmai stated that,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
188 THE AVENGER
for cause or causes unknown to himself, these per-
sons had pursued him with implacable hatred ;
yes, even as far as Zidon : had lain wait by the
way, and fallen upon him; had put him in immi-
nent peril of his life, and slain his kinsman."
The judges demanded whether it were so; and
what was their motive?
Dalphon, brave as he was, often as he had faced
danger and death, yet was he so stricken with the
perfect newness of his situation-with the sum-
~
mary and terrible fate of the last prisoner-with
the idea that flashed strongly on him, that in a few
moments he might be sent by the hand of his
mortal enemy into eternity (for he saw how swiftly
and mechanically the dreadful work went on; it
was only a motion of ~e judge's hand, and he was
'
no more), that he felt for an instant his whole
frame chilled, and struck with trembling; his bo-
som heaved for breath, and his tongue cleaved with
dryness to his palate. But at the sight of Talmai's
mien-the sound of his smooth, deceitful tongue,
his blood bounded to his cheek-he felt his heart
filled with instantaneous courage ; and burning
with indignation, he stepped forward, bowed reve-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 189
rently to the judges, and declared, with unhesitating
boldness, that he had followed Talmai with a strong
and holy determination to punish him for his crimes
and injuries to his family; and, moreover, to exe-
cute the law on him as an idolater, whom every
one was commanded to destroy ; that he had
slain no one, and t~erefore was amenable to no
law; nor was his follower, Shallum, guilty of mur-
der; for he had slain a man by accident, not by
design. Talmai, with fierce indignation, repelled
the charge of idolatry, and treated it as the poor
and base refuge of defeated malice.
The chief judge waved his hand, and addressed
the prisoners:-" Ye have openly confessed the
charge against you; your plea cannot be admitted, ,
or every one accused of slaying his fellow will rise
up with similar accusations against his complaina~t.
Ye are proven guilty by the law."
"Nay!'' said Shallum, "I have not admitted
the deed. A man was slain ; but it remains to be
proved by whom ; and this upon good evidence,
and also from what motive. Let it be proved that
I have slain this man; and I demand that the
accuser shall prove it by more than one witn~ss ;
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
190 THE AVENGER
for Moses says, ' Thou shalt put no man to death
by one witness.' I demand time, moreover, to
bring up our evidence."
Vehemently Talmai opposed the demand of de-
lay, offering to produce his witnesses; and the
judges appeared ready to grant his desire.
" Then," cried Dalphon, " we appeal from this
tribunal, to be judged in our own city. Ye cannot
resist the law !"
At this the countenance of Talmai fell. The
judges looked gravely on each other; and Shallum
added :-"-Yes! we demand time, or to be judged
in our own city. And beware, ye judges of God's
people, what ye do; for this is not a common
matter. It is a cause between the king's.of!icers,
and will not be passed by lightly, but will sound
from end to end of Israel. Think ye that Dalphon,
the son of Jathniel, the friend of David, the friend
of Solomon, can be put to death as ye would put
to death a dog?"
As Shallum said this, a murmur ran through the
people; there was a simultaneous pressing forward
to gaze on Dalphon; for the fame of his valour, of
his rising favour with the king, of his generous
OF BLOOD. 191
nature, had gone through the land. The judges
spoke eagerly with each other, and said, "What
time require ye ?" They replied, "The space of a
moon; for our abode is far off; and it may be
needful to tarry for those who cannot come
speedily."
"Then be it so," replied the chief judge; "we
grant you the space of a moon ; but dwell ye in
the city : go not out of it, or your blood be upon
your own heads."
He waved his hand, and the guard removed tht!m
to the dwelling of Gedaliah,-the people following
in eager crowds.
" And now, my sons," said the good old man,
" I see that ye are engaged in a righteous cause ;-
ye·are jealous for God and the commonwealth of
Israel ; I see that ye are of a good and faithful
lineage ; and may the Lord give you safe deliver-
ance out of the hands of this strong son of Belial ;
for I know that be is strong, and very deceitful !
But in the city ye are safe; and ye may choose
your own abode. Bread and wine, and the cover-
ing of a roof, the law provides for all fugitives
claiming the protection and justice of the place;
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
192 THE AVENGER
.but he that is able, is at liberty to provide himself
as he liketh best."
" Then," said Dalphon, " let us abide under thy
roof; for we like it well; and we will requite thee
for it. And we would, moreover, avail ourselves
of thy experienced counsel. I pray thee find us a
swift and sure mPssenger, to bear our letters to our
kindred, and bring back their replies."
" Hasten ye to write," said Gedaliah; " I will
bring a trusty messenger."
These matters were speedily arranged; and the
two stood and watched from the roof their courier,
on his fleet steed, push up the winding road of the
southern ascent, and disappear. When he was
lost sight of, Dalphon sate down, and gave way to
melancholy thoughts. He had sent forth to his
already affi.icted family, tidings that would fill it
with astounding dismay. He saw the hoary locks
of his father shake, as he bowed his head in un-
speakable grief; he saw his mother's-his sister's
silent despair ;-he saw Iene-if she yet lived-
overwhelmed with this last stroke of evil ; and his
heart trembled within him. He had addressed his
letters to Ahlab, and Shallum had added others ;-
one to his wife, and one to Reu.
D•J•ti7•.d by Coogle
OF BLOOD. 193
CHAPTER XV.
THEY had now full time to observe the character
of this place, and contemplated it "\\ith a sad
interest. It was but a small city, but it was in-
closed with high and strong walls. It was sur-
rounded by hills of considerable elevation ; and to
the north and west, the heights of Hermon rose
grandly and boldly to the view. Little trade or
manufacture of any species of goods appeared in
the place : the revenues of lands devoted to public
justice, and the money drawl). from the maintenance
of the fugitives, seemed to constitute the chief
wealth of the inhabitants; part of whom, accus:..
tomed to the melancholy s~enes perpetually passing,
went to and fro, and looked upon flight and fear,
and the shedding of blood, with eyes of unob-
servant apathy; while another portion passed their
time in attending the tribunal, watching the events,
listening to the extraordinary details of the daily
trials. Some circumstance was for ever occurring
VOL. 11. K
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
194 THE AVENGER
to gratify the thirst of novelty ; to soothe their
unappeasable love of seeing and telling striking
or singular things. And truly strange and fearful
were the things daily seen and done. Dreadful
the guilt, the passion, the vengeance, that were
compelled to ftee, and abide their judgment here.
Within the city, strong guards paraded the
streets, surrounded the tribunal, and were posted
at the doors of prisoners previous to trial ; while
some with dark and savage countenances, with souls
on fire for vengeance, walked sullenly up and
down, with fiercely rolling eyes, impatient of the
day of trial which should give their victims to their
hands. Others, who had been acquitted of the
charge of murder, but found guilty of manslaughter,
and therefore doomed here to spend their lives till
the death of the high-priest-a period probably
equivalent to their own existence-sauntered about
or sate in the sun, objects of the most pitiable
dejection ; watching with vague, dreamy eyes, the
clouds, or the people in the streets, or the very
sparrows that chattered and fought in the dust
before them. It was fearful to know that you
were daily amongst murderers, and men in whom
ta~ excess of passion and guilt, had slain all the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 195
peace and hopes of life. Yet every precaution was
taken, which could prevent injury to the fugitives
from their.pursuers, or from their own hands, often
more to be dreaded: every one entering the city
I
was examined, and their weapons of offence taken
away; and daily were families coming, some from
the distant parts of Israel, to take up their abode
with the father, the brother, the husband, who was
doomed here to dwell. Many a curious, many a
moving scene did they present. Women with
their children, might be continually seen coming
down the hills, with their ass laden with all their
little worldly wealth-weary, yet persevering way-
farers, leaving all their old abodes aud old familiar
friends, to cheer the one unfortunate heart, im-
prisoned in the city of crime and sorrow. Often
too, might the laden wagon-the gay chariot of
the wealthy, be seen coming on the same errand.
Such were the scenes which Dalphon and
Shallum witnessed. Now they would attend the
tribunal, and behold those instances of human
passion-the terrors ofspeedy death-the frantic joy
of unexpected deliverance, which fearfully impress
the spectator ; and listen to relations full of won-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
.
, .
196 THE AVENGER
der and curious developments of man's heart. Now
they would sit ~n the house-top, and perhaps dis-
cern some unhappy being, ftying towards the city
for his life-on foot or on steed; alone, or guarded
by a troop.of friends; and perhaps as he neared the
gate, see his enemies already before him, start
from their ambush, and slay him on the spot.
It was a terrible circumstance, that every high-
way to the city, notwithstanding the precautions of
the law-decreeing the width, the goodness, the
clearness of the road, and the erection of bridges,
to facilitate the chance of escape, \taB beset with
· eyes that watched for blood. The nooks and
hollows, the little openings between the hills, were
tenanted by liers-in-wait, who there erected rude
booths of boughs and turf, and were ready at any
sound of approach to peep forth. The ftying
wretch, who traversed these roads with his life in
.his hands, and ~ebeld the guide-posts with the large
words REFUGE ! REFUGE ! upon them, like voices
of ominous warning sounding into his soul, saw to
his inexpressible terror, as be drew near the city,
wild, ferocious countenances put forth-fierce
glaring eyes gleam, from the black and smoky huts
of many a hidden hollow.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 197
The wretch who had borne the tedium of many
years in the city, smitten at length with a quench.
less desire of liberty and home, and hoping,
perhaps, that the flight of time, so burthensome
to himself, had conq11ered the vengeful spirit of
his adversary, would suddenly sally forth, and find
that hatred was stronger than the fear of death.
Here would his unweariable foe descry him, spring
upon him, and stretch him in his blood.
They would observe some woe-begone man,
seated on the city wall for days and weeks, gazing
fixedly, intensely, on some point in the distant
horizon, for in that direction should the friend, the
succour come, to save him by a certain day: and a8
the day drew nearer, more eagerly and wildly
would he look and look. In the earliest dawn of
morning, amid the latest gleam of eve~ would he be
discerned; and after it came not, perhaps some
eye that had noted him, day by day, on his station,
would miss him-and he would be found a battered
mass, at the rocky foot of the wall.
Oh ! how fair did the country look, even to
Dalphon : how fresh seemed the free breeze that
wandered over those hills : how did he gaze on the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
198 THE AVENGER
dark forested sides, on the high, snow-capped
summits of Hermon, and think, even the days
when they fled through its wild tracts with ven-
geance behind them-happy I What "then was
the soul of him who had borne the weight-the
joyless silence of a long life ui that prison-house,
entering in the strength and bounding blood of
youth, and sitting, perhaps, now a tottering and
decrepid old ~an, on some forlorn door-sill, re-
fusing to call it his home, though he had ceased to .
have another in the earth !
Dalphon devoted many of the weary moments
of waiting, to talking with his host Gedaliah, who
l1ad passed all his days here, and whose mind was a
t~easury of the most stirring and dark passages of
human life. He loved likewise to listen to Me-
halath, Gedaliah's gentle daughter. When he first
entered their abode, he noticed in her nothing
but her compassionate air. As he further con-
templated her, he was struck with her extreme
and peculiar beauty. Her figure was of middle
stature, and slender; her face fair, and even pale.
She was like a chis.eled image for symmetry and
complexion ; but the striking character of her form
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 199
was gentleness-of her face, pensive, nay even
melancholy tenderness. Her voice was sweet,
deeply sweet ; full of affection, but full also of a
sorrow that startled and thrilled the hearer, and
made him wonder what grief it was that had given
it that soft and pathetic tone. But it was no sor-
row of her own ; it was the sorrow amid which she
dwelt, that had subdued and pervaded her naturally
cheerful heart. Her father, who felt it the great
duty of his life to go amongst the wretched who fted
thither, and to alleviate as much as possible, both
physical and moral evil, was not sad, but he was
grave. His daughter, who, from early childhood,
had occasionally caught glimpses of the terrors of
human passion-bad heard the cry of horror-had
seen the gush of blood suddenly shed-had become
shrinkingly fearful of the contact of misery: yet
when her father brought home tales of distress,
her spirit would be roused to a pitch of sympathy
that drowned her own feelings in those of others,
and she would follow, from one sad place to
another, the gleam of Gedaliah's lantern in the
dark, wild winter nights.
Two scenes which she had witnessed, seemed to
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
200 THE AVENGER
·dwell upon her memory with peculiar vividness.
One was the death of a fearful-spirited nian ;-a
man of a naturally feeble, timid dispositjpn, who,
however, excited by jealo\lSy, and finding his rival
asleep in the field, suddenly smote him on the
temples with a stone-and fled. The moment he
had done the murderous act, all the terrors of con-
science and of punishment came upon him. He
flew on the wingS"of affright to Kedesh ; but·even
there, though no pursuer appeared, his apprehen-
sions kept him in a frenzy of continual horror.
He could not eat, nor drink, nor sleep, nor rest in
one place ; but roamed to ' and fro, moaning to
himself; ready to fly from every one that ap-
proached ; starting at every blast of wind.
At length an accQSer came, and brought him to
judgment. Then, terrib~ and shrill were. his
cries for mercy to his judges.-~, his pursuer. He
was led away, still crying for mercy; and··when
they came to the place of death, so fierce were
his terrors, that his piercing shrieks and lamentable
beseechings were heard through the city, and he
fell dead ere the stroke of the avenger reached
him.
OF BLOOD, 201
The other was the fate of a woman who had
fled from her home with a seducer. The enraged
husband pursued and overtook them in Lebanon ;
but instead of slaying his injurer, was slain by
him. She saw her husband fall ; and fled with his
murderer to Kedesh. Here he was soon pursued
by the kinsmen of the dead, and put to death.
She followed him to the place of execution-saw
him fall-saw the ready pit receive his warm corse
-the earth cover it; and, without a cry, a tear,
walked away from the city; treading back the very
way they had come ; turning not to one side or
the other, but went onward toward the north-
with the air of one blasted with excessive woe.
Gedaliah recounted the circumstance by his fire,
and his daughter cried'-" Oh, and would no one
fetch. her back ? Would no one pity her ?"
"No!" said Gedaliah, "she has sinned a deadly
sin, .afld has brought death upon others,-let her
go with all the curse of her crime upon her head !"
Yet the pitying words of his daughter sounded
in his soul, and worked, and worked as he sate
upon his hearth, till he at length arose, saying-
" We are all but weak, sinful creatures ; we all
K3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
202 THE AVENGER
need compassion ;" and with Mehalath flew towards
the desert to see what had chanced to her.
They followed her fleetly, and, ere night, dis-
cerned her in the forest. But she went onward,
turning not her head. They called to her, but
she heard not. Night came, and with it a tempest.
They fled to a forester's dwelling for shelter. All
night the tempest raged apd howled_; the great
winds roared and groaned amid the ancient trees
of the forest-the lightning blazed-the thunder
bellowed horribly-----:- the rains dashed in furious
torrents, that seemed destined to drown every
exposed creature. On the forester's hearth they
sate by his fire of logs, and thought, and talked
sadly of that wretched woman. All day, all night
again the rains poured; they prayed to God to
shew his mercy even to so sinful a creature, and
guide her to some place of protection. The next
day theywent on, for the rains had ceased; they
beheld the ravages of the merciless tempest.
Torrents red and muddy, rushed down a hundred
steeps; the ground her~ and there seemed ploughed
up with lightning ; the great trees were split,
their enormous branches rent down, themselves in
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 203
many places hurled to the earth; the ground was
soft and miserable with wet; yet they went on,
and on, but saw no traces of the sinful woman.
At length they discerned some living thing be-
neath the shade of a great cedar ; tltey approached;
it was a vulture that rose up, and alit upon the tree ;
they came near, and beheld torn and drenched
raiment-a horrible and disfigured corpse; as if the
God of vengeance had taken the miserable woman
out of the hand of man, and led her up to judgment
by his own right arm. She had reached the very
spot where her husband was s_lain. There tlte
sword by which he was pierced, lay black with the
rain, corroded by rust ; his bones gnawed by the
desert beast, were still there, and there, already
visited by the vulture-torn by the chacal, lay the
woman-a fearful object of divine retribution.
These things had touched the spirit of Mehalath
deeply; they had tinged even the sound of those
lofty hymns, which she sung to the harp of Geda-
liah in the still evening. Dalphon and Shallum
loved to listen to these passages of high but pensive
melody, a~ they sate at day's decline on the roof,
and watched the fading splendours retire from the
summits of Hermon, and leave all still, hushed,
o.9.,".dbyGoogle
-. ......
204 THE AVENGER
and dim around them ; and once they heard words
which they deemed Mehalath herself had dictated.
Oh! that the eagle's wings were mine,
I would not dwell where wretches pine!
The gush of blood-the shriek offear,
My far-off rest should come not near;
My soul should take a blither tone,
Nor think of strife in places lone:
Nor think of all sad woman's woe.
Who shuns the crime, yet bears the blow.
When, Lord of glory and of lo,·e,
Comes thy Redeemer from above !
That King of victory, who shall stand,-
On Hermon wave his conquering hand;
From Zion's fortress speak the word,
By men, by fiends, through nature heard ;-
And vengeful souls, and hands of gore,
Through Israel shall be known no more !
Thy land-it is a glorious land,
How fair the eternal mountains stand!
With solemn woods, and ancient rocks;
With fertile fields, and wandering flocks ;
With glittering streams, and cheerful towns,
Thy favour Israel's portion crowns;
And brighter days shall still appear-
yet all be dark and joyless bere!
Oh! that the eagle's wings were mine!
I would not dwell where wretches pine;
Or rather, rather let me be
A Hebrew damsel glad and free,
In some fair city, that is blest
With loving souls, and lasting rest.
For hence shall blood, nor death depart,
Till Shiloh change man's fiery heart!
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
----------·-,.__, ..,_;.. ...~--- .... - -..- ..
OF BLOOD, 205
CHAPTER XVI.
TEN days had passed since the courier departed,
when one day, as Dalphon and Shallum were
seated on their wonted station, the house-top, they
beheld two horsemen descending the southern
slope. They watched their progress to the gate,
when they were hidden from their view; but in a
few minutes they heard their horses advancing up
the street. They started as they heard them stop
at Gedaliah's door; and in the next instant, Ahlab
sprung up the stairs to the roof, and clasped Dal-
phon to his heart. Who can describe-who can-
not imagine the meeting of such friends, under
such circumstances i' Those rapturous and all-
forgetting emotions-the speedy refiu.-,: of thought,
bringing back record offacts and feelings, only made
more perspicuously melancholy by the sunlight of
joy cast momentarily upon the heart?
They learned that lene, still living, but weak
and much worn away, seemed to have been bound
o.9.,".dbyGoogle
----~-~----·-·.
206 THE AVENGER
to existence by anxiety about Dalphon, more than
by the bonds of her own nature ; that after his de-
parture, suspicions of his purpose came strongly
upon her spirit; his protracted absence and silence
confirmed those suspicions; and that all her own
sorrows and feebleness, seemed forgotten in the
daily solicitude on his behalf. But when the fearful
tidings of his detention an~ impending trial at Ke-
desh arrived, she had seemed to acquire a wondrous
accession of strength ; and implored that they
might instantly set out to join her brother in the
place of his captivity.
The aged parents, stunned as it were, for a
moment, by this sore addition to their calamities,
were also speedily aroused to a keen desire to set
out for that distant city. "My son! my son!" old
Jathniel exclaimed, " the God of thy fathers pro-
tect thee !" The whole soul of the mourning
parents was bent on instant departure. They staid
not to sleep--not even to eat or to drink-ere they
undertook their journey; but hastily taking money
and raiment for their need, ascended their ancient
chariot, and were on their way; travelling rather
with a speed dictated by their love and their fears,
o.9.,".dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 207
than by their own infirmities, and the feebleness of
Iene. She, indeed, seemed to experience no incon-
venience, but the slowness of the progress,-still
looking forward with upraised head and anxious
countenance, and longing for accelerated speed.
Ahlab had accompanied the sorrowful family to
Jerusalem, where Jatbniel had hastened, to throw
himself at the feet of the king to beg the life of his
son. Ahlab had accompanied him to the palace.
It was the old palace of David, for Solomon had
not yet built his own, in which Jathniel had many
a time visited that great monarch; ·and he was
deeply affected by many recollections which crowded
upon him as he slowly ascended the steps of the
portico, and advanced along the hall to the distant
apartment of the king. The house was itself the
same, but all besides was changed. New faces of
young people, new and more splendid dresses of
officers and servants, everywhere met him. A
multitude of costly articles of foreign manufacture,
and, to him, of surprising magnificence, bad dis-
placed the old and simple furniture; and a style of
splendour and increased ceremony, announced the
higher sense of royalty which reigned in the new
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
208 THE AVENGER
monarch. Jathniel used only to shew his face at
the gate, in order to be received with smiles and
reverence, and to be hastened with assiduous zeal
into the presence of the king, who re~ived him
with open arms, a cordial salute, and a blessing
uttered in the frank and loving spirit of the great
warrior and bard of Israel. Now he was not
known-not even his name-his aged _
and venerable
aspect gained him respectful attention, but he was
requested to wait in the hall till his name had been
borne to the king. The ~essenger speedily re-
turned, and with stately silence led the way before
him. They passed on through many rooms filled
with joyous and superb companies - the royal
attendants-the officers of the household and state
-till they were ushered into an ample, but retired
apartment looking into ·the inner garden. Here
they found the youthful monarch all alone, and
surrounded by those objects that marked his tastes
and projects.
In his garden were a variety of airy tenements
erected, in which many curious animals, many
singular birds, plants, and trees of innumerable
species, were collected in their living beauty. Two
o.9.,".dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 209
damsels, of marvellous loveliness, were walking
amongst them ; and, ever and anon, stopping to
survey some fierce creature in his abode, with looks
of fearful curiosity; or to speak in cheerful tones to
the painted parrots of the East, which hopped from
tree to tree above. their heads, and called to them
in quaint voices. Suddenly these fair creatures
came to the window of the room, with countenances
all radiant with youth and smiles; but observing
the king occupied with strangers, they blushed,
dropped their veils over their beautiful features,
and disappeared amongst the trees.
The gorgeous peacock paraded before the win-
dows, and spread its ample, quivering train on the
roof of a small pavilion ; and the pelican of the
wilderness stood and slept by a fountain, or,
opening its huge beak drowsily, uttered its dis-
cordant cry. The harp of his father David stood
in its wonted place ; and many instruments of
foreign aspect were lying here and there. On
a table before the king, which appeared one mass
of richly carved gold, of most exquisite workman-
ship, lay plans of vast and imperial buildings ; and
fair, large tomes, in which the king was writing
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
210 THE AVENGER
those histories of the works of nature, those songs,
and maxims of wisdom, which made his name
known far beyond the bounds of Israel, as the
sagest of monarchs.
At the sight of Jathniel, he arose, and coming
forward with a frank dignity, clasped the old man
in his arms ; expressed his joy to see him once
more, and inquired after the welfare of his family.
At these words the old man sunk down before him
oo his knees, and, hiding his face in his robe,
wept bitterly. Then lifting up his aged coun-
tenance, covered with paleness, and wet with tears,
he declared' the situation of his son, and implored
the exertion of his royal goodness on his behalf.
It would have formed a beautiful picture, had such
things been permitted in Israel-the bowed and
trembling figure-the hoary, flowing locks, the elo-
quent, beseeching countenance of the aged Hebrew,
and the stately beauty of the young, illustrious
monarch, who stood and gazed on the venerable
man's distress with wonder, that every moment
deepened to anxious concern. Jathniel besought
him by the memory of his father,-by his own
knowledge of him and his family,-by his own
OF BLOOD. 211
noble nature, to grant him the assurance that his
son's life and honour should be spared to his
last years in safety. He e~plained all the villany
of Talmai,-the failing, drooping existence of his
daughter.
The tears started into the eyes of the king, as he
listened to the fervent appeal of the afBicted father.
He raised him tenderly, and placing him on the
couch beside him, declared that whatever his power
would effect should be done for him, as he would
do it for his own revered father, if he were alive.
But he reminded him of the awful responsibility of
his exalted office; he was not at liberty to rule justI
as he would, but by the fixed and righteous laws of
God. To those laws he himself was subject; he
could not violate, he could not sway them aside,
however little, were it to gratify the purest and
highest feelings of his nature, without injury to
Israel, and offence to God.
" Yet, good and faithful friend of my father," he
added, "belov«l friend of my own early years,
trust in tne as thou wouldst trust in the Almighty,
that all which can be effected, accordant with our
sacred institutions, shall be done." He comforted
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
212 THE AVENGER
the old man, bade him be of good cheer, and put
his trust in God; prell8ed him to eat and drink in
his presence : but filled with anxiety for his son,
Jathniel hasted to thank the king, and to depart.
He was more anxious now than before his arrival.
The words of the king had been comfortable to
him, yet they had shewn him so deeply the awful
situation of him who becomes amenable to the laws
under a righteous and God-fearing monarch, that
he trembled for his son. " It is right! it is right!"
he inly ejaculated; " the Lord's Anointed rules not
for himself alone-not alone for his friends, but for
\the commonwealth of Jacob;" and yet something
at the bottom of his soul would rise up, and whisper
-"yet had but David been alive!" He kissed
the hem of the king's robe, blessed the youthful
prince, prayed that the prosperous favour of the
King of kings might attend all his designs; and
thanking him for his ·kindness, rose up to depart.
The king caught him in his arms, kissed his aged
cheek, and again with consoling, 'et not perfectly
assuring words, committed him to the care of his
servants, who conducted him to his chariot.
" And now," said Ahlab to Dalphon, " prepare
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 213
for the reception of our friends ; I must hasten
back, to meet and conduct them hither."
They embraced, and parted. Dalphon and
Shallum soon sought out an abode suitable for the
residence of his fami.ly; for besides that the house
of Gedaliah was not large enough, he would have
no one to be witness of the affiiction of his friends.
They awaited with daily watching and sorrowful
anxiety for their arrival; and it was notmany days
ere they beheld the melancholy company appear.
Who shall describe the sad but tender meeting of
such hearts under such circumstances? Who shall
enter the sacred abode, where for days and weeks,
the once happy, but now sorely tried family,
awaited, with mutual words of love, but with con-
tinually increasing anxiety, the awful time of trial?
They sate together, by the couch of lene, who,
faded to a frail and. fleeting shadow of what she
once was, yet filled Dalphon with hourly admiration
at the undiminished vigour of her soul ; at the life
of her countenance, that expressed the continual
working of an interest in her brother's safety, that
bore her above all sense of her own griefs, and
seemed to endow her with a boundless mastery
over the laws and weakness of her own nature.
Dir tized yGoogle
214 THE AVENGER
Jathniel and Cutha, humbled and bowed as to
the dust by the calamities which had thus come
upon them as a flood, yet supported by their long-
exercised trust in the Almighty, and strengthened
by the words of Gedaliah, who, with his gentle
daughter, often visited them, endured with suffer-
ing, yet patient hearts, the coming of the awful
time; while Hamutal, sad, yet firm, and full of love
to all, was like a wise and invigorating -spirit of
heaven amongst them.
For Dalphon, it required all the solace and the
strengthening ministration of his friends to enable
him to endure his own refl.ections,-to restrain the
vehemence and impetuosity of his nature. He
regarded himself as the cause of all this evil,-he
revolved with shame and bitter mortification the
failure of his attempt upon Talmai; and that base
wretch, now joined by his Zidonian dame, and
casting off all the disguise of his vile nature, dwelt
in the city with a splendour only suited to a prince;
and, day by day, paraded in his gilded chariot,
drawn by four fiery steeds, before the house where
he knew the fair victim of his dissembled affection
was languishing in the last stage of that heart-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 215
wreck which he had occasioned; and where all
those who had received him with open arms and
hearts were suffering from his villany and revenge.
Dalphon's indignation at this spectacle was hard
enough to bear; but when he permitted himself to
glance forward, and to suppose for a moment that
even this might be terminated by the triumph of
this traitor-by the overwhelming of all he loved in
'
the agony of his own destruction-he was.wrung and .
tortured by an excess of anguish, that seemed to
have no refuge but in death or madness. He was
not a little anxious too, on account of Ahlab, who,
with Reu, was perpetually passing in and out of
the city, making preparations for the approaching
trial : and knowing how much that faithful friend
had excited the malice of Talmai, he had a
thousand apprehensions of treachery and blood-
shed.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
216 THE AVENGER
CHAPTER XVII.
BuT the great and decisive day at length arrived;
and the whole city, roused by the interest of the
case, by the rank and influence of the parties, was
drawn to the tribunal. Before the break of day,
hundreds had taken their stations to command a
near view of the proceedings; and, as the morning
advanced, thousands came pouring in through the
gates from the surrounding country. Dense
crowds were also collected before the abodes of
D~lphon and Talmai, watching with eager anxiety
every window, every motion of life about the dwell-
ings; and when the judges issued from their houses
to proceed to the tribunal, they were followed by
multitudes, pressing. regardlessly on each other,
which must have convinced them of the momentous
decision they had that day to give. It was not
without difficulty they passed through the crushing
mass around the judgment-seat ; and when the
parties at issue themselves appeared, there was a
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 217
murmur, a rush, a tumultuous thronging, that
required all the patient, yet strenuous efforts of the
guards, to command an opening for their respective
charges.
Talmai appeared seated in his blazing chariot,
which was drawn up as near as possible to the area
occupied by the scribes, ·his Zidonian dame seated
•beside him; her own splendid and queen-like per-
son adorned with drapery of the richest gold-em-
broidered satin, and with a profu~ion of jewels that
filled the gazing people with wonder. All eyes
were fixed on the triumphant and magnificent array
of this princely pair, who, surrounded by a troop of
their friends and retainers, sate beneath a broad ·
aZure canopy, which was held over them by a
gigantic Ethiopian,- its heavy, golden fringe
blazing in the sunlight. The crowd gazed on
them, but they gazed only on the judges.
Dalphon and Shallum, accompanied only by
Ahlab and Reu, took their station in front of the
tribunal. A sort of moveable tent, somewhat
similar to what were used at times to convey a
bride to the house of the bridegroom, was brought,
and placed just behind them. This was understood
VOL. II.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
218 THE AVENGER
to contain friends or evidence for the party accused,
but no one knew what.
The chief judge called upon Talmai, as before,
to state his charge; on which he dismounted from
his chariot, and advancing with the most low and
graceful obeisance to the tribunal, again declared
his ignorance of the cause which had induced the
prisoners to pursue him with the most deadly hate. •
He declared that nothing, at one time, did he so
much desire, as an alliance with the family of Dal-
phon ;-no one had he so deeply loved. That he
had been introduced by him to his family,-offered
the hand of his sister, and was on the point of
marriage, when, for some cause which they had
refused to declare, he had been rudely and ignomi-
niously driven from their house, and _pursued with
a blood-thirsty hatred. It ~ght be said,-and it
had been said, and was the only accusation he had
received from the family,-that he had already
another wife. But was that any new thing in
Israel? And designing, as his affection prompted
him, and as her extraordinary beauty and talents
justified, to place lene in his bosom as its especial
jewel, he was at a loss to conceive whence had
OF BLOOD, 219
arisen their sudden and furious malice. But it had
arisen; and not contented to let him depart, and
dwell peaceably in a far city, he had been followed
by them, had been furiously assaulted; and although
he had himself escaped their murderous hands, his
follower and near kinsman had been slain by them.
·For this he demanded the just veng~ance of the
laws, which called upon him to pursue, and take
blood for blood : he called upon the judges to
deliver up to him Dalphon and Shallum ; and -
he
did this less with a vengeful feeling, than from a
sense of public duty; for without enforcing against
them this salutary law of Moses, he felt that there
was no security for his own future existence; and
what was of higher consequence, the example qf
..
such ill-judged lenity would operate to destroy the
security of the life of every member of the state.
The'grace and beauty of the man--the tone of
affectionate interest in which he stated his former
desires of friendship with his pursuers-the flowing
and manly eloquence of his address--made a deep
and evident impression on the crowd; nor was this
at all lessened by the aspect of Dalphon. The
same-sentiments which oppressed him on his former
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
220 THE AVENGER -
appearance, again fell upon him. All the critical
awfulness of his situatio,n,-all the disastrous conse-
quences of a failure, presented themselves; and he
felt a melancholy and mortified sense of desertion,
in that no further testimony of the influence or
care of the king had appeared. He heard on all
hands of the magnificent plans of the monarch.
Of the temple, and the palaces that he was pro-
jecting; and of the mighty preparations already in
progress for their execution. Ahlab spoke of the
many thou.'W!ds of men that he had seen marching
from Jerusalem to the northern forests, with wa-
gons and tents, and all sylvan implements. Reu,
in his visits to the forest, which he had often fre-
quented, to bring home game for his friends during
their abode in Kedesh, told of the three-score and
ten thousand bearers of burthens, and the four-score
thousand hewers in the mountains-their captains
and overseers, who were felling the choicest cedars,
and conveying them on sledges to the sea, whence
the Tyrian floats carried them to the point of the
coast nearest to Jerusalem. These things he daily
heard; and he concluded that his own insignificant
person and cause were gone from the memory of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 221
the king, who was so intensely bent on his own
glory, and the glory of his kingdom. He was,
therefore, depressed with a sickness of the heart
that made him wish for death, could he die without
bringing desolation on his family : and his dejected
countenance only confirmed, in the eyes of the
multitude, the brilliancy of Talmai's speech.
The chief judge called upon Talmai to prove
the murder of his kinsman by the prisoners, upon
the evidence of at least two persons~ without which ·
the law of Moses allowed no man to be put to
death. Instantly three young men advanced, and
swore that they saw the prisoners fighting with
Talmai and his follower, near the city of Zidon,
and saw Lod his servant and kinsman fall.
The judges declared the deed proved according
to the law, and called upon the prisoners to say
if they had aught to advance in vindication.
Dalphon again avowed his pursuit of Talmai,
to avenge upon him the injuries of his family ; his
deceitful cruelty to his sister, whom he had
addressed as having no wife,-whereas he had at
least two ; one of whom he had basely and bar.,
~rously deserted. Was it to be permitted, that
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
222 THE AVENGER
· a man with his personal and intellectual recom-
mendations, with his power of captivating the
highest-and most gifted hearts, should go abotit
in a feigned character, concealing his real circum-
stances-his real connexions-his real views,-.:.
and thus creeping into the bosom of the happiest
families, there to scatter ruin and woe? Worse
than the assassin, he struck the dagger of incurable
misery into the heart of whole families at once,·
and that in the very moment that they were
receiving him as a friend, and treating him as a
brother: worse than the thief, he stole away peace,
health, affection, all that constitutes the worth
and the substance of existence, while he professed
to be devoting himself in person, mind, and estate,
by all that dignifies and ennobles, by all that
endears and sanctifies a man in the eyes of the
loving and the virtuous : worse than the slanderer,
be took not away manly reputation, but all that
reputation was built upon, and from which its
value was derived. To him the wild beast was
a tame and generous creature, for it never assumed
a false and smiling shape; but came in its own
rugged terrors to devour openly;-to him the locust
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
O:P BLOOD. 223
was a harmless thing, for it devoured but the
greenness of the earth, which might spring again
-he devastated the freshness, the vitality of the
heart, which revived no more. Made to act the
part of an angel; to be a shining messenger of
delight and of good in the world; to scatter joy,
to reap admiration wherever be went-he con-
verted himself into a glittering demon, on whom
men might look, and bless him for his beauty;
but if they trust him, they die,-if they breath~
with him the same air, they are smitten with the
invisible but unquenchable flame in which he lives;
and wither and shrivel up like a scorched plant,
and perish, perish perhaps slowly, but surely, and
with inexpressible, lingering, consuming pains.
Such a man was that Talmai before them,-such
a victim was his dear, his most loveable, most
injured sister at this moment. It might, perhaps,
be said .he had broken no specific law; but he had
in fact broken the whole law, for the law was
built upon the principle of justice, and upon love.
Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. This
was the command to every Israelite ,;...._.and this,
Talmai, and men like him set at naught; he~ping
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
224 THE AVENGER
upon the head of their neighbour the sharpest
injuries, in wantonness, or in snakish guile. If
they avoided the fracture of any specific law, the
more ought every member of the house of Israel
to be alive to their cowardly villany, the more
indignantly prompt it became every one who loved
his neighbour as himself to be, in punishing these
detestable disturbers of the general peace. Who
would not crush a serpent that had stung his
friend?
But Talmai, moreover, was an idolater; and
the idolater they were bound to destroy. Had he
therefore slain Talmai, he should then claim not
pardon, but commendation for the act. But he
had not slain Talmai, he had not &lain even his
follower; he owed, therefore, nothing to the law,
but his general obedience ; no debt, no punish-
ment. Lod, it was true, had been slain by
Shallum, but not by design; by mere acci~ent,
without the slightest impulse of malice : therefore
the law judged him only for manslaughter ; but
Lod, it appeared, wa8 also an idolater-therefore
was Shallurn also_justified by the law.
Beyond all this too, he declared that the three
o;l''·odbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 225
witnesses who had been brought forward to swear
to the killing of Lod, were purjured,-for no one
save themselves, Talmai and Lod, were present.
"Let that be proved," said the judge. But
how were they to prove it? They two were
alone, and strangers in the place; the cause
seemed hopeless. The multitude stood around,
silent as a multitude of stone, listening whether
the prisoners would advance anything further,
and evidently expecting the sentence of the judge.
But Shallum, seeing the jeopardy of the cause;
cried aloud, "Judges of Israel, beware how ye shed
innocent blood, through the mouths of perjured
sons of Belial. Before the God of heaven, who sees
all our hearts, and who will assuredly punish the
wicked, I swear, that these are false witnesses.
I swear also that Talmai is an idolater, and there-
fore not allowed by the law of Moses to live,
much less to bear witness against the faithful sons
of Jacob. Is he not here this day, before the face
of this assembly of God's people, bringing with
him his Zidonian harlot, a shameless idolater with
an idolatress? Beware how ye move in this
matter: I swear before the Almighty Lord of
L3
226 THE AVENGER
heaven, that Talmai is an idolater, and that I
saw him worshipping Ashtaroth the goddess of
the Zidonians, in a grove in that city. Let him
die as the enemy of Israel; and let him not stand
to shed the blood of those who are better than he."
As he · cried aloud in these words, the chief
judge arose, and with a fierce and flushed brow
said,-" Thou mur~erer, and slanderer of the just
avenger of thy evil deeds, thinkest thou that thy
words can weigh for a moment in thy favour? Thy
open malice be thy own judge; by full evidence
ye are justly doomed to death, and ye bring
nothing but your own words-words of no credit,
against that evidence-what need of delay?"
As he pronounced these words, Ahlab stood and
stared upon him as if he had seen a spirit suddenly
arise before him. He saw in him, one whose face
was conspicuous amongst the idolaters in the secret
banqueting-house in J~rusalem. He saw that a
cursed conspiracy between Talmai and him was
about to destroy for ever his friend, and with him
his own peace, and all that life had of good and
precious. He saw all this, and he assayed to
spring forward and to speak ; but his limbs refused
o;l''·odbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 227
to move, his tongue to utter a sound. He was as
one frozen to stone by the spells of some mighty
enchanter, and yet with all his life and conscious-
ness within him; and while he stood thus, agonized
but impotent, suddenly there arose a sound as of
the sea; suddenly there came a shout from without
the walls, and the heads of the whole multitude
turned towards the gate in fixed and intense in-
quiry. The sound, as of roaring waters, drew
near; the shout became louder and.louder, and he
deemed that he discerned the crack of many thongs,
the sound of the thunder of many steeds; and
again, he thought he heard a distant cry of " the
king !" but it was drowned in the confused tumult.
But a moment more, and the city gates were
wedged thick with a compact mass of people, who
with eager eyes and struggling limbs, strove to
burst into the city, but were prevented hy their
own desperate compression. And now the cry
arose clear and full, and spread round the whole
city like a flash of lightning-" the king ! the
king !" and the whole mass of life, impelled for-
ward by the intense eagerness of their own spirits,
but overpowered by the mighty, coming multitude,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
228 THE AVENGER
and the rushing of the guards, were swayed back-
ward ; and in another moment, the royal attendants
were seen making their way through the mass of
hot and impetuous life, and the royal chariot
shewed itself in the gate. Then burst forth a
strong shout, which seemed to shake the city to its
foundations, followed by a silence deep as deatll.
Soon the chariot of the king drew near the
tribunal ; soon the crimson curtains were drawn
back, and the monarch stepped forth to the admir-
ing multitude,-a person of majesty and manly
beauty, equal to the fame of his transcendant
talents. His countenance large, finely formed-
wore an air of grace and kingly dignity; yet was
it benign in its expression. His large, dark eyes;
his flowing, dark auburn locks ; his tall, well-
proportioned frame and regal step, filled the hushed
throng with delightful astonishment. His golden
sceptre was in his hand, his golden crown.upon his
head; and seven youths of shining beauty, and
clad in vests of blue, bore the train of his purple
robe. His tunic was of rich orange satin of Zidon,
wrought with silver flowers ; and the skirts of his
vest were of the colour of sapphire, figured with
OF BLOOD, 229
flowers of gold. His loins ~re bound by a broad
belt of gol!fen embroidery, and cl!lSped in front
with a mighty diamond clasp ; and from his neck
hung many chains of pearls and precious stones.
As he drew near the tribunal, the scribes and
judges bowed themselves to the cedarn floor; and
the chief judge immediately made way, that the
king might sit in his seat ;-he himself arose and
stood behind.
Then Solomon desired that the evidence might
be read; and when he had heard it, he commanded
that the three witnesses of Talmai should be taken ;
that two of them should be kept asunder at suffi-
cient distance from the tribunal, and that the third
should be brought before him. The witness ap-
peared; but he came not now with the confident
air of his former delivery, but pale, trembling, and
more resembling a culprit than an evidence. The
terrors of the king's majesty seemed to overpower
him. Then Solomon demanded of him, whether
he and the other witnesses were in company when
they saw the murder committed. He replied, " they
were." " And where were ye? " inquired the
king. " Were ye with Talmai 1" " No !" he
Dir tized yGoogle
/
230 THE AVENGER
replied, "we were together in the field near the
road, at our work, and hearing a noise, we looked,
and saw the battle, and the man fall."
"It is enough," said the king, "take him away
and bring up another."
"And where sawest thou this deed done?" he
asked the second. "I am a merchant of Zidon,"
the man said, and was riding to the city, when I
saw the fight, and the man fall."
" Alone, or in company didst thou ride?"
" In company with my friends, the other witnesses;
for we are all merchants of Zidon."
"It is enough," ~id Solomon, "let the third
appear."
" And who art thou?" the king asked; and he
replied, " I am a servant of Talmai, and followed
him at a distance, when I saw the two men fall
upon my master. and Lod, and Lod was slain."
" And why camest thou not to the aid of thy
master ?" " Ere I could come, the battle was
•
over, and the men fled, and my master pursued
them ; and as they paSsed me, I also joined in the
pursuit."
"Did they fly directly to the country, or
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 231
sought they the city 1" " They fled directly to
the country."
" It is enough," said the king, " take him
hence; and let the three die the death of the
false-witness."
As he said this, the man cried out, " Oh king !
pardon ! and I will tell thee all !" but the king
waved hi$ hand, and he was borne away.
Then said Solomon, " Dalphon, son of Jathniel,
and Shallum, son of Penuel, ye are free. The
charge against you cannot be proved by the evi-
dence required by the law. God and your own
hearts be your judges!"
The multitude was about to raise a shout of
acclamation, but the king waved his hand, and
silence returned.
" Talmai, son of Shaphan," said the king,
gravely, "is charged with the sin of idolatry.
Let him stand at the tribunal : and let his ac-
cusers appear. The evidence of Shallum, the son .
of Penuel, is already recorded against him; but
let there be, at least, two other ·evidences produced,
that there be no shadow of injustice in Israel."
There was a pause ; and it seemed for a little
Dir tized yGoogle
232 THE AVENGER
time, as if no accuser would appear ; when Ahlab
started forth, lind cried, " Oh king ! I am evi-
dence against Talmai. I have seen him commit
idolatry in a company of idolaters in the very city
of thy kingdom- Jerusalem. Yes I before the
God of our fathers, I swear that there Talmai
worshipped the gods of the heathen; and there did
the judge, who now stands behind thee, worship
those gods also !''
At this charge, a shock as that of an earthquake,
seemed to pass through the multitude; and Solo-
mon turned and gazed with a dark countenance
upon the judge, who bowed his face to the floor.
"It is a grave and a fearful charge, young man,
which thou hast made," the king said : " is there
any other evidence of this thing-a thing touching
the honour of the Lord's judgment-seat-besides
thee?"
" There is," said Ahlab; and entering the tent,
he came forth with the figure of a female, veiled
from the head to the feet.
"Who art thou," said the king, " that comest
' ·
to give evidence of a most heinous sin, against
Talmai, and against Huram, the Lord's judge?"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 233
But the figure trembled exceedingly, and was
silent. The multitude, as silent as that unknown
person, gazed in curious wonder; and.the monarch,
as in indulgence of the trembling evidence, waited
a little, and then added, " Speak, thou veiled
trembler; who art thou?" But the figure only
trembled the more ; and the king commanded that
the veil should be withdrawn. As one of the
guards loosened the veil, ther.e was a cry as of
horror, or surprise ; and an aged man sprung from
the crowd, and clasped to his heart the unveiled
damsel. It was Shemshem, the shepherd of Jath-
niel, who had hither followed his master; and
who beheld as one arisen from the dead, his daugh- ·
ter Abital! The king, the court, the vast assembly,
looked in wonder ; and when they saw a fair, but
trembling damsel dropping insensibly into the arms
of that old man, who clasped her with wild looks,
and cried, " my daughter ! my lost, dead daugh-
ter !" they comprehended enough of the matter,
though they knew neither of the persons, to weep
at the sight. The king himself wept.
It was with difficulty that Abital could be roused
sufficiently to give }ler evidence ; but when she
234 THE AVENGER
did, she unveiled such a scene of horror and crime ;
she threw open to the gaze such a prison-house
of· woe, that the whole multitude groaned with
indignation, and turned upon Talmai and Huram
looks of fierce detestation.
" Bind the monstrous man !-bind also ·that
corrupt judge," said Solomon ; " let them die the
death of the idolater; lest the thunders of the Lord
descend, and destroy them and us !"
Already the unhappy man seemed seized with,
the agonies of death. His countenance was dark
and livid ; his eyes stared wild and motionless ;
and his frame rigid, and yet unable to support him,
leaned against his chariot wheel. His wife, hearing
the dreadful sentence, sprung to the feet of the
king, and, tearing her golden locks, l~y on the
ground, and cried- " Pardon ! pardon, mighty
king !-pardon ! Let him live ! He is no longer
a member of Israel~but a subject of Hiram.
Wilt thou slay a subject of thy friend? And
behold ! all that I have here !-all that I have in
Zidon, are thine for his life !"
She threw, in the passion of her grief, a casket
of jewels on the ground, which bursting open,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
·ol' BLOOD, 235
rolled wide its flashing treasure to the astonished
eyes of the multitude. But the king deigned not
to look upon it. " Woman !" he said, " I pity
thy woe-but I cannot help thee. By the judg-
ment of God-not by me, is Talmai slain. A
stranger m!'y become orie of the house of Israel,
but an Israelite cannot become a stranger, without
becoming also an apostate, and thereby incurring
death. He is born with the commandments of
God upon his head, and he cannot cast them away
but at the price of his life and his soul-they are
an eternal obligation. And if Talmai has ceased
to be a Hebrew, why persecutes he Hebrews ?
i#
Why follow them to the tribunal of Israel ?
Hither he has come for judgment-here let him
receive it. And thinkest thou that the lives of
God's people can be bought or sold, by all the
treasures of the earth?"
" Yet pardon-oh, mighty and wise king !-
pardon this once !" cried a shrill, feeble voice ; and
a woman clad in the weeds of widowhood sprung
forth, and threw herself at the side of the proud
but frantic dame of Zidon-like a languid rose
that waves at the foot of a stately palm:-tree. ·
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
236 THE AVENGER
" Pardon !" she cried, and lifted up a face thin
and wan as the.face of a spirit-" not for my sake !
not for the sake of his little children !-but that· he
may have time to reconcile his soul to God !"
It was the woman of Zebulon! the poor, for-
saken wife of Talmai. When the. king saw her
and her sorrows, he was mightily troubled; and
hiding his face in his robe, he madt:> a sign that
both suppliants and criminals should be removed
from his presence.
It was done ;-and descending from the tribunal,
he entered the tent where Jathniel had awaited the
trial, and was now weeping in the arms of his
son. The whole impassioned company knelt at
the feet of the king, ·and bathed them in tears :
but he hade them arise, and saying to Dalphon-
" Henceforth follow not the dictates of youthful
blood-take not the redress of thy wrongs into thy
own hand-trust in the king·-trust in the laws of
God !" and embracing Jathniel, he blessed ~him,
and went out. There was a sotind of wheels-a
rending shout, and they lmew that the king was
gone. Dalphon flew to apprise his family of the
happy issue of the trial ; but the news had already
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 237
reached them, and with it the news of Talmai's
doom also. As he entered, he beheld lene raised
on her couch, her hair flowing loose around her
shoulders, and her countenance wild with an expres-
sion of frantic agony. "Save him! save him!" she
cried, as she saw Dalphon, who in a moment catch-
ing the idea that it was Talmai whom she meant,
and struck with a horror of his fate, turned to obey
the double dictate of his own heart, and of his
sister's, without reflecting that, if it were not
already too late, it was a thing utterly beyond his
power ;-nothing could save him from being stoned
to death-not the king's whole influence. But
Shallum met him ere he could pass the door, and
said in a low voice, suspecting liis design, "Nay!
-it is past ! All _
that I told thee would come to
pass, is accomplished !"
Dalphon turned and glanced at lene ;-she had
sunk upon the couch : and, springing to her side,
he beheld her a beautiful but lifeless thing. Her
sensitive soul seemed to have lingered in her frail
and fading body, bound by the chords of her
anxiety-this last shock had broken t~em-she was
gone for ever !
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
238 THE AVENGER
Thus had Dalphon to experience in one day a
triumph, and a deadly wound :-the aged pair in
one day to save a son, and lose a daughter. The
feeling of joy was soon swallowed up in that of
woe : and the crowd who came back from the
stoning of Talmai, as they drew near the abode of
Jathniel, learned the melancholy news and stole
silently away.
The woe-stricken family continued in that sad
city seven days: to mourn together in silence ; and
to allow time for the body of their beloved dead to
be wrapped in spices, according to the custom of
their nation, ~d consigned to her cedarn coffin.
Then, with heart-broken grief, they ascended
their ancient chariot, and pursued slowly their
journey ; the corpse of lene laid on its curtained
bier, and drawn by four milk-white heifers, moving
on before. From day to day did they tl1us pro-
gress from town to town, sunk in the silence of
their own bereaved hearts ; without train, save of
the few faithful and weeping domestics who had
accompanied them to Kedesh; without ceremony,
save of the slow and statelyjourneying which sorrow
itself dictates. But wherever they went, the fame
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD. 239
of their misfortunes had gone before them ; and
the inhabitants of field and town came forth and
stood solemnly around their "path, and scattered
flowers upon the bier, and around the track of that
once bright maiden; and with those long, lugu-
brious pipes, which breath into the soul of sorrow
yet .deeper sadness, and into the coldest stander-by,
a tender spirit of sympathy, they recei.,ed them to
their nightly place, and preceded them a little on
their morning way.
In Dalphon, all consciousness of surrounding
objects seemed gone. He sate in the shaded
corner of the chariot, living, yet buried in the
depths of his bleeding heart. He spoke not, he
•
wept not, nor sighed; and when they descended to
their nightly sojourn, or ascended.their chariot in
the morning, he moved to and fro as one in a
dreary and impenetrable dream. But when they,
at length, caught sight of the hills of Tekoah,-
when they saw its wide plains open to receive
them, the tide of past feelings-the remembrance
of past happiness-of her who was now lost for
ever-came rushing over his soul with such a ten-
der and subduing power, that the.dark torpor of his
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
240 THE AVENGER
bosom broke before it ; and torrents of gushing
tears gave back his heart to the living-sympathies
and conscious sorrows of men. .Together the
returning family-returning in circumstances, oh !
how unlike all past returnings-mingled their sobs
and tears. The sight of that beloved place con-
jured up a thousand living and precious memories
of her whose unconscious corpse now heralded their
way. All the bright days of youth-all the times
of rejoicing mirth-all the rich sallies of that glad
and affectionate spirit, rose, and rose in a continual
stream over their hearts, and filled them with those
unspeakable regrets-those earnest longings for
the reunion of the future life, which shall restore
the dear, the lost, brighter than in their youth, and
immortal as their desires.
But when the old and sacred mansion appeared,
and throngs of their lamenting people, old and
young, with wild locks and rent garments, and all
the woful gestures, the clapping han~, the loud
and wailing cries of women, who restrain not their
feelings, met them, who shall describe the sadness
of that welcome home?
The young damsels, with red and weeping eyes,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF BLOOD, 241
scattered around clouds of those beautiful flowers,
which appear in those plains with the very earliest
spring, as then it was, immediately after what ther
call the Early Rains, and which lene had been
the first to gather in her happy years. These they
scattered on the bier of the lamented dead, with
branches of the blossomed almond, and sung in
thrilling tones:-
She is dead l she is dead !
She who was wont to tread
With bounding feet the early-blossomed field;
When with the early rain
Flowers sprang upon the plain,-
She is de,ad ! she is dehd !
The early rains are o'er,
But she returns no more !
Oh ! see the violets! see the lilies thll~
The pale narcissas nods around ;
And the sweet hyacinth is found,
With roses white and reeL-
She is dead ! she is dead !
The loveliest maid !-the fairest flower of all1
She is dead ! she is dead !
Oh, tell us where hath fled -
That pure, that gentle, that rejoicing soul-!
Jehovah ! thou hast made
A mighty land of shade
For the dead ! for the dead!
The Rephaim old-the brood
That perished in the flood ;
VOL. II,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
242 THE AVENGER'
Stem conquerors, who shook earth with their tread.
There all the drowned legions lie,-
There all the slain in battle hie !
'Neath the sea's foundations deep,-
'Neath ~he mountains do they sleep; ·
Each on his sword and buckler rests his bead.
But where? Almighty ! where?
In thy deep realms ofair,
Shall dwell the lovely and the pure with thee ?
We know that thou wilt save
Thy bright ones from the grave ;
But where? oh Father, where?
Ob send the long-desired,-
The King in strength attired-
And he shall tell us where the loved are gone.
For we, thy children ofthe dust,
Walk weeping, though we walk in trust : •
For our spirits yearn to know
Where all the lovely go,
When from the earth they perish, one by one.
She is dead ! she is dead!
The Hower shall raise its head,
Mid the rejoicing of a thousand springs ;
But with the early rain
,She will not awake again:
She is dead ! she is dead !
He who recorded these mournful events, gathered
them as he passed, many years afterwards, through
the wilderness of Tekoah. Jathniel and Cutha
were gone to rest with their generation. The aged
Shallum he beheldsitting at his door, in the sunshine,
OF BLOOD. 243
in the last feeble stage of mortal being. Ahlab
and Hamutal were dwelling in Ahlab's ancestral
house, with a troop of their own fair children; and
Dalphon, now lord of the mansion and domains of
Jathnie~,--:-a sober and sedate man,-for the memory
of this calamity never passed from him, nor the
shadow of its gloom from his countenance,-Dal-
phon was judge in the land-honoured for the
nobility of his nature-feared for his grave virtue,
-beloved for the unquenchable kindness of his
heart. In his native home, he remembered the
tender Mehalath, the daughter of Gedaliah; and
there, as .the beloved wife of his bosom, as the
mother of all that district, her gentle spirit, in the
language of her own hymn, " took a blither tone ;"
-a soul all love, and tenderness, and serene
delight.
Another Dalphon, another Hamutal, another
Iene had sprung up, in whose young hearts the
memory of their father's beloved sister lived with
a sorrowful fondness. They regarded her story
even as one of those penned by the ancient
patriarchs; and aro\md her tomb they had planted
>,g _ byGoogle
244 THE AVENGER OF BLOOD.
every flower which Dalphon and Hamutal had
said that she loved. To them it was a sacred
temple, where their hearts grew sober and wise;
and where the love they cherished for her seemed
to grow, and become stronger and tenderer for
each other.
>,g _ byGoogle
•
.
•
THE SOOTHSAYER OF NO.
D tzoabyGoogle
THE SOOTHSAYER OF NO.
'' ALAs ! master !" cried Zeeb, the servant of the
prophet Harosheth, coming hastily before the holy
man, as he sate on the stone seat by the door of his
house in Ziklag of Simeon,.in the first dawn of a
spring morning,-" Alas l master ! the mule is
gone ! Some son of Belial has dared in the night
to lead away from his stall the favourite beast of a
seer!"
The prophet was aitting in a posture of calm
contemplation, such as the time and the scene
before him might well be supposed to inspire in a
person of his sacred character. The sun had not
yet climbed above the horizon, and fields, and woods
and waters lay before him, softly veiled in that fine
haze which hovers over the vernal landscape at
early dawn; and the blue hills in the distance,
above which the eastern sky was brightening with
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
248 THE SOOTHSAYER
that pure, cheering, opal transparency that precedes
the sun, wore an aspect of profound repose, that
communicates itself to every fitting spectator. All
around him breathed of dewy freshness; and you
would have looked with inward satisfaction on the
old man, feeling sure that he was offering up his
orisons to the Author of so blessed a creation. But
whatever were Harosheth's meditations, they were
abruptly broken by this news ; and turning upon
Zeeb a countenance of overwhelming wrath, he
cried,-" Dog of untimely dreams ! is it thus thou
sleepest and sufferest ·the cream-coloured mule-
beast, the king's gift, the prophet's delight, the
grace of Ziklag to be stolen ? Away ! such _,an
animal cannot be long concealed.-Away! and see
my face no more till thou comest with the mule r"
Zeeb drew back, and disappeared with the fleet-
ness of one that runs for his life. If his hope of
finding the mule with the facility the prophet
seemed to promise, was not so strong as the word~
of a prophet ought to have produced, his fear of his
master's anger was the fruit of sure experience.
The seer, though he had reached the good age of
three·score and ten, and had a countenance of the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 249
most benign serenity, was nevertheless tried with a
most irascible·temper, that neither years, nor the
prophetic function, nor the judgments he had wit·
nessed or pronounced, had been able to eradicate.
He had been married in his youth, and had soon lost
his wife•. From that time he had dwelt alone in his
small house, with no one but Zeeb, a dwarfish, ill-
shapen, weak-headed creature, yet who was faithful
and affectionate to his master as a dog,-whose
name, by way of reward, he often got. Perhaps
Harosheth's early loss of his wife soured his tem-
per; perhaps his long, solitary life, with nobody
but Zeeb to receive his commands and obey his
whims, had fostered a hasty and arbitrary mood ;
perhaps, not having the benefit of a female help·
mate's gentleness and affectionate acquiescence to
sooth and smooth away his bursts of spleen, or that
of her contagious excitement and retaliation in
which to mirror the ugliness of ill-humour, had
been his misfortune ; but, whatever was the cause,
he was of a most igneous and explosive tempera-
ment. Like Balaam, he would have smitten his
beast with fury, though it bad been the cream-
coloured mule itself, had it ground his leg against
M3
o;l''·odbyGoogle
_.r
250 'l'lt:£ SOO'l'HSA\"ER
a wall: like Jonah, he would have angered hotly at
the perishing of a gourd: and would have seen a
hundred thomand people perish rather than his de-
nunciations should fail; yet he was a prophet whom
the patience of the Eternal Wisdom had borne with,
and honoured with many a testimony of power.
On the present occasion, he went to and fro,
overflowing with vexation, and fulminating his
threats of vengeance on the unknown criminal with
so much fury that his neighbours shrunk into their
houses, and feared to approach him. All day he
burned in the fervour of his wrath, and issued not
less than a hundred times from his house, and
sought the brow of the hill to discern the return of
Zeeb. But neither Zeeb nor mule appeared, and
Harosheth betook himself at length to bed : and in
his wrath, which blinded his understanding, feared
not to intreat the Infinite Majesty for the recovery
of a four-footed beast. No reply was heard; but
at midnight he beheld in a vision, a lion which
came and stoodon a rock in the midst of a stormy
sea, and said-" Arise, and get thee down to the
ancient and populous No !-No, in the midst of
the waters I"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OP NO. 251
The prophet woke in terror, and his heart died
within him, for he knew the voice was the sure
voice of spiritual command; and No-the ancient
No, was a far city-the journey of half a moon.
To a man of his years, it was an awful thing : but
though Harosheth was irascible, he was not re~
bellious; he bowed to the dispensation laid upon
him ; arose in the morning, saddled his ass, and
set forth. lie told to no one whither he went ; he
gave no charge over his house, for he trusted, not-
withstanding the disappearance of his mule, that
as the seer's abode, it would not be violated ; and
Zeeb, who on all similar occasions had received his
invariable injunctions,-:" look well to the mule,"
or the ass, as it might be, "and see that Sampson's
foxes come not near the dwelling:" meaning-.
beware of fire,-Zeeb had not returned to take his
usual farewell.
\Ve may imagine; but need not describe the
seer's journey: enough, that he reached No in
safety; and having taken up his abode at an inn,
awaited with as much patience as he possessed, the
prophetic unfolding of his missiou. But for seven
days, he went to and fro in that mighty and thickly
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
252 THE SOOTHSAYER
peopled plaee, beholding the thousands around, all
busied with some object or other; but himself led,
as it were by an invisible clue, and left suddenly at
its end without further guidance~ At the end of
that time, his constitutional impatience grew strong
upon him, and he said testily to himself,-" Why
wander I like a camel, whose rider has perished in
the desert? When shall I see wherefore I am
sent?" Suddenly· it occurred to him, that it might.
be to recover his mule that he had been sent
hither; and incontinently he began to traverse the
city from ·day to day and from hour to hour, fixing
his eyes on every beast that he beheld; but nothing
like his cream-coloured mule was to be seen in t4e
streets of No. He inquired of the people of the
inn, if any mule of such colour and eminent beauty,
had lately met their view. "There are many,"
was the reply, "in No; but if thou wantest a beast
to carry thy goods through the desert, get thee a
camel." Harosheth turned in disdain from the
proud stupidity of these people, and accosted some
old men who sate daily on a bench beneath a warm
southern wall, looking on the throngs that passed.
" Seekest thou a mule in the multitude of No?"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 253
said they, in contemptuous surpr~-" get thee to
Noph the soothsayer." . The pride of Harosheth
was pricked to the very core. A prophet of the
Hebrews to seek the responses of a heathen sooth-
sayer ! Could it be, that his anger for the loss of
his mule was to be punished by bringing him thus
far, to be the mock of the base heathen? A secret
sense of failing, and of the ludicrous nature of his
inquiry, even made his anger the greater,-he
went on in silence. As he passed an ancient house
in the outskirts of the city, he beheld many people
waiting at its gates. "Why wait these people
here?" he inquired of a passer-by. " It is the
house of Noph," he replied,-" they seek the aid
of his knowledge."
The mind of Harosheth was impressed with the
circumstance. " What knoweth .this Gentile?" he
said within himself; " by what power doth he
reveal hidden things? I will visit this expounder
of riddles for myself, that I may learn the source
of his power."
Many times, many days, from sunrise to sunset,
did he pass the gates of Nopb ; but a crowd was
for ever before it, and the prophet's wonder rose
higher and higher.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
THE SOOTHSAYER
It was on the tenth day at even, that he first
observed the gate of Noph free from visitors.
He drew near, and went in: The dwelling was of
one low, but very spacious room, and around it
stood the images of the gods of many countriE's.
Harosheth looked upon them with horror and
anger; and fearful of having sinned by entering
this unhallowed place, was about to withdraw,
when a sharp, shrill voice from behind a curtain at
the farther extremity of the room, said-" Prophet
of Israel, comest thou to the counsellor of the
gods?"
Harosheth stood penetrated with astonishment.
" By what power," he thought, " can he recognise
me, a stranger in this populous place;" but the
voice added quickly-" Come forward, man of
God, come forward!" He went on,-at his ap-
proach the curtain was lifted up, and he beheld a
small, lean figure, seated cross-legged on the
ground. It was Noph, the soothsayer. A large
grizzled beard, a bushy head of grizzly hair, made
the summit of the man appear much too large for
the rest of his frame, which was light and meagre,
as if supported by only the most absolutely neces-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 255
sary quantity of food, and yet appeared strong
and elastic as the body of a tiger. From the midst
of his wild mass of hair, protruded features of
strange prominence and razor sharpness; a nose
like the beak of an eagle, and eyes like eagle's
eyes, ·dark and piercing. He made a sign to
Harosheth to sit down, and then asked in a con-
fidential tone, what he would learn ?
"Thinkest thou," replied Harosheth with haughty
indignation, " that a servant of the Most High,
seeketh help from a worshipper of stocks and
stones ? Thinkest thou there is no God in Israel ?''
"I have gone through Israel," replied Noph,
rapidly, and with an air of gaiety, "and I saw
none. In Syria, in India, in Egypt, and the
Elishan Isles, are beheld everywhere the images
of_
the gods of the country; but in Israel, what see
we? A single temple ; and in that temple a
mystery-a sanctum that may only be entered by
one priest-a mystery that covers nothing!"
"Blasphemous pagan!" exclaimed Harosheth,
with eyes of fire, " dost thou dare to insult the
Most High ?"
·" I have not inquired of this high and invisible
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
256 THE SOOTHSAYER
God, of the fate of a mule!" retorted Noph, with
a sneer that lit up his countenance with a daring
and triumphant blaze of gratified malice.
Harosheth shrunk into himself.
' "Why deceivest thou the people?" said Haro-
sheth, with more calmness.
" If I deceive them," replied the alert sooth-
sayer, springing up, and placing before the prophet
a number of boxes, which he flung open, and
shewed full of golden coin,-" if I deceive them,
is it for nought? But why sayest thou I deceive
them ? Hast thou demanded a single exertion of
my power? Behold the forms which I have collected
from every land but thine : thinkest thou these have
no greater power than that, which is unseen, and to
all but your nation, unknown ? Ask what thou wilt,
in the name of any one of these dreadful divinities!"
" God forbid !" exclaimed Harosheth, starting
up with vehemence. " The curse of the only
living God be on thee and on thy idols! Let them
be thy punishment till I return !" He turned and
went forth.
Noph looked after the departing prophet with a
triumphant sneer. " Go thy way," he said,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO, 257
"simple one ! Hast thou lost a mule, and canst
not find it by thy divination ? Dost thou wonder
at the knowledge which I have of thee and of thy
concerns ?-and dost not comprehend that it is my
business to learn, by the multitude of my hired
spies, the entrance of every stranger, and the
affairs of every dweller in the city? These are
the true divinities," said the triumphant soothsayer,
as he clapped to the lids of his money-chests with
self-complacent activity, and replaced them in their
hidden recess; " with these, are not all the power
and the pleasures of the whole world mine?
Without these, what is Bel or Serapis? what is
Brahme or Jehovah? Go thy way-be poor and
proud; and like the beggar by the way-side, return
thanks for thy poverty a hundred times a day.
What harm can thy curse do me?"
The self-gratulating soothsayer bolted his door,
and retook himself to his ·bed; but what was his
astonishment as he awoke in the morning,· to be-
hold the congregation of his imaged divinities
assembled round him. For a moment he lay in a
11ilent amazement, but in the next instant a terrible
idea flashed across his mind, " Thieves ! thieves !"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
.....
258 THE SOOTHSAYER
he cried, " alas ! my gold ! my gold !" He sprung
up to ascertain the extent of the mischief done by
the wicked ones, who, he surmised, had in their
wantonness thus drawn his statues round his bed;
but as he arose, astounding was his horror and
astonishment, as he felt the huge hand of Baal
fting him back upon his bed. He lay like a man
in the paws of a lion, whom he expects every
moment to crush his bones ;-helpless he lies in
power, but turning his staring eyes wildly on his
terrible enemy. The images stood silent and
motionless as before; and he began to imagine
that in his haste he had rushed against the image,
and had been repelled by his own impetus. Once
more, therefore, he rose, but slowly, and keeping a
,
curious eye on Baal. To his horror, as he himself
rose up, he beheld the arm of wood move with a
motion proportioned to his own, and prepare to
strike him down; at the same time,"glancing round
the awful circle, he beheld the eyes of the whole
group glow with a ghastly and malicious joy. He
fell in his benumbing fear upon his bed, and
groaned as he called to mind the words of the prO.:
phet, and felt that his curse was upon him. Long
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 259
lay the miserable Noph in paralyzing horror-
praying to his long serviceable servants, but now
dreadful lords : praying to the God of Israel, but
in vain-all was silence around-motionless silence,
except that the repeated knocking at his door
announced the call of applicants for aid: and his
wonder was not small, as he observed a little
crouching figure, a Iar, brought from a distant
country, act as janitor, open the door, and send the
visitors away, wondering at the creature's round
staring features and erect ears.
All day Noph lay, the captive of these strange
sentinels. At night he looked round, and beheld
Ashtaroth cast a moony gleam through the apart-
ment; and the bulk of Moloch glow with a sullen
red, invisible by day. · In the morning, Noph,
whose hunger was become ravenous, would fain
have persuaded himself that the movement of Baal
was but a dream, or a delusion of his brain. With
a desperate spring he leaped up, and fell stunned,
not only by a blow from the same huge hand, but
also from a thrust with the trident of Siva, who
sate cross-legged on his lotus-Bower at tlie feet of
the bed. A horrible din of mingled sounds assailed
•
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
260 THE SOOTHSAYER
him ; Apis bellowed ; Anubis bark~d; Mahadeo
twanged his bow-strings; Cali menaced him with
shrill cries ; the infernal Dian waved her torch,
and brandished her poniard with a rushing sound ;
and the clamour of deified dogs, cats, and croco-
diles, was intolerable. Cneph, the winged serpent,
flew hissing above his head ; the sacred scarabreus
boomed vengefully in his face, and the eyes of the
gentlest shapes gleamed fiery around him. Noph
lay expecting some immediate destruction ; but his
miseries were not so soon to be ended. The din
.
ceased, and he beheld the dwarfish Gemedim busily
employed in making him a cake, which they
kneaded with oil from his large jar, and baked at a
fire which they kindled in the air, and blew into
brightness with their igneous breath.
Days, weeks, months, lay the soothsayer in this
weary thraldom, in the power of these strange and
inexorable shapes ; but what tormented h~s heart
more than all besides, was to see the still, gliding,
close-veiled Isis, day by day, fill her modius from
his coffers with his gold, and bear it away. He
heard her say in accents sweet and musical, and
far different to the harsh, stony, or metallic tones
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF. NO. 261
of the rest:-'' This has the deceiver drawn from
my people-to them will I restore it."
Thus it went on, month after month. There he
lay in still endurance : still also were his keepers;
except that the Gemedim became every day more
lively, and full of sport and antics; and amused
themselves with rolling about the largest coins, or
riding on the shaggy backs of the Shoirim; gal-
loping round and round with ringing laughter.
Over and over the bed, without regard to the body,
limbs, eyes, or skull of Noph ;-over the bed-up
the walls, and along the ceilings they went; heads
upward or heads downward, it mattered not ; and
every day their sport became more boisterous, and
their laughter more loud and hideous.
But six months had dragged themselves away,
and the captive soothsayer still lay as helpless, and
ten times more miserable than ever. Meagre as
he was before, he was now but a mere skin-covered
skeleton ; and be cursed his gods : he cursed the
day he had brought- them hither; he cursed the
people who came in crowds to seek his aid, but
came not to rescue him ; and he cursed the prophet
who had laid him under this terrible spell. He
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
262 THE SOOTHSAYER
heard with a soul-rending fury, Isis declare that the
coffers were empty; and the Gemedim replied,-
the flour cask is exhausted, the oil is all gone.
"What shall be done?" said the laughing voice of
a Gemid. " The lamp ! the lamp !" said the fishy
Dagon. " Oh, the lamp ! the lamp !" cried the
dwarfish Gemedim, with delighted ·screams; and
into the parched mouth of the perishing Noph they
dripped, drop by drop, the oil. His hunger was
ravenous as that of a famishing lion-his thirst was
a burning, gnawing torment; but the drops of oil,
that for many a month had been pent in his brazen
lamp, were like drops of fire, and their flavour was
a flavour of death. They burned, and pierced,
and filled him with torment, as drops from the
eternal molten lakes, and with thoughts of cor-
ruption as they were the dew of mummies, or the
seethed marrow of a thousand-years-buried man.
He was in a deadly strife, between the rage for
food and the torments of this infernal aliment; but
the malicious and obstreperous creatures sprung
upon him with glee, and forcing open his mouth,
day by day, dribbled the scalding potion upon his
tongue. He had lost all powers but to feel and to
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 263
suffer ; he cried mightily upon Siva and Cali, and
the infernal Dian, to dispatch him ; they heeded
him not; days and weeks, and months went on.
He saw with astonishment that his house was be-
coming the haunt of all manner of reptiles, as a
place uninhabited. The frog hopped flabbily on
the damp floor-the death-beetle ticked and drum-
med in the timber of his bed-the spiders came
and wove their webs in the very hand of Baal that
had smote him down, and, from time to time, even
walked with their crooked legs, and trailed their
tickling threads across his own face. The lizard
came, with shining eyes, peeping through a crevice
of the wall; rats and mice ran thickly below; and
the bats, descending down his fireless chimney,
ascended, and flew round and round beneath the
ceiling, uttering their shrill, harsh whistles. The
whole group of images had resumed their silence
and inaction-the sports and laughter of the Ge-
medim and the Shoirim ceased-all seemed sinking
into a state of eternal torpidity-of eternal decay.
One solitary Gemid sat on his breast, holding the
lamp in his hand-he nodded as overcome with
sleep, and only roused himself once a day, to tor·
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
264 THE SOOTHSAYER
ment the soothsayer with his potion of pestiferous,
life-retaining, death-prolonging oil. The soul of
Noph was overcome with a horror of doubt. He
imagined himself doomed thus to lie like a mummy
in a tomb, with all his consciousness within him,
for ever and ever, suffering a living death, the
accumulating horrors of which vividly presented
themselves to his groaning and weary soul :-to be
every day surrounded by increasing numters of
loathsome and venomous things-perhaps to be
gnawed and devoured by them piecemeal-perhaps
to be buried beneath the smouldering, humid heap
of the ruins of his house.
Twelve moons had thus elapsed- Noph was
suffering living-death, when there 'went strange
rumours through the city. The soothsayer's house
stood gloomy and closed :-no one came there :
strange shapes had been seen by those who went
to the door ; strange noises had been heard ; a
veiled figure had been passing to and fro-the
place was deemed to have become the haunt of
evil natures. The superstitious fears of the people
kept them aloof-the house stood as in a desert.
But there came a new and curious disease in the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 265
place: the people were seized llS they went along
the streets with sudden :rnadlless, and ran furiously
along till they fell and died. The fears of death
overcame the fears of superstition-the evil was
attributed to the mystery concealed in the house of
Noph. The whole city ran together to destroy it.
At this crisis, Harosheth appeared in the city..
He beheld the furious crowd rushing to the house
of Noph, and smote them with blindness. They
reeled to and fro, and pressed upon each other.
The torches which many of them bore, were
rudely thrust against their neighbours, and the
cries of pain and horror became inconceivable.
The city was in danger of destruction : but
Harosheth passed calmly through the living chaos;
entered the dwelling of Noph, who had heard
with surprise the tumult without, and seen at the
same time, the images around him sh~;ink back to
their former stations. Harosheth said solemnly-
" Arise, Noph! and come forth!" and the terrified
and wondering man sprang up with instant vigour,
and fell at the prophet's feet. "Mighty servant
of a mighty Lord," said Noph, "let me find favour
with thee;-teach me the knowledge of this dread-
VOL, II, N
266 THE SOOTHSAYER
ful God, who thus rules despotically over gods and
men!" "Follow,"· said the seer; and turning,
went forth.
Noph beheld the groping ud bewildered crowd,
but the seer passed rapidly along, and he followed
silently and without question. When they had
reached the outskirts of the city, Harosheth turned,
and cried-" Power of the Lord ! cease thy work !"
They discerned the distant tumult suddenly·sub-
side-the crowd stood still, as people who had
suddenly received sight, and were overcome with
wonder ; but the prophet and his follower went
on. They proceeded without a word, from d4y to
day, for the space of nine days. They left the
regions of fertility, and entered a desert, which
sustained no vegetation ;-the sand burned beneath
their feet ;-the air burned around them; and the
only living things which they beheld were scorpions,
which threatened them with their death-armed tails.
"Master!" at length said Noph, "whither
goest thou ? Why seekest thou this great and
-lerrible wilderness?"
"Thou hast seen the Lord's power in the city,"
replied Harosheth-" thou shalt see it where no
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 267
man .lives except by it. Dost thou now pass
through a land of fire ? a land, where nothing
lives but these deadly reptiles? dost thou not pass
through these, and live ? Remember now, and call
to mind-who despised the Invisible One ? This
land was once fertile as Egypt, but the people
despised the Invisible One-and now, where are
they? To the end of the world, shall fire, and
solitude, and barrenness dwell here. No man
shall pass through, except the Lord shall send
him, and support him in it."
Again he went on. Noph pursued in silent
awe. Every night they lay down on the sand,
fearless of the scorpions, and the purple wind of
death ; and every morning they found, each at his
bead, bread, and water in a gourd. On the four-
teenth day, they entered a mountainous region,
and a city, the dwellings of which were chiefly
hewn in the rocks, which rQse on each side of a
delightful vale. The place was delicious .with
fresh flowing waters, green luxurious meads, and
abundance of corn, and vines, and date-gardens of
vast extent, whence Egypt was freely supplied :
but a heavy calamity had fallen on the people,
>,g _ byGoogle
268 THE SOOTllSAYER
which threatened famine. A pe11tilence was in the
com. The straw was flecked with black and
orange-coloured spots, and whoever eat of the
grain, died~ The harvest had been abundant-
the barns were full of wheat, and yet the people
pined for bread. Harosheth bade them bring out
their grain to the open air, and taking some of the
straw, he called upon God, and burned it before
the people. The smoke rose, and spread itself
through the whole air with a pungent fume. Then
the prophet said, take the grain on which the
smoke has passed, and eat it with safety-and
he took of it first and eat it, and received no harm.
Then rose there a wonderful giadness amongst
all the people; and when Harosheth would depart,
they came running in crowds, and would have
thrust money upon him; but he refused it, and
went away.
Noph had been all)azed at the healing of the
com; but far greater 'Yas his amazement at the
refusal .of the money. " Master !" he cried,
eagerly, "why refused thou this coin? It will do
thee good, and thou hast well earned it. Let us
take it, I pray thee?" But Harosheth turned
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 269
and looked on him, and said, "Noph, thou art
but a base heathen yet. Thou art far from com-
prehending the nature of God. Can he give me
power to do this; and can he not give me all
I need?" Noph was silent, and they journeyed
forward. They now entered another town. It
was a time of festivity. They celebrated the feast
of Baal-Shalishah ; and when they beheld · the
strangers, they would ~aw them to their temple
to worship, and to ~east with them ; but when
Harosheth refused, and denounced their god as
a false and impotent deity-they haled him and
Noph away to the top of a rock, and would have
plunged them down, but flames burst from the
rock, and pursued the multitude with their fierce
and smoky volumes, leaving the strangers un-
touched. When the prophet beheld himself and
follower at liberty, he descended, and went quietly
away ; but Noph cried out, "dost thou quit this
place thus peaceably? Wilt thou not avenge
thyself? Wilt thou not smite them even with
blindness, as thou didst the people of No? Or
curse them with the curse of the com, loosed from
off the last city 1"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
270 THE SOOTHSAYER
" Noph I" replied the seer, " thou art yet far
from God-the spirit of thy cruel demons is yet
in thee. Has the Omnipotent borne for ages, witli
this evil race, and shall I not bear with it? "
Noph was again silent, and they went on. They
now entered on a desert region of black and stony
mountains; and as they jourrteyed day by day,
Noph was weary, aad ready to faint. " Master !"
he said, " why dwellest thou so much in deserts ?
Why are we blasted with toil and hunger, and
fatigue?"
" Art thou humble and patient?" he replied.
" Hast thou learned to know thy own weakness,
and the strength and goodness of the Infinite?
Dost tl10a yet despise God, because he is invisible?
He ·that would be the servant of the Most High,
must be pure, aDd patient, and ready to lay down
his life at the command of God."
As he said this, a most delicious odour breathed
upon them. Noph sprang forward, and stood
gazing in ecstasy at a beautiful melon, that grew
beneath the shade of a rock. As he would have
stooped to gather it, a spectre-like creature came
forth from the rocks, and cried in a feeble and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF NO. 271
hoarse voice, " help ! help ! or I perish with
famine !" Harosheth took up the melon, and
gave it to the wasted stranger ; who devoured it
with voracity. "Haste," said the seer, "in the
strength of this, and eastward wilt thou soon reach
a city." The skeleton-like man fell down at the
feet of Harosheth, and kissed them ; tears even
came into his burning and hollow eyes, and with a
gesture of his arm, expressive of infinite gratitude,
:he went away.
But as Harosheth turned his 'eyes on Noph, he
beheld him standing grinding his teeth, in rage ;
his sharp features were lit up with a flame of fury,
and he cried, " is it thus thou treatest thy friend?
Hast thou not tormented me enough ? Wilt thou
kill me here? What hadst thou to do with my
melon, that thou shouldst take it from me, and give
it to thou knowest not whom ? "
Harosheth looked calmly upon him, and said;
" Noph, art thou a man, and hast no feeling for
thy brother '? Dost thou desire to serve God,
and wouldst not save his creature from perishing,
though it were at the price of thy own life? Thou
hast seen the power of God in the city, and the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
272 THE SOOTHSAYER
desert ; thou hast seen his goodness, and his
vengeance ; thou hast learned that he is in all
places present, and hears the voice of his servants ;
and couldst thou not trust him a little longer?
The worshipper of the Invisible, must learn ta
feel that he is all-powerful-and he himself all-
passive to his power; but I see thou art yet in
the gall Gf bitterness, and the bonds of iniquity."
Then, casting his eyes towards heaven, he said,
" Almighty God ! let this man be full of love,
as thou art full of love: let him be patient as
becomes a creature of clay; enduring, as becomes
a creature of immortality."
As he uttered the words, a strong light flashed
11pon his own mind, and he stood abashed, and
humbled, for his own impatience and anger stared
him in the face; and he felt that while he had
taught the erring pagan, he had taught him in
pride. He prostrated himself in the dust, and
acknowledged the just judgments of the Omni-
scient. When he arose, he beheld Noph sitting
on the ground, in tears. "Master," said the old
man, " now do I know that thy God is a God
in.dee~ for he is come into my soul with power.;
Dir tized yGoogle
OF NO. 273
I am full of vigour and peace, and love and glad-
ness." He sprung up, and embraced Harosheth
with transport. " I will return," he said, "to my
native city, and declare what I have been taught;
and whether I live, or whether I die, I have not
lived in vain, and I shall die rejoicing."
They embraced. again, ·and parted, each return-
ing to his own place. Of Noph, no further record
remains ; but when Harosheth re-appeared at
Ziklag, his friends came hastily together ; and
first of all, his brother came and fell on his neck,
and wept, and said, " Forgive, my brother, forgive!
A long and weary journey hast thou had, in quest
of thy mule, and behold ! I had taken it away.
Tidings came from my son, who dwells at Ain,
that he was seized with a sore affiiction. The
tidings came in the night, and 1 hastened to borrow
thy mule for the j~urney. I knocked loudly at
thy door, but could not awake thee-therefore r
took the mule and went. But when I returned,
.
and heard of thy great anger, I hid him in my
house,. and said,-' Let be, till the wrath is a little
gone by,'-when lo! I heard that thou hadst arisen,
and wast gone ! See ! it is safe in its stall; and I
have watched daily and anxiously for thee !"
N3
Dir tized yGoogle
274 THE SOOTHSAYER OF NO.
" Brother," sa,!d Harosheth, " thou art more
righteous than I. God is just, and has taught me
wisdom. I went forth in great anger, for a very
small cause-and he has made me to pass through
great and numerous evils ; and has shewn me in
the darkness of heathen lands, the pleasantness
of his own heritage; and praise be to God-if I
lost my mule, for the time, I have lost also a
temper more mulish than that of any beast, and
moreover, I have found and saved many erring
souls.''
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
THE VALLEY OF ANGELS.
•
o;g,,zedbyGoogle
THE VALLEY OF ANGELS.
CHAPTER I.
A tribe of Antediluvians had pitched their tents
in the plain of Kedem. From these tents issued,
at evening, a young damsel, who, after looking
silently for some time, first on the peaceful en-
campment, and then on the equally peaceful pastoral
scenery around ; on the children playing to and
fro beneath the neighbouring trees, and on the
numerous flocks and herds scattered in different
.parts of the landscape, beneath the care of their
keepers, went on leisurely towards the west. She
appeared to have scarcely reached the maturity of
her youth; and her form was like that of one of
those celestial spirits, which were wont in the first
ages of the world to visit it,-a form of beautiful
proportion, evidently full of bounding elasticity and
"'igo~r. She was clad merely in a cymar of white
>,g _ byGoogle
/
278 THE VALLEY
cotton, which reached a little lower than the knee;
left bare her neck and part of her bosom; and was
confined at the waist with a belt of the same mate-
rial, fastened in front with a clasp of gold. Her
feet were shod with sandals ; and her dark hair
floated in rich volumes on her polished shoulders.
Such was the simple array of the times and the 1
country; and thus in her free and shining beauty,
the fair maid went on,-now, with a calm and
serene air, as if charmed with the cool freshness
of evening, and the delicious odours which the
hour called forth : now springing gaily forward
to pluck from the surrounding thickets, some trans-
cendantly lovely rose, some splendid lily, or some
flowering branch of the spicy carnation:-tree.
Again, she walked forward with a quicker pace,
and apparently led by some object of greater im-
portance ; for her countenance would, at the same
time, assume a solemn expression of tender and
anxious thought, or would turn to the gorgeous
sky, kindling into an animation, such as the pure
soul and bright imaginings of youth, can alone
send into a mien like hers. It was a mien of
angel-like beauty. Dark eyes, that changed rapidly
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 279
from the melting and penetrating beam of affec-
tion to the triumphant and concentrated lustre of
a star; dark eyebrows in union with a complexion
of the most delicate and transparent clearness ; and
every other feature so purely, so expressively
lovely, that her soul seemed not only to exhibit
all its depth and stirrings of passion and affection,
of joy and sadness, brightly and instantaneously
upon them, but to shew itself as one of the most
gentle and glorious spirits which ever issued from
the hands of the Creator. The varying develop-
ments of her delight, curiosity, and gratified sense
of harmony and fragance, as she went on gathering
many a flower, gazing on its beauty, and inhaling
its odour, shewed all the heart of youth in which
the quickness and freshness of life yet dwells ; and
which, feeling happy and full of hope, naturally
expands itself to the charms of nature, as a flower
to the sun ; and when she cast her eyes on the
heavens above, and her rich and elevated features
glowed with the divine sentiment of a worshipping
admiration, you might have deemed that you were
gazing on the countenance of a seraph, which had
shone amid the eternal glory of the Divinity.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
280 THE VALLEY
The scene which she was traversing was a wide
champaign, scattered in some places with tall palms,
in others, with lower trees covered with profuse
blossom, and in others, with thickets, where the
wild vine trailed its branches, and disclosed its
purple bunches at the feet of the passer-by. The
whole plain was covered with the tall bents of
grass which the noon sun of that fervid climate
had withered to dryness, and tinged with a faint
hue of rose, perceptible through the whole lands-
cape ; while a tender and luxuriant pasturage
springing up everywhere amongst it, gladdened
the eye of the spectator in its immediate neigh-
bourhood, and trod like velvet beneath the foot.
A variety of rare fiowers sprang up in the thickets,
diffusing their glad aroma through the air, and,
as I have said, attracting the eye and the hands
of this fair damsel. To her right and left, and
all before her, shewed vast forests which had pro-
bably never been tracked by man. Beyond the
trees in front, she discerned the tops of mountains,
which seemed to draw her gaze with a peculiar
interest.
Her tribe had but recently encamped in this
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 281
neighbourhood; and, charmed with its beauty and
fertility, proposed to build here a city, and lay the
foundation of a future kingdom. But before they
finally decided on this important measure, they
judged it necessary to explore the country which
lay still beyond it, to ascertain whether it was an
inhabited land;-if so, what neighbours they were
like to find; and if not, whether its natural ad-
vantages might not even tempt them to rove still
farther, and occupy it. They had now been gone
nine days; .and during the latter half of that time, •
every day Zea gazed anxiously from the dool'" of
her tent for the re-appearance of the troop; and
every evening had she gone forth to see if she
could not catch a distant glimpse of the returning
wanderers, amongst whom her father was a leader.
He was an aged man of his tribe ; a counsellor, a
judge, a patriarch amongst them: she was the
child, the sole child of his age ; and the death of
her mother, which had occurred some years ago,
had left her the stay and solace of his declining
years ; and, in his absence, the solitary inhabitant
of his tent. Zea wanted not for companions.
Amongst the damsels of the tribe, there were
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
282 THE VALLEY
more than one whom she took to her heart and
her confidence, with all the open and glowing
affection of youth; and many with whom she lived
in the daily intercourse of pleasant words, and
kindly, cheerful deeds ; in the fancies, the spirits,
and the speculations of youth. Zea was of no
unsocial temperament. She might be seen seated
in the early morning by the well, or the rivulet,
amongst a circle of bright young maidens, the
beautiful forms, the ·beautiful, buoyant spirits of
the fresh, early world, with a face lit with the
radiance of happiness, overflowing good nature,
and a shining intellect, that untasked to great
efforts, and half unconscious of its possession,
threw forth its wealth in sallies of wit, arch
humour, and sportive female eloquence. There
might she be seen, loveliest where all were very
lovely, a vigorous and unblemished race of Na-
ture's eldest-hom daughters : there might her
voice be heard, in the laughter that sprung from
the plentitude of a rejoicing heart, and feared
neither to offend the feelings of her companions,
nor the forms of society which have oppressed a
later day : and the song which celebrated some
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 283
now unknown deed of nobility, some tale of now
forgotten love and sorrow, the effusion of some
poet, who threw it forth without an effort, and
never dreamed of renown, yet had the living
love of the hearts which he fil1ed with a tender
sweetness. And in the dance, in which agile and
exquisite forms traced with fairy feet the myste-
rious movements of the planetary train, already
made known to men by the discoveries of the
early and marvellous astronomy, which was not
all quenched in the Flood, Zea was conspicuous :
and in the merry troop who sallied forth to plunge
into the clear river, shaded by the wide o'er·arching
boughs of the primeval forest,-or to gather for
•
the table the grape, the pine, tne golden orange'
the date, the rich fig, on whose delicate surface
a violet mist seemed to have condensed itself; and
flowers from the field, the wood-side, and the river,
-roses, amaranths, and lotuses, to fill with grace
and fragrance their simple abodes ;-there was Zea
to be seen, bounding along with the gaiety of a
child, and the beauty of a creature of heaven.
Zea was a being whose heart clung to her specieR,
and in her gayer moments to the gayest portion
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
284 THE VALLEY
of those youthful females with whom she had
grown up ; and therefore she was social, and kind,
and beloved. But her spirit had other moods,
which resulted from its high intellectual nature ;
it passed from the bright merriment of society
to solitude, and it sank into a depth of thoughts
and feelings which were solemn, often sad, some-
times even to tears, whose source she did not
-
fully comprehend. Yet there was a mystery and
a luxury in this tone of mind, which she loved ;
and therefore she delighted to steal away at times
into the thicket of the- near forest. There was
something in the presence of nature which soothed,
and yet cherished this spirit. The solitude, and
the shadow of the wood,-the voice of the wind
whispering, or rushing solemnly and sonorously
vocal through its branches,-the sound of bright,
hurrying waters, and the fair, wide arch of heaven
above her, all flung upon her heart a sense of
something in their nature, or made expressive in
their aspects, which startled it with mysterious
feelings of vastness ; and hopes and fears which,
inherent in her own nature, woke into conscious-
ness at their silent appeal. It seemed as if the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS, 285
voice of God, which was heard amid the shades of
Eden by the first parents of men, still lived along
the unforsaken earth, in the forest, in the water,
in the winged and enveloping air, and cried to the
listening soul-" Where art thou?" She gazed
on the firm ground beneath her feet, and bowed
in an adoring sense that seemed flashed upon her
heart, of the wonder of its creation, in its vastness
and solidity,-starting from nothing at the voice of
God. She fixed her eyes on the shape ofsome regal
flower, rising in peerless grace on its beautifully
proportioned stem, spreading out its finely ramified
branches, and leaves and leaflets in nice~t deve-
lopment, and bearing to the eye of heaven, its
flowers wrought in burnished gold, bright as the
sun's own lustre, wrought as by the chisel of some
divine spirit, in which grace and glory lived with
such an exuberant plentitude, that they cast them-
selves without measure or care upon millions of
fragile creations, .which bloomed in solitude, or
were trodden beneath the feet of men and beasts,
till she exclaimed in her heart-" The very finger
of the Deity has been here ! God himself ~haped
the first flower of this kind ; his eternal mind
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
286 THE VALLEY
planned this individual form,-made it beautiful
in itself, and differing from every other of his
countless productions; and his unseen spirit here
preserves the identity of this its fair descendant."
She stood up, and felt in the wind that breathed
upon her, a mighty and mysterious element, which
the same hand had cast around, and made the
invisible and yet perceptible breath of her exist-
ence. She raised her eyes to heaven, and in its
deep blue distance: seemed to glance towards the
abode of ~ more acknowledged presence. These
thoughts often came upon her with a power which
seemed to affect none of her ra8e besides ; and
they raised in her many dreams of the past ; many
imaginations of the future; many queries on her
own wondrous nature, and on · those far and
unknown worlds, in which the God of her fathers
lived with the angels and the dead.
She was young ; and her spirit rejoiced in the
fair creation in which she found hergelf; in the fair
beings of her own miture : but that spirit was
endued with a fine and delicate consciousness; it
was glowing as the sunbeam, transparent as the
water, and pure and fluent as the air she breathed.
Dir tized yGoogle
OF ANGELS, 287
It was alive to the faintest appulse of every ex-
terior thing; and its own clear depths were revealed
to itself in such profound and marvellous amplitude,
that she was awed by the intellectual dignity, and
the eternity of her own being.
She was, without being aware of it, of a high
order of beings : one of that class whom later times
have recognized as touched by the Divinity with a
subtle spiritual essence, which they have failed to
define-and have therefore been content to name
it GENius-and wonder at its workings for good or
for evil. The aspects of heaven and earth ; of day
and night; of the varying seasons;. the beauty of
stars, of mountains, and deep woods, and mighty
waters, and all the ~ore magnificent features and
agitations of the world : the influences of fear, and
hope, and despair ; the passions of hatred and love ;
of all the lovely and alluring-the dark and terrible
phenomena of the human mind; the terror or mag-
nanimous splendour of Jiuman deeds-war, and
triumph, and defeat ; the dimness of eternity ;
domestic sorrows, decay, and death, pulling man
to the dust; and affections wrestling with them in
strength and devotedness so sublime, that it seemed
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
288 THE VALLEY
to make bini in nature, if not in perpetuity, a god.
These fell upon her, not as they fell upon those
around her; but with a quicker feeling, a more
startling and lasting effect, and with a vividness
that raised in her mind images that became eternal
as its own existence. She had tastes, and fancies,
and pursuits in common with her fellows; but she
had something beyond all these ; something whic~
she could not define, which she had not yet learned
to communicate, and which she kept in the secret
of her soul as a part of it, sacred, and even awful
I
to herself.
Her father was a man who had seen many years
and much experience ; and had gathered np many
recollections of the past, and much of the serene,
practical wisdom of old age. Zea was wont to sit
and listen to his conversation, as he told of many
wonderful events which passed b.fore her birth ;
many dealings of God and his angels with men ;
many of the noble deeds of his ancestors; and as he
spoke, the same feelings which came upon her in
solitude, and amid the sublimity of nature, arose in
her heart, and the image of the early world, with all
its golden days of angel communion, its errors, its
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 289
fairmg away from heaven, and its consequent sins
and sorrows, were spread wide in her mind as one
great and indestructible picture.
The love which existed in the hearts of the old
man and his daughter towards each other, was
strengthened beyond the interest of ordinary life,
by the common and sacred sorrQw which they
cherished for her lost mother; by solitary com-
muoings in their tent, in which the old man eased
his heart of his multifarious knowledge, and filled
that of his daughter with images of indescribable
beauty and wonder.
Every day had she therefore now, for some time,
.
~ked out anxiously for the return of her father ;
and every evening wandered forth towards the
western forest, in hope of hailing his appearance
afar off. But hitherto her quest and solicitude
had been in vain.
VOL, II. 0
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
290 'l'HE VALl.EY
CHAPTER II.
THIS evening she went on, filled with this affec-
tionate hope, and with the transcendant beauty of
the scene. Beyond the forest, the sun was descend-
ing the sky like a mighty ruby. His broad disc,
on which the eye might now rest steadily and un-
pained, was of the richest hue of that precious
stone; and a crimson flush was fl.nng from his
liquid orb, which filled the whole western hemi-
sphere, and ~inged with a softened glory the
mountain tops, and the dark forests below. Through
this wann and roseate glow, the sky itself might
be seen, brightened by a thin layer of pearly
clouds, that burned in a paler, and yet intense
radiance, as it were the canopy of God's celestial
throne.
The delighted maid went on, gazing on the
glorious scene, and filled with an absorbing ad-
miration. The sun hastened down the sky with a
velocity apparently quickened, and, in fact, ren-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 291
dered strikingly visible by the fixedness of the
•eenes below ; and, ever and anon, she beheld his
broad and sanguine orb between the opening
boughs of the forest, hung, as it were, for a
moment's solemn farewell, above the horizon ere
he descended into another region of inconceivable
warmth and beauty. The far glan<!e over the
solitary land -the silence around- the gloom
already. creeping over the east-the dream-like
repose of approaehing night-the shadows of the
forest, and that departing spectacle of majestic and
serene glory, filled her with an awe, and at tbe
same time elevated her spirit into that region of
entranced thoughts that tloot away into infinity.
She forgot herself in this imposing pageant, one
of the most magnificent which the hand of Om-
nipotence has spread before his creature man, and
spread it too, at that hour of retreating light and
sound-of coming dimness and subdued tone of
spirit, when the heart is, if ever, easily touched
with the display of the divine hand-writing on the
wall, and disposed to adore and love :-she started
at length, to find herself alone in the forest. The
last ruddy beams of the sun burned behind he~ on
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
•
292 THE VALLEY
the boles of the ancient trees like fire; and when
she looked around her, the wild beauty of the
place at once terrified and charmed her.
Trees of stupendous size, and evidently amazing
age, reared their giant trunks to a vast height,
and stretched their huge and hoary branches wide
above a turf of deep elastic moss. The voices
' '
of birds amongst their boughs, as if aware of a
human presence, or stirred by a passing breeze,
might be occasionally heard in short under-notes,
indicative of yet unsettled repose; and here and
there some small animal might be seen moving in
the gloom. She looked down at her feet, and
could discern that she was in a path which had
evidently been before trodden by men or beasts.
She felt alarmed, and turned to retrace her steps,
when a gale which breathed as from some open
champaign, and the sight of the evening radiance
yet lingering on the mountain tops, tempted her
to move forward yet a few steps; she obeyed the
impulse, and in a moment found herself standing
on a lofty height which terminated the forest, and
below her expanded a valley of wonderful beauty,
through which rolled a broad river. She stood
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. ~93
in silent and admiring wonder. Was so glorious
a scene in the immediate vicinity of their camp,
and had no one yet discovered it? On the other
side of the valley the mountains she had seen,
arose-their heads bright with the last beams of
the sun, their feet stretching out in extreme shade;
and yet in the obscurity of evening, presenting to
the eye such wildness of varied fronts, such inter-
vening vales and glens, and such picturesque array
of wild woods, as revealed them to the imagination
of the beholder as belonging to a scene of sublime
enchantment.
But what astonished her exceedingly, was to
behold scattered all through that -Elysian vale,
as it were, dwellings and temples, whose roofs
and fanes reared themselves in majestic splendour.
They were evidently rich abodes, as of some
wealthy race, who had gathered around them all
the amenities of nature and the charms of art.
They stood in the midst of gardens and groves,
where lofty palms, and cypresses, and cedars,
shewed themselves above the other masses of
foliage, and the breath of whose fragrance was
wafted to where she stood. Far as the dimness
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
294 THE VALLE¥
of evening permitted her to discern, these abodes
and fair scenes seemed to streteh ; and an atmo-
sphere, as of contagious gladness, to rest upon them ;
and to fill her, as she breathed it, with a sense of
serene joy.
But what bright city, she asked herself, could
it be, whieh thus displayed its unknown and un-
suspected presence? Had they drawn near, with-
out knowing it, that far-famed Ukinim, of whose
enchantments so many rumours had spread t4rough
the earth; and which the yet unsophisticated
people of her tribe would have fled from, as from ·
.the city of the Evil One itself? As she pondered
thus in her mind, she heard a slight rustling
behind her; and turning, started to behold a youth
in the habit of a hunter, who stood gazing intently
upon h~r.
''Fair Sepharvite," the youth said, with an air
and tone at once expressive of kindness and regret,
" hast thou then discovered this hidden place?
and hast thou crossed the forest alone?"
" Alone," replied Zea, " I have come, and I
am about to return alone ; but, fair youth, tell me
ere I depart, the name of this city which I so
unexpectedly behold P"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 295
" Thou canst not regain the camp of the Sephar-
vites to night; it is three hours' journey, and the
forest abound& with beasts of prey. I fain would
lead thee down into our valley ; and yet will it
not fulfil the doom predicted ? Thou seest the
Valley of Angels ; the last visible abode on the
unhappy earth, of those heavenly hosts which
once walked amongst men, their friends, their
guides, and defendenr. Of all these glorious
beings, we alone linger here, to delay as much as
in us lies, the growing curse of earth ; and even
now we are commanded to depart, when the feet
of man enter the vale.
" Shall I hasten this criSis ? Wilt thou banish
from the affiicted globe the angelic bands by thy
presence? And yet, where shall I convey thee?
Where shall I shelter thee for the night ? Let
me reconduct thee to the camp?''
Zea stood trembling with awful astonishment.
To feel herself in_the presence of a creature of
another and a higher nature, to behold herself on
the very verge of a city of a.Dgels, startled and
shook her frame with those fearful sensations, which
for some wise but undiscovered purpose, interpose
296 THE VALLEY
themselves between us and the spiritual world-the
very world to which we are eventually bound J
She felt herself as in a strange and beautiful, but
_overwhelming dream ; and would have rejoiced
with an effort tO break it, and to find herself once
more in her tent. But she glanced down the vale, -
the shining city still was there !-she turned her
eyes upon the form befOl'e her, it still remained;
and its benign regard somewhat soothed her
agitated feelings; and when she contemplated his
glorious face, and called to mind the burning
longings of her heart, which these divine beings
could appease, she felt her confidence revive, and
with it a glowing desire to draw near to them, and
hold communion with the children of heaven, as
her fathers had done.
" And .sayest thou, fair Spirit," she said, " that
the foot of man is forbidden your valley ? Do ye
linger on earth to befriend mankind, and yet do ye
shrink from their contact?"
"No! mortal maid," replied the angel,-'~ we
fear not to enter their most crowded places of
abode; day and night do we pass amongst them-
to comfort, to strengthen, to defend them ; but to
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS, 297
h~ld visible intercourse with them .is forbidden.
Hast thou heard of the past ages, and canst thou
not comprehend why the Omniscient has given us
this law?"
" And sayest thou," rejoined Zea, "that ye
must for ever depart when the foot of man treads
your soil ? Alas f not long, I fear me, will your
sojourn then upon earth be ! Oh good spirit ! fain
would I know many things which are doubtless
revealed to you-fain would I dwell awhile with
you-fain hold much converse with you, that 1
may hear of the past days-of the dealings of.the
AlmightY; which may strengthen me to fear him
more deeply, to love him more worthily, and to
make his laws and his presence more livingly felt
around me. And shall this holy desire be vain?
Shall my presence, like an evil spell, only banish
you for ever?"
" No, Zea ! " exclaimed a soft voice which made
her start, as at a well-known sound ; and in the
same instant she beheld another shape also standing
before her. " No, Zea ! it is not thus ! Thou
shalt descend with us for the night into the valley !"
added the second Spirit; and as he spoke, Zea
o3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
,· .
298 'l'H~ 1/ALlEY
stood in confused wonder at the familiar tones of
his voice. It seemed as if she long and often had
heard them, but she endeavoured vainly to recollect
when or where. She gazed on the face of the
youth : it was new to her; yet there was some-
what in its expression, and in his friendly eyes,
with which her heart claimed instantaneous kin-
dred; the terrors of his mysterious nature vanished
from her imagination, and she felt that she could
confide in him as a brother, and could dare to
walk with him through realms of untried existences.
" Spirit I whence is it," she cried, " that I look
on thee as on one that I have known ? Whence is
it that thy voice sounds in my soul as a note of
music that has long murmured around me ?
Whence is it that thou art a stranger, and yet
familiar to me as my own people;-that I know
thee, and yet know thee not? Is it the spirituality
of your nature that thus confounds my senses?"
The youth smiled:-" Well mayst thou wonder,
Zea; thou knowest me, and yet hast seen me not !
Tl1ee I have long watched in my invisibility, and
have loved thee for the high purity of thy nature.
I know thy life and thy desires,-thy thoughts and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 299
feelings,-thy longings after the hidden natures of
the universe. It has been my delight to mark the
infl.uence of that spirit of poetry, which has found
thee in the woods and wildernesses; and it shall
yet be mine, to conduct thee whither. all those
glorious images that fl.oat in t4y young mind are
the realities of eternity. Come! let us descend I
Thou art pure as the angels ;-the interdict regards
not thee ;-the words of God are-' When the feet
of men enter your valley, depart! Descend fear-
lessly f I know thy secret thoughts, and tell thee
that thy father is well, but returns not yet. Be
therefore at peace." ·
He turned aside a bough of the kafal tree, heavy
with blossoms, the stirring of which awoke a gush
of fragrance in the dewy evening air ; a narrow
path discovered itself, and Zea followed, with a
beating heart, the Spirits down the descent. As
they went forward, her amazement every moment
augmented: she beheld the angelic natures walk-
ing to and fro in their shining beauty, amidst the
twilight fragrance of their gardens. The sound of
falling fountain~ broke at intervals upon her ear;
mighty trees stood around, in their solemn shadows;
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
300 THE VALLEY
and a subtle and delicious odour breathed through
the balmy air, inspiri.Dg her soul with a new life
and joy. Her senses seemed endued with an
immediate accession of pleasurable acuteness : her
faculties to acquire a felicitous amplitude ; and the
tones of the nightingale, that came from many a
shadowy recess of foliage, touched her bosom with
a spirit of tenderness, and a winged exultation, such
as she had never before experienced. She gazed
on many a fabric, as she passed, and admired, ill
speechless enthusiasm, their celestial beauty and
grandeur. Their material seemed to be as of
crystal and gold, and their architecture such only
as the spirit of the poet has created in the sunset
clouds, or the inspired saint has conceived in his
visions of heaven.
At length the first-seen Spirit bade them adieu,
and entered one of those regal abodes : the friendly
Spirit went on. Anon he turned aside, and Zea
following, found herself in the light of a fair hall of
inconceivable construction. and loveliness; and in
the presence of several angelic forms, who, the
moment they gazed upon her, exclaimed with one
voice,-" Zea !"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 301
For a moment, a shade passed over their faces,
as they said to their conductor,-" Kadmiel, is this
well?" "It is well," -replied the youth; " the
entrance of this damsel affects not our sojourn; the
words of God have another object. Ye see-our •
abodes attest not by the~ · instant dissolution, the
operating spell of the Almighty." With that,
these amiable beings sprang forward with one
accord, and clasping Zea to their bosom, welcomed
her with transport to the Valley of Angels. Zea,
trembling with various overpowering emotions, was
silent; her eyes wandered over the marvels of that
fair pavilion, and o~ the faces of its angelic inmates.
It was to her a beautiful, but soul-consuming
vision. "Am I really, then, in the midst of the
children of heaven !" she often exclaimed to her-
self;-her life seemed to burn within her with a
swift and meteor fiame; all around her were objects
that filled her with the most vivid and ine1fable
sensations. The walls appeared as of pure eme-
rald, and were adorned with paintings, in which
scenes of transcendant beauty, and figures of awful
majesty, doing deeds of wonder and mysterious
terror, were rather living than portrayed. Flowers
,,
['· tzod yGooglc
:302 THE VALLEY
were blooming in different parts of the room ;
instruments of music, wrought of some light and
etherial substance of a peculiar lustre and beauty,
leaned at the feet of pillars, which appeared of the
onyx stone ; and a pure and grateful splendour,
which had no visible source, filled the apartment.
The beings themselves were four-four forms of
surpassing grace, bearing to each other a strong
similitude, and with countenances in which soft
and overflowing love, quenched the terrors of a
tlame-like intellect.
"Behold !" said Kadmiel, " my parents ! behold
my sisters, Zillah and Kuthielah!"
Once more they welcomed Zea to their home ;
and the sisters embraced her with many smiles and
affectionate words. Zea again looked on them with
wonder; youth seemed in all these noble beings
alike ; she could only distinguish the parent from
the children by an air of maturer dignity. " W el-
come," said they all to the wandering maid; " thou
art no stranger to us, Zea. We have known thee
long; we know the aspirations of thy soul ;-here,
then, let it be satisfied with knowledge, the springs
of which have rarely been opened to man, and soon
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS, 303
will be closed for ever. Thy sojourn here must
necessarily be brief; thy silence as it regards us,
while we remain on earth, profound: one day we
shall meet again in higher scenes, and in a more
enduring union."
" But," said Zea, her wonder breaking the bonds
of awe and emotion, " but do the same endearing
relations exist amongst you, as amongst us? Have
you all the varied, but precious ties of parent and
child, brother and sister? and this, ~thout fear of
death, or sorrow, or separation ; without fear of
the coldBesses and mistrusts which the passions and
purblind perceptions of men occasion often amongst
the most closely united ;-without fear of that
moral corruption of character, which cuts off hopes
and friendships the most blooming, and_sears the
hearts of the faithful with awoe that never heals ?
Oh happy ! happy race !"
" Thou seest it is so," they replied. " While we
dwell on earth, the laws of our existence are
strongly assimilated to those of human life. -
Our natures .are capable of conforming to the
•
nature of the world in which we dwell, and of
drawing continual refreshment and delight there-
304 THE VALLEY
from. We are here subjected to night and day;
therefore we rise and lie down with them. We
have gathered around us the charms of agreeable
abodes; and the fruits of the earth cover our table
with no unwelcome plenty. The day will come,-
and is now not far off,-when we shall cast off all
these things at a single note of the eternal trumpet,
and quit the planet and its influences, as thou
wouldst cast thy garment from thee. Till then, we
partake the good of men, without the evil. This,
to us, -is impossible: we have not merely ·heard
with man that God is good ; we have seen his
goodness through boundless worlds and innumer-
able ages; we know the whole career of evil-
its false beginning,-its tumultuous progress,-its
terrible end. We have breathed in the regions
where passion cannot come to blind the intellect;
it burns there, clear as the stars of God themselves;
and the demonstrations of eternity, vast, awful, but
triumphantly animating, stand for ever before the
eyes of the dwellers of heaven, and aimihilate every
root of evil, by the most glorious and immortal
•
convictions. But thou needest rest ! Come to
repose ;-to-morrow thou shalt learn more!"
OF ANGELS. 305
The sisters led her to a fair chamber; bade the
peace and joy of God be with her, and withdrew.
A strain of mnsic, soft and soothing, now awoke.
As she listened, her spirit, at first roused into
wonder, into ]ove to God and man, poured itself
forth in a warm tide of silent tears ; then sank and
floated away in the stream of harmonious sound-
she slept.
CHAPTER III.
IN the morning she awoke, and starting from her
couch, she beheld the light upon the molllltains,
and stood entranced in admiration at the sublime
beauty of those peerless hills. The recollections
of the evening came back upon her; the rea1i~y,
yet the dream-like reality of her situation ; and she
gazed on the whole scene of enchantm~nt, with
a swimming and unsteady vision. Below, the
Elysian valley expanded itself in ineffable beauty.
The great river was rolling on its way, glittering
306 THE VALLEY
and ftashing in the rays of the morning sun. The
nees and Sowers around that fair abode, waved in
the fresh gale, and shook to the ground their
fragrant dews.
Far and wide, she saw the heavenly inhabitants
in their radiant loveline88, moving in blissful
groups, or singing as they trod alone the para-
disaical gardens of that fairy region.
" Oh !" exclaimed Zea, "and has earth yet _
a
spot peopled with inhabitants like these ! giving
up to their hands her richest blessings, instead of
having them reluctantly wrung from her by a hard
and selfish race that prey upon each other. Happy !
happy creatures! and such might we have been
but for the fall! Then death-then sorrow; but
above all-sin; the curse, the canker, the destruc-
tion of our being, had not been !"
The angelic sisters appeared, and with a heart-
warm salutation, led her again to the presence of
their parents and brother. A breakfast of various
beautiful fruits awaited them, which they partook
in a spirit of cheerful love, that obliterated in
Zea's heart the remains of her internal awe of their
spiritual na~ures; and then Kadmiel and his sisters
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS, 307
arose to shew her the city. They went out into
the garden which overlooked the whole valley, and
seating themselves on a projecting rock beneath a
spreading cassia tree, pointed out, with affectionate
assiduity, the various lovely features of the place.
Zea's eyes followed from point to point, and saw
with increasing marvel, the numerous inhabitants
actively engaged in different pursuits. · Some in
light skiffs tloated on the river ; some tended their
tlowers, and bound up the beautiful plants of their
gardens: others might be seen walking in the
distant meads, purple with bloom as in the height
of spring; and others, seated around their fountains
in their gardens, were engaged in conversation
evidently full of happiness and interest, by the
brightness of their countenances; while their songs
came in the wind at intervals, softer and richer
than the tones of human instruments.
" But what is this !" cried Zea in astonishment,
which I see? I behold forms suddenly appear on
spots where I did not note their approach. I see
a group in conversation; in a moment one, two,
three, are gone-vanished, I know not how; and
as instantaneously are the numbers of others in-
creased."
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
308 THE VALLEY
The angels smiled. " What thou seest is but
one of the many phenomena of our nature. Thou
beholdest us as apparently solid forms as thyself:
thou findest us substantial to thy grasp ; we are no
shadows; yet can :we dissolve from human vision
at will: and when we desire to depart to any dis-
tant place, it is but to exercise an act of volition,
and we are there ! Thou canst transport thy
thoughts through the infinitude of space ;-we can
travel as fleetly as thy thought. But we are for-
bidden to appear )o the eyes of men, therefore
when we pass the bounds of this place, we pass
invisibly. Thou seest spirits appear and disappear;
thou seest them occupied in earnest converse,-
they have passed to and fro between this and other
worlds, and bring tidings of the deepest interest to
their fellows. Things which thou canst not yet
comprehend, and which the feebleness of thy mortal
nature could not. bear, are the subjects of their
discourse. We dwell here : but here are we not
confined. Our intercourse with heaven, and all
the worlds of the empyreum, is open, or we were
miserable !"
" Worlds!" said Zea-" speak ye of more worlds
than this, and heaven, and the land of terror?"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 309
" Zea ! " replied Kuthielah, " hast thou beheld
the host of stars shining in the night above thy
head ? Every twinkling gem is a world ! the
centre of worlds ; and not only they, but millions
of others sown through the boundlessness of space.
Thinkest thou the Eternal so circumscribed in his
power, or so niggard of his beneficence, as to have
made only this little planet?"
Zea heard the words of the angel, and fell upon
her face on the ground. She lay silent as one
dead, and the three shining ones stood around, and
looked upon her with compassionate love. At
length she raised herself; but her countenance was
pale- as that of a lifeless creature, and her spirit
seemed fainting within her. She raised her eyes
wildly to the sky, then cast them upon the ground;
her breath came heavily and at long intervals: and
her limbs were cold and rigid. In a few moments
she murmured-" Oh, mighty and incomprehen-
sible God ! and have I dared to look up to thee as
to a father ! Have I dared to send up my thoughts,
which are as a contemptible vapour, with hope and
a fearful familiarity towards thee ! and knew not
that I am nothing ! - less than nothing !- that
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
310 THE ''ALLEY
this earth is nothing, in the numberless multitude
of thy creations. Henceforth all hope faileth!-
all aspiration is cut off! Let me perish and forget
myself, for I am a miserable and contemptible
atom. Wilt thou remember me! Wilt thou pre.
serve me ! Wilt thou draw me, a worm of the
dust, to thy everlasting habitation ! Vain hope!
bitter, inconceivably bitter conviction !
" Nay, nay, fair child of Earth I" cried Kadmiel,
"accuse not God of forgetfulness; cast not down
those hopes which he himself has planted in thy
heart. Let not the weakness of thy nature over-
come thee. And this torturing abandonment of
soul is but the effect of that weakness. It is thus,
and thus it will for ever be, with the heart of man
-that in the very moment that he discovers the
wondrousness of the Almighty's greatness, he is
led to deny the infinity of his goodness. The
astounding vastness of one attribute fills, overflows
the soul ; and leaves no room for the comprehension
of another-the infinity of his love. The faculties
of man are prostrated, and dashed as it were to
pieces, by the sudden and tremendous in-rnsh of
the terrible knowledge of God's illimitable power
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF.• ANGELS. 311
and nature ; and it is only by degrees that the
wounded spirit can gather. up its strength, and
proceed to form some jnst notion of his equally
unfathomable wealth of love. Well for thee it is,
Zea, that thou hast learnt this awful truth, while
they are at hand who can re..assure thy fallen
heart ; and re-conduct thy thoughts into the
channel of felicity. This will not always be the
lot of men. Higher natures depart from them.
They will arrive at this knowledge, by the active
inquiries of their own science, and will feel all
its overwhelming weight ;-hence shall arise the
singular and fatal spectacle, of men who, having
discovered more of the works of the Almighty than
their fellows, shall believe less in his existence
than they. The best spirits,-they who have long
clung in faith to the Author of their being, will be
smitten and oppressed with a sense of their insig-
nificance; which the living emanation of God in
their own hearts-the crying voice of an immor-
tality, heard through all lands and all times, shall
alone enable them to surmount. But many will
strive with infinite things in the darkness of their
souls; and seeing the stupendous range and mag-
>,g _ byGoogle
312 THE VALLEY
nificence of the mtiverse, and their own littleness
and evanescent forms;_ and not being able to com-
prehend the mysterious truth, that One Mind can
live through comttless worlds; and support and
cherish them to eternity by his own ·power-they
will deny the existence of that mind, and lose
themselves in vain doctrines of necessity-innate
laws of matter-and the eternity of nature. Woe
to them ! The belief in and dependence on God
once gone-the hope of immortality is extinguished
-that extinguished, the nobility of the soul is
quenched,-that quenched, love, generosity-the
sympathies of family and species-,.the noble sacri-
fice of life, even to the good of comttry and of
man, of which the spirit ~spired with the con-
sciousness of its perpetuity is capable-expire;
and men become selfish, and ravenous, and cruel.
So fatal to virtue and happiness is this self-abasing
idea, that the Son of God himself-the Lord and
Creator of infinite worlds, shall one day tread this
earth ; and it will not be the least of his labours,.to
knit up again the failing cord of man's faith in the
Divine power. He shall proclaim to men, their
value in the eyes of the Eternal: he shall teach
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 313
them to call him Father; he shall shew them that
his care is exerted for the smallest creatures. And
can there be a more living proof of God's esti-
mation of men, than the sending of his Son to
assert it?
" Behold his angels ! They have descended into
the deep arcana of his truth ;-they know the
immensity of his ·might and hili works, and they
are happy!
" Behold this insect, which has constructed its
nest in this convolved leaf. It has constructed its
works with a science as wondrous and exact as
that of man ; in its small and transparent body
exist passions, ·and desires, and propensities, as
strong- as those which agitate the · largest power
which walks the earth. It lives in his being ;--it
is quickened and preserved, and, as it were, in-
spired by his life ;-he forgets it not ;-can he
forget his higher creatures? What he has deemed
it important to form, is it possible he can despise?
Let thy confidence revive, thou sensitive child of
earth, and remember that thy fate stands not alone
in thy own individual being ;-it is bound up in-
dissolubly with thy whole species. What happens
VOL. II. p
314 '!'HE VALLEY
to the whole, must happen to every separate ex-
istence in it. Is the species destined to immor-
tality?- then is immortality incontestably thine.
Thou canst not separate thyself from the fortunes
of thy kind ;-your lot is one. If this globe then,
with all its inhabitants, be a noble ~bject in the
eyes of its creator, every rational being of which
that whole is composed, has its proportionate value
in the prolific mind. But thou art a part of the
great family of this globe ;-this globe itself is a
part of the whole universe ;-part is linked to part;
-of parts is the whole constituted; and without
those parts, would there be no whole; and although
the distance between the Creator and the created
is infinite, not so is the difference between the
highest and the lowest of his creatures. Wilt thou
fear, therefore, for the safety and dignity of thy
being, in the endless multitude of created spirits?
lift up-expand thy heart, and rejoice rather that
the tide of life and happiness is boundless as
the spirit of God."
The heart of Zea rose from its agonizing des-
pondency, which the sudden discovery of the
terrible vastness of the Eternal energy had cast
Dir tized yGoogle
OF ANGELS. 315
upon it; and she thanked the affectionate Kadmiel
for his consolatory language. "It is true," she
said, "you have beheld the terrors of the Divine
nature, and yet are full of rejoicing. Let me
learn to confide ann adore."
" But let us now," said the sisters, "shew thee
something more of our kindred." They clasped the
maiden in their arms. She felt a sudden sense of
rapid motion ;-a swimming-a failing of sense and
vision ; and, again recovering them, she beheld
the three standing, smiling beside her; but the
scene was altogether different. They were on the
banks of the great river. A mead, deep with
verdure, and brilliant and odorous with thousands
of glorious flowers, was before them ; and trees of
• a mighty growth, and exceeding -
woodland beauty,
grew around, and hung their blossomed and fruit--
laden boughs towards the ground. They beheld a
troop of children playing amongst them, full of the
agilit.y and the happy fancies of infancy. Some
gathered flowers ; others sate in a ring on the turf,
weaving them into garlands, which they placed
upon their sunny locks; and others soaring without
aid of wings, played in the tree-tops, and threw
Do tz j vGoogle
316 THE VALLEY
down, with merry cries and laughter, the heavy
fruit of the cocoa, the golden plantain, the glowing
orange, and the delicious mangusteen. Anon,
another troop came hand-in-hand from amongst the
trees, and as they came they sung-
Children of Heaven's love!
Children of light !
Lo! where the sun above
Travels in might.
Away, and away,
Where the forest boughs play :
Where the bright river flows ;
Where the dew-drops repose;
Where the wild birds are waking,
The wild beasts betaking
Themselves to their wood-caves;-
Away! and away!
Stars that behold ~s,
Nightly afar,
Our sires have told us,
How lovely ye are !
The earth where we dwell,
Oh we love it right well,
With its woods and its mountains,
Its flowers and its fountains;
Yet soon will we trace
The ocean of space,
And speed to your star·lands ;
Away! and away!
But now to the bill-crest,
Glittering free !
Now to the forest,-
Now to the sea!
>,g _ byGoogle
•
OF ANGELS,
Let us plunge in the brine :
- Let us bask in the shine ;
I.et us climb up in wonder,
To regions of thunder ;
Let us sit in a ring,
By some sea-cave and sing ;
Then back to this sweet vale:
Away ! and away!
317
At once the whole merry band sprang up ; there
was a shrill cry of delight,-a clapping of hands,-
and they were gone I
" Beautiful and blessed creatures!" Zea ex-
claimed. "Yet why does their beauty make me
sad ? What is there in appearance to distinguish
them from the children of my own race, except
,
that their etherial frames can soar from earth -at
will ? They are lovely and glorious to look on ;-
but I have seen children even of my mortal race
as beautiful and rejoicing as they. Rut these are
immortal and scathless;-they shall never know
disease, nor evil, nor death: while alas ! the chil-
dren of men must experience them all. I have
seen a band of our children playing like these, with
as much of loveliness in their forms, as much of
heaven in their hearts. I have seen some one
pre·eminent amongst them for his childish beauty,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
318 TilE VALLEY
his arch playfulness, and overflowing spirit of joy.
I have seen him soon after laid on his mother's lap,
shrunk into dry and pallid feebleness, like a plant
bitten by the canker-worm; or rolling in the hot
agony of fever, till he died, and the earth was cast
upon him. But I have seen what is far worse than
this ;-1 have seen those innocent and happy crea-
tures growing up, and becoming rapidly transformed
into monsters of selfishness and crime. When I
hear the merry voice of childhood, my heart often
leaps with a sudden foreboding terror. When I
see its artless purity and simplicity of spirif, I
become melancholy; for the knowledge of what
they may soon become, has fallen upon me. Surely,
surely in this sad existence, there is nothing so sor-
rowful as the metamorphosis from a simple, loving
child, into a hard, coar8e, malignant being,-from
whose nature every tender and good thing seems
to have fallen, as blossoms from a growing tree;
and to have left nothing but selfishness, savageness,
and exulting, greedy ferocity. Yet it is a change
that is daily, hourly, and continually going on.
Oh ! that we could but learn to preserve the tender
heart, the pure simplieity of the .child till manhood;
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 319
then would the world be blessed, and its curse
overcome !"
" But to do that," replied Zillah, " the whole
fabric of hurnan nature must be renewed; and
that can only one accomplish, and in a distant age.
Man's spirit must indeed pass through a fiery dis-
cipline. The curse is on the earth; and the prin-
ciple of evil is active and untiring !-it must spread
wide, and with all its dragon folds surround his
path: but bear up, Zea-God is mighty ;-he will
cause the soul of man to triumph ;-and will not
eternity be able to make him forget the sorrows,
but not the lessons of time?"
>,g _ byGoogle
320 THE VALLEY
CHAPTER IV.
" BEHOLD. yon mountain vales !- Are they not
lovely ! Let us pass thither for a moment." Again
they clasped her in their arms, and in the next
instant, she found herself and them in a lofty glen
of the mountains-a beautiful and refreshing place.
The ground was covered with a mossy turf, and
scattered with azure and purple, and golden flowers,
whose delica~ petals trembled in the fresh gale.
Here and there arose rocks, fringed with bushes ;
and trees in picturesque wildness hung above the
vale. As they walked on, they beheld that the
solitary spot was not totally unoccupied. A tent
was pitched on the sunny slope, beneath some pine
trees, and a group of radiant shapes were there,
reposing and singing in concert-
Hail to thee, Lord of living might!
Ancient of Days-all hail!
Dweller amidst the central light,
That lows, and shall not fail !
Here duly morning comes and goes;
Here darkness spreads its veil;-
No ebb, no change thy glory knows-
Spirit of Life, all hail !
>,g _ byGoogle
OF ANGELS.
Here on thy last-created star
Thy angel-watch we keep ;
We see thy wondrous acts afar,
Then homeward turn, and weep.
We weep-but do we then repine ?
Never,-oh uever ! Lo !
These creatures, Lord of Heaven, are thine-
How can we let them go?
Oh! full of wonder are thy ways!
Man, formed by thee the last,
Dwells where each pleasant thing decays-
Where life itself flies fast.
His spirit clings unto the ground,
Yet holds it by a breath ;
Fain would he loose his hold-but round
Stand Terror, Pain, and Death!
Sorrow has sealed him with a spell
That draws us to his lot:
Guilty and desperate to rebel,
We mourn, but leave him not.
Yet must we leave him,-for we hear
The bloody steps draw nigh,
That bid the angels disappear
For ever in the sky.
Woe to the earth ! 'tis sad to be
Even now its weeping guest;
Shades of a dim antiquity
Are falling on its breast.
We wander through the woods, where grew
The trees of Nature's birth:
Alas ! their mighty branches atrew
The unlamenting earth.
P3
321
3:22 THE VALLEY
Woe to the earth !-the past is cold ;
But who shall turn his eye
Where dark and dreadful shades unrolled,
Far down the future lie.
Open thy gates, thou city fair,
Built mid the crystal spheres;
None but the Almighty eye may dare
To trace earth's latter yeaN.
All hail to thee, the Lord of Might !
Ancient of Days, all hail!
Still shall thine arm uphold the right;
Thy glorious peace prevail!
Hail to thee Lord of countle's souls,
Back to thy rest we fly ;
And earth through deepening darkness rolls,
Till the Pure and Meek-one die!
They stood and listened ; and the tears of Zea
flowed at the melancholy song. " Yes," she said,
"human life is wretched. You hear, even angelic
uatures are touched with sorrow at its contempla-
tion. Howthen shall I not lament it?"
"Yes," replied Kadmiel, "human life is wretched,
and angels weep for it. It is impossible to behold
the progress of evil, and not mourn over the misery
it occasions ; but we mourn as those who doubt
not-who despair not. We see the past and the
end ; and never for a moment let go our confidence
in the Almighty. Hold fast that confidence, Zea,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 32S
and all i~ well-let it go, and all is darkness. It is
the sure thread by which alone man may pass
through the labyrinth of the world ; this once
broken, he wanders for ever in inextricable errors.
Doubts and complainings, like hungry dogs, pur-
sue him from depth to depth, and urge him on to
blasphemy and despair.
" Whoever would unravel the intricacies of the
divine rule, let him hold fast by this confidence in
divine Goodness. Man's is an active spirit. He
· is not required to believe blindly-without inquiry,
and without ~uffi.cient evidence. But let him stand
firm upon this confidence ; and in the world, amid
all its perplexities and dark riddles of prevailing
evil, he will find proofs enow of heaven's goodness
around him. Is He not good, who has made the
heavens and the earth fair, and filled the latter with
abundant pleasant and refreshing things ; and has
made even man's body-his prison and his chain-
beautiful, and full of strength and comfort; and
has created hope to cheer h~ on his way, and
affections to strengthen, and faith that swells up in
his soul in the very face of evil ; and lofty aspira-
tions, that contend against temptations without and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
324 THE VALLEY
weakness within? Is He not good who has made
these things; and must not his design be good also?
Let these two great truths likewise be the signal-
lights of thy way; the ennobling, joy-inspiring
effect of a virtuous heart ; the deadening and cor-
rupting influence of doubt. Who are the happy?
In every age and situation-by the consentive
· voice of all kinds of men-the good! Who are
the wretched or the base ?-They who despair of
Providence. Let thy heart be thine oracle; in
the path of faith it will go on with gladness ; in
that of doubt, it will for ever struggle with a des-
pairing reason; and if it struggle in vain, its affec-
tions will perish; it will become cold and selfish,
and filled with bitterness and sorrow, and remain a
blasted memorial of the destroying influence of a
rebellion to the law of immortal hope in the human
soul.
" Oh ! terrible are the days that are to come
upon the earth ! They will be days when Dien'
have multiplied to overflowing ; the vast cities and
vast kingdoms will overflow and pour out their
millions into new t:egions, and yet be pressed with
their own numbers ; till the wise of the world will
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS, 325
doubt of the wisdom of heaven, and will even
upbraid the Omniscient with the errors of his laws.
Dreadful will be the wickedness, the hardness, and
blindness of heart of those days. Kings and
mighty warriors will sweep away human lives, as
.things of no value. The powerful will grind the
poor, till they turn with fiendish eyes of ven-
geance upon them : ·and horrible crimes,-crimes
of new conception and strange names, shall break
forth like a pestilence, and fill the hearts of the
astonished listeners with inconceivable horror.
" Yet, through all this, and above all this, shall
the spirit of the Infinite Goodness operate; and
shall bring forth the human soul as from a furnace
ten times heated-pure, and prepared to Eternal
Life. The narrow views of men shall not com-
prehend;-the bigot heart shall set bounds even
to the designs and mercies of God ;-but praise be
to him, he is mighty and wise, and good; and
knows, and will execute to the utmost, his own
beneficent views.
"For thee, Zea, there come days of trial,-of
hard and sharp trial; but they shall be short-
therefore be strong. It is for this, ·that I have
D•g•ti7•dbyGoogle
THE VALLEY
desired to bring thee into this valley ; that thy
soul, well assured of its nature, its origin, and
its end, may be prepared to endure its proving
to the victory. Remember therefore my words-
b~ strong in the trust, and for the honour of God!"
Zea Leard the angel's words applied to herself
with a natural terror; and besought him earnestly
and sorrowfully to unfold to her the nature of those
trials, that she might be better armed to meet
them. Her affections directed her fears towards
that which she most valued; and she exclaimed,
"My father ! is be dead? do thy words concern
him?"
"Time, Zea," replied Kadmiel, " will soon
unfold them. I may not disclose more than what
may give thy heart rest, respecting thy father;-
these trials concern not him ; and as to meeting
them properly, confide in God, and in that voice
in the he~t, which never fails his faithful servant'!."
They arose, and conducting her by that same
rapid and mysteriou.'l mode they bad before em-
ployed, were immediately at . their home. The
angel parents received them with affectionate joy,
but with a solemnity mingled therewith, that struck
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 327
in Zea's heart a deeper awe, from the effect which
Kadmiel's words had already produced.there. The
lofty and impressive nature of the paintings which
adorned the walls, and on which Zea's eyes again
turned, seemed to s!nk still deeper this feeling.
The affectionate Spirits, as if willing to draw Zea's
attention from the care which they saw had settled
on, her soul, turned to these sublime representa-
tions, and opened to her, histories of things so
marvellous and stupendous, as, for the time, wholly
absorbed her faculties in terror and devouring
interest; or melted her in sorrows and kind affec-
tions so sad and thrilling, that once known, their
memory could never perish from the human soul.
In these relations, they sate and marked not that
much time had gone by, that it was far in the
night. The angels then, with solemn countenances,
in which love and an intense sorrowful interest
were blended, embraced Zea with ardent enthu-
siasm and with tears, and said, " We must now,
dear maid, bid thee farewell' for the night, and
perhaps not ·for the night only, but for a longer
period,-perhaps to meet no more on the earth."
Zea's countenance grew deadly pale ; she shook •
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
.r
328 THE VALLEY
with a sudden terror and agony of heart; but
the commanding gravity of the paternal angel
subdued her to silence, and he went on. " The
time of our sojourn on earth is accomplished ; by
indubitable signs we perceive the approaching
feet of mortal men ; the fierce, the lawless, the
bloody conquerors and destroyers. Ere the morn-
ing dawns, they may enter this valley ; anti it
will behold us no more. We have witnessed the
beginning and the spreading of men; our thoughts
and acts have been continually employed in their
behalf; to and fro have we gone in the earth, guiding,
restraining : soothing the sorrowful ; strengthening
the feeble-hearted ; whispering to the shaper of evil
designs, terror, and forebodings of evil, but to the
good, yet despairing soul, hope and confidence
in the right. Our labours have not been in vain ;
some piety, some sense of right, and feeling of
happiness, have been thence derived; but evil
has had greater charms for men, and will have
a dreadful retribution. Sad are the days that
come ; but thou wilt not see the whole evil. If
the day dawns upon us in this valley, we shall
desire to hasten thy return to thy friends; but
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS, 329
if it happen otherwist>, seek thyself the camp,
and whatever befall thee, be pure-be firm-trust
in God!"
Again, and again they embraced the weeping
and speechless maid, with that warmth and tender
abandonment of heart, which they who love and
part in circumstances of sadness and uncertainty
too well know; and Zillah and Kuthielah again
led her to repose. As the door closed on their
re-treat, she threw herself upon her bed and wept
bitterly. Earth seemed now to her imagination
cold and undesirable. Fain would she call her
fdther from the societr of erring and selfish men,
and casting off the bondage of flesh, depart with
those pure ~d lofty creatures to their everlasting
lands of beauty and peace. But it could not be :-
the passage through the valley of the shadow of
death was yet to be trod, and between her and
that awful transit were some unknown but mighty
terrors. Her agitated spirit, long tossed in these
tumultuous thoughts, at length: sunk into sleep,
from which she was again roused by the shrill wail
of a trumpet. She sprung up, but still imagined
herself in a dream. Instead of that luxurious
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
330 THE VALLEY
couch on which she had lain down, she found
herself occupying the naked hill-side ; instead of
that beauteous roof above her, were the wide, open
heavens, pale with the faint gleam of approaching
morning, through which a few stars shone feebly.
The wind breathed chill and gustily upon her,-
she gazed around in bewildering amazement ;-the
valley was there, with all its shadowy trees, its fair
meads, its broad river; but not a dwelling, nor a
trace of those deimous gardens which had so
recently filled it;-all had vanished as fabrics of
air, or things of the imagination. As Zea stood
confounded, and filled with a ~solate sense of
misery, she heard a wild strain of music, which
seemed to descend from the upper regions of air ;
and looking up, beheld a spectacle of sad wonder.
Southward floated away the angelic legions,-troop
beyond troop of their radiant forms sailed onward
and upward, ascending, as it were, in an inclined
plane of roseate light that seemed to extend into
eternity. She beheld their countenances reverted,
as with a last and lingering regret, towards the
valley which they had so long made beautiful by
their presence. She beheld the infantine forms of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 331
young Spirits, whose birth had been upon earth,
but who were about to enter the rt>gions of glory,
which their parents had delighted to describe to
them as their own father-land; and, ever and anon,
a faint, wild note of music stt:uck her ear, and
descended into her heart with a feeling of ineffable
regret. Farther and farther they bore away,
while her eyes were fixed on their fading forms
with intense abstraction ;;-farther and farther they
receded-grew dimmer, and ·disappeared, leaving
in the direction of their track a soft dilute flush of
rose, like that which tints the evening sky after
the sun has gone down, and which, like that, soon
died away, and left the mortal atmosphere to its
own cold grey. She turned her eyes to earth-
they were dimmed with that vision of passing
glory-and she stood for a time in a state of
unconsciousness of all around.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
332 THE VALLEY
CHAPTER V.
A trumpet note from below, aroused her to a sense
of her danger. She recollected that the angels had
passed away, only because men of violence were
near. She gazed keenly down the valley, and dis-
cerned an armed band, whose spear-h-
eads, swaying
like the tall reeds by a forest river, glittered in the
rays of the morning sun. She saw also horsemen
riding proudly at their side : she saw that they
were actually on this side the river; and to her
horror she discerned two men on fiery steeds,
advancing up the steep towards where she stood.
At the fearful discovery, she bounded away like
a r~, and plunged into the depths of the forest.
She flew on, blind, and almost breathless with
terror, perceiving not whither she was going; yet
soon she heard the cries of her pursuers; soon
the thundering of their horses' hoofs ; soon their
fierce, hard respiration, and the crashing of the
branches close behind her. Escape was impossible:
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 333
exhausted by her speed and her terror, she sunk
to the earth. In a moment her pursuers were upon
her. One leaped from his panting steed, and
lifting up the conscious, but helpless maid, placed
her before his companion,. and they returned as
they came, at full speed. They soon emerged
from the trees, and began to descend into.the
vale :-how different this entrance to her former
one !-she cast one wild glance at the . armed
band, and again groaning at the sight, closed her
eyes. She called to mind the words of the angels,
and she felt that her trials were coming upon her
in truth speedily. She called to mind also their
admonition, to trust in God and be strong: but
despair seemed to dash even a prayer for help
from her lips, and for a moment she gave up
herselfto the misery of her situation. Yet the very
weakness of her mortal and overtried nature, which
this instant refused hope, in the next, flung itself
with all its passionate vehemence, its wild terror
and torture, upon the sole but invisible source of
help: and she cried bitterly in her heart-" God!
God ! save me !" They flew on, and now rapidly
approached this unknown band. They were now
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
334 THE VALLEY
in its very throng. It was a scene of confusion.
Already were the maio part of them busied in
pitching their tents : some unrolling them ; some
erecting the poles ; some stretching out the cords,
and securing them with hooked stakes to the
ground. Around lay scattered weapons, heaps of
garments, once spoils of war. There was a hurried
running to and fro, and many loud voices calling
to each other ; and steeds, stripped of their capari-
son, were secured by cords to trees and stakes, and
were feeding in those beautiful meads, and filling
the valley with their shrill neighings.
The bustling soldiers looked up as the captive
was carried past, and with faces, on which sate
broad laughter and jests which marked the savage-
ness of their habits and characters, saluted the
•
captor. They stopped in the centre of the group,
and Zea was set down in the presence of a gigantic
man, whose heavy mace of studded gold, and coun-
tenance of fierce command, marked him as the
monarch of the tribe. Zea knelt, pale and trem-
bling .before him. " And art thou the sorceress,"
said the stern chief, "who hast mocked my eyes
with the scenes which they beheld ? Hast thou
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 335
power to create illusions thus splendid, and canst
thou not save thyself? and thou tremblest like an
abele tree, and art pale with fear, as the corpse
with death ! - I beheld, as I entered this valley,
palaces and.domes, as of the gods; in a moment
they melted away,-1 ask thee, where are they?"
" Oh king !" said· Zea, bowing in deepest
obeisance, thine handinaid has no part in these
wonders. What thou hast seen, is the work of a
high~r power-even of the God of heaven. These
abodes were the dwellings of angels : it was decreed
that at the approach of men, they should depart.
They are gone, as thou seest-and I, a casual
guest, entreat thee by all that is sacred, to permit
me to hasten to my own people I"
"It is well," said the fie~ce king, with a smile
of incredulous scorn ; " thou art but a poor maiden,
who boldest converse with angels,-with angels
that flee at the presence of the greatest of earth's
monarchs as from a pollution. It is well, we will
question thee again of these things."
He waved his hand, and his followers conveyed
her into the interior of the royal tent, which was
now erected; and putting her in a small separate
>,g _ byGoogle
336 THE VALI,EY
apartment formed by a division of curtain, set a
watch over her, and departed.
· There the miserable Zea threw herself on the
ground, and cried mightily to God, from hour to
to hour, to preserve her from the dangers which
threatened her, though it were by death,-death !
death, in any shape, so that she departed pure and
unpolluted from the hands of these terrible bar-
barians. Hour after hour rolled on ; she heard
· the sounds of the camp ; her own small retreat was
silent and unvisited. She heard the noise of
cymbal, and tabor, and trumpet, and the frequent
tread of people entering the royal tent. Anon
she heard the sounds of feasting and revelry ; the
odour of viands and of wine floated strongly around,
and the clamour of mingled song and debate grew
keen and riotous ; anon, it sunk and died utterly
away. Day had fled, night was far advanced,
when she was summoned from her small abiding
place ; she obeyed with a dizzy brain, and trem-
bling limbs, calling.again in her soul upon the
God of her fathers for his present protection. She
found herself in the presence of the king ; he
had thrown aside his arms, and, clad in a princely
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 337
robe, reclined at his ease on his couch. Flagons
and beakers of gold, stood scatteredly on the table;
arms and pieces of armour, lay here and there
about the tent ; the couches were covered with
skins of the lion and the panther, everything in-
dicated the abode of a wealthy and warlike prince.
His shield and spear, each of beautiful workman-
ship, attesting the progress of the art of Tubal-
Cain, leaned against a tall tripod near him. He
surveyed the approaching maid with a calm look
of inquiry as she knelt just within the curtain of'
the tent. " Tell me now truly, fair maid," he said,
With a more subdued and gentle tone, " tell me
truly what thou art, and what is the nature of the
vision I have seen; remember, thou art in the
hands of the mighty Pygarg; my power is supreme
on earth-no one says to me, 'what docst thou?'
Life and death issue from my mouth ; they appear
in the moment I pronounce their names. There
is no escaping from my hand ; tell me, therefore,
truly what I ask thee."
" Oh, mighty king !" replied the trembling Zea,
for the name he had uttered shook her soul with
terror, and blackened it with despair, for it was
VOL. II. Q
Dir tized yGoogle
338 THE VALLEY
a name heard with dismay through the habitable
earth ; " oh, mighty king ! I have spoken to thee
the simple truth ; why should I deceive thee ? and
my presence here may surely attest my veracity,
for were such powers mine, would I remain volun-
tarily a captive?''
" Art thou then no sorceress? Art thou merely
what thou seemest-a fair and guileless maiden ?"
" What I have said, prince," she replied, " is
the truth, the truth before God !"
" By the gods !" he exclaimed, gazing at her
with increasing interest, as if a false light had_
passed from his eyes, " by the gods ! thou art
beautiful, more beautiful than any damsel these
eyes have yet seen. Through my own realms-
through the realms I have conquered, I have seen
no creature like thee. The gods have surely sent
thee hither, and be their gift honoured as it
deserves. Be thou the chief jewel of my king-
dom ; on my throne shalt thou sit with me ! thou
shalt be honoured, ay worshipped, through twenty
realms." He arose, and would have seated her
on the couch by him ; but Zea, trembling with
increased fears, threw herself at his feet in an
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 339
agony of emotion, and cried, "Oh, gracious
monarch ! mock not thy handmaid, let me, let
me depart to my people ! let me return to my
aged father, whose life is wrapped up in mine!"
" Thy father shall be a king ! we will call him
to honour and rule. He shall govern many states.
What is there which is not easy to her on whom
the king's heart is set? Is thy father's life wrapped
up in thine ? so, I tell thee, is mine also. Nay,
believe it not, thou art mine-thou departest from
me no more ! What I desire, I have ; and who
shall say to me, nay? But I urge thee not-thou
shalt see a little of my glory, and then wilt thou
comprehend the felicity of thy lot. Art thou no
sorceress, sayest thou ? Yet to me mayest thou
become the most powerful of wonder-workers. -
My host have seen the strange visions of this
valley, they shall believe that they originated in
thee; they shall believe that thou art able to dis-
perse armies by a word, to make towers and cities
vanish into air. My arms have yet found no
resistance; twenty kingdoms have I subdued, and
over them I reign ; but in the faith of thy spells
we shall henceforth conquer with infinitely greater
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
340 THE VALLEY
ease. Retire till the morning, then will we depart
for tJ•e great city of my kingdom."
In the early dawn, the trumpet sounded: the
host was instantly in commotion - the tents
vanished from the vale, as a mist is curled up and
disappears before the sun. At the king's c()m-
mand, rafts of timber were ready on the river;-
the army passed, and marched westward towards
Azbek, the royal city of Pygarg. Zea, clad in a
gorgeous robe, with a diadem upon her head, giit-
tering with gold and precious stones, the spoils of
some realm overthrown, was placed in the chariot
of the king, and rode beside him at the head of the
army, which rung with plaudits at the sight of a
queen.
But the soul of' Zea was sad, sad even unto
death. In God alone was her hope, who holds in
his hands the hearts of the mightiest kings; and
to him she made continual prayer. From day to
day they rode on through fair and fertile provinces,
and through populous towns, where the people
came and bowed their heads to the dust in thou-
sands, as the chariot of the king passed by. On
the seventh day they beheld in the great plain,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 341
the massy, and wide-extended towers of Azbek
before them. They seemed to extend to each
extremity of the hprizon, and to be huge and pon-
derous as they were wide.
The king rode with a gracious air, addressing
himself to Zea, and endeavouring to inspire her
with confidence. He pointed out the great
features of his kingdom, and the scenes of former
battles. He unfolded to her ·the beginning, ·the
growth, and the triumph of his power,--.:.from the
day when he was a hunter in the wilds, till he
became the head of a band,-the successful leader
of an army,-the king of a people ;-how he laid
the foundations of Azbek, and raised it with the
spoils of many nations,-and made his people
famed far and wide; destroying armies, bringing
home kings·captive, till, without experience of the
evil of d':feat, he had p~ed beneath his feet
twenty realms. ·
Zea heard and trembled. His words, which
were intended to inspire admiration . and love,
produced only a stunning terror. Hers were not
the views, nor the mind that sought for happineS$
in the midst of the blaze of another's renown, much
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
342 THE VALLEY
less when that renown was the growth of violence
and blood. But she was in his power-she was
attentive, and outwardly appearpd resigned.
As they passed over the vast plain in which the
city stood, she beheld around them numberless
people employed in various rural labours-digging
the ground, sowing seed, preparing tanks and
water-courses, clearing growing com of weeds,
gathering roses, jasmines, and other odorous
flowers that bloomed in wide and waTing expanses,
to yield perfumes for the luxurious dames of the
city, or fruits for the table. Zea could not behold
without wonder these indications of a vast popula-
tion, and of a wealthy, and well-ordered state,
deeply as her soul was bowed down by grief and
fear ; but as she looked narrowly at the labourers,
she observed that they worked beneath the care of
taskmasters, that they were of many kinds of
aspects and garb, and in most of them the left arm
wore a chain, whose other extremity was secured
to the left foot.
" Great king !" exclaimed Zea, in a surprise
that overcame her self-thoughts ; " are thy people
all slaves? What mean these chains?"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 343
"Fair maid," replied the affable monarch, "they
are all prisoners of war. The royal tribe disdains
to engage in menial toils : the exploits of war, and
the offices of religion and government are alone
'
worthy of them. All these have been subdued
and captured in battle, and have purchased their
lives at the price of their lives' labour."
" But why," said Zea, "why add to their calamity
the weight and the shame of chains ? Should man
ever forget when he deals with man, th8:t he deals
with a brother ?-that he exercises his power on a
creature of God ? Surely the bonds of kindness
and gratitude are the best bonds for things made
of clay, subject to many pains and evils, and
doomed to death ;-surely they are bonds stronger
than those of iron !"
" Thou art right, noble damsel," said the
monarch, glancing on her with surprise and
pleasure ; " they shall be free." He halted his
chariot, and a chief appeared at his side-" Pro-
claim," said the monarch, " the liberty of those
tillers of the ground. Let them continue to cul-
tivate the earth, but let their labours and their
wages be those of free men."
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
344 THE VALLEY
Scarcely had the words issued from his mouth,
when the chief bowed, and at a trumpet-blast sum-
moned a number of others to his presence, and
repeated the royal words; and in the next instant,
the messengers, turning their steeds, sped away in
fifty directions with the glad-tidings. The chariot
of the king went on, but faster went the winged
cry of liberty to thousands of weary souls. It '\\"'8.8
a dangerous moment to Zea. All mortal splen-
dour, all might, and dominion, and wealth she
could despise, for her soul had tasted of that which
lays bare in all earthly things their earthly taste;
but to every symptom and emotion of nobility of
heart, she was vividly alive. She beheld in the
monarch a good, a _greatness she had not dreamt
of, and she gazed on him with a look that plainly
told her soul's feeling. Some voice in her bosom
awoke, and cried, " Zea, .what mayest thou not .
perform ? This great and mighty monarch, this
great and invincible people, who now wander in
errpr, and in blind strength commit terrible evils-
it may be thy glorious work to recall to purity and
true grandeur. What an immortl,llity of good!
To convert the powers of oppression and destruc-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 345
tion to powers of human beneficence. Think
wherefore God has brought thee hither !"
It was an exciting and bewildering moment to a
quick spirit like hers, and she felt its influence.
But now they were approaching the city. Its
walls, massy, and huge, and square, struck her
with increasing awe and astonishment. It appeared
a city built by giants, and calculated to stand for
ever. As they drew near, she beheld banners
waving from those vast walls~ and multitudes of
people thronging them, to descry their returning
king. From the mighty gates which they ap-
proached, came a countless crowd ; on horses, on
foot, in shining chariots, and in canopied cars borne
by men: They came on with flapping banners,
with the sounds of mingled ~usic. . They inclosed
the royal chariot like a flood, through whose yield-
ing waves it slowly made its way; and when the
innumerable people beheld that beautiful and
crowned queen by the monarch's side, they sent
up a shout which rent the air, and died away only
in the murmurs of a long-protracted thunder.
The soul of Zea was in a whirling dream.
Amongst the innumerable proud dames of that
Q3
346 THE VALLEY
great people, not one perhaps but would have
willingly sacrificed years of life on earth, nay,
even the hopes of a future being, to grasp the
glory which was thus offered to her-to be the
bride of that mighty king and conqueror. But she
soon beheld a circumstance which arrested in her
bosom every sliding propensity, and recalled with
renewed force the warnings of the angels : she
beheld the servile multitude prostrate themselves
when the king passed by, as to a God, and the
priests in flowing robes, bear smoking censers
before him. · Her soul rose with an unconquerable
feeling of anger and contempt at the base ex-
hibition which she had witnessed, perhaps the
first ever witnessed in the world, of worship ren-
dered by man to his perishing fellow.
They passed the gates, and the great city
opened on Zea's marvelling eyes. It was built
on a scale of amplitude and magnificence corre-
sponding with the fame of the monarch, and the
extent of his dominion. Its wide waters, noble
groves, flowery gardens, fair open spaces of great
extent, were intermingled with the fine ·and endless
build~ngs; and the air of universal prosperity, the
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 347
music, the shouting throngs of people, awed her
spirit into a silence of even painful wonder. · How
different was this scene to the simple and rustic
tents of her tribe ! how different that great and
awful palace at which the procession stayed ; and
up whose long ascent of steps Zea was borne in a
splendid litter, by a cluster of obsequious attend-
ants. She was here placed in a hall of strange
magnificence, as the mistress of a palace, the queen
of the greatest earthly empire, and served with
silent homage, approaching to adoration, by a nu-
merous suite. Well might it be to her like a
dream, but it was a painful one, a heart-consuming
dream. In the dwellings of the angels she had
wondered and admired-for there everything was
spiritual and ethereal-and there she felt herself
in the security of goodness--but here the splendour,
the greatness, the vastness oppressed her, for she
felt their total unfitness for her simple nature, and
she saw in their end perdition. But the monarch
surprised her by a magnanimity in his behaviour
more seducing than his splendour, and dangerous
than his power ;-he urged not his wishes-h~
exerted no compulsion for their completion. He
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
348 THE VALLEY
felt she was completely at his command, and he
seemed to desire to conquer woman's love by kind-
ness as he had conquered men by force. He led
Zea from day to day through the many apartments
of his palace, and opened to her astonished view
the vastness of his wealth. She beheld the
treasured arms and armour of various nations--
she passed through rooms filled with brazen-headed
spears-with shields and helms of the richest
workmanship -she saw standards and drooping
banners won in many battles ; piles of gold and
precious stones that appeared inexhaustible ; she
gazed with admiration on the glorious vessels of
his banqueting hall; on his stores of robes and
furred skins of beasts, and his heaped corn-the
food of armies. He led her through his gardens
and groves, by the pleasant sun-lit waters, and
conversed. with her in cheerful gaiety. But Zt>a
felt that these blandishments were those of the
lion, that in a moment may be lost in rage and
followed by destruction. Her heart was in the
tents of her kindred ;-her soul was knit unto her
faith ;-her ears rung with the warnings of the
angels ;-her desires yearned after their pure and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 349
eternal existence. And what was all this cum-
brous splendour, this regal captivity, even to one
unrestrained walk through the Wild woods of
nature...:_all the influences of heaven aod earth
stirring in her bosom !
" Is not this a fair lot ?" said the monarch, as
they sate beneath a spreading cedar by a garden
fountain; " is it not a goodly lot to be queen of a
realm and a people like this? Thou wilt soon
forget the people thou hast left; thou wilt learn to
rejoice in thy splendid being, and then will we
celebrate our nuptials without a cloud. I would
not that thou shouldst be called to marriage re-
joicings, ·while thy heart yet broods unweaned
from its home-ties."
"Oh, noble prince," said Zea, casting herself at
his feet, " pardon me, pardon me ! I am a simple
maid of a pastoral tribe._! am all unfit for this
gr~atness. I feel the nobility, I estimate the
honour of thy offer; but my desires, my habits, my
Ood, are not as thine. Let me, I pray, return to
my own humble home once more ;-why concernest
thou thyself for one so poor and low? Let some
far nobler maiden share With thee the glory so far
above all other mortals !"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
/
350 THE VALLEY
The king rose in wrath:-" Is it even so ?-dost
thou eYen yet despise me? " His countenance
grew dark and disfigured; he stood as though he
would have spoken further; but no words came ;-
and while he paused, a trumpet-blast was heard, at
which he started, and hastened to the palace. It
was, perhaps, well for Zea, that the news of a mo-
mentous revolt in a recently subdued province,
even then reached him. He summoned her not to
his presence till the next day-his features again
wore their calmness. "I hasten," he said, "to
chastise a rebel people;-thou shalt accompany me.
Thou wilt see how I reward those who chose hate
rather than love. Let thee and me return in peace."
In a few minutes she was placed in a covered
chariot, and the army was on its march. 'Vhen
she looked forth from her chariot, and saw the pro-
digio~ array of men, the trains of steeds, the
richly caparisoned elephants, the glittering forests
of spears, the Buttering banners, and lordly stand-
ards ; and heard the strains of martial music that
cheered their way, and the shouts of the multitude
that bid them good speed, she was filled with
astounding amaze at the power of this mighty
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 351
Pygarg; and thought, with a sighing soul, why
troubleth he himself with me? "
As they proceeded on their way, he again sent
for her to his chariot ; again accosted ~er with
affable words, and pointed out the great objects of
the kingdom through which they went; On the
third day, they entered a tract of desolate hills.-
" These," he said, "are the hills whence the gold
of Azbek is drawn." In two days more, they
beheld before them a wide land of fertile fields and
peopled cities. "This," said Pygarg, "is the
land of rebellion;" and soon they descried the
hostile host stretched in a wide line before them,
At the word of Pygarg, the trumpet spoke-the
hosts rushed to battle; and what this moment
seemed so fair a scene of warlike men and gleaming
arms, in the next was one of ftight and confusion.
They went on from field to field, from town to
town : before the face of Pygarg, the hosts of the
enemy melted away like mist, and the citi.zens
. opened their gates to his armies. Thus they went
through the plain-country, and again approached the
hills. Here a small band of men, on fleet steeds,
suddenly issued from them ; and riding towards
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
/
352 THE VALLEY
the royal chariot, sent a cloud of arrows at the
king. The danger was imminent. The little band
came rushing on, in spite of the efforts of the king's
attendants; and a tall, youthful figure, of most bold
and noble bearing, already approached near enough
to launch a dart, and wound the shoulder of
Pygarg. In the next instant, the little adven-
turous troop was cut to pieces, the leader secured,
and brought before the king.
''Prince," said Pygarg, "is it thus thou re-
quitest my former· clemency? " " It is thus,"
replied the youth haughtily, " that I seek to rid
the world of a tyrant !" As he spoke, the king,
rising in his chariot with ungovernable rage, smote
him to the earth with his mace. The trumpet
sounded-the troops returned from the pursuit, and
encamped at the foot of the hills, by a noble river.
The wound of the king was examined, and found
trivial; and as he sate cooling his brow, unhelmed,
by the water, and refreshing himself from the wave,
he looked up, and said to Zea,-" Behold the very
scene in which I found thee !" She looked round,
and saw with wonder, the deserted Valley of Angels.
" All rebels?' said the monarch, "save thee, are
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 353
subdued; here shall that wish be accomplished."
· Zea, struck with a cold and foreboding terror,
retired to the small apartment of the royal tent,
which she had occupied on the first day of her cap-
tivity. · All the bitterness of that scene came back
upon her. Again, as on that day, she lay on the
ground, and called on heaven for help-.:.-help which
had been so wonderfully given her during her cap-
tivity-the mighty being, held as a lion in a chain.
Again she heard the sound of revelry, and the
voice of the king, loud as with a spirit of wrathful
vengeance, amid his wine. Again all was silent;
and long after midnight, Pygarg entered her re-
treat. The place seemed to have revived i'n him
all its former impressions. He came flushed with
his carous~-his gldwing features strongly shewn
by the flame of the torch which he bore, and cried,
in tones· of a sneering and "inebriate .triumph,-
~' Where art thou, sorceress? Where art thou, at
whose nod cities vanish ? Where art thou, who
thinkest to deceive with thy crafty wiles even me-
the king!"
Zea, who had started to her feet at ~ approach,
had drawn back as far as the tent would allow, and
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
354 THE VALLEY
stood rigid as a statue, with her pale countenance
and mild eyes fixed immoveably on the king.
As he beheld her, he advanced without a word,
and holding the torch full in her face, gazed upon ·
her with a gr-ave countenance of subtle mockery
for a considerable time. Zea's tongue was chained
by the strong power of terror; the giant-king was
silent also, as though he would urge her evident
alarm to the extremity of her ability to suffer it, or
enjoyed the spectacle without a thought of its
consequences. At length a broad demoniac smile
lit up his sanguine features, and stretching forth
his arm as though he would enciicle her, he said in
a tone that thrilled through her with ten times the
keenness of his fiercer words,-" Why tremblest
thou, silly maid?-Thou shalt see that even the
lion can take the lamb to his bosom I" As his
hand touched the shoulder of Zea, a shrill and
'
piercing shriek burst from her,-her frame, before
chilled as it were to a statue, suddenly felt the
fiercest vigour of desperation; she sprung at the
monarch With a maniac's fury. She snatched the
dagger from his girdle, and with a countenance
pale and fixed, yet with Bashing eyes, she bran-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 355
dished it before ·ws astonished sight. In the next
moment, how~ver, the fie~dish smile relit his
features,-he put away her hand as he would that
of an infant; and Zea, exhausted by the violent
paroxysm, sunk back against the side of the tent.
In the same moment, as she gave herself up for
lost, she beheld a tall, light form, stand beside the
monarch ;-there was the flash of a weapon-the
huge man rolled with a heavy groan to the earth ;
and with a strong arm she felt .herself encircled,
and borne from the tent.
The sudden appearance of the figure ; the instant
destruction of the monarch ; the manner of her
conveyance from the place, impressed an imme-
diate conviction on the bewildered mind of Zea,
that her rescuer was a supernatural being, and she
felt strongly disposed to believe that being Kad-
miel. Whoever he was, he was a deliverer from
present misery, and could scarcely therefore be
other than a benevolent spirit. It was an ·opinion
that induced her to give herself up to his guidance
without anxiety. Onward, upward they went; they
plunged into the deep shades of the forest. On-
ward and onward they flew. The beams of morn-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
/
356 THE VALLEY
ing were beginning faintly to illumine the obscurity
·of the forest, when the Spirit ceased its flight, and
set down the wondering maid at the foot of a tree.
She turned with a glance of palpitating interest
toward him, and in the dim tWilight recognized the
form · and features of Kadmiel. She fell at. his
feet, ·and bathed them with the gushing tears of
gratitude and exultant joy :-words she had none,
save one faintly uttered name-" Kadmiel !"
" Yes," said the spirit, "thou art right; it is
Kadmiel. Thou seest I have not forgotten thee
in thy need. But we must yet hasten. Thy tribe,
alarmed by the news of this. invading army,
brought by thy father and his fellow-explorators,
have quitted their encampment, and retreated to
the far plains .of Dendu~Ia,-there thy father sits
in his solitary tent, and weeps over thee·as lost."
~ Zea sprung up at those words,· and exclaimed-
" Oh ! let us hasten, blessed Kadmiel J_;_Jet .us
hasten on ! But alas ! what do I behold? It is
Kadmiel !-the good and gracious Kadmiel : but
'Oh ! how dimmed ! how sorrowful ! Whence is
this, Kadmiel ? Whence is it that thy features,
thy hair, thy very form seems as though they had
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANG1!:LS. 357
been blasted by lightning-singed, scorched by
eternal fires ? Oh whence, blest Spirit-whence
is this·!"
Kadmiel seemed for a moment, to shrink from
the impassioned gaze of the maid ; he looked down
on the ground, as in silent sorrow: then said, "Why
pausest thou, Zea, to mark my person in a moment
like this? On the one hand, the grief of thy father
calls thee; on the other, the terrible revenge of
lawless enemies, warns thee to speed away. We
have slain the great warrior-king ; his host have,
ere this, discovered his death, and will scour tbe
country on all sides, to descry thee, his s~pposed
destroyer. With furious denunciations will they
rush forth ; their vengeance will be horrible if they
overtake thee; till we cross the distant mountains
thou art not secure. Let us go. What thou seest
in me is but the penalty of re-appearing on the
earth. Since we are bade to vacate it-no one
can appear to mortal eye but with a shattered
glory. But fear not for me, I shall regain my
splendour; and were it not so, could I leave thee
to worse than death ? But let us go !-let us go !"
D•!i·''dbyGoogle
358 THE VALLEY
CHAPTER VI.
As Zea heard his words, her heart swelled with
bursting fulness; an inexpressible anguish fell upon
her, that Kadmiel should have thus suffered and
been shorn of his angelic grace ; perhaps endured
in some degree, the diSpleasure of the Eternal
Ruler on her account. But he had turned, and
was speeding fleetly on. She followed with sor·
rowful heart and weeping eyes, lamenting that for
her he should thus be changed-thus punished.
Kadmiel seemed little disposed to enter into con·
versation ; he passed on at a rapid rate, and she
followed in silence, weeping as she went. Their way
was still throug~ dark and ancient forests.. When
the sun had risen above the horizon, the voices of
many birds filled those before silent shades with
the cheerful music of early morning. She saw the
dew lie sparkling all around; she saw numbers of
beautiful flowers blooming on the greensward of
the open track along which they went, and their
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 359
delightful fragrance came softly upon her senses.
But one object dimmed and deadened all this in
her eyes, and filled her soul with an ever-deepening
pain,-it was the form of Kadmiel still travelling
before her, dark as with the thunder-traces of
Divine vengeance, and wrapped in his sorrowful ·
silence. She beheld him now stop at intervals, and
gather the choicest flowers as he went: suddenly
he turned, and said with a tender tone, which yet
had in it a sound of woe,-" Zea, gather of these
flowers; we shall need them." Zea gathered them
without question and without reply. They went
on. The ancient and hoary trees grew now farther
apart, and left a fair opening, in which stood, as
it were, an altar of turf, which some ancient
patriarch had raised in long-past days, and which,
by the hand of nature, had been covered with green
verdure and abundant flowers, which hung from its
sides in heavy wreathes and masses, and ever
threw their blossoming tresses far around in the
gra.Ss. " Behold ! a beautiful object !" exclaimed
the Spirit, "let us cast our tribute of flowers upon
this ancient altar, in honour of the power which has
thus adorned it !"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
360 THE VALLEY
He scattered upon it those which he had
gathered, aud signed to Zea to do the same. She
threw forth the fragrant burthen of her hands, aud
immediately they appeared to glow and kindle as it
were in a subtle flame of bea:uty, and their aroma
arising with an exquisite and most intoxicating
fragrance, filled the air around.
The heart of Zea smote her. " What is this
which we have done ?" she said-" the Power
which has thus adorned this ancient altar, I deemed
to be God. But God is not wont to shew his
acceptance of such slight offering by such imme-
diate signs. Surely Kadmiel there is in this no
sin?"
" No sin assuredly," replied the Spirit-" Zea,
would I lead thee into sin ? What we have here
paid, is but a passing homage to the power which
resides and is honoured here-the Queen-spirit of
all Bowers."
Zea's heart .again smote her, and she looked on
Kadmiel with an anxious and scrutinizing gaze."
"Of what power talkest thou, Kadmiel ?- Who is
the Queen-spirit of Bowers ? He who made and
preserves them is God. And is it thou, Kadmiel,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 361
who teachest me to pay homage to other powers
than God? Oh ! were it not for the love thou hast
shewn me, in rescuing me from shame and death,
now should .I doubt thee; but I cannot doubt thee,
therefore must I think that thou art willing to try
my faith. Thou wouldst know whether I be weak
enough to be drawn by high example, to worship
ought beside God ! I tell thee then, to God alone
is my homage paid- I own no other object of
worship."
"I know not," replied the Spirit, "what may
have been thy thoughts, but thy act, which alone
is the evidence for or against man, has been that
of worship to the Queen-mother of flowers. And
here let me unfold to thee a knowledge which ,
thou hast not yet learned, and much and awful
knowledge for thy acquirement lies beyond the
boundaries of this planet. Above all spirits and
all powers, is God. But throughout his infinite
creations, there are other powers and spirits wbo
work ; and their works are worthy of them. From
.
God do they derive originally all their creative
energy, but that energy do they possess, and have
possessed for infinite ages ; and numberless are
VOL. II. R
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
362 THE VALLEY
their works in the great deep of space. Many
even are the stars which they have created; and ·
thinkest thou this world was made bJ God's own
hand? I tell thee nay-but by the great Demi-
urgus-a spiritual power of vast and unfathomed
energies,-a mighty, and all but eternal mystery.
A band of angels wandering through these regions
of space, beheld a floating mass of dark and un-
shapen matter. They began and toiled long upon
it, to mould it to a world, but their progress was
slow and unsatisfactory. The Demiurgic power
came floating past, wrapped in the dreams of many
coming ages ;-pondering intensely on the count-
less images of yet uncreated forms which move and
glow in the fathomless depths of his awful mind.
They called upon him for help, and at one stretch-
ing forth of his hand, the world assumed its orbi-
cular shape ; the angels propelled it into its place
in the great system, where it would be cherished by
the sun. Beneath the plastic influence of the
Demiurge, and of his ministering spirits, arose,
beauty and order-living things of countless forms
and natures : trees and flowers, and waters, and
precious stones, were shaped from the models of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 353
the prolific Demiurgic mind ;-the earth became
what it is; and God from his central throne has
shined upon it. Many therefore are the spiritual
powers which have here established their abodes ;
they delight to dwell amid the works oftheir hands;
and why should we fear to grant to each his pecu-
liar share of homage i'"
" Kadmiel," replied Zea, " my heart is sad.
This is doctrine which neither our fathers have
heard, nor we : nor hast thou or thy kindred angels
hitherto opened of it, one glimpse to my mind.
I would fain believe in, and trust in thee; but my
heart goes not with thee in these matters, as it
has heretofore gone with thee. My soul rebels .
against this homage; and didst thou not say to me,
make thy heart thy sure oracle 't I cannot Kad-
miel ! I cannot bow, except to God ; and I deem
that thou dost but prove me!"
" What I say to thee," replied the spirit, " is
true as the heavens are eternal ! I prove thee not !
-I deceive ·thee not !-but I open to thee yet
wider views than have been given to thee and
thy race: I lament to find thy soul is not capa-
cious enough to receive them."
o.9'"''·dbyGoogle
364 THE VALLEY
" Pardon my weakness, Kadmiel- 1 know I
am weak; and permit to me in my present trouble,
to hold only my ancient faith, in its simplicity~
My spirit is broken and cast down ; _:_it is not
in that inquiring and insatiable temper, which it
has felt in the days of its ease and youthful igno-
rance; when it longed and would have dared to
look into the central splendour of God's abode,
though it had been blinded or annihilated for its
rashness. It is not thus now- it feels upon it
the load of mere mortal sorrows heavy enough,
too heavy for its strength. It desires to be in
passive and untempted, tmdisquieted rest. Let me
worship· God, and God alone ! It is what I have
received into my innermost being, as I have re-
ceived into my body my daily sustenance-and in
it I cannot go far wrong."
" Then why should I thus trouble myself in
vain? I would deliver thee to thy father in safety,
ere I quit the earth for ever: but we cannot choose
our path ;-we cannot do according to our own
pleasure. I know the dangers on the right hand,
and on the left;-there is but one way of escape,
and that lies through the dominion of Powers, who
will have homage, or will have vengeance !"
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. - 365
"Let me die then!" cried Zea, with earnest
tears ; " I can die ! but I cannot, will not, bow
my knee to what I do not know !"
" Dost thou know God !-that God whom thou
so implicitly worshippest? · Didst thou not bow at
the feet of the warrior-king 1-a man ?-a wicked
man ! And wilt thou not, to ensure thy safety-
thy father's happiness in his last days, do the same
to far higher and more worthy natures?"
" I can bow to man, Kadmiel, and yield him
the homage of a man ; because I know his nature,
and the nature of the obeisance demanded; but I
cannot bow to spiritual things, whose natures I
do not know- do not comprehend the extent of
worship which my act may signify."
" But cannot my example satisfy thee? I know
the nature of these powers, and can testify to thee,
that blamelessly as it regards the Almighty, mayest
thou yield them the homage due to them for their
benefits wrought in the earth. But, come, our
time is precious."
The Spirit sped forward, and Zea silently pur-
sued; but her soul was ill at ease, and her heart
more and more sundered itself from its confidence
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
366 1'HE VALLEY
in Kadmiel. She continually called to mind his
words, " Thy trials come,-they will be sharp ;
but trust in God !" These, she inwardly said, ar~
assuredly my trials; but can Kadmiel indeed
become himself a tempter to me ? A terrible idea
presented itself-what, and if it be not Kadmiel?
If it be a falle11 spirit, in his guise ? She was
astounded with the dreadful suspicion, and for a
moment stood still, smitten as with a conviction
of its truth. His scathed and dismal aspect-the
repugnance of her own spirit,-the total diSsimili-
tude in sentiment-in all things but likeness of
features and tone of voice-they flashed upon her
fiercely the purauasion, it is DOt he r it is a Spirit of
darkness ! Yet, had he not rescued her? Was
he not conducting her to her father's tent? Was
he? was he conducting her thither? How knew
she this? -Again her terrors rose up with tenfold
force; and she resolved to fly. But whither could
she fly ? How- escape from a spirit? If he had
evil views, she was entirely in his power; and were
it indeed Kadmiel-what a sorrowful return of his
signal love in suspicion and flight? She strength-
ened herself, and went on. She called on God
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 367
for aid; and in his trust, determined to live or die.
It was now noon. The sun rode high above the
forest; the flowers drooped at her feet on the
sward ; every voice. of living creature was still;
and the trees stood unruftled by_a breeze, and
scarcely casting a shadow. Those trees too, ap-
peared of the most remarkable size and age. Many
a vast bough they stretched wide which would of
themselves have been noble trees; many a huge
branch lay mouldering on the ground; and the
stupendous trunks, rugged and gashed and hoary,
were rifted and hollow as with the decay of cen-
turies. The Spirit had paused before one of an
immense and gloomy amplitude. He stood as
in wonder at its majesty. Zea drew near ; he
raised his arm, and pointing to the centre of the
tree, where its giant branches separated and
stretched away from its trunk, she beheld with
amaze a monstrous serpent. Its body, of many
cubits in length, and of an enormous bulk, was
coiled around the trunk, and round the lower
.region of the branches, in many an awful fold;
and its countenance, in form that of a man, with
eyes of a serene, but dreamy gravity, was fixed
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
368 THE VALLEY
upon her. "Behold!" said the Spirit, "the great
Agathodaimon, the king of serpents-the lord of
all creeping things ! Here has he dwelt since the
creation of the world ;-let us pay him the homage
which age, wisdom, and benevolence demand."
The Spirit bowed his face to the earth three times,
and turned towards Zea. She stood trembling, but
her heart refused to bow to serpent deity ; and she
cast on the angel a look of inexpressible reproach.
" Bow, foolish maid," he exclaimed, "or thon
perishest !" She stood firm, and said, in a low
tone, " I bow only to God !"
At once the body of the serpent was seen to roPl
in convulsive waves; the dry friction of its gliding
mass was heard upon the tree, exciting a sensation
of nameless horror ;-it kindled as with a many-
coloured fire ; its furious visage was protruded
towards the terrified maid, with a wonderful power
of extension, as to devour her. But a sudden
lightning flashed through the air, ignited instan-
taneously the mighty tree, and the huge serpent
consumed by its scorching agonies, raised high
its terrible head, writhed in many a rapid motion
of excrutiating torture, hissed fiercely, and fell
dead in the flames.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF · ANGELS, 369
" Once more, mortal maid," said the Spirit, in
an offended tone, " once more have I saved.thee.
I have sacrificed this ancient and venerable power
to thy security, or thou hadst paid with death, the
refusal of a trivial homage."
Zea made no reply. This last act had entirely
expelled every lingering belief that it might be
Kadmiel. It is an evil and lying spirit," she said
within herself, who has assumed the form of Kad-
miel, and is permitted to try me. In God, in God
who has even now shewn his presence, and de-
feated his designs, will I trust. I cannot ftee.from
him ;-1 will follow him, in faith that God will over-
rule his designs, and bring me at last out of his
hands."
They went on; the forest ceased; a wide and
hoary wilderness spread before them, and a lofty
range of wild mountains rose afar. It was evening
when they reached their feet and began to ascend.
The Spirit led the way with rapid and unwearying
tread ; and Zea still followed with unabating speed,
but with a fatigued body, and a heart full of uneasy
thoughts ; they went onward, and upward ; the
mountain became steeper and steeper. She looked
R3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
370 THE VALLEY
up, and beheld peaks that seemed to stretch into
· the sky; brightly on their summits lay the white
and glittering snows. It seemed as if they were
bound to scale those lofty pinnacles, for the Spirit
still ascended, and to the right or the left appeared
no other way. Night fell ; they still clomb higher
and higher. All was silent-the solitary stars
came out in the clear blue sky above with a keen
lustre, around was nothing but savage stillness
and benumbing cold.
At length a bird of immense size arose from a
hollow before them; the rush and tumult of his
wings in that profound quiet, was like the sudden
coming of a tempest; where he had sate appeared
a dark chasm in the side of the mountain. ''This
is our way," said the Spirit; "through this chasm
we must seek the other side of the mountain;
the path is gloomy, but what feareth the heart that.
trusts in God?" Zea beheld on his face a sneer
as of triumphant scorn; she saw his eyes gleam
with a sudden light like t~t which rests sometimes
in the night on the root of a decaying tree-or
which plays on the midnight waves of the ocean;
she shuddered as he spoke, and would fain have
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 371
drawn back : but she again called to mind that
there was no alternative,-she called on the name
of God, and wl!nt in.
It was a-dark and blind path; the eye could dis-
cern nothing but the palpable, pitchy gloom. The
Spirit held her by the hand, and went on as with
a foot familiar with its road. In a little time her
vision began to catch faint hold of objects in the
shadow. They grew more perceptible; and she
seemed to behold colossal figures, whether living,
or hewn from the rock she could not discern; but
they appeared to bear, in various attitudes, the
massy incumbent roof of mountain. Through the
deep twilight of that subterranean course, they
shewed in terrible vastness ; some stooping their
huge backs to the burden, while their straining
muscles and distorted countenances betrayed the
agony of intolerable oppression : others sustained
their portion of the rock 9n their heads; others
with mighty, upstretched arms, meeting from the
opposite sides of that dark adytus; while others
sate at intervals between, in profound repose. They
went on between those enormous figures, far into
the interior of the mountain, when, at once, a vas~
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
372 THE VALLEY
area opened before them, feebly lit by a sanguine
light, burning in the centre of what appeared a
natural dome of immense height. Zea started, .
and shrunk back-for she beheld an immense
circle of dusky and winged figures, a circle wide
as the place itself, stooping with their faces to the
floor. There went up from them a low murmur,
as of muttered words of adoration. But what
worshipped they ? Her eyes wandered inquiringly
around, till .they were suddenly riveted, as by
an awful, an irresistible spell, on a darkness deeper
than tenfold midnight,-a darkness which seemed
instinct with life, yet without comprehensible form~
in the centre of that great circle of prostrate wor-
shippers. Voices as of spiritual essences, ever and
anon, raised a short wild chant, that died away
again abruptly, and the wail of a dreamy trumpet
passed through the listening circle.
" Behold !" said the Spirit, " the centre of the
great and holy mountain of Hemacont, the dwell-
ing of the ancient Demiurgus. At his voice this
great earth with all its seas and mountains, assumed
its habitable form, and here has he chosen to abide,
in the midst of his works, and of the homage of
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 373
lesser spirits, who assisted in the toil of creation.
Wide over the face of the world abound the lives
of his formation, high in the air extend the traces
•
of his dominion ; and deep beneath this mountain
spreads the cavernous gloom, out of which the
mountain itself was heaved from the lower regions
of the earth. There, inhabit vast creatures of
terror, which can live only.in the airless wilds of
subterranean darkness. The angels of God have
now left the world-the Demiurgus remains sole
lord below. Let us pay our homage and pass on.
Think not to escape from this mighty Power as
from the serpent." He seized her arm with a
sudden grasp, and with a violence which she was
unable to withstand, placed her in the circle of
worshippers; he himself bowed his face to the floor,
and a trumpet-note of triumph was heard. - A
shadowy shape appeared on' each side of the dizzy
maid, saying, "give honour to the mighty Demi-
urgic lord !" The trumpet-tone changed from
triumph to anger and vengeance. The Spirit
sprung up, and darting on Zea, who stood pale
but unbending, her soul fixed on the God of
·heaven for rescue o~ tieath, a glance of fire, whis-
pered " thou art lost !''
374 THE VALLEY
In a moment, that which had been the blackness
of darkness, became a living, and intolerable bright-
~e~ a burning and. destroying fire. The whole
atmosphere of the cavern flashed into a quivering
flame. Zea felt a sharp, consuming pang, as of
the inhaling of liquid flame, she gave one wild,
thrilling cry, and passed as into the insensibility of
death.
CHAPTER VII.
SHE woke as from a dream; the cavern and its
awful images, . its stooping worshippers, its fiery
atmosphere were gone. She lay at the southern
foot of the mountain, the cool air of morning was
upon her, but near her stood the same dark Spirit;
and upon her hair and her garment were the traces
and the smell of fire.
The indignant maid arose and cried, " Avaunt !
false Spirit ! is it for this, that thou hast assumed
the form of one of heaven's noblest children? Hast
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS., 375
thou secured me from the tyranny of man, to
deliver me over to the far worse tyranny of demons?
The curse of ·that God whom thou hast abjured,
light on thee. But leave me; I will seek my own
place as I may!"
The Spirit listened to the indignant word~ with
a patient but sorrowful aspect, and then firmly
but with the tone of one who feels himself unjustly
suspected and accused, replied, " Zea, I pardon
thy anger, I will bear thy injurious accusations.
Passions noble in their nature, but causelessly
excited, have blinded thy better judgment. There
will come a time, when calm retlection will have
its effect-till then farewell. When serene days
shall permit thee to _see the love which I have
shewn, the deliverance I have wrought for thee
from powers of dreadful influence, then wilt thou
believe in Kadmiel and his truth."
" I do, I do !" replied Zea, " but thou art not
Kadmiel; depart I beseech thee from me."
" Th~re," said the Spirit, " are the tents of thy
tribe ; go thou on. I will follow at a distance : .I
desire not to intrude on thy presence, I desire
only to see thee safe in thy father's abode."
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
376 THE VALLEY
The maid looked up, and beheld at a distance, a
number of white tents ; but all around her was
scenery unknown. The assertion that those were
the tents of her tribe, might be but another of the
delusions of the evil spirit; but at all events, they
were the tents of men : and,it were better to trust
in the hope that, if they were not of her kindred,
they were just men, than to abide in the company
of a demon. The Spirit had told her that her
people had fled from the invaders; but that could
not assure her that these were they;-yet it was
enough that they were men ;-she replied not, but
bounded away in an eager, but-trembling hope.
She ran with fleet steps; her feelings, kindling as
she went, gave her every minute, augmenting
velocity : the champaign was soon half overpast.
She cast one look behind,-she no longer beheld
the Spirit ; - she turned again her eyes upon
the tents-she almost deemed that she could re-
cognise them as those of her own people. She
ran -she stopped; she ran, and stopped again,
gazing in eager inquiry. The persuasion that they
were the Sepharvite tents, grew forcibly upon her;
she saw people passing to and fro; she thought she
Dir tized yGoogle
OF ANGELS, 377
could surely pronounce them her own people.
The sounds that came from the encampment,-a
voice calling to some distant person,-a song casu-
ally bursting forth, - children laughing and cla-
mouring in their play,-the very lowing of the
cattle,-the bleating of sheep and goats, came upon
her ear as familiar sounds. Hope ! hope of deliver-
ance, and regained home ; all the gushing, melting
affections of such a situation, stirred in her soul,
and gave energy to her feet. She flew rather than
ran. But now, a dimness,-a growing vapour,~a
thick cloud fell upon the plain. Was it that her
eyes,-her spirit failed her, from the excess of past
fatigues and troubles, and present expectation?
No; it was a real, external gloom. It deepened~
it spread around her. At once came the sound, as
of many feet, many voices ;-the Spirit stood once
more at her side I
" Thy enemies are upon thee, mortal maid !
Thou wilt not suffer me to defend thee; but at
least, t~e this dagger, and sell thy life rather than
thy honour !''
Zea snatched the weapon in her sudden alarm,
which overtook her with more subduing effect in
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
878 THE VALLEY
this moment-of re-awakened hope. The voices-
the trampling drew near ! She ran, in what ap-
peared an opposite direction, with all the speed of
terror. At once, she saw a tall figure before her;
his arms were extended to seize her; and through
the misty vapour, his features and bulk shewed
gigantic. She bounded forward with frantic agita-
tion ;-she raised the weapon in a frenzy of de-
spair, and prepared to strike it into the heart of
her foe. The vapour was dispersed, as by a mira-
culous infiuence ;-and God of heaven !-what a
thrilling display ! It was her aged father, whom
she would have slain ! He had seen her approach-
ing across the plain, as he sate at the door of his
tent, and recognised her. His cries had b!'ought
together many of his neighbours, and with one
accord they ran to meet her.
The Spirit of Evil was gone; his last demoniacal
purpose had been frustrated by a higher power;-
the astonished maiden fell unconsciously into the
old lnan's arms. Scarcely knowing whether his
feelings partook more of joy, or grief, or wonder,
he and his friends bore her to the camp. He had
found his lost daughter; but in such circumstances
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 379
88 seemed to proclaim the aberration of her intel-
lect, or the existence of fearful events connected
with her absence .and singular return, of which
they could form no probable conception ; and for a
knowledge of which they must await the returning
hour of consciousness. Many had been the mar-
veilings of the whole community at her sudden
disappearance : and when they were compelled to
make a hasty flight at the news of the approaching
invaders; for in· this the spirit had declared the
truth, they had set out with aching hearts, deeming
that they should see her no more. Her father, in
particular, seemed utterly crushed by this unlooked-
for and inexplicable misery. Through the whole
flight, he had lingered in the rear, continually
gazing backward, in the hope, faint, yet not to be
plucked from his soul but by the most absolute
certainty, that she might yet appear. Day and
night he sate at the door of his tent, which he had
• caused to be pitched at a distance from the rest,
that he might command a view of the whole plain,
silent and motionless 88 a statue ; with a despairing,
and yet not despairing, but rather maniac hope,
that he might yet descry her beloved form appear-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
380 THE VALI.:EY
ing in some quarter of the vast horizon. The
whole community partook of his griefwith scarcely
less intensity of feeling. The beauty-the bright
spirit - the affectionate, rejoicing disposition of
Zea, had made her as the sister and daughter of
the whole tribe ; and her disappearance filled them
with endless, but fruitless wonderings. It was not
unknown that she was fond of wandering into the
neighbouring forest alone; and the most general
conclusion was, that some calamity had befallen
her there ; but what it might be, their hasty flight
precluded all hope of discovering: and whether she
had fallen into the power of evil beast, or evil men,
it seemed eternity alone could reveal. But when,
after all hope had failed, she came, and came thus
wild and exhausted, again wonder and curiosity
were raised to the highest pitch, and a throng of
eager inquirers crowded round the hut. The old
man begged them to depart in peace, promising
a solution of the mystery as soon as it could safely •
be obtained.
In the meantime, Zea lay in a state of living
I
death ; breathing, but unconscious, or unobservant.
Her father, seated in silence by her bed, from time
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 381
to time, moistened her lips with water, and watched
with profoundest attention, every motion .of her
frame and countenance. It was long ere she
.
manifested any symptom of returning power of
mind or body; and when at length she opened her
eyes, and beheld her father's face stooped to hers,
and his gaze fixed anxiously upon her, she clasped
his neck, and wept long and silently. Yet days
passed before the old man encouraged her to un-
fold the causes of her absence- days ·which he
employed in soothing and restoring her exhausted
spirit and frame, to strength and equanimity; and
from day to day, he dismissed the host of inquirers,
with the sole words:-" patience! patience, my
children !"
But at length as Zea awoke from a refreshing
sleep, she beheld her father seated, with a sorrow-
ful and thoughtful ~' in the middle of the tent;
•and she raised herself, and said,-" What ailetli
thee, father?".
' .
The old man looked up; and arising, he came
and seated himself by the bed, and said,-" My
child, I am troubled. I have been but in trouble
since the day that I came hither; but I would not
Dir tized yGoogle
382 THE VALLEY
add to the a1Biction and weakness that were upon
thee. But now, methinks, thou mayst perhaps
bear to learn what concerns thy people; and to tell
me what concerns thyself. We must depart, my
daughter, from this place. We fted suddenly from
our last encampment in the plain of Kedem, be-
cause of the approach of a desperate army. Here
we set up our temporary abode; and hence should
we have gone elsewhere, had not thy absence and
strange return delayed our steps. But now:, my
child, I trust thou wilt be able to journey onward
with us slowly-and we will arise, and depart; for
it is an evil generation that we are fallen amongst ;
an evil-a mischievous and idolatrous generation."
Not far hence, there stands a dark grove, and in
the midst of that grove a temple, in which they
have placed an idol, and named it the Great
Mother : and to _it all pay their wicked devotion.
Not contented with their own evi~ they seek•
hourly to draw aside our people. Some, who.have
been seduced to enter that unhallowed abode, tell
that the image is of monstrous height and form.
Its head and arms are those of a woman; its
general figure is intended for that of a woman; but
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 383
it is graven so as to represent a woman in the
whole, but in parts a pile-work of almost every
animal that lives upon the earth. The heads of
oxen, rams, lions, dogs, stags, and of men, enclose
the form ; the head is crowned with a triple tower,
the neck is adorned with heavy strings of pearls :
her manifold bosom offers nourishment to innumer-
able children. Thus have their perverted imagi-
nations attempted to depict all-prolific nature, and
their blinded hearts have bowed down to a miser-
able representation of the visible world, and lost
sight·of Him who made it. Could it have been
believed that men could become so base and stupid?
-but oh, my child, could it have been believed,
that any of our people could be seduced into so
vile an idolatry ? Yet it is so. The priests of the
goddess, if they be not rather demons in the shape
of men, come to and fro with smiling faces and
pernicious tongue,s: the contagion begins to spread
-and one ! one daughter is lost!"
" Who ? who? " exclaimed Zea, springing up in
the bed with an emotion that startled and alarmed
the old man.
"Be calm, my child, be calm," he said, laying
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
-'
384 THE VALLEY
his hand on her shoulder, "and yet how can I say
to thee be calm on such an occasion ? But be
firm, and bear what thou must hear. Sephiroth,-
the warm, the eager-spirited damsel, who has often
been thy companion; she whose swing heart has
often been ready to rise from the earth,-whose
words were as arrows of fire flung from a soul that
longed to overleap the bounds of human existence,
that she might comprehend its mysteries ;-she
have the apostates seduced from her faith,--she is
a priestess in that detested fane ! This I have
even now learned as I went out into the camp
during thy sleep, and it is this which troubles me.
But strengthen thee, my child, we will in the
morning hasten to depart."
" But," cried Zea, kindling with irrepressible
zeal ; " but you will not depart, and leave Sephi-
roth to perdition? You will not depart without
one effort to win her back? She must be saved,
my father; she must be saved ! Sh~ cannot be
left to everlasting ruin. You will not depart with-
out arming in the name of God, and attempting to
check the growth, if not to annihilate, the existence
of this pestilential idolatry ! Oh hasten ! hasten,
Dir tized yGoogle
OF ANGELS. 385
fa4}ler ! Let us go forth to the people. I have
somewhat to tell them of these things."
The old man, struck with a silent astonishment,
stood still and gazed upon ber for a short space;
but he offered no resistance to the desire of his
daughter, who arose from the couch, made haste
with feeble limbs and trembling .hands t~ array
herself; and leaning upon her father's arm, they
went out.
The old man led her to a green mound beneath
a stately palm-tree, where she sate down while he
went and called the people. They came hurrying
in numbers at the summons, and gathered round
the maid in wonder, not less at what this could
mean, than at the pale and wasted form of the lost
and found one. The greater part of the whole
camp had speedily gathered about her, and Zea in
a feeble voice began to relate tO them the wonders
she had seen, .the ~ials and temptations she had
passed through.. As she went on, seeming to
"'gather strength from her narrative, the whole mul-
titude stood in the profoundest silence of curiosity
and amaze ; but when she suggested that the same
evil spirit which had so sorely beset her, was one
VOL. II. s
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
386 • THE VALLEY
who haunted this temple, and stimulated this be-
sotted people to pagan abominations, there was a
murmur and a motion amongst them, as when .the
wind passes lightly over the leaves of the forest;
and when she asked them if they would suffer their
God thus to be despised; their people to be tempted
to their everlasting undoing; their 4eluded daugh-
ter, Sephiroth, to be left amongst them to utter
perdition ;-it was as if a storm had succeeded to
the wind, and the boughs of the forest were tossed
and crashed, and made to howl and roar in its
fury. A spirit of sacred wrath and vengeance
went forth from the noble maid, who in the fervour
of her words had risen erect, casting off, as by
miracle, her weakness, and her face ftushing with
the roseate glow of beauty and the fire of holy in-
dignation-a spirit of vengeance for the insulted
honour of God. The whole tribe was in eager
debate. They called upon, they stirred up each
other to. an insatiable and unquenchable ardour.
They cried, '' we will destroy the accursed thing
-the earliest morning shall behold us in arms
against the idol fane !"
The old man stood at the foot of the mound-
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OJ<' ANGELS. 387
weeping as he stood. When he heard the words
of Zea; when he saw the virtuous wrath of his
people; when he beheld th:m thronging round his
daughter, young and old, with tears and embraces
and blessings, he could no longer contain himself.
Much the good ma~ wept over the evils that had
assailed his child-much, but with tears of joy,
over the firmness and nobility of her faith. " Thou
hast done well, my child,".he said,-" thou art a
worthy daughtet. of the ancient line of Seth. Few
have in these days, stood so nobly for the God of
the whole earth."
He led her back amidst the affectionate pressure
and overftowing souls of his neighbours to his tent.
All night he and Zea, full of the spirit of agitation
which she had ~bus scattered like fire amongst the
whole people, sate and conversed on these absorb-
ing concerns, and scarcely had the day given its
first warning in the east, when they heard the com-
motion in the camp, and the old man prepared to
go forth. Even then they heard the sound of
gathering multitudes. They rushed out, and
beheld the whole people passing to the assault.
They were led by a youth-a stranger youth,
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
388 THE VALLEY
whose form and face were full of a noble indig-
nation that kindled contagious feelings through the
crowd ; and whose words fell on them as drops of
spiritual fire, rousing them to a trembling enthu-
siasm of desire,-:-to a zeal bordering on frenzy, to
rush upon the accursed place.
"Who is that noble youth?" exclaimed the old _
man ; and he himself, home on by the same en-
thusiasm, plunged in the same moment into the
crowd. Zea's eye fell on the youth-she knew
him well ! It was Kadmiel !-the real, the un-
questionable KadJ;niel, with all .the grace and
energy of his character upon him. The host
rushed on ~ike a tempestuous cloud that B.ies across
the desert, charged with thunder and lightning,
and destroying hail ; and, forgetful of herself, Zea
also ran on.
As they approached the idol temple, a fierce
throng rushed from its door, and raised a wild yell,
whieh was echoed by the Sepharvites. Zea stood
rooted to the ground at an object which met her
eye ;-the idolaters were led by the dark spirit of
her temptations,-the false Kadmiel. A fire of
mingled infernal rage and joy lightened in his
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS. 389
eyes : he roused by his fiendish eloquence his fol-
lowers to madness, and with dreadful cries the
. combatants rushed together. There was instantly
a scene of universal fury and confusion,-men
struggling with men-men striking at the lives of
men. Amongst the trees of the grove were
groups fighting desperately ; bodies, living and
dead, plunged into the waters of a silent lake that
slept, overshadowed by the gloom of the grove, and
the tinge of blood rose strongly from its sullen
depths. .The erie$ of pursuers and pursued rung
on all sides, but about the temple itself the battle
concentrated. There all was cla~our, and terrible
fury. The edifice was built of cedar, with pillars
of chittim wood ;-its large portal was the only
place of entrance, and that was defended by a
knot. of desperate men, who appeared as im-
moveable as the fabric itself. But what power
could defend it against such an excited host as
assailed it? They hewed at its timber walls with
bars and axes ; numbers climbed up its pillars, and
swarmed upon its roof, attempting to rend away
its covering of shingles, and to gain admittance
.. there ; but presently there came blazing arrows
s3
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
390 THE VALLEY
from the crowd; they stuck here and there, and
· the flames fastening on the sun-scorched timber,
quickly arose in circling columns on all sides. A .
wild cry of triumph announced the event; the
assailants dropped quickly from the roof; the sur-
rounding throng fell back, watching the progress
of the destructive element with eyes of ftashing
delight, and repeated cheers; till the defenders of
the temple, driven by the flames, sallied in a
desperate band, and attempted to cut their way
through their enemies. Then again arose the
yells of assailing rage ; the whole mass was once
more mingled in the struggle and agitation of
mortal wrath. On the one side success, on the
other despair, steeled and strengthened the com-
batants, and blood fiowed in torrents that only
quickened the thirst of slaughter.
While Zea stood beholding this terrible spec-
tacle,·another, a more strange one presented itself.
The deluded, the lost Sephiroth ran through the
confused and shouting multitude; her head bound
with a garland that had kindled and encircled her
temples with fiame, which her own velocity fanned
into vivid brightness. · As she drew near Zea, the
OF ANGE~. 391
folds of her garments were seen also bordered with
curling B.ame. Zea, bursting from the torpidity of
terror, sprang forward to clasp the terrified fugitive,
and to extinguish the fire, when a dark form rose
suddenly from the earth between them, and touch-
ing _the forehead of Sephiroth, exclaimed-" thou
art mine !" At that touch, the ill-fated damsel
gave one convulsive start, and fell a blackened
corpse upon the earth. The exulting fiend turned
towards Zea, who stood gazing in powerless asto-
nishment at the scene, and cried-" thou, too, art
mine ! The Queen-mother of flowers claims thee
as her votary:" and as he touched her forehead, a
sharp and fiery pang pQSSed through her, and she
felt her soul fainting from her frame.
" She is mine !" exclaimed another, and a
familiar voice. One arm supported the sinking
maid-a cool hand passed across her brow, and the
dying creature looked up, and beheld the eyes of
Kadmiel fixed on her in tender admiration, " She
is mine, wretched Spirit," he added, striking the
dark form which yet lingered near; and at his
· touch, the evil-spirit rolled away at his feet like a _
black cloud, in which his fiendish eyes flashed like
passing lightnings, and disappeared.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
392 THE VALLEY
•' Noble maid!'' said Kadmiel to the dying Zea,
" well hast thou trusted in the power and the love
of God. Let us away now to the realms of his
presence. The souls that so lately welcomed thee
to the Valley of Angels, now affectionately await
thee in scenes still fairer, and where no time will
bring the necessity to depart."
He disappeared, and the maid sunk calmly to
the earth, and expired; ~d the people returning
from the demolished temple, and ·dispersed idola-
ters, found her beautiful corse, and the blackened
one of the lost Sephiroth. The latter they com-
mitted in silence to the earth where it lay, but the
remains of Zea they bore to her father's tent, sing-
ing as they went on :
CHORUS OP YOUTHS.
Sister, thou art fled !
Sister, in a goodly time,
Thou hast sought a better clime;
Ere thy evil days were come,
Thou hast hastened home.
Sister, blest art thou !
Blest are they who take their flight,
While life's dews yet sparkle bright ;
While the bloom is on the tree,-
Blest who pass like thee !
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
OF ANGELS.
Happy, happy doom!
Loved below, desired above ;
In life, in death enshrined in love :
Bright on earth, and brighter where
Every soul is fair.
Sister, sister, joy !
On the wings of youth upbome,
Through the regions of the mom ;
Gladness, glory go with thee ;
To eternity!
CHORUS OF OLD MEN.
Daughter, thou art fled;
But we linger, faint and old,
Till the bright earth waxeth cold ;
Till the dew is all exhaled ;
Till the bloom hath failed.
Daughter, blest art thou!
Where the earth's first bright ones trod,
There we find the burial sod :
The dwellings of the patriarchs stand
In a desert land!
Happy is thy doom !
Ours is, here to stand and mark
How the lights of life grow dark ;
How the loved ones drop away-
And feel the soul decay.
Daughter, daughter, joy!
None of all these ills are thine,
Thou shalt not in tears repine;
Spent in frame, and spent in heart,
And unwept depart!
393
394 THE VALLEY OF ANGELS,
GENERAL CHORUS.
Maiden, maiden, joy !
On the wings of youth upborne,
Through the regions of the morn ;
Gladne1s, glory go with thee, ·
To eternity!
The old man followed in a speechless stupor of
·woe the remains of his sole child," his sole delight
on earth, to the place chosen by the common voice
of the young, for its repose, a fair and favourite
group of biooming trees near the camp-where she
and they had been often wont to meet in the
happiness of youth. The design of departing
was abandoned.-and years afterwards the old man
lingered near the spot, a silent but unrepining
expectant of death; and the youthful still delighted
to draw around him, and listen to the short but
singular history of that damsel who entered the
Valley of Angels, a history which not only in-
terested those of her day and generation, but has
triumphed over the ftoods, both of water and of
time.
LONDON:
PlliNT&O BY MANNl!'tG AHO IJIJTRSON,
IVY•LAN&J PAT&RNOSTI:R~ROW.
o.9'"''dbyGoogle
Just published,
In 1 vol. S•o.
THE SEVEN TEMPTATIONS,
By MARY HOW11'1'.
"The delightful authore..of' The SevenTemptationa' uniteawithin herself
a purity of feeling-an earnest almplicity-aolemn, urcaatic, or tender, aa it
may be, closely resembling the life·llke pathoa of Defoe-with such an
occasional sublimity of imagination, aa ia shared by few, very few women."
AthmaMn.
"This volume of dramatic poem• Is a bold attempt·-the bolf!est in which
the authoress hu yet adventured. • • • The charity of the poet'• design
Is very beautiful, and will enhance the Intrinsic e:r.cellence of the work.
• • • They are dramatic vehicle• of a profound Inquiry luto the nature of
man, and take aoeh shapes of abruptneaa or dilatation, aa the immediate cir·
cum~tances of the caae require. They are treated in a very dramatic spirit,
and are replete with dramatic Interest, and will take a high rank. A few
exquisite lyrics are scattered throughout the volume,"-Atl<u.
"The purity of oentiment, the truth of deocription, the melody of venifica·
lion, the amiable, holy, and beneficent spirit, by which these dramaa are
pervaded, will have been anticipated by those who bad read and loved the
former productions of the writer. Bot many will be taken by onrpriae in the
high and bold qualities which they also exhibit."-Monthly Rep<nitory,
"It Is not too much to oay. that no other female writer of .the day could
have ·produced thb work; and that it accordingly place• ito fair author at once
In the highest tank of livinc poeto."-United &met Ga.utte.
,; The great cause of religion and virtue Ia strengthened by Mn. Howitt'•
production. It ia replete with beauty and power. The aongo and hymns, too,
are very aweet."-L«dl Mert:u.TlJ. .
"To all the virtuous, 'The Seven Temptations' will be a mental feast of
the first order. The design and event of each drama wlll.be to their taste,
and e:.cite their admiratiou."-Sh<Qie/<1 Iril.
"This Ia one of the moat fascinating books we have met with for a long
time. It ts a book not to l.le criticised, bot to be enjoyed."
Brad,j'or<i Obltnler.
PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION,
BY WILLIAM HOWITT,
AUTHOR OP "THE BOOit OP THE SII:ASON&,"
THE RURAL LIFE OF ENGLAND;
In 2 Vole. 8vo.
ALSO, A TBI&D EDITION 01'
THE BOOK OF THE SEASONS.
c 1 >d YGooglc
