{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1835__jung-stilling___heinrich_stilling_part2.pdf","mytitle":"Heinrich Stilling Part2","mylang":"de"}
HEINRICH STILLING.
PART II.
RIB
DOMESTIC LIFE, AND YEARS OF TUITION.
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN or
JOHANN HEINRICH JUNG-STILLING.
LATB PROPBSSOR. OP THR UNIV;ERRITJE9 OF HP.IDELBERO AND MARBURO,
AM'D PRIVATE AULIC COUNRP.LLOR TO THB GRAND DUKP. OF DAD1'N.
BY
SAMUEL .I ACKSON.
LONDON:
PUBLISHED BY HAMILTON, ADAMS, & Co.
PATERNOSTER ROW.
1835.
HEINRICH STILLING's
DOMESTIC LIFE.
'"' a,,Google
CHAP. I.
~'\ · ON.the lst of May, 1772, in the afternoon, Stilling
proeeeded with his Christina, on foot, to Schonen..
Ulal, and Mr. Friedenberg accompanied them.
All nature was still, the sky was serene, the s11n
shon~ ·()Ver hill and dale, and its w~m and genial
raJ$ ·Qnfolded herbs, and leaves, and flower~.
S.Ulling ¢ontemplated his present circumstances.
wi~:l ~pects with delight, and felt assured that
his :s~~ of operation would become wide and
~i>r•nsive. Christina hoped the same thing,
w~st Mr. Friedenberg, sometimes walked on
.:&one, Of lingered again behind, smoking his pipe;
and when any thing relating to domestic economy
occurred to him, he expressed it briefly and empha-
tically, ·believing that suchlike practical maxims
would be useful to them, being now about to keep
house. On arriving at the eminence, fro~ which
they could. survey the whole of Scho11-enthal, a~
B2
'"' a,,Google
4 HEINRICH STILLING'&
indescribable sensation thrilled through Stilling,
which he could not account for; he was inwardly
sorrowful and joyful, and was silent ; he prayed
in spirit, and descended the hill with his com-
panions.
This town lies in a very pleasant valley, which
runs in a straight line, from east to west, and is in-
tersected by a small river called the Wupper. In
summer, the whole valley, for the space of two
leagues, to the borders of the Mark, is seen covered
with linen yam, like as with snow, whilst the
bustle of a busy and prosperous population is inde-
scribable. The whole valley is filled with single
houses ; one garden and orchard borders on the
other, and the walk up this valley is enchanting.
Stilling dreamed of future happiness, and thus
dreamfug, he entered the noisy town.
In a few minutes his father-in-law conducted
him to the house, which Dinckler and Troost had
selected and hired for him ; it stood back a little
from the high-road, near the Wupper, and had a
small garden attached to it, with a beautiful pros-
pect of the southern hills. The servant girl, who
had preceded them a few days, had cleaned every
thing thoroughly, and arranged their little stock of
household furniture.
After sufficiently surveying and giving his opin-
ion upon every thing, Mr. Friedenberg took leave,
with many cordial wishes for their happiness, and
walked back again to Rudenheim. The young
malTied couple then stood and looked at each
'"' a,,Google
DOMBSTJO LIFB. 5
other with tearful eyes; their whole stock of fur-
niture, was very limited; six wooden chairs, a
table and bed for themselves, and one for the ser-
vant, a couple of dishes, six pewter plates, a few
pans for cooking, &c. and then the most needful
linen, together with a very bare supply of clothes,
was all that could be found in the house, though
large; this furniture was divided hit.her and thither,
and yet it seemed every where indescribably empty.
The third story was never thought of, it was void,
and continued so.
And then the cash! It consisted altogether of
five ri:x:dollars in ready money, and that was all!
Really, really! it required great confidence in
the paternel providence of God, in order to sleep
quietly the first night, and yet Stilling and his
<:OOSOrt slept well ; for they did not doubt for a
moment, that God would provide for them. His
reason, liowever, occasionallytormented him much;
but he gave no ear to it, and simply belietJed.
The next day, he paid his visits, but Christina
paid none; for her intention was to live as unknown
and privately as ever propriety would permit.
Stilling now found a great difference in the beha-
viour of his future fellow citizens and neighboun.
His pietistie frien<is, who had formerly received
him as an angel of God, and embraced him with
the warmest salutations and blessings, stood at a
distance, merely bowed and were cold ; but this
was no wonder; for he now wore a wig with a
bag to it ; formerly it. was only round, and pow.
B3
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STiLLll'~G'S
dered a little, besides, he wore ruffles to his shirt,.
at the neck and hands, and was therefore become
a gentleman, and a man of the world. They at-
tempted occasionally, to speak with him on reli-
gion, in their usual way, but he expressed himself
in a friendly and serious manner, to the effect, that
he had talked long enough about duties, he would
now be silent and practise them; and as he no
longer attended any of their meetings, they re-
garded him as a backslider, and spake of him, on
every occasion, in an unkind and lamenting tone.
How much is this mode of proceeding to be de-
precated in these characters, otherwise so worthy
and excellent ! I willingly confess that the most
upright people and the best of christians are to be
found amongst them ; but they ruin every thing
by their love of judging. He that is not precisely
of one mind with them, nor trifles and affects re-
ligious sensibility with them, is of no value in their
-eyes, and is regarded as unregenerate; they do not
reflect that the mere profession of religion is una-
vailing, and that the individual must let his light
shine by his good works. In short, Stilling was
not only entirely forsaken by his old friends, but
even calumniated; nor did they employ him
scarcelyin the least as a physician. The majority
Qf .the rich merchants received him merely with
politeness, as a man who had no property, and
whom it is necessary, at first sight, to impress
with the idea,.,, Never have the heart to ask money,
help, or support from me; I will reward thy
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE.. 1
services, as they deserve, and nothing more."
However he likewise found some worthy men,
true philanthropists, whose look bespoke a no•
ble mind.
All this, however, had a depressing effect upon
Stilling; hitherto he had dined at a table well
provided by others, or else had been able to pay
for it ; the world around him had had little refe·
rence to him, and with all his sufferings, his sphere
of operation had been inconsiderable ; but now, he
saw himself all at once placed in a vast, splendid,
low-bred, avaricious, mercantile world, with which
he did not harmonize in the least, where the
learned were only esteemed in proportion to their
wealth-where sensibility, reading, and learning,
were ludicrous; and where he alone was honored,
who made much money. Hence, he was like a
very small light, at which no one would think of
lingering, much less of warming himself. Stillins
therefore began to feel melancholy.
Meanwhile two days, and even three days passed,
before any one came, who needed his assistance;
and the five rixdollars melted away rapidly. But
on the morning of the fourth day, a woman came
from Dornfeld, a small town that lies about three
quarters of a league to the east of Schonenthal.
On entering the door, she cried out with tears in
her eyes, " 0 Doctor, we have heard that you are
a very able man, and know a great deal ; a very
very great misfortune has happened at our house,
and we have employed all the doctors far and
8 HElNRICH STILLING'i
near, but none of them can do any thing for him;
I am, therefore, come to you ; 0 help my poor
child!"
Good God ! thought Stilling to himself; the
first patient I get, has put to shame all the expe-
rienced physicians; what shall I, who am so inex-
perienced, be able to effect? He asked, however,
what was the matter with the child.
The poor woman related, with many tears, the
history of her sick child, of which the following
circumstances were the principal :-
The boy was eleven years old, and had had t.he
measles about a quarter of a year before ; through
the carelessness of his nurse, he had been exposed
too soon to the cold air ; the inflammatory matter
had retired into the brain, and had produced very
singular results. For the last six weeks, the
patient had lain in bed without consciousness or
feeling; he did not move a limb of his whole body,
with the exception of his right arm, which, day
and night, incessantly moved about, like the
pendulum of a clock ; his life had been hitherto
supported by the injection of thin soups, but
besides this, no medicine had been able to produce
any effect. The woman concluded her copious
account with expressing her suspicion, whether
the child might not possibly be bewitched?
"No," answered Stilling, "the child is not
bewitched; I will come and see him." The woman
wept again, and said, "0 Doctor! do cotne!" and
with that she went away.
'"' a,,Google
DOHESTIC LIFE. 9
Doctor Stilling paced his room with rapid
strides; "Good God!" thought he, "who can do
any thing in such a case? There is no doubt that
all possible means have been used;" for the people
were wealthy ; "what remains, therefore, for a
beginner like myself!" With these melancholy
thoughts, he took up bis hat and stick, and set
out for Dornfeld. He prayed to God, the whole
way, for light, and blessing, and power; he
found the child exactly as its mother had described
it ; its eyes were closed, it fetched breath regu-
larly, and the right arm moved, as though it beat
time, from the breast towards the right side ; he
sat down, saw and considered, inquired into all
the circumstances, and on going away, ordered the
woman to come to Schonenthal to him in an hour;
he would reflect upon this strange case during the
time, and prescribe something ; on his way home,
he thought of what he could prescribe that might
be useful; at length it occurred to him, that Mr.
Spielman had commended Dippel's animal oil as a
remedy for convulsions ; he was the more glad of
this medicament, for he felt assured, that none of
the physicians had used it, because it was no longer
in fashion. He therefore resolved upon it, and as
soon as he came home, he prescribed a mixture, of
which this oil was the basis ; the woman came
and fetched it. Scarcely had two hours elapsed,
when a messenger arrived, who requested St.illing
to go immediately to his patient ; he hastened to
him, and on entering the house, he saw the bo1
'"' a,,Google
10 HEINRICH STILLING's
sitting up in the bed, happy and well, and was
told, that scarcely had the child swallowed a tea-
spoonful of the mixture, when he opened his eyes,
awoke, and asked for something to eat, and the
arm had become still, and just like the other. It
is impossible to describe how the good doctor felt
on this occasion ; the house was full of people,
desirous of seeing the miracle ; every one regarded
him, with delight, as an angel of God. Every one
blessed him, but the child's parents wept tears of
joy, and knew not what they should do to the able
physician. Stilling thanked God inwardly in his
soul, and his eyes were filled with tears of delight ;
however he was heartily ashamed of the praise be-
atowed upon him, which he had so little merited ;
for the whole cure was neither the result of plan
or reflection, but mere accident, or rather divine
and paternal providence.
When reflecting on the whole affirir, he could
scarcely refrain from laughing aloud, at hearing
them speak of his stupendous aWity, being con-
sci0111 how little he had done in the matter ; how-
ever, prudence required him to be silent, and to
take every thing for granted, although without
ascribing vain glory to himself; he therefore now
prescribed purgatives and tonic medicines, and
healed the child completely.
Here I cannot restrain the impulse of my heart
from communicating to young physicians a warn-
ing and an admonition, which is the result of
much experience, and which may be likewise use-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 11
ful to the public, who are obliged to confide
themselves to such inexperienced persons. When
the young man goes to the university, his first idea
is, to finish as soon as possible ; for studying costs
money, and he would gladly soon be able to sup-
port himself; the most needful auxiliary sciences,
such as the knowledge of the Greek and Latin
languages, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and
Natural Philosophy are neglected, or at least, not
sufficiently, thoroughly studied; whilst on the con-
trary, the time is spent in a variety of subtle and
sophistical anatomical disquisitions ; the individ-
ual then attends the other lectures mechanically,
and immediately hastens to the sick bed. There,
however, every thing is found to be very different;
the man knows little or nothing of the secret course
of nature, and yet ought to know every thing ;
the young doctor is ashamed to confess his igno-
rance, he therefore talks a great deal of high
sounding nonsense, which makes the ears of the
experienced practitioner to tingle ; then sits down,
and prescribes something according to his fancy.
Now if he is still in any degree conscientious, he
makes choice of remedies which, at least, cannot
injure ; but how often is, by this means, the most
important crisis neglected, in which a beneficial
effect might have been produced I-and besides
all this, the individual often thinks he has prescri-
bed somthing ofa harmless nature, not considering
that injury may be nevertheless done by it, be-
cause he is ignorant of the disease.
'"' a,,Google
12 HEINRICH STILLING's
It is therefore imperative upon young students,
after attaining a perfect knowledge of the auxiliary
sciences, to study Surgery to the very bottom; for
the latter contains the most certain principles of
knowledge, from whence, by analogy, internal dis-
eases may be ascertained ; they ought then to
study nature at a sick·bed, with the professor of
practical medicine, who ought, however, himself
to be a good physician, and then at length, enter
upon this highly important office, but mark !-
only under the superintendance of an able prac-
titioner ! 0 God ! where is there a greater defi-
ciency, than in the arrangements of the medical
establishment, and in.the regulations appertaining
to it?
This first cure made a great noise ; the blind,
the lame, the crippled, and incurables of every
kind now came; but Dippel's Oil did not avail for
all, and Stilling had not yet found any such speci-
fic for all diseases ; the concourse of people to him,
therefore, diminished, but he now came into a reg-
ular practice, which procured him a bare subsis-
tence. Meanwhile, his colleagues began to attack
him, for they looked upon the cure as a piece of
quackery, and made the public suppose, that he
was, and would be, a true charlatan. This
unfounded report reached the medical board at
Rilsselstein, and caused the members of it to en-
tertain prejudicial ideas of him ; he was required.
to appear before them for examination, and was
rather severely handled; however, he stood firm,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 13
notwithstanding all the attempts of chicane, so
that no one could have anything against him;
he attained therefore the diploma of a privileged
physician.
In the beginning of that summer, Stilling made
it known, that he would read a lecture on Physio-
logy, to young surgeons. Messieurs Dinckler and
Troost attended the lecture diligently, and from
that time, he has read lectures almost without
interruption. When he spoke in public, he was in
his element; in speaking, his ideas developed them-
selves so fast, that he often could not find words
enough to express them all; his whole existence
felt reanimated, and became life and delineation.
I do not say this for the sake of boasting ; God
knows, it was he who gave him the talent; Stilling
had done nothing towards it ; his friends often
foreboded he would become a public lecturer. He
then sighed within himself, and wished ; but saw
no way before him, how he might ascend that step.
Scarcely had Stilling spent a few weeks in such
occupations, when all at once the heavy hand ofthe
Almighty again drew forth the rod, and wounded
him severely. Christina began to grow melan-
choly and ill ; by degrees her dreadful fits returned
in all their violence ; she became subject to tedious
and painful convulsions, which often lasted for
hours together, and contracted her poor weak body
in su.ch a manner, that it was pitiful to behold;
the convulsions often threw her out of bed;
during which she shrieked so dreadfully, that she
c
'"' a,,Google
14 HEINRICH 8TILLING's
might have been heard at the distance of several
houses in the neighbourhood; this lasted for some
weeks, when her state became evidently more dan-
gerous. Stilling looked upon her as perfectly
hectic, for she had really all the symptoms of a
consumption ; he now began to despair, and to
wrestle with God; all his powers succumbed, and
this new species of sorrow, that of losing a wife,
whom he so tenderly loved, inflicted deep wounds
on his heart. To this was joined daily, new cares
respecting his maintenance in a place of trade,
like Schonenthal ; he had no credit, besides which,
every thing was very dear, and the manner of
living expensive; every morning, on awaking, the
question recurred to him with redoubled force,
How wilt thou find thy subsistence this day? for
the case was very rare, that he had money enough
{or two days. His experience and his trials of
faith, indeed, stood before his eyes ; hut then he
daily saw still more pious people, who struggled
with the bitterest want, and had scarcely bread
enough to satisfy their hunger; therefore, what
else could console him, but an unconditional
surrender of himself to the mercy of his heaven)y
Father, who would not suffer him to be tempted
beyond his ability ?
To this was added another circumstance ; he
had the maxim, that every christian, anq parti-
cularly a physician, ought to be benevolent without
reflection, merely in confidence upon God ; in
consequence of this, he committed the great mis-
DOMESTIC LIFE. 15
take of frequently having medicine made up at
the apothecary's on his own account, for those he
visited, who were unable to pay, by which he
plunged himself into debt, which subsequently
caused him much sorrow ; nor was he careful, on
such occasions, to reserve the money he had been
rece1vmg. I cannot say, that in such instances
an inward benevolent impulse guided his actions !
No, there was also a certain thoughtlessness and
disregard for money connected with it, of which
weakness of character, Stilling at that time
was ignorant, but at length became sufficiently
acquainted with it, through many grievous' trials.
It is no wonder, that in this manner, his practice
became very extensive ; he had more than enough
to dO, ·but his labors brought him in very little.
Christina also felt grieved at it, for she was very
careful, and he said nothing to her, when he gave
away anything, lest she should reproach him, for
be felt assured, that God would bless him for it
in some other way. In other respects, they were
both very moderate in food and raiment ; and
contented themselves with that which the extreme
of propriety required.
Christina grew worse, and Stilling th-0ught he
should certainly lose her. One forenoon, as he
sat by her bed and waited upon her, her breath
all at once began to cease, she stretched out her
arms towards her husband, gave him a piercing
look, and breathed out the words, " Farewell-
angel-Lord, have mercy upon me-I am dying!''
c2
'"' a,,Google
16 HEINRICH STILLING'S
With that, her eyes were fixed, all the appear-
ance of death shewed itself in her face, her respi-
ration ceased, she was convulsed, and Stilling
stood like a poor criminal before his executioner.
At length he threw himself upon her, kissed her,
and spoke consoling words into her ear ; but she
was insensible ; the moment Stilling was about t.o
call for help, she came again t.o herself; she was
much better, and evidently relieved. Stilling
had not yet, by far, sufficient medical experience
to know all the parts which this dreadful hysteric
evil is wont to act in such weakly and irritable
bodies·; hence it was, that he was so often
alarmed and terrified. Christina therefore di4
not die, but she remained dangerously ill, and
the dreadful paroxysms continued ; hence his life
was a constant torture, and every day had new
torments in readiness for himself and his consort.
Just in this severe time of trial, there came a
messenger from a place, which was five leagues
distant from Schonenthal, to take him to a rich
and respectable individual, who was confined by a
lingering illness. As painful as it was t.o him t.o
leave his own wife in such a melancholy condition,
yet he felt as deeply the duties of his office ; and
as the state of the patient above mentioned was
not dangerous, he sent the messenger away again,
and promised to come the next day. He therefore
arranged his affairs, so as t.o 1-e able to be absent
for a day. At seven o'clock in the evening, he
sent out the servant girl to fetch a bottle of
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 17
Malaga wine, which was intended for Christina's
refreshment ; if she took only a few drops of it,
she felt herself invigorated. Christina's younger
sister, a girl of thirteen years of age, was at that
time there on a visit to her sister, and she went
out with the servant to fetch the wine. Stilling
seriously enjoined the latter to return immediately,
because there were still several things to do, and
to prepare tor his journey on the morrow; how-
ever, she did not do so; the fine summer evening
seduced the thoughtless·girl to take a walk; it
was therefore nine o'clock before she came home.
Stilling had. consequently his wife's bed to make,
and other things to do himself. Both were there-
fore justly irritated. As the girl entered the door,
Stilling began, in a gentle but serious tone, to
admonish her, and remind her of her duty; the
girl was silent, and went down stairs with Miss
Friedenberg into the kitchen. After a little
while, they both heard a hollow, terrible, and
dreadful sound, and at the same time, the sister
calling out for help. The gloom of the twilight,
together with this appalling noise, produced such
an effect, that Stilling himself grew cold through
his whole frame, whilst his sick wife shrieked out
with terror. Meanwhile, Stilling ran down stairs,
in order to see what was the matter. He found the
servant girl standing by the sink, with dishevelled
hair, and, like a lunatic, emitting this horrible
sound, whilst foaming at the mouth, and looking
like a fury.
c3
'"' a,,Google
18 HEINRICH STILLINo's
Stilling now felt exasperated; he seized the girl
by the arm, turned her about, and said to her
energetically, "Good God, what are you doing?
-what Satan impels you to trouble me thus, in
my distressing circumstances ?-have you no more
human feeling ?" But this was pouring oil into
the fire ; she shrieked convulsively, tore herself
loose, and fell into the most dreadful epileptic fits.
The same moment, he heard Christina likewise
screaming dreadfully; he ran up stairs, and found,
in the twilight, his wife in the most appalling
condition ; she had thrown oft' all the bed-clothes
and bedding, and was, rooting, convulsively, in
the straw beneath ; all recollection was fled, she
gnashed her teet.h, and the convulsions drew her
head backwards to her heels. The waves of
affliction now rolled over his head ; be ran out to
his next neighbours and old friends, and called
aloud for help most piteously. Persons of both
sexes came, and sought to bring the two sufferers
again to themselves ; they succeeded first with the
servant girl; she came to herself again, and was
taken to bed ; but Christina remained still for a
couple of hours in the same melancholy condition.
She then became quiet ; her bed was made, and
she was put into it ; she lay like one asleep,
entirely without consciousness, and unable to
move herself. The day now dawned ; two
females from the neighbourhood, together with
the sister, continued with Christina, and Stilling
rode with the heaviest heart in the world, to visit
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 19
his patient. On returning in the evening, he
found his wife in the same state of stupefaction,
and she only came to herself again the next
morning.
He now sent away the malicious servant, and
hired anot.her. The storm passed over for this
time ; Christina got well again, and it appeared,
that all these dreadful fits were the consequences
of the commencement of pregnancy. The follow-
ing autumn, she was again troubled with an
ulcerated breast, which was the cause of many
painful occurrences; with this exception, she was
very well and cheerful during the time.
'"' a,,Google
CH AP. II.
STtLLING's domestic life had therefore commenced
painfully and sorrowfully in every respect. There
was nothing that was pleasing in the whole of his
situation, except the tendemP.ss with which Chris-
tina treated him ; both loved each other cordially,
and their intercourse with each other was a pattern
to married people. However, the excessive affec-
tion of his wife, sometimes occasioned him very
bitter moments, for it frequently degenerated into
jealousy; this weakness, however, entirely van-
ished in the course of a year or two. In other
respects, Stilling's whole state resembled that of a
wanderer, travelling by night through a wood full
of robbers and ravenous beasts, who hears them,
from time to time, rustling and roaring around
him. He was continually tormented by care
respecting his daily support ; he had little success
in his vocation, little love in the circle in which he
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 21
moved, and consequently little comfortable society.
No one encouraged him; for those who could have
done it, did not know him, nor he them ; and
those that observed and were acquainted with him
and his circumstances, despised him, or else were
indifferent to him. If he occasionally went to
Rosenheim, he did not dare to say anything, lest .
he should cause anxiety; for Mr. Friedenberg
had become security for the amount his studies had
cost ; he was compelled to hide his sorrow from
bis Chri11tina, for her tender mind would have
been unable to bear it with him ; he was even
obliged to encourage her, and hold out to her the
most pleasing hopes.
It was, on the whole, a singular affair with re-
ference to Stilling's vocation and attending the
sick. As long as he labored, unobserved, amongst
the poor, and the lower class, he performed excel-
lent cures, and was successful in almost every case;
but no sooner had he to attend one of the higher
class, to whom many eyes were directed, than all
was in vain; his sphere of action, therefore con-
tinued limited to people who had litt)e to pay with.
Thia circumstance, although it seemed strange, is
easy to comprehend_
; his whole soul was system,
every thing in his ideas ought to be according to
rule ; hence he had no disposition for the refined
and allowed charlatanry, which is so needful to
the practical physician, who wishes to gain some-
thing for himself; therefore when he visited a
patient, he inquired into his case, then formed a
'"' a,,Google
22 HEINRICH STl!.LING'S
plan, and acted according to it. If it did not
succeed, he was vanquished, his labors were then
disagreeable to him, and yet he was unable to help
himself. With common and robust constitutions,
in which nature works more regularly and simply,
his method was the most successful ; but where
luxury, delicate nerves, perverted sensibility, and
imagination were in full play, and where his atten-
tion to the patient had to consist of an hundred
different kinds of seemingly important employ-
ments, Stilling did not feel at home.
All this gradually inspired him with a pro-
found repugnance to the medical profession, and
merely the idea, that God had designed him to be
a physician, and would therefore gradually render
him successful in his vocation, supported his soul,
and kept him in unwearied activity. For this
reason he formed, the very first summer, the gigan-
tic resolution to study and investigate, until he had
attained to mathematical certainty in his voca-
tion. In this tedious undertaking, he hit upon
several important tracks, and discovered many
new philosophical truths ; but the further he
sought, the more he found that his misfortunes,
would increase, the more ground and foundation
.he discovered in his profession ; for he perceived
very clearly that the physician can do very little,
and consequently can earn very little. This weak-
ened his hopes, and his prospects became dark,
just like a wanderer on an unknown and dangerous
path, who is overtaken by a thick fog, so that he
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC. LIFE. 23
cannot see ten steps before him. He therefore
cast himself blindly into the paternal arms of God,
hoped, where nothing was to be hoped for, and
proceeded on his pilgrimage, very melancholy.
Dare I tell you, friends and readers, that Stilling,
notwithstanding all this, was a happy man ! What
is the object of human life, but a perfecting of
existence, in order to be able to spread happiness
around us ? Similarity to God and to Christ is
the brilliant aim which beams upon a mortal man,
like the morning radiance, from his youth up ;
but where is the boy, the youth, or the man, in
whom religion and reason have so much the ascen-
dancy over sensuality, as to prevent him from
wasting his life in gratifying himself, and from
forgetting his exalted destiny ? It is therefore
an invaluable blessing, when an individual · is
instructed from his youth up, to place an entire
reliance upon God; and is then placed by provi-
-dence in a situation, where he is compelled to
exercise this confidence. His soul, by this means,
becomes pliant, humble, resigned, patient, and
unceasingly operative ; it struggles through doing
and suffering, and overcomes every thing ; no
adversary can essentially injure it, for it strives
against them with the weapons of love, which
latter no one resists: nay, even Deity itself may
be overcome by love! This was Stilling's case.
The wise man must therefore esteem him happy,
although scarcely any one would wish himself in
his place.
'"' a,,Google
24 HEINRICH STILLINO'S
Towards autumn of the year 1772, the two
excellent brothers, Vollkraft, of Rlisselstein, came
to Schonenthal; the eldest was court chamberlain,
and a noble, upright, excellent man ; he had a
commission to execute at the latter place, which
detained him some weeks. Hi11 brother, a senti-
mental, tender, and well-known poet, and at the
same time, a man of the best and noblest, and
most upright sentiments, accompanied him, in
order to be with him in a place, which was so
entirely destitute of food for his soul. Doctor
Dinckler was very well acquainted with these two
worthy characters. At the first visit, he described
Stilling to them so advantageously, that they
were desirous of becoming acquainted with him.
Dinckler gave him a hint, and he hastened to
visit them. He went to them for the first time
one evening; the chamberlain entered into con-
versation with him, and was so taken with him,
that he saluted and embraced him, and favored
him with his entire love and friendship; the same
was the case also with the other brother. Both
understood him, and he them; their hearts over-
flowed into each other, and a conversation arose,
which is not understood by every one.
Stilling's eyes were continually filled with tears
on this occasion. His deep sorrow sought allevi-
ation, but he never mentioned any thing of his
situation, for he knew how humbling it is, to
confess one's need even to friends. He therefore
bore his burden alone; which, however, was much
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 25
lightened, from having met with those who under-
stood him, and imparted themselves to him.
Besides this, Stilling was of low birth; he had
been accustomed from his youth up, to regard
persons of rank, and even rich and reputable peo-
ple, as beings of a superior·kind ; hence he was
always timid and reserved in their presence. This
was often construed into stupidity, ignorance, and
adherence to his low descent-in a word, he was
despised by persons of the common sort, who were
destitute of refined feelings ; but the brothers
Vollkraft were of a very different stamp; they
treated him confidentially ; he revived in their
society, and was able to shew himself in his true
colours.
Friedrich Vollkraft, for so was the chamberlain
called, asked him at his first visit, if he had
written anything. Stilling answered, Yes! for
be bad sent his history, in lectures, by piecemeal,
to the society of Belles Lettres at Strasburg,
which existed at that time, and had received the
copy of it back again. The two brothers much
wished to read it ; he brought it, therefore, at
the next visit, and read it to them. The style,
as well as the declamation, was so unexpected,
that they exclaimed aloud, "that is beautiful,
incomparable !" They therefore encouraged him
to write more, and induced him to furnish some-
thing for the "German Mercury," which was then
commencing. He did so, and wrote" Aseneitha,
an Oriental Tale;" it appeared in the first part of
D
'"' a,,Google
·-.
26 HEINRICH STILLING's
the third, and the first part of the fourth volume
of that periodical work, and gave general satis-
faction.
Through this acquaintanceship, Vollkraft be-
came a support to Stilling, which much relieved
him on a very painful occasion. He had now a
lodging and a friend, when he travelled to Riis-
selstein, who imparted to him, by his correspon-
dence,· many a refreshing ray of light. This
connection, however, made him still more hated
by his fellow townsmen, and particularly by the
Pietists; for in Schonenthal, a rigid adhesion to
systems of religion universally prevails, and he
that varies from them in the smallest degree, as
was the case with the brothers Vollkraft, was
regarded as Anathema and Maranatha; so that
if a person writes any thing, if it be a poem, that
is not spiritual, or a romance, however moral, is
in their eyes, already tainted with irreligion, and
becomes odious. It is true, that all the inhabi-
tants of SchOnenthal do not think so, of which,
proofs will be given in the sequel; these are, how-
ever, the sentiments of the majority, and it is
this which gives the ton.
Doctor Stilling continued to live thus circum-
stanced, amidst a variety of changes. At the
close of the year 1772, he made a caloulation of
his expenses; he balanced receipts and payments,
or rather, income and expenditure, and found to
his great sorrow, that he was two hundred dollars
deeper in debt;. the reason of which was as follows.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 27
1.t is the custom in Schonenthal, to carry every
thing that is earned, to account; therefore, as no
money came·in, none could·go out ; consequently
what is wanted, is fetched from the tradespeople,
and placed to account. At the end of the year,
the accounts are ma.de out and sent, and thus
accounts are received and paid. Now, although
Stilling had earned as much as he had spent, yet
his demands were scattered about in such trifling
sums, that he could not possibly collect them all ;
he was therefore at a stand ; the shopkeepers
were not paid, and thus his credit sank still more;
his grief, on this account, was inexpressible. He
met ·his daily ready money expenses by what he
received from patients in the country; but this
was so limited, · that he had merely what was
necessary, and was frequently put to the severest
teata; in which, however, Providence never for-
sook him, hut came to his aid, as formerly, in a
visible and wonderful manner. The following is
an instance amongst many.
In Schonenthal, coals alone are used, both in
the kitchen and the parlour stoves; all these coals
are brought from the neighbouring province of
Mark.
. Stilling had also his coalman, who, ·from
time to time, brought him a horse load, which,
however, he was obliged to pay for on the spot;
for the carrier required the money to buy more,
and he had been hitherto always provided with
the needful. On one occasion, this coalman
drove up to the door, one afternoon; the coals
D2
'"' a,,Google
28 HEINRICH STILLING'S
were wanted, and the man could not be sent
away. Stilling had not half a gilder in the house,
and he did not feel himself at all at liberty to go
and borrow of his neighbour. Christina wept,
and he prayed ardently to God. All that was
required was a couple of Convention dollars ; but
to him that does not possess them, the payment is
as difficult, as to one who has to pay a thousand,
and does not possess a hundred. Meanwhile the
carrier unloaded bis coals, and when that was
done, he washed his bands, in order to receive
the money ; Stilling's heart beat, and be wrestled
with God. All at once, a man came to the door
with his wife ; the good people were from Dorn-
feld ; Stilling had healed the man of a painful
disease some weeks before, and had charged him,
in his account, for the end of the year. After the
customary salutations, the man began; "I have
just been receiving money, and as I was paseing
your door, it occurred to me, I had no need to
let my account stand till next year ; I therefore
wish to settle it now. You, perhaps, may make
use of the money." Very well, rejoined Stilling;
so saying, he went and fetched the book, made
out the account, and received ten rixdollars.
Stilling was frequently met with examples of
this kind, by which be was much strengthened in
his faith, and encouraged to persevere.
On the 5th of January, 1773, Christina bore
him a daughter, and although every thing passed
over in the ordinary course ofnature, yet there was
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIU. 29
~ a dreadful period of six hours continuance,
in which the fury, Hysterick, used her claws in a
terrible manner ; the poor woman writhed about
like a worm ; and such times were always a pen-
etrating and purifying fire foi: Stilling.
The following spring, as he was riding, one
Saturday, to a neighbouring village, which lies at
the distance of a league and a half from Schonen-
thal, in order to visit the sick, and bad spent the
whole day in going from house to house, and from
cottage to cottage: there came in the evening, a
poor, young, well-made female, across the street,
who was blind, and was obliged to be led by the
band. .Stilling was still eminent for curing the
diaeases of the eye ; he stood at the door of the
inn, near his horse, and was just about to mount,
when the poor woman called out :-
Where is the Doctor ?
Stillmg. Here! What do you want, good
woman?
Woman. 0 Sir, look at my eyes! I have
been blind some years, I have two children, whom
I have never seen, and my husband is a day-
laborer; I helped formerly, by spinning, to
maintain our family ; b11t I cannot do so now, and
though my husband is very industrious, yet he
cannot support us alone, and therefore it goes ill
with us. 0 look, Sir, and see, whether you can do
anything for me !
Stillinglooked at her eyes, and said, "It is the
cataract; you might, perhaps be healed of it, if
1> 3
'"' a,,Google
30 HEINRICH STtLLn~o's
you met with an able man, who could perform the
operation."
Woman. Do not you understand it, Doc·
tor?
Stilling. Yes, I understand it, it is true; but I
have never yet tried it on any living being.
Woman. 0 then, try it upon me!
Stilling. No, good woman! that I will not; I
am too much afraid of it, it might not succeed,
and then you would always continue blind; it
would be afterwards impossible to cure you.
Woman. But now, if I will run the risk?
You see I am blind, and shall not be blinder than
I am now ; perhaps the Lord will give his bless-
ing with it, and make it successful ; perform the
operation upon me !
At these words, Stilling was seized with a fit of
trembling; operations were not liis busineas, he
therefore threw himself on horseback, and said
" Good God ! let me alone !-Icannot, I cannot--
perform the operation."
Woman. Doctor, you must; it is your duty;
God has called you to help the poor and the
needy, whenever you can; now you can oper·
ate for the cataract; I will be the first to take my
chance, and I will accuse you at the day of judg.
ment, if you do not help me !
These words were daggers in Stilling's heart ;
he felt that the woman was in the right, and yet
he had an invincible dread and dislike, to all
operations on the human body, for be was, on the
'"' a,,Google
l:>OMESTIC LIFE. 31
one hand, too tender, and too susceptible, and,
on the other, too conscientious also, to risk the
happiness of any one in such a manner. He there-
fore made no further reply, but rode off; he
struggled with himself on the way, but the result
was the same, not to perform the operation. How-
ever the poor woman, did' not let the matter rest
there ; she went to her minister.
Why should I not name him-the worthy man-
the one of a thousand-the late Theodore Miiller.
He was the father, the counsellor of all the mem-
bers of his church, the prudent, gentle, unweari-
edly active servant of God, without being a pietist;
in short, he was· a disciple of Jesus in the full
sense of the word. His master soon called him
away, assuredly to make him ruler over much.
Lavater sang his death, the poor wept over him,
and the sick lamented him. Blessed be thy re-
mains, thou seed for the day ofretribution !
The poor blind woman came to this worthy
man to tell her sorrows, and at the same time
accused Doctor Stilling. Miiller therefore.wrote
him a pressing It!tter, in which he represented to
him all the happy results, which ~his operation
would occasion, in the event of its succeeding ;
and, on the other hand, the inconsiderable con-
sequences, in the event of its being unsuccessful.
Stilling ran in the distress of his heart, to his
friends Dinckler and Troost.· Both advised him
seriously to undertake the operation, and the for-
mer even promised to accompany him, and assiat
'"' a,,Google
32 HEINRICH STILLING*s
him. This encouraged him in some measure, and
he resolved upon it with fear and trembling.
There was another circumstance to be added to
all this. Stilling had been particularly instructed
at Strasburg, by Professor Lobstein, in the ex-
traction of the cataract, and had also procured
from Bogner, the instruments for it; for it was
his intention, at that time, to unite this excellent
and beneficial method of healing to his other
remedies for the eyes. But on becoming a prac-
tical physician himself, and lamenting to see
all the misery that resulted. from unsuccessful
medical attendance, he grew extremely timid,
and did not dare to venture ; he consequently lost
all desire to operate for the cataract, and this
was one of the principal reasons, why he could
not perform as much, or at least, did not appear
to accomplish as.much as others of his colleagues,
who undertook every thing, labored on, and thougla
they often made miserable falls, they gathered
themselves up again, and, notwithstanding every
thing, got forward better than he.
Stilling wrote therefore to Miiller, that he would
come on a certain day, with Doctor Dinckler, to
perform the operation on the poor woman. Ac-
cordingly both set oft', on the day appointed., and
walked to the village; Dinckler gave Stilling every
possible encouragement, but it was of little avail.
At length they arrived at the village, and went to
Muller's house; the latter comforted him, and t.he
woman was then sent for, together with the sur-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 33
geon, who had to hold her head. When evf'Jf'f
thing was ready, and the woman had taken her
seat, Stilling placed him81lf before her, took the
iutrument, and introduced it into the eye, at the
proper place. But as the patient, as is natural;
moved a little, on taking breath, Stilling drew the
instrument out again, consequently the watery'
lmmour ftowed out of the wound, down the cheek,
and the anterior eye closed. Stilling therefore
took the curved scissars, and penetrated into the
woand with the one blade, and then cut regularly
the semi-circle below, as CUBtomary; buton looking
closely, he found that he had also cut the coat of
the iris ; he was alarmed ; but what was to be
done ? He was silent, and sighed. That moment
the lens fell through the wound, down upon the
cheek, ud the woman exclaimed, in the greatest
tn.naport ofjoy, "0 Doctor, I can see your face, I
see the black in your eyes !" All present rejoiced.
Stilling then bound ap the eye, and healed it
111ccessfully; she saw extremely well, with one eye.
Some weeks after, he performed the operation
upon the other eye, with the left hand ; all was
done regularly, for he had now more courage; he
healed this also, and then the woman was again
able to see perfectly, This was noised abroad, so
that several blind people came, on whom he suc-
cessfully performed the operation, one after the
other; it was seldom that he did not succeed.
With all this, it was still singular, that these im-
portant cures rarely yielded him any emolument.
'"' a,,Google
34 HEINRICH STILLINO's
Most ofthe individuals were poor, for he performed
the operation on them gratuitously, and it was
seldom that any one ante, who was able to pay
anything ; his circumstances were therefore little
improved by it. Many even took occasion from it
to class him with operators and quack doctors.
Only pay attention, said they, he will soon begin
to travel from place to place, and enter into some
Order.
In September of the following autumn, the lady
~f one ofthe principal and most wealthy merchants,
or rather men of property, who was at the same
time, a very worthy man, was confined for the first
time. The labor was a very painful one ; the
poor woman had already suffered the pains of
child-birth for twenty-four hours, and become
exhausted, without the slightest hope being mani-
fested of her delivery. Doctor Dinckler, as
physician to the family, proposed to call in Stilling
to assist ; he was therefore sent for ; this was in
the evmring, about six o'clock. After he had duly
examined the case, he waited until nine o'clock in
the evening ; when after sufficiently convincing
himself that the child was dead, he opened its
head, pressed it together, and the delivery then
took place without difficulty.• Every thing after-
wards went well ; the lady soon became perfectly
convalescent. But what heart.felt anxiety, tears,
• The case i1 described more circumstantially in the original.
but for obvious reasons, has been abridged in the translation.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 35
struggles and ·sympathy such-like employmentS
occasioned our susceptible Stilling, cannot be de-
scribed. However, he felt it his duty, and was
obliged to go, ·whenever he was sent for. He
started, therefore, so that h~s heart beat, on lrtlar-
ing a knock at his door during the night; and this
has interwoven itSelf so firmly into his nerves, that
to the present moment, he shudders whenever any
one knocks at his door in the night time, although
he is well aware, that he is no longer sent for to
act on such occasions.
This affair gained him, for the first time, the
esteem of all the inhabitants of Schorienthal. He
now saw a number of friendly faces, but it did not
last long; for about three weeks afterwards, there
came an order from the medical board at Russel-
stein, in which he was commanded to abstain, for
the time being, from acting as accoucheur, and to
appear before the board, to be examined regarding
that department. Stilling stood as if thunder-
struck; he did not comprehend a word of it, until
at length he learnt, that some one had sent a very
unfavorable account of his professional aid in the
above mentioned case of child-birth.
He, therefore, set out for Russelstein, where he
took up his abode with his friend Vollkraft, his
worthy lady, who is equalled only by few, and his
excellent sisters ; and he needed this recreation in
his painful circumstances. He then waited upon
one of the members of the medical board, who
received him very scornfully, with the words, "l
'"' a,,Google
36 HEINRICH STILLING'S
hear, you have put out people's eyes." "No, "an-
swered Stilling; "but I have cured several of the
cataract."
"That is not true," said the man insolently, "you
say false." "No," rejoined Stilling, with fire in his
eyes and burning cheeks, "I do not speak falsely;
I can bring witnesses to prove it incontestibly ;
but was I not aware of the respect I owe you, Sir,
as one of my superiors, I would answer you in the
same tone. A graduated person, who seeks every
where to do his duty, deserves the esteem, even of
his superiors." The member of the medical board
laughed in his face, and said, "Is that doing your
duty, to destroy children ?"
Dimness now obscured Stilling's sight; he
turned pale, stepped nearer, and rejoined, "Sir, do
not say that again!" He felt, howev~r, at the same
time, all the horrors of his situation, and his
dependance upon this terrible man. He therefore
sank back into a chair, and wept like achild; bot
this availed nothing, except to excite more scorn;
he therefore rose up, and went away. In order
that his grief might not be too much perceived by
the Vollk:rafts, he walked awhile up and down the
rampart, then entered the house, and seemed
more cheerful than he was. The reason why he
did not relate all his grievances to Mr. Vollkraft,
lay in his nature ; for as open hearted as he was
with respect to every prosperous circumstance, he
was just as silent regarding all he had to suff'er.
The cause of this was a great degree of self-love,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFB. 37
and a wish to spare his friends. He would, how-
ever say every thing, and reveal everything to
certain people, who had passed through similar
situations; but this phenomenon had a still deeper
foundation, which he did not perceive till long
after. Rational and acute-thinking people could
not,like him,regard everything,as divine guidance;
no one doub~ that providence was specially
leading him to some exalted aim; but whether
much that was human had not intervened in the
case of his marriage, and in other circumstances
that had befallen him, was another question, to
which every philosophical reasoner would loudly
answer, Yes! Stilling, at that time, could not bear
this at all; he thought he knew better, and this
was the real cause of his silence. The sequel of
this history will shew how far these people were
right or wrong. But I return to my subject.
The medical board fixed a time for his exami·
nation in Midwifery, and for deciding respecting
bis treatment of the SchOnenthal lady. In his
examination, the most captious questions were put
to him ; but notwithstanding this, he · maintained
his ground well. The machine with the puppet
was now introduced, which latter he had to draw
forth; but it was held fast behind the curtain,
so that it was impossible .to ·obtain it. Stilling
asserted this aloud, but he was laughed to scorn ;
and thus he did not pass his examination. It
was therefore decided, that " though he was pretty
correct in the theory, yet he had entirely fallen
E
'"' a,,Google
38 HEINRICH STILLING's
short in the practice;" he was therefore only per-
mitted to assist in cases of the utmost extre-
mity.
Notwithstanding all these vexatious circum•
stances, Stilling could not refrain from laughing
aloud, in reading this, and the public laughed with
him; he was forbidden to assist at a labour, as
an unfit person; but an exception was made in
extreme cases; in which the assistance Qf this
unfit person was permitted. With respect to the
case of labour above-mentioned, .Stilling was de-
clared to have been the cause of the child's death,
but the punishment was spared him, a great favor
for the poor doctor,-to be allowed to murder
unpunished !
This decision, however, pained him to the soul;
and he therefore rode, the same afternoon, to
Duisburg, in order to try the whole affair before
the medical faculty there ; the head of which, at
that time, was the venerable Leidefrost. There
he was declared perfectly innocent, and received
a responsum which entirely restored his credit.
This document, the husband of the lady that had
been delivered, published himself at the SchOnen-
thal town-house. But the estimation of the cure
suffered much, by the course the matter had
taken; and Stilling's enemies took occasion from
it, to calumniate him.
Stilling's success in curing the cataract had
however caused much sensation, and a certain
friend even inserted an account of it in the Frank-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 39
fort newspaper. Now there was at the university
of Marburg, a very worthy and able professor of
Jurisprudence, of the name of Sorber, who had
been three years blind of the cataract, to whom
this account in the newspaper was read. He
instantly felt impelled to take the long journey to
Schonenthal, iri order to have the operation per-
formed-by Stilling, and to place himself under his
care. He therefore arrived at the end of April,
1774, with his lady and two daughters, and Stil-
ling successfully performed the operation in the
beginning of May; and his patient recovered in
such a manner, that he perfectly regained his
sight, and still continues to fill his situation in an
honorable manner. - During this time, Christina
was brought to bed a second time, and bore a son.
With the exception of the dreadful hysterical fits
from the milk fever, every thing went on favor-
ably.
There was still one thing which lay at Stilling's
heart. He wished to see his father again, after so
kmg a lapse of time. As Doctor, he had not yet
spoken to him, and his consort was still entirely
unacquainted with him ; but though he had fre-
queQtly invited the worthy man, and Wilhelm had
often promised to come, yet he always postponed
it, and never came. Stilling now, however, did
his utmost. He wrote to him to say that he
would ride on a certain day, to Meinerzhagen,
which was half way, to meet him, and would fetch
him from thence. This produced the desired
'"' a,,Google
40 HEINRICH 8TILLING'S
effect. Wilhelm Stilling therefore, set out at the
proper time, and they met at the appointed·inn,
Meinerzhagen. They ran to each others arms,
and the feelings, which assailed the hearts of
both, were unspeakable. Wilhelm in single sounds
expressed his joy, that his and Dorie's son had
now attained the object for which he was designed;
he wept and laughed alternately, and his son
took good care not to discover to him, the smalleet
tiling relative to his painful sufferings, his doubtful
success, and the difficulties of his profession ; for
by this, he would have spoiled all his father's joy.
He nevertheless felt his grief the more deeply; it
pained him not to be so happy as his father ima-
gined him to be, and he also doubted that he ever
would be thus happy ; for he always regarded bim-
1elfas one, whom God had destined to the medical
profession, and that be must continue in this
vocation, although he had for some time had a
dislike to it; because, on the one hand, he found
so little footing in this science ; and on the other,
because if he proceeded with it in an honest man-
ner, it was not sufficient to support him, much
less to prove the basis of the prosperity of his
family.
The next rooming, he placed his father on the
horse, and acted the pedestrian at bis side on the
path; and thus they travelled nine leagues that
day, conversing in a most agreeable manner,
until they reached Rosenheim, where he intro-
duced his father to the whole ot his Christina's
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC I.IFE. 41
family. Wilhelm was received in a mann~r worthy
of him; he shook every one by the hand, and his
honest, characteristic Stilling's-face, inspired every
one with reverence. The Doctor now let his
father walk on before, accompanied by one of his
brothers-in-law, whilst he remained a few minutes
longer, in order to give free vent to his feelings in
the bosom of Mr. Friedenberg's family; he wept
aloud, thanked God, and then hastened after his
father. He had never travelled the road from
Rosenheim to Schonenthal with such heartfelt
delight as on the present occasion; and Wilhelm
likewise rejoiced in his God.
On en'tering the house, Christina flew down
stairs to meet the worthy man, and fell upon his
neck with tears.· Such scenes must be witnessed,
and the spectator of them must possess the requi-
site organs of sensibility, in order to be able to
feel them in all their force.
Wilhelm remained a week with his children,
and Stilling again accompanied him as far as
Meinerzhagen, from whence each pursued his way
in peace.
Some weeks after, Stilling was sent for early
one morning to an inn, and was told that a strange
gentleman who was sick, desired to speak with
him. He therefore dressed himself, went thither,
and was conducted into the chamber of the stran-
ger. He found his patient with a large cloth
wrapped round his neck, and his head enveloped
in clothes. ·The strange~ stretched his hand out
E 3
'"' a,,Google
·~ HEINRICH STILLING'S
of bed, and said with a weak and hollow voic«!1
"Doctor, feel my pulse! I am very weak and
poorly." Stilling felt it, and found the pulse very
regular and healthy; he expressed himself there-
fore to that effect, and declared he found nothing
wrong, for the pulse went regularly. Whilst
saying this Goethe took him round the neck.
Stilling's joy was indescribable, and he took him
home with him. Christina was also happy to see
this friend, and made preparations for dinner. He
then led Goethe to an eminence out of the town,
in order to shew him the charming view of the
town and the extensive valley.
Just at that time, the brothers Vollkraft were
again there on business. They had a friend with
them, who has rendered himself celebrated by his
beautiful writings, but whom Stilling did not like,
because of his satirical and sarcastic humour, he
therefore seldom visited his friends, for Juvenal
(as I will for the present call the man) continually
ridiculed him on account of his attachment to reli-
gion. During the time that Stilling was taking a
walk with Goethe, Mr. Vollkraft the chamberlain
rode up to Stilling's door on horseback, and called
out to the servant, to tell her master, that he had
suddenly set off for Riisselstein, because Goethe
was there. Christina was not present at the mo-
ment, to inform him of the true state of the case.
Vollkraft therefore, trotted off in haste; when
Goethe and Stilling returned home, and the ser-
vant related the occurrence to them, they both
'"' a,,Google
l>OMESTIC LIFE.
regretted the mistake, but it was then too late to
alter it.
The peculiar occasion of this journey of Goethe's
was the following :-Lavater had been visiting
the baths at Ems, and thence he travelled to
Miihlheim on the Rhine, to visit a friend there ;
Goethe had followed him to Ems, and in order to
see every thing of a remarkable nature, and to visit
some eminent characters, he had accompanied him
to Miihlheim. Goethe then left Lavater behind
him, and made an excursion, by way of Riisselstein,
to Schonenthal, in order likewise to visit his old
friend Stilling;. at the same time, he had promised
Lavater to return to Miihlheim at a certain time,
and accompany him back again. However, during
Goethe's absence, Lavater was under the neces-
sity.of likewise proceeding to Riisselstein RQd from
thence to SchOnenthal; butof this, Goethe did not
know a syllable, consequently, after dining with
Stilling, he set out on horseback, on the way to
Riisselstein, with the above mentioned Juvenal, in
order to meet the Vollkrafts there. Scarcely were
they gone, when Lavater came driving up the street,
accompanied by the two Vollkrafts, the celebrated
Hasenkamp of Duisburg, and the very remarkable,
pious, and learned Doctor Callenbusch. Stilling
was informed of this, he therefore flew after the two
horsemen, and brought them back again.
Lavater and his attendants, meanwhile, had
turned in at a well-known and pious merchant's.
Stilling, Goethe, and Juvenal hastened thither also.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
44 HEINRICH STILLIN'G's
Never, perhaps, had a more singularly mixed
company met together, than that which now sur-
.rounded the large oval table, which, according to
the Schonenthal fashion, was, at the same time
loaded with refreshment. It is worth the while
for me to give even a rude sketch of these guests.
Lavater's fame for practical godliness had at-
tracted thither amongst others, an old adherent of
Tersteegen's ; he was in every respect a venerable
man, unmarried according to the principles of
pure mysticism, extremely particular in the choice
of his company, very friendly, grave, of a soft
featured countenance, composed look, and careful
in all his expressions ; all his words were weighed,
ai it were in gold scales ; in short, he was an ex-
cellent man, if I except the single peculiarity,
which all persons of this kind so easily assume, that
of being intolerant towards all, who do not think
as they do. This venerable man, with his round
and lively face, round bob-wig and black small-
clothes, sat towards the head of the table ; he
looked about him with a kind of friendly anxiety,
and now and then privately dropped monitory hints,
for he scented spirits of very different sentiments.
Next to him sat Vollkraft the chamberlain, a
refined man of the world, such as there are few
of, in a fashionable riding dress ; his lively dis-
position shot forth sparks of wit, and his highly
rectified philosophical feelingjudgedalways accord-
ing to the balances of propriety, of right, and
of justice.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 45
After him followed his brother, the poet; from
bis whole being streamed gentle, pleasing feeling,
and benevolence towards God, and man, let them
think and believe as they would, if they were only
good and worthy people ; his grey flock-hat lay
behind him in the window, and his form was cov-
ered with a light summer frock.
.The landlord sat next him; he had on his head
acoal-black wig with a bag, and a brown chintz
morning gown, girded about with a green silk
sash ; his large prominent eyes started forth from
beneath his broad. and lofty forehead, his chin was
pointed, and the face on the whole, triangular and
meagre, but full of traits of understanding; he
loved rather to hear than to speak, and when he
spoke, every thing was previously considered and
decreed in the chamber of his brain; certainly hia
dove-like simplicity was not wanting in the wisdom
of the serpent.
Lavater was next in the row ; his apostle John's
face forcibly attracted every heart with veneration
and love, and his cheerful and pleasing wit, com~
bined with a lively and amusing humour, made all
present its own, who did not think they sinned by
wit and humour. Meanwhile his physiognomical
feelers were secretly and constantly at work ; for
here there was no want of objects. He had an
able drawing master with him, who also did not Bit
with his hands in his bosom.
Near Lavater sat Hasenkamp, a man of about
forty years of age, a. little bent, thin, and hecticf
'"' a,,Google
46 HEINRICH STILLING'S
with rather a long face, remarkable physiognomy'
and an aspect which excited veneration. Every
word was a paradox exciting reflection and pleasure, '
seldom systematic; his spirit sought for liberty,
and struggled in its tabernacle after truth, until
having soon burst it, he soared aloft with a loud
Hallelujah to the source of light and truth. His
detached pieces cause ·orthodox and .heterodox
christiaus to shake their heads ; but he required
to be known ; he constantly walked with his per-
spective glass, in his hand, up and down the land
of shadows, and looked over into the region of the
plains of light ; the dazzling rays of which occasi-
onally dimmed his sight.
Callenbusch followed next, a theological physi-
cian or medical divine. ,.His face was as singular as
any one's can be; a face, which shook Lavater's
whole system ; it contained nothing disagreeable;
nothing bad. But at the same time, nothing of all
that on which he builds greatness ofsoul ; a secret
and serene majesty, however, beamed forth through
his features, which were disfigured by the small-
pox, which was only gradually discovered in asso-
ciating with him. His eyes, which were struggling
with the cataract, and the gutta serena, and his
ever open mouth, showing two rows of beautiful
white teeth, seemed as if they would attract the
truth through worlds of space; and his highly.plea-
sing and agreeable language, connected with a
high degree of politeness and modesty, fettered
every heart that approached him.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFF!. 47
Juvenal then followed. Let the reader imagine to
himself a little, young, round-headed mannikin, the
·head inclining a little to one shoulder, with bright
and roguish .eyes, and an ever-smiling counte-
nance; he said nothing, but only made his observa- ·
tions; his whole atmosphere was an impenetrable
power, which repelled everything that sought to
approach him.
Close to him sat a worthy young Schonenthal
merchant, a friend of Stilling's, a man full of
religion without pietism, and glowing with a
hunger after truth ; a man who has few that are
like him.
Now followed Stilling ; he sat there, with a
profound and secret grief on his brow, which cir-
cumstances for the moment dispelled ; he spoke
oocasionally, and sought to show each one his
heart as it was.
Some inconsiderable physiognomies, merely to
fill up the vacant space, completed the circle.
Goethe could not sit still, be danced about the
table, made faces, and shewed everywhere, in his
way, how royally the circle of men delighted him.
Schonenthal people thought to themselves, " God
be gracious to us ! the man cannot be right in his
head," but Stilling and others, who knew him and
his ways better, thought they should burst with
laughter, when some one regarded him with a
fixed, and as it were compassionating eye, and he
then laid him low with a full and piercing look.
This scene lasted, rather tumultuously, scarcely
'"' a,,Google
48 HEINRICH STILLING'S DOMESTIC LIFE.
half-an-hour, when Lavater, Hasenkamp, Callen-
busch, the young merchant, and Stilling rose up,
and wandered forth in the clear evening sunshine,
up the paradisaical valley, in order to visit the ex-
cellent Theodore Miiller above mentioned. Stil-
ling will never forget that walk ; Lavater became
acquainted with him, and he with Lavater; they
spoke much together, and became attached to each
other. .On arriving at the village, Stilling returned
to Schonenthal with his friend; in the mean time,
Goethe and Juvenal had set off for Riisselstein;
Lavater came next morning to visit Stilling, had
bis portrait taken for his work on Physiognomy,
and then pursued his journey further.
It was necessary to touch upon this remarkable
period of Stilling's life, circumstantially; for
although it made no alteration in his situation, yet
it laid the foundation for a variety of important
changes in his future course of life. One thing
more, I have forgotten to observe ; Goethe took
with him the manuscript of Stilling's life, in order
to be able to read it at home, at his leisure ; we
shall find int.he sequel, the excellent use which
providence made of this apparently trifling circum-
stance, and of Goethe's visit.
'"' a,,Google
CH AP. II I.
IN the autumn of that year, 1772, a Schonenthal
merchant brought with him from the Frankfort
fair, a me.rchant of the name of Bauch, from Son-
nenburg in Saxony, in the hope that Stilling would
be able to cure him. Stilling looked at his eyes ;
the pupils were broad, but still in some degree
moveable ; though there was the commencement of
the cataract, yet the patient was much too blind
for it to proceed solely from this trijling obscurity.
Stilling saw clearly, that the beginning of the
gutta aerena was the chief cause of the evil ; he
mentioned this, but his friends all advised him to
attempt the operation ; particularly because the
patient was notwithstanding incurable, and there-
fore would lose nothing by the operation ; whilst
on the other hand, duty required, that every
means should be tried. Stilling therefore let
himself be prevailed upon, for the patient himself
F
mo ;ze, ,,Google
.50 HEINRICH STILLING's
requested the attempt might be made, and ex-
pressed himself to the effect, that this last remedy
must be also attemped; the operation was success-
fully performed, and the cure commenced.
The step was very inconsiderate, and Stilling
found sufficient occasion to repent of it. The cure
did not succeed, the eyes inflamed, suppurated
strongly, the sight was not only irreparably lost,
but the eyes had now also an ugly appearance.
Stilling wept in solitude, and prayed to God on
his face for this man, that he might be healed ;
but he was not heard. To this, other circumstances
were added ; Bauch learned that Stilling was
needy, and hence he began to believe that he had
performed the operation merely in order to gain
money. Now though the merchant, his landlord;
who had brought him with him, was Stilling's
friend, and sought to divest him of his suspicions,
yet there were others, who visited the patient, that
insinuated distrust enough concerning Stilling's
poverty, deficiency in knowledge, and limited
abilities. Bauch therefore travelled back to Frank-
fort, unhappy, and full of vexation and mistrust
ofStilling's integrity and attainments; he remained
there some weeks, in order to make some new
attempts with his eyes, and after that to return
home.
During this time, a very worthy and respectable
Frankfort patrician, Mr. Von Leesner, heard how
Professor Sorber, of Marburg had been cured by
Stilling. He himself had been blind for some
DOMESTIO LIFE, 51
years ; he therefore wrote to Sorber for the requi-
site information, and received the most satisfactory
reply; Mr. Von Leesner consequently had his eyes
inspected by several physicians, and, as all of
them agreed that the cataract might be cured, he
committed the matter to his family physician, the
respectable and worthy Doctor Hoffmann, that he
might correspond with Stilling upon the subject,
and induce him to proceed to Frankfort ; because,
being old, blind, and infirm, he did not think
himselfable to undertake such a journey. Leesner
promised to pay Stilling a thousand guilders, whe-
ther the operation proved successful or not ; these
thousand guilders dazzled Stilling's eyes in his
affi.icted circumstances, and Christina, however
intolerable her husband's absence might seem to
her, advised him, very seriously, not to neglect
this establishment of his reputation; the Frieden-
berg family, and all his friends, also advised him
to it. Theodore Miiller alone was entirely opposed
to it ; he said, " Friend, you will repent of it, and
the thousand guilders will cost you clear, I forebode
a melancholy result ; remain here ; let him that
will not come to you, stay away; Leesner has
money and time ; he will come when he sees that
you will. not undertake the journey." However,
all his advice was fruitless ; Stilling's former
impulse to run before providence, again got the
ascendency ; he therefore determined to set off for
Frankfort, and accordingly promised Mr. Von
Leesner that he would come.
F2
'"' a,,Google
52 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Stilling now dreamed of future prosperity and
.the end of his sufftirings. With the thousand
guilders, he expected to be able to pay the most
urgent demands upon him,, and he likewise saw
clearly, that the successful cure of such an indivi-
dual would excite great attention, and procure him
an extensive and lucrative practice from far and
near. Meanwhile it seemed that Bauch, who was
still residing at Frankfort, would ruin the whole
affair again ; for as soon as he heard that Von
Leesner intended to place himself under Stilling's
care, he seriously warned him, and depreciated
Stilling as much as he could, on account of his
needy circumstances and mean acquirements; how-
ever, it was of no avail; Von Leesner persisted in
his intention. No one could, in reality, blame
Bauch for acting thus, for he had no other know-
ledge of Stilling, and his object in warning Von
Leesner against misfortune, was not ignoble.
Goethe, who was still residing at Frankfort
with his parents, rejoiced at the prospect of having
his friend Stilling with him for a time ; his parents
invited him, during his abode there, to dine at
their table, and hired a handsome apartment for
him in their neighbourhood; Goethe also inserted
an advertisement in the newspapers, in order that
other sufferers might be benefited by him ; and
thus the whole affair was regulated and agreed
upon. Stilling's few friends rejoiced and hoped,
others were anxious, and the greater part wished
he 'might not succeed.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 53
In the beginning of the year 1775, in the first
week of January, Stilling mounted a hired horse,
took a guide with him, and rode one afternoon, iu
dreadfully rainy weather, to Waldstatt; there he
remained the night. The day following the hea-
vens seemed willing to pour a new deluge over the
earth; all the brooks and streams were immensely
swollen, and Stilling more than once, was in the
utm.ost danger of his life. However, he arrived
safely at Meinerzhagen, where he passed the night.
The third morning he set out again upon his way;
the sky was now pretty clear, large clouds flew
over his head, and the sun occasionally shot its
gentle rays through them upon his face ; all nature
reposed, the forests and bushes were grey and
leafless, the fields and meadows half green, the
streams murmured, the storm wind whistled from
the west, and not a single bird animated the scene.
Towards noon, he came to a solitary inn, in a
beautiful and pretty valley, which is called Rose-
dale; here he saw with astonishment and terror,
on riding down the hill, that the stream, which
was furnished with a strong arched bridge from
one hill to the other, had overflowed the whole
valley ; so that he imagined he saw the Rhine
before him, except that here and there a bush
peeped forth. Stilling and his companion mutually
expressed their sorrow ; he had also promised his
Christina to write from Leindorf, where his father
lived ; for his way led him directly through his
native province. He knew that Christina would
F3
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STILLING's
expect letters on the day appointed, and there was
no opportunity of sending them from where he
was ; he was therefore obliged to proceed, or be
under the apprehension, that from anxiety, she
would he seized with fits, and become dangerously
ill again. ·
In this dilemma he perceived that the balustrade,
which conducted from the road to the bridge, still
projected a foot high above the water ; this gave
him courage ; he therefore determined to take his
attendant behind him on the horse, and to ride
along the paling to the bridge.
It was dinner time when he reached the ion ;
here he met with several carriers, who awaited the
falling of the water, and all advised him not to
venture; it was in vain, his active and ardent
spirit was not disposed for waiting, where working
or resting depended solely upon him ; he therefore
took his attendant up behind him, entered the
flood, and struggled successfully through.
A couple of hours after, Stilling gained the
eminence, from which he saw before him the
mountains and plains ofhis native province. There
lay the lofty Kindelsherg, south westward before
him ; eastward, at its foot, he saw the smoke of the
chimnies of Lichthausen, and soon discovered
amongst them, which of them belonged to bis
uncle Johann Stilling; a sweet thrill pervaded
all his limbs, and all the scenes of his youth passed
before his soul; they seemed to him to be golden
times. " Waat have I now attained?" thought
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 55
he to himself, " nothing but splendid misery ! I
am indeed become a man that excels all his fore-
fathers in honor and respectability; but what
avails all this? a painted sword hangs by a silken
thread over my head ; it only need fall, and every
thing would vanish like an empty bubble ! my
debts are growing more and more heavy, and I have
reason to fear that my creditors will lay hands on
me, take the little I have, and then leave me naked
in the street ; and besides, I have a delicate wife,
who could not bear this, and two children, that
cry for bread." The idea was dreadful! it tor-
mellted Stilling unceasingly for hours together, so
that he could not enjoy a single happy moment.
At length he recovered himself again ; the great
experience he had of the paternal fidelity of God,
and the important pr-0spects of bis present jour-
ney, inspired him with renewed courage, so that
he trotted cheerfully and joyfully, into the village
of Lichthausen.
He rode first to the house of the son-in-law of
Johann Stilling, who was an innkeeper, and had
therefore accommodation for his horse. He was
received by the friend of his youth, and her hus-
band, with great rejoicing ; he then walked, with
trembling joy and a beating heart, to his uncle's
house. The report of his arrival had already
spread through the whole village; every window
was full of heads, and as he opened the house-
door, the two brothers, Johann and Wilhelm came
to meet him; he embraced one after the other,
'"' a,,Google
56 HEINRICH STILLING'S
wept. on their necks, and the two grey heads also
shed big tears; "Bless you, bless you, my dear
nephew ;" began that truly great man, Johann
Stilling, " our joy is unspeakably great on seeing
you at the summit of your wishes ; you have
ascended to it gloriously, on the footsteps of honor;
you have out-reached us all, you are the pride of
our family, &c." Stilling answered nothing more
than, " It is solely and wholly God's work, he
has done it !" he would gladly have also added,
" And still I am not happy ; I am on the brink of
a precipice ;" however, he kept his troubles to
himself, and went without further ceremony into
the parlour.
Here he found all the chairs and benches filled
with neighbours and peasants from the village,
and the greater part stood crowded together ; all
of them had known Stilling when a boy ; as he
entered, every hat and cap was thrust under the
arms of the wearers, and every one regarded him
with respect. Stilling stood and looked round :
with tears in his eyes, and a faultering voice, he
said, " Welcome, welcome dear people, and
friends ! God bless every one of you ! be all ofyou
covered, or I will immediately leave the room ;
what I am, is the work of God, and to him alone
be .the glory!" A murmer of joy now arose; all of
them admired him and blessed him. The two
old men and the Doctor now sat .down amongst
the good p·eople, and every eye was fixed upon his
deportment, and every ear was directed to his
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 57
words. What father Stilling's sons then felt, can-
not be described.
But how came it, that Doctor Stilling excited
so much attention, and what was the reason, that
his elevation to the rank of Doctor of medicine,
which was in every respect something so mediocre,
should excite such astonishment ! There were
many sons ofpeasants, in his native province, who
had become learned and worthy men ; and yet no
one troubled himself about it. When we consider
the thing in its true point of view, we shall find it
very natural. Stilling, only nine or ten years be-
fore, had been schoolmaster amongst them ; he had
been universally regarded as a poor and hopeless
youth ; he had then gone upon his travels ; what
had occurred to him abroad, he had communicated
to his uncle and his father ; report had exalted
everything that was natural, into something won-
derful; and that which was wonderful, into some-
thing miraculous; and hence it was, that they
sought to see him as a curiosity. But he humbled
himself inwardly before God; he knew his situa-
tion and circumstances better, and regretted
that so much was made of him; however, it
still caused him pleasure, that he was not here
so mistaken, as it was his daily lot to be in
Schonenthal.
_
The next morning, he set out with his father,
on the way to Leindorf. Johann Stilling gave his
brother Wilhelm his own saddle-horse, and went
beside him on foot ; he would not have it other
'"' a,,Google
HElNRICH STILLING'S
wise. Before reaching the village, whole groups
of youths and men from Leindorf, who had for-
merly been his scholars, came about a league to
meet him ; they surrounded his horse, and accom-
panied him. The rest ofthe population of Leindorf
stood in the meadow by the water, and the cries
of welcome resounded from a distance. He rode
with his father in silence, and deeply abased and
affected, into the village. Johann Stilling then
returned home ; at his father's house, his mother
received him very timidly, but his sisters embraced
him with many tears of joy. Here all collected
together ; father Stilling's daughters came also
from Tiefenbach with their sons; people ran to-
gether from all sides, so that the house was filled
from top to bottom, and the whole day, and the
following night, it was impossible .to think of
repose. Stilling thus let himself be seen on every
side; he spoke little, for his sensations were too
powerful, they continually affected his heart, he
therefore hastened away; the next morning, he
mounted his horse surrounded by a hundred peo-
ple, and rode off in the midst of the shouts and
cries of a manifold and often reiterated farewell !
Scarcely had he left the village, when his attendant
told him, that his father was running after him ;
he therefore turned about ; " I have not yet taken
leave, my dear son !" said the old man ; he then
took his left hand into his two hands, wept, and
stammered out, "The Almighty bless thee !"
Stilling was now again alone, for bis attendant
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LlFE. 59
was on the foot-path at one side. He then began
to weep aloud; all his feelings streamed forth in
ftoods of tears, and gave vent to his heart., as
pleasing as the universal applause, and the affec-
tion of his friends, relatives, and countrymen were
to him, so deeply did it trouble him in his soul,
that all their rejoicing was founded on a false
appearance. " Oh ! J am not happy ! I am not the
man I am taken to be ! I am nothing wonderful
in the science of medicine ! no physician made so
by God ; for I seldom cure any one ; if it happen,
it is a mere chance ! I am just one of the most
every-day kind, and the most inexpert of my pro-
fession ! and what in the end have I become, that
is so great ? I am doctor of medicine, a graduated
~rson ; well ! I am therefore one of the middle
class ! no great light, that excites attention, and
deserves no such reception!" These were Stil-
ling's loud and perfectly true thoughts, which
continually burst forth, like a flame of fire from
his breast, until at length he,perceived the town of
Salen, and composed himself.
Stilling did not now strive for honor, he thought
his station sufficiently respectable ; it was only
his disgust at his profession, his necessities, and
the contempt in which he lived which made him
unhappy.
At Salen, Doctor Stilling kept himself incog-
nito; he merely dined there, and rode to Dillenburg,
where he arrived rather late in the evening, and
took up his quarters with his honest and wor-
'"' a,,Google
60 HEINRICH STILLING'S
thy cousin, Johann Stilling's second son, who was
surveyor of the mines there. Both were of the
same age, and had been cordial friends from their
youth up ; it is easy to suppose how he was re-
ceived there. After a day's rest, he set out again,
and travelled by way of Herborn, Wetzlar, Butz-
bach, and Friedberg, to Frankfort; he arrived there
in the evening, and took up his abode with Mr.
Goethe's family, who received him with the warm-
est friendship.
The following morning, he visited Mr. Von
Leesner, and found him to be an excellent old
man, full of pleasing politeness, united with en-
lightened religious sentiments. His eyes were fit
for the operation ; so that Stilling was enabled to
give him the best hopes ; and the day was fixed f<?r
extracting the cataract. Stilling made likewise
some other important acquaintances ; he visited
the old and celebrated Doctor Bungraf, who had
grown old, grey, and infirm in the most extensive
and successful practice. After this excellent man
had observed Stilling a while, he said, " Sir ! you
are in the right way; I heard of your invitation
hither, and imagined to myself a man, who would
visit me, dressed in the height of the fashion, and
would, as is commonly the case, appear like a
charlatan; but I find you just the contrary to this;
you are modest in your behaviour, and in your
dress, and are therefore such a one as he ought to
be, who has to administer aid to those who sigh
under the rod of the Almighty. The Lord bless
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 61
you ! it causes me pleasure still to find at the end
of my days, men who give all hopes of becoming
what they ought to be." Stilling sighed, and
thought to himself, Would to God I were that,
which this great man takes me to be !
He then visited the Rev. Mr. Kraft; his whole
soul harmonized with this worthy man, and an inti-
mate friendship arose between them, which will
continue beyond this present life.
Meanwhile, the time for performing the opera-
tion drew near. Stilling performed it quietly,
without saying anything to any one, except a
couple of surgeons and physicians ; who were also
present on the occasion, in order that he might, in
every case, have experienced men as witnesses.
Every thing succeeded according to wish ; the
'patient saw and recognized 1every one after the
operation; the fame-of it spread through the whole
cit.y, friends wrote to friends at a distance, and
Stilling received letters of congratulation from
Schonenthal, before he could have answers to his
own. The prince of LOwenstein, Wertheim, the
duchess ofCourland, born princess ofWaldeck, who
was atthat time residing in Frankfort, all the noble
families there, and generally speaking, all those of
the higher class inquired respecting the result of
the operation, and sent every morning to know
how the patient was.
Stilling was never more satisfied than at pre-
sent ; he saw how much attention this cure would
excite, and what celebrity, applause, respect, and
G
'"' a,,Google
62 HEINRICH STILLIN'G's
resort it would cause him; they began already to
talk of presenting him with the freedom of Frank-
fort, in order fo induce him to remove thither. In
this expectation the good doctor rejoiced beyond
measure; for be thought, that there, his sphere of
operation would be greater, and the public opinion
less narrow-minded than in Schonenthal; that
there the concourse of strangers and persons of
rank was uninterrupted and great; and that there
he could earn something, and then become the man
he desired to be from his youth up.
Just at this time, some other blind persons
arrived ; the first was Doctor Hut, physician and
counsellor of state, in Wiesbaden, who by taking
cold, had become entirely blind of one eye in one
night; he lodged with his brother, counsellor and
advocate Herf, of Frankfort. Stilling performed
the operation, and healed him·successfully. This
universally known, and very worthy man became
thereby, his constant friend, particularly also, be-
cause they were of the same sentiments.
The second was a Jewish Rabbi, dwelling in
the Jew's-street, at Frankfort; he had been long
blind of both eyes, and requested Stilling to come
to him. The latter went, and found an old man
of sixty-eight years of age, with a snow-white
beard hanging down to his girdle. On hearing
that the Doctor was there, he rose from his chair
with a tottering step, strove to find him, and said,
"Doctor, look at my eyes!" He then made a grin-
ning face, and pulled both his eyes wide open ;
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 63
meanwhile a multitude of Jewish faces of all kinds
crowded into the room, and here and there, a voice
was heard, exclaiming, " Silence ! 'vhat will he
say!" Stilling looked at his eyes, and declared,
that, with the help of God, he should be able to
assist him.
· "God's wonder! (resounded from all sides) may
the Gemman live a hundred years !"
The Rabbi now began : " Hush !-hear me,
Doctor, only one eye,-only one !-for if it does
not succeed,-only one !"
" Well !" answered Stilling-" I will come the
day after to-morrow; therefore it. shall be only
one."
The next day, Stilling performed the operation
QD a poor woman in the Jew's hospital, and the
following morning on the Rabbi. The same day,
being at Mr. Von Leesner's, he was called to the
house door; he there found a poor beggar Jew of
about sixty years of age; he was completely blind
of both eyes, and therefore sought help ; he was
led by his son, a good-looking youth, of sixteen
~s of age. This poor man wept, and said,
"Ah, dear Doctor ! I and my wife have ten living
children, I was an industrious man, have travelled
about much, and maintained them honestly; but
now, good God! I am a beggar, and all beg, and
you know how it is with ·US Jews.." Stilling was
inwardly affected ; with tears in his eyes, he seized
his two hands, pressed them, and said, " With
God'a help, you shall have your sight again."
G3
'"' a,,Google
64 HEINRlCH STILLING's
The Jew and his son wept aloud, and would have
fallen upon their knees, but Stilling did not suffer
them, and continued, " Where will you take up
your quarters. I will take nothing from you, but
you must stay here a fortnight.,. " Ah, good
God!"-answered he, u that will be difficult; many
rich Jews reside here, but they do not receive
strangers.'' Stilling rejoined, "Come to-morrow,
at nine o'clock, to the Jew's hospital ; I will there
speak with the managers."
Accordingly, whilst Stilling was binding up the
poor woman, the blind man arrived with his son ;
the whole room was filled with Jews, both high and
low, mingled together. The blind man now pleaded
his case most piteously, but he found no hearing ;
these hard-hearted people had no feeling for the
extreme wretchedness of their brother. Stilling
was silent until he perceived that begging and
praying was of no avail ; but he now began to
speak seriously; he sharply reproved them for their
unmercifulness, and affirmed before the living
God, that he would immediatflY abandon the
Rabbi and the patient he had ·in hand, and do
nothing more for them, unless the poor man was
regularly and conveniently lodged for a fortnight,
and duly supported. This had its effect; for in
less than two hours, the poor Jew had all that he
needed, in an inn, near the Jew's-Street.
Stilling now paid him a visit; the Jew, though
pleased, shewed an extraordinary degree of appre-
lttinsion of the operation, so that Stilling began to
'"' a,,Google
t>OMESTJC LT'FE. ()5
fear, it might prove prejudicial to the cure ; he
therefore took other measures, and said, " I will
postpone the operation for a few days, but to-mor-
row I must rub and brighten the eyes a little;
this will not give you pain ; we will afterwards see
what is to be done ;" with which the good man was
well satisfied.
The next morning, therefore, he took the sur-
geon and some friends with him. The Jew was in
good spirits, sat down, and opened his eyes widely.
Stilling took the instrument and operated on one
of his eyes ; as soon ·as the lens was extracted,
the Jew exclaimed, " I believe the gentleman
has do»e the job ! 0 God ! I see, I see every
thing! Joel, Joel, (for so his son was called,)
go and kiss his feet!" Joel cried aloud, fell down,
and would have kissed them ; but he was not
permitted.
" Well! well!" continued the Jew; I would I had
a million of eyes, I would have them couched, one
after the other for sixpence each!" In short the
Jew regained his sight perfectly, and on taking his
departure, he ran through the streets, with his
.arms stretched out, and over t.he Saxonhiiuser
bridge, exclaiming incessantly, " 0 good people,
thank God for me, I was blind, and am now able to
l.o see ! God grant long life to the Doctor, that he
may be able to cure many blind people !" Stilling
performed the operation on seven other persons
besides Mr. Von Leesner, and all received their
sight; however, none of them were able to pay
0 3
'"' a,,Google
66 HEINRICH STJLLJNG1S
him anything, except Doctor Hut, who richly re•
warded him for his trouble.
But now the most dreadful period of Stilling's
life all at once began, which lasted uninterruptedly
for more than seven years. Notwithstanding all
his efforts, Mr. Vott Leesner did not recover his
sight; his eyes began t.o inftame and to suppurate;
several physicians came to hia assistance ; but all
was unavailing; pain, and the fear of incurable
blindness dashed every hope to the ground.
Stilling now thought he could not survive it ;
he wrestled with God for help, bnt all in vain ;
every friendly countenance vanished, all drew
back, and Stilling continued alone in his sorrow.
His friend Goethe and his parents soughi to
encourage him, but it was of no avail ; he saw
nothing before him but horrors, sympathy from
his friends, which could render him no service, and
on the contrary, abundance of scorn and contempt,
by which a!l his further practice would be rendered
difficult. He now began to doubt whether God
had called him to the medical profession ; he
feared he had still perhaps followed his own im-
pulse, and would now have to drag during his
whole life, at a vocation, which was extremely
repugnant to him. His needy circnmstances pre-
sented themselves again, in a lively manner, to his
soul; he trembled, and merely a secret confidence
in the paternal providence of God, which was
almost imperceptible to himself, supported him,
so that he did not entirely fall to the ground.
DOMESTIC LIFF.. 67
As he was once sitting with Mr. Von Leesner,
ll.nd lamenting, with tears, the unsuccessful result
of the operation, the worthy man said, " Be
satisfied dear Doctor, it was good for me, and
therefore, also the will of God, that I should
remain blind; but it was necessary I should under-
take the thing, and pay you the thousand gil-
ders, that other poor people might be healed."
Stilling personally received the thousand gilders ;
he took them sorrowfully and after a residence of
eight weeks, returned back to Schonenthal. Every
thing was tranquil there, all his friends compas-
sionated him, and avoided speaking of the matter
as much as possible. TheworthyTheodore Miiller,
who had counselled him so faithfully, had during
the time, to his great sorrow, entered the eternal
world ; but the generality of people, and particu-
larly the lower class scoffed at him unceasingly;
" I well knew," said they, "how the thing would
terminate; the fellow has learnt nothing, and yet
he is always striving to rise above others ; the
coxcomb is rightly served, by thus running his
head against the wall."
Now though Stilling was desirous of setting
himself above all this, yet it aided in preventing
any more resort to him. The families he previ-
ously attended, had during his absence, provided
themselves with other physicians, and no one
seemed inclined to return to him again. In a
word, Stilling's practice became very small; 1people
began to forget him ; his debts increased, for the
#
'"' a,,Google
-68 HEINRICH STJLLJNG'S
thousand gilders were insufficient to discharge
them; consequently his grief was unbounded. He
concealed it, indeed, from the whole world, as
much as he was able ; but it was so much the
more difficult for him to bear; even the Frieden-
berg family began to be cold to him ; for his own
father-in-law began to believe, that he could not
be a good housekeeper ; he was obliged to listen
to many a grave admonition, and was often
reminded, that the sum of fifteen hundred dollars,
which had been expended on his studies, and in
instruments, necessary books, and the most requi-
site household furniture, and for which Mr. Frie-
denberg had become security, must now soon be
paid. Stilling had not the smallest prospect of
thts; it pained him, deep in his soul, that he who
gave him his child, whilst he was still without a
vocation, and even without bread, who with him
had blindly trusted providence, should now begin
to totter. Christina also felt. this change in her
father severely, and therefore began to take an
heroic courage, which exceeded every thing; and
this was quite requisite, for without this uncom-
mon strength, she must, as one of the weaker sex,
have succumbed under it.
Nof.withstanding the desperate situation of his
affairs, what was needful never failed him; Stilling
had never anything beforehand, but when it was
required, it was ·there. This strengthened the
faith of both ; so that they were enabled still to
endure under their sufferings.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 69
In the spring of 1775, Christina again bore a
son, who died, however, four weeks afterwards.
She suffered extremely in this confinement. One
morning, Stilling saw her lying in a state of pro-
found stupor; he was terrified, and asked her
what was the matter? She answered, "according
to circumstances, I am well ; but I have a dreadful
oonflict within ; let me alone, until I have over-
come." He waited, with the greatest anxiety, for
the time of explanation upon this point. After
two melancholy days, she called him to her, fell
upon his neck, and said, "Dear husband, I have
now overcome, and I will tell thee all ! I have
struggled for two days with God and myself for
my ilissolution, and have fervently entreated him
to take me to himself, in order that thou mayest
be able to marry another wife, that shall be more
suitable for thee than I." This scene pierced his
very soul; " No, my dear wife," said he, whilst
pressing her to his beating heart, " thou shalt not
struggle on this account, much less· pray for thy
death; live, and be only of good courage."
The following summer, Stilling received a letter
from his friend Doctor Hofmann of Frankfort, in
which it was mentioned in confidence, that Mr..
Von Leesner deeply.felt his incurable blindness,
and sometimes expressed distrust respecting his
oculist. Now as he had been paid in such a
princely manner, it would be setting the crown
upon his good fame, if he would pay Mr. Von
Leesner another visit at his own expense, in order
'"' a,,Google
70 HEINRICH 8TILLING's
that every thing might be tried. Meanwhile, he,
Mr. Hofmann, would again insert his i12tended
visit in the newspapers, and perhaps the expense
would be richly repaid him. Stilling felt the
nobleness of the plan, if it could be accomplished;
even Christina advised him to undertake the
journey, but no one besides ; every one was again.a
the proposition. However he now followed merely
his feeling of justice and propriety ; he found a
friend, who advanced him an hundred dollars for
the journey, and thus he travelled by the stage,
once more to Frankfort, where he again took up
his residence with Goethe.
Mr. Von Leesner was extremely affected by this
unlooked for visit, and it had the desired effect.
Several individuals also, who were suffering from
the cataract, presented themselves, on all of whom
Stilling performed the operation ; some recovered
their sight ; others did not, but none of them
were in a condition to repay his expences. This
journey therefore plunged him a hundred dollars
in debt ; he resided also this time, eight melan-
choly weeks in Frankfort.
During this time Stilling committed au impru-
dence, of which he often repented, and which
caused'him much vexation. He found at a friend's
house, "The life and opinions of Magister Sebal-
d.us Nothanker." He took the book and read it
through. The bitter satire, the ri<licule cast
upon the pietists, and even upon truly pious men,
pained him to the soul. Although h.e himself was
mo ;ze, ,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 71
not satisfied with the pietists, and had to suffer
many things from them, yet he could not bear
them to be ridiculed ; for it was his opinion, that
fau1ts in religion, must be wept over and lamented,
but not held up to scorn and contempt, because,
in this manner, religion itself was ridiculed. These
sentiments were certainly very coJTect, but the
step which Stilling ventured to take, was not less
hasty. He wrote from the impulse of the moment,
"The Sling ofa shepherd's boy against the scorn-
ful Philistine, the authorof Sebaldus Nothanker,"
and without ever once going through the manu-
script coolly again, he gave it, glowing hot, to
Eichenberg the publisher. His friend Kraft
strongly advised him not to print it ; but it was of
no avail, it was published.
Scarcely had he returned to Schonenthal, before
he repented of the step he had taken. He now
reflected on what he had done, and what weighty
enemies he had made himself by this means ;
besides he had not sufficiently developed his prin-
ciples; he was also afraid that the public might
regard him as stupidly orthodox. He therefore
wrote a little tract under the title of "The great
Panacea for the disease of Infidelity," this was
also printed by the same publisher. In the mean
time, a defendant of Sehaldus Nothanker appeared;
for a certain merchant in the Netherlands wrote
against " the Sling." This occasioned Stilling to
seize the pen once more, and publish " The Shep-
herd-boy's theory, in rectification and defence of
'"' a,,Google
72 HEINRICH STILLING'S
his sling." In this work, he acted gently; he
begged pardon of the author of Nothanker for his
violence, without however recanting the smallest
of his principles ; he then sought to impart correct
ideas of his sentiments to his opponent, the
Netherlands merchant, avoiding, at the same
time, all bitterness, as much as was possible, with
the exception of a litt1e raillery, which was of
no consequence: the whole affair terminated with
this. #
About this time, two institutions were estab-
lished in Schonenthal, in which Stilling took a
prominent part. Many worthy and enlightened
men formed a private society, which met on a
Wednesday evening, in order mutually to improve
themselves by the perusal of useful writings, and
by conversation on a variety of subjects. He that
had the desire and ability, was also at liberty to
read lectures. By means of fixed subscriptions, a
library of select books was gradually collected, and
the whole institution rendered generally useful.
It still exists and flourishes, and is become, since
that time, still more numerous and prosperous.
Stilling, who was one of its first members, toge-
ther with his constant friends, Troost and Dinckler,
had here an opportunity of shewing his talents, and
of making himself better acquainted with the most
excellent of his fellow-townsmen He read, in the
meetings of this private· society, a lecture upon
Physic, in which he laid " Euler's Letters to a
German princess" as the foundation ; by this he
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIPE. 73
recommended himself uncommonly ; all the mem-
bers became fond of him, and supported him in a
variety of ways. It is true, his debts were not by
this means diminished ; on the contrary, the
absence of practice increased them daily ; they
would however have been still greater, if Stilling
had purchased himself all that was presented him
by these worthy men.
The second institution had reference to a mine-
.ral spring, which had been discovered in the
vicinity of Schonenthal. Dinckler, Troost, and
Stilling carried on the affair, and the latter was
appointed physician to the establishment by the
magistracy. He received, indeed, no salary, but
his practice was in some degree increased, though
not to such an extent, as to enable him to meet
his regular expenditure, much less pay his debts.
His participation in these two institutions
irritated the pietists against him still more. They
saw that he associated more and more with the
people of the world, and there was therefore no
end to their reasonings and their calumnies. It
is lamentable, that this otherwise worthy class of
people, so little observe the great precept of Jesus,
whom they so highly honor in other respects-
" Judge not that ye be not judged." All their
good qualities are thereby destroyed, and their
judgment, on that day, like the judgment of the
pharisees, will be severe. I here solemnly except
the noble and upright amongst them, who are the
nit of the earth ; they are deserving of respect
H
'"' a,,Google
74 HElNRICH STILLING's
love, and forbearance ; and may my end be like
theirs!
In the spring of the year 1776, Stilling was
under the necessity of removing to another habita-
tion, because his landlord wished to occupy his
house himself. Mr. Troost therefore sought and
found one for him; it lay at the lower end of
the town, on the way to Riisselstein, near a
number of gardens; it was enchantingly beautiful
and convenient. Stilling rented it, and made pre-
parations for removing into it. But here he had
a dreadful trial to sustain; he had hitherto been
able to pay the seventy dollars house-rent regularly
every year, but he had not, at that time, a single
farthing in hand, and, according to the law, he
was not permitted to remove, until the rent was
duly paid. The want of credit and money likewise
rendered him timid in speaking to bis landlord to
have a little patience; there was, however, no other
remedy. Oppressed with extreme sorrow, he
therefore went to him ; his landlord was a worthy
and upright merchant, but punctual and severe ;
he besought him to allow him a little more time.
The merchant reflected a little, and said," remove
in God's name ; but with the condition that you
pay in a fortnight." Stilling, in firm confidence
in God, promised after that time had elapsed, to
settle every thing, and removed into his new
habitation. The cheerfulness of the house, the
prospect ofthe beauties of nature, the convenient
accommodation, and in short, every circumstance
DOMESTIC LIFE. 75
certainly contributed much to alleviate his painful
feelings ; but the thing itself was not yet removed,
and the gnawing worm remained.
The end of the fourteen days drew near, and
there was not the slightest appearance ofobtaining
the seventy dollars. The iron now again entered
into poor Stilling's soul ; he often ran up to his
chamber, fell upon his face, wept, and entreated
help of God, and when his vocation called him
away, Christina took his place; she wept aloud,
and prayed with such fervour of spirit, as might
have moved a stone ; but there was no trace of
obtaining so much money. At length the dreadful
Friday arrived, both prayed incessantly, the whole
moming,-during their ~ccupations, and their
heart-rending anxiety caused ardent ejaculations
to ascend continually.
At ten o'clock, the postman entered the door,
in one hand he held his receipt book, and in the
other a letter, the contents of which were heavy. _
Stilling took it, full of expectation; it was Goethe'~.f· -
hand, and under the address was written, " Enclo-
sing one hundred and fifteen rixdollars in gold."
He broke open the letter with astonishment, read
it, and found, that his friend Goethe, without his
knowledge, had caused the commencement of his
history to be published under the title of" Stilling's
Youth," and this was the sum obtained for the
copy-right. Stilling quickly signed the receipt,
in order to send the postman away ; the married
couple now fell upon each other's neck, wept
H2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
76 HEINRICH STILLING's
aloud, and praised God. Doring Stilling's last
journey to Frankfort, Goethe had received his
call to Weimar, and had there procured the pub-
lication of Stilling's history.
It cannot be expressed what a powerful effect
this visible interference of Divine providence pro-
duced on the hearts of Stilling and his consort.
They firmly and unshakenly resolved never to
waver any more, but to endure every saft'ering with
patience ; they also perceived in the light of truth,
that the Father of men led them by the hand, that
therefore their path and course were right before
God, and that he intended by such trials, to pre-
pare them for higher purposes. 0 how feeble and
disgusting to one, who has had so much experience
of this kind, is the sophistry of modern philoso-
phers, when they assert, " that God does not
trouble himself with the detail, but merely with
the total ; that he has fixed the plan of the world,
and that therefore, prayer cannot alter it." 0 ye
daubers with untempered mortar ! how much the
ancient abomination glimmers through ! Jesus
Christ is the governor of the world; Stilling called
upon him a hundred times, and he was heard by
him. He led him up the dark, and dangerous, and
precipitous ascent, and-I will not howeverforestall
myself. What avail sophistical cobwebs of correct
and logical inferences, where one experience fol-
lows the footsteps of another ? In the sequel of
this history, still more striking proofs will appear.
Stilling's friendship with Goethe, and the visit of
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 77
the latter to Schonenthal, was so bitterly spoken
against by those who professed to be the elect of
God, that they shuddered at him as though he
were an infidel, and reviled Stilling, because he
associated with him, and yet the thing was accord-
ing to the plan and arrangement of eternal love,
to try its pupil, to convince him of its fidelity, and
to promote his advancement. Yet none of those,
who thus calumniated him, were feeling enough
to assist Stilling with a farthing. Those who are
called men of the world, were most frequently the
blessed instruments in God's hand, when he
intended to aid and instruct Stilling.
I have said and written it a hundred times, and
am not weary in repeating it : Let him, that is
desirous of being a true servant of God, not sepa-
rate himself from men, except on account of sin ;
let him not join any particular society, which has
for its object to serve God better than others ; for
in the consciousness of this better serving him
they gradually become proud, mean spirited, hypo-
critical in appearance, and frequently so in reality,
and therefore an abomination in the sight of a
pure and holy GOd. I have known many such
societies, and yet they always crumbled to the
dust with derision, and were a reproach to religion.
Young man! wilt thou tread the true path ? Dis-
tinguish thyself by nothing but purity of life and
noble actions; confess Jesus Christ by faithfully
following his life and doctrine, and only speak of
him, where it is necessary, and where it edifies ;
H 3
'"' a,,Google
78 HEINRICH STILLING's
but then, be not ashamed of him. Trust him in
every situation of life, and pray to him with con-
fidence ; he will assuredly lead thee to the desired
aim.
About this time, Counsellor Eisenhart of Mann-
heim, aperson of great activity and powerfully
operative mind, had formed, in the ancient city of
Rittersburg, in Austrasen, a society, for the pur-
poses of civil and political science. It consisted
of a number of learned and intelligent men, who
associated themselves together for the purpose of
promoting agriculture, manufactures, and trade,
and by this means, rendering both prince and
people prosperous. The Elector also had patro-
nized and sanctioned this excellent institution,
and had provided it with certain revenues, that it
might be able to proceed the more effectually.
Now this society had commenced a manufactory
of Chamois. Eisenhart was acquainted with
Stilling, for the latter had visited him on his way
from Strasburg to Schonent.hal. As the manufac-
tory, above mentioned, flourished exceedingly at
the latter place, Eisenhart wrote to him, and
requested him to make himself acquainted with
the various modes and processes by which the
manufactory might be brought to perfection, and
give him information on the subject.
As much as Stilling was pleased with the insti-
tution, and as much as he rejoiced at it, yet this
commission, which was to make him serve as a
spy, seemed dangerous to him ; for he had reason
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 79
to fear the Schonenthal people might at length
hear of the affair, and then his misery would be
boundless. He therefore wrote to Mr. Eisenhart,
in a very friendly manner, and represented to him
the danger in which he would plunge himself by
such a step ; but inquired, at the same time,
whether he could not be of service to the institu-
tion by a variety of useful essays ; for he had col-
lected practical experience in the science ofpolitical
economy. Eisenhart soon replied to him, and
assured him, that such-like treatises would be
very welcome. Stilling therefore applied himself
to the work, and wrote out one treatise after
another, and sent them t-0 Mr. Eisenhart the
director, who caused them to be read to the
society at Rittersburg.
Stilling's labours met with very unexpected
approbation, and he was soon honored with a
patent, as foreign member of the Electoral Pala-
tine Society of Political Economy. This pleased
him uncommonly ; for although the whole connec-
tion, together with the honor he enjoyed from it,
brought him in nothing, yet he experienced a real
joy in occupations of this nature, which had such
immediate reference to the best interests of
mankind.
Stilling was respected on account of the history
of his life, and his treatises. He now began to be
known as a not altogether unpopular author ; he
therefore continued the history of his life until he
settled in Schonenthal. This also yielded him
mo ;ze, ,,Google
80 HEINRICH STILLING1S
something, and thus alleviated his domestic circum-
stances ; hut his debts still continued, and were
even in some measure increased. But who could
have imagined, that this work caused him to he
suspected, in SchOnenthal, of infidelity. It is
·ai.ncomprehensihle, hut certainly true ; he was
called a hero of romance, a fantastical fellow; and
principles were pretended to he discovered in the
work, which were diametrically opposed to the
system of the reformed church ; and he was
declared to he a man without religion. To oblit-
erate this suspicion, he wrote "The History of
Mr. Von Morgenthau." But this availed little or
nothing ; he continued despised, and a constant
object of calumny, which, in the autumn of the
year 1777, reached the highest summit of wicked-
ness. Stilling began all at once to perceive, that
as he passed along the street, people regarded him
with a fixed eye, and observed him awhile; as
he walked on they ran to the windows, looked
inquisitively at him, and th'en whispered to one
another, " See, there he goes,-good God! &c."
This conduct from every quarter, was incompre-
hensible to him, and pierced him through and
thrbugh; when he spoke with any one, he observed
how first one considered him attentively, and how
another turned himself sorrowfully away ; he
therefore went rarely out, grieved profoundly in
silence, and seemed to himself to be like an appa-
rition, of which every one is afraid, and tries to
escape from. No one can form an idea of this
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 81
new species of sufFering; it is too si~gular, but
likewise so intolerable, that it requires very pecu-
liar power to be able to endure it. He now
observed also, that scarcely any more patients
came to him, and it therefore seemed as if it were
entirely over with him. This dreadful state lasted •,
fourteen days.
At length, one afternoon, his lat!dlord entered
the door, sat himself down, looked at Doctor
Stilling with fixed and tearful eyes, and said,
"Doctor, do not take it amiss; my regard for you
impels me to mention something to you. Only
think, the report is spreading in Schonenthal,
that last Saturday fortnight in the evening, you
became all at once insane; and although it is not
seen outwardly, yet you have completely lost your
senses ; therefore all your patients have been
warned not to employ you ; but now tell me how
it is with you ? I have paid strict attention to
you, and have perceived nothing."
Christina covered her face with her apron, wept
aloud, and hastened away ; but Stilling stood
astonished. Grief, vexation, and innumerable
feelings of every kind, ascended so powerfully from
his heart to his head, that he might have become
insane in reality, if the admixtut'e of his juices
and his inward organization had not been so
extremely regular.
Tears shot from his eyes, and feelings from his
soul, with an indescribable effect,-composed of
the supremely ridiculous, and the deepest melan-
'"' a,,Google
82 HEINRICH STILLING's
choly; and he said, "Certainly no Adramelech
could ever have invented such wickedness. It is
devilish! Nor could any one have undertaken
anything with more satanic cunning, completely
to deprive me of my maintenance ; but God, my
avenger and my provider still lives. He will not
let me languish eternally in this hell. He will
deliver me, and provide for me ! I will give
account to no man with regard to my sanity ; let
myself and my actions be observed, and it will be
apparent. The whole affair is so extraordinary,
so inhumanly wicked, that there is nothing more
to be said upon it." "Do not take it amiss of me,
dear Doctor;" continued the landlord, "my fond-
ness for you impelled me to it." "No," rejoined
Stilling, " I thank you for it."
The report naw gradually disappeared, like
some pestiferous monster steals away ; but the
stench remained, and Stilling and his suffering
consort felt the atmosphere of Schonenthal infec-
ted; his practice diminished still more, and with
it the hope of being able to support himself.
Where the horrible report originated, and who
bad hatched the basilisk, which kills with ita
look, remains for the great day of revelation.
Stilling himself never learned from whence it
sprang with certainty ; be had however his sus-
picions, which were founded on the highest proba-
bility; but he takes care not to give the slightest
hint upon the subject. The whole affair was in
general not much taken notice of, for Stilling was
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTJC LIFE. 83
not of sufficient importance; he was no merchant,
much less did he possess wealth ; hence it was of
little consequence what became of him.
My readers will allow me to dwell a little upon
this horrible affair, and describe to them the pecu-
liar condition in which Stilling was now placed;
for it is necessary that they have a correct idea of
his situation.
Stilling and his consort had, as before observed,
not the smallest property, and consequently, not
the least real credit. Besides his medical prac-
tice, he had no vocation, and no means of gain-
ing money ; nor had he either ability or disposi-
tion for the latter, much less desire; he was not
wanting in knowledge, but in the art of turning it
to account. To he obliged to found the healing
of diseases, where life and death is at stake-and
let the reader reflect what is implied in this-on
unceasing suppositions, and where has the physi-
cian, unless he is likewise a surgeon, sure grounds?
-did not suit Stilling. He was therefore fit for
nothing so little as a practical physician, and yet
he was nothing else, and knew of no other means
of subsistence. At the same time, it was provi-
dence which had led him to this vocation : what a
contrast ; what a contradiction ; what a trial of
the steadfastness of faith and confidence ! And
then reflect also upon the people amongst whom,
and by whom he was obliged to live, and who
acted towards him in such a manner !
His cures of the cataract indeed continued very
'"' a,,Google
84 HEINRICH STILLING's
successful; but the most of his patients were poor,
and/seldom was there one that could pay him
anything; and when occasionally a wealthy person
came, the operation generally proved unsuccessful.
But was there anything in Stilling's mode of
life and conduct, that possibly so degraded him ;
or was he really no economist, and even a spend-
thrift? To this I will reply impartially, and
according to truth :-Stilling's whole deportment
was free and open, but now universally tinctured
with melancholy. There was nothing in him
which could have offended any one, except his
open-heartedness; in consequence of which, he
suffered much to flow out of his heart, which he
might have kept to himself; and this caused him
to be regarded by his colleagues, and those of the
same profession, as ambitious, aspiring, and desir-
ous of taking the precedence of them ; in reality,
however, his soul was devoid of this feature.
That which, in other respects, had caused him
the most suffering, was a high degree of thought-
lessness ; he did not always weigh the conse-
quences of what he did or said; in a word, he had
a certain colouring of etourderie, or inconsiderate-
ness, and it was this very naughtiness, which
paternal providence intended, by such a tedious
purification, to banish from his character. With
regard to his economy, no one had reasonably
anything to object to it, and yet there was a rea-
son why he was so much cramped in his reputation
and in his domestic arrangements. Nothing in
mo ;ze, ,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 85
the world oppressed him more, than to owe any-
thing to any one, and to have many and burden-
some debts. His diligence and activity were
unbounded ; but he could not urge any one for
payment ; his character constrained him, even in
his own most urgent necessities, to remit the poor
man bis debt, and to cross out the account of the
rich man, who was niggardly or murmured at his
charges; too magnanimous, for the sake of money,
to spend even an unpleasant word, or to caU'Se
pain. In food and clothing, he was cleanly and
neat, but very modest and simple; neither had he
any hobby-horse, which cost him money; and yet
he often expended something without further
reflection, which might have been much better
applied ; in short, he was a learned man, and not
a tradesman. Christina, on the contrary, was
extremely sparing ; she turned every farthing over
and over, before she laid it out; however, she did
not overlook the whole of the housekeeping; she
spared only with that which she had in hand.
· It. is however true, that if Stilling and his
spouse h.ad possessed a tradesman-like spirit, he
would have made fewer debts ; but in their situa-
tion, it was impossible to remain free from debt.
This observation I owe to truth.
He that is desirous of forming to himself a
lively idea of Stilling's state of mind at tha't time,
must imagine.to himself a wanderer on a narrow
fuot-path, close to a perpendicular range of rocks,
on his right hand; further on, an abyss of invisi-
1
'"' a,,Google
86 HEINRICH STILLING's
ble depth; on his left, steep and rugged rocks,
and impending loose masses of stone, which hung
over his head ; before him, no hope of a better or
surer way; on the contrary, the path becomes
smaller, and at length it ceases entirely; nothing
but precipices are seen all around.
Stilling had only needed to have been a pro-
fessor of the new-fashioned religion, to have
abandoned his wife and children ; but the tempta-
tion to this never entered his mind, he adhered
tpe more closely to a paternal providence ; he
believed it was an easy thing for it to find an
outlet, where all human providence could not
discovei:. any ; and therefore he proceeded, in
darkness and twilight, step by step, on his nar-
row path.
In the beginning of the year 1778, he again
made up his accounts, and found, to his utter dis-
may, that he had fallen during the past year, still
deeper into debt than before ; add to which, some
of his creditors began to threaten him, and there
now seemed to be an end with him. Besides this,
there was another circumstance ; he had under-
taken to collect the subscriptions for the workB of
the Society of Political Economy, and had received
money; he was therefore indebted to Mr. Eisen-
hart, twenty eight gilders, which he was unable
to pay; " I shall be disgraced, even there," said
he to himself. In the greatest anxiety of heart,
he ran up to his chamber, threw himself before
God, and prayetl a long time with unequalled
DOMESTIC LIFE. 87
fervour; he then arose, sat down, and wrote a
letter to Eisenhart, in which he disclosed to him
his whole situation, and besought to have patience
with him, yet a little while. He soon after re-
ceived an answer. Eisenhart wrote to him, not
to mention a word more of the twenty eight gilders;
he had thought it went well with him ; and that
the practice of medicine was a pleasure to him ;
butsince he now saw that the contrary was the case;
he pJoposed to him, if agreeable, to accept a pro-
fessorship of Agriculture, Technology, Commerce,
and the Veterinary art, in the lately established
provincial academy at Rittersburg. Two professors
were already there, the one of whom taught the
auxiliary B1Cieoce1~ Mathematics, Natural History,
Phyflic, and Chemistry; and the other, Civil,Finan-
cial, and Political Economy; the stipend was six
hundred gilders, and the lecture money ·might
easily amount to two or three hundred gilders
more ; at Rittersburg, living was cheap, and he
was confident that he could easily induce the
Elector to appoint him.
Reader, stand still, and cast a look into Stilling's
whole being, on reading this letter ! Supposing
that the wanderer, whose dreadful alpine path, I
have described above, met with an open door to
the left, where his path had disappeared before
him, through whi.ch lie found an outlet into bloom-
ing fields, and saw before him a sumptuous habita-
tion ; a home, which was destined for him, how
would he feel? and just so was Stilling affected; he
I 2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
88 HEINRICH STILLING'S
sat like one stupefied; Christinawas terrified,looked
over his shoulder and read ; she clapped her hands
together, sank upon a chair, wept aloud, and
praised God.
At length he recovered himself; the brilliance
of the light had dazzled him ; he now looked with
a fixed eye through the opened door, upon the
radiant prospect, and reflected, looked, and saw
his whole destiny. From his youth up, public
speaking, elocution, and declamation had been his
greatest delight, and in these he had always enjoyed
much approbation ; lungs and voice ;-all were
formed for speaking in public. But he had never
been able to cherish the most distant hope of ever
becoming Professor, although it was his highest
wish ; for he had neither success, nor celebrity in
the medical profession, and both were requisite
for that purpose ; and he knew of no department
besides, in which he might have been placed. But
what is there, that is impossible to providence?
It created for him a new sphere of action, in which
little had been accomplished, and ,where he found
enough to do. He reviewed his attainments in
knowledge, and found, to his extreme astonishment,
that he had been imperceptibly forming for this
vocation from his cradle. Brought up amongst
farmers, he had learnt agriculture, and had himself
repeatedly performed all its attendant labors.
Who can teach better than I ? thought he to
himself; he had lived long in the woods, amongst
foresters, charcoal burners,wood cutters, &c. he was
'"' a,,Google
OOlllESTIC LIFE. 89
therefore perfectly acquainted with the practical
po.rt of these things ; surrounded from his youth
up, with miners of every description, with iron,
copper, and silver smelters, with bar iron, steel,
and spelter founders, and wire drawers, he had
become thoroughly acquainted with these important
manufactures, and had also himself, had the man-
agement for seven years together, at Mr. Spanier's,
of estates, and foundries, and at the same time,
perfectly understood commerce in all its branches,
and practised in all. And in order that he might
not be deficient in the fundamental and auxiliary
sciences, providence had very wisely directed him
to the study of medicine, in which Physic, Chemis-
try and Natural History, &c. are indispensable.
And in reality he had labored through these scien-
ces, and especially Mathematics, with great predi-
lection, better than all the rest; so that even in
Strasburg, he had read a lecture upon Chemistry;
the Veterinary art was also easy to him, as a prac-
tical physician. Finally, he had made himself
acquainted, in Schonenthal, with all sorts ofmanu-
factories ; for an irresistible impulse had always
predominated in him, to become thoroughly
acquainted with every branch of trade, without
knowing why; besides all this, he had uninter-
mptedly exercised himself in lecturing ; and it is
now the time for me to mention something, of
which I could say nothing before, without appear-
ing ridiculous, which is, however, extremely im-
portant ; Stilling had been, from his youth.up,
I 3
90 HEINRICH STILLING's
extraordinarily fond of history, and had studied it
intently; he had therefore attained a good ac-
quaintance with matters of government. To this
add novels, and romanc~s of all sorts, especially,
political ones, by which a propensity arose in his
soul, which no one discovered, because he was
ashamed of it ; it was a desire to rule, an exceed-
ingly powerful hunger to render mankind happy,
which impelled him. He h!Ld thought he should
have been able to do the latter, in the capacity of
a practical physician, but nothing satisfied him in
that department. The history of Mr. Von Mor-
genthau, had flowed from this source. Let the
reader now imagine to himself a man, of mean
birth, of low rank, without the smallest hope of
ever being able to fill a civil office, and then this
passionate hunger ! But now, this irregular mass
melted together into the stream ofhis future course
of life. "No, no! I would not be myself a ruler,"
he exclaimed, when he was alone ; " but it was the
forming of rulers, and princes' mini~ters, for
the prosperity of the people, and I knew it not."
Just as a condemned criminal, on whom the
judge pronounces pardon, and raises from .the
dust, sinks down, and stammers out unutterable
thanks ; so sank Stilling before God, and fal-
tered out unspeakable words. Christina was also
extremely rejoiced ; she longed to depart from
her present situation, and go into a land which
she knew not.
As soon as the tumult had subsided in his soul,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 91
and he had become tranquil, all his debts presented
themselves to his mind, and scarcely could he
control the confusion. How shall I be able to
leave this place without paying ? This was a hard
knot to unloose. However he took courage again;
for he was too strongly convinced of his destiny,
to doubt in the smallest degree. He wrote there-
fore to Eisenhart, that the professor's chair in
Rittersburg would be very agreeable to him, and
that he felt himself competent to the situation;
but that his creditors would not suffer him to
depart ; he therefore inquired whether a certain
sum could not be advanced him; he would pledge
his income, and pay off yearly a couple of hundred
gilders, together with the interest. This however
was flatly refused, but Eisenhart consoled him on
the other hand with the hope, that his creditors
would be contented, if they only saw that he had
the means of being able in time to satisfy them.
Stilling however knew better ; his personal credit
was too much weakened ; eight hundred gilders
must at least be paid, otherwise they would not let
him go ; he placed however a firm confidence in
God, and hoped, where nothing was to be hoped
for.
He kept this occurrence by no means concealed,
but related it to his friends, and the latter related
it again to others; it therefore became the general
talk of the town, that Doctor Stilling was to be
made Professor ; now nothing was more laughable
to the people of Schonenthal, than this,-Stilling,
'"' a,,Google
92 HEINRICH STILLING'$
a professor ! How comes he to it ? he does not
understand anything! it is mere rhodomontade, it
is all an invention, solely in order to make himself
appear great, &c. But during this time, every
thing went on in its regular course ; the academical
senate at Rittersburg chose Stilling for the
regular and public Professor of Agriculture, Tech•
nology, Commerce, and the Veterinary art, and
proposed him to the Elector; the confirmat.ion
followed, and nothing more was wanting but the
formal vocation. It was natural, that whilst all
this was transacting, the summer passed away.
He now gradually withdrew himself from the
medical profession. With the exception of a few
wealthy town-patients, who afforded him his
needful support, he scarcely did anything more in
physic, and devoted himself entirely to his future
engagement, which was so agreeable to him. All
his knowledge ofpolitical economy lay in his soul
like a confused chaos ; but, as future professor, it
was necessary for him to bring every thing into a
system. Nothing was easier to him than this, for
his whole soul was system; his plan of instruction
in those sciences, therefore, developed itself before
his eyes without trouble, and he contemplated the
beauteous whole with the most inward delight. I
refer my readers to his numerous publications, in
order not to detain them here with learned disser-
tations.
In these pleasing employments, the summer
passed over, the harvest approached, and he
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 93
expected his appointment day after day. But
what ensued? The first week of September, he
received a letter from Eisenhart, which entirely
annihilated the whole affair ! On the Elector's
proceeding to Bavaria, the project was started of
removing the newly established academy to Mann-
heim, where there were men of every descrip-
tion, who were able to fill the professorships.
Eisenhart deplored it, both on his own account
and Stilling's ; however he could not alter it.
His condition was now perfectly indescribable.
He and his poor wife sat together in their cham-
ber, and shed floods of tears; all seemed now to
be lost ; for a long time he could neither bethink
himself, nor recover himself, he was so stupefied.
At length he cast himself before God, humbled
himself under his mighty hand, and committed
himself, his wife, and his two children, to the
paternal guidance of the Most Merciful, and re-
solved, without the smallest murmur, to return
once more to the practice of medicine, and to
endure every thing that providence might ordain
respecting him. He now began to go out again,
to visit friends and acquaintances, and relate his
misfortune to them ; his practice again returned,
and it had the appearance as if it would go better
with him than before. He therefore surrendered
himself entirely to the will of God, and was ,tran-
quil.
He who is acquainted with the divine proced-
ure, will be aware, without my reminding him
'"' a,,Google
94 RMl'ltUCH STILLING's
of it, that all this is precisely the method of provi-
dence. Stilling had hastened towards his aim with
eagerness and impure desire ; pride, vanity, and
who knows what, had intermingled themselves; in
such a state, he would have arrived at Ritters-
burg, with blustering ambition, and would cer-
tainly not have been successful. It is the maxim
of eternal love, to render its pupils pliant, attd
perfectly resigned in their wills, before it advances
further with them. Stilling therefore, at that
time, believed firmly that he ought and :inust
remain a physician ; and his resignation went so
far, that he even no longer desired the vocation,
but was entirely indifferent to it. It fared with
him precisely in the same manner as on former
occasions ; when he was disgusted with his trade,
he hastened eagerly away from Schonberg to Mr.
Hochberg's; and I have already described, in his
"Wanderings," how miserably he was situated
there; he afterwards engaged himself to Mr. Isaac,
where he was satisfied, and would gladly have
remained at his trade ; so that Mr. Spanier was
obliged to constrain him to leave his situation.
The SchOnenthal people meanwhile again sound-
ed fiercely the alarm ; for now it was evident,
that the whole affair was Stilling's invention, and
solely fabricated from vanity ; but this troubled
him little, for habit had hardened him ; he no
longer saw nor heard anything of the kind. Pro-
foundly resigned to the will of God, he hastened
from one patient to another, from morning till
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 95
evening ; and Christina made preparations for the
winter, as she was wont, by preservmg a variety of
fruits, white-washing, and repairing the house, &c.
A week before Michaelmas his appointment
snddenly and unexpectedly arrived. He received
it calmly and without the smallest eagerness ; yet
he felt inwardly happy ; he and his consort re-
turned God thanks, and they began to prepare for
their departure, and their long journey. The
academy was continued at Rittersburg, because
too many difficulties had occurred in the way of
its removal.
I have described the first case Stilling attended,
I will now also detail the last, for it is not less
remarkable.
A full league beyond Schonenthal, .Jived a very
upright, pious, and wealthy merchant, of the name
of Krebs; his spouse, as regards her head and her
heart, belonged to the noblest of her sex, and
both of them had often employed Stilling, for they
knew and loved him. They had a private teacher
for their children, a man of seventy years of age,
who was by birth a Saxon, and was called Stoi.
This man was one of the most singular characters;
tall, thin, and of a very venerable aspect ; very
learned, and imbued with the most exalted virtues,
he possessed, as the result of religious principles, a
coolness, a resignation, and a submission to the
will of God, which is almost unexampled; every
motion and position of his body was decorOQS; his
whole being was naturally grave, and.every thing
'"' a,,Google
96 HEINRICH STILLING's
he said was weighed in the balances ; each word
was a golden apple on a salver of silver ; and that
which was so excellent in this worthy man was, his
modesty and carefulness in judging ; he never
spoke of the faults of others, but concealed them,
where he could, and looked merely at himself.
Stoi was a pattern for a man and a christian.
This remarkable man was seized with the
miliary fever. The course of the disease was
natural, and, as .commonly, not dangerous. At
length the whole ofthe inflammatory matter settled
in his right arm, which became scarlet all over,
and burned and itched so intolerably, that he
could not endure it any longer. Stoi, in his whole
life, had troubled himself about nothing so little
as his body ; he considered it as a borrowed tene-
ment ; -Oe was always temperate, and had never
been ill ; consequently he knew not the necessity
of carefulness, and was ignorant of danger ; he
therefore sent for a bucket full of cold water, and
plunged his arm into it, to the bottom ; this
relieved him, the burning and itching subsided,
and with it the redness and eruption ; he drew
his arm out again, and, behold ! it was like the
other.
Stoi was glad that he had been so easily cured.
However he soon perceived, that his arm had lost
its sense of feeling ; he pinched the skin, but felt
nothing ; he felt the pulse of that arm, and found
it was quite still ; he felt it at the neck, and it
beat regularly; in short, he was, in other respects,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 97
perfectly well. If he wished to move his arm, he
found that he was unable, for it was as if it were
dead; he now began to think all was not right, and
therefore sent for a neighbouring physician ; the
latter was alarmed, as was reasonable, applied
blisters to the arm, and scourged it with nettles,
but all in vain ; it remained insensible. By de-
grees, the fingers began to rot, and the putrefaction
crept gradually up the arm.
Troost and Stilling were now called in. They
found the arm swollen up to the elbow, of a black-
ish hue, and emitting an intolerable stench. As
they entered the door, Stoi began, "Gentlemen!
I have committed a piece of imprudence ; (here he
related the whole affair;) do your duty, I am in
the hand of God; I am seventy years of age, and
shall be well satisfied, whichever way the matter
terminates."
The two physicians consulted together ; they
already perceived that the arm must be amputated;
however, they thought they would still attempt
some other means previously, by which the opera-
tion would be facilitated. Mr..Troost therefore
took his instruments, and made a variety of inci-
sions round about, near where the mortification
ceased ; the patient felt nothing at all from it ;
they then made applications of the decoction of
Peruvian bark, and prescribed this.decoction to be
taken frequently inwardly.
The next day they were again sent for, and re-
quested to bring their instruments to amputate the
K
'"' a,,Google
98 HEINRICH STILLlNG's
arm. This they did, and set out. On their arrival,
.they found the patient lpng on a field-bed, in
the middle of the room ; round about, along the
walls, stood a number of young people of both
sexes, who shed silent tears, and,prayed to them-
selves. Stoi lay very tranquil, and did not manifest
the smallest fear. " Gentlemen," he began; "I
cannot endure the stench ; take off my arm above
the elbow, near the shoulder, where it is certainly
still sound ; whether the stump be afterwards an
inch longer, or shorter, is of little consequence.
Stilling and Troost found what he said was just, and
promised to have finished speedily.
Although all present trembled at the dreadful
preparations, yet Stoi did not tremble; he stripped
the arm, rolled up the shirt above the shoulder,
and pointed out the place where the arm was to
be taken off. Stilling find Troost could a<:arcely
forbear smiling; when the latter applied the screw
in order to close the pulse vein, he assisted them
very quietly and resignedly i he even wished to
h~p them during the operation. Stilling, how-
ever, prevented this, and on ,the contrary, bent.
himself towards the old man's face, turned it away
from the Qperation, and spoke with him upon other
subjects; during this time Troost made the incis-
ion through the flesh to the bone. Stoi sighed
only once, and continued his speech. The bcne
was then sawn off, and the stump bound up.
The whole of the case was remarkable. Mr.
Troost slackened the screw a little, in order to see
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 99
whether the vein would spring or not ; but it did
not do so, even when it was entirely removed ;
in short, the intlammatory matter had concen-
trated itself in: a swelling in the upper part of
the arm, which kept the nerves and veins firmly
pressed together; but this was first discovered after
his death.
Appearances were encouraging ; a favorable
ulceration succeeded, and the cure was considered
certain, when Stilling was again sent for in haste;
he ran thither, and found the good Stoi rattling
in his throat, and drawing his breath with great
difficulty. "I have committed another impru-
denee," stammerM out the sick man to him. "I
rose np, went to the- window, a cold north wind
blew upon my arm, I began to shiver; the matter
has lodged in my breast. I am dying ; and it is
well-however, do your duty, Doctor ; in order
that the world may not afterwards slander you."
Stilling took off the bandage, and found the
wound perfectly dry ; he strewed it with pow-
dered cantharides, and covered the whole stump
with a blister ; he then prescribed other appropri-
ate remedies, but they were all unavailing ; Stoi
died under his hands.
A _
full stop now to my medical practice, said
Stilling to himself. He accompanied the good
St.oi to his grave, and buried him with his profes-
sion. However, he resolved to retain the occupa-
tion of an oculist, merely because he was so
fortunate in it, and t.he practice was so beneficial ;
K2
'"' a,,Google
100 HEINRICH STILLING' S
but then he made it a law with himself, in future
to receive no recompense for it; but by this means,
to lay up treasure for the next world.
The period now approached, when he had to
leave Schonenthal and remove to Rittersburg.
October was already far advanced, the days were
short, the weather and the roads bad; and finally,
he was under the necessity of commencing his lec-
tures with the beginning of November; however,
there was previously still a steep cliff to climb ;
eight hundred gilders must be paid, before he
could remove. Many friends advised him to
assign over his goods, and to give up all to his
creditors. But this was not according to Stilling's
views of propriety. "No, no," said he, "every
one shall be paid the uttermost farthing; I pro-
mise this in the name of God ; he has been my
guide, and certainly will not let me be confounded.
I will not make myself a knave, and abandon the
ffi}>~ school of my heavenly Father." "It is all very
[l~~\~ ell," answered they, "but what will you do now?
·:i:::J
!,fJ<i ou are unable to pay; and if you are arrested, and
l:.:::;\~ your furniture seized, what will you then do?" "I
leave all that to God," rejoined he, " and do not
trouble myself about it, for it is his affair."
He consequently began to pack up, and forward
to Frankfort, what he intended to take with him,
and appointed a day for selling the rest by auction.
Every thing passed over quietly, and no one stirred;
he sent away and received money, without any
one interfering; he even took places in the stage
DOMESTIC LIFE. 101
to Riisselstein, for himself, his wife, and the two
children, for the following Sunday, consequently
a week beforehand. Meanwhile, he was privately
informed, that a couple of bis creditors had con-
certed together to have him arrested; for, as the
little household furniture he possessed, was on the
whole of such trifling value, they had not troubled
themselves about it; but believed, that if they
thus hindered him in his course, people would be
found to liberate him. Stilling inwardly trembled
with anxiety, yet still he firmly trusted in God.
The followfug Thursday, his friend Troost
entered the door, with a cheerful, smiling counte-
nance, and tears in his eyes ; his pockets seemed
loaded. " Friend," he began, " things go again
in St.illing's fashion." So saying, he drew out a
linen bag, filled with French dollars, and threw
it upon the table. Stilling and Christina looked
at each other, and began to weep.
"How is that," said he to his friend Troost.
"It is as foJlows,'' answered the latter. "I was
at a certain merchant's;" whose name he men-
tioned ; " I knew that you owed him sixty dollars,
and begged him to remit the debt. The merchant
smiled, and said, 'not only so, but I will present
him with sixty in addition to it ; for I know how
much he is straitened.' He paid me, therefore,·
the money, and there it is; you have now nearly
the eighth part of what you need ; but I will give
you a little advice :-to-morrow you must take
leave of all your acquaintances, in order that you
x3
'"' a,,Google
102 HEINRICH STILLING's
may spend Saturday quietly, and thus prepare for
your journey. Be comforted, and see what .God
will do for you."
Stilling followed this advice, and on the Friday
morning began to take leave. The first t-0 whom
he went was a rich merchant. As he entered the
door, the latter came ·to meet him, and said,
"Doctor, I know you are come to take leave. I
have never mistaken your character; you were
always a man of integrity; but I could not employ
you as a physician, for I was s.atisfied with my
own. God has raised me from the dust, and
made me what I am ; I acknowledge what I am
indebted to him ; have the goodness to receive
this acknowledgment in his name ; do not shame
me by a refusal, nor sin through pride." So say-
ing, he embraced and kissed him, and put into
his hand a little roll of twenty ducats, conse-
quently a hundred gilders. Stilling was petrified
with astonishment, and his noble-minded bene-
factor hastened away. Amazement seized him by
the hair of his head, like the angel did Habakkuk;
he was lifted up on high, by the greatness of his
joy, and proceeded further.
But, why do I detain my readers ; acknowledg-
ments were pressed upon him with the greatest
delicacy and consideration; and in the evening,
when he had finished his round and returned
home, and counted the money over, how much
had he 'J exactly eight hundred gilders, neither
more nor less !
DOMESTIC LIFE. 103
Such sublime scenes are only weakened by
description, and by the most brilliant expressions ;
I am silent and adore! God will remember you, ye
secret Schonenthal friends ! I will bring you for-
ward on the day of retribution, and say, " Lo, 0
Lord! these are they that rescued me from my state
of helplessness ; reward them immeasurably, ac-
cording to thy great promises;" and He will do it.
To thee, thou chosen and unshaken friend, Troost,
I say nothing. When eventually we walk, hand
in hand, throuJlh .the plains of yonder world, ·we
will talk the matter over !
I have hitherto, in several places, described the
character of the inhabitants of Schonenthal in no
very favorable manner ; and it is very possible,
that many of my readers may have received a
general impression of dislike to that place. I
must myself confess, that I cannot divest myself
of this impression ; but this has no reference to the
noble-minded few, who sigh, even in the striving
after wealth, or, together with their vocation,
cherish those exalted feelings, which ever have
real love to God and man for their inseparable com-
panions. These Schi:inenthal citizens cannot
therefore take it amiss of me, that I write the
truth ; for their sakes, the Lord blesses that fl.ou-
risbing place; and it causes them honor, both in
the sight of God and men, that .in the midst of so
many temptations, they retain their courage, and
do not suffer themselves to be carried away with
the stream.
'"' a,,Google
104 HEINRICH STILLING'S
But the pietists of that place will, ju an especial
manner, pronounce a woe upon me, for having so
openly represented them in their true colours ; this
also has only reference to those amongst them, who
have deserved it. Why do they hang out the sign
of religion and the fear of God, and yet do not
what religion and the fear of God command?
In our time, when christianity is assaulted on all
sides, and made the butt of blasphemy, the sincere
admirer of religion must work and be silent, except
where he must necessarily speak. But why do I
stay to excuse myself? The Lord will take
cognizance of it, who judgeth righteously.
It is long since I have mentioned any thing res-
pecting Mr. Friedenberg and his family, or stated
how this worthy man and his household acted on the
occasion ofStilling's appointment at Rittersburg.
Friedenberg was a manufacturer and merchant.
Both he, as well as his wife and children, were
extremely industrious, thrifty, and active; their
attachment to religion had preserved them from
all dissipation and all the amusements of the great
world ; he had begun with nothing, and yet,
with the divine blessing, had become a moderately
wealthy, though not a rich man; hence a senti-
ment prevailed in him and his family, which was
unfavorable to Stilling. They had no idea of
the character of a learned man, and, generally
speaking, learning was little esteemed by them;
that which did not increase their property was
very indifferent to them. As men of business,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 105
they were quite in the right; but it was on this
very account they were incapable of forming a
correct judgment of Stilling, for the latter strove
~ the attainment of truth and knowledge; the
unceasing consideration, how every moment some-
thing was to be gained or spared, could not
possibly fill a mind, whose wholt:i sphere of opera-
tion was occupied with higher things. Hence
arose a species of coolne~, which inexpressibly
pained the feeling heart of Stilling. He sought to
poortray the matter in its true form to his father-
in-law ; but the result always ·was, a man must
maintain himself honestly ; this is hi~ first duty;
the second is then, certainly, th~t of being useful
to the world. Very correct thought Stilling, no
one in the world can think ill of the worthy man
for judging thus.
Friedenberg was not merely indifferent to the
Rittersburg appointment, but even displeased ;
for he regarded his son-in-law once for all, as a
bad manager ; he thought a fixed income, would
avail him just as little as his practice in SchOnen-
thal ; and since he was become security for his
debts, he was afraid he would now have to bear
all the burden himself, and perhaps, in the end,
be obliged to pay all. Stilling's heart suffered
extremely from this circumstance ; he had nothing
to say in his defence, but was obliged to lay his
hand upon his mouth and be silent : but the most
ardent sighs incessantly arose from his oppressed
heart for succour to his heavenly Father. His
'"' a,,Google
106 HEINRICH STILLING's
confidence remained unshaken, and he firmly
believed God would gloriously deliver him and
crownbis faith. However bepromised bis father-
in-law to pay off yearly a couple of hundred gilders,
and thus continually lighten the burden. This
was agreed upon, and Friedenberg consented to
his removal.
On the Saturday, Stilling went with bis Christina
and the two children to Rosenheim, in order to
take leave. The painful feelings, ·which are
customary on such occasions, were now much
alleviated by the situation of affairs. Stilling
however feared his consort might be unable to
bear the assault upon her sensibilities, but he was
mistaken ; she felt much more deeply than he,
how much she and her husband were misappre-
hended. She was conscious that she had econo-
mized to the utmost of her power ; that her dress,
for a doctor's lady, was extremely moderate, and
much beneath the wardrobe of her sisters; and,
finally, that neither in eating, nor drinking, nor in
furniture, had she done more than she could
answer for. She was therefore cheerful and
courageous, for she had a good conscience.
Hence, when the evening approached, and her
whole family were sitting in a circle, mourning,
she sent her two children away, after their grand-
parents had blessed them, and then stepping into
the circle, she stood and said:-
"We are about to travel into a foreign land,
which we are unacquainted with ; we forsake
mo ;ze, ,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 107
parents, brothers, sisters, and relations, and we
forsake them all willingly ; for there is nothing
that renders parting painful to us. The Lord has
sent us sufferings and aftlictions without number,
and no one has helped, refreshed, and consoled us;
the grace of God alone has preserved us, by the
aid of strangers, from total ruin. I shall go with
joy. Father, mother, brothers, and sisters, live
so that I may meet you all again before the
throne of God !"
So saying, she kissed one after the other in
their tum, and hasted away, without shedding a
tear. Stilling now also took leave, but with
many tears, and walked after her.
The following morning he placed himself with
his wife and children in the stage, and set off.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
CHAP. IV.
THE further Stilling removed from the scene of
his fiery trial, which had lasted six years and a
half, the more his heart expanded ; his whole soul
was filled with thankfulness and a high degree of
joy. . Nothing brings purer pleasure, than the
experience which the sufferings we have endured
affords us; we come forth more purified, and more
and more glorified from every purifying fire, and
this likewise is solely the invaluable desert of the
religion of Jesus, which no other ever had; it
teaches us to know sin and suffering. To this
was added the more exhilarating prospect of the
future ; a destination entirely accordant with his
previous guidance and his character ; a vocation
which insured him a certain maintenance, and gave
hopes for the liquidation of his debts; and finally,
a people, who could not have any prejudices against
him. All this infused profound peace into his soul.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFB. 109
At noon, he found a part of the private society
of SchOnenthal at an inn, where they had ordered
a parting dinner. Here he therefore dined, and
enjoyed himself in the company of these excellent
men, and then travelled to Riisselstein. Two of
his brothers-in-law accompanied him thus far, and
then returned. From Riisselstein he took convey-
ance to Cologne, and another from thence to
Frankfort. At Coblentz, he visited the cele-
brated Sophia Von La Roche ; he was already
known .to her by means of the history of his life.
He then travelled further, to Frankfort, where he
visited his old friends, but especially the Rev.
Mr. Kraft, who shewed him extraordinary affec-
tion and friendship.
After a day's rest, he went, on account of the
great floods, by way of Mayence, Worms, and
Frankenthal, to Mannheim, where be was received
with open arms. Here he found many friends and
well-wishers, in consequence of his history having
appeared in print. Favor, friendship, affection,
and tenderness, were every where shewn him; and
it is indescribable what a pleasing effect this had
upon him and his Christina, after having been so
long trodden under foot. Eisenhart now gave him
several important admonitions. Stilling's history,
notwithstanding the favorable reception it had_
met
with, had excited a prejudice of pietism ; every
one regarded him as a man, who was, after all, a
refined enthusiast, and of whom it was necessary to
be upon their guard in this respect. He was there-
L
'"' a,,Google
·,
110 HEINRICH STILLING's
fore warned not to speak too much of religion, but
to let his light shine solely by integrity and good
actions ; for in a country where the Catholic reli-
gion predominated, it was necessary to be prudent.
Stilling perceived all this, and therefore he sacred-
ly promised, to observe every thing punctually ;.
however, he was forced to laugh heartily, for at
Schonenthal he was an infidel, whilst here he was
accounted a pietist; so little truth is there in man's
judgment.
He now pursued his journeyinto the woody and
mountainous province of Aust.rasen. Notwith-
standing the rude season of the year, and the dead
and leafless scenery, Stilling gazed with pleasure
on the precipitous rocks and mountains, the aged
forests, and the ruins of old baronial castles every
where hanging to the cliffs-every thing reminded
him so strongly of his native province. He felt at
ea8e, and soon saw at a distance the wood-crowned .
Rittersburg, with all its ancient towers; his bosom
heaved, and his heart beat more strongly, the
nearer he approached the scene of his future life ;
at length, in the twilight, he drove in at the gates.
As the carriage turned to the left, and drove
through the narrow street, he heard a man's voice
call out, on his right, "Halt! " The coachman
stopped. "Is professor Stilling in the coach? "
a twofold " Yes, " responded from the vehicle.
" Well then, alight, my dear and chosen friend
and colleague; here you must lodge."
The kind and gentle tone of his voice affected
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 111
Stilling and his consort even to tears. They
alighted, and fell into the arms of professor Sieg-
fried and his lady; professor Stillenfeld, his other
colleague, also soon appeared, whose retired, quiet,
and peaceable character, attracted Stilling's atten-
·tion the most. Stillenfeld was still unmarried,
but Siegfried had already one child ; he and his
spouse were excellent people, full of zeal for reli-
gfon and all that is good, and at the same time
enthusiastically philanthropical ; Siegfried was, at
th'e same time, a very learned and deep-thinking
philosopher, whose chief inclination was directed
to Divinity, which he had formerly studied; but
,he now taught the laws of nature and of nations,
and Civil, Financial, and Political Economy.
Stil~enfeld, on the contrary, was a very refined,
noble minded, upright character, full of system,
order, arid mathematical exactness ; in Mathema-
tics, Natural- Philosophy, Natural History, and
Chemistry, it was difficult to find his equal.
Stilling felt happy with these men, and his wife
soon attached herself t.o professor Siegfried's lady,
who gave her information in every thing, and
assisted her in the regulation of her housel:iold.
The difference between Schonenthal·and Rit-
tersburg was certainly great. Old irregular houses,
low rooms with beams across and athwart, little
windows, with round or hexagonal panes of glass,
doors which could not be shut close, stones .of
dreadful dimensions, on which the marriage of
Cana in Galilee, with its twelve stone vessels of
L2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
112 HEINRICH STILLJNG'S
water in bas relief, was edifyingly pourtrayed; then
a prospect into nothing but gloomy forests of fir,
no where a rushing stream, but a serpentine, creep-
ing, fenny water, &c. All this certainly formed
a singular contrast with the above mentioned
objects; Christina also had often tears in her
eyes ; but by degrees we become accustomed to
every thing, and thus both habituated themselves
to their new situation, and were heartily satisfied
with it.
Stilling now wrote both to Rosenheim, to his
father-in-law, and to his father at Leindorf, as
also to his uncle at Lichthausen, and pictured to
these friends, his whole situation according to
truth; in doing which, he by no means forgot to
dilate upon the excellent prospects he had respect-
ing the future. Johann and Wilhelm Stilling were
filled with astonishment, at their Heinrich's new
elevation ; they looked at each other, and said to
one another, " What will he at length become ?''
Friedenberg, on the contrary, was not particularly
pleased ; instead of expressions of satisfaction, his
answer was full of paternal admonitions upon do-
mestic economy ; he had no feeling for the honor
done to his son-in-law and his daughter, in his
being now professor ; on the whole, fame and
honor did not affect him.
As the system ofPolitical Economy, which Stil-
ling had formed to himself, lay much on his heart,
he appropriated the first winter to the develope-
ment of it in his manual, and at the same time to
'"' a,,Google
bOMESTIC LIFE. 113
lhe reading lectures from what he had written.
In the spring, this book was printed at Mannheim,
under the title of " An Essay on the principles of
Statistical Knowledge." It met with much appro-
bation, notwithstanding its faults and imperfec-
tions, and Stilling now began to be fully assured
of his destiny ; he felt himself entirely in the
department that was natural to him. Every obli-
gation, which his office laid upon him, was at the
same time, his greatest pleasure. It is impossible
to conceive a more happy situation, than that in
which he now found himself; for even the people,
amongst whom he lived, loved, honored, and valued
him and his...Christina, beyond measure; all calum-
ny and storm was now at an end, and if a storm
had not continually threatened him from Schonen-
thal, on account of his debts, he would have heen
perfectly happy.
The following summer, he read lectures upon
the treatment of woods and forests, in Technology,
and on Agriculture ; for he did not satisfy himself
merely with the sciences to which he was appoint-
ed, but he also glowed with desire to expand his
system as far as possible in his sphere ; and as the
treatises in use were not adapted to his plan, he
formed the resolution of writing compendia upon
all the sciences he was acquainted with, and made
preparations for commencing the work.
Stilling had been hitherto in the furnace of his
divine founder, and, from the rough, had been
wrought into a serviceable instrument; but the
L3
'"' a,,Google
ll4 HEINRICH STILLING'S
file and the polish were still wanting ; nor were
these forgotten ; for things were forming at a
distance, which were to put the last hand to the
work, and which at length were more painful to
him than every thing he had hitherto endured.
The Society of Political Economy, of which he
was now a regular member, operated with unspeak-
able blessing and success for the country, and
the Palatinate can never sufficiently thank it for
ita labors ; this is truth and no compliment. It
instituted the statistical academy ; established a
manufactory which flourishes greatly, and affords
D}aintenance for many hundred people ; and of all
this, Counsellor Eisenhart was the 1,!rst and last
main-spring, the real weight to the clock. They
had also bought a farm in the village of Siegelbach,
a league and a half from Rittersburg, where they
intended to make a variety of new agricultural
experimenta, and thus to give a good example to
the farmers. This farm had been hitherto under
the care of managers, but every thing had failed,
nothing would succeed, for every circumstance
• proved unfavorable to success. f!iiow when Stil-
ling came to Rittersburg, the management was
committed to him as professor of Agriculture ; he
accepted this secondary affair, believ:ing that he
was fully competent to it. The steward was
therefore dismissed, and the whole business oom-
mitted to Stilling; this .took place immediately
after his entrance upon his professorship.
On arriving at Siegelbacb, and after examining
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 115
every thing, he found a large and beautiful cow
stable, laid with .flags, arranged entirely in the
new style; there were in it twenty lean skeletons
of Swiss cows, which gave altogether, daily, three
pails of milk; the true image of Pharaoh's lean
kine. There stood there likewise two working
horses, with two foals, and outside, in separate
sties, a tolerable herd of swine ; and, although it
was only November, yet all the hay was long ago
consumed, as well as the straw for strewing.
There was, therefore, a want of milk and butter for
housekeeping, and fodder for so many great
mouths, tP,roats, and stomachs. This pressed
strongly upon the good professor's heart..; he
therefore applied directly to the society ; but
there he could not obtain a hearing. Every one
told him, he must do as well as he could, for every
one was weary of having always to pay. Stilling
was now again deficient in needful prudence ; he
ought immediately to have resigned, and given up
the management, however he did not do so, he
was too much attached to the whole institution,
and believed his honor was most closely connec-
ted with its honor, that it was incumbent upon
him to proceed with it, and this was his misfortune.
The first . thing he undertook was the sale of
half of the cattle, for he hoped with the sum he
should realize from it, to be able to buy so much
straw and fodder, as to provide in a proper man-
ner for the other half. He therefore made
arrangements for a public auction, and was
'"' a,,Google
116 HEINRICH STILLING's
astonished at the concourse of people and the
prices, so that he felt assured he should surmount
the mighty obstacle. But how was he terrified on
learning that most of the buyers were creditors,.
who had demands on the estate; whilst the rest,
to whom the estate was not indebted, were poor;
he therefore obtained little money, and if he
wished to help himself, he must put his hand into
his purse, and where that did not suffice, borrow
money on his own credit.
He had, it is true, the well-grounded hope, that
in the following summer, a large and abundant
harvest would be more than sufficient to repay
every thing, and that the produce of the large
clover-fields and grass-lands would relieve him
from the burden, and so far he was excusable ;
however, for a man in his circumstances, it was
still thoughtless to undertake anything of the kind,
particularly, when he learnt the true state of the
case ; but, oh how easy it is, after struggling
through grievous suff~rings, to find out the little
outlet, by which we might have escaped ! God
be praised for his guidance !
To these threatening clouds, others collected
themselves. The ruling persons at Rittersburg
were all Roman Catholics, in the coarse sense of
the word; the Franciscans filled the clerical office,
and had the care of the souls of the parishioners ;
it was therefore of importance to these divines,
that stupidity and superstition should be always
preserved; the chief magistrate, in particular,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 117
was their faithful adherent. But the academy of
Political Economy had now established itself
there, the teachers of which were all Protestants;
.the latter even exercised a jurisdiction ; all which
was naturally a thorn in their eyes. Now there
resided there a certain learned man, of the name
of Spassel, a singular character, who was equalled
by few ; his dress was very negligent, and even
occasionally dirty; his gait and walk slovenly;
and all his speeches savoured of.low wit; so that
he &<:ted the jack-pudding in every company. In
secret, he was the spy of one of the superior
clergy, who was high in favor with the Elector,
and likewise the news-monger and tale-bearer of
the chief magistrate; openly, he was a facetious
scoffer at certain usages of his own religion ; but
woe to that man that assists him in so doing ; for
he had secretly entered into the Franciscan frater-
nity, t.o which he faithfully adhered.
It is painful for me t.o hold up this man to pub-
lic view. However, as he was an instrument in
the hand of providence, I cannot pass him by: if
he be still living, and be recognized, and if he be
still what he was, he is justly served ; and it is a
duty to warn every upright character against him;
but if he be dead, or be not recognized, my
description of him will not injure him. · As long
as an individual is still continued in this land of
probation and purification, he is capable of
amendment and return ; if Spassel, therefore,
become, even according to the principles of his
'"' a,,Google
118 Hl!:INRICH STILLING'S
own church, a worthy, upright, and benel'olent
character; all those that formerly knew him,
exactly as I here describe him, will alter their
sentiment-will love him ; and there will be more
joy in Rittersburg, as well as in heaven, at his
return to virtue, than over ninety and nine worthy
individuals, who have not had so severe a struggle
with disposition and character as he. Then will
I also step forward, before the whole world, and
say, "Come brother, forgive, as I have forgiven
thee; thou art better than I, for thou hast over-
come more numerous eneinies."
This Spiissel had sought, from the commence-
ment, to be made a member of th~ society of
Political Economy, and even to become professor
of the Veterinary art ; but they were afraid of
him, for he was a very dangerous man, who,
besides this, did not possess the decorum which
is so requisite for a professor ; they had conse-
quently been very careful to keep him at a dis-
tance. Now as StiHing obtained the V~terinary
department along with the rest, he was therefore
in his way. There was also something in addi-
tion to this; the society had a library, which was
open once in the week, from six till eight o'clock
in the evening. Stilling voluntai·ily undertook
this .lecture gratuitously; partly, in order to
increase his knowledge of literature, and partly by
this means, to be the more useful to his hearers ;
the society had also permitted all the literati of the
place to make use of their books at this lecture.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFll!. 119
Spiissel rarely took advantage of this privilege,
but towards the spr_
ing, he began to come oftener;
the management of the farm at Siegelbach, how-
ever, caused Stilling to make an alteration in the
matter ; as he was compelled to go thither every
Monday, and being unable to read the customary
lecture on that day, he transferred it to the Tues-
day evening. This he made known to all the
students, and begged them to make it public.
Spiissel, however, came three Mondays following,
and found the door closed ; on the third, he sat
down and wrote the following note ; I insert it
just as it was :-
"it Is probablee intended bi Professer Stilling
To make A fool of me-but This is to infomie
Him-That Spiissel duz not intend To b maid a
fool of !!!-the zosiete ote to instrukt there peeple
in there dooti and devores. Spiissel."
Stilling sent this note in a letter to counsellor
Eisenhart, the Director, and informed him of the
circumstances of the case ; the latter wrote imme-
diately to Mr. Spiissel, and represented the matter
in its true light, in a polite and modest manner;
bnt this was pouring oil into the fire ; for the
honest man came to Stilling, and made use of
such malicious and offensive expressions, that the
latter broke out into a glowing flame, and marched
Mr. Spiissel, as quickly as possible, out of the
door a.ml down the steps, and then called after
him, "Never cross my threshold again, until you
are become a better man."
'"' a,,Google
120 HEINRICH STILLING'S
With this, the matter ended; but that Spassel
kept all this in remembrance, in order eventually
to take advantage of it, may be easily supposed.
About this time th~e appeared ano~her meteor
in the horizon of Rittersburg. A certain arrogant
Englishman, of the name of Tom, had travelled
through many a province, as. English language
master, made a thousand plans, built castles in
the air, but all had failed. In other respects, he
was a man of uncommon talents, learned, and, on
the whole, a genius, in the real sense of the term.
The motive of all his actions was ungovernable
pride ; without religion, rigid materialism and
blind fate seemed to be his guides. Philan-
thropy, that oftSpring of deity, was unknown to
him; he loved nothing but himself; the name
"language-master," was odious to him, although,
in reality, he was nothing more, and bore the
appellation of professor of English Literature.
Poverty was a hell to him, and yet he was
extremely poor; for when formerly he was a weal-
thy merchant, he had acted the part of a great
man, and afterwards, as may easily be supposed,
became bankrupt. This individual resided at
that time in Mannheim, and as the institution at
Rittersburg seemed to him to be just the place
where he could support himself and acquire fame,
he applied to Eisenhart, to assist him in obtaining
a professor's place in the Rittersburg academy.
Eisenhart, who knew the ability of the man, but
also his dangerous character, and besides all this,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 121
deemed it necessary to economize with the fal'or
of the Elector, always positively refused his
request. At length Tom resolved to go thither,
without either salary or appointment; he therefore
merely applied for permission to reside there and
lectnre; and this was readily granted him. Eisen-
hart therefore wrote to Stilling, who had the
providing of lodgings and quarters for the students
committed to him, to procure a dwelling for pro-
fessor Tom, at the same time describing the man
to him, and stating what kind of a lodging it
must be.
Stilling therefore hired a couple of handsome
rooms at a merchant's, and awaited Tom's arrival.
At length, one afternoon, the maid servant came
from an inn, with the following note, addressed to
Stilling:
"Professor Tom is here."
Ha ! thought Stilling-a singular announce-
ment!
As he always made it a maxim, in cases which
could not prejudice himself, and the good cause,
to take the lowest place, he took up his hat and
stick, in order to go to the inn. The same moment,
word was sent from the merchant, that he would
not permit the English language-master, to enteri
until he paid for the first quarter in advanc .
Very well, thought Stilling ! and went to the in .
There he found a respectable looking, well-m e
man, with a broad and lofty forehead, large sta ·
eyes, thin face, and pointed lips, from w
M
'"' a,,Goog e
12~ HEINRICH STlLLlNG'S
features, spirit and craftiness every where looked
forth; near him stood his wife in an Amazonian•
dress, whilst grievous care gnawed her heart,
which was evident in her swimming eye, and the
downward inclining comers of her mouth.
After the exchange of compliments, during
which Tom seemed to wish to penetrate deeply
with bis feelers, into Stilling's soul ; the latter
said, " Sir, I have now seen where you alighted,
come with me, in order also to see where I live."
"I will," said he, at the same time pointing hia
lips, and looking very sarcastical. On arriving at
Stilling's house, he said to him further, " Sir we
are pleased at having so able a man amongst us,
and heartily wish it may go well with you."
Tom walked up and down, making all kinds
of grimaces, and replied, " I will make the at-
tempt."
Stilling. But I must tell you one thing; you
will not take it amiss of me. I have rented two
handsome rooms for you at Mr. R-'s; but the
honest man demands a quarter's rent in advance;
now as you are unknown to us all, the man is not
so much to blame.
Tom. So, (he walked hastily up and down,)
I will go back again to Mannheim ; I will not let
myself be insulted here, either by a professor, or
any one else.
Stilling. In God's name! We will quietly and
~ntentedly suffer you to return.
" Eng. A riding-habit.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 123
, Tom. What ?-why then have I been decoyed
here?
Stilling now took him by the arm, looked at
him full and seriously in the face, and rejoined,
"Sir, you must not seek to act the proud Briton
here! none of us, nor any honest German, troubles
himself in the least on that account ; at your own
request, you have been permitted to come hither,
and it is altogether in our power, whether we send
yon out of the gates or not. Now be calm, and
observe the respect you owe to one who is your
superior, or else depart, if you please. However,
I advise you to remain here, and act the part of a
man of integrity, and all will go well. Remember
that you are an entire stranger here, whom no one
knows, and who consequently has not the smallest
credit ; for a rogue may possess your name, as well
u an honest man."
Stilling was now called out ; the merchant had
taken a view of Mr. Tom's furniture, and sent
word, that he would receive the la9g0age-master
without the advance. This news pacified Mr.
Tom, and he took possession of the apartments.
But that I may not waste both time and room
in detailing every little event and circumstance, I
will only observe in the general, that Spiissel and
Tom united together, and formed a plan to over-
throw Stilling, expel him from his situation, and
then divide his office between them. Their prepara-
tions were extremely cunning, extensively concert-
ed, and maturely digested, as the result will shew.
x2
'"' a,,Google
24 HEINRICH STILLING's
·The general idea, that Stilling had still some
inclination to enthusiasm and pietism, appeared to
the two caballers, the weak si~e, to which they
must direct their artillery and make a breach.
They walked therefore 'a long up and down the
street before Stilling's house, in the twilight, in
order to spy out what they could. Now he wu
accustomed frequently after dinner to play hymn
tunes upon his harpsichord and sing to them, in
which his Christina joined; this was spread abroad;
it was said, he had family worship, prayer meet-
ings, and the like, and thus the public were
graduallyprepared. This intelligence Spiissel com-
municated also to the court at Munich, in order
that every thing might be complete.
A circumstance was added to this, which fully
decided the matter. Stilling had found, at
Siegelbach a stock of Swiss cheese, which he took
home with him, in order to sell; in consequence
of which, a number of tradespeople, women, and
girls, came frjquently to buy cheese. Now there
were some of them who were of a religious tum,
and occasionally spoke on the subject with Stil-
ling's consort; one of them invited her, once, to
her garden, in order to afford a little change to
herself and her children. Christina accepted it
without hesitation, and Stilling imagined nothing
evil. She went therefore on the day appointed,
and after the lecture hours, he walked to the
garden also, to fetch his wife and children. Here
he found four or five females sitting round his
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 125
Christina in the summer-house ; some edifying
works lay on the table, between currant cakes and
coffee-cups, and all were engaged in religious con-
versation. Stilling sat down by them, and began
to preach circumspection ; he represented to them
how dangerous meetings of that kind were in a
place where, irrespective of that, every action and
movement of the protestants were so minutely
observed; he then clearly and fully proved to them,
that. religion does not consist in such conversation,
bnt in a devout life, &c.
But who could have imagined that Spiisse], at
that very time, was standing behind the hedge,
and overheard every thing! Stilling, at least,
never dreamt of such a thing. How was he aston-
ished therefore, on receiving letters a week after,
containing the most serious, and I may well say
the severest, reproaches from his friends in Mann-
heim and Zweibriicken!-he really knew not what
to think of it ; and if the holding a garden conven-
ticle had not been mentioned, he would never
have dreamt how this poisonous calumny had
originated. He therefore answered the above
letters in a manly manner, and according to truth;
and his friends believed him ; hut on the whole,
there alwayR remained a sensation behind, which
was prejudicial to him, at least amongst the
catholics.
In Rittershurg itself, the thing created distur-
bance. The chief magistrate threatened imprison-
ment, and reasoned very excelJently ; hut the
M3
'"' a,,Google
126 HEINRICH STILLING'S
protestants murmured and complained that they
were not suffered even to hold family worship.
Stilling lost nothing in their estimation.; on the
contrary, they valued him so much the more. The
two protestant clergymen, two venerable and excel-
lent men, Mr. W. and Mr. S. also took up the
affair; they visited thefemales in question, admon-
ished them to be prudent, consoled them, and.IPro-
mised them protection; for they knew they were
good and worthy people, who cherished no princi-
ples, which were contrary to religion. Mr. W.
even preached, the following Sunday, upon pru-
dence and duty with respect to family worship·;
during which, he finally turned towards Stilling,
and addressed him -openly, by breaking out into
the following words:-"But thou, suffering wan-
derer to the lofty aim of the christian and the truly.
wise, be of good cheer, endure patiently and
walk with circumspection between the snares that
adversaries lay for thee ! Thou wilt overcome,
and God will crown thee with blessings, God will
make shame the companion of thy foes, but upon
thee shall the crown of the conqueror ftourish.
Let us accompany each other, hand in hand,
through the burning sandy desart, and one shall
console the other, when his heart sighs for help,
&c." The whole congregation fixed their eyes on
Stilling, and blessed him.
Through the efforts of these excellent men, the
whole parish was again tranquillized, and as a
statement of the affair was transmitted to the
mo ;ze, ,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 127
Palatine ecclesiastical board, the chief magistrate
received an injunction to talk no more of imprison-
ment, until reallyillegal conventicles had been held,
and excesses committed under the name of religion.
But in the mean time, Tom and Spiissel secretly
continued their machinations at the court of
Munich, and really carried matters so far, that
Stilling was on the point of being cashiered. He
did not hear of this dangerous storm, until it was
happily over ; for the divine interference of a
superintending providence was also visible in this
affair. At.the very moment, when the ecclesiastic
of high rank seriously urged the Elector to it, and
rendered Stilling suspected by him, and when the
thing was as good as decided, another ecclesiastic
equally respectable, but who was a warm friend of
Stilling's, and knew the real state of affairs of
Rittersburg, entered the cabinet of the Elector.
The latter, on hearing the subject of the conver-
sation, took Stilling's part, and defended it so
strikingly and convincingly, that the Elector
ordered the intolerant prelate, on the spot, to let
the matter rest, and did not withdraw his favor
from Stilling. Had not this worthy clergyman
come thither accidentally, Stilling's misfortune
would have been boundless. He first heard of the
whole affair half a year afterwards, just as I have
related it.
During this period, he lived quietly, fulfilled his
duties, and acted as prudently as possible.
Spiissel and Tom, meanwhile, concocted a
'"' a,,Google
128 HEINRICH STILLING's
variety of extensive plans for a general literary
club, a topographical society, &c. But they were
themselves at variance on these important affairs,
and began to hate each other bitterly. Tom's
creditors now made a stir, and as Stilling was at
the same time Dean of the academy, and therefore
his regular superior, he crept to the cross, came to
him, wept, and confessed every thing in which he
had co-operated with Spiissel to his detriment;
he even shewed him the letters and statements
which had been sent from thence to Munich.
Stilling was perfectly amazed at all the infernal
wickedness and extremely artful devices of these
men ; but as all was now over, and as he learnt,
just at that time, how he ·had been rescued at
Munich, he forgave Spiissel and Tom every thing,
and as the latter was now in painful and needy
circumstances, he consoled and supported him, as
well as he was able, without infringing upon strict
justice; and when at length Tom could no longer
remain at Rittersburg, and was desirous of remo-
ving to a certain German university, in order to
try his fortune there, Stilling provided him with
money for the journey, and gave him his hearty
blessing.
Tom there tried all his tricks, once more, in
order to elevate himself, but he failed. And what
did he attempt next ? he laid aside his pride ; was
converted ; put on a very modest dress, and became
a pietist ! God grant that his conversion may be
real, and not a mask for wickedness and pride.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LllJE. 129
However, the way from one extreme to the other
is by no means distant or difficult, hut very easy
and beaten. May the Lord bless him, and give
him the opportunity ofeffecting much good, that so
his former catalogue ofsins may be blotted out.
Meanwhile, Stilling was highly successful in his
situation as professor ; he lived entirely in his
element. But as I am unwilling to detain my
readers with a variety of circumstances, even
thongh of an interesting nature, which have·no
direct reference to his fate or his guidance, I will
merely proceed with the principal course of his
hist.ory.
The management of the Siegelbach estate went
wrong; nothing succeeded; there was everywhere
curse instead of blessing ; unfaithful servants,
thievish neighbours, secret perfidy of the inferior
officers; all these stood in Stilling's way, so that at
length, unless he were willing to be ruined himself,
along with the estate, he was obliged to give up the
entire management, and render in his accounts.
Though he was delivered, by this means, from this
heavy burden, yet he was plunged deeper into debt;
for he had attempted and expended much, which he
partly could not charge, and which he partly would
not, in order not to be suspected of self-interest ;
and thus he came offwith honor, but at the same
time with an addition of debt, from the affair.
Misfortunes of every kind now began to gather
over his head. Debts had been formed in Ritters-
burg, and at Schonenthal; the interest was scarcely
'"' a,,Google
130 HEINRICH STILLING's
paid, much less any liquidation of the principal ;
besides this, all kinds of reports were spread
abroad, that Stilling kept a coach and horses,
lived at an amazing expense, and never thought of
his debts. He had six hundred gilders salary,
and received from two to three hundred gilders
lecture money ; at the same time, the prices of
every thing in Rittersburg rose almost double, so
that with all economy, scarcely so much remained
over as covered the interest ; with what therefore
were the debts to be paid! Almost every post-
day, the most tormenting letters arrived from his
father-in-law, or from some creditor in SchO-
nenthaJ; Mr. Friedenberg himself was in a
very unpleasant situation; he was security, ~d
was threatened with an action at law by the man,
who had formerly so kindly assisted Stilling, from
love to God and man. Stilling therefore had
every moment to expect, that his benefactor, his
father-in-law, would, on his account, be obliged to
stop payment. This thought was murder and
death to him, and then, under all these dreadful
circumstances, to possess not the smallest intima-
tion of help, nor the remotest presentiment of it !
Dr~l ! dreadful was this situation, and to
whom could he unburden himself? To no one but
God; and this he did incessantly ; he strove,
without ceasing, with unbelief and mistrust, yet
never cast his confidence away. All his letters to
his father-in-law were full of submission to Divine
providence and consoling ; but they no longer
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTlO LIFE. 131
produced any effect. Counsellor Eisenhart him-
self, who knew something of his situation, made
fruitless attempts to assist him. Stilling wrote
"Florentine Von Fahlendorn," and " Theodore
Von der Linden," and sought, with what he
received from them, to stem the torrent ; but it
was like the drop of a bucket. He wrote to several
great and eminent friends, and stated to them his
circumstances ; but some were unable to help
him, others took a dislike to him, or thus again
exhorted him to endui:e to the end; and a couple
assisted him with a drop of refreshment to his
parched tongue.
Every thing therefore was in vain, and it
thundered ,and lightened incessantly down from
Schonenthal.
During this dreadful period, the Almighty
prepared for judgment upon Stilling, in order, at
length, to decide his fate.
On the 17th of August, 1781, on a very sultry
and thundery day, Christina had lifted a heavy
basket upon the head of the servant girl, and in
doing so, had felt something crack in her breast,
which was soon succeeded by acute pain, with
shivering and fever. On Stilling's return from the
college, as he entered her room, she came to meet
him, deadly pale, and with the air of a culprit,
and said, " Be not angry, my dear husband; by
lifting a basket, I have done myself an injury in
the breast ; God be gracious to thee and me ! I
forebode my death."
'"' a,,Google
132 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Stilling stood stupefied, and like one thunder-
struck ; weak and worn out with protracted
sorrow, he imagined he felt the mortal blow ; his
head inclined upon his shoulders, and projecting
forwards, and holding himself with bis hands, his
eyes fixed, with a weeping expression of counte-
nance, though not a tear flowed, he stood mute ;
for he now also foreboded Christina's decease with
certainty. At length he recovered himself, com-
forted her, and brought her to bed. In the
twilight of the evening the disease manifested
itself in all its virulence. Christina laid herself
down, like a lamb for the slaughter, and said,
" Lord, do with me as seemeth thee good ; I am
thy child ; if it be thy will that I shall never see
my parents and sisters ·again in this world, I
commit them into thy hands; only guide them in
such a manner, as that I may eventually see them
again, before thy throne."
Christina's first attack was therefore, properly
speaking, a pectoral fever, accompanied by hyster-
ical paroxysms, which manifested themselves in a
violent cough ; several physicians and remedies
wer~ employed in order to save her. After the
lapse of a fortnight, there was some amendment,
and it seemed as if the danger were over. Stilling
therefore composed thanksgiving hymns, aud
wrote the pleasing account of her recovery to hit
friends ; however he was greatly deceived ; she
did not even leave her bed; on the. contrary, her
illness settled itself into a regular pulmonary con-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 133
sumption. The waters now entered into Stilling's
son!; the thought of losing so dear a consort was
intolerable to him, for she was the best wife in the
world ; polite, extremely obliging, whilst the tone
of her conversation, and her modesty, captivated
every one. Her cleanliness was boundless; all
were happy around her ; neatness and order
predominated in her very simple dress, and all
that she did, was performed with extreme facility
and celerity. Amongst intimate friends, she was
mirthful, and witty with due decorum, whilst at
the same time, she was eminently devout, and
devoid of hypocrisy. She avoided the outward
mask of godliness, for experience had warned her
against pietism. Stilling knew all this; he deeply
felt her value, and hence he could not bear the
thought of losing her. She herself now again
desired to live, and consoled herself with the hope
of recovery. However, the dreadful paroxysms
returned occasionally ; she coughed so violently,
that pieces of her lungs, as large as nuts, flew
about the room ; she suffered, at the same time,
the most dreadful pain. In all this affiiction she
never murmured, nor was ever impatient, but only
exclaimed incessantly with a loud voice, " Lord,
spare me according to thy great mercy!" And
when her husband and nurse were perspiring with
anxiety, compassion, and fatigue, she looked·at
them both with an inexpressibly supplicating
countenance, and said, "My angel and my all!
My dear Mrs. M- have patience with me, and
N
'"' a,,Google
134 HEINRICH STILLING'S
forgive me the trouble I cause you." Acquaint·
ances often stood at a distance at the door, as did
also poor people, whom she had relieved, for she
was very beneficent, and wept aloud.
Stilling struggled for days and nights together ;
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
a corner of his study was rendered smooth by
kneeling, and wet with tears ; but heaven was
shut against him ; every ardent sigh rebounded
back again ; he felt that the paternal heart of
God was closed. Christina being unable to bear
the sound of footsteps, he went constantly in
stockings, and ran in the distress of his heart, I
from one corner of the room to another, until the
feet were worn through, without his being aware I
of it. During all this time, threatening and I
insulting letters continued to arrive from Sebo- I
nenthal. Mr. Friedenberg's heart was broken by I
the expectation of his daughter's approaching I
death; but still his reproaches did not cease. He I
was now convinced, that Stilling was the cause of I
all his misfortunes, and all excuse was of no avail.
The situation in which the poor susceptible man I
now found himself, exceeds all description ; but I
the more his distress increased, the more ardently I
and earnestly did he cleave to the compassion- I
ating love of God. I
After some weeks, in the beginning of Octo~, I
Stilling was standing one evening at the staircase I
window; it was already night, and he prayed, I
according as he was wont, to God in secret;
all at once he felt a profound tranquillity, an I
I
I
og''"'"b,Google
I
DOMESTIC LIFE. 135
unspeakable peace of soul, and consequent upon
this, a deep submission to the will of God ; he
still felt all his sufferings, but at the same time,
strength enough to bear them. He went into the
sick-room, and approached the bed; but Christina
beckoned to him to remain at a distance ; and he
then perceived that she was engaged in earnest
and silent prayer. At length she called him,
motioned him to sit down, and turned herself
with difficulty, in order to lay herself on the side
next him; she then regarded him with an inex-
pressible look, and said, " I am dying, dearest
angel ; take heart, I die gladly ; the ten years we
have passed in the marriage state, have yielded
nothing bnt suffering; it does not please God that
I should see thee delivered out of thy distress, but
he will deliver thee; be comforted and calm, God
will not forsake thee. I do not commend my two
children to thee, thou art their father, and God
will provide for them." She then gave several
directions, turned herself about, and was quiet.
From that time, Stilling often spoke with her
concerning death, and of her expectations after
death ; and did all he possibly could, to prepare
her for her end. Hours of anxiety still frequently
occurred, and then she wished for an easy death,
and that it should happen in the day-time, for she
dreaded the night. His colleague, Siegfried,
often visited her, (for his consort, on account of
sickness, pregnancy, and sympathy, could seldom
come, and at length not at all,) and assisted
N2
'"' a,,Google
136 HEINRICH STILLING's
him m the struggle, and in affording to her
consolation. .
At length she approached her dissolution. On
the 17th of October, in the evening, he perceived
the forerunners of death; towards eleven o'clock
he lay down, completely weary, in an anti-room,
and reposed in a kind of stupor, till five o'clock in
the morning, when he again arose, and found bis
dear sufferer very composed and cheerful. "I have
now overcome!" she exclaimed, as he entered, "I
now see the joys of the world to come, vividly
before me ; nothing cleaves to me any more-
nothing whatever." She then repeated the fol-
lowing verses.
" Amongst the lilies thou shalt feed,
With joy supremely blest;
Thither, 0 soul, thy pinions speed,
Like eagles to their nest.
Behold ! for thee the Saviour waits,
To open wide heaven's pearly gates.
"0 let me run, and mount, and fly,
_To join the heavenly host,
And the seraphic choirs on high,
In adoration lost ;-
With blissful songs surround the throne
Of Jesus, and the great Three-One!
" Dear brother of my soul ! unmoor
My vessel from the strand;
Give me to reach the peaceful shore,
The safe, the heav'nly land-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIP'E.
There, where thy sheep securely feed,
Afar from sorrow, want, and need.
"There's nothing to my hoort shall cleave,
Of all the world can give :
Why should I longer mourn and grieve,
Or 'rish on earth to live?
I'd burst these 11.eshly prison walls,
And hasten where my Saviour calls.
"Belov'd Redeemer! grant me faith,
A faith that conquers all-
That triumphs over sin and death,
And files to reach the goal.
For thee, my soul, like some lone dove,
Mourns, till I climb the realms above.
" How soon canst thou my grief dispel,
My mouth with laughter fill;
137
And through the shades of death and hell,
Lead safe to Zion's hill:
Then shall life's painful passage seem
But like some empty, transient dream.
"The curse of sin thou hast for me,
In all its anguish borne ;
Dismay and fear must therefore 11.ee,
Like night before the mom :
The sting of death no more gives pain,
And all my bones shall rise again.
"Thou Prince of life, with purest 11.ame
My soul shall sing thy praise,
And magnify thy holy name,
Here, and to endless days !
N3
'"' a,,Google
138 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Eternal life to me is given ;
Take me, 0 Lord ! to thee in heaven."
Stilling's whole soul melted into tears ; he sat
down by the bed side and waited the departure of
the friend of his soul ; she often pressed his hand,
with her customary favorite expression, "my angel
and my all!" otherwise she said nothing more.
She did not de&ire to see her children, but only
commended them to God. But she frequently
repeated the words ;-
" And through the shades of death and hell
Lead safe to Zion's hill."
and rejoiced in the consolation they contained.
Towards ten o'clock she said, "Dear husband,
I am very sleepy and feel very comfortable ; should
I wake no more and dream myself into eternity,
farewell ! She then looked at him once more,
with her large black eyes, most expressively, pres-
sed his hand, and fell asleep. In about an hour,
she began to be convulsed, she sighed deeply, and
shuddered ; her breath now ceased, and the fea-
tures of death covered her countenance; her mouth
still however inclined itself to a smile. Christina
was no more!
A tender husband must have witnessed this
scene, otherwise he can form to himself no idea of
it. The same moment Siegfried entered, looked
towards the bed, fell upon his friend's neck, and
both shed gentle tears.
o'''""j byGoogle
DOMESTIC LIFE. 139
"Thou dear angel !" exclaimed Siegfried, whilst
bending over her, " thou hast now endured to the
end!" But Stilling kissed her pallid lips once more,
and said;-
" Thou unparalleled sufferer, thanks be to thee
for thy love and fidelity ; enter thou into the joy
of thy Lord !"
When Siegfried was goQe, the two children
were brought into the room, he led them to the
corpse, and they cried aloud ; he then sat down,
took one on each knee, pressed them to his bosom,
and all three wept. At length he recollected
himself, and made the arrangements which the
circumstances required.
On the 21st of October, in the morning twilight,
Stilling's Rittersburg friends carried his deceased
consort to the buria)-ground, and interred her
with all quietness. His friends, the two protes-
tant preachers, who sat with him during the time,
alleviated this last. separation, and supported him
by consolatory conversation.
With Christina's death, ended a great and im-
portant period in St.illing's history, and one equally
important gradually commenced, which gloriously
and tranquilly developed the object of the painful
trials, through which he had hitherto been led.
'"' a,,Google
CHAP. V.
After the death of Christina, Stilling sought to
arrange his solitary mode of life in a proper manner.
He took a journey to Zweibriicken, where he had
very good and faithful friends ; he there conferred
with them respecting whe~ he could best place
his children, in order to have them educated in a
proper manner. It appeared, that there was in
Zweibriicken, as it seemed, a very good oppor-
tunity for this purpose ; he therefore settled the
matter, travelled back again, and fetched them.
His daught.er was now nine, and his son seven
years old.
But after having disposed of his children, and
returned to his solitary and empty dwelling, all
his sufferings returned upon him ; with an inex-
pressibly melancholy feeling he covered his face,
wept, and sobbed, so that he could scarcely com-
fort himself. He had given up his housekeeping,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 141
sent away the maid, and the people with whom he
lived, brought him his dinner into his room ; he
was therefore like a complete stranger, and quite
alone. , He almost repented having. sent away his
children and the servant, but he could not possibly
do otherwise, his children must necessarily receive
an education, besides which, his vocation took up
too much of his time ; and he could not entrust a
servant with the housekeeping ; the arrangement
he had already made, was certainly the best, but
to him intolerable. He was accustomed to walk,
band in hand, with a faithful friend, and her he
pollelSed no longer ; his sufferings were unspeak-
able. His father, Wilhelm Stilling, aometimes
sought to comfort him by letter, and recalled to
bis recollection the years of his childhood, when
he was reminded, how long and painfully he had
lamented the loss of his departed Doris, yet time
had gradually healed the wound ; and such would
be the case with him ; but this availed little ;
Stilling was in distress, and saw no outlet, by
which he could escape. .
To this was added al8o the gloomy .close of
Autumn, which, irrespective of this, had much
iniluence on Stilling's spirits. When he looked
ont of the window, and beheld the leafless scene
around him, it seemed to him, as if he were walk-
ing solitarily amongst corpses, and saw nothing
4round him but death and corruption ; in a word,
his melancholy was indescribable.
Four weeks after, in the middle of November,
'"' a,,Google
142 HEINRICH STILLING's
one Saturday afternoon, this sorrowful feeling rose
to its height; he ran in and out, and could find
res~ no where; all at once he began to pray ; he
shut himself up in his closet, and prayed with the
utmost fervour, and with unspeakable confidence
to his Heavenly Father, so that he could not leave
off. When in the lecturer's chair, his heart con-
tinued its supplication, and when again in his
chamber, he was again upon his knees, calling
and praying aloud. At six o'clock in the evening,
after reading his last lecture, and as he had just
entered his room, the servant maid came and told
him, a young man had just been there to inquire
for him. Immediately afterwards, the latter
entered ; with a friendly and captivating expression
ofcountenance, he said, "I am from R- and hold
an appointment in a government office ; in accor-
dance with the Electoral regulations, I must study
here at least h~ a year, however inconvenient it
may be to me ; for though I have no children, yet
I have a wife ; I am glad however to become ac-
quainted with Stilling. Now I have a request to
make to you ; I have heard with regret, that your
lady is dead, and that you are so solitary a.nd
melancholy ; how would it suit you, supposing you
permitted me and my wife to lodge with you, a.nd
dine at the same table ? we should then have the
benefit of your company, and you would have
society and entertainment. I can flatter myself,
that you will be pleased with my wife ; for she is
of a noble mind and disposition."
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 143
Stilling's soul revived at these words, and he
felt as ifsome one had all at once taken the burden
of his sorrows from his shoulders, and he could
scarcely conceal his extreme pleasure. He there-
fore went with Mr. Kiihlenbach to the inn, to
pay bis respects to his consort, who heard with
joy his willingness to receive them. The next day,
this excellent and worthy couple removed into
Stilling's habitation.
Every thing now went on its regular and cheer-
ful course ; Stilling, it. is true, was still always
melancholy, but it was a pleasing melancholy, in
which he felt comfortable. He was now also
enabled to publish his lectures in rotation ; the
sums he received for the copyright of which,
encouraged him with respect to the liquidation of
his debts; for he saw a boundless field before him,
in which he could labor as an author, all his life,
and could thus make his income amount yearly to
fifteen hundred gilders. He now made a public
sale of his superfluous household furniture, and
retained nothing more that what he himself
required ; and with the money thus obtained, he
paid bis most urgent debts.
This very tolerable mode of life continued till
the end of the winter of the year 1782. Kiihlen-
bach then began to talk of removing ; this caused
Stilling anxiety, for he was apprehensive that his
horrible melaucholy w6uld again return ; he there-
fore sought to form a variety of plans ; but none
of them satisfied him. .Just at this period, he
mo ;ze, ,,Google
144 HEINRICH• STILLING's
received a letter from Mr Eisenhart, proposing to
him to marry again. Stilling clearly perceived,
that this would be best for him ; he therefore
resolved upon it, after many conflicts, and awaited
the intimation and guidance of providence.
His first thoughts fell upon an excellent widow
lady, who had a child, some property, the noblest
of characters, and who was of very good descent,
and respectable family. She had already given
great proofs of her domestic management, and
knew Stilling. He therefore wrote to her; the
worthy woman answered hi~, and stated such
important reasons, which prevented her from
marrying again, that Stilling, as a man of integrity,
was obliged entirely to relinquish her. This
unsuccessful attempt made him timid, and he
resolved upon acting more cautiously.
About this time, a light entered his mind regard-
ing an affair, of which, up to that period, he had
not had the smallest idea; for as he was once taking
a walk. alone, and viewing his ten years of sorrow
in the marriage-state, he investigated whence it
came that God had led him through such painful
paths, since his marriage was so entirely ordered
by providence. But was it really thus ordered?
inquired he ; may not human weakness ; may not
impurity of motive have mingled themselves with
it ? The scales now seemed to fall from his eyes;
he perceived, in the light Of truth, that his father-
in-law, his departed Christina, and he himself, had
acted at the time, neither according to the precepts
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 145
of religion, nor of sound reason ; for it is the
christian's highest duty, under the guidance of
providence, to examine every step, and particular-
ly the choice of a wife or a husband, according to
the rules of sound reason and propriety ; and after
this has been properly done, expect the Divine
blessing. But all this was neglected at that time;
Christina was an innocent inexperienced girl ; she
secretly loved Stilling, clung to this love, prayed
to God for the fulfilment of her wishes ; and thus
religion and affection mingled in her hysteric
attacks. Neither her parents nor Stilling knew
anything of this ; they looked upon it as Divine
inspiration and influence, and were obedient to it.
The impropriety and imprudence of the thing
shewed itself, too late, in the painful consequences.
Christina had no property, Stilling much less; he
was compelled to study with other people's money,
afterwards was unable to economize like a trades-
man, and therefore could neither support himself
nor pay bis debts. Christina, on the contrary,
who was brought up in a tradesman's family, ex-
pected from her husband the principal regulation
of the household, and economized only with that
which came to her hand ; she would therefore
have made any tradesman happy, but never a man
of learning.
Stilling, however, clearly recognized with all
this, that his ten years of painful probation, as
well as the events of his whole life, had been inex-
pressibly beneficial to his character and his whole
0
146 HEINRICH STILLING's
existence. God bad made use of his own impurity
as soap, in order to purify him more and more ;
his dear and beatified Christina had stood the
ordeal, and bad been perfected in this very path.
Stilling therefore broke out in loud thanks to God, .
that he had done all things so well.
This discovery he also communicated to Mr.
Friedenberg ; but the latter took it amiss ; he
always believed the thing was from God, that
Stilling alone wu to blame for every thing, and
that he ought to amend himself. I sincerely
desire my readers not to cherish any bitterness
against this worthy man, who bas now finished his
course. He was upright and pious, and was re-
cognized, loved, and honored, as such, by all men.
But how easily may the most upright man mistake;
and what saint in heaven has not erred! However,
what was most repugnant to him was, that Stil-
ling was determined to marry again.
His first attempt to find a consort being unsac-
cessful, Stilling's inmate, Kiihlenbach, began to
propose. He was acquainted with an excellent
young lady in S- who possessed considerable
property, and who, he hoped, would be suitable for
Stilling. I must, however, observe, thatevery one
now advised him to take a rich wife, for they con-
cluded that he would be the most easily assisted
by so doing, and he himself thought it was the
best step he could take. He often shuddered
indeed for himself and his children, when he
thought of a rich wife, who perhape had no other
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 147
good qualities ; however he placed his trust in
God. Kiihlenbach left him at Easter, and at
Whitsuntide, Stilling travelled to S- to make the
second attempt ; but this, together with the third,
ns frnitless, for both persons were engaged.
Stilling now put a full stop to these endeavors ;
it waa not at all his business to receive refusals ;
he therefore presented himself with a contrite
heart before God, and said to him with the most
fervent filial confidence, "My Father! I resign
my destiny entirely to thee ; I have now done
what I could. At present I look for thy direction ;
ifit be thy will that I should marry again, do thou
conduct a faithful spouse to me ; but if I am to
remain single, do thou tranquillize my heart !"
At that time, that excellent lady Sophia Von la
Roche, was residing with her husband and her
still unmarried children at S-. Stilling had
visited her, but as he did not enjoy her intimate
friendship, he had told her nothing of his intention.
The :6.rst post-day after the above-mentioned
prayer and :6.lial resignation to providence, he
received, very unexpectedly, a letter from that
admirable lady; be Qpened it eagerly, and found
to his astonishment, amongst other things, the
~llowing;-
" Your friends here have not been so prudent as
you were with me ; for it is here a generally well
known affair, that Stilling has made several un-
succesaful offers of marriage. This vexes me, and
I wish it had not occurred." .
o2
'"' a,,Google
148 HEINRICH STILLING's
"Must you necessarily have a lady of property1
or would one of my friends suit you, whom I will
now describe to you according to truth ? She is
very virtuous, handsome, and of a noble, ancient,
ap.d learned family, and excellent parents. Her
father is dead, but her venerable, sickly mother is
still alive ; she is about twenty-three years of age,
and has suffered much ; she has been well brought
. up, exceedingly able in every female employment,
a very economical housekeeper ; devout, and an
angel for your two children ; she has not much
property, but will receive a regular dowry, &c.
H all these qualities, for the truth of which I
pledge myself, are an equivalent with you for some
thousand gilders, please inform me, I will then
mention her to you, and tell you what you have
to do, &c."
Stilling's feelings, on reading this letter, cannot
be described ; a few days before he had solemnly
committed the affair of his marriage to providence,
and now a person is pointed out to him, who pos-
sessed exactly all the qualities which he desired.
The thought certainly occurred to him, but she
has no property ; will not my torment therefore
continue? However, he dared not reason now
according to his own principles ; she was the object
to which the finger of his heavenly leader pointed;
he therefore obeyed, and that very willingly. He
shewed the letter to Mr. Siegfried and his lady, as
also to the Lutheran preacher and his spouse ; for
these four persons were his most intimate friends.
'"' a,,Google
.
bOMESTIC LIFE. 149
AU of them recognized, in a very lively manner, the
intimation of providence, and encouraged him to
follow it. He decided therefore to do so in God's
name ; sat down, and wrote a very obliging.letter
to Madame Von la Roche, in which he besought
her to make him acquainted with the dear indivi-
dual, for he would obey the intimationofprovidence,
and follow her advice. A week after he received
a reply ; the worthy lady wrote to him that her
friend's name was Selma Von St. Florentin, and
that she was the sister of the senatorial advocate
of that name, who resided there ; that all she had
written of her was true ; that she had also shewn
her his letter, mentioned something of the affair
to her, and she had expressed herself to the effect,
that it would not be disagreeable to her to receive
a visit from Stilling. Madame Von la Roche
advised him therefore to take a journey to Reich-
enburg, where Selma was at that time residing at
the Eagle Inn, because the innkeeper was a rela-
tion of hers. Stilling was always rapid and ardent
in all his undertakings ; he therefore directly
travelled to Reicbenburg, which is a day's journey
from Rittersburg, and four leagues from S-.
He consequently arrived there in the evening, and
drove to the inn above-mentioned. But he was
now in a dilemma; he dared not enquire after the
lady whom be sought, and without this, his jour-
ney might easily have been fruitless ; however he
hoped she would make her appearance, and that
God would further direct his way. As it was still
o3
'"' a,,Google
150 HEINRICH STILLING's
very early, he 'went to an intimate friend, to whom
he communicated his intentions, and although
this friend had another plan for him, yet he con-
fessed that Selma was all that Madame Von la
Roche had described her to be; nay, that she was
even more than less so, but with all this, not rich.
Stilling rejoiced in his heart at this testimony,
and replied, " Although she is not rich, if she be
only a good housekeeper, all will go well."
He now returned to the inn ; but notwithstand-
ing all his observation, he could not hear or see
the least of her. At nine o'clock supper was
served up; the company at the table d'Mte was
agreeable and select; he sat as on thorns, for even
then Selma did not appear ; he was grieved, and
knew not what he should do next. At length
when the dessert was placed on the table, a venera-
ble old man, who sat on his left, began asfollows;-
" A pretty joke has happened to me. I had
resolved to-day to pay my respects to Madame Von
la Roche, and as our agreeable dinner campanion,
Mademoiselle Von St. F1orentin (here Stilling
pricked up his ears very nimbly) heard that I was
returning this evening, she requested I would take
her with me, because she wished to visit her
brother the advocate. Her company was very
agreeable to me ; she therefore rode with me to
S--, went to her brother, and I to Madame la
Roche. At dinner, she sent to tell me, that she
would walk with her brother towards Reichenburg,
and would wait for the coach at a certain village,
\
DOMESTlO LIFE. 151
where she requested I would stop and take her
back with me. I therefore mentioned it to the
coachman, who however forgot it, and took another
way, consequently we are now deprived of her
society."
Much was then said in Selma's praise, so that
Stilling had enough to listen to ; he now knew
. what he needed to know ; the object of his desires
was in S--. He therefore retired to his cham·
her as early as he could, not to sleep but to think ;
he reftected whether his not meeting with her was
not an intimation of providence, in order to draw
him away from her. He tormented himself the
whole night with this idea, and knew not whether
he should return straightway home again, or go
first to S--, in order previously to speak with
Madame Von la Roche. At length the latter
decision predominated ; he therefore rose at four
o'clock in the morning, paid his bill, and went on
foot to S--, where he arrived on the 25th of
June, 1782, at eight o'clock in the morning.
On entering the parlour of Madame Von la
Roche, the latter clapped her hands together, and
exclaimed with an inexpressibly kind look, "Ha!
Stilling ! where do you come from ?" Stilling
replied, " You directed me to Reichenburg, but
Selma is not there, she is here."
" Selma is here ? how is that ?"
He then stated the whole affair to her.
"Stilling, this is admirable! it is the finger of
Providence ; I have been reflecting on the subject ;
'"' a,,Google
152 HEINRICH STILLING's
at the inn at Reichenburg, you would not once
have dared to look at her, much less to speak
with her ; but here it can be all arranged."
These words quite cheered him, and tranquil-
lized his heart.
Madame Von la Roche now made arrangements
for a meeting. Mr. Von St. Florentin's colleague
in office, Mr. P-, together with his lady, were
very good friends of Madame Von la Roche, as well
as of Selma ; she therefore wrote a note to them,
in which she informed them, that Stilling was
there, and reqoesterl them to mention it to Selma
and her brother, and beg of them to take a walk;
about ten o'clock, in their garden, and that Mr.
P- would then call for Stilling to take him thither.
All this accordingly took place ; advocate P-'s
lady went to fetch Selma and her brother, and Mr.
P-, Stilling.
What his feelings were upon the way, God
knows. Mr. P- led him out of the gates, and to
the left, by the walls towards the south, into a
beautifulshrubbery, with trellis-work, and a hand-
some summer house. The sun shone in the
doudlesa sky, and it was a most beautiful summer
day.
On entering, he saw Selma there, dressed in an
orange coloured silken gown and a black straw hat,
walking much disturbed amongst the trees ; she
wrung her hands, evidently in extreme mental
emotion ; in another place, her brother was walk-
ing with the advocate's lady. As Stilling approach•
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 153
ed. and appeared to them, they all placed them-
selves in a position to receive him. After he
had complimented them generally all round, he
stepped up to Selma's brother ; this gentleman
hi!od a dignified and very handsome figure ; he
pleased him extremely at first sight; he approach-
ed him therefore,. and said, "Sir, I am desirous
of soon being able to call you brother !" This
address, which could only have proceeded from
Stilling, must necessarily strike a man of such a
refined education and knowledge ofthe world ; he
therefore made a bow, smiled, and said, "Your
obedient servant, professor Stilling ! I shall
account it an honor."
Mr. P:- and his lady, with St. Florentin, now
hastened into the summer-house, and left Stilling
alone with Selma.
He walked towards her, p1·esented her his arm,
and led her slowly forwards ; just as directly and
without circumlocution, he said to her, "Madem-
oiselle! you know who I am, (for she had read
his history, ) you know also the object of my
journey ; I have no property, but a sufficient
income, and two children ; my character is as I
have described it in the history of my life.. If you
can resolve to become mine, do not leave me long
in suspense ; I am accustomed to hasten to the
object I have in view without circumlocution ; I
believe if you make choice of me, you will never
repent it ; I fear God, and will seek to make you
happy."
mo ;ze, ,,Google
IM HEINRICH STILLING'S
Selma recovered from her confusion, and with
an unspeakably grateful expression of counten-
ance, she raised her beaming eyes, elevated her
right hand, in which she held a fan, and said,
"What is the will of providence, is my will also."
They now arrived at the summer-house, where
he was considered, investigated, examined, and
exposed to view on all sides. Selma alone cast
her eyes down, and did not say a word. Stilling
shewed himself unvarnished, just as he was, and
did not dissemble. It was then agreed, that
Selma and her brother should come in the after-
noon, after dinner, to Madame Von la Roche, and
that there the matter should be farthur discussed ;
on which, every one went home again.
Sophia asked him, immediately on entering the
room, how he had been pleased with her Selma.
Stilling. Admirably ! she is an angel !
Madame Von la Roche. Is she not ! I hope
God will bring you together.
After dinner, Selma waa eagerly expected, but
she did not come. Sophia and Stilling became
uneasy ; tears forced their way into the eyes of
both ; at length the worthy lady made a proposi-
tion, should Selma entirely refuse her consent,
which fully shewed her angelic soul, as it really
waa ; but modesty and other important reasons
forbid me to mention it.
At the moment when Stilling's anxiety had
reached its height, Mr. Von St. Florentin with
his sister entered the room. Sophia took hold of
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 155
the advocate's arm, and conducted him into an
adjoining room, and Stilling drew Selma near
him upon the sofa.
Stilling. Was it indift'erence, or what was
it, he began, that you suffered me to wait so
anxiously?
Selma. Not indift'erence, answered she with
tears in her eyes, I was obliged to pay a visit,
and was detained ; my feelings are inexpressible.
·Stilling. Vou therefore determine to become
mine?
Selma. If my mother consents, I am eternally
yours!
Stilling. Yes, but your mother?-
Selma. Will have no objection to it.
He-embraced and kissed her with unspeakable
delight, and the same moment Sophia, with the
advocate, entered the room. They stopped short,
looked, and were amazed.
"Are you as far advanced already?" exclaimed
Sophia, with evident pleasure.
"Yes ! Yes !" said he, and led her arm in arm
towards them.
The noble-minded soul now embraced both,
lifted up her eyes, and said, with tears, and the
most inward emotion, "God bless you, my chil-
dren1 The beatified Christina will now look down
with heavenly delight upon her Stilling, for she
has besought this angel as a wife for thee, my
son!"
This scene was heart and soul affecting ; Selma's
'"' a,,Google
156 HEINRICH STJLLING's
brother also mingled with the group, wept, blessed
them, and swore eternal and fraternal fidelity to
Stilling.
Sophia then sat down, took her Selma upon her
lap, who hid her face in Sophia's bosom, and
bedewed it with tears.
All at length recovered themselves; the attrac-
tion Stilling felt to this excellent soul, who was now
his betrothed, was unlimited, although he was still
unacquainted with the history of her life. She,
on the other hand, declared she felt an indescribable
esteem and reverence for him, which would soon
be changed into cordial love; she then approached
him, and said with dignit.y, "I will take the place
of your departed Christina towards your children,
in such a manner, as to enable me boldly to
present them to her at a future day."
They now separated ; Selma rode the same
evening to Riechenburg, from whence she inten-
ded to travel to Crewtznach, to her mother's sister,
and there pass the period before her marriage.
. When she was gone, Stilling wrote a letter to
her, which was sent after her the following day,
and then he also travelled back, well pleased and
happy; to Ritte:r.sbnrg.
When he was again alone, and minutely
reflected upon the whole affair, his many debts
recurred to .him, and pressed heavily upon his
heart ; of these he had not mentioned a word to
Selma; this was certainly very wrong, and in
reality, an unpardonable fault, if that may be
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 157
called a fault, which is a mor.al impossibility.
Selma knew Stilling only from his writings and
from report; she saw him, for the first time, on
the day she promised him marriage; that, which
between young people is called love, had no place
in it; the whole affair was determination, consid-
eration, and result arising from rational reftection;
now if he had said any·thing about his debts, she
would certainly have drawn back, terror-struck.
Stilling felt this fully, but he also felt what the
consequences of a discovery of the kind would be,
when he could no longer withhold it. He was
therefore in a dreadful strife with himself, but
found himself too weak to mention the.matter.
Meanwhile, he received the first letter from
her ; he was astonished at the mind that dictated
it, and looked forwards for future happiness ;
liberty of feeling without affectation; correct.ness
and order in her thoughts ; well-made and mature
resolutions reigned in every line ; and every one,
to whom he confided the letter for perusal, pro-
nounced him happy.
In the mean time, the consent of Madame Von
St. Florentin was received ; it was communicated
to Stilling, and all was now in order. He there-
fore travelled to Crewtznach to his betrothed, in
order to spend some days with her, and become
more intimately acquainted with her. He now
learnt to know her in reality, and found how all
the painful and tedious sufferings he had hitherto
endured, were.super-abundantly rewarded by the
p
'"' a,,Google
158 HEINRICH STILLING's
everlasting and paternal love of God ; but he
found it impossible to make any mention of his
debts to her, and therefore prayed unceasingly to
God, that he would so order the affair, as that it
might have a good end.
Selma's aunt was also a very worthy and plea-
sant lady, who became very fond of him, and was
glad of this addition to the family.
Near this aunt, dwelt a merchant of the name
of Schmerz, a man of much taste and knowledge.
This gentleman had read Stilling's history ; be
was therefore an object of attention to him; hence
he invited him one evening, with Selma and her
aunt, to his beautiful garden, well known to many
connoisseurs. It lies on the north-west side of the
town; and includes in it what was previously a
part of the old town-ditch. On going out df the
town, northwards, through the Linger gate, a
door immediately presents itself; on entering, we
arrive at a shrubbery, upwards, on the left, is an
eminence, and a little deeper on the right, a grass
plat, with a peasant's cottage. A smooth foot-path
then leads between the bushes, gradually down
into the valley, where a fountain suddenly presents
itself to view ; close to which, there is a resting
place in a harbour. Upon a tablet, which is
hung up in it, the following couplet by t.he late
Superintendant Gotz of Winterberg is engraved
This fountain ever flows,
So noiseless through the wood,
DOMESTIC LIFE.
Come, wanderer, taste repose,
And from this silent ftood,
Learn mutely to do good.
159
Then turning northwards, directly 'across the
midst of the valley, the path leads between flowers
and vegetable beds, through a part of it, and then
entirely northwards to a perpendicular, rocky pre-
cipice, in which a neat apartment is hewn out, the
walls of which are covered with a variety of paint-
ings ; it also contains a sofa, with chairs and a
table.
On coming out again of this rocky cleft, we
enter upon a long and straight walk, which leads
through loftier trees and bushes towards the south-
west, and terminates, on the ascent, in a cross
walk, provided with grassy seats ; behind these
seats a wood of Lombardy poplars rises very
beao.tifully, ending, on the summit, at the old
city wall and a building. In the lower part of the
wQO<l, near the grassy seat, an urn hewn out of
granite, looks forth from between the bushes.
This um is seen immediately on coming out of the
chamber in the rock, and entering the large walk;
on the way through this walk, we meet on the left,
towards the hill, a monument with benches and
inacriptions ; to the right, a little foot-path leads
to the tub of Diogenes, which is sufficiently large
for meditations of every kind. From this place,
a steep foot-path leads westward up to a withered
hollow oak, in which a hermit, as large as life,
P2
'"' a,,Google
160 HEINRICH STILLlNG's
with a long beard, sits at a small table, and makes
an obeisance to him that opens the door.
The path then winds about to the left above the
poplar wood, between it and the city wall, towards
the southern eminence, which, in its declivities, is
everywhere overgrown with bushes. On it we
meet with flower beds, trellis-work formed into
shady arched alleys, an hermitage, a swing, ben-
ches and seats of various kinds, &c. &c. There
are also two lofty pyramids formed of earth and
green turf, each of which has a balcony at the top,
to which the ascent is by steps, and from which
there is an enchanting view of the town, the Noh-
vale, and the river Noh gliding along ; at that
time a tame and very long-legged stork stalked
about round the foot of these pyramids.
To this charming pleasure ground, Schmerz, as
mentioned above, had invited Stilling, Selma, and
her aunt, to spend an evening. After they had
walked about long enough, taken a view of every
thing, and it had become dusk, they were conduc-
ted into the grotto, when they were served with
refreshments until it was quite dark. At. length
Schmerz entered, and said, " Friends ! come once
more into the garden, in order to see how the
night beautifies every thing." All followed him;
Stilling. went before, having Schmerz on his left,
and Selma on his right ; the other11 followed
behind. As they entered the long walk, a sight
surprised them with extreme astonishment; the
urn above, in the poplar wood, was illuminated
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 16l
with many little lamps, so that the whole wood
glittered like green gold.
Schmerz • had illuminated his urn for Stilling,
and near him walked his Salome, t harbinger of
future and sublime peace !
Beautiful, charming, and affecting thought !
After they had all finished their joyful expres-
sions of admiration, there commenced behind the
um in the obscurity of the wood, very affecting
music, beautifully performed on wind instruments ;
it was the charming air from Zemira and Azor,
which is sung behind the mirror ; the sky was at
the same time overcast with heavy clouds, and it
thundered and lightened between. Stilling sobbed
and wept ; the scene was too powerful for his soul
and his heart; he kissed and embraced first
Schmerz and then his Selma, and he overflowed
with sensibility.
He now discovered something new in his in-
hmded ; she also felt it all, was affected likewise;
but she continued perfectly tranquil ; her sensa-
tions were no precipitous mountain torre_nt, but a
peacefully :flowing brook in a meadowy vale.
Two days before his departure from Crewtznach
he was sitting in the hall with his Selma, and her
aunt, when the postman entered, and presented a
letter to Selma; she took it, broke it open, read it,
and turned pale ; she then drew her aunt with her
" ~hmerz is the German word for pain.
t Salome, from whence Selma is derived, means peac~. tbt
kingdom of peace
P3
162 HEINRICH STILLING'S
into the parlour, soon came out again, and went
up stairs into her chamber. The aunt now came,
sat down by Stilling, and informed him, that
Selma had received a letter from a friend, in which
it was stated to her that he was much involved in
debt; this had surprized her, she therefore re-
quested him to go up stairs to her immediately and
speak with her, in order that she might not with-
draw her consent ; for there were many worthy
men, that had the same misfortune, and anything
of this kind ought not to cause a separation, &c.
Stilling accordingly went up stairs, with sensa-
tions perfectly like those of a poor culprit, who is
led up before the judge, in order to receive his
sentence.
On entering the room, he found her sitting at a
little table, leaning her head upon her hand.
"Pardon me my dearest Selma," he began,
" that I have said nothing to you respecting my
debts ; I could not possibly do so, I should not
then have gained your consent ; I cannot live
without you ; my debts have not arisen from a
love of splendor or extravagance, but from extreme
necessity. I can earn much, and am unwearied
in my labors. With regularity in housekeeping,
they will be liquidated in a few years ; and if I
should die, no one can make any demand upon you.
You must therefore imagine the matter to yourself,
as if you had yearly a few hundred gilders less
income ; you lose nothing further by it ; with a
thousand gilders, you can meet the house ex·
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 163
pences, and the residue I will apply to the pay-
ment of my debts. However, dear and valued
friend ! I now leave you at perfect liberty, and if
it were to cost me my life, yet I am incapable of
keeping you to your word, as soon as you repent
of it."
So saying, he was silent, and awaited his
sentence.
She then arose with the most inward emotion,
looked at him with a kind and penetrating expres-
sion of countenance, and replied, " No, I will not
forsake Stilling. God has destined me to assist
in bearing your burden. Well ! I will gladly do.
so, be encouraged, we shall also overcome this,
with the help of God."
How Stilling felt, can scarcely be conceived ; he
wept, fell upon her neck, and exclaimed, " Angel
of God."
They then descended the stairs, hand in hand ;
Selma's aunt rejoiced exceedingly at the happy
result of this vexatious and dangerous affair, and
sweetly comforted both from experience.
How wisely did providence again rule Stilling's
destiny; do not tell me, that prayers are not heard!
an earlier discovery would have ruined every thing,
and a later would probably have occasioned vexa-
tion. It was then just the right time.
mo ;zei ,,Google
CH AP. VI.
STILLING now travelled back again, quietly and
contentedly, to Rittersburg, and made preparations
for the celebration of his marriage, which was to
take place at Selma's aunt's, in Crewtznach.
The space of time which intervened, I will fill
up with the history of
SELMA'S LIFE.
In the middle of t.he previous century, there
lived in France, two brothers, both of whom were
of an ancient Italian noble family ; they were
called knights of St: Florentin de Tansor. One
of them became a Huguenot, and was therefore
obliged to flee, and leave his property behind
him ; moneyless, he took refuge in the Hessian
dominions, where be settled at Ziegenhain, com-
menced business, and married a worthy young
DOMESTIC LIFE. 165
woman, of the middle class. One of his sons, or
perhaps his only son, studied jurisprudence, became
a great, active, and upright man, and Syndic in
the imperial city of Worms ; there he was under
the painful necessity, when this city was de-
stroyed by the French, at the close of the previous
century, of emigrating with his wife and many
children, and leaving his habitation in ashes. He
retired to Frankfort on the Maine, where he again
became Syndic, counsellor to many imperial cities,
and a man of eminence. Amongst his many sons,
there was likewise an able lawyer, who for a period
occupied the place of government assessor in
Marburg, and afterwards accepted the place of
chancery director at Usingen.
One of his sons, of the name of Johann Wil-
helm, was the father of Selma; he first of all filled
the place of counsellor of finance at W.-and
was afterwards appointed finance-director in the
principality of Rothingen, in Upper Swabia. He
was a man of great penetration, fiery resolve,
rapid accomplishment, and incorruptible integrity,
and as he always lived at court, he was, at the
same time, a very refined man of the world, and
his house was t.he favorite resort of the noblest
and the best of men. His consort was likewise
noble-minded, kind hearted, and very genteeUn
her manners.
This couple had five children, two sons and
t.hree daughters, all of whom are still living; the
whole five need not my commendations : they are
'"' a,,Google
166 HEINRICH STILLING'S
excellent characters. The eldest daughter married
a counsellor and magistrate, in the principality of
U-; the eldest son is advocate in S-; the
second son, counsellor of finance in Rothingen ;
the second daughter is united to a worthy preacher
in Franconia, and the youngest child is Selma.
The finance director, Mr. Von F. Florentin had
a moderate income, but he was too conscientious
to accumulate wealth. On his sudden death,
therefore, in the year 1776, his widow found that
he had left little ; she received indeed a pension
with which she could make ends meet, and all her
children were provided for, with the exception of
Selma, to whom a variety of offers were made,
but she was only in her sixteenth year, and
besides this, none of these modes of provision
pleased her.
She had formerly a very rich and distant rela-
tion, who in her fiftieth year had married a
young cavalier of twenty-seven, and at that time
residing on her estate in Lower Saxony, in a very
handsome mansion. The St. Florentin family
knew, meanwhile, nothing but good of this person,
and when the lady, who was at the same time
Selma's godmother, heard of the finance director's
death, she wrote, in the year 1778, to the widow,
and requested her to send her Selma to her, for that
she would provide for her, and make her happy.
Madame Von St. Florentin found it almost
impossible for her to decide upon sending away
her dearly beloved daughter, to a distance of
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 167
upwards ofseventy German miles; however, as all
her friends and children earnestly urged her to it,
she at length consented. Selma kneeled down
before her, and the venerable woman gave her her
blessing, amidst floods of tears. In October of
the year 1778, she set off, therefore, under safe
convoy, to Lower Saxony, and she was in Frank-
fort, just at the time when Stilling passed through
it with his wife and children, in removing from
Schonenthal to Rittersburg.
After a long and tedious journey, she at length
arrived at the mansion of her godmother, a gene-
ral's widow, he having gone over to America,
where he died. Here she soon perceived that she
was disappointed,for she was ill-treated in a variety
of ways. This was a school and a hard trial for
the good girl. She was well brought up, every
one had behaved kindly to her ; but here no one
had any feeling for her talents ; it is true, there
were people enough that esteemed her, but they
could only comfort without being able to help her.
To this something of a different nature was
added ; a young cavalier made her serious offers
ofmarriage ; these she accepted, the marriage was
agreed upon between the families, on both sides,
and she was actually betrothed to him. He then
set out on a journey, and on this journey, some-
thing occurred, which withdrew him again from
Selma, and the affair came to nothing.
I am silent respecting the true reason of his
faithlessness ; the great day will develope it.
'"' a,,Google
168 HEINRICH STILLING'S
By degrees, the sufferings of the good and pious
soul rose to their height, and at the same time she
learnt, that her godmother owed much more than
she possessed. She had now no longer any reason
for remaining, and determined therefore to return
to her mother again.
It would not become me to enter more particu-
larly into the description of her sufferings and her
conduct under them ; did I dare to tell all, my
readers would be astonished. But she is still living,
and already blushes at that which, as Stilling's
biographer, I must necessarily say.
She grew sickly also at the same time ; and it
appeared as if her sorrow would have ended in a
consumption. However, she undertook the journey,
after having endured for two years, the furnace of
affiiction. On reaching Cassel, she stopped at the
house of an excellent, pious, and worthy friend,
government counsellor M- ; she continued there
three quarters of a year, during which time she
entirely regained her health.
She then pursued her Journey, and JUTived at
length at her brother's, at S-, where she again
resided a considerable time. Here a variety of
opportunities presented themselves of providing
for herself becomingly ; but none of them suited
her ; for her exalted ideas of virtue, conjugal
affection, and of extending her sphere of action>
she feared, would be all frustrated by these offers ;
and she preferred remaining at her mother's.
She now often visited Madame Von la Roelle,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. . 169
and she was also present, when it was mentioned
to that venerable lady, that "Stilling had made
fruitless offers of marriage there ; Selma testified
her repugnance at this report, and was surprised
when she heard that Stilling resided in the neigh-
bourhood. The idea now occurred to Madame Von
la Roche, that Selmawould he suitable for Stilling,
she was therefore silent, and wrote the first letter
to him, to which he immediately replied ; when
this answer was receivild, Selma was at Reichen-
berg. Sophi"> therefore handed Stilling's deter-
mination to advoeate P-'s lady, the mutual friend
of both. The latter hastened directly to Reichen-
berg, and found her friend, in the morning, still in
bed ; her eyes were wet with tears, for it was her
birthday, and she had been praying and rendering
thanks to God.
The advocate's lady now presented her Stilling's
letter, together with an epistle from Sophia, in
which she gave her maternal advice. Selma did
not reject this opportunity, but permitted Stilling
to come.
My readers know the rest.
Q
'"' a,,Google
CHAP VII.
EVERY thing being at length duly arranged,
Stilling set off for Crewtznacli, the 14th ofAugust,
1782, in order to be married to his Selma. On
his arrival, he observed the first manifestation of
tenderness in her ; she now began not merely to
esteem him, but she also really loved him. The
day foll~wing, being the 16th, the marriage was
solemnized in her aunt's house, in tbe presence
of a few frfends, by the Rev. Mr W-, Inspector
of the District, who was a friend of Stilling's, and
in other respects an excellent man. The address
..which he gave on this occasion, is inserted in the
·printed collection of his sermons; notwithstand·
ing which, it is also subjoined here, as in its
proper place.
It is verbatim as follows :-
"There are many enjoyments, with which Eter-
nal wisdom has strew~d the path of that man's
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 171
life, who possesses a mind and feelings for the
joys of virtue. Now if we weigh all these enjoy-
ments, one against the other, and let heart and
soul decide, which of them deserve the preference,
they will immediately and surely pronounce in
favor of those, in which the sweet and noble
social feelings, which the Creator has implanted
in our souls towards our fellow-creatures, find
satisfaction. With the possession of a friend, to
whom we may open our whole heart, and in whose
bosom we can deposit our most secret cares, as in
an inviolable sanctuary-who participates in every
happy event ; sympathizes with our sorrows ;
incites us by his example to noble and virtuous
deeds ; by kind admonitions recalls us from the
path of error and of stumbling; assists us in pros-
perous seasons with sage advice ; and wipes
away our tears in the season of suffering-with-
out such a friend, what would be our life? and
yet the enjoyment of the most perfect friend-
ship must yield to that, which the nuptial union
·with a virtuous woman affords the virtuous
man.
"Since I am to have the happiness this day, of
confuming so blissful a bond, by the sacred seal ·.
of religion, permit me, my honored auditors,
before I lay my hands on the folded hands of my
most worthy friend, and the future amiable part-
ner of his life, to detain you with a short descrip-
tion of the pure enjoyments of conjugal and gentle
friendship, which is sanctified by the religioui
Q2
'"' a,,Google
172 HEINRICH STILLING'$
feelings and noble love of virtue, of the couple
who are thus united.
" Excellent, and rich in blissful and delightful
feelings is the bond, which the pious and noble-
minded youth establishes with the lovely comp.an-
ion of his blooming years. bi the midat oi the
bustle of a world, which meets together ~m
childish vanity, and separates again from bMe
self-interest, the .feeling youth .discovers a beau-
teous soul, which invites him, by the ~esistible
attractions of a noble sympathy, to the most
inward union, and sweetest brotherly love. A
like disposed heart, full of uncorrupted natural
feeling ; a like inclination for what is beautiful,
and good, and noble, and great, brings them
together ; they behold each other, and friendly
confidence glows upon their countenances ; they
converse with each other, and their thoughts har-
monize ; their hearts open to each o.ther, and one
soul attracts the other to it ; they alre,ady know
each other, and, hand in hand, swear to love each
other eternally. But David and Jonathan love in
a world, in which connections, which must be
holy and venerable to us, often dissolve the
sweetest bonds of friendship ; often occasion joy-
lessness, or even painful feelings. Jonathan has
established the bond of sacred friendship with the
artless son of Jesse, and the youth is then more
to him than a brother ; for he had loved him,
as the sacred historian says, as his own soul.
Happy Jonathan! couldst thou but impart to thy
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 173
king and father, only a small part of thy tender
estimation for the favorite of thy heart! But no,
the wrath of Saul persecuted the innocent David ;
and the gentle and virtuous heart of the son and
friend, strives in vain to combine the sacred
duties of filial love with the duties of the most
faithful and tender friendship. Who can read
the history of the two noble-minded youths, and
see them embrace and weep over each other, at ·
the stone Asel, in the bitter parting hour, and
not shed tears with them ? and how often is this
the lot of the most dignified and magnanimous
souls! Although the bond of their friendship
may be founded upon the purest and most virtu-
ous inclinations, they cannot remove the severe
restraint of connections, which are sacred to
every good and upright human soul. The com-
mand of a father; conflicting family views; nay,
sometimes the same wishes, which, though just,
on the part of every one, can only be fulfilled with
respect to one, oft.en divide, in this world of imper-
fection, the most tender friendly alliances, or rend
the heart, in order to avoid an anxious separation.
"Not so with the friendship which is estab-
lished between noble souls, hy the holy and
inviolable bond of matrimony; its genial enjoy-
ments are not subjected to such assaults. Death
alone can dissolve the bond, which the flame of
the' tenderest love h8'8 established, and which
solemn vows at the holy altar of religion have
sealed. The circumstances and intentions, the
Q3
'"' a,,Google
174 HEINRICH STILLING's
wishes and eft'orts, of the lover and the beloved
are one and the same ; the relationship of the
husband is the relationship of the wife; his honor,
her honor ; his property, her property.
"The guileless heart of the pious, select~
spouse, full of tender and noble emotions, finds
in the man that loves God and virtue, a safeguard
on the journey of life; a faithful adviser in per-
plexing circumstances ; a courageous defender in
dangers ; a magnanimous friend, that ooatinues
faithful even unto death. What he accomplishes
for·the good of the world, of his country, and his
family, has all a beneficial effect upon the hap-
piness and·the joy of the woman to whom he ~
presented his hand and his heart. Wearied with
the labors of the day, he hastens to the sweet
companion of his life; imparts to her the experi-
ence and knowledge he bas collected ; seeks to
develope every shooting blossom of her mind. and
prevent every timid wish of her affectionate heart ;
willingly forgets the gnawing cares of his voca-
tion, the ingratitude of the world, and the bitter
hindrances, which every honest man meets with
in the path of incorruptible integrity, in order to
live entirely for her happiness ; to give himself
wholly to her, who, for his sake, has left father
and mother, and friends, and companions ; and
who, adorned with every flower, has cast herself
into the arms of a single individual, who is all to
her heart. How could he be faithless to her,
even in idea ; the man that feels the greatness of
mo ;ze, ,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 175
the offering she has presented to him, and who
knows and believes that there is a rewarder in
heaven! an<l what a valuable treasure he has
found in her, who loves God and virtue! Her
gentle, heart-constraining society sweetens e~ery
hour of his life ; her tender sympathy in his fate
alleviates his every pain, and gives him doubly to
feel each enjoyment of life ; her kind discourse
translates him often into the blissful feelings of a
better world, when his eye, troubled by the
miseries of this earthly state, needs the most to
be directed upwards. Gladly does she renounce
the deceitful glitter of transient amusements, in
order, unembittered, to enjoy quiet, domestic hap-
piness-the only happiness which is worthy of
being sought and found by noble souls·; and
knows no joy, of which he does not partake, who
is the choice of her heart. To please him ; to
take charge of the affairs of his house, by good
example and love of order ; and by meekness and
kindness, to maintain that dominion of love over
children, and inmates, and domestics, which is
the most difficult duty, and the noblest embel-
lishment of her sex ; to season her husband's
hours of recreation with pleasure ; by harmless
mirth to cheer his brow, when manly sternness
rests upon it ; or by gentle words to sooth his
cares, when adverse results of well-meant inten-
tions disturb him-this is the endeavor of the
day, and this the mighty thought of the spouse
who loves God and virtue.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
1?'6 HEINRICH STILLING's
" Such a wife is the most valuable gift of hea-
ven; such a husband, the best blessing wherewith
Eternal Jove rewards a pious and faithful heart.
If fie who dwells in heaven bless such a mar-
riage with a progeny ; what ravishing prospects,
what pure delight, what felicity on earth, to see
themselves · live anew in well-disposed, beloved
children ; to bring up useful citizens of earth, and
blessed inhabitants of heaven ; to see a powerful
support growing up for our helpless old age ; a
sensible comfort in our infirmities! 0 God! what a
rich recompense for all the toil, and labor, and care,
which we expend on education, and the attention to
the inheritors of our names and property ; and
when, as we may hope, our wishes are fulfilled, of
our virtues also ! What a goodly lot, to be permit-
ted to hear the sweet name of father and mother.
" All happiness to you, my estimable friend,
who to-day enjoy the felicity of being etemally-
united with a consort ! I know her noble-minded
and pious heart, which is open to, and warm for,
every friendly feeling. I do not need to place
before your eyes the duties which such an union
imposes upon you; you have practised them; you
have thereby become. happy ; you will become so
again ; and if the spirits of the blessed learn the
fate of their mortal friends, and participate in it,
the departed saint, that is in heaven, will look
down, with pure and indescribable joy, on this
new union, upon which you this day enter with
the chosen one of your heart.
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 177
" Happiness and the blessing of God be upon
you, amiable and virgin bride I The friend of
your heart is the husband of your choice, and
worthy of your whole esteem, and of yolll' tender-
est aft'ection. You ~y boldly cast yourself into
.his out.stretched ~ms ; expect, without appre-
hension, from him, what the moat perfect friend-
ship, nuptial love, and inviolable fidelity can give.
He that fean God, fulfilS vows, and keeps cove-
»ant even Ullto death ; to him that has passed
t~gh rough and solitary paths, warm and
heart-felt friendship is like a cordial to the wan-
derer, who~ after roaming through barren desert.a,
finds a shady spri~g ; be approaches it with the
most fervent gratitude, and every drop of water is
sacred to him which pours r.efreahmea.t into his
languishing heart.
" 0 God, thou hearest our prayer ; do thou
bless those whom thy hand has joined together,
and bless them with all the felicity of a pure love,
which death cannot destroy t Amen !"
Hereupon followed the priestly benediction ;
Stilling's and Selma's hearts and hands were
inseparably united together, and the Almighty
gave his gracious blessing to this union. Mr.
Schmerz took much int.erest in this joyful event ;
he provided the marriage-feast, and entertained
the new married couple, with their friends who
were present, both to dinner and supper.
Schmerz a,lso wished to celebrate the day fol-
lowing, by an excursion into the Rheingau ; two
'"' a,,Google
178 HEINRICH STiLLING's
coaches were therefore ordered, in one of which,
Madame Schmerz, the Aunt, and Selma rode,
and in the other, Mr. Schmerz, Mr. W-, the
inspector, and Stilling; the way led from Crewtz-
nach to Bingen, from whence they crossed the
Rhine, thence to Geisenheim, to view the baro-
nial residence of Ostein; and from thence, over
.against Bingen to Niederwald, which also belongs
to the Count of Ostein, and is laid out in the
manner of an English park. The whole jour-
ney was enchanting ; objects every where present
themselves, which afforded peculiar food for the
eye of a mind susceptible of the beauties of nature
and of art ; the whole company was consequently
extremely well pleased.
They dined in the midst of the Neiderwald, at a
forester's house; and after dinner, the afternoon
was spent in walking; the various beautiful scenes,
prospects, and objects refreshed the eye and the
heart. Towards five o'clock, they commenced
their return ; the coaches with the ladies drove
down the hill, and the gentlemen went on foot.
The latter now ·resolved to stop at Riidesheim,
and drink another bottle of the excellent wine of
that place, to cement their friendship ; meanwhile,
the ladies were to cross the river, at the ferry,
and wait at Bingen, till they should follow them
in a boat. This was accordingly done; but mean-
while a storm arose, the waves were high, and it
already began to be dark, particularly as the sky
was covered with black clouds. They took their
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 179
seats, notwithstanding, in the boat, after emptying
the bottle, and passed over the rushing waves, in
the midst of the roaring of the s~rm, and with
much danger and anxiety arrived safely at the
other side.
All three now stood on the shore at Bingen to
receive their beloved friends, who were however
still waiting with, their coach on the other side.
At lengt.h they drove into the ferry, and the ferry
boat pushed off. But what were their feelings,
when the ferry boat, instead of coming across, went
down the river ! The stream raged, and scarcely
half a quarter of a league further down, the waters
roared in the Bingen-loch like distant thunder ;
the ferry boat was driving to this dangerous place;
and all this, when it was growing dark. Schmerz,
W- and Stilling stood there, as if lamed hand
and foot ; they looked like poor criminals, that
had just received their sentence; all Bingen ran
together, all was in an uproar, and some sailors
put off in a large boat, after the unfortunate
people.
Meanwhile, the ferry boat with the coach con-
tinued to drift further down, the boat followed
them, and at length neither of ·them could be
aeen; besides all this, it grew even darker and
more dismaying.
Stilling stood as before the judgment-seat of
the Almighty; he could neither pray, nor think;
his eyes gazed fixedly between the lofty mountains
toward.a the Bingen-loch; he felt as though he
'"' a,,Google
180 HEINRICH STILLINo's
stood up to the neck in burning sand; his Selma,
that excellent gift of God, was lost to him ; the
horrible cry of the people resounded in his deafened
ears on all sides, "The poor people are lost;
God be gracious to them! 0 God! what misery!"
and this lasted two hours.
At length, a young man, a clergyman, of the
name of Gentli, pressed through the people to the
three men. He placed himself, with an angelic
expression of countenance, before them, pressed
their hands, and said, "Be satisfied, dear Sirs !
be not apprehensive ; people are not so easily lost;
be not disturbed by the foolish talk of the mob ;
most probably, the ladies are already over. Come,
we will go along the shore on this side; I will
shew you the way !" This was like acool dew on
their burning hearts ; they followed' his advice,
and he conducted them by the arm down the
meadow, and all his words were words of comfort·
and peace.
As they were walking towards the Mouse tower,
having their eyes constantly fixed on the stream,
they heard opposite them on the left hand, a
rattling and rushing, as if a coach were driving
between the hedges ; aJI four looked thither, but
it Wa& too dark to see anything. Stilling- there-
fore called aloud, and Selma answered, "We are
safe!"
Klopstock's "Come hither, Abaddona to thy
Redeemer!" and these words, "We are safe!"
produced: one and the same effect. Schmerz,
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 181
W-, and Stilling fell upon the neck of the good
Catholic priest, just as if he himself had been
their deliverer, and he rejoiced with them as a
brother. 0 thou messenger of peace, thou real
Evangelist, eternal blessings be upon thee !
All three now ran to the coach; Stilling out-
stripped them, and met, on the way, his Selma,
who went before on foot. He was astonished to
find her quite composed, undisturbed, and with
out any sign of having suffered from fear ; h~
conld not comprehend this, and asked her respec-
ting this singular phenomenon; she replied with
a tender and smiling countenance. "1 thought,
God did all tliings well; ifit were hu will to tear
me from thee aga~n, he must have a good object
in view : there.fore his will be done! ",
They now again betook themselves to their
carriages, and drove quietly and safely, in the
night time, to Crewtznach.
The cause of all this terror and grief was merely
the drunkenness of the ferry people, who were so
intoxicated, that they were unable to stand, much
less guide the ferry boat. The sailors, who were
sent off with the boat, were the sole cause of their
deliverance ; they found the ferry close by the
Bingen-loch, fastened their boat to it, and with
dreadful toil and labor, rowed it across above the
rocks and the Mouse tower; as a punishment, the
ferrymen were displaced, and imprisoned on bread
and water ; all which they well deserved.
It is the plan of providence, in all its dealings,
R
'"' a,,Google
182 HEINRICH STILLING'S
by which it leads him, who lets himself be led by
it, to the great and glorious aim, that when bes-
towing some great felicity upon him, if he cleave
passionately to it, it threatens, in a powerful man-
ner, to take it from him again, solely in order
entirely to mortify this sensual attachment, which
is so extremely opposed to all moral perfection, and
to activity for the good of mankind. It is true
what the mystics say in this case, that " God
seeks an undivided heart ; it may love and value
the g!ft, hut on no account more highly than the
giver." Stilling bas always experienced this, as
every attentive reader, who is experienced in the
ways of God, will easily perceive.
A few days after, Stilling, with his Selma,
accompanied by her aunt, set out for Ritt.ersburg ;
they were met half way by the students of that
place, who testified their joy, and the interest they
took, by presenting a poem, and by music and a
ball.
Thus began a new period of his domestic· life.
Selma sent immediately for the two children from
Zweibriicken, and with extreme care, undertook
their much neglected education. At the same
time, she represented to Stilling the necessity of
her having possession of the cash ; for she said,
"My dear husband, thy whole soul is engaged in
its important vocation, in its high destiny ; domes-
tic arrangements, and domestic cares and expences,
whether great or small, are too inferior for thee ;
pursue thy course without interruption, and hence-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 183
forth leave to me income and expenditure ; commit
t.o me debts and housekeeping, and let me provide;
thou wilt _find thy account in so doing." Stilling
most joyfully assented, and soon saw the happy
resalt ; his children, his furniture, his table, were
all becomingly and agreeably arranged, so that
every one was pleased with it. Every friend was
welcome to his table, but never sumptuously treat-
ed ; his house was the refuge of the worthiest
young men ; many a one was thus preserved from
min, and others reclaimed from going astray; but
all this took place with such decorum and dignity,
that even the most poisonous tongued calumniator
did not venture to spread any unbecoming report.
With all this, the money was never entirely
expended ; there was always something in hand,
and in proportion, even superfluity ; and Selma
then also formed a plan for liquidating the debts ;
the interest was to be regularly paid, and the
Rittersburg debts discharged first. This latter
was accomplished in less than three years, and
money was then sent to Schonenthal, by which
the creditors were rendered more tranquil; in a
word, Stilling's tedious and painful sufferings .bad
an end.
And if, occasionally, tormenting letters still
arrived, Selma answered them herself, and that in
such a manner, as must necessarily have imparted
confidence and satisfaction to every one who was
in any measure rational.
However, circumstances gradually occurred,
R2
'"' a,,Google
184 HEINRICH STILLJNG'S
which greatly limited Stilling's sphere of action.
His activity, and the number of his writings,
created envy; there were those who sought, as
m.uch as possible, to envelope him in obscurity,
and to place him in a wrong light ; he did much
for the general good, but it was not observed ; on
the contrary, it was not all right; and when the
court, or other political bodies were desirous of
bestowing a recompence upon him, it was preven-
ted. Add to this, Stilling wished to be able to
complete and teach his whole system ; but this
was impossible in the existing order of things, for
his colleagues participated in the system of tuition.
Finally, his income was too small to enable him to
make provision for his family ; and this had
become the chief object of his attention, since his
debts no more oppressed him.
All this excited in him the determination to
accept a more advantageous vocation, as soon as
providence should put it in his power. However,
hs was inwardly cheerful and happy, for all this was
not suffering, but merely limiting circu~stances.
At length, in the year 1784, the Elector resolved
to remove the academy of Political Economy from
Rittersburg to Heidelburg, and unite it with the
ancient university there. Stilling's situation was
improved by it, inasmuch as his sphere ofoperation
was more extensive, and his income, in some mea-
sure, increased ; but there was still no possibility
of making provision for his family, and envy now
became still stronger; he found indeed many
OOMESTJC LIFE. 185
powerful friends there, and he gained the affections
of the public, because he continued, gratuitously,
to practise as an oculist, with much success.
However, he was obliged to swallow much of what
was painful and vexatious. What consoled him
the most, was the universal love of the whole
university and its officers, of all the students, and
the town; besides which, his fidelity and diligence,
notwithstanding every obstacle, penetrated at
length to the ears of the Elector, who, without his
knowledge, and entirely gratuitously, sent him the
~tent of Electoral Aulic Counsellor, and assured
him of his favor.
About this time, Mr. Frie1lenberg died of a
pectoral dropsy; Selma had previously convinced
h.im, by a very affecting letter, of Stilling's integ-
rity, and of the certain payment of his debts; and
thus he died in peace, and as a christian ; for this
he was in the full sense of the word. Peace be
with hi11 ashes !·
Stilling was also accepted as a regular member
oftheGerman Society in Mannheim, in consequence
of which, he travelled thither every Sunday fort-
night, with his _friend Counsellor Mieg. These
excursions were always a ,·ery pleasing recreation,
and he felt happy in the circle of so many estima-
ble men. His acquaintance ~-ith excellent cha-
racters, also became more extensive and useful.
To this, another circumstance greatly contributed.
In the year 1786, the University of Heidelberg,
-celebrated the Jubilee of its fourth centenary, with
R3
186 HEINRICH STILLING'S
great pomp, and amidst the concourse of a gtMt
multitude ofpeople from far and near. Thesolemn
Jubilee address, in the name and on the part of the
Academy ofCivil and Political Economy, was com-
mitted to Stilling ; he therefore prepared it
considerately and calmly, and experienced an
effect, of which there are few parallel instances,
but to which circumstances contributed not a little,
and perhaps the chief part. All the addresses
were given in the great hall of the university, in
Latin, besides which, it was bitter cold, and all
the auditory were weary of the endless Latin
speeches, and taking degrees. When it came to
Stilling's turn, the whole auditory were conducted
into the hall of the statistical academy, which was
a beautiful one, and because it was evening, was
lighted up and warmed. He now stept forth, and
made an oration in German, with his wonted
cheerfulness. The result was unexpected ; tears
began to flow ; a whisper ran through the assembly,
and, at length, they began to clap and exclaim,
" bravo !" so that he was obliged to cease until the
noise was over. This was repeated several times,
and when at length he descendedfrom the rostrum,
the representative of the Elector, the Minister Von
Oberndorf, thanked him very expressively ; after
which, the grandees of the Palatinate, in their
stars and orders, approached to embrace and
salute him, which was, also, subsequently done by
the principal deputies of the imperiaf cities and
universities. It may easily be conceived what Stil-
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 187
lingfelt on this occasion. God was with him, and
granted him a drop ofwell-eamed, honorable enjoy-
ment, whichhad beensolong unreasonablywithheld
from him. However, he was fully conscious in all
this, how little part he had in deserving this honor.
His talent was the gift of God ; that he had been
enabled duly to cultivate it, was the consequence
of Divine providence; and that the present effect
was so astonishing, was chiefly the result of cir-
cumstances. To God alone be the glory !
From this time, Stilling enjoyed the love and
esteem ofall the higher ranks of the Palatinate in
an abundant measure ; and it was just at this time
also, that providence began to prepare the station
for him, to which it had intended, during the last
fourteen years, by tedious and painful sufferings,
. to lead and form him.
The Landgrave of Hesse Cassel, from the time
he first assumed the reins of government, had
taken the beneficent resolution of placing the
university of Marburg in a better condition ; and
to this end, had removed thither those celebrated
men, Von Lelchow, Baldinger, and others. He
now also wished to see the Economical department
filled, and for this purpose, several learned men
were proposed to him; but circumstances stood in
the way, which hindered their coming. At length,
in the year 1786, the late Mr. Leske, of Leipsic,
received theappointment, and he proceeded thith~r,
but suffered a dangerous fall on the journey, so
that he died a week after his arrival in Marburg.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
188 HEINRIClf STILLING's
Now, though Stilling bad been often spoken of,
yet persons of consequence opposed his appoint-
ment; because they believed a man who had
written so many novels, was scarcely suitable for
such a station. But no man can withstand the
plan of providence. Stilling, by a receipt of the
Landgrave, was formally and regularly appointed,
by the university of Marburg, public and ordinary
professor of the Economical, Financial, and Statis-
tical sciences, with a fixed income of 1200 dollars
hard cash, or 2130 gilders, current money, and a
respectable provision for his wife, in case of
his death.
Thanks, ardent and heartfelt thanks to William
the Ninth, the prince of the noble and worthy
Hessians ! He recognized Stilling's honest inten-
tions, and his impulse to be useful, and this was
the cause of his being appointed. This he after-
wards testified to him, when he was favored with
an audience by him ; he was requested to relate
his history, with which the Landgrave was affected
and pleased. He himself thanked God, that he
had made use of him, as an instrument, to lay the
foundation of Stilling's good fortune; and promi-
sed, at the same time, constantly to support him,
and to manifest paternal fidelity to him and bis
fanu.ly.
Stilling accepted this appointment with the most
heartfelt thankfulness to his wise and heavenly
guide, and now saw.all his wishes fulfilled; for he
could now fill up and teach his whole system, and
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 189
in his domestic affairs and manner of life, could
also lay up something for his children, and conse-
quently make them happy. At that time, be had
only three children ; the daughter and son, by the
first marriage, were growing up ; the daughter he
sent for a year to the relatives of her late mother ;
but the son was boarded with a very worthy preach-
er, in the neighbourhood of Heilbronn. Selma
had had three children, but an infant son and
daughter had already died in Heidelburg; the
youngest child, a girl of a year old, he therefore
took with him to Marburg.
He set out for this his place of destination, at
Easter, 1787, with his wife and child. At Frank-
fort, he again visited his old and faithful friend
Kraft, who heartily rejoiced at the admirable result
of his painful trials, and thanked God with him.
At Marburg he was received very cordially and
friendly by all the members of the university ; it
seemed to him as ilf he was entering his native land,
and coming amongst his friends and acquaintances.
Even those who had labored against him, became
his best friends, as soon as they learnt to know
him, for their intentions were-pure and good.
After having courageously entered upon his
office, confiding in the divine &Rsistance, and
duly established himself, his heart impelled him
to $ee, once more, his aged father, Wilhelm
Stilling. The journey was not a great or difficult
one for the venerable old man ; for Stilling's
native province and birth-place is only a few miles
'"' a,,Google
190 HEINRICH STlLLlNG'S
from Marburg ; he wrote to him, therefore, and
invited him to come to him, because he himself
had not time to undertake the journey. The
good old man consented with joy ; and Stilling
therefore made preparations for fetching him with
a horse; all which was provided by the son of
Johann Stilling, the mine-surveyor of Dillenburg.
He would gladly also have seen his uncle,
Johann Stilling. But the great Father of men
had called him away a year before from his daily
labor, and removed him to a more extensive
sphere of action. In his latter years, he had
beco~e surveyor-in-chief of the mines, and had
contributed much to the prosperity of his country;
his whole life was an unceasing activity for the
good of mankind, and an ardent striving after the
discovery of new truths ; his influence on the life,
manners, and conduct of his neighbours, was so
great and so powerful, that his whole outward
manner of life and conduct is di\lided amongst the
peasants of his village ; the one laughs like him,
the other has assumed his gait, a third his favo-
rite expressions, &c. His spirit remains dis-
tributed amongst his friends, and renders him
immortal, even with respect to this world ; his
memory also, as a servant of the state, is blessed;
for his establishments and institutions will afford
food and refreshment to the poor in after times,
when Johann Stilling's bones are become dust.
Rest sweetly, thou worthy son of Eberhard Stil-
ling ! thou hast done honor to him, the piOUB
DOMESTIC LIFE. 191
patriarch; and now, in his exaltation, he will
rejoice over his son, conduct him before the
Redeemer's throne, and render thanks unto him.
Jn. the summer of the year 1787, on a fine clear
afternoon, as Stilling was upon the rostrum, and -
lecturing on Technology, some of the young gen-
tlemen who were studying there, all at once
entered the lecture-room. One of them exclaimed
aloud, "Your father.is come; all is now at an end
here !" Stilling was mute ; a variety of feelings
assailed his heart ; he tottered down the steps,
accompanied by his whole auditory.
At the house door below, Selma had welcomed
her good father-in-law with tears ; had led him,
and his attendant, the mine-surveyor, into the
parlour, and was gone to fetch her child; during
this time, Stilling entered with his retinue.
Immediately opposite the door stood the mine-
surveyor, and sidewards, to the left, Wilhelm
Stilling ; he held pis hat in his hands, stood bent
with age, and in his venerable visage, time, and
a variety of afBictions, had graven many and deep
furrows. Timid, and with a very peculiar shame-
faeedness, which leaves no one unaffected, he looked
askant in the face of his son, as he approached.
The latter stept up to him with the most heart-
felt emotion ; behind him stood his numerous
auditory, and every one smiled with extreme and
sympathetic satisfaction. They first of all looked
fixedly-at each other for some moments, and then
fell into each other's embrace, with a mixture of
'"' a,,Google
192 . HEINRICH STILLING's
sobbing and weeping. After this, they stood
again and looked at each other.
Stilling. Father, you have aged very much in
the last thirteen years.
Wilhelm. So have you also, my son.
Stilling. Not-you-my venerable father! but
thou ! I am your son, and am proud of being so.
Your prayers, and your mode of educating me,
have made me the man I am now become;
without you, this would not have been the case.
Wilhelm. Well, well, let it be so. God has
done it. His name be praised!
Stilling. It. seems to me, as if I were standing
before my grandfather ; you are become very like
him, dear father! ·
Wilhelm. Like in body and soul. I feel the
inward peace which he possessed; and, as he
acted, I seek also to act.
Stilling. Ah, how hard and stiff your hands
are-does it then go hard with you ?
He smiled like father Stilling, and said, "I am
a peasant, and born to labor; that is my vocation;
do not let that trouble thee, my son !-it is diffi-
cult for me to earn my bread, but yet I have no
want."
He now cordially welcomed the mine-surveyor,
on which Selma entered with her little daughter ;
the old man took it by the hand, and said, with
emotion, "The Almighty bless thee, my child!"
Selma sat down, contemplated the old man, and
shed gentle tears.
'"' a,,Google
DO.MESTIO LIFE. 193
The assembly now broke up ; the students
took their leave ; and the Marburg friends then
• to visit Stilling's father : as much honor
was done him, as if he had been a person of rank.
God will reward them for their noble-mindedness;
it is worthy oftheir hearts.
Wilhelm resided, for some days, with his son,
and frequently said, " This season has been a
foretaste of heaven to me ;" pleased and much
aft'ected, he then returned with his attendant.
Stilling, therefore, now lives in Marburg, per-
fectly happy and useful. His marriage-state is
daily a source of the most sublime delight, that
can be conceived on earth ; for Selma loves him
with her whole soul, above every thing in the
world ; her whole heart incessantly inclines towards
him ; and as his many and long-continued suffer-
ings have made him timid, so that he is always
apprehensive of something, without knowing what,
her whole endeavors are directed to cheer him,
and to wipe away the tears from his eyes, which
so easily flow, because their courses and floodgates
have become so wide and fluent. She possesses
what is called good and agreeable manners, with-
out loving or seeking much society ; they have
therefore been formed bythe company she kept, and
rendered pleasing also to persons ofrank. Towards
the children by the first marriage, she is every
thing that Stilling can wish ; she is wholly mother
and friend. I do not wish to say more of the
noble-minded woman ; she has read all that pre-
s
·-'"' a,,Google
194 HEINRICH STILLING'S
cedes, and reproved me for having praised her;
however, I owe more to her and my readers, to the
praise of God ; I have therefore concealed from
her, what I have just said, and what follows. She
is rather short, and stiffly formed ; has a pleasing
and intelligent countenance, and from her blue
eyes and smiling looks, a stream of benevolence
and philanthropy pours forth towards every noble~
minded individual. In all her affairs, even in-
those which are not directly female, she has a
calm and penetrating look, and always a mature
and deciding judgment ; so that her .husband
often advises with her; and when his rapid and
active spirit is partial, he follows her, and always
fares well in so doing. Her religious views are
enlightened, and she is warm in her love to God,
to her Redeemer, and to man. As sparing as she
is, she is equally generous and benevolent, where
it is requisite. Her modesty exceeds every thing;
she seeks always to be dependent on her husband,
and is so, even then, when he follows her advice;
she never seeks to shine, and yet she pl~ases
wherever she appears ; every worthy charact.er
feels happy in her society. I could say still more;
but I set bounds to my pen. "Whom God loves,
he gives such a wife," says Gotz Von Berlichingen
of his Maria, and Stilling says the same of his
Selma.
Besides all this, his income is large, and all
care about his maintenance is entirely vanished;
of his usefulness in his vocation, it is µoi die
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 195
place to speak here ; the man of integrity and
the christian, labors incessantly, commits the
success of it to God, and is silent.
He continues to operate for the cataract, at
Marburg also, gratuitously, and with much suc-
cess;· more than a hundred blind people, princi-
pally of the poor and laboring class, have already
received, through him, with God's help, their
-sight, and with it, the means of again earning
their bread. How many a delightful hour does
this easy and beneficial aid occasion him; when,
after the operation, or at their departure, those
who have been so long blind, press his hands,
and direct him, for a recompense, to the exceed-
~ly rich inheritance of the future world! For
ever blessed be the woman, who formerly con-
strained him to try this beneficial mode of cure!-
without it, he would not have been so fruitful an
instrument in the hand of the Father of the poor
and the blind. Ever blessed be also the memory
of the venerable Molitor! May his spirit enjoy,
in the brilliant plains of the paradise of God, all
the super-abundant felicity of the friend of man,
fur having instructed Stilling as an oculist, and
laid the first masterly hand on him !
Young man, thou who read.est this, watch over
every germ of benevolence and philanthropy that
springs forth in thy soul; cherish it with supreme
eare, and nourish it up to a tree of life that bears
twelve manner of fruits. If foresight destines
thee to an useful vocation, pursue it ; but if some
s2
'"' a,,Google
196 HEINRICH STILLING'S
other impulse awake beside, or if providence
unfold a prospect to thee, where, without injuring
thy peculiar vocation, thou canst disseminate seeds
of blessedness, then neglect it not, let it cost thee
toil, and arduous labor, if needful ; for nothing
conducts us more immediately nearer to God, than
beneficence.
But beware of the false activity, which so greatly
prevails in the present age, and which I am wont
to call bustling affectation. The slave ofsensuality,
the voluptuary, covers filthiness with the whitewash
of philanthropy ; he wishes to do good in all
directions, but knows not what is good; he often
assists a poor good-for-nothing to gain a situation,
where he does amazing injury, and works, where
he ought not to work. In this manner acts also,
the proud priest of his own reason, who notwith-
standing, makes dreadful mistakes by his childish
sophistry in the vale of shadows and ignis fatui ;
he seeks to be an autocrat in the moral creation,
lays unhewn, or even mouldering stones in the
building, in the improper place, and plasters up
chasms and holes with false mortar.
Young man, first amend thine heart, and let
thy understanding be enlightened by the heavenly
light of truth ! Be pure in heart, and thou shalt
see God ; and when thou beholdest the source of
light, thou wilt als~ discover the straight and
narrow way, that leadeth unto life; then pray
every morning to God, that he may give thee
opportunity to do good; and if such present
'"' a,,Google
DOMESTIC LIFE. 197
themselves, seize fthem with avidity, be of good
courage, God will assist thee; and when thou hast
succeeded in a worthy action, thank God fervently
in thy closet, and be silent !
Before I conclude, I must cast something off
my heart, that oppresses me. It is difficult to
write the history of living persons ; the individual
commits faults, sins, weaknesses, and follies, which
cannot be revealed to the public; hence the hero
of the tale appears better than he is ; just as little
can all the good be told that he does, lest he be
deprived of his gracious reward.
However, I am not writing Stilling's whole life
and conduct, but the history of providence in its
guidance of him. The great judge will eventually
lay his faults on the one, and his little good on the
other golden scale ofthe sanctuary ; what is then
wanting, 0 thou Most Merciful! thy eternal love
will supply !
STILLING'S HYMN OF PRAISE.
1
(1mitated from the cxviii Psalm.)
Bleat be the Lord ! his eye benignant beams,
And from his face divine compassion streams ;
His genial breath unfolds the blooming rose ;
He gives the troubled spirit sweet repose
s3
mo ;ze, ,,Google
198 HEINRICH STILLING's
Ye saints of his, approach, and praise his grace,
Holy and good through everlasting days ;
Servants of God, rejoice and bless the Lord,
And tread the path prescrib'd you in his word!
Let all that love him to his throne ascend,
And offer grateful praises without end ;
Ascend, ye righteous, who true virtue love !
And let your songs resound to God above.
My path was steep, in twilight and in shade,
And lightnings 11.ash'd o'er my devoted head;
Sorrows, on every hand, my soul did wound,
But still my prayer to thee admittance found ;
I
And thou didst hear-didst answer my request,
And bring my suffering heart to peaceful rest ;
Didst let me see sublime and glorious aid,
And sooth'd the grief that on my vitals prey'd.
The Lord is with me ! who can now oppose?
Or who disturb my inward, calm repose ?
E'en though new sorrows in my path appear,
I fear them now no moie ; the Lord is here !
The Lord is ever near to strengthen and sustain;
He can the rage of every foe restrain.
Of what avails the trust in human aid,
So oft frustrated, and so ill repaid ?
The Lord is good; his word must be believ'd;
Who trusts in him shall never be deceiv'd.
How often is the word of princes broke !
The Prince of princes t!oes whate'er he spoke.
'"' aoy oogle
DOMESTIC LIFE.
Troubles 11888.i.l'd me, like the busy swarm;
Fiercely they buzz'd around to do me harm;
E'en as Jehovah's host, they sharply fought,
And made the arduous conquest dearly bought.
As smoking thorns around and upwards dart,
Causing the brightest eye to feel the smart,
And, hissing, in the heat consume away,
Till root and branch fall to the flames a prey :-
So pierc'd the purging tire through all my frame,
Till chaff and stubble disappear'd in flame;
Down to the dust sank my dejected eye,
Or upwards look'd, for succour from on high.
But soon Jehovah's breath these foes repell'd,
And graciously the raging flame dispell'd;
With mighty hand he shew'd hia power to save,
And drew me forth, renew'd, as from the grave.
God is my strength, my succour, and my song !
Ye saints, your hallelujahs loud prolong !
199
From earth to heaven your glorious anthems raise,
Whilst suns, and spheres, and seraphs sound his praise.
The Lord's right hand the victory retains,
And, highly lifted up, its power maintains ;
Jehovah's hand o'ercomes, and ~hough I fall,
I rise again, when on his name I call.
I shall not die, but live, long to declare,
How great and marvellous his mercies are ;
Although he chasten, yet his strength prepares
Me for his service in succeeding years.
200 HEINRICH STILLING's
Unfold the golden gates, that I may bring
A warm and contrite heart to heaven's great King,
And at the golden altar sing his praise,
Who all my woes with happiness repays!
Blest be the Lord, who brings the lofty low,
And makes my towering spirit humbly bow,
Abases, softens, and with kindness sways,
To fit me for his service and his praise.
The stone, by men, for building thought unfit,
Too tender, or too hard, no place would fit;
Yet still the Master-builder form'd and hew'd
And shap'd the stone out of the mass so rude.
'Twas God's own work, and wondrou11 in our eyes;
His people view it now with glad surprise.
This is the joyful day, when we behold
How every hair upon our heads is told.
0 Lord, help still ! and further grant success,
And on my soul thine image deep impress !
Blest is the man that comes to praise thy name;-
Who does thy will, shall ne'er be put to shame.
God is our light! come and adorn his house,
And at his holy altar pay your vows ;
Let harp and tabret to his honor sound,
Faithful, and kind, and true, for ever found!
Thou art my God ! and I thy goodness praise,
Which wondrously hath led me all my days.
Thou art my God! when I thy grace review,
I pay the thanks,' which justly are thy due.
Hallelujah !
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STILLING'S
YEARS OF TUITION.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
•
•
CHAP. I.
DEAR readers and friends of Stilling I you can take
the title, " Heinrich Stilling's Years of Tuition,'~
in whatever sense you please. He had been
hitherto a teacher himself, and had served in
every gradation ; he began as village schoolmaster
at Zellberg, and ended as profe~'sor at Marburg.
But he was also a pupil or apprentice in the work-
shop of the chief master ; whether he will become
journeyman or no, will soon be seen-further than
this, he will certainly not advance, because we
have all only one master, and can have only one.
Stilling now firmly believed, that the professor-
ship of civil and political economy was the vocation
for which he had been preparing from his cradle,
and that Marburg was the place where he was to
live and labor till his end. This conviction
afforded him inward tranquillity, and he strove, in
his official situation, to do every thing, which was
204 HEINRICH STILLING'S
in the power of man to do; he wrote his large and
copious Manual of Civil and P~litical Science, his
Science of Finance, the Camerale Practicum, the
Principles ofPolitical Economy, Heinrich Stilling's
Domestic Life, and many other little treatises and
pamphlets, during which he continued, uninter-
ruptedly, his ophthalmic practice. He daily read
lectures for four and sometimes five hours together,
and his correspondence became more and more
extensive, so that he was obliged to labor with
all his might, in order that he might be able to
keep his large and difficult sphere of action in
motion ; much however was rendered easy to him
by his residing at Marburg.
This ancient city, celebrated of old as being the
last abode and burying place of the holy Landgra-
vine Elizabeth of Hesse, lies crookedly, obliquely,
and irregularly, below an old castle, on the slope
of a hill ; its narrow streets, 'clay houses, &c.
leave on the mind of him who only travels through
it, or is merely superficially acquainted with it, a
prejudicial but in reality an incorrect impression ;
for as soon as he becomes acquainted with the
internal social life of its inhabitants and the peo-
ple, in their true character, he findR a cordiality,
and such a real friendsh~p, as is seldom met with
elsewhere. This is no vain compliment, but a
thank-offering and a true testimony, which I owe
to the worthy inhabitants of Marburg. _
To this must be added, that the vicinity of the
city is beautiful and very agreeable, and the whole
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 205
scene is animated by the river Lahn ; for though
it bears no heavy burdens upon its slender back,
yet it labors diligently on all hands, as a porter,
and helps the neighbours on every side.
The first family in Marburg, w.hich opened the
arms of friendship to Stilling and Selma, was that
of the Coings. Doctor Johann Franz Coing was
professor of Divinity, and a real christian; with
both these, he united a friendly, gentle, pleasing,
and secretly benevolent character. His spouse
was likewise devout and pious ; both were de-
scended from the French refugees, and the family
name of the professor's lady was Duising. This
worthy couple had four grown-up children, three
daughters, Eliza, Maria, and Amalia, and a son
called Justus, who studied theology; these four
children are the images of their parents, and
models of the christian and domestic virtues;
the whole family lives in a very quiet and retired
manner.
The reasons why the family of the Coings
attached themselves so warmly and friendly to
that of the Stillings, were various-parents and
children had read Stilling's history-both the men
were from the same province, relatives on both
Bides had intermarried. The Rev. Mr. Kraft in
Frankfort, Stilling's t0ld and tried friend, was
Coing's brother-in-law; their wi'ves were own
sisters; and what is still more than all, they were
christians on both sides, and this establishes the
bond of love and friendship more firmly than any
T
'"' a,,Google
206 HEINRICH 8TILLING1S
thing else. Where the spirit of christianity reigns:,
it unites the hearts, by the bond of perfection, io
such a high degree, that all other human connec-
tions are not to ))e compared with it; he is happy,
who experiences it !
Selma attached herself particularly to Eliza
Coing ; equality of age, and perhaps other causes,
which lay in the character of both; laid the foun-
dation for this intimate connection.
Stilling's many and laborious employments, and
particularly also a most oppressive s~modic
attack, which greatly tormented him daily, and
especially towards evening, operated powerfully on
his mind, the first winter he spent in Marburg.
He lost his cheerfulness, became melancholy, and
so easily excited, that he could not avoid weeping
on the slightest occasion. Selma therefore sought
to persuade him to undertake a journey, during
the Easter vacation, to her relatives in Franconia
and Oettingen. With much difficulty she at
length induced him to consent ; and he undertook
this journey i~ the spring of 1788. A student
from Anspach accompanied him to that place.
It is something peculiar in Stilling's charact.er,
that rural scenery makes such a deep and beneficial
impression upon him ; whether he be travelling or
merely taking a walk, it is with him as with a
lover of the arts, when walking about in an excel~
lent picture gallery. :Stilling possesses a classical
feeling for the beauties of nature.
On the journey through Franconia, he waa
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 207
incessantly tormented by spasms at the stomach ;
he could not bear any kind of food ; but the
character of the scenery of that country was
strengthening and comforting to him ; there is
much grandeur in the views and prospects of
Franconia.
At Anspach, Stilling visited Uz, the German
Anacreon. He entered, with a kind of timidity,
into the apartment of this great lyric poet; Uz,
who is small, but rather corpulent in person, came
towards him with a cheerful gravity, and awaited,
with reason, the declaration of the stranger, to
tell him who he was. This declaration was no
sooner made, than the worthy old man embraced
and saluted him, saying, "You are therefore
Heinrich Stilling! it rejoices me much to see the
man, whom providence so remarkably leads, aad
who so boldly confesses, and courageously defen~
the religion of Jesus."
The conversation thea turned on poets and
poesy, and when they separated, Uz took Stilling
<>nee more in his arms, and said, "May God bless,
atrengthen, and preserve you ! never be weary in
defending the cause of religion, and of bearing the
reproach of our Redeemer and our head ! The
present age needs such men, and the following will
need them still more ! we shall eventually see each
other again with joy in a better world!"
Stilling felt deeply and inwardly affected and
strengthened, and hastened away with · his eyes
.suffused in tears.
'T .2
'"' a,,Google
208 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Uz, Cramer, and Klopstock, will probably be
the Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun in the temple
of the new Jerusalem. We shall see if this be the
case, when scenes in the invisible world are again
unfolded to us.
The next morning Stilling rode five leagua.
further to the village of Kemmathen, a place not
far from Diinkelsbiihl. He there drove up to the
parsonage house, alighted at the door of the court
yard, and waited for it to be opened; The cler-
gyman, a handsome, dark complexioned man,
came out of the house, opened the gate, and
thought of nothing so little as of seeing his brother-
in-law, Stilling; the surprize was great. The
clergyman's lady, meanwhile, was otherwise enga-
ged, and in reality, she did not exactly like
to be disturbed in her employment by a visitor;
however, her husband conducted the visitor to
her ; she received him politely, as ·customary ;
but when he brought her a message from sister
Selma, and also called her sister, she sank into his
.arms.
Stilling spent a few happy days with brother
Hohlbach and sister Sophia. Their reciprocal
brotherly and sisterly affection is immutable, and
will continue beyond the grave.
Sister Sophia accompanied her brother-in-law
to Wallerstein, to her brother's. At Oettingen
they drove past the church yard, where Selma's
and Sophia's father reposes, to whom each devoted
some silent tears; this took place also at Baldingen,
'"' a,,Google
'YEARS OF TUITION. 209
at their mother's grave. The brother and his lady
rej.oiced at the visit.
No sooner had prince Kraft Ernest Von Oettin-
gen Wallerstein heard of Stilling's arrival, than he
invited him, as long as he should remain there, to
dine and sup at the prince's table ; he accepted
this offer, but only for dinner, because he wished
to spend the evenings in the circle of his friends.
This prince's territory belongs to the most pleasant
in Germany ; for the Riess is a plain, many mile~
in diameter, which is watered by the Mernitz, and
surrounded by lofty mountains. From the mode-
rate eminence,at the foot of which lies Wallerstein,
there is a commanding view of this garden of
God; near at hand, the imperial city of Nord-
lingen, and an innumerable multitude of towns
and villages.
Stilling's residence here was beneficial, by his
being·of service to several persons diseased in the
eye; he performed an operation upon president
Von Schade, which proved successful, and the
worthy man recovered his sight. At this time, the
notorious Weckherlin, author of "the Grey Mon-
ster," and "the Hyperborean Letters," was in
prison in a hill fort in the principality of WaHers-
tein. He had grossly and in a malicious manner
insulted the magistrate of the imperial city of
Nordlingen, who sent a requisition to the prince
of Wallerstein, in whose territory Weckherlin was
residing, demanding satisfaction. The prince
therefore had him arrested and conveyed to the
T3
'"' a,,Google
210 HEINRICH STILLING'S
hill fort. The prince's brother, Count Franz
Ludwig, would gladly have procured the captive's
freedom ; and had made several fruitless attempts
to do so ; but on observing that the prince
expressed a particular inclination for Stilling, he
entreated the latter, to beg that Weckherlin might
be set at liberty, for he had already endured a
sufficient penance for his petulance.
There are cases, in which the true christian
cannot come to a decision with himself; and this
was of that kind. To request the liberty of a
man, who had abused it to the prejudice of his
fellow creatures, and especially the magistracy,
required consideration ; and on the other hand,
imprisonment, particularly for such a man as
Weckherlin, is a grievous affiiction. The recollec-
tion that there were still a variety of means to
restrain a man that abuses his liberty, outweighed
Stilling's scruples ; he therefore ventured, during
dinner, to beg of the prince to set Weckherlin at
·liberty.' The prince smiled and rejoined, "if I
let him loose, he will go into some other country,
and then I shall be attacked ; besides this, he is
in want of nothing ; he can take a walk in the
castle, and enjoy the free air." However, not long
after, the prisoner was released.
After an agreeable residence of ten days, Stilling
set out again from Wallerstein. His relatives
accompanied him to Diinkelsbi.ihl, to which place
sister Sophia also came ; here they continued to-
gether a night; the next morning, Stilling took a
'"' a,,Google
\'EARS OF TUITION. 21l
tender leave of them all, and then continued his
journey to Frankfort. Here he met his daughter
Hannah at his friend Kraft's ; she had been for a
while with her relatives in the Netherlands, and
was now grown up. The father rejoiced over the
daughter, and the daughter over the father. Both
then rode together to 'Marburg. Selma accom-
panied by friend Coing, and her friend Eliza,
came as far as Giessen to meet them, and thus
they all arrived again, happy and contented at
Marburg.
He that imagines Stilling's situation was at
that time devoid of sorrow, is much mistaken.
There are sufferings, the most painful of all, of
which we can complain to the Almighty alone ;
because they would become perfectly intolerable
tbrongh the idea, that our most intimate friends
had a presentiment of them. I therefore very
seriously beg all my readers, by no means to
reflect upon this kind of sufferings, lest they fall •
upon suppositions, which in this case would be
sinful. Irrespective of this, Stilling's spasmodic
attacks caused him sufficient suffering.
About this time, there came a worthy individ-
ual to Marburg. He was governor to two young
noblemen, who were to study there under his super-
int.endence ; we will here call him Raschmann.
He had studied divinity, and professed peculiar
abilities ; he had a penetrating mind, an extraor-
dinarily quick perception; a very highly cultivated
classical feeling, and was possessed of an incom-
'"' a,,Google
212 HEINRICH STILLING's
parable diligence. But on the other hand, he
was also a severe judge of every one with whom
he became acquainted ; and this very becoming
acquainted with persons, was one of his most
favorite and agreeable employments ; in every
place, and' in every company, he observed, with
an eagle's eye, each individual, and their actions,,
and then decided respecting their character ;
practice had, it is true, made an adept of him,
but his judgments were not always under the
direction of christian love ; nor were the failings
always covered with its mantle ; however, he had
excellently educated the young Counts, and they
still rank amongst the best men I know.
This caused him, notwithstanding, to he es-
teemed in the eyes of every worthy man.
He had acted a prominent part, in a certain
connection, and had there attained his expertness
in the knowledge of mankind. In other respects,
he loved splendor and a good table ; he drank the
best wines, and his food was choice and delicate.
In his deportment, he was very precise, captious,
and passionate ; and his domestics were harassed
and ill-treated. This remarkable man sought
Stilling's friendship ; he and his young Counts
attended all his lectures, and visited him two or
three times a week at his house ; and he dined
frequently with him, together with other pro-
fessors and friends. So much is certain, that
Stilling found Raschmann's society agreeable,
however much they differed in their religious sen-
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 213
timents ; for Raschmann's acquirements were very
extensive and refined, and in the company of
· those who were not beneath him, he was very
agreeable, and extremely entertaining.
In the summer of that year (1788,) Counsellor
Mieg, of Heidelburg, with. his estimable lady,
came also to Marburg, in order to visit their friends
there, and amongst others, Stilling and Selma.
The integrity ; unremitting activity in doing good,
and the feeling, benevolent soul of Mieg, had
made a pleasing impression on Stilling, so that
both were cordial friends ; and the two ladies,
likewise, stood in the .same connection with each
other. This visit tied the knot still more firmly;
but it had, besides this, an important effect on
Stilling's mode of thinking and his philosophical
system.
Stilling, by means of Leibnitz and Wolf's phi-
losophy, had fallen into the heavy bondage of
fatalism. · He had struggled, for twenty years
together, by prayer and supplication, against this
giant, without being able to overcome him. He
had, indeed, always maintained, in his writings,
the freedom of the will, and of human actions, a.nd
had believed in it also, in opposition to all the
objections of his reason ; he had, likewise, never
ceased praying, although this giant continually
whispered in his ear, " Thy prayers avail not; for
what God in his counsels hath decreed, takes
place, whether thou pray or not." But notwith:-
standing this, Stilling continued to believe and
'"' a,,Google
214 HEINRICH STILLING'S
pray, but without light or consolation ;. even his
answers to prayer did not comfort him, for the
giant said, it was mere accident. 0 God ! This
was a dreadful temptation ! All the delights of
religion; its promises of this life and that which is
to come ; this only consolation in life, suffering,
and death, becomes an illusive phantom, as BOOB
as the individual gives ear to fatalism. Mieg
was accidentally Stilling's deliverer from this cap-
tivity. He was speaking, on one occasion, of a
certain treatise on philosophy, which had pleBsed
him extremely. He then adduced, likewise, the
postulate of Kant's moral principles, which is,
" Act so, that the maxims of thy intentions may
be always an universal law." This excited Stilling's
attention. The novelty of this position made a
deep impression upon him ; he determined to read
Kant's writings ; he had hitherto shuddered at the
thought, because the study of a new philosophy,
and especially this, seemed an insurmoontable
object.
He naturally read first, Kant's critique of pure
reason. He soon comprehended its meaning, and
his.struggle with fatalism was all at once at an end.
Kant proves from incontrovertible grounds, that
human reason knows nothing beyond the limits of
the visible world; and, that in super-sensiblethings, .
as often as it judges and decides from its own
principles, it always stumbles upon contradictions,
that is, it contradicts itself. This book is a com-
mentary on the words of Paul, " Thenatural man
mo ;ze, ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 215
knoweth nothing of the things of the Spirit of
God, for they are foolishness unto him, &c."
Stilling's soul was now 88 if it had gained wings ;
it had been hitherto intolerable to him, that
human reason, this divine gift, which distin-
guishes us from the brute creation, should be
entirely opposed to that religion, which was
supremely dear to him. But he now found every
thing appropriate and worthy of God ; he found
the source ofsuper-sensible truths, in the revelation
of God to man, in the bible, and the source of all
the truths which appertain to this earthly life, in
nature and reason. On one occasion, when St.il-
ling wrote to Kant, he expressed his joy and
approbation to this great philosopher. Kant
replied, and in his letter stood the never-to-be-
forgotten words, " You also do well in seeking
your sole consolation in the gospel ; for it is the
never-failing source of all truth, which, when
reason has measured out its whole jurisdiction, can
be found ·nowhere else."
Stilling afterwards read also Kant's " Critique
of Practical Reason," and then his "Religion
within the Bounds of Reason;" at first he thought
he perceived probability in both; but on maturer
reflection, he saw that Kant did not seek the
source of super-sensible truth in the gospel, bot
in the moral principle. But can this moral feel-
ing in man, which bids the Mexican offer human
sacrifices, the North American scalp the innocent
captive, the Otaheitan steal, and the Hindoo
'"' a,,Google
216 HEINRICH STILLING's
worship a cow, can this be source of super-sensi-
ble troth ? Or, supposing it was said,-not the
corrupt, but the pure moral principle, which pro-
perly expresses his position, is this source ; I
answer, that the pure moral principle is a mere
f'orm, an empty faculty of knowing good and evil.
But now shew me anywhere, a man, who is solely
under the influence of this moral principle ! All
are deluded, from their youth up, by a variety of
errors, so that they take good for evil, and evil
for good. In order that the moral principle may
become the true guide of human conduct, that
which is truly good and beautiful, must be given
the individual from a pure and infallible source ;
but where can such a pure and infallible source be
found, out of the bible? It is a sure and eternal
truth, that every axiom qf the whole ofmorality,
is an immediate revelation from God; let any one
prove to me the contrary. What the wisest hea-
thens have said, that. is beautiful, was imparted to
them by means of manifold reflection, fr9m the
light of revelation.
Stilling had, however, gained sufficient from
Kant's " Critique of Pure reason ;" and this book
is, and will remain, the only possible philosophy ;
taking the word in the common acceptation of the
term.
Now, as much as Stilling was tranquillized on
this side, yet another, still greater danger, threat-
ened him from another ; a more subtle, and con-
sequently also, a more dangerous foe sought to
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 217
ensnare him. His frequent intercourse with
Raschmann gradually imparted to him, without
his observing it, a number ofideas, which, singly,
did not seem to him at all suspicious ; but after-
wards, collectively taken together, formed a
basis, from whence, in time, nothing else could
have resulted, but, first, Socinianism; next, Deism;
then, Naturalism; and finally, Atheism; and
with it, anti-christianity. But his heavenly guide
did not suffer it to come so far with him, as even
to make a commencement of this falling away
from divine truth; however, it was already bad
enough, that the atoning sacrifice of Jesus began
to appear to him to be an oriental embellishment
of the moral merits of the Saviour in behalf of
men.
Raschmann was able to express this with so
much warmth and veneration for the Redeemer,
and with . such a plausible love to him, that
Stilling began to be persuaded. However, it did
not proceed further with him ; for his religious
ideas, and frequent experience, were much too
deeply rooted in his whole being, for him to
decline further, or even to begin to do so.
This state of mind lasted about a year, and
a certain illllstrious and devout lady will still
remember a letter of Stilling's at that time, which
withdrew her affection and esteem from him for a
period ; that is, until his mind had again returned
to the truth.
Thank God I it did return thither ; and he now
v
mo ;ze, ,,Google
218 HEINRICH STILLING'S
observed with astonishment, .bow much the repro-
ving grace of God had gradually withdrawn.itself
from his heart. Sinfulsensual impulses, long ago
extinguished, already began to shew themselves
faintly in his heart, and the inward peace of God
in his soul had become a distant glimmer. The
good Shepherd restored him, and led him again
into the right way; the sequel ofthis historyshews
the means used for this purpose.
This aberration however was ofutility to StilliDg,
in causing him to examine more strictly the doc·
trine of the atonement ; and he then apprehended
it so firmly, that no power can ever deprive him
of it.
'"' a,,Google
CHAP II.
THE following year, in the winter of 1789, the
reigning Countess of Stollberg Wemigerode wrote
to Stilling to·visit her during the Easter vacation.
He answered that he could not take the journey
merely for the sake of a visit ; but as soon as
there were any blind people there, to whom he
could be serviceable, he would come. This caused
the reigning Count to make it known throughout
his territory, that an oculist would visit him, and
he that desired his assistance, should come to the
castle of Wemigerode in the passion week. This
excellent arrangement occasioned the ridiculous
report, that the Count of Wemigerode had ordered
all the blind people in his dominions to appear in
the passion week at his castle, on pain of ten
rix dollars fine, in order to be operated upon
there.
On receiving the intelligence that blind people
'"' a,,Google
220 HEINRICH STILLING's
would be there, Stilling set out on his journey
on Tuesday in the passion week on horseback.
The youthful spring was in full activity ; the
gooseberry bushes were every where unfolding
their leaves, and t.he fecundity of nature filled all
things with delight. Stilling had, from the first,
always sympathized with nature; therefore he
felt highly delighted on this journey. During the
whole way, nothing struck him more, than the
difference between Osterrode at the foot of the
Harz, and Clausthal on its summit; at the former,
the spring was.blooming; at the latter, only two
leagues distant, every thing was stiff with ice,
cold, and snow, which lay at least eight feet deep.
On Good Friday evening, Stilling. arrived at
the castle of Wemigerode, and was received with
uncommon kindness and affection by the family of
the Count. Here he found eleven persons blind
of the cataract, who were quartered at the castle,
and who were fed from the kitchen. Stilling
performed the operation upon them, on Easter
Sunday morning, before service at church, and
the surgeon to the Count took charge of the
binding-up.
Amongst these blind people was a young woman
of twenty-eight years of age, who had almost
perished in the snow, on her return home from
Andreas-berg to llsenburg, on the side of the
Brocken ; the snow fell so thick and deep that at
length, it went over her head, and she could
proceed no further ; she was found, after lyinr
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 221
twenty four hours in quiet stupefaction. This
unfortunate occurrence had injured her health no
otherwise, than by leaving her perfectly blind of
the cataract ; she now obtained her sight again.
An old man and his aged sister were also
amongst the number. Both of them had had the
cataract for a series of years, and had not seen
each other for at least twenty years. When they
were both cured, and came together again, their
first sensation was astonishment at each other,
and wonder at their aged appearance.
The days, which Stilling here spent, as in the
precincts ofheaven, will remain ever memorable
to him. A week after Easter, he set out again
for Marburg.
A few weeks after this, the worthy and noble
family of Wernigerode passed through Marburg,
on their way to Switzerland. Stilling and Selma
were visited by them; and on this occasion, the
Count expressed his intention of being with him
again, with his fellow-travellers, on the 12th of
September following, and that he would then cele-
brate his birth-day with him. The nobleman
kept his word; on the 12th of September, which
was Stilling's fiftieth birth-day, the whole com-
pany again arrived safe, well, and delighted, in
Marburg.
A good friend in the suite of the Count, had
given Selma a hint of it a few days before. She
had therefore prepared a large supper in the even-
ing, to which Raschmann, with his young noble-
v 3
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STILLING'S
men, with other worthy Marburg people, were
invited. I scarcely need mention, that the family
of the Coings were not forgotten on this occa-
sion. Never had Stilling's birth-day been cele-
brated in such a manner before. His lecturer's
chair was illuminated, and a speech from Rasch-
mann heightened the solemnity. It was however
remarkable, that the jubilee• of Stilling's life was
solemnized in such a manner, without any one
thinking that this was just his fiftieth birth-day ;
the whole happened naturally ; it afterwards
occurred to Stilling, and it then was evident, that
that evening was a consecration to a new epoch in
his life.
Soon afterwards, in the autumn of 1789, the
vacation commenced, in which Stilling took a
journey into the province of Darmstadt, and from
thence to Neuwied, in order to assist the blind.
Raschmann, his two young noblemen, and Selma,
accompanied h.im to Frankfort ; he then travelled
to Rilsselsheim on the Maine, where he couched
the Rev. Mr. Sartorius's lady, and spent nine
agreeable days in this religious family. This was
the place where Stilling, with respect to the doc-
• The Germans pay much more attention than is customary
in this country, to the observance of birth-days, anniversaries,
&:c. and particularly when a space of fifty years have elapsed,
which is then called a jubilee. This is also especially the case,
when a couple have lived together fifty years in the state of
matrimony ; the ceremony is then again performed, and this
1econd celebration is called "the golden nuptials."-Nole of the
tramlator.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION.
trine of the atonement, caught himself on the pale
horse ; Sartorius was. one of the Halle school, or
admirers of Franke, and spoke with Stilling on
the truths of religion in his style. The conver-
sation was chiefly upon the doctrine of the
atonement, and imputed righteousness; without
intending it, he fell into a dispute with the pious
clergyman upon this subject, and now discovered
how far he had already deviated ; his return,
therefore, commenced here.
In Darmstadt also, Stilling couched several
persons who were suffering from the cataract; and
there he met with a man, who, up to that time,
was the only one he had found laboring under
that disease, who was willing to remain blind for
the honor of God ; for on being informed of
Stilling's arrival, and told that, with the help of
God, he might now regain his sight ; he replied,
very resignedly, "The Lord has laid this cross
upon me, and I will bear it to his honorI" What
a mistaken idea!
From Darmstadt, Stilling journied to Mayence,
where Count Maximilian Von Degenfeld at that
time resided. Both were desirous of travelling
together to Neuwied. In the company of this
nobleman, he visited Mr. Von Diinewald, cele-
brated for his musical instrument ; they viewed
his pretty garden, and then saw and heard the
above-mentioned instrument, on which the pro-
prietor played them a whole symphony, with all
the accompanying instruments, very naturally and
mo ;ze, ,,Google
224 HEINRICH STILLING's
admirably. l know not what became of thig
instrument in the wars, and whether it be not for
ever untuoed.
The next morning they sailed down the Rhine
in a covered barge. The voyage was this time
more prosperous than in the year 1770, when the
yacht upset, on its passage to Strasburg ; or in
1771, on the journey home, when Stilling took
the same trip in the evening, in a three-boarded
boat, and saved himself, with his companion, on
board a barge. It was a beauti~l morning in
autumn, and the purple dawn swelled the sails of
the barge in such a manner, that they performed
the six leagues, from Mayence to Bingen, in three
hours. This water excursion is celebrated, far
and wide, for its romantic prospects ; but will
never be forgotten by Stilling, on account of the
unfortunate accidents above-mentioned. At four
in the afternoon, they arrived•at Nenwied, where
they met Raschmann, with the young Counts, and
the present vice-chancellor of the university, at
that time professor Erxleben. Stilling took up
his quarters with this friend at the Rev. Mr.
Ming's; the rest were lodged in part at the castle.
This journey of Stilling's to Neuwied is remar-
kable in his history, from his having, for the first
time, become acquainted with a Moravian church
in that place, and attended once at their Sunday's
worship, when Brother Du Vernoy preached an
excellent sermon. The whole made a deep im-
pression upon Stilling, and brought him into closer
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION.
contact with the Moravians, to which Rascbmann
also contributed much; for, although, he widely
difered from them with respect to his religious sen-
timents, yet he spoke of them with much esteem
and enthusiasm. Stilling had always been well
disposed towards the Moravians, although he had
many prejudices against them, for he had hitherto
associated solely with awakened people, who had
much to object to the Moravians, and he had pre-
viously had no opportunity of examining for, him-
self. Notwithstanding all this, they were very
estimable in his opinion, on account of their
missionary institutions.
The then reigning Prince, Johann Frederick
Alexander, famous for his wisdom and maxims of
tolerance, and who was far advanced in years, was
with his consort at bis country seat, Monrepos,
which is two leagues distant from the town, and
lies on the summit of a hill, up the valley, from
whence there is an incomparable prospect. One
beautiful day, he sent his equipage to fetch the
two Marburg professors, Erxleben and Stilling;
they dined with this princely pair, and returned in
the evening to Neuwied. Here arose an intimate
religious acquaintance between the old princess
and Stilling, which was maintained by a lively
correspondence until her transition into a better
life ; she was born Burgravine of Kirchberg ; was
a very pious and intelligent lady, and Stilling
rejoices at the prospect of her welcoming him m
the blissful plains of the kingdom of God.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
226 HEINRlCH STILLING'S
After Stilling had spent a few days here, also,
in ministering to the blind, he set off again for
Marburg, in company with his friend and colleague
Erxleben.
At Wetzlar, Stilling expected, with certainty,
to find a letter from Selma, but he found none.
On his entering the parsonage, he observed a kind
of embarrassment in his friend Machenhaner and
his lady ; he immediately asked whether there
was not a letter from Selma ? " No," answered
they, "Selma is not well, yet she is not dangerously
ill ; we have to mention this to you with her kind
remembrances." This was enough for Stilling, he
instantly took post horses, and arrived in the
afternoon at Marburg.
His daughter Hannah met him quite unexpect-
edly in the hall ; she had been for half a year with
Selma's relatives in Swabia, at Kemmathen and
Wallerstein. Sister Sophia Hohlbach had shewn
her great kindness, but she had been brought very
low by a very vexatious disorder, from which she
had suffered inexpressibly, and looked very ill.
The paternal heart of Stilling was rent, and its
wounds bled. From Hannah he learnt that her
mother was not dangerously ill.
As he ascended the stairs, he saw Selma, pale
and disfigured, standing in the comer on the
landing place. She received her husband with a
tenderly melancholy look, and smiling through
tears~ she said, "My dear, be not afraid!
there is nothing the matter with me." This
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION 227
tranquillized him, and he went with her into the
room.
Selma, in the spring, had suffered a misca.rria~,
and was obliged to be delivered prematurely. On
this occasion, a sword pierced through Stilling's
soul, and he endured a mortal confilct, the cause
ofwhich is known t<fo God alone. Selma herself
never learnt it. A lieautiful boy was brought dead
into the world. Belma had also, perhaps, suffered
on this occasion....;...God. alone knows ! Probably a
fall she had·ilad when in danger of fire, was the
cause of this miscarriage and its subsequent effects.
She was now pregnant again, and Stilling believed
that her indisposition proceeded from this.sou;rce;
her recovery really ensued, but a decl~tion fol-
lowed on her part, which plunged Stilling's soul,
wearied by so many tedious and painful suffel'.ings,
into a profound melancholy. Soon after his re~
from Neuwied, whilst :sitting on. the sofa .with
Selma, she took him by the hand, .and said :
"Dear husband listen to me calmly, and be not
melancholy ! I know for a certainty, that I SQ$ll
die in this confinement. I am. no longer fit to
accompany thee through life, I have fulfilled that
for which God gave me to thee ; b1,1t in future I
ahould be unsuitable for the situation, in whi.ch
thou art placed. Now if. thou des4-est that I
should pass the rest of my time quietly and. then
die cheerfully, thou must promise me, that thou
wilt marry my friend Eliza Coing ; she will be
more suitable for thee than I, and I know that
'"' a,,Google
228 HEINRICH STILLING's
she will be a good mother for my children, and an
excellent consort for thee. Now for once place
thyself above what is termed dec<>rum, and promise
me this ! Do, my dear, promise it me I" The
longing look which beamed from her fine blue
eyes was indescribable.
My readers may judge themselves, how Stilling
felt at that moment. That he could not possibly
fulfil her wish, and promise her that he would
marry Eliza after her ·death, may be easily sup-
posed ; however he recovered himself, and replied,
" Dear child, thou well knowest, that thou hast
foreboded thy death in every pregnancy, and yet
th.ou hast always come safely through, I hope it
will be also the case this time ; and then consider
duly, whether it is possible to promise thee what
thou requirest of me ; for it is opposed to every
thing that can be even called propriety. Selma
looked emb8rrassedly around her, and replied," It
is however grievous, that thou canst not place
thyself above all this, in order to satisfy me ! I
know for a certainty, that I shall die ; it is now
very different with me, to what it was before."
Although Stilling did not place any strong faith
in this presentiment of death, yet his mind was
oppressed by a deep and foreboding melancholy,
and he took the resolution, from ·that time, daily
to pray for Selma's life, which he faithfully ful-
filled.
During the whole of the winter, Selma prepared
for her death, as for a long journey. It may be
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 229
supposed how her husband felt on the occasion ;
she sought to arrange every thing, and did it all
with cheerfulness and mental serenity. At the
same time, she was constantly seeking to induce
her husband to marry Eliza, and to make him
promise her to do so. In this she went incredibly
far; for one evening it happened that Stilling,
Selma, and Eliza, were sitting quite alone at a
round table, and supping together; when they had
nearly finished, Selma looked longingly at Eliza,
and said, " Dear Eliza, you will marry my husband
when I am dead, will you not'?" The situation
in which Stilling and Eliza felt themselves placed
by this speech, is indescribable. Eliza blushed
deeply, and said, " Do not speak so ! God pre-
serve us from such an event !" and Stilling gave
her a kind reproof for her improper behaviour.
When she found that she could not gain her point
with her husband, she applied to good friends,
who she knew had much influence with Stilling,
and entreated them suppliantly, to take care that,
after her death, her wishes were fulfilled.
In the spring of 1790, the important period of
Selma'11 confinement gradually approached; Stil-
ling's prayers for her life became more fervent, but
she continued always calm. On the eleventh of
May, she was happily delivered of a son, and was
well, according to circumstances; Stilling felt very
happy, and gave God thanks; he then tenderly
reproached the dear invalid for her presentiment;
but she looked at him seriously, and said very
x
'"' a,,Google
230 HEINRICH STILLl,NG's
impressively, "Dear husband, all is not over yet."
For five days she was very well, suckled her child,
and was cheerful ; but on the sixth, an eruption
broke out, she grew very ill, and Stilling became
greatly alarmed. Her friend Eliza came to wait
upon her, in which she was faithfully assisted by
Hannah. Mother Coing came also every day, and
occasionally relieved her daughter.
Stilling had still hopes of her recovery; but, as
he was sitting one afternoon alone by her bed side,
he perceived that she began to speak irrationally,
a.nd to pull and straighten the bed clothes. He
now ran out intothe open air, through the Kenthof
gate, and then through the beech-wood about the
castle-hill, and prayed from his inmost soul, so
that it might have penetrated to the very highest
heaven-not for Selma's life, for he did not desire
a miracle, but for strength for his weary soul, in
order to be able to bear this severe stroke.
This prayer was heard; he returned home tran-
quillized; the peace of God reigned in his breast;
he had offered up this great sacrifice to the Lord,
who had graciously accepted it. After that time,
he only saw Selma twice for a few moments; for
his physical nature suffered too much, and it was
apprehended she could not bear it. Ile therefore
let himself be advised, and kept at a. distance.
On the aft~noon of the following day, he went
again to he~ ; she had already a locked jaw ;
Eliza was reposing upon the sofa ; Selma lifted up
her half closed eyes., looked wistfully at her hus-
YEARS OF TUITION. 231
band, and then beckoned at Eliza. Stilling cast
down his eyes, and departed.
The next morning he went to her bed once
more ; he will never forget the sight I the dawn
of eternity beamed on her countenance. " Is it
well with thee?" asked he. She audibly whispered
through her closely fastened teeth, "0 Yes !"
Stilling tottered away, and saw her no more; for
as strong as bis spirit was, yet bis physical nature
and his heart were shaken ; nor could Eliza bear
t-0 see her friend expire ; but Mother Coing closed
her eyes. She departed this life the following
night, on the 23rd of May, at one o'clock. They
came weeping to 'Stilling's bed to infol'.~ .&im of
it; " Lord, thy will be done !" was his reply.
'"' a,,Google
CH AP. III.
SELMA. dead !-the woman of whom Stilling waB
proud, dead !_:_that is saying much I Though
profound peace reigned in his soul, yet still his
state and condition were indescribable; his frame
was dreadfully shaken; the spasmodic complaint,
which continually tormented him, had already
excited his nervous system to a high degree, and
this stroke might have entirely ruined it, if the
paternal goodness of God had not supported him;
or, to speak in fashionable terms, if he had not
had so strong a constitution: Death ancl silence
now environed him. At Christina's departure, he
had been so well prepared, by previous wearisome
sufferings, that it was a kindness, an alleviation
to him ; but now it was quite different.
That Selma was in the right, when she said,
she was no longer suitable for his mode of life, he
began, indeed, clearly to see, and in the sequel,
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 233
found it true ; but still, her departure was heart-
rending and dreadful to him ; she had been much
to him ; and had been a striking instrument in
the hand of his heavenly guide, with reference to
him; but now she was no more.
Stilling, when he married Selma, had never
been amongst people of high rank. Much still
adhered to him from his parentage and education ;
in his whole life and deportment, gait and gestures,
eating and drinking, and in his mode of address,
especially in his intei:course with people of rank, he
conducted himselfso, that his low origin was imme-
diat.ely observed; he always did either too much
or too little in a thing. Selma, who was an accom-
plished lady, polished all this away completely; at
least, the observation was never afterwards made,
that Stilling was deficient in good breeding ; for
it afterwards appeared, that he was destined to
associate with persons of the highest class.
But she was, particularly with reference to his
debts, an helping angel sent from God. She was
an excellent housekeeper ; with a very modt?J"ate
income, in Lautern and Heidelburg, she had
liquidated above two thousand gilders of debt, by
which all the creditors were so pacified, that the
rest were content, and willingly waited; but the
chief thing was, that immediately after she had
married Stilling, she tranquillized his soul, which
had been tormented by the miserable, unfeeling,
and mercenary spirit of unmerciful creditors, in
such a manner, that he knew not what to think
x3
234 tlElNRICH STJLLlNG's
of it; from a storm, which threatened him every
moment with shipwreck, she placed him on dry
land. "Attend to thy vocation," said she; "trou-
ble thyself about nothing, and commit the care to
me;" and she faithfully kept her word. Selma
had been therefore, during the nine years in which
they lived together in the marriage state, a means
of happiness to Stilling.
When she declared that she was no longer a
suitable companion for Stilling, though this decla-
ration was perfectly correct, yet I must entreat
every reader not to think any evil on that account,
nor to imagine any. Selma possessed an extremely
noble character ; she was an excellent wife ; but
there are situations and circumstances, for which
even the most excellent of mankind are unsuit-
able.
Stilling's guidance was always systematic; or
rather, the place, according to which he was led,
was always so manifest, that every acute observer
perceived it. Raschmann also saw through it;
he often regarded Stilling with astonishment, and
said, "Providence must have something peculiar
in view with reference to you, for all the· trifling,
as well as important events, which have befallen
you, tend to some great object, which still lies
hid in the obscurity of the future." Stilling
likewise felt this perceptibly, and it humbled him
in the dust ; but it gave him also courage and
boldness to struggle forward in the path of conflict;
and it may easily_ be supposed, how much such a
YEARS OF TUITION.
guidance promotes true christianity, and faith in
the Redeeiner of the world.
Selma lay a lifeless corpse. Hannah, a girl of
sixteen years and a half old·, now seized, with
courage and resolution, the helm of the house-
keeping, in which she was assisted by a worthy
and faithful maid servant, whom Selma had
engaged in Lautern, and who, under her instruc-
tions, had become an able housekeeper.
Of six children, which Selma had borne, three
were still alive : Lisette, Caroline, and the orphan
suckling, which she had forsaken. Lisette was
four years and a quarter, and Caroline two years
and a half old. Selma herself had not completed
her thirtieth year when she died, and yet had
accomplished so much. It is singular, that in her
bridal days, she said to Stilling, "you will not have
me long, for I shall not live to be thirty years old;
a remarkable man in Dettingen told me so."
However faithful and well intentioned Hannah
was, yet she was not at that time capable of un-
dertaking the bringing up of her little sisters ; but
the departed saint had already provided for this;
for she· had arranged, that Lisette should be
taken to her friend, Madam Mieg, at Heidelburg,
until her father had married again, and Caroline
was to remain, for the same length of time, with
another good friend, who lived some miles distant
from Marburg. The first arrangement was car-
ried into effect some weeks after. Stilling sent
her, with a maid servant, to Frankfort, to the
'"' a,,Google
236 HEINRICH S'l'lLLING's
house of his friend Kraft, whence she was fetched
by Madame Mieg; but mother Coing took Caro-
line; for she said, "It was hard that two children
should be removed, both at once, from their
deeply-sorrowing parent, and to such a distance."
Stilling was satisfied with this ; for be was con-
vinced Selma would have committed both the
children to Eliza, if it had not been contrary to
decorum. The latter now enjoined him to with-
draw himself a little from the family of the Coings,
in whose place, another friend pressed forward
with his aid.
The present privy-counsellor and government
director, Riess, of Marburg, was at that time
government advocate, and commissary in the
management of the university estates, to which
Stilling had been also appointed treasurer from
the beginning ; both knew and loved each other.
Scarcely, therefore, had Selma expired, when
Riess came, and undertook aU the arrangements
which circumstances required ; whilst Stilling was
taken home to his house, where he continued till
all was over. His good consort immediately took
away the little suckling, and provided a nurse for
it, whilst Riess gave the necessary orders for the
interment of the corpse ; so that Stilling had no
occasion whatever to trouble himself in the least.
The child was baptized in Riess's house ; who,
with Coing, Raschmann, and the Counts, who
offered themselves, were the sponsors. Such like
actions will be eventually highly esteemed ; RietB
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 237
and Stilling are friends for eternity, and there the
matter may be better spoken of than here.
The first thing that Stilling undertook for his
consolation was, to send for his aged father,
Wilhelm Stilling. The venerable old man, now
seventy-four years of age, and severely tried in the
school of aflliction, came without delay ; his peace •
of soul and resignation, imparted consolation also
to his son, who resembles him. He remained
with him about a fortnight, during which time,
Stilling regained in some measure his serenity, to
which also Selma's last will contributed much.
That he must marry again, was a matter of course,
for he required some one to bring up his children,
and keep his house ; because it was not proper that
Hannah should trifle away her prospects of happi-
ness for the sake of her father's housekeeping.
How beneficial therefore it was, that the legitimate
possessor of his heart, should have appointed her
successor, and that in such a manner that Stilling
himself would have made no othe:r choice !
He that has not experienced it, cannot believe
how consolatory it is to a widower to know, that
his departed consort approves of his choice ; and
here was more than approbation.
After the period had elapsed, which decorum
determines, and the laws prescribe, Stilling paid
his addresses to Eliza; whose parents, as well as
herself, made him again happy by their affectionate
consent. The gracious good pleasure of God in
this union ; the accomplished will of the departed
'"' a,,Google
238 HEINRICH STILLJNG'S
Selma; and the kind wishes and approbation of
all good men, imparted to his soul a peace, which
Cannot be described. From that time, Eliza un-
dertook Caroline's education; she also visited
Hannah, and assisted her with her advice, and
Stilling had now a friend, with whom he could
converse from heart to heart.
The twelfth of September, which bad been so
brilliantly celebrated the previous autumn, now
again approached; Stilling had, since then, strug-
gled through a year of painful suffering. The
hereditary prince ofHesse was at that time studying
in Marburg~ to whom Stilling imparted instruc-
tion rour times a week ; the latter invited hiJn to
dinner on his birth-day, together with father
Coing ; it was celebated in the evening at the-
house of the Coings.
The nineteenth of November, the d"-J of the
holy Elizabeth, had always been observed in the
family of the Duisings, the ladies of which al8o
generally bore that name. With respect to Eliza,
it was likewise particularly remarkable, because
she is properly thrice called Elizabeth; she wtL&
born on the 9th of May, 1756, and had three
sponsors at her baptism, such as probably few
persons have had. These were, her grandmother
Duising, the mother of the latter, Vulteius, and
her mother, consequently Eliza's great-great-
grandmother~ Madame Von Hamm ; these three
matrons, her grandmother, great-grandmother,
and great-great-grandmot.her were present at th&
'"' a,,Google
'\:"EARS OF TUITION.
baptism, and the latter, Madame Von Hamm, pre-
sided at the christening dinner. All the three.
ladies bore the name of Elizabeth. This Eliz-
abeth-day was fixed for Stilling's and Eliza's nup-
tials. He first read his four lectures, instructed
the prince for an hour, and then proceeded to the
house of the Coings, where the marriage ceremony
was to be performed. The Elector of Hesse
expressed his high approbation of this fidelity to
the duties of his office, although he likewise
reproached him severely for marrying again so
soon.
Eliza's parents had invited several friends to
the marriage supper; and the reformed minister,
Schlarbaum, a sure and tried friend of Stilling's,
performed the ceremony. He and his family were
very beneficial companions to Stilling on his path,
during his residence at Marburg.
Between the ceremony and the supper, Stilling
· played on the piano-forte the following verses ;
and Hannah sang them with her silver voice.
Ascend, my spirit, to the throne
Of him who rules above;
Who visibly hath led thee on,
With all a parent's love.
Father of all created things,
In air, or earth, or sky,
To thee my heart its tribute bringa,
Thou author of its joy!
'"' a,,Google
240 HEINRICH STILLING's
The radiance of the morning light
Beam'd on my flowery way,
And with a flood of new delight,
Thou crown'dst each passing day.
Selma, thy gift, with aiding hand,
Walk'd lovely at my side;
And all my griefs, at her command,
Consum'd away and died.
When suddenly, the gloom of night
Obscur'd my radiant mom,
Thy lightnings fill'd my soul with fright,
And left me quite forlorn.
The corpse of Selma sank in dust ;
Her spirit burst its clod;
"Be strong," it said, "believe and trust;"
And then it soar'd to God;-
And whisper'd, as it disappear'd,
"Be now Eliza thine.
For thou shalt by her love be cheer'd,
E'en as thou wast with mine."
A sacred stillness reign'd around,
And I was left alone ;
I cried, though plung'd in grief profound,
"Thy will, 0 G~ ! be done."
Again, thy kind, benignant eye,
Beam'd on me graciously;
Anil she descended from the sky,
Whom Selma gave to me.
YEARS OF TUITION.
Now, Lord, before thy throne we bow;
0 may.we happy be !
And kindly make our cup o'erftow,
With true felicity.
The seeds of pure beneficence,
Which we in hope would sow,
A gracious shower, 0 Lord, dispense,
And cause the seed to grow.
0 let Eliza, at my side,
Thy richest blessings see ;
With me the day of grief abide,
And bend the suppliant knee.
Then liaten to the anxious sighs,
Which from our hearts ascend,
That long to gain perfection's prize,
And ever upwards tend.
Father! and to our journey's end,
Conduct us hand in hand ;
Until before thy face we bend,
Home, in our native land!
241
The evening was spent cheerfully and happily;
and now a new course of life commenced, which
gradually distinguished itself from every former
period, and brought Stilling nearer to his peculiar
destination. Eliza cheerfully commenced her
new sphere of action, in confidence in God ; and
soon found, what a friend had already observed to
her, that it was no easy matter to tread the &ame
y
mo ;ze, ,,Google
242 HEINRICH STILLING'S
path with Stilling. She has hitherto faithfully
and firmly accompanied him on his pilgrimage;
and has often and variously made it evident, that
she understands how to be Stilling's consort.
Some weeks before Stilling's marriage, Rasch-
mann and his counts at length left Marburg. He
was a comet, which accompanied the planet Stil-
ling for a period, on its course, and made the
latter feel the influence of its atmosphere.
He had certainly, in one respect, operated pre-
judicially on Stilling, as mentioned above; Lut
this soon vanished in the new family circle, and
he became afterwards, through other co-operating
causes, still more firmly grounded in the doctrine
of the atonement than before. But, on the other
hand, Raschmann belonged, in a remarkable
manner, to the instruments of Stilling's improve-
ment ; through him he learnt great, mysterious,
and important things; things which were of an
extensive and comprehensive nature. That which
Barruel and the triumph of philosophy intend to
relate, and relate correctly, in the main thing,
but erroneously in the detail, was now made
known to him.
It must not, however, be supposed, that Rasch-
mann purposely instructed Stilling in all this.
The truth was~ he was very talkative ; so that,
when he had invited his friends to see him, some
morsel or other continually made its appearance ;
and, as Stilling had a good memory, he retained
every thing correctly, and thus learnt, in the
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 243
three years which Raschmann spent at Marburg,
the whole connexion of that, which has subse-
quently produced such great and dreadful phe-
nomena in the ecclesiastical and political horizon,
and when he connected that, which he himself
had leamt and read, with the fragments above-
mentioned, and rectified one by the other, a cor-
rect and true whole resulted from it. How useful
and necessary this knowledge was to Stilling, is
still, and will be in future, may be judged of by
those who have a clear insight into the object of
their existence.
v2
'"' a,,Google
CHAP. V.
THE first weeks after Eliza's marriage were plea-
sant, and her path was strewed with flowers.
Stilling had also no other afiliction, but his tor-
menting spasmodic attack ; but a fortnight before
Christmas, his constant house-friend again ap-
peared in a very serious manner.
Hannah, from her youth up, had often, and
frequently suffered dreadfully from a tetter on the
lef't cheek ; Selma had employed every possible
means to deliver her from it, and Eliza continued
the attempt with all zeal. Just at that time,
there came a celebrated physician to Marburg,
who was also consulted, and he prescribed the
external application of the sublimate of mercury.
Now, whether it was this, or a predisposition
inherited from her late mother, Christina, or both
together, that produced such dreadful conse-
quences, I know not. Hannah was seized, about
'"' a,,Google
YEARS 011' TUITION. 245
the time above-mentioned, with the most dreadful
hysteric fits. These attacks, so painfully exciting
to every beholder, were particularly terrific to
Eliza; and besides this, she was in the family-way;
yet, notwithstanding, she heroically took courage,
and nursed Haµnah f'Rithfully. But the Lord
graciously preserved her from all prejudicial .con-
sequences.
This was the first act of the tragedy; the second
now followed; it was a severe and fiery ordeal for
Stilling, Eliza, and Hannah. I will relate it, for
the warning and instruction of the young ; yet, in
such a manner, that a certain family, whom I
much esteem, will be satisfied with it.
Hannah had been requested, in a polite com-
pany, to sing and play. She complied. What
can be more innocent than this ? and yet it was
the sole occasion of passing half a year of anxious
and painful suffering. 'f\. young man who was
studying divinity, and whose self-will had never
been broken, whom Hannah had previously never
seen, nor heard the least of, was present on the
occasion. He was so enchanted with the singing,
that from that period, he employed all, and at
length the most desperate means of obtaining pos-
session of her. He first applied for her, and was
, told, that when he was properly provided for, no
objections would be made, if he could gain Han-
nah's consent. But this was by far not enough ;
he insisted upon it, that the assurance should be
then given him, that she would marry him.
Y3
'"' a,,Google
246 HEINRICH STlLLING'S
Hannah declared aloud, that she could never love
him, nor marry him ; and that she had never
given him the smallest·occasion for this applica-
tion. But all this was unavailing. He next
applied to the parents, and sought to prove to
them, that it was their duty to compel their daugh-
ter to marry him ; and on this proof being found
invalid, he attempted violence. He came once,
unexpectedly, into Stilling's house, whilst Stilling
was lecturing, and burst into the room where
Hannah was ; fortunately she had a female friend
with her; her father heard her anxious cry, and
ran thither with brother Coing; and both of them
reproached the senseless man most bitterly.
He then took lodgings at an inn, immediately
opposite, that he might repeat the tragedy any
moment; but, on Hannah's being removed to a
place of safety, he again withdrew. Another
time, he made his appearance unawares, and acted
in such a wild and riotous manner, that Stilling
was obliged to shew him the door. He then ran
to the Coings' house, where mother Coing was
lying dangerously ill; Eliza, who was there just
at the time, with a strong arm, pushed him out
of doors. He now became desperate; was fetched
back from the river, into which he intended to
plunge himself ; then cast himself on·the ground
before Stilling's house, and was at length, with
difficulty, sent back to his home, which was some
leagues distant ; he afterwards roamed about the
country, and assailed Stilling with threatening
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION 247
letters ; so that, at length, he was compelled to
request the aid of the magistrates, and to procure
his safety in that manner.
The poor and pitiable young man went abroad,
where he died in the bloom of his .years. It will
not be difficult for parents, and young people of
both sexes, to draw due advantage, and appro-
priate instruction, from this melancholy affair,
which was so painful to Stilling and his family.
The good Hannah was however happily rewarded
for this fiery trial. In the village of Dexbach.
in the province of Darmstadt, five leagues from
Marburg, there was a young clergyman of the
name of Schwarz, who lived in intimate friend-
ship with Stilling, and being still unmarried, kept
house with his excellent mother and amiable sister.
This pious and upright man afterwards rendered
himself celebrated by several valuable treatises,
particularly on " The Moral Sciences," " The
Religious Teacher," elementary works, &c. Han-
nah and his sister Caroline loved each other
cordially, and it was she who was with Hannah
when the student burst into the room. It was
this young lady also who took her to Dexbach,
to her brother's house in safety. Through the
wise guidance of God, and in a christian and
becoming manner, there arose between Schwarz
and Hannah a love which was acceptable in the
sight of God, and which was crowned with the
consent of the parents, and the paternal goodness
of God. In the spring of the year 1792, the
mo ;ze, ,,Google
248 HEINRICH STILLING's
marriage was solemnized between Schwarz and
Hannah in Stilling's house. She makes a good
wife, a good mother of six hopeful children, an
excellent assistant in her husband's seminary, and
altogether a worthy woman, who causes joy to her
virtuous husband and her parents.
The unpleasant affair with the student occurred
in the first half of the year 1791, which was also
aggravated by two mournful events. In the month
of February, died little Franz, the suckling which
Selma left behind her, of water in the head, and
mother Coing also now approaching her end. She
had been in a weak state for some time, and was
in particular subject to asthma. By works oflove
which she had performed in sitting up at night,
she had taken cold; her illness now became serious
and dangerous. Stilling visited her frequently; she
was tranquil and joyful, and met her dissolution
with an indescribable calmness ofsoul ; and when
she thought of her children, Stilling assured her
that they should be his, if their parents died before
him.
All these mournful events operated so preju-
dicially on Eliza's health, that she also fell ill,
though not dangerously so ; however she wa:s
obliged to keep her bed, which pained her, because
she was unable to visit her good mother. Both
the invalids, mother and daughter, daily inter-
changed messages, aud each comforted the other
with the idea that their case was not dangeroll$'.
One morning early towards the end of March,
mo ;ze, ,,Google
,.........._
YEARS OF TUITlON. 249
the melancholy news arrived, that mother Coing
had departed this life. It was Stilling's lot to
inform Eliza of it ; this was a painful task, but he
accomplished it, and then ran to her parent's
house. As he entered the room, the beloved
corpse met his eye; she lay on a field-bed, oppo-
site the door ; she had been a very handsome
woman, and the long continued and tranquil exer-
cise of a religious life had ennobled her features
uncommonly ; not hope, but the enjoyment of
eternal life beamed upon bet pallid countenance.
Father Coing stood before the corpse, he smiled
at Stilling through tears, and said, " Thank God !
she is safe with God!" He mourned, but in a
christian-like manner.
There is no conviction more pleasing, or more
heart elevating, than that of knowing our dear
departed friends are happy. Father Coing, who
celebrated his birthday about this time, had in-
treated God for his dear consort, as a birthday
gift, but did not obtain it ; Stilling had prayed
half a year for Selma's life, but was a1so not
heard.
My dear christian readers ! do not suffer such
instances to deter you from prayer. It is the
Father's will, that we, his children, should ask
him for every thing, because this retains us con-
tinually in attachment to, and dependance upon,
him. If he cannot grant us that for which we
pray, he bestows upon us something better in its
stead. We may rest assured, that the Lord heafS
'"' a,,Google
250 HEINRICH STILLING's
every believing prayer; we always obtain some·
thing by it, which we would not have obtained
without praying, and that, indeed, which is the
best for us.
When a christian has made such progress, that
he is able to remain c~ntinually in the presence of
God, and has entirely and unreservedly offered up
his own will to the only good will of God ; he
prays incessantly in the inward centre of his being.
The Spirit of the Lord then makes intercession
for him with unutterable sighing ; and then he
never prays in vain, for the Holy Spirit knows
what is the will of God. Therefore when he
invites the heart to pray for something, he at the
same time gives faith and confidence that the
prayer will be heard. The man prays, and his
prayer is answered. .
Stilling and Eliza, from the commencement of
their union, had taken the resolution of having
their son Jacob, who was by the first marriage,
again with them. He was now seventeen years
old, and therefore it was time he should begin his
academical course. He had hitherto been in
the boarding school of the worthy, learned, and
reverend Mr. Grimm, at Schluttern, in the neigh-
bourhood of Heilbronn, where he had been
educated, and prepared for studying : now as Stil-
ling could only travel during the vacation, the
next Easter holidays were fixed upon for that
purpose; and Jacob was therefore written to, to
be, on a day appointed, at friend Mieg's in Heidel-
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 251
burg, for his parents would come hither and fetch
him. They also determined to take Lisette back
with them ; for Eliza wished to have all the four
children together, in order to enable her to exer-
cise her maternal duties towards them with all
fidelity; and that they might likewise afford a
refreshing season and a beneficial recreation to
father Coing and his children in their profound
sorrow, they both resolved to take these dear
friends with them to their friend Kraft in Frank-
fort, and then, on their return from Heidelburg,
take them back to Marburg, The whole of this
plan was carried into effect precisely in this man-
ner, during the Easter holidays, in 1791.
Soon after their arrival in Heidelburg, Jacob
also made his appearance. He was become a good
and worthy youth, who caused joy to his parents.
He likewise rejoiced to see them, and that he was
again at length about to live with them. But as
it respects Lisette, there were difficulties in the
way. Madame Mieg, who had no children, wished
to keep the girl, and asserted also, that her mo-
ther, whose heart was attached to the child, might
possibly pay for it with her life, if the child were
removed from her. It pained Stilling to the soul
to leave his little daughter behind, and Eliza
wept ; she believed it was her duty, and not that
of another, to bring up the children of her de-
parted friend, and that they would be eventually
required at her hands, and not at those of another.
However, the two parents contented themselves,
'"' a,,Google
252 HEINRICH STILLING's
and left the dear child in the care of their friend
Mieg ; that it was well taken care of, will be seen
in the sequel. They then returned with their son
back again to Frankfort. Brother Coing accom-
panied them on this journey into the Palatinate.
After a short stay in Frankfort, the whole
company commenced their journey back to Mar-
burg, where the two professors arrived in sufficient
time to resume their vocation and their lectures.
In the autumn of 1791, Eliza was happily
brought to bed of a daughter, to whom was given
the name ofLubecka, customary in the family ofthe
Duisings. With the exception of Stilling's spas-
modic attacks, there was now a small cessation of
suffering ; but it did not last long ; for Hannah,
who was now betrothed to Schwarz, was again
seized with the most dreadful hysteric fits, from
which, however, she was entirely freed, in a few
weeks, by that very able physician, Michaelis,
who also belongs to Stilling's most intimate
friends.
On new year's day, 1792, Stilling was chosen
pro-rector of the university. This dignity has
always been held in high estimation ; but, on the
other hand, there is no university, in which this
office is so difficult to fill, as that of Marburg.
Stilling entered upon it, confiding in divine assis-
tance; and really he needed it, t.his year, more
than ever.
As Easter, and consequently Hannah's mar-
riage, was now approaching, Eliza undertook the
'"' a,,Google
TEARS OF TUITION. 253
preparation of the dower, and Stilling invited
uncle Kraft with his consort and children, and
likewise father Wilhelm Stilling to the wedding.
They all came, and Stilling reckons this season as
one of the most delightful in his whole life; to the
crossbearer, Wilhelm Stilling, it was, as he e::r.-
preased himself, a foretaste ofheaven. Schwarz
and Hannah were united to each other in Stilling's
house, amidst the blessings of their parents, grand-
parents, friends, and relatives ; their marriage is
a happy one, and it goes well with them. Their
beloved visitors then returned again to their
homes.
A young gentleman had been for some time
studying at Marburg, the present Prussian coun-
sellor of administration, Von Vincke. He lodged
in Stilling's house, and also dined at his table ;
and was one of the most. excellent young men who
have ever studied at Marburg. His father, the
Rev. Dean Von Vincke, of Minden, now wrote to
say, that he would come this summer, with his
lady and family, and would visit Stilling and his
Eliza. They did so, just as the German princes
were marching to Champagne, and the Duke of
Weimar with his regiment passed through Mar-
burg. Stilling now became acquainted with this
prince. The dean and he spent a pleasant after-
noon with him. After this agreeable visit, Eliza
was again ill; she was in a state of pregnancy,
which was rendered abortive by this event; how-
ever it passed over happily, so that on the ninth
z
'"' a,,Google
....
254 HEINRICH STJLLJNG'S
day, the weather being very beautiful, she was
able to go out again. They determined therefore
to go to the garden, and as Schwarz and Hannah
were there also to visit their mother, father Coing
likewise joined the company in the garden. He
was that afternoon particularly cheerful and happy,
and as he was afraid of the evening air, which
Eliza also could not bear, he took her by the arm,
and ~onducted her home, and as he passed along
under the garden wall, the young people strewed
flowers upon him from above.
The n_
ext morning, at five o'clock, Stilling's
kitchen maid came into his room, and requested
him to come out; he dressed himself a little, went
out, and found Schwarz and Hannah, ·pale and
with downcast eyes, standing in the room oppo-
site. "Dear father," began Schwarz, ''what. yon
have so often foreboded has occurred; father
Coing is no more ! " These words ·penetrated
Stilling like a thunderbolt, through·and through,
and with it the consideration of his Eliza, who
was still so weak, and who loved her father so
tenderly! However;he took courage, went to her
bedside, and said, "Eliza, a dear friend is dead! ••
she answered, "0 God! Hannah!" for she was
also in the family way. "No," replied he, "it is
father Coing ! " Eliza grieved very much ; how...
ever, she bore it with christian resignation. Yet
still, this fright laid the basis for a painful afllic-
tion, which she has ev,er since had to bear.
Stilling now hastened to the dear family; they
mo ;ze, ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 255
were all three standing in the room, weeping.
Stilling embraced and kissed them, and said,
"You are now all thr~e my children ; as soon as
it is possible, remove to my· house." This accord-
ingly took place, as soon as the corpse was
interred. The residing together with this dear
tamily, was, in the sequel, indescribably·beneficial
and consoling to Stilling, as will be subseq11ently
seen. Father Coing had been seized with symp-
toms of suffocation, the physician had been called,
and all possible means used to save him, but in
vain. He declared very calmly, that he was ready
to die. He was an excellent man, and his blessing
rests upon his children.
The most important period of Stilling's life now
commences ; changes took place in him and out
of him, which gave his whole being a very im-
portant direction, and prepai·ed him for the situa-
tion he was eventually to fill.
Soon after father Coing's death, the time arrived
when, as pro-rector of the University of Marburg,
he was obliged, in company with the government
eommissary, to travel to Lower Hesse, to visit the
districts there, under the jurisdiction of the Uni-
versity, and to sell the tithe belonging to it, to the
highest bidder. The two friends, Riess and Stil-
ling th&efore set out on the journey, and the
latter took Eliza with him, in order to afford her
recreation and amusement, and to accelerate her
recovery; for her illness, and in particular, her
father's sudden death had brought her very low.
z2
256 HEINRICH STILLING's
After executing the duties of their office, Stilling
returned with her again, by way of Cassel, to Mar-
burg. At Cassel, and even previausly, Eliza
began tO observe an unpleasant sensation inwardly
in the neck ; this feeling became stronger on
arriving at Cassel, and on the right side of the
neck arose an involuntary and occasional convul-
sive movement of the head towards the right side,
but still it was not perceptible ; she then travelled
home, and attended to her domestic duties.
The autumnal vacation now again approached.
Their uncle Kraft at Frankfort, wrote that there
was a rich blind Jewess there, who wished to be
couched for the cataract by Stilling, and that she
would gladly pay the expences of his journey, if he
would come and administer his aid. Stilling was
agreeable to this ; but required, first, to procure
permission at Cassel, because the pro-rector of
Marburg, was not at liberty to pass a night out of
the town. He obtained the permission, and con-
sequently confided his office to the ex-pro-rector,
and set out for Frankfort accampanied by his
Eliza. On arriving towards evening at Vilbel, a
beautiful village on the Nidda, two leagues from
Frankfort, and as they were stopping before an
inn to feed the horses, the hostess came out to the
coach, and said, with an anxious expression of
countenance," 0, are yott aware, that the French
have entered the empire, and have already taken
Spires ? " This intelligence penetrated through
Stilling's whole existence like an electric shock,
'"' a,,Google
YEARS 01" TUITION. 257
but still he hoped that it was a mere report, and
might not. be so bad; he therefore continued his
journey to Frankfort with his at.tendants, and
took up his residence there with Mr. Kraft. He
now learnt, that the news was but too true in its
whole extent ; and that the whole city was in a
state of apprehension and disturbance. It is quite
requisite that I make a few observations here, on
the singular effects which this information pro-
duced in Stilling's soul.
King Louis the Fourteenth, of France, after
him the Duke of Orleans, who was regent, and
finally, Louis the Fifteenth, had, in the course of
a century, introduced an unexampled degree of
luxury into France. A nation that is sunk in
voluptuousness, and whose nerves are weakened
by every species of licentiousness, receives the
witty derisions of a Voltaire as philosophy, and
the sophistical dreams of a Rousseau as religion.
Hence, a national character naturally arises, which
is extremely captivating, agreeable, and pleasing
to the sensual man; and having that which is
dazzling in the system, and at the same time pos-
sessing an external polish, it becomes interesting
even to the reflecting mind, and therefore gains
the approbation of every cultivated nation.
It was for this reason also, that our German
nobility, both high and low, regarded France as
the chief school for politeness, good breeding, and
-morality.. They were ashamed of the powerful
German language, and spoke French ; French
z3
258 HEINRICH STILLING'S
adventurers, friseurs, and-it was enough if they
were but French, were chosen for the tutors of
~ture rulers; and very frequently, French mil-
liners for governesses of our princesses, countesses,
and ladies. The German national character, and
religion along with it, went out of fashion, and
into the lumber room.
Learned men, and theologians in particular,
were now desirous of giving their advice and
assistance ; and for this purpose, they chose--the
way of accommodation. They sought to make
peace between Christ and Belial ; each was to
give way a little; Christ was to annul the dogmas
of the doctrines of faith, and Belia! to forbid gross
vices, and both were in future to recognize nothing
as the b('Sis of religion, but morality; for they
were agreed upon this, that the latter must be
believed ancl taught ; but as for the performance,
it was left to the liberty of every individual, which
must be held sacred, and be by no means infringed
upon. This Christo-Belia! system was then, par
honneur de tettre to be called christian doctrine,
in order not too grossly to offend Christ, and his
true worshippers. Thus arose the intellectual
enlightening, so much esteemed in the present
day, and the neology of the christian religion.
· But I earnestly beg that I may not be mistaken.
None of these men volt~ntarily intended to make
peace between Christ and Belial; especially as the
existence of the latter was no longer believed ;
but the basis of all human ideas, which impercep-
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 259
tibly insinuates itself from youth up, into the
essence of human reflection, opinion, and infer-
ence; and which, if the individual be not very
watchful, urges itself upon him quite involuntarily,
by the spirit of the times, altered the moral prin-
ciple and reason in such a manner, that people
now found ·much in the bible that was super-
stitious, ridiculous, and absurd; and therefore
placed themselves above every thing ; and then,
with this spurious principle, and altered organ of
investigation, undertook-the boldest enterprize
ofall-the revision ofthe bible, that ancient and
sacred relic ! Thus arose the beginning of the
great falling away, so clearly foretold by Christ
and his apostles, and especially by Paul, who at
the same time assert, that soon after, the man of
tin, the incarnate Satan, should appear, and be
hurled into the abyss, by the sudden manifes-
tation of the Lord.
These great and important views of the present
state ofChristendom and the kingdom ofGod, had
gradually arisen in Stilling's mind during a long
course of years, partly from the study of history,
partly from observing the signs of the times, pairtly
by the diligent reading and ~tudying the prophecies
of scripture, and partly by secret communications
&om great men ; and their importance filled his
soul. To this, another observation, no less im-
portant, was added, which was in unison with the
former.
He had observed the origin of an extensive al-
'"' a,,Google
260 HEINRICH STil.LING'S
liance amongst people of all ranks ; had seen its
increase and progress, and had become acquainted
with its principles, which had no le!s an object in
view, than the changing of the christian religion
into natural religion, and of the monarchical form
of government into democratic republics, or at
least, into an unobserved direction of the ruling
powers; and had learnt, by the wonderful guidance
of Providence, from Raschmann, how far the
thing had already prospered, and this just at the
time when the French revolution broke out. He
knew in what degree his countrymen who belonged
to this alliance stood in agreement with the
French demagogues, and therefore was sufficiently
informed with respect to the state of the times and
their connection with biblical prophecy.
The result of all these ideas in Stilling's soul,
was, that Germany, because of its pl,aying the
harlot with France, would be severely punished
by this very power; he foresaw the great conflict,
by which the chastisement would be inflicted, for
men are punished by that through which they have
sinned; and as the falling away increased with
rapid strides, he already remotely foreboded the
founding of the kingdom of the man of sin. That
all this was really so, that is, that these ideas
really existed in Stilling's soul before any one
thought of the French revolution and its conse-
quences, is evident from certain passages in his
writings, and particularly from an oration he made
in 1786, before the Electoral German Society at
-
'"' a,,Google
YBARS OF TUITION. 261
Mannheim, but which, from reasons that may
be easily conceived, did not appear in print. But
with all his ideas and convictions, he had not.
supposed that the storm would so rapidly and
Sllddenly break out over Germany. He conceived,
it is true, that the French revolution would lay the
remote basis for ·the last great conflict between
light and darkness, but he had no presentiment
that this con1J.ict was so near ; for he did not
doubt that the united forces of the German princes
would conquer in France. But now, when he
learnt that the result was quite different, his feelings
were indescribable. On the one hand, the ap-
proaching fulfilment of such expectations as ex-
ceed the highest wishes of t.he christian ; and on
the other, expectations also of unheard of sufferings
and aftlictions, which the impending mighty con-
flict would unavoidably bring with it. Truly, a
state of mind the weight of which might have
easily pressed to the ground a man, who had
suffered so much, and laboured so hard, and still
laboured, if Providence had not inten9.ed to pre-
serve him for objects of importance.
It might be supposed, that this of itself was a
sufficient ordeal ; but just at this very anxious
season, a particular heat was added, which the
Great Refiner, for reasons known to him alone,
found it needful to permit. I have mentioned
above, that Eliza, by a fright in a weak state
from indisposition, bad been seized with a convul-
sive motion of the head towards the right side.
'"' a,,Google
262 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Hitherto the evil had not been very considerable,
but it now became terrible and dreadful to the
good soul and her husband; for the second day of
her abode in Frankfort, a terrific alarm was spread,
that the French were on the march. The magis-
trates assembled on the Romer; water-casks were
filled in order to extinguish tire during the bom-
bardment, &c. ; in a word, the general panic was
indescribable. With respect to Eliza, there was
also another consideration ; the university of Mar-
burg forms one of the Hessian states, Stilling was
its pro-rector, and its sovereign was at war with
France. -There was therefore nothing more pro-
bable, than that the French, on entering Frank-
fort, would send Stilling as a hostage to France.
This was too much for Eliza, who tenderly loved
her husband; her head now moved continually
towards the right shoulder, and the whole of the
upper part of her body was thereby distorted.
Eliza suffered much from it, and Stilling thought
he should have died in the midst of so much
misery. Eliza had a straight and fine figure, but
now a disagreeable and suffering form ; it would
scarcely be endured. Beside all this, it was utterly
impossible to leave the town ; they were therefore
under the necessity of remaining there, that day
and the next; when it appeared that the French
first sought to take Mayence. Stilling now found
an opportunity for departing; and as the Jeweu
was incurably blind, he travelled back again with
Eliza to Marburg. Every possible means were
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 263
then attempted to deliver the worthy soul from her
aftliction, but every thing has been hitherto in
vain. She has now suffered in this way for more
than eleven years; it is certainly rather better than
at that time, however, it is still a very heavy cross
for herself and her husband to bear.
Stilling faithfully persevered in the discharge of
llis office as pro-rector and professor, and Eliza
bore her afB.iction as becomes a christian ; to this
was now joined the fear of being attacked by the
French. The EJector returned, it is true, about the
beginning of October, but his troops followed him
very slowly, on account of the badness of the wea-
ther. Hesse and the whole country was therefore
unprotected, and the French General, Custine,
could have acted as he liked. If his courage and
his understanding had been as large as his whisk-
ers and mustachios, the greater part of Germany
would have lost its political existence ; for the
general feeling was, at that t.ime, revolutionary,
and favourable to France.
However, it was not then known what Custine's
intentions were, and it was necessary to be prepa-
red for every thing. His troops ravaged the
Wetterau, and at times the thunder of their cannon
was heard. All prepared for flight, with the
exception of the heads of the college, who dared
not leave their posts, consequently Stilling no
more than the rest ; he was obliged to hold it
out. This situation of things oppressed his soul
extremely which was already harassed on all sides.
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STILLING'S
One Sunday morning, towards the end of
October, the terrible report was spread in the
town, that the French were near at hand, and
coming down the Lahnberg. Stilling's anxiety
now became insupportable. He fell on his knees
in his study, and besought the Lord, with tean,
for strength and consolation ; his eyes then fell
upon a little text-book, which stood before him
amongst other books ; he felt incited in his mind,
to open it ; on doing so, he found the text, " I
will lift up mine eyes to the hills, from whence
cometh my help ; my help cometh from the Lord,
&c." he opened it again, and found, I will be a
wall of fire round about them, &c." He rose up
encouraged and comforted, and after that time, he
was no longer afraid of the French ; nor did any
of them come, and the Prussians and Hessians
soon after approached, Frankfort was retaken, and
Mayence beseiged.
Here I must make two observations, which none
of my readers will take amiss.
1. The opening upon passages of Scripture, in
order to ascertain the will of God, or even the
future, is certainly an abuse of the Holy Scriptures,
and not permitted a cbristian. If a person wishes
to do it, in order to derive consolation from the
divine word-it ought to be done in complete
resignation and submission to the will of God ;
but he ought not t.o be cast down or discouraged,
if he hits upon a passage which is not of a conso-
ling nature. Cutting for a text is no means which
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 26.5
God has ever appointed for any object ; it is a
kind of lot; and this is a sacred thing which ought
not to be profaned.
2. Stilling's extreme timidity may possibly
excite in some, unfavorable ideas of him, as if he
were a man devoid of courage. To this it may be
answered, that Stilling trembles at every danger,
whether great or small, before it is realized : but
when it arrives, he is confident and courageous,
even in the greatest trials. This is the natural
consequence of long endured sufferings ; we fear
them, because we know their pain, and endure
them with confidence, because we are accustomed
to bear them, and are acquainted with their
blissful results.
Stilling was invited by the worthy family of the
Von Vincke's to visit them at Prussian Minden
during the next Easter vacation. He thankfully
accepted this invitation, and his ininate, young
Von Vincke, and some friends from Cassel accom-
panied him. Stilling suffered much on this journey,
from spasms in the stomaeh; the weather was raw,
and he rode thither on horseback. He also
accompanied the family above mentioned to their
sumptuous manorial residence of Ostenwalde, four
leagues from Osnabruck, and then travelled home
again by way of Detmold.
Stilling became acquainted with some remark-
able individuals on this journey, with some of
whom he also entered into an intimate and friendly
connection, namely the lately deceased princess
2 A
'"' a,,Google
266 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Juliana of Biickeburg, Kleuker of Osnabruck, who
had however already visited Stilling in Marburg,
Moser and his daughter, Madame Von Voight, the
princess Christina of Lippe· Detmold, the three
divines, Ewald, Passavant, and Von Colln, and
Doctor Scherf, Physician to the prince of Lippe.
All these worthy individuals manifested respect
and kindness to Stilling. There was also then
living in Detmold, a very worthy matron, the
widow of the late Superintendent-general Stosch,
with her daughters, the eldest of whom had been
Selma's intimate friend. Stilling visited her,
and was received with affecting tendemess. On
taking leave, the venerable woman fell on his neck,
and said, " If we see each other no more in this
world, pray for me, that the· Lord would perfect
that which concerns me, in order that I may be
able eventually to embrace you again in his king-
dom with more joy than at present."
On Stilling's return from this journey to Mar-
burg, when he came to his house door, Eliza
stepped out to receive her husband ; but what a
sight ! a sword pierced his soul ; Eliza stood there,
bent and crooked; the motion in her neck com-
municated itself more violently to the upper part
of her body; it was dreadful! His heart bled with
sympathy and sorrow, but this was of no avail, he
must needs bear it. However, every thing was
done to cure the good woman, and the most
powerful remedies were resorted to ; four balls of
Mora were burnt upon her shoulder, on the bare
'"' a,,Google
YBARS OF TUITION. 267
skin. She bore this dreadful pain without uttering
a word; but it was of no utility. · She used baths,
especially the shower bath, which is very powerful
inits operation, but it all ended in nothing ; besides
that, she was obliged to suft'er a second miscarriage,
in which her life was really endangered; but with
the divine assistance, she was restored again, by
the means that were employed. By d~s, the
convulsive motion in her neck amended itself so
far, as to make it, at least, more tolerable.
In the spring of the year 1793, br6ther Coing
entered upon the pastoral office, having been
appointed to the Reformed Church at Gemnnd, a
town in the principality of Upper Hessia five
leagues from Marburg. He had resided above
half-a-year in Stilling's house. Coing would have
been his brother, even though no bond of consan-
guinity bad endeared him to him.
That which is the most remarkable in the
history of Stilling's life, daring this and the fol-
lowingyeu, is the publication of two works, which
were peculiarly instrumental in determining his
final vocation; these were, "Scenes in the invisible
World,.. in two volumes; and "Nostalgia,..• in
four volumes, with the key belonging to it.
The '' Scenes in the Invisible World,.. produced
a unexpected effect, they gained Stilling a large
• We have no word in use in English, corresponding with
the German word " Heimweh," which literally means " home-
ache," probably because no such disease is known in this
country.-Note of the Translator.
2A2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
268 HEINRICH STILLING'S
class of religious readers, I may say with truth,
and without boasting, in every quarter of the
globe. By their means, the true worshippers of
#Jesus Christ were again made attentive to the
man, the history of whose life had already made
an impression upon them; but the "Nostalgia.,"
completed every thing ; it gave the first bias to
Stilling's future pursuits, as the sequel will show.
The origin of both books is very remarkable,
for it proves incontestibly, that Stilling did not
contribute the smallest .thing towards the pro-
curing cause of his subsequent appointment; as
indeed was the case during the whole of his
course, as I will show at the end of this volume.
However, with respect to these books, and par-
ticularly the" Nostalgia," which proved peculiarly
instrumental in that respect, it is requisite that I
relate their origin circumstantially, and according
to the precise state of the case.
The " Scenes in the Invisible World " origin-
ated as follows. Whilst Raschmann and his
Counts were at Marburg, one evening, in com-
pany at his house, Wieland's translation of Lucian
was spoken of. Raschmann read a few passages
from it which were extremely comical ; the whole
company laughed aloud ; and every one admired
the translation as an inimitable master-piece. On
a certain occasion, this book again occurred to
Stilling; and he wrote for it immediately, withont
reflection. ·Some time after, his conscience smote
him for this hasty step. " What ! " said the re~
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 269
proving voice in his soul, "thou art about to
purchase so valuable a book in seven volumes ;
and for what purpose! merely in order to laugh!
yet thou hast still so many ~bts, and must pro-
vide for thy wife and family ! and if this were not
the case, how much assistance mightest thou have
afforded by it to some poor sufferer ! Thou art
buying a book, which is not even of use to thee in
any part of thy vocation, much less necessary."
Stilling now stood before his judge like a poor
criminal, that surrenders himself at discretion. It
was a hard struggle, a painful wrestling for grace ;
but at length he obtained it, and then sought, on
hia part, to make reparation for this transgression
as much as possible. If Lucian and Wieland,
thought he, have written scenes in the world of
fabulous deities, partly in order to exhibit the ab-
surdity of the heathen mythology in a ridiculous
point of view, and partly also to amuse their
readers with it, I will now write scenes in the real
christian invisible world, for the serious con-
sideration and for the instruction and edification
ofthe reader, and apply what I may obtain for the
work to the benefit of poor blind people." He
carried this idea into execution, and thus origin-
ated a book, which produced the entirely unex-
pected effect above mentioned.
The origin of the "Nostalgia" was just as little
the result of reflection. Stilling, from particular
inducement, had perused attentively Sterne's
"Tristram Shandy." Soon after it also hap-
2A3
mo ;ze, ,,Google
270 HEINRICH STlLLJNG'S
pened that he read the " Genealogical Biogra-
phies." Both books, as is well known, are written
in a sententious and humorous style. In the perusal
of these works, Stilling had a very different object
in view, from that which Providence intended.
To these two preparatives a third was added.
Sti1Iing had for a long time accustomed himself
daily to translate a passage out of the Old Testa-
ment from the Hebrew, and another out of the
New from the Greek, and then form from them a
concise and pithy sentence. He had a large store
ofsuch sentences in his possession, with no other
object in view than biblical study. Now who
could imagine, that these insignificant and, in
reality, trifling things, should have laid the real
and peculiar foundation for the developement of
such a remarkable circumstance ? Truly ! Stilling
had not the remotest presentiment of it.
Soon after the perusal of the books above men-
tioned, and about the end of July, 1793, Mr.
Krieger, a bookseller in Marburg, came one fore-
noon to Stilling, and requested him to give him
something of a classical nature, in the shape of a
novel, to publish, in order that he might have
something which might prove profitable to him,
because the dry compendia went oft' so slowly, &c.
Stilling found something in his mind, which ac-
quiesced in this request ; he therefore promised
him a work of the kind, and that he would com-
mence it without delay.
The idea now suddenly occurred to Stilling,
YEARS OF TUITION. 271
that from his youth up, he had cherished the wish
in his soul, after John Bunyan's example, to pour-
tray the true christian's path of repentance, con-
version, and sanctification, under the similitude of
ajourney ; he therefore resolved to put this idea ·
into execution, and as he had- only lately been
reading those humorous works, to adopt that
style and mode of diction, and then intermingle in
it his stock of sentences in an appropriate manner.
An idea which he had shortly before.expressed in
writing in a person's album, gav~ occasion to the
title" Nostalgia," it was as follows:-
" Blessed are they that long for home,
For thither they shall surely come ;"
for it was his opinion, that this title would suit
well to a book, which ·was intended to describe
the painful journey of a christian to his heavenly
home.
Thus prepared, Stilling began to write his
"Nostalgia." But as he was not fully confident,
whether he would succeed in this method, he read
the first six parts to his intimate friends, Michaelis
and Schlarbaum; who were extremely well pleased
with the commencement, and encouraged him to
,proceed in the same manner. But in order to be
the more sure, he selected seven individuals from
the circle of his friends, who met at his house
once a fortnight, and to whom he read what he
had written in the intervening time, and heard
their judgment respecting it.
The state of mind which Stilling experienced
272 HEINRICH STILLING's
whilst labouring at this work, which consists of
four large octavo volumes, is utterly indescribable.
His spirit was as if elevated into ethereal regions ;
a feeling of serenity and peace pervaded him, and
·he enjoyed a felicity, which words cannot express.
When be began to work, ideas glistened past his
soul, which animated him so much, that he could
scarcely write so rapidly as the 1low of ideas
required. This was also the reason why the whole
work took quite another form, and the composition
quite another tendency, to that which he had
proposed at the commencement,
There was, besides, another singular phenome-
non ; in the state between sleeping and waking,
the most beautiful and as it were, paradisaical
scenery presented itself to his inward senses. He
attempted to delineate it, but found it impossible;
with this imagery, there was always a feeling
connected, compared with which all the joys of
sense are as nothing ; it was a blissful season !
This state of mind lasted exactly as long as Stil-
ling was engaged in writing the "Nostalgia,"
that is from August 1793, to December 1794,
consequently full a year and a quarter.
But here I must seriously entreat the christian
reader, not to judge uncharitably, as if Stilling
wished from this, to arrogate to himself divine
inspiration, or even anything of that nature.
No friends! Stilling assumed no such thing. It
was an exalted feeling of the nearness of the Lord,
who is the Spirit ; this light irradiated the powers
'"' a,,Google
YEARS .TUITION. 273
of his soul, and enlightened his imagination and
reason. In this light, Stilling was to write the
"Nostalgia;" but yet it is still an imperfect
human work. Supposing that an apprentice, who
had hitherto produced wretched performances by
the dubious light of a lamp, had his window
shutters suddenly thrown open, and the light of
the sun suffered to shine into his work-room, hiB
productions would still be only those of an appren-
tice, but yet they would be better than before.
Hence came also the unexampled approbation
which this book met with. A number of copies
wandered to America, where it is much read. In
Asia, where there are also some pious Germans,
the "Nostalgia" was known and read. From
Denmark, Sweden, and Russia, even to Astrachan,
Stilling received proofs of this approbation. Out
~every province in Germany, from persons of all
ranks, from the throne to the plough, Stilling
received a multitude of letters, which testified the
loudest approval ; not a few learned sceptics were
convinced by it, and gained over to true christia-
nity ; in a word, there are few books that have
caused such a powerful.and extensive sensation as
Stilling's " Nostalgia." This must not be regarded
as boasting; it belongs to the essential part of
this history.
But the " Nostalgia" operated powerfully and
painfully upon Stilling himself. The delight he
had felt whilst writing it now ceased ; the deep
and inward conviction, that even political economy
mo ;ze, ,,Google
274 HEINRICH .LLING's
was not his real vocation, produced the very same
effect on his mind, as formerly the discovery at
Elberfeld,• that the practice of medicine was not
that for which he was ultimately designed. He
felt the pressure of a dejection, which penetrated
into his inmost soul, an unspeakable melting of
the heart, and contrition of spirit ; all the praise
and all the approbation of princes, and of the
greatest and most excellent men, caused him,
indeed, a momentary joy ; but then he felt pro-
foundly, that all this had not reference to him, and
that aJl the praise belonged to Him alone who had
entrusted·him with such talents. Such is his
atate of mind still, and such it will remain.
It is remarkable, that just at this period, three
voices, entirely independent of each other, declared.
Stilling's academical situation was no longer his
proper vocation.
, The first was an inward conviction, which had
arisen in him during the time he was writing the
"Nostalgia," and for which he was unable to give
a reason. The impulse he had so strongly felt
from his childhood, of becoming an active instru-
ment for the advancement of religion in the Lord's
hands, and which was also always the operative
cause of his religious minor occupations, now
stood more conspicuously before bis eyes than
ever, and filled him with a longing to become free
from all earthly things, in order to be able to
• Called ScAOtimtllal at the commen~ment of the work.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS GI' TUITION 275
serve the Lord and his kingdom actively and with
all his powers.
The second voice, which spoke the same thing,
was contained in every letter he received, whether
from far or near; persons ofevery rank in society,
from the highest to the lowest, called upon him to
devote himself exclusively and entirely to the
service of the Lord and the cause of religion, and
by no means to discontinue his labours in that
department.
The third and last voice was, that just about
this time, academical Orders and a revolutionnry
spirit prevailed amongst the students at Marburg,
by which their whole minds were filled with prin-
oiples and sentiments, which were directly opposed
to the doctrines which Stilling taught. Hence
the number of his hearers continually decreased,
and the spirit of the times, the prevailing mode of
thinking, and the general tendency of the German
financial policy, left him not a glimmer of hope,
that he would be in future of any utility with
reference to his principles of political economy.
I now request my readers calmly to re1lect how
an honest and conscientious man must feel in
such a situation, and whether the whole position
in which Stilling now found himself would have
resulted from blind accident or chance.
However clear and evident all this was, yet the
way to attain to it was equally obscure. No ex-
peclient could be at that time thought of, in order
to arrive at it; for his family was numerous; his
'"' a,,Google
276 HEINRICH STILLING's
son was at the university ; the war and other cir-
cumstances made every thing very dear ; the
needy were many ; his large income was scarcely
sufficient; and there were still many debts to pay.
Eliza, indeed, who trod sincerely in Selma's
footsteps with regard to the housekeeping, had,
notwithstanding all the sickness, heavy expences,
and Hannah's marriage, already liquidated in a
few years, some hundred gilders ; and the interest
was regularly paid every year. But under present
circumstances, it was impossible to think of any
perceptible liquidation of debt ; it was therefore
necessary that Stilling should retain his professor-
ship, and attend to it with all fidelity for the sake
of the stipend. Let the reader imagine himselfin
his place ; insurmountable hindrances lay in the
way of the vocation and sphere of action in which
he could have been most beneficially and cheer-
fully occupied, and to which from his youth up,
he had an unconquerable inclination. On the
other hand, that vocation, in which he was obliged
to labour, without benefit and without hope, was
completely indispensable to him. And joined with
this, was the melancholy idea of what the Elector
would say, when he learnt that Stilling did, or
rather was able to do, so little for his heavy salary.
The year 1794 again strewed many thorns in
Stilling's path; for in February, Eliza's eldest
daughter, Lubecka, died, from the consequences
of the measles, and in the sequel, other bitter
suft'erings were added.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 211
In July of the following summer, Lavater wrote
to him that he would pass through Marburg on
his return from Copenhagen. This caused him
real joy ; he had seen this friend of his heart just
twenty years before in Elberfeld, and conse-
quently only once in his life ; but still, at times,
had exchanged confidential letters with him. It
was of extreme importance to him, to converse
once more personally with this witness for the
truth, and discuss many subjects with him, which
were too difficult and copious for correspondence.
Lavater arrived one Sunday afternoon in Mar-
bnrg, with his pious and amiable daughter, at
present the consort of the Rev. Mr. Gessner, of
Znrich. Stilling went about a league to meet
him. Lavater continued at Marburg until early
the next morning, when he proceeded on his
journey.
It is difficult to call to mind in the whole
course of history, a learned man that has excited
so much attention, and that so little sought to do
so, as Lavater. In the evening, whilst he was
snpping in Stilling's the place before the house
was filled with people, and the windows were
crowded with heads. He was certainly in many
respects a remarkable man, and a great witness of
the troth of Jesus Christ. .The bond of fraternity
was now more firmly established between Lavater
and Stilling; they strengthened each other, and
resolved that neither death, nor life, nor re-
proach, nor shame, should ever cause them to
2B
'"' a,,Google
•
278 HEINRICH STILLING's
turn away from Christ, who was then so despised
and hated.
Soon afterwards followed the bitter affiiction I
have mentioned above ; it was a fiery trial. Stil-
ling was wont, during the Whitsuntide holidays,
to go with his auditory to Cassel, in order to shew
them the foreign horticultural productions at
Wilhelmshohe. This was done principally for
the sake of those who studied the arLorous scien-
ces ; but many others also accompanied him to
see what else was remarkable in Cassel. The
journey thither and back was generally performed
on foot. On this occasion, Stilling had the plea-
sure to see one ·of his wishes fulfilled by the
Elector, which was, the laying out a particular
nursery for forest trees. As be was retiiming
home with his retinue, and the students were
conversing amongst themselves of the pleasure
they bad enjoyed at Cassel, and that every thing
bad succeeded so well, Stilling joined in the
conversation, and said, " I have likewise been
much pleased, for I have also obtained something
of which I was desirous," without explaining
himself further; but he had in his eye the promise
of the Elector, with regard to the nursery of
forest trees.
Now there was at that time a private teacher in
Marburg, a worthy and learned young man, of
whom the students were very fond. He was
addicted to Kant's Philosophy, which at that
time was the order of the day. Now, as the
'"' a,,Google
I
YEARS OF TUITION, 279
Elector was not very favorable to that philosophy,
and had, perhaps, heard something to the preju-
dice of the private teacher, he .sent a rescript to
the young man ; in consequence of which, he was
removed to Hanan, as professor of Philosophy,
with a stipend of a hundred dollars. The latter
was obliged to obey ; hut the student.s were
enraged, and the whole of their suspicion fell upon
Stilling ; for they construed the expression he had
made use of, on the journey from Cassel, respect-
ing the success of his wishes, as having reference
to the removal of the private teacher, of which he
had been the cause. The ferment at length
reached it.s height ; and, in order to make a
tumult, t.hey determined to serenade the private
teacher, who was then ready to depart, and aft.er-
wards take the opportunity of storming Stilling's
house, and breaking his windows. His good son
Jacob was informed of all this; he was studying
Jurisprudence, was very regular and diligent, and
never took the smallest part in such disorderly pro-
ceedings. The worthy youth was in a state of great
anxiety ; for his mother, Eliza, whom he cordially
loved, was again pregnant, and his aunt, Amalia
Coing,Eliza's youngest sister, was mortallyill of the
dysentery. He saw, therefore, before his eyes, the
lives of three individuals in danger ; for the spirit
of the times, at that period, which stood in con-
nexion with the reign of terror in France, breathed
out murder and death ; and the students lived in
the intoxication of revolutionary sentiments.
2B2
280 HEINRICH 8TILLING'S
Jacob t.herefore informed his parents of the
danger that threatened them in the evening, and
requested them to remove the windows, which
were next the street and the square, and to lay
Amalia in another place ; for she lay at the win-
dow towards the street. The windows, however,
were not taken out ; but the invalid had a bed
made behind, in an alcove. Meanwhile, Jacob
went about amongst the students, and represented
to them the danger which might arise from the
fright ! but this was like preaching to deaf ears.
At length, as he ceased not to entreat them, they
consented, on condition that he would also enter
into the Order, and let himself be received into it.
The good youth struggled for two painful hours in
the choice between two evils; ·however; he finally
thought, that entering into an Order WM the
smallest of the two. He therefore did so; the
misfortune was averted, and it was agreed, that
the students, as the procession passed Stilling's
house, should merely shew their hostility by spit-
ting ; this they were at liberi, to do ; there was
room enough in ~he street for it.
Stilling knew not a word of his son's having
entered a student's Order ; b,e first heard of it a
year afterwards, yet so, that it neither occasioned
him terror nor sorrow. Jacob earnestly besought
his parents to send him half a. year to Gottingen.
The true reason of this no one was acquainted
with ; he pretended that it would be much to his
advantage to study in Gottingen. In short, ho
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 281
ceased not, until his parents at length consented,
and sent him for the winter half of the year to
Gottingen ; but his secret object was, to leave the
Order there, and to notify it to the pro-rector ;
he could not do this at Marburg, without exciting
fresh disturbance. Just at that time, all aca-
demical Orders were prohibited by the Diet at
Ravenna, and the universities began the exami-
nation. Jacob had fortunately already given in
his resignation to the pro-rector of the Order, and
received an attestation to that effect, and thus he
escaped the punishment. The following summer,
when he was again in Marburg, the examination
began thei:e also. To their great astonishment,
and quite unexpectedly, they found him likewise
upon the list. He now stood forth, and produced
his attestation ; the matter was referred to the
decision of the Elector. Stilling informed him of
the real reason why his son had entered the Order.
The Elector was pleased with his conduct, and
acquitted him from all punishment, and every
responsibility. L
This year, there arose also a new connection in
Stilling's family. Eliza's two sisters, Maria and
Amalia, both very good and amiable souls, were
to Stilling a real present from God ; he felt happy
in their society, as well as every one who entered
this family circle. The three sisters bore, as it
were, in their hands, the man who by labor and
sorrow was almost pressed down to the ground.
Amalia by her excellent disposition, her beauty
2B3
'"' a,,Google
282 . HEINRICH STILLuw's
and Madonna's countenance had made a deep
impression upon Jacob. At the commencement1
the good young man imagined it was not permitted
to marry his step mother's sister. He struggled
therefore for a time, and was in doubt, whether it
were not better to leave his parent's house. How·
ever he confided his secret to his brother-in-law
Schwarz, who encouraged him, and advised him
to make his parents acquainted with his wishes.
Stilling and Eliza had nothing to object to it, but
gave them both their blessing and their consent to
the marriage, as soon as Jacob was provided for,
but this was not till after the lapse of seven years.
During this period, the conduct of both, as well
as their character, was blameless; but in order to
avoid the tongue of calumny, he undertook, not
long after, the place of governor to a young gen·
tleman who was studying the law at Marburg ;
he removed to the latter's residence, and did not
again live with his parents, until he married
Amalia.
This autumn also, the Elector appointed young
Coing chaplain to the embassy at Ravenna, where
he filled that office for some years, with distin·
guisbed applause.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
CHAP. V.
IN this state of things, cotnmenced the year l795;
on the 4th of January, Eliza was happily delivered
of a son, who received the name of Friedrich,
and is still living. A fortnight afterwards, Stilling
received, on a Sunday afternoon, the mournful
intelligence, that his old and intimate friend,
Kraft,who was his uncle by marriage,had suddenly
entered a blissful eternity. Stilling wept aloud J
for it was a loss, which it would be difficult to
replace.
The m~nner in which this excellent man and
celebrated preacher died, was strikingly beautiful ;
he was sitting with his worthy consort, a daughter,
and one or two good friends, in the evening at
the supper-table; all were cheerful, and Kraft par-
ticularly lively. He was wont to return thanks
aloud at table, which he was also about to do on
this occasion. After supper \Vas ended, he arose,
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STlLLING'S
looked upwards, began to pray, and the same
moment the Lord received his spirit ; he sank
down, and was dead on the spot.
Kraft was a learned theologian, and a man of
great biblical research. Without. possessing par-
ticular pulpit-eloquence, he was an eminent and
popular preacher; in every sermon, something
might be learnt. He always excited the atten-
tion, and irresistibly touched the heart. I was
once in the church at Frankfort ; a Prussian offi-
cer came and sat down by me ; I saw that he was
merely there, in order to have been at church.
The door-keeper came and laid a hymn book
before each of us, open at the hymn. The officer
looked coolly into it, and that was all; he did not
at all look at. me, which was certainly quite at his
own option. At length Kraft entered the pulpit;
the officer looked up, just as a person looks, when
he knows not whether he has looked or not. Kraft
prayed; the officer looked up a few times, without
taking any further notice. Kraft preached ; but
now the head of the officer was immoveable ; his
eyes were fixed upon the preacher, and his mouth
was wide open, to swallow every thing that Kraft
brought forth, out of the good treasure of his heart.
When he pronounced the Amen, the officer turned
to me and said, " I never heard such a sermon in
all my life."
Kraft was a man endowed with wisdom, and
consistent in all his actions. He was an unspeak-
ably warm admirer of the Redeemer, and also a
'"' a,,Google
- 1
YEARS OF TUITION. 285
faithful follower of him. He was indescribably
beneficent; and in this, hie pious consort was his
faithful help-mate ; when it was needful and well
applied, he could joyfully contribute a hundred
gilders, and that in such an agreeable manner,
that it appeared as if the greatest kindness were
shown him, by taking the money of him. When
he was still a student, ·a poor man begged alms of
him, but as h& had no money, he immediately
took his silver buckles from his shoes, and gave
th~m to the poor man. Although he was very
orthodox, yet he was the most tolerant man in
the world, and polite and hospitable in the highest
degree.
In company, Kraft was cheerful, pleasant,
jocose, 1
and witty. On his viliit to Stilling, at
Eaater, 1792, the latter had one evening invited
• a company of good friends to supper ; the conver-
sation turned upon the exchequer• courts of the
German princes, and on the ruinous principles
which, in some cases, prevailed in them, to the
great detriment of the rulers and their subjects.
At length Kraft, wh9 had hitherto been silent,
began with his usual pathos, and said, " Though
they should say .unto you, that Christ is in the
secret chambers, believe it not.,.
Blessed art thou, dear man of God ! the con-
sideration of joyfully meeting thee again in the
• The German word here Uied, may be literally rendered
rnenue chambers.
'"' a,,Google
286 HEINRICH STILLING's
kingdom of God, is a cordial to thy friend
Stilling on his painful pilgrimage.
Kraft was replaced by the pious preacher
Passavant, of Detmold, Stilliug's intimate friend.
Besides his deeply afflicted consort, he left be-
hind him three daughters, the eldest of whom had
been married, some years before, to his worthy
colleague, the Rev. Mr. Hausknecht; the latter
is likewise a truly christian and evangelical man,
and Stilling's intimate friend; his house has
taken the place of Kraft's with reference to
Stilling. The second daughter married an exem-
plary pious preacher, from Brunen, of the name of
Eisentriiger, who was afterwards stationed at
Worms, but soon followed his father-in-law. The
third daughter, after the death ofboth her parents,
married a young and religiously disposed lawyer,
of the name of Pourckhardi, who is now Govern-
ment Advocate, at Dellinburg, in the principality
of Nassau. Mother Coing's and Madame Kraft's
youngest sister, Mademoiselle Duising, had re-
sided for a period in Kraft's house ; these two
sisters, Kraft's youngest daughter, and an old,
faithful, and pious female servant, called Cathe-
rine, now constituted the household. But as the
good widow no longer found any permanent place
of abode in Frankfort, and longed to be at Mar-
burg, her native town, and with her relatives by
blood, Stilling hired a habitation for her, which,
however, she left at the year's encl, and removed,
with Stilling and his family, into the ancient
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 287
family house, where they all lived together in
christian affection and harmony.
Stilling's melancholy tum of mind and the
pressure of occupation, which was almost insuper-
able, occasioned him and his Eliza to hire a
country house, at Ockershausen, a village a mile
distant from Marburg, and there pass:the greatest
part of the summer ; in order that from a pure
and free atmosphere, and the beauties of nature,
they might derive invigoration, refreshment, and
recreation. Eliza also stood in need of all this ;
for by the convulsive affection in her neck, the
free motion of the pectoral muscles was im-
peded, hence she felt more or less oppressed on
the breast, with which she is troubled even to the
present time, and which occasionally renders her
extremely dejected. Her path also much re-
sembles Stilling's, and this makes her husband,
who loves her so tenderly, often feel his burthen
more heavily.
From that time, Stilling dwelt with his family,
for four years together, a great part ofthe spring,
summer, and autumn, at Ockershausen, in a pretty
house, to which a beautiful orchard with an arbour
is attached, and from whieh there is a fine prospect
to the Lahnberg. But he continued to read his
lectures in his house in the city.
One morning in the spring of the year 1796, a
handsome young man, in a green silk plush coat,
and otherwise well dressed, came to Stilling's
house at Ockershausen..
mo ;ze, ,,Google
288 HEINRICH STILLING's
This gentleman introduced himself in such a
manner as betrayed a polished and genteel educa-
tion. Stilling inquired who he was, and learnt that
he was the remarkable . . • . . . Stilling was as-
tonished at the visit, and his astonishment was
increased by the expectation of what this ex-
tremely enigmatical individual might have to
communicate to. him. After both had sat down,
the stranger began by saying, that he wished to
consult Stilling relative to a person diseased in
the eye. However, the real object of his visit
pressed him in such a manner, that he soon began
to weep, kissed first Stilling's hand, then his arm,
and said, "Sir, are you not the author of the
Nostalgia!" "Yes, Sir."
He. You are therefore one of my secret supe-
riors ; (here he again kissed Stilling's hand and
arm, and wept almost. aloud.)
Stilling. No, dear Sir! I am neither your nor
any one else's secret superior. I am not in any
secret connection whatever.
The stranger looked at Stilling with a fixed
eye, and .inward emotion, and replied, "Dearest
friend, cease to conceal yourselfI I have been
tried long and severely enough ; I thought you.
knew me already ! "
Stilling. No, Mr. . .. . I assure you by the
living God, that I stand in no secret connection,
and in reality, understand nothing of all that you.
expect from me.
This speech was tdo strong, and too serious to
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 289
leave the stranger in uncertainty ; it was now his
turn to be astonished and amazed. He therefore
continued ; " But tell me then, how it is that
you know anything of the great and venerable
connection in the east, which you have so circum-
stantially described in the Nostalgia, and have
even minutely pointed out their rendezvous in
Egypt, on Mount Sinai, in the monastery of
Canobin, and under the temple at Jerusalem?"
Stilling. I know nothing at all of all this, but
these ideas and conceptions presented themselves
in.a very lively manner to my imagination. It
was therefore mere fable and fiction.
He. Pardon me, the matter is in truth and
reality as you have described it; astonishing, that
you have hit it in such a mannerI no, that cannot
have come by chance !
This gentleman now related the real particu-
lars of the association in the East. Stilling was
utonished and amazed beyond measure ; for he
heard remarkable and extraordinary things, which
are not however of such a nature as can be made
public. I only affirm so much, by all that is
tme,.tbat what Stilling learnt from this gentleman,
had not the most remote reference to political
connections.
About the same time, a certain great prince
wrote to him, and asked him whence it was, that he
knew anything of the association in the Eaat;
for the thing was as he had described it in the
Nostalgia. The answer in writing, was naturally
c
'"' a,,Google
290 HEINRICH STILLING's
the same as that given verbally to the above
mentioned stranger.
Stilling has experienced several things of this !
kind,inwhich his imagination exactly accordedwith i
the real fact, without previously knowing the least
of it, or having any presentiment of it. In the
sequel, two cases of this kind will be related.
How it is, and what it is, God knows! Stilling
makes no reflections upon it, but lets it stand upon
its own value, and looks upon it as the direction of
Providence, which purposes leading him in a dis·
tinguished manner.
The developement of the eastern mystery is,
however, a most important matter to him, because
it has reference to the Kingdom of God. Much
however remains in obscurity, for Stilling after.
wards, also heard from another person of great
consequence, something of an oriental alliance,
which was of a very different kind, and likewise
not of a political nature. It remains to be
developed, whether the two are entirely distinct,
or stand more or less in connexion with each other.
Other extraordinary and remarkable discoveries
were added to these. Stilling received infurma·
tion from various sources, of apparitions from the
world of spirits, of the re-appearance of persons of
all classes, long and lately deceased; of remark·
able presentiments, discoveries,-&c. all of which
are demonstratively proved to be true.• It is to
• ·See bis Theory of Pneumatology. Longman, 1834.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF T"1TION. 291
be regretted, that not one of them is of a nature
to be made public ; but this is generally the case
in such matters; the words are also applicable
here, " They have Moses and the Prophets ;" and
we besides these, Christ and his apostles ; we·are
not referred to such extraordinary sources of infor-
mation. Stilling's ideas of Hades, of the world
ofspirits, of the state of the soul after death, next
to the hints thrown out in the Scriptures for con-
sideration, are derived from these sources. Yet
still, these are not articles of faith ; let every one
think of them what he pleases ; only let him not
condemn them, for by so doing, he would at the
same time, condemn himself.
The year 1796, was a year of terror and misery
t.o the whole of Lower Germany. The crossing
of the Rhine by the French; their march to Fran-
conia, and their subsequent retreat, filled the
whole country With indescribablewretchedness; and
as Hessia was at peace, the people fled from all
parts to the neighbourhood of Marburg. On
numbering on one occasion, by orderof the magis-
tracy, the foreign fugitives that resided there,
there were found in Marburg and the adjacent
towns and villages, forty-five thousand. It was
pitiable to see, how people of all ranks, in an end-
less train, in carriages, carts, and waggons, drawn
by oxen, horses, cows, and mules, with rich or
wretched baggage, on foot, on horseback, or on
asses, barefooted, in shoes, or in boots, with misery
and woe depicted on their faces, filled the roads,
2c2
'"' a,,Google
292 HEINRif:H STILLlNG'S
and with loud thanksgivings, blest the prince, who
had made peace, .
Stilling's mind was extremely oppressed by all
this, and also by the prevailing spirit of the times,
which laughs to scorn all that is holy; and his
desire to labor for the Lord increased. All this
had induced him, the preceding year, to publish a
periodical work entitled " The Grey Man," which,
very unexpectedly, met with great approbation;
on which account he will still continue it. It is
not only much read in every province of Germany,
but also, like the " Nostalgia," in every quarter
of the globe. I have myselfseen American news-
papers, in the German language, in which the
" Grey Man" was inserted by piece-meal, under
promise of its continuation.
Amongst the many fugitives, were two very ·
estimable personages, who were particularly
important to Stilling and his family. Prince
Frederick ofAnhalt-Beroberg-Schaumberg, a troe
christian in the purest sense of the word, hired a
house in Marburg, and his next relative by blood,
the countess Louisa of Willgenstein-Berlenburg-
Carlsberg, resided with him. The mothers of
both were own sisters, the countesses Henckel of
Donnersmark, and real christians, who brought
up their children excellently, and in the fear of
God. These two noble individuals in every re-
spect, honf>red Stilling and Eliza with their
confidential intercourse, and they were in every
situation and in every way, angels of consolation
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 293
and of succour both to them and their family,
during their five years' residence in Marburg.
This excellent prince and amiable countess dwelt
there from the summer of 1796 to the autumn
of 1801.
At the same time, Stilling also entered into
nearer connection with two absent princes ; the
universally acknowledged excellent and pious
Elector of Baden wrote to him occasionally, and
prince Charles of Hesse, a real and very en-
lightened christian, entered into a regular corres-
pondence with him, that still continues.
2c3
CH AP. VI.
IT is now time for me again to notice father
Wilhelm Stilling, and embody the history of the
rest of his life with this. His second marriage
had not been blessed. Notwithstanding all his
striving, laboring, and sparing, he continually
lost ground, and was ever deeper in debt, and
his four children by the second marriage, three
daughters and one son, all worthy and honest
people, were all poor and unfortunate. The old
patriarch saw them all about him, and saw their
misery without being able to help them. Stilling,
meanwhile, lived at a distance, and knew little of
all this ; but that it fared so very ill with his
father, he was utterly ignorant. Wilhelm, how-
ever, had more than one good reason for con-
cealing his true situation from his son ; for he had
formerly often expressed himself thus.to him, that
he would rather eat dry bread than let himself
rn '" ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITlON 295
be supported by one of his .children. But the
following idea probably laid heavy on his heart ;
he had often most bitterly reproached his son in
his milery, respecting hu circumstances, and told
him he was a lost man, that he was good for
nothing, that he would cause him nothing but
shame and dugrace, that he would be at length
obliged to beg hu bread, ~c. To let himself now
be supported by this very son, or to be dependant
upon him, was probably a very difficult matter to
the good old man's honorable feelings. However,
Stilling heard by degrees, in Marburg, more of
his father's true situation, and although he had
himself a heavy debt to liquidate, he thought,
that in such a cue, he might make an exception
to the well-known rule, "as long as a person is in
debt, he ought not to apply money to other pur-
poses." He determined, therefore, after con·
sidering the matter with Eliza, to contribute
weekly a dollar for the support of his aged father,
and occasionally to send him as much coffee and
sugar as the two old folks, for the mother was still
living, required. Eliza also sent besides this,
now and then, when she found a fitting opportu-
nity, a bottle of wine to Leindorf, to cheer them.
At length, Wilhelm Stilling's second wife died
suddenly of suffocation by phlegm. He then gave
up the housekeeping to his youngest daughter,
who bad married a carrier, and boarded wit.h her.
However, it went hard with this poor woman;
her husband was always from home with his
'"' a,,Google
296 HEINRICH STILLING's
horse, and being too poor to procure what was
needful, for money, she was obliged to labor, from
early in the. morning till late in the evening, in
the field and garden ; consequently the good old
man was entirely destitute of the necessary atten-
tion. The other children were equally unable to
do anything ; for they could scarcely subsist
themselves, let alone assisting others; in a word,
the wretchedness was great.
Wilhelm Stilling was at that time in his eight-
ieth year, and in excellent health; but his feet,
which were always weak and infirm, now broke
out into ulcerous swellings ; his mental powers
also began to fade, and his memory, in part.icular,
failed him extremely.
At length, in August l796, Stilling received a
letter from a relative, who had visited the pious
old man, and had seen all his woe. This letter
contained a description of his misery, and called
upon Stilling to take his father to him, before he
perished in his sufferings. Stilling had not known
the extent of t.hem before. He instantly sent for
him, and had him brought in a conveyance to
Marburg. On being told, at Ockershausen, ~hat
his father was in his house at Marburg, he hast-
ened thither to welcome him ; but good God !
what misery! As he entered the room, a pestilen-
tial effiuvia met him, such as he had never
experienced in a dissecting room. He could
scarcely approach him to kiss and embrace him.
The distress was greater than I can describe. It
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 297
was an advantage to the good man, that his
mental faculties were already so decayed, that he
did not particularly feel his misery. A few years
previous, it would have been intolerable to his
feelings of decorum, and habitual cleanliness.
Stilling's heart bled at the sight, but Eliza,
who had often wished that she might have the
happiness of tending her parents in their old age,
began the work with joy. So great a boast has
always been made of holy individuals of the
Romish church, and it has been esteemed so
meritorious in them, that they bound up the•pu-
trifying ulcers of poor invalids in the hospitals
and lazarettos ; here more was done, much more !
Thou wilt on no account consent, kind and noble-
minded consort, that I should here say anything
to thy praise, and I am silent; but father Wil-
helm, who has no longer sufficient understanding
to recognize thy unexampled, childlike love, and
is unable to bless thee for it, will eventually meet
thee, in his glorjfied form, thou faithful sufferer!
thou companion of Stilling's life and afflictions!
and return thee in an abundant measure, the
thanks omitted here. Doris hovers near, holding
him by the hand, to welcome her daughter Eliza ;
father Eberhard Stilling smiles peace to thee, and
Selma will also embrace her friend, and say,
" Blessed art thou, for having so excellently ful-
filled my expectations !" All these glorified ones
will then conduct thee before the throne of the
Most Merciful, who will incline the sceptre of all
'"' a,,Google
298 HEINRICH STILLING'S
worlds towards thy forehead, and say, "What
thou hast done to this my servant, thou hast also
done to me; go thy way, thou inhabitant of the
new Jerusalem, and enjoy the fulness offelicity."
Eliza continued this painful labour of love till
the month of October, when she was again con-
fined of a daughter, who is still living, and bears
the name of Amalia. Amalia Coing, the future
grand-daughter-in-law of Wilhelm Stilling, now
undertook this task, for which it will b& well with
her, and her reward will be great in time and
et.einity.
The close of the year 1796 was melancholy ; a
brother of the late mother Coing and aunt Kraft
died in the autumn. He was a lawyer in Frank-
enberg, unmarried, and expired suddenly, in con-
sequence of an apoplectic fit. Another brother,
who was likewise unmarried, and prothonotary at
Dortheim, in the Wetterau, came, in order t.o
arrange his brother's affairs in Frankenberg, and
died ten days before Christmas, in Stilling's house.
In consequence of these repeated strokes, the good
widow Kraft, whose daughter Eisentriiger, had
also returned to her the previous summer, as a
widow, was quite cast down to the ground ; she
likewise took to her bed, and died on Christmas
day, quietly and happily, like her sister Coing.
There still remained Mademoiselle Duising, widow
Eisentriiger, and the unmarried miss Kraft, with
her worthy old Catharine. Miss Kraft married
the following summer, Mr. Burckhardt of Dillen-
YEARS OF TUITION. 299
berg; the remaining three members of the esti-
mable circle of the late Mr. Kraft, now live in
Von Ham's family mansion in Marburg, which is
the property of aunt Duising.
The good Schwarz had also something of a
severe nature to suffer with his consort, in the
year 1796; he had left his solitary Dexbach, and
had accepted a living at Echzell, iri the Wetterau,
where he was exposed to all the horrors of war.
Hannah was also amongst the forty-five thousand
refugees, and she passed her third confinement
quietly at her parents' in Marburg, and then set
off again to her post.
The year 1797, was not particularly remarkable
in Stilling's history. Every thing proceeded in
its customary course, except that Stilling's inward
sufi'erings were rather increased than diminished ;
an inward melancholy continually oppressed him;
an indescribable cheerlessness deprived him of
every enjoyment. The only thing which sustained
him, was his domestic circle, in which every one
felt happy, who entered it. Eliza and her two
sisters, Maria and Amalia, were the instruments
the Lord made use of to lighten the load of his
crossbearer, although Eliza herself almost sank
beneath the burden.
Father Wilhelm Stilling experienced nothing
of this ; he was childish, and became more and
more so; and in order that he might not want atten-
tion in any way, Stilling sent for his eldest sister's
daughter, Maria, who faithfully fulfilled her duty
'"' a,,Google
...
300 HEINRICH STILLING's
to her grandfather, until attendance upon him was
no longer proper for a young girl, and an old
widow was engaged, who waited upon him day
and night. Maria's character developed itself
advantageously ; she enjoys the esteem and love
of all good men, and is beloved by Stilling,
and Eliza, as their child. It gradually came to
such a length with father Wilhelm, that he knew
no one, and in the end, not even his son any more.
Respecting his second marriage and children, he
scarcely remembered anything ; but occasionally
spoke in single ideas, of his marriage with Doris,
and of his youthful years. No sooner, however,
was religion introduced, than his spirit returned to
him ; he then spoke .connectedly and rationally ;
and when this also ceased to be the case, his
mental faculties still clung to a few texts of
scripture respecting the forgiveness of sins, through
the sufferings and death of Christ, which he re-
peated times without number, wringing his.hands,
and shedding many tears, and comforted himself
with them in his sufferings. From this instance
may be learnt how important it is, to fill the
memory of children early with edifying texts of
scripture, and verses of hymns. The first impres-
sion on the memory of children can never be
erased. Such passages and verses may be of little
service to them in their youth ; but when in old
age, they must travel through Wilhelm Stilling's
desert, in which, solitary, and divested of all
susceptibility of social life and of their own exis-
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 301
tence, they retain only a small glimmer of reason
for their guide ; when they have thus forgotten
their whole course oflife, such passages and verses
are as bread from heaven, which strengthens the
. individual in crossing the awful stream of death.
Generally speaking, they are an excellent means
of invigoration and comfort in distress and death.
In the midsummer vacation of the year 1797,
Stilling and Eliza experienced another remarkable
instance of Divine providence. He had certainly
a considerable income, hut also an equally con-
siderable and necessary expenditure ; for, at that
time, every thing was dear at Marburg. Every
housekeeper will remember seasons, in which a
variety of circumstances concurred in causing a
demand for money; from which he knew not how
to escape, and in which he was not in .a situation
to be able, or to venture to increase his debts. It
was much in such a situation as this, in which
Stilling, or rather his Eliza found herself, who
had trodden in Selma's footsteps, and had under-
taken, quite alone, the care of the housekeeping,
and the management of tile cash. 4 very worthy
and respectable lady, in Switzerland, had written
to Stilling some time before, and asked his advice
regarding the blindness of her husband. Just at
this pressing emergency, as Stilling was with the
students at Cassel, and made his customary mid-
summer excursion with them, he received a letter
from this lady, with a bill of exchange for three
hundred gilders. She mentioned at the same
. 2D
302 HEINRICH STILLING's
time, that Stilling must never think of repayment,
or of rendering service for it ; she felt herself
impelled to send this trifle, and begged he would
think no more of the matter. The pressure was
thus all at once removed, which much strength:
ened Eliza's faith.
There was added this year, another very estima-
ble personage to the most important of Stilling's
friends ; the Countess Christina of Waldeck,
widow of Count Josias of Waldeck-Bergheim, and
born Countess of lsenburg-Biidingen, determined
to send her two younger sons to Marburg, that
they might study there. She finally resolved to
remove to Marburg herself, with her amiable
daughter, the Countess Caroline, t.ill her sons
should have :finished their studies. It cannot be
described, what this pious lady was to Stilling
and Eliza ; how variously her heart, which was
formed for philanthropy, was occupied with show-
ing it in word and deed. She harmonized entirely
with Prince Frederick of Anhalt, and the Countess
Louisa ; all three had the opportunity of commu-
nicating their sorrows to Stilling and Eliza, and
of conversing confidentially with them respecting
all their affairs.
The year 1798 is remarkable in Stilling's his-
tory ; because in it he wrote his " History of the
Triumph of the Christian Religion, in an Expo-
sition of the Revelations of John, adapted for
general usefulness," and then made his first con-
siderable journey with his Eliza.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITIJN. 303
The" History of the Triumph, &c." originated
as follows. The important results produced by
the French Revolution, and the events which
occurred in several places, everywhere made a deep
impression upon the true servants of the Lord,
who observed the signs of the times. Several
individuals now began to apply certain parts of
the Revelation to those times, without regarding •
the whole connexion of prophecy and its spirit, in
the bible generally. Very sensible men already
held the French cockade to be " the mark of the
beast ;" and therefore believed that the beast had
already ascended from the bottomless pit, and
that " ·the man of sin" was already in existence.
This pretty general sensation amongst true chris-
tians excited Stilling's consideration, and he
sought, in the "The Grey Man," to warn them
against it.
On the other hand, it appeared to him extremely
remarkable, that the well-known, pious, and
)earned prelate Bengelius, had, fifty years previ-
ous, pointedly foretold, in his Exposition of the
Apocalypse, that in the last ten years of the
eighteenth century, the great conflict would com-
mence, and the Romish throne be overturned.
This had been made still more minutely evident,
by an anonymous writer -in Carlsruhe, in a more
exactand precise explanation ofthe BengelicApoca-
lyptical system of calculation ; and which even de-
termined the years in the last decenniary of the
eighteenth century, in which Rome was to be
2o2
'"' a,,Google
304 HEINRICH S'l'ILLING'S.
overthrown, and this eighteen years before it
really took place. All this dxew Stilling's atten-
tion to Bengelius's writings, and particularly to
the book just mentioned by the anony1nous author
in Carlsruhe.
Two circumstances also were connected with
this, which operated upon Stilling's mind, and
• prepared it for so important a work. The " Nos·
talgia" had made a deep and beneficial impression
upon several members of the Moravian church;
he became more·known in that community ; the
history of his life began to be read more univer-
sally; and his other writings, particularly "The
Grey Man," were generally recognized as edifying.
He was visited by Moravians, who were passing
through Marburg, and he read xµ.any of their works.
In short, the Moravians became more and more
estimable to him ; particularly from observing,
that in their writings generally, and especially in
their church and missionary intelligence, as also
in their Conference Minutes, which were sent
him, an uncommonly rapid progress in the perfec-
tionating of life and doctrine was evident ; and
that all their institutions were guided in a most
distinguished manner by Providence, and crowned
with its blessing ; and what fully·produced a more ·
intimate union was, a correspondence with a dear
and worthy preacher of the Moravian church,
brother Erxleben, who had formerly filled the
pastoral office in Bremen, and afterwards at Nor-
den, in East Friesland, but is now a class-leader
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 305
in Herrnhut. The correspondence with this wor-
thy man still continues, and will probably not
cease, until one of the two be called away to the
church above.
Stilling d,iscovered, therefore, in this church,
an important iQstitution for the preparatory estab-
lishment of the kingdom of God. It appeared to
him to be a seminary for it; and this idea gave
him an important light into a principal hierogly-
phic of the Apocalypse.
The other circumstance which prepared Stiliing
for so bold and important a work, was the great
and very unexpected awakening in England ; the
result of which was the remarkable, new, and
comprehensive Missionary Society. This circum-
stance was so striking, and the period of its com-
mencement so remarkable, that no true servant of
Christ could remain indifferent to it. In Stilling's
mind, it strengthened the idea, that this institu-
tion also was a proof of the rapid approach of the
kingdom of God; and real christians everywhere
. looked to the great golden dial on the turret of
the temple ; and he .that had weak eyes, asked
him whose sight was stronger, to what hour the
gnomon pointed.
But, notwithstanding all this was passing in
Sti.lling's soul, yet the idea of venturing on the
sacred hieroglyphics of the Apocalyi}se, never
entered his mind; h~ ·intended, rather, in "The
Grey. Man," to warn every one against such a
hazardous enterprise, because it had proved the
2o2
'"' a,,Google
306 HEINRICH STILLING'S
confusion of many. But as that which is unex~
pected is, on all occasions, the rule and maxim of
Providence in its guidance of Stilling, so it was
also in the present case.
One Sunday morning in March, 1798, Stilling
determined not to go to church, but to work at
"The Grey Man," and insert in it something of
an useful nature for the christian reader, respect-
ing the book of Revelations. But in order to
make himself better acquainted with this difficult
and important subject, he took up the above-
mentioned Carlsruhe Elucidation, s.at down to his
desk, and began to read. Suddenly, and quite
unexpectedly, a gentle, inward, and very bene-
ficial influence pervaded him ; which produced in
him the determination to translate the whole
Apocalypse from the original Greek, explain it
verse for verse, and retain Bengel's System of
calculation ; because it had hitherto been so
applicable, and had proved so remarkably correct.
He therefore instantly commenced the work, and
hoped that the Spirit of the Lord would enlighten
him in every obscure passage, and lead him into
all truth. Stilling's ~' History of the Triumph of
the Christian Religion" is, therefore, not a work
which is the result of refleciion and ~tudy; but it
was indited by piecemeal, in seasons of leisure,
during prayer and supplication for light and grace;
and then sent off, without anything further, to
Rau, the publisher, at Niirenberg. As soon as
Stilling can find time, he will establish, comet,
'"' a,,Google
\'EARS OF TtHTION. 307
and expll\in many things more precisely in the
Appendix to the " History of the Triumph."
He that is not purposely and maliciously dis-
posed to construe every thing amiss, and turn it
into poisoned arrows, but thinks candidly and
reasonably, will not accuse Stilling of desiring to
excite in his readers, the idea that he wrote from
divine inspiration. ; but my object is to convince
them, that his writings, whether more or less
defective, are, nevertheless; under the peculiar
direction of Providence, of which his whole life,
as well as the uncommon and unexpected blessing
which rests upon his writings, is a pledge to him.
This was also the case with " the History of the
Triumph ;" for scarcely had a year elapsed, before
a second edition of it was published.
The whole of this summer, Stilling's melancholy
rose to the highest degree. He often reflected
upon this circumstance, and employed his whole
medicinal reason, in order to come to the bottom
of it ; but he found none. It was not that he was
hypochondriacal, at least, not what is usually
termed so; but it was, properly speaking, a
cheerlessness, on whicq the purest sensible enjoy-
ment made no impression. The whole world
became strange to him, as though it had no re-
ference to him. Every thing that afforded pleasure
to others, even to good men, was to him completely
indifferent. Nothing, utterly nothing, whatever,
but the great object he had in view, which appeared
to him partly obscure, and partly wholly unattain-
'"' a,,Google
308 HEINRICH STILLING'S
able, filled his whole soul; he fixed his eye upon
this, and upon nothing besides. His whole soul,
heart, and understanding adhered, with all the
fulness of affection, to Christ, but only with a
melancholy feeling. The worst of it was, that he
could not complain to any one, of his painful situa-
tion, for no one understood him. He once or twice
disclosed it to pious friends in the Netherlands;
but these men even took it amiss of him, for sup-
posing himself to be in such an elevated mystic
state ; for he had called his mental condition, the
state of obscure faith. 0 God ! it is difficult to
walk the path of the sacred cross ; but afterwards
it brings unspeakable blessings.
The true reason why his heavenly guide suffered
him to fall into this melancholy disposition of mind,
was probably, first, to preserve him from pride
and from that vanity which destroys all sense of
religion and piety, into which, without this thorn
in the flesh, he would certainly have fallen ; since
so much of what was beautiful and exhilarating
was said concerning him, on every side, from far
and near, by high and low, and by learned and
illiterate. In this state it rejoiced him for a mo-
ment, even as a warm sunny ray, on a gloomy day
in December; but then it was again as before, and
he felt just as if it had no reference to him.
Secondly, the divine refiner might also probably
have put this son of Levi into this refining fire
from other and higher reasons, in order, radically
to burn up certain propensities of corruption.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS 011' TUITION. 309
This state of mind still continues, except that,
at present, an inward serenity and a profound
peace of soul is united with it.
Eliza, though she suffered much~ was yet the
only one amongst all his friends, to whom he
could entirely reveal and communicate himself.
She then suffered still more, without being able to
help him, but still her sympathy and faithful
attention were invaluable benefits to him, and her
company in particular, made every thing muchmore
tolerable to him. From that time they both ad-
hered still more closely to each other, and became
reciprocally more indispensably necessary to each
other. Stilling's whole domestic circle, generally
speaking, was inexpressibly lovely and beneficial
to him. It was also well that the spasms in his
stomach began to abate ; for he would nQt have
been able to bear them with such a debilitated
frame.
Stilling's cataract operations and ophthalmic
cures were particularlyblessed, and he had hitherto
continued them uninterruptedly from the time of
his residence at Elberfeld ; but they also occa-
sioned him double difficulty. The maxim he had
once adopted, and from which he cannot deviate,
that of demanding nothing for any cataract opera-
tion or other ophthalmic cure, but ministering it
to every one gratuitously, (unless any one volun-
tarily makes him an acknowledgment, and pre-
sents him with anything,) without any injury to
himself, attracted an astonishing concourse of
310 HEINRICH STILLING's
persons diseased in the eye. He was interrupted
every moment in his labors, by such like sufferers,
and his patience put to the severest test. But the
-second and still greater trouble was, that blind
people were sent to him from all quarters with
testimonies of poverty, without being furnished
with the necessary sum fbr their maintenance
during the time of cure. To send away such a
pitiable blind person without assisting him, for
the sake of a few gilders, did not lie in Stilling's
character. The directors of the two protestant
orphan houses in Marburg, had indeed the good-
ness to receive such blind people, and attend to
them during the cure, for a moderate payment,
but for the latter, Stilling had to provide. This
beneficial arrangement had also the troublesome
effect of inducing his countrymen, and even
foreigners, to send their poor blind people without
money the more boldly. This caused many trials
of faith, but the Lord manifested himself glori-
ously in them all, as the result will show.
At Midsummer of this year, 1798, Doctor
Weinholt, of Bremen, wrote to Stilling, and re-
quested him to come thither, because there were
several there afBicted with the cataract, who
wished to be couched by him ; for the success of
his practice was known far and wide, and spoken
of every where, particularly by those who studied
at Marburg.. Stilling replied that he would come
during the autumnal vacation. This was carried
into effect, and Eliza determined to accompany
YEARS OF TUITION. 311
him, although she was not very well. She had a
two-fold reason for this ; she was unwilling to be
so long separated from her husband, and he also
required her support and care, besides which, she
wished to see the city from whence her prede-
cessors on the mother;s side had sprung ; for her
ancestor was a Brabantine, of the name of Dui-
sing, who hp.d emigrated under the Duke of Alba,
and settled in Bremen. Two cousins ·of hers,
men of great respectability, were still living there,
the brothers Meyer, both of whom were doctors
of the law; one of them was one of the four
reigning burgomasters, and the other, se(lretary
to one of the colleges there. These relatives also
wished much that their Marburg friends would
for once pay them a visit.
Stilling and Eliza, therefore, commenced the
journey to Bremen, on Saturday, the 22nd of Sep-
tember, 1798; but the indisposition of his good
lady made the journey a very anxious one. He
was obliged to give the postillions a handsome
donceur, in order that they might drive slowly,
for she could not possibly bear a rapid motion.
They travelled by the way of Hanover, where
they were cordially received, and treated in a very
friendly manner, by Stilling's intimate friend,
Falk, aulic counsellor, and consistorial advocate.
On Friday, the 28th of September, they arrived
late in the evening,- but safely, in Bremen, and
took up 'their abode with Mr. Secretary Meyer.
This worthy man, and his excellent spouse, suited
mo ;ze, ,,Google
312 HEINRICH STILLlNG'S
Stilling and his Eliza so well, that they soon
became one heart and one soul, and concluded a
brotherly and sisterly alliance with each other.
The Burgomaster, on his side, who was personi-
fied friendship itself, did his best, to afford bis
Marburg relatives pleasure. The good and wor-
thy man now rests in his chamber; learning,
unlimited kindness of disposition, and faithful dili-
gence in his administration, formed the basis of
his character. ·
Stilling performed twenty-two cataract opera-
tions in Bremen; and.besides these, was of ser-
vice to many, who were diseased in the eye.
Amongst the cataract patients, was an old man of
the middle class, who had been blind many years,
and had therefore .retrograded in his circumstan-
ces. Several ladies requested Stilling to let them
be present at the operation, for they wished to be
spectators of the joy, which would be manifested
by one who had been blind so long. The opera-
tion proved successful, and Stilling then permitted
him to look about him ; the patient did so, struck
his hands together, and said, "0, there are
ladies, and it looks so disorderly here !" The
good ladies knew not what to say or think, and
followed one another out of the door.
Stilling made likewise, in Bremen, some inter-
.eating acquaintances, and renewed a couple of
ancient friendly alliances; namely, with Doctor
and Professor Meister, whom he had already
known in Elberfeld, and with Ewald, who was
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 313
now preacher there. The celebrated Doctor
Olbers became Stilling's friend ; and at his house,
he also became acquainted with that great astron-
omer, alderman Schrader. He also concluded a
fraternal alliance with Wienholt; he and his con-
sort belong to the class of the best of persons.
Bremen possesses very many pious and christian
inhabitants ; and the character of the people, gen-
erally speaking, is more polished and moral, than
in other large commercial cities. This is particu-
larly to be ascribed to the excellent preachers,
which the city has always enjoyed, and still
possesses.
After a very pleasing abode of three weeks and
a few days, Stilling and Eliza set off again from
Bremen on Sunday, the 21st of October. The
Lord had blessed his hand, and the wealthy
patients had also made him such rich present.,
that, not only the expensive journey was paid for,
but something also remained over, which was a
timely supply for the great and oppressive expenses
of his household.
The Bremen relatives accompanied their travel-
ling friends to the Asseler Damm, where they
took a weeping leave, and returned. The road to
Hoya was terrible; however, they arrived safely,
though late in the evening, at the above-mentioned
place. In Hanover, they again called upon their
friend ,Falk, who received them with true chr~­
tian brotherly love. .They then continued their
journey, and arrived in due time, well and happy,
2B
'"' a,,Google
314 HEINRICH STILLING's
at Marburg, where they also met the whole family
in health and comfort.
The journey to Bremen had again procured
Stilling several friends and acquaintances ; but 1
had, at the same time, considerably increased his ·
correspondence, and with it his labors. Consul·
tations on di9eases or the eye, and letters of a
religio11s nature, came every post-day in abun·
dance; to this was added also, the daily concourse
of ophthalmic patients of every kind, so that it
was almost impossible to accomplish all that was
required. However, Stilling neglected nothing
relating to his office, but exerted his utmost pow·
ers to fulfil all these duties.
Under such circumstances, he commenced the
year 1799. On the 22nd of February, Eliza was
safely delivered of her youngest child, a girl ; the
Countess Waldeck wished to stand sponsor for it,
which was naturally accepted with many thanks;
the little girl has her name Christina, from her;
she is still living, and, with the rest of the chil·
dren, is a source ofjoy to her parents.
After Lavater's visit to Marbnrg, Stilling had
entered into a much closer connection with him.
In certain points, they had both been of different
sentiments ; this, therefore, caused an animated
correspondence, by which however, the most cor·
dial brotherly love was not disturbed. Both lived
and labored for the Lord and his kingdom ; their
great. object was likewise their bond of love. At
that time also, the celebrated physician, Dr.
'"' a,,Google
YKARS OF TUITION. 315
Hotze, was in Frankfort, with his excellent son-
in-law, Doctor de Neufuille. Stilling had been
already acquainted with Hotze for some years,
and had concluded a fraternal alliance with him
for eternity. Passavant was also in Frankfort;
both were Lavater's and Stilling's fraternal friends,
and closely united with each other. Lanter there-
fore sent his letters to Stilling open to these two
friends, Hotze and Passavant, and the latter sent
likewise his replies unsealed to them, which gave
rise to a very pleasing and instructive correspond-
ence. The subjects which were discussed, were
the most important articles offaith ; for instance,
the doctrine of the atonement, answers to prayer,
wonder-working faith, &c. In this year, 1799,
this correspondence terminated ; for Lavater was
taken prisoner, and sent to Bii.sle, and Hotze was
likewise no longer in Frankfort.
I take notice of all this, for the sake of a re-
markable circumstance, which occurred to Stilling
on Saturday, the 13th of July.
Before his journey to Bremen, a friend had
communicated to him in confidence, that a certain
celebrated and very worthy man had fallen into
extremely necessitous circumstances. Stilling re-
lated this in Bremen, to a few friends; Doctor
Wienholt undertook a collection for him, and sent
Stilling, in the winter, about .three hundred and
fifty gilders, in old louis d'ors ; but on Stilling's
inquiring more minutely in what manner the mo.
ney could be safely sent to the hands of the wort.by
2E2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
316 HEINRICH STILLING's
man, he learnt that his necessities were not so
urgent, and that this mode of help would be very
painful to him. This induced Stilling to retain
the money, and to inquire in Bremen, whether it
might be applied to the English Missionary So-
ciety, or else to the inhabitants of Underwald in
Switzerland, who had lately suffered so severely.
The latter was assented to, and Stilling conse-
quently entered into correspondence upon the
subject, with the pious and celebrated Antistes
Hess, of Zurich, he, as well as many other of the
inhabitants of Zlirich, having seriously undertaken
the cause of these unfortunate people.
Stilling wrote, on this business, to Hess, on the
13th of July above mentioned, during which,
something singular occurred to him. In the
midst of writing, just as he was reflecting upon
the state in which Switzerland then was, he felt
in his mind, all at once, a deep impression, with
the conviction, that Lavater would die a bloody
death, that of a martyr. These last words a
martyr's death, was the expression which he
peculiarly felt. Something was also connected
with it, whi,ch cannot yet be disclosed. It is
natural that Stilling was much astonished at it ;
and during this astonishment, he felt also con-
vinced, that he ought to mention the matter in
this letter to Hess; be did so, and requested him,
at the same time, to take an opportunity of telling
it to Lavater. Hess soon replied, testifying hiA
astonishment, and promised to disclose it to
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OP' TUITION. 317
Lavater, but should have to wait for a suitable
opportunity. As far as I remember, it was really
mentioned to Lavater.
Myestimable friend, Hess, will very well remem-
ber all this. Stilling had this presentiment on the
)3th of July, and ten weeks and some days after-
wards, namely on the 26th of September, Lavater
received the mortal wound, the result of which was
a continual martyrdom for fifteen months, which
terminated in his death.
The pious and truth-loving reader is kindly
.requested not to estimate such like phenomena
and incidents higher than they deserve ; and
rather pass no judgment upon them. A time will
come, when this presentiment will be again forci-
bly called to mind.
Jn the autumnal vacation, Stilling took his
wife and children to the village of Miinster,
near Butzbach in the Wetterau, to which place,
Schwarz had been removed from Echzell. Stilling
then travelled to Frankfort and Hanau, where
ophthalmic patients again awaited him, but Eliza
continued at Munster.
The remarkable individuals with whom Stilling
formed a personal or a more intimate acquaintance,
on this journey were, the reigning Landgrave of
Homburg. He had already become acquainted
with this real christian, at Prince Frederick's, in
Marburg, and now waited upon him a few times
at Frankfort. · Next, the reigning prince, Wolf-
gang Ernest, of Isenburg-Birstein and his exr el-
mo ;ze, ,,Google
318 HEINRICH STILLING's
lent consort, both also true christians; the reigning
count of Isenburg, Biidingen, Ernest Casimer, his
consort and her sister, countess Caroline of Ben-
theim Steinfurth, all three truly evangelical-
minded and very worthy individuals. With the
countess Caroline, Stilling already carried on an
edifying correspondence; her sister Polyxene, a
very devout soul, lived in Lugen ; with her also
Stilling carried on a religious correspondence for a
length of time ; but she had entered into her rest
some time before.
If in this history, I frequently make mention of
persons of high rank, who held Stilling worthy of
their confidence, I beg that this may not be
looked upon as done with an intent to boast of it.
I have no other object in view, than to shew the
world, that in the higher classes, true christianity
has its adorers, as well as in the lower. I hold it
my duty to say this very loudly and frequently; for
within the last twenty or thirty years, it is become
the order of the day to degrade both rulers and
nobility, as much as possible. Certainly, in the
present day, it is no very special recommendation
to prononnce any one a true christian, in the an-
cient evangelical sense of the term; but·it is still
less a recommendation to describe a person as not
a christian, or even an anti-christian. The spirit
of our times is very inconsistent. Stilling found
also in Biidingen, three valuable individuals, the
Inspector Keller, the government advocate Hede-
brand, and the young court chaplain Meister, a
YEARS OF TUITION. 319
son of his Bremen friend, from whom he heard a
masterly and genuine christian discourse.
After a very pleasant residence of three days in
Biidingen, Stilling set out for Butzbach with a
young Mr. Von Grafenmeyer, who intended pro-
ceeding to the university of Gottingen. The
road led through a fenny and watery country,
which was reported, at that time, to be unsafe.
Much was related of a tinman, or coppersmith,
who was said to be the captain of a baqd of
robbers, and to be at home in those parts. This
therefore, furnished abundant matter for conversa-
tion between the coachman and the servant, on
the box. Midnight assaults, tales of robbery,
murder, and executions of various kinds, were
related very seriously and solemnly, and probably
also embellished a little with inventive fire. This
continued until they reached the Florstiidta forest.
All at once the coachman looked at the servant
very significantly, and said, "There he is to a
certainty !" Stilling looked out of the coach, and
saw a strong-made, tall, and grave-looking man
in a blue coat with brass buttons, and large lap-
pets, a three-cornered hat on one ear, and a knotty
stick in his hand, walking forwards towards the
wood ; the coachman turned about, and timidly
and signllicantly whispered into the coach "There
he is!"
Who?
Why the Tinman to be sure !
So!
2E3
mo ;ze, ,,Google
320 HEINRICH STILLING's
This was certainly ,not pleasant, but Stilling is
not apprehensive in such cases. On entering the
wood, he alighted on account of the bad roads,
and went before on foot, for he feared these more
than all the .world of tinmen and coppersmiths.
The forest was full of woodmen, nor did a single
robber let himself be seen or heard.
On arriving in the evening at Butzbach, Stilling
found his good and faithful son-in-law Schwan;
both passed the night with the head forester Beck,
whose father-in-law Stilling freed, the next room-
ing, from the cataract; they then went together
to Munster, where they met with Eliza, and
the rest of the family, well according to circum-
stances.
After a quiet and refreshing residence of six
days, Stilling with his family commenced the
journey home. Schwarz accompani~d them to
Butzbach; it was Monday, the 14th of October.
Here a little delay took place ; they breakfasted
with the foresters, and Schwarz went out to pro·
vide something. All at once he came running,
just as Stilling was getting into the coach, and
exclaimed, "Dear father, Lavater has been s\ot
at, and severely wounded." This news pene-
trated like lightning and a thunderbolt through
Stilling's whole being; he uttered a loud cry, and
the tears rolled down his cheeks. But with all
his pain and sympathy, he still felt a profound
serenity and submission to the will of God, and
the remarkable circumstance of his presentiment
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OP' TUITION. 321
having been fulfilled, gave him an uncommonly
strong confidence, that the Lord had salutary
objects in view in it. They now proceeded on
their journey, and anived in the evening at Mar-
burg in safety.
The last year of the eighteenth century, re-
volved with respect to Stilling, loftily and heavily
in its sphere, although nothing particularly remark-
able occurred to him in it. During the Easter
vacation, he had again to travel to Frankfort,
OWenbach, and Hanau. Eliza could not accom-
pany him this time. Stilling operated upon several
blind people in all the three places. At Hanan
he resided ,three out offour days with the Govern-
ment councillor Riess, a brother of his Marburg
friend. He and his lady belong to Stilling's ~d
Eliza's most intimate friends.
He formed this time a new acquaintance at the
Frankfort fair, with the celebrated merchant
Wirsching of Niirenberg. This old and vener-
able man had travelled, as it were for pleasure,
with his children to the fair, and it gave him
great pleasure to find Stilling there, whose bio-
graphy and other writings he had read with
satisfaction and benefit. Wirsching had been
once a poor orphan boy, whose parents had left
him nothing. By diligence, blameless piety, con-
fidence in God, and by his eminent mercantile
abilities and his long journeys, he had acquired a
large property, and with praise and thankfulness
towards his heavenly guide, he shewed his friend
'"' a,,Google
322 HEINRICH STILLING's
Stilling the two large magazines which were now
his property, filled with Niirenberg ware. Wirs-
ching, by his humility, modesty, and thorough
knowledge of religion, made a deep impression
upon Stilling, and both formed a fraternal alliance
with each other. After completing his affairs,
Stilling set oft' again for Marburg.
Lavater was not immediately mortally wounded
by the shot he had received, but still, in such a
manner, that the wound, in time, necessarily
became mortal. His sufferings affected all his
friends most deeply ; tender sympathy impelled
them to mutual prayer for their friend, and
brought them nearer together. Stilling corres-
ponded on his account, and respecting him, with
Passavant in Frankfort, the reformed preacher
Achelis in Gottingen, and also with a certain lady
called Julia. This pious and christian female,
who had been exercised by many painful sufferings,
had been deeply and inwardly ,affected and edified
in particular by Lavater's writings. This induced
her to enter into correspondence with Lavater;
but as she had well-grounded reasons for remain-
ing concealed, she never discovered herself to
him. He, consequently, corresponded long with
a certain Julia in the north of Germany, without
even remotely foreboding who she was. He sent
her many tokens of remembrance and friendship,
as his manner was; but all this took place through
Passavant, who was acquainted with her secret
and knew her. It was during Lavater's painful
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 323
sufferings that Stilling first heard anything of
Julia ; he wrote, therefore, to Passavant, to reveal
to him, if possible, who this Julia was, and after
some time, the disclosure was made.
Julia is the daughter of the late worthy and
upright Burgomaster Eicke, of Hanoverian Min-
den. She was married to the well-known and
pious divine, Richerz, who was first university
preacher in Gottingen, and at length superin-
t~ndent at Giffhorn in Hanover. He became
celebrated by several good theological works, and
died also as a true christian, after a tedious illness
ofa consumption. Julia had likewise been always
very weakly and sickly ; she suffered extremely in
her own body, and was obliged also to attend her
sick husband; had not her cheerful spirit, and
her calm resignation to the will of God, and in
general, her religious sentiments supported her,
she would have been unable to bear all that affec-
tion laid upon her. She had no children, and lived
as a widow in Minden, her native town ; her
father was now very old and infirm; she therefore
regarded it as her duty to wait upon and nurse
him, and consequently lived in the same house
with him.
From this time, Stilling corresponded very fre-
quently with Julia, and the subject of their letters
was Lavatei:-'s sufferings, and then, the only thing
needful, which ought to be the chief object of
every christian.
0, if all might be told, that the Lord does to
'"' a,,Google
324 HEINRICH STJLLING'S
his people ! even the infidel would be astonished,
and yet not believe. ·
Lavater maintained a lively corresponden~e with
Stilling, even on his sick bed. They no longer
discussed controversially, but, unanimously and
brotherly, the· most important religious truths.
A fortnight before his death, he wrote for the
last time to his friend in Marburg, and on the 2nd
of January, 1801, consequently two days after the
commencement of the nineteenth century, thif
great and remarkable man expired ; he died
88 a great witness for the truth of Jesus Christ.
Shortly afterwards, Stilling composed the well-
known poem, entitled " Lavater's Glorification,''
which was first printed separately, and after-
wards inserted at the end of the first volume
of the third edition of the " Scenes in the In-
visible World." Some critics would not allow
that Stilling was correct in terming Lavater a
witness for the truth with blood, and others
maintained, that his gun-shot wound was not
the cause of his death ; but the thing speaks for
itself.
Lavater's sanctified heart perfectly forgave his
murderer ; he even said he would mbsequently
4eek him out, tohether in heat,en or in hell, and
thank him .for the wound, which had been such
an instructive school to him; and he gave orders,
very earnestly, that no inquiry should be set on
foot regarding the unfortunate man, but that he
should be left to the Divine mercy. . His bereaved
YEARS OF TUITION
I
325
family obey him punctually in this ; but I may be
allowed to state what follows, in confirmation of
my assertion. .
The soldier, who mortally wounded Lavater,
was a Swiss, from the French part of the canton
of Bern (Pays de Vaud). He and one of his
comrades made a disturbance at a house adjoining
Lavater's parsonage. Lavater heard them ask
for something to drink; he accordingly took a
bottle of wine and some bread, in order to carry it
lo the two soldiers. The grenadier, who after-
wards shot him, was particularly friendly towards
him; he thanked him for what they had con-
sumed, and called him a dear fellow (Bruder
Herz), for he spoke German as well as his native
French tongue. Lavater then went into his
house again, but the grenadier continued speaking
with some Zurich people, who stood near. Soon
after, Lavater came again, in order to request this
friendly soldier to protect him from another ; but
the man was now in a rage at him and shot him.
In what way can this horrible change in the
mind of this unhappy young man be accounted
for, otherwise than in the following manner. He
was a well-educated man, who was acquainted
with Lavater's writings; for every Swiss, who
was able to read, read them. He was at the same
time of revolutionary principles, as were very many
of the Woodland people; consequently, not only of
entirely opposite sentiments, but also outrageously
incensed against him, on account of his energy in
2F
'"' a,,Google
326 HEINRICH STILLING'S
reference to religion and hls country; for not long
before, his letters to the French Director, Reubel,
and to the Directory itself, had appeared in print,
and been much read. When Lavater brought
him the bread and wine, he did not know who he
was ; but after he was gone away, he spoke with
the bystanders, and learned that this friendly and
benevolent man was the Rev. Mr. Lavater. On
this he fell into a rage, which was increased by his
having drunk a little too much ; just at· this time,
the good man unfortunately came to him, and wrui
shot. Every thing is thus easily comprehended
and explained. In this persuasion, I assert that
Lavater is a witness for 'the truth unto blood;
for he was mortally wounded, on account of his
religious and political sentiments and testimony.
Lavater's death was like the signal to the great
and glorious developement of Stilling's fate, which
still continued hidden in the impenetrable ob-
scurity of the future. In order to place the whole
affair most clearly in the light of truth, I must
circumstantially detail his whole .situation; the
christian reader will find that it is worth the
while. ·
The members of Stilling's household whom he
had to provide for, were the following indi-
viduals :-
1. Father Wilhelm Stilling, who was now in
811Ch a state, that a young girl like Maria could no
longer wait upon him, but
2 An old woman was taken into service, who
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 327
tended him, and kept him and his bed clean.
Stilling's eldest step-sister, Maria's mother, a
truly worthy wonian came also occasionally to
assist, but having to keep house herself, was soon
obliged to return to her husband and children.
3. Stilling himself; and 4, his Eliza.
5. Maria Coing, who had been residing with
her brother, who the previous autumn had been
appointed Minister at Brauch, near Rotenburg,
in Lower Hessia, for the purpose of superintending
his household; but as she was weakly and unac-
customed to a country life, she returned the au-
tumn following.
6. Amalia Coing, Jacob's betrothed; these two
sisters were Eliza's faithful helpmates in the
housekeeping. The children of the Coings had
entrusted their property to their brother-in-law,
for which they boarded and lodged with him.
7. Jacob himself. After long waiting, he had
at length become Government Advocate and at-
torney in Marburg; a profession, however, which
brought in little to a man of his character.
Though he lodged out of his father's house, yet
he ate at his table.
8. Caroline, who was now growing up, and
whom it was necessary to have instructed in every
thing that becomes a. well-educated female.
9, 10, and 11. The three little children, Fred-
erick, Am.alia, and Christina.
12. Maria, who served faithfully, sometimes as
child's maid, sometimes as kitchen servant, some-
2 F 2
'"' a,,Google
328 HEINRICH STILLING'S
times as housemaid, and who could not be dis-
pensed with.
13. An elderly widow of the name of Boppin;
her husband had died early, and left her with
three little boys; she had subsisted for a long
time upon daily labor, until Eliza took her into
service. Her real childlike simplicity, incorrupt-
ible integrity, pure deportment, and undissembled
piety, made her of such value, that she was sent
for on every occasion when help was necessary.
Her three sons had now each learnt a trade, and
were abroad ; she herself obtained a place in the
St. James's Alms houses at Marburg, so that she
is now provided for ; but she was the greater part
of the time in Stilling's house, where there was
always enough for her to do. She could not be
employed to wait upon father Wilhelm, because
she had an excessive repugnance to anything of
the kind. Lastly, there was also
14. A regular servant woman, who is naturally
indispensable in such a household.
Every rational reader, who knows the arrange-
ment of a household in town, where every thing is
purchased for ready money, and where propriety
of station must be observed, and then also bow
Stilling was circumstanced with respect to the
poor blind people, will easily comprehend, that at
such dear times, he could not pay offany of his
debts ; the interest, however, was regularly paid,
and no new debts contracted. . .
With this domestic situation, let the reader also
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OP TUITION. 329
consider Stilling's accumulated occupations in his
sphere of action :-
1. A constant conftux -of applications, both by
letter and in person, from opthalmic patients cJf
every kind, from· far and near ; so that this voca-
tion alone was sufficient to employ a man, but
which, with the exception of the journeys, brought
in next to nothing in his practice at home. But
the journeys he undertook only when he was
called, and during the holiday~.
2. An immense religious conespondence, the
importance and utility of which, in a variety of
ways, can only be judged of by him who has seen
the letters; and then the entreaties, from all sides,
to write religious works, and labor alone for the
Lord and his kingdom, from which again he de-
rived nothing, since the sale of the copyrights by
no means sufficed to pay the numerous postages.
Stilling had therefore two extremely important
species of vocation, both which were extensively
and beneficially useful, and to which, particularly
to the religious sphere of action, he now felt him-
self fully called and destined. But having at the
same time, such a numerous and expensive house-
hold, and then these two vocations, from whence
pay was not to be thought of nor expected, how
could these be made to harmonize ? and besides
all this, a burdensome debt of sixteen to seventeen
hundred gilders; how was this amount to be liqui-
dated ? Add to these,
3. Stilling's professorship, which from reasons
:l F 3
'"' a,,Google
330 HEINRICH STILLING's.
already mentioned, became more and more unpro-
ductive, and his lecture-room more and more
empty. Neither his acknowledged animated de-
livery, nor his perspicuity, which had been formerly
so much admired, nor his fluent eloquence any
longer availed. In short, the study of finance
began to go out of fashion in Marburg, and the
number of students, from well known causes
decreased in every faculty ; and it was this unpro-
ductive, ever-retrograding vocation, for which
Stilling was kept in pay, and without which, he
could not possibly live.
In addition to all this, there was also the pain-
ful, conscientious feeling, that a man of integrity,
let alone a true christian, mult ruign his office
and salary into the hands ef his prince, a.-; soon
t# he is unable to administer it consistent with
duty; and though this might not be hisfault, yet
he was 1till bound to do so. This requirement,
which no sophist can demonstrate out of Stilling's
conscience, rendered him anxious and apprehen-
sive and yet he could not yield obedience to it ; he
was bound, as it were, both hand and foot.
I now ask every sensible reader, what possible
means of escape, or deliverance could be thought
of? In the present state of his household, annu-
ally, he required above two thousand gilders, with-
out being able to pay offany ofhis debts.
This must either be given him by the Elector
fi>f Hesse, along with his dismission from hit
professorship, or-
mo ;ze, ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 331
A foreign prince must give Stilling an appoint-
ment, as Oculist and religious author, with a salary
of two thousand gilders.
These were the only ~ethods to be thought of,
in order to be delivered from this situation.
He that is only in some measure acquainted
with the Hessian constitution, knows that the
first mentioned plan was morally impossible ;
besides which, an event occurred in the winter of
1803, which made it likewise morally impossible
on the part of Stilling ; as I will subsequently re-
late in its proper place.
To hold forth the possibility, or at least the
practicability of the second way of deliverance, as
the object of his hope, would have been enthusi-
astic vanity; and even if this object were attained,
Stilling could not remove from Marburg ; for
father Wilhelm was in such circumstances, that
he could not be removed even a single league ;
and to leave him behind, amongst strangers, did
not lie in Stilling and Eliza's sphere of possibility.
Besides which, Jacob was also not yet provided
for, and to support him from a distance, take his
Amalia with them and separate her from him ;
was considered on all sides too hard. In a word,
in this case, there were also insuperable difficulties.
Such were Stilling's circumstances. His mani-
fold occupations, and his oppressive situation ren-
dered his life painful to him, to which was also
joined his wonted inward melancholy, so that he
.needed every possible experience derivable from
mo ;ze, ,,Google
332 HEINRICH STILLING'S
suffering, and a continual walk in the presence of
God, with uninterrupted watching and prayer, in
order not to sink under the burden. Under such
circumstances, travelling was beneficial to him, and
this now again or.curred.
The " Nostalgia,'' and the "History of the
Triumph,'' had procured him a great number ·of
friends and correspondents of all ranks, learned
and unlearned, male and female, and of every
province in .Germany, but especially in Wiirtem-
berg, and still more so in Switzerland. In St.
Gall, Schaffhausen, Winterthur, Zurich, Bern,
Basle, and up and down in the country, there
were many friends of Stilling and readers of his
works. Besides this, young Kirchhofer, an ex-
cellent youth, the only son of the worthy Co-rector
Kirchhofer of Schaffhausen, had studied divinity
about the year 1795, in Marburg, and was treated
in Stilling's house, as if he had been at home.
He was now preacher at Schlatt, in his native
canton. Through this connection an intimate
bond of friendship had been formed between the
families of the Kirchhofers and t.he Stillings; the
four religiously disposed and accomplished sisters
of the young Kirchhofer, who possess an exten-
sive acquaintance with the Lord's true worshippers, !
through the whole of Switzerland, and correspond
diligently with them, now commenced a corres-
pondence with Stilling, and procured him a still
greater and very interesting circle of acquaintances.
All this prepared the way for the journey, which
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION.
was by far the most important and considerable in
Stilling's life hitherto.
In March of the year 1801, he received, very
unexpectedly, a letter from his dear friend, the
Rev. Mr. Sulzer, of W.interthur, who was a bro-
ther's son of the celebrated and learned Sulzer of
Berlin, in which he was asked, whether he could
come that spring to Winterthur, to perform the
operation on a very venerable matron, who was
blind of the cataract ; for she wished, with the
Divine assistance, to receive her sight again from
Stilling, whom she esteemed and loved; for the
expences of the journey and the time it would
occupy, he would be duly remunerated. This
proposition filled Stilling's soul with joy, and the
children, particularly Jacob, foreboded a happy
result from the journey. Notwithstanding all
this, Stilling thought that prudence was necessary
in undertaking so great and expensive a journey.
He therefore wrote again to Sulzer, that he would
willingly come, but that Eliza must accompany
him, and because the diligence travelled during
the night, she could not avail herself of it, on ac-
count of weakness, but must travel post, and this
would be rather expensive. Sulzer answered only
briefly, that every thiug would be adjusted, and
they had nothing to do but to come.
Stilling now applied to the elector for permis-
sion ; and he and his Eliza made preparations for
this extremely interesting and desirable journey.
And in order to be the more at ease, it was
'"' a,,Google
....
334 HEINRICH STILLlNG'S
agreed that Jacob, Amalia, Caroline, and the
three little ones, should be taken to Brauch, to
brother Coing and sister Maria, pass some time
there, then leave little Amalia and Frederick with
them, and return with the elder Amalia, Caroline,
and Christina, who was now two years old, by
way of Bergheim, to visit the Countess of Wal-
deck, who had removed from Marburg. During
the time of their absence, the good Maria and
the rest of the household were to nurse the old
grandfather, and attend to the housekeeping.
This plan was carried into execution minutely.
Stilling and Eliza commenced their first Swiss
journey on the 27th of March 1801, at five o'clock
in the morning. At Butzbach they met their
children and grandchildren Schwan, who wished
them a happy journey ; and in the evening they
were received with joy by the amiable family of
the Hausknechts at Frankfort. They purchased,
the next day, a variety of necessaries for the
journey; Stilling bought, in particular, a light
travelling carriage, which he required for such a
long journey; and on Palm Sunday, the 29th of
March, took post horses to Heidelberg.
I must not forget to observe, that Stilling on
the first day of his journey, was at.tacked by
tormenting spasms in the stomach in all their
violence ; for sometime previous, they had en~ly
left him. This imbittered, it is true, all the plea-
sure ; but he afterwards found how good it was,
that the Lord had given him to taste this bitter
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 335
on the way ; for without it, he would certainly
have been in danger of soaring too high, by reason
of all the commendations and marks of respect he
received, and of suffering a dreadful fall.
Our travellers pleased themselves much with
the expectation of reaching Heidelberg, partly in
the hope of seeing their friends, the Meigs, but
still more so Lisette, who was now fifteen years
old, and whom they had not seen since 1791, con-
sequently for ten years. This young girl had won
the hearts of all who knew her, by her dis-
tinguished and very peculiarly amiable disposition.
Every one that came from Heidelberg, and had
been at Meig's house, could not say enough ia
praise of Lisette ; her whole character was piety
and a tranquil and peaceful cheerfulness ; her
whole being, apart from all noisy recreations,
lived only in a higher sphere, and her praying
soul adhered with her whole heart to her Re-
deemer. To press such a daughter once more to
the parental breast, was pure and sublime delight.
Lisette had also expected her parents so ar-
dently, that it was necessary, in the evening, to
refresh her with a little wine, as it was somewhat
late before they arrived. At half-past eight they
stopped at Meig's door ; the welcome was inde-
scribable. They spent the Monday at Hetdelberg,
and rode on Tuesday to Heilbronn ; on Wednes-
day they continued their journey, and arrived
towards noon, at Ludwigsburg. At the Orphan-
house there they met with Stuttgard friends, who
'"' a,,Google
336 HEINRICH 8TILLING'S
were come to meet them ; namely the Minister
Von Leckendorf, with whom Stilling has stoodin a
religious and friendly connection for many years ;
Doctor Reus, the physician to the court, and
Walther, councillor of state, if I mistake not,
from Gaildorf; a French army-surgeon named
Oberlin, a son of that dear man of God, Ober-
lin of Steinthal in Alsace, and perhaps some
others, whom I no longer recollect. Stilling re-
joiced particularly to see his old friend again,
Israel Hartmann, the orpflan schoolmaster, of
whom Lavater said, " If Chriaf.were now a man
living amongst us, he would chci~him for an
apostle." The whole company dined ogether at
the Orphan-house, and every one felt ,happy i
there is sometl).ing great in a company of'furely
good men. Eliza sat next to the worthy. old
Hartmann ; she was never weary with lookint,.at
him; and listening to him; she found a rese!·
blance between him and her late father Coingl.
an intimate bond of friendship, for time and
eternity was formed between Doctor Reus, his
lady, Stilling, and Eliza. In the afternoon, they
all rode together to Stuttgard ; StillU:ig and Eliza
took up their residence in the house of Mr. Von
Leckendorf.
Stilling formed here also numerous and remark-
able personal acquaintance with pious and learned
natives of Wirtemburg, amongst whom his heart
adhered particularly to Stoor, Rieger the court
chaplain, Daun, and others. He found here also
YEARS OF TUITION. 337
unexpectedly his friend Matthison, who was re-
siding with his former inmate, the worthy aulic
counsellor Hartmann.
The next day, being Holy Thursday, they rode
to Tubingen, on Good Friday to Tuttlingen, and
the Saturday before Easter, to Schaft'hausen,
where they were received with loud expressions
ofjoy by the family of the Kirchhofers.
On the way from Tuttlingen to Schaffhausen,
in riding over the hill, there is a place, from
which a prospect presents itself, which to a Ger-
man, who has never been in Switzerland, and has
a feeling for anything of the kind, is astonishing.
From Tuttlingen, the road leads gradually up an
ascent, and over it to the summit, from whence
the following view is seen ; on the left, towards
the south-east, about the distance of a league,
ic stands the Riesenfels (Giant rock) with its ruined
se fortress, Hohen-Twiel; and towards the south-
jnu west, on the right in about the same distance, its
0
· other, an equally strong and lofty giant, with
likewise ruined fortress, Hohenstaufen, bids us
efiance. Between these two side-posts, the fol-
li!l owing prospect shews itself; to the left, along
'ct .the Hohentwiel, about three German miles broad,
the Bodensee glitters far and wide, like liquid
1. ilver ; on the south side of it, we overlook the
disaical Thurgau, and beyond it, the Grau-
bundtner Alps. More to the right, the canton
Appenzell with its snow-clad mountains, the can-
ton Glarus, with its giant hills, and particularly
2G
'"' a,,Google
338 HEINRICH. STILLING's
the Glurnitsch soaring high above the rest ; the
lofty Sentis, with the seven-toothed Kuhfirsten,
lies more eastward. Thus the prospect extends
over the whole range of the snowy mountains, as
far as into the canton of Bern, and a great part of
Switzerland. This was an exhilarating feast for
Stilling's eyes. When one looks at the whole
Alpine range, as it lies along the horizon, it ap-
pears like a great saw, with which planets might
be cut asunder.
Stilling continued at Schaffhausen till Easter
Tuesday. He perfol'med several successful oph-
thalmic operations, amongst which, one was par-
ticularly remarkable, on a youth of fifteen years of
age, who was born blind, a son of pious cbristian
parents. Professor Altorfer and his lady, suffered
the operation on Easter Monday morning, in the
presence of many persons. When the first ray of
light beamed into his right eye, on being freed
from the cataract, he rose up and exclaimed, "I
see the majesty of God ! " This expression af-
fected all present, even t-0 tears ; the operation
was then performed on the other eye ; a slight
inflammation afterwards hindered the attainment
of perfect vision, however, he sees in a measure,
and Stilling hopes, by a second operation, to
restore to him the perfect use of his eyes.
I must also mention another pretty thought of
the good youth's. His parent.<i had caused a gold
ring to be made, in which a beautiful lock of hair
from every member of the family was inclosed,
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 339
and heavily embossed with golden fruits. Eliza
had this ring presented to her after the operation ;
and the dearpatient had had the idea ofhaving the
following device engraved upon it, written infaith,
presented in sight; but the space was not sufficient.
The same day, in the afternoon, Stilling and
Eliza, accompanied by the Kirchhofer family, went
to the Rhinefall on foot, but his spasmodic attacks
were so violent, that he was often obliged to
remain behind; and had not the expected enjoy-
ment of this sublime spectacle of nature. Stilling
and Eliza went along the wooden balustrade so
near the waterfall, that they could have washed
init. This striking natural phenomenon is utterly
indescribable ; it must be seen and heard in order
to form a correct idea ofit. The continual thunder,
the trembling of the ground on which one stands,
and the immense mass ofwater, which hurls itself,
with irresistible force, about eighty feet down the
rocks, foaming with milky whiteness, and preci-
pitating itself, roaring, into the wide and boiling
gulph below, to the extent of a couple of hundred
feet-ii.11 this together presents a spectacle, in
which proud man becomes a worm in the dust.
Generally speaking, the scenery of Switzerland
is of auch a character, that it shews its proud
sister art, its superiority, and humbles her under
its mighty hand.
The day following, that is, on Easter Tuesday,
in the afternoon, our travellers rode to Winterthur.
Half way, at the romantic town of Andolfingen
2a2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
340 HEINRICH STILLING'S
under Thur, they found their venerable friend the
Rev. Mr. Sulzer, with a few of the family of the
matron, who had sent for Stilling. '.l'hef had come
to meet them, and received them most tenderly
and cordially. They then proceeded on their
journey to Winterthur, where they arrived in the
twilight of evening.
The patient who had sent for StilliBg, was the
widow Frey, who resided at the sign of the Help.
She had two sons with her in the house who
were married, and with whose BBSistance, she
canies on a considerable business. Stilling and
his Eliza were received and treated....,..if I dare
so to express myself-as ·angels of God.
Dear reader ! pardon me for here giiving vent
to a very just effusion of my heart which I find
it impossible to retain.
I cannot possibly express in words what Stilling
and Eliza enjoyed in the family of the Freys....-that
outer-court of heaven ! They will both o~ day
thank every dearly beloved member of that family
before the heavenly hosts, and proclaim aloud the
benefits they have received from them, which
tongue and pen are too feeble to express; and the
Lord will reward them, both here and hereafter.
Eliza formed a permanent and intimate sisterly 1
alliance with the daughters-in-law of Madame
Frey.
Stilling performed the operation, !the next day,
on the worthy lady with perfect success. An
inflammation afterwards took place in the right !
YEARS OF TUITION. 341
eye, but with the left, she is able, thank God!
to see very well.
Stilling, during his residence at Winterthur,
was completely occupied with business. He daily
performed several operations, and hundreds of suf-
ferers came to consult him, and to this was joined
iotolerablytormenting spasmodic attacks, by which
every enjoyment of every kind was grievously
embittered. However, on Friday, the 10th of
April, he received a visit, which for a short time
counterbalanced the spasms. Lavater's pious bro-
ther, Senator Diethelm Lavater, a very able phy-
sician-the devoutly cheerful Gessner, Lavater's
son-in-law-and Louisa, the unwearied nurse and
attendant of her glorified father-and then,
another noble sufferer, a widow Fuessli, of Zurich,
who now already mingles with the harpers on the
glassy sea in their Hallelujahs-these four dear
people entered Stilling's apartment. Thus will it
one day be, when we have overcome, and reach
the plains of light in the kingdom of God. The
blessed spirits of former times, our dear prede-
cessors, and all the eminent saints, whom we have
llO much wished to know here below, will hasten
to our embrace; and then to see the Lord him-
aelf;--wit.h his radiant wounds !-the pen falls
from my hands.
These dear friends stayed to dine, and then
travelled back again to Zurich.
On Monday, the 13th of April, Stilling set out
for Zurich, accompanied by Sulzer, the young
2G3
mo ;ze, ,,Google
342 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Kirchhofer of Schaffhausen, and the above men·
tioned Madame Fuessli to visit the friends there,
as also to inspect a cataract patient, who awaited
him-thi& was the celebrated manufacturer and
merchant, Esslinger, whose pious and benevolent
sentiments are universally known, and who is
already receiving their reward in the kingdom of
light above. Esslinger resolved upon the operation
with the following words, "I had committed the
matter to the Lord, and expected help from him;
he now sends it into my house, I will therefore
receive it thankfully."
Stilling now saw likewise the venerable relict
of his glorified brother Lavater-a woman who
was worthy of such a man-the image of the
most exalted christian virtues. Truly Lavater's
widow and children belong to the best class of
mankind! In the evening, Stilling, accompanied
by Sulzer, travelled back to Winterthur.
Stilling there received a letter from the magis-
trates of Schaffhausen, in which they thanked him
very kindly and obligingly for the benefits he had
bestowed upon some unfortunate people in their
town. But on the day of his departure for Ziirich,
another peculiar honor was done him. Whilst at
dinner at Madame Frey's, Doctor Steiner, an ex·
cellent young man, who was a member of the ma-
gistracy, came and presented Stilling, along with
an address, which he accompanied with tears,
in the name of the town of Winterthur, a very
handsome massive silver medal, in a neat cover,
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OP TUITION. 343
which a lady of Winterthur had embroidered.
On the outside of this cover stand the words:-
To cheer with light the darken'd eye,
Presenting to its view, on high,
The glorious sun, the beauteous day,
Chasing the gloom of night away:-
Who thee, 0 noble Stilling! knows,
Thanks God, who this good gift on thee bestows.
On one side of the medal, the following in-
scription is cut, in the lapidary style,
" Presented to the christian philanthropist,
Heinrich Stilling, Aulic Counsellor and professor
at Marburg, by the elders of the church at Win-
terthur, as a small memorial of his beneficent
residence in that town, in April of the year 1801,
and as a testimony of the respect and grateful
love of its inhabitants."
On the other side stands, engraved in the same
manner
"Unweariedly active in affording consolation
to suffering humanity, he sows excellent seed for
the great day of recompence."
My readers may easily think, with what emo-
tion and deep humiliation before God, he received
this honourable testimonial, and how he replied
to it.
On this solemn day, Thursday, the 16th of
April, Stilling and Eliza took their departure
from Winterthur for Zurich, amidst the shedding
of tears on all sides. They there took up their
'"' a,,Google
344 HEINRICH llTlLLING's
abode with Gessner, who with his excellent spouse,
a daughter of Lavater, who was with him in Co-
penhagen, received them with the arms of friend-
ship.
The first work, which Stilling performed in Zii-
rich, was Esslinger's operation. It succeeded
very well, he received his sight, but it did not last
long, before the gutta serena ensued, and he con·
tinued incurably blind till his death.
This family also Stilling can only sufficiently
thank in eternity ; it is impossible here.
In Ziirich he was oppressed and tormented ont·
wardly by an indescribable concourse of opthalmic
patients, and inwardly by the most painful spas·
modic attacks. Occasionally, patience forsook
him, so that he treated the people harshly, and
complained of the multitude that came to him.
Several Ziirich people took this so much amiss,
that he afterwards found it advisable to circulate
a written document there, in which he begged
pardon of all and every one whom he had offended.
It is impossible to mention here by name, the nu-
merous remarkable and excellent individuals of
both sexes, with whom Stilling became personally
acquainted in Switzerland generally, and particu-
larly in Ziirich, and who deemed him worthy of
their friendship. Hess, the Doctors Hanel,
father and son, professor Meyer, the celebrated
engraver and painter Lips, who took Stilling's
likeness and also engraved it, and several other
respectable individuals distinguished themselves,
YEARl'I OJ' TUITION. 345
next to Luater's family, relatives and friends, by
marks of friendship.
On Tuesday, the 26th ofApril, Stilling and his
Eliza, after taking a very affecting leave, set oft'
from Zurich. Doctor Steiner of Winterthur, who
prese;nted him t.he medal, and his young friend, the
Rev. Mr. K.iJ:chofer ofSchlatt, acoompanied them.
.It must Mt be forgotten, that the magistrates
of ZUrich also tlut.nked Stilling in a letter.
They pursued their journey from Znrich by way
of~ and Lenzburg, to Zolingen, in the can-
t<m of Bern, where Stilling was to perform the
operet;jQn ~n Bailiff Senn; at the word Bailift', the
read.er must not imagine to himself a German
Village-BailiW. It ...as on this account, that
Doctor St.einer aceompanied them, for he was a
relati"e of Senn'•; and because Stilling could not
prolong his stay, Steiner intended to remain there
3 few days, and perfect the cure. Senn is a
venerable man, and placid, modest, christian vir-
tue, is the chief trait in his and his family's
character.
On Wednesday mMning, the 22nd of April,
Stilling performed the operation on Bailiff Senn,
and also on a poor girl, and then travelled with
his Eliza down the beautiful valley, along the
Aar, through Aarburg and Olten, and then up the
Hauenstein. This hill would be looked upon in
Germany as a lofty mountain, but here it is made
of no account. On the top, the road is hewn
through a rock, and when past the summit, there
'"' a,,Google
346 HEINRICH STILLING's
is a prospect of Germany; in the north-west, the
Vogesan mountains are dubiously seen, and in the
north, the beginning of the Black Forest is per-
ceptible; on turning about, the whole Alpine
chain appears in the southern horizon.
After they had ridden for some distance on this
side, they reached a solitary inn, out of which a
well-dressed pretty woman came running, who
inquired, in a very friendly manner, whether Stil-
ling was in the carriage. On hearing the answer
in the affirmative, her whole heart and eyes over-
flowed with expressions of love and friendship.
She brought them out a breakfast, her husband
and children also joined them, and a quarter of an
hour's very cordial and christian conversation en-
sued ; the travellers then took their leave, and
travelled further down the valley. The place is
called Leufelfingen, and the landlord, F1iihe-
bacher. Stilling has since carried on an edifying
correspondence with Madame F1iihebacher.
At six in the morning, the travellers arrived at
Basie, where they were received in the most
friendly manner, by Senator Daniel Schomdorff,
his consort, and children. In this dear and re-
ligiously disposed family, they spent several happy
days.
There was here also much to do. Stilling
again formed important acquaintances; particu-
larlywith the divines, &c. ofthe "German Society
for the promotion of true Godliness," as also with
the pious preachers, Huber, La Roche, &c.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 347
After a four days' residence, Stilling took here
also an affecting leave, and set out from Basle
with his Eliza on Monday, the 27th of April,
early in the morning.
Now my dear readers, he that hath ears to
hear, let him hear; and he that has a heart to
feel, let him feel !
Stilling was indebted for one thousand, six
hundred, and fifty gilders ; amongst the sevcnty-
two individuals, blind of the cataract, whom he
couched in Switzerland, there was one, who knew
not a word of his debt1, or at least, could not
remotely suppose the amount qf them, and simply
from an inward impulse to place Stilling in more
easy circumstances for the future, paid him ex~
actly one thousand six hund1·ed andfifty gilders,
for couching the cataract and the cure. When
Stilling and Eliza went up to their bedchamber
in the evening, they found the money, part in
cash, and the remainder in bills, upon their bed,
exactly the amount of their debts, of which this
instrument in the hand of God knew not a word !
0 God, what were the feelings of the good
couple ! With an unparalleled emotion they both
aank down at the bed-side upon their knees, and
rendered ardent thanks to Him, who had so very
visiblygiven this unspeakably important testimony
of his most special providence and guidance.
Eliza said, "this may properly be called 'giving
it his beloved sleeping ; ' from this time I will
never distrust him again."
348 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Still more ! the worthy individual, who a few
years before sent the three hundred gilders, when
Stilling was at Cassel, and Eliza in needy circum-
stances, was also visited, in order to return her
due thanks. Her husband underwent the opera-
tion, and when Stilling protested against any
further payment, the worthy man said, very pa-
thetically, "That is my business!" and then sent
six hundred gilders to Stilling at his lodgings ;
with this, the expences of the journey were like-
wise paid.
Still more ! Stilling's heavenly guide knew that
in a few years he would require a handsome sum ;
but Stilling knew nothing of it in the,.least. This
sum was paid him by several wealthy patients,
with many thanks. Besides this, so many pre-
sents and memorials of affection in jewellery were
added, that Stilling and Eliza returned from
Switzerland like two bees from a journey amongst
the flowers.
Dear readers, God the omniscient, knows that
all this is pure and unembellished truth. But if
this is pure and sacred truth, what results from it?
At the close of this volume we Rhall find it.
Our travellers now took their way through the
Bringau down to Carlsruhe. From &isle to this
place, or rather to Rastadt, Stilling was martyred
by a dreadful feeling of anxiety. It seemed to
him, as if he were going to meet certain death.
The occasion of this was a warning, which was
secretly and seriously given him at BiiBle, on no
mo ;ze, ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 349
account to travel back through Strasburg, from
which place also this warning emanated ; a friend
having written to Basie expressly respecting it.
Besides this, there was another circumstance :
a certain dangerous man threatened Stilling, when
at Biisle; the reason for all which lies in his
writings, which contain much that is intolerable
t:o a revolutionary freethinker. I know to a cer-
tainty, that there are people who gnash their teeth
with rage, if only Stilling's name is mentioned.
Strange ! Stilling gnashes his teeth at no one's
name. Friends, on which side is the truth ?
Verily, verily, not on the side of those who do so.
With all this, it is still something singular, that
Stilling at certain times, and often on still more
inferior occasions, is seized with such an inde-
scribable terror; while in other and far greater
danger, he is often not at all dismayed. I believe
that it proceeds from the influence of some invisi-
ble evil being, some angel of Satan, to which God,
for wise reasons, sometimes gives permission.
Physical predisposition may give occasion to such
a fiery trial, but the whole of the temptation is
founded neither in the body nor the soul ; but this
can be proved by nothing else than by individual
experience. The holy scriptures testify that there
are such siftings of Satan.
Stilling's anxiety was at its height at Freiburg,
in the Breisgau, at Offenburg, and at Appenweyer.
At Rastadt, it became tolerable, but his spasmodic
attacks then began to rage violently. On Mon-
2 H
'"' a,,Google
350 HEINRICH STILLING's
day, the 29th of April, they set offin the morning
with a drowsy postillion and two wearied horses, for
Carlsruhe; on the way, the spasms in the stomach
were almost intolerable; Stilling longed for repose.
At first, he was unwilling to visit the Elector, but
wished rather to rest himself; however he still
thought, that as that great, wise, and pious prince,
had read the "Nostalgia,'' with so much approba-
tion, and had written to him a few times, in con-
sequence of this, it was his duty, to make at least
the attempt, and ascertain whether he would be
admitted to an audience. He went therefore to the
palace, announced himself, was immediately intro·
duced, and urged to return in the evening for an
hour, at five o'clock. I say not a word more respect-
ing this visit, except that it laid the remote foun-
dation for the final solution of Stilling's fate, with-
out his having any presentiment of it at the time.
On Thursday, the 30th of April, they travelled
from Carlsruhe to Heidelberg. Lisette had prayed
during the whole time, that her parent.s might
have a prosperous journey. The next morning,
Friday, the first of May, they journeyed further;
Meig and Lisette accompanied them to Heppen·
heim, where, before the door of the inn, they saw
their Lisette for the last time in this life. Meig
went back with her to Heidelberg, and Stilling
and Eliza continued their way to Frankfort, where 1
they arrived safe and well the following day, Sun·
1
,
day, the 2nd of May.
From _Frankfort, they made an excnnrion to I
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OP' TUITtON 3.Sl
the Schlangenbad, in order to perform the opera-
tion on the old and venerable Burggrave Rull-
mann and some poor people. There, in the
pleasing solitude, they had time to recapitulate
the whole j0W11ey, and a{ter accomplishing every
thing, they travelled again to Marburg, where
they arrived on the 15th of May, and found the
whole family in good health.
The first thing Stilling now undertook, was the
liquidation of his debts. The principal sum,
which had been advanced him at Schonenthal,
immediately after his return from Strasburg, on
the security of his father-in-law, was still for the
moet part owing, nor was the secmity removed;
but now it was done at once. H~ now did not
owe any one a farthing, to the best of his recollec-
tion. He had formerly removed from Heidelberg,
that he might liquidate his debts by means of his
larg.e salary; this was his and Selma's plan, but
not the Lord's ; for the chiefamount was not paid-
by the salary, but by the funds of Providence.
The Lord's intention in removing him to Ma.rburg,
was no othe:r than to preserve him from the
misery and taTors of war, and to bring him to a
place of safety, and .
then to crown, in a striking
manner, his thirty years' unshaken steadfastness
in confiding in his aid, .even in the darkest times,
and in a country, which had been the most ex-
hausted by war, so that every one must confess
.and say, "This is the Lord's doing."
.Should any object to my saying, that it was the
2B2
'"' a,,Google
352 HEINRICH STILLING's
Lord's plan to preserve Stilling from the horrors
ofwar, since there have been much better men, who
have been obliged to endure them ; the following
may be to such a serviceable reply. That a good
shepherd marks the weakest <!.f his sheep, and
such as can endure the least, are the chief and
primary objects of his care, that he may prot,eet
them from the storm and tempe1t.
When Providence intends to accomplish any·
thing, it does not do it by halves, but entirely.
Stilling was indebted, when he studied at Stras-
burg, between forty and fifty gilders, to a friend
there ; the latter did not urge the payment, and
Stilling had so much to do with his other burden·
some debts, that he was happy when a creditor let
him alone. This went on till the French Revolu·
tion, when every thing was turned up-side-down in
Strasburg, as well as elsewhere. The war after.
wards broke out, by which the communication
between Germany and France, was rendered ex·
tremely difficult ; and as Stilling had more heavy
and urgent debts, he thought ·no more of this
amount. But his heavenly guide, who is tho-
roughly and perfectly just, by no means forgot it;
for immediately after Stilling's journey to Switzer·
land, a friend came to the brother of the Strasburg
creditor, who had died long before, and paid him
not only the small sum owing, but also the interest
for thirty years, so that his payment amounted to
nearly a hundred gilders, Stilling therefore re·
ceived from an unknown hand, the acknowledg·
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 353
inent for this amount, but he haS' never learnt
who the friend was, that so nobly performed this
act of kindness. But he will eventually find thee,
thou noble-minded individual, where every thing
is made manifest, and he will then be able to
thank thee as thou deservest.
This was therefore, indeed a blessed, debt-liqui-
dating journey ! A mighty difficulty was now
gloriously surmounted. After being obliged tu
incur a load of debt to the amount of fo11r
thousandfive hundred gilders, and then to pay t/1e
whole, without any property, merely by fait./1,
uprightly and honestly, with the interest, to the
very last farthing, did not fail to call forth his
fervent Hallelujahs.
A few weeks after Stilling's return from Swit-
zerland, something remarkable occurred to him.
He was sitting one forenoon at his desk, when
some one knocked at his door. On calling out,
"Come in!" a young man of twenty-seven to
thirty years of age entered the room. He ap-
peared restless and uneasy, looked timidly about
him, and often cast a shy glance at Lavater's
portrait. "You have been in Zurich," said he ;
·"I was there also; I must be gone ;" he walked
about in a state of agitation, looked at Lavater's
picture, and said hastily, "cannot remain in Ger-
many, am every where unsafe ; I might be caught ;
0 Sir ! help me in making my escape !" Stil1ing
felt embarrassed, and asked him, if he were a
Swiss? "0 yes" answered he, "I am a Swiss. but
2n3
'"' a,,Google
HEINRICH STlLLING'S
I have no rest, I wish to go to America ; assist
me in getting thither!" he said other things, and
continued rapidly to pace the room, looking at
Lavater's picture, which excited the suspicion in
Stilling, that he was Lavater's murderer. He
therefore advised him to go to Hamburgh, where
he would always find opportunity to go to America;
but told him to hasten lest he should fall into
the hands of the police. The poor man then
suddenly ran out of the door, and disappeared.
After Stilling had thus honestly thrown off the
burden of his debts, which he had so long carried,
another affair was undertaken. On Stilling and
Eliza's return from Switzerland, they had passed
the night at Munster, with their children the
Schwarzes ; and after they had informed them of
what the Lord had done for them,. and how he had
blessed them, Schwarz and Hannah proposed
that the parents should now crown Jacob and
Amalia's long-tried love, and let them be unit«!,
since in reality circumstances would be neither
changed nor rendered more irksome by it. The
parents found nothing to object to this, and in
order to surprize the young couple, and cause
them still greater joy, it was resolved to keep all
the preparations secret, invite friend Schlarbaum
with his family to tea, and that the latter should
at once step forth, and marry them. The accom-
plishment of this plan succeeded only in part;
the thing did not remain entirely secret ; the wed-
ding took place on the 12t.h. of July in that year,
'"' a,,Google
YEARS Oi' TUITION. 355
1801. Jacob now removed to his parent's house
again; he and his consort continued to board with
them on the·same economical footing as before.
The previous summer, Eliza had used the baths
at Hofgeissmur, but her neck had become rather
worse than better ; she was now advised to try
the Schlangen baths ; she stayed there six weeks,
but this was also of little avail.
This summer, Stilling wrote the second volume
of the "Scenes in the Invisible world." On this
occasion, I must mention something pleasing and
remarkab1e ; every one is at liberty to make of
it what he pleases. I have already observed,
that Stilling, the winter before, soon after Lava-
ter's death, had published a poem, under the title
of" Lavater's Glorification." In this poem, Felix
Hess and Pfenninger two of Lavater's friends,
who died before him, are represented as coming
in the form of two angels to fetch the weary
warrior after his death, and conduct him to the
New Jerusalem. About half a year after the pub-
lication of this poem, Stilling's pious and faithful
friend Breidenstein, the reformed preacher at
Marburg, came to visit him ; both conversed upon
a variety of subjects and amongst other things,
upon the poem. "It is surprising," said Breiden-
~tein "how beautifully you have made use of the
late Felix Hess's promise." "How so? " inquired
Stilling; "What promise?" Briedenstein replied,
"'upwMds of. twenty years ago, Lavater stood by
tbe side of Felix Hess's dying bed, wept, and
'"' a,,Google
356 HEINRICH STILLING's
said, now thou wilt not stand at my bed-side-
when I die ! Hess answered, but I will come and
fetch thee !" Stilling rejoined, "Really I never
heard a word of it ; it is however something
strange; Where is it? I must read it_ myself!"
"That you shall;" said Briedenstein, "it is indeed
very strange!" The next day, he sen~ Lavater'11
miscellaneous works, in which there is a short
biography of Felix Hess; and this conversation
is inserted, just as Briedenstein related it.
I can, with the greatest truth assert, that this
circumstance had either never come to Stilling's
knowledge, or at least that he had not thought of it
for many years, even though he might have read
it, which latter however, I do not believe. There-
fore ifthis singular affair be chance, it is one of the
strangest that ever occurred; for first, Hess says
to Lavater immediately before his death, nearly
thirty years since, "I will come and fetch thee,
when thou diest!" Many years after, Lavater dies ;
Stilling resolves to make a poem on his death ;
decides upon forming the plan of it, so that two
of his friends are to fetch him, and makes choice
of the very man, who had promised him to do
so thirty years before !
One thing more, when Stilling was in Zurich,
he was told that Lavater had had a friend with
whom he had lived on a still more confidential
footing than with Felix Hess, and was asked, why
he had not made use of him in the poem, for the
purpose offetching Lavater ? Stilling inquired who
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 357
this friend was ? and was told, it was Heinrich
Hess. This occasioned Stilling to introduce
this friend in the " Scenes in the Invisible
world," in the followin~ manner; the glorified
Heinrich Hess, is represented as bringing Lava-
ter to the Virgin Mary, because she was desirous
of seeing this faithful follower of her son. Mary
then relates to Lavater the Lord's character, as
exemplified in his earthly life, &c. This is brought
forward precisely in this manner in the second
volume of the Scenes. Long after the work was
printed, Stilling was once accidentally reading in
Lavater's "Jesus Messias," the 26th chapter of
the first volume, which relates the quiet con-
cealment of Jesus, and found again to his aston-
ishment, that Lavater consoles himself with the
hope, that the Vfrgin Mary would eventually
relate to him, in the blissful regions, the charac-
ter her son bore in his earthly l!fe, ~c. It may
be believed on my word, that Stilling had never
read this in his life before.
Another journey was also undertaken in the
autumn of this year, 1801. In a place, in the
north of Germany, there was a very pious person,
who had the cataract; she was too poor to come
to Marburg, or to send for Stilling. The latter
conferred with Eliza on the subject, and they
resolved, that as the Lord had so greatly blessed
their Swiss journey, and shewed them so many
favors, they would, from gratitude, take the
journey to their worthy patient at their own
'"' a,,Google
358 HEINRICH STILLING'S
expence, and with the divine assistance restore
her to sight ; they therefore again prepared for
the journey, and Stilling wrote to the person tJiat
he would come. The latter was extremely pleased,
as may easily be supposed, and made Stilling's
intention known in the neighbourhood ; and as
he would have to pass through Brunswick, he
was kindly invited to lodge in the house of Mr.
Stobwasser ; the latter is an eminent tradesman ;
he has a considerable manufactory ofjapan ware,
and is a member ofthe Moravian church. Stilling
thankfully accepted the offer, and as their way
led them through Minden, they determined to pay
a visit to Julia, in order to become acquaint{l(f
with this worthy soul; and on her inviting them
to stay at her house, with her, they joyfully
assented to it.
Stilling and Eliza commenced this journey on
the 18th of September; they took Caroline with
them as far as Cassel, where she was to remain,
until her parents returned ; for as by her good
conduct and cordial affection to her parents, she
caused them joy, they sought, when occasion
offered, to return it to her. They lodged at
Cassel with privy counsellor Von Kunckel, whose
lady is a near relative of Eliza's. Mr. Von
Kunckel, bad always been Stilling's faithful, tried,
and intimate friend, and will remain so, as long
as they shall both continue to exist. Von Kunc-
kel has served in every gradation, and by his
faithful activity, is become what he is.
YEARS OP TUITION. 359
The next day in the afternoon, they rode to
Minden, where they remained over the Sunday.
Julia received them with all the fulness of christian
affection; she and the worthy reformed minister,
Klugkist, together with his excellent lady, mani-
fested all possible friendship to our two travellers.
Julia and Eliza formed an indissoluble sisterly
alliance with each other, and bound themselves
to walk in the path, which our adorable. Re-
deemer has himself marked out and trodden.
Julia has also two excellent sisters, who were
likewise there, and helped to increase the reli-
gious and friendly circle.
At Gottlngen, they found the faithful Achelis
just on the point of departing ; he had received a
call as preacher to a place in the neighbourhood
of Bremen; his lady, with her sister, had already
gone before to Bovenden, where she expected him.
Achelis now accompanied Stilling and Eliza, and
from Bovenden they travelled together to Nord-
heim, where they separated, amidst the expression
of a thousand blessings.
At Nordheim, Stilling was attacked by an inde-
scribable apprehension ; it began before taking
leave of Achelis; but whether the good man
observed it or not, I know not. It was in reality
an apprehension of bad roads, and of the over-
turning of the coach, but it was so horrible, that
it could scarcely be endured ; it lasted during the
whole journey, and was sometimes stronger, and
at others weaker.
360 HEINRICH STILLING'S
On Tuesday, the 22nd of September, in the
afternoon, they arrived safely at Mr. Stobwasser's
house at Brunswick ; he himself, wit.h his consort,
was at Berlin, where he has also a considerable
manufactory ; but his household showed the tra-
vellers all possible affection and friendship :
Stilling and Eliza felt truly happy amongst these
good people.
From this place, Stilling rode to the person w~o
had occasioned the journey ; she received her
sight. In Brunswick itself, he performed the ope-
ration on twelve individuals, and four leagues
from thence, at Ampleken, the manorial residence
of Mr. Von Batticher, to which a church town is
annexed, on Madame Von Bode, who, with her
husband, belongs also to the true followers of the
Redeemer. Stilling and Eliza rode thither, and
remained there some days; Madame Von Bode
regained her sight, and they went back again to
Brunswick.
Eliza having been seriously advised to consult
the celebrated and learned physician, Beyreis,
aulic counsellor at Helmstadt, on account of the
convulsive · affection in her neck, the journey
thither was also undertaken. The great man took
all conceivable pains to afford the travellers plea-
sure ; he also wrote directions for the use of Eliza,
which, however, she was unable to follow, because
they affected her too violently.
During his residence in Brunswick, Stilling
formed several interesting personal acquaintancea,
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 361
with Campe, Von Zimmerman, Eschenburg, Po-
kels, and others. The Duke showed himself
extremely gracious; he sent twice for Stilling, and
conversed with him a long time, on a variety
of subjects, and amongst others, on religion,
respecting which, he expressed himself in a satis-
factory and edifying manner. He then also said to
Stilling, " .4ll that you have done here, I look
upon as done to myse[f;" and the following day,
he sent sixty louis-d'ors to his lodgings. With
this the travelling expences were not only paid, but
something even remained over. It was therefore
the will of Providence, that the Swiss money
should be reserved for another very different
object.
Whilst Stilling continued at Brunswick, the
consort of the hereditary count of Stollberg-Wer-
nigerode, born princess of Schonberg, was safely ·
delivered of a young countess ; the parents had·
chosen Stilling as sponsor for the child ; and thi!I
still more confirmed the intention, already formed
in Marburg, of making a little circuit to Wernige-
rode. Accordingly, they set off from Brunswick,
on Friday, the ninth of October, ~nd arrived in
the evening at the place above mentioned, at the
lofty castle, which has belonged to the count's
piously-disposed family from ancient times.
Stilling and Eliza felt here as in the precincts
of heaven. He also visited his old friends, super-
intendent Schmid, aulic counsellor Futsche, advo-
cate Benzler, Blum, government advocate, and
2 I
'"' a,,Google
362 HEINRICH STILLING'S
secretary Closse, who has excellently set to muaic
this song in the "Nostalgia,"
"A wanderer, old and weary."
They remained Saturday, Sunday, and Monday,
with this noble family; a gentleman from Saxony,
who had business there, and sat next to Stilling
at the table, said to him with emotion, "Really a
person ought from time to time to travel hither,
in order to recreate and revive himself; " and
certainly he was in the right ; religion, decorum,
politeness, cheerfulness, dignity, and completely
unassuming manners, distinguish the character of
every member of this noble family.
Notwithstanding all this, Stilling's melancholy
did not leave him here ; it could scarcely be en-
dured.
On Tuesday, the 13th of October, the travellers
took an affecting and grateful leave of the family
of Wernigerode ; the Count sent his own coach-
man with two horses with them to Leesen, from
whence Stilling travelled post to Gandersheim,
where the Countess Frederica of Ortenburg, who
has been many years his friend. is Canoness.; she
had requested him to visit her, because there were
ophthalmic patients there, who expected him.
The Countess Frederica was highly rejoiced at
Stilling's visit, and, generally speaking, much
honor was shown to both the travellers there ;
they supped in the evening with the princess of
Cobourg, who took the place of the princess, her
'"' a,,Google
'\' EARS OF TUITION. 363
mother, during her absence. Stilling was of ser-
vice to several patients there, and performed the
operation on a poor old woman. The evening be-
fore their departure, his melancholy rose to a tor-
menting agony; but towards midnight, he applied
himself very seriously to God in prayer, so that
it could not fail to be heard, and then slept quietly
till morning, when he continued his journey home
with his Eliza ; they arrived late in the evening
at Minden, where Julia, Klugkist, and his lady,
vied with each other in manifesting their friend-
ship.
It was now obvious, that Julia's aged father
was drawing near to his end; Stilling and Eliza
requested her, therefore) when her father had
entered into his rest, to viSit. them at Marburg,
for it would serve to cheer and refresh her. Julia.
promised that she would come.
Stilling found much to do at Cassel ; so that he
was obliged, from morning till evening, to write
prescriptions and give his advice; he also operated
on several persons there for the cataract.
My readers will remember, that brother Coing
had been appointed preacher at Brauch, near
Rothenburg, on tl)e Fulda, eleven leagues from
Cassel, and that Maria Coing with the two child-
ren, Frederick and Amalia, were also there. It
was Stilling and Eliza's intention to fetch these
two children from thence, as well as their sister
Maria, if she wished it; but especially to visit
their. good and dear brother again, particularly as
~ J.2.
364 HEINRICH STILLING's
they were now in the neighbourhood. In order to
fulfil this intention, they set out on Thursday, the
22nd of October, from Cassel; on driving through
the Leipzic gate, he said to his wife, " 0 my
dear, what would I give, if I could now travel to
Marburg." Eliza answered, "Well, let us do so."
Stilling however refused, for he thought, if a mis-
fortune awaited him, it might happen to him any~
where; they therefore rode on, the brother came on
horseback to nieet them, and in the morning
they arrived safely at Brauch.
Their stay at this pleasant place was fixed for a
week, during which time, Stilling felt like some
poor criminal, who is to be executed in a few
days; he performed the operation on a lady in
Rothenburg, and attended several patients. Ma-
ria, who had bec9me weakly at Brauch, was to
return with them to Marburg, together with the
two children, and their departure was fixed for
Thursday, the 29th of October. For this purpose,
brother Coing sent to the posting-house, at Mors-
chen, and ordered the horses.
On Wednesday evening, consequently the day·
before their departure, Stilling's melancholy rose
to such a height, that he said to Eliza, " If the
torment of the damned in hell is not greater t.han
mine, it is still great enough ! "
The next morning, the postillion came at the
time appointed; he had driven the diligence to
Rothenburg, and consequently brought four horses,
which was, however, contrary to all posting regu-
•
YEARS OF TUITION. 3G5
lations; very brisk and lively, he put the horses
to the carriage, and drove empty through the
Fulda ; Stilling, Eliza, Maria, the children, and
the brother, were transported across, about a gun-
shot higher up, in a boat; meanwhile, the postillion
drove up the meadow on the other side; nud waited
on the opposite shore.
They got. in ; Stilling sat behind, to the right ;
next to him Eliza, with Amalia in her lap ; oppo-
site her Maria, and Frederick opposite Stilling.
Brother Coing now took leave, and went back
again; the postillion suddenly smacked his whip,
the four spirited horses went off in full trot, the
postillion turned short round, the fore wheels got
entangled, and threw the carriage to the ground
with such violence, that the body of the vehicle
burst in two in the midst. Being only a chaise,
and open in the front,, Eliza, Maria, and the two
children were thrown out upon the meadow ; but
Stilling, who was sitting in the corner on the
falling side, continued in the carriage, and was
miserably hurt. Fortunately the wheels came off,
so that the coach was not dragged along; it lay
there therefore, and Stilling was so fast squeezed
in that he could not move. It is extremely re-
markable, that all his melancholy vanished in a
moment. Notwithstanding the violent pain, for
his whole body was as if it had been broken on
the wheel, he felt an inward tranquillity and cheer-
fulness, such as he had never before experienced;
and although he was still utterly unconscious what
213
'"' a,,Google
366 HEINRICH STILLING's
the consequences might be, he was so inwardly·
resisned to the divine will, th:it he was unaffected
by the smallest fear of death. As much as the
postillion deserved a severe reproof, and after that
a considerable punishment, Stilling said nothing
further to him, than in a kind manner, "Friend,
you have turned too short."
Eliza, Maria, and the children had not suffered
in the smallest degree ; brother Coing came also
running to them; hut when they sa\Y the man, to
whom all their souls adhered, lying bloody and
disfigured beneath the coach, they all began to
lament bitterly ; the carriage was lifted up again,
and the wounded and disabled man halted on
Eliza's arm back again to Brauch; the postillion
dragged the equally wounded and disabled vehicle
thither also, and it was with difficulty he escaped
being soundly beaten by the peasantry of Brauch.
However they were active in another way; one of
them mounted a horse and rode full gallop to
Rothenburg to fetch medical assistance, and the
others sent refreshments, such as they had, and as
well as they understood it ; but all \l'as naturally
received as ifit were the most precious and suitable
of its kind.
Stiiling was in a miserable condition as regards
the body; the whole of the right breast was hugely
swollen, and when one pressed the hand over it, a
noise was heard ; one of his ribs was fractured ;
behind, under the right shoulder blade, he felt
violent pains; he had a wound on the right temple,
'"' a,,Google
n:ARS OF TUITION. 367
which bled profusely, and was only the breadth
of a straw distant from the artery; and in the
right groin and hip, he felt great pain, as often
as he moved his thigh. In short, every motion
was painful. '
The physicians ofRothenburg, Meiss,andFreyss,
two very able men, soon made their appearance,
and by their faithful care and the divine blessing,
Stilling in a few days recovered so far, as to be
able to travel again to Marburg. But the coach,
with all their learning and ability, they were un-
able to cure; however, they provided for its repa-
ration, which was committed to the court-saddler,
who restored it so ably, that it was firmer than
before.
On Monday the 2nd of November the journey
to Marburg was commenced ; Stilling rode slowly
on horseback, because he did not trust the driving
in such dreadful roads ; and it was well he did so;
for the ladies and children were overturned once
more, yet without injury. Coing accompanied his
brother-in-law on horseback to Mabern, where
Caroline expected them; the next. day, they rode
all together to Marburg, because from thence,
there is a regular chaussee, but Coing rode back
again to Brauch. Stilling had to struggle for a
season, with the consequences of this fall ; in par-
ticular, a giddiness remained for a long time, which
however at length disappeared.
Stilling's state of mind during this journey to
Brunswick, may be best understood by a simile.
'"' a,,Google
368 HEINRICH STILL I NG'S
A solitary traveller on foot, enters a wood in the
evening ; he must pass through this, before he
arrives at the inn. It grows dark, the moon
shines in the first quarter, consequently only faintly;
a very suspicious and terrible man now joins him.
never leaves him, and continually makes as if he
would attack him, and murder him; at length, all
at once he seizes him, and wounds him; suddenly
some of the traveller's best friends make their
appearance, the enemy flees, the wounded man
recognizes his friends, who carry him to the inn,
and nurse him, till he is well again. Dear readers,
take this simile as you will, but do not abuse it.
The commencement of the year 1802, proved a
grievous one for Stilling and Eliza. On Sunday,
the 3rq of January, he received a letter from his
friend Meig, in Heidelberg, in which he informed
him, that Lisette was ill, but he did not believe
that it was of consequence, for the physicians still
gave hopes. On reading this letter, Stilling felt·
a deep impression on his mind, that she was really
dead. There is something in his soul, which
causes him always to feel pleasure, when he knows
that a child, or any other pious person is dead, for
he is conscious that another soul is in safety ; this
conviction makes him feel the death of any one
belonging to him, less than is customary; but as
he possesses a sympathizing heart it always causes
him a severe struggle with respect to his physical
nature ; such was also now the case, he suffered
much for some hours ; then· offered up his Lisette
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 369
to the Lord again who bad given her to him; and
on the 6th of January, when he received from
Meig the news of her decease, he was strong,
and was able himself effectually to comfort the
deeply mourning foster-parents ; but Eliza suffered
severely.
Their friends, the Meigs, buried Lisette in a
very honorable manner. · Meig published a little
hook, containing an account of her life, character,
·death, and burial, together with some little pieces
and poems, which this event occasioned.
The grief, which these foster-parents felt at the
departure of this dear girl, can be scarcely con-
ceived. They had brought her up, and educated
her excellently, and Gou will reward them for
having trained her up in the fear of God, and in
religious sentiments.
It is remarkable, that the old mother Wilhelma
followed her favorite some weeks after, even as her
daughter Meig had long before apprehended.
About this time died also Burgomaster Eicke,
of Minden, Julia's father. Stilling and Eliza
therefore repeated their invitation to Julia, .to
come as soon as her affairs were arranged ; she
accepted it, and arrived about the middle of Jan-
uary, in Marburg, where she was so much pleased
with Stilling's domestic circle, and christian so-
ciety, that she at length expressed thelwish to live
in the family. Stilling and Eliza rejoiced at this
declaration, and the matter was arranged; Julia
pays a sufficient sum for her board, and occupies
'"' a,,Google
370 HEINRICH STILLlNG'S
herself with the education ofthe little girls, Amalia
and Christina ; Eliza, indeed, protested seriously
against being paid for her board; but Julia main-
tained, that she could not come to live with them,
on any other terms. Both the nearly allied souls
were therefore at length unanimous. In March,
Julia travelled to Erfurth to visit a friend, and re-
turned. the August following. From that time,
she has been incorporated into Stilling's domestic
circle, in which she is a real blessing from God by
her piety, cheerfulness, suffering experience, and
particularly in the governance and education of the
two children.
This spring, another journey was undertaken ;
Stilling was sent for from Fulda, and Eliza
aecompanied him. On returning, they passed'
through Hanau and Frankfort, and visited also
PrinceFrederic ofAnhalt, and the Countess Louisa,
who, the ·preceding autumn, had removed from
Marburg to Homburg vor der Bobe. On this
occasion, they became acquainted with the widow
of Prince Victor of Anhalt ; she is a worthy
sister of the Princess Christina of Lippe, a true
christian, and humility personified. After an ab-
sence of about four weeks, they returned to Mar-
burg. Soon after, Amalia was safely delivered
of a daughter.
The important period now also approached, in
which Caroline was to be confirmed, previous to
receiving the sacrament; she was now fourteen
years and a half old, and tall and strong of her
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 371
age ; she had received very excellent religious
instruction for two years, from the tw9 reformed
preachers, Schlarbaum and Breidenstein, Stil-
ling's worthy friends, and it had operated bene-
ficially upon her. She possesses a mind disposed
to piety and religion, and it is a great joy to
the father, and very consoling to him, that his
three eldest children are on the way to become
true christians. Julia wrote to Caroline from
Erfurth, and commissioned Aunt Duising to pre-
sent her with the letter on the day of her con-
firmation; it is worth the while to insert it here:-
"My dear and ever-beloved Caroline!
Ou the most solemn day of thy life, on which
all thy dear friends press thee with new affection
to their heart, my prayers will also mingle with
theirs; probably in the very hour in which thou
wilt make the solemn vow of eternal love and
fidelity to Him, who ought always to fill our
whole soul, I shtt-11 also be asking of him faith,
fidelity, and love, for thee.
" My best and dearest Caroline ! I int.reat thee
suppliantly, duly to consider·and keep that which
thou promisest on this day, so important for thee
in time and eternity ; love the Lord, so as thou
lovest no one else ! thou canst not do anything
greater, better, or more important; do not suffer
thyself to be deprived of that crown, which thy
faith this day views in the Lord's hand for thee ;
either by :flattery, or by the contempt of the world;
but continue faithful to him until death, &c."
'"' a,,Google
372 HEINRICH STILLING's
The confirmation took place at Whitsuntide,
with prayer and much emotion on all sides.
Stilling's situation, meanwhile, became more and
more oppressive. On the one hand, his religious
sphere ·of action became greater, more profitable,
and considerable : the directors of the " London
Tract Society," which, in the space of a couple
of years, had disseminated edifying and useful
publications amongst the common people in
England to the amount of a million of gilders,
wrote him a heart-cheering letter, and encouraged
him to set on foot a similar society in Germany.
At the same time, also, his religious correspon·
dence increased, as well as his practice as an
oculist ; whilst on the other hand, his peculiar
academical vocation became more and more un-
productive ; the German indemnification had
transferred the provinces, which generally fur-
nished the university with students, to other
rulers, who had themselves universities, whither
their young people were obliged to resort and
study; the number of students diminished, there-
fore, visibly, and those that continued to resort
to Marburg, applied themselves to such studies,
as might procure them a maintenance, to which
the financial department does not belong; and
finally, a decrease in the desire to study was
observable in all the universities, the cause of
which does not belong here. Be that as it may,
Stilling's auditory diminished at such a degree,
that he had often only two or three hearers;
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 373
this was intolerable to him. To have so large
a stipend, and to be able to do so little for it,
would not consist with his conscience; and yet
he was nailed, as it were, to his post, he could
not do otherwise, and was obliged to persevere ;
for without this income, he could not live. Besides
all this, his great end and motive, to work and live
for the Lord and his kingdom, alone filled his
whole soul ; he saw and heard, every day, how
extensively beneficial his religious sphere of action
was, and this he was obliged to make a secon-
dary consideration for the sake of a very barren
maintenance.
Finally, another important consideration was
added to all this. The Elector of Hesse is desir-
ous of supporting religion with his whole heart;
but he has also a maxim, which, abstractedly con-
sidered, is perfectly correct : that evm·y servant
'!f the state ought to give himse?f up entirely to
the department to which he has once devoted him-
1e?f: He is not at all pleased, when a person
enters upon another vocation ,· but Stilling was
now so circumstanced, that he was obliged to act
in opposition to both parts of this maxim ; this
also caused him many a mournful hour. His
conflict was painful ; but at this very time, Provi-
dence began to make distant arrangements for the
accomplishment of its plans. It is worth the
while that I relate every thing here with the
greatest minuteness.
On the 5th of July, of the year 1802, Stilling
2K
o'''""j byGoogle
374 HEINRICH STILLlNG's
received a letter from a poor mechanic, in a place
at a great distance from Marburg, who neither
knew, nor could know, one word of Stilling's situ-
ation, because he revealed it to no one, in which the
man stated to him that he had had a remarkable
dream, in which he had seen him traversing and
occupied in a large field, in which much treasure
lay scattered about in small heaps ; and that he
had been commissioned to write to him, and tell
him, that he ought now to gather all this treasure
iuto one heap, then sit down quietly, and attend
to this single treasure alone.
Stilling, in the whole of his life, had seen,
heard, and felt, so many effects of the developed
faculty of presentiment, and also so many, without
the theory of the faculty of presentiment, incom-
prehensible predictions of hysterical and hypo-
chondriacal persons, that he is well aware to
what such things generally belong, and under
what head they ought to be classed. But the
contents of this letter harmonized so much with
what passed in his interior, that he could not
possibly regard it as a matter of chance. He
wrote therefore to the man, saying, that though
he was well aware, that the uniting of that which
was manifold, with that which was simple, would
!Je good for him, yet he was obliged to live by his
Professorship ; he therefore wished for a further
explanation of his meaning. The answer was,
that he must resign himself to the Lord's guid-
ance, who would duly arrange every thing. This
YEARS OF TUITIOl'\. 3;5
event produced, in Stilling's mind, the first fore-
boding of an approaching change,· and of the
developement of the Lord's intentions respecting
him; and gave him, from that period, the proper
direction, by fixing his eye on the hitherto scarcely
perceptible aim, so that he might not lose any
time in preparing himself for it.
About the same time, or somewhat later, he
received a letter also from the Rev. Mr. Konig
ofBurgdorf, in Emmenthal, in the canton ofBern,
requesting him to go thither ; for the expences of
the journey were provided for. This Mr. Konig
was blind of the cataract~ and had already corres-
ponded with Stilling on that account ; the latter
had also promised him to come, as soon as he
should be informed t.hat the travelling expence1
would be repaid. Stilling and Eliza, therefore,
now began to prepare for their second journey to
Switzerland.
During all these occurrences, father Wilhelm's
state of health, which had been hitherto so very
firm and durable, took quite a different direction.
With respect to his mental powers, he had become
so completely a child, that he had no more any un-
derstanding, or judgment; but his body now began
to· neglect the functions neces<1ary to life ; at the
same time, he laid himself sore, so that his con-
dition was extremely pitiable. The surgeon was
obliged to come daily, with a couple of assistants,
to bind his wounded back and other parts ;
during which, the poor man moaned so dreadfully
2K2
'"' a,,Google
376 HEINRICH STILLING's
that the whole neighbourhood prayed for his dis-
solution.
Stilling could not endure the misery; he gener-
ally went out when the time for binding up arrived;
hut even in the interval, Wilhelm often moaned
piteously. The day of his deliverance at length
arrived; on the 6th of September, at half-past ten
in the morning, he passed over into the blissful
habitations of his forefathers. Stilling had him
interred, with the solemnities customary to persons
in affi.uent circumstances.
Wilhelm Stilling is now therefore no longer here
below ; his serene walk, unobserved by· the great
of this world, was nevertheless seed for a fruitful
futurity. He is not always a great man who is
celebrated far and wide; nor is he always great,
who does much ; but that individual is so, in a
peculiar sense, who sows here, to reap a thousand
fold in the world to come. Wilhelm Stilling was
one that sowed in tears ; he went forth weeping,
and bearing precious seed ; now he is doubtless
reaping with joy. His children, Heinrich and
Eliza, rejoice in the prospect of his welcome ; they
rejoice that he will be satisfied with them.
A week after father Wilhelm Stilling's death,
Stilling and Eliza commenced their second Swiss
journey. They left Marburg on Monday the 13th
of September, 1802. At Frankfort, Stilling found
ophthalmic patients, who detained him a few days.
On Thursday the 16th, they arrived early in the
afternoon, at Heidelberg; the welcome from
'"' a,,Google
YE.4.RS OJI' TUITION 377
Madame Meig, was deeply affecting on both sides;
Meig was engaged by business in the country,
.and did not arrive till towards evening; he had
dined in company with a person of eminence, who
had expressed the idea that some great man ought
to keep Stilling in pay, solely that he might
carry on his benevolent practice as an oculist,
without impediment. This again excited Stilling's
attention, and all that had preceded it. The
dream of the mechanic, father Wilhelm's death,
and this speech, which in itself was of no import-
ance, but made an impression just at this time ;
and finally, another Swiss journey; all this to-
gether, produced in 'Stilling's mind a feeling of
exalted expectation.
The following day, Friday the 17th of Septem-
ber, ·the two travellers pursued their way to
Carlsruhe.
I must here go back a little in my narrative,
in order to bring every thing into a proper point
of view.
Jacob, as I have already observed, had become
a father, the previous spring. Notwithstanding his
ability and integrity, and notwithstanding all the
favorable testimonials of the Marburg magistracy,
not the smallest thing could be accomplished for
him at Cassel. With his mode of thinking, it was
impossible to live by the practice ofjurisprudence;
his father was therefore obliged to assist him
considerably, and besides this, he now saw an
increasing family before him.. _l\11 this together
2K3
mo ;ze, ,,Google
378 HEINRICH STILLJNG'S
pressed much upon the good young man ; he
therefore urgently entreated his father to recom-
mend him to the Elector, on his journey through
Carlsruhe ; for as he was born in the Palatinate,
he could therefore lay claim to being provided
for there.
It is contrary to Stilling's whole character, to
ask anything of the kind of a prince, with whom
he is in particular favor, or recommend any one
to an office. However necessary, therefore, it
was that his son should be provided for, it seemed
to him equally difficult and almost impossible, to
make application on his behalf to the Elector.
I must also mention, that the Countess of
Waldeck, in order to give Jacob pleasure on his
wedding-day, had requested the reigning Count
of Wernigerode to give him the title of " Coun-
sellor of Justice ;" he did so, and the Elector of
Hesse also permitted him to make use of this
title. I now return to the continuation of the
narrative.
Stilling and Eliza, arrived at Carlsruhe, 'On
J<'riday the 17th of September, in the evening. On
Saturday morning the 18th, Stilling looked into
the well known Moravian watch-word book, which
contains two passages from the Bible, and two
verses of a hymn, for every day in the year. The
first passage is called the watch-word, and the
second, the doctrinal 'text. Stilling always takes
it with him, when travelling, in order to have
daily a religious subject on which he may employ
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 379
both his head and his heart. He found with
astonishment, that the words for that day were,
" And now, 0 Lord God, establish the word that
thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and
concerning his house, for ever, and do as thou
hast said."-2 Samuel, vii. 2.5; and the verse of
the hymn was,
His faithfulz:;ess, 0 let us praise,
And to him consecrate our days;
His prqmises, he will fulfil
To those that know and do his will.
Hallelujah.
He then sought out also the doctrinal text
for the day, and found the beautiful words, " Be
thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee the
crown of life."
This remarkable circumstance completed the
pleasing foreboding, and the confidence he had,
that it would come to some kind of elucidation
respecting him during the day. Soon after, a
court-page entered the room, presenting the Elec-
tor's compliments, and requesting him to come
to him at nine o'clock, and to stay to dinner
with him.
In consequence of this command, and thus pre-
pared, Stilling went at nine o'clock, to the palace;
he was instantly admitted and very graciously
received. Jtfter exchanging a few words, Stilling
felt himself at liberty to recommend his son ; he
began by premising, that nothing was more diffi-
'"' a,,Google
380 HEINRICH STILLING's
cult for him, than to make application of the kind
to princes, who showed him favor; however, his
circumstances and situation pressed him so much,
that he was now constrained to make an exception
to the rule. He then gave a true account of his
son, and offered to procure the most valid written
proofs, namely, the testimonials of the Marbnrg
magistracy; and finally besought the Elector to
let him serve in the lowest station, and then pro-
mote him as he might deserve. If he only earned
so much as to enable him to live with due econo-
my, he would look upon it as a great favor. He
then concluded with the words, " Your Highness
will not take this first and last recommendation
ungraciously of me." The Elector expressed
himself very favorably ; he said he would see if
he could not provide for him in the organization
of the Palatinate. " Speak also," added the ex-
cellent prince, " with the Ministers and Privy
Counsellors, in order that they may know of the
matter when it is brought forward." It follows
of course, that Stilling promised, and also kept
his promise.
This introduction, gave occasion to speak of
Stilling's own situation. The Elector imparted
such a confidence to Stilling, that he expressed
himself exactly as he felt inwardly ; on which this
great and noble-minded prince rejoined, " I hope
God will give me the opportunity ·ef bringing
you out ef this painful situation, and ef placing
you so, that you may be enabled to attend solely
YEARS 01" TUITION. 381
to your 1·eligious authorship, and to your oculistic
practice; you must .be set entirely at libe1·ty from
all eartlily occupations and connections."
It is impossible to describe how Stilling felt at
that moment, in which the great developement of
his destiny beamed so gloriously upon him from
afar. "Are you in haste with respect to the
accomplishment of this affair ?" continued the
Elector. Stilling replied, "No, most gracious Sir!
and I most humbly beg you by all means to wait,
until Providence opens a door somewhere, in order
that no one may suffer by it, or be neglected."
The prince rejoined, " You can, therefore, wait
half-a-year, or a year?" Stilling replied, "I will
wait as long as God pleases, and until your high-
ness has found the way which Providence marks
out."
I pass over the remainder of this remarkable
day in Stilling's history, only observing, that he
also paid his respects to the Margravine, who was
still inconsolable for the death of her late consort.
He that is acquainted with the Elector of
Baden, knows that this ruler never retracts his
princely word, and always keeps and does more
than he promises. Every feeling christian heart
can sympathize with Stilling, as he then felt.
Blessed be the Lord ! his ways are holy ! happy
he who resigns himself to him without reserve;
he that places his confidence in him, shall never
be confounded.
On Sunday morning, Stilling performed the
'"' a,,Google
382 HEINRICH STILLING's
operation on a poor old peasant, whom the Elector
himself had sent for ; he then continued his jour-
ney to Switzerland with bis Eliza. The nearer
they approached the frontiers, the more fearful
grew the reports, that the whole ofSwitzerland was
under arms, and in a state of insurrection. This
was certainly not pleasant, but Stilling knew that he
was travelling in his benevolentvocation, and there-
fore, with Eliza, put firm confidence in the Divine
protect.ion, nor was this confidence unavailing.
At. Freiburg, in the Breisgau, they learned the
severe trial, which the city of Zurich was com-
pelled to endure, on the 13th of September, but
likewise, that it had powerfully experienced the
Lord's protection. On Tuesday, the 21st of
September, they arrived in the evening, safe and
well, at Basie, at the house of the worthy Mr.
Schorndorf;:but as there were still disturbances
in the neighbourhood of Burgdorf, Stilling wrote
to the Rev. Mr. Konig, that he was at Biisle, and
expected intelligence from him, when he could
come with safety. Until this intelligence arrived,
they continued quietly and contentedly at Biisle;
he attended some ophthalmic patients, and opera-
ted upon two blind people.
On the following day, Wednesday, the 22nd of
September, Stilling had a great pleasure afforded
him. . There lives in Biisle, a very able painter, of
the name of Marquard Wocher, a man of the
noblest heart and christian sentiments ; on Stil-
ling's first Swiss journey, he had conducted him
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 383
t-0 a Mr. Retner, a respectable gentleman there,
who possessed a very elegant collection of pictures;
an Ecce Homo, drew Stilling's whole attention.
After contemplating for some time, this represen-
tation of the suffering Saviour, tears came into his
eyes; Wocher observed it, and asked him, if the
picture pleased him. Stilling answered, "Ex-
tremely ! ah, if I had only a faithful copy of it !
hut I cannot pay for it." " You shall have it,"
rejoine<l Wocher, "I will make you a present of
it."
On the day above mentioned, Wocher brought
this beautiful painting as a welcome ; every con-
noisseur admires it.
This is also the place, where I must mention
one of the extraordinary favors of God; who can
recount them all? but one and another, which
stand in connection with this history, must not
be omitted.,
My readers will remember Mr. Isaac of Wald-
stadt, and how kindly he received Stilling in the
greatest depth of 'his misery, and clothed him
from head to foot. Stilling, it is true, whilst he
was with Mr. Spanier, had repaid him for the
money he had laid out; but it grieved him often,
that he could not in any way recompense .to the
worthy family of this noble-minded individual,
his kindness to him. This recompense was now
to be made in a very striking manner, a manner
worthy of God.
Mr. Isaac's eldest son had also learnt the trade
'"' a,,Google
384 HEINRICH STILLING'S
of a tailor, and in the course of his travels had
been at Biisle, where he resided some years; and
being also a lover of true religion, he had become
acquainted with the true worshippers of Christ in
that place; he had afterwards settled at Wald-
stadt-Rade Vorm Wald, in the duchy of Berg,
his native place, taken his brothers and sisters to
him, and kept house with them ; but as he could
not bear the sitting-posture, he began a little
shop; a worthy merchant gave him credit, and
thus he maintained himselfand the family honestly
and uprightly. This summer, on the 24th of
August, a fire broke out ; in a few hours, the
whole town was laid in ashes, and the good child-
ren of the pious Isaac, not only lost that which
belonged to them, but also the whole of the stock
bought on credit. Friend Becker, for such is the
real family name, did not communicate this mis-
fortune to Stilling, he was too delicate in his sen-
timents to do this ; hut another friend wrote to
him, and reminded him of his obligations to this
family. Stilling felt himself in a dilemma; what
he could give the family, even at the utmost, was
only a trifle for them, and yet, situated as he was, it
would be oppressively felt; he therefore sent some-
thing, and as. just before his journey, he wrote
No. 12 of the "Grey Man," he annexed to it as
account of this calamity, and besought compas-
sionate aid. When in. Biisle, Stilling, at the
request of the members of the German Society,
gave a religioui address, at which several hundred
YEARS OF TUITION. 385
persons were present; at the close of the discourse,
Stilling reminded them of his former friend, and
related his misfortune to them ; this operated in
such a manner, that the same evening, nearly a
hundred gilders were collected and brought to
Stilling. This was the handsome commencement
ofa considerable assistance ; for the memorial in
Number 12 of the "Grey Man," produced about
a thousand gilders for Becker's children, and
about five hundred for the town of Rade-Vorm
Wald, all which -
money was transmitted to
Stilling.
I relate this, merely to prove that the Lord
provides so completely for those, who suffer them-
selves to be guided entirely and unconditionally
by him, that they are enabled to repay all debts
whatever, and even testimonies of christian affec-
tion.
In a few days, the news arrived from Burgdorf,
that every thing was quiet there. In consequence
of this, Stilling and Eliza set out on the 29th of
September ; he performed the operation on an
individual at Liestall; at Leufelfingen, they dined
with their friend Madame Fliihebacher; at Olten
they found friends from Aarau, with whom they
drank tea ; and at Aarburg they were fetched by
the worthy Bailiff Senn, of Zofingen, with whom
they were to pass the night. As they drove down
the magnificent vale of Aar, in the evening, and
• whilst the declining sun irradiated the whole
landscape, Stilling saw, all at once, in the south '
2 L
'"' a,,Google
38G HEINRICH STILLING's
west, above the horizon, a purple-coloured meteor,
which presented a brilliant appearance; he soon
discovered that it was a snowy mountain, probably
the Jungfrau, or the Jungferhorn. He that has
never seen anything of the kind, can have no con-
ception of it, it is just as if the individual beheld
a celestial landscape in the regions of light ; but
this view is all, for to climb up thither, and to
dwell in the eternal ice and snow, would not be
very agreeable. Friend Senn, who drove before
in his Cabriolet, turned about, and exclaimed,
"What divine majesty! I have seen the snow
hills illuminated so many hundred times, and yet
the sight always affects me."
After being very kindly entertained at Mr.
Senn's house, at Zofingen, they rode the next
morning to Burgdorf, where they arrived at six
o'clock in the evening, and took up their quarters
at the parsonage. The town of Burgdorf lies on
a hill, which resembles a saddle ; on the summit
towards the west, stands the church, with the
parsonage; and on the eastern summit lies the
0ttstle ; on the saddle between these two summits,
lies the town itself, which hangs down on both
sides like a party-coloured saddle-cloth ; on the
northern side, the Emme, a roaring woodland
torrent, rushes past. There is a beautiful pros-
pect from both summits ; towards the north-
west, the .Jura, called there the blue mountains,
and in the south, the magnificent Alpine range
appears again, from the Mutterhorn, and Schreek-
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 387
horn, to a considerable distance beyond the
Jungfrau.
Stilling operated upon several blind persons
here; the worthy Mr. Konig regained the perfect
sight of one eye; besides these be also attended
upon many ophthalmic patients. I must mention
one operation, in particular, during which some-
thing occurred, which throws light upon the charac
ter of the Swiss peasantry. Two strong and
handsome men, dressed as peasants, but well and
cleanly, for cleanliness is a prominent feature in
the character of the Swiss, came, with an aged
and venerable grey-headed man, to the parsonage,
and inquired for the strange doctor; Stilling came,
and one of them said to him, " we have brought
our father to you; he is blind, can you help him?"
Stilling looked at his eyes, and replied, " Yes,
dear friends! With God's help, your father shall
return home seeing." The men were silent, but
the big tears rolled like pearls down their cheeks;
the lips of the old man trembled, and his sight-less
eyes were wet.
During the operation, one of the sons placed
himself on one side of his father, and the other on
the other side ; in this position they looked on.
When all was over, and the father saw again, the
tears flowed afresh, but no one said a word, except
that the eldest said, "Doctor what do we owe you?"
Stilling answered, " I am not an oculist for
money, but as I am on a journey, and am at much
expence, I will take something, if you can give
2L2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
388 HEINRICH STILLING's
me anything; but it must not be burdensome to
you in the least. The eldest son replied, patheti-
cally, "Nothing is burdensome to us, that regards
our father;" and the younger added, "Our left
hand does ~ot take back what our right hand has
given ;" which is as much as to say, what we
give, we give willingly. Stilling pressed their
hands with tears, and said, " Excellent ! you are
worthy people ; God will bless you."
Stilling and Eliza made many friends in Burg-
dorf. They were loaded with kindnesses, and
testimonies of affection, and the excellent Madame
Konig made them ashamed by her superabundant,
faithful attention and hospitality. Here also they
became acquainted with the celebrated Pest.alozzi
and his institution for education, which now excites
so much attention every where. Pestalozzi's prom-
inent feature is love to man, and particularly to
children ; hence he has long devoted himself to
the subject of education ; he is consequently an
estimable and noble-minded man. That which is
taught is not, properly speaking, the object that
excites so much attention, but it is his plan of
tuition, the instruction of children, which is aston-
ishing, and no one would believe it, till he had
seen and heard it ; but it is peculiarly only the
intuitive perceptions that are developed by it,
which have reference to time and space ; in this
his pupils attain, in ashort time, to a high degree
of perfection. But how it will be with respect to
to the developement of abstract ideas, and of
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 389
the moral and religious powers, and, generally,
what influence the Pest.alozzian method, will have
upon practical life in future, time must reveal.
It is however necessary to he careful, and first
of all see what will become of the boys that are
educated in this manner. It is, really a hazardous
thing, to drive on such at a rapid rate in matters
of education, before one is sure of a good result.
On Monday the 4th of October, in the afternoon,
Stilling and Eliza travelled four leagues further to
Bern, where they lodged with Steward Niehans,
a pious and faithful friend ofGod and man. Their
four days' residence in this extremely beautiful
town was completely taken up by business ; cata-
ract operations, ministering to many ophthalmic
patients, and making and receiving visits, rapidly
succeeded each other. The two travellers here
also, added greatly to their stock of friends; and
Stilling became intimatfi, more particularly with
the three pious preachers Wyttenbach, Miiesslin,
and I..orsa. Nor must the estimable brothers,
Studer, be forgotten; one of whom presented him
with a beautifully colored copper-plate, represent-
ing the prospect from Bern to the snowy mountains,
drawn and engraved by himself.
On_Sunday morning the 10th ofOctober, Stilling
and Eliza, set off again from Bern. On the way,
they saw at Hindelhank, the celebrated monument
of the Rev. Mr. Langhans's lady, a performance
of the great Hessian artist Nahl.
At Burgdorf, Stilling operated upon some blind
2L3
'"' a,,Google
390 HEINRICH STILLING's
people, and then both set out again by way of
Zofingen, to Zurich, Winterthur, and St. Gall,
where they lodged with the pious and learned
Antistes Stii.helin, and again formed a friendly
alliance with many estimable individuals. lie there
couched only one person, but attended several who
were diseased in the eye.
On Wednesday, the 27th of October, they
travelled through the paradisaical Thurgau, along
the Bodensee, to Schaffhausen. On the road
thither, a man was freed from the cataract, at
Arbon. At Schaffhausen, they again resided with
the dear family of the Kirchhofers. There was
here also much to do, but at the same time, mental
uneasiness and sorrow; for on Sunday the 31st of
October, in the afternoon, the French again entered
the place.
On Monday the lst of November, they left
beloved Switzerland, but as a blind merchant of
Ebingen, had sent an express t.o Schaffhausen,
t.hey were obliged to make a considerable circuit
by way of Mosskirch, and the Swabian Alp ; from
Ebingen they ·were sent for to Balingen, were
there was also much to do, and from thence they
rode to Stuttgard, where they enjoyed a blissful
abode in the house of Mr. Von Leckendorf, and
where Stilling was also enabled to be of service to
many afB.icted people.
Here he found to his great joy, the Moravian
Unity-elder Goldman, with whom he entered into
a warm and fraternal connexion.
YEARS OF TUITION. 391
From Stuttgard, they were again obliged to
make a large and tedious circuit through the Black
Forest, to Calw, where Stilling found the pious
and Rev. Mr. Havlin of New Bulach, with his
excellent spouse and daughter, who were all
three already known to him by letter. Here
also a circle of worthy people collected about the
travellers, in ·the house of the pious book-keeper
Schille. From thence they travelled on Tuesday
the 9th of November, to Carlsruhe. It was at
the desire of the Margravine, that Stilling made
this circuit, because there were several blind per-
sons there, who required couching. The Elector
repeated his promise, and on Friday the 12th of
November, they commenced their journey home,
by way of Mannheim, and Frankfort; in the latter
place, and at Vilbel, three blind persons were
couched; and on Tuesday the 16th of November,
they arrived well and happy again in Marburg.
The first Swiss journey solved the first problem
in Stilling's life,-the payment of his debts ; and
the second solved the second,-Stilling's future
sphere of action.
What the exalted Governor of the world begins,
he accomplishes, in small things as well as in
great, in the cottage of the peasant, as in the
court of the monarch. He forgets the ant as little
as the greatest potentate. Nothing proves un-
successful with him, and nothing stop~ short
with him. Providence proceeds on its exalted
path.
'"' a,,Google
392 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Brother Coing married, in the spring of 1802,
an excellent lady, who is worthy of him. Stilling,
Eliza, sister Maria, and Jacob set out, in order to
to be present at the marriage, which was to be .
celebrated at Homburg, in Lower Hessia, in the
house of the worthy widow of the Metropolitan
Wiskemann, the mother of the bride. Now there
lives in Cassel, a noble-minded, piously-disposed~
and affluent individual, Counsellor Enyeim, who
was a widower, and whose two amiable children
were married ; he lived therefore alone, with a
footman and a cook; and was again in want of a
pious and faithful spouse, who might accompany
him in his pilgrimage through life.
A brother ·of this worthy man is preacher at
Homburg, and likewise a very amiable character;
the latter saw and observed sister Maria, and
found that she would make his brother in Cassel
happy. After the observance of the due pre-
cautionary measures and rules of decorum, the
match was concluded, and Maria, the noble,
gentle, good, and pious soul, has obtained a hus-
band, such as suits her exactly; she is as happy
as a person can be here below.
Thus the blessing of the elder Coings rests
upon these four children; they are all happily and
blissfully married; for brother Coing has obtained
a consort, such as the Lord gives to the man
whom he loves ; Amalia also lives happily with
Stilling's virtuous son. Eliza treads the most
painful, and hardest path at Stilling's side ;
YEARS OF TUITION. 393
however, besides father Coing's blessing, her
father Wilhelm will also supplicate peculiar grace
for her from the Lord.
The year 1802 was terminated by an agreeable
visit ; Stilling's next relative and the intimate
friend of his youth from the cradle, the chief sur-
veyor of the mines at Dillenburg, paid him a visit
of some days. He is Johann Stilling's second son,
and a man of integrity and ability. Both renewed
their fraternal bond, arid then parted from each
other.
In the beginning of the year 1803, something
occurred that had an important influence upon
Stilling's fate. An edict from Cassel arrived at
the Marburg University, to the effect, that no
author should send his compositions to the press,
until they had been examined by the pro-rector
and dean c!f thefaculty to whose depm·tment the
treatise belonged.
This limitation of the liberty of the press,
which had no reference to the whole country, or to
all the schools of learning, or the learned in
Hessia generally, but solely to Marburg, uncom-
monly grieved all the professors there, who were
not in the least conscious of anything wrong ; for
learned men, and in fact, none but professors
alone, who are acquainted with the difficult col-
legiate relations, can have an idea how greatly an
honest man is exposed to all possible raillery, when
two of his colleagues possess the right to examine
his works.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
394 HEINRICH STILLING'S
Stilling reflected awhile, and probably every
Marburg professor did the same, upon what could
possibly have occasioned this severe ordinance.
· There was now nothing published by a Marburg
author, except the usual academical writings, pro-
.grammes, dissertations, &c. but the " Grey Man,"
by Stilling, and the theological annals by Wa-
cheler; one of these two, therefore, must probably,
have become suspected. Stilling reflected over
the last Number of the "Grey Man," and found
nothing that was in the least objectionable ; he
could not, therefore, possibly imagine, that such
an orthodox work, which has for its object piety,·
the general tranquillity a:ud safety, and the main-
taining of obedience and the affection of the
subjects towards their rulers, had given rise to a
law so grievous to the University. In order, how-
ever, to obtain a certainty in the matter, he wrote
a very polite and cordial letter, to a certain gentle-
man in Cassel, whom he had never injured a
hair's breadth in his life, and modestly inquired
the severe edict concerning the censorship. But
how was he alarmed on receiving, in a rather
satirical and ungracious reply, the news, that the
" Grey Man " had caused the censor-edict. By
degrees this became generally known, and any
one may now easily imagine, how Stilling must
have felt when he reflected that he had given
occasion for the imposition of so heavy a burden
upon the University. He had now at once
finished with Marburg and Hesse ; and the time
. '
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 395
seemed long to him, before the Lord should com-
pletely decide his fate. I have no need to men-
tion, that the Landgrave of Hesse was entirely
innocent of this edict, for how can a ruler read
and examine every work ? he must commit this
and many other things to men of experience in
them to decide. I call upon all the readers of the
" Grey Man ; " and if a single passage can be
shown, which is opposed to the imperial law of
censorship, I will confess I have lost.
Ought not a hint to have been given Stilling,
to cease writing the " Grey Man '{" But instead
of this, to make him a stumbling block to all
his colleagues and the whole University, was very
hard for a man, who had served his prince and
the state with all fidelity for sixteen years.
In fact, Stilling could now remain no longer in
Hcssia, and how fortunate it was, that shortly
before, a pleasing prospect had been unfolded to
him at Carlsruhe. He openly declared, as well
as in his protest, which, at his request, was an-
nexed to the memorial of the University to the
Elector, that if his highness would relieve the
University from the censorial edict, he alone
would submit himself to it ; but this proved of no
avail; the law, once given, continued in force.
The Elector, in other respects, had always
shown Stilling much favor, for which he will thank
him in eternity ; and his respectful attachment to
this prince, who may be called great in so inany
'\Spects, will never be extinguished.
'"' a,,Google
396 HEINRICH STILLING's
During these Easter holidays, another impor-.
tant and remarkable journey was undertaken. At
Herrnbut, in Upper Lusatia, and the neighbour-
hood, there were many blind people, and such as
were diseased in the eye, who desired Stilling's
aid. His dear and faithful correspondent Erxleben,
therefore, wrote to him, to come, and that the ex-
pences of tlie journey were already provided for.
Stilling and Eliza consequently prepared them-
selves for another long journey ; for Herrnhut is
fifty-nine German miles distant from Marhurg.
On Friday, the 25th of March, they set out
from Marhurg. On account of the badness of
the roads in Thuringia, they resolved to go by
way of Eisenach. Stilling here saw for the first
time, a gentleman who had been many years
his friend, the treasury-director, Von Gochhausen ;
this worthy man was ill, however he soon began
to amend. They did not stop on the way;
they travelled through Gotha, Erfurth, Weimar,
Naumburg, Weissenfels, Leipzig and Wurzen,
when they spent a few hours, very agreeably,
with their christian friend, Justiciary Richter, with
whom and his daughter Augusta, Stilling carries
on an edifying correspondence ; and then pro-
ceeded to Miessen and Dresden. They passed
the night there at the Golden Angel, and found
their friend Von Cuningham likewise ill. Stilling
paid a visit the same evening to the venerable
minister Von Burgsdorf, and was received like
a christian friend.
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 397
On Friday, the lst of April, they travelled into
Lusatia and arrived in the afternoon at Klein-
welke, a beautiful Moravian settlement. They
found their friend, the Rev. Mr. Nietschke in
profound grief; he had lost his excellent consort
a fortnight before, for this life. Stilling wept
with him, for this is the best consolation which
can be afforded to one, who, like Nietschke, can
have recourse to every source of consolation.
Nature demands her rights ; the outward man
mourns, whilst the inward is resigned to God.
They were present, in the evening, at the sing-
ing, or the commencement of the celebration of
the passion week ; they also formed several agree-
able acquaintances. Stilling likewise looked at
a few blind people, on whom he intended to
operate, on his return.
On Saturday, the 2nd of April, they t.ravelled in
the morning from Kleinwelke, through Budissin,
and Lobau to Herrnhut. This place lies on an
elevated level between two hills, the one to the
north, the other towards the south; the former is
called the Gutberg, and the latter the Heinrichs-
berg, on each of which stand a pavillion, from
whence the prospect is extremely beautiful ; at
about five leagues distance towards the east, the
majestic Silesian Giant hills are seen, and to-
wards the south, a distant prospect of Bohemia.
It is impossible to describe how cordially and
lovingly Stilling and Eliza were received at this
extremely beautiful and agreeable place, and how
2M
'"' a,,Google
398 HEINRICH STILLING'S
much enjoyment they experienced there. I am
equally as unable to recount the history of th.eir
ten day's residence; for it would increase the size
of this volume too much ; besides which, Stilling
was seriously requested by the Elders, not to &ay
or write much to the praise <?f the Moravian
church, since it prospered better under oppre.~­
sion, contempt, and oblivion, than when it was
commended.
Erxleben and Goldmann were particularly glad
of their arrival, the first as correspondent, and
the second from personal acquaintance at Stutt-
gard. No one will take it amiss, that I do not,
on this occasion, mention the names of any other
friends ; how could T name them all ? and if
I did not do that, it might pain him who was
omitted.
Were I even only to mention the many persons
of rank and nobility with whom Stilling and Eliza
entered into a fraternal alliance here, it would
again grieve a number of excellent souls of the
middle class, and that justly ; for in the connec-
tion existing at Herrnhut, all are nearly allied in
the Lord Jesus Christ; rank is no longer of
any value, but the new creature which is born of
water and the spirit. He however, who wishes
to know more of Herrnhut, and its religious and
pol1tical constitution, has only to read the Rev. Mr.
Frohberger's letters on Herrnhut, where he will
find every thing minutely described.
The celebration of the passion-week, is heart
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 399
cheering, and heavenly in all the Moravian settle-
ments, but especially at Herrnhut. Stilling and
Eliza attended all the services that are devoted to
it, diligently and devoutly. The venerable bishops
and elders allowed them also to communicate with
the church on the evening of Holy Thursday. This
communion is what it properly ought to be : a
solemn uniting with Christ the head, and with
all his members in every religious denomination.
What a piously disposed heart experiences on this
occasion, and how a person then feels, cannot be
described ; it must be experienced. Stilling felt
at that time, as if he were consecrated to his new
and future occupation ; and for such a consecra-
tion, certainly no place was better filled than that,
in which Jesus Christ and his religion are con-
fessed and taught, perhaps the most clearly and
purely, in the whole world ;-than that place where,
in proportion to the population generally, certainly
the greatest number of true christians dwell.
I must however notice, in particular, two indi-
viduals at Herrnhut, the lord and lady of the
manor, Baron Watteville, and his consort, born
Countess of Zinzendorff; this worthy lady much
resembles her late father, and overflows in a
similar manner, with love to God and man; her
husband is also a worthy and religious man ; both
of them shewed Stilling and Eliza much friend-
ship.
Stilling operated upon several persons at Herrn-
hut, and administered help and advice to several
2M2
'"' a,,Google
400 HEINRICH STILLING's
hundred. The concourse of people requiring assis-
tance was extremely great.
On Easter Tuesday, the 12th of April, they set
out, amidst the blessings of many worthy people,
from Herrnhut to Kleinwelke. Here a few more
were couched, and the next day they rode to
Dresden, where they continued till Saturday, and
then returned by way of Waldheim, Coldiz, Grim-
ma, and Wurzen, to Leipzig. The reason of
this circuitous route was, because there were some
blind people in the poor house at Waldheim, whom
the kind father of the poor, the minister Von
Burgsdorf desired to see restored to sight, as well
as a friendly invitation from his children, the Von
Hopfgartens in Coldiz. Stilling there performed
the last cataract operation on this journey. I
regret that I cannot, and dare not, loudly and
publicly, thank all the dear and excellent people,
who manifested such unspeakable kindness to
Stilling and Eliza, and with whom they united
themselves for time and eternity. Every one how-
ever will see, that this cannot he done for many
important reasons ; we will leave it for the next
world.
In the afternoon of Thursday the 21st, they set
offfrom Leipzig, and passed the night at Werssin-
fels; the following day, they travelled to Weimar,
and as they had a commission from the settlement
of Herrnhut to Neu-Dietendorf, they made a little
circuit thither from Erfurth, spent the Sunday
there, and then travelled on Monday, by way of
'"' a,,Google
'YEARS OF TUITION. 401
Gotha, to Eisinach. In Gotha, Stilling waited
upon the Duke, with whom he had a short and
interesting conference.
At Eisinach, they found th~ir dear friend Von
Gi:ichhausen better again; with him, his brother
and sister, and the worthy Doctor Miiller, they
spent a pleasant evening, and then travelled, on
Tuesday, the 26th of April, to Cassel. Here they
rested till Monday, the 2nd of May. Brother
Coing came also thither with his lady, and the
brothers and sisters spent the few days very
pleasantly together. Brother Coing then returned
home with his Julia, and Stilling and Eliza, on the
day above mentioned, to Marburg.
It is a matter of notoriety, that the Landgrave
of Hesse Cassel, accepted this spring, the Elec·
toral dignity, for which purpose great solemnities
were prepared. During this time, on Friday the
20th of May, Stilling received a letter, early in the
morning, by a courier from Cassel, in which he was
requeste~ to take poRt immediately and go thither,
for Prince Charles of !Jesse was there from Den-
mark ; he had unexpectedly surprized his brother,
andwished now to speak;with Stilling also. The lat-
ter immediately rose up, ordered post-horses, Eliza
also got ready, and at half past five, they were
both seated in their carriage; at nine o'clock in
the evenipg, they arrived at their brother and
sister Enyeirn's in Cassel. The two following days,
Stilling spent some extremely pleasant hours with
the Prince; affairs of the greatest importance con-
2M3
'"' a,,Google
40'2 HEINRICH STILLUm's
cerning the kingdom of God, were discussed,
Prince Charles is a true christian ; he cleaves with
the highest degree of affection and adoration, to
the Redeemer, he lives and dies for him ; at the
same time, he possesses singular and extraordinary
knowledge and acquirements, which are by no
means for every one, and which can in no case be
mentioned here. After taking a christian and
affectionate leave of this great and enlightened
prince, Stilling and Eliza set off again from Cassel,
on Monday the 23rd of May, and arrived in the
evening at Marburg.
· Stilling's lectures were very ill attended this
summer. Had it not been for the new prospect
afforded him, the previous autumn at Carlsruhe,
he would have been inconsolable. The Whitsun-
tide vacation now approache4, · Stilling and Eliza
had long purposed visiting'their friends at Witt-
genstein, during the$e holidays, and because
St.illing's birth-pla~e is only five leagues distant
from that place, they intended to make a pilgrim-
age together to Tiefenbach and Florenburg, and
visit all the places which Stilling's childhood and
youthful years had rendered remarkable ; at least
to them. Stilling rejoiced much in the expecta-
tion of once more visiting, arm in arm with his
dear Eliza, these places, which he had not seen
for thirty-seven or thirty-eight years. A thrilling
sensation pervaded him, when these ideas presented
themselves to his mind.
For the accomplishment of this purpose, they
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 403
both set offfor Wittgenstein, which is seven leagues
distant from Marburg, on Saturday the 28th of
May, the day before Whitsunday, accompanied by
their son Frederick, now eight years old, to whom
they intended to shew his father's birth-place.
The chancery-director, Homberyk at Fach, is a
native of Marburg, and not only a near relative of
Eliza's, but he and his consort, are also Stilling
and Eliza's intimate friends, and excellent charac-
ters. Their abode with these good people was·
very beneficial ; and all the friends there did
their best to refresh and gratify the two visitors.
Tuesday in Whitsuntide, was the day, on which
the journey to Stilling's birth-place was to have
been underta~en; and Homberyk with his lady
wished to accompany lhem. Stilling however,
was seized with an inexplicable terror, which in-
creased as the day approached, and rendered the
accomplishment of his purpose impracticable. As
much as he had previously rejoiced at the idea of
visiting the scene of his youthful days, so much
did he now shudder at it ; he felt just as if great
dangers awaited him there. God alone knows the
cause and reason of this very singular phenome-
non; it was not such an anxiety, as that which
be felt on the Brunswick journey, but it was
perhaps the warning of his guardian angel, which
struggled with his longing to see his native place,
and this struggle caused suffering. The former
was like Job's, the latter like Jacob's con-
flict. The journey was therefore not under-
'"' a,,Google
404 HEINRICH STILLING1!1
taken; his dear friends respected his terror, and
gave way.
Whilst at Wittgenstein, the remarkable period
at length arrived, in which Stilling, in the sixty-
third year of his age, learnt the decision of his
fate. He received a letter from his son at Mar·
burg, in which the latter communicated to him
the joyful intelligence, that the Elector of Baden
had appointed him Counsellor of Justice to the
supreme Electoral court at Mannheim, with a
regular income in money and perquisites; this was
a vocation, which exceeded the expectations of
both ; there was also annexed, a question to
Stilling in particular, wlietherfor tlie present, and
until his income could be inc1·eased, he would come.
.for twelve hundred gilders yearly?
Joy at the provision for the long tried Jacob,
and the near and certain prospect of escaping from
a situation, which had now become intolerable,
filled Stilling and Eliza with delight, and profound
serenity ; they offered thanks to God with tears,
and hastened home, because Jacob had, at the
same time, received orders to come as soon as
possible, and enter upon his office. They therefore
left Wittgenstein on Friday the 3rd of June, and
arrived in the afternoon at Marburg.
All hands were now put into activity to accel-
erate Jacob and Amalia's removal to Mannheim.
But a violent conflict between faith and reason now
arose in Stilling's soul.
IfStilling's.situation at this time is considered on
'"' a,,Google
YEARS 01:<' TUITION. 405
rational and economical grounds, it was certainly a
matter for hesitation to exchange a place of twelve
hundred dollars in gold, for one of twelve hundred
gilders currency, particularly, as nothing remained
over, from the large salary first mentioned; there
were even reasons, which might have removed
Stilling's difficulties and decided him to remain at
Marburg, and retain his place ; for he could pro-
ceed quietly as before, travel during the vacations,
and in the interval, faithfully discharge the duties
of his office : if he had few hearers, or none at all,
it was not his fault, and with respect to the im-
pulse he felt to be active in the cause of religion,
he might act as he had hitherto done, and if he
could not force every thing to be as he wished,
God does not require of us more than we are able
to perform ; the stone is left lying, which cannot
he lifted, &c.
But Stilling's conscience, which has been recti-
fied by many trials of faith, and much experience
in suffering, and purified from all sophistry by
being exercised for many years in the school of
grace, judged very differently. According to his
inmost conviction, it was imperative upon him to
resign his office, return his salary into the hands
of his prince, as soon as he could no longer earn
it to his satisfaction, and that of his own con-
science. This position suffers no limitation, and
he that thinks otherwise, thinks incorrectly.
Stilling could now do this boldly, since a way was
shewn him, by which he could attain his object
'"' a,,Google
406 ll1'1NRICH STILLING'S
as soon as he entered upon it. He had learnt in
few years, that the Lord has means enough of
helping him out of his distresses without the
Marburg stipend ; for his debts were liquidated,
not with this, but with Swiss money, and .it was
with the latter, and not with the former, that the
expences ofthe removal and the new arrangements
would be covered, It is further, the unconditional
duty of the true christian, as soon as the choice
is left him of various vocations, to choose that
which is the most useful to mankind, and which
operates the most beneficially, without any re-
ference to a smaller income, or even none at all;
for as soon as the individual follows this.maxim,
he enters into the immediate service of the Father
and Ruler of all men, and it follows of course,
that he rewards his servants, and gives them what
they need. Stilling therefore felt himself under
weighty obligations to accept the call ; for that he
was of infinitely greater service by his oculistic
practice, and especially by his writings, than by
his professorship, was beyond a doubt, and those
very occupations constituted his whole vocation
in the event of his accepting the Baden appoint-
ment. It was therefore by all means his duty
to accept the call, particularly, as in process of
time, an increase of stipend was promised by a
prince who assuredly performs what he promises.
There came, in addition to all this, the whole
of Stilling's guidance, from the very cradle. He
must be very blind, who cannot perceive that this
mo ;ze, ,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 407
had systematically pointed out the way to the
door, which the Elector of Baden now opened.
If Stilling had purposed waiting for. some other
opportunity, in which more salary would be pro-
mised him, it would have been, in his situation,
and with the trials of faith he had experienced, a
highly culpable mistrust ; and as Providence had
undoubtedly prepared and provided the vocation,
it would have been also a heinous sin of disobedi-
ence if he had not accepted it ; and then, this
appointment was so strange and so singular in its
kind, that another such like could not possibly be
expected; and finally, the true and enlightened
christian easily perceives, that Stilling's great
leader had no other object in it, than to retain
him and his Eliza _continually in the breathing
of faith, and to place them in such a situation,
that their eyes must ever be directed to his gra-
cious hand, and wait upon him. All these con-
victions decided both to accept the call in God's
name ; but in order to do every thing that could
be done, to keep himself free from blame, Stilling
wrote to the Elector of Baden, requesting an
addition, if possible, in the way of residence, &c.,
on which the vocation came, and in it this addition
was promised him as soon as anything of the kind
should be vacant.
It was now, dear readers, that the great ques-
tion respecting Stilling's real and final destiny was
·decided, and the second great problem of his
wonderful guidance solved. It can now no longer
'"' a,,Google
408 HEINRICH STILLING's
be said, that his faith and confidence in Jesus
Christ, and his government of the world, was en-
thusiasm or superstition; on the contrary, the
Redeemer has gloriously and obviously justified
himself and the faith of his servant ; and as a
proof that Stilling's decision was well-pleasing to
him, he gave him the following distinguished sign
of his gracious approbation.
More than fifty German miles from Marburg,
there lives a lady, who was utterly ignorant of
Stilling's present situation and necessities, but to
whom he was known by his writings. This per-
son felt herself inwardly impelled to send Stilling
twenty louis-d'ors. She followed this impulse, in
simplicity and faith, packed up the twenty louis
d'ors, and wrote him at the same time, tliat she
.felt herself impelled to send him the money ; he
would know well enough how to apply it, and.for
what purpose. By these hundred and eighty gil-
ders, what still remained over from the Swiss
journey wa's increased, and thus the removal from
Marburg, and the establishment of a new house-
hold in a strange place was facilitated. J imagine,
however, that something awaits Stilling, which
contains in it the reason why this money was sent
him.
Good God! what a guidance, when clearsight-
edly and impartially considered ! If one of all the
drawings of Providence hitherto described, had
been wanting, it would not have been possible to
have accepted this appointment ; if Stilling had
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OP TUITION. 409
obtained in Switzerland, only the amount of his
debts and his travelling expences, it would have
been a glorious and visible favor from God ; but
then he must have continued in Marburg, because
the means would have been wanting for his re-
moval and establishment in a strange place ; for
he retained nothing over of all his income at
Marburg.
The Lord's name be praised ! He is still the
same God as he has revealed himself in the Bible.
Yes, he is justly termed, I am, and was, and shall
be, ever the same. Jesus Chrilt, the same yester-
day, to-day, andfor ever!
On Sunday, the 25th of June, Jacob and
Amalia took their departure, amidst the tears of
all their friends, and with the heartiest blessings
of their parents, for Mannheim ; and Stilling and
Eliza now prepared for their removal to Heidel-
berg, which place the Elector had recommended.
to them for their future residence ; for though
they are at liberty to reside in any part of the
Baden territories they please, because Stilling has
no official situation, but devotes himself solely to
the great and primary impulse, which has labored
to attain its developement in him from his youth
up ; that is, to be active as a witness of the truth
for Jesus Christ and his kingdom, and to serve
his neighbour by his beneficial ophthalmic cures ;
notwithstanding all this, he was under the
greatest obligation to regard the advice of the
Elector as a command; which was also easy, for
2 N
mo ;ze, ,,Google
410 HEINRICH STILLING's
this reason, because Stilling knew no more conve-
nient or agreeable place, and because he waa
already known there, from having lived there
before.
He now applied to the Elector of Hesse for his
dismission, and obtained it. At his departure,
Stilling wrote once more to him, and thanked him
for all the favors and benefits he had hitherto
enjoyed, and entreated the continuance of his kind
favor; of which the Elector also assured him in
a gracious letter from his own hand.
It cannot be described, what a melancholy sen-
sation Stilling's departure caused throughout the
•
Hessian dominions, but especially at Marburg;
all its inhabitants mourned, and on his leaving on
Saturday, the 10th of September, in the morning,
the whole neighbourhood wept. But not a word
more of these affecting scenes. Stilling and
Eliza's hearts were deeply wounded, particularly
on passing the church-yard, where so many dear
friends and relatives repose.
It follows of course, that their .friend Julia re-
moved with them. They travelled the first day
to their children, the Schwarzes, at Munster;
there they spent Sunday an4 Monday, which
latter was Stilling's birth-day, and was celebrated
on this occasion in an extremely striking manner.
Schwarz and Julia had formed the plan of it, and
it was admirably executed. I have omitted re-
eounting any of the birth-day solemnities since
1791 ; they contain too much of what is flattering
'"' a,,Google
YEARS OF TUITION. 411
and panegyrical, and to describe all this would be
disgusting.
On Tuesday, the 13th of September, they took
leave oftheir children, the Schwarzes, and travelled
to Frankfort; there they spent Wednesday and
Thursday ; on Friday they rode to Heppenheim,
and on Saturday, the 17th of September, they
entered Heidelberg. The watchword for the day
was striking; it stands in Exodus, xv, 17. "Thou
shalt bring them in, and plant them in the moun-
tain of thine inheritance, in the place, 0 Lord,
which thou hast made for thee to dwell in, in
the sanctuary, 0 Lord! which thy hands have
established." I suppose I need not observe, that
the mountain of the inheritance of Jehovah and
his sanctuary, must not be applied to Heidelberg,
but Stilling's idea of the mountain of Jehovah's
inheritance, his dwelling, and his sanctuary, was,
the spiritual Zion and the mystic temple of God,
in which he was now to be placed aa a servant,
and in which he was to labor.
Friend Meig had provided a handsome dwelling,
and his lady and a friend of hers, had made other
requisite preparations. There dwells Stilling, with
his Eliza, Julia, and Caroline ; and with the three
children, Frederick, Amalia; and Christina, to-
gether with the dear, good, and faithful Maria,
and a maid servant, and now waits further upon
the Lord, and his gracious guidance.
How gladly would I here have openly and pub-
licly thanked certain families and intimate and
2N2
mo ;ze, ,,Google
412 HEINRICH STILLING'S YEARS OF TUITION.
cordi~ friends at Marburg, for their love and
friendship ! Bnt tell me, my beloved friends, how
could I do so, without grieving some one-:er other,
whom I do not or cannot name? The whole dear,
cordial city of Marburg is my friend, and I am its
friend ; in· this relation we will' continue towards
each other, until our glorification, and beyond it,
as long as our existence lasts. You all know us,.
and we you; the Lord our God, all of us. Be He
your great reward I Amen !
' '"' ao,Google
RETROSPECT OF STILLING's LIFE.
FIRs'l' of all, I very heartily request all my readers to
peruse, and carefully examine, with a calm and impar-
tial mind, these few remaining pages ; for they contain
the real point of view, from whence Stilling's whole
life, through the whole of this work, must be regarded
and judged of.
That I, Johann Heinrich Jung, Aulic Counsellor, the
author of this work, am myself Heinrich Stilling, and
that it is therefore my own history, every one knows;
my incognito is therefore of no more use; I lay it
aside, and speak no longer in Stilling's, but in my own
person.
The first and principal question is, whether my whole
history, so as I have related it, in "Heinrich Stilling's
Childhood, Youth, Wanderings, DomeL"tic Life, and
Years of Tuition," be really and actually true ? To this
I can with a good conscience answer in the affirmative.
In the history of my "Childhood," the persons, charac-
ters, and the narrative itself, are written and described
according to truth; but a variety of embellishments are
introduced, because they were requisite for my object
at the time; but these embellishments decreas; in such
a manner, that few appear in the " Youthful Years,"
still fewer in the "Wanderings," and none at all in the
"Domestic Life;" only the persons and places, for
reasons which I could not avoid, were concealed under
fabulous names; but in this la.st part, "Stilling's Years
of Tuition," with the exception of Raschmann, and a
~ertain student, I have called every place and person by
their proper names, for this very important reason, that
2N3
414 RETROSPECT.
every one may examine and ascertain, whether I relat.e
the pure and unadorned truth. And re&lly it is much
worth the while, for the reader to convince himself of
this ; for if my whole history be true in its whole ex-
tent, results arise from it, which perhaps the fewest of
my readers would suppose, and of which the majority
cannot have a remote presentiment. It is, therefore,
an indispensable duty, for me to develope and place
before them these result& and consequences conscien·
tiously, and with rational and logical correctness. I
therefore earnestly beg of all my readers, to examine
most minutely and strictly all that follows.
The events of an individual's life, from his birth to
his death, arise either, all ofthem, in their tum,
1. From blind chance, or
2. From a divine and wisely formed plan, in the
accomplishment of which, men co-operate as beings
really free, or else mechanically, like physical nature, yet
in such a manner as seems to them that they acted freely.
This latter dreadful idea that men seem only free to act,
whilst in reality they act only mechanically, is what
is called Fatalism. This is not the place to refute thia
awful absurdity ; but should it be desired, I can do it.
thank God! incontrovertibly.
I take it therefore for granted, that God governs the
world with infinite wisdom, yet in such a manner,
that mankind co-operate, as free agents, for this rea-
eon ; because Fatalism has no influence on my prellellt
aubject.
It is evident from the meaning of the expression
"blind chance," that this nonentity cannot, from pre·
meditated plans, remotely prepare, with vast wisdom,
the means for their accomplishment, and afterward•
RETROSPECT. 415
powerfully execute them ; consequently when all this
is supremely evident, as in the· history of my life, it
would be folly to think of ascribing it to blind chance ;
and as in the events of each individual's life, and there-
fore in mine also, an immense number of other indi-
viduals co-operate ; it i11 impossible, that all these
co-operating beings can be under the direction of a
blind chance. I therefore establish the principle, that
Mthing Aappetts or can happen by mere cAance.
That a person, generally speaking, is in part master
of hie own fate, and has usually to ascribe his happinesa
for the most part to himself, none of my readers will
doubt, unless he be a Fatalist ; but with such a one I
do not come into collision here. But whether I hatle
co-operated as to the manner of my guidance, and whether
I Aave in the smallest degree, intentionally, contributed to
any one of the decisive events of my life, is the question
oa fDhich every thing here drpends; for if I can prove
that this is not the case, results arise from it of a very
comprehen11ive nature, and which are of the utmost im-
portance for our contemporaries.
There are persons, who from their youth up, expe-
rience within them a certain impulse ; this they appre-
hend and keep in view till their death, and they apply
all their understanding, and all their powers to attain
the object to which this impulse excites them. For
instance, one man has an invincible inclination, and a
primary impulse to mechanical labors. He wrestles,
strives, labors, and invents, until he produces works of
art, which astonish the beholder. Now this is the
caee in every vocation, and with all the arts and scien-
ces; in each particular department, such like asp.iri.Dg
iudividuals are found. They are called great men,
'"' a,,Google
416 ttETROSPEC'l'.
~ople ofgreat minds, great geniuses, &c. But many,
notwithstanding all the power and strength of their
impulse, and all their pains and labor, do not prove
successful, because it does not belong in the mighty
plan of the world's government; whilst others, who
are also men of great talents, and are the cause ofhorri-
ble evils in the world, succeed in attaining their object,
because their actions, with the consequences arising
from them, can be applied to good purposes. It is
therefore evident, and very certain, that such men,
have, at lea.st for the most part, themselves formed and
executed the plan of their lives, and their impulse was
natural to them. Let the reader reflect upon the lives
of many great and eminent, good and wicked men, and
then he will no longer be able to doubt of the truth of
my assertion.
The great and principal question, therefore, now really
is, am I such a man ? Do I belong to the above men·
tioned class of remarkable individuals, who have for
the most part been the authors of their own destinies ?
Let us examine and reply to this question most
strictly and impartially; and first of all, whether I really
possessed such a powerful impulse ? Most certainly!
I possessed it, and have it still; it is an eztenaive and
eomprehenaive activity for Jesus Christ, his religio11, a11d
his Kingdom; but it must be well observed, that this
impulse did not at all lie in my natural character; for
that is, on the contrary, an e;r:tensive and compreheuive,
highly frivolous enjoyment ofphysical and mental sennal
pleasures ; I beg that this fundamental part of my
character, be on no account lost sight of. The first
mentioned impulse was introduced into me entirely
from without, and that in the following manner.
mo ;ze, ,,Google
RETROSPECT. 417
The early decease of my mother laid the foundation
for it all. My heavenly guide began with this, in the
second year of my age. If she had continued alive,
my father would have become a farmer, and I should
early have been obliged to accompany him to the field;
I should have learnt to read and write, and that would
have been all; my head and my heart would then have
been filled with the commonest things, and what would
have become of my moral .character, God only knows.
But my mother dying early, my father's religioua
character was stretched to the utmost, and from inter-
course with the Mystics, it derived its direction. He
withdrew with me into solitude ; his trade of Tailor
was well adapted to this ; and in accordance with his
principles, I was brought up entirely separate from the
world. My head and heart, therefore, had no other
objectlt-to hearraee, and feel, but teligious ones; Jwas
constantly obliged to read the histories and biographies
of great, pious, and holy men, and such as were emi-
nent in the Kingdom of God, to which was also added
the repeated perusal and re-perusal of the Holy Scrip-
tures. In a word, I saw and heard nothing but religion
and christianity, and men, who by it, became pious
and holy, who lived and labored for the Lord and his
kingdom, and had even offered up their blood and
lives for him. Now it is well known, that the first im-
pressions upon a mind still entirely void, particularly
when unmingled, strong, and of many years' duration,
become as it were, indelibly engraved upon the whole
being of the individual; and this was also the case with
me. The impulse to act extensively for Jesus Christ,
his religion, and hi.8 kingdom, was so deeply impressed
11pon my whole being, that no sufferings nor circum•
.fl8 RETROSPECT.
lltances, during the course of so many years, were able
to weaken it; it became, on the contrary, more and
more powe1ful and invincible ; and though the view of
it might occasionally be obscured by gloomy prospects,
for a shorter or longer period ; yet it presented itself to
my sight so much the more clearly afterwards. That
I sought and cherished this impulse, when a child, no
one will suppose ; and it is ridiculous to imagine that
this was my father's object. He sought to make me,
first of all, a pious and religious man, and next, an
able schoolmaster; and as this vocation, in my country,
cannot support a man with a family, he wished me to
learn his trade besides, in order to be able to pass
through the world honestly. He gave me histories of
the kind above mentioned to read, because children must
have something of an entertaining nature, and ali!o that
they might excite a desire in me to become a true
christian. But that the fundamental impulse above
alluded to arose from it, was the purpose, not ofa blind
chanre, not of my father, nor my own, but of the great
ruler of the world, who intended eventually to make
use of me.
I therefore take it as a settled point, that it was not by
natural predisposition, but by God's own wise guidance
and government alone, that he imparted to my spirit
the impulse to live and labor on a large scale for Jesus
Christ and his Kingdom, and made it my peculiar
property.
But as my natural impulee-the highly frivolous and
copious enjoyment of physical and mental sensible
pleasures-operated in a manner entirely opposed to
the other engrafted impulse, my Heavenly Guide began
early to combat this dangerous foe. The instrument
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 419
for this purpose was also my father, but again, without
having a remote presentiment of it; for he was entirely
unacquainted with my natural impulse, otherwise he
would most certainly have avoided rocks, on which I
should have inevitably suffered shipwreck, if the pater-
nal hand of God ha:d not easily led me past them.
But of all this, my father had no idea; merely from the
mystic principle of mortifying the flesh, I W88 almoat
daily whipped with the rod. I know for a certainty,
that he has frequently chastised me, merely to crucify
and mortify his affection for me. This kind of correc-
tion would have had a highly injurious effect on any
one else ; but, let it be believed on my word, it waa an
indispensably requisite mode of tuition for me ; for my
thoughtless sensuality went to incredible lengtha in
unguarded moments ; no one, but God and myaelf,
knows what horrible thoughts, wishes, and desires,
were awakened in my soul ; it seemed as if some
mighty hostile power had excited innocent people, who
intended nothing e\•il, to cast me into the most baneful
and dreadful temptations and dangers, with respect to
my moral character; but it never succeeded; it waa
not my religious impulse, nor my principles, (for
whence does a child derive principles ?) but my
father's sel"ere corrections, and God's gracious preser-
vation, which were the sole causes that I waa not
thrown 8: hundred and a thousand times into the pit of
perdition.
This very corruption within me, which was so entirely
opposed to my religious impulse, is the reason why my
Heavenly Guide was obliged to exercise me, for sixty
yean together, in the school of aflliction, before he
could make use of me ; and in the sequel it will alwaya
'"' a,,Google
420 RETROSPECT.
be found, that all my sufferings had a tendency to
mortify frivolity and sensuality, and to tear them up by
the roots.
It is therefore now necessary to examine, whether I
am really a great man, a man of great mind, or a great
genius; that is, whether by means of my own potDer•
and faculties, I have, through my 0ton efforts, placed
my1elf i11 811.ch a situation, that I can noto yield obedietcce
to the impulses granted to me by God, to labor eztn-
rively and comprehensively for Christ, his religion, altd
his kingdom?
What my father intended to make of me, was a good
schoolmaster, and besides that, a tailor; and he so far
attained hi.a object, that I became a schoolmaster and a
tailor; but I had no higher wish than to become a
preacher. This latter effect was therefore produced by
my religious impulse ; I wished to study theology ; and
this would have afforded my father pleasure, but it was
utterly impossible ; his whole property was not sufficient
to support me, even for two years, at the University.
I was therefore obliged to continue a schoolmaster and
tailor, and my impulse now contented itself with insa-
tiable reading and research, in every department of sci-
ence; for, as my mind had attained a relish for intellectual
ideas and sciences, or a classical feeling, it now pursued
its course unrestrained, and only sought opportunitiesfor
reading and brooding over books. Hence the progress
I have made in the departments of scientific kiiowledge,
may certainly be ascribed to my diligence and activity ;
and so much is true, that the Lord has made use of it,
in a secondary point of view, as a preparatory means,
\mt it has not directly aided the developement of my
real destiny.
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 421
To be always sitting at the needle, and making
clothes for people, was highly repugnant to me ; and
to be everlastinglyinstructingboys and girls in A. B. C.
in spelling, reading, and writing, was equally weari-
some; by degrees, I considered the being doomed to
be a schoolmaster and tailor, as something very melan-
choly, and with this also commenced my inward suffer-
ings; for I saw no possibility of becoming a preacher,
or anything else.
My father's severe discipline still continued; for
though I was no longer beaten every day, yet I was
never happy near him. His inexorable severity at
every trifling fault, awakened in me the irresistible
impulse, to remove from him as often and as long as
possible ; and this I did also, because, with him, I was
obliged to sit at the needle from early in the morning,
till late at night ; hence it was, that I accepted every
call to be schoolmaster with the greatest joy. How-
ever, as I did not instruct children with pleasure, but
merely from a sense of duty, and out of school-hours
brooded over books, whilst my heart never thought of
earning anything in addition, by working as a tailor;
and as, besides this, my easy-minded thoughtlessness
deprived me of the trifling ·pay I received as school-
master-consequently myfather was continually obliged
to clothe and support me. He law, therefore, to his
great grief, that I should never make a good school-
master ; this naturally rendered him more severe and
unfriendly towards me, and after he had married a
worldly-minded, unfeeling woman, who required her
step-son to go to the field with the rest, and perform
all kinds of agricultural labor, even the most difficult,
such aa hoeing, mowing, threshing, &c., my misery
2o
mo ;ze, ,,Google
422 RETROSPECT.
rose to its height ; for my limbs being unaccustomed to
it from my youth, .I suffered dreadfully. By using the
rough implements of husbandry, my hands were always
full of blisteni, and the !!kin remained sticking to the
shaft of the hoe ; and when I used the scythe or the
flail, my ribs and hips cracked with the exertion ; days
and weeks seemed an eternity to me, and besides all this,
my future prospects were gloomy; I saw no way of escape
from this situation, nor was I employed any more as
schoolmaster, consequently nothing remained for me,
except to work up and down in the country as a jour-
neyman tailor. Opportunities for doing so occurred,
but with all this, my clothes and linen grew so shabby,
that I was looked upon as a good-for-nothing and lost
man. My religious impulse shone upon me from afar;
when I reflected on Spener, Franke, or pious preachers
in general, and then imagined to myself what bliss it
would be for me to become such a one, and that it was
impossible in my situation, my heart broke within me.
The reasons why Providence led me into this terribly
painful situation, were two-fold ; first to subdue my
sensuality, which exceeded all description, and my
ungovernable frivolity ; this intention I plainly per-
ceived ; and then, to take me from my native province,
because it could not execute its plan with respect to
me, in it; but of this object, I was not at all aware ; I
was so fond of my own country, that extreme necessity
alone could banish me from it, and this eoon occurred ;
I left it.
Let it be well observed here, that thil! first step to
my future destiny, was taken by no means with, but
against my will. It was necessary that I should be
driven.out by the power of Providence ; and it is of the
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT, 423
utmost importance to my object, that the reader should
convince himself most clearly, that I have contributed
nothing to the plan of my guidance.
My first intention was to travel to Holland, and seek
employment from the merchants there ; but what I
heard at Solingen, in the Duchy of Berg, caused me to
change my purpose. I continued there, and worked at
my trade. This kind of employment was heartily
repugnant to me ; for my sensuality always required
diverting variety. The reading of novels or other
entertaining stories, was peculiarly that to which my
sensual tum of mind was directed. My imagination
and fancy were incessantly occupied with the most
romantic imagery, in an indescribably vivid manner,
and my levity soared above every scruple. Eternal
Love had compassion upon me, in such a manner, that
by an unspeakably inward drawing to introversion,
which penetrated deep into my heart, and pervaded
my whole being, it irrevocably decided me to devote
myself, and the whole of my future life, to the Lord.
This attraction has always hitherto continued, and will
continue till I stand before the throne; but my natural
corruption was far from being eradicated by it. Jesus
Christ, by his great and glorious redemption, and by
his Spirit, through the medium of wearisome', gracious,
and painful trials, had to combat and subdue it; this
great business is not yet completed, nor will be com-
pleted, until my l!OUI is delivered from the body of sin
and death.
Notwithstanding my spirit had now taken its direc-
tion to t4e great object for which mankind is destined;
yet there were an infinite number of bye-paths, and
I soon hit upon one of them. My disinclination to
2o2
'"' a,,Google
424 RETROSPECT.
the trade of a tailor, caused me immediately to seize,
with avidity, the offer of a situation as private tutor
in a merchant's house, and my thoughtlessness did
not make a single inquiry! My wretchedness there
rose to its height; such melancholy, such hellish tor-
ments, such a privation of all that can afford consolation,
no one can form an idea of, who has not experienced
it. Sensuality and frivolity were there attacked at
the root. At length, I could no longer endure it ;
I ran off, wandered about in the wilderness, recollected
myself, went back to Rade vorm Waid, and the late
Johann Jacob Becker (Mr. Isaac) exercised towards
me that gloriqus master-piece of christian philanthropy
recorded in my life; I was now so thoroughly cured
of my disgust at the tailor's trade, that subsequently,
Mr. Spanier, and my master, Becker, could even scarcely
J1ersuade me to accept the situation of domestic tutor
with the former ; and I am even now so far from
feeling a repugnance to it, that, if it must be, I
could immediately place myself again upon the shop-
board.
During my residence with Mr. Spanier, every thing
seemed as though I should become a merchant ; I was
daily employed in mercantile affairs, every thing
succeeded with me, and although I had naturally no
inclination to commerce, yet I believed it was the
guidance of God, which I must necessarily follow,
particularly as I was secretly assured, that the rich,
handsome, young, and virtuous daughter of a merchant
was destined for me, that her father would bestow
her upon me, and then take me into partnership.
Although I felt no particular pleasure at all this, yet
I believed it was the course of providence, which I
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 425
must necessarily follow, and regard the whole affair
as a piece of peculiar good fortune.
In the midst of these ideas and expectations I re-
ceived, most assuredly without my own co-operation,
the particular impression mentioned in my history, that
I must study medicine. To this I had no objection,
and those that intended to overrule my future life had
also none ; for they said, it was, after all, something
uncommon, for the head of a respectable family to
give his daughter to a man, who a short time before
had been a tailor's apprentice; but if I ha<l studied
and taken my degrees, all this might be done with
propriety ; I ·should be then Doctor and Merchant at
the eame time. This was man's plan, and mine
likewise, but not the plan of my heavenly guide. Soon
afterwards, the remarkable circumstance occurred to
me with ·the Rev. Mr. Molitor of Attendom, who
presented me with his ophthalmic arcana, and then
laid himself down and died. God knows, that in my
whole life, I had never thought of becoming an ocu-
list, and that neither I, nor any one of my family
had given the remotest occasion to this bequest. And
now let every one, who has read my history, reflect,
what my ophthalmic practice has hitherto been, ii
still, and may yet be ! He that does not here recog-
nize the all ruling hand ofan omniscient and omnipotent
Deity, has neither eyes· to see, nor ears to hear ;
nothing will do him any good.
I made use of the remedies I had obtained for
diseases of the eye, and came, by this means, into
acquaintance with the worthy family of my late
father-in-law, Peter Heydere, of Ronsdorf, in the duchy
of Berg, and contrary to all expectations, contrary
2o3
'"' a,,Google
426 ltETROSPECT,
to all my plane and purposes, I wa.<t obliged to be·
troth myself to a consumptive and weakly female on
a sick-bed, an act for which my sensuality was really
not to blame ; I did it merely from obedience toward8
God, because I believed it was his will ; there wu
no idea on my side of falling in love, or anything
of the kind. I engaged myself to Christina, although
I knew that her father could not support me in the
least, and that assistance from the quarter I had
previously expected it from, -was entirely at an end. I
then went with half a French dollar to the University of
Strasburg; how wonderfully the Lord then helped
me through, my history shows.
I now ask again, was it my plan to marry Christina,
and was it my doing, that I studied medicine at
Strasburg?
I returned, fixed myself at Elberfeld as practical
phygician and oculist, entirely without salary. I now
expected extraordinary results from my practice,
for I regarded myself as one, whom the Lord had
particularly fitted for that vocation. I then thought
also with my religious impulse in connection with
this, to work for the Lord and his kingdom, and
believed that I should be a very beneficial instrument
in the Lord's hand at the couch of the sick, and
be able to serve them, both as it respects body and
eoul. I intended also to write religious books, and
thus to satisfy my inward impulse, but all these ex-
pectations ended in nothing at all ; my practice waa
nothing extraordinary, but very ordinary, very com·
mon, except that my ophthalmic cures excited much
attention ; my cataract operations were in particular
extremely succelilllful; but for these, likewise. I am
'"' a,,Google
R£TROSPEC1'. 42'i
not at all indebted to my own abilities ; I learnt thi:
If.It indeed at Stra11burg, merely because it belongs
to the study of surgery, but I had such a horror
and repugnance to the practice of it, that I still well
remember how I felt, when the poor woman at Wich-
linghausen, the late Rev. Mr. Muller, Doctor Dinckler,
and friend Troost at Elberfeld compelled me, as it were,
to hazard the operation on the above mentioned poor
woman; I performed it with fear and trembling, mise-
rably ill, and the woman 11aw admirably ; I then
gained more courage, but even nqw, after having
couched upwards of fifteen hundred blind people, a
trepidation always comes over me, when I have to
perform the operation.
I therefore testify again, by .all that is true, that I
did not contribute in the least; towards my becoming
.an oculist, nor to the extraordinary blessing- which
has attended my practice as an oculist. Thiil is entirely
the Lord's guidance.
It cannot be described into what profound melancholy
I sank, when I clearly saw that the art of medicine
was not my department ; and in addition to this there
was the oppressive load of debt, which considerably
increased every year, without my being able to alter
or prevent it. This was in reality medicine against
aensuality and frivolity, and both were also, God be
thanked ! entirely eradicated. I now saw no way of
escape whatever; I had a wife and children, an in-
creasing debt, and a continually decreasing income.
I was not deficient in learning and knowledge ; I crept
through every ancient and modem cranny of medicinal
literature, and found in this unstable science nothing
but nescience. I was now heartily weary ofmedicine ;
mo ;ze, ,,Google
428 RETROSPECT.
but wherewith was I to support myself, and how was
I to pay my debts ? I was consequently obliged to sur-
render myself to providence at discretion ; this I did both
for time and eternity and very cordially, and this sur·
render is not only not annulled, but it has become more
and more effectual and unconditional.
Religious books !-Yes, I wrote them, but with little
perceptible result; " The Sling of a Shepherd's .Boy,"
" The Great Panacea for the Disease of Scepticism,"
and" The Theodice of the Shepherd's Boy," produced
little effect; on the contrary, " Stilling's Childhood,"
a piece which I wrote not at all with the intention to
publish, but merely to read to a company of young
people, and which Goethe sent to the press eutirely
without my knowledge and will, made an unexpected
and incredible sensation; I was impressively urged to
continue it, and therefore wrote whilst in Elberfeld,
"Stilling's Youthful Years, and Wanderings," one after
the other. I can boldly affirm, that very few books
have gained their authors so large, so noble-minded, and
benevolent a class of readers, as this; and even now,
after the lapse of twenty-eight years, after so many
changes, so much progress and regress in culture and
literature, Stilling still continues to be fashionable. he
is still read with the same pleasure, and the same edi-
fication as at the commencement. And what a blessing
this book has produced with reference to religion and
true christianity, God the Omniscient knows, and I
also in part, for I can shew a multitude of written testi-
monies to the truth of that assertion. The history of
Stilling's life therefore, laid the first and considerable
foundation for my real destiny, and the following up of
my religious impulse.
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 429
I now again beg that it may be carefully observed, that
I did not give the smallest occasion to this extraordinary
and important part of my history, which proved the basis
of that to which I was eventually and really called ;
that is, the following of my religious impulse, but that
it was simply the free arrangement of providence.
If it be asked why my heavenly guide did not, at
that time, place me at my true post? I answer, that
there was then still very much in me to smooth away ;
nor was I yet firm enough in my principles. I still
struggled with fatalism, and besides this, the period was
not arrived, in which it was proper for me to act.
At length, in the hour of extremity, and when I saw
no way of escape, I was delivered in a manner, of
which I had not the remotest idea, and of which I had
never dreamt. In consequence of a treatis~ on the
scientific improvement of the common forests in the
principality of Nassau Leigen, my native province, by
which I sought to afford pleasure to a certain friend,
I was appointed public teacher of Agriculture, Techno-
logy, Commerce, and the Veterinary Art, at the newly
established financial Academy at Kaisers-Lautem in
the Palatinate, with a fixed income of six hundred
gilders, and at my departure, the most urgent debts,
to the amount of eight hundred gilders, were liquidated
in a manner as unexpected, as two years and a half
ago, the principal sum was liquidated in Switzerland.
I therefore removed with my family to Lautem.
That this again was no preconcerted plan of mine,
and not my own guidance, but solely and completely the
plan and execution of my heavenly guide, every one
must feel, who is in any degree capable of reflection.
I now believed to a certainty, that the study ofpoliti-
mo ;ze, ,,Google
430 RETROSPECT.
cal economy was the vocation, for which providence had
guided and prepared me from my youth up; for I had
opportunity myself of learning practically all the scien-
ces I taught. I had studied medicine, because the
auxiliary sciences belonging to it, were indispensable
in my present vocation. My religious impulse was not
extinguished; on the contrary, I intended to unite it
with this calling. In this conviction, I continued per-
fectly quiet five and twenty years, and labored with all
fidelity in my vocation; this is proved by my eleven man-
uals, and the great multitude of treatises, which I wrote
during that period. My heart no longer reflected, par-
ticularly in my old age, upon any more changes, until at
length the " Nostalgia" became the mighty means of
placing me in my peculiar station.
My readers are aware from the last volume, how
unintentionally I wrote the " Nostalgia;" the prepara-
tives to it, which consisted of the collection of many
sentences, the reading of humourous writings, &c.
were by no means systematicas regarded myself, though
systematic with God ; and the determination to publish
the "Nostalgia" was so unpremeditated, that I only
decided upon it, when Krieger besought me to compose
something of a classical nature for him; and when I
began, it was by no means my object to write a work
of such an extent as it became under my hands, and
as it afterwards proved in its effects, which were great,
and still are so, since it operates like a ferment in every
quarter of the globe; this I can prwe. I now received
requisitions from every quarter, to devote myself entirely
to religious authorship, that I was designed for it by
God, &c. " The Grey Man," " The Scenes in the In-
viable World," and "The History of the Triumph,"
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 431
increased and strengthened this requisition of my class
of readers, which consisted of many thousand good men.
But how could I listen to these calls ? A multitude
of domestic hindrances stood in the way; my debts
were not yet liquidated, and where was the prince,
who would keep me in pay for such a very uncommon
object? The answer to these questions is this: the Lord,
in a glorious and divine manner, cleared the hindrances
out of the way; in a gloriomi and divine manner paid
my debts, and the" Nostalgia," had so prepared the
good, great, and pious Elector of Baden, that he im-
mediately resolved, as soon as opportunity was afforded
him, to place me in my true station.
See, my dear readers ! it is in this indescribably wise
and gracious manner, the Lord has at length led me
to the attainment of that aim, the impulse for which,
he caused to be engrafted in me, in my earliest infantile
years. My present occupation therefore is,
1. The continuance of my ophthalmic practice; for
this vocation has been legitimated and assigned me by
the Lord's direction.
2. The continuance of my religious authorship, aa
my heavenly guide directs, and
3. The distributing and editing of little edifying
tracts for the lower classes, for which purpose, contribu-
tions in money are sent me by kind and piously disposed
friends, in order to enable me to disseminate such tracts
gratuitously, among the lower orders. Whether ~e
Lord has anything further in view with me, I know
not ; I am his servant, let him employ me as he pleases,
but I shall take no step, without first clearly ascertaining
his will.
All my readers will now be probably convinced, that
432 RETROSPECT.
I am not a great man, a man of great mind, or a great
genius; for I have contributed nothing whatever to
any part of the manner in which I have been led; it
was even necessary, first of all, by much labor, and
, tedious sufferings, painfully to prepare my natural dis·
position ; I was merely a passive mass in the forming
hand of the Artist-clay in the hand of the Potter.
He, therefore, that regards me as a man of great
talents, and great virtues, or even estimates me as a
great saint, does me much wrong; he acts just as
improperly as a person does, who praises an old, oaken,
rude, and coarsely made chest, as a great specimen of
art, and 'a master piece, because some great man lays
up valuable treasures in it for daily use. But, who·
ever is inclined to wonder and rejoice at me, let him
wonder at the way in which I have been led, adore the
Father of men; and thank him, that he still does not
leave himself without a witness ; that he also prepares
witnesses to tread his sacred paths, and still sends
laborers into his vineyard, even at the eleventh hour.
I now earnestly intreat my readers to give God and
the truth the glory, and minutel.xamine the following
positions.
1. Does not the whole history of my life incontestably
show that, not human wisdom and prudence, but He,
who knows how to govern the hearts, actions, and fates
of men, yet without compelling their free will, has
really guided, formed, and,J brought me forward, from
beginning to end, according to a premeditated plan ?
2. Does not my history likewise incontrovertibly
show that, on my part, not the smallest thing was
done, either with respect to the pr~ject, or the accom-
plishment of the plan of my life? Neither enthusiasm
RETROSPECT. 433
nor error had any pa:rt in that plan or its execution ;
for whenever I was enthusiastic or mistaken, I was
always taught better by the result.
a. Therefore if the all-wise, all-kind, and all-power-
ful Governor of the world has himself guided and
prepared me, without either ~yself or any other indi-
vidual having part in his plan : can his work have been
fruitless ? Can He so lead and guide a fanatic, an
enthusiast, and a deceiver, as He has led me, in order
to mislead men ? He may perm.it a fanatic and a se-
ducer to labor throu.gh difficulties, and obtain, through
their own efforts, a number of adherents ; for he leaves
free agents at liberty to work, as long as it can consist
with his high counsels. But let any one make it
appear that, during my whole life, I have at any time
labored through difficulties of the kind, or have sought
to form for myself a party in a religious respect.
4. Does it not follow from all this, that my religious
system of doctrine, which is no other than that which
Christ and his apostles, and subsequently, all the ortho-
dox fathen of every century have taught, is trv.e, and has
again legitimated itself in my guidance? I may have
ideas, I may have minor conceptions. which are not
altogether pure, .and which are not yet sufficiently
rectified, but in the main object of cbristianity, it is as
certain that I do qot mistake, as that I am sure that
God has led me during my whole life, and has himself
formed me to be a witness of the truth. However, I
can affirm before God, with the most perfect sincerity,
that none of my religious ideas have arisen through
wearisome reflection, or are the result of any deductioiis
of mere reason, but all of them have unfolded them-
selves to my mind during the consideration of difficult
2 p
'"' a,,Google
434 RETROSPECT.
passages of Scripture. The principal points of the
christian religion, according to my conviction, are con-
tained in the following fundamental positions.
1. The Holy Scriptures, as we at present possess
them, contain, from the first chapter of Genesis to the .
last of the prophet Mala~hi, and frc:im the first chapter
of the Gospel of Matthew to the last chapter of the
Apocalypse, the history of the revela9on of God to
man, and are therefore the only credible source of all
those super-sensible truths, which are needful for man •
in the attainment of that to which he is destined.
2. The first men were created by God, in a state of
perfection ; but they sinned by disobedience against
·God, and by this means, lost the equilibrium between
the sensual and moral impulses ; the sensual became
'more and more predominant, and therefore, with respect
to all their posterity, the thoughts and imaginations
of the heart of man are evil from bis youth up, and that
continually.
3. Previous to this, a class of higher and more spiri-
tual beings had fallen away from God, and become evil;
the prince of these beings had seduced the first man to
disobedience; these evil spirits can then work upon the
spiritual part of man, when he gives them the opportu-
nity for doing so. But there are also good spirits,
which are about a man, and likewise inftuence him,
when circumstances require it. Those evil spirits, to-
gether with Satan their prince, his angels and all evil
men, I call the kingdom of darkness.
4. God has from eternity begotten a being, of the
same nature with himself, and which stands in the same
connection with him, as a son to his father; hence he is
also called in the bible, the Son of God, Logos, the
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 435
God-word. This Son of God undertook the guidance
and redemption of the fallen human race. In the Old
Testament, he revealed himself under the name of
Jehovah, and in the New, as a real man, under the
. name of Jesus Christ. He is God, and man in one
person.
5. This God-man, Jesus Christ, redeemed fallen human
nature, by his bloody sacrificial death, from sin, death,
and the· punishment of sin. In this bloody sacrificial
death lies the foundation for reconciliation with God,
I.he forgiveness of sins, and consequently, also of salva-
tion. The moral precepts of Christ, which are con-
tained likewise in all their points in the Old Testament,
and have been taught almost perfectly by heathens,
merely serve to enable a man to examine whether,
and in how far, the bleeding sacrifice of Christ, has had
its effect on him. They are the natural consequences
of the work of redemption, but without this, as little
possible to be practised in a manner acceptable to God,
as that a sick man should be able to perform the busi-
ness of one in health.
6. Jesus Christ rose from the dead, and thuP. became
the procuring cause of the resurrection of mankind ; he
then ascended to heaven, and undertook the govern-
ment of the world. He is therefore, now, that God who
governs all things, guides all the destinies of mercy,
and leads every thing, in great things, as well as in
small, collectively as well as individually, to the great
end of human redemption, which he finally accomplishes.
For this purpose, he stands opposed, with all his true
servants and worshippers, together with the holy
angels, as the kingdom of light, to the kingdom of
darkness; both fight against each other, until the latter
2P2
'"' a,,Google
436 RETROSPECT.
is entirely overcome, and thus the work of redemption
is completed1 the Son then gives up the kingdom to
his Father, who again becomes all in all.
7. God will and must be worshipped in Jesus Christ,
in his name ; that is, in his person. God, out of Christ,
is a metaphysical nonentity, which daring reason has
abstracted from t~e idea of a supremely perfect man.
To worship this nonentity, ·which never existed any
where but in the head of a Philosopher, is pure idolatry.
In Christ alone, the Father of men is to be found; there
alone, he will and can be worshipped.
8. The Holy Spirit, the Spirit of the Father, and the
.Son, is in reality a being of an equally divine nature
with the Father and the Son. He is a moral divine
love-power, proceeding from both, even as light and
warmth emanate from the sun. Since the day of Pen-
tecost until now, he is continually operative, every one
who believes in his heart in Christ, receives his saving
doctrines, heartily repents of his sin and misery, and
inwardly longs to be free from sin, and to become a
true child of God, puts on, according to the measure of
his faith, and the degree of his longing, the Holy
Spirit ; so that his moral powers become gradually
stronger, and his sensual, in the same degree weaker.
This is my true and constant system of faith, doctrine,
and life, which has stood the test of many trials, and
much experience and purification; which I have gleaned
and collected simply, by degrees, like rare grains of
g0ld, on my wearisome pilgrimage ; not by speculation
or the effort of my reasoning powers ; but whilst stri-
ving, for many years, after light and truth, from heart·
felt pressure and necessity, and then formed into a
rational whole. It is the pure dogma of the Holy
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 437
Scriptures, untroubled by any sophistry or fashionable
commentary, on the truth and certainty of which, I will
live and die.
The modem " March of intellect" (as it is termed)
stands directly opposed to these ancient christian doc-
trines of faith and salvation. Many worthy, upright,
and well-meaning men, prefer the former to the latter,
for this reason, because they are convinced that
the doctrines of religion, modified by enlightened
reason, are better adapted to the human understanding,
than this ancient christian system ; they have therefore
invented an exposition, a bible commentary, which
suits their philosophy; but the good men either observe,
or do not observe, that the tendency of this new en-
lightening is directed to the establishment of a natural
religion, whose dogmas are merely moral and which
in the end, makes the sending of Christ quite unne-
cessary, and no longer needs the bible. But as neither
dassical feeling, nor the beauty of virtue can restore
the moral powers lost in Adam's fall; immorality in-
cessantly increases under the sway of this enlightened
reason, corruption grows with rapidity, mankind sinks
back into the most senseless barbarism, and the divine
judgment.I! exercise severe and righteous vengeance
upon a people, that despises every means of moral im-
provement and amendment.
On the other hand, the experience of every age,
provea in the case of millions of individuals, that the
ancient christian doctrine of faith forms its adherents
into good and holy citizens, husbands, wives, friends,
parent.a, and children. The new enlightening may,
here and there, produce an honest man and civil virtue.
out only when required; such a man may at times
2P3
'"' a,,Google
·.
RETROSPECT.
perform a brilliant action, but to shew kindness in
secret, entir~ly unknown, from real love to God and
man, even to enemies,~ utterly imposible, except when
the spirit of Christ prevails.
But now the very important question arises, whence
comes it that such worthy and well meaning men, not-
withstanding all these undoubted facts, still continue
attached to their new-enlightened system? To this it
is answered, there are two premises, two foundations
for all religious demonstration ; if these premises are
false, every mathematically correct demonstration be-
comes also' false and incorrect, and that is just the case
here.
The whole of the christian doctrine of faith ie founded
upon the following fundamental position. God created
the first man as a free agent, with the tendency to
continually increasing moral perfection, and with it an
equally progressive enjoyment of the supreme Good;
but he let himself be deceived by an unknown evil
being, so that he applied this biaa to a continually
increasing sensual perfection, and with it an equally
progressive enjoyment of earthly good. The Holy Scrip-
tures teach us this fundamental position, and the experi-
ence of almost six thousand years teaches us, that it is
undoubtedly true. Hence it follows immediately, that,
If man had continued in his natural state, it would
have been natural to him to obey the dictates of
morality ; his head would have told him them, and hia
heart would have followed them; natural religion
would then have been the only true one. But in our
present fallen state, where the senses rule supremely,
and the moral powers are maimed, we cannot require
of the weaker part, to overcome the stronger; there i&
'"' a,,Google
kETROSPECT. 439
consequently no way of redemption in nature, and the
Creator was therefore again obliged to interfere, in
order that men might be saved.
Now he that founds a correct logical demonstration
on these premises, finds the whole christian system of
salvation very rational, and the enlightening of the
present day very irrational.
The fundamental position of the new enlightened
system is the following. "The whole creation is a con-
nected whole, on· which the Creator has bestowed
intellectual and physical powers, and has given them
their eternal and unchangeable laws, according to
which they work unhindered ; so that there is now no
further need of divine co-operation, or influence ; con-
sequently, every thing in the whole creation takes its
necessary and unalterable course, which has for its
object, the general good of every being. The human
race is a part of this whole, and the eternal laws of
nature operate so that the free will of every man, in
every action, is so guided, that he does what he does.
Moral philosophy contains the laws according to which
the free will must be governed." This position is in
reality fatalism, and however much it may be concealed
and guarded, it is with all, even the most moderate
rationalist, more or less, openly or concealed, the
universal. fundamental idea.
But how may reason have arrived at this idea ? I
answer, in a very natural manner. It seeks to convince
itself of the existence of a Supreme Being, and after-
wards to search out his nature and qualities; and a.8 it
knows, in the whole sensible creation, no other rational
being but itself, it removes every limitation from the
human soul, and then finds an infinitely rational, Al·
440 RE't'ROSPECT.
mighty, omniscient, all-gracious, omnipotent human soul,
which it calls God. Now even as a human artist makes
a work of art, for instance, a watch; and as this watch
would be very imperfect, if the artist were continually
under the necessity of turning, moving, and helping in
various ways, first one little wheel, and then another,
the supremely perfect artist has made a machine, which,
because its maker is eupremely perfect, must also be
supremely perfect, and therefore no where requires any
after assistance, or co-operation of the artist.
But that this horrible position is not true, our own
free feelings tell us, and likewise our very reason ; for
if it were true, every act of man, whichever way it may
be turned and twisted, as it is performed, is determined
by the Creator. The most abominable deeds, which
ariy individual may commit, and the most dreadful
sufferings which men may cause each other, all the
oppressions of widows and orphans, all the horrors of
war, &c. ; all this, the God of the modem enlightening
has purposed ; for he has formed the plan of nature in
such a manner, that all this must necessarily take
place.
No one will deny, that every one, who is only in
some measure rational, must shrink back from this
inference, which is certainly logically correct; conse-
quently, reason here stands in contradiction to it.self;
and when that is the case, ita jurisdiction ceases, it has
reached its limit. Nothing more dreadful can be ima-
gined, than that human reason,· particularly in our
times, when the moat unbounded luxury, vies with the
most ungovernable immorality, should be led in such
paths, and that this should even be called the christian
religion ! 0 the monstrous blasphemy !
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT. 441
My dear friends, be either entirely christians, accord-
ing to the real, ancient evangelical system, or entirely
rationalists, and we shall then know how to act towards
you. Remember Laodicea. The midway is a snare,
which Satan haS placed for man.
Dear brethren and sisters, let us faithfully cleave to
the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to Jesus
Christ and his spirit; and let u& recei\"e the holy scrip-
tures of the Old and New Testaments so as we have
them, and as our sound human understanding under-
stands them, as our only source of faith and know-
ledge. He wiH come quickly, and will then graciously
regard our fidelity. Amen.
Thou, who upon th' eternal throne,
Dost weigh the fates of all below,
And ever wear'st the radiant crown
Of worlds unnumber'd, on thy brow :-
Surrounded by seraphic flames,
And throned in light of sevenfold ray,
Amidst thy servants' loud acclaims,
Disdain not, Lord ! my humble lay.
Hear, 0 ye heavens, thou earth attend !
Let roaring thunders silent be,
That ye the song may comprehend
Which Lord ! I now will sing to thee.
Ye saints who in his courts reside,
Lend me your melody divine,
That I may praise my heavenly guide,
And He his gracious ear incline.
'"' a,,Google
442 RETROSPECT,
Thou Love unspeakable and kind,
The element in which I move,
Behold with what a flame refin'd
•
My heart burns in thy precious love!
A nothing in the dust was I ;
Yet thou, my All ! mad'st choice of me ;
My growing faith thou long didst try,
And my desires laid hold of thee.
Chosen thy guidance to display,
A witness of thy truth to be,
My heart and all my powers now say,
" My God, I live and die for thee !"
Thee will I faithfully confess,
0 grant me courage, strength, and power!
And neither suffering nor distress
Shall part us in the trying hour..
Giver of every perfect gift !
Thou found'st me in the lowly cot,
And kindly from the dust didst lift
And raise me to a happier lot.
For thou didst hear a father's cry
A mother's prayers touch'd thy heart;
And power and spirit from on high
To me didst graciously impart.
Upon the golden scales of fate,
My sufferings thou didst nicely weigh
Appoint my days their final date
When I must thy last call obey ;
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT.
Didst form, e'en then, the plan· sublime
Of what my future course should be;
The path didst shew, which I must climb,
To reach my final destiny.
An angel at the Saviour's throne,
Commi~ion now received from thee ;
He laid aside bis pearly ~i:own,
And came enwrapp'd in gloom to me.
Of mercy be unconscious seem'd ;
No pity did bis eye betray:
Perhaps, by thee, once titted deem'd
To announce the awful judgment day.
With all fidelity he led
Me through youth's wild and variell way ;
I followed him with secret dread,
And did each gentle hint obey.
Amidst the howlings of the blast,
. My feet by the rude brambles rent,
Through rocky clefts I toiling pasa'd,
Thus painfully each day was spent.
A dubious glimmer often seem'd
To terminate my arduous way ;
I haaten'd on to what I deem'd
Would all my weary steps repay;
When, all at once, my guide severe,
Would tear me from the path I sought
And lead again, through caverns drear,
And rugged rocks with horrors fraught.
443
'"' a,,Google
444 RETROSPECT.
A most oppressive load of debt
Weigh'd on me whereacte'er I went;
Whilat gloomy sadness ever met
Me with her breath so pestilent.
No cool and gentle eastern breeze,
Which bring! refreshment as it blows-
No flowery fields, nor shady trees
Yielded the traveller sweet repose.
Thus did I journey on my way,
Through many a winding up and down,
When, suddenly, a cheering ray
Beam'd on my path; my load was gone!
My leader, with a powerful arm,
The burden from my shoulder took,
And with a look that grief might charm,
He plung'd it in the flowing brook.
Following the·footsteps of my guide,
I walk'd more easy on my way,
Until, at length, a brilliant light
Announc'd the near approach of day.
It came, the golden morning came,
And all my anxious cares were 1led ; ·
I now have reach'd my blissful aim,
And loudly shall my thanks be paid.
Ye heavenly choini around the throne.
Your part in my thanksgivings bear,
Till I, atlength, the victor's crown
At the great marriage feast shall wear.
'"' a,,Google
RETROSPECT.
Then, of my golden harp possess'd,
With you Jehovah's name I'll praise,
And HB shall clasp me to his breast,
Who led me all my earthly days.
Till then, let power divine protect,
And heavenly peace my spirit cheer,
My footsteps, here below, direct,
Till I before thy face appear.
The present seed I now shall sow
To ripen for eternity~
0 let it to perfection grow,
Then take thy pilgrim home to thee !
'"' a,,Google
445
. "
Translations recently publislwd by tlie .stuM .A.t4or. ·
THEORY OF PNEUMATOLOGY, or the Question con-
cerning Presentiments, Visions, and Apparitions, inves-
tigated according to Nature, Reaso~, ~d Religion, by
JoHANN HEINRICH JuNG~STmLING. Longmari ~Co. 6s.
LIFE AND CHARACTER OF GERHARD TERSTEEGEN,
with Extracts from his Letters and Writings. Second
Edition. Black, Young, 8r YOfllng. ·5s. -
"We trust that this admirable little volume will become a very
general part of the closet table furniture of true chriatiana
in Britain and America, as its originals long have been
with the most pious in Germany."-Evangelical Magazine.
THE COMPANION To THlt CHRISTIAN PATTERN, or a
Selection of Spiritual Thoughts from the other Works
of THOMAS A KEMPIS. John Mas()n. ls. 6d.
MANNA IN THE WILDERNESS, containing Selections
from the · Discourses of ·the late REv. GoTTFREID
MENKEN, of Bremen. L. B. See~ey &Sons. ls. 6d.
INSTRUCTIVE NARRATIONS, or Striking and Remark-
able Tales, &c. from the Works of ,JoHANN HEINRICH
JuNG-STILLING. Simpkin and Marshall. ls.
TBE MANUAL OF ST. AuGusTINE. T. Ward 8r Co. ls.
JORN WRIGHT, PRIN1ER. BRthor..
I
/
'""'""'Goo/e
,_
