{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__mccaffery___astrology_its_history.pdf","mytitle":"Astrology Its History","mylang":"de"}
ASTROLOGY
ItsHistory
and
Influence
in the
Western
lfarld
By
EllEN McCAFFERY,M.A
•
.NEWYORK
CHllRlEB SCRIBNER'& HON&
1942
COPYJUGBT, 1942, BY
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
Printed in the United States of America
AU ,ighJs ,csert'Cd
. No part of lhis book
lfWYbe ,ep,oduced in any form withdul
Utepermissionof Charles Scrwner 's So,u
A
_
': - .• j
Dedicated
to
my astrologicalfriends and students
throughout the world
Acknowledgments
I wish to render acknowlcdgmcnts and thanks to the follow-
ing publishers and authors:
JoHN MUIUlAY-Smith'sDictionaryof Greek and Roman Biography
(1876); Ancient Calendars and Constellations, by E. Plunkett.
On-oa» UNIVERSITY PRESS-Dictionaryof National Biography,·Legacy
of Islam; Legacy of Israel; Scott's Poetical Works; Chaucer's Man
of Laule1s Tale, ed. Skeat; Autobiography of Elias Ashmole.
E. P. DtrrroN & Co.-Manual of English Literature, by G. L. Craik;
Anglo-Saxon Chronicle; Doctrine of Signatures, by Jacob Boehme.
CASSELL,
PETrEllAND GALPIN-First Sketch of English Literature, by
Henry Morley.
BoHN's L1BRAR.Y-Specimens of Early English Literature, ed. by Gco.
Ellis ( 1848); Lilly's Astrology, ed. Zadkid.
LIDADUE Fiux ALcAN, Paris-St. Thomas d'Aquin et l'lnfluence des
Astres, by Paul Choisnard.
T. F1sHER
UNWIN-Li/eand Times of Machiavelli, by Pasquale Villari.
CHAllLES
SauBNER.'s
SoNs-Renaissance in Italy, by J.A. Symonds.
HAllPEll
& BR~.-Leonardo the Florentine, by R. A. Taylor.
ADAM AND CHARLF.S BLAcK-Tycho Brahe, by J.L. E. Dreyer.
CHETRAM TRACTS Soc1ETY-John Dee's Diary.
Roun.EDGE-Hudibras, by Samuel Butler.
FREDERICK. WARNE & Co.-Dryden's Poetical Works; Johnson's Lives
of the Poets.
Gau:NWICH 0BsERVATORY-Life of the Rev. T
ohn Flamsteed, by Francis
Baily.
R. BENREY Co.-Life of fohn Varley.
JOHN
LANE-Li/ e of William Blake, by Gilchrist.
Socr£n FOR. THE PRoPAGATION OP CHlllsTIAN KNoWLEDGE-DtJwn of
Civilization, by G. Maspcro, ed. by A. H. Sayce.
UNIVEllSITY OP MicHIGAN-Royal Correspondence of the Assyrian Em-
pire, by Leroy Waterman.
LoNGMANS, GREEN & Co.-Law of Kosmic Order, by R. Brown; Eri-
danus, by R. Brown.
vu
...
vw ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
ADAM AND CHAlllJ!S
Bucx.-Egyp, in Asia,by G. Cormack.
MusEUM
OP SmJoHN SoANE---Sarcophag,u
of SetiI, by WallaccBudge.
G. P. PUTNAM's
SoNs-Book of the Master,by W. Marsham Adams.
FuNK AND WAGNALLS-Perjet:t Calendar,by Henry Fitch.
WM. H. Win-Lives of the Roman Empresses, by Jacquesde Scrvicz.
VICTORIA INmTUTE-Religion
of Zoroaster,byR. Brown (1879).
Encyclopaedia
Britannica.
Everyman'
s Encyclopaedia.
JewishEncyclopaedill.
Preface
Thepresentbook is the result of researchextendingovermany
years.
AsI cameacrossvariousmattersconnectedwith astrological
history
I made notes,until in time there wasa veryheterogeneous
collection
of names and of odd facts. I found my greatestinitial
task
was to find out when all these peoplelived,who they were
andwhat they did. Astrologersthroughout the ages have made
such
listsof peoplebut have failed to record their period. How-
ever,
in finding out factsaboutone,I wouldoften comeupon facts
relating
to others, until in time I had a swvey that ran through
thecenturies.At firstI thought there would bemany hiatuses,but
asI wenton I found there were none. There has alwaysbeenan
~trologicalintcr~t, which has never died out. How it has been
manifested
has beendifferentat differenttimes.In one centuryit
would
be predictionsthat arrested the attention, in another cen-
tury it would be the scientificphase and in another the philo-
sophical
content.
I am quite aware that more researchis needed on astrological
history
than I have given the matter. I have merelytried to pre-
senta broad outline of the centuries in simple non-technical
phraseology.
Each separate chapter could be a book in itself.
Perhaps
someone will undertake the task. Also, each separate
country
has had its own astrologicalhistory.I was aware of this
when
I attended the Paris Conventionof the European Federa-
tionof ScientificAstrologersin 1937,when the Polish delegate
presented
the result of three years' researchby his group on the
ancient
astrologicalhistoryof CracowUniversity.It was in listen-
ingto this paper that I learned of the great interest in astrology
shown
by Copernicusand his friends.
I have checked all the facts and statements I have collected
against
sourcebookswhenever·possible.For the ancientEgyptian
andBabylonianperiods I went to the best books on these early
ages.
For the Greek and Romanauthors I found Smith'sDiction-
ix
X PREFACE
ary of Greek and Roman Biography gave me the best checks.
In dealing with the Arabs, Moors and early mediaeval astrologers
The Legacy of Islam and The Legacy of Israel were most helpful.
So also were my high-school textbooks, Craik's Manual of English
Literature and Morley's First Sketch of English Literature. They
gave me clues which were invaluable. The notes at the end of
Scott's Poetical Works enabled me to see clearly into the maze
of legend surrounding Michael Scot. Ashmole's Theatrum Chem-
icum gave me data on Dr. Dee and other alchemists. For the
chapter on Stuart times I got major help from the Dictionary of
National Biography. As regards the titles of books, I have checked
them against the British Museum Catalogue.
If I take exception to one statement of Otto Wedel concerning
Chaucer, contained in his book The Mediaet1alAttitude Towards
Astrology, it isnot that I do not think this work a very valuable
contribution towards astrological research. I really hope that
he will expound some of the other centuries in this way, but that
he will spend a few years first learning astrology itself. It is a
very moot question whether anyone should write about any sub-
ject until he has studied it.
I have not tried to force any conclusion, but merely stated the
facts as I see them. As a rule, I have listed reference and source
books in footnotes in the order of their occurrence.
With regard to the names of people of ancient days, I have
spelled them in the manner commonly accepted by English his-
torians, e.g., Albumazar and not Abu-Ma'sh-ar, which is recog-
nized by modern re~earchers as more correct, but which com-
pletely baffles the average reader because such a rendition is
entirely unknown in the older reference books. I have experi-
enced so much difficulty myself, as to whether various and
manifold names belonged to one and the same person, that I have
given name-variations, either in the text or in footnotes.
During the Middle Ages almost every author Latinized his
name, e.g., Marsilio Ficino wrote under the name of Marsilius
Ficinus. I have not used Latinized names unless they occur in the
PREFACE Xl
authors I quote, or unless the Latinized names have established
themselves, as in the case of AlbertusMagnus, ~tc.
Where dates of persons' lives are not known with exactitude, I
have inserted the abbreviation "c." for "circa" (about).
New York,
1942-
ELLEN McCAFFERY.
Contents
PAGB
Introductory Chapter: 1
1. INTRODUCING THE SUBJECl' OP AsnoLOGY I
2. INTlloDUCING nm HISTORY OF AsnoLOGY 16
Chapter 1. A.snoLOGY AMONG THB BABYLONIANS 18
Astrology known in the time of Sargon the Agade. Astrol-
ogers of Esarhaddon and Sardanapolus. The Accadian
months. Tablets of Creation. Planetary Hours. The days
of the week. The myth of Gilgamcs. Persian astrology and
El Hakim1t
Chapter 2. &YP11AN AsnoLOGY
The Sallicr papyrus. Good and bad days. Interest of the
Pharaohs in Asccndants.Gods of the cardinal points. Astro-
logical booksin sacredprocessions.
Chapter 3. AsnoLOGY AMoNG THE GmKS
Various clues to the origin of astrology in Grccccc. A school
at C:Os
before the time of Bcrosus. Pre-natal astrology taught.
The poemof Aratus. Homer dramatizes astrology.
Chapter 4 THEWAll OP nm WMENTS
Is Air, Fire, Water or Earth the major clement? What the
Greek scientists and philosophcn said on this.
Chapter 5. Tm SceooL OP AI.ExANDlllA
Iu history, notable teachers and achievements.
Chapter 6. PToLEMYAND His T1t11lAB1aLos
The latter the world's greatest textbook of astrology. Was
the Centiloquy written by Ptolcmy?
Chapter 7. A.snoLOGY AND KABBALISM
The antiquity of the Kabbalah. Assignment of the alphabet
among the planets and signs. The Tree of Life.
Chapter 8. THEA.snoLOGY oP THE RoMANS
Lucky days. Julius Caesar writes De Astris. Ciccro's attitude
towards astrology. His friends Nigidius and Tarrutius.
Date of the founding of Rome. Manilius knew the earth
had an axis. When did the world begin?
xm
71
XIV CONTENTS
PACE
Chapter 9. AsmoLOGY
AND VAIUous RoMAN EMPERORS I 11
Augustus, Tiberius, Nero, Otho, Vitellius, Vespasian, Titus,
etc.·and their astrologers. Apollonius of Tyana. Prophecy
of Julianus to Antoninus. Warning to Alexander Scvcrus.
Chapter 10. THE ZonIACS OF l>ENDERAH AND EsTE I22
Their antiquity. The pictures show ancient initiation rites.
Chapter 11. Tm LATER RoMAN .EMPIRE AND ByzANTIUM I30
Plutarch, Philostratus, Censorinus. The inftuence of the
Neo-Platonic School.Porphyry's system of calculating cusps.
The text book of Maternus. St. Augustine and twins.
Bocthius. Archbishop Leo of Thessalonica. The prophecies
of the Emperor Leo.
Chapter 12. THEINFLUENCE OF nm AllABs
AND JEws I47
Isaac Judaeus. Neo-Platonism among the Arabs. What was
Sabianism? The translation of the Tetrabiblos and Alma-
gest. Messahala, Zad, Al Kindi, Albumazar. Arab text-
books of astrology. Albumazar and Dante. The Arin
theory. Aviccnnna.
Chapter 13. Tm MooRS
IN SPAIN I65
Toledo, Cordova and Granada. Visits of scholars such as
Gcrbertus from Christian Europe before 1000 A.D.
Chapter 14. AsnoLOGY IN THE BlllTISH lsLES, FRANCEAND
GERMANY I6g
(Before 1066). The Druids were astrologers. Roman gods
and astrology. Edwin employs the astrologer Pelletus. Neo-
Druidic Heresy. Anglo Saxon Chronicle and eclipses. Bede
and astrology, Adrian, Alcuin. Friendship of Charlemagne
and Haroun Al Raschid. Charles the Bald and John Scotus.
Old churches with zodiacs. Monasteries with zodiacal tables.
Chapter 15. EARLY
MEDIAEVAL AsnoLooY 188
The Norman kings and their astrological interest. John of
Salisbury. Adelard translates Albumazar' s textbooks. Petrus
Alphonsus astrologer-physician to Henry I. King Richard
and astrology. His foster-brother and astrology. John His-
palensis and "Elections". His translation of the Centiloquy
and of Albumazar. Abcnezra and astrology. Abenragel and
lunar mansions. Alchemy introduced. Maimonides. Trans-
lators of the period.
CONTENTS xv
PAGE
Chapter 16. Tm LATEllMEDIAEVAL Pmuon 202
Frederick II and Michael Scot. The Almagest and Tetra-
biblos translated by Anatolia. Grosseteste and Roger Bacon.
Albcrtus. St. Thomas Aquinas. Lully and alchemy. Petrarch.
Bradwardine. Astrology at all courts. Playing cards and
astrology. "The end of the world."
Chapter 17. THE AsnoLOGY OP DANTE AND CHAUCE.ll 227
Dante a very fine astrologer and Kabbalist. The astrological
and Kabbalistic scheme of the Divine Comedy. Dante's
teacher of astrology. Longfellow and Albumazar. Chaucer
and his sources for the Treati"seon the Astrolabe. Chaucer
did not renounce astrology. Astrology in the Canterbury
Tales.
Chapter 18. ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTUitY 242
Poggio discovers a copy of Manilius. Marsilio Ficino pre-
dicts that Lorenzo's son shall be pope. Copernicus an astrol-
oger. Regiomontanus an astrologer. The translations of the
Almagest and Tetrabiblos. Zacuto and Columbus. Pico
della Mirandola a student of Ficino. Paracclsus and
astrology.
Chapter 19. AsmoLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 2~
Popes and astrology. Art and astrology. The Protestant
leaders and astrology . Ruggieri and Catherine de Medici.
Cardan an astrologer. Agrippa and the Emperor. Lco-
vitius. Weigel. Napier discovers logarithms to hdp astro-
logical calculations. Allatius translates Ptolemy. Tycho
Brahc's predictions. Kepler and Wallenstein. Galileo an
astrologer. Jacob Boehme. Queen Elizabeth and Dr. Dec.
Naibocl. Burton. Usher. Lindhout. The change of the
calendar.
Chapter 20. AsnoLOGY IN STUART TIMES 288
Ashmole and Lilly. Their circle of friends. Wharton.
Booker. Butler's Hudibras. Sir Jonas Moore, Flamstced and
Greenwich Observatory. Sir Isaac Newton and astrology.
Chapter 21. AsmoLOGY IN THE LATERSEVENTEENTH AND E1cHT-
EENTH CENTURIES 321
Partridge and Dean Swift. Dryden an astrologer. Pope and
the Rapeof the Loci(. John Varley the painter and Uranus.
Goethe, Byron, etc.
xvi CONTENTS
PAGZ
Chapter22. Tm N1NETDNTH AND TWENTIETH
CENTUIUJtS 341
Prophecy concerning Pluto. Research on Uranus and Nep-
tune. The Zadkicls and Raphads. Astrology in America:
Broughton, Chancy, Catherine Thompson, Evangeline
Adams, John Hazelrigg. Alan Lco's lnftucncc. Scpharial.
Flammarion. Dr. Richard Garnett. Paul Choisnard. Astrol-
ogy an Empirical Science.
ExPLOllING T1ME Wrm AsmoLOGY 357
Major Conjunctions since 1934.Their effectupon Abyssinia,
Spain, Japan and Central Europe. World War II. The Rus-
sian-German War. Pearl Harbor. How War a>ncs arc
located.
APPBHDICEI
I. How TO Eucr A HoROSCOPE 373
II. THE HELIOCEN'l1llc SYSTEM oP BABYLON AND THE Soss
PPJuoDS 37l
III. Tm PLANETARY HoURS 378
IV. MAJoRTRANSLATIONS AND EDinoNs oP ProLEMY's Boou 378
V. THE"SEPHlll YEnIREH" AND fflE HEART'S MOTION 38o
VI. THE TllIADS OP WALP.S 38o
VII. HOROSCOPU
IN "A THOUSAND AND ONENOTABLE
NATIVITIES" 381
VIII. THE TIUVIUM AND QuADlllVIUM 381
IX. THE CELTS 382
X. LIBllAllY OP DR.JOHN DEE 382
XI. CATALOGUE OP Aumoas EXTANT IN L1u.Y's PEJUoD 385
XII. PllECESSION OP nm EQUINOXES 397
XIII. THE SuN's RAYS AT D1PPERENT HoURS 39B
XIV. VmGIL's"FoUllTH Ea.ooua" 399
INDEX 401
ILLUSTRATIONS
Portrait of EliasAsAmole RONTISPIICB
1. Uranogrtzphic Stone
2. Periodicityof Planets
3- The Natural Zodi11e
DIAGRAMS
+HeliocentricOrder of Planets
5. JewishCandlestick
6. PlanetaryHours
7. PlanetaryHours
8. Four Sons of Horus
9- Positive and Negative Halves of Zodiac
10. {Kabbalistic) Tree of Life
11. Genealogical Tree of the God Bel
Section One of Zodiacal Pictures from Ene, Eg1pt
Section Two of Zodia&alPictures from Este,Egyp,
12. Zodiac of Denderah
13.Graeco-Egyptian Zodiac
Section Three of Zodiacal Pictures from Este,Egypt
Section Four of Zodiacal Pictures from Este, Eg,pt
1+Eumts of 19JB-Mars-Saturn Conjunction
15.Eumts of United States Chart for December, 1941
16.Mars-Saturn Conjunction for London, February 22, 1942
17.Mars-Saturn Conitu,ction for Washington, February 22, 1942
18.What the Houses Mean Personally
19.What the Houses Mean in Mundane Astrology
32
32
35
35
36
37
37
47
47
85
90
no
121
125
127
129
168
362
36s
375
375
375
375
20. Catalogue of Authors Extant in Lilly's Period 385-3g6
Zodiac of Denderal, (Frieze) in two parts on inside front
and back covers
..
xvu
ASTROLOGY
ITS HISTORY AND INFLUBNCB IN THB WBSTBRN WORLD
In a perfectly determinate scheme the past and future may be re-
garded as lying mapped out-as much available to present exploration
as the distant parts of space. Events do not happen; they are just there,
and we come across them. "The formality of taking place" is merely
the indication that the voyager has on his voyage of exploration passed
into the absolute future of the event in question. . . .
So, if events are determinate, there is nothing to prevent a person
from being aware of an event before it happens; and an event may
eause other events previous to it.
S1R ARTHUR EDDINGTON-Space, Time, and Gravitation.
If once we grasp the idea that the past and the future may be actually
existing, we can recognize that they may have a controlling inff.uence
on all present action, and that the two together may constitute the
higher plane or totality of things. . . •
S1R OLIVER
LoooE-from his ~ddress to the Mathemat-
ical Section of the British Associa-
tion, at Cardiff, Wales.
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER
PAllT I. Introducing the Subject of Astrology
PAB.T II. Introducing the History of Astrology
I
PLE want to know Why long before they want to know
ow. Even the smallest child can spend his day continually
starting with the word Why. The questions of children are
sooften unanswerable that in time they come to the conclusion
thatno one knows anything about the things that matter. As they
growto be adults they consider it wise to hug their Whys to them..
selves
until they find an astrologer, then the pent up questionnaire
ofthe years bursts forth:
Why am I unhappy?
Why am I not successful?
Whydo I have to suffer?
Whyis everyone so mean to me?
Whydon't I marry? .
All these are large questions, ·which are not answered in a
momentunless one counters with other questions, such as:
What would make you happy?
What have you done to make yourself successful?
Cwiouslyenough when faced with the question, "What would
makeyou happy?", hardly anyone knows. Some think money,
some
think marriage, some think children, some think a position.
Some
want the dead raised to life, and some want the living to
liveforever. Others think they arc being more reasonable in
merelywanting to do what they want when they want. An
astrologerneeds a large philosophy of life to deal with all types
ofpeople. The more concrete the question, the easier it is to
answer.Is it a question of money? The horoscope can show the
sourceof the money,-whcther earned or whether a gift or
legacy.
It can show also the type of work which will bring money.
I
2 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Does the question concern marriage? The horoscopecan show the
most probable year of marriage, but if no marriage at all is shown,
philosophy must enter quickly, for immediately the question
comes,"Why can't I have what I want in life?"
This is where some concept of a pattern in life must grow in
the mind of the client. I think it is the desire to know whether
there really is a pattern, and what their particular pattern is, that
makes most people decide to learn astrology and find out for
themselveswhether the astrologer is right or wrong.
Astrology is not a simple subject. It may look so on the surface,
but it is not. Most people start just as musicians start to learn
the piano,-just know the various notes on the piano, and hit
them. How perfectly simple. People may say it takes years to be
a good pianist, but the young musician smiles. He knows better.
It may take some people a long time, but what is there to prevent
him learning in a few weeks? He is different from other people.
After a few weeks or a few months he may drop out, but if he
is a real musician the lure of music carries him along, until after
a fcw years,he knows that he is doing very well, but even when
he is "free of his keyboard" as the saying is, he realizes that "art
is long and time is short."
So with the young astrologer. He finds there is nothing to a
chart except planets, signs and houses. These he will master in a
fcw days,-so he thinks. He can soon set up a chart. The mathe-
matical part is not difficult. Then when he looks at each new
· chart, he wonders what it all means. Will he ever be able to see
his way through it? Everything looks so contradictory. Learning
to read horoscopesis a slow, tantalizing task. The beginner is in
the same position as a young medical student who knows every
bone and nerve and muscle in the body, and yet who has no
ability to diagnose a case. But gradually one factor after another
starts to dawn in the consciousness. The astrological student
learns by experience that a Sun-Saturn type acts quite differently
from a Sun-Jupiter type. He learns that one Gemini person he
has met acts different!y from another, and he discoversthat one
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER 3
hasMercury,
the ruler of Gemini in perchance Cancer and the
otherhas it in Virgo,-and the difference is comprehended.
An understanding gradually establishes itself in the student's
mindthat people are what they are, and a greater sense of toler-
ance
grows up. Then, as the process of progressions, or the timing
ofevents,is comprehended, students bring me very ilium· ting
statements: "Oh, now I understand why I didn't marry eh and
sucha person. He was a Uranian and hated to be hos d, and I
spentall my time trying to boss him,-and when us came
oppositionmy . . ., he walked out on me. Of co se he would,
underthat aspect. Well, if I'd known astrology en, I'd ... " or,
"I'vejust discovered why I got fired in that I job. My employer
wasa Virgoan, and he loved to have ev,~ detail given to him
inwriting,-and I hated to write up all that unnecessary detail,
sowhen Mars squared my .•. , he got mad enough to put me
out. H I'd known astrology then, I'd ... "
When I hear statements like this, I realize my students arc
growing.Another stage comes when they want to know how to
handlecoming aspects:
"I have Saturn bearing down on my Mercury, docs that mean
thateverybody
will give me the cold shoulder?" To which I reply:
"Withthis beautiful aspect coming, you will now have all the
timein the world, without interruption, to study, write and think
outall the matters you have planned to do for years. So make
upyour mind what you are going to tackle,-what your objec-
tiveis,-and when the aspect is over, you can come and tell me
whatyouhave accomplished." And later they do come and tell me.
I thinkthe study of astrology makes for friendships that are as
clmcas, or even closer than, many family ties. They are friend-
ships
founded on mutual understanding. They are as a rule most
impersonaland have nothing to do with social life, families, race
ormoney. One can note one astrologer talking to another. They
mayhave met less than five minutes before and they've already
forgotten
that the rest of the world exists until they have thrashed
outsomeknotty problem. Just happy in the exchange of fascinat-
4 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
ing ideas.Neither trying to impress the other, knowing that the
world of astrology is the world of absolute truth.
If one askswhy, with vast numbersof people studying astrology
through the ages, there have not been millions of great astrolo-
gers, I merely ask why it is that, with all the children learning,
free of charge, music and mathematics during the last half cen-
tury, everyone is not by now a great musician or a great mathema-
tician? I think to pursue a subject after school days shows the
fundamental love of a subject. It is a case of many arc called but
few are chosen. Only people who love astrology and have particu-
lar gifts make good astrologers,-and for the love of it they have
learned mathematics, geometry (plane and spherical), astronomy,
philosophy and even foreign languages. They have walked the
highways of the world and they have sailed the seven seas in
search of truth. They have put up with insultsand with ostracism.
They have been branded with every ugly name, and some have
been jailed, while others have even been put to death. Yet they
all have been as sure that astrology works as Galileowas that the
earth moved.
What is the basis of astrology? It is basedon a similarity that
exists between the face of the heavens and the things on the
earth. It is based on a Time factor, and it is a revdation of the
potentialities held within Time.
A horoscope is variously called a chart, a wheel, or a nativity.
- A horoscope, or wheel with 12 spokes, is a representation of two
things:
(1) The heavens.
(2) The earth.
It is merely a picture of how the heavens look, or arc pictured,
upon the earth, at birth,--or at any given moment, for a horo-
scope can be drawn of anything, animals, events, the signing of
contracts or the asking of questions.
The following are the major divisions of astrology:
_ Gencthliacalor Judicial Astrology is the astrology of the lives
of people.
•
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER
Natural Astrology relates to weather, earthquakes, etc.
MundaneAstrology rdatcs to the affairsof nations.
5
Horary Astrology relates to the answering of questions, not
fromthe birth chart, but from the moment_when the question
ii propounded.
ElectiveAstrologyis the setting of a suitabletime for starting a
project.
A horoscopehas:
( 1) 12 houses,or compartments, each designated to some par-
ticular
phase of human life, e.g.,money, love,work, etc. (seeDia-
grams18 and 19in Appendix I.)
(2) 12 signs of the zodiac, each representing some quality or
phase
of ,mental or emotional experience.These signs arc super-
imposed
on the houses.
(3) 10 planets, each representing some motivating power,e.g.,
Mars
representscentrifugal energy, whileVenus representsdraw-
ingpower or attraction.
Aplanetmay be in any 12 of the signs,but it will alwaysmain-
tainits own energy or motivation; however, the result as seen
bythe world will be as different as the light coming from the
sameelectric incandescence placed in different colored bulbs. ·
Thereforethe student has to know the apparent effect of each
ofthe10 planets in each of the 12 signs,that is, he has to know:
10 X 12 or 120 modes of the expressionof activity.
Afterthis is comprehended he has to know in what house (or
houses)
the signs fall, in order to know what influenceis playing
ona specificdepartment of life. Is it playing on the house of
work,
or on the house of travel? This will necessitatean under-
standing
of 12 signsplaying on any of the 12 houses,that is,
12 X 12 or 144effects.
Nat, an astrologer has to know in which house each planet
falls.
This necessitates the understanding of 10 planets in 12
differenthouses,or:
10 X 12 or 120 different places.
Afterthisis done, aspectsbetweenplanets have to be calculated,
•
6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
alsoaspects between planets and the Midheaven and Ascendant.
The specific activity of each planet must be thoroughly com-
prehended before one can understand this planet combined with
other planets, or "in aspect with" other planets. The ability to see
at a glance the eleven major "aspects" takes considerable experi-
ence. The beginner has to tabulate them, until he gains facility.
Having comprehended all these things, the next step is to see
which aspects apply or separate in the actual chart the student is
reading, and then, in the light of all that has gone before, to
make judgment on potentialities of character, and the possible
effect of the planets on the fields of human .experience, e.g., if
Yenus is in Libra in the sixth house of work, it might tend to
make the person a comparison shopper, or place him in some
work where the ability to balance and compare is necessary, but
Venus placed in Libra in the Ascendant might merely make the
native beautiful, and well poised.
Only after this initial judgment is made on charactc;r and
potentiality should the cliart be progressed, that is, related to
Time as a factor in bringing the potentialities into being and the
events into manifestation.
We see, therefore, that the reading of a chart continually ca1ls
into play very considerable ability to weave each separate piece
of knowledge into a concrete whole. It calls on the faculty of
judgment, more than any other subject I know. It is not a subject
for children, for in children the faculty of judgment is not devel-
oped, neither have they the necessary experience to handle the
a.ff
airs of mature persons. Yet I have come across some children
who can set up charts quite readily and who can read them, but
then I have met child geniuses in other subjects too.
The symbols of the signs are:
T the Ram, related to the head.
~ the Bull, related to the throat.
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER
]I Gemini, the Twins, related to the hands and lungs.
0 Cancer, the Crab, related to the stomach and breasts.
n Leo, the Lion, related to the heart.
7
rT}
Virgo, the Virgin, related to the intestines and bowels
-"'\. Libra, the Scales, related to the loins.
mScorpio, the Scorpion, related to sex.
j'1 Sagittarius,
the Centaur, related to the thighs.
'VJ
Capricorn, the Goat, related to the knees.
Aquarius, the Waterman, related to the ankles and
calves
}ii(Pisces,the Fishes, related to the feet.
The symbols of most of these signs are founded ~n: (1) The
straightline which iseither: (a) Perpendicular or (b) Horizontal.
The perpendicular line representsBynamicactivity,force, the
thrustdownwards, the blow of the hammer, the sceptre of au-
thority,spirit in action. •
8 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
The horizontal line represents placidity, the material world!
and the earth.
(2) The circle. This represents totality, eternity, the whole
universe, spirit in repose.
(3) The crescent moon. This represents the human soul. Twn
the crescent moon on its side and it becomes a cup,-the soul was
symbolized as a container which has to be filled with experience.
Let 11$now twn to these symbols, one at a time:
T Sun in Aries, Marci, 21-April 21.
Aries is made by a perpendicular line with two half moons at
the top, both turned downwards so that they hold nothing. They
pour out. The spirit strikes down in swift activity. The moons
cannot hold anything, hence when we say that Ariespeople spring
swiftly into action, that they are pioneers and never collectors,
we see that the symbol says it all for us. The symbol looks like a
ram's horns, and it is called the Ram. It looks like the nose and
the eyebrows of a man, so we say it rules the head and face.
t:5 Sun in Taurus, April 21-May21
TaW11S
is made up of a circle with a crescent moon above it
The symbol itself isall curves, so portrays 9ur Taurcan, who needs
time to move,-no quick action. He is the settler who loves to
stay put. The symbol looks like the horns of a bull, and is called
the Bull. It also looks like the chin and Adam's apple in the
throat, hence, it is said to rule the chin and neck.
I[ Sun in Gemini, May 21-June 21
Gemini is composed of two perpendicular linesjoined together,
representing dynamic energy in duality, as positiveand negative,
male and female, heat and cold, etc. It is an ideograph of two
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER 9
people, two hands, and two lungs, hence related to manual
dexterity, to breathing, speaking and inter-communication. It
rules short journeys, on the theory that one cannot travel far
crawlingon one's hands.
0 Sun in Cancer,June 21-July23
Cancer is more complex. We have two small suns and two
smallmoons. It is a picture of the human breasts, hence rdated
to the mother instinct and also to nutrition. One moon is turned
down to give, and the other is turned up to hold, for in the
mother instinct there is a dual principle, one that will collect
everythingfor the child, and the other which will give everything
to the child. The symbol looks like a crab and so is called the
Crab.
n Sun in Leo, July 21-August 23
Leois a picture of the human heart with its two valves. It is
madeup of two small suns (not closed in our modern represen-
tations),and two moons facing one another but joined, showing
theBowof life from one sun (or spirit) to another. It therefore
depicts the love instinct, and also children. The symbol 'iooks
likethe head and mane of a lion and is called the Lion.
rT}Sun in Virgo, August 2j-September 23
Virgobrings us to a new type of symbol. It represents the three
openings
of the female body,with a cross on the third denoting.
virginity.
It also represents the bowels, hence we say it is symbolic
ofthe purifying and cleansing properties of nature, the tendency
to refine. As the bowels do so much work, Virgo is said to rule
work.
As they have much to do with health, Virgo is the sigii of
health.
10 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
J'\. Sun in Libra,September23--0ctober
22
Libra is a picture of the Sun setting in the west. The horizonta1
bars represent nature in poise. The symbol looks like a balance
and it is called the Balance.It is related to marriage and partner•
ship. It is that which unites.
mSun in Scorpio,October22-November22
Scorpioisprinted like a letter m,and represents again the three
openings of the female body, but here the third one has no cross
bar. It is open as after marriage. The symbol is called the Scorpion
(serpent) and is related to sex, to experience, to investigation,
death and regeneration.
~ Sun in Sagittarius,
November 22-December
23
Sagittarius looks like an arrow. It was originally made of one
perpendicular line with two cross bars, the top bar representing
the thigh and the other the top of the knee. It is a symbol of the
ability to walk long distances, hence is related to long jowneys.
As long journeys give experience, the symbol represents the
highest faculties of the mind, philosophy, religion and law, the
latter in the senseof the principles underlying specificlaws.
'V'I
Sun in Ca,pricorn,
December23--January
21
Capricorn looks like the letter V with an S added. If you will
look at a knee, you will seethis symbol S represents the knee cap,
and the V represents the lines of force around it. The knee is the
part of a child which has to straighten out before a child can
stand erect or climb, hence Capricorn is said to be the sign of
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER II
ambition.It looks like the horns of a goat. In old pictures the
Goatof the zodiac had a fish's tail,-and this was the S part of
thesymbol.
Sun in Aquarius, January21-February
21
Aquarius is a double set of zig-zag lines. It rules the ankles.
Thefunction of the ankle is to lift you up and help you to move
forward when walking. One ankle goes down while the other
liftsyou up and carries you forward. The symbol looks like the
wavesof the sea which have been energized by the wind, hence
it issaid to be an Air sign, but it is represented by an urn, or by
awatermancarrying an urn of water. It represents the circulation
ofthe blood, or possibly the life sparks energizing the blood.
* Sun in Pisces,
February21-March
21
Pisces
is made up of two moons (or fishes) tied back to back.
Ittherefore represents two types of emotional content, the human
andthe divine, which look in opposite directions, but which
cannotbe separated. It denotes the struggle within man to bal--
ancctwo apparently contrary emotions, one that he must love
divinethings, and the other that he owes some affection to the
peoplewith whom he is living on the earth. The result is often an
unhappyfeeling that man is a spirit confined among earthly ex-
periences,
hence the sign is said to rule prisons.
Fromall this you will sec that the symbolization of the zodiacal
signsis based on the parts of the body and not on any Greek
lettersas some people have vainly imagined. Also note that I
have
given you the average dates when the Sun changes signs. It
willhappen in particular years that these may not be exactly
right,therefore people born on or near the dates given have to
look
up an Ephemeris for their particular year in order to be
quitesure in which sign their Sun is.
The next step is to learn the symbols of the..planets and what
12 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
signs the planets rule. Rulershipis not haphazardly assignedb~
in a pcrfect system,as in Diagrams3 and 4 (seepage35).
0 The Sun rules Aries.
.) The Moon rules Cancer.
V Mercury rules Gemini and Virgo.
9 Venus rules Taurus and Libra.
c/i Mars·rules Aries and Scorpio.
l.. Jupiter rules Piscesand Sagittarius.
Saturn rules Aquarius and Capricorn.
)t{ Uranus rules Aquarius.
'-t-'
Neptune rules Pisces.
, Pluto rules Scorpio (and Ariestoo).
I think from the various clues you have gathered, in under-
standing the symbolsof the signs,you can readilymake out the:
meaning of the symbolsof the planets.
0
)
9
fl1
l..
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER 13
The Sun can represent in a chart the heart, the life
energy, the father, the husband, the employer, the real
self.
The Moon can represent in a chart the stomach, di-
gestion, absorption, the breasts, the mother, the wife,
one's instincts in general, growth, and physiological
changes.
Mercurycan represent in a chart the hands, mechan-
ical ability, the lungs, music, nerves, young people, corn)
munication, letters, writings, and the ability of man to
associate with others.
Ven,u can represent in a chart the venous blood,
song, beauty, attraction, cohesion, artistic work, a loved
one.
Marscan represent in a chart outgoing energy, crea-
tive capacity, mechanical and engineering ability, a sol-
dier, an engineer, a worker in metals.
Jupiter can represent in a chart justice, law, aspira-
tion, principles, philosophy, religion, wealth, expansion,
the arterial blood.
Sat"rn can represent crystallization, organization,
government, time and experience, the bones and the
teeth.
Uranus can represent the unexpected, the thunder-
bolt, electricity, originality and invention.
Neptune represents gases, and the percolating capac-
ity of gas and perfume, fermentation, distillation,
dreams, unreality, the ethers.
Pluto represents the change that must take place be-
fore a new thing can be started, or come into being.
14 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
Next one has to learn that just as there arc chords in music,
so there are in astrology. Having learned the signs in their never-
broken sequence (they always follow around the zodiac in an
endless circle), we next have to learn them in their relationship
one to another.
(1) Wc learn them in opposites, or in polarities.
Aries opposite Libra
Taurus " Scorpio
Gemini " Sagittarius
Cancer " Capricorn
Leo " Aquarius
Virgo " Pisces
This learning of opposites is most important, for in every horo-
scope they arc placed on opposite ends of the various spokes of
the wheel. They act as balances to one another; for example, the
dynamo of Aries is counterbalanced by the scales of Libra, or
vice versa. Libra cannot make a move until Aries tips a pan of
his scales. If opposite signs do not like one another they arc at
least necessary for one anothcr,-so very necessary that if one
ascends, the other descends.
(2) Next we divide the 12 signs into four classes. There will
be three signs in each class.These sets of threes are called Trigons
or Triplicitics:
(a) Fire, or energizing signs: Aries,Leo,Sagittarius.
(b) Earth, or practical signs: Capricorn, Taurus, Virgo.
(c) Air, or mental signs: Libra, Aquarius, Gemini.
(d) Water, or emotional signs: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces.
We count the planets in the various trigons in every horoscope.
Sometimes all ten planets can occur in one trigon, or ele~cnt
In such a case the characteristics of the clement arc very clearly
shown. When all planets occur in water sipis it indicitcs types of
people who are swamped in their emotions. It is ,better to have
some planets in each clement to give a rounded nature.
In people who arc decided types-that is, those ,who have !ou
. b •
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER
or more planets in one demcnt-we find that Fire and Water
typesrarely like one another for long. Fire types get the Water
typesall steamed up for action, then as soon as these Water types
arcleft to themselves, the Water runs down to its original level,
untilfinally Fire gets discouraged about it. Fire and Air types
mayagree, but there can be thunderstorms. Water and Earth
typesagree very well, but neither can inspire the other. Air types
agreequite well with~ither Waterer Earth-signs. Needless to
say,eachsign is harmoni811Stoanother
io-it&-ewrr
clement. These
dcmcnts are placed in the chart 120 degrees from each other,
or,if we judge in time, about four months apart.
I Next the signs are divided into groups of three, and since
thereare 12 signs in the zodiac there will be four signs in each
ofthesethree groups, called the Quaternaries:
(a) Cardinal, or active signs: Aries, Libra, Cancer, Capricorn.
(b) Fixed, or determination signs: Taurus, Scorpio, Leo,
Aquarius.
(c) Mutable, or mobility signs: Gemini, Sagittarius, Virgo,
Pisces.
or in other words, those who move forward, those who stay
wherethey are, and those who move around in circles. We have
to count up the planets in the trigons and in the quaternaries
in order to find our resultant type, which could be Caidinal'Fire,
or FixedEarth, etc.
A Cardinal Fire type is so full of enthusiasm and activity that
heis a go-getter. The Fixed Earth is so set and so practical in
hisways that the CardinalFire type would consider him a mule,
andthe latter, in his turn, would consider the former as one who
takes
"awful chances".
I thinkif this introduction shows you nothing else, it will show
thatthe whole chart,with every planet in its right place, is abso-
lutelynecessaryin order to obtain a true judgment, and not just
: aparlor trick. There is nothing more stupid than thinking that
because you arc born in, for example, Leo, the other signs
donot affect you. Every person is made up of 12 signs. Every
16 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
person has a heart even if he is not born in Leo, and every person
has a head and face even if he is not born in Aries. Saying, as
some people ignorantly do, that they hate Gemini or they hate
Pisces, makes about as much sense as saying that they hate their
own hands and their own feet. A true astrologer bases his judg-
ment on what all 12 signs are doing in every chart.
A chart is a study in relativity. If a planet is left or right of the
Midheaven, or above or below the Ascendant, it may make a
world of difference. How to obtain this Midheaven (tenth spoke)
or Ascendant (first spoke) will be shown to you in Appendix I.
These factors cannot be obtained unless you know your birth
time. In the final chapter I will show you how the horoscbpe
obtained from the various times when Mars and Saturn ·have
conjuncted each other since 1936,reveals the countries actually
now occupied or affected by war, and how it was possible to locate
these areas far in advance of the wars which have occurred in
them,-and all this without any psychic power,-just plain clear-
cut mathematical knowledge, combined with an understanding
of the nature of planetary effects.
II
The historyof astrologycouldbe written asa recordof astonish-
ing prophecies. I have not tried to emphasize this side of the sub-
ject, but rather to allow notable predictions to enter incidentally.
There is a great history of astrology because the subject has been
the backbone of all the niajor mathematical, astronomical and
medica1 sciences. Who would have cared about Euclid or about
spherical geometry if it had not been for astrology? Would we
today know of logarithms if it had not been for Napier's astro-
logical studies? There is also a great history of astrology because
the philosophies of the world have used it as their fundamental
groundwork. How can Plato's or Aristotle's concepts of the world
be properly understood without a knowledge of their astrological
patterning? How can Neo-Platonism be comprehended unless we
know that it was based on ancient astrological concepts?
INTRODUCTORY CHAPTER 17
For some strange reason astrology has been put in the back-
groundby both philosophers and scientistsfor nearly two hundred
ycars,-in much the same way that certain people put the sincere
andhonorable folk of their own home town out of their con-
versationbecause·the latter are not fashionable.
No real history of astrology has been undertaken for hundreds
ofyears, and, so far as I know, what was written in ancient
timesis not now extant, therefore much of what I have to say
willcome as a surprise to those people who think that astrologers
throughout the ages have been potential jail-birds, for it has be-
comecustomary for reference books to list our best astrologers
intheir astronomical sections, or in their medical sections, or in
theirscientific sections, or in their philosophical sections, and to
forgetto mention that they were astrologers at all. Then, in the
astrologicalsections they are left with no names of consequence
at all (.- very few), and they constantly refer to astrologers as
"therabble," or some such undignified term.
One could write a history of lawyers, mentioning only dis-
barred
lawyers. One could write a history of medicine, mention-
ingonly the quacks. One could write a history of the church,
mentioning only those who have been unfrocked or those who
deservedto be. Such histories would be records of facts, but
entirely
false histories, for history should be a broad comprehen-
sionof all the facts available, which alone can reveal Truth. Such
historieswould create a very false impression of law, medicine
andthe church. So many false impressions have been circulated
aboutastrology that the time has arrived when the real truth
shouldbe given out,-that astrology is such a noble and com-
prehensivestudy that nearly every mighty move forward in the
world'shistory has been made by astrologers and in the cause
of astrology. How would medicine have developed without
Hippocratesand Galen? Would astronomy now be working with
• theCopernican system if a King of Poland had not decided to
inauguratethe greatest astrological school in the world at Cracow,
-and if a certain Copernicus had not gone there to study
astrology?
Chapter 1
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS
"The history of Astrology is the history of the world/'
ALAN
LEO.
G
ARDENERStell me that a plant needs the morning sun. All
the sun of the afternoon will not compensate for the lack
of morning sun. When I ask how long they have known
this,they tell me "Always." I think then that it was the gardeners
or the farmers who first discovered astrology. In some remote age
a farmer lived, whose name is now lost, who made a most re-
markable discovery, that the effect of the Sun's rays is different 1
at different times of the day. He therefore divided the heavens
with imaginary lines into sections which we now call "houses."
At .firsthe made either six or eight divisions, but succeeding men
made twelve houses. As time went on, other enterprising men had
. noted the motions of the Moon and the planets, and they decided
that these also might have different effects at different times of
day and night. Thus was Natural Astrology born. Later, by a
process of analogy, men reasoned that the Sun, Moon, and planets
affected individuals too,-and Judicial or Genethliacal Astrology
was born.
Did Babylonian astrology precede that of Egypt, or vice versa?
The story is that the discoveries were made independently, then a
flooddestroyed all the records and calculations of Egypt, where-
upon the Egyptians asked the Babylonians to give them copies of
their records. This the Babylonians promised to do, but when they
sent the copies they falsified them, which the Egyptians gradually
found out, and so had to start at the beginning again. Some au-
thorities, including Professor Sayce, arc of the opinion that there
1
SeeAppendixXIII.
18
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 19
wasastrological knowledge long before the Assyro-Babylonian
period,
and state that such knowledge has been found on the
cuneiform tablets of the ancient people of Harran sa and of Ara-
maca.This would be before the fourteenth century before Christ.
Inthe light of this it is somewhat distressing to find that quite
recentlyvarious critics of astrology have been publicizing state-
ments to th(J cffect that Judicial Astrology did not appear in
Babylon until after 6oo B.c. Judicial Astrology is the application
ofasttology to the lives and activities of persons, hence in order
to refute this statement, we merely have to find out one or more
persons born before 6oo B.c. who received astrological advice on
theconduct of their affairs, and not merely on weather.
There have been very few books readily available to friends of .
astrology giving facts on the history of astrology. This book is
written with a view to presenting a general but comprehensive
survey
of a subject which has held the attention of people through-
outthe centuries. It is in the spirit, then, of letting facts speak for
themselves that I ask my readers to walk with nie a while, in
orderthat truth may be revealed.
Letus see, first, what the great French archaeologist, Maspero,
hasto say that willbearon the above misstatement of facts.
In his Dawn of Civilization8
he tells us how observation of
heavenlymovements and observation of what happened in events
onthe earth went on side by side in ancient civilizations. He says
rulersconsulted the astronomers of the day and imposed upon
them the duty of selecting the most favorable moment for the
execution of projects they had in vi w. He also says that from
an early date each temple contain d a library of astrological
writings.One of these is considere to have been drawn up in
thereign of Sargon the Agade d this was still the classical
workon the subject in the seventh century before Christ, whence
theastronomers royal of the day drew their answers.
Sargon the Agade flourished 3,8ooyears B.c.,hence our critics
--.
2
Tr11nllldiotuo/ Soc. of Biblical .Arclu,~logy, Vol. 3, pl. 67, i, 28, a-b.
aG. Maspcro,D11wnof Civilization (S.P.C.K.), ed. by A. H. Saycc.
20 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
arc about 3,200years out of line in their statement about Judicial
Astrology not being known until after 6ooB.c.
Let us next see what Professor A. H. Sayce, one of the ablest
of the English experts and researchers on Assyriology, has to I
say, in Maspero's. book, about the various tablets concerning,
Sargon:
As I have always maintained the historical character of the Annals of '
Sargon of Accad, long before recent discoveries led Professor Hilprecht
and others to adopt the same view, it is well to state why I consider
them worthy of credit. . . . The campaigns of the two monarchs
(Sargon and his son) are coupled with astrological phenomena on
which the success of their campaigns is supposed to depend. We
know the Babylonians were given to the practice and study of Astrology
from the earliest days of their history; we also know that in the time
of the later Assyrian monarchy it was still customary for the general
in the fidd to be accompanied by the asipu or "prophet," [Ashshaph
(astrologer) of Daniel ii] on whose interpretation of the signs of
heaven, the movements of the army depended; and in the infancy of
Chaldean history we shoultl accordingly expect to find the astrological
sign recor4ed along with the event with which it was bound up. At a
subsequent period the sign and the event were separated from one
another in literature, and had the Annals of Sargon been a later
compilation, in their case the separation would assuredly have been
made. That, on the contrary, the Annals have the form which they
could have assumed only at the beginning of contemporaneous history,
is to me a strong testimony in favor of their genuineness.
So here is Astrology being quoted by Professor Sayceas in itself
a proof of the early (3,8ooB.c.)date of the Annals of Sargon.
Now let us turn to Fran~ois Lenormant, the French archaeolo-
gist, who wrote on the occult sciencesof the Ancients. In his book
Divination and the Science of Prophecy of the Cha/deans, he
tells us how he studied and translated twenty-five certain tablets
in detail. What do you think he found ? He found that these were
the Table of Contents of one of the great astrological books which
had been destroyed. The tablets he translated were from the
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 21
libraryof Assurbanipal of Nineveh (668-625B.c.). Even on this
our criticsare quite a few years out of date, but also, if there was
a Table of Contents then to books on Astrology, Astrology must
havebeen flourishing in the reign of Assurbanipal and must have
beeninvented ages before. Astrology could not have sprung up
overnight.
Assurbanipal (called Sardanapalus by the Greeks) was the
son of Esarhaddon (681-668),which king had succeeded Sen-
nacheribwho is mentioned in the Bible. Apparently both kings
hadtheir own astrologers, and some of the letters of these astrol-
ogersto the two kings still survive. Mr. R.Campbell Thompson'
of the British Museum gives some of these letters, but Professor
LeroyWaterman 15
of the University of Michigan gives more. We
find in this correspondence the actual names of several royal
astrologers:
Esarhaddon employed Akkullanu
" " Balasi
" " Ishtar-shumercsh
" " Nabun-adinshum
" " Nabua-heriba
Assurbanipal employed Adad-shumusur
" " Mar-lshtar
" cc
Bclu-shezib
Put into colloquial languagethis correspondence reads some-
what like the answers a modern astrologer makes on the tele-
phoneto a student or client who knows a little astrology and has
already
had a complete horoscope made:
Question:Is it a goodtime to allow my eldest son to visit me?
(Remember here that Esarhaddon's predecessor had been mur-
deredby two of his sons).
• Reportsof IM Astrolo6ff'Iof Nine11el,
and Babylon, by R. CampbellThompson,
London,1902.
1
Tlle Ro)'tll CMttspondence of the Assyrian Empire, by Professor Leroy Waterman
(Univ.of Michigan 1930-1936).
22 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Reply: Yes, Venus is in the Ascendant.
Question:The same (on another day to another astrologer).
Reply: No, Mars is in the Ascendant.
Question:Is this coming eclipse going to disturb me?
Reply:No, there is no need to worry.
Question: Why haven't you written me what you promised
about the benefits I could expect from Jupiter this year?
Reply: Sorry, I haven't had time.
Question:Is my son speaking the truth?
Reply: Yes, when the Sun is close to the Moon. No, when
Saturn is close to the Moon.
Quertion: Tell me what Mars is going to do to me later on
this year?
Reply: I will be sure to advise you nearer the time.
I think the reason why some of the commentators on these
letters think they are so trite, and not exactly full horoscopes is
that they never were intended to be full horoscopes. When I read
them I was never so sure in all my life that human nature is the
same in all ages, and I think any professional teacher of astrology
will recognize them as exactly the type of questions that students
and clients still keep on asking,-and apparently the kings of
Assyria were no different from students of today. One even
detects somewhat of the impatience of the astrologers with their
royal student, when he asks too many questions, and worries
himself unnecessarily over what Mars, Saturn, and various eclipses
are going to do to him.
It is interesting to note that in Ancient Babylonia, Aries began
the months. Let me quote the Hon. Emmeline Plunkett• who
wrote Ancient Calendarsand Constellations.I take various pas-
sages from this book in order that you may judge for your-
selves:
Page 6-But further, there are astrologicalworks in the library-t>f
Assurbanipal copied from ancient Babylonianoriginals. The compila-
• E. Plunkett, Anmnt Calntlars a,ul Connelllltions (John Murray, 1903).
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 23
tion of many of these is placed by scholars in the reign of Sargon of
Accad,at the remote date of 3,8ooB.c.
Page 53-According to the evidence of the Standard Astrological
Work, the compilation of which is generally attributed to 3,8oo s.c.,
and according to the evidence of many other tablets, the year in Accad,
and afterwards in Babylon, began not at the winter solstice, but on
the first day of Nisan (Bar-zig-gar of the Accadians) the month of
"the saaificc of righteousness", and it was, as its name suggests, the
month during which the Sun was in conjunction with the constella-
tion Aries.
The month of Aries then beganwith the spring equinox when
the Sun crossed the equator. This crossing (or passing over) of
the equator is in the Jewish rdigion the period of the Passover,
and in the Christian religion it is cdcbratcd as the period of the
Crucifixion, hence we sec that the idea of sacrificehas always been
inherent in the sign Aries, from Babylonian times down to the
present.
Page 16--The astronomical and astrological texts drawn up for
Sargon of Accad are entitled "The Illuminations of Bel."
Pages 9-10-Wc gather that the twelve divisions of the ecliptic had
beenmapped out at the time when the astrological works were drawn
up, and that some (at least) of these divisions corresponded exactly to
those now represented on celestial globes. . . • The suggestion put
forward by Professor Saycc and other scholars that the 12 months
corresponded to the 12 constellations of the wdiac, and that we may
trace a resemblance between the names of the month in the old
Accadianlanguage, and the constellation into which the Sun at that
timeof the year entered, is not in itself improbable..... The following
months arc those in which the resemblances arc vc{y striking:
1st month Bar-zig-gar (the sacrifice of righteousness) Aries
2ndmonth Khar-sidi (the propitious bull) Taurus
yd month Kas (the Twins) Gemini
6thmonth Ki Gingir-na (the errand of lshtar) Virgo
I think astrologers will readily sec that the rest of the names
ofthe months (as set forth herewith) contain very much the same
24 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
line of thought as is found in modem interpretations of the signs.
The Accadian months were as follows:
Accadian Modern
Month Translation Abbreviation Sign
1. Bar zig-gar The Altar of the The Altar or ARIES
Dcmiurge the sacrifice
2. Khar-sidi The propitious The Bull TAURUS
Bull
3· Mun-ga The making of The Brick or GEMINI
Bricks The Twins
4· Su kulna Seizer of Seed The Boon of Seed CANCER
5· Ah ab-gar Fire making Fire The Fire LEO
6. Ki Gingir-na The Errand of The Errand VIRGO
Ishtar
7. Tul ku The Holy Altar or The Altar LIBllA
Illustrious Mound
8. Apin dua The Placewhere The Foundation SCORPIO
One Bows down
9· Gan ganna The Vcry-Cloudy The Cloud SAGI1TAIUUS
10. Abba uddu The Cave of the The Cave CAPlllCORN
Rising Sun
II. As a-an The Curse of Rain The Curse AQUAIUUS
12. Sc kisil The Sowing of The Seed PISCES
Seed
13. Sc dir The (dark) ............ ........
(month) of sowing
The above is the complete list as given in The Law of Kosmic
Order,' by Robert Brown, F.S.A. Gemini in modern interpreta-
tion rules the hands and the work of the hands, hence "the brick,"
which was used and made by hand, is appropriate. Cancer as the
seed is good, since our Cancer is the mother sign. Fire making
Fire is splendid for our Fire Sign, Leo.Wc still assign all errands
'R. Brown,Law ol Kosmie Ortlw (Longmam, Green& Co., 1881).
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 25
andserviceto Virgo. The Altar for Libra is good, differentiated
fromthe sacrifice of the Altar of Aries,for Libra is the judgmcnt
onthesacrifice rather than the sacrifice itself. The "Foundation"
forScorpio, the sex sign, would please the psychologists. The
Cloud
for Sagittarius is typical of the sign which rules ideas. In
fact,
we still use the phrase "up in the clouds" for an idea which
has
not yet been translated into some practical concept. The Cave
forCapricorn is exactly right, the place of birth of the Christ
Child.
The Curse of Rain is goodfor Aquarius, while the Sowing
ofSeedfor Pisces differentiates it from Cancer, which would
ratherrefer. to the seed about-to-be-impregnated.
Brownalso tells us that the Babylonians had presiding deities
overthe n;wnths. He says:
TheAssyrians and Babylonians,like the Jews, adopted the Aramaic
Calendarwhich was in turn derived from that of Sumir and Accad:
NAMES OF THE MONTHS
ENGLISH ARAMAIC ASSYIUAN PRESIDING DIVINITY
I. March-April Nisan Nisannu Anu and Bel
2. April-May lyyar Airu Hea
3- May-June Sivan Sivanu Sin
+ June-July Tammuz Duzu Adar-Sandan
5- July-Aug. Ah Abu Allat
6. Aug.-Scpt. Elul Ululu Ishtar
7. Scpt.-Oct. Tisri Tasritu Samas
8. Oa.-Nov. Marchcsvan Arakh-samna Merodach
9- Nov.-Dcc. Chisleu Cuzullu Nergal
10. Dcc.-Jan. Tcbet Dhabitu Papsukul
11. Jan.-Feb. Scbat Sabatu Rimmon
12. Feb.-Mar. Adar Addaru The Seven Great Gods
IJ. lntcrcalary . Vc-Adar Arakh-makru Assur
He says, ''The obscure Papsukul is identical, at least in some
phases,
with the planet Saturn. . . . Papsukul is called the Black
Star."It was evidently associated with trouble or destiny.
26 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
He is thus comparable with our modern ruler Saturn for ,
Capricorn, the tenth sign. I am not quite clear why Sin, who was ,
the Moon god, should be the ruler of Gemini the third sign. I
would have been inclined to think that he should have been
assigned to Cancer or the fourth sign. Also, Nergal, who is similar
to our Mars, hardly fitsin with Sagittarius or the ninth month,
but rather with Scorpio, the eighth month. Ishtar, the goddess
always associated with "the Errand," would fit in with our con-
cept of a ruler for Virgo. Since, however, our calendar of twelve
months does not exactly coincide with a lunar calendar, it is
probable that when the two calendars arc compared in dates, we
could agree with these assignments.
The thirteenth month is intercalary or incidental. Brown also
tells us that each zodiacal constellation was placed on the heavenly
maps between two extra-zodiacal constellations, thus making
thirty-six original astcrisms according to the scheme. I would like
to mention here that modern astrology divides each sign into
three parts termed decans of the signs, and that in occult astrology
the use of the extra constellations is still used in emphasizing the
inner meaning of the sign.
I have not been able to find any English translation of what
the German archaeologist, Hugo Winckler, might have to say
on the Babylonian technique of astronomy and astrology, but
sometimes when we are looking for one thing we find another
just as valuable. In a book entitled Egypt in Asia
8
by G. Cormack,
I discovered that Winckler has some very pertinent observations
on what is the matter with modern science; and he compares
modern scientists with the scientists of Ancient Babylon very
much to the discomfiture of the former. In Das Alte Testament
im Lichte des Alten Orients, Doctor Hugo Winckler, in col-
laboration with Doctor Alfred Jeremias, saysin effect that modern
science has failed to build up a general conception of the universe;
each particular branch of study has taken its isolated way, and
8
G. Cormack,Egypt in Asia (Adam and Charles Black, 1908).
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 27
no authority has correlated the totality of results. In this respect
the Babylonians were far in advance of us.... The result was
wrong only because the observation was wrong. The science of
Shinarwas based on religion. The Babylonians interpreted the
skyby terrestrial analogies. There£ore, the visible crises of the
skyoffer a sublime analogy to the vicissitudes of the lower world;
andthe destiny of nations and peoples is written in the stars, hence
theirscience of nativities and horoscopes. A science such as that of
Shinar,based on religion, could never banish moral ideas from
theworld, for in their analogy of reasoning, the Sun by its very
light and. splendor was a type of good, and the Sun always
winsout. It has a daily triumph each morning over the dark
forcesof night. It triumphs each spring over winter. No modern
scientisthas ever brought these matters home to the people as a
moralissue, taught by the universe itself in analogy, in the way
theseearly Babylonians did.
Both the Egyptians and the Babylonians believed that the
planetswere gods, or that the spirit of the god resided in the
stars. Sayce in his Religion of Egypt and Babylonia (p. 481)
tellsus: .
At the time when the pictorial hieroglyphics were first formed, the
star was already the symbol and representation of the divine. At most
we canonly suggest that the zi, or spirit, was localized in the star. A
spiritof the sun was as conceivable as a spirit of Ea,-and the son of
Ea,it must be remembered,becamea sun-god. "The zi of the god"
meant
originally the "spirit of the Star".
Thisthought of the stars being gods or spirits of gods was par-
ticularly developed by Plato and Aristotle. They said that the
starsare inhabited by human souls, and that human souls are
stars.In his Metaphysics Aristotle said, "Our forefathers in the
tnost remote ages have handed down to us, their posterity, a tra-
dition in the form of a myth that these substances [i.e., the
stars] are gods, ~d that the divine encloses the whole of
nature."
28 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Aristotle's and Plato's theories have come down to modern
occult schools by way of the Nco-Platonic schools of thought.
The great gods of the Babylonians were assigned to the planets
as follows:
Shamash Sun
Sin Moon
Marduk Jupiter
Ishtar Venus
Ninib Saturn
Nergal Mars
Nebu Mercury
Sin, the Moon god, was particularly worshipped at Ur of the
Chaldees. Marduk really took the place of Bel, who was trans-
planted to heaven. Nebu, or Nabu, like our modern Mercury,
was considered to be "the supreme watcher." He was the son and
minister of Marduk. Nergal, like our Mars, was the god of battles,
of pestilence, and of the dead, even as Mars in modern horoscopes
rules both the things of Aries and those of Scorpio (death). We
might note that in the Bible, II Kings xvii:30, we are told of the
men of Cuth making an image of Nergal to savethem from lions.
In the Babylonian Tablets of Creation we are told at the end of
the 4th tablet that the old gods Anu, Bel and Ea were a trinity
sent to inhabit the heavens. This may have been the origin of the
three 8
heavens of the mediaeval period, the heaven of the fixed
stars, the primum mobile and ·of the empyrean, but I have no
proof as yet of this. The beginning of the 5th tablet, however,
is most interesting in showing us the twelve-fold division of the
constellations and of the twelve-fold division of the houses of
the horoscope. I use the translation as given by Robert Brown,
F.S.A.,in his bookEridanus:
He (Anu) made excellent the mansions [i.e., the twelve celestial
houses] of the great gods.
9
Three spheres aboveSaturn. See Chapter on the Kabbala, page 85.
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 29
The constellations he placed in them, the stars of the Great Bear
he fixed.
He arranged the year according to the bounds [or signs of the
Zodiac, Mazzaroth, Hebrew] that he defined.
From this I think any astrologer would recognize that the
twelve-fold house division of the horoscope and the twelve-fold
divisionsof the heavens had been definitely established at that
time.
Continuing, the tablet goes on:
For each of the 12 months, he fixed constellations of three-fold
nature.[These would be our decanatcs.]
From the day when the year comes forth until its close.
He founded the station of Nabir [Jupiter] to determine their bounds,
that none might err or go astray [Jupiter is the astrological god of
judgment, the understanding of what is divinely right and scientifically
fitting].
He set the mansions of Bel and Ea along with himself.
He opened great gates on both sides [of the heavens].
[These gates are the sunrise and sunset places, and astrologically
speaking, our ascendants and descendants of the day.]
He made strong the bolts on the left and on the right [i.e., East
andWest].
In the midst thereof he fixed the zenith.
TheMoon-god
he caused to shine forth; the night he entrusted to
him.
He appointed him, a being of night, to determine the days.
In other Babylonian tablets and pictures we find that every
morningShamash (the sun) steps through the eastern gate which
isupon the mountain of the sunrise, and makes his great journey
across
the heavens until he finally steps forth through the western
gateon Mount Sunset. These mountains with gates, or sometimes
clefts
in them, remind us of the mystical lines of Tennyson:
Twin mountain peaks
Cleft before the sunrise
30 .ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
In a Babylonian hymn addressed to Sharµash, as lord of the
setting sun, we have these lines:
0, Shamash, thou art the judge of the world
Thou directest the decisions thereof.
This would entirely harmonize with modem astrological ideas
that Libra, the sign of the Sunset (in the natural chart) is the
sign of the Balance or Judgment. Hence, even if Libra does not
-- appear in the Babylonian zodiac in the symbol of a balance,
1
" the concept of balance, judgmcnt and law was given to the west,
the natural position of Libra.
The council chamber of the gods where destiny and fate were
decreed or started was in the East on Mount Sunrise. From this
we sec that Aries, which we term the sign of beginnings of action,
was given much the same assignment as in our modern astrology.
-- The destiny starts in Aries and is judged in Libra. I wrote a
. series of twelve articles 10
some years ago, proving that all incep-
.... tion of action in the physical world begins in Aries, hence I
. a~rcciatc the.fact that the Babylonians thought so too. And this
·...
start is irrespective of the Sun Sign.
Diodorus tells us (ii, 29-31)that the Babylonians called the five
planets the five "Interpreters," because they actually foreshadowed
not only the destiny of individuals but also the destiny of nations.
Also, some one of the five had to preside over the birth of each
person in -the world. From all of which we must presume that
the Babylonian astrology was not merely "weather predicting,"
as some people today have decided to tell us. It was "judicial."
Diodorus also tells us that besides the planets there were thirty
stars, which were called "consulting gods." Now, whether Dio-
dorus intended to state thirty or thirty-six is somewhat doubtful.
If thirty-six, then these would be assigned to the thirty-six
decanates, or the thrcefold division of each of the twelve signs.
But perhaps if only thirty were used, then dccanate divisions
10
.. Destiny and the Ascendant,"in Studmt Astrologer.
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 31
might not have been used for Cancer and Leo; or perhaps, since
the Babylonian year was (according to Lenormant) one of 11
300
days,there could have been thirty "consulting gods," one for each
day of a solar month. Besides all this, Diodorus says that there
were twenty-four stars called "Judges of the World," of which
twelvearc northern stars and visible and twelve arc southern stars
and invisible. The visibleones were assigned to living people and
the invisible ones to the dead. Astrologers, at least since the time
of Ptolcmy, have experimented with the fixed stars when inter-
preting charts, though our main prognostication is still with the
planets.
Campbell Thompson in his book Reports of Magicians and
Astrologers of Nineveh and Babylon, says that the Babylonians
distinguished between a spherical method of calculation from
the viewpoint of the observer, and a cosmical method from the
viewpointof the stars. Perhaps by this we may see that there was
some knowledge then not only of geocentric calculations but
alsoof heliocentric ones. Methods of horoscope delineation by
meansof heliocentric positions have been tried in recent years,
but as far as I have been able to work with these maps they
revealvery little, for the simple reason that we live on the earth
and not on the sun. Hence, as it is the geocentric method that
hascome down to us through the Babylonians and Chaldeans,
it is more than probable that when making astrological charts
theymust have used the geocentric method.
The Babylonians and Chaldeans seem to have been very well
acquainted with what are sometimes called "the seven planets".
Somearchaeologists have apparently also noted that the planets,
asshown on their uranographic stones, appear in the following
order in practically every case: Moon, Sun, Mercury, Venus,
Saturn,Jupiter, Mars. For this reason some superficial commen-
tatorshave tried to prove that the Babyloniansdid not know their
realheliocentric order. It is necessary to know some astrology
beforeone understands why this order appears so constantly.
--
11
See Appendix II.
32 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Rawlinson, in his book Fioe GreatMonarchies,shows a draw-
ing of a uranographic stone in which we have the Sun and Moon
in the center,-the Moon as Crescent and full, together with her
North Node (Diagram 1). Around the edges arc five altars (an
elementary heliocentric system). The symbols used to portray
which particular gods the altars belonged to are comparable with
)
n0
D1AGllAM 1, left. Diagram of a Uranographic stone showing the
Sun, Moon and North Node in the center and the five altars of the five
planets. (Based on Rawlinson's picture.)
DIAGRAM 2, right. Illustrating the periodicity of planets.
our own symbolization of the planets, though not identical, e.g.,
we say that Mercury rules writings and scribes, hence any modem
astrological student would not object to a pen or pencil being
used as a symbol of Mercury. When we actually find on this
uranographic stone the wedge or arrow-head which was the
basis of all cuneiform writings, we know that this altar was the
one dedicated to Mercury. These five altars are placed around the
stone in the order we have in Diagram 1.
The Sun and Moon here arc considered somewhat as a unit, or
as man and wife. But in an order where all seven are denoted,
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 33
the Moon precedes the Sun, for the Moon rules the sign Cancer
or the primordial waters out of which, the Babylonians said, all •
thingscome, or as the Bible has it, "And the Spirit of Godmoved
upon the face of the waters."
The Moonand Sun are followed by their attendants,-Mercury
is closest to the Sun, though how the Babylonians discovered
him without instruments is one of the wonders of the world.
Maspero tells us that the priests trained young boys from seven
yearsof age until they developed very great visual capacity. Venus
thenfollowed in her right order. Why, then, did they not put the
rest in their correct astronomical sequence: Mars, Jupiter and
Saturn? Some people have surmised that they considered these
three as sons of the Sun and Moon, and in all countries where
primogeniture is the rule, it would be a great error in etiquette
not to mention them in their order of birth,-Saturn, Jupiter,
and Mars.
When astrology was studied in the early Christian days, Saturn,
Jupiter, and Mars become the Three Wise Men, and it is most
interesting to note that about 6 s.c. there was a conjunction of
these three planets, also that the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle speaks
of the Three Wise Men who visited the Christ Child as Three
Astrologers. Now, lest you consider the date of this triple con-
junction of planets too early to have heralded the birth of Christ,
let me quote from the work of a Roman Catholic priest, Father
Isidore O'Brien. In his LifeofChrist, he reviews all the available
factsconcerning the birth-year of our Lord, saying:
"As we have seen in the fowth chapter, the birth of Christ
tookplace at least four years earlier than the Abbot Dionysius
hadcomputed .... " Also, in another section: "Christ may have
been born 6 s.c. Some authors place the sacred date back as far
as7 B.c."
Going back to the Chaldcan sequence of planets, there is a
better reason for their order than I have given above. The ancient
peoplehad not only observed the planets over periods of years,
butthey had discovered their periodicity. They found:
34 ASTROLOGY: ITS ·HISTORY AND INFWENCE
Periodicity of Saturn conjunction same astcrism is 30 years approxi-
mately.
Periodicity of Jupiter conjunction same asterism is 12 years approxi-
mately.
Periodicity of Mars conjunction same asterism is 15 years approxi-
matdy.
Periodicity of Venus conjunction same astcrism is 8 years approxi-
mately.
Periodicity of Mercury conjunction same asterism is 10 years approxi-
mately.
Periodicity of Moon conjunction same astcrism is 4 years approxi-
mately.
Periodicity of Sun conjunction same astcrism is 19 years approxi-
mately.
If we put the Sun in the center, and arrange the others around
it (Diagram 2, p. 32) we have an elementary notion of a helio-
centric 12
system, but furthermore, if excluding the Sun, we take
the common denominator of the periodicity years, we have the
number 120, and from this we can get quite remarkable results
which will give us in all probability the very earliest idea of how
a horoscope was conceived.
Consider the common denominator of 120 and divide this by
the periodicity of each planet. Let us take Mars first. Itsperiodicity
is 15. Now, 15 into 120 yields 8, and in our Diagram No. 2, Venus
has a periodicity of 8, hence it is placed on the opposite side of
the wheel, since it is the complementary opposite of Mars. Next
let us take Saturn whose period is 30. Thirty into 120 yields 4,
which is the period of the Moon, hence the Moon is placed on
the opposite side of the circle to Saturn. And so on with Jupiter,
whose periodicity is 12. Twelve into 120 yields 10, which is the
periodicity of Mercury, hence these two planets are placed in
opposition.
When we come to consider our modern horoscope, that is, the
12 See Appendix II.
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 35
naturalone with the planets in their own signs (sec Diagram 3,
below),we find that this principle of complementaryoppositesis
stillmaintained.I might mention here that Saturn is considered
asapolarityof both the Sun and of the Moon. Our modern horo-
scope(which is very ancient) reveals that it was built with a
knowledge
of the astronomicalorder of the planets.(~ccDiagram
4, below).
DIAGRAM 3, left. The "natural Zodiac." The Moon rules Cancer and
isthe polarity of Saturn. The Sun rules Leo and is also a polarity of
Saturn.
DIAGRAM 4, right. Note the Sun and Moon rule one sign each. The
otherfiveplanets arc in their astronomicalorder from the Sun and rule
twosignseach.
Anotherfactor which evolvedout of all this was that of the
planetaryhours which seem to have provided the basis of so
much
of the philosophyattendant upon astrologythat was taught
rightdown to the early Middle Ages, when the Sun was always
considered
to be the Ccnter,-a matter which seems strange in
days
when the heliocentricsystemhad not yet beenrediscovered--'
~c planetary hour sequence is even inherent in the seven-
36 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
branched Jewish Candlestick. (See Diagram 5, below). Note that
in all Dante's work the Sun is the center.
The sequence for the planetary hours apparently always has
been: Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon, in an
endless circle (sec Diagrams 6 and 7,p. 37).
According to the younger Lenormant there were twelve "hours"
in a Babylonian day, that is, 12 periods of time called "hours"
which would eq~al two hours of our modern day. But with a 12
DIAGRAM 5. Jewish candlestick with planetary hour system applied.
period day we cannot get a sequence which will allot the first
hour of Sunday to the Sun, and the first hour of Monday to the
. Moon, hence we may presume they subdivided their hours into
two parts, or it could be that the earliest division of a day was
what we call morning, afternoon, and night. Hence, if sunrise
starts at 4 A.M. then noon begins the afternoon and 8 P.M. begins
the night. Now, allotting the planets in their Babylonian order
over the days in sequence, we have our simplest planetary hour
arrangement, thus:
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 37
s~""'Y Monday Tuesday Wednesday Tl,,wstlay
Sun Moon Mars Mercury Jupiter
Vcnus Saturn Sun Moon Mars
Mercury Jupiter Vcnus Saturn Sun
In this elementary method:
TheSun rules the morning of Sunday.
Vcnus rules the afternoon of Sunday.
Mercuryrules the night of Sunday.
Friday
Venus
Mercury
Moon
Then on Monday the Moon can start the day.
on Tuesday Mars can start the day.
on Wednesday Mercury can start the day.
on Thursday Jupiter can start the day.
on Friday Venus can start the day.
on Saturday Saturn can start the day.
Saturday
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
The system, therefore, shows us why the various days have
beenheld sacred to these gods and goddesses. Diagram 6 may
DIAGRAM 6, left. The planetary hours follow around the circu111fcr-
cncc.The daysof the week are found by crossing the c'ircumference.
DIAGRAM 7, right. Each triangle gives the 3 planets which wmtld
rule a third part of the day (traveling countcrclockwise around the
circumference).
'
38 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
make the matter clearer, where the planets on the circumference
arc in planetary hour sequence and by crossing the circle one
arrives at the next day. Diagram 7 shows the three planets ruling
each day.
I think the only person I know who has done any original
research on our modem planetary 18
hour system is Dr. L. H.
Weston who has published several pamphlets in which he states
that the right sequence starts with the New Moon each month,
rather than with sunrise each day. Perhaps the whole matter is
one on which continued research is still necessary.
Probably only the priests of Babylon themselves knew all the
various intricacies of their astrology. The people, however, were
taught quite a little in their myths and legends. Just as we have
among the later Greeks a story of a solar hero Hercules with
Twelve Labors, and in Christian times the story of King Arthur,
-both sets of legends being of astronomical origin,-so Babylon
created a wonderful series of stories of a solar hero Gilgamcs ( or
Izd-hubar), whose life was told in twelve epic songs, eachepisode
relating to a sign of the zodiac; for example, Gilgames meets the
scorpion men in the sign Scorpio. He reaches the "waters of
death" at the winter solstice, Capricorn, and so on. These stories
are given in George Smith's Cha/dean Account of Genesis and
alsoin Lcnormant's Beginnings of History.
The story of Gilgames as told on the Babylonian tablets is as
follows:
Tablet One is missing. It probably related to Aries.
Tablet Two: The hero Gilgames has a dream which he cannot
interpret. He therefore sends for the wise seer, half man and half
bull, named Ea-bani, who lives a long way off. This is an episode
of Taurus, the Bull.
Tablet Three: Ea-bani travels to Gilgames' palace where there
is a•great feast in his honor. The two mca become fast friends.
This would typify the sign Gemini .
.
13
See Appendix m.
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 39
Tablet Four: Both set out to attack a tyrant. The wanderings
arc typical of the wandering Moon sign, Cancer.
TabletFive:The tyrant is killed. Here we have reached the con-
quering hero sign, Leo.
Tahlet Sir: The goddess Ishtar asks Gilgames to marry her.
He refuses. This happens in the sign of the Virgin.
Tablet Seven: Gilgames has more frightful dreams. When he
asksEa-banito interpret these, the latter falls sick and dies. Libra
isthe sign of the partner and of the setting sun dying in the west.
Tablet Eight: Gilgames searches for the secret of life. He meets
two man-scorpions who guard the setting sun. He is allowed to
visita garden of apples, over which two nymphs preside. The
tablet suggests the sign Scorpio.
Tablet Nine: He is allowed to carry away some of the fruit.
He findsa boatman and with him Gilgames sails "the waters of
death."The ninth sign, Sagittarius, is that of the long journey.
Tablet Ten: He meets the immortal one who holds the secret
oflife, and questions him of immortality. Here we have the sign
Capricorn, always symbolized as the sign of immortal birth, and
commemorated now as the birth-month of our Lord.
TabletEleven: Gilgames is told the meaning of the Deluge.
Later he is purified and healed of all his sicknesses and of his
baddreams. He then returns to his own country. This refers to
Aquarius, the sign of the realization of one's objective journey
in life.
Tablet Tweloe: He laments at the tomb of his dead friend
Ea-bani.
The god Marduk descends and calls the soul of Ea-bani
backfrom the land of shades. Ea-bani comes to life but he is
almost
immediately taken up to the skies, where he shines forever
asa star. Here we hav~ the sign Pisces, where the purified mortal
longingsare finally fused with the immortal longings into one
brightwhole.
It was in songs such as these that the Babylonians taught their
people that the quest of the individual for immortal life was
analogousto the heroic struggles of the Sun god, his life, work,
40 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
and activities in his annual passage through the twelve signs of
the Zodiac.
We close this chapter in noting that the knowledge of ancient
Persia impinged upon Babylon, perhaps be£
ore Persia conquered
Babylon, but certainly afterward. The Persians produced at least
one very wonderful astrologer, whose name has come down
through the ages. This was El Hakim, or Gjamasp, who wrote a
book, Judicia Gjamaspis. In this he spoke of the effect of the
conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn on world history. The Arabs
treasured this book, and translated it into Arabic under the title
Al Keranai, and when the European nations began their trans-
lations of Arabic books on astrology, Lali translated Al Keranai
into Latin under the title /udgments of the Grand Conjunctions
of the Planets, and on the Events Produced by Them.
From various of these Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions, Al Hakim
prophesied the date of the coming of Christ, the abolishment of
the Magian religion, and the rise of the Mohammedan religion.
Consequently, his predictions carried forward eleven hundred
years beyond the time he lived. He was cowt astrologer to
Hystaspis (548-504B.c.), so when our critics say there was no
astrology of any account before 6ooB.c.,we find in Gjamasp, not
an amateur or one struggling to find out whether human life was
shown by the planets, but a most finished and accomplished
astrologer with centuries of astronomical observation behind him,
and also centuries of astrologicalobservation concerning the effect
these two planets have on political and religious matters. The
minor conjunctions (called Mutations) of Saturn and Jupiter
occur only every nineteen or twenty years, and the major ones·
(in which trigons 14
are changed) occur every two hundred and
forty years, while the Grand Conjunction or Mutation occurs
only once in approximately 900years, when the same trigon
recurs.
· It was this fine type of astrology that enabled Daniel, Esdras,
14
See Chapter 20.
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE BABYLONIANS 41
and other prophets to make their long distance predictions. Dio-
dorus tells us (ii, 24-25)that Ctesias wrote of a priest-astrologer
named Belysiswho made his observations first hand, and from
his astrological knowledge decided in 876
B.c. to assist Arbaces
the Mede in overthrowing Sardanapalus. 16
Surely this was judi-
cial astrology, and since Belysis did not invent astrology, it must
have been a highly technical art in his time.
A gooddeal of our knowledge of ancient Persia is drawn from
Greek and Roman writers who quoted Ctesias, who was a phy-
sician, born of a family of physicians at Cnidus in Caria. He
becamecourt physician--astrologer to King Artaxerxes. In his
spare time at Court he wrote the history of Persia in twenty-three
books, from the earliest times down to about 3g8 B.c.Only frag-
ments of this history have survived, but various Greek and Roman
authors, including Diodorus, quote from him.
H See underByron, who wrote a play Sartlanopalus.
/
/
/
Chapter 2
EGYPTIAN ASTROLOGY
It is remarkable that the Moon, which was SO' important, es-
pecially in Babylon, never rivalled the Sun among the Egyp-
tians . .• the reason is clear: The Moon is the easiest regulator
of time for primitive man.
W. MAxMiiLLEJt,
EgyptianMythology.
I
WILL admit that looking into the translations of the Sallicr
Papyrus IV, ~gypt, is somewhat like looking at Sun Sign
readings done by a crazy person. Maspero in his Dawn of
Civilization1
gives us some light on the contents of this papyrus.
He says:
The days, moreover, had each their special virtues, which it was
necessary for man to know if he wished to profit by the advantages,
or to escapethe perils which they possessedfor him. There was not one
of them that did not recall some incident of the divine wars, and bad
not witnessed a battle between the partisans of Set and those of Osiris
or Ra; the victories or the disasters which they had chronicled had, as
it were, stamped them with good or bad luck, and for that reason they
remained forever either auspicious or the reverse.
Yet reading further in Maspero we might surmise that these
could not all have been based on Sun Sign readings, but that some
might have been based on planetary hours, and here we find one
of our early clues to planetary hours. Maspero says:
The Hours of the night were all inauspicious, those of the day
were divided into three "seasons" of four hours each, of which some
hours were lucky, while others were invariably of ill omen.
From this I would conclude that the planetary hours were as-
signed only to the day and not to the night and their luck or ill
1
Dawn of Civiliution, by G. Maspcro (S.P.C.K.)
42
EGYPTIAN ASTROLOGY 43
luckdepended on what planets were assigned for the time. Yet,
on the other hand, some Sun Sign interpretation must have been
used,it would appear from such statements as:
The 4th of Tybi: good, good, good. Whatsoever thou sccst on this
daywill be fortunate. Whosoever is born on this day, will die more
advanced in years than any of his family; he will attain to a greater
agethan his father.
The 5th of Tybi: inimical, inimical, inimical. This is the day on
whichthe goddess Sokhit, mistressof the double White Palace, burnt
the chiefswhen they raised an insurrection. • • • Offer bread to Shu,
Phtah,Thot, Hu-Su, on this day.
In this threefold repetition of good, good, good,one might be
inclinedto see the threefold "seasons" of the day, or three good
planetary hours in succession.The knowledge concerning "Egyp-
tian" days spread to Greece, Rome, and all the outposts of the
RomanEmpirc,-Gaul and Britain.
Becausethere was so much of this type of astrological work
among the Egyptians, our critics have stated that there was
absolutely
no judicial astrology in Egypt until Berosus2
founded
a school at Cos about 28o B.c. Wc might mention here that
Bcrosus
did teach in a school at Cos about that time, taking with
himas his material some of the material of the Illuminations of
Bel.He did not invent astrology.
Professor Sayce is one authority for saying that the positions
ofthe stars were plotted out in ancient Egypt as early as the
thirteenthcentury s.c. Perhaps here we need to define once more
JudicialAstrology. It could be defined as the analogy between
theaffairs of any human being and observed conditions in the
heavens.
My thought is that the material collected in the Sallicr
Papyri
was given to the people in general, just as Sun Sign read-
ingsarc today, but that real astrology was reserved for the priests,
thescribes,the Pharaoh, and the princes.
--
2
See Chapter 3, page 58.
44 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Let me tell you what the renowned French Egyptologist, Jean
Fran~ois Champollion, found in the tomb of Rameses II (called
Sesostris by the Greeks). Rameses II lived about 1292-1225 B.C.
Champollion found massive circles of wrought gold divided into
365° and each degree marked the rising and setting of the stars
for each day. When objects were placed in the tombs of the
Phar~ohs, it was because they were important for them to have
in the next world. Why should Rameses want to know the rising
and setting of the stars? For the same reason, I imagine, that
thousands of astrologers do. Many people today who cannot
make their own star observations or who do not have ephemerides
and table of houses handy, carry Ascendant finders-that is,
double cards, the under one of which revolves and can indicate
through a slot in the upper card the Ascending degree of a sign
at any time of day that is required. Why were there no textbooks
in the tomb? Because a good astrologer no more needs his text-
books after he has learned his art than a concert pianist needs his
music score in front of him when he gives a recital. He needs his
piano,-and an astrologer needs the Ascendant.
We must not forget that according to all history and tradition
the Pharaohs of Egypt were not only rulers, but each was pontifcx
maximus of his time and knew all the secret sciences. Lest my
theory seem too far-fetched, let us go on to what Champollion
found in the tomb of Rameses V, a successor of Rameses II. He
found papyri giving tables of constellations and their inftuences
on human beings for every hour of everymonth of the year. Here
is the translation of the last part, for the fifth month of the year:
MoNnl OF Tosi: The last part. Orion rules and has influence
over the left ear.
1st Hour: The constellation Orion rules and has influence over
the left ear.
2nd Hour: The constellation Sirius rules and influences the
heart.
yd Hour: The influence of Gemini appears and influences the
heart.
EGYPTIAN ASTROLOGY 45
41/,Hour: Gemini influences the left ear.
51!,Hour: The stars of the River [probably Eridanus] influence
theheart.
6tl, Hour: The commencement sign Leo influences the heart.
7tl, Hour: The Arrow influences the right eye.
8th Ho11r:
The Long Stars influence the heart.
')lh Hour: The servants of the hind parts of the quadruped
Mcnthe influence the left arm.
1011, Hour: The quadruped Menthe has influence over the left
eye.
1111, Hour: The servants of Menthe influence the left arm.
I'MAHour:The foot of the Truie has influence over the left arm.
So the descendant of Rameses II took with him the findings
ofboth the astronomers and astrologers of his time, to guide him:
hourby hour. The Egyptiansbelieved in the mutual interdepend-
enceof all things in the universe and because of this they also
believedin the inter-relationship between what was going on in
the heavens and what was going on in the earth, going on in
nature as a whole, and in human bodies and in human affairs.
Thesepapyri may not look at first like our modern highly tech-
nicalizedhoroscopic wheels, but they do show that knowing the
Ascendant was the all-important thing then, even as it is now.
Thisisthe reason why in all my class work in Astrology, as far as
possible,before I train students to sit down with pencil and paper
andcalculate charts to split seconds, I try to make them work in
"mentalarithmetic" fashion, until in the subway or at any place
without pencil or paper, they can within a few degrees know
what Sign is ascending, for only by knowing this can the en-
vironment be known and the proper relationship of the parts
{planets)be understood, in a specificwhole. Working in this way
theydiscover quite early in their work that in all astrology it is
"relativity"that counts.
Thesepapyri of Rameses V were undoubtedly the current vade
mecumof astrologers in Egypt. I have every reason to believe,
46 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
in comparing them with Heb,ew astrology such as is found in
the early Christian centuries in the Sephir Yetzireh,8
that it was
this type of astrology that was not only common among the
Chaldcans, but which entered the oral _traditionof the Hebrews,
and this gives some support to the statement of the Sephir
Yetzirel, that the knowledge it contains was handed down by
Abraham who came from Ur of the Chaldccs.
Also,in the drawings and art work of Ancient Egypt we find
clues that their gods were astronomical myths and astrologically
assigned. From the book entitled The Sarcophagusof Seti, the
First, King of Egypt, 1317B.c.,'by Wallis Budge, I quote the fol-
lowing from page 21:
On the outer edge of the Sarcophagus is a mutilated line of inscrip-
tion, which contains a series of speeches by Mcstha, Hapi, Tuamutcf,
and Qcbhscnnuf, the Four Sons of Horus,-that is, the gods of the
cardinalpoints. • • • These deities took under their protection the in-
testines of the deceased, which were embalmed and placed in four
jars of a special shape to which the name "Canopic'' has been given.
Each jar was dedicated to a son of Horus, and was provided with a
cover, which was made in the shape of the deity to which it was dedi-
cated. The "Sons of Horus" were:
(1) Mcstha (human head). The cover of his jar was man-headed.
He was god of the South, and protected the stomach and large
intestine.
(2) Hapi (dog head). The cover of his jar was dog-headed. He was
god of the North and protected the small intestine.
(3) Tuamutef (jackal head). The cover of his jar was jackal~hcadcd.
He was god of the East, and protected the lungs and heart.
(4) Qcbhscnnuf (hawk head). The cover of his jar was hawk-headed.
He was godof the West and protected the liver and gall bladder.
Astrologers will have no difficultyin realizing that these four
"Sons of Horus" arc the four fixed Signs of the uxliac or their
rulers.
• See CJiapter
7.
• Publilhcd
bJ SirJohnSoane's
Museum,
London,1908.
EGYPTIAN ASTROLOGY
Mestha (human head) is Aquarius-South
Hapi (dog head) is Leo-North
Tuamutef (jackal head) is Taurus-East
Qcbhscnnuf (hawk head) is Scorpio-West
Thisshould be especially clear after considering Diagram 8.
47
DIAGRAM 8, left. The £our sons of Horus. The original Southern
positionof Aquarius is now South by East, due to precession.
DIAGRAM9, right. Diagram showing the positive and negative halves
ofthezodiac.
General readers should note here that in astrological charts, since
theastrologer faces South and not North in making maps, the
bt ison the left hand and not on the right hand. Now, allowing
forthe precession of the equinoxes,5
or the apparent backward
movementof the equinoxes in the Zodiac, we find that these four
signstoday are not Cardinal Signs. They were not really Cardi-
nalin Seti I's day, but they were still called Cardinal. By
CardinalSigns we mean those that are at the four points of the
compass.
In dealing with Greek astrology we shall mention these
fourSigns again, for to them belongs an amazing quantity of
--
1 Se~Appendix XII.
48 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
literature which is at least as early as Ezekiel, but whose basis
was known probably ages before even Seti I, that is, before the
£ourteenth century B.c.The matter is as old as the story of the
Garden of Eden with its four rivers. We find these four signs
also in Aztec and Mayan sculpture.
The religious processions of the Egyptians were not complete
without astrologers and the sacred astrological books. We have a
description of them in the writings of Clemens ..
Alexandrinus,
who flourished during the period from Emperor Severus to Cara-
calla, that is about 19_3--217 A.D. Of course Clemens may have been
describing a procession. he saw in his own day; nevertheless,
religious processions are usually matters wherein essential rites
originate far back in the ages.
Clemens studied mainly at the Christian School in Alexandria
where he became a Christian, but he seems to have been very
much interested in all that was best in other faiths. In his writings
he shows that he understood that some knowledge of astrology
was a very important element in understanding the Egyptian re-
ligion, for in describing the procession, he brings out the follow-
ing matters:
The Egyptians follow a peculiar philosophy of their own, which
may best be declared by setting down the order of their religious
processions.First, therefore, goes the Preccntor carrying two of Hermes'
books along with him; the one which contains the Hymns of the
Gods, the other Directions for the kingly office.After him /allows the
HOROSCOPUS, who is particularlyinstructed in Hermes, his As-
trological books, which are four. Then succeeds the Hierogrammatcus,
or sacred scribe, with feathers upon his head, and a book and rule in
his hands, to whom it bclongeth to be thoroughly acquainted with the
Hieroglyphics, as with Cosmography, Geography, the order of the
Sun, and Moon and five planets, the chorography of Egypt, description
of the Nile, etc.
Wc sec from all of this that with the Egyptians astrology and
religion went hand in hand, as did astrology with their other
.
sciences.
EGYPTIAN ASTROLOGY 49
On this matter of religious processions I should like to quote
alsofrom Doctor Anna Kingsford and Edward Maitland in their
Englishtranslation of The Virgin of the World of Hermes Mer-
C1111us
Trismegistus:
The Sacred Books of Hermes, says Mrs. Child in her admirable
Compendium (The Progress of Religious Ideas), containing the laws,
sciences,and theology of Egypt, were declared by the priests to have
beencomposed during the reign of the gods, preceding that of their
firstking, Menes. Allusions on monuments prove their great antiquity.
Thn-e were four of them, and the sub-divisions of the whole make
fony-two volumes. Their numbers correspond exactly to those of the
Vedas,which the Puranas say were carried into Egypt by the Yadavas
at the first emigration to that country from Hindustan. The subjects
treatedin them were likewise similar; but how far the Books of Hermes
werecopied from the Vedas remains doubtful. They were deposited
in the inmost holy recesses of the temples, and none but the higher
orderof priests were allowed to read them. They were carried rever-
entlyin all great religious processions. The chief priests carried ten
volumesrelating to the emanations of the gods, the formation of the
world,the divine annunciation of laws and rules for the priesthood.
The prophets carried four, treating of astronomy and astrology.
The leader of the sacred musicians carried two, containing hymns
to the gods, and maxims to guide the conduct of the king, which
thechanter was required to know by heart. Such were the reputed
antjquity and sanctity of these Egyptian hymns that Plato says they
were ascribed to Isis, and believed to be ten thousand years old.
Servitors of the temple carried ten volumes more, containing
formsof prayer and rules for offerings, festivals and processions.
The other volumes treated of philosophy and the sciences, includ-
ing anatomy and medicine.
The books were very famous, and later were much sought after
for alchemicalpurposes, especially for that of making gold. The
Roman Emperor Severus collected all writings on the Mysteries and
bwiedthem in the tomb of Alexander the Great; Diocletian destroyed
allthe books on Alchemy that he could find, lest Egypt should become
too rich to remain tributary to Rome. The once-renowned books of
Hermeshave been lost these fifteen hundred years.
50 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
The Fragments comprised in this reprint have been the subject of
much learned research. In the early centuries of Christianity Dr. Louis
Menard tdls us (in his Traduction Complete de Hermes Trismegis-
tus 1867), they enjoyed a high repute as of undoubted genuineness,
the Fathers invoking their testimony on behalf of the Christian mys-
teries, while Lactantius, the Christian Cicero, said of them, "Hermes,
I know not how, has discovered well nigh the whole truth." He
(Hermes) was regarded as an inspired revealer, and the writings
which bore his name passed for genuine monuments of that Egyptian
theology in which Moses had been instructed. And this opinion was
accepted by Marsilio Ficino, Patricius, and other learned men of
the Renaissance, who regarded them as the source of the Orphic
initiations and the philosophy of Pythagoras and Plato.
Doubts, however, arose. They were ascribed variously on the strength
of internal evidence to a Jew, a Christian, and a Gnostic. And the
conclusion come to by recent critics and accepted by Dr. Menard, is
that their place is among the latest productions of Greek philosophy,
but that amid the Alcxandrine ideas, on which they were based, there
arc some traces of the religious doctrine of Ancient Egypt It was, he
says, from the conjunction of the religious ideas of Egypt with the
philosophical doctrines of Greece, that the Egyptian philosophy sprang,
which has left no other memorial than the books of Hermes, in which
arc recognized, under an abstract form, the ideas and tendencies
which had before been presented under a mythological form.
Chapter 3
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE GREEKS
Every event in the heavens has its meaning as part of the
eternal scheme of divine forethought.
• D10001.us
W
HO CAN say when Homer was born? Authorities place
his birthday any time between 1184B.c.and 635 B.c.,
a divergence of five hundred years, but the consensus
ofopinion is towards the earlier date. What had he to do with
astrology?To my mind he is the planets' own dramatist. The
question
propounded is:
Greeksor Trojans, who will win the war?
or,What is the will of the gods concerning the great struggle
broughtabout by the love of Paris for Helen?
Homerhimself asks the question:
"Saythen what Gods the fatal strife provoked?" and answers:
"Joveand Latona's son."
Inother words it was Jupiter, and Apollo the Sun god.
On the side of the Trojans are Apollo, Venus and Mars.
On the side of the Greeks are Neptune, the Moon, Vulcan,
Pallas,
and last but not least, Saturn's son, Jupiter himself, the
godof judgment.
Mercury is never mentioned by Homer, but Iris, the rainbow
goddess,is the female counterpart of Mercury. She acts with
strictneutrality towards both belligerents, being Jupiter's own
messenger
to Greeks and Trojans alike.
Certainof these gods and goddesses are not assigned to the
horoscope
by modern astrologers, but Manilius, the ancient Ro-
man
astrologer, gives us clues to their zodiacal assignment, which
hesaysare taken from the old fables. He calls them, not rulers,
butGuardians of the signs. According to him:
51
52 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Neptune is the Guardian of Pisces.
Pallas (or Minerva) is the Guardian of Aries.
Vulcan is the Guardian of Libra.
You may say that the planet Neptune had not been discovered
in those days, nevertheless his influence was said, in the old fables,
to affect .Pisces, and everything that Homer has to say of him
is in perfect harmony with the "wily Neptune" of present-day
astrology. Pallas, bright as the dawn of a new day, sprang all
armed from the head of Jove, hence she represents the intuition,
foresight, wisdom and attack inherent in Aries,which brings
success in battle. Vulcan is the smith of the gods. His anvil has
taken the place of the Western altar of sacrifice of the Babylo-
.
n1ans.
Jupiter will finally give victory to the Greeks, but being at heart
a kindly god with considerable love for the Trojan cause, and
also a wise god who demands that justice shall be maintained
even among the quarrelling Greeks, he apparently turns renegade
at the beginning of the story, because he has been entreated
by Thetis to give Achilles time to regain his lawful slave
Briseis. Jupiter promises that until this time comes, Troy shall
not fall.
In the far off days when Homer sang his Iliad, his audience
believed that the world was animate and that the virtues and
vices of various gods entered the souls of all creatures and things.
That is why in all that Homer's Greeks and Trojans do, there is a
heavenly god or goddess watching and guiding. If Achilles should
start to draw his sword on Agamemnon at the council meeting,
then Pallas comes and pulls him by his golden hair, and as he
recognizes the wisdom that Pallas unites with her courage,-
and would have him display too,-he chokes down his anger a
little, sheathes his sword and merely taunts the mighty Agamem-
non with words. Always the heavenly instigation, or heavenly
influence of the planetary gods, is present. Every scene on earth
is a reflex, outcome, or willed event of some previous scene in the
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE GREEKS 53
heavens.
We modems say action is the result of psychological
reflexes,
but are we any nearer to the cause of action? And surely,
in our modern psychology, drama and poetry arc thrown out
ofdoors,and-for this reason epic poetry is apparently a thingof
thepast.
Plutarch, who lived in the first century A.D., tells us that Hcsiod,
theGreek poet who lived eight centuries be£
ore Christ, was an
expert astrologer, and Plutarch's testimony is not lightly to be
setaside, for he had studied under Amtnonius, the chief teacher
in the school originally founded by Aristarchus, one of the
astronomersof Greece.
The plays of Aeschylus (525-546B.c.)may be looked upon as
dramaticconsiderations as to whether man can escape his destiny
ornot. He docs not employ astrological terms, but makes use of .1
astrological philosophy. He comes to somewhat the same con-
clusion
that Dante arrived at in mediaeval times, that man has
to co-operate lovingly with the will of the Supreme God, rather
thantry to pit his will against what has been planned,-all of
whichmakes us realize that the ancients, as well as Dante, be-
lieved
that there was a plan,-a plan which even took account
ofthe details of the lives of human beings.
Sophocles (4g6-405B.c.) sounds much the same theme but he
ismore realistic and makes his heroes and heroines act more like
modern
people than did Aeschylus.
Euripides (48o-4o6B.c.)docs give us one astrological reference.
Hetellsus that Hippo, daughter of Chiron, predicted the future
fromthe rising of the stars.
Philostratus, who lived in the third centwy after Christ, tells
usthat astrology was known and practised in Greece as early
35 1184
B.C.
Pliny, who lived in the first century after Christ, tells us that
Anaximander, Anaxagoras, Hippocrates and Hipparchus were all
goodastrologers. Let us not place too much confidence in this
until
we turn to these men's works. We should remember too that
theseaports of Egypt were thrown open to the Greeks in 640B.c.,
54 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
and ~ith the opening of these ports the knowledge of Egypt
could come to Greece.
Thales (born 640 B.c.) is said to have introduced Egyptian
astronomy into Greece. He taught that the earth is a.._
sphere, as
did also most of the Greek scientists. Whether his sphere had
an axis I do not know, but I have read that it was Aristotle who
"threw out the axis," and that afterwards some astronomers
followed the teachings of Aristotle, and some kept the axis, and
this was so until the time of Augustus Caesar, for Manilius in
that period still wrote about an axis, but by the time of Claudius
Ptolemy, the Aristotelians had won, for Ptolemy has a spherical
earth without an axis. Thales also determined the ratio of the
Sun's diameter to its apparent orbit. But he could prophesy too.
Seneca tells us that Thales grew rich because he foresaw that
the olive crop would fail one year, but be good the following
year, so during the depression he bought up all the olive presses,
then waited a season until he, and he alone, had the olive presses
with which to make oil. Since scientists today cannot predict
olive crops two years ahead, I presume he did it astrologically.
Thales, so says Herodotus, prophesied the total eclipse of the
Sun of 6ogB.c.,and said it would herald the end of the war be-
tween the Medcs and Lydians. The eclipse occurred when the
battle between these two nations was at its height, and darkness
falling on both armies, the war ceased.
Anaximander (born 611 B.c.) was a disciple and friend of
Thales. He is credited with bringing to Greece spherical modds
of the earth, and sundials, together with various instruments for
making cdestial calculations. Is there any record of Anaximandcr
making prophecies? Yes, he foretold the earthquake which over-
threw Laccdaemon. Since scientists today cannot foretell earth-
quakes, I presume he did it astrologically.
. There is much doubt among scholars as to the time when
Cleostratus was born. He may have flourished any time between
648 B.c. (that is, before Thales was born) and 432 B.c. Censorius
says he was the real inventor of the eight-year cycle used before
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE GREEKS 55
theMctonic Cycleof nineteen years was found. He was a meteo-
rologicalastrologer. Pliny gives him credit for being the first who
divided
the zodiac into signs beginning with Aries. On the other
hand,various scholars say the zodiac was introduced into Greece
byOinopedes of Chios, a contemporary of Anaxagoras. Needless
to say,Cleostratus was much too late in time to be the first to
inventthe zodiacal signs, and Oinopedes was too late to be the
personwho introduced them. There is further disagreement on
thismatter from authorities who say that Manetho, an Egyp-
tianpriest who lived in the time of Ptolemy Lagos (,323-285
B.c.),
mustreceive credit for introducing the zodiac and astrology into
Grcccc.He wrote an astrological poem in six parts, entitled
Apotelesmatics,
in which he not only mentioned the zodiac, but
gaveastrological meanings to the signs and planets. Other au-
thoritiesplace the date of this poem in the first century before
Christ.With so many authorities disagreeing would it not be
· justas simple to say that the origin of astrology in Greece lies so
farbackthat it cannot be known? In any case, Manetho did not
invent astrology. Suidas refers to this poem. Manetho was the
firstEgyptian to write in the Greek language a real history of
Egyptin which he included a study of their religious and philo-
sophicaldoctrines. The book has been lost but Josephus quotes
fromit.
Apollonius of Myndos, who lived in the time of Alexander the
Great,was particularly skilful in reading horoscopes. He told
everyonethat he learned his art from the Chaldeans. Seneca
mentions this astrologer's work on comets, so that his astronomi-
calwork was evidently important too.
Plato (born 427 B.c.) mentions astrology in his Timteus.He
advised
all military men to study it because it would beinvaluable
tothem even for its accuracy in weather forecasting. Theophrastus,
whowas first attached to Plato and then to Aristotle, gOCseven
further.He advises men to study the wonderful art of astrology
becauseit not only reveals general events, but the specific details
ofparticular lives. This statement alone should tell us that the
56 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
predictions of the time were not confined to the weather. Eude- ,
mos of Rhodes, a disciple of Aristotle, wrote an astrological his-
tory which is recorded, but which is not now extant. If an
astrological history was written at that time, surely there must
have been a history to record.
Eudoxus was born about 336 B.c. He studied in Egypt and
wrote on Concentric Spheres. Apparently he knew astrology.
His findings were incorporated in the poems of Aratus (born
about 270 B.c.).Aratus wrote two poems, or rather one poem in
two parts, one called Phenomena, giving the constellations and
the fixed stars, the other entitled Prognostica.If this Prognostica
is largely weather prediction, may I point out that the same prin-
ciples are used in weather predicting as are used in genethliacal
astrology, as any modern astrological textbook on weather pre-
diction will show. Hipparchus (16o-125B.c.) is said to have
written a Commentary on this poem. Aratus lived most of his
life at the court of the King of Macedonia. The beginning of his
Phenomena contains a passage referred to by St. Paul, a fellow
countryman of Aratus, in his speech to the Athenians, Acts xvii:
23, where St. Paul declares that he had seen an altar dedicated
to THE UNKNOWN GOD.
In speaking of Aratus I cannot forbear mentioning some com-
ments made on his work by R. A. Proctor, who said that Grotius
erred in asserting that the phenomena of Aratus can be assigned
to no fixed epoch and to no fixed place. Proctor said that, with
the exception of a few which Aratus inserted from his own un-
skilled hand, all the phenomena could be found, when due cor-
rection was made for the effects of precession, to correspond
very satisfactorily with a latitude of between 38 degrees and 41
degrees north, about 4,000 years ago. In his book Eridanus,1
Robert Brown, F.S.A., refers to Proctor's investigation, and in
turn comments on the work of Aratus saying:
"And this circumstance affords the most positive proof, not
1
Eridt111111,
by R. Brown (Longmans, Green & Co., 1888).
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE GREEKS 57
mcrdy of the high antiquity of comparatively developed astro-
nomicalobservation, but also of the significant fact that the pres-
ent constcllational arrangement of the heavens is not Hellenicin
. . ,,
ong,n.
Inanother part of Eridanus,Brown goes on to say:
"A.ratusstates that Ara [the constellation] is to be seen above
the horizon for as many hours as Arcturus remains below the
horizon.This arrangement has not been fulfilled since some 3,6oo
yearsago, when the star Arcturus was 50 degrees from the North
Pole,
and the middle of Ara was 50 degrees from the South Pole.
H,asisprobable, the whole of Ara is meant [by Aratus] then the
epochmust be placed four centuries earlier than that."
In other words, observations had been going on since about
4000B.c. Since, as we saw previously, it was no new thing even
at thatearly date to connect the phenomena of the heavens with
theevents of mankind, then if the early Greeks knew nothing of
thisconnection, we are left wondering when the divorce took
place.Was it not more likely that the connection between the
twowas so fumly established in the minds of all astronomers,
that when Chaldean astronomy came to Greece, the astrological
conceptscame along too,-and astrology never ceased? Brown
goeson to state that since Proctor is sure that the latitude of
observationwas between 38 and 41 degrees north, we might go
on to infer that, since Cairo is only 30 degrees north, Eudoxus
didnot derit1ehis materialfrom Egypt, where he is said to have
studied.
Hippocrates, the physician, who lived 46o-357
s.c., made his
studentslearn astrology in order to know "Critical Days," from
whichwe must deduce that astrology was known and practised
inhistime, that is, in the fourth and fifth centuries be£ore Christ.
Thisphrase "Critical Days" crops up in nearly all the medical
textbooks
of succeeding centuries,-in all the Roman, Spanish,
Jewishand European textbooks on medicine. It crops up in
Galenand it crops up in Jerome Cardan. In fact the phrase was
still
in use in the seventeenth century.
58 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
There is no way a physician can find Critical Days in the sense
understood by Hippocratcs unless he can erect a chart of his
patient and a chart of the time when he is called to the case.
Hippocrates was so sure of his judgment concerning Critical
Days that he made the statement, "The man who docs not under-
stand astrology, is to be called fool rather than physician." We
ask if Hippocrates could predict? Yes, he foretold a great plague,
and he sent his medical students out to many cities to be ready to
combat it. And he and his students conquered the plague so
rapidly and saved so many lives that the state of Greece decreed
Hippocrates to be a god, and commanded that the sacrifices of
Hercules should be awarded to him.
Hippocrates was born on the Island of Cos, and at the Temple
of Aesculapius there, a medical school had been founded at a
very remote period. It was to this school already in eristence, and
famous, that Berosus, the Babylonian priest, thought it worth his
while to come and teach some of the astronomical-astrological
lore which he obtained from Bel's Temple. He did not even found
the school there. He flourished about 261-246
s.c., and is usually
credited with having invented (or having introduced) the semi-
circular sundial. Among the books he wrote was one on astrology
called ChaldaiJca.
Neither this nor anything else he wrote is
extant, but some of his material has been quoted by Josephus and
the early fathers of the Church. He made a great reputation
for himself and was considered to be a benefactor in bringing to
Greece the knowledge contained in the Illuminations of Bel. Pliny
mentions that the city of Athens showed him honor by making
a statue to him, and this statue had a golden tongue symbolizing
their respect for his skill in oratory. His successors at Cos, Anti-
pater and Achinapolus, taught medical astrology and they inves-
tigated Pre-natal Astrology, that is, the chart of conception rather
than the hirth<hart. That pre-natal astrology was ancient, we
know from the aphorism which is called the Trutine of Hermes,
ascribed to the mythical Hermes and inserted in Ptolemy's Cen-
tiloquy, in these words:
.ASTROLOGY AMONG THE GREEKS 59
Makethe sign occupied by the Moon at the time of birth the sign
ascending at the time of conception : and consider that in which she
maybeposited at the conception (or opposite one) as the sign ascend-
ing at binh.
In other words, there is a reciprocal connection between the
Ascendant and the Moon in prenatal and natal charts. The
matterhas been revived in the last century and much research
hasbeendone by Scpharial and E. H. Bailey. I am inclined to
thinkthat prenatal astrology was one phase of the subject that
wasbrought to Greece from Babylon.
Pherecydes of Syros, flourishing 540 B.c.,was the teacher of
Pythagoras.We are told that he learned all he knew from the
secretbooks of the Phoenicians, showing that the secret lore of
manynations was impinging on Greece long before Berosuscame
to Cos.Pherccydes too is said to have been well acquainted with
the K.abbalaof the Jews, which some people say is Babylonian
in origin. He maintained a philosophy which was based on
astrologicalconcepts, that there were four elements, earth, air,
fireand water, and that there were three principles working
throughout the universe:
ausruled the ether, and fire. (Jupiter).
Chthona ruled chaos, and earth. (Moon).
Cronusruled time. (Saturn).
Sothat as early as the sixth century before Christ there was
knowledge of what astrologers call the triplicities2
and the
quaternaries,or the threefold division of the 12 signs into four
elements, and the fourfold division of the 12 signs into three
quadruplicitiescontaining the cardinal, fixed and mutable signs.
Thefixed signs would be those of Cronus (Saturn), which planet
ruled
time. The cardinal signs would be those of Chthona, who
ruledchaos, for cardinal signs are the starters of all action; and
themutable signs would be under Zeus (Jupiter), who ruled
thought,which is astrologically mutable.
.__
2
ke Inuoduction.
tio ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
Very little is known concerning Pythagoras, born about 58oa.c.,
as his books are not extant, but Lobeck in his book Aglaphaom
shows how Pythagoreanism became more and more connected
with astrological ideas. One might say that practically all the later
Pythagoreans were astrologers, just as one might say the same
of the Stoics. And many Pythagoreans and many Stoics knew
that· the earth had an axis and that the earth revolved around
its axis. We shall consider this when we come to the Roman,
Manilius.
The second century before Christ was the period when the
Roman Empire began to hold sway over Greece. From 194-1£>8
B.c.the Romans were pursuing their conquests, and in 146a.c. the
capture and destruction of Corinth marked the complete con•
quest. From this time on, Greek astrology influenced Roman
methods of prediction.
Among the Stoic philosophers was Antipater, who flourished
about 144 B.c. He was the disciple and friend of Diogenes. He
wrote two books on Divination proving that divination was pos-
sible since the Deity himself had foreknowledge and in his
benevolence would wish men to be able to meet the future with
knowledge rather than with ignorance. Antipater collected all
the stories he could concerning the prophecies made by Socrates.
Cicero refers to him in his De Di11inatione,
and gives Antipatcr
credit for very remarkable acuteness. Plutarch also mentions
Antipatcr as ranking with Zeno, Cleanthcs, and Chrysippus
among the great Stoic philosophers.
Going back to the poem of Aratus, Geminus of Rhodes, about
77 B.c., appears to have delved into this, and wrote an Intro-
duction to it. Proclus speaks of Geminus, saying that he divided
the mathematical sciences into two parts. The first half hdd
arithmetic and geometry. The second half held astronomy, as-
trology, mechanics, optics, geodesy. Apparently Proclus' Book
of the Sphere is an abridgment of that of Geminus. Geminus is
credited with having disproved that the rising and the setting
of the stars had anything to do with the weather. What he really
ASTROLOGY AMONG THE GREEKS 61
said was that an astronomer is not necessarily at fault if his
weatherpredictions do not come true, as they represent average
statesof weather founded on past experience, but he says if an
astronomermakes a mistake in setting the time for an eclipse or
for the rising of a star, then he is really to blame. He remarks
thata star is a sign of certain weather and not its <!ausc,just as
abeacon is a signal of war and not its cause. People think, he
says,that Sirius produces the heat of the dog days, whereas
Siriusmerely marks the season when the Sun's heat is greatest.
Manyastrologers have used the same arguments concerning
gcncthliacal astrology, for whereas some say that the planets
influence
us, others use the phrase "As above, so below" to mean
thatthe positions of the planets at the time of birth merely indi-
catethe play of various forces which are at work at that moment,
sothat the child born then is a part of the cosmic forces of the
momentrather than a result of them.
BeforeI close this chapter I should like to point out that Sir
GeorgeCornewall Lewis in his Astronomy of the Ancients,3
actually
puts the blame of systematizing astrology on the Greeks.
Inthishe is diametrically opposed to modern writers who are
tryingto prove that the Greeks did not know any Judicial As-
trology, but merely predicted weather. It is just another case
wheredoctors disagree. Lewis insists that only persons of more
than
average intelligence could have invented astrology because
itisso highly technical. I should infer from this that he was not
accusing
the lesser lights among the Greeks of being respon-
sible
for genethliacal astrology, but rather the great Greeks. Let
us
read what Lewis said:
Astrology,
as practised in the first centuries of the Roman Empire,
was
an intricate and abstruse art. Its professors were known as Mathe-
maticii.
It involves more reasoning, and demanded more constructive
ingenuity
than the modern pseudo-sciencesof Phrenology and Homoe-
opathy.
Even for his own objects of superstitious imposture, a Chaldean
--
1Gco.C. Lewis, Astronomy o/ the Ancients (London, 1862).
62 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
or an Egyptian, would have been unable, without the assistance of a
higher intelligence, to produce so refined an instrument as gencthliacal
astrology. It required the gifts of the Greeks to give it the precision
and finish, and false lustre~of a scientific method, which it obtained
at their hands. . . . At a later time the Arabians received it from the
Greeks, but simply handed it down to posterity, without either expo~
ing the fraud, or adding to its ingenuity.
I note that Lewis wrote in 1862, when scientists considered
homoeopathy to be a pseudo-science,sopossibly there is still hope
that the same label may be taken off astrology. I think the belittle-
ment of the Chaldeans and Egyptians to be undeserved in the
light of modern research on these two nations. Lewis lived in
that Victorian school when no nation but the Greeks was sup-
posed to have had any intelligence whatsoever, so when in spite
of his unmitigated hatred of astrology, he has to compliment
the Greeks on "refining" the terrible pseudo-science of astrology,
I presumehe did not do it without proofs.
Chapter 4
THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS
The names of the gods are not titles of deceiving demons.
but the designations of divine virtues.
Pico DELLA MlllANDOLA
A
BOOK on the History of Astrology would be incomplete if we
omitted reference to one of the most fundamental of Greek
questions:-What is the original substance out of which
theworldhas been made?
The early philosophers of Greece, who in my opinion were also
astrologers,strove mightily to find the basic clement out of which
theearth was made. Was it Earth, Air, Fire or Water? It is an
eternalargument which goes on even today,..for astrologers still
usethesefour elements in the process of delineation, though they
knowthat none of these are actually elements.
Homer stated that Water or the Ocean was the original element
out of which all life came,-and many modern scientists have
muchin common with his theory. The same idea was apparently
indigenouswith the Egyptians, Babylonians, Assyrians, etc., for
thesignCapricorn is represented by these nations as a goat with a
fishtail. Now Capricorn .is the builder, hence the symbol of the
~oat-fishexpresses the tho~ght that the evolution of all forms
proceedsoriginally from that which is contained in the ocean of
waters.
Homer was, of course, a poet, and though poetssay things well
inadvance of their times, they are rarely believed until some per-
soncalled a scientist comes along and says the same thing in
different
language, and tries to prove the theory. In ancient Greece
people apparently accepted Homer's statement as good poetry
untilThales, sometimes called the Father of Greek Science and
Philosophy,declared with all kinds of proofs that Water was
63
64 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
the original element, and that like Water, "All things Flow."
He said that Water had within itself the indwelling power of the
gods, and because this was so, Water could produce the universe
and all that was in it and upon it. Thales was quite a metaphy-
sician in his way. He said that "Out of nothing, nothing comes,"
hence he inferred that the original waters of the world contained
not only the gods but all things on the earth too. He was careful
to say that the material water you drank or washed yourself in
did not actually do the creating, but the "soul of Water," being
godlike, did create. Thales believed in the doctrine of an indwell-
ing soul or god in nature. This was denied in many succeeding
philosophies, but developed in others. In modern days we call
this theory of God in Nature, Pantheism. The great poet to ex-
pound this philosophy was Shelley. Note his lines on the dead
Keats:
He is a portion of the loveliness
Which once he made more lovely • • •
Thales had a disciple named Anaximander, who only half be-
lieved what his teacher told him. On reflection, he felt that some-
how or other Air also was necessary to the makeup of the world,
so he introduced a scientific and philosophical theory of a First
Cause which was composed of both Water and Air. In his teach-
ing he appears to think this Water-Air is one and not two ele-
ments, for he calls it the "Indeterminate First Principle" of the
universe. Thales had read Homer and he had used Homer's ideas,
but Anaximander had read Hesiod, and was inclined to absorb
Hesiod's ideas, for Hesiod had thought that the world was origi-
nally all Chaos (not Water) and Chaos was not full of the gods,
so Anaximander said this Water-Air First Principle was not spirit-
ual and it was not intelligent. Somehow heat and cold affected it,
and so consequently heat and cold must have been the things
which originally set the universe in order. However, Anaximan-
der's First Principle was a "something." It contained everything
in the universe.
THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS
Anaxiroandcr had a disciple named Anaximenes who was just
as materialistic as his master. He also only half believed his
teacher,but instead of adding an element, he cut off the Water,
andsaid that Air, and Air alone, was the original First Cause.
Airwasthe single indivisible element. The Earth itself was merely
compressedAir, and the souls of people were merely compressed
Air.Unlike Anaximander, however, he said that it was not heat
andit was not cold that did the compressing, but it was Motion.
Wemight compare his theory of Motion with the theory of
HenriBergson,who stated that "Life is Effort."
As years went on, all these theories of Thales, Anaximander
andAnaximenes were thrown into the discard. Heraclitus and
Empcdoclcscame along and said that neither Water nor Air could
beconsidered the original First Cause, for the simple reason that
Firewas the original element and First Cause. Without doubt
both
Heraclitus and Empedocles had read Hesiod, and they knew
thatHesiod thought the world was originally Chaos, but they
reada little deeper into the meaning of the term "Chaos" than did
Aoaximan.der,for they found that it was little Eros who worked
on Chaosand changed Chaos into an orderly world. For real
scientists
to come out openly and say "Love did it" would look
foolish,
so since Love can be symbolically represented (and still is,
in astrology) by the element Fire, both Hcraclitus and Em-
pcd~cs said that Fire was the First Principle and Fire had created
everything. They followed Thales in saying that "Everything
ftows,"
but they said it flows from Fire to Fire, and continually
improvesas it flows. They would have been in almost total agree-
mentwith Emile Coue in his statement, "Every day in every way
Iamgetting better and better."
Now, as far as can be gathered from history, no great philos-
opher-scientistof old ever said that the world was made of Earth.
(Apossibleexception is Xenophanes, who included Earth with
Water.)That would have been too obvious, but a little before the
time
of the Fire philosopher-scientists, Pythagoras taught that the
worldwasn't made of any known element, for the First Cause
66 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
was in Number. Evidently there were terrific battles in every
Greek city in those days over the First Cause. Pythagoras and his
followers laughed at the idea of anything physical being a First
Cause. The First Cause, they said, must be in the Idcational
World. The idea of Number is the original clement, and God is
the original unity or Number One. Pythagoras did not explain
how Number materialized, and how it got out of the Idcational
World into the material world. He was too abstruse for a scientific
world which had not as yet discovered electrons. This was prob-
ably the reason why he had to be succeeded by the Fire philos-
ophers.
However, Pythagoras evidently set the stage for other meta-
physical concepts of later scientists. Anaxagoras came to the fore
saying all over again, "Out of nothing, nothing comes," hence
matter must have existed from all eternity. He said that, at first,
matter was all disarranged and in a state of Chaos, but that "Nous,"
or Mind, or Intelligence came and arranged it in orderly fashion.
Note here that the Nous, or Mind, did not of itselfdo the creating;
it merely arranged and set things
in order. Even in human beings,
said Anaxagoras, if put in control, it can arrange lives more sen-
sibly. It can keep the senses in control and it can help men live
more useful lives. We might compare this teaching with that of
Schopcnhauer, who believed that Will and Idea are the main
essencesof life. Later developments can be found in the teachings
of Mary Baker Eddy and of present-day New Thought.
Next we come to Leucippus and Democritus, who believed
that the First Cause was Necessity. They looked on the world as
a machine, but neither Leucippus nor Democritus discovered how
Necessity set the machine to work I However, Leucippus at least
was sure there was no original design or pattern in the making
of the world. It happened the way it did through Chance and
Necessity. Both scientists talked of Chance, but they defined
Chance as (in our opinion) not Chance at all, but something that
went its own way because there was Necessity governing it. These
two scientists were apparently the forerunners of modern agnos-
THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS
ticism
and determinism. Aristotle was one of the foremost antag-
onists
of these two men, especiallyof Democritus. Aristotle fol-
lowedthe Babylonians and Egyptians in their astrological con-
ceptoffour elements,Fire, Earth, Air and Water.
Beforewe proceed any further with this War of the Elements
let me state that the astrologer divides the twelve signs of the
zodiacinto four groups of three signs each, as follows:
Firesigns: Aries, Leo, Sagittarius. These indicate Spirit or life, the
urge of life, driving power,.zeal and enthusiasm.
&rth signs: Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn. These indicate body, material,
practicality or doing.
Air signs: Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. These indicate mind, thought
and awareness of things.
W111er
signs: Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces. These indicate soul qualities,
emotion and feeling.
Sinceastrologywas originally a religioussubject,we realize that
thefour demcnts were consideredas the four manifcsted qualities
ofGodin man: Spirit, Soul, Mind and Body.
Now the twelvesignsof the zodiac arc alsodivided by astrology
intothree groups of four signs,as follows:
Czrdinalsigns: Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn: Signs that act, or
whose essential quality is action and doing.
Fixedsigns: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius: Signs whose essential
quality is that of the will.
Mtltlzblesigns: Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces: Signs of thought,
adaptability, and the ability to mix with others, wisdom.
I might mention that, since astrologywas originally a religious
subject,these three groups can be referred to as the three expres-
sionsof the divine nature: will, wisdom and activity.
Havingtaught Astrologyfor over twenty years I can safelysay
thatno subject in the world arousesthe interest of the student as
quickly,first in itself,and then in all the allied matters concerning
68 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
free will, fate, the First Cause, etc. Discussions are frequent, such
as those among the Greeks, as to which was the First Element
The argument usually centers on Fire versus Air. As a rule I let
students battle the matter out until they discover that whether
they realized it before or not, they have some basic convictions.
Then I tell them it is part of one of the oldest wars in the world.
I can follow this up by reading to them parts of the Sephir Yet-
zireh, which gives in detail the assignments of the elements, or I
can quote them some of the statements that have been made by
thinkers in past ages, from Ezekiel to Plato and Aristotle and
down to modern times. (I might refer the reader back to the
section on Egypt where the four sons of Horus are mentioned.)
In the first chapter of Ezekiel we have his vision of God,with a
whirlwind, a cloud, a fire infolding itself, and a brightness.•..
"And out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living
creatures. And this was their appearance: They four had the like-
ness of a man . . . they four had the face of a man, and the face
of a lion, and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they
four also had the face of an eagle."
Here we have the four fixed signs in symbol:
Likeness of a man ...... the sign Aquarius, the waterman.
Likeness of a lion....... the sign Leo, the lion.
Likeness of an ox ........ the sign Taurus, the bull.
Likeness of an eagle..... the sign Scorpio, scorpion (sometimes por•
trayed alternatdy as an eagle).
Later, when we come to the early Christian period we find in
Church decoration and in religious manuscripts that the four
gospellers have the symbols of the four fixed signs of the zodiac,
e.g.:
Matthew has the emblem of angel, or man-faced being ...... Aquarius
Mark has the symbol of the lion........................... Leo
Luke has the emblem of the ox ............................ Taurus
John has the emblem of the eagle.......................... Scorpio
THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS 6g
I might alsomention Philo, who flourished about 20 B.c. He is
said to have been an Alexandrine Jew, who went to Rome
withvarious other Jews in 39-40 A.D. in order to have a statute
revokedwhich required that divine honors be paid to the statue
ofthe Emperor. Philo believed that the world was fashioned of
fourprimal elements: earth, air, fire and water, but that since the
Spiritof God· was the fashioner of all things, the Spirit of God
hadacted upon theseelements in order to form the world. He was
asincere student of Plato, and fallowed both Plato and Aristotle
in believingthat "the souls of men are equal in number to the
stars."
Isaachen Solomon Israeli, sometimes called Isaac Judaeus, the
learned
teacher of astrology and medicine in Kairwan University
inthelater seventh century A.D., spoke of the four fixed signs, say-
ingthat "Nothing precedes the four elements but the omnipotence
ofGod." He maintained that the four elements were generated
in the motion of the sphere. Possibly by this he meant in the
PrimumMobile, which was the evidence of God's activity in the
world.He said too that souls originate from the Prime lntdli-
gcncc,and are part of it.
Moses
Maimonides, born 1135A.D., also busied himself with dis-
cussionon the interpretation of the four elements, and so did most
ofthe thinkers of his period and of later periods.
Although Jacob Boehme isconsidered to be "obscure" the mate-
rialin his Signature of All Things becomes much clearer when
studiedin the light of astrological thought. He tells us there are
saidto be four elements in the world, but he is convinced that
actuallythis is not so, for there is but one original element, and
thisoneseparatesout into four properties:
(1) The property of Fire.
(2) The property of Earth.
(3) The property of Air.
(4) The property of Water.
Boehmeuses the phraseology of the alchemists of his day. He
'JO ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
calls the original clement Sul-Phur, that is, the Fire of God, ~
differentiated from the Fire of the Sun of this material world~
Sul-Phur is the original Light and the original Liberty. It is Spirit
unmanif est, but preparing to manifest.
Sul-Phur manifests first in four properties and then in seven.
The first four are the properties of the Sun, Saturn, Mars and
Venus. The four work together after manifestation and they work
simultaneously. They are inseparable in this manifested world of
ours, yet in studying them we have to take them in sequence. Note
that these four planets are the rulers of the four fixed signs:
The Sun ruling Leo gives life.
Saturn ruling Aquarius gives the original pattern-making quali-
ties, innate in all substances and in all living creatures. In this
planet is a will to subsist as is; for example, Boehme states that the
will to be a cat and continue as a cat manifests in the cat species.
Mars ruling Scorpio gives the desire and the will to manifest
at all.
Venus ruling Taurus gives the blood and the material of both
soul and body (the former in very rarefied form), but Venus docs
not give life.
From Jacob Boehme we might go on to Spinoza, who says there
is one original substance which is independent of all others, and
which determines itself and its expression. This one substance is
God. The world is merely appearances or forms of God.Godis
the First Cause, and God is the universe too. Will and liberty
belong to God and not to man.
In my classes, when arguments concerning free will versus
destiny come up, I always tell my students that, whatever they
think of the matter, they will go through life more easily and
make better people if they act in all matters as though they do
have some free will, for many times in the past when human rea-
son has apparently been able to "prove" that a thing was thus
and so, it has later been found that the "proofs" were immature:
for example, iron was once supposed to be an unsuitable material
with which to build ships because it sinks in water, but later, by
THE WAR OF THE ELEMENTS 71
applying the ancient Principle of Archimedes, we now have iron
ships. Also I refer them to Emerson's Essay on Fate, wherein
Emerson says if you fear you may drown-learn to swim. I
find that my really sincere students use their astrology as a
means of analyzing all aspects, good or bad, in order that they
may understand how to act for the best under a specific array of
forces, and not in any fatalistic way. Far from being fatalistic,
astrology shows the factors at work and how best to cope with
them. Every day is not sunshine, but just as we have learned how
to offset this by means of artificial light, so, mentally speaking, we
can use the qualities, denoted by specific planets in the zodiac as
cheerfulones, to offsetthe gloom of the mind.
Chapter 5
THE SCHOOL OF ALEXANDRIA
Zodiacal arrangement of the stars has been held by the Babylon--
ians, Persians, Egyptians and Hebrews to be nearly coeval
with the origin of man himself . ••• Most of the modern writers
upon astronomy, as Montucle, Cassini, Bailly, Laplace and
Smythe, give their support to the abOtle conclusion.
Catalogueof the Zodiacs,1320B. C.-1900 A. D.
A. B. GRIMALDI, Caius College, Cambridge.
I
N EVERY AGE there is always one group of men who are inter--
csted in the advancement of learning and its consolidation in
academies, museums and libraries. They collect and gather
until the world looks on the effect with admiration.
Then a war lord is born and everything is dispersed or burned.
The City of Alexandria was founded by Alexander the Great,
who as a student of Aristotle, was interested in learning, though
hardly a great student himself. His father Philip of Macedon
had conquered Greece, 338 B.c.,but Alexander set out to con-
quer Persia, the Near East and even India. In order to break the
sea power of the Persians he conquered Egypt and Libya, and at
Alexandria he built a new city. For this he needed inhabitants. He
could hardly spare enough Greeks, so he allowed Jews from Pales-
tine to settle, and also various other groups of people. To this new
city many scholars from all parts gradually came, to see if they
might have some opportunity of pursuing their studies away from
war zones, and as they commingled with one another their own
scientific and philosophical views were broadened.
After Alexander's death the King of Egypt, Ptolemy Soter,
sometimes called Ptolemy I (323 B.c.-285B.c.),was so impressed
with the large number of scholars and the desire that these had
to know more, that he thought an opportune moment had cometo
p.
THE SCHOOL OF ALEXANDRIA. 73
founda Museum,which today we would call university rather
thanmuseum. The word museum means a place for the muses,
and the Muses were nine in number, presiding over the known
arts and sciences of the period: Clio over history, Euterpc over
lyricpoetry, Thalia over comedy, Melpomene over tragedy, Terp-
sichoreover choral dance and song, Erato over love songs, Poly-
hymnia over sublime hymns, Calliope over epic poetry and
Uraniaover astronomy and astrology. In this grouping we note
onlyone division that could be called scientific,-the one devoted
to Urania. The School of Alexandria produced the most famous
ofall devotees of Urania,-Claudius Ptolemy. But Ptolemy and
hiswork did not grow up overnight. It was nearly four hundred
years
after the founding of the school before the time was ripe for
Ptolcmyto write-perhaps we might say to collect-all the work
thathad been done by the scientific men before him. .Ptolemy
Soterunconsciously determined the early spirit of the Alexandrine
School
when he looked for a good mathematician and astronomer
andfound Euclid, whom he appointed to the chair of Geometry.
ThereEuclid settled and worked his students so hard that evi-
dentlythey complained to Ptolemy, who finally asked him if
geometrycould not be made easier to study, whereat came the
famous reply, "There is no royal road to learning." The best
accountof Euclid's life was written by Proclus, a later teacher of
Alexandria.
Proclus tells us the source of some of Euclid's prob-
lCIDS,
alsowhichones he invented and which ones he did not. That
Euclidwas interested in astronomy we must realize when we
knowthat he too, like Aratus, wrote a book called The Phenom-
tna. Whether he was interested in much besides weather pre-
dictions
we do not know but these were based on interpretations
ofsignsand positions of planets, particularly in the fourth House
andon the Ascendant, thus necessitating the understanding of
horoscopes.
It may have been through the scientists of the School
ofAlexandriathat the first systematized methods of progressing
horoscopesby Primary directions came into general use, for cer-
tainlyPtolcmy, astrologer and geometer of the second century,
74 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY A.ND INFLUENCE
did not invent them. He states that the Mid-heaven is progressed
by Right Ascension and the Ascendant by Oblique Ascension.
Ptolemy gives much credit to Hipparchus for various observations1
and work. One of Euclid's most famous pupils was Archimedes,
who discovered what we now call the Law of Archimedes, show•
ing that physics also was studied in this School.
With eight muses, however, devoted to more literary studies,
we may assume that these eight studies must have been well
conducted if the odd muse Urania did so well. One matter which
is quite important was that much of the knowledge obtained
in various subjects was put into verse, and as verse stays longer
in the memory than prose, many a student went to other cities
and, without books, was able to repeat all the knowledge that he
had absorbed. The Museum became an inspiration to the Near
East and to Europe. The second Ptolemy, surnamed Philadd-
phus (309 B.c.-247
B.c.)believed in his father's work and encour-
aged it. He felt that both the scientific and philosophical studies
would be furthered if only he could obtain all Aristotle's works,
so a search was made for these, and by purchase and by gift they
were obtained and put in the Library. Because of this fact, and
because various other works of famous Greeks were placed among
the textbooks for study in the Museum, the Greeks began to look
upon Alexandria, rather than Athens, as their center of learning.
The third Ptolemy surnamed Euergetes (247 B.c.-222B.c.) also
encouraged the search for all books of value. The works of
Aristotle in particular seemed to fit in with what was taught in
the astronomical-astrological classes.
If one wonders why people in the early days studied both Aris-
totle and astrology, it was because Aristotle so definitely insisted
that his students and readers find out the purpose or idea in all
the separate parts of nature, and this is exactly what an astrologer
has to do. For example, the astrologer says that Aquarius rules
international movements, also any profession where distribution
on a wide scale is the major object. All this is deduced from the
fact that Aquarius rules the circulation of the blood (yet thiswas
THE SCHOOL OF ~XANDRIA 75
not supposed to have been known until Harvey demonstrated it).
Yet Aquarius was always symbolized as a "stream," either of
water, air, or fire. The keynote then, the purpose, or idea un-
derlying Aquarius, is circulation or movement, and as these are
involved in distribution or in international movements, the se-
quence of thought is evident. We astrologers also say that Sagit-
tariusis the sign of foreign affairs. This is so, but not in the sense
of mixing, conferring and reciprocity. Sagittarius, since it rules.
the thighs and upper legs, is connected with the idea of long-
distance travel, yet unlike Aquarius, it could be used of travds
where there is absolutely no conference, or discussion of ideas, or
interchange of goods, or speech. Now, as to the fact that the
circulation of the blood was not discovered until the time of
Harvey,this may be so, yet the more one studies astrology, the
more one realizes that the ancient astrologers may have known
many scientific facts that had been lost for vast periods of years
but arc now rediscovered. Occult tradition and rdigious tradition
verifythis. St. Paul said, "For the blood is the life," and he also
tellsus that the blood in different beings has different qualities,
whichscience in recent years has conceded. "The life in the blood"
wasa fundamental concept of all early peoples. H they did not
actually know that the blood moved, they believed that vital
sparksmoved in the blood of living persons, for life was motion.
Aquarius.
is assigned in the zodiac to the side of the horoscope
opposite to Leo, which rules the heart, and in the horoscope any
polaritynecessitates action and interaction, hence the "stream" of
Aquariuswas in some way related to the action of the heart. I have
given one single instance here, but all astrology isbuilt up in some
such simple way from the study of the function of various parts
of the body. It was because of this relationship that Hippocratcs
andGalen and all the ancient physicians studied astrology. It was
all part of the great doctrine of "As above, so below" and also
.
we t1ersa.
Then again we might note that at Alexandria very great hos-
pitalitywas extended to the Jews; Jewish philosophical and scicn-
-J6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
tific studies commingled with Grecian and also with Egyptian i
thought. It tended towards heretical doctrines which were notj
pleasing to the orthodox of any nation. Alexandria in the carly
centuries became the home of gnostics and Neo--Platonists.Astrol-
1
ogy and kabbalism worked hand in hand. There was anothd' ·
factor that led to the disintegration of the School. The Jews
always maintained their interest in Palestine, and after the sack
of Jerusalem they helped foment rebellions against the Caesars,;
and persecution against them set in. Learning began to become:
less important than propaganda. Part of the Library was bwnt
when Julius Caesar attacked Egypt, but Cleopatra helped to,
rebuild it by sending volumes from her own library and by grants
to purchase new books. So it continued until 390A.D. when The-.
ophilus, Patriarch of Alexandria, was horrified at what he termed !
the heretical trend of the various studies.The school was dispersed,
by order of the Emperor Theodosius, but later it grew up again..
Then in the fifth century the Jews in Egypt were overwhelmed 1
by the persecution and massacres organized by Bishop Cyril. For I
this reason they began to help the Fatimide dynasties to come to I
power. The final blow came in 640A.D. when the terrible Caliph :
Omar came and burnt the great Library to the ground. Vcry few :
books escaped at all. If it had rested with Europe to preserve the i
works of Euclid and Ptolemy, they might both have perished, but 1
fortunately there were some Arabs who valued their work and 1
made translations. Boethius fortunately had translated the first:
four books of Euclid, and these four were all Europe knew until i
Adelard of Bath discovered an Arabic copy of the other books,
which he translated. I have a feeling that if Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos
had not survived there would be many more people than there
are today, saying that astrology was not taught in the Alexandrinei
School. After the sack of Alexandria by Omar, until persecution:
ceased, the men of learning went to Cairo. '
Chapter 6
PTOLEMY AND HIS TETRABIBLOS
\ The mingled influences of the stars can he understood-by no
,
one who has not previously acquired knowledge of the comh,'-
nations and varieties in nature.
PTOLEMY, Centiloquy.
I
T IS rather a curious fact that though Claudius Ptolemy's books
and their translations 1
at various periods, provide the domi-
nant note of the astrological and astronomical history of the
succeedingcenturies, no one has preserved any account of Ptolemy
that is considered reliable. We do not even know when he was
born or where. All we know isthat he was alive and in Alexandria
between 139 and 161 A.D. Evidently he was a somewhat unob-
trusive personality who spent his time collecting, preserving and
editing all that he thought was valuable, in both astronomy and
astrology. He made some calculations himself but at times fol-
lowed the calculations of Hipparchus (192-120 B.c.) who was
the first Greek who dared to number the stars. Numbering the
stars, like David numbering his people, was supposed to be
irreligious. Besides Hipparchus, Aristotle and Poseiclonius all
were made use of by P~olemy. Ptolemy's book The· Great Con-
str#Ction,commonly called the Almagest after the Arabs had
·translated it, was divided into thirteen parts. It rests on the theory
that the earth_is an immovable sphere around which die
S~ an<!_MQQ.o
and planets revolve, under the eternal guiding
m<>llori
of the Primum Mobile, the Original Motion or the First
Cause. ·
Ptolcmy also wrote a treatise on astrology entitled the Tetra-
biblos,
that is, a book in four parts. Throughout this book Ptolemy
-l Se~AppendixIV.
77
78 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
repeatedly refers to concepts which he states had been given out
by both Egyptian and Chaldean astrologers, hence the Tetrabiblos
is most probably a compilation under a good editor, of most of :
the ancient knowledge of astrology. In no place does he claim :
to say anything original. He treats of the Sun affecting the
seasons and the embryos of animals, and of the Moon affecting
rivers and tides, and influencing the growth of animals and of
plants. He goes on to state what he considers to be the value of .
prescience to mankind, after which he deals with the zodiacal
signs, house divisions of the horoscope, rulers of signs, cxalta- ·
tions, terms, faces and chariots,-the last three of which are ,
rarely used in modern astrology. He gives clues to Mundane :
Astrology, and tells us what signs he thinks govern the nations i
of the world. He gives us the effects of planets which arc in some :
position of power in a horoscope. He then proceeds to explain :
how to read the houses and how to progress the wheel by means ·
of what we now call Primary Directions, but which he calls ;
Prorogations. !
Usually printed with his Tetrabiblos is his Centiloquy or One !
Hundred Aphorisms, but whether these latter are his or not has ·
been questioned. The main argument against their being his, is
that some aphorisms refer to .hor_c!~Y
astrology and some to ~lee:_
!
tivc astrology, which the Tetrabiblos does not do. However, prac-
tically all astrologers who are interested in~dicial astro}Qgy_havc
,
some knowledge of horary astrology and ofefective astrology.
It depends on whether-.they can read these charts after they ·have
set them up, as to whether they are willing to call them reliable
figures for judgment. My own studies in horary astrology have
proved to me that if the question is clear cut and vital,-a matter
which is often neglccted,-and conforms with the rules for ask~:
ing questions,-a matter which is often omitted,-it is very rarely i
indeed that a correct answer cannot be rendered. But on the other '
hand, if a client asks questions just for the sake of asking ques-
tions, no reliable judgment can be given, for the heavens ~that I
moment are not in tune with the matter asked about, but reflect I
PTOLEMY AND HIS TETRABIBLOS 79
onlythe idle curiosity that prompts the client to tease the astrol-
oger.
It is also stated as an argument against Ptolemy having written
the Centiloq,ry, that it was called The Fruits of his Book, and
thatit is not "the fruits," but an independent book.To my mind
thisis no argument at all. Speaking as a teacher, I should say
that the
book was intended to be one hundred answers to the
major one hundred questions that students keep asking about
technique, etc., after they have started to study astrology, and that
theseaphorisms were compiled by Ptolemy so that he would not
haveto make repeated answers to the same questions, but could
say,"Seemy Aphorism Number . . ." The Tetrabiblos is the text-
book,but questions on the Aphorisms would make a good test of
what students could do by themselves after they had tried to put
thetextbookinto practice. In this Centiloquy Ptolemy gives clues
towhat astrology can do and what it cannot do, how to elect days
successfully
for various projects, how judgmcnt may be warped
bythe astrologer himself, how to progress the Midheaven and
Ascendant,how to time events, and what to note in the progress
ofsickness.
It isquite possible that Ptolemy and Galen the great physician
mayhave conferred and read together. In Book 1, Chapter 3 of the
Tetrabiblos,Ptolemy speaks of the Egyptians as having combined
themedical art with astrology.2
He says:
And had they [the Egyptians] been of opinion that all expected
eventsarc unalterable and not to be averted, they would never have
instituted any propitiations, remedies, and preservative measures
·againstthe influence of the Ambient, whether present, or approaching,
generalor particular. But by means of the science, termed by them
MedicalMathematics, they combined with the power of prognosti-
cationthe concurrent secondary influence arising out of the institutions
andcourse of nature, as wdl as the contrary influence which might be
procuredout of nature's variety; and by means of these they rendered
__
..
aTnrobihlos, translated by J. M. Ashmand (Foulsham Co.)
8o ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
the indicated agency useful and advantageous: since their astronomy
pointed out to them the kind of temperament liable to be acted upon,
as well as the events about to proceed from the Ambient, and the
peculiar iµfluence of those events, while their medical skill made them
acquainted with everything suitable or unsuitable to each of the effects
to be procured. And it is by this process that remedies for present, and
preservatives against future disorders are to be acquired; for without
astronomical knowledge, medical art would be most frequently unavail-
ing; since the same identical remedies are not better calculated for all
persons whatsoever, than they are for all diseaseswhatsoever.
Since Ptolemy makes various replies to objections which were
even then made by astronomers against astrology, I should like
to give his reply to the question which keeps on cropping up as
to why, since the signs of the zodiac do not any longer coincide
with the constellations, astrologers always (in the western world)
,use the signs and not the constellations. Ptolemy says:a
The beginnings of the signs . . . are to be taken from the equinoc-
tial and tropical points. This rule is not only stated very clearly by
writers 4
on the subject,but it is alsoevident by the demonstrations con-
stantly afforded, that their natures, influences and familiarities luwe
no other origin than from the tr<>fJics
and equinoxes, as has already been
shown. And, if other beginnings were allowed, it would either be nec-
essary to exclude the nature of the signs from the theory of prognosti-
cation, or impossible to avoid error in then retaining and making use
ofthem; as the regularity of their spaces and distances, upon which
their influence depends, would then be invaded and broken in upon.
In other words, in spite of the fact that the precessiona of the
equinoxes causes Aries and the other constellations to swing
backwards in the ecliptic, the astrologer considers the heavenly
space of 30 degrees subtending the vernal equinox, to have the
8
lbid.
'Evidcndy Ptolcmy refers to Grecian,· Alcxandrinc and Egyptian writers preceding
himself, whose works arc now lost.
1 See Appendix XII.
PTOLEMY AND HIS TETRABIBLOS 81
\
influence which he ascribes to Aries,regardless of ~here the con-
stellation Aries is.
Ptolemy was apparently most anxious that students of astrology
should derive their conclusions regarding events from their scien-
tific deductions, and not from any psychic sense. Whereas a
psychic may see a picture of an event, an astrologer does not. He
can only describe it according to knowledge of the forces at play
beforeand during the event. Ptolemy says:
It is not possible that particular forms of events should be declared- \
by any person, however scientific; since the understanding conceives \
only a certain general idea of some sensible event, and not its particular
form. It is therefore necessary for him who p_ractisesherein to adopt
inference. They only who are inspired by the deity can predict
particulars.
Alan Leo tdls us in one of his textbooks that he learned his
lesson on this matter quite early in his experience. He told a lady,
who was a disbeliever in astrology, but who wanted to put his
an to the test, that on a certain day she would slightly injure
her finger with some household instrument. On her insistent
questioning as to just what kind of an instrument it could be he
finallysaid it could be a bread knife. On the day predicted she
injured her finger with the scissors,whereupon she told him there
was "nothing to astrology." Leo remarks that if he had confined
himself, as Ptolemy urged, to general ideas and not branched out
into specific ones, he would have been right. An astrologer (per
se) does not see knives or scissors, but he has a general idea of
what Mars in a sign such as Virgo might indicate.
Chapter 7
ASTROLOGY AND K.ABBALISM
Everything is foreseen, yet freedom of will is given.
AKIBA.
_K
ONG the most disputed of all matters arc the period, date
and author of the Sephir Yetzireh, or Book of Creation.
Some say it was known to Phcrecydcs four hundred years
before Christ. In itself it states that it was written by the patriarch
Abraham. Many believe it was part of the oral tradition of the
Hebrews, which was handed down by word of mouth until it
was put in writing by Joseph hen Akiba, who was born about
50A.D., and martyred by the Emperor Hadrian in 136A.D., having
been accused of sorcery. Akiba died, however, maintaining the
charge was false and proclaiming his belief in the one true God.
He was one of the principal founders, or rather organizers, of the
material in the Mishna.
Then again, authorship of the Sephir Yetzireh has been ascribed
to Simeon hen Yohai of the second century A.D. This teacher is
also credited with having written the Zohar, yet this too has been
denied. In any case the Sephir Yetzireh could not have been
compiled very late in the centuries, for we find Saadia Gaon
(892-942A.D.),the main teacher or "gaon" of Sura Academy in
Babylonia, wrote a commentary on it, referring to its vast an-
tiquity. Shabbethia Donalo (913-970A.D.) also wrote a commen-
tary on it. Donalo was born in Oria. He was a prisoner of the
Fatimite Arabs, where he learnt both medicine and astrology.
He wandered all over the Near East and North Africa, but in
spite of his wanderings he found time to write books on medi..
cine and philosophy. His commentary on the Sephir Yetzireh is
preserved in the Florentine Library.
Rabbi Abraham hen Dior (commonly called Halevi), and
82
ASTROLOGY AND KABBAUSM
Abcnezra wrote commentaries on it. Each ascribed great age
to it. Rabbi Moses hen Nachman (b. Gerona, 1194) sometimes
called Nachmanides, wrote a commentary on it, and in the
fifteenth century Moses Botarel wrote a fOmmentary.
The book itself is very brief. It attemps to give a complete un-
derstanding of how the world came into being, through the prin-
ciplesdenoted by the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet
with their innumerable permutations. It declares that Thought,
Speech,and Action are an inseparable unity in God. The human
heart is the center of motion in the human body, just as the
axis1
of the earth is the earth's center of motion. This one thought
in itself gave rise to innumerable treatises, such as that of Alfred
theEnglishman, On the Motion of the Heart. The Sephir Yetzireh
givesan esoteric theory of the qualities which are innate in the
sevenplanets and in the twelve signs of the zodiac. Each of these
isassigned to a letter of the Hebrew alphabet. The letters Aleph,
Mem and Shin are not given any planetary assignment, for they
are the three underlying principles or essentials of the Divine
nature,-Aleph of Divine Air (Thought), Mem of Divine Water
(Expressionincluding Speech), and Shin of Divine Fire (Action).
Theseare comparable to the astrological quaternaries of Signs,
Cardinal, Fixed and Mutable. The book states that there
are seven "double" letters, assigned to the seven planets, and
twelve "single" letters, assigned to the twelve signs of the
zodiac.
The seven "double" letters and their planetary vibrations are:
Beth ................. the Moon ............. rules the right eye
Gimel ..............•• Mars ................. rules the right car
Daleth ............... Sun .................. rules the right nostril
Cha£...............•. Venus ................ rules the left eye
Pay . . . . . . .........••. Mercury . . . . . . . . . . . . .. rules the left ear
Resh ................• Saturn ................ rules the left nostril
Tau .................. Jupiter ............... rules the mouth
1
s~~ Appendix V.
84 .ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY .AND INFWENCE
Surdy all this must remind us of the papyrus found in the
tomb of the Egyptian Pharaoh, Ramcses V.
The twelve "single" letters and their assignments in the zodiac
arc: · /
Heh ...............• Aries ................. rules the right foot
Vau ................ Taurus ............... rules the right kidney
Zain .............. : .Gemini ............... rules the right foot
Chcth ............... Cancer ............... rules the right hand
Teth ................ Leo .................. rules the left kidney
Yod ................ Virgo ................ rules the left hand
Lamed .............. Libra ................ rules the gall bladder
Nun ................ Scorpio ............... rules the small intestine
Samcch ............. Sagittarius ............ rules ~e stomach
Ayin ................ Capricorn ............ rules the liver
Tzeddi .............. Aquarius ............. rules the esophagus
Quoph .............. Pisces ................ rules the milt
As all these arc given precisely and in very clear-cut fashion,
I cannot see any good reason why certain of our modern ex-
ponents of Kabbalism should assign some of these quite differ-
ently, e.g., "resh" to the Sun. Obviously "daleth," the door, is the
appropriate letter for the Sun. Christ speaks of Himself as being
the "Sun of Righteousness," and also as being "the Door." In
the chapter on the Zodiac of Dcnderah, we note how the Sun's
rays shine on the Door of Initiation, and this Door is the Door of
return to Spirit, or to the Prime Mover, which moves the Sun.
I do not plan in this book to debate the evidence of astrology
in the Bible. This would be a very vast subject. I do, however,
find it necessary at various moments, such as on this question of
the Sephir Yetzireh, to make some reference to the Bible.If Psalm
119 is studied carefully, in versions which allot each set of eight
verses to a Hebrew letter, it will be found that somewhere in
the verses is a word or phrase which gives a clue to a meaning
contained in the assignment of meanings as stated in the Sephir
Yetzireh astrological system, which is much more abstruse than
the ordinary one. Apparently there are not enough parts of the
ASTROLOGY AND KABBAUSM
body to make a complete anatomical system, but this seems to
have been overcome by using Kabbalistic assignments together
with ordinary ones. The whole scheme was plotted out on what
iscalledthe "Tree of Life." (Diagram 10.)
DIAGllAM 10. K.abbalistic Tree of Life showing the Three Worlds
and the 10 Sephiroth, as probably conceived by Dante, with three
"spheres" above Saturn.
The K.abbalistic "Tree of Life" is not found in the Sepln,
Yetzireh, yet it is necessary to the understanding of the book.
86 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
The "Tree" is a geometrical pattern of the ten emanations of the
Divine essence, these ten being usually called the "Sephiroth."
This Kabbalistic "Tree" is based on four circles. Through these
are three horizontal intersections and three vertical intersections.
From all these factors we have various triangles formed, all of
which are important in understanding how the "Tree" becomes a
cosmic plan.
The four circles in the construction are astronomical in origin
and not arbitrary. They are the horizon, the zodiac, the equator
and the equinoctial colure. If we connect up every Sephiroth on
the diagram lines or "paths," we find that we can make thirty-
two connections. These form the thirty-two paths of wisdom.
The thirty-third would be the path WITHIN the topmost
Sephiroth, called Kether or the Crown.
Kabbalistic knowledge received much attention about the time
of Dante, who had a Hebrew instructor, Solomon. Dante uses
Kabbalistic astrology as the foundational scheme £or his Divine
Comedy. In the "Paradiso," Kether becomes the Empyrean or
place where Dante attains union with the Divine Source or Es-
sence. Also during the Renaissance, Pico della Mirandola, though
he renounced astrology proper, still held to his Kabbalistic studies,
as did Reuchlin, both believing it a system which, properly ex-
plained, would help convert the Jews to Christianity. I might
mention here that previously, about 1240 A.D., Abraham Abulafia
thought its principles showed the truth of Judaism so clearly
that he took his system and his book to Rome and tried to convert
the Pope with it. The use of the Kabbala for divination and
prophecy does not seem to have started until the thirteenth cen-
tury when Abraham Abulafia evolved the system of Gematria.
The scheme of the Kabbala reminds us of the Pythagorean
doctrine of numbers, the doctrine of emanations and triads of
Proclus, and the concepts of Marcus of Haeresiarcha, agnostic
teacher of the second century A.D. Marcus stated that there were
four emanations, or primal aeons, which descended from the
world of the Creator, and from these there was a progressive
ASTROLOGY AND KABBAUSM
creation of all manifested beings. Marcus divid~d the Greek
alphabet into three parts and made each part symbolic of the
activities involved in creation. It would appear then that there
was a study of numbers dating from Babylonian times. Juvenal
speaks of the Jews using divination by numbers.
However, let us go back to the Egyptian theory of influences
attending the rising of various constellations. Was not this part
of some doctrine of emanations ?-these emanations not merely
causing, or making for, the original creation of the world, but
making for continual creation at every subsequent moment?
In the Egyptian theory the rising groups of stars affected each
successive part of the day, and also some part of the human body.
In the Sephir Yetzirel, the emanations affect parts of the human
body, though not quite in the same way as in our modern as-
trology, yet not quite so differently and unrelatedly as we might
suppose. In the course of a thorough study of the ancient prin-
ciples of esoteric astrology, which hardly enters into the scope
of this book, it can be shown that there is a definite symbolic
sympathy between the parts of the body mentioned in the Sephir
Yetzireh as pertaining to various signs and planets, and those
parts of the body mentioned in our current system. I am ,inclined
to think that the Sephir Yetzireh was based on a very ancient
astronomical system, when there were ten signs of the zodiac
and not twelve. It is said that at one time the constellations we
now term Virgo, Libra and Scorpio were all one constellation,-
Scorpio at that period making a very large star group. Part of it
was later called Libra and part of it was called Virgo. The Sephir
Yetzireh was a scheme of cosmogony apparently based on some
ancient system which was somewhat evolutionary in scope and
definitely opposed to any concept of chance ruling the world.
The doctrine of emanations, as we shall see later, entered into
Nco-Platonic thought. Porphyry, one of the leading lights of
this school, and so well known to astrologers for his system of
Housedivision, or method of calculating the cusps of charts, was
translated into Arabic byAl K.indi. Neo-Platonic concepts became,
88 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
so to speak, incorporated in the Arabic mind and affected Avi-
cenna, Avicebron, Averrhoes and others. When these Arabic
writers became popular in Europe, Neo-Platonism again influ-
enced the mediaeval world and gave rise to all kinds of argu-
ments and discussions. Avicenna said that the celestial bodies
were animated by "intelligences." This gave rise to discussion
as to whether "intelligences" were angels, or not. Angry ecclesias-
tics said that the doctrine of emanations was 4eretical, since it
was in conflict with the Christian doctrine of the Logos.
The KabbalisticTree of Life is a geometrical structure in which
the intersecting circles form, as they interlock, three spheroid
figures which are symbolically:
(1) The World of God, lying between the Fixed Stars and the
Primum Mobile.
(2) The Higher Mental World, lying between Saturn and
Jupiter.
(3) The World of Man, lying between Venus and Mars.
The ten essencesassignedto the
Sephiroth are said to be "living
essences,"or "emanations," proceeding from the Ain Soph, that
is, from God be£
ore manifestation, hence the Ain Soph is never
depicted on the Tree.
I expect to have many arguments with those who assign the
planets differently on this scheme. After much thought extend-
ing over many years I feel I cannot agree with other assignments.
The right-hand column or perpendicular line is always referred
to as the Pillar of Mercy and the left one as the Pillar of Severity.
The center one is called the Pillar of Mediation. My experience
with many of the old Kabbalists, alchemists, and astrologers too,
is that they sometimes reverse certain figures and signs, in order
to catch the• unwary. The old writers on magic squares (and
there were magic squares for every planet), often did this, so
that if the student did not know the principles of the magic
square, he could not find the right number to put into the square
without hours of labor, but if he knew the principle, then a few
seconds would suffice.I should also like to give a hint to those
ASTROLOGY AND KABBAUSM 89
studying this Tree, that God's left hand is our right hand and
vice versa, hence whereas Severity with us is considered mascu-
line, with God it is not. It is the divine justice, in which even
Venus can play a part, since Venus in its highest concept is the
unerring sense of what makes for rhythm, balance and harmony,
hence it excises from a work of art (with severity) all that is
superfluous. I will give the assignment on the Tree as Dante
possibly related it to his Kabbalistic scheme of the Divine Comedy,
which is discussed in Chapter 17.
Empyrean, called by the Hebrews Kether (the Crown), the
Cause of this world coming into manifestation. The Spirit
ready to manifest.
Primum Mobile, corresponding to Chock.mah (Wisdom), the vital
energy of the First Cause, setting the world into motion.
Fixed Stars, corresponding to Binah (Understanding), the soul
or essence in man, and in all things that arc created.
Sllturn, corresponding to Geburah (Severity), the cause of form,
and the unyielding determination of species to maintain their
original form.
/•piter, corresponding to Gedulia (Magnificence), or to Chcsed
(Mercy), the principle of growth and expansion.
MllTs,corresponding to Netzach (Victory), the creativeness of
life.
Sun, corresponding to Tipheroth (Beauty), the life of God in man,
which is linked with the life of God,-"the image of God"-
within man.
Venus,corresponding to Hod (Splendor), the principle of multi-
plication, in which the original species is preserved, but the
individual in the species is becoming more perfect
Mercury,corresponding to Yesod (the Foundation), the Nous, or
mind within man.
Moon, corresponding to Malkuth (the Kingdom). This is the
human soul of which the Kingdom is composed, when the
soul has been perfected in experience.
Such, then, in brief is this Kabbalistic scheme of the cosmos
90 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
which has intrigued men through all the centuries. Concerning
its Babylonian origin I note the following genealogical tree of
the god Bel, in Lenormant's Beginnings of History. There arc ten
names on ~ tree and the placement is almost identical with_
that on the Tree of Life. Lenormant says of these ancient Babylo-
nian and Assyrian cosmogonic trees: (See Diagram 11).
Apsu
I
Lahuma
I
Asshar
I
Anu
T
Mummu
I
Bel
Tiamat
I
Luhmu
K.i-shar
I
Ea
DIAGRAM 11. The tenfold genealogical tree of the god Bel. Some:
such genealogy may have formed the origin of the K.abbalah.
The fundamental plan of these cosmogonic constructions may be
summarized in the following manner: A first principle, material and
1
still unorganizcd, existing before everything else, and never having had 1
a beginning; at times this first principle is represented as simple and ~
including within itself the two sexes, the idea of maternity prcdominat•
ing; again it is represented as a duality of male and female ••• and 1
finally, in other cases, in the existence of this first principle, duplicating 1
its own essence, may be distinguished a series of evolutions represented :
by a succession of pairs, like each other, and always solitary, emanating 1
one from the other. From this, when the universe assumes its ordered
form, issue three parallel triads of cosmic divinities, each one composed
of father, mother, son, in imitation of mortal families.
In other words, then, the Tree of Life is probably founded on
genealogical trees of the ancient gods.
Chapter 8
THE ASTROLOGY OF mE ROMANS
The ftlCt is certain, that at some remote period there were
mathematicians and astronomers who k,new that the Sun it
th~center of our system, and that the earth1itself a planet, re•
11ol11es
around it.
SmWILLIAM DttuMMoND.
T
HE Romans took astrology seriously. Diodorus tdls us that
judicial astrology started in the period of the Caesars and
of Augustus. I think he is mistaken about this. Perhaps
whathe really means is that it became systematized into a more
modern
mould. Certainly Manilius does not write as if he invented
anythingnew. In various odd ways we find that the Romans
hadseveraldivinatory systems,besides that of augury, and one of
theirmosr jealously guarded methods was apparently based on
"goodand bad days" which were discovered according to either
a Babylonian or an Egyptian system, probably the latter, since
theywere called "Egyptian days.'' The rulers and the priests
gavethe public only such information as they considered neces-
sary,
but they compiled calendars of religious festivals which were
givento the people. Also they would give out to applicants
favorabledays for initiating various enterprises. In this way
"favorabledays" were a priestly monopoly until Annius Flavius
broke
the monopoly. History apparently is a successionof periods
when
monopolies grow and when monopolies have to be broken.
About300 B.c., Annius Flavius, who was secretary to Appius
Claudius,
thought out a scheme whereby he would ascertain on
whatsystem these propitious and unpropitious days were based.
Allhe needed was a sufficient number of replies to various ques-
tions
propounded on different days. He and various friends then
went
asoften as possible to the temples to obtain propitious days,
91
92 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
until at last he discovered that the answers were founded on
astrology, and that the Roman Calendar, which at that time was
related to legal practice as well as to religious ceremonies, was
founded on the motions. of the heavenly bodies. The Calendar
stated what legal suits and legal acts could be started on specific
days. Pliny tells us it was Appius Claudius who urged Annius
to do this and to write a book on it called /us Flavianum. Livy
tells us that Appius Claudius also suggested that Annius not
only do this, but make various whited tablets on which daily
information (the Fasti) should be written and placed in the
Forum for all to see. For this work he was made a senator but
the nobles and clergy hated hpD. As senator he was chosen by the
senate on one occasion to dedicate a temple,-and the Pontifex
Maximus of the time, who had previously sworn that he would
never allow Annius to bepresent at the ceremony, had to perform
the ceremony and call on Annius for the dedicatory speech. In a
sense these whited tablets were the first public calendars of the
Romans giving daily suggestions of what should be done on a day.
Few people know that Julius Caesar (102-44B.c.) was pro-
foundly interested in all phases of divination. We must remem-
ber that the rulers of Rome, like the rulers of Egypt, were heads
of the Church as wdl as heads of the State, and that they were
initiates of the mysteries and of phases of divination. Julius
Caesar was not mercly one of the greatest generals of his time
and Pontifex Maximus, but he was a thinker, and evidently very
psychic too. He wrote a book called Liber Auspicium, or Augu-
ralis,which gives his theories on divination as practised by the
School of Augurs. The School of Augurs seems to have been
officiallyrecognized by Rome about 307 B.c.,and from that time
down to the period of Julius Caesar, four men of patrician class
only, were elected, each as a seat became vacant, and upon these
four devolved the task of choosing the auspicious tim~
widertakings of the state. Macrobius-quotes frolll Julius Caesar's
book on this subject.
But Julius Caesar was interested in astronomy and in astrology,
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 93
and on astronomy he wrote De A.stris,which is quoted by both
Maaobius and Pliny. It treats of the movement of the heavenly
bodies. At the time everyone was interested in the poem Pl,e-
nomma of the Greek Aratus, and Julius made up his mind to
writejust such another. De Astris was the result. Who knows
but that the campaigns of Julius Caesar were successful because
~.Breed
tb~~olo~~ly? It was not a soothsayer,as Shake-
spearetells us, but an astrologer named Vestritius Spurinna who
warned Caesar to beware the Ides of March. It is related by
severalhistorians that as Caesar was going to the Senate House
on the fatal day in question, he said to Spurinna in jest, "Well,
theIdes of March arc come," upon which Spwinna replied, "Ycs,
theyarc come, but not gone." Suetonius, Cicero and Plutarch all
referto Spwinna as an astrologer.
In 46B.C. Sosigenes of Alexandria advised and assisted Julius
inreforming the calendar. Thisreformed version is known as the
Julian
Calendar. The month of July was named after him, and
whenAugustus later made some corrections on this calendar,
hewanted a month called after him too, so August was made
to oblige. Sir Henry Rawlinson tells us that "the Babylonians
knewthat the true length of the solar year was 365
days and a
quarternearly," hence it is evident that the Roman calculations
didnot equal in any way the exactness of the Babylonian year,
for the Julian calendar has had to be altered more than once,
notablyfirst by Augustus and then by Pope Gregory XIII. Under
thelatter pope, October 5, 1582,was recognized (by some coun-
tries)as October 15.These 1
problems of time have caused as--,.--·
trologcrsunending difficulty, since reference books do not always
saywhat type of calendar they are using, when giving dates.
Of Sosigencs, W. Marsham Adams says in his Book of the
Master:
2
That famous Greek appears to have performed his task very much
aftera fashion known to adapters. He cared-perhaps he knew-very
--
1 s~e
Chapter 19 on the Gregorian Calendar.
2
W. Marsham Adams, Boo~ of the Master (G. P. Putnam's Sons).
94 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
little about the astronomical principles involved in the Egyptian reckon-
ing, and nothing at all about the niceties of further adjustment which
it demanded; indeed bcfore half a century was passed, his own corrcc--
tions required to be corrected. He took no heed of standard or of meas-
ure, of orbit or of sacred interval. But first he cut up the year into
twelve unequal and unmeaning bits-to say he divided it into portions
is far too scientific an expression-which rags bore indeed the name of
the insulted Moon, but of which that mighty measurer of Time con-
descended to make no sort of recognition. And then he threw the "odd
day" in along with the "odd month"; much as a child who has broken
his toy horse, glues a bit of tail to the shortest of the legs, and calls
aloud on creation to admire his handiwork.
Or again in his House of the Hidden Places8
he says:
The various adjustments of the calendar appear to be regarded as
if they were the odds and ends of time left littering about the heavens
by the Sufltand Moon, and requiring an ingenious astronomer-like
Sosigenes-to put away tidily.
· In The PerfectCalendarby Henry Fitch4
we read that Sosigcnes
said there was a discrepancy of about 8o days in the calendar,
therefore "Caesar decreed that the year 46 B.c. should have 445
days and that the year 45 B.c.should commence on the first day
of the new moon after the winter solstice,which date was to be
the first of January. The year 46 B.c.with its 445days was 'the year
of confusion'."
I remember some time ago attending various lectures by Dr.
Harold Emerson on the Mayan Calendar. He showed why a
Mayan astrologer did not need an ephemeris of planetary positions
at all, providing he knew what the positions of the planets were
at the time, becausethe Mayan calendar was so precisely adjusted
to planetary motion that one could, with very elementary calcula-
tions, find star positions for any previous or succeeding day or
year.
8
W. Marsham Adams, House of tl,e Hitltlm Places (John Murray).
'H. Fitch, P~d Calendar (Funk and Wagnalls, 1928).
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 95
While we arc on this 1ubjcctof the calendar, I should like to
give a quotation from Sir George Lewis8
which deals more
lenientlywith the Julian calendar, and which also makes a fair
appraisalof the usefulnessof ancient astronomical science,and
itssubsequentlack of usefulness:
Astronomy, as it has been developed byCopernicus, Kepler, and New-
ton, and their modern successors, has been treated by mathematical
methods,requiring the highest stretch of the reasoning faculty, and
hasfurnished material for sublime contemplation. But it is a science of
purecuriosity; it is directed exclusively to the extension of knowledge
in a field which human interests can never enter•••• The periodic
timeof Uranus, the nature of Saturn's rings, and the occultations of
Jupiter'ssatellites, arc as far removed from the concerns of mankind as
thehcliacal rising of Sirius, or the northern position of the Great Bear.
Scienceought, indeed, to be pursued for its own sake; and the human
mindcan be worthily occupied in the acquisition of knowledge which
cannever lead to any practical result. But if the astronomical science
ofthe ancients was less exact and comprehensive than that of the mod-
ems,it had a closer bearing upon human affairs, and it nearly exhausted
those
departments which arc useful to mankind. • • •
The Copernican system of the universe, and its subsequent com-
pletionby the Newtonian theory of Universal Gravitation, have had
a purelyscientific value, and have exercised scarcely any practical influ-
ence
upon the affairs of mankind. The solar year was fixed with a close
degreeto accuracy by the Julian calendar in the year 46 B.C. The
reform
of the Julian calendar, under the auspices of Pope Gregory, in
theyear1582,
was only a short time subsequent to the publication of the
hypothesis
of Copernicus, and was promoted by astronomers who held
thePtolemaic system. This reform of an error amounting to only
11'12" in a year brought the calendar to perfection; the annual meas-
urementof time has received no improvement since the modern astro-
nomicalrevolution. With regard to the determination of a ship's place
at sea by astronomical methods, the invention of chronometers has
been
far more important than an improvement in astronomical theory.
Htheancients had known the telescope and the clock, their scientific
--
1
Gco.CorncwaJl Lewis, Astronomy of the Ancients (London, 1862).
g6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
methods would have sufficedfor nearly all practical purposes, although
they might have held to their geocentric hypothesis.
I am inclined to see in Lewis' words the crux of the antago-
nism that seems to exist on the part of some modern astronomcn
toward astrology. We astrologers rarely make our own obscrva-
.ons, but we make use of theirs. They think because we change
their heliocentric positions into geocentric ones that our whole
theory is founded on false premises, yet •we recognize the fact
that we need geocentric positions because we live on the earth
nd not on the sun.
Cicero attacked astrology, say our critics. Well, Cicero was a
lawyer and he could plead on both sides, which he did in the
case of astrology. One famous commentator, speaking of Cicero,
says, "The speculative opinions entertained by Cicero himself
arc of little importance, except as a matter of curiosity." Cicero
was the possessor of a horoscope which showed the probability
of eventual murder or of violence, hence in self-protection, as
he thought, he tried to believethat there was no truth in astrology,
yet he was murdered in a very ignominious way. Perhaps if he
had used astrology more and written against it less,he might have
found some way of obviating this death, for I think that an as-
trologer can often warn people to keep out of danger dwing cer-
tain periods.
Cicero wrote De Fato and also De Diuinatione. In the latter
he gives credit to Spurinna for warning Caesar, and as Cicero
witnessed the death of Caesar, he probably knew the whole story.
I should presume that Caesar was something of a fatalist, hence
despite every warning he went to the Senate House. Cicero then
decided that warnings were useless, and he met his own mur-
derous death because he refused to be warned.
Yet as we read more of Cicero we see that he could not have
been a real unbeliever in prognostication. It was that he feared
rather than disbelieved it. He says, "The future is revealed to
us both from within and without." Cicero also took the trouble
to translate the poem of Aratus, hence it is possible that he was
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 97
well acquainted with both astrology and astronomy. In the
British Museum is what is considered to be the original copv
of this translation, illustrated with drawings of the constella-
tions.
Cicero informs us that Poseidonius (born about 135B.c.),one
of the late Stoics, was an extremely able astrologer. One might
wonder how Cicero knew this. Then we find that Cicero, dur-
inghis stay in Rhodes, was one of Poseidonius' pupils, and that
when
the Stoic came to reside at Rome, Cicero still continued the
friendship which had grown up between them. Cicero writes of
theplanetary machine which Poseidonius had invented,-a kind
ofrevolving sphere to exhibit the motions of the Sun, Moon and
planets.It would appear that after the time of Poseidonius, the
name "apotelcsmatics" for astrology became quite common in
Rome,as it had been in Greece. It is to Ci~cro that we arc
indebtedfor the statement that "the Babylonian astrological sys-
tem of divination, as based on birth dates of childrcn,6
is con-
firmedby observations which extended over 470,000years."
The tremendous interest which Cicero always had in divina-
tionand astrology was no doubt fostered by the fact that another
teacherwho instructed Cicero in his early days was the well-
knownNuncius Scaevola,the augur, and Cicero grew up hoping
that some day he too would be one of the augurs of the city of
Rome. Since augury was a kind of governmental monopoly at
Rome,Cicero, in his desire for municipal honors, would deem
it necessarythat he should declaim against what one might term
"thebootleggers"of the art. If the state was to be guided by the
decisionsas given forth by the legally appointed augurs, then
thestatements of all kinds of "Chaldeans" who thought their
worksuperior to that of the augurs was extremely disconcerting.
However,there seems to have been no restriction in Rome at
that time, nor at later times, against men of learning and pres-
tigeteaching and studying astrology.That I am right in my con-
-ln_Di •• 6
ur "• ~ 4 •
98 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
clusion is seen from the fact that, not only did a man of Ciccro's
prestige have Poseidonius as his friend, but that he had two
other personal friends who were among the finest astrologers of
the day, and who themselves held established positions,-Publius
Nigidius Figulus and Lucius Tarrutius Firmianus. If Cicero
wrote against some of the astrologers of his day it is possible
that Cicero did not like their particular brand of astrology.
In his Dream of Scipio Cicero certainly calls Jupiter a star "that
brings health and prosperity," and he calls Mars "the red planet
which is feared." It is also in the Dream of Scipio that he states
that the world began when all the planets were in Aries, a matter
to which we shall refer when we come to Manilius. In this Dream
of Scipio he waxes quite poetical when he speaks of the path of
heaven, the Milky Way, as being a circle of dazzling brightness
among flaming bodies, also of stars being seen from the Milky
Way which arc really great "globular bodies far exceeding the
magnitude of the earth." He mentions, too, the nine spheres in
which are contained the seven spheres of our plancts,-"0£ these,
that planet which on earth you call Saturn occupies one sphere.
That shining body which you see next is called Jupiter, and is
friendly and salutary to mankind. Next, the lucid one, terrible
to the earth, which you call Mars. The sun holds the next place
... he is the chief, the leader and director of the other luminaries;
he is the soul and guide of the world. . .. He is followed by the
orbit of Venus, and that of Mercury as attendants, and the Moon
rolls in the lowest sphere, enlightened by the rays of the Sun."
We gather from reading Cicero that if he argued now and then
against astrology, he was arguing against what was generally
considered at the time to be a recognized study, for he says that
Achelaus and Cassander were accounted singular in trying to
refute it. Again, we might mention that Cicero thought so highly
of his own powers of divination that the public officehe coveted
most of all was that of augur! And as the officewas never given to
him, it would appear that many of his arguments against divina-
tion were the result of a "sour grapes" complex.
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 99
Let us see who these two friends of Cicero were, who were
such good astrologers.
Nigidius Figulus was a Pythagorean philosopher, considered
to be one of the most learned men of his time in mathematics
and in physics. He also held the official position of Proctor of
Rome. He was such a good astrologer that he was able to foretell
to Augustus Caesar that he would be emperor long before that
factseemed feasible, and he also predicted that he would have a
long and glorious reign. Lucan 7
tells us that he predicted the
Civil War in Rome. Nigidius wrote about twenty-four books, one
of which was De SphaeraBarbaricaet Graecanica,
which gave the
different systems of astronomical calculations used by astronomers
of Greece and other countries. Another of his books was De
Auguriis.That his books were widely read and copied for many
centuries, we learn from the fact that in the sixth century after
Christ, a Greek version of his books was made by Johannes
Laurentius. Eusebius (264-340A.D.)calls him "Pythagoricus et
Magus."When Nigidius was exiled for taking the part of Pompey
instead of Caesar in the Civil War, Cicero wrote him a letter
full of the warmest phrases, and expressions of friendship. If
Cicerodid not mean what he said in this letter, he must have been
one of the outstanding humbugs of the age.
Then Lucius Tarrutius Firmianus was a close friend of Cicero,
and both of these men earned the friendship of M. Terentius
Varro,whose vast and varied learning gave him the appellation of
"most learned of all the Romans." St. Augustine says of Varro
that he had read so much that we must wonder how he found
time to write anything at all. Varro is credited with having
written over four hundred and ninety books. One of his books
on agriculture tells, among other things, the farmers when to
plant both by the Sun and the Moon. Varro also wrote a book
7
Al Fipus, ad""'"
deo1, secretaque coeli
No11e/uit, qunn non stellarum .AegyptusMemphis
Aeq1111re1
"""' t1ummsque mo11entibusastra.
LucAN i, 639-641.
100 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
called Human Antiquities, from which St. Augustine drew very
freely in his City of God.
It was when writing this book Human Antiquities that Varro
wondered what was the date of the founding of Rome. Cicero
tells us that Varro requested Tarrutius to look into the matter,
and Tarrutius decided that the only way to go about it was to
study the chart of Romulus and see from this in what year he
would have been likely to build a city. "According to the scheme
of Tarrutius, Romulus was born on the twenty-third day of Sep-
tember, in the second year of the second Olympiad, that is,
B.c. 771,and Rome was founded on the ninth day of April, be-
tween the second and third hour of the day." 8
Plutarch, as well as Cicero, gives an account of this, but
Plutarch does not say in what year Tarrutius placed the founda-
tion of Rome, but the day given by Varro is earlier than the
Palilia (April 21), the usual point of time from which the years
of Rome are reckoned. It is from Varro, then, that we obtain
the year of the founding of Rome. He places it in 753 B.c. Tar-
rutius said Rome must have been founded when the Moon was
in Libra, the Sun with Mercury and Venus in Taurus, Jupiter in
Pisces and Saturn with Mars in Scorpio. (Note that April 9 of
that period does not correspond with our April 9). The term
A.U.C., used in Roman dates, means "from the founding of the
city of Rome." Modern astrologers in checking up on Tarrutius,
find that he erred somewhat in his planetary positions, showing
that exact positions were hard to determine with the demcntary
type of instruments obtainable at that period.
Actually, Cicero and his friends took a genuine interest in
astrology, but, then, so did all the Roman writers.'
Horace and Persius oppose the benign influence of Jupiter to
the malign influence of Saturn.
Propertius adds the malign influence of Mars to that of Saturn.
Ovid speaks of a child being born under a sinister planet, such
• Smitl,'s Dictionary of Gree~ """ RomtlnBiograpl,y (John Mumay).
9
Sec also under Dryden.
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 101
as that of Saturn or Mars. Ovid's story of the ride of Phaeton
teems with astronomical and astrological references.
Juvenal is apparently favorable to astrology. He opposes the
disastrous nature of Saturn to the favorable influence of Venus,
yet he accuses the Jews of casting horoscopes and using necro-
mantic books (grimoires).
Horace, after he had escaped safely from the Battle of Philippi,
said it was due to the intervention of Mercury, the god of letters.
One might add that Mercury is also the god of journeys. Horace
asks the believers in heredity and environment this question:
''Why docs one brother like to lounge in the forum, to play in
the campus, and to anoint himself in the bath so well, that he
would not put himself out for all the wealth of the richest plan-
tations of the cast; while the other toils from sunrise to sunset for
the purpose of increasing his fortune?" We also read in Horace
(Odes I, II) that the Chaldeans brought to Rome their nu- ,
mcrology, and Horace, though interested in astrology, could not
believe in numerology. -He tried to dissuade Lcuconoe from con-
sulting numerologists (nee babylonis tentaris numeros). Lenor-
mant, 10 in speaking of Babylonian numerology, says:
Among the very numerous cuneiform documents which Rassam col-
lected for the British Museum, as fruits of his last mission to Assyria
and Babylon, there arc several tablets entirely filled with numbers of
thisdescription, with indications of the meaning connected with them.
There is reason to hope that when they are published and have become
objects of scientific study, a corner of the veil which still enshrouds
thisside of the culture of Ancient Asia may be lifted.
Virgil studied medicine and "mathematics," which one learned
commentator says was at that period a jumble of astronomy and
astrology. He had studied the Phenomena of Aratus, and a great
part of his first Georgie rehearses the rules for predicting the
weatherby astrology. In his Eclogues he mentions "the White
Bull with golden horns opening the year." This is merely pocti-
soF. Lenonnant.&6innin11 o/ History (Charles Scribner's Sons, 1883).
102 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
cal, for neither the Bull nor Taurus opened the year, in his time.
Virgil was evidently borrowing a phrase from astrologers who
had lived some thousands of years before him. His Fourth Ec-
logue 11
we mention in Chapter 16.His Aeneid is full of such oc-
cult lore that it is very easy to see why Virgil was branded in the
Middle Ages as a conjurer, necromancer and wizard. BookSix of
the Aeneid describes the visit to Hades. Hades has three sections,
one of punishment, one of expiation, and finally the Elysian :
Fields, where the shades stay in bliss for one thousand years be- ,
fore they return to earth. From this we see that Virgil openly ,
taught the doctrine of reincarnation:
His hero, Aeneas, finds his father in the west of Pluto's realm, !
in the happy Elysian Fields. They greet one another with joy,
then Anchises conducts Aeneas still further west, until they come
to the banks of the River Lethe, whose name means forgetful-
ness. There are gathered the souls who have been many ages in
the Elysian Fields. As these drink of Lethe, they remember no
more their previous life on Earth. They begin to desire rebirth.
Aeneas is amazed that they cannot be content any more in the
Fortunate Land, and questions his father concerning this:
Anchises answered: "They are souls that wait
For new bodies, promised them by Fate.
Now, by the banks of the Lethe here bdow,
They lose their memory of their former state ... "
"Oh, Father!" said Aeneas, "Can it be
That souls sublime, so happy and so free,
Can yearn for fleshly tenements again?"
Anchises explains that when each soul has suffered "his ghostly
penance" he enters the Elysian Fields, and then:
When a thousand rolling years are o'er,
Called by the god, to Lethe's waves they go,
There, rcft of memory, they yearn once more
For mortal bodies and the upper air.
11
See Appendix XIV.
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 103
Among the well known writers of Vespasian's time was Pliny
theElder (23-79A.D.).He wrote Natura/is Historia, a voluminous
treatise in thirty-seven parts. Among other things, he treats of the
nature of the sun, moon and planets. The earth, he believes, is
globularin shape and inhabited in every part. The sun-god is
the creator and gives life to all mankind, to animals and to
vegetation. All planetary gods influence human beings and they
were originally named according to their specific work: "For the
names of the gods, as well as of the stars . _
• . have been derived
&om their services to man. And with respect to Mercury and
Jupiter, and the rest of the celestial nomenclature, who does not
admit that they have reference to the phenomena of nature ?"
Pliny also believed in the interrelationship of medicine and
astrology.
Marcus Manilius, who lived in the time of Augustus Caesar,
wrote an astrological poem in five parts called Astronomica.
During the tenth century we read of Pope Sylvester II (Gerbcr-
tus) commissioning a friend to find a copy of Manilius, and the
friend was able to find one, though with difficulty.It was Poggio
who discovereda copy about 1414and who made the book famous
in Renaissance times. I can imagine that both were as pleased to
finda copy as I was.
Manilius believed, like most of the Pythagoreans and Stoics
of his time, that the earth was spherical, and that it had an axis.
The teachings of Manilius and others on this subject were very
much neglected by later scientists, largely due to the overpower-
ing influenceof the views of Aristotle.
Let me quote Manilius, first as to the earth being a sphere:
The Earth hangs 'midst the yielding air
Not stretched into a plain, but everywhere
It rises and declines into a sphere. . . .
Now if the Earth were Bat, the darkened Moon
Would seem to all eclipsed as well as one:
At once presenting to the common view
Her gloomy looks, and prove this fancy true.
104 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
But since its figure's round, dim Cynthia's beams
By just degrees must visit the extremes:
Not all at once: She must divide the skies,
And while she sets to some, to others rise.
and secondly on the axis:
Thither the axis runs, and adverse poles
Bear the poised world, while heaven about it rolls;
No solid substance all the weight doth bear
But an imagined line stretched through the air;
Begun from either Pole, the Line extends
Earth's center through, and in the other ends.
For since the frame turns round..•.
Manilius set up his charts according to modern methods. He
considered the work of many "Chaldeans" of his time very slip-
shod because they used equal house division. Listen to what he
says on this:
They equal time allow, and that two hours,
And then from that degree from which the Sun
Begins to start his daily course to run,
Two hours to each succeeding sign they give:
Still thus allowing till their search arrive
At the degree and sign they seek, for where
The number ends, the HOROSCOPE is there,
But false the rule; oblique the zodiac lies,
And signs as near, or far removed in skies,
Obliquely mount, or else directly rise.
In Cancer, so immense his round, the ray
Continues long, and slowly ends the day;
While winter's Caper in a shorter track
Soon wheels it around. . . .
Thomas Creech, in the Preface to his English translation of
Manilius, dated October 10, 16g6,says Marcus Manilius had lain
hidden in the German libraries until Poggio "discovered" him.
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 105
Wc also learn from this Preface that scholars at the time were
of•opinion that Julius Firmicus had plagiarized from him and
must have drawn a vast amount of material from him. Creech
also states that Manilius was mentioned by Pliny as a mathema-
tician and by Gerbertus as an astrologer. (Gerbertus was Pope
Sylvester II, 99<) A.D.)He then goes on to wonder why Quin-
tilian did not recommend him to his Orator to read and declaim,
since Quintilian affirms that a competent skill in Astronomy is
necessaryfor any skilled orator. We may gather from this that
Creech considered Quintilian skilled in both astronomy and
astrology. I might mention that already in 1682 Creech had pub-
lished
his translation of Lucretius, and had noted that Quintilian
had recommended both Lucretius and Macer as models of as-
trological wisdom for an orator to declaim. How much of the
technique of astrology Lucretius knew, it would be difficult to
find out, but certainly his De Rerum Natura opens with a mag-
nificent apostrophe·to Venus, whom he addresses as an allegorical
representation of the reproductive power of Nature (according
to astrological theory). Dryden made an English translation of
this Hymn, and it can be found in any edition of his col-
lected works. Dryden was one of the most able astrologers of
hisday.
In order to help date the work of Manilius, Thomas Creech
notesthat the poem is addressed to the Emperor Augustus Caesar,
butas the poem was never finished, it was never presented, for
as Creech (who was evidently well acquainted with astrology)
pointsout, Augustus was a Capricornian, and Capricornians have .
no appreciation of anything which is still in the making. Their
imagination is much too limited.
Creech eulogizes the astrology and philosophy of the Stoics,
whoare credited with having been the mainstay of the astrological
scienceof both the Greeks and the Romans. He points out that
Manilius was totally opposed to the atheistical beliefs of the
Epicureans and their theory that Chance started the Universe.
Letme quote Manilius on the matter:
1o6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
This vast frame is moved by Providence,
Which like the Soul doth every whirl advance;
It must be God; nor was it made by Chance,
As Epicurus dreamt He madly thought
This beauteous frame of heedless atoms wrought,-
That seas and earth, the stars and spacious air
Which form new worlds, or do the old repair,
First rose from these, and still supplied remain,
And all must be, when Chance shall break the chain,
Dissolved to these wild principles again.
Absurd and nonsense! Atheist use thine eyes,
And having viewed the order of the skies,
Think, if thou canst, that matter blindly hurled,
Without a Guide, should frame this wondrous world.
But if Chance made, or Chance still rule the whole,
Why do the signs in constant order roll?
Creech, in explaining this outburst against the Epicureans,
tells us what were the main tenets of their adversaries the Stoics,
for Maniliusappears to have been a Stoic:
The Stoic principles in short were these: They say there is one
Infinite, Eternal, Almighty Mind, which being diffused through the
universe of well ordered and regularly disposed matter, actuates every
part of it, and is as it were, the Soul of this vast body • . . they further
add, that this Infinite Mind hath made one general decree concerning
the government of the lower world, and executes it by giving such and
such powers to the ccles~al bodies, as arc sufficient to produce the
designed effects. This decree, thus executed, they call Fate, and upon
this their whole system of astrology depends. That some things hap-
pened in the world, which were very unaccountable, every day experi-
ence taught them; they learned also, or pretended to have learned
from very many accurate and oft repeated observations, that there was
a constant agreement between those odd unaccountable accidents and
such and such positions of the heavenly bodies, and they therefore con-
cluded that those bodies were concerned in those effects. Hence they
began to settle rules, and to draw their featured observations into an
art; and this was the state and hypothesis of the Stoics (I must call it
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS UYJ
sofor distinction's sake, though neither the hypothesis itsdf, nor the
astrology, was invented by Zeno, but delivered down to him and his
scholars by the Chaldcans and other philosophers 12
of the East), until
the Greeks, ambitious of making it appear their own, endeavored to
establishsupport and adorn it with the fables, and by that means made
that which before seemed precarious (as all arts which are drawn from
bare observation and not from any settled principles in Nature must
appear to be), ridiculous fancies, and wild imaginations. • • . This is
thehypothesis which Manilius endcavored to explain in Latin verse.
Creech lays the responsibility on Bonincontrius £or stating that
the title on an old manuscript is C. Manilius, Poet and Illustrious
Astronomicon. He also mentions that Poggio calls him Caius
Manilius and insists that he was born a Roman and lived in Rome.
Creech then goes on to say that, whatever the Christian name is,
Caius or Marcus, Manilius gives, or surmises, certain opinions
which later ages have thought to glory in as their own discov-
eries,--one being the concept of "fluid" heavens, as against the
static hypothesis of Aristotle. Manilius also affirms that the fixed
starsare not all in the same concave superficies of the heavens and
hencenot all equally distributed from the center of the world.
Manilius maintains, too, that the stars are all of the same nature
and substance as the sun, and that each has a particular vortex
ofits own, and lastly he maintains that the MilkyWay is merely
the undistinguished lustre of many small stars, which the mod-
ems now see, through the glass of Galileo, to be the truth. Creech
askshis readers to consider carefully the lines in the poem where
Manilius, after indulging in a smile at the old legend of the
MilkyWay, states that "the spacious band" is made up of little
stars:
Which there their beams unite
And make one solid and continuous light.
In Book Two, Manilius describes and analyzes the signs and
the aspects between planets. Modern astrologers are inclined to
12 Note that the term 0
Philosophcr" for astrologer was common in the time of
Creech.
1o8 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
think that twelfth parts of the signs arc due to Hindu influence,
but here we have them in Manilius.In Book Three he discourses
on the twelve houses, and gives the rules for finding the ascend.
ant. In Book Four he discusses professions and why certain as-
trological types prefer certain businesses and trades. He lists
countries ruled by various signs. He tells why certain signs are
called tropical and describes their nature. In Book Five he
treats of the constellations which rise with various signs. Alto-
gether, Manilius is a very readable author.
There was a great deal of speculation among the Romans and
the Greeks as to when the world began, and they tried to enquire
into it astrologically. Macrobius relates that the Chaldcans be-
lieved that the world started at the day and hour when each
planet was in its own sign, and at the day and hour when the
sign Aries was in the South, the Moon in Cancer, the Sun in Leo,
Mercury in Virgo, Venus in Libra and Saturn in Capricorn. In
later days Porphyry adopted this view.
This first year of the world, or initiation of the zodiac and the ~
planets, was called the Great Year. However, Manilius, Pliny,
Cicero, and Plutarch had another theory on the planetary con-
figuration that inaugurated the Great Year. They said Annus
Magnus started "at noon when the Vernal Equinox occurred
among the stars of Aries." They further supposed that every
planet was in Aries at that period. Ptolemy in his Tetrabiblos
insists the whole idea is fanciful and absolutely groundless. As-
trologers were inclined to accept Ptolemy's view until some years
ago when Sepharial, who was a good astrologer and astronomer
and a member of various British and French astronomical asso-
ciations, wrote in one of his books, The Scienceof Fore'Jcnowl
edge,18
that he had just read a letter from Mr. Samuel Stuart, of
Auckland, New Zealand, addressed to the British Astronomical
Association and published in their Journal:
In which he showsthat the tablesof Ptolcmywere quite inadequate
for any such retrospectivecalculationas that whichseemsto have been
11
TAe Seima of Pore/r..nowletl1e,
by Sepbarial(Pou)sbam
Co., 1g18).
THE ASTROLOGY OF THE ROMANS 109
made by Manilius. It is true that the Almagest of Ptolemy, although
thebestwork to which the second and third century writers had access,
isfaulty. But Plutarch, who wrote in the first century, could not have
madehis statements from knowledge of these tables of Ptolemy.
Manilius, writing in the year 45 B. c., must have had a more pro-
foundknowledge of celestial motions than astronomers at that period
arecredited with. This fact is borne out by the following statement of
Mr. Stuart:
By the aid of planetary cycles deduced from modern data we dis-
coverthat the date wanted is 39,734years prior to 18o1A.J.c. Then, if
weset back the Julian date of 18o1by 100,000
years, it becomes 1o6,514,
fromwhich taking 39,734,we have 66,78o,as the year required. And
onthe day preceding the mean equinox, which was Friday, January 14,
oldstyle,or Friday, March 23,new style, in that year, according to the
astronomicaldcments of Lcverrier, a calculation of the mean geocentric
places
of the Sun and planets yidds the fallowing curious results:
Neptune ................ .
Uran us ................. .
Saturn .................. .
Jupiter .................. .
Mars ................... .
Sun .................... .
Venus .................. .
Mercury ................ .
Thisgives us:
In the sign Pisces 4 planets:
Geocentric longitude
II signs and 9 degrees
o signs and 15 degrees
11 signs and 19 degrees
o signs and 25 degrees
o signs and 2 degrees
I I signs and 29 degrees
o signs and 27 degrees
11 signs and 19 degrees
N eptunc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 degrees Pisces
Mercury ........................ 19 degrees Pisces
Saturn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 degrees Pisces
Sun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 degrees Pisces
In the sign Aries 4 planets :
Mars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 degrees Aries
Uranus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15degrees Aries
Jupiter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 degrees Aries
Venus .......................... 27 degrees Aries
uo ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
In reference to this position of planets, Mr. Stuart remar ks~
So far as the Sun and the five planets known to the ancients are con•
cerned, the result looks strange enough, but the inclusion of Nept und
and Uranus seems extraordinary. In any case the calculations app ear
to show that the celestial positions which Plutarch seems to describe
actually took place, and within a reasonable period of the date to which~
in round numbers he approximates.... But if so much be granted , it
would militate strongly against all that we know as to the astrono my
of the ancients, and how they came by the knowledge of such a posi-
tion might be a very interesting matter.
I think that the more we know of ancient calendars and cd es--
tial constellations, whether in Egypt, Babylon, India or Maya,
the more we realize that the ancients worked ceaselesslyon star
observations and on planetary cyclesand eclipsesin a most amaz-
ing way. I also think that the art of astrology, since it causes
students to wonder what there is in the face of the heavens to
produce (or coincide in time with) any event, is the art which
kept astronomy alive through the centuries.
Section One of Zodiacal Pictures from Este, Egypt
Chapter 9
ASTROLOGY AND VARIOUS ROMAN EMPERORS
We are unjust; we never associate destiny with happiness.
. . . Why, when we try to sum up a man's destiny, do we k_eep
our eyes fixed only on the tears he shed, and never on his
smiles of joy?
MilTERLINCK, "Wisdom and Destiny."
E
VEllY Roman emperor had his astrologer. No doubt all the
Greek rulers had them too. History, however, has not re-
corded the Greek names as faithfully as the Roman ones.
We,however, know that Aratus lived at the court of the Mace-
donianking. Egyptians, Babylonians,Chaldeans, Persians, all had
courtastrologers, hence we need feel no surprise at the Roman
emperorshaving had faith in astrology, whether in pre-Christian
orin Christian times, and this in spite of the fact that these same
emperorsmade statute after statute against astrologers, from the
timeof Augustus Caesar down to Diocletian. The fashion of hav-
ingan astrologer at court continued with kings and emperors of
the Dark Ages and with those of the Middle Ages too. Kings
viedwith kings and nobles with nobles to obtain the best as-
trologers.
It has been fashionable in some circles to blame all the evil
deedsof the Roman emperors on their astrologers. I cannot see
thelogic of this.The emperors did not ask their astrologerswhat
theymorally ought to do; they merely enquired if a thing could
bedone or not. If the emperor wanted certain information and
the astrologers said no, the result as a rule would have been
dismissal,
with or without execution, and the finding of another
astrologerwho would be more obliging. Yet, in spite of this, we
arcfaced with the historical fact that almost without exception,
astrologersstated what they believed to be the truth,-and their
III
112 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
record for truth has been higher than that of men in other
walks of life.
Doctor Len Broughton 1
evidently had to combat the same
statements against Roman astrologers as we of today. Let me
quote him:
About 1830A.D. a man named Thomas Dick wrote The Improve-
ment of Society by the Diffusion of Knowledge. In the attack against
astrologers he states that the emperors of Rome had very many edicts
against them, but these criminal impostors [astrologers] were protected
by the citizens, hence there had to be so many edicts. . . . Arc we to
understand from Mr. Dick's argument that the people of Rome pro-
tected their mathematicians, or astrologers, when they knew them to
be frauds, and impostors, as they might have protected thieves, mur-
derers, bandits and pirates, knowing them to be such? Or did not the
Romans protect the astrologers because they knew them to be inno-
cent of any crime, and only persecuted by the emperor and senate for
some reason of their own-as we read in history of the British gov-
ernment persecuting the Roman Catholics, and driving them out of
the British Isles, and at other times persecuting the Presbyterians, Non-
conformists, and Puritans, and driving them to the wilds of America
... and, if the astrologers had been driven out of Rome, would it have
made them any worse citizens than the Pilgrim Fathers, who were
driven out of England on account of adhering to their religious beliefs?
Augustus Caesar was the grandnephew of Julius Caesar, and
as everyone knows, when Julius was assassinated,the conspirators
had to be suppressed by force of arms, by land battles and by
the great sea battle of Actium, before Octavian, as Augustus had
formerly been called, could come to the throne. As we have read,
Cicero's friend, Nigidius Figulus, is said to have promised Oc-
tavian quite early in life that he would be emperor, but in the
stress of civil war, Octavian secretly consulted Theogenius who
confirmed the fact that he would surdy be emperor. As this
came to pass, and Octavian assumed the title of Augustus Caesar,
he seems to have patronized two other astrologers, one named
1
Ekments of Astrology, L. D. Broughton, MD., New York, 1906.
ASTROLOGY AND VARIOUS ROMAN EMPERORS 113
Arcus and the other Athenodorus. In fact the Augustan era was
one notable for astrology. Manilius wrote astrology. Poets, his-
torians and orators used astrology. One of the best known
orators of the period, after Cicero had perished ignobly in the
Civil War, was Arellius Fuscus, who said in one of his speeches,
"Let us lift up our minds by means of astrology which reveals
to us the future, and be£ore the appointed hour of death, let us
,taste the pleasures of the blest."
Mark Antony too had his astrologers, one of them presented
to him by Cleopatra. Since Mark Antony had very little luck
after he met Cleopatra, the task of his astrologer must have been
very difficult. Probably if the astrologer had suggested he would
be better off without her, Cleopatra would have called him an
ungrateful wretch, and Mark Antony would have refused to
believe him, for, as I said before, most people want an astrologer
to tell them how to achieve and to hold everything they want,
good or bad.
Augustus Caesar had no sons but he had a stepson Tiberius.
When Tiberius was a young man, he grew so tired of all the in-
trigues of his mother, Livia, who wished him to be the heir to
the throne, and he was so disgusted with his wife, Julia, that he
slippedaway from Rome and went to Rhodes. There he decided
to consult Thrasyllus the Elder, in order to find out whether
Augustus would make him heir to the throne or not. It is said
that Tiberius, who was always noted for his cruelty,2
intended
to murder Thrasyllus after consulting him, but the astrologer,
after consulting the horoscope, perceived this. In his reading,
therefore, he told Tiberius truly that he would become the
emperor. Then he went on to say that his own (Thrasyllus')
death was timed for about the same period as that of Tiberius.
Needless to say the young man did not carry out his intention
of murdering him, but perceiving that he was a good astrologer,
he showed him great friendship. When Tiberius was recalled
to Rome, Thrasyllus accompanied him, and after Tiberius be-
2 Nevertheless, Dante puts him in his Paradiso! (Paradiso,vi, 86).
114 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
came emperor, Thrasyllus became the court astrologer. He is
said to have died in the year 36 A.D. which was the year before the
death of Tiberius, all of which goes to prove that he was not
lying when he made his first famous prediction. Tiberius expelled
the other astrologers, as far as he was able, from Rome. Tacitus
and many other writers speak of Thrasyllus. His son of the same
name was an astrologer too, Thrasyllus the Younger. He is
credited with having foretold to Nero that he would be emperor.•
Tiberius Caesar was murdered and was succeeded by Caligula.
It was Cornelius Felix Sulla, the descendant of the dictator Sulla,
who read the chart of Caligula and foretold that he would be the
coming ruler.
In the year 19 A.D. Germanicus, the nephew of Tiberius and
brother of Claudius, went to Egypt. Here he consulted the oracle
of Apis and was told he would come to an untimely end. He is
supposed to have died of poisoning. He seems to have been a
much finer type than Claudius and was interested in all the arts
and sciences, writing various comedies and making a Latin trans-
lation of Aratus. He also wrote a poem called Prognostica,which
he derived not only from Aratus' poem but from other Greek
sources.
Nero, who reigned from 54-68
A.D.,
was educated by Seneca who,
being a Stoic, was also a student of astrology.
Otho was emperor for three months and two days, but he had 1
consulted an astrologer named Ptolemaeus, who predicted he
would achieve the throne. Otho murdered his way into power,
but as some of the legions were for Vitellius, he fought a while
and then committed suicide.
When Vitellius ascended the throne he wanted to expel all
the Chaldeans, but several of them told him that the day when
he should sign such a decree would be the day of his death. He
only reigned for one year (6cy]OA.D.)but on the day when he
made his proclamation he was captured and murdercd,-and
not by the astrologers.
Vcspasian had for his astrologers Seleucus and Barbillus, the
ASTROLOGY AND VARIOUS ROMAN EMPERORS 115
latterhaving been one of Nero's astrologers. Vespasian, however,
expelledall the other astrologers he found in Rome.
Evidently the astrologers came back, for Domitian (81-g6),
whenhe came to the throne, made another edict banishing all
astrologers.This was partly because he knew that if they looked
at his horoscope (and they probably knew it by heart) they
wouldperceive that he had murdered his brother Titus in order
to obtain the empire. Being banished, the astrologers sent mes-
sagesto their friends in Rome and gave him no peace. They
ddinitdy named the day when he himself should suffer the
samefate as his brother, and they even named the hour. It was
tobewhen the Moon entered a certain degree of Aquarius. The
dayarrived. Domitian wilted. He retired to his chambers and
lockedhimself in, crying out that if he was murdered when the
Moonwas in Aquarius, Aquarius should thenceforth be called
thebloody sign, and not the sign of the waterman. Stephanus,
afreedman, waited most of the day outside the door, then called
outthat he had an important message to give the emperor con-
cerningthe conspirators. He cried out too that the fatal degree
ofAquarius was past Domitian opened the door and Stephanus
stabbedhim to death.
It is also recorded that Titus, whom Domitian had murdered,
hadearned the friendship of the learned Apollonius of Tyana.
Wchave no record that Apollonius ever told him he would meet
anuntimely death. It would seem as if all the kings and nobles
ofthisperiod might have known that they were potential targets,
henceall an astrologer could do would beto pick out the violent
days
and ask that particular care be taken in doubling the guards.
Butas guards were often bribed or went over to the conspirators,
suchfactors were part of destiny,-a destiny which all peopl~
recognizein such a saying as, "If a man is born to be hanged
hewill never be drowned."
Apollonius of Tyana (born about 4 B.c.)was one of the most
remarkablemen who have ever lived if we are to believe all
thathistory and legend have recorded of him. We have to dis-
u6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
tinguish between him and a great host of men of the same name;
for example, there was Apollonius of Laodicea who is said to
have written five books on astrology. The manuscript of these is
preserved in the Bibliotheque Nationale. He was possibly many
years anterior to Apollonius of Tyana. Then of course there
was Apollonius of Myndos, the famous astrologer of the time
of Alexander the Great. ·
Apollonius of Tyana belonged to the sect of the Pythagorcans.
He was a great traveller, even visiting India. When he returned
to Rome, Nero had just given an order that all astrologers and
magicians should leave the city, hence Apollonius was arrested.
On being brought before the judge he convinced him that he
was a real student and was released. This would seem to indicate
that some of the antagonism directed against the various Chai-
deans was due to their insufficient knowledge of the scientific
art. Apollonius is credited with having helped Vespasian to the
throne. The story is that Vespasian begged him to make him
emperor. Vespasian, like many modern people, apparently had
the idea that an astrologer makes things come to pass, instead
of merely noting that such and such a thing would, or would not,
be in line with possibilities and potentialities as seen in the horo- i
scope. Apollonius quietly remarked, "I have already helped you 1
to become emperor by praying to the gods for a just and venerable !
sovereign."
Titus was the son of Vespasian and was beloved of Apollonius.
Domitian, however, hated both Titus and the seer. The former
he murdered but the latter escaped. Some say it was Apollonius
who foresaw the hour and manner of Domitian's murder, for I
history records that at the very moment when it was being
per-;
petrated, Appollonius who was in Ephesus cried out, "That is i
right, Stephanus, slay the murderer."
Apollonius wrote various books on divination by the stars,
on geometry and on astronomy. Some of these have come down
to us. He died in 97 A.D. and was awarded divine honors. Coins
were struck in his memory and temples were built in his honor.
ASTROLOGY AND VARIOUS ROMAN EMPERORS 117
The case of the Emperor Hadrian (76-138)is very interesting.
Healsoissued many edicts against astrologers, but he was a very
fine astrologer himself.Every year he wrote out daily predictions
for himself in advance. When the year came that he must predict
the date of his own death, he unflinchingly set it forth. Hadrian's
action, therefore, in making edicts against astrologers, may be
another case where learned astrologers were excepted. He was a
capable ruler, a great builder, and a patron of all the arts and
.
SClCllCeS.
In Rome stands the Antoninc Column, erected in honor of the
victories of Antoninus Pius. Carved at the base of the column is
a representation of Jupiter Pluvius,-Jupiter, the god of Rain,-
Jupitcr, the ruler of Pisces.
The story of how Jupiter Pluvius came to be carved on the
Antonine Column is very interesting. Historians speak of the
event as "the miracle of the thundering rain."
It seems that a revolution against Roman rule had broken out
among the Germanic tribes near the Danube. Antoninus (138-161)
had to find troops immediately to quell the disturbance. But
thiswas no easy task, for plague had been raging for many
months in Rome and the surrounding territory, and many of
the Emperor's best legions were no more. Money was scarce, for
no one had been able to work. The situation was most critical.
Antoninus with his calm deliberate temperament, collected men
from whatever source he could. He had them drilled as best he
could. He sold his crown jewels and much of the fwniture aµd
ornaments from his palace in order to get money to equip and
payhisnew troops, and he set out with them towards the Danube.
He was handicapped from the start, and on arriving at the
scene of the rebellion, he found that in every engagement his
undertrained troops were no match for the enemy. At length
he was smrounded. He and his troops were on a hill, and below
in the valley on all sides were seething hordes of barbarians. His
retreat was cut off. To Antoninus death was nothing to be
feared. The great philosopher was calm and collected. He be-
n8 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
lieved that what was best would always happen, but his army;
was not composed of philosophers. They were almost in a state:
of panic, but were prepared to sell their lives dearly.
One morning destruction seemed certain. The enemy were
beginning to advance up the hill. Slowly and surely they were
mounting towards the Romans. Then a certain astrologer, Julianus
the Chaldean, asked an audience of the emperor. Antoninus,
adopted son of the Emperor Hadrian, and therefore having some
knowledge of astrology, graciously granted this, and to his sur-
prise Julianus told him to have no fear, for help would come at
noon and this would be just before the enemy could reach them
in force. Julianus evidently had a strong dramatic sense, for he
said that he had called on Jupiter Pluvius for help and Jupiter
had appeared to him promising definite help to the Roman
army at noon, and this, too, he had seen in the horoscope.
There wasn't a cloud in sight. Did Antoninus believe Julianw?
At least Antoninus believed in the gods. The enemy were creep-
ing up on all sides. Destruction seemed imminent. Noon was
approaching. In a few minutes the great masses would attack.
Suddenly and without warning there were terrific volleys of
thunder. The skies darkened. A fury of hailstones swept through
the mountains. Then the rain descended in such floods and with
such force that the barbarians in terror rushed madly down the
hill while the noise and cannonading of the thunder con-
tinued. The valleys were flooded and many lost their lives trying
to struggle home. For days the valleys lay under flood.The
enemy troops scattered and finally Antoninus and his men were
able to descend safely. And such enthusiasm surged over them,
and so great courage possessed them, because their lives had been
saved by Jupiter Pluvius, that in all succeeding encounters with
the enemy they were victorious. So, on his return home, An-
toninus had the Antoninc Column erected, and carved at the base
was the miracle of the "thundering legions" of the god.
People have said that Julianus was not an astrologer but a
psychic. The evidence is against them. He was surnamed Thcur-
ASTROLOGY AND VARIOUS ROMAN EMPERORS 119
gus, and three fragments of an astrological treatise by him are
extant. Plato was right. A general should know astrology, if only
to predict the weather.
In York Minster, England, is a monument in honor of the
Emperor Severns (193-211). Severns, though ruler of all the
Romans, was a most able astrologer. Rebellion had broken out in
the colony of Britain. Sevcrus,instructed by his astrology,informed
the leaders at Rome that he would and could be successful in
putting down the rebellion, but that the stars told him that he
would never again return to Rome. How many people today
would have had the courage to do what they conceived to be
their duty, in the face of such a prediction? He went to Britain.
He put down the rebellion and shortly afterwards was overcome
with fever at York and died there.
Sevcrus is said to have had on the roof of his palace at Rome
every kind of instrument for making star observations. The
second wife of Severus, the Empress Julia, was also a devotee of
astrology. Dion Cassius the historian tells us that she spent "a
large part of her time in the study of judicial astrology." We are
also told that when looking for a second wife, Severns had con-
sulted various astrologers, one of whom told him of a Syrian
woman to whom it had been predicted that whoever married her
would one day be emperor. This was Julia, whom he married.
Sevcrus was succeeded by his fiendish son Caracalla, who
reigned for six years. In his mother's own apartment he murdered
hisbrother, lest the latter share with him the throne. Caracalla was
evidently very psychic, for ever afterwards he was tormented in
dreams and while waking, by the ghosts of his father and of his
brother. He seems to have become maniacal, for in every city he
visited he murdered citizens by the thousands, even in far off
Alexandria.
His mother Julia opened a letter which came to him
from the governor of Rome, warning Caracalla that he had
learned from an African astrologer that Macrinus would soon
be emperor. Julia immediately sent the letter to her son, but the
young man was busy chariot driving, and could not be annoyed
120 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
opening it. He therefore told the messenger to hand it to Macrinus
to read aloud. Caracalla laughed aloud as he listened. Probably
Macrinus tried to laugh too, but he meditated. Some weeks later,
an Egyptian astrologer, named Serapion,8
warned the emperor,
face to face, that very soon he would come to an evil end for his
wickedness. The young despot had Serapion executed. But Rome
was tired of Caracalla's tyranny and massacres. A conspiracy was
started to put Macrinus on the throne, and Caracalla was mur-
dered by an officer named Martialis.
Later in Roman history we have the story of Alexander Severus
(222-235).His death occurred during his last campaign against
the Gauls. On the way to Mainz, we are told, he met a Druid "'
who warned him to return to Rome. He refused to do so. Then
an astrologer foretold that he would be killed. It seems that
Maximinus, one of the commanders of the legion, turned traitor,
stirring up the army against Alexander, and saying that he was
so ruled, or overruled, by his mother, that he was not fit to be
emperor. As the soldiers marched towards the emperor's tent
the guards fled. His mother ran out to entreat for him, but this
merely infuriated the men the more, because they hated her for
her avaricious ways as well as for her influence over her son.
The army leaders rushed into the tent and Alexander cried
out that his mother's penuriousness and avarice had undone him.
He promised to distribute large sums of money, but to no avail,
and he was brutally put to death. Maximinus was emperor for
three years and then suffered a like fate.
The story of these Roman emperors, with very few exceptions,
is a sordid tale of murderers and cut-throats. They were a sorry
lot. Who was to blame for such a state of things? The great Stoic
philosopher Seneca was the schoolmaster of one of the worst
of these emperors,-Nero. Ot_hershad the advantage of living
in days when both St. Peter and St. Paul were subjects of theirs
and visiting Rome. Evidently most of them were too bad to
8
Li11es
of tl,e Roman Empresses,by de Scrviez (Wm. H. Wise Co., 1935).
4
Ibid.
ASTROLOGY AND VARIOUS ROMAN EMPERORS 121
learn &om precept or example.They needed strong control. There
was a Roman senate and senators, who were supposed to exercise
control, but if the senators could not, or would not, try to keep
the emperors in check and insist that they behave like decent
citizens, certainly the astrologers, who had no legal power or
rights at all, ought not to be blamed for the sins of the emperors
of Rome.
*
,
Section Two of Zodiacal Pictures from Este, Egypt
Chapter 10
THE ZODIACS OF DENDERAH AND ESTE
Why did not SOf1¥oneteach me the constellations and make
me at home in the starry heat1ens,which are always overhead,
and which I don't half k_nowto this day?
THOMAS CARLYLE.
F
EW authorities are prepared to assign a definite date to the
zodiacs of Denderah and Este. In 17g8Napoleon started his
ill-starred expedition to Egypt. Although the French occu-
pation was of short duration, it led to a tremendous revival of
interest in all Egyptian antiquities. I once read a book written
by a French author of the period when the circular zodiac of
Denderah was on its journey to Paris. Evidently all Paris was agog
with excitement, and discussion as to its great age was rife in the
Paris newspapers of the period. The learned author was full of
cxpostulatory horror at the idea of anything that might prove
the world was created be£
ore 4004B.c.,hence he wrote to prove
that it was post-Christian,-and all this was established in his
mind before he had even seen the zodiac. ·
The Honorable Emmeline Plunkett says:1
Volumes of controversy have been written concerning the astro-
nomical teachings of the ceilings of the temples of Denderah and Edfu,
as to the colures amongst the fixed stars ••• The date astronomically
referred to in these designs was claimed by some to be about 4000B.c.,
but when it is proved that these temples had been restored in Ptolemaic
times, and the ceilings probably redecorated then, the high claims put
forward for the first imaginings of these astronomers could no longer
with certainty be upheld. A strong reaction in opinion took place, and
it was again asserted that the Egyptians were probably not even
acquainted with the so-calledGrecian twelve-fold division of the ecliptic
until after the introduction of Grecian culture into Egypt. To seekfor
1
E. Plunkett,.Ancient Calmdorsand Conmllations (John Murray).
122
THE ZODIACS OF DENDERAH AND ESTE 123
allusions, in ancient Egyptian mythology or art, to any of the twelve
zodiacal signs was, therefore, a much discouraged attempt.
But if the ceilings of the Dcnderah and Edfu temples arc rendered
suspect by their Ptolemaic restoration, the same objection cannot be
raised against the evidence borne by the ceiling of an Egyptian build-
ing, which has certainly not been restored in Ptolemaic times. In the
Description de l1
Egypte1 we find a careful drawing of a "Tableau
astronontjque au plafond de l'un des tombcaux des rois." In the
central portion on either side of this ceiling a monstrous hippopotamus
and crocodile are represented . . . The monstrous hippopotamus and
crocodile, arc, I am strongly inclined to believe, representations, not of
any particular constellation, but rather of the solstitial and equinoctial
colurcs .•.
It seems that, on investigation, archaeologists found an inscrip-
tion stating that the Temple of Dendcrah, or a portion of it, was
restored in the time of Tiberius Caesar. Marsham Adams com-
menting on this says: 2
With equal justice might one of our own mediaeval churches be
ascribed to the close of the 18th century, on the strength of an inscrip-
tion recording in gilt letters the important circumstance of its white-
washing by the churchwardens ..
In Chapter 6 of his Book of the Master, Adams gives a very
vivid account of the construction of the Temple. He says:
But of the antiquity of the original building there can be no ques-
tion. For while, as Professor Dumichen has observed, the religious
ceremonies on the walls belong to a very remote period, the inscriptions
recount how Thotmes III (more than 1500 years s.c.) gave command to
rebuild the temple according to the ancient design, so that at that
period the plan was already reckoned as antique. Further, the same
records tell us how that original building was erected by Pcpi, a mon-
arch of the Sixth Dynasty, who reigned 19 centuries before the time
of Thotmes, and how even that was not the farthest point to which the
history of the structure ascended. For the plan upon which Pepi
rdigiously carried out the ancient design did not originate in his own
aW..ManhamAdams, Bookof tl,e Master (G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1898).
124 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
mind, but was brought to light by him from a crypt, or secret chambcrJ
being written in "archaic characters," says the record, by K.hufuhim-
self,the astronomer-architect of the Fourth Dynasty, and buried by
him on the spot eight hundred years before the time of Pepi.
Thus, according to Adams, the original temple was planned
4,200 s.c. and erected 3,400 B.c.The problem then is, how much
restoration was given to the zodiacs or planisphcres which are
depicted on the ceilings and walls.
There are two zodiacs of Denderah:
(1) The circtrlar one, from the ceiling of the temple. (Sec
Diagram 12,p. 125.)
(2) The straight one, which formed the mural decoration. (Sec
Diagrams inside front and back covers.)
Achilles Tatius, who may have lived any time between the
second and the sixth centuries A.D., and who is said to have
written a work on the Sphere and also a Commentary on Aratus,
which Commentary is mentioned by Firmicus, tells us that the
Babylonian and Egyptian names for the constellations were very
di.ff
erent from those of the Greeks. The Greeks borrowed many
of the names of the constellations from their own heroes and
• mythology. They also used for the Balance, the Claws of the
Scorpion, and it was not until about the time of Julius Caesar
that they used the Balance (sec Diagram 13,p. 127), which they
took over from Egyptian zodiacs. Now, the zodiacs of Denderah
do contain the Balance, so, if the temple was built in the Roman
period, it must have been constructed after the time of Julius
Caesar, but on the other hand, if made any time before Julius
Caesar, then it was definitely Egyptian. Also, in the circular zodiac,
we find the leg or thigh used as a symbol for the Great Bear (or
Dipper), whence it would appear that when the repainting and
restoration took place, the men were working over copies of con-
stellations which are many epochs earlier than that of Julius Caesar,
for none of the Romans used the leg as a symbol of the Great Bear.
The circular zodiac contains several constellations symbolized
differently from those to which we are accustomed in our modern
THE ZODIACS OF DENDERAH AND ESTE 125
D1AGllAM 12. 1.odiacof Denderah. In the center is the ox-leg or thigh. Close to this
the female hippopotamus with her sacrificial knife.
126 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
star maps; for example, as we said before, the leg for the Great
Bear. The ox-leg apparently was a very malefic constellation to
the Egyptians, for in their pictures we sometimes sec Horus
engaged in fighting a very much alive ox leg. Then, note on the
circular zodiac the female hippopotamus, who was supposed to
be very kindly and to preside over child birth. She carries a
sacrificial knife which looks very much like an umbrella. Around
these we have the ram, the bull, the twins (male and female),
the crab, the lion, the virgin (carrying a sistrum), the scales, the
scorpion, the centaur (with bow and arrow), the goat with a
fish tail), the waterman, and the two fishes (tied with the Tri-
angle constellation). Note that the signs are in reverse order to
our modern method. This practice of putting signs in reverse
order is one that has at various times caused much criticism of
astrology. The Hindus do it quite frequently. It is all a question
of which way the spectator is looking,-the point of observation.
It is not due to ignorance,-not among the ancients. In our ordi-
nary horoscopes they are drawn as though we look south. The
zodiac or planisphere of Denderah was supposed to be a picture
of the heavens as the Pharaoh saw them when he looked north.
The artist represents the heavens as being supported by twelve
figures, which might represent the twelve signs, but perhaps more
likely the twelve house divisions. Four of these figures are female,
supporting the four fixed signs, and the other eight figures arc
separate ones of Horus, with interlocking arms.
The straight zodiac of Denderah is equally fascinating, as it
portrays a drama of initiation. Note the two lines of figures all
enclosed by the sky goddess.3
On the lower line we start with the sun and moon, the latter
represented by the Crab. From the sun, rays are seen pouring
forth. Within the rays is a wall and in the wall is disclosed a
door. This is the door of initiation which the candidate will have
to reach and enter after all his travels, in order that he may enter
the temple of the Sun-god, and become one with him.
a Sec List of Diagrams after Table of Contents.
THE ZODIACS OF DENDERAH AND ESTE 127
GRAECO-EGYPTIAN ZODIAC
DIAGRAM 13. Graeco-Egyptian Zodiac. Six of the signs are shown
along the path of the ecliptic,-Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and
Sagittarius. Libra, at the point of intersection of the ecliptic and equator,
is upheld by the Claw of the Scorpion.
Next, note that the .figuresalong the lower level all travel in one
direction,-away from the Sun, that is, on the road of experience
outwards or into manifestation, whereas those on the upper level
travel in the reverse direction, that is, on the path of the return
to the Sun god. Each sign of the zodiac is accompanied by gods
128 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
and symbols which give clues to the meanings and concepts
attached to the signs. As we said before, the start is from the sign
Cancer, the womb of universal' experience and incarnation. Wc
might note the little boat in which the goat (Capricorn) is seen
standing. As the line progresses we see him quite obstreperous,
but at the end of the line he is held tightly by the horns. This
would seem to show the rise into activity and the final discipline
of the qualities of Capricorn,-pridc and ambition. After Cancer,
on the upper line, we find Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces and
Aquarius, all in reverse order of the zodiac.
The upper line of activity discloses Capricorn, Sagittarius,
Scorpio, Libra and Virgo (quite mutilated, but showing a female
head and enough of the body to make us think she might have
been carrying an image of a small child in her hands), and lastly
the royal sign Leowhich brings us to the door of the Sun.
Evidently, then, the signs from Cancer to Aquarius, that is,
those on the left side of our horoscope wheels, were considered
signs of outgoing experience, the development of body and mind,
whereas the remaining six from Capricorn to the Sun were signs
where one brought back the harvest of experience. We shall
return to this dual division of the horoscope when we deal with
the Neo-Platonists.
From the Temple d'Este,4
or Temple of the East, we have also
two lines of pictures. These arc apparently of later date than the
Denderah ones and portray an initiation scene. We find that, on
the lower line, all the figures travel to the left. They pass through
Pisces, Aquarius, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo and Leo.
On the top line, all the figures travel to the right and pass
through Leo (again), Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries and Pisces.
The last figure portrays the candidate for initiation enthroned,
with the god Osiris behind. But behind Osiris stands the wraith,
or soul, or spirit-body of the candidate. He has returned to the
god, after life's experiences.
4
Sec List of Diagrams after Table of Contents.
THE ZODIACS OF DENDERAH AND ESTE 129
In comparing the two sets of pictures of initiation from Den--
dcrahand Este, I should conclude that the former portrays initia--
tion considered as a process undergone by the Sun-god himself,
whereas the latter portrays initiation undergone by human bc--
ings. The two are concepts fundamental to any understanding
of astrology asit wasconceived in the days when it wasinseparable
from religion.
'TulnR
Section Three of Zodiacal Pictures from Estc, Egypt
Chapter II
THE LATERROMAN EMPIRE·AND BVZANTIUM
Every star communicates with every other star, and with man,
bysending out electrical waves.
MICHAEL PUPIN.
O
NE can hardly understand the history of astrology in early
days without taking cognizance of the fact that the
Romans were great road builders. What strikes one most
forcibly in reading the lives of Greek and Roman teachers is how
extensively they travelled and taught in all countries,-Syria,
Egypt, North Africa, Greece, Rome, Spain, France and Britain.
In fact, the teachers then seemed to travel more than they do
now in these days of cheap tours, and we must remember, too,
that they were extremely poor, and so were the itinerant scholars
who also wandered from city to city and from country to country
in search of knowledge. On the whole, the peasantry of Europe
throughout the ages has always been exceedingly kind and hos-
pitable to poor scholars. Then, under Roman rule, roads were
built everywhere that "led to Rome," and when the monasteries
were £ounded, if the state or municipality did not keep the roads
in order, the monks kept at least the road to the next monastery
clear.
Gibbon, in his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, lays
great stress on this ability to travel during the days of the Roman
Empire. He says:
An easy and perpetual intercourse by land and sea connected the
provinces of the Roman world; and the life of Hilarion displays the
facility with which an indigent hermit of Palestine might traverse
Egypt, embark for Sicily, escape to Epirus, and finally settle in the
island of Cyprus ••. disciplesof Anthony [the monk] went to Bangor,
Flint and Iona • • • [in Great Britain].
130
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 131
Also,we must not think that books written by various authors
werelimited to the one original copy. We know that there were
largegroups of men called scribes. Some of the more prosperous
andmore businesslike of these men trained their own slavesfrom
boyhood
up to write well, hence we read of great scribes, who
were really the publishers of the period, running quite large
establishmentswhere one overseerwould dictate to a whole room-
ful of slave-scribes, sentence by sentence throughout the day,
whiledaylight lasted.
One of the most unfortunate literary lossesis that of Plutarch's
Life of Aratus. In this we might have read many stories of a
manwho was born not for an age but £or all time, if we may
judgeby the great number of learned men who have written
Commentarieson his poem,the Phenomena. We might also from
thishave learned more of Plutarch's own astronomical and as-
trologicalconcepts.
Plutarch(c. 46-120 A.D.) was born in Breotia.He lived in Greece,
inAlexandria and in Rome. When we come to the chapter on the
Arabs,
we shall see that Plutarch had made considerable research
into the ~roastrian or Sabian rdigion. His writings contain
manystories of astrologers and astrology. He followed in the
footstepsof Aristarchus, for he studied in the school which had
originallybeen founded by Aristarchus, at the time when it was
underthe leadership of Ammonius of Alexandria, who took
chargeabout 66 A.D. In this way the learning of the Greeks con-
tinuedin a direct line of successionthroughout the first century
A.o.,
for Ammonius was a pupil of Alexander of Aegae, who in
turn y.,asa pupil of Sosigenes, the peripatetic astronomer who
hadhelped Julius Caesar reform the calendar. Alexander, like
Seneca,
had the "honor'' of being a preceptor of the emperor
Nero.He wrote Commentaries on the Meteorology of Aristotle
andalsoon his Metaphysics.
Followingin the footsteps of Hippocrates, the physician, with
hisbeliefin Critical Days, as found astrologically, was Claudius
Galen,
a native of Pergamusin Mysia,born towards the end of
1.32 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
130 A.D., close to the time when Ptolemy wrote his Tet,abihlos.
Galen continually emphasizes the necessity of knowing the posi-
tion of the transiting Moon during the progress of disease,and
its relationship to the planets in the birth chart of a patient. The
complete horoscope was thus necessary in his diagnoses, and
concerning these diagnoses, he makes the statement, "With the
assistance of the Deity, I have never been wrong." It would
appear that Galen became interested in astrology because his
father had been a most profound student of this subject. Galen
tells us that "Disease is contrary to nature and must be overcome
by that which is contrary to the disease itself, but nature is pre-
served by that which has relation to nature."
Galen became physician-astrologer to the emperors M. Aurelius
and L. Verus, when they were in Venetia on the North West
frontier. Plague broke out among the troops and the emperors
decided to return to Rome. Galen accompanied them but he was
not able to save Verus from dying of plague.
Many of Galen's works have come down to us. They were
largely compiled by Actius and Oribasius. In the ninth century
his works were translated into Arabic, chiefly through the efforts
of Honain hen Ishak. It is quite possible that Galen may have
read Ptolemy or even have conferred personally with him. In
any case, Galen's and Ptolemy's views on medicine have much in
common.
Censorius or Censorinus was a Roman who flourished about
236 A.D. He was a great student and exponent of the principles
of astrology. He compiled a treatise entitled De DieNatali,which
gives the complete astrological concepts and theories concerning
the generation of man, his natal hour and its influence on his life
and career. He explains in detail all the various methods em-
ployed for the division of, and calculation of, time. This book
contains so much valuable information concerning various sys-
tems of time, that it was very widely read at the period when it
was written, and it has since become a reference bookon all these
matters. Censorinus spoke of astrology, but he delved, too, into
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 133
all kinds of problems related to astronomy, mathematics, geogra-
phy and music.
About the period when Ccnsorinus lived, we find that people
were not only interested in astrology, but also in palmistry and
physiognomy. Polemon about this time brought out his book on
Physiognomy. This latter is a subject very much related to as-
trology, where every sign has its own particular form which it
seeks to impress on an individual. It may not always be possibleto
judge immcdiatdy what the Sun sign is of the person one looks
at, because its ruler and ruler's placement among the signs,
together with the Ascendant, act as modifying agents on the Sun
sign. Nevertheless, it is amazing how various astrologers can
quickly obtain from observation, either the Sun sign, Moon sign,
or Ascendant of birth.
We must mention here the far-reaching influence of the Neo-
Platonic School of Philosophers, who were not necessarily as-
trologers by profession,but whose tremendous interest in astrology
brought an apparently new philosophical content into the doc-
trines of astrology. The School had been founded by Ammonius
Saccas, who lived about 170-243A.D. Among his disciples were
Longinus (c. 210-273), Plotinus (c. 204-270), and Origen
(c. 186-250).Plotinus investigated the claims of astrology and
found them to be just. He, therefore, not only worked hard and
assiduously himself, but urged his students also to make researches
into astrology.
Porphyry (c. 233-303)was a student first of Longinus (who
later became a tutor to Zenobia in Palmyra), and then of Plotinus.
Porphyry was strongly Saturnian and very pessimistic. At one
time he had decided on suicide, but Plotinus, who had studied
Porphyry's chart,_knew this and came to him, explaining how
this Saturnian aspect might be overcome and life made interesting
and useful again. And Porphyry, as he listened to the philosophi-
cal reasoning which Plotinus gave as to why he had been assigned
such a chart, gave up all thought of suicide. From this we can
sec that the Neo-Platonic astrology was not fatalistic (though
134 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Longinus did take his own life, but not until he had been sen-
tenced to death by the Emperor Aurelian for assisting Zenobia
to revolt). Neither Plotinus nor Origen considered astrology to
be fatalistic. They said that the planets were set in the heavens "for
signs as well as seaso·ns,"for so it is stated in the first chapter of
Genesis. Now, since Origen was a shining light in the Eastern
Church, we see that astrology would attract more learned men
in the Eastern Roman Empire than in the Western part of the
Empire, where St. Augustine later, in the fourth and fifth centu-
ries, started to thunder against it, and against a great many other
studies, too.
Porphyry wrote the Lives of Plotinus and of Pythagoras, also
a Commentary on Plato's Timeeus, which gives us his philosophi-
cal attitude towards astrology. Man, in his descent from on high,
travels down through the planets and receives the qualities of
each planetary spirit, before he comes to earth. Certain well-
meaning critics have tried to clear Porphyry's name of astrological
interests, but I am afraid this is not possible, for Porphyry wrote
a Commentary on the Tetrabiblos of Ptolemy. A translation of
this Commentary was printed in Basic in 1559.Several critics
in their efforts to deny his astrological leanings have tried to
prove that this Commentary was not written by Porphyry at all.
They say it was written by a man named Antiochus, but as these
critics cannot say who Antiochus was, nor give the date nor
period when he lived, it may be just as well to give Porphyry
credit for it. In any case, the Commentary exists and bears Por-
phyry's name, and it shows that interest in astrology was not
waning in the third century A.D.
Astrologers, however, have no doubt whatsoever that Porphyry
was a real astrological genius. His method of the division of the
heavens in regard to the determination of house cusps, became
a major study from his own day down to the present Its fol-
lowers today include E. H. Bailey of the British /ournal of
Astrology. The "Porphyry Method" was in force until Rcgio- I
montanus, Campanus and Placidus de Titus worked on house
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 135
division and each brought forward his own system. House divi-
sion is a subject which only astrologers who are also good
astronomers, can tackle, hence we see that the Neo-Platonic School
were scientific astrologers and not merely nebulous theorists.
Porphyry tells us that if we consider each planet as being in
its own sign, and then divide the horoscope into two halves,
letting the line of intersection run from Leo to Aquarius (see
Diagram 9 •) we have a·solar and a lunar division of the signs.
From Leo to the end of Capricorn is solar, and from Aquarius to
the end of Cancer is lunar. (By solar and lunar we mean here
positive and negative signs.) This thought is also contained in
the work of Macrobius in the fifth century A.D. There is much
truth in this division as I discovered for myself when writing
some research material on Pluto a few years ago, for in consider-
ing the division I was able to observe the action of Pluto more
readily. It has interested me therefore, to find out that this divi-
sion was apparently known from very ancient times and was kept
alive down to Porphyry's time and later. I came across my
first clue to the antiquity of the idea in reading Lenormant's
Beginningsof History 1
where he says, quoting Eckel: "It is this
system that the coins of Antioch in Syria indicate, stamped with
the sidereal Ram, and above it the bust of Mars, which planet
has its lunar domicile in this sign." Since Aries, the Ram, is in
general parlance a masculine sign, it is not immediately obvious
how it can be feminine or lunar unless we know of this mascu-
line and feminine division of the whole zodiac.
In 321 A.D. the Emperor Constantine, who changed the status
of the Roman Empire from pagan to Christian, issued an edict
threatening all "Chaldeans," magi, etc., with death, but on the
other hand Julius Firmicus Maternus, the imperial notary of
Byzantium, seems to have been entirely immune, although he
was one of astrology's foremost exponents and writers, and his
name became famous in his own age and remained so among
• Sec p. 47•
1
Lenormant, B~ginnings of History (Charles Scribner's Sons).
136 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
astrologers throughout succeeding centuries. His birth date docs
not appear to have been recorded, but he must have written after
334A.D., for he mentions the eclipse of that year. This was four
years after the seat of empire had been changed to Constantinople.
He wrote one book called De Fine Vitae and another De Domino
Geniturae, but his crowning achievement was Libri Matheseous#
or his Eight Books on Judicial Astrology, which were, he says,
according to the "discipline of the Egyptians and Babylonians."
Just how much he owed to Manilius is not clear. He does not
mention him. His book has come down to us as it survived the
sack of Constantinople in 1453,and was soon afterwards printed
in Europe. Book One is a defence of the study. Books Two to
Four define terms and give various maxims..Books Five to Eight
are devoted to aspects.In these books he includes horoscopes and
among them are those of Paris, Homer, Plato, Archimedes, etc.
It is Firmicus who brings out the fact that both Julius Caesar
and Cicero had translated Aratus. He mentions that he himself
had written a book on health and disease, that is, on medical
astrology, and that in this book he followed the work of Necepso.
Unfortunately this book is not extant.
Pappus and Thcon of Alexandria flourished about this time.
Both seem to have been good mathematicians. Pappus made a
Commentary on Ptolemy, and Theon continued the matter by
making Comments on the work of Pappus. From this period
we find almanacs by Christian writers, that is, pamphlets giving
times for planting, the phases of the Moon, the position of the
heavenly bodies, and also Christian feasts and fast days.
In the latter part of the fourth century, we are told by Suidas
that Paulus of Alexandria wrote two works on astrology. The
first was his Introduction to Astrology and the other was entitled
Apotelesmatics. The word "apotelesmatics" had been used by
the Greeks and isapparently derived from the Greek root "tclcin"
to end, signifying the end, result, or eflect of what is deduced
from stellar positions. We are also told by Suidas that Paulus
prophesied the accessionof the Emperor Leontius II.
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 137
It would seem that there were various men of the same name
as Paulus who were also good astrologers. Two of these appear
to have lived in the fourth century and one in the ninth century.
Ricciolus mentions the latter one, all of which confirms the fact
that astrology was not dead between the fourth and ninth cen-
twics.
Then there was Haephaestion of Thebes, one of the first-known
dcfinitdy Christian writers on astrology, that is,if we decide that
the Neo-Platonists were not Christian. He wai court astrologer
at Byzantium. He may or may not have been the same Haephaes-
tion, an eminent graroro:u-ian,who instructed the Emperor Verus
in Greek. ·
In the fourth and fifth centuries we have St. Augustine writ-
ing against astrology and against astrologers. The very fact that
he complains of them shows that astrologers existed, and in
considerable numbers. Also we might mention that if the saint
repented of the time he wasted on astrology, he also complains
of the time he wasted reading Virgil. I have often wondered why
the argument of twins occupied so much of the attention of the
saint. To a modern student, when this argument crops up, I
always ask them whether, if they were to forget one figure of a
modern safe-combination, they could unlock the safe? Surely, a
human being is more complex than the lock of a safe. And with
twins the slight difference of time makes a variation of degrees
on the ascendant which can give a very appreciable difference
in character and in the timing of events. Radio experts operate in
fractions of seconds.Makers of glass lensesoperate in millionths of
an inch, and yet critics of astrology presume to tell astrologers
that ten or fifteen minutes cannot make any difference in a read-
ing. Tycho Brahe was one of twins, the brother being stillborn,
but Brahe did not consider this any obstacle to his astrological
beliefs. But then Brahe understood the importance of time. In
my own experience, if a different sign does not rise when twins
are born, then a different decanate of the sign rises and gives a
different sub-rulership. In spite of the "twins" argument, how--
.
138 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
ever, St. Augustine seems to be more fearful that astrology is
fatalistic than that it is false, and that any fate it reveals is what
the demons would will rather than what God wills. Most of the
Church fathers were of the opinion that every astrologer was a
sorcerer and a necromancer. Since astrology is a scienceof deduc-
tions based on mathematics and geometry, one might wonder
how the demons enter. In any case, astrology itselfis opposed to
necromancy, whatever that is. I see no reason why astrology
should beblamed for necromancy,any more than medicine should
be blamed for all the potions and charms with which quacks
throughout the ages have tried to cure people. In a book by Guy
de Cauliac written in 1363we read, "They [the quacks] attend
the armies,and promiscuouslyuse charms, potions,oils and wool."
If an "astrologer" makes a judgment by any other means than
his mathematical deductions, then it is because he is not really
an astrologer. The curse of some people is that they learn some
of the "lingo" of the signs and then pretend to be astrologers,
and as there is no examination in the art of astrology, much of
what these people give out is termed astrology, but should be
called something else. ·
The early Christians refuted all the Greek and Roman authors,
whether poets or scientists.Later, the Christian Church allowed
their converts to study them, finding that the classicshad both
a civilizing and humanizing influence. In this way, since there
is so much reference to astrology in the classics, considerable
interest was taken in the subject, so much so that in the eighth
century there was an abortive attempt to Christianize the signs
and constellations. Twelve signs were to be the twelve apostles.
The Triangle was to be St. Peter's mitre, and the Great Bearwas
to be his boat.
Apart, however, from the hostility of St. Augustine and other
Churchmen, we find hostility in other walks of life. Just as in
the present day there are people who are never satisfied with any
of the researches and conclusionsof scientists,so there were such
people in the early centuries. One such person was Scxtus
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 139
Empiricus, leader of the sceptics of the first half of the third
century A.D., who disputed every science of his time: grammar,
rhetoric, geometry, arithmetic, astrology, astronomy, medicine
and even music. They were all wrong. Everything was wrong. He
reminds us of Carneades in the Greek days. He wrote against the
HMathematicii" particularly, because he, the great Know-it-all,
knew positively that Chance rules the universe and not law. It is
an atheistical belief in a world ruled by Chance and not by Godor
law that leads him to ask:
If all the barbarians killed at Marathon were born under the arrow
of Sagittarius, or those drowned at Salamis, under the sign AC1uarius,
the Water-Carrier?
In this question he clearly shows that he did not know the
most elementary principles of reading horoscopes, or of making
astrological predictio~. The type of death in a horoscope is
conditioned by the terminal houses, that is, the fourth, eighth
and twelfth houses and their rulers. Since all house positions are
determined by the birth moment, and not by the Sun sign, the
question is ridiculous. Incidentally, Aquarius is not a "water"
sign as the ignorant Sextus supposed when he spoke of the
drownings at Salamis, but an "air" sign,-even if the Waterman
does carry an urn full of water.
Coming back to the influence of the Neo-Platonic School, we
find one of the shining lights in the fifth century was Proclus,
who was born in Constantinople, but who studied also at Alex-
andria and at Athens. Later he was made rector of the School of
Athens. Like many people who work in astrology, he became
absorbed in the question of free will and destiny. He held that
the corporate part of man is subject to destiny, but the immortal
soul, never. Proclus wrote various Hymns to the Sun, Moon
and planets. He also wrote an astrological treatise on eclipses.He
labored five years in trying to understand the Chaldean oracles.
Then to his everlasting fame he wrote a Greek Paraphraseof the
Tetrabiblosand a Commentary on it. It was this Greek para-
140 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
phrase which became so important during the period of the
Revival of Learning, and which was first translated into Latin by
Leo Allatius in 1493A.D. ( though, centuries before that, the Arabs
had made translations of it). Proclus, in his doctrine of emana-
tions and triads, seemsto bevery much in line with the kabbalistic
doctrine of the Sephiroth, where the "'emanations" arc geo-
metrically related to triangles and triads. (Few people rca1izc
that the "triads" 2
are so great a feature of ancient Welsh litera-
ture, and are said to have been handed down from father to son
from time immemorial.)
The successor and pupil of Proclus was Marinus, who wrote
his Life, and evidently did so almost immediately after the death
of his master. Marinus preserved the horoscope of Proclus.8
He
was born February 8, 412A.O. and died April 17,485A.O. Marinos
mentions an eclipse which he says will occur when the first
year of Proclus' death will have been completed.
Macrobius, one of the Neo-Platonic devotees of the fifth cen-
tury, in his Saturnalia, gives an exposition according to which
all modes of worship, and the periods for celebrating various gods,
might be deduced from the worship of the Sun. This would seem
a forerunner to such a book as that of Mabel Collins, the theos-
ophist, who wrote When the Sun Travels Northward, in which
she draws attention to the fact that the major feasts and holy
days of all religions arc in the period between the Sun's en-
trance into Capricorn, and its entrance into Cancer, that is,
between Christmas and Midsummer. Macrobius, in Book One of
his Saturnalia,gives a complete analysis and history of the Roman
calendar, and because of this it has become a reference book on
early calendars. He also wrote a Commentary, which is not so
very illuminative, on Cicero's story of the Dream of Scipio, giving
a few clues to its occult interpretation, and some rather poor
clues to Cicero's astrological ideas.
Then, we have John Laurentius of Philadelphia, sometimes
• See AppendixVI.
• See Index.
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 141
called the Lydan, and sometimes merely Johannes Lydus. He
lived about 4go--s6s
A.D., and studied under Agapius, who was one
of the disciples of Proclus, hence his astrological bent. He made a
Greek translation of the works of Nigidius, who as we have
seen before, was a good astrological friend of Cicero.
Among the source books said· to have been used by Bocthius
arc those of Capella. Martinus Capella flourished towards the
end of the fifth century, which would be about the time when
Bocthius was born. Capella may have been born in Dido or
Carthage, but he went to Rome and there he made a compendium
of learning in nine great tomes:
BooksOne and Two are called the Nuptials of Philology and
Mercury.
Book Three is on Grammar.
Book Four is on Dialectics (Metaphysics and Logic).
Book Five is on Rhetoric.
Book Six is on Geometry.
Book Seven is on Arithmetic.
Book Eight is on Astronomy (including some Astrology).
Book Nine is on Music (including Poetry).
Capella was very popular right down to the Middle Ages.
His astronomy was partly astrology but his astronomical theories
are important. They give some clues to the true constitution of
the solar system. He saysthat Mercury and Venus revolve around
the Sun and not around the Earth. Later, he became one of the
sources that Columbus used. In 888 we read of Remigius Antis-
siodorcnsis writing a Commentary on Capella, so that evidently
he was read in the ninth century.
Boethius, born 470-475A.D., became a Roman senator under
Thcodoric, King of the Ostrogoths. At first he was in great favor
with Theodoric, who gave him various personal missions, such
as finding a musician for King Clovis of the Franks, or a sun-dial
for the King of the Burgundians. Later he was accused by his
enemiesbothof being a traitor to the king and of practising magic.
He was imprisoned for a long time, and while in prison he wrote
142 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
his Consolationsof Philosophy,and finally was beheaded. Gibbon
sayshe spent eighteen yearsin Athens studying the Greek classia. :
He also states that Bocthius studied under Proclus, in which t-
ease, we might infer that he studied astrology. Other writers deny l·
that he studied under Proclus, or that he had any Neo-Platonic ·~
tendencies whatsoever. For nearly a thousand years after his
death Boethius was a "best seller" in Europe. Gibbon, in Chapter
39of his Declineand Fall of the Roman Empire 4
says:
For the benefit of his Latin readers, his genius submitted to teach
the first dements of the arts and sciencesof Greece. The geometry of
Euclid, the music of Pythagoras, the arithmetic of Nicomachus, the
mechanics of Archimedes, the astronomy of Ptolemy, the theology of
Plato, and the logic of Aristotle, with the commentary of Porphyry,
were translated and illustrated by the indefatigable pen of the Roman
senator. And he alone was esteemed capable of describing the wonders
of art, a sun dial, a water clock, or a sphere which represented the
motions of the planets.
In p.2 A.D. the Lombard King Luitprand honored his memory ·
with a great tomb in a church. Later, the Emperor Otho III built
a much more magnificent tomb, and Pope Sylvester II, who j
himself was sometimes accused of magic becauseof his studies in
Cordova, wrote the epitaph.
Bocthius in his De Consolatione(Prosa 4 and 5) speculates 1
on freewill and destiny. He says,"Neither docs the foreknowledge
of what is to happen in the future necessitate the things which ;
are to take place." I mention this,as it seemssomething that many
friends as well as enemies of astrology fail to understand. For
example, when several of my astrological friends and mysclf,-
some Democratic and some Republican,-came to the conclu-
sion from Roosevelt'schart, preceding both the 1936and the 1940 •
elections, that he would be re-elected, then, after the election,
many of the opposition party remarked that his re-election was
due to this,-as though foreseeing it as a logical deduction from
the positions of the heavens on the day of election, as compared
4
Gibbon,Dedine ond Folloftl,e RomonEmpire (Macmillan).
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 143
withthe positions on Roosevelt's natal day, enabled an astrologer
to make it happen. Bocthius did not try to teach astrology, but
I consider it more than probable that he understood it thoroughly.
His works refer to the Ptolemaic astronomy of the day, which
usuallyimplies considerable understanding of astrology.
When Justinian (483-565) closed many of the scientific schools
in Athens and various other places, the scholars emigrated in
many directions, but mostly towards the Near East, even as far
asPersia, where they were favorably received by the Persian King
Chosrocs (531-579). Chosrocs also made a home in his country
forscholars from the Far East, hence there were many Hindus at
hiscourt. East and West met in Persia. We must remember too
that astrology was not a new thing in Persia, for the Sabian re-
ligionbased its beliefs on planetary motion and heavenly phenom-
ena.Thus, when the scholars from Athens arrived,-and they
werenot all Greeks by any mcans,-they met scholars and teach-
ersfrom the Far East, as well as from Persia, and there was
opportunityto compare their knowledge. Later, as we shall sec
in our chapter on the Arabs, some of this knowledge, of the
Sabiansand of the Greeks and of the Far East, Bowed back into
Europein richer streams for having been commingled.
But the closing of the schools at Athens was not the end of
learning,either in Greece or in other parts of the empire. In the
ninthcentury there was Leo of Thessalonica, known to be living
in 86gA.I>. He was both a phiJosopher and an ecclesiastic. He
studied in Constantinople, and history tells us that he visited
everylibrary in Greece. He studied geometry, astronomy and
alsoastrology. In Constantinople he imparted his knowledge to
allwho cared to listen. One of his students was captured during
thewar with the Arabs and taken before the Caliph Al Mamoun.
Al Mamoun was so interested in his learning that he questioned
himat great length and complimented him on his replies. The
youngman then said that what he knew was nothing compared
withwhat his teacher Leo knew. Al Mamoun immediately sent
to Constantinople for Leo. Because of the war, Leo was afraid
144 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
to go lest he be considered a traitor, so he showed the letter to the .
Emperor Theophilus, and Theophilus suddenly realized what a
valuable teacher he had in his empire, and that he would be
foolish to let him teach :at Bagdad instead of in his own country,
so he made Leo a professor at the School of the Forty Martyrs.
Later, Leo became Archbishop of Thessalonica. Finally, through
the e.ff
orts of Caesar Bardas, Leo was commissioned to become
the head of the new Mathematical School at the Palace of
Magnuara in Constantinople, which Michael III established to
outrival the schools of the Arabs, which at this time were becom-
ing great centers of ancient Greek knowledge and eager to
have all the old Greek manuscripts that they could buy. To say,
however, that the Arabs had any monopoly on learning in these
centuries is a manifest untruth. It was simply that their great
learning went on at Bagdad and other centcrs at the same time
that the Byzantine and Roman learning went on in spite of the
bans and restrictions that various more or less well-meaning 1
people put on it at various times. ,
Gibbon, in his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, gives
us a very good picture.of learning at this period. He says:
While the government of the East was transacted in Latin, Greek
was the language of literature and philosophy .••• After the loss of
Syria and Egypt, and the extinction of the schools of Athens and
Alexandria, the studies of the Greeks insensibly retired to some regu-
lar monasteries, and above all, to the royal college of Constantinople,
which was burnt in the reign of Leo the !saurian (717-740A.D.).
In the pompous style of that age, the president of the foundation
was named the Sun of the Science; his twelve associates, the professors
in the different arts and faculties, were the twelve signs of the zodiac;
a library of thirty-six thousand five hundred volumes was open to
their enquiries. . • . But the seventh and eighth centuries were a
period of discord and darkness; the library was burned, the college was
demolished. . . . A school was opened in the Palace of Magnuara,
and the presence of Bardas (uncle of Michad III) excited the emula-
tion of the masters and students.
THE LATER ROMAN EMPIRE AND BYZANTIUM 145
At their head was the philosopher Leo, archbishop of Thcssalonica;
his profound skill in astronomy and mathematics was admired by the
strangers of the East, and this occult science was magnified by vulgar
credulity. . • • .
At the pressing entreaty of the Caesar, his friend, the celebrated
Photius, renounced the freedom of a secular and studious life, ascended
the patriarchal throne, and was alternately excommunicated by the
synods of the East and the West. . . . The Emperor Basil, who
lamented the defects of his own education, entrusted to the care of
Photius, his son and successor, Leo the Philosopher, and the reign of
that prince and of his son Constantine Porphyrogenitus forms one of
the most prosperous periods of Byzantine literature. • . •
Like Friar Bacon, the philosopher Leo has been transferred by
ignorance into a conjurer; yet not undeservingly so, if he be the
author of the oracles most commonly ascribed to him.
Who was this Byzantine Emperor that ignorant people called
a conjurer, and who wrote prophecies? •
Leo VI, sometimes called Leo the Philosopher, was Emperor
from 886-g11A.D. He had been educated by Photius, one of the
most learned men of the time, and he wrote various books. Leo
was both an astrologer and a psychic. He wrote Oraculain Greek
iambics, and in this he gives the fate of each succeeding ruler of
the empire. 1pe seventeenth Oracle givesthe fall of Constantinople
(which took place in 1453),but it alsospeaks of its final restora-
tion. These oracles became very famous after Leo's time, and
were the subject of much discussion dwing the Revival of Leam-
ing, when we find Fabricius writing a Commentary on them.
It is interesting that, though Leo foresaw that Constantinople
would eventually fall to the Turks, yet he fought against them.
As we proceed with the Eastern Empire we find that even
Gibbon has to admit that Anna Commena (b. 1120A.D.) knew
astrology. He says:
Princess Anna Commena and her mother the Empress Eudocia,
were learned in all the arts and philosophy . . • the princess was con-
146 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
vcrsant with the artful dialogues of Plato, and had studied the quadriv-
ium 5
of astrology, geometry, arithmetic and music.
Then John Kamatcros, pattiarch of Constantinople (11g8-1204),
wrote an astrological poem to the Emperor Manuel Comminus
of Byzantium. And Thcodorus Metochita, who was said to be
one of the bestastronomers of the time, wrote a Commentary on
Ptolemy and a book on the Sphere, which latter book provided
Chaucer with some of the material for his Treatise on the Astro-
labe. Metochita was astrologer and friend of the Emperor An-
dronicus the Elder. He died 1332A.D.
Soit would seem as if there had beena continuous line of good
astrologers in Greece and in the Near East from the time of
Ptolcmy down to the time of the fall of the Byzantine Empire.
1 See Appendix Vlll.
Chapter 12
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS
Judicial astrology has played so important a part in the his-
tory of the world, and has been so beneficialin furthering the
stl4dy ofastronomy,that it cannot be left out of consideration,
if we wish to get a full view of the scientific life and writings
of former ages.
J.L. E. Duna, "Life of Tycho Brahe."
A
THE Mohammcdans grew tired of fighting to proselytize
the world, they began to put as much energy into scholar-
ship as they had formerly put into war. Various centcrs
oflearning came into being at Bagdad, Cairo, Alexandria, Kair-
wan in Tunis, Cordova, Toledo, and there was,later, exchange of
teachers between these centers necessitating much travel. Just
as we saw with the Greeks and Romans, travelling appears to
have been the order of the day for both Arabic and Near Eastern
students and teachers. Apparently men of learning will fight
among themselves, and so will religious teachers, but they arc
not so interested in international quarrels unless these involve
a specificideology contrary to theirs. In the Legacy of Islam we
arc told of an additional reason for travelling, and this was the
necessityfor making pilgrimages to Mecca and Medina, com-
pelling students from India, Spain, Asia Minor and Africa to
passthrough foreign lands where they could visit mosques and
academies from Tunis to Persia and from the Caspian Sea to
Cordova:
Until and after Muslim universities in the East and West were
founded,many a student set out as a matter of course on a journey of
a thousand miles in search of a teacpcr. Vast journeys from Spain to
Mecca
or from Morocco to Bagdad were undertaken by young men
147
148 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
who left their homes practically penniless to sit at the feet of a chosen
mastcr.1
When the Arabs became interested in astrology their artists ·
noted that the zodiac provided very interesting motifs. There was
just one problem, however, that the Mohammedan faith forbade
the portrayal of human beings. This was circumvented by sub-
stituting various other symbols for the "human" signs. For
Gemini they substituted two peacocks (which later entered into
both Byzantine and Roman Christian drawings). For Virgo
they substituted a wheat sheaf and for Aquarius they substituted
a mule catrying two baskets, or just baskets alone.
One outstanding factor to be considered in the progress of
Arabic learning was the decision of the Jews to work with them.
The Jews at first had no cause to like either Christians or Arabs.
As we saw in our brief review of the School of Alexandria,
Bishop Cyril of Alexandria tried to decimate the Jews. Then
when the Arabs came to power, the Caliph Omar wiped out the
Alexandrine Library and at Jerusalem set up in 640 A.D., the
Mosque called after him, which the Jews said was "the abomina-
tion of desolation" prophesied by Daniel, and Omar persecuted
Jews everywhere. However, succeeding caliphs were more toler-
ant and more constructive in policy. Therefore we find large
numbers of Jews at Arabic colleges, some of whom took unto
themselves Arabic names.
One of the first Islamic centers that opened its doors to Coptic
Jews was the holy city of Kairwan, which was founded in Tunis
in 670 A.D., and here with the help of Jews from Alexandria and
Cairo, it began to outrival those two earlier centers of learning.
Kairwan was an important station on the route from Spain to
Bagdad. Almost two centuries later its most noted scholar was
Isaac hen Solomon Israeli, or Isaac Judaeus (c. 832-932A.D. ),
called the Master of the Seven Sciences, that is, of the Trivium
and Quadrivium. 2
Isaac was a Coptic Jew who became physician-
1
Legacy of Islam, Oxford University Press.
2
SeeAppendixVIIl.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND /EWS 149
astrologerto the Prince of Tunis. He said, "Nothing precedes the
four elements except the omnipotence of God." He taught that
the four elements are ge~~~at~c!_
ll!~~e ~g_tigq__
9f.~h~ _$p~-~!c,
andtfic~~fts~lrfs-mo,v~d b_ythe Primu~ Mobil~.He said that
soulsemanate from the shadow of the Prime Intelligence. In this
he seems almost in alignment with the doctrines of Neo-
Plato~_m. We shall see later how Neo-Platonism intrigued the
Islamic world, yet this doctrine is apparently contained in the
Kabbala. Isaac wrote books on the Elements, on Fevers, on
Simple Drugs and Ailments, a Guide for Physicians, etc. As his
bookson medicine were based on "Critical Days," we see that
hecombined the knowledge of Hippocrates, Galen, and Ptolemy,
and since his books were among the first to be translated ·into
Latin by Constantine the African (c. 108o
), they dominated
European medicine for many centuries. In fact when we read
RobertBwton's Anatomy of Melancholy (1577-1640)we find
that he is deeply versed in Isaac Judaeus, and quotes from him.
Doctor Dee owned several of his manuscripts, including one on
Logic, a subject which we now think safe enoueh, but which as
Gibbon found was a handmaid of "superstition."
We speak of "Arabic" learning, but we must be prepared to
find that many nations contributed to it besides the Arabs. As
we have seen, the Jews contributed, but so also did the Greeks,
Romans,Persiao5y~ptians, M00rs and Syrians, in fact almost
all
the nations, from the .Near.
East to far off India and China.
It should also be realized that although the majority of Arabs
were converted to Mohammedanism, yet the devotees of the
Sabianreligion of the stars did not always alter their views. Many
of them apparently stayed quiet until persecution was over, and
then they became the foremost scholars in helping the various
caliphs Al Mansur, Haroun Al Raschid and Al Mamoun to
build up their astronomical, astrological and mathematical cen-
ters of learning.
Even before the seventh century A.D. much progress had been
made in scientific·~
studies~but the eighth century became the
150 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
great century of learning, for in the later eight century the new
city of Bagdad was founded by the Abbaside dynasty. The first
of this line of caliphs massacred all the Ommiad rulers with
the ~xception of one, who escaped and having made his way to
Spain, founded the Ommiad dynasty of Spain. We therefore
realize that at first there was very great hatred between the
Moslems of Spain and those of Arabia, but time in the end healed
the wound.
The second caliph of the Abbaside dynasty was Al Mansur
who ruled from 754-775.His name means "the victorious." He
decided to build an entirely new and beautiful capital-it is
said, because he hated the mosquitos that ate him up in the old
capital. He sought out the finest engineers and builders of the
period and from ?f,VJ(j(,they worked to make Bagdad pre-
eminent in beauty and in sanitation. When the city was com-
pleted, learned men from all countries were made welcome and
invited to settle there, for the city was called Dar es Salem, mean-
ing the City of Peace.
One of the engineering architects who helped was Omar al
Farrukhan, a Persian (died c. 815), who wrote a Commentary
on the Tetrabiblos.One might wonder where the Arabs obtained
a copy of Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos,but we find that both Haroun
Al Raschid and Al Mamoun had it in mind to found the greatest
library in the world, to be called the House of Wisdom. Although
this was not completed until about 830A.D., yet the preparatory
work of obtaining manuscripts had been going en for many years.
Anything and everything of the ancient Greeks and Romans that
the collectors of the caliphs could obtain, was bought with joy.
In this way the Tetrabiblos and the Almagest had come to
Bagdad, and since few people could read Greek, Al Mamoun
(813-833)had his chief translator Ahn hen Batrilc prepare the
translation of the former. Immediately men started to study the
Tetrabiblosand were delighted with it. The making of commen-
taries began, and from then on astrology absorbed the minds
of the Arabs.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS 151
Another of the engineering architects was Mcssahala8
( died
815),and he also, like Omar Al Farrukhan, wrote a Commentary
on Ptolcmy's astrological textbook, following it with various
bookson astrology and the use of the astrolabe. Messahala was
the major source-book for Chauccr's Treatise on the Astrolabe.
He wrote De Ret1olutionibus Annorum Mundi, that is, on the
revolution charts of the year. These arc usually made by astrolo-
gersfor the time when the Sun enters the signs Aries, Cancer,
Libra and Capricorn, that is, the changes of seasons, but the
change into Aries at the vernal equinox is the basis for the major
revolution chart of the year which, adjusted to the longitude
of any capital, sheds particular light on the affairs of that capital
andcountry for the following year. Lilly quotes very much from
Mcssahala. In his Merlinus Anglicus Junior for 1644he says,
"Mars in the revolution chart of the year, if posited in an air
sign, foreshadows injury, oppression and tyranny." Lilly goes
on to say that not only does Messahala say this, but that John
Hispalcnsis in his Commentary on Messahala agreed with him.
Mcssahala also wrote a textbook on how to read horoscopes,
entitled De N ativitatibus. I think I would place Messahala as the
most popular Arabic writer of the Middle Ages. He is said
to have been Jewish by birth and born in Bassorah. He wrote
De Significatione Planetarum in Nativitatibus, and a book De
Receptione, that is, on reception in the chart, or two planets
placed,each in the other's house, a very important matter in
ddineation. Messahala also wrote on what Ptolemy had to say on
Elections (Ptolemaeus De Electionibus), that is, on how to set
thetime for certain things to be begun. Messahala's pupil was
Albohali(d. 835), who also wrote a book on the technique of
astrology,with the same title as his master's book, De Nativitati-
bus.This was a "best seller" in the Middle Ages.
All through mediaeval astrological literature we run across
thename Zael. It has been very difficult to obtain much infor-
---
aMcuabalais variouslycalledMa-shah-allah,
Masha'allah,
Mcssahallach,
Mcscallach
and
Al Misri.
152 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
mation about him. Many people have supposed he was one of ilie
mediaeval Spanish astrologers, because they have not recognized
him under the many names that have been attached to him.
Jewish by birth he flourished about 820A.D., his full name being
Sahl ibn Bishr ibn Habib ibn Hani. Sometimes he was called
Zachd or Zabel,and sometimes Abu-Uthman. He was a very wdl
known writer on the subject of Elections. Histwo major books
were De Electionibus and De Interrogationibus, the latter on
what we now call Horary astrology, wherein specific questions
are answered, not from the natal chart, but from the position of
the stars at the moment of asking the question. Albertus Magnus
quotes from him. He seems to have been a favorite author of
Guido Bonatus, who quotes him frequently, though often to
disagree with him.
The Arabic world was growing full of commentaries, but if
we remember that these early astrologers were engineers, we
shall see that they put Ptolemy to rigid tests. They finally came
to Al Mansur and said that they must have their own observatory
in order to test out all Ptolemy's rules. A Jewish convert to
Mohammedanism, Sind hen Ali, gave the funds, and soonall the
"Arabic" scientists were at work computing tables and bringing
observations up to date. The amount of work they did was truly
incredible. In time the Tables of Al Mamoun came into being
and these formed a standard series of observations for many
centuries.
Among the workers on these tables was Alfraganus 4
( died
c. 88o),a native of Fargan in Transoxania. He wrote Compilatio
Astronomica, which was studied by most mediaeval astrologers,
since it gave the elements of astronomy. He also wrote De Annis
Revolutionibus, which wouldbe on what we callthe AriesIngress
chart of the year.
The next matter was to have some good astrolabes made ac-
cording to the principles set down by Ptolcmy. Here both Jacob
'Alfraganus, sometimes called Alfraganius, or Alfcrgan~ or Al Fargbani,
or Ahmad
ibn Muhammed ibn Kathir.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS 153
Al Fazari and his son obliged. Jacob is said to have been the per-
son who introduced a Hindu, Manka by name, to the Caliph.
This was most important, for it was through meeting Manka
that tables of planetary positions were calculated according to
Hindu methods and for the longitude of "Arin."The term "Arin
theory" crops up all through succeeding centuries. It was Adelard
of Bath who first brought the matter to the attention of scholars
in England and Europe during the early Norman days, when he
translated Al Fazari's book on the subject of "Arin." Let me
quote from the Legacy of Islam:''
A legacy of still greater importance was the idea that the known
hemisphere of the world had a center or "world summit," situated at
an equal distance from cast, west, north and south. Al Battani 8
speaks
of this "cupola" of the earth as an island, but another author of his time
(Ibn Rusta) already knows it as the "cupola of Arin.'' The word
"Arin" is a misreading of the Arabic transliteration of the name of the
Indian town Ujjiyaini (Ozene in Ptolemy's geography), where there
had been an astronomical observatory, and on the meridian of which
town the "world summit"--<>riginally an Indian conception-was sup-
posed to lie. Like the Mohammedan astronomers, their Christian
disciples considered this doctrine of the highest importance; among
the latter were Addard of Bath, who translated in 1126 the trig-
onometrical tables of Al Khwarazmi, Gerard of Cremona (1114-
1187) and, in the thirteenth century, Roger Bacon and Albertus
Magnus. The Arin (or Arim) theory was still later to be found in the
Imago Mundi of Cardinal Peter d'Ailly, published in 1410, and it was
from this book that Christopher Columbus learnt the same doctrine,
which had developed in the meantime so far as to make Columbus
believe that the earth was shaped in the form of a pear, and that, on the
western hemisphere, opposite the summit of Arin, there was another
centre, much more elevated than the one on the eastern side, so as to
form the shape of a lower half of a pear. Thus Islamic geographical
theorymay claim a share in the discovery of the New World.
• u1acy of Islam, Oxford University Press.
9
Al Battani, sometimes called Albategnius. His real name was Mohammed bcn
GcbirbenSinan al Battani. He was born in Battan, Mesopotamia (c. 85o-g29).
154 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
The whole question of what was the ccnter of the earth has
been the subject of discussion and of dogma at many periods.
The Jews considered Jerusalem to be the centcr of the earth, and
the Egyptians thought the Great Pyramid was the center of the
earth, though some said it was Heliopolis. Although Greenwich
is now called the o degree meridian, it has never been claimed
that this means anything other than a convenient starting point
for longitude. In much the same way then, as our ephemerides
now arc usually calculated for Greenwich longitude, so the Arabs
usedArin in India as their starting place for longitude. Ptolemy
and the Greeks and Alexandrians appear to have used the Island
of Rhodes as their starting point. So long as one knows what the
starting point is, it is quite easy to allow for this in calculations
for horoscopes. Albategnius (Al Battani) wrote on Geography,
but he also wrote on astronomy and on astrology. He made a
digest of Ptolemy's works.
In m A.I>. Jacob hen Tarik, a Jew, had founded a definite
School of Astrology in the new capital of Bagdad, and in this
astrologers, astronomers and various scientists worked together.
As the word "tarik" is the Arabic name for Gibraltar (Geber-cl-
Tarik) or Rock of Tarik, he may have come from Spain, or he
may have used the name of the Arabic chieftain Tarilc who
conquered the Rock in 700A.I>. As time went on, two great as-
trologers each in turn became the head of Ben Tarik's School,-
Al Kindi and Albumazar.
Jacob Al Kindi 1
flourished about 850.He was an Arab from
Kufu, who having been educated at Basra, came to Bagdad and
decided to stay. He taught and wrote on astrology, astronomy,
mathematics, music and philosophy, but was opposed to alchemy.
He translated Porphyry's Commentary on Aristotle into Arabic,
and we are generally told that he was responsible for introduc-
ing Nco-Platonic views among the Arabs and also among the
Jews of his country, though many of these were already con-
versant with Nco-Platonic views (or kabbalistic views) expressed
1
Al Kindi's JWJ)c was Y'akub ibn Is'hak ibn Subbah (sometimes just Abu Yusaf).
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS A.ND JEWS 155
previously by Isaac Judaeus. I do not think that Al Kindi copied
the basic views of either Aristotle or of Porphyry. My own im-
pression is that though he was an Arab, he knew and under-
stood thoroughly the principles of the Sabian religion, and that
then, when he came to reap Porphyry and Aristotle, he found their
views harmonized with his own, because the views of the two
former men were so much akin to what he found in Sabian-
ism or ll>roastrianism. As we all know, the Sabian religion was
closely related to astrology. However, writers on comparative
religion do not tell us how, except that the Zoroastrians wor-
shipped Ahura-Mazda, the Sun god. My first comprehension of
what the planets meant in Sabianism was obtained from reading
the report of a lecture entitled the Religion of Zoroaster Consid-
ered in Connection with Archaic Monotheism, given before the
Victoria Institute or Philosophical Society of Great Britain by
Robert Brown, F.S.A., on April 21, 1879, in which he quotes at
great length from Plutarch to the effect that the soul of the
righteous (after death) proceeds to the care of the "Immortal
Benefactors". Mr. Brown docs not state that these arc the six
planets, but it is very obvious to an astrologer that they arc the
six planets created by Ahura-Mazda after his great combat with
the spirit of Evil, Ahrimon. 8
Brown states that these six gods
arc not separate gods, but are to be considered as "phases of the
beneficent action and of the perfect character of the Supremc,"-
in other words, we could call them "Emanations," hence we sec
why the Nco-Platonic views on Aeons, and the Emanation theories
of the Kabbalists, were eagerly read by the Sabians, and later by
the Arabs in general. Mr. Brown gives various Persian words
and phrases of Plutarch, which he translates, and these give us
clues by means of which we can assign these "Benefactors" to
the planets, remembering of course, that Ahura-Mazda is the
Sun:
(1) The first Benefactor is called "Good Mind." He wel-
• Due to Persian inil~cncc in Early England, we find that the name Ahrimon
becamecolloquially throughout the country "the old Harry."
156 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
comes the souls into heaven. Only Good-Mind or good thoughts
ever give one the right to enter heaven. (Note in Chapter 17how
St. Bernard, the Saturnian principle, became Dante's guide into
the heavenly world.) The first Benefactor then is Saturn.
(2) The second Benefactor is "Truth," the most beautiful
truth, the. universal order of things, both in the material world
and in the kosmos; also it is religion combined with fitting
worship and ritual. The term signifies order, righteousness and
truth. This god Truth is the personification of light, which reveals
truth, and which displays the harmony of the All. This is un-
doubtedly Jupiter.
(3) The third Benefactor is the god of good governmcnt,-
the god of the independent sway. Obviously this must be the
planet Mars.
(4) The fourth Benefactor is the god of wisdom, or piety,-
the perfect sense of filial duty to Ahura-Mazda. This of course
would refer to the Moon, the planet of the mother, and of wisdom.
(5) The fifth Benefactor is the god of wealth, but this god is
also given the attribute of health, showing that in Sabianism
health and wealth were considered to be much the same thing.
This god presides over the fruits of the earth and their increase.
This would be Vcnus.
(6) The sixth Benefactor is "the maker of pleasure in what is
beautiful." He alsoruled the "immortality in which the righteous
shall enjoy the loveliness of Ahura-Mazda." This is Mercury,
Jove's messenger, the principle of the "Spirit within man," which
is immortal.
I think that, from the above, the link between Sabianism,
Porphyry and Aristotle is clear. The link was in their philosophy
being founded on the same astronomical-astrological concepts.
But for various reasons this link with Sabianism has never been
brought forward clearly, and Porphyry and Aristotle particularly
have always had the credit of being the founders of Arabic
philosophy becauseAl Kindi is known to have read these authors.
As various European scholars came to the East seeking "Arabic',
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS 157
wisdom, there Bared up another bitter controversy between the
Christian Church and the Neo-Platonists, for although Aristotle
was at first rejected by the Christian Church, in the long run
he was not -only accepted, but given almost royal honors. Still,
the Porphyrian interpretation of his philosophy was never really
welcome. Al Kindi's philosophy has been well stated by Alfred
Guillaume in the Legacyof Israel:8
Alkindi's own theory of the universe was akin to the Theology oJ
Aristotle. Thedivine intelligence is the cause of the world's existence;
its activity is mediated through the heavenly spheres to the terrestrial
world. The world-soul is intermediate between God and the world of
bodies.This world-soul created the heavenly spheres. The human soul
is an emanation from the world-sou/,. There is thus a duality in man:
inasmuch as the soul is tied to the body it is influenced by the heavenly
spheres, but in so far as it is true to its spiritual origin it is free and
independent. Both freedom and immortality are only attainable in the
world of intelligence, so that if man would attain thereto he must set
himselfto develop his intellectual powers by acquiring a right knowl-
edge of God and tlte universe.
I have underlined the statement that according to Al Kindi
(and later Arabs also), the human soul is an emanation from
the world-soul, because this statement alone caused volumes and
volumes to be written, both for and against, in succeeding cen-
turies. The statement, too, that inasmuch as the soul was tied to
the body it was subject to stellar influence was also most im-
portant, for it gave a philosophical reason for astrology, while J
the fact that the spiritual part of man was not subject to stellar
influence, pleased the Church in that it prevented astrology from
being too fatalistic (a matter often forgotten by succeeding as-
trologers among both Arabs and Christians.) When, however,
this non-fatalistic attitude was presented in the Middle Ages by
Albertus Magnus and St. Thomas Aquinas, many of the argu-
ments of the early Christian Fathers fell to the ground, and
9 Legacy of Israel, Oxford University Press.
158 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
astrology was made acceptable to the Church if the astrologer
would only believe and state to his clients, "astrum regunt
hominem, sed regit astra Deus,"-the stars rule man, but God
rules the stars. And a man like Tycho Brahe, when writing up
the horoscope of one of the King of Denmark's children, states
various problems and difficulties that will be met, yet ad~
"Potest fata augere, Deus tolere fata."
Al K.indi's work on Aristotle set the Arabic world on fire to
know more of Aristotle, so again there came, as there had pre-
viously among the Greeks and Romans of the early Christian
centuries, a desire to make astrological concepts harmonize with
prevailing philosophical concepts. Later, when Al Kindi was
translated into Latin in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, dis-
cussions on astrological-philosophical matters swept through
Europe like a raging torrent. Gerard of Cremona translated many
of Al K.indi'sworks into Latin. Roger the Englishman translated
his book De /udidis Astrologicis,Concerning Judicial Astrology,
into Latin in 1272,and it became one of the favorite textbooks
of European astrologers. Al K.indi wrote several other textbooks:
Causis Diversitatum Aspectum, LJber De Aspectibus and As-
trorum lndiciis De Pluvius, lm/:mbus, Et Ventis Ac Ami Muta-
tione. All these were "best sellers" down to the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries.
Aristotle, Ptolemy and the scientists of Greece and Alexandria
were welcome in the Mohammedan world, but not so various
other Greek writers. Why did they not study Plato? Apparently
it was because Plato's Republic and Plato's Ethics were suspect.
It may be easyto sec why the sultans did not approve of anything
that savored of democratic ideas, but why turl! against the Ethics?
The Mohammedans believed their own Koran held a place of
paramount importance in this field, and a rival was so frowned
upon that most people supposed Plato had nothing to offer. The
Arabs did not study Greek history, because they hated the Greeks
and were ever at war with-them. They believed their own heroes
infinitely superior to any Greek heroes. They did not study Greek
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS 159
poctty, because they said this encouraged polytheism and tended
towards idolatry. All this was most important when Christians
came to study Arabic learning. They brought back to Christian
Europe the science of the Greeks and of Aristotle, but Europe
had to wait until the Renaissance before Plato and the other
authors became popular. The Revival of Learning was to a large
extent the revival of the Greek learning which the Arabs had
despised. Alhurnazar of Balch (8o5-885)was a Magian by religion.
He was a student of Al K.indi and learned both astronomy and
Aristotelian philosophy from hismaster. Later, Albumazar 10
him-
self became Professor of Astrology at Bagdad University during
the caliphate of Al Mamoun. Albumazar wrote several books on
astrology, one called De Magnis Conjunctionibus Annorum Ret10-
ltaionibus Ac Eorum Profectionibus, that is, on the Great Con-
junctions, Solar Revolutions, and how to progress them. This
was translated by Lali in 128oand later by Johannes Angeli, or
John the Englishman.
The Great Conjllllctions were mainly the Jupiter-Saturn con-
junctions, which were part of the teachings of El Hakim the
Wise, whom we mentioned previously. This book paved the way
for hundreds more to be published along these lines, from his
own times down to our present day. Saturn rules the old crystal-
lized ideas which are overthrown when the new ideas of Jupiter
come along, hence the Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions are used in
predictions of changes of government. Another of his books was
called Flores Astrologiae, or Flowers of Astrology. Then there
was lntroductorium in Astronomiam, or the Introduction to As-
tronomy, and also his De Judiciis Astrologicis, all of them famous
textbooks of the Middle Ages. In the latter, particularly, he argues,
very much as Ptolcmy did, for an astrological science based on
actual deductions made from real astronomical observations, and
not a semi-psychic method. Up to Albumazat's time the Great
Construction of Ptolcmy had not been translated. It was available
10
Albumazar, sometimes called Abalachus, Jafaribn Muhammed,
Abu Mashas, Al
Balkti, and Abu Maschar.
16o ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
only to those who knew Greek, so Albumazar asked the Caliph
Ali Hazen Bey Yousseph-to provide funds to have it translated.
Sabal ibn Tahir was chosen ant} he finished his task in 827A.I>.,
the translation being known as the Almagest, under which title
it has been known ever since among Europeans as well as Arabs.
Albumazar immediately made a Commentary on it, as did also
Alfraganus and FJ>enNozophim.
Albumazar's works were well known in the time of Dante.
Dante himself was thoroughly conversant with them through his
master, Bruno Latini, a learned astrologer of the time, familiar
with the wisdom of the Arabians. In the Longfellow translation
of the Divine Comedy, we find in most editions, notes on the
planetary heavens according to the theories of Albumazar. I
append one, giving Albumazar's statements on Mercury, because
certain critics of astrology have tried to spread the absurd notion,
that all these Arabian astrologers (astronomers) did in their high
towers, was to find the right direction to Mecca. The Arabs were
a very practical people and always delved into science with a
view to using their knowledge. I let Albumazar speak for him-
self:11
For, as Albumazar says in the introduction to his seventh treatise,
ninth division, where he treats of the nature of the planets and of their
properties, Mercury signifies these twenty-two things among others,
namely:
desire of knowledge and of seeing secret things;
interpretation of the Deity, of oracles and prophecies;
knowledge and profundity of knowledge in profound books;
study of wisdom;
memory of stories and tales;
doquence and polish of language;
subtilty of genius;
desire of lordship;
appetite for praise and blame;
color and subtilty of speech;
11
Divine Comedy, trans. by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (Boston, 1871).
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS 161
subtilty of genius in everything to which man betakes himself;
desire of perfection;
cunning of hand in all arts;
practice of trade;
selling, buying, giving, receiving, stealing, cheating;
concealing thoughts in the mind;
change of habits;
youthfulness, lust, abundance, murmurs, lies, false testimony;
and many other things as being herein contained.
To me this looks as modern as anything in our current as-
trological textbooks, and when some Harvard scientists speak
with horror of the fact that on the news-stands and on library
shelves,astrological books and magazines are to be found lying
alongside textbooks of science, one wonders if they realize that
a certain Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Professor of Modern
Languagesat Harvard University, is responsible for inserting
the above and much more astrological data in his Dante trans-
lation,which we presume lies on the shelvesof Harvard Library
itself. Perhaps these critics have not looked into Longfellow
lately.
In the ninth century we have Al Khwarasm, a native of Khoras-
san. He was the author of a textbook on mathematics entitled
Al /awl-wa'l Muga-balaha, which European schoolboys later
shortened to Algebra. This, and the information for his trig-
onometricaltables,he is said to have derived from various Hindus
who had become quite frequent visitors to Bagdad. The latter
tablesbecame an essential to those students who wished to make
theirown star calculations. In his own star observations he used
the meridian of Arin. Then he also made a book which con-
densedmuch of Ptolemy's material. I do not know of any defi-
nitelyastrological books he wrote, but his astronomical works
wereused by the European astrologers £or many centuries.
About the same time lived Geber, most renowned of all the
alchemists,-a name to conjure with in the Middle Ages. He
wroteSumma Alchemica, and the Book. of the Seventy, that is,
162 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
seventy alchemical treatises. Doctor Dee owned several of his
manuscripts. Gebcr also wrote De Motu Octat1aeSpherae, or
Concerning the Motion of the Eighth Sphere, that is, on the
Sphere of the Fixed Stars.
On the borders of the ninth and tenth centuries we have the
Persian Rhazes, alchemist and physician, with the same belief
in "Critical Days" as Hippocrates. Wc also have the great Persian
Al Biruni (973-1048)who studied Sanskrit and who became court
astrologer to the ruler of Afghanistan. He wrote The Elements of
Astrology and believed that the earth had an axis and that the
Sun moved around the earth.
Then there was Avicenna (gSo-1037) sometimes called lbn
Sina, also from Persia. His main treatises were gathered together
in the Canon of Avicenna, which like all early medical works
was based on astrology. A copy of this work was sent to the
University of Toledo and carefully guarded by the Moorish pro-
fessors, but in spite of all their care, Gerard of Cremona, whose
only desire in life was to find the next Arabic work to translate
for European students, stole the copy, translated it and gave the
contents to the Latin-reading nations. This translation of
Avicenna meant more to the medical world of Europe than
almost any other single happening, for until the seventeenth
century Avicenna's Canon was the main textbook. Gerard in fact
broke the Arabic and Moorish monopoly of medicine. For some
reason every human being hates a monopoly, but mostly when
it is someone else's. Later in the 17th century Culpepper broke
open the next big medical monopoly by printing the Pharma-
cop<ria.Avicenna was quite a philosopher too, as were most of
the early great doctors. He wrote De Anima Mundi, or About
the Soul of the World, in which he stated his belief in spiritual
beings controlling the planets. He said that all the planets were
animated by "Intelligences." In this he followed Aristotle, Plato,
and the Babylonians. He said that the planetary intelligences were
not all created at once, but successively. In this he may have
followed the Sabian ideas wherein the Sun was created first.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE ARABS AND JEWS 163
Avicenna's philosophy was later made known to Europe largely
through Averrhoes, and then a storm burst in which all Avcrr-
hOCS'
ideas and books were branded as heretical.
Far away in Egypt all the work of these "Arabs" and also
those of the Greeks were being studied. Haly Rodoam of Persia,
whosettled in Cairo about 1203, insisted that his students learn
astrology in order that they might understand Hippocrates and
Galen.Haly seems to have had a tremendous following among
thephysicians and astrologers of.mediaeval times.Guido Bonatus
refers to him continually. Haly also wrote a Commentary on
the Tetrahiblos of Ptolemy and an Exposition of Ptolemy's Cen-
tiloquy and Aphorisms, several treatises on horary astrology, and
a text bookDeJudiciisAstrorum,that tells us how to judge by the
stars.
In Cairo the Fatimidc Caliph Al Hakim founded a House of
Science,which unfortunately was suspended, as the new learning
apparcntly made heretics of the Mohammedan youth as well as ·
of the Christian youth. Science was stepping too far ahead of
religious opinion. Just how great were the libraries of the
Egyptians and Arabs, we can learn from Gibbon in his Decline
andFall of the Roman Empire: 12
The Vizier of a sultan consecrated a sum of two hundred thousand
piecesof gold to the foundation of a school in Bagdad, which he en-
dowed-with an annual revenue of fifteen thousand dinars. The fruits
of instruction were communicated, perhaps at different times, to six
thousand disciples of every degree, from the son of a noble to that of
the mechanic: a sufficient allowance was provided for the indigent
scholars;
and the merit or industry of the professors was rewarded with
adequate stipends. In every city the productions of Arabic literature
werecopied and collectedby the curiosity of the studious and the vanity
of the rich. A private doctor refused the invitation of the sultan of
Bocharabecause the carriage of his books would have required four
hundred camds. The royal library of the Fatimitcs consisted of one
hundred thousand manuscripts, elegantly transcribed and splendidly
- .
1
•oibbon, Decline
•nd PallofIM RomanEmpire(ii, 812).
164 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
hound, which were lent, without jealousy or avarice, to the students
of Cairo. Yet this collection must appear moderate if we can believe
that the Ommiades of Spain had formed a library of six hundred thou-
sand volumes, forty four of which were employed in a mere catalogue.
Their capital Cordova, with the adjacent towns of Malaga, Almeria,
and Murcia, had given birth to more than three hundred writers,
and about seventy public libraries were opened in the cities of the
Andalusian kingdom.
And in the footnote to this we read:
The Arabic catalogue of the Escurial will give a just idea~f the
proportion of the classes.In the library of Cqiro the MSS of astronomy
and medicine amount to 6,500,with two fair globesth~ one ~ brass
and the other of silver. ··
"I
So we see that if anyone wanted to learn either astrology or
astronomy the way was open. Let us now turn to the Islamic
learning at the other end of the Mediterranean,-"Moorish"
learning.
Chapter 13
THE MOORS IN SPAIN
In the tenth century, Arabic Spain was the fountain head of
learning in Europe. Thither students were accustomed to
repair from everyother country t<Jstudy in the Arabic schools;
and many ofthe chief teachers in the chief towns of France
and Italy had finished their education in these seminaries, and
were now diffusing among their countrymen the new knowl-
edge which they had thence acquired. .•• There is no trace
of this new literature having found its way to England before
the Norman conquest. But that revolution immediately
brought it in its train.
G. L. CRAIK, Manual of English Literature.
I
N THE year 948 A.D., the Western caliph with many learned
Moors and Jews of the city of Cordova, decided to farm a
Western academy which should be as resplendent as the
academies of the East. The school became a great success, and
interchange of knowledge came about as the ancient feud be-
tween the Eastern and Western caliphs died down. The Jews of
Cordova helped in part to maintain both the Cordova Academy
and the Jewish academies of Sura and Pambcdita near Babylon,
the heads of which were termed "gaons." Pambedita Academy
had started in 58gA.D. and lasted until 1038 A.D., while Sura had
started in 6<)9
A.D. and lasted until 1034 A.D. In both of these,
various studies of the Kabbala were conducted by several pro-
fessors. The works of Isaac Judaeus were also studied.
The cities of Toledo and Granada at first sent students to
Cordova, but finally they built academies of their own which
outrivallcd that of Cordova. Religious toleration was easy to
maintain at first, but after about sixty years, persecution set
in against the Jews in Cordova, and in 1013 A.D. they were driven
~' 165
166 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
to Saragossa, but up to this time great work had been accom-
plished and the Academy was popular among rulers, merchants,
the people and religious refugees from various countries. One
of the greatest of the early teachers was Ibn Shaprut 1
(915-9()0).
He was the Caliph of Bagdad's own physician-astrologer. Jewish
by birth, he was a good Greek scholar, for when the Emperor
of Byzantium sent the Caliph a present of the Greek Codex of
Dioscorides' Botany, Ihn Shaprut made the translation. This
aroused a new interest in the growing of the various herbs neces-
sary to the medicine of the period. The early doctors, who were
herbalists, assigned all the known herbs to the planets. Culpepper,
the herbalist, followed this school. It required also a knowledge
of astrology to know under what signs of the zodiac the herbs
should be gathered.
It may have been during Ibn Shaprut's life that Gilbert of
Auvergne came to Cordova to study. Gilbert, or Gerbcrtus, was
made Archbishop of Ravenna in the year 998AJ>.,and he be-
came Pope Sylvester II (999-1003)the following year, hence we
see that in the early days of religious toleration, not only Moors 1
and Jews studied peacefully together, but many Christians came
there also. Just what was learned besides medicine and botany
can be made clearer by the following excerpt from the Legacyof
lslam:2
Among the things brought back by wandering scholars who sought
in Muslim seats of learning knowledge unknown in their own coWr
tries, the astrolabe was a most important acquisition. An astronomical
instrument of ancient Greek invention, improved by the Alexandrinc
geographer Ptolemy, and perfected by the Muslims, the astrolabe came
to Europe some time in the tenth century. Its principal use in the East
was to determine the hour of prayer and the position of Mecca. But it
also served other purposes like that described in the Story Told by the
Tailor, where the glib barber delays his exasperated victim whilst he
finds with his astrolabe the precise moment auspicious for shaving.
1
Sec in Jewisl,Eneyclopedia,under HasdaiHanasi.
2
UKat:Yo/ Islam (Oxford University Press).
THE MOORS IN SPAIN
Association with astrology gave the astrolabe and all those versed in its
use, a sinister reputation throughout the Middle Ages, when in popular
belief astronomy and astrology were synonymous terms. The great
tenth-century scholar Gerbcrt of Auvergne, who became Pope under
the name of Sylvester II in 9<)9,was held, from his astronomical learn-
ing to have had dealings with the devil during his sojourn in Cordova..
In recounting how Gerbcrt, who "surpassed Ptolemy in the use of the
astrolabe,"revived the legitimate mathematical sciences in Gaul, where
they had long been in abeyance, William of Malmcsbury 8
gives a dark
hint of his necromantic skill. An interesting relic of late tcnth<cntury
science is preserved at Florence-an astrolabe made for the latitude of
Rome, which is thought by some authorities to have belonged to Pope
Sylvester II.
The earliest dated astrolabe is at Oxford. Made in 984
A.D., it was.
the joint work of two masters, Ahmad and Malmud, sons of lbrihim,
the astrolabist of Ispahan. Amongst those in the British Museum is an
English example dated 1200.Merton College Library possesses the
instrument traditionally associated with Chaucer, who wrote a treatise
on the astrolabe for his little son.
To mariners the astrolabe was invaluable. Its use for nautical
observations, continued in the West until the seventeenth century►
when it was superseded by new inventions.
The power of the Moors started to weaken before the Chris-
tians in the eleventh century, and one by one the various Moorish
cities were captured. Toledo was the last to fall, in 1085A.D. The
Moorswere driven into Granada, which held out until 1492A.D.
However, in spite of the change of rulers, the academies con-
tinued in Toledo and various other cities.We find distinguished
scholars from all over Europe Bocking to the Spanish towns in
order to round out their education. Toledo for the next three
hundred years or so, became famous for its great numbers of
translators, who worked on every kind of manuscript that could
be found, whether· ancient or current, until at length religious
persecution, among the Christians themselves, stamped out the
liberty which learning demands in any age.
3
Ashrnand records the same matter.
168 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
. . . .
We shall deal with some of the famous teachers aid scholars
of the Spanish centers of learning in our chapters on Mediaeval
Times. The names of Abenezra, Averrhoes, Petrus Alphonsus,
John Hispalensis, Ibn Daud, Hiyya Hanasi, Maimonides, and
many others, stand out very clearly, but we can study them best
in their effect upon the European rather than upon the Moorish
world.
Section Four of Zodiacal Pictures from Este, Egypt
Chapter 14
ASTROLOGY IN THE BI_UTISH ISLES,
FRANCE AND GERMANY
To Britain shall come an eraltation,
Britons of the stock
of Rome,
May I be judged by the merciful God.
Astronomers are predicting
Misfortune in the land.
Druids are prophesying,
Beyond the sea, beyond Britain,
That the summer shall not be fair.
The nobles shall be brok_en;
It shall be through want of faith.
TALIESIN, "Lludd the Great."
P
EOPLE arc inclined to think that though there may have been
astrology among the Greeks and Romans in the early cen-
turies before and after Christ, there could have been none
among the Britons nor in the rest of Europe. Let us investigate
thisstatement.
The Druids were good astrologers. The Welsh records state
that it took twenty years to train a Druid, generally from his
seventh to his twenty-seventh year,-quite a university course.
Plretz in his Dictionary of Dates 1
says that they were taught
Greek. A Druid had to know enough astronomy to set the Druid
circlesaright, so that on Midsummer's Day, at the summer solstice,
the Sun should shine absolutely direct on top of the main stone.
No amateur astronomer could do this. The grand entrances at
Stonehenge and Abury arc set exactlyNorth East. This too isnot
1
PI~ Dictionaryof Dates (Halcyon House).
16g
170 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY A.ND INFLUENCE
the work of an amateur. The Druids also knew •enoughastronomy
to celebrate their holy days correctly, and this required a knowl-
edge of the equinoxes, solsticesand lunar positions. They instilled
a love of learning and a respect for learning into their people
which has become traditional down to the present day. We also
come upon isolated cases where the Druids gave predictions, as
in the case of Alexander Severus, who was met on his last
fatal expedition by a Druid (near Mainz) who told him that
his expedition would not be successfulbecause hissoldiers would
betray him. How the prediction was made, astrologically or
psychically, we do not know, but there is no particular reason
for not thinking it was an astrological prediction. Caesar says
that the Druids of Gaul worshipped chiefly Mercury, also Apollo,
Mars and Minerva. Apparently, he meant gods with attributes
somewhat similar to these.
Elias Ashmole had evidently done a considerable amount of
research 2
on the early learning in Britain. He says:
Caesar testifies (and 'tis a noble testimony) That the Learning of the
Druids was first invented in Britaine and thence transferred into
France; and that in his time, those of France came over hither to be
instructed. Agricola (in Tacitus) prefers the Britaines before the Stu-
dents of France (notwithstanding that they were of a docible Wit, and
apt to Learne). As for Magick, Pliny tells us, it flourished in Britainc,
and the People there were much devoted to it (yea, with all Compli-
ments of Ceremony) a man would think that even the Persian learned
his Magick there.
I think both Ashmolc and Caesar were wrong in thinking the
learning of the Celts was first "invented" in Britain. It is evident,
from various researches, that it was Eastern knowledge that came
along with the Celts 8
on their journey westward, for all the
way along their route they built cromlechs and druidical circles,
many of which are still extant. It is a curious matter that very
2
Tl,eatrum Chemicum, by E. Ashmolc.
8
See Appendix IX.
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 171
,
rarely did the Roniam;interfere with the religion of any people
they conquered. They were, as a rule, quite tolerant, but in
Britain they rooted out the Druids very savagely. Their usual
excuse was that the Druids were leaders of insurrections. The
Wdsh legends of the Cymry of Wales arc to the effect that their
Druids prophesied that Britain should in the future hold a
mightier empire than the Romans and spread "where their
eagles never flew,"and these ,prophecies were handed down from
poet to poet and from singer to singer all through the ages when
the prophecies lookedvery, very far-fetched. We read of a Roman
knight beingcondemned to death by Claudius for even possessing
a Druidic talisman. Evidently the Roman emperors feared the
Druids greatly.
In the early centuries before Christ we are told that the
Phocnicians andEgyptians came as traders. We might remember
that the teacher of Pythagoras was a Phocnician and the Phoc-
nicians were astrologically minded. There arc places in Britain
which every school child knows have been called after the gods
of thesenations,-Tooting, Tuthill, Pook's Hill, all after the god
Thoth, who had rulcrship over many of the same matters as
the god Mercury,-lctters, journeys and trade. Then there is
the River Isis on which Oxford stands, undoubtedly named
afterthe goddess Isis, the Moon goddess. Nennius, the early his-
torian of the seventh century, Abbot of Bangor, Wales, although
his history may be unreliable in parts, nevertheless preserves
what was cmrently believed or recorded in his time. Speaking
ofthe pre-Roman period when Ireland was colonized by Partho-
lanusand Nimick he says:
Afterwards others came from Spain (that is, the Milcsians of Irish
history)and possessedthemselvesof various parts of Britain.
Now the Milesianshad formerly been the people among whom
Thales,the Greek scientist, was born. They had revolted against
Persiaand had apparently been annihilated, but actually had
travdlcdwestwards in search of new homes, and they no doubt
172 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
brought their wise men along as well as their soldiers and,
civilians.
When the Romans came, temples were made to the Roman
gods. A temple to Apollo stood on the present site of Wcstmiostcr
Abbey.
A temple to Diana, goddess of the Moon, stood on the pres-
ent site of St. Paul's Cathedral, hence Nostradamus in one of
his quatrains, speaks of St. Paul's as "the ancient Dame." We
find too in the Christian period that all the temples which had
formerly been dedicated to Mercury (and previously Thoth)
became churches dedicated to St. Michael, particularly those in
western rocky places such as Mount St. Michad in Cornwall and
Mont St. Michel in western France. Later, we find in religious
Christian drawings that St. Michael takes on the attributes of
the West, the scales of Libra, but he also takes on the work of
Mercury in being the guardian of souls at death and after.
Of course, having temples to planetary gods in early Britain
did not make the people into astro~ogers,nevertheless the priests
would know more than the people, and as Roman priests came
over with the Roman soldiers, we need not think that Britain's
Roman temples were in charge of ignoramuses. We find in
Britain, as in western Gaul, that when the Romans captured
these countries, it was their custom to train various sons of
chieftains in all the polite learning of Rome, hence as astrology
was one of the subjects studied by the Romans, undoubtedly
these young men became conversant with astronomy and as-
trology. Tacitus tells us these schools were very much improved
during the reign of Agricola. When the Romans left in 410 AJJ.
there is no reason to suppose that everybody suddenly despised
learning and threw it aside. There are most learned people today
in quite out-of-the-way places. The Roman armies were always
kept at their greatest strength in the North of England and in
what we call the Lowlands of Scotland, and it was from the
North in succeeding centuries, that the great majority of scholars
seemed to come. Both Bede and Alcuin came from the North,
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 173
while Adelard came from Bath in Somerset, and Roger Bacon,
too, came from Somerset, for here again the Romans built great
camps lest trouble brew 011 the Wclsh marches. There are still
preserved a few books used by Celts in the early centuries after
the Romans left:
(1) A seventh century edition of Juvencus, an early Christian
poet of Spain of the period 270-337,which is interlined with
Celtic words in the Scottish dialect.
(2) Several eighth century editions (now in the Bodleian
Library) of Eutychius, the Greek grammarian who taught at
Constantin of le. This is interlined with Wclsh glosses.
(3) Ovid's Ars Amatoria with Welsh glosses.
(4) A Latin vocabulary with Welsh interpretations.
The contact with a Spanish author at this early time is quite
interesting, showing that if books of poetry were acceptable and
could be imported, books of science could also have been im•
ported at the time. It also shows that Greek was studied.
The conversion of Britain took several centuries, and we
must bear in mind that the inhabitants at the time when the
Romans were in occupation were Celts. Many of these were con•
vcrted both by the Greek and the Roman Church missionaries.
Then when the Romans left, the Celts were overwhelmed by
Saxonsand Angles, Jutes and Danes in the fifth and sixth cen..
turies, and as these latter took possession,the processof conversion
had to start all over again. One of the major problems of mis-
sionaries to both Celts and Saxons was how to weed out the belief
in lucky and in unlucky days. Perhaps they never accomplished
it. The Roman missionaries called these superstitious beliefs
"Egyptian days," yet they were flooded in their own city of Rome
with exactly the same beliefs.
Edwin,King of Northumbria (585-633),was converted, and
in order to build stone churches, brought stone masons over
from Europe. Credit is usually given to Bede £or building these
in68oA.D., but his stone churches were much later than Edwin's.
A chronicler wrote of these early stone churches, "Then had ye
174 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
wooden churches, but now wooden priests and stone churchcs.'1
As quite a number of old stone churches had zodiacalsignscarved
on them, we arc left guessing whether the stone masons deco-
rated to suit their own fancy or according to instructions.
When Geoffrey' of Monmouth came to write the history of
these early days of Christianity, he tells us that Edwin was so
disturbed with attacks from the Danes and not knowing when
the next would come, that he sent to Spain for an astrologer and
Pclletus came over. Pelletus had been educated by Solomon, King
of the Armoricans (Bretcms). Geoffrey is also responsible for say-
ing that "In KingArthur's reign, there subsisted at Caelcon in
Glamorganshire a college of two hJmdred philosophers, who
studied astronomy and other sciences; and who were particularly
employed in watching the courses of the stars, and predicting
events to the king from these observations." Evidently the belief
in prophecy did not die out in spite of Christian teaching. Geof-
frey of Monmouth was a Wclsh Benedictine monk. It seems that
about 1100 Walter, Archdeacon of Oxford, while travelling in
Brittany, procured a very ancient chronicle of the kings of Early
Britain, and gave this to Geoffrey to translate into Latin. Geoffrey
.finishedit about 1139. As we do not have the original manuscript,
we can chooseto believeeither that these astrological stories were
in· the original, or that the good churchman who afterwards
became Bishop of St. Asaph's, inserted them himself.
Magic did not die out, in spite of Christian teachings. In the
Legacyof Israel6
this passageoccurs:
In the sixth and seventh centuries there were produced in the British
Isles a very peculiar series of semi-magical documents, which scholars
have entitled the Hisperic Literature. In these extraordinary compo-
sitions, though the language is Latin, the vocabulaiy is drawn from the
most out-of-the-way sources. A few words artificially derived from
Hebrew are included. These words may have been obtained from
wandering Syrian ot Byzantine travellers. There arc alsoa few pwdy
'Geoffrey of Monmouth, Hidoria Briton•m, Book I, Ch. 16.
1
U6a&y oflnwl (Oxford University Press).
I
i ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 175
magical formulae of about the ninth or tenth century that seem to
exhibit Hebrew elements.
As regards the Hebrew words in English,we must realize that
many of the early missionarieswere of the Greek Church rather
than of the Roman Church, and these missionariesseem to have
inculcated certain Hebrew doctrinesin the country. It may there-
fore be that some convertsafter learning a little Hebrew, reverted
to pagan beliefsbut inserted someof their Christian schoollearn-
.
mg.
On the other hand these semi-magical texts may have come
about by what has been describedas a Nco-Druidicheresywhich
crept into various parts of the country after the Romans left, in
which there was an attempt to revive the old Druidism and rites
in some new form, so as·to combat Christianity.This Neo-Druidic
heresyhas beenhotly denied by variousscholars,but I give below
what Herbert hasto sayin hisEssayon Neo-Druidism:
•
Paulinus and Agrippa, by the conquest of Mona (Anglesey), the
slaughter of Druids on that island, and the "cutting down of the groves
thatwere sacred to their cruel superstitions," struck a fatal blow to their
craft[i.e.,of the ancient Druids]. The three centuries that intervened
between Vespasian and Honorius consigned to silence the Druidical
system in the Roman provinces of Gaul and Britain-the religion of
Rome first, and then that of Christ, being established in them, and the
Latin language extensivdy prevalent. But in the very height of their
Roman civilization, when the vicious empire was tottering, a pagan
apostasy crept into Gaul and Britain, which ended in establishing in
thelatter country that Nee-Druidism to which the fables of Ambrosius
andArthur relate. A sort of magical association had gro'Yn up in the
easternparts of the Roman dominions founded upon the doctrines and
mysteries of the Persian magi. These were the Mithraics, followers
of the ineffable orgies of Mithras. Very early in the Christian era this
pagan sect began in a measure to play the part of heretics, and under
theirname of Mithraics, imitated and parodied the rites of Christianity.
--
8
Quoted in Tal#sinby D. W. Nash (London 1858).
176 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY .A.ND INFLUENCE
They worshipped the Sun by his Persian title of Mithras, but pretended
it was Christ they worshipped, and that Christ was the spirit of the
Sun. These doctrines were introduced into Britain, a rich and civilized
island, in which Christianity had been some time established, and
Roman manners still longer. We therefore meet with a frequent dis.
simulation of that heathenism to which the authors of the system were
addicted-;-a disinclination to call the demons of polytheism by their
ancient and known titles, or to give them the rank of gods, and a
feeble attempt to conciliate their mysteries with the Christian.
In considering this Mithraic heresy of Neo-Druidism (if it
existed) we might note that some of the ancient art of Britain is
very Persian in type, showing Persian influence. One can readily
see that the Druidic beliefs must have lingered in the countryside
of Britain long after they did in the towns, and that there would
befor centuries a tendency to revert to old beliefs, just as in Rome
itself, in the time of Julian the Apostate, there were people who
reverted to the old Roman gods. There is, in their fables, one
major differcnce between the Welsh and Irish concepts of the
Druids. To a Welshman the name conjures up a vision of a great
and wise teacher, honored, loved and respected, whereas with the
Irish, throughout their folklore, there is a concept of a powerful
magician, usually evil. It is of course probable that some of
the least profitable of the old gnostic ideas of secret formulas and
amulets came to Britain through contact with the Romans and
the Greeks, and these were woven in with Neo-Druidism. Taliesin,
the Welsh bard, has sometimes been accused of Neo-Druidism,
but from evidence in his major poems, he appears to have been
definitely Christian. He lived in Wales in the middle ·of the sixth
century. There are many prophecies in his poems, but these may
have been psychic ones and not astrological ones, yet he was
acquainted with astrological prophecies, as his poem, ''The Pane-
gyric of Lludd the Great," reveals:
Astronomers are predicting
Misfortune in the land.
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 177
Taliesin is also conversant with the nine orders of angels, and
with him we have a glimmer of a tenth sphere, which agrees
with the tenfold theories of the Kabbalistic systems. But, whereas
Dante, when he uses a tenfold Kabbalistic scheme, increases the
nine realms by an extra one at the top-the Empyrean, Taliesin
increases the nine spheres by an extra realm at the bottom to
contain the souls of the saints, after or at, the end of the world (or
in the Seventh Age of the world), and he envisions the souls of
the redeemed speaking Hebrew, Greek and Latin. In his "Elegy
on the Thousand Saints," he sings:-
Thcre are nine mystic troops of heaven,
And the tenth, of the saints prepared for the Seventh Age . . .
Language of Greek and Hebrew
And Latin, men will be speaking. • • •
Now the nine orders of angels were systematized by Dionysius
the Areopagite, St. Paul's convert, and his books were not sup-
posedto be known in Europe until later when Alcuin (also from
the North of England) translated them for the French King, yet
here they are definitely mentioned by a Welsh poet of the sixth
century, so evidently Greek writers were well known in the
country.Whether the nine orders given by the Greek Dionysius
are in line with the Greek nine muses, or whether they are
Kabbalistic and Jewish is a moot matter. They were certainly
usedin the Kabbalistic scheme of the world, and they were related
to the planetary scheme of Ptolemy.
The Anglo Saxon Chronicle gives us records of various eclipses
andother heavenly phenomena. Who wrote the earliest sections
we do not know. Some say the Chronicle was not started until
Bede's time. Others say that Bede and his collaborators incor-
porated the work of earlier chroniclers, but redated these to con-
form with the new method of using Christ's birth date as the
yearI A.D. This Christian Era Calendar only came into being in
532A.D., when it was introduced by Dionysius Exiguus. In some
ofthe various MSS of the Anglo Saxon Chronicle there are dis-
178 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
crepancics of a few years in date, due to the fact that Dionysius
made a mistake.
But the important thing is that this Chronicle, which was
mainly the work of monks, who inserted facts for each year,
beginsthus:
i
A.D. I Octavianus reigned 56 winters; and in the 4211dyear of his 1
reign Christ was born. Then three astrologersfrom the East j~
came to worship Christ. ·
Evidently the term "three astrologers" roused no irate feelings in
the minds of the clergy in all the hundreds of years in which it
passed through their hands, for the phrase was never erased. The
Anglo Saxon Chronicle proves that its long chain of writers
believed that eclipses, comets, etc., were heralds of far-reaching
changes, mostly disastrous, or coincident with these changes.
I give the years where the eclipsesand other phenomena arc men-
tioned and what the various monks who wrote the Chronicle had
to say of the events in England which were concurrent with these
events in the heavens: 1
li64
A.D. Eclipse of the Sun, May 11. The King of Kent died •..
there was a great plague.
678
A.D. The comet star in August shone every morning during three
M!)nths like a sunbeam. Bishop Wilfred being driven out
of his bishopric. . . .
729 A.D. This year the comet star appeared and St. Egbert died at
Iona. This year also die4 the Atheling Osward, and Osric
was slain ••• also the King of Northumberland. This year
J\rchbishop Bertwald died.
793 A.D. Dreadful forewarnings over the land of the Northumbrians
• • . immense sheets of lightning rushing through the air,
and whirlwinds and fiery dragons flying across the firma-
ment, followed by a great famine • • • and• harrowing
inroads of hcatheir men.
"Anglo Saxon Chronicle (Everyman's Library) .
•
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 179
8oo A.O. This yearwas the Moon eclipsed at 8 in the evening on the
17th
day before the calends of February ••• terrible con•
ffict in. which both commanders were slain.
8o6A.D. This year was the Moon eclipsed on the first of September.
Erdwulf, King of Northumbria was banished.
807
A.D. This year was the Sun eclipsed precisely at II in the morning
on the 17th day before the calends of August.
827
A.D. This year was the Moon eclipsed on mid-winter's night; and
King Alfred conquered the Mercian kingdom.
87«)
A.D. The same year assembled a band of pirates . . . the same
year the Sun was eclipsed one hour of the day.
8g1 A.D. After Easter • • • appeared the star that men in book-Latin
call cometa; some men say in English it may be termed
"Hairy star" for that there standeth off from it a long gleam
of light, whilom on one side, whilom on each.
m A.D. This year was seen a bloody welkin oft times in likeness of
a fire; and this was most apparent at midnight .... In this
year was Ethelred consecrated King. . . .
104B A.D. This year also there was an earthquake on the calcnds of
May in many places ... with very great loss of men and
cattle all over England. . . . In the same year the enemy
plundered Sandwich and the Isle of Wight and slew the
best men there were. . • •
1066A.D. This year died King Edward, and Harold the earl succeeded
in the kingdom, and held it forty weeks and one day. And
this year came William, and won England. And in this
year Christ-Church [Canterbury] was burned. And this
year appeared a comet on the 14th day before the calcnds
of May.
During the lifetime of Bede it had become a practice among
both
the laity and the dergy to visit Rome. Gibbon in his Decline
and Fall of the Roman Empire recalls that Bede wrote the
prophecy of the Anglo Saxon pilgrims, who must have visited
Romebefore the year 735A.D., which is close to the year of Bede's
death.The prophecy runs:
AJ long as the Coliseum stands, Rome shall stand; when the Coli-
seumfalls, Rome will fall; and when Rome falls, the world will fall.
180 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
The Venerable Bede, born about 6']2A.D. at Jarrow-on-Tyne, ~
says that in his time students were still alive to whom Greek and
Latin were as familiar as their native tongues. He also tells us
"that Augustine started schools in Canterbury, but Theodore who
had the See in 688improved them, and he and his friend Adrian
gave instruction not only in divinity but in astronomy, medicine,
arithmetic, Greek and Latin. These two clerics were natives of l
Asia Minor and so spoke Greek fluently. Theodore was a Roman -
monk but original!y a Greek priest, a native of Tarsus in Cilicia, ·
skilled in the metrical art, astronomy, arithmetic, church music
and the Greek and Latin languages.,, Bede goes on to say that ,·
Theodore brought a large library with him containini Greek and •,
Latin books, also a copy of Josephus in Greek. Adrian who came I
with him was more acquainted with travelling. He was a Nea
1
politan monk, a native of Africa, ''equally skilled in sacred and -
profane learning." ·~
One of their pupils was Ealdhelm or Aldheim (c. 640--709),
who later became Bishop of Malmesbury. He was a great builder
of churches. One of his churches in Wiltshire still survives. Craik
in his Manual of English Literature 8
says of hi\D:
Ealdhdm was of the stock of the Kings of Wessex, and was initiated
into Greek and Latin at the School of Kent, presided over by Abbot
Adrian, who, like his friend Theodore, appears to have been a native
of Asia Minor, so that Greek was his native tongue. Wc are assured
by one of his biographers that Ealdhclm could speak and write Greek
like a native of Greece. He early associated himself with the Monastic
brotherhood of Malmesbury. Among his studies arc mentioned the
Roman law, the rules of Latin prosody, arithmetic, astronomy and
astrology. Warton says, "His writings are chiefly theological, but he
has likewise left Latin verse, treatises on arithmetic, astrology, rhetoric '
and logic." Evidently all these treatises were meant to be taught in
Ealdhelm's schools. Then about the same time, so·Bede says, Benedict
came over from Rome with a great library of Greek and Latin books.
He settled in the North of England. Benedict was succeeded by Cool-
8
Craik, Manual of Eng/is/, Literature (Evcryman's Library).
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 181
£rid,who added to the library a "book of cosmography wonderfully
enriched with curious workmanship."
Alcuin (735-8o4), ambassador of King Offa to the Emperor
Charlemagne, and finally a friend of Charlemagne, was one of
the most remarkable men of the North. He was born the same
yearthat Bede died and went to school in York, where a famous
schoolhad existed from Roman times,-and probably before. It
wasin York that the Culdees of England had their headquarters
and they seem to have beep acquainted with much curious
knowledge. Alcuin tdls us very clearly in one of his poems what
he learned in his school days:
The harmony of the sky
the labor of the Sun and Moon
the five zones
the seven ~andering planets
the laws, rising and setting of the stars
the aerial motion of the seas
earthquakes
the nature of man, cattle, birds and wild beasts
the sacred Scriptures
grammar
rhetoric
poetry
Certainly an astronomical program. No wonder that one of his
biographers remarks, "Alcuin was not quite free from speculative
opinions." His opinions were possibly somewhat Neo-Platonic.
The fame of Alcuin spread far and wide, and as Charlemagne
conferred with his ambassador on various matters other than
politics,particularly on astronomy which was the emperor's
hobby,they discussed the schools which Charlemagne intended to
founl in his dominions. Finally, Alcuin was asked in 782to take
chargeof these new schools. The friendship grew steadily and a
verywonderful and genial spirit of camaraderie was established.
182 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY .A.ND INFLUENCE
In one of his letters Alcuin tells the emperor what he taught his
students at St. Martin's School, Paris: 8
To some I administer the honey of the sacred writings; others I try
to inebriate with the wine of the sacred classics. I begin the nourish-
ment of some with subtlety. I strive to illuminate many by the arrt1ngt-
ment of the stars, as from the painted roof of a lofty palace.
I might mention here that Charlemagne and the Caliph
Haroun Al Raschid made a treaty of friendship, and the Caliph, 1
knowing that Alcuin was teaching astronomy, sent Charlemagne ,
the gift of a beautiful astrolabe in order that observations might
proceed more accurately in Alcuin's schools.Thus we sec that it
is most probable that Alcuin used this astrolabe, and the use of it
became quite generally known throughout Europe at this early
date, and did riot have to wait until the eleventh century and
later. Al Raschid sent not only an astrolabe, but he sent scholars
and books too, in order that this instrument might be properly
understood and put to use. Warton 10
says of these scholars:
They brought with them their books,which Charlemagne, Emperor
of France and Germany, commanded to be translated from Arabic into
Latin, and which, by the care and encouragement of that liberal prince,
being quickly disseminated over his extensive dominions, soon became
familiar to the western world. • . • From this fountain the infatuations
of astrology took possessionof the Middle Ages, and were continued
even to modern times.
Charlemagne could speak and write Latin as wdl as his own
Flemish, but of his Greek, Eginhard his biographer relates, "he
understood it better than he could pronounce it." Warion con-
tinues:
It is certain, that about the close of the ninth century, polite letters,
together with the sciences,began in some degree to be studied in Italy,
France and Germany. Charlemagne, whose munificence and activityin
propagandizing the Arabian literature, has already been mentioned,
9
Craik,Milnualof English Literature (Evcryman'sLibrary).
10
Thomas Warton, Dissertation on tl,e Introduction o/ Lean,ing into Europe.
(Warton uses Cuspinian's De Caesarihus,p. 419, as his authority for this statement.)
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES· AND EUROPE 183
founded the universities of Bononia, Pavia, Paris and Ofnaburgh.
Charles the Bald seconded the salutary endcavors of Charlemagne.
Lothairc, the brother of the latter, erected schools in eight principal
cities of Italy.
Gibbon, like all the Victorians and various historians who
have not delved into these matters, does not appreciate sufficiently
the learning of the period that has been called the Dark Ages.
He records what the Greeks and Romans knew and taught, but
rardy what the "barbarians" were clamoring to know. Speaking
of the knowledge of the period he says: "The gr3mmar and logic ·
and astronomy of the times were only cultivated as the handmaids
of superstition." Did Gibbon mean that in his researches into the
period he found that astronomical knowledge was almost always
used to further astrology? The schools of Charlemagne did not
survive the Emperor, but the impetus to learning did not entirely
die out. One of Charlemagne's grandsons was Charles the Bald
of France, who received that portion of the Empire called the
Spanish Mark, and Aquitania. He wanted a tutor for himself
and for his palace school. He heard of John Scot, or Scotus
(8oo-884), generally called Erigena, and invited him to the court.
Again a wonderful friendship grew up between the king and
tutor, and the king protected "his little friend" in everything, for
Erigena was extremely small, but very witty and amusing. Erigcna
had learned Greek thoroughly in his British school, and had
already completed a translation of the works of the Greek Diony-
sius the Arcopagitc (whom we mentioned previously) when he
went to France. Thus obviously these writings of Dionysius were
known in England long before they were introduced into France.
It was this translation that brought him to the notice of the king.
It seems that Charles' father, Louis the Pious, had been presented
by the Byzantine Emperor with a diplomatic present of a manu-
script of the writings of Dionysius, and no one in France had
known enough Greek to translate it, thus Charles hailed with
joy a man who could translate Greek and compare his (Erigcna's)
own copy with the Byzantine manuscript. However much
184 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
historians may talk about the Dark Ages, we find that any time
the Byzantine emperors sent a valuable codex or manuscript to
a Western king, this was received with the greatest joy, and
kings moved heaven and earth to have the best use made of it.
National grievances were immediately set aside and made of no
consequence if a learned man could be found in any nation wha
would make its contents available. Dionysius was a learned Greek
converted by St. Paul (see Acts XVII, 34) and is said to have been
installed as first Bishop of Athens by St. Paul himself. Previously
• he had studied in the schools of Athens and at Heliopolis in
Egypt. It is said that when he observed in Egypt the eclipse of the
Sun which coincided with Christ's crucifixion, he exclaimed,
"Either God Himself is suffering, or He sympathizes with some-
one who is suffering." Legend says that after his conversion he
came westwards and settled in France, where his name was
shortened to Denis. He became Bishop of Paris and was put to
death by the Romans. We can then imagine the excitement of
all France when they were given by the king an authentic trans-
lation of their own patron saint's writings. But trouble started
because of this very excitement. Many of the religious teachers of
other nations had never heard of any writings of Dionysius and
openly proclaimed that they were frauds. Cyril of Alexandria had
never mentioned them and neither had Athanasius, so they.must
be Neo-Platonic imaginations of the third century. Erigena, then,
with his translations of The Celestial Hierarchy, The Sacred
Name of God, and On Mystical Theology, became a storm centcr
of religious controversy, and Charles the Bald had great trouble in
protecting him. The teaching, however, on the nine orders of
angels was believed by the people. It was the greater clerics who
made accusations of heresy against Erigena for translating them
and bringing Eastern mysticism into Europe. Charles died in
snA.D., and Erigena returned to England. He.is said to have been
stabbed to death at the school belonging to the monastery of
Malmesbury, by a rabid student who evidently considered that it
was right to put such a heretic to death. Among other things that
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 185
Erigena wrote was De Dit1ina Praedestinatione, or Concerning
Divine Predestination. He is credited with learning Arabic and
Chaldean and visiting Athens. From his life and Alcuin's we see
that Arabic knowledge came to Europe between 782and 884A.D.
King Alfred's stepmother was a daughter of Charles the Bald,
and Alfred (871-901)appears to have studied most of the school
subjects of the day. He instituted schools and revived the Anglo-
Saxon Chronicle, which had fallen into disuse. Asser, one of his
helpers, who came from Wales, says,"Alfred searched for scholars
like the bee looking for honey. He sent gifts and an embassyto the
Archbishop of Rheims to ask for Fulco, the scholar, to come to
England. Every noble or man of substance had to attend school
or send a substitute." Alfred himself translated Boethius and
from this time on the works of Boethius were standard textbooks
in all English schools until the period of the Renaissance. Asser
too, in his Life of Alfred, mentions that the king brought over
"cunning artificers in goldsmith's work." If we may judge by
what is called "Alfred's jewel," they were Byzantine goldsmiths.
There was thus a definite step forward in all fields of learning,
and the schools of Alfred taught the same subjects as had been
taught by Alcuin in Charlemagne's schools,that is, a continuation
of what had been taught in Bede's schools, which included a
natural astrology that took account of weather, but did not stress
the predictive sideof astrology too much. Confirming thisthought,
Warton tells us that Alfred's teachers "gave instruction in the
fashionable sciences of logic, astronomy, arithmetic, geometry,
etc." Also, closeto the tenth century we find calendars in England.
They were farmers' guides, containing phases of the moon, etc.,
the right times for planting and harvesting by the moon, lucky
and unlucky days, etc. These do not show that the people of Eng-
land were astrologers, but they tend to show that the compilers
of these almanacs knew something of astrology, and if some of
them knew only a little, there were possibly others who knew a
great deal.
In the tenth century, too, we find that Euclid was introduced, or
186 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
re-introduced, into England, by various masons who came to
build churches:
The clerk Euclid in this wise did found
The craft of Geometry in Egypt's land.
In Egypt he taught it full wide,
In divers lands on every side.•••
This craft came to England, let me say,
In time of good King Athelstan's day.11
It is important to note that in all this early period we have
records of drawings, and carvings in stone, of the zodiac-many on
churches. Several churches in Kent long before 1o66had this
zodiacal ornamentation. The old Cathedral of Canterbury was
burnt down iri 100'],but the new one had zodiacal figures just as
the old one did. The old Abbey of Glastonbury in Somerset issaid
to have had a zodiac on its floor. The Harleian MS in the British
Museum shows a drawing of the eighth century by the monk
Gcrugius. In it is a fish goat for Capricorn, a man with scales for
Libra, .Geminiwith a spear and club, and a winged Virgo carry-
ing a lily and palm. In the Harlcian MS for the ninth century
there isa planisphere showing Aquarius as Ganymede, Jove's cup-
bearer. Also,in Craik's Manual of English Literature 12
I find the
following:
In the History attributed to Ingulphus 13
(by Peter of Blois) is the
following description of a sort of scheme or representation of the planet-
ary system called the Nadir, which is stated to have been destroyed
when the abbey of Croyland was burned in 1091 :
"Wc then lost a most beautifuland precious table, fabricated of dif-
fcrcnt kinds of metals, according to the variety of the stars and heav-
enly signs. Saturn was of copper, Jupiter of gold, Marsof iron, the Sun
of latten, Mercury of amber, Venus of tin and the Moon of silver. The
eyes were charmed, as well as the mibd instructed, by beholding the
colure circles,with the zodiacand all its signsformed with wonderful
11
Halliwdl Poem (1390) transcribedfrom earlier ones. Athdstan (925~40).
uaG. L. Craik, Manlllll of En6'isJ, Litn-ature (Evcryman•s Library).
18
Compiled &om ancient MS in the Abbey of Croyland.
ASTROLOGY IN THE BRITISH ISLES AND EUROPE 187
art, of metals and precious stones, according to their several natures,
forms, figures and colors.It was the most admired and cd~brated Nadir
in all England." The last words seem to imply that such tables were
then not uncommon. This one it is stated had been presented to a
former abbot of Croyland by a King of France.
There was a great thirst for learning in England long before
the time of the Norman Conquest, and the teachings of Alcuin,
Alfred and Erigena never died out.
The schools which the Normans founded in England were
attended not merely by Normans but by Anglo-Saxons, too, who
were eager to take advantage of them and to continue with their
studies, not start them.
Also, on the continent in the pre-Norman period there was a
Spanish translation of an Arabic astrological book by Alcandrius.
I have occasionally run across a reference to Alcandrius in books
of quite recent centuries, but had never been able to trace the
author. In the Legacyof Israel14
his work is referred to in these
words:
From a later period in the tenth century comes to us the very
remarkable Latin document called the Mathematica A.lcandrii. This
curious work, which exists complete in only a single manuscript, is
devoted to astrology of a very complex type. The name Alcandrius is
probably a form of Alexander. The author of this work writes a num-
ber of words in Hebrew script, and the Hebrew names of the planets
and constellations are familiar to him. He uses too the common Rab-
binical habit of combining initial letters into symbolic words. His
astrological system is largely based on the numerical values of the let•
tcrs of the Hebrew alphabet. These numerical values were of constant
interest to Cabalistic Hebrew writers.
We have no record that this book was in England in the tenth
century, but it may have been among the books of the learned
Jews and other scholars who came to England soon after the
Norman Conquest.
14
Legacy of Israel (Oxford University Press).
Chapter 15
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY
Astrology entered into the councilsof Princes,·it guided the
policy of nations, and ruled the daily actions of individuals.
All this is attested by the records of every nation which has a
history, and by none more fully than by those of England.
Yet, with these striking facts before their eyes, the present gen-
eration seem never, until now, to have enquired on what basis
this belief of their forefathers was established, nor by what
authority the delusion (if it was one), could have been for so
many ages supported. Among a thousand people who now
treat of Astrology with supercilious ridicule, there is scarcely
one who k_nowsdistinctly what it is he laughs d, or on what
plea his ancestorsshould stand excused for having in their day
contemplated with respect the unfortunate object of modern
derision.
J.M. AsHMAND, Preface to Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos.
W
ILLIAM THE CoNQUEROR had hisastrologer. If one did not
realize that astrology was being taught in almost every
school of the day, one might wonder where William
obtained his astrologer. We never hear of any king finding any
difficulty in obtaining a good astrologer. Who taught them all?
Whatever astrologer set the date for the coronation, and prac-
tically all coronations were astrologically timed, was certainly a
marvellous student of the art of "election,"-high noon, Christmas
Day, 1o66A.D.-for the kingdom still exists.
William, on the whole, was interested in all kinds of learning.
Apparently he was an intellectually tolerant man in an age when
intolerance was esteemed a virtue. He encouraged the growth
of schools both in England and in Normandy. All his own chil-
dren were well educated. In fact, his son Henry Beauclerk wasso
proficient that he earned the name Beau-clerk. Warton, in his
188
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY 189
Dissertation on the Introduction of Learning into England, wrote:
"The king himself gave no small countenance to the clergy in
sending his son Henry to the Abbey of Abingdon, where he was
initiated into the sciences under the care of Abbot Grambald,
and Farritius, a physician of Oxford."
William also tolerated the Jews, and after the conquest of
England, he allowed many Jews from Rauen and other places
to settle in London, Oxford, Cambridge, Bury, Huntingdon,
Stamford, Lincoln, Lynn, Norwich, etc., and for almost two
hundred years there was no persecution of Jews. Records at
Oxford show that they attended the schools, and that some of
their rabbis taught in the various schools which preceded the
university. In this way there seems to have grown up an interest
among the clergy and schoolmasters in Hebrew literature. Now
as we have seen previously, the Jews had been partakers of, and
were purveyors of, the Arabic and Moorish revival of learning
and their scientific studies, and undoubtedly many of the books
which these Jewish rabbis brought with them contained some of
the new learning, besides their Kabbalistic studies. In any case
when the order was given in Richard I's time to drive them out of
England, we read of terrific competition among the abbots and
clericsto buy their books. We read, too, of Roger Bacon having
accessto some of these books,
and as he was a friar, we must sup-
posethat various other friars of the time were also interested. It
is somewhat amazing to realize how many of the early English
clericsknew Hebrew and how one of them compiled a Hebrew
lexicon.The writings of Avicebron, sometimes called Ibn Gabirol
(1021-1<>58)
may have been among the books studied during the
Norman settlement, or even previously. Avicebron wrote The
Fountain of Life, which in the main, follows some of the Neo-
Platonic views. Avicebron was a Spanish Jew and not an Arab,
though his book had originally been written in Arabic. His
teachings,we read in the Legacy of Israel,1
had great influence
1 Legacy of Israel (Oxford University Press).
190 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY A.ND INFLUENCE
on the Franciscans- "The universe is to be explained not by ·
a study of the nature of things, but by a knowledge of the prin-
ciples which have given them being."We shall seelater how this 1
sentence became a storm centcr. The statement, however, gives
us in brief what an astrologer tries to do-to find the principle ,
underneath the action or matter, hence Avicebron's book became ,.
popular among astrologers.
Modern researchers in astrology find great interest in the
"Magic Squares" which Aviccbron assigned to the planets.
We might ask what was taught in the schools of the period.
Since William the Conqueror's clergy were on the whole im- \
ported from France, we might look to France as the model of t
English schools, remembering, however, that John Erigcna had
helped set the pattern of the French ones, and it is inconceivable
that he had not pad some part in modelling various English ones
too. During the reigns of the early Norman kings, Abelard
(107g--1142)
was the chief teacher at Paris (School of Chartres).
John of Salisbury, a renowned English scholar, who later became
secretary first to Theobald Archbishop of Canterbury and then to
Archbishop Thomas aBecket, went to study under him. John
wrote Policraticus; On the Trifles of the Courtier/ a~d the Tracks
of the Philosophers, in eight books. In his first, he speaks of the
many vanities of the courtiers such as_hunting, music, dice, sooth-
saying and astrology, but in the second book he argues that
astrology is really a worthy art. Also John of Salisbury tells us
in h_isMetalogicus that the Trivium and Quadrivium 2
were
ancient studies in his school days. These two groups of studies, he
goes on to say, "unfold all the secrets of nature." As we have.seen
before, the seven subjects of the trivium and quadrivium were
ancient in Alcuin's day. They were ancient in the time of Isaac
Judaeus, who was Master of the Seven Sciences. They were still
being studied in Dante's day and for centuries after that-and
they included astrology.
2
See Appendix VIII.
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY 191
Some time during the reign of William the Conqueror there
was born at Bath in the West of England, Adclard (Aethelhard),
one of the most renowned of all the scientists of the Norman
period. After learning all he could in England he went to Tours
and to Laon. For a while he taught in Laon, then he travelled
eastward to Greece, then to Asia Minor and finally to Bagdad.
He came home when Henry I (Beauclerk) was king, but even as
he travelled home he studied and all the way along the route he
taught what he had learned in the East. On his arrival home he
wrote Questiones N"'urales, or Questions on Nature. Henry Mor-
ley a tells us how he came to write this. Adelard's nephew, "inter-
ested also in the causesof things, asked Adelard for an account of
his Arabian studies, and the book was his answer. • . . He pro-
posed and discussed sixty-sevenQuestions on Nature, beginning
with the grass, and rising to the stars. . • . Adelard of Bath also
wrote on the Abacus and on the Astrolabe, translated an Arabic
book upon astronomy, and was the first bringer of Euclid into
England by a translation which remained the textbook of suc-
ceeding mathematicians."
If we refer to our chapter on Early Britain, we shall sec that
Morleywas not quite correct in saying that Adelard first brought
Euclid into England. Euclid had been known there for some
hundreds of years. Boethius had given out the first four books
of it, and these were known wherever Boethius was read. What
Adelard did was to find a number of the later Euclid books
in Arabic libraries, and realizing their value, he brought these to
England and made Latin translations of them. He was both an
astrologer and an astronomer. Evidently the Jupiter-Saturn con-
junctions fascinated him, for he translated Albumazar's De Con-
junctionibus and continued with no less than four translations of
other Arabic astrologers.It would appear to becommon sensethat
he would not go to this trouble unless some one besides himself
wanted to know what Albumazar and others had to say on
• Henry Morley,First Slc.ncl,
of Englisl, LilnYltUre (Cassell,Petter & Galpin).
192 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
astrology. He also translated into Latin Al K.hwarazim's astro.
nomical tables and treatise, the latter under the title of Meridian
Arin Central India. This shows us how the "arin" theory first
came into general use in England and in Europe, and in the fif- ·
teenth century finally reached the hands of Christopher Colum-
bus, for when men checked on these early translators, we find
Cardinal d'Ailly making a translation of Al K.hwarazim'sastro-
nomical treatises in order that he might be sur~ that these early
translators were correct in what they wrote. Adelard's philosophy
of life was contained in his De Eodem et Diverso (Concerning ,
Identity and Difference), a treatise which we might term a fore-
runner of our modern concepts of evolution and species.
It may have been Adelard who brought or recommended to the
king, the physician-astrologer Petrus Alphonsi (1o62-1110),a
converted Jew born in Aragon and, on his conversion made
godson and physician to Alphonso VI of Castile. Petrus was a
great Arabic student, who not only collected thirty or more folk
stories4
of the·Arabs and translated them into English when he
arrived in England, but he collected astrolabes and knew how to
use them. He even learned how to make them himself, and he
was inventive enough to think of other instruments he could
make. His presence in England was quite an incentive to study.
He wrote on astronomy and on medicine. He published star tables
and he practised medicine and taught. His book De Morte et
Vita (On Life and Death) is medico-astrologicalin scope.Twenty
years after his death big work was so highly valued in England
that Walcher, Prior of Malvern in the West of England, made
English translations of all his books that could be obtained. Wc
thus seeat what an early date, the men of Spain came to work and
to teach in England, and we might note that it must have been
the usual thing for Spanish professors to be at the schools of
Oxford, for from time immemorial down to the present, the title
of "Don" is given to Oxford professors who "hold a chair."
4
Sec Specimens of Early Englisl, Metrical Rom11nce1
by Geo. Ellis, Ed. by J. 0.
Halliwell (Bohn, 1848).
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY 193
Pettus was no doubt familiar with the work of the Spanish-
Arab Arzachel of Cordova (1029-1087),the well known astrol-
oger who made the best astrolabes and the best known astro-
nomical tables of the eleventh century. These tables were translated
later by Gerard of Cremona, and John of Sicilia wrote a Com-
mentary on them. As these tables of Arzachel were later super-
seded in accuracy by the Alonzine Tables, it is interesting to
note that Dr. John Dee had copies of both in his library, prob-
ably in order to check on earlier horoscopes, for Dee made his
own star observations, as well as owning later tables.
Alpetragius, 5
who was contemporary with Petrus and Arz~chel,
had his own views on how the heavens moved. He was greatly
criticized in the next century by a Jewish writer named Ger-
sonides, who came nearer to the Copernican beliefs than most
of the astronomers of the period, and John Dee, who was one
of the fust men in England to adopt the Copernican views, also
had copies of Alpetragius and of Gersonides in his library, show-
ing that he studied all viewpoints, and did not blindly accept
Copernicus.
Peter of Blois 6
studied theology under John of Salisbury. He
later became preceptor to William II of Sicily and then to Henry
II of the same country. Later, he became secretary to Archbishop
Theobald of Canterbury. We are greatly indebted to Peter for
defining very precisely what was learned in the mathematical
studies of the quadrivium: 7
Mathematicians arc those who, from the positions of the stars, the
aspect of the firmament, and the motions of the planets, discover things
that are to come.
While we are on the subject of terms, we might note that the
term "grammarian" (gramerie in Chaucer) was also used to
denote a man of occult powers. The word "philosopher" also
15Author of De Vmficalione Motuum Coekstium.
8 Sec M1111ual
of Englisl, Literature by G. L Craik (Everyman's Library).
7 Sec Appendix VIII. .
194 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
meant an astrologer down to the days of Kepler and beyond, and
the terms "astronomy" and "astrology" were interchangeable. Evi-
dently the astrologers were learned in all the arts and sciences,for
they were called "mathematicians" too.
Peter of Blois was the author of the Life 01 lngulpl,us, an
English abbot (d. 1109) who travelled as far as Jerusalem in
quest of knowledge and who had evidently become interested in
astrology. We mentioned the astrological table in our section on
Early England. There were broadminded and narrowmindcd
clerics in those days. To my mind the most pricelessproof of the
interest of some of them in astrology is the fact that Christian
bwial was refused to the Archbishop of York, Gerald, who died
in 11o8.It was refused because after his death the monks found
a copy of the astrological works of Julius Firmicus Matemus
under his pillowI Evidently the interest in astrology far back in
Bede's day had not died out in York. Also there were other clerics
who did not read in bed, so their names do not come down to
us. The truth is that so great was the inter~ that scoresof trans- ·
lators sprang up all over Europe, and scores of young men
travelled to every place they could where there was a school that
taught "Arabic" arts.
William of Conchcs (1o8o-1154)wrote De Pnilosopl,iaMundi,
in which he gives his theories of the world. He was very well
acquainted with Maternus and also with Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos.
Another teacher of the day, Alanus ah Insulis, called Doctor
Universalis, read Albumazar and mentioned him as his major
authority.
Then there was Alexander Neckham, Abbot of Circnccstcr
(115~. 1217), foster brother to King Richard I, said to have
been born the same night as Richard. He studied the Arabic
masters, and was well versed in Algazel and in Isaac Judacus. He
wrote De Natura Rerum (Concerning the Nature of Things).
He deals with all the sciencesof the day including astronomy and
astrology, and was apparently interested in medicine also. To
him Alfred the Englishman, one of the ttanslaton of the time,
EARLY MEDIAEV Al,:ASTROLOGY 195
dedicated a book,On the Motion of the Heart, said to be a com-
pilation of Arabic medical books.
A bookon the motion of the
heart would today be considered safe, theologically speaking, but
not so in those days. Writers on medicine did not confine them-
selves to the physical heart merely. The heart, according to the
K.abbalistsand Neo-Platonists, was a ccnter of motion, a miracle
only comparable with the perpetual motion of the Sun, hence
Alfred gathered into his treatise all that he could find on Neo-
Platonic views.
And Richard Cceurde Lion (1157-1199)received a good edu-
cation and delved into astrology. He wrote what has been called
"something on Astrology," a book which is recorded but not
extant
The critics of astrology, such as Marbodus, Bishop of Rennes,
might rage against astrology, but they could not stop the interest.
Teachers from the School of Chartres went travelling in Spain
even two years before the death of William the Conqueror, for
Spain was opened up to the Christians in 1095.Among later
travellers were Robert of Rctines an Englishman, Herman of Dal-
matia, who translated Albumazar's lntroductorium about 1143,
and Plato de Tivoli, who translated Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos. Thus,
we sec that very soon after the fall of Toledo, nearly all the
significant books of the Arabs on astrology and astronomy were
readily available in Latin, the universal language of scholars in
nearly every country of Europe at that time.
Robert of Retines is sometimes called Robert de Ketene, or
Ketcnsis, or Robert the Englishman. He translated the Koran and
Al K.indi's De /udiciis Astrorum in 1147. A manuscript in
Lilly's Library (see Appendix XI), dated 1272, isevidently a copy
of this. Robertof Retines may also be the same person as Robert
of Chester, or Robcrtus Cestrensis, who translated Geber's Com-
position of Alchemy and Albategnius' Tables, calculating the
latter for the meridian of London.
More important was John de Luna Hispalensis who wrote
Epitome Totius Astrologiae, a book that retained its popularity
1g6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
down to the day of William Lilly in Stuart times. BookFour of
the Epitome is devoted to "Elections," that is, to the astrological
art of setting a particular time to begin things. He also had a
chapter on "Journeys," giving the method of choosing a time when
one might start a journey and avoid mishaps. Chaucer is said.
to
have used this textbook. John translated the Centiloquy of
Ptolemy, Albumazar's FloresAstrologiae and his Conjunctionibus,
also books of Alchabitius and Messahala-the latter also used by
Chaucer. John Hispalensis is sometimes confused with Avcndcath
(Ibn Daud or Abraham ibn David), a great astronomer of Toledo,
but the two were totally different people.
Avendeath wrote an alchemical tract De Quinque Uni11er-
salibus.This gave his theories on the "quintessence," or elixir,the
world of flux in which transmutation of elements could take
place. Avendeath is said to have translated more books on astron-
omy and alchemy than any other translator of the period.
He also
translated into Latin a work which percolated throughout the
entire continent of Europe during the Middle Ages, the Secret11m
Secretorum, which was variously ascribed to different authors.
Some said it was written by a Spanish queen. Some say it was
written by Albertus Magnus, while others trace its origin to
Aristotle. In any case, mediaeval writers generally believed that
Aristotle wrote it. John Lydgate made an English translation of
it which Ashmole published among his alchemical tracts, in his
Chemicum Britannicum.
Henry II of England (1154-1189) was most interestedin
astrology. Popular fancy even gave him a sorceress for wife. In
the legends of his son Richard I, Henry is said to have married
a beautiful lady from a far country. All went well, and Richard
was conceived of thisunion, until some of the nobles noticed that
the queen did not attend church,-a suspicious matter in those
days. They demanded she attend and take communion. She ar-
rived at the church but when it came time to take communion she
disappeared through the roof of the church. Only such a sorceress,
in popular fancy, could account for Richard's strange learning.
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY 197
Actually his mother was Eleanor of Aquitaine, but legend could
not think she was extraordinary enough to have such an extraor-
dinary son. Henry II was the son of Geoffrey Plantagenet, Count
of Anjou, a great student of astrology. Geoffrey's education had
been supervised by his uncle Robert, Duke of Gloucester, himself
one of the men of learning of the period, who first saw the wis-
dom of bringing all that the "Arabs" knew into Europe, and
Robert knew enough "Arabic" learning to make his own astro-
nomical tables. He was the patron and friend of both Geoffrey of
Monmouth and William of Malmesbury, both of whom dedi-
cated their historical chronicles to him. From all this, one can
imagine that when Abenczra was invited to lecture in England
during Henry II's reign there were plenty of learned men to
greet him, and confer with him.
Abenczra, sometimes called Avenard (1092-1167),
was born in
Toledo. His Jewish name was Abraham hen Meir-ibn Ezra. He
seems to have caught the popular fancy of Europe with an endur-
ing fame, for from his own time down to the time when
Robert Browning used him in one of his dramatic poems, his
books have been read and his personality has survived. Master of
all kinds of languages, Hebrew, Spanish, Arabic, Aramaic and
Latin, he was a mathematician, astronomer, astrologer and poet.
And yet he knew medicine too. He wrote many treatises on
astrology. His De Nativitatibus was popular in his own time and
for centuries later. One edition came out in 1485and one in 1537.
He alsowrote CriticalDays,showing physicians how to calculate
these astrologically. But Abcnczra did not keep himselfshut up
in Toledo all his days. He loved travel so much that he has
been called "a literary vagabond." And as he travelled he wrote
poetry and he taught. His visit to England occurred in 1158and
he gave lectures in London, and possibly at Oxford too. After this
he lectured in France, Proven~e,Lombardy, North Africa, Egypt,
Palestine, Italy, Mantua and Rome. In his old age he settled down
to make his permanent home in the city of Rome where many
students gathered around him. There may or may not have been
198 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY .AND INFWENCE
a school of astrology in Rome at thistime, but the University of
Bologna had had a chair of astrology since 1125A.D.
Abenezra had a very delightful sense of humor and loved to
make poems on all kinds of topics. Let us see what he says of his
own horoscope. He calls it "On MyTough Luck:"
The planets and stars from their courses
Swerved when I first saw the light;
Were I a dealer in candles
The Sun would then shine all night.
I strive to succeed but I cannot,
For the spheres of the heavens oppose;
If making of shrouds were my trade,
No one would dic,-I suppose!
In his medical books Abenezra gives the various herbs under
their planetary influences. It was from textbooks such as these of
Abcnczra that Nicholas Culpepper and others dcriv~ their un-
derstanding of herbs, though many of Culpeppcr's sources were
earlier than Abcnezra.
Abcnragcl (1116-1152)was an Arab who wrote Liber Com-
pletus in /udiciis Astrorum. He evidently had some Hindu
teacher, for he mentions the Twenty-Eight Lunar Mansions, or
Asterisms. In any circle of 36odcgress, there arc 28 mansions of
the Moon, thus each mansion will be one twenty-eighth part, or
twelve and six-sevenths degrees in each. In modem astrology
these astcrisms are used by E. H. Bailly and others in Pre-Natal
Astrology. They mark alternate sex pointsalong the zodiac. Abcn-
ragcl applied the lunar mansions to Horary Astrology, that is,
to specific questions of the hour. After his time any astrologer
who usedthese 28 mansions was considered to be a most unholy
magician. From this I would deduce that his answers were un-
cannily correct. His book was translated into Latin in 1256.Both
Dr. Dec and William Lilly used this textbook, and certainly
Lilly was a wizard on Horary Astrology. As far as I know, no
modern textbook has used lunar mansions on horary work. The
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY 199
book of John Hispalensis on Horary Astrology was not based
on lunar mansions but rather on Messahala's methods, which have
been followed by Zad, Chaucer and our modern writers Sim-
monite and Broughton. Horary Astrology is sometimes considered
to be inferior to Judicial Astrology, and sometimes to be mere
superstition. The present European scientific schools refuse to
believe in it at all. As a matter of fact, Horary Astrology is one of
the most difficult arts, taxing the astrologer's accuracy of judgment
to a very marked degree. Some astrologers can never make correct
horary judgmcnts for the.simple reason that they (the astrologers)
arc too diffuse.They hate to say yes or no to questions which
must be answered that way, and they hate to give time.
For the benefit of the Jews in France, Abraham bar Hiyya
Hanasi (d. 1136), sometimes known as Savasodora, wrote an
Encyclopaedia of astronomy, geometry and arithmetic. He wrote
out various astronomical data entitled Calculationsof the Course
of the Stars,and The Tablesof the Prince,all of which he applied
to his astrological work. He is said to have calculated the date of
the destruction of Islam. I do not know what date he set. He
translated five Arabic books into Hebrew and some into Latin.
Hiyya worked in conjunction with another of the great trans-
lators of the period, Plato de Tivoli, the Italian who flourished
about 1140,who settled in Barcelona and translated Ptolemy's
Tetrabiblos. Another Jew who translated Spanish-Arabic books
into Hebrew was Joseph hen Isaac Kimbi (1105-1170).'
Daniel Merlac, who lived during the reigns of Henry II and
Richard I, went to Toledo in 1185.He brought back to England
many volumes of Arabian philosophy and translated them. Ap-
parently there was no lack of teachers or of translators, and cer-
tainly if we read the early records of the schools and universities,
students were not numbered by the hundreds but by the thou-
sands, and most of them were so poor that the citizens were
inclined to complain of having to feed them.
Maimonidcs was born March 13, I 135,in Cordova, where his
father was well known for his researches in mathematics and
200 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
astronomy. Due to persecution, the family had to leave Spain
They wandered all over North Africa and the Near East.
Maimonides studied medicine and all the various subjects of
Arabic learning and finally became physician-astrologer to the
mighty Saladin. Richard C<Eurde Lion offered him a similar
position in England, and it was probably after looking into his
own horoscope that Maimonides refused, for persecution against
the Jews broke out during Richard's reign. In 1194Maimonides
was asked by the learned Jews of Marseilles what he thought
about astrology. Maimonidcs replied, praising real astrology and
denouncing fakes. He believed that planetary intelligences con-
trolled all the seven planets. He said that the Primum Mobile was
to the world, in causing motion, what the heart 8
was to the hnroao
body,and he developed this idea in his philosophy. We saw, in our
chapter on the Sephir Yetziren, that this was an ancient thought.
Maimonides tried to make it clear that neither the heart nor the
Primum Mobile is God, neither is action in itself God, though
it may be an expression or attribute of God.
In the early thirteenth century a famous Englishman, John
of
Hollywood (c. 1200-1256)demands our attention. He was born
in Hollywood, near Halifax, Yorkshire, studied at Oxford and
then went to Paris, first to study and then to teach. The students
changed his name to Sacrobosco, which was a Latinization of
Holy-wood. Under this name, SaO-obosco,he became the best
known mathematician of all Europe. Among the books written
by him was De Sphaera Mundi, which was among the source
books used by Geoffrey Chaucer in his Treatiseon the Astrolabe.
As a matter of fact, Sacrobosco's book reigned supreme in every
English school and university as a major textbook for four cen-
turies or more after his death. There were 64editions of his book
published in Latin before 1647.The British Museum Catalog.e
lists 50 editions, and these do not include editions of translations
into French, German, Italian and Spanish. Sacrobn,co wrote a
8
Sec Appcndix V.
EARLY MEDIAEVAL ASTROLOGY 201
more difficult textbook on the sphere entitled Super Tractatum de
Sphaera. He also wrote on Algorisms.
Let us now tum to one of the most remarkable of all the early
translators who preceded the group which surrounded the Em-
peror Frederick II. Gerard of Cremona was born in Italy in 1114
and lived until 1187. He and the men who worked with him are
credited with translating into Latin i:io less than eighty books
from Arabic and Greek. It was Gerard who stole the Canon of
Avicenna and gave his works to Europe. He also gave out the
tables of Arzachel, whom we have mentioned previously. It was
indeed a great age of translation. Through the work of Gerard
and his assistant, together with that of previous translators, the
science of the Greeks and Arabs became a living thing in Europe
in early mediaeval days. Reviewing the books available, there were
those of Hippocrates, Galen, Hunayn, Isaac Judaeus, Geber,
Ptolcmy, Al K.indi, Albumazar, Messahala, Alfraganus, Av1cenna,
and many others, so that students did not need any more to take
perilous journeys to Arabia and to Spain. And yet we must not for-
get that there were many scholars and churchmen who resisted
thisnew avalanche of learning. In 1215 the Papal Legate forbade
the students at Paris 9
to read Aristotle, either in Greek or Latin,
or any abridgments of his books, and in 1231 Pope Gregory IX
ordered reading of them to be suspended 10
until they were
corrected.
9
Sec Manual of English Literature, G. L. Craik, p. 44 (Evcryman's Library).
10
Compare Chapter 19, where Ramus was suspended at the University of Paris in
the sixteenthcentury for not wanting to teach Aristodc.
Chapter 16
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD
It only snows the narrow-mindednessof some molern wriln-1.
and their ignorance of the historical development of mlZll's
conception of nature, when they, on every occasion,m«r tZI
the greatest men of former' ages for their bdief in astrology.
Life of Tycho Brohe by J.L. E. DREYER,
F.R.A.S.,
Director of the Armagh Observatory (18go).
TI
EMPEROB.
FllEDElllCK.
II (1194-1250) was taught in his
uth by a Scotchman of great renown,-Michacl Scot.
Frederick was King of Sicilyand also of Naples. He allowed
colonies of Saracens to settle in both kingdoms. Some of these
people were merely tillers of the soil but others were men of vast
scientific interests. Frederick was not the first King of Sicily to
have astrologers at his cowt. In the Legacy of Israel there is a
reproduction of an old drawing showing an astrologer at the
death-bed of William the Good,of Sicily (1152-118g).Frederick,
however, appears to have had many astrologers, one of whom was
named Theodorus. Frederick always set a test for astrological
applicants. To one he said, "If you wish to work for me, tell me
by what gate I shall go out of the castle today?" The astrologer
was as wise as Frederick, replying, "My answer shall be written.
I merely ask that the king shall not open the letter until he is
outside the walls." Frederick agreed but decided to outsmart the
man, so instead of going out by any of the gates, he had a breach
made in one of the walls, and by thisbreach he went out. Then he
opened the astrologer's note and to his delight read, "The king
will go out today by a new entrance." The astrologer was hired.
Frederick encouraged all men who could to make translations
from Moorish, Arabic and Greek. He caused the Almagest and
the Tetrabihlosto be translated from the Arabic. Anatolia, his
chief translator, was a Jew from Marseilles. Evidently the advice
202
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 203
of Maimonides to study the right kind of astrology had had good
effect. Anatolia found that he could only proceed with the Alma-
gest by making his translation first into Hebrew and then trans-
lating from Hebrew into Latin. His real name was Jacob hen
Abba Maria (1194-1256)and his work was invaluable to both
Jews and Christians. We know that the Almagest had been
translated before, but as every one knows who reads translations,
the exact meaning isoften made more clear by seeing two or more
translations of certain passages and making comparisons. Anatolia
also made translations of AverrhOCS'Compendium of Astronomy,
Alfraganius' Elements of Astronomy, Al Farabi's Syllogisms and
his Commentary on Aristotle. The translation of Averrhoes had
very important results, for it precipitated one of the greatest
religious controversies of the Middle Ages. His doctrines were
considered heretical, yet everyone read what he could of him,
in order to confute his teachings, or to incorporate what he had •
into his own philosophy. We must not forget, either, that Avi-
cenna was a great exponent of the subject of Physiognomy, and
that to Avicenna Physiognomy was a part of astrology, for every
sign has its type or form. The work of Avicenna was popularized
in Spain through Avcrrhoes, but Anatolia's translation of Averr-
hOCS
gav~ all this knowledge to Europe.
Michael Scot (c. 1175-1234),tutor and most favored astrologer
and translator of Frederick II, was proprietor of the estate of
Balwearie in Fifo, Scotland. When quite young he decided to go
to Toledo to study. After that, he appears to have travelled exten-
sivdy. He probably visited the Near East and on his way back he
settledat Frederick's court. There he made many valuable transla-
tions into Latin from Greek andArabian authors. He rendered
Aristotle's Metaphysics and his Zoology into Latin, and when
Frederick decided to write a book on hunting, called De Arte Ven-
andi,he made use of Scot's translation as basic material. Michael
wasalso interested in medicine and translated, as had Gerard of
Cremona, Avicenna's Canon of Medicine. Besidesall this, he was
one of the greatest authorities of the age on judicial astrology,
204 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
alchemy, physiognomy and chiromancy. Tradition says he wrote
books on, all these subjects, but if he did, then the books have
been destroyed. Roger Bacon tells us Michael was helped in his
translations by a Jew named Andrew and a German named
Hermon. Among the Spanish-Arabic books he translated was
that of Alpetragius, On the Sphere.
Michael was known as the master magician of the age. It is
said that far and wide, all over Europe, men trembled at the name
of Michael Scqt. In his own country of Scotland, the Scotch still
use the phrase "the auld Michael," .or "the Auld Mike," where
the English• would use the phrase "the old Nick," or "the old
Harry."
Like so many who studied in Spain or in Italy, Michael was
accused of learning at unholy sources, hence any knowledge he
obtained was labelled anti-Christianand devilish.
As Michael Scot's books on astrology, alchemy and various
other subjects disappeared, men asked everywhere where they
could be. Hence a tradition arose that they were buried with the
wizard at Melrose Abbey, and Sir Walter Scott bases his "The Lay
of the Last Minstrel" on this supposition. Since he wrote this Lay,
generations of people have revelled in the fearsome story of how
the knight, Sir William Deloraine, was sent to open the wizard's
tomb, and bring back the "magic" book, and how having done
this, strange things happened at Branksomc Towers, and how Sir
William himself was terrified by a vision of the dead man:
His blood did freeze, his brain did burn,
'Twas feared his mind would ne'er return;
For he was speechless,ghastly, wan· •••
At length by fitshe darkly told,
With broken hint and shuddering cold,
That he had seen right certainly,
A shape with amice wrapped around,
With a wrought Spanish baldric bound,
Like a pilgrim from beyond the sea;
And knew-but how, it mattered not-
It was the wizard Michael Scotl
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 205
The English had an old rhyme concerning Michael Scot:
When he stampeth his foot in Spain,
The bells do ring in Notre Dame.
The Scotch tell the story that at one time he was sent from
Scotland on a diplomatic errand to Paris to demand reparations
for damage done by French pirates on their coast. Michael evoked
a fiend, who conveniently took the shape of a black horse 1
who
could By.He mounted this demon and arrived at the gates of the
French king's palace in Paris. The king bade him begone, but
Michad protested and said that be£
ore he would consider the
king's answer to be final, he would bid his horse stamp his hoof
three times on the ground. "Stamp, steed, once," cried the wizard.
The horse stamped, and all the bells in Paris rang and crashed
and jangled furiously, for the bell towers themselves were rock-
ing. The king was aghast, so that he could not speak. "Stamp,
steed, again," cried the wizard. The horse stamped his hoof a
secondtime. Three to~ers of the king's palace crashed to the
ground. "StopI" screamed the king as Michael was about to give
thethird command, "and I will give you anything you ask."
Michael foretold to Frederick that he would die in Florence.•
Healso foretold that his own death would come about by some-
thing falling on his head. For this reason he always wore a small
steelcasque.However, on one occasionhe must attend church with
theemperor and so remove his cap. Hardly had he sat down when
a smallsharp stone fell from the roof and pierced his brain. Thus
evenMichael Scot could not avoid the destiny he foresaw. The
Scotch
have a proverb, "Ye maun dree thee wierd," meaning you
mustsuffer or endure the destiny that is specifically allotted to
yourself."Wierd" is a Lowland Scotch rendition of the Norse
word ''Wyrd" or the fatalistic Necessity that enwraps each indi-
vidual, and which is part of a divine order. The idea is that
1 RichardI alsowas given in thelcgcodsa magic horse,but angels instructed him
howto rideit.
• Acrually
he died in Florentino
Castle.
2o6 -ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
whether you foresee it, or whether you try to escape it, it cannot
be sidestepped. It is, so to speak, waiting for you, and you have to
go through it, willy nilly. We had much the same thought in
Akiba's phrase, "Everything is foreseen," though Akiba qualified
this by adding "yet freedom of will is given.'' People ask why one _
should want to foresee an event which is unpleasant To whichI
would answer that by means of free will one can often mitigate
the consequences of an event. If the event foreseen is death, one
has a chance to set one's house in order. Alsoif this is the Divine
Plan why not co-operate with it? Why are we afraid of death?
We find in reading the "The Lay of the Last Minstrel" that not
only was the learning acquired at Toledo suspect, but also the
learning acquired at Padua. We are told of the Ladye's father that:
He learned the art that none· may name
In Padua far across the sea.
"The art that none may name" is generally considered to be
magic, but alchemy, astrology and kabbalistic studies were
grouped under the term "magic."
Walter Scott.also wrote "The Vision of Don Roderick," the last
Gothic King of Spain, and in this he alludes to an idea common to
all mediaeval people ·that the Moors taught their "wizardry" in
deep underground caverns, the thought being that "Moorish stud-
ies" were too evil to be taught aboveground, where the Sun would
dispel the evil. In this poem of Roderick, Scott tells the story of
how King Roderick entered one of these caverns outside the walls
of Toledo, and there he encountered such a terrific wind that he
was nearly blown back to earth, but he and his companion
shielded their lights and finally were able to look around. Soon
they saw a colossal statue of a Moor on horseback, striking great
blows with his mace and so causin~ the wind. The Moor stopped
striking and uttered this remarkable prophecy:
Thou shalt be dispossessedby a strange people.
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 207
Roderick had the cavern walled up, but in the night a tower
fell upon it, and the entrance to the cave has never since been
found.
It was an age indeed when one needed to be brave, morally as
well as physically, in order to become a deep scholar. Let no one
think that it was merdy astrology that could cause imprisonment
or death. Even music came under suspicion. It was Circe's art.
People could come unwittingly under spells of enchantment
through music, even as Ulysses had done. Note how the legend
of the Pied Piper illustrates this fear. Various musical instruments
were coming into Europe from Spain; and who knew what devils
might be invoked when they were played? In Carlyle's day
organs were gradually coming into use in Scotch churches, but
even at that late date they met with widespread disapproval from
many people. Carlyle himself speaks of "the growl of chapel
organs, like prayer by machinery," but others said it was bringing
the wiles of the devil into church. Dancing was also wicked-
even the country Morris dances, for these were originally Moorish
dances. Even to know Greek or Euclid might call down the sus.
picion of necromancy, both in Michael Scot's day and later. Elias
Ashmole writing in the seventeenth century says, "Pope Sylvester
the Second passed for magician in the worst sense because he
understood Geometry; and about 150 years ago (so blind an age
it was) that to know Greek and to know Necromancy were one
and the same thing in the eyes of the illiterate."
I mention all this at some length because when people bring
the charge of necromancy against astrologers, I want it to be
known that almost every science and art has had the same charge
brought against it. We should not forget too, when our critics
glecfullytell us that astrologers were put to death in the early
days,that people in other walksof life also were put to death. Wil-
liamTyndale (1490-1536),who translated the New Testament,
wasunder suspicion for his knowledge of Greek, and was later
arrested for heresy, then imprisoned, strangled and burned.
We have read previously how John of Salisbury had spoken of
208 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
the trivium and quadrivium, 2
or seven sciences. These gradually
came to be called the- "seven liberal sciences," but there were
many people who called them "the seven arts of enchantmcnL"
That Sir Michael Scot was not considered too evil a person at
his death, we gather from the fact that he was given Christian
burial at Melrose Abbey. It was probably his association with
Frederick, the heretic and excommunicant of the Church, as well
as his Eastern studies, that caused legend after legend of his
necromantic art to grow rapidly after his death. People in general
could not conceive of any man of great learning in the sciences
not being in leagur with the devil. But education went on, and so
did the translations of Moorish and Arabic works.
Frederick's son Manfred (1232-12li6)employed Ben Hasday as
a translator, and Charles of Anjou, who was King of Sicily 12lx,-
1285employed Farragut to translate Rhazes, while Robert the
Wise (13og-1343)had large parts of AvcrrhOCS
translated. Under
all these rulers, learned Saracens and men from the Near East
were welcome in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies,and with them
came many servants, so that Saracen and pagan colonies became
prevalent in these domains.
Arnauld de Villeneuve, or Arnoldus de Villa Nova (1235-1313),
was an early writer on alchemy and on astrology. He wrote Liber
de Alchemia. He was astrologer-physician to the Court of Aragon
and translated Abulcasis and a book of Rhazes. For various rea-
sons he was exiled to Sicily. He was, however, recalled to treat
Pope Clement Vat Avignon, but died during the journey.
Robert Grosseteste, friend, patron and teacher of Roger Bacon,
was born about 1175and died in 1253.He was Bishop of Lincoln
and also Master of the School of Oxford, and evidently well versed
in all kinds of astronomical and astrological matters, which he had
studied in Paris. He wrote a Treatise on the Sphere.He is said to
have been acquainted with the translation of the Almagest, which
had been made at Frcderick's cowt, and also with the Tetrabiblos
9
See AppendixVIII.
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 209
and the Optics of Ptolemy. He himself wrote a Treatise on Light
which w~ from his knowledge of Arabic scientists. He was inter-
ested in the making of lenses and mirrors, as was Alhazen. One
wonders how many of these mediaeval mirrors were used in occult
studies. Grossetestc knew Latin, Greek and Hebrew. He founded
the order of Franciscans in England. When he died he ltft his
library to the Franciscans.
Roger Bacon ( 1214-1294),a contemporary of Sacrobosco, ab-
sorbed all the studies of Grosseteste and later went to Paris to
continue his studies, finally becoming a Franciscan friar. He was
perfectly familiar with the writings of Albumazar on astrology
and also with the writings of Geber the alchemist Bacon himself
wrote on astrology in his Tractatus de Virtutatibus et Actione
Stellarum, a Tract on the Properties and Action of the Stars.
Among his books on alchemy are Speculum Alchemiae and De
Diversis Tincturis. Finding the tincture, or quintessence, was
practically the same as finding the Elixir of Life or the Philoso-
pher's Stone. Bacon and the alchemists believed that there is one
original form in matter and that all elements could be converted
back into this original form. Then, from this one form they could
be re-established in whatever element one needed-gold or silver.
Later alchemists tried to transmute substances directly from one
form into another, and this was where they often blundered.
Bacon's studies became suspect by the Church. He was accused of
heresy by his enemies and imprisoned in the city of Paris, though
he was actually a native of Somerset, England. He was released by
Pope Clement IV, but ten years later the charges were renewed
and this time he suffered fourteen years' imprisonment, being
released two years before his death. Bacon, quite early, had studied
the calendar and found various errors for which he devised recti-
fications. A copy of this Calendar was in Dr. Dee's 8
library and he
probably referred to it when Queen Elizabeth asked him to give
an opinion concerning the necessity of changing the calendar.
• Sec Appendix X.
210 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Like Francis Baconlater, Roger Baconbelievedin experiment and
observation in his quest for knowledge. It was this belief that led
him into alchemy. He lectured at Oxford and Paris and was
known as Doctor Admirabilis. From Bacon's time on, we find the
Franciscan friars, in England at least, being known as the scien-
tists and physicians of the Church, so much so that before long
John Wyclifle was accusing them of sorcery. Bacon's study of
medicine and philosophy led him to write The Cure of Old Agl
and the Preservationof Yout/,. He also made a translation of the
Secretum Secretorum ascribed to Aristotle.
Among the translators contemporary with Roger Bacon was
Bartholomew the Englishman, another Franciscan. He incorpo-
rated much from the Arabian masters in hisBreviarumseude Pro-
. prietatibus..
Rerum, Concerning the Properties of Things, in 1240.
This is said to have been based on Alexander Neckham's book,
but it may be more likely that each based his work on the same
original. A copy of this, too, was in Dr. Dee's library. Two years
before Chaucer died, the book was translated into English by John
of Trevisa, and it appears to have been quite a favorite book for
many generations.
If opposition increased, knowledge continued. The modem
world is inclined to think that from Ptolemy's time down to the
time of Copernicus and Galileo, people believed the earth to be
Bat.This of course was not so. They believedit to be a sphere but
without motion. All motion was due, and confined to, the
Primum Mobile which was a realm outside the realm of the
Fixed Stars. It was in trying to find out and understand this
action of the Primum Mobile, that philosophers and clerics had
to study astronomy and astrology. The Legacy of Israel givesa
very interesting old picture of the angels "cranking up" the
Primum Mobile, showing that the cause of motivity was believed
to be divine. Sacrobosco'sand Grosseteste'streatises on the Sphere
were studied in all the schools.Eventhe braggart Sir John Man-
deville writes of having learned that the earth was a sphere. The
problem of the geomctricians and astrologers was how to draw
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 211
accurately on the Batsurface of a horoscope (which represents
both heaven and earth), a representation of what was known
to be spherical and not flat. It was for this reason that the trans-
lators of the period made known the geometry of the Arabs.
People are inclined to say there was very little interest in
learning until the time of the Renaissance.This is a foolish state-
ment, for the desire to know and to learn is innate in certain
people in all ages, but in certain specific ages it becomes so
fashionable and so easy for the many to absorb what the great
ones have already discovered, that chroniclers flatter them by
calling them "ages of learning." The great men are alwilys
ahead of the masses, but occasionally the masses catch up with
accumulated knowledge.
As learning increased in Europe th~ Church was somewhat
perplexed. The Greek and Roman classics were gradually per-
mitted to converts for their civilizing inBuence,but the clergy on
the whole looked askance at the fatalistic conceptsthat were being
spread, through the study of Arabic books on astronomy and
astrology. It was almost impossible to prevent, even with the
help of the Inquisition, the spread of the new learning. They
therefore encouraged the use of Ptolemy's Tetrabiblosrather than
the Arabic books on astrology, for the Tetrabiblosis not as fatal-
istic in concept as most of the Arabic textbooks. Mohammed's
early teaching was not fatalistic but there was evidently a fatal-
istic leaning in the Arabic mind, and a belief in Kismet. The
Church accepted the astronomical belief in the Primum Mobile,
for this could be considered to be the dynamic activity of God,
which started the world and which keeps all things alive and in
order. Thus we find among the philosophers and religious group
an ever-increasing tendency to write and discuss the action of
the Primum Mobile, the First Mover, or First Cause. By the time
of Dante the philosophers had discovered another sphere, a tenth
sphere called the Empyrean or World of Fire and of GodHim-
self.
It was this concept of a divine Primum Mobile that Albcrtus
212 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY A.ND INFLUENCE
Magnus and St. Thomas Aquinas taught. Now Manilius in his
poem did not mention a Prim.um Mobile, but Aristotle had some
such concept. Manilius was a Stoic, not an Aristotelian, and he
says:
God, the World Almighty Soul
By secret methods rules and guides the whole;
By unseen passes He Himself conveys
Through all the mass,-and every pan obeys.
which reminds us very much of Cowper's Hymn:
God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform • • •
Traces of early thought concerning the mutual interdependence
of religion and planetary concepts are discernible in the art of
the Church. Hundreds of pictures in Books of Hours, that is,
of prayers suitable for various times, decorated with the four
gospellers represented as the four fixed signs of the zodiac, or
with symbols of zodiacal signs, continued to be written. Some-
times we find pictures of Christ in an aura made with twdve
points. There are many pictures of the nine orders of angels.
In some, all nine are portrayed but the artists often found it
more convenient to depict three circles, in which case it was sup.
posed that each circle was threefold. By this time, everyone knew
that the orders were astrologically assigned:
Thrones were of the realms of Saturn, since Saturn is static;
Dominions were of the realm of Jupiter, since Jupiter is a planet o~
rulers;
Powers were assigned to Mars, the planet of power;
Principalities were assigned to the Sun, symbolof kings;
Virtues were assigned to Venus;
Archangels were assigned to Mercury;
and Angels to the Moon.
Above the Thrones were the Cherubim. and Seraphim,who
controlled the Fixed Stars and the Primum Mobile, making the
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 213
Nine Orders. Religion and science were apparently working hand
in hand.
Among the early alchemists of the fourteenth century was
Raymond Lull, sometimes called Lully. He was called "the En-
lightened Doctor" and seems to have united all kinds of ex-
tremes in hisnature. He was a profound scientist but he was also
a mystic, and his one great objective was to convert the Moslems.
He became very friendly with Abbot Cremer of Winchester, who
invited him to come to England in the reign of Edward III.
Lully accepted, and the story of how he made diamonds out
of rock crystal is quite famous, though some say it was gold he
made and not diamonds. Ashmand tells the story in hisTneatrum
Chemicum:
The rose noble (a coin) of Edward III, coined 1351,the Gold thereof,
as is affirmed (by an unwritten verity) was made by Projection or
Multiplication Alchcm.ically by Ramond Lully, in the Tower of
London . . . 'Tis worth observing that there was no Gold coined in
England before the said Edward 111'sreign, and Raymond Lully was
long in England before that, for Anno 1332he wrote his Testamentum
Nouissimum in St. Katherine's Church near the Tower of London,
and dedicated it to Edward III ••. he was brought over by Cremer,
Abbot of Winchester, afterwards made known to the king, and did
furnish him (the king) with much Gold.
Lully's alchemical victory at the Tower was advertised far and
wideand appears to have started a very vital interest in England
in alchemy. Otl1er men made silver for the king;in fact, Edward
madepublic proclamation of the fact: •
Know all men that we have been assured that John Rous and Master
Williamof Dalby know how to make silver by the art of Alchemy ...
Lully appealed to popular fancy more than Roger Bacon, so
though Bacon was persecuted Lully was not, at least no con-
demnation of him appeared during his lifetime. Over fifty years
4
Sec G. L Craik,ManualofEnglishLiterature(Evcryman'sLibrary).
214 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
after his death his book against AverrhOCS'concepts of Aristotc-
lianism was condemned by a Papal Bull. Lully was a great student
of foreign languages. He wanted everyone to learn foreign
languages in order that the heathen might be converted. He
suggested to Pope Clement V in 1311 that professorships in
Hebrew, Arabic, and Chaldaic should be established at Oxford,
Bologna, Paris and Salamanca. This suggestion was carried out
and for a while all these universities helped in translation work.
Lully then started on his last great pilgrimage to convert Moors
and Saracens. He is said to have travelled through Spain, North
Africa and Armenia. Unfortunatdy, on his return journey from
Africa he was stoned to death.
The Inquisition was established in 1233,and we come to a
period when it was more difficult than ever for a man of learning
not to be accused of heresy. Pietro d'Abano (1250-1316)studied
first at Padua, then he went to Constantinople to study Greek.
He visited the schools of Paris to learn medicine and mathe-
matics, thence journeying to England and Scotland. He was one
of the most learned men of the age and in 1303was made Pro-
fessor of Medicine at Padua University. In 13o6he was brought
before the Inquisition for studying both astrology and alchemy,
but he was cleared of the charges. He then left Padua and settled
in Treviso, but was brought again before the Inquisition on the
same charges. He died, however, before judgmcnt was given.
This did not end the matter, for judgment was given against
him after his death, and his bodywas exhumed and cast to the
Bamcs.
Cccco d'Ascoli (1257-1F,) was Professor of Astrology at the
University of Bologna. He wrote a Commentary on John Sacro-
bosco's Sphaera,alsoa Commentary on Alchabitius. Besides being
a scientist he was alsoa poet, but he was burned for heresy by
order of the Inquisition.
In the thirteenth century Gautier of Metz wrote a poementitled
Imago Mundi. In this there is a whole chapter on astrology.
In 1270Lali published Al Keraniawhich was the translation
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 215
of Albumazar's version of the conjunctions as expounded by
Gjamasp in pre-Christian days. This translation seems to have
been responsible for the renewed desire to study mundane astrol-
ogy, or the fate of nations.
One can hardly read Albcrtus Magnus (c. 1206-1280)
without
realizing that he must have had some real knowledge of the
subject of the quadrivium,5
which deals with the astrological-
astronomical studies of the period. He says: ''The mysteries of
the Incarnation, from the Conception to the Ascension unto
heaven, are shown to us on the face of the sky, and arc signified
by the stars." He believed that before our globe was created, the
planets and zodiacal signs were created, hence he argued that
they influence all succeeding events, and arc signs of coming
events. They even presaged the birth of Christ. Undoubtedly he
had read Albumazar's book on Gjamasp, who had predicted the
birth of Christ by the Jupiter-Saturn mutations. Albertus studied
first at Padua and then taught Theology at Ratisbon, Strasburg
and Cologne. He studied Physiognomy, as Hippocrates, Aristotle
and Avicenna before him had done. He discourseson the seven-
teen different types of foreheads. Here is the sixth type:
A square forehead denotes, according to Aristotle, magnanimity:
Quadrata front pro faca
ratione mediocris magnanimos ostendit ob
similitudinem leonis. Those that have square foreheads have prudence
and magnanimity like a lion (or like the sign Leo).
Physiognomy was, and still is, by certain people,based on
astrology.
Thomas Aquinas (1226-1274),sometimes called Saint Thomas
Aquinas, was of noble birth and became one of the greatest
theologians of the Middle Ages. He isnow regarded as the patron
saint of all Roman Catholic educational institutions. He was
the pupil of Albcrtus Magnus. Aquinas is said to have written
and lectured against astrology, but on analysis it would appear
1 Stt Appendix VII.
216 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
that this was against the charlatans and pretenders to astrology
rather than against those who knew and understood their
astrology. He agrees that the stars have definite influence upon
human beings and can be causes of action. On the other hand,
he did not agree that every action caused by the influence of the
stars is inevitable, for the will of man can fight against what the
stars would incline him to do.
When Paul Choisnard in 1926
was starting to bring together
many of the scientists of Paris, with the object of founding and
starting a scientific school of astrology, he was met by various
statements that Aquinas was against astrology. So in his sensible
practical fashion Choisnard said, "Let us try to find out what
Aquinas did say." His book, St.Thomas d' Aquin et /'Influence d~s
Astres, is the result of Choisnard's own inquiries. He writes:.
When one speaks of the eminent men who during the centuries have
adhered to this, so to speak, "absurd superstition" of astrology.one docs
not have to name them with any embarrassment or in any apologetic
tone: among them arc Saint Thomas, Tacitus, Galen, Tycho Brahc,
Kepler, Cardinal d'Ailly and others. What demands attention in SL
Thomas is that he is the only Philosopher, who has openly incorporated
the principle of the influence of the stars into his doctrines, ,and who
has spoken of astrology.with respect in his discussions. I doubt if the
matter [of astrology in philosophy] has been worked at since the
Middle Ages. Saint Thomas was not an astrologer in the senseof being
a maker of horoscopes,but he had the goodsense and courage to reveal
the essential truth in astrology and not to avoid it. It is to my mind the
only philosophy which has known how to distinguish between true
and false astrology without confounding the two in the same supersti-
tion. Aquinas has maintained, with good sense,but with a shining pru-
dence which we must, admire, that a guard must be set against the
abuse which people make of astrology.
In brief, St. Thomas writes in favor of an astrology that accepts
free will. He accepted astrology, because every part of nature is
in accord with every other part.
Although St. Thomas is much later in time than the Moorish
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 217
teacher Averrhoes, yet he spent much of his life combating the
heresies of the latter. From the astrological point of view the dis-
pute revolved around questions concerning the religious concepts
connected with the Primum Mobile and the doctrine of Emana-
tions.
In the thirteenth century the Alphonsine Tables were cam--
piled. They arc sometimes known as the Alonzinc Tables. Stu-
dents of astronomy and astrology were clamoring everywhere for
more accurate observations and tables. The ones most in use were
those of Arzachel, 8
compiled nearly two hundred years before.
A number of Arabian, Jewish and Christian astronomers and
astrologers were brought together by Alphonso the Tenth, some-
times called the Wise, of Castile. These men were equipped with
the best instruments, and finished their work in 1274,making
their calculations for the longitude of Toledo. Dante during his
exile is said to have visited Castile to look at these tables, and his
astrological teacher Bruno Latini did the same. A more accurate
series of tables was made in 1433by Uleg Beg, Prince of Samar-
kand, but the Alonzine tables were a remarkable feat of the
period.
Of Dante I shall speak in the next chapter. During his period
astrology was of paramount importance in Italy. However, among
the detractors we must not forget to mention Petrarch (Francesco
Petrarca, 1304-1374).If Petrarch renounced astrology he also re-
nounced his own poems, thus one is inclined to think his judg-
ment was warped, in more than one direction. Petrarch knew little
of the subject of astrology because he was prejudiced against it, just
as he was prejudiced against medicine because he knew little
about that either. He could not conceive of any fundamental good
in medicine, or in any science of histime, because he only looked
at externals, and not into fundamental principles. For this reason
he contributed very little to the sciences except criticism. Other
menwith less eloquence have contributed much more. Wc might
•s~~ Chapter t 5.
I
218 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
also note that one of Petrarch's closest.,
friends was Mayno de
Mayneri, one of the best astrologers of the time. This is quite
typical of many of the opponents of astrology. They like to have
their own chart read (they call this researching), but they think
no one dse should have a horoscoperead. Pasquale Villari 1
speaks
of him thus:
Petrarch is a fierce opponent of jurisprudence, medicine, philosophy,
of all the sciences of his day, because they do not fulfil their promises,
but rather keep the mind enchained amid a thousand sophistries. His
writings are often directed against scholastic philosophy, alchemy,
astrology, and he is also the first who dared revolt against the unlimited
authority of Aristotle, the idol of the Middle Ages. All this does the
greatest honor to the good sense that raised him above the prejudices
of his day. But it would bea gross error to seek to find in him a daring
scientific innovator. Petrarch docs not fight in the name of a new prin-
ciple or new method, but in the name of beauty of form and of true
eloquence, which he cannot find in the sciences, and cannot discover
in the ill-translated and mutilated Aristotle of his times.
Among the early compilers of tables in England was Thomas
Bradwardine (c. 129()-1349),
Chancellor of the University of Ox-
ford and Confessor to King Edward III. He wrote on speculative
geometry, on speculativearithmetic and on proportions. He seems
to have been well acquainted with astrology and certainly his
astronomical tables helped astrology. Evidently the Pelagian
heresy was still strong in England at the time, for he wrote a
strong treatise against it, entitled De Causa Dei contra Pelagium,
stating that although God is the author of all predestination,
nevertheless the physical type of man and his general expression
arc conditioned by the stars, which are the instruments of God.
On the whole, he follows Al K.indi'sphilosophy.
Flourishing in the early fourteenth century were Kolonymus
and Gcrsonides. Kolonymus hen Meir (1286-132,8)
was born in
Proven~e. He translated from Arabic into Hebrew no less than
"Life and Times of Madiavelli, by Pasquale Villari (T. Fisher Unwin).
I
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 219
thirty-two bookson mathematics, astronomy, astrology and medi-
cine. Gcrsonides, or Levi hen Gershon (1288--1344),was born
in Bagnoli and apparently spent much time at Avignon. He was
a good mathematician, astronomer and astrologer. In his Wars
ofthe Lord he speaks of the nature of the planets. Pope Clement
VI ordered a translation to be made of one of his treatises,
which described an instrument Gersonides had invented to deter-
mine the position of the stars more accurately. Gersonidcs wrote
against the theory of Alpctragius concerning the universe, and
because of the arguments he used, he is said to beone of the major
forerunners of the Copernican theory. A passage in one of his
books caused much argument. It was to the effect that Goddoes
not concern Himself with the petty details of human lives. God
knows the laws and principles operating at any specific moment,
but the detailed happenings are hidden from His Spirit. In part
of this,he apparently follows Avicebron, who had insisted on the
study of principles rather than of objects in matter, but the con-
clusions were his own. However, the argument on whether we
should study principles or objects, is one that has divided the
world from the beginning of time until now. Ramus and Tycho
Brahc argued the matter. We must have facts before we can
formulate principles, but on the other hand if the principles are
incorrect, the facts will not agree. The problem is always to
know what principles are correct. The dictatorship of Aristotle
and the Aristotelians, in the Middle Ages, consisted in the fact
that Aristotle was supposed to have presented all the principles.
Hence he acted as a deterrent to the experimental
finding of
truth.
Then we should not forget Jacob Carseno, a Spanish Jew at
the court of Pedro IV of Spain. He translated the Tables of
Don Pedro from the Catalonian into Hebrew in order that his
Jewish friends and students might have the advantage of these
tables.
Towards the end of the 14th century massacres of Jews in
Spain became widespread. They asked John I of Portugal to give
220 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
them refuge, which he did. Here they were well received until
one of their astrologers predicted the death of King Duarte. The
fact that the king died quite suddenly did not make matters
easier for the Jews, and persecution began in Portugal.
In France astrology was paramount at the royal palace. John Il,
King of France (1350-1364),had-several astrologers who tried·
to help him in his wars against Edward III. But fate was against
the king and he was captured at Poiticrs in 1356and taken as a
prisoner of war to England until his ransom should be paid.
As the French were not able to collect the money for the ransom,
John petitioned that his two astrologers, Pierre de Valois and
Guillaume de Loury might visit him. This was granted and they
stayed with the king in exile until the latter's death.
John's son, Charles V of France (1364-138o),sometimes called
The Wise, was also a devotee of astrology. The records of the
royal library of the time show that Charles had no less than nine
hundred and ten astrological books.Even we moderns cannot
beat that record. Among his astrologers were Thomas of Pisa,
Michael de Jalongues, Marc de Gennes, Jacques de St. Andre.
Astrologers were used by bothFrench and English in their wars
of the fifteenth century.
The emperors of the Holy Roman· Empire all employed as-
trologers. An astrologer was as important, if not more so, than a
general. The Emperor Charles IV (1316-1378) founded the
University of Prague on the same model as that of France, where
astrology was taught.
The Italian rulers also employed astrologers. Cosimo de Medici
(1389-1464)employed Maestro Paolo Toscanelli, usually called
in the histories of the period Maestro Pagola. He was the author
of the map used by Columbus in the discovery of America.
Before we proceed further we should not forget the subject
of playing-cards. We are all familiar with "telling fortunes" by
playing-cards, but fcw realize that it was an astrological method
of divination. The four suits represent the four fixed signs and
the four seasons of the year:
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 221
Diamonds
Hearts
Spades
Clubs
Taurus
Leo
Scorpio
Aquarius
Spring
Summer
Autumn
Winter
The cards show their ancient origin in that Taurus instead of
Aries is the equinoctial season. Compare with Virgil's phrase
about the Bull opening the year.
There arc 13 cards in each suit, that is, the 13 lunar months.
The four suits of 13 cards each make the 52 weeks of the year.
If we add the numbers from 1-13,we have 91. Then multiply by
4 for the 4 suits, and we have 364, or the approximate number
of days in a year. The Joker brings the total to 365.
Evidently a great wave of card-playing started about the end
of the fowteenth and early part of the fifteenth centwies, for
in 1397there was a French edict preventing men from playing
cards on work days. Then, in 1404the French clergy were for-
bidden to play cards at all, a matter showing they had done so
previously. In 1420both the cities of Bologna and Nuremberg
were ordered to make bonfires of all their cards.
Owing the past century the study of Tarot cards has received
considerable attention. They were probably the predecessors of
our modern playing-cards. They were known in Switzerland in
1371A.D., for a Swiss monk named Johannes informs us that the
game was introduced into Switzerland in that year. French
records show us that in 1392money was paid for painting three
packs of cards in gold and other colors for King Charles VI.
In Venice in the fifteenth century the pack was the "tarot," and
consisted of 78 cards, that is, 22 emblematic cards not now used
in, our ordinary packs. There were four court cards, king, queen,
chevalier alld valet, instead of our three court cards, and there
were, of course, the numbered cards from one to ten. The em-·
blematic cards were a higher order of trump cards than we know,
but in divination they played a very important part.
These Tarot cards, being pictorial, as well as numbered, give
us definite clues to methods of divination. The emblematic group
222 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
of 22 cards reveals that the men who made these cards were deep
and profound students of astrology. The number 22 reveals that
their origin was connected with the Kabbala, where we have
seven cards related to the planets, 12 cards related to the signs
and three assigned to a trinity (or upper triad in the K.abbala).
Ancient astrologers knew how to amuse as well as educate
people. The mediaeval play of Harlcquinade, still played in all
pantomimes in England, was astrological in origin. It is based
on the fact that the four fixed signs arc symbolic in essence of
the four-fold being of man:
1. Leo Spirit
2. Scorpio Soul
3. Aquarius Mind
4 Taurus Body
In early days, the Church having to teach people who could
neither read nor write, often tried to cpnvey deep truths through
dramatic activities. The interplay of body, mind, soul and spirit
was shown in the harlequinade, which has now become a short
play in which Harlequin, dressed either in shining gold or silver,
rescues Columbine from the Clown and Pantaloon. If we study
the inner meaning, we again come to an astrological assignm~t:
1. Harlequin
2. Columbine
3. Clown
4. Pantaloon
Spirit
Soul
Mind
Body
Leo
Scorpio
Aquarius
Taurus
The plot was intended to show that Spirit is the true friend
of the Soul, who is Columbine or the dove which has the wings
of Bight, the intuitional faculties and the imaginative faculties.
Mind and Body can be enemies of the Soul. Mind as an enemy
of the Soul would be the false-reasoning, or mattcr-0f-fact mind,
which believesthat there isnothing beyond man's ability to weigh,
measure and argue.
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 223
Before closing this chapter let me comment briefly on the
various periods when people have thought "the end of the world"
was due. When studying European history in college, I remem-
ber our professor speaking of the fear that beset Europe at various
periods because the masses imagined that the "end of the world"
was imminent. I recall his saying that these fears came from
studying the Book of Daniel and the Book of Revelation, and
not understanding that the term "end of the world" meant "the
end of the age, or cycle of time." He spoke of the years 6oo,1000,
1200 and 1840 as being particularly years of fear among large
numbers of Christians. The matter interested us all and I suppose
some students must have discussed,it at their churches, for a
fcw weeks later we found that almost every preacher in town
had delivered a sermon to the effect that the "age of prophecy
died in 70 AJ>." with the sack of Jerusalem, and that only mis-
guided members of the church had ever made any such later
prcdictions,-all of which we duly retailed to the prpfessor, who,
apparently being too wise to participate in a religious argument,
merely remarked that if we were interested we could look up the
matter for ourselves. For myself, I did not trouble to study the ·
matter until the last War when the Reverend Walter Wynn was
giving lectures on Bible Prophecy and was correct in all his pre-
dictions, notably the exact date of the surrender of Jerusalem and
the exact date of the German request for an armistice. Then I
found that many well known churchmen of the utmost sanctity,
had, throughout the centuries,-tried to expound Daniel and
Revelation, but evidently had not had the right clues.
What was my surprise then, after I became an astrologer, to
find that some learned antagonists of astrology today, arc stating
and writing that the fear of "the end of the world" was en-
gendered by the "rabble of astrologers" in all periods! Curiously
enough certain other antagonists write that astrology was "dead"
in the early Christian centuries I One or the other statement must
be wrong, perhaps both.
Since historical records prove that the fear was widespread,
224 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
let us note the various dates as I gave them before, and some
others, before we assign any blame. Long before Daniel lived,
Ezra lived. There is a book of his called the Book of Esdras
which had been assigned to the Apocrypha. In this he speaks of
the age of the world, how much is past and how much is to come.
Working on hiscycles,it would appear that he believed the "end
of the cycle," which with him was obviously a preccssional one,
would arrive in 248o A.D.;8
that is, this would be the end of the
Piscean Age and the beginning of the Aquarian Age. Then, the
Babylonian and Chaldean chronology, of which Daniel was an
exponent, used various periods of sixty years, called sosses9
and
also a period of 126o years, which is 21 sosses,but which is also
the mysterious "time, times and a dividing of time" spoken of by
Daniel, where:
A
ce• ,,.
Ume 1S ..••.•....•.•...•..•.
T " . "
wo times arc ............... .
HI£ "" ,,.
a a ttmc 1s ............... .
36o years
720
18o
Total . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 126o years
The Book of Revelation speaks of a period of "a thousand
years." I have not spacein this book to give more than a very brief
sketch of how certain scholars and churchmen tried to decide
to what initial date any of these figures should be added in order
to determine the "end of the world," but it was this initial date
that caused all the problems of prediction.
Next, added to all this, the Persians and Arabs used the Jupiter-
Saturn Mutations, or Conjunctions, of 20 years, with multiples,
accounting for the change of trigon of these mutations in roughly
12 times 20 or 240 years, and for the return of specific trigons
in 4 times 240or g6oyears.
Then Virgil's 1
°Fourth Eclogue,which describesthe "ten ages''
• Basis ofScripture Prophecy, by Scpharial (David McKay Co.).
9
See Appendix II.
10 See Appendix XIV.
THE LATER MEDIAEVAL PERIOD 225
of mankind,proved to be the next complication. People said he
used the Babylonian sossof 6oyears, hence the "ten ages" would
be 6ooyears.
It appears to have been a favorite pastime in the early centuries
to try to predict the arrival of new world teachers and new epochs
of civilization, using all these statistics, singly or in combination,
but the masses ignorantly supposed that the "end of the age"
meant nothing else but the destruction of the world by water
or by fire. Virgil apparently thought that Augustus Caesar
heralded in a new age, and as Augustus was born 63 B.c., people
added the "ten ages" or 6oo years and said that date would be
the "end of the world." Others said Virgil was not referring to
Augustus at all, but to Christ, so these latter put the "end of the
cycle"in 6ooA.D. Apparently, the "end" did not come in 6ooA.D.
However, when the Moslem power started to rise about 622-637,
theVirgilites said they were about right. Others said perchance
thiscycle had been passed by and the world must wait another
sixhundred years, that is, to 1200 A.D. Others remarked that the
6oo-yearcycle might have been correct for the pagan world, but
that the Scriptures governed the Christian world, so they went
backto Reoelation,saying that the year 1000 A.D. would herald the
SecondComing of Christ at Jerusalem and also the appearance of
anti-Christ at Antioch. This date, too, passed safely, whereupon
Daniel's period of 126o years was promoted, and many supposed
this period started with the Christian epoch. So much was pre-
dictedabout the Second Coming that the Crusades were preached
in every country of Europe as a Christian duty of clearing the
HolyLand of infidels before Christ's arrival, and the Crusades
came into being largely because people were told that it would
bea disgrace, if when Christ came again, He should find infidels
in possessionof His birthplace and of the place of His crucifixion.
Sosure were people of His Coming that they went even further
and said that He would appear over Jerusalem and that anti-
Christ would appear at Antioch, and for this latter reason when
the Crusaders went to Palestine, they first bombarded Antioch,
...
226 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
so that anti-Christ should find nothing of value there. I wonder
if the critics would like to state that "a rabble of astrologers"
started the Crusades?
Perhaps, if the truth were known, the astrologers who had
studied the Arabic books, saw more clearly on the whole than
anyone else, what all this interlocking of time cyclesmeant, but
if any of them had tried to combat the popular conceptsthat swept
Europe, he would have been termed an infidel. One or two lesser
ones, who may have agreed, were blamed when the "end of the
world" did not arrive. With regard to the 1840-1844dates, I
believe one of these was put forward by the Seventh Day Ad-
ventists, working forward 126olunar years from the Hegira in
622 A.D. If, however, 126oso~aryears arc added to 622 A.I>., we
arrive at the year 1882A.D., a year when certain occult groups
said the Aquarian Age started. As a matter of fact, there is still
considerablecontroversyas to what was the date of the beginning
of the Piscean Age, or the Arian Age. Sayce gives the date of
2450B.c. for the latter. The date of the inception of these Ages
will determine the date of the Aquarian Age. The matter is
entirely astronomical and not astrological, except in so far as
astrologers assign certain attributes to certain "ages," or prcccs-
sional cycles.
Chapter 17
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER
Stars,-the thoughts of God in the helltlens.
LoNGPELLOW
W
HEN
WEroMEto the timesof Dante and of Chaucer, we
sec that astrology had become a major subject for the
poets.All three sections of the Divine Comedy are based
on an astrological scheme which dovetails into a kabbalistic
scheme. Dal\te starts on his wanderings when the Sun is in Aries,
which is the beginning of the zodiac, and which sign was con-
sideredto be the Ascendant when Godfirst created the world:
The hour was morning's prime and on his way
Aloft the Sun ascended with thosestars,
That with him rose when Love Divine first moved
Those its fair works.
He wanders into a wood and there he is lost. One after another
three animals cross his path, a panther, a lion and a she-bear.
They are symbolic of three qualities which bar the wayto spiritual
vision,-plcasure, ambition and envy. They look so menacing
that he is afraid, but in the midst of his fear, Virgil arrives. Virgil
issymbolic of the qualities of the planet Mercwy,-human intel-
ligenceand the ability of the mind to control what is evil and
unbalanced in the emotions. Virgil then becomes Dante's guide.
He takes him down through the regions of the Inferno, and up
to the heights of Mount Purgatory,-then he leaveshim in charge
ofBeatrice,who symbolizes the illumined soul.
The "Inferno" has ten sections, according to a kabbalistic
scheme,if we consider the wood in which Dante is lost as a pre-
liminary
Hell, or Section Number One of the kabbalistic scheme.
SectionOne is a sphere in which the mind is so distraught
227
228 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
that, to all intents and purposes, it is on the confines of HdL
Mind, or Virgil, then enables Dante to see, or analyzc, all the
phases of thought or emotion which cause mankind to live in
hell. In one general category, the inmates of hell arc confined to
hell for no other reason than that they have "abandoned hope."
They are fatalists. They cling to their evils and faults, believing
them to bea part of themselves which nothing can shake off. They
look downwards and never upwards.
Section Two is another preliminary circle at the top of Hell,
reserved for inane people,-"the wretches who never lived,"
who believe nothing and who hope for nothing. They are the
people who live purely vegetative lives. Mercury, or mind, is
dormant.
Section Three is the realm of the philosophers who lived before
Christ. Dante considered them to be good men and wise, but
being without hope of heaven in their philosophy they have not
made any effort to reach heaven. They are the Mcrcurians, who
are quite satisfied with what they have reasoned out for them-
selves. They have a reason for everything but no concept of any
faculty beyond reason.
Section Four is reserved for lower Moon types in which noth-
ing but emotion predominates. Here Dante places lovers like Paolo
and Francesca, whose emotions overruled both duty and coromon-
sensc.
Section Five is for types who respond only to the lower side of
Venus,-gluttony and prodigality.
Section Six is reserved for the poor solar types who, instead
of joying in the Sun's radiance, have allowed wrath and gloom
to overcome them.
Section Seven is the realm of Mars where people fight, not for·
the truth but against it.
Section Eight is the realm of the suicides and the choleric
Jupiterians. They sin against wisdom.
Section Nine is the realm of the hard-hearted Saturnians, who
have been hypocritical and deceitful.
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER 229
Section Ten isreserved for Judas alone, who loved no one more
than himself. Fire is too gO<Xl
for such a person, so he is chained
to a block of ice which represents his own cold heart.
In all this journey ·through the Inferno, Dante reveals the
psychology of which the old astrologers were masters. Each sin
has its own punishment,-the envious have their eyes sewn up,
because envy prevents one from seeing any gO<Xl
in other people.
The angry arc in a brown fog, for anger beclouds issues.
Having seen all this misery that people make for themselves,
Dante and Virgil are allowed to find a passage which leads to
the open air and to the other side of the world. The other side of
the world represents symbolically another way of looking at
things. They see the stars of the Southern Cross. Everything is
symbolic even to "seeing the stars." Dante has seen in his heart
some divine light which tells him there is hope of something
better. They arrive at the foot of Mount Purgatory when the Sun
is in the sign Scorpio, the sign of regeneration.
Purgatory, too, has ten divisions; and the people in Purgatory
have the same faults as those in hell, but they do something about
them. They strive to overcome them. They are infused with
divine hope, and in this hope they conquer.
Whereas, in the "Infero," Dante travelled downwards through
the pit, in "Purgatorio" he travels upwards from one ledge or
cornice on the mountain to the next ledge.
Section One is a preliminary region around the Southern Cross,
which, being a cross, represents the sphere where mediation on
the four cardinal virtues is neccssary,--on Justice, Prudence,
Temperance and Fortitude, or, astrologically, all that is com-
prehended in the philosophy that is contained in the Four Ele-
ments.
Section Two is another preliminary region, where the con-
stellation of the Great Bear (the Dipper) is seen, which, having
seven major stars, represents the four cardinal virtues plus the
threeevangelical virtues of.faith, hope and charity, or, astrologi-
cally, all the good qualities assigned to the seven planets.
230 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Section Three is the cornice of Saturn, where the proud must
learn the blessing of humility.
Section Four is the cornice of Jupiter, where the niggardly
learn to be bounteous.
Section Five is the cornice of Mars, where the violent learn to
be meek as lambs.
Section Six is the cornice of the Sun, where the lazy Sun types,
who love to bask in the Sun, learn to be great workers for others.
Section Seven is the cornice of Mercury, where the thieves and
the avaricious learn to give to others.
Section Eight is the cornice of Venus, where the gluttons icarn
temperance.
Section Nine is the cornice of the Moon, where unfaithfuln~
is lost in a concept of purity.
Section Ten is the Earthly Paradise.of a good life. In this realm
Virgil crowns Dante:
I invest thee then
With crown and mitre, sovereign o'er thyself.
Virgil then leaves Dante. Human reason is not what takes
man to heaven. There is, however, one more important stage
before Dante can proceed to the planetary heavens. He has to
forget the wrongs that people have done him, hence he is bathed
in the River Lethe (or forgetfulness) and then in the River
Eunoc (or the remembrance of good deeds only). No one with
a "chip on his shoulder" enters heaven, according to Dante. After
this, Beatrice, the illuminated soul, becomes Dantc's guide.
Paradiso is the place where no one disputes his destiny; it is
the place where "our wills with His arc one." It, too, has ten
realms.
Section One is the heav~n of the Moon, where everyone is
emotionally content.
Section Two is the heaven of the planet Mercury, where the
philosophy of free will is discussed.
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER 231
Section Three is the heaven of Venus, where people grow beau-
tiful in the radiance of heavenly love.
Section Four is the heaven of the Sun, where God gives new
life and energy and a new impetus to man.
Section Five is the heaven of Mars, where the martyrs are now
triumphant.
Section Six is the heaven of Jupiter, where those who have the
ability to govern well and to use right judgment are placed.
Section Seven is the heaven of the great Saturnians, who are the
great contemplatives of the church.
Section Nine is the realm of the Fixed Stars, where Dante is so
exceedingly happy in his own constellation Gemini.
Section Ten is the Empyrean, or the realm of the Pure Fire,
where God Himself dwells. Here Dante is given a momentary
vision of the Trinity. He becomes one with"the Love which moves
the sun and stars." His journey is ended then in this union with
God.
I suggest that those who wish to look into this kabbalistic
scheme further turn back to Chapter 7, where the kabbalistic
scheme is discussed.
Where did Dante learn all this astrological and kabbalistic
lore? We know that he had a kabbalistic teacher named Solomon,
and that his astrological teacher was Bruno Latini, who himself
wrote various books on astrology, notably The Treasure. Bruno
too was well acquainted with all the ancient astrologers' works,
those of Albumazar 1
and of the Arabs. Longfellow, who was Pro-
fessor of Romance Literature at Harvard University, worked on
these sources when he decided to make a translation of the Divine
Comedy, and in various of the early editions of his translation,
we find full-length notes giving extracts from Albumazar on the
planetary influences. Also in Dante's Convito we find that Dante
is so fascinated by the subject of astrology that he goes to great
lengths to find some fundamental likeness 2
between the seven
1
&e Chapter12.
a See AppendixVIIl.
232 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
subjects of the trivium and quadrivium and the seven planets.
Dante was placed on the Index for five hundred years.
We have mentioned before that Dante put Michael Scot in his
"Inferno." He relegated Guido Bonatus there, too. There arc many
very conflicting accounts of Bonatus. Some say that he was in-
valuable to the Count of Montefeltro in choosing the right times
for his battles and campaigns. Others poked a great deal of fun at
him and spoke only of his astrological predictions that failed.
It seems that originally he was a tiler and had not the social
background of such men as Michael Scot and others, hence many
people despisedhim.Yet if we study his Anima Astrologiae, which
contains 146 Considerations of Horary Astrology, a book which
is readily available today, it is evident that he was scholarly,
painstaking, acquainted with the major astrological authors of
the past, and really knew how to read a chart. He was commonly
called in his times, ''The Restorer of Astrology," but this is a
title that men have taken in all ages down to the present. A
translation of his Anima Astrologiae into English was made by
Henry Coley, and edited and published by William Lilly in 1675.
It was reprinted in 1866and several times since then. Bonatus
demands that the client, when askinga question of an astrologer,
shall be serious and only ask questions of vital importance; he
shall not think up silly questions but only ask about matters that
have disturbed his peace for the space of at least a day and a
night, except in case of accidents which do not admit of delay
and which, by intensity, make up for the absence of duration.
Lilly, in his edition, adds a comment on this:
Those who take this sober course, shall find the truth in what they
enquire after; but whosoever do otherwise, deceive both themselves
and the artist; for a foolish Querent may cause a wise Respondent to
err, which brings a scandal upon Art amongst inconsiderate persons,
whereas the Astrologer is not blameable, but the ignorant silly Qucrcnt.
We might note here that astrology, though based on science,
is really, as Lilly says, an art. The art lies in the synthesis or final
diagnosis, judgment, or whatever the resulting answer may be
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER 233
called. Yet among people that Lilly calls "inconsiderate" there
arc many whose wish is merely "to test" the astrologer, rather
than to have some really vital question analyzed. Policewomen,
therefore, and other so called "investigators," who come with false
data of birth and with questions that have no reality, have
apparently wonderful cases in court. A false start can only have
a false conclusion. Bonatus mentions the astrologer Zael as one
of his chief sources for horary astrology and Almansa 8
on the
influence of the fixed stars.
I have sometimes heard and sometimes seen the statement
that Dante placed in Hell all people who tried to predict the
future. This is either a deliberate misstatement of the truth or
else colossal ignorance. Let us look at the facts: Dante places
Farinati, the renowned leader of the Ghibbelines, in Hell. He
even places his own dear teacher Brunetto Latini in Hell, but he
makes both of them foresee his (Dante's) exile. However, it is
evidently not the predictive art that places them in Hell, but the
fact that Dante considered them either to be heretical in doctrine,
or else deserving of punishment for some specificsin. To Farinati
he says:
It seems that you can sec, if I hear rightly,
Beforehand, whatever Time brings with 'it
To which Farinati replies that he sees things in the distance
but things that are imminent, or which are already in being, arc
not perceived by him. (Mediums often have some such limitation
connected with the time factor.) Dante wishes to question him
about his own future, but Farinati merely gives him a hint that
all is not well with the future of Dante. Then Virgil speaks,
telling Dante that not until he meets Beatrice will he know all
the facts about the future. He says:
"Let Memory preserve what thou hast heard
Against thyself," that Sage commanded me,
"And now attend here"; and he raised his finger.
8 Sometimes called Almansor, Albubatcr or Albucasis, physician-astrologer of Cordova
in the late 10th century.
234 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
When thou shalt be before the radiance sweet·
Of her whose beauteouseyesall things behold,
From her thou'lt know the journey of thy life.
When Dante meetsBrunoLatini, he showshis affectionwhen
he addresseshim by the diminutive,Brunetto: ·
Art thou here, Ser Brunetto?
To which his master replies,reminding him of what he had
onceprophesiedto him:
If thou thy star do follow,
Thou can'st not fail thee of a glorious port,
If wdl I judged in the life beautiful.
And as Brunetto leaves,Dante tells him how he holds in
mind and heart:
The dearand goodpaternal image
Of you, when in the world from hour to hour
You taught me how a man becomes eternal;
And how much am I grateful, while I live
Behoves that in my language be discerned.
What you narrate of my career I write,
And keep it to be glossed with other text
By a Lady who can do it, if I reach her.
Conrad Malaspino,however, who also wasable to tell the
future, is not placedin the "Inferno,"but in the "Purgatorio."He
alsoprophesiesDante'scomingexile:
The Sun shall not lie
Seven times upon the pillow whichthe Sun
With all his four feet covers and bestrides,
Beforethat such a courteous opinion
Shall in the middle of thine head be nailed,
With greater nails than of another's spccch,-
Unless the course of justice standeth still.
THE .ASTROLOGY OF DANTE .A.ND CHAUCER 235
In the "Paradiso,"Dante falls in line with Boethius:
Allowing it to be true that events arc foreseen.
and we find that he puts the prediction of his coming ezile into
tl,e mouth of his ancestor Cacciogtado,and not into the mouth
of the Blessed Beatrice, as we might have expectedfrom the lines
in the "Inferno." Nevertheless, it is Beatricewho actually urges
him to ask his ancestor about the future, and the prophecy of
the coming exile is given in these words:
Thou shalt have proof how savoreth of salt
The bread of others, and how hard a road
The going down and up another's stairs.
All of which goes to prove that Dante was not opposed to
predicting the future!
If Geoffrey Chaucer ( 1340-1400)
had not written his Treatise
on the Astrolabe, which incidentally was never completed, people
would be inclined to say that he was neither an astronomer nor
an astrologer, but that he had merdy inserted casual references
to astrology throughout his poems, such as anybody might do,
but even here these references are not "casual," they arc the
result of a very fine technical knowledge of astrology. The
Treatiseon the Astrolabe was written in order to help "his little
son,Lewis," who was at Oxford, where astrology was then one
ofthe subjects. In thisTreatise he says, "Every one of the twelve
signshas respect to a certain part of the body, as Aries governs
thinehead, and Taurus thy neck, Gemini thine armholes, and
soforth as shall be shown in the five parts of this Treatise."
Chaucer is said to have followed John Sacrobosco's De Spnaera
forhis definitions and his descriptive astronomy, while for his
conclusionshe used the Arabian Messahala's works. Tyrwhitt, in
hiscomments on Chaucer, says that Chaucer took some of the
subject matter on elections from a Liber Electionem by a
certainZacl,copies of which arc now in the Harleian and Bodleian
libraries.
236 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
In reading The Mtdiae11alAttitude Towards Astrology by
Theodore Otto Wedel, I note that in commenting on Chauccr's
Treatise on the Astrolabe,he thinks Chaucer renounced asttology.
I am afraid that Mr. Wcdel's ignorance of astrological technique
has prevented him from understanding the particular passage
which he quotes as proof of the renunciation. What Chaucer is
saying (II, 4), I would paraphrase very briefly in this way: An
Ascendant is truly the actual degree rising in the East. But the
House of the A~endant (that is, the First House) is a much
bigger thing than the Ascendant. Neverthdess, if a planet is
above or below the Ascendant by five degrees or less, then as-
trologers say it is "in the Ascendant," but if the planet is fifteen
degrees or more away from the Ascendant, then this planet is
said to be "falling away from the Ascendant." An Ascendant is
fortunate if it contains no evil planet, like Mars or Satwn, and
if it is free from the Dragon's Tail. Also, the Ascendant is for-
tunate if no evil planet gives a bad aspect to it. It is very
fortunate if it contains a fortunate planet, especially one in its
"joy," or exaltation.
But Chaucer goes on to say that some people have contrary
ideas on this. They say4
that when one is deciding whether an
Ascendant is fortunate or not, then one has to consider where
the lord of the Ascendant is. They want it in some particular
spot in the chart, and it must be well aspected, and not combust,
not retrograde and not conjoined with a malefic. Chaucer then
bursts out with the statement that these latter ideas concerning
the Ascendant are "rites of pagans in which my spirit has no
faith." Also included in his outburst is the fact that these pagans
divide their zodiacal signs into three parts and call each tenth
part a "face."
This is no renunciation of astrology, but a particular astrologer
giving an opinion on a technical matter. The question is, "When
you arc considering whether an Ascendant isfortunate or not, do
'Chaucer usesthe phrase..the, •J" very much u the French 111e
11
0D dit,•• mcania,
;, is said.
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER 237
you have to consider the position and aspects of its ruler?"
Chaucer would have replied to this, "No, you don't,-and only
a heathen would say you dol" My own answer to the question
would be that one always takes into account everything that
Chaucer thinks one should, but that one has to modify the opinion
so found by considering the lord of the Ascendant, his position
and aspects,-as the pagans did, but not making the lord of the
Ascendant the only issue.
Particularly in the CanterburyTalesdocs Chaucer write much
that is too astrologically true to be the work of an amateur. Any
astrologer who reads the story of the Wife of Bath will recognize
her type, as Chaucer did,-Mars rising in Taurus. Note, too, that
when she speaks of one of her many husbands as having been
an astrologer, it causes no surprise among the listeners. She
speaks of his love of ancient learning, and of his great interest
in reading about the bad women in history, and makes the
comment that men wrote these books,but that if women had
written them, some of the men might not have appeared any more
angelic than did the women. As she moralizes on all that has been
written against women, she makes one of her finest astrological
observations on the natural antagonism between Mercury and
Venus,-Mercury being the sign of the scribeor clerk, and Venus
being the goddess of love, and that it is impossible for Mercury
and Venus types to see eye to eye. Then she states that people
with Mercury in Pisces, the sign where Mercury falls, have no
luck in love, becausePiscesis the place of the exaltation of Venus.
Alsowe infer from the lines that Venus posited in either Gemini
or in Virgo isout of luck becausethese arc the signs of the critical,
fault-finding Mercury. In other words, criticism destroyslove,and
where there is love there is no criticism. Each is contrary to the
nature of the other. Chaucer is quite technical as he writes these
lines, knowing and understanding the exaltation and fall of
planets. I have therefore paraphrased the lines where astrological
concepts arc concerned, in order that the meaning may be clear
to those who are interested in hisastrology:
238 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY A.ND INFWENCE
The children of Mercury and Venus
Are in their manners quite different [from each other] ;
Mercury loveth wisdom and science,
But Venus loveth lavishness and expense;
And because of their different natures,
Each falls in the other's exaltation [sign] ;
And so, God knows, Mercury is desolate
In Pisces, where Venus is exalted;
And Venus falls where Mercury is exalted;
Therefore, no woman by a clerk is praised.
The clerk, when he is old, and can naught do,
Of Venus' work, worth his old shoe.
Then sits he down and writes in his dotage,
That women cannot keep their marriage vows.
In the "Knight's Tale," we find the Knight speaks astrology
like an educated gentleman of the time, who had doubtless been
to Oxford. He talks of planetary hours as though these were
something that the rabble among the pilgrims might know all
about, but when he tells how Arcite tries to comfort Palamon
by saying that misfortune is due to Saturn, and they must endure
it and not cry, then he is talking the philosophy of the day. How-
ever, Palamon tells Arcite, with tears in his eyes, that his sorrow
is due to Venus and not to Saturn. Then the exquisitdy beau-
tiful descriptions that the Knight gives, of the temples of Vcnus,
the Moon, and Mars, betray great learning. Jupiter and Satmn
also enter the story, and their attributes are accurately ascribed
The Physician, too, was well grounded in "astronomic," as
astrology was called in those days:
He kept a patient wonderfully well
By using [planetary] hours, with his natural [skill or] magic.
He knew just how to calculate a fortunate Ascendant •
For a patient by means of Election charts.
• The Ascendant of a chart is conditioned by the time of day, hence Chaucer meant
that the physician knew how to obtain the best time to administer
medicine.
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER 239
Note, too, the Physician's sources for his great knowledge; ap-
parently indicating that all men of the time included astrology in
their medical theories:
Well did he know old lEsculapius,
And Dioscorides, and also Rufus,
Old Hippocrates, Haly and Galen,
Serapion, Rhazis and Avicenna,
Averrhoes, Damascene and Constantine.
The Miller tells a story of a carpenter who had as his lodger
a young man who:
Had learned art, but all his fantasie
Was turned for to learn astrologie.
His room for study is minutely described:
A chamber had he in that hostelrie,
Alone withouten any company,
Full fetishly ydight with herbes sweet,
And he himself was sweet as is the root
Of liquorice or any setawale.
His Almagest and bookes great and small,
His astrolabe belonging to his art,
His auguring stones laid far apart,
On shelves couched at his beddes head.
..
The Lawyer, in his tales of the woes of the Lady Constance,
is full of pity because there was no astrologer to guide her;-
when she first set sail for Barbary:
Unfortunate Rising Sign of Short Ascension [Aries],
\Vhosc ruler [Mars] is in its fall [in Cancer], helpless, alasl
In the Darkest House [the Fourth], and not angular in its
own [First] Housel
0 Mars! 0 [Evil] Planet now in dominationl
0 feeble Moon, disastrous is thy motion!
240 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Thou goest to a conjunction [with Mars] where there will be
no receptiona [as there had been formerly],
And from thine original good position [in reception], thou
art far removed.
Imprudent emperor of Rome, alas!
Was there no philosopher in all thy town?
Isn't one time better than another in such case?
For this voyage is no Election chart made,-
&pecially for folks of high renown,-
Not even when the birthchart is known?
Alas! we are too ignorant or slowl
One would think from all this that Chaucer had taken a chart
of an actual person who had started on a journey and had never
returned, and that he was reading the essential astrological prob-
lems concerned. His question on whether there was no astrologer
(philosopher) who could make up an election chart, refers to
the ability of an astrologer to set up a chart which would show
a journey without trouble. Chaucer is said to have been indebted
to the section in John Hispalensis' Epitome of Astrology for his
knowledge on election charts, though Tyrwhitt thinks some of his
knowledge was derived "from a certain Zael."
We get an insight into the way of the alchemists of the period
in the story of the Yeoman who worked for a canon of the
church. He tells in detail how he and his master made them-
selves poor in trying to find out how to make silver and gold.
We see here that the Yeoman assigned each planet to a metal:
Sol, gold is, Luna's silver, as we sec,
Mars iron, and quicksilver's Mercury,
Saturn is lead, and Jupiter is tin,
And Venus, copper, by my father's kin.
One of Chaucer's admirers was John Lydgatc (c. 1370-1450),
who was born in Suffolk, England. He learned astrology and
5
Reception refers to two planets each in the other'shouse.
THE ASTROLOGY OF DANTE AND CHAUCER 241
philosophy at Oxford, and afterwards travelled extensively in
France and Italy. In his Story of Thebes he tells how the; as-
t:rologers very carefully and accurately proceeded to cast the
horoscope of the infant Oedipus:
the ascendant
Truly sought out by minute and degree,
The self same hour of his nativity,
Nor forgot the heavenly mansions
Clearly searched by small fractions.
From this latter we can see that the astrology of mediaeval
England was no slipshod work, when even the houses had to be
calculated to fractions of degrees. It was Lydgate who made a
translation of the Secretum Secretorum into English.
Chapter 18
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFrEENTH CENTIJRY
No one can read the history of astronomy without perceiving
that Copernicus,Newton, Lapl«e, are not new men, or a new
kind of men, but that Thales, Anazimenes, Hipparchus,
Empedocles, Aristarchus, PythagortZS,had anticipated them;
each had the same tense, geometrical brain, apt for the same
vigorous computation and logic.
EMmtsoN,
"Essayon Fate"
T
HE FIFTEENTH CENTURY was the century when America was
discovered, but it was also the century when the wealth of
knowledge that lay in old books was discovered anew. The
past is continually being rediscovered; just as we lay books aside
on our own library shelves for years and then one day dip
into them, and they seem to shed a new light on everything
because in the interim we have grown. Poggio Bracciolini (138o-
1459),generally known all over the world as merely Poggio, had
to attend a Church conference at the city of Constance in 1414
Apparently, not having much to do, he wandered around the
countryside and visited several of the Alpine monasteries, and
in these he found a very great number of the old Greek and Ro-
man authors. Among these was a manuscript of Manilius which
interested him very much, for Poggio was a good astrologer.
Poggio had it copied and when it was given to the world,
one can estimate the interest it caused by the tremendous num-
ber of commentaries that were written on it. In 1472 it was
printed at Nuremberg, from the manuscript that Poggio found,
by Regiomontanus. Two years later, Bonincontrius followed with
an edition based on a different copy, which he had discovered
in the convent of Monte Cassiano. As various other manuscripts
were found, Manilius became a "best seller" until late in the 18th
.
242
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 243
century. As we have noted before, it was translated into English
in 16cJ7
by Thomas Creech.
The effect of Poggio's obtaining so many manuscripts was to
make nearly all the learned men of the period start to comb the
continent for more and more old books and manuscripts. As
various Greek ones were found, men eagerly sought translators
also.
Cardinal Peter d'Ailly 1
( 1350-1.421)
evidently did much toward
leading the men of his day to find out what men had thought
and written in the past, but he looked forward too. He was the
leader of the Nominalist school of philosophers, Chancellor of
the University of Paris and Bishop of Compiegne before he be-
came a cardinal. Besides his religious books, he wrote several
treatises on astrology, astronomy and all the sciences of the day.
He believed, like many of the great Church teachers, that as-
tronomy and astrology were not incompatible with religious
belief, and he wrote a book to prove it,-De Concordia Astrono-
miae cum Theologia. His private library was one of the largest.
All that had been written on the Calendar was known to him.
All that had been written by Gerard of Cremona was in this
library. He delved into Adelard and into Roger Bacon's works.
He wrote a Commentary on Sacrobosco's De Sphaera. It is
popularly supposed that it was through the various books he
possessed and lectured upon, which dealt with geography, as-
trology and astronomy and were built around the "arin" theory
appropriated by the Arabs from the Hindus, and first given to
Europe by Adelard, that Columbus and others developed some of
their "scientific" reasons why if one sailed westwards, one would
come to land.
Nicholas of Cusa (1401-1464)was the son of a fisherman and
became a cardinal. He was educated at Pisa and was quite an
independent thinker. He was deeply interested in the Kabbala
and said that creation was a never-ending development out of
1
His name is variously spelt as Pierre d'Alliac, Petrus de Alliaco, Petrus Alliacus,
and Pierre de Eliaco.
244 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
God, and not a creation out of nothing. The Kabbala was in
every way an opJ><>nent
of nothingness or of chance being present
at creation. If the Kabbala became, during the Renaissance, more
and more a predictive system, it was still insistent that the laws
on which the world was founded could be known in part, and the
present and the future could be comprehended in much the,same
way that we understand seeds,-recognizable as the basis of the
plant, which is only potentially in being, but which is undouht-
/edly present in the seed. As we saw before, Kabbalism and Neo-
Platonism had gone hand in hand in the early Christian cen-
turies, hence we are not surprised to find that when Europe took
to Kabbalism, a Neo-Platonic school deveioped again.
Marsilio Ficino (1433-149')) was the favorite philosopher-
astrologer of both Cosimo and of Lorenzo de Medici. Giorgios
Gemistus, generally known as Plethon, a Greek refugee from
Constantin·ople, started a revival of interest in the studies of
Plato, when he wrote his famous pamphlet in which he compared
Plato with Aristotle: "'The two great philosophers',2
said he,
'admit that nature works, not by chance, but for a given purpose.
Aristotle, however, maintains that this purpose is achieved un-
consciously, non consulto; Plato, on the contrary, asserts with
more justice that nature is rational, is conscious, consulto agit;
its art is divine, since it is God"Himself who works in it. A most
burning dispute arose upon this question, which, unimportant
as it may seem today, was of immense importance at that time.
For it opened the way to pantheism! ... '"
Plethon inspired Cosimo to start an academy at Florence, which
should be devoted to the study of Plato. Cosimo took Marsilio
Ficino, then a young man of eighteen years, and had him trained
in the ducal palace in all the necessary learning that would
enable him in the future to become the head of this new Platonic,
or rather Second Neo-Platonic School of Europe. Marsilio evi-
dently justified the time and care that was spent on his education.
He became one of the leading scholars of the day and had a very
2
See J.A. Symonds,Renaissance
in Italy (CharlesScribner'sSons).
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 245
wide influenceon the times. He translated many of Plato's works.
He was tutor to Lorenzo de Medici and alsoto Giovanni de Medici
who afterwards became Pope Leo X. In fact, it was Ficino who
made the famous astrological prediction that Giovanni would
be pope, and he made the prediction as soon as the child was
born. The Academy itself attracted men in all branches of art
and science. Lorenzo took part in the meetings as he grew up.
Leonardo da Vinci also attended. Then there was Cardan's father,
who was a friend of Leonardo, and the two formed the nucleus
of a mathematical group within the Academy. "These mathema-
ticians farmed a group, lending and borrowing precious vol-
umes." 3
Pico della Mirandola also came under the influence of
Ficino until he joined Savanarola, who, though psychic and
prophetical himself,and able to predict the fall of Florence, hated
astrology. Pasquale Villari• describes some of the philosophical
views that were current in this Neo-Platonic Academy:
Man is a microcosm; he can descend to the animals, to inanimate
nature, or rise to the angels, to God, who willspeak with him and guide
him. Then too, stars, planets, and even the stones have, by their third
essences, direct influence over man's passions, man's destiny. And thus
is demonstrated the truth of the occult sciences,in which Ficinus had an
almost childish bdief. His continual mdancholy was attributed by him
to the influence of Saturn in his chart.
From 1412-1475much interest attended editions of Hyginus
which· were published in Paris, Ferrara and in Venice. Hyginus
was a freedman of Augustus Caesar, who had plotted out the
constellations. All the old Arab masters of astrology were re-
published,-Alkindi and Messahala. The old Moorish masters
like Abenezra were also republished. In England, not only did
Chaucer's son study astronomy and astrology at Oxford but
Henry V (1413-1422)studied the same subjects there. One of
his astrolabes is stjll extant. So great was his interest, that he had
8
R. A. Taylor, Leonardothe Florn1tine(Harper & Bros., 1928).
4
Pasquale Villari, Life and T;mes of Madia11elli(T. Fisher Unwin).
246 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
one made of silver and one of gold. Anatole France tells us in his
story of Joan of Aic that the then Duke of Burgundy kept several
astrologers, and that one of them, Jean de Builhons, foretold the
death and the manner of the death of the Maid. In 1440 we hear
of the Duke of Gloucester making astronomical tables.
The King of Poland granted a permanent chair of astrology
to the University of Cracow in 146o,and in order that a Polish-
born professor might teach the subject properly, a mathematician
was sent to the University of Bologna to equip himself for the
position. From this we would infer that astrology was well taught
in Bologna at that time. In ten years after the return of their
professor, the University of Cracow had outstripped Bologna and
all other colleges in astrological and in astronomical lore, for
students were made to attend both courses, although six profes-
sors were needed for the two subjects as the classes became
more numerous. And at Cracow University, Copernicus (1473-
1543)was in the astrology class as well as in the astronomy class.
The records show that he was most interested in finding out
everything he could concerning the utility of astrology. Here at
Cracow all the works and writings of the Aiabs, Jews and Moors
were digested, from Alkµtdi and Albumazar through Abcnczra
and Ibn Tibbon. In Manilius and also in the works of the Pytha-
goreans, they had found hints of the Sun being the center of the
planetary system, and of the earth having an axis, but it was
Nicholas Copernicus who finally gave forth the "new" theory.
So, if the King of Poland had not given this astrological chair
to Cracow, the world might have waited a little longer for the
Copernican theory of the solar system to eventuate. One of Coper-
nicus' greatest friends and his major adviser was Regiomontanus,
whose real name was John Millier (1436-1476).He was born in
Konigsberg, Prussia, and studied both astrology and astronomy
at the University of Vienna, under George von Purbach. A very
close friendship grew up between the two men and Regiomon-
tanus became interested in all the translation work which Purmach
thought necessary for the progress of his research. In Vienna,
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 247
Purbach in 1457published the first printed almanac entitled Pro
Pluribus Annos. He did not confine his data to one year. Regio-
montanus followed the same idea in 1475when he brought out
an almanac that was good until 1531.
From Vienna, Regiomontanus in 1461accompanied Cardinal
Bessarion to Rome. Bessarionwas one of the Greek exiles of the
period and his rare knowledge of Greek was invaluable to the
men of the Renaissance.At one time he had studied under Ple-
thon. It seems that Bessariongave a copy of Ptolemy's Almagest
to Regiomontanus. This gift appears to have been lost or stolen
later on, but not until Purbach and Regiomontanus had made
their translation, which was, however, not an entirely complete
one, but, rather, in the nature of a very full summary and digest.
Regiomontanus was at one time astrologer-adviserto the King
of Hungary. Later, he settled in Nuremberg, where he published
Tables of Directions, that is, trigonometrical tables helpful to
astrologers and astronomers. He was .able to make very long-
distance predictions. Writing in the year 1475he said that the
year 1588would be a very important year for Europe. The year
1588 coincided with the defeat of the Spanish Armada, the
overthrow of the Emperor Maximilian,
the death of the King
of Denmark (Tycho Brahe's friend), the flight of the King of
France from Paris and terrific struggles in Poland for the throne.
The name of Regiomontanus is well known to astrologers
everywhere because of the system of house division to which
he gave his name. House divisionisone of the most hotly debated
subjects in the astrologicalworld. Of coursein none of the systems
is there any argument about the Midheaven and the Ascendant
(including the Fourth cusp and the Descendant), but asregards
the other cusps,different astrologersfollow Porphyry, Campanus,
Placidus, or Regiomontanus. The modern scientific schools of
astrology in Europe still follow Regiomontanus, but the English
and American schools generally follow the Placidean methods,
though they may experiment with the others.
Matthew Campanus and Joseph Campanus were physicians of
248 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
the fifteenth century. Both were interested in astronomy and in
astrology. Both experimented with house divisions and both pub-
lished tables of houses, in Rome in 1495.
Trapezuntius was, like Cardinal Bessarion and Plethon, a
Greek exile. He translated the Physics and Metaphysics of
Aristotle, and also some of Plato's works. He had such violent
quarrels with Poggio over some of the translations that the quar-
rels at times ended in blows. He was a great mathematic~
astrologer and astronomer. His name appears on the title page
of the translation of Ptolemy's Almagest, which was published
in Venice in 1525,but actually Lucas Gawicas, whom we shall
mention later, did the work both of translating and editing,
Trapczuntius merely offering advice and suggestions on difficult
problems.
Besidesbeing the author of the Almagest and the Tetrabiblos,
Ptolemy was the author of a treatise on Geography, and this
Geographiawas translated, although no printed edition in Latin
was available until 1462.In this, Ptolemy gave the latitude as
well as the longitude of all the main places of his time. He placed
some of them so very correctly that people in modern times have
wondered how he did it, but one of the main errors he made was
in the longitude of the Canary Islands}' He said they were sit-
uated at 18o
0
West Longitude. As the Canary Islands became
better known, seamen noted the error, but popular feeling that
Ptolemy must be right was so strong in the fifteenth century,
that if the Canary Islands were not where Ptolemy said they
were, then these were not the islands he meant, and some other
land or islands must be at 18o
O
West Longitude. This gave rise to
various suggestions that someone ought to go and find out.
America owes much to Samuel Zacuto (1450-1510),
for it was
Zacuto's ephemerides that Columbus used on his journey to
America, and it was in these that Columbus was able to note the
eclipse of which he made such good use. Zacuto was a Jewish-
a Smith's Dictionaryof Greek,and Latin Biograpl,y.
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 249
Spanish astrologer, historian and mathematician, who turned his
attention to making star tables and ephemerides. He was quite
inventive and improved the astrolabe. Some of these he made of
iron and one of them was used by Vasco da Gama. He wrote a
treatise on astrology. Unfortunately, persecution set in against
the Jews in Spain. Zacuto used his influence with Manuel of
Portugal, whose sea captains were glad to have Zacuto among
them. In this country, then, Zacuto and the Spanish Jews found
refuge for a while. Later, the King of Portugal gave them the
alternative of slavery or baptism. Zacuto wanted neither, so he
fled first to Tunis and then to Turkey, to escape Christian per-
secution. We might note with interest here that astrology was
still a subject of great study in Turkey, even after the Turks
captured Constantinople in 1453. Elijah Bashyazi (1420-1490)
lived in Constantinople, where his studies in mathematics, as-
tronomy, astrology, philosophy and religion were carried on.
Also Caleb Afendopolo (1454-1523)was born in Adrianople but
went to Constantinople. He was an astrologer, astronomer, geo-
metrician and philosopher.
Contemporary with Zacuto in Spain was Ibn Verga (died
c. 1497), who was an astrologer and kabbalist. He also fled'from
Portugal from the Inquisition, but unlike Zacuto was unable to
make his escape,and wasput to death. About the sametime (1437-
15o8) lived Don Isaac Abravanal. Born 'in Lisbon, he fled to
Venice during the persecution. He was a mystic, statesman and
astrologer. However, he seems to have been quite misguided in
his prediction of the coming of the Messiahand the MessianicAge,
for he calculated the former for 1503and the latter for 1531.
Count Pico della Mirandola (1463-1494),son of the Prince
Mirandola, is said to have attended no less than nine universities
in his quest for learning. As we have seen, he was one of the fol-
lowers of Marsilio Ficino at the Platonic Academy of Florence.
Let us see what manner of man this was who later in his life
made the great invectivesagainst astrology.Villari saysof him:8
8
Pasquale Villari, LJ/eanti Times of Machiauelli(T. Fisher Unwin).
250 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
His acquirements, though extensive, were superficial, his judgmcnts
dictated rather by enthusiasm than critical faculty. He considered the
poems of Lorenzo de Medici superior to those of Dante and Petrarch.
Of the majority of the twenty two languages he was supposed to have
studied, he knew little more than the alphabet and the elements of
grammar. He was, however, one of the first promoters of Oriental
studies, as well as one of the best Greek and Latin scholars. But neither
his Italian and Latin writings, much less his philosophy, show any
marks of originality. He tried to reconcile Averrhocs and Aviccnna,
Scotus and St. Thomas, Plato and Aristotle, in order to combat the
enemies of the church. This, of necessity,brought about his union with
Ficino, who desired to fight "the religion of ignorance, and the philos-
ophy of unbelief."
At first a friend of the Medici, he ended by being an en-
thusiastic admirer of Savonarola.
As Pico left Marsilio Ficino he turned against astrology with
such bitterness that he became known as Flagellum Astrologo-
rum, or the scourge of astrologers. Lucius Bellantius of Siena,
one of the well known astrologers of the time and a good as-
tronomer, who wrote De/ensio Astrologi~, delved into Pico's
horoscope and made the prediction that Pico would die in his
thirty-first year,-which came to pass.It is interesting to note that
in spite of all he did against astrology and astrologers,he himself
had to answer the charge of heresy, and he was not acquitted
until the year before his death. Pico too, though he renounced
astrology, maintained a very definite belief in Kabbalism, be-
cause he said the understanding of Kabbalism would hdp to
convert the Jews to Christianity. As the chart of Pico 7
is still
extant, it is easy for any good astrologer today to see why Pico's
thirty-first year would be likely to result in death. His book
against astrology, Adversus Astrologos, was ably answered by
Pontano in his Rebus Coelestis. Pontano, or Jovianus Pontanus,
was an able astrologer, chiefly known for his illuminating C:Om
..
mentary on Ptolemy's Centiloquy.
.,See Index.
ASTROLOGY IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY 251
Paracclsus (1493-1541)was a Swiss physician. He studied at
Basle University and learned alchemy, astrology, kabbalism and
chemistry from Trithemius, Bishop of Wiirzburg. He then went
to the school mine at Schwartz, where a number of chemists,
and alchemists, were busy researching on ores. Paracelsus realized
that he was not interested in this work, so he turned his atten-
tion to medicine and made bitter complaints against Hippocrates,
Galen and in fact all the doctors of the day. Sometimes he would
write invectives against the astrologers of the day, but he still
believed that astrology had its right and proper place if it were in
the hands of people like himself.He said, "The Sun and the stars
attract something from us, and we attract something from them,
because our astral bodies are in sympathy with the stars." Mystical,
violent and iconoclastic, Paracelsus was much hated in his day,
but his very violence stirred men up to new efforts in research.
Chapter 19
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTIJRY
Tiu# saying, "A wise man shall rule his stars," is not to be
understood of the external stars in the Heaven or Firmament
of the great world, but of the internal stars• ••• The stars over
which we ought to rule, if we will be true wise mm, are all the
cogitations, speculations, cupidities, affections, etc., ascending
by imagination, out of our hearts, ••• and tending by free
will and reason to abuse and pleasure.
VALENnN WEIGEL, Astrology Theologizetl
I
HAVE demonstrated that Dante's basic framework was a com-
bined Kabbalistical-astrological theory. Maestro Gaio (Moses
hen Isaac Rieto, 1388-1400
), Rabbi of Rome, used much the
same scheme in his Mik_rash,
a poem describing a journey through
the planetary heavens. Gaio was a well known character of the
period, endowed with many gifts. As a historian he wrote the
history of the Jews down to his own time, and as a physician-
astrologer, he was employed by Aeneas Sylvius Piccolomini, who
was interested in all phases of the new learning, and who later
became Pope Pius II (1458-1464).
I think it is important to bear
in mind, when considering the fact that most of the popes of
the Renaissance employed astrologers, and physicians having
astrological knowledge, that practically every prince in Europe
at that period employed an astrologer, and that astrology wasa
part of medical practice.
If it is thought that physicians of that time were not astrolo-
gers, I might mention that Dr. Len Broughton, a physician and
astrologer of New York (1828-18g<J)
says in his Elements of
Astrology:1
Dr. Lambert of London, England, has lately published a book on
1
Elemmts of ~Ion, by L. D. Broughton (New York, 1906).
252
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 253
the practice of medicine, and in it attempts to prove the great advance-
ment that science has made within the last 200 years.,and gives as an
illustration, that formerly when a student came up for his final
examination previous to getting his diploma, he was generally asked
the following question: "If you are called to the bedside of a sick per-
son, where would you look for the disease?" The student is made to
answer: "In the sixth house."
This, of course was the sixth house of the horoscope, showing
that the study of the patient's horoscope was general until the
seventeenth century.
Sixtus IV (1471-1484)used planetary hours for fixing all im-
portant dates and receptions. Alexander VI (1492-1503)thought,
that the prophecies of Cardinal Bianco were the most reliable\
of all astrological judgments of the period, and he had many of \
them written out. Julius II (1503-1513)
was in Bologna when he I
received the announcement that he was to be pope.He asked his ,
astrologer to elect the right time for his journey to Rome, and \
also the right time for his coronation. Le(? X (1513-1521)was 1
Giovanni, son of Lorenzo the Magnificent, of whom Marsilio
Ficino had predicted that he would be a pope. Leo had at his
court Lucas Gauricus, an astrologer and Greek scholar who edited
and translated the edition of Ptolemy's Almagest, which had
been conceived by Trapezuntius. This was not published until
1525but it was begun under Pope Leo's auspices.We are indebted
to Lucas Gauricus for preserving the horoscopes of many of the
well known people of the period. One book of his containing
charts of such people was published in 1522, entitled Tractatus
Astrologicus.It was reprinted in 1542.Then there was his Opera
Omnium, which came out in 1575.Lucas predicted a violent end
for himself. He died when a heavy book in his library fell on
his head. We might compare his death with that of Michael Scot.
Gauricus worked at the cowt of Clement VII, who furthered
the publication of both astronomical and astrological treatises.
Paul III (1534-1549)made his astrologers calculate the best days
for his conferences.His interest in all the sciencesof the day isseen
254 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
when we find that Copernicus dedicated to him his book on the
new theory of the universe.
In all, it was a period when if the interest in astrology had not
been so great, Copernicus, and the other astrologers and astrono-
mers of the time could not have come to the front. Even those
who had no desire to overthrow the Ptolemaic system, hailed
anything that could or would give greater accuracy in the calcula-
tion of horoscopes. The Renaissance was in many ways a very
practical period. If a person knew anything intellectually, he
wanted to see it put into some phase of practical demonstration.
It was this spirit that inspired Columbus in the discovery of new 1
lands. It led to new vistas. If, as J.A. Symonds says, it was an age
when cardinals could be called "augurs," it was also a period
when the future was just as important as what was past and what
was present.
The Renaissance has been called a period when all the re-
sources of art as well as of science were directed towards the dis-
semination of astrological knowledge and beliefs. This is only
partly true, for astrological knowledge had been disseminated by
major artists and scientists from ancient Egyptian and Babylonian
times, down through the Greeks and Arabs, and all through the
early Christian period too. Churches, chapels and cathedrals had
been outvying one another for centwies in all kinds of astrological
symbolism. The signs of the zodiac were engraved on the walls
of the Church of St. Gereon at Cologne in the eleventh century.
One of the great portals of Amiens Cathedral (1220-12.28)
dis-
plays the signs of the zodiac. In this, Scorpio appears as a kind
of six-legged tortoise with a fish's tail. St. Margaret's of York
has the twelve signs of the zodiac decorating the porch. The
Renaissance artists merely followed in the paths of earlier artists
who had already given glory and dignity to astrological con-
cepts. Raphael (1483-1520)painted the planetary hours. He also
painted the Vision of Ezekiel, showing God surrounded by the
four fixed signs of the zodiac; the Bull, the Lion, Eagle and
Angel. The Booksof Hours of the period gleam with beauty
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 255
when illustrating the four gospellers as the four fixed signs. In
the South Kensington Galleries and in the Metropolitan Museum
of New York, I have seen the most exquisite enamels of the Renais-
sance period, with the four gospellers portrayed in this way. I
have also seen them on the carved panels of oaken chests, and all
this work was done by men who were not trying to belittle the
gospellers, but to assign to them the eternal attributes of Living
Intelligences, who, the artists believed, were established in the
heavens from the creation of the world, and who still shine
steadfastly, night after night, throwing their glory of light on all
mankind. Guido Reni paints St. Michael the Archangel with
the Balance of Libra held in the angelic left hand. Albrecht Diirer
(1471-1528)made forty-eight drawings to illustrate an edition of
Books Seven and Eight of the Almagest, which had formerly
been translated by Trapezuntius. Also,we find among his etchings
one called Melancholia, which is one of the finest expositions
that has ever been made graphically, of Saturn exalted in Libra,
leaving one to wonder who his teacher of astrology was. Here
are all the symbols of Satum,-hour glass, magic square, curfew
bell, ladder and compasses. Here is Libra, portrayed as the setting
Sun,-and Libra,s ruler, Venus, is symbolized by Cupid. Saturn
in Vcnus, sign, Libra, is the great meditative angel. At the feet
of the angel is the globe, ball, or apple of Venus, symbolizing the
Earth. Furthermore, the lamb of Aries (the morning sunrise)
sleeps peacefully while the western sun sets. And all this is woven
together in one unit. Our modern artists would call all these
symbols ornament, but to Diirer they were not just ornament.
They were of the very texture of his mind. They were concepts
vital to his expression. If he didn,t know his astrological symbol-
ism perfectly why does he let Aries sleep while the setting Sun
dominates? Perhaps we should note here that the meaning
of Melancholia has changed in the last few hundred years.
Whereas formerly it meant profound thought, it now inclines
to mean pessimistic thought. Saturn exalted in Libra means the
former,-thought that is still Venusian, still able to maintain its
256 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
poise, in spite of difficult problems of experience, because it has
arrived at a complete understanding of the essential justice of ,
the eternal wisdom, and this eternal justice is inherent in the
inner meaning of the sign Libra.
Benvenuto Cellini (1500-1571),one of the great artificers in
silver and gold, writes in one of his calmer moments in prison
that he believes that people have a certain destiny but that God at
times overrules the influence of the stars.
Michelangelo (1475-1564)when he would make a statue of
Moses as the' Lawgiver, endows him with the horns of a bull.
I have heard it stated that Michelangelo had seen a statue of
Jupiter Ammon with horns and that he is here giving Moses
the horns of Jupiter Ammon. To me this sounds more than trite.
Michelangelo was no imitator. The horns arc symbolical of Taurus
and, to astrologers, Tawus is the sign of substance. To the K.ab-
balists, Taurus represented all that is comprehended in Torah,
the law-both the laws of God and the inevitable laws of nature.
Thus the massive book of the law, under Moses' arm, is one
symbol of the law as it has been known, written down, and
systematized from ancient times, but the fact that the law has
been comprehended by Moses in its most divine essentials, is
symbolized by putting horns on his head-the seat of the nousor
subliminal intelligence, the place where God speaks to man. It
has always been believed by students of the occult, both in Europe
and in the East, that there was a gland in the head (the pineal)
which opened (like a lotus leaf) when spiritual exercises were
performed, and when it opened, God could speak directly to a
person. All this did Michelangelo wish to convey when he gave
Moses the horns of the bull. I remember one time giving a lecture
on this portrayal of Moses, and at the end, a lady got up and said
she was grateful for the explanation. She said, "When I saw those
horns I was shocked and horrified. I thought that only the devil
had horns, and when I saw them on a holy man out of the Bible,
-I felt as if there was nothing left held sacred by artists.
Who, after Michelangelo, could horn the lawgiver Moses?
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 257
No one. Because the idea was gradually instilled into artiststo be
"true to nature." But is this statue any less Moses because it has
horns ? No, the horns exalt the figure by the very intensity and
fervor of Michelangelo's understanding of the process of divine
revelation. His studies in the Kabbala and in astrology had pro-
vided him with a knowledge of what I might call "divine
anatomy." He knew that within the head was the "door of the
Lord,"which opens and shuts as Godspeaks. He understood the
whole mystical significance of what Job (Ch. XXIX:3)calls "the
candle of the Lord upon the head," and he understood the
meaning the "horns of the law," and he had the courage to
put all that he knew into reality. Not until an artist today can
feel and know that these things arc actualities in divine experi-
ence can he put horns on Moses without making comedy and
mockery. Michelangelo was "true to nature," true to a "nature"
which includes, not merely the physical body, but a spirit within
a man which is able to speak with GQd.
Pietro Pomponazzi (1462-1525)reflects some of the thought
of his periodin hisDe Fata and his De lncantatione. In the latter
book, he says that all things in this universe arc subject to
planetary law, even the rise and fall of various religions. This
latter thought Pomponazzi probably derived from reading Al-
bumazar or commentaries on Albumazar, who had translated
the Persian Al Hakim's book on· the Conjunctions of Jupiter
and Saturn from which he had foreseen the rise of both the
Christian and the Mohammedan religions. Pomponazzi goes
on to say that great changes were already coming over the Chris-
tian religion,-and, in view of the approaching Reformation, he
was right.
Among the reformers Luther was strongly against astrology,
but Erasmus was more moderate, usually replying to questions on
whether there were planetary spirits, "only Godknows." Erasmus
did not believe in the sphere beyond the Primum Mobile. In his
PraiseofFolly2
he remarks that the theologians invented it so
• See P. Secbohm,Era of Protestant Rnolution (Longmans, Green & Co., 1904).
258 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
that "happy spirits might have room enough to take a walk, or
play at ball." Melanchthon, however, was a firm believer in as-
trology and he and Luther had many heated arguments on the
matter. Luther nearly always used the same argument as St.
Augustine,-twinsl Were not Jacob and Esau, he demanded,
born under the same star? Philipp Melanchthon (1497-1500)
was
related to Reuchlin, whom we have mentioned previously, and
who had been friendly with Pico della Mirandola, and like him
interested in the Kabbala. Reuchlin was also a friend of Trithe- 1
mius, who studied both the Kabbala and astrology, and who had
1
taught these matters to Paracelsus. Reuchlin helped Melanchthon
in his studies, first having him sent to Heidelberg and then to
Tiibingen, where astronomy and astrology were well taught. It
was when Melanchthon went as Professor of Greek to Wittenberg
through Reuchlin's influence, that he became acquainted with
Luther, and they discussedtheir viewson allsubjects.Melanchthon
was a friend of Joachim Camerarius, who published a Greek
edition of Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos in 1535. Melanchthon read it
and decided that a Latin edition was necessary. He accomplished
this in 1553.
In France, there was Michael Nostradamus (1503-1565).He
became physician to Henry II of France and later to Francis II
an4Charles IX. (He is not to be confused with Dr. Michad
Nostrandum (1503-1566),of the English Royal College of Phy--
sicians, who made almanacs with quite notable predictions.
Rabelais had published an almanac in 1533,which was for one
year only, unlike the almanacs of Purback and Regiomontanus;
and Nostrand um followed the method of Rabelais.) The French
Nostradamus began his well-known prophecies in 1555,putting
them into a thousand doggerel verses. They prophesied the rise
to power of Oliver Cromwell in England, the birth of Napoleon,
also our more modern wars, and other wars still to come.
One of his prophecies was concerning the Great Fire of London,
which occurred September 2, 1666,a hundred years afterthe
death of Nostradamus. The translation of the doggerel reads:
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 259
The blood of the just requires,
Which out of London reeks,
That it must be razed with fires.
In year three score and six
The ancient Dame shall fall
Down from her place on high,
And of the same sect shall
Many another die.
This prophecy foretold the burning of heretics by Queen Mary.
The "ancient Dame" is old St. Paul's Cathedral, which at one
time was the site of a temple to Diana.
Nostradamus also made predictions for Catherine de Medici
while she was Queen of France, but her favorite astrologer was
Cosmo Ruggieri. Honore de Balzac, in his book Catherine de
Medici, speaks of the notable influence Cosmo had on the desti-
nies of France. He says:
Two words will summarize the strange woman [Catherine, 1519-
1s89],so interesting to study, whose influence left such a deep trace
on France. These two words arc dominion and astrology. Catherine de
Mediciwas excessivdy ambitious; she had no passion but for power.
Superstitious and fatalistic, as many a man of superior mind has been,
her only sincere bdief was in the occult sciences. Without this two-
fold light, she must always remain misunderstood: and by giving
the first place to her belief in astrology, a light will be thrown on the
two philosophical figures of this study.
There was a man to whom Catherine clung more than to her
children; this man was Cosmo Ruggieri. She gave him rooms in her
Hotd de Soissons; she also made him her councillor, instructing him
to tell her 'if the stars ratified the advice and common-sense of her
ordinaryadvisers.
Certain curious facts justified the power which Ruggieri exerted
over his mistress till her last breath. One of the most learned men
of the sixteenth century was, beyond doubt, the physician to Catherinc's
father, Lorenzo de Medici, Duke of Urbino. This leech was known
as Ruggieri the Elder • • • to distinguish him from his son Ruggieri,
200 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
called the Great by writers on the Kabbala, and Cosmo Ruggieri,
Catherine's astrologer.
The elder Ruggieri ••• in this capacity of mathematician, astrologer
and physician to the Ducal House, three officeswhich were scarcely
distinguished,--cast the horoscope of Catherine's nativity, in consort
with Bazile,the famous mathematician.
At the beginning of the sixteenth century, Ruggieri the Elder was
the head of that secret college whence came Cardan, Nostradamus, and
Agrippa, each in turn physicians to the Valois; and all the astrono-
mers, astrologers, and alchemists who at that time crowded to the
courts of the Princes of Christendom, and who found especial wel-
come and protection from Catherine de Medici.
In the horoscope cast for Catherine de Medici by Bazile and
Ruggieri the Elder, the principal events of her life were predicted
with an accuracy that is enough to drive disbelievers to despair. This
forecast announced the disasters, which during the siege of Florence,
affected her early life, her marriage with a Prince of France, his un-
expected accession to the throne, the birth and number of her chil-
dren. Three of her sons were to reign in succession,her two daughters
were to become queens; all were to die childless. And all this was so
exactly verified, that many historians have regarded it as a prophecy
after the event.
It is well known that Nostradamus brought to the Chitcau of
Chaumont, whither Catherine went at the time of La Rcnaudic's
conspiracy, a woman who had the gift of telling the future. ••• Now,
in the time of Francis II, when the Queen's sons were little children
and in good health, before Margaret de Valois married Henri de
Bourbon, King of Navarre, Nostradamus and this soothsayer coir
firmed all the details of this famous horoscope.
We might mention here that Henry of Navarre's death was
predicted by a Tuscan astrologer named Francisco Corvino.
Whatever we may think of Catherine de Medici, she was inter-
ested enough in the subject to have an observatory erected near
Paris,where observations could be made.
Let us next turn to the second member of the secret collegeof
which Balzacspeaks.JeromeCardan (1501-1576)
was one ofthe
.ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 261
inost versatile men of the time. Besides being a kabbalist, he was
a mathematician who found out how to solve cubic equations.
He took the lead in all problems rdating to algebra. He was one
of the best astrologers of the period, and he was the most re-
nowned physician of Europe, being called upon by kings and
princes from all countries to diagnose and to heal them. At one
time he journeyed to England to the court of the very delicate
Edward VI. There the courtiers asked him what was the probable
length of life of the young king. Cardan tells us in his Auto-
biography that after he had met the courtiers, and also realized
what might happen to men who predict the death of kings, he
decided not to make any statement. However, the Archbishop of
St. Andrews in Scotland was very ill, and Cardan journeyed
there and cured him.
He was born at Pavia and educated at Padua. Thus we see that
Padua still taught medicine and astrology as allied subjects. In
1534 he obtained the chair of mathematics at Milan, and we
have to remember that mathematics to a large extent meant
knowledge that was necessary in astronomy and astrology. Later,
he taught medicine at Pavia and at Bologna. Here he was im-
prisoned for applying his astrological knowledge to making a
horoscope of Jesus Christ, yet Cardinal d'Ailly had calculated
such a chart without imprisonment When free, he went to live
at Rome, where he became private physician to Pope Gregory
XIII, who gave him a pension. Besides his books on medicine,
we are indebted to him for his Astrological Aphorisms, which
arc still extant and which are in constant use by astrologers. He
preserved for us many of the charts of notabilities of the period.
Cardan's Work,s,edited by Sponius in Lyons in 1663,filled ten
volumes. In 1684,the English astrologer, John Gadbury, published
a bookgiving his theories on cardinal signs under the title
Cardenes Coeli, but William Lilly had already translated and
published his Aphorisms. From Cardan's Autobiography we find
that he diagnosed all his patients by means of astrology. Henry
Morley wrote a good biography of him in which, though he dis-
262 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
approves of his astrology, he faces the fact that Cardan was an
astrologer, which is certainly a straightforward way of going
about things, and does not betray the lack of historical perspective
and the bias of a later writer, who presumes to write a biography
of the great astrologer-physician leaving out the most essential
factor in his life-that he was an astrologer. Perhaps the lady
thought she was "whitewashing history," but such an occul-
tation of the most important factor in Cardan's work is not
history at all.
The third member of this occult college mentioned by Balzac
was Heinrich Cornelius AgripE_~~fNettesheim (1486-1535),one
of the strangest characters of the Renaissance, employed for a
while as personal astrologer to the Emperor Charles V. Agrippa
was a soldier, cleric, kabbalist, astrologer and physician. He was
born in Cologne and later taught theology at Dole in Franchc-
Comte in the Netherlands, which Charles as grandson of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella had inherited. It seems that Charles dismissed
Agrippa, not because he was incorrect, but because he was too
pessimistic in his readings. One can understand that Agrippa
had no easytask in trying to be cheerful when reading for Charles,
for Agrippa could look too far ahead to appreciate the emperor's
immediate success.The charts showed great successover a period
of years but final dissolution of all the emperor had won,-and
abdication. Charles conquered Francis I on the field of battle at
Pavia, and actually captured the French king.Thismade Charles
the most powerful prince in Christendom and even overlord of
Italy, and in 1527he sacked Rome. But Charles became involved
in the worst of all religious wars and finally had to give up all
his kingly and imperial offices.Agrippa's pessimism was vindi-
cated.
In 1528,Agrippa first published his De Occulte Philosophia,
and a new edition was necessary in 1531.This book puts forth
his Kabbalistic theories. In the second book of this OccultPhiloso-
phy, Agrippa gives various drawings showing man's proportion
to the circle, square, pentagon, and also to the twelvefold division
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 263
of the circle and square. It is a book which should be of value
to artists, but I should think it was written chiefly from his
studies in medicine and anatomy, to show graphically the con-
nection and interplay of forces between various parts of the body,
and how they affect one another. For example, we know there
is a definite interplay of forcesbetween the head and the stomach,
for if one is upset there can be a reaction in the other part. In the
Zodiac, Aries, which rules the head, is in square aspect, or go
degrees apart from Cancer, which rules the stomach. Agrippa
shows how an interplay of forcesaffectsall signs which are square
to one another, and also opposite one another. All this had been
known for centuries, but Agrippa lays it out diagrammatically,-
without much explanation, so that "he who runs may read."
Agrippa argues that, since man is made in the image of God,
man therefore contains all numbers, measurements, weights,
notions and elements within himself, and since the measures of
all parts of man's body are in proportion to the Archetype, every-
thing in man must correspond in some way to everything in the
world that has been created by God,-and this will include some
motion fWoportionateand comparable to the motion of the
stars.
With regard to this secretcollege of which Balzac speaks,there
may or may not have been one. I am afraid the concept of a
secret college raises in the minds of people of today visions of
men dressed up in queer ceremonial clothes and meeting in
inaccessible mountain retreats. I should, rather, be inclined to
suppose that a few men, highly skilled in much the same studies,
did as they might do today,-borrowed and lent rare books and
then, at convenient times, conferred or wrote to one another,-
just as we saw with the mathematical members of the Platonic
Academy founded by the Medicis. In fact, the "secret college" to
which Agrippa and the others belonged may have been just a
continuation of this group, for Cardan's father was in the Academy
itself. Doctors and artists were more closely associated in the
Middle Ages than they are today, for artists attended the anatomy
264 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
classes, and since doctors studied astrology, we can readily sec that
artists might do so also. R.A. Taylor says:1
In 1472Leonardo's name is entered in the Red Book of the U>mpan}'
of Painters in Florence as being admitted to membership. The painters
of Florence were enrolled among the Guild of Physicians and Apothe-
caries. The U>mpany of St. Luke had its rendenza in the great hospital
of Sta. Maria Nuova, which Leonardo used as a bank for money and
a school of anatomy.
Not that I am claiming Leonardo as a believer in astrology.
It would be hard to allow that he believed in anything, but he
always wanted to know everything. The same author says:
He mocks at astrologers and necromancers, yet some quaint expcri•
menter in the occult is usually among his intimates.
Franciscus Junctinus (Giuntini, 1522-1590)was a well-known
astrologer who believed in the doctrine of freewill, saying: "Con-
tra Fata valuit Deus, et prudentia tantcm, vir pius et prudcns
vincere fata potest," or Godcanprevail against Fate; and by means
of forethought, a good and prudent strong man cari conquer
destiny. Junctinus was born in Florence, but he lived in Lyons,
France, most of his life. He is chiefly known for his Specul1'm
Astrologiae,two large volumes of the horoscopes of great men,
which appeared in 1583.These have preserved data and horoscopes
which would otherwise have been lost.
Among the other definitely astrological literature 4
which ap-
peared in the sixteenth century was an edition of Omar Tybcriadis'
De Nativitatihus,in 1525,an edition of Marstallerus' Artis DitlinlZ-
tricis,in 1549,and a bookon the twelve houses of the heavens by
Orontius Finaeus, at Paris in 1553.Of this latter person, Ashroaod
says:5
3
Leonardo tl,e Florentine (Harper& Bros., 1928).
4
See AppendixXI.
5
Ptolemy's Tetrobiblos, trans. by J.M. Ashmand (Foulsham).
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 265
In France about the beginning of the sixteenth century, Oronce Fine,
the Royal Reader, attempted, under the patronage of Francis I, to
produce an astronomical clock, in which everything moved according
to the principles of Ptolemy. It was kept about fifty years ago in the
monastery of St. Genevieve at Paris.
Cyprianus Lcovitius (1524-1574),
born in Bohemia, was credited
by William Lilly as having been the first to systematize and
standardize all the various astrological methods that impinged
on Europe from all sources.He wrote Concerning the Major Con-
junctions and On Eclipses. He reprinted Regiomontanus' Table
of Directions, and he made ephemerides. He is accused of having
thought the world would come to an end when the Jupiter- '
Satw"n conjunction would start in Fire signs, that is, in 16o3.
As we have remarked before, this term "end of the age" and
"end of the world" are not synonymous. In any case, he would
have been wrong in using the "end of the age" for the termina-
tion of Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions in Water signs, as the phrase
"end of the age" refers to the preccssional change of signs.
Valentin Weigel (1553-1588)wrote Astrology Theologized.
This was reprinted in London in 1649.Anna Kings£ord had
another edition made in 1886.Weigel's contention seems to be
that, as regards a man's physical body and general make-up, this
is under planetary influence, but not exactly from the stars in
the heavens, but rather because the same cosmic force that moves
the stars is within man. The heavens at the time of a man's
birth are, so to speak, merely a mirror, wherein man can sec
objcctivdy what he is like and what matters will affect him and
be part of his destiny. When man, however, awakens to the fact
that he is a spiritual being, then external conditions arc trans-
muted by the Spirit of God, and a new motivation is set up which
alters the general trend of destiny.
I think Weigel means that the astrology that needs "theologiz-
ing,"is the astrological fatality as apparently shown in the mirror
of the heavens. The human mind sometimes receives a Bash of
knowledge, intuition or spiritual help which puts a new com-
266 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
plexion on things. The destiny of man can be altered through
effort. For example, a man cannot become a dentist until he
passes his examinations. Before that, he may have potential de-
sires to become a dentist.
John Napier (1550-1617)is not to be confused with Lord
Napier who fought against Napoleon. John Napier was Laird 1
of Merchiston (or Marchiston), near Edinburgh. He was educated
at St. Andrews and also on the Continent. He became interested
in astrology and speaks of it as a "true science."It is said that he
invented logarithms in order to simplify the calculations necessary
in making horoscopes. Logarithms were first called "Napier's
bones," or "rods."
Napier had many other ideas, which never came to fruition
during his lifetime. One was a military machine, "a. chariot of
metal, with shot coming out from men and machines inside" (our
tanks I). Whether the idea was original with him, I doubt, for
Ralph Rabbards had previously petitioned Queen Elizabeth to
make a "fiery chariot without horses to runne upon the battaillc
field and disorder it." He also suggested "a vessell without oan
or saylcs •.• swifter than any that had been scene." Good ortho-
dox scientistsof the day thought all these ideas the crazy dreams
of lunatics.
William Lilly tells us that when Napier, or Marchiston, as he
calls him, made public his logarithms, Mr. Briggs, then reader of
Astronomy at Gresham College, London, was so surprised with
admiration that he went to Scotland to sec him, and when he met
Napier he could not speak for nearly fifteen minutes, so over-
come was he with joy and admiration at meeting a man who had
thought out such a magnificent mathematical scheme.Then, every
summer afterwards Briggs spent his summer vacation with his
new friend. Evidently they were very happy together, in spite of
the fact that "Marchiston was a great lover of astrology,but Briggs
the most satiricalman against it."
Lilly also makes this statement in praise not only of Napier
but of other men, of the later Elizabethan and early Stuart period:
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 267
I have had much acquaintance and society with Scnollcrs of other
Nations, reputedly learned in Astrologie in their o.,;n Countreys, but I
really affirm,that none of them were comparable to that grave, reverend
and profoundly learned Dr. Napier,8
or his surviving kinsman Sir
Richard Napier, Knight, exceedingly judicious in Astrologie, Physic,
and Philosophic, or to Mr. Thomas Allen of Gloucester-hall; or to Mr.
Brcdcon, a rigid Ptolemain, or to Mr. Nicholas Fiske, curious in the
art of directions and exquisite in all parts of Astrologie. Let them show
me a man that bath given better proof of his judgment in Astrologie
than my friend Mr. Booker in his Annual! Prognosticks."
Leo Allatius t1586-166gJwas a Greek born in the Island of
Chios. He was educated at the Greek College in Rome, and was
so proficient in all matters pertaining to books and manuscripts
that he was made librarian to the Vatican in the time of Alex-
ander VII. Like nearly all the scholars of the time he was interested
in astrology and believed that adequate data and books were
necessary. He became one of the great translators of the seven-
teenth century, and he both collected and edited old manuscripts
and texts. One of the texts he translated was Ptolemy's Tetrabib-
los, or rather the Greek Paraphrase which had been made by
Proclus.
Der Hohe Rabbi Loew t1520-16og),sometimes called Rabbi
·Low of Prague, always seems to conjure up ideas about magicians.
People said he was a magician and able to make the Golem, that
is, a robot creature, which could be imbued with temporary life
and made to do the magician's bidding. Loew was born in Posen
and then went to live in Prague, which at that time was one of
the intellectual centers of the world. Tycho Brahe, Kepler, Lon-
gomantanus and Betius all resided there, and Rabbi Loew,
though he was confined to the ghetto, had a small observatory
built in his home, and all these scientifically minded men came
to visit him and partook of some of his ideas and discussed their
own ideas with him, for Loew was not only a great talmudist,
but also an astrologer and a mathematician. Among this group
8
See next chapter.
268 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
at Prague was David hen Solomon Gans (1541-1613),
an astrono-
. mer-astrologer, who was particularly friendly with Tycho Brahc.
In 1592the Emperor Rudolph II called Loew to the court, where
all the alchemists, mystics and astrologers of the period were
invited to meet him. The meeting was held in secret and from
that time until now speculation has gone on indefinitely as to
what happened at this meeting, but no one has ever given any
very authentic statement on the matter. It is one of history's
secrets.
A castle specially built and equipped for an astrologically
minded astronomer sounds almost too good to be true, yet it came
to pass when a King of Denmark built the castle of Uranienborg
for Tycho Brahe, who lived there for twenty years. Tycho was
somewhat like Dante in closing one age of history in a glory of a
setting sun, £or Tycho had studied the new Copernican system
but did not entirely believe in it. He worked to reconcile some
of the old findings of Ptolemy with the new findings of Coper-
nicus,-a compromise of systems which is called the Tychonic
system, wherein the Copernicans were not to beallowed to have it
all their own way. Tycho stands out, a bold and warring spirit,
in the days when the glory of the Ptolemaic theories was fading
rapidly. The great Ptolemaic system, which was believed to be a
fundamental part of religion,-the system on which philosophy
had woven great traditions, and on which artists and scientists
of the ages had lavished their work, was dying. Brahe is alm~t
like a knight errant, prepared to give his life to save some of the
structure, for Brahe was not just a cold and calculating astronomer,
he was an ardent astrologer and he was an alchemist, and he had
studied medicine in the light of astrology. What his final message
was we do not know, for his pupil Kepler, with the best intentions
in the world, destroyed many of his manuscripts. Tycho justified
the astrological dictum that a man with Saturn on his Midheavcn
will attain great glory but will suffer a downfall. He was born at
K.nudstrup, Sweden, at 10:47A.M., December 14,1546(O.S.), or,
according to the Sloan MS., on December 13,at 22 hours and 47
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 26g
tninutcs after noon, or, according to the Ashmolean MS., at 22
hours and 48 minutes after noon. His earliest university was
Copenhagen, after which he went to Leipzig to study law as his
uncle demanded, but he was so fascinated by astronomy and
astrology that he studied these two subjects secretly and cast many
charts for his friends. At first he used the Ephemerides of Stadius.
Tycho was not pleased with these and he then obtained the Pru-
tenic Ephemerides. These latter were those which had been made
by Erasmus Rheinhold (born 1451),one of the followers of Coper-
nicus. They were named Prutenic because Rheinhold dedicated
them to the Prussian Duke of Albrecht. Although Tycho was
only sixteen, he soon found out that all of these computed
planetary positions were wrong in the light of actual positions
in the heavens, and it was this realization that made him deter-
mine that he would make his own observations, and build him--
self instruments with which to make them.
In 1572 a new star appeared in the heavens. Tycho wrote a
book on the new star of 1572.The book took him several years
to write and was not published in full until after his death,
though many friends received manuscript copies of various sec-
tions, at various times. His "Conclusion" gives his astrological
theories: that it would herald vast changes in both politics and
in religion. Its influence, however, would not be felt for some
nine years after the great conjunction of planets in Pisces, April,
1583,that is, not until about 1592,when the children born at the
time when the star appeared would be grown up. Its influence,
said Brahe, would last at least until 1632,when the Jupiter-Saturn
Mutation would be established in the Fiery Trigon. It is in this
book that he gave his famous prediction, which astrologers have
maintained was fulfilled in the life of Gustavus Adolphus. Tycho
said that a princely warrior would be born in the north, not
before 1592,who would conquer Germany, and this prince would
disappear in 1632.This came to pass when Gustavus Adolphus
was born in 1594and was killed in battle at Lutzcn, Noven;iber
16,1632, at the age of thirty-eight. It seems that a thick November
270 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
fog descended in the late afternoon upon the field of battle.
Gustavus became separated from his main army and was killed.
His body was found later and he was buried in Stockholm.
Brahe's king, Frederick II of Denmark, heard of his subject's
fame and invited him to come back to Copenhagen and to lec-
ture at 'the University there. Tycho accepted the invitation. At
these lectures in Copenhagen he spoke on the new Copernican
theory and revealed its principles but, as his biographer, J.L. E.
Dreyer,7
says, at the first lecture he "stated that a special use of
astronomy is, that it enables us to draw conclusions from the
movements in the celestial regions as to human fate. The re-
mainder of the lecture was devoted to considerations on the im-
portance and value of astrology."
Tycho did not believe that all people who claimed to be as-
trologers were good ones. He also refused to intervene in a dis-
pute which came about when two different astrologers arrived
at different conclusions in their readings of a certain nobleman's
chart, beyond observing that when he looked at the horoscope
each had drawn up, one was computed according to the Alphon-
sine Tables and one according to the Prutenic Tables, and that
the former tables could be one month out when trying to com-
pute a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn, whereas the Prutcnic
ones could hardly fix the day. I think this statement of Brahe's
is most important when considering some of the astrological
judgments given out by astrologers before the Rudolphinc Tables
were computed by Kepler.
Frederick was so fascinated and delighted with his astrologer,
and the fact that he was able to record more accurate star posi-
tions than anyone else in the world, that he made him his Court
Astrologer, and declared that no building was too expensive or
too magnificent to house this man's two sciences.He promised
' to build and equip a castle and an observatory on the Island of
Hveen. The castle was called Uranicnborg, in honor of the muse
Urania, and the observatory which was sunk in the ground was
"J.L E. Dreyer,Tycl,o Bral,e (Adam and CharlesBlack,1890).
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 271
called Stellbcrg, or the City of Stars. Tycho first visited the island
on February 22, 1576,and he made an observation that the Moon
was conjunct Mars that day, and that this would bring trouble in
die long run, which it did. The foundations, however, were laid
on August 8, 1576,when the Sun and Jupiter were rising, show-
ing the fame that would come to the project. Not only students
and helpers, such as Longomontanus, came to Uranienborg, but
many nobles from other countries. There is a record of James VI,
King of Scotland, visiting him, the same who later became James I
of England. James married Anne of Denmark, the daughter of
Frederick, whose chart Brahc had cast, as he had cast the charts of
all the children of his king. An account of what he said in these
horoscopes is given by Dreyer, who also informs us that the
books in which the horoscopes were written were quarto size, of
about 300pages and bound in pale green velvet.
Unfortunately when Frederick II died in 1588,the new King
Christian was only a youth, and not able to defend Tycho against
the various nobles and against those who could not see the value
of his work. Many bitter controversies arose, not only with die
nobles but also with the tenants on Tycho's estate in Hvcen,
whom he had treated in a most dictatorial way. In the end, most
of his revenues were cut off and he determined to leave Denmark.
He decided to go to Bohemia and there until his death he was
principal mathematician to the Emperor Rudolf II. Concern-
ing his death on October 24, 16o1, Kepler made notes that
the Moon was opposition Saturn and square Mars. His beauti-
ful castle of Uranienborg fell into disuse and finally into ruin.
One year before Tycho died, John Kepler became his Assistant
Mathematician, and it is claimed that only by acting on Tycho's
advice and suggestions did Kepler discover the three great laws
of planetary motion. Kepler may stand head and shoulders over
Brahe today, but Kepler could not inspire any prince to build
him a castle. In fact, he died almost penniless journeying to obtain
the arrears of salary owed him by the Emperor Ferdinand, for
Kepler was Principal Mathematician to three emperors,-Rudolf
272 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
II, to whom he dedicated his Rudolphine Tables, then to the
Emperor Matthias and, finally, to Ferdinand. John Kepler ( 1571-
1630) was born December 27, 1571 (O.S.) at 2:38 P.M. at Weil
near Wiirtemberg. In 1594he was made professor of mathematics
at Gratz and in 16oohe joined Brahe at Prague. Brahe had pre-
dicted the coming of Gustavus Adolphus. Kepler was destined to
read the horoscope of Albrecht von Wallenstein, the German gen-
eral who was to fight Gustavus. The general was an astrological-
astronomical student of one of Kepler's friends, Paulus Vir-
dingius, and Paulus finally introduced him to another astrologer-
astronomer, John Kepler. The horoscope and reading which
Kepler made for Wallenstein was preserved at St. Petersburg, but
whether it survived the revolution of 1917,or whether it has
survived the current German attack on Leningrad, we do not
know. After Kepler, Wallenstein employed Giambattista Zenno
of Genoa as his astrologer.
The account of Kepler's reading of the famous horoscope, as
referred to in Your Destiny and the Stars by Croysdale and
Wilde, is somewhat mixed. The two authors are exponents of all
the forty-four new aspects which Kepler, they say, invented when
his predictions for Wallenstein failed. They state that Wallcn-
stein was stricken by the plague at the age of twenty-two, and
this embarrassed Kepler very much because he could find no ,
Ptolemaic aspect to account for it. Then, again, they say that when
Wallenstein was murdered in 1634,Kepler was again thrown into
a state of the utmost perplexity, because he could not find a
Ptolemaic aspect for this either. They go on to relate that Walien-
stein had called him in and asked if he need fear assassination
and that Kepler avoided giving him a direct answer. Other astral...
ogers of the period did warn Wallenstein, but Kepler maintained
that the chart did not show a violent death.
All this is most extraordinary in light of the fact that Kepler
had been dead four years before Wallenstein was killed.Again,
anyone who contends there was no Ptolemaic aspect to account
for Wallenstein's death, cannot have read Ptolemy. In Book IV,
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 273
Chapter 9, of his Tetrabiblos, Ptolemy says: "Mars causes deaths
by constant fevers . • • sudden and spontaneous wound. . • ."
Now, Wallenstein had Mars in Aries in his eighth House of
Death, thus portending a very strong radical likelihood of a
violent death, or one in which a steel instrument was used.
Ptolemy also, in Book III, Chapter 12, states that prorogation
or progression of the Midheaven has most potent and paramount
influence. In Chapter 14, he states that this prorogation or
progression of the Midheaven must be made by right ascension.
Now, progressing Wallenstein's Midheaven by the rules of
Ptolemy, with which Kepler must have been just as familiar
as we arc today, he would have arrived at Progressed Midheaven
square the radical Mars posited at birth in the Eighth House of
Wallcnstein, in the actual year when Wallenstein was assassinated,
and I think this was one of the clearest indications any astrologer
could have had, of a violent death promised in the radical chart,
and occurring the year when it was promised. It would seem
then that Kepler, though one of our really great astronomers,
was not, like Tycho Brahe, a great astrologer.
I think that one would come to the same conclusion in reading
his almanac, Concerning the More Certain Fundamentals of
Astrology (16o2),which Mr. Paul G. Clancy was good enough to
have translated and inserted in American Astrology Magazine
during 1941,in order that astrologers and others might see for
themsdves what Kepler actually did say. My own impression
when reading it was that Kepler was more interested in weather
than in human beings. When Kepler once stated that "the stirring
up of sublunary things by the conjunctions and aspects of the
planets, instructed and compelled my unwilling belief," I
maintain that it was a very unwilling belief, yet there is no doubt
that he did believe in it when used with correct observations,
and with discretion, for he used astrology in his second marriage.
He had twelve ladies to choose from and made the choice by
means of astrology.
William Lilly, in his PropheticalMerlin of 1644,pays tribute
274 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
to the Rudolphine Tables which Kepler published. He says that
he asked Nicholas Fiske to calculate for him the Great Mutation,
that is, the Jupiter-Saturn Conjunction of 16o3,and Fiske did
thiswith the hdp of the Rudolphinc Tables. Lilly then compared
the result with the same Conjunction as observed by Sir Chris-
topher Heydon in 16o3by means of instruments, and found
each had the same result. I think this is interesting as showing
that though previous tables were not correct, yet some astrologers
were able to make their own correct observations, and therefore
to obtain correct charts.
Francis Bacon (1561-1626)
wrote among other things a book
of Essays,one of which is called "Of Prophecy." In this he relates
the story of the death of the French King, Henry II, who was
accidentally killed in a tournament with Montmorcncy. It seems
that Catherine de Medici had been forewarned of this by her
astrologers and had sought to prevent Henry taking active part in
the tournament, but he insisted on having his own way and was
pierced through the brain by Montmorency's lance. Bacon hardly
realized that his call for experimental science would make scien-
tists of later days disbelieve in the principles of astrology. He
himself believed in astrology. He says: "We will add one thing
more, that we are certain the celestial bodies have other influence
besides light and heat. Let this astrology be used with greater
confidence in prediction, but more cautiously in dection, and, in
both cases, with due moderation."
Curiosly enough, the pleas of the scientists and thinkers of the
period of the Stuarts for more liberality of view froIQ the religious
bodies, in order that they might align the facts they obtained from
experiment, coincided with the fiercest intolerance towards any-
thing psychic or savoring of witchcraft. A papal bull against witch-
craft had been issued in 1484by Pope Innocent VIII but con-
demnation of witches was taken up by the Puritan bodieswith
equal fury. James I actually believed in witchcraft and wrote a
book about it. The hunt for witches started in real earnest in
England after his accession, and the Puritans who left for America
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 275
carried this intolerance to these shores. Astrology was often
stupidly confused with witchcraft. During James' I reign an
anonymous book in defensc of astrology was published, entitled
The Horoscopes of the Patriarchs, which mentions many of the
previous defenders of the art. The author answers many arguments
current at the period charging astrology with being anti-religious.
However, the new Copernican principles were also condemned as
anti-religious, as we see in the case of Galileo. They were consid-
ered anti-religious because they violated many of the dicta of the
mighty Aristotle, who was still the pet philosopher of many of the
universities. I think Dreyer's story of Ramus,8
a friend of Tycho
Brahe, gives a very enlightening picture of the period. He says:
At Augsburg, Tycho made the acquaintance of Pierre de la Ramce,
or Petrus Ramus, Professor of Philosophy and Rhetoric at the Royal
College at Paris, who had been obliged to leave France several times
owing to his adherence to the Huguenot party, and the odium he had
drawn on himself-by his opposition to the then all-powerful Aristotdian
philosophy. He wanted to discourage the exclusive study of this time-
honorcd system of philosophy, now worn to a shadow, which had be-
come a mere cloak for stagnation, bigotry and intolerance, and to intro-
duce in its place the study of mathematics in the University of Paris.
But his zeal only procured him much enmity and persecution; he had
to apologize for his abuse of the Peripatetic philosophy before the Par-
liament of Paris, and by sentence of s~al ·royal commissioners ap-
pointed to investigate the matter, Aristotle was reinstated as the
infallible guide to learning. Ramus had .therefore for a while with-
drawn from France, but, unluckily for himself, he returned in 1571,
and perished the following year in the massacre of St. Bartholomew.
This man (Ramus), who was naturally inclined to hail with pleasure
a rising star in a science closely allied with his own, lPappened to.be in
Augsburg in 1570,and became acquainted with Tycho Brahe through
Hieronymus Wolf, a man of great learning, especially in the classical
languages, and himsdf drawn to Tycho by his love of astrology. Having
beeninvited by Hainzel to inspect the great quadrant, Ramus expressed
his admiration of this important undertaking, so successfully carried
8
J.L E. Dreyer, Tycho Brahe (Adam and Charles Black, 1890).
276 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
out by a ywmg man of only twenty three years of age, and begged him
to publish a description of it. In his work Scholarum Mathcmaticarum
Libri XXXI, published in Basicin 15(,g(only a few months before his
conversation with Tycho), Ramus had advocated the building up of a
new astronomy solely by logic and mathematics, and entirely without
any hypothesis, and had referred to the ancient Chaldcans and Egyp-
tians as having had a science of this kind, which had gradually by
Eudoxus and that terrible Aristotle been made absurd through the
introduction of solid spheres and endless systems of epicycles. Ramus
explained his views to Tycho (who has left us an account of the con-
versation); but he answered that a$tronomy without an hypothesis
was an impossibility, for though the science mll5t depend on numerical
data and measures, the apparent motion of the stars could only be
represented by circles and other figures. But though Ramus could not
bring over the young astronomer to his views, they could cordially
agree in the desire of seeing the science of astronomy renovated by new
and accurate observations, before a true explanation of the celestial
motions was attempted; and it can hardly be daubted that the conversa-
tion of this rational clear think.er (so different from a Lcovitius, with
his brain crammed full of astrology and other hazy fanciful ideas) took
root in the thoughtful mind of the young astronomer, and bore fruit
in after years in that reformation of his science for which Ramus had
hoped.
Galileo (1564-1642)
at first studied medicine at Pisa. He then
became mathematician and astrologer to the Dukes of Medici,
making horoscopes for both Ferdinand I and Ferdinand II. In
1632he published his Dialogueon the Ptolemaicand Copernican
Systems. Perhaps if Galileo had not presented his material in
dialogue fashion, such as caused irritation, the book might not
have created such a furore as it did, and landed him in the hand
of the Inquisition. But the defenders of the Ptolemaic System
were still in power, though Copernicus had been dead a hundred
years or more. Galileo's Dialogue was peculiarly exasperating
to the church. It is somewhat difficult for people living today to
realize that the Ptolemaic scheme of the universe had become
almost a religious conviction, and was considered provable by
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 277
the first chapter of Genesis. The Copernican system upset many
of these views, with the result that it was damned as heretical,
just as the activities of Pasteur or Darwin or various scientists of
the last century have been considered irreligious by almost every
religious sect. People are slow to grasp the fact that upsetting
deluded ideas as to how the universe is made or composed or
moves, docs not upset religion. In any case, Galileo's Copernican
beliefs did not prevent him from using the geocentric positions
when he made horoscopes.It is said that Milton visited him and
looked through his telescope. Milton later writes of the Milky
Way being "powdered with stars," but although this was generally
acclaimed at the time as being something entirely new, it was
something that was known to Manilius in the days of the Caesars.
Contemporary with Galileo was a curious alchemist-astrologer,
Robert Fludd (1574-1637)
born in Kent, England, and educated
at Oxford. He spent five yearson the Continent, chieflyin reading
and following up the works of Paracelsus, and occasionally
arguing with Kepler and his friends, for Fludd also was em-
ployed by the Emperor. Out of the works of Paracelsus and the
Kabbalists, Fludd evolved his own philosophical system. In 1616
he was writing on the Fraternity of the Rose Cross. The interest
in Rosicrucianism spread to England, partly through Fludd's influ-
ence. That it had become quite important by the time of Charles
II, we know from Samuel Butler's Hudibras,where we meet the
Rosicrucians as well as the astrologers. According to Butler, the
Rosicrucians had no need for astrology, for they got all their
knowledge of the future "out o' the air." Just as Butler laughed
at astrologers, so he laughed at Rosicrucians. Elias Ashmole met
Fludd and may have derived some of his alchemical tracts and
knowledge from him. Ashmole is credited with founding one
of the first Rose Cross groups in London, in 1646.
Jacob Boehme (1575-1624)gives us an insight into a meta-
physical concept of astrology, in his Doctrine of Signatures.8
He
describesit thus:
9
JacobBoehme,The Signature of All Things (Evcryman's Library).
278 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
The outward visible world with all its being is a signature or figure
of the inner spiritual world; whatever iseternally, or however its opera.
tion is, so likewise it has its character externally.
This is the foundation of astrology, since the outward physical
appearance is the result of an inner will, whose operation is
known or understood, because it is of like signature, or nature,
with the figure of the heavens at the time of birth. The heavens
arc the macrocosm which reveals the microcosm. This was the
foundation of all herbal astrology, where the appearancedenoted
the function. For example, in an old herb book I read that "citton
apple, skipcnard, mint, parsdey, which bear in their leaves a
heart formation, are congenial to the heart. They arc therefore
placed under Sol, who is the ruler of Leo, the sign of the heart.
Herbs that simulate the shape of the lungs, as sage, lungwort,
etc., arc good for pulmonary complaints. They arc under Mercury,
since Mercury rules Gemini, the sign of the lungs."
In his SignaturaRerum, Boehme is not writing an astrological
text book, but his whole foundation is on astrological principles,
so much so that he is hardly intelligible to one who docs not
understand astrological principles and philosophy, and also some
alchemy. In Book 4 of this book he tells us that "the mother
of all things" introduced itself into seven forms when the uni-
verse was created. Although Boehme does not always mention
the planetary assignments in his various paragraphs on this, yet
they arc easily recognizable by an astrologer. Bochmc's forma-
tion of the world is planetary in concept and the planets arc
mentioned in their sequence from Saturn to the Moon, with the
Sun in the ccntcr:
Paragraph 5. The first form is "astringent." This form would be
of the nature of Satwn.
Paragraph 6. The second form is the "compunction.'' This form
would be of the nature of Jupiter.
Paragraph 7. The third form is of the nature of "anguish." This
form would be of the nature of Mars.
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 279
Paragraph 8. The fourth form is the "fire itself." This form
would be of the nature of the Sun.
Paragraph 9. The fifth form is the "love desire." This form
would be of the nature of Venus.
Paragraph 11. The sixth form is the "multiplication of the es-
sence." This form would be of the nature of Mercury. -
Paragraph 13. The seventh form is the "body or food of all the
other forms." This form would be of the nature of the Moon.
I do not sec how any modern astrologer can quarrel with these
assignments of the essential qualities of the planets.
Queen Elizabeth had her horoscope calculated by Lord Burgh-
Icy before she was Queen or he was Lord, and he is said to have
promised her that she would come to the throne in spite of all
her enemies. She held the throne of England from 1558-1003,
during one of the stormiest periods of English history, with
invasion not only threatening the country but actually attempted.
Who could wish to have had the task of guaranteeing her a long
and success£
ul reign and "confusion to her enemies" ? Yet Dr.
John Dec (1527-16o8)promised this to the twenty-five-year-old
Elizabeth when he was asked by the English Parliament to
set a "suitable time" for her coronation. He chose the date
January 14, 1559.According to the custom of the day, it was
the duty of the Court Intelligencer, as the governmental as-
trologer was called, to set suitable times for all public events.
Doctor John Pee was educated at Cambridge University. We
find him at the court of Edward VI, and it is probable that he
met Jerome Cardan there. In any case, he was given the position
of Court lntelligencer in the last years of Edward's life, and
probably, like Cardan, he found it wise not to predict too ac-
curately about the length of life of the young king. Dec set the
date and time for Elizabeth's coronation so well that she reigned
for forty-five years in spite of enemies, armadas and plots. History
does not record that the learned doctor was any more nervous
about the final fate of the Armada than was his royal mistress,
who, when she heard that the Spanish navy was in sight, im-
:280 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
mediately rode to Tilbury on horseback and there delivered a
magnificent speech of encouragement and confidence to the
fleet, army and citizens. Whether Doctor Dee astrologically fore-
saw its coming isdifficult to know. However, he does tell us him-
self that about four years before Elizabeth came to the throne he
had a terrible and distressing vision of great ships coming "and the
Angel Uriel declared to him that they were ships provided by
foreign powers against the welfare of England." It is possible
that he still remembered this vision when he set the coronation
date, and so timed it that "the house of foreign affairs" should be
tenanted and aspected in such a way that it would show the
ability to overcome enemies.
Whether Dr. Dee taught Elizabeth any as~ology, I do not
know, but he designed a very beautiful astrolabe for her. Humph-
rey Cole received the command to make it.
Because Dee had various mirrors, one made of polished coal
and one of crystal, and stated that he was able to "see" people
and events, many people presume that the doctor was merely a
psychic and not a real mathematician and astrologer. Sir Elias
Ashmole in his Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum refutes this
most completely, in the notes at the end of his book. I give various
quotations: "Doctor Dee,-he chiefly bent his Studies to the
Mathematics, in all parts of which he was an absolute and per-
fect Master. Witness his Mathematical Preface to Euclid's Ele-
ments, wherein are enumerated many Arts wholly invented by
him (by Name, Definition, Propriety and Use), more than either
the Grecian or Roman mathematicians have left to our knowledge
... with several Pieces of Navigation, Perspective, and other rare
Mathematical works of his in Manuscript."
Ashmole also notes that Dee wrote One Hundred and Twenty
Astrological Aphorisms and that he wrote on the Kabbala. He
says that when Dee went overseas the mob seized no less than
four thousand of his books and seven hundred valuable manu-
scripts. Upon which, Ashmole comments that books so valuable
as these should not be kept in private homes. In fact, it may have
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 281
been just this that made Ashmole decide that museums and
libraries must be built. (Later, Dee collected more books and
Ash.mole bought some of these. See Appendix IX). Ashmole
then goes on to tell of Dee meeting Sir Edward Kelly, another
alchemist of the time, and how the two went to Glastonbury
Abbey and there found a few drops of the Elixir from which Kelly
was able to make gold. The Elixir was so potent that in May,
1583,they were able to go to Europe and stay there with their
wives and families for six years two months and two days. I
think the implication here is that they made enough gold to
finance the trip. At the end of six years Queen Elizabeth asked
Dee to return. He cannot have been too short of money on this
retwn journey, for he was able to make a present of twelve
Hungarian horses to the Landgrave of Hesse before he left the
Continent. He left Kelly in Prague "and so escaped that straight
confinement which Sir Edward Kelly suffered at Prague by com-
mand of Rudolf II, Emperor of Germany." Kelly, it seems, either
could not, or would not, give the Emperor the secret of making
gold. Ashmole includes in his book a horoscope of Kelly, "graved
from the original Calculation of Doctor Dee."
Elizabeth seems to have loaded the doctor with kindness on his
retwn. She even requested him to read aloud to her some of the
books he had written. Many a time she came galloping on horse-
back from London to his house in Richmond and would look
into his magic mirrors. Apparently, she was able to "see." "The
Queen used to call at his house to visit him and shewed herself
very courteous to him, upon all Occasions. Against Christmas
1590 she sent him 200 Angels [gold coins] wherewith to keep
Christmas . . . She likewise sent him to do what he would in
Alchemie and Philosophic [Astrology] and none should control
or molest him." The Queen asked him what officehe would like,
but his reputation as a magician made it difficult for her to grant
the various offices he wished. However, in the end he was ap--
pointed to the Chancellorship of St. Paul's Cathedral, on May 27,
1595.Later, he was made Principal of Manchester University.
282 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Dee still corresponded with Kelly at Prague and learned that
Kelly had been imprisoned. It is said that Kelly escaped by a
window, but that, being a heavy man, he fell and broke his leg,
dying from the effects.Whether this was so or not, Dee received
the news and wrote in his Diary for November 25, "News that
Sir Edward Kelly was slaine."
There was another man of Welsh descent like Dr. Dee for
whom Dr. Dec seems to have had a very great admiration. This
was Dr. Robert Recorde (1500-1558),
who taught at Oxford and
who was renowned for mathematics, astrology, anatomy and
music. He was the private physician of Edward VI and of Queen
Mary. Dee bought out a whole edition of his Arithmetic, from
which we may presume that he made it a major textbook in all his
classes.Evidently, Dee's own teaching of mathematics was no dull
matter. When he taught at Louvain it is said that no classroom
was large enough for him and that his students stood and crowded
on window ledges and outside the open windows by the hundred.
Like Recorde, Dee was one of the first to adopt the Copernican
views of the universe. That both used geocentric longitude in
setting up their astrological charts is no more argument against
their having believed in a heliocentric system of computation
than it is today when astrologers still use geometric longitude
and yet hold Copernican views.Dee was alsoa profound exponent
of the Pythagorean system of numbers.
He used Mercator's globes long before other mathematical
teachers thought of so doing, and was a very able astronomer
making thousands of star observations. Evidently he had a very
practical side to his nature, fox:he used these observations to
further the science of navigation. All the great sailors of the
period flocked to Dee's door-Hawkins, Frobisher and Davis.
These great sailor-explorersdid not visit him from curiosity but
because he had scientific data to offer. He wrote a book on the
tides entitled On the Cause of Ebbs a,rd Floods. As a matter of
fact, Dee was one of the first to suggest a Royal Navy for England.
He asked Elizabeth to finance at least three ships which should
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 283
protect the coasts and "Survey" the coasts too in their spare time.
Elizabeth, however, was running the whole country, army,
civil serviceand everything else,on an income that never exceeded
three million pounds, and Parliament haggled with her over
every pound of this, so that the idea of a Royal Navy did not
materialize during her reign. However, weighing the explorations
of the time, she and Burghley invited Dec to give hisopinion on
English rights to Greenland, Estoliland (Newfoundland) and
Friscland, and the doctor replied that she had all rights.
The leaders of the army, like Leicester, came to visit him. So
also did the poet-soldier Sir Philip Sidney. Both these believed in
astrology. Sidney speaks of the "dusky souls" of those who "scorn
astrology." Dee was also called in to give advice on the Calendar.
After much calculation he delivered hisopinion that the proposed
Gregorian changes were not entirely correct and he considered
that rather more than ten days wasnecessary to bring the calendar
into shape.
Dee's original Diary10
was discoveredin the Ashmolean Library,
in the early nineteenth century, by W. H. Black, and it has
been reprinted. Black found it written on various old calendars in
a very rough and illegible way. Dee seems to have used it,
partly as a record of data of astrological clients. He has been so
much maligned and slandered by historians who have wished to
preach a moral sermon against anything occult, that it is only
since this diary was printed-and from Ashmole's book-that
people can make a just estimate of this very learned man. He lived
in an age when people were so frightened of the devil and of the
unseen world, that they were afraid of a man, who was not only
not afraid, but who wished to investigate the unseen world.
Modern science has been inclined to go to the other extreme and
to think that there is nothing to investigate, and that therefore
Dee was a lunatic for thinking there could be.
Valentine Naibod, who flourished at the close of the century,
is most important today. He was a good astrologer-astronomer
10
Autobiogr11pl,kalTracts of fohn Dtt (The Chctham Tract Society).
284 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
who wrote a Commentary on the works of Alchabitius. He is
chiefly remembered for calculating the mean annual motion of
the Sun. This has been of great value to astrologers in the pro-
gression of horoscopes, particularly in Radix-directions, a method
put forward during the last half century by Sepharial. Naibod
wrote De Coelo et Terra in 1573.
The Rev. Robert Burton (1577-1640)
took up astrology in order
to prove to his parishioners wherein it was false and futile. He
ended by becoming a very fine astrologer. Ashmole speaks of
meeting him. He was a clergyman of the Episcopal Church in
England, having been born in Leicestershire. He wrote The
Anatomy of Melancholy, in order to avoid being melancholy. The
book itself shows a wide acquaintance with most of the early
writers on medicine, including many of the Arabian ones. He
predicted the date of his death several years before it took place.
James Usher (1581-1656),
Archbishop of Armagh, is also said
to have been much interested in astrology. He is generally known
for the scheme of biblical chronology which he introduced and
which was universally accepted at that time, but which has caused
endless disputes in more modern days. Suffice it to say that the
date of 4004B.c.for Creation, was not a haphazard date, but one
related to astronomical cycles which were part of the sacred
knowledge of the ancients.
The works of Morin de Villefranche (Johannes Baptistus
Morinus, 1583-1656),
are still considered by the modern French
school of astrologers as one of the priceless heritages of history.
He was born February 23, 1583at Beaujolais. He studied philos-
ophy at Aix and medicine at Avignon, aker which he lived in
Paris. Here he met an astrologer who was not a very good
mathematician and not very precise, but Morin studied with him
for want of a better teacher, until he found out what should be
done. He soon became a much better astrologer than his teacher,
and because he had -had such a hard time learning, he devoted
almost the rest of his life to putting the subject into scientific
order. He became the greatest astrologer in France of his day and
.ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 285
numbered among hisclients Richelieu, Mazarin, Louis XIII, Tron-
sen and Marie de Medici. In such time as he could spare from
clients he worked on a voluminous textbook which he entitled
A.strologiaGallica.It runs into 26books, and took him thirty years
to complete. It was first written in Latin. Later, it was translated
into French. I do not know of any complete English translation.
Louis XIII is said to have thought so highly of him that as the
period arrived when hisson and heir, Louis XIV, was about to be
born, he gave orders that Morin was to be placed behind a curtain
in order that he might hear the first cry of the child and so make
an exact chart, this because astrologers believe that the time of
the first breath, oi-cry, is the real time for which a chart should
be set.
About the same time lived Henricus A. Lindhout. He wrote
On the Great Conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn. In 15<.iJ
he
wrote his lntroductio in Pnysicam/udiciariam,which is a justi-
fication of the art of astrology against the charges of various peo-
ple who had calumniated it. Then, in 16o8,he wrote Specu/.um
Astrologiae, on the scientific basis of the genethliacal art.
At the close of the sixteenth century the works of Count
Hcnricus Ranzovius (sometimes called Ran Jovius) were very
popular. He wrote on herbal medicine: De Virtutibus Herbarum.
He also wrote a highly technical book CXplaining the sources
of all types of calendars. It was called Diarum sive Calendarium
Romantml', Oecrmomicum, Ecclesiasticum et Astronomicum
(1593). Hew.as a well-known astrologer, for in 16o2 he brought
out a book on genethliacal astrology, entitled: Tractatus Astrolo-
gicus de Genethliacorum. Apparently he continued writing on
various phases of astrology until at least 1615,when he wrote On
Climacteric Years.
Since changes in the calendar have caused more bafflement to
astrologers than to almost any other class of people, I will close
this chapter with some mention of the very radical calendar
changes of the sixteenth century. I have had numerous letters at
various times from people, saying that I had mentioned a person
286 ASTROLOGY: ITS HIST<!JRY AND INFWENCE
as being born Wldcr, for example Pisces, and they had found,
when reading a biography, that he must have been born under
Aquarius. In nearly every case the discrepancy has been because
of the conflict between Old Style and New Style dates, though
most encyclopaedias give both dates. Also, speaking generally,
we now say the month March is given to Pisces,since the change
to Aries comes about the 21st day of the month, but in old poems
written be£ore the change was c.ff
ectcd, we find that March was
assigned to Aries, and the other months in corresponding fashion
-as we sec in the Faerie Queene of Edmund Spenser (1552-
1599),Book 8, Canto 7, which every astrologer should read.
The sixteenth century is memorable for the change by various
nations from the Julian to the Gregorian calendar. The error
in the Julian method of calculation amounted to one day in 128
years, so that by 1528there was an error of about ten days, and
Pope Gregory VIII decided to have this corrected. He therefore
decreed that October 5, 1582(Old Style) should be called October
15(New Style). That is,from 45 B.c.to the end of October4, 1582,
would be old style or Julian style, ·and all after that would be
new style or Gregorian style. Now, all this might have beena
good idea if the nations of Europe had agreed. But they didn't,
with the result that we have had centuries of confusion about
dates, ever since. Henry Fitch, in The Pe,f ect Calendar,11
tells us
when the various nations made the change:
The New Style was adopted by Italy, France, Spain and Portugal in
1582; by Prussia, the German Roman Catholic States, Switzerland,
Holland and Flanders, on January 1, 1583,Poland 1586,Hungary
1587,the German and Netherland Protestant States and Denmark in
1700,Sweden between 1700-1740,and the British Dominions, that
included the North American Colonies at the time, in 1752.• • • By
the terms of the Act of Parliament what would have been September
3 was to be known as September 14 England dropped 11 days instead
of 10, as Gregory had done in 1582,because in the 170years interven-
ing, the error of the Old Style had amounted to one full day or .more.
11
TI,~ Perfect Cokndar (Funk & Wagnalls, 1928).
ASTROLOGY IN THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY 287
The New Style was adopted by Japan in 1872,China 1912,Bulgaria
1915, Turkey and Soviet Russia in 1917,Jugo-Slavia and Roumania in
1919, and by Greece February 1923.
•
However, we might add that Scotland adopted the change in
16oo, and when James I came to the throne of England, some
persons tried to please him by using "Scotch" dates. In the early
seventeenth century, we find another aggravation-some years arc
dated with two numbers. For example, the date when Charles I
was executed was January 30,1649, in our present way of assigning
it, but Lilly on his horoscope for this date writes it 1648-g.
Chapter 20
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
There are in Astrologie (I confess) shallow Brooks, thr<Jf!glz
which young Tp-oes may wade; but withal there are deep
Fords, over which the Giants themselves must swim.
EuAs AsHMOLE
S
TRANGE meetings in Gunpowder Alley, also "mathematical
feasts" at the White Hart in the Old Bailey,at Painters' Hall
and at the Three Cranes-these, in the times of the Stuarts,
intrigue us very much-and the guests present were of all a~
old and young-Arise Evans, a Welsh prophet; William Lilly, an
astrologer who predicted the Plague and the Fire in London, and
who once sought by night for gold in Westminster Abbey; Lilly's
adopted son Henry Coley, a fine mathematician; John Booker
whose business it was to censor Mathematical (astrological) pub-
lications; Sir Elias Ashmole, lawyer, astrologer and alchemist; Sir
George Wharton, who had initiated Sir Elias into the two latter
studies; John Gadbury and his student John Partridge, both
astrologers of note; Vincent Wing, astrologer and astronomer;
John Mallet, Geoffrey Le Neve, James Blackwell, John Sabyc
and John Heydon, author of The Temple of Wisdom. Even Sir
Kenelm Digby may have been present at times, also George
Parker who wrote Ephemerides, Culpepper the herbalist, Dr.
William Salmon, Dr. William Saunders, Sir R~chard Napier and
his father Dr. Napier. And in the latter part of the century when
the meetings still went on who knows but what Sir Isaac Newton
and John Flamsteed may not have been present, for both were
astrologically minded? And as an onlooker, Pepys of the immortal
diaryfame, for John Booker brought him on at least one occasion.
And let us not forget that Sir Edward Dering and the Townc
Clerke of London felt honored to receive the officeof stewards of
288
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
these "astrological feasts." No wonder, with the Towne Clerke
present, the menu included even venison. They probably started
with turtle soup. What a company! All interested to know what
the other thought and yet all but Elias Ashmole, ready to fight at
the drop of a hat I Some were Royalists and some were £or the
Commonwealth-each quite sure that his particular astrological,
kabbalistic or psychic method of divination was the only one that
gave correct results. How did Ashmole stay friends with them
all ? And how did he ever come to meet them?
Sir Christopher Heydon could not have been present at these
meetings, for he died in 1623,ten years before Arise Evans came
to London, but the group often spoke of him, for was not Sir
Christopher knighted for special bravery at the siege of Cadiz
when Essex had sacked it, and had he not proved himself just as
heroic a champion for astrology when it was under fire from
various attacks? Ashmole sang out his praises of Heydon, saying
of the book, The Defenceof Astrology,which Heydon wrote, "It
stands firm and unconfuted," and Lilly remarked dryly, "One
Chamber wrote against us; but he had such a Lesson returned
by the Learned Sir Christopher Heydon, in answer to his Folly
that the very grief killed the old worme-eaten Cannon of Wind-
sor." It was an age when everyone was fighting, scrapping, quar-
rclling,-religious fights, literary fights, political fights, scientific
fights,astronomical fights, and astrological fights. The literature
of the seventeenth century abounds in details of what one person
called another, and there was no mincing of names and phrases.
"Argumentum ad hominem" was carried to a fine art. If at the
close of the century a satirist could say, "And men fell out they
knew not why," this was merely a helpful way of making men
smile at the serious and positive convictions which had made them
take out their battle axes against their opponents in previous years.
In 1001Canon John Chamber wrote a TreatiseAgainst /udicial
Astrology, and Heydon replied with The Defence of Astrology.
The argument was not a Copernican versus a Ptolemaic argument;
for the good Canon was the lecturer at Oxford on the Ptolemaic
290 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
System. After Heydon's book came out, Bishop GeorgeCarleton, ,
one of Chamber's friends, wrote a reply to Heydon entitled Tht
Madn~ssof Astrology. But this was not enough for the Canon.
He still smarted under Hcydon's cannonade, which carried the
attack right into the heart of the enemy's territory. Chamber sat
down and wrote all that was smouldering in his heart, under the
title of The Confutation of Astrology,·Demonologyin the Detlil's
Den.This he dedicated to James I, who believed very much in
demonology. However, Chamber's book was never printed, only
passed around in manuscript.
The year 16o3was one that was very important politically, be-
cause it heralded in James Stuart who united the crowns of Scot-
land and England, but it was also important astrologically, be-
cause Saturn and Jupiter, not only made a conjunction, as they
do every twenty years, but they made their conjunction in a Fire
sign, as they had not done for nine hundred years and more. The
year 16o3started a series of Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions in the
fierytrigon, that is, in the signs of Aries, Leo and Sagittarius, and
these would last until the early nineteenth century, when the
conjunctions would change into the Earth signs Capricorn, Virgo
and Taurus. As so much prediction on mundane events,-changes
in government, religion and politics-is deduced from these major
changes of element of the Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions every 240
years or so, all the well known astrologers of the periodstudied
the conjunction carefully, and Heydon wrote his Judgment of
the Saturn-Jupiter Conjunction of 1603 in The Present Fiery
Trigon. This book seems to have been a stimulus to all other
astrologers to research on the matter. Later, William Lilly gave
much thought to it. In fact, in his PropheticalMerlin for 1644
he,
gives charts of the conjunctions occurring in 1425, 1444, 14%
1484, 1504,1524,1544,1563,1584,16o3,1623,1643-that is, no
less than 12 charts-a matter of much labor and research. In his
comments he quotes Messahala, John Hispalensis, Bonatus and
John Ganivelus. He notes that the "Water trigon" recurred in
1643,so that the "Fire trigon" was not established until 1663.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
Let us next turn to Sir George Wharton, who taught Elias
Ashmole both alchemy and astrology. Wharton (1617-1681)
hailed from the North of England, from Westmoreland. He came
down to Oxford to study astronomy and mathematics. After that,
he appears to have returned home and published under the
pseudonym of Naworth, various almanacs, but when the Civil
War broke out, he joined the Royalist cause. Charles I had his
headquarters at Oxford which was almost entirely Royalist, and
Wharton came back to hisold university town, becoming a cap-
tain in the Ordnance. It was on this visit that he met Ashmole
and taught him all the various occult work he knew.Ashmolc
writes of this in hisDiary:1
1645. March 22: I first became acquainted with Captain Wharton,
between 8 and 9 in the morning. April 17: Captain Wharton moved
me to be one of the four guards of the ordnance in the garrison of
Oxford. June 11: I entered my command as Comptroller of the
Ordnance.
Later, Wharton appears to have followed Ashmole to London
and both met all the important astrologers in the city. The friend-
ship evidently lasted, for we have the following entries: 2
1647. Feb. 14: The Mathematical Feast was at the White Hart in the
Old Bailey, where I dined. 1647.August 14: Captain Wharton had the
plague. 164B.March 12: Captain Wharton taken in his bed and carried
to Newgate, 6 p.m. 1648.Aug.27: Captain Wharton made an escape
out of Newgate.
Wharton was always in hot water. He hated the Parliamen-
tarian group. He did not like the astrologers and they did not
like him. He quarrelled violently with them all and attacked
them in his calendars. They in turn defended themselves. Lilly
seized on the name Naworth, and referred to him as the man "of
no worth." As if the astrologers had not enough troubles of their
1 Ashmolc'•Du,,y (reprint,OxfordUniversity Press).
2
lbid.
292 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
own, especially with a Civil War in progress, the Irish question
was injected. Booker provoked this by an article on the conjunc-
tion of Mars and Saturn in Taurus, which he said would bring
trouble to Ireland. Wharton refuted these arguments in a
pamphlet entitled: 11
Bellum Hybernicale, or Ireland's War astro-
logically Demonstrated from the late celestial congress of the two
malevolent planets Saturn and Mars in Taurus, the Ascendant
for that country.... The ignorance, malice, mistakes, errors,
insolences, and impertinences, of John Booker, in his astrologica.1
observations upon the said conjunction, in a late pamphlet of his
styled A Bloody Irish Almanack, etc., discovered, corrected, re-
futed, and retorted: and the author further vindicated, from his
and Master Lilly's former frivolous, false and malicious aspcr•
sions, throughout the whole discourse."
Lilly made the reply to this, saying: "You are yet in your ABC;
when you have learned your Accidence you may be able to prate,
but not correct Master Booker, nor myself. The Pamphlet you
mention, I wrote; nor am ashamed of it."
It certainly did not look as if a feud such as this could ever be
healed. Then Wharton's Royalist sympathies got the better of
him and he made bitter attacks on Cromwell, so that on Novem-
ber 21, 1649he was taken to prison and there he stayed until the
following June, when it became evident that he would probably
be hanged. It was in this great crisis that Lilly showed one of his
best sides. He forgot the feud and went to his rescue.
Ashmole's Diary,8
on the subject of Wharton about to be
hanged, is very illuminating:
1649. Nov. 21: Captain Wharton re-taken and carried to prison.
1650.
Aug. 8: I being at the Astrologers' Feast 2 p.m. was chosen
Steward for the following year. Captain Wharton, having been carried
to the Gate House, the Nov. 21 last; the next day after, I went to Mr.
Lilly, and acquainted him therewith, who professed himsdf very sorry,
because he knew Bradshaw intended to hang him; and most generously
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 293
(forgetting the quarrel that had been between the Captain and him)
promised me to use his interest with Mr. Bulstrode Whitlock (his
patron) to obtain his release. I thought it not prudent then to have
my name (as the times stood) appear in print, as the instrument that
wrought Mr. Lilly to do this kindness for him; and therefore in Cap-
tain Wharton's Epistle to the Reader before his Almanack in 1651,
when his acknowledgements were made, of Mr. Lilly's assistance in
this strait, all acknowledgements to me are omitted, tho in truth I was
the only person that moved and induced Mr. Lilly to perfect his en-
largement. Having at all times, since my return to London, anno 1646,
befriended Captain Wharton, not only in discovering all designs that
I heard laid against him, either at Mr. Lilly's or elsewhere, but also
affording him my purse freely and liberally, towards his support in
many necessitous occasions • • • he styled me in his Almanack for the
year 1653,
his Oaken Friend.
There are later entries in the Diary,' concerning Wharton:
1655. Jan. 16: Captain Wharton taken prisoner. Aug. 7: Captain
Wharton came hom• on parole. Aug. 29: This day the Astrologers'
Feast was held.
Evidently Captain Wharton was present.
After the Restoration, matters were easier for him. He still
brought out his calendars but changed the title to Calendarium
Carolinum, or Calendar of Charles. His reward for his Royalist
sympathies came in 1677when he was made a baronet by Charles
II. After Wharton's death on August 12, 1681-two months after
Lilly's death-John Gadbury collected all he could of Wharton's
works and published the collection in 1683.
Who was this Arise Evans who held his meetings in Gunpowder
Alley? His real Christian name was Rhys, which by any Celt is
pronounced Reece, but the Saxon, seeing it spelled the way it is,
is inclined to call it Rice or Rize. Hence, when this fiery little
Welshman came to London in 1633and began to startle everyone
byhis visions and prophecies, in which he said that people must
4
lhiJ.
294 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
awaken to the fact that the country was heading straight into
civil war, popular wit and fancy amused itself by going one step
further and calling him "Arise"! His visions, all through the Com-
monwealth, were that the country would not prosper until the
royal line was restored. Many a time he boldly told the Lord
Protector Cromwell that Charles II must be brought back, but
Cromwell, though he did not punish him, refused to entertain
his advice or to believe his visions. Almost everyone laughed at
Arise, but in the long run he was right. Everyone laughed, hut
everyone went to see and hear him as a matter of curiosity,---cvcn
the sage diarists Pepys and Evelyn laughed, but they wanted to
know what he said. Ashmole makes thisentry in his Diary,1
under
the date of April 20, 1653:
This morning I first became acquainted with Arise Evans, a Wclsh
prophet; and speaking of the Parliament, I asked him when it would
end? He answered the time was short, and it was even at the door; this
very morning at dcvcn o'clock, the Mace was taken from the Speaker,
and the Parliament dissolved; and I conjecture it was much about the
time ·that Arise Evans and I had the discourse.
Arisewas Lilly's first teacher of astrology. In hisAutobiography
Lilly tells us that on a Sunday in 1632while talking with the
clerk of a justice of the peace, the latter ~poke of a great scholar
who could make almanacs-a man named Evans, in Gunpowder
Alley. Lilly went there and for six weeks or so had lessons from
him, but found him very chaotic and a very poor mathematician,
hence he ceased taking lessons and decided to buy books and study
by himself. All the books Evans had were Haly's De f"'1iciis
Astrorum and Orriganus' Ephemerides.His teaching was such
that Lilly comments, "I thought I' was in a wilderness." This poor
teaching that Arise gave him was one of the major reasons why
Lilly later decid~d to write hisown textbooks on astrology in the
English language, in order that succeeding students might not
15
lbid.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
have such a difficult approach as he and various others had when
a poor teacher and Latin textbooks only were available.
It seems that on one occasion Sir Kcnclm Digby and Lord
Bothwell went to Gunpowder Alley and asked Evans to show
them a spirit. The three men then held a seance. Lilly reports
that in some mysterious way Evans was transported out of the
circle and was dropped down in Battersea. As there was no bridge
to Battersea in those days but only a ferry, this would have been
an extraordinary feat However, the two visitors could not find
him and departed home. The following day when they came
back to see if Arise had returned he told them that he woke up
from his trance in Battcrsca. He even told them all the details
of his most difficult return, but stuck to his story that he knew
nothing from the time the spirit picked him up in Gunpowder
Alley until it left him in Battcrsca, alone and wondering where
he was.
Sir Kenelm Digby was educated to enter the diplomatic service.
After leaving Oxford he travelled on the Continent and while in
France he met the then Prince of Wales, who afterwards became
Charles I. He made a horoscope for Charles and the two became
firm friends. When the Civil War broke out, Digby fought on the
king's side but was captured in battle. He then spent five years
in prison from 1638to 1643,until he was fortunate enough to
escapeto France, where the French king gave him various minor
diplomatic posts, for Digby was entirely without money, his
English estates having been forfeited. When Cromwell came to
power, Digby returned to England and was pardoned. Cromwell
appears to have taken a great liking to Digby, whose religious
views had a very mystical trend. They conferred a great deal and
henceforth Cromwell did everything to help him. Digby's great
interest in mysticism, alchemy and astrology did not prevent him
from being one of the foremost scientists of the day. We find he
was one of the original founders of the Royal Society, which is
devoted to science. He presented no less than 236volumes to the
Bodleian
Library. He is said to have married very happily because
2cfi ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
he compared his wife's chart with that of his own. The harmony
between the charts was expressed in real life. Digbydied in 1(>6s.
John Evelyn in his Diary, under date July 9, 1l>65,
makes this
statement, "I supped this night at Lambeth, at my old friend's
house, Mr. Elias Ashmole's, with my Lady Clarendon, the Bishop
of St. Asaph ana Dr. Tenison, where we were treated at a great
feast." And again under entry for July 23, 1678: " I went to sec
Mr. Ashmole's Library and Curiosities at Lambeth. He has divers
MSS but most of them astrological, to which study he is addicted,
though I believe not learned, but very industrious, as his History
of the Order of the Garter proves."
I am afraid Mr.Evelyn was mistaken about Ashmole's learning
in astrology. Evidently the entire lack of sophisticated bombast in
a real student who could rectify his chart to split seconds, and
whose interest was part of life itself, misled Evelyn. Ashmolc, in
his Theatrum Chemicum, makes this statement:
Astrologie is a profound science: The depth this Art lies obscured in,
is not to be reached by every vulgar Plummet that attempts to sound it.
Never was any age so pestered with a multitude of .Pretenders, who
would be accounted (and stick not to style themselves) Masters, yet
are not worthy to wear the badge of lliustrious Urania. And (Ohl to
be lamented) the swarm is likely to increase, until through their Igno-
rance they become the ridiculous object of the enemies of Astrologic;
(would that were all) and eclipse the glory of that Light, whichif
judiciously dispensed to the World would cause admiration, but un-
skilfully exposed, become the scorn and contempt of the Vulgar
. ...
There are in Astrologie (I confess) shallow Brooks, through which
young Tyroes may wade; but withal there arc deep Fords, over which
the Giants themselves must swim.
Ashmole was not merely good at genethliacal astrology but
good at horary astrology and the astrology of elections. In his
notes to his Theatrum Chemicum he speaks of the necessityof
setting times for certain matters-elections in short. Then he goes
on to affirm that the birthchart must always take precedence of
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 297
election charts, in other words, the birthchart is the prime factor.
Let me quote his actual words:
Nativities are the radices of Elections and therefore we ought chiefly
to look back on them as the principal Root and Foundation of all
Operations; and next to them the quality of the Thing we intend to
fit must be respected.
It is this latter phrase that most students fail to respect. They
will find a day with beautiful Venus aspects, for a matter that
has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with Venus, and then
wonder why or where they go wrong in their judgment, or they
will choose a day when Mars isrampant, to try to make a peaceful
settlement, saying that some other planets are well aspected to
one another. Ashmole is distinctly right when he infers that there
must be a fitness of the heavenly scheme to the particular or
specific matter that is planned. The astrologer's problem is that
sometimes such a heavenly scheme will not happen within the
period that a person wants to do something, and most people do
not understand that an astrologer cannot put the planets where he
might like them to be.
Elias Ashmole was born at Lichfield, the son of a saddler, who
preferred being a soldier with Essexto making saddles. His birth-
day was May 23, 1617and his mother said it occurred about half
past three in the morning. Ashmole says, ''When I rectified my
nativity, in 1647,I found it to be 3 hours and 25 minutes and 49
scconds•A.M.,
with the quarter of Gemini rising." He seemsto have
been quite musical,for he played the organ in Lichfield Cathedral,
thoiigh he trained to be a lawyer, and at sixteen years was sent to
live with a relative, Baron Paget, in London, until he was admitted
to the bar. At the age of twenty-eight he went to Oxford. There
he met Wharton and entered the king's army. When he returned
to London in 1646-like every student of astrology, he was most
anxious to meet and confer with other astrologers. The oppor-
tunity came when Sir Jonas Moore, who was tutor to the then
Duke of York and later Surveyor of the Ordnance, introduced
298 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
him to William Lilly, and Lilly in twn introduced Moore to
Booker. Soon he had met nearly all the astrologers, for in just a few
months after meeting these two, we find that he dined at the
Astrologers' Feast at the White Hart. Throughout all his Diary
Ashmole records all the various times when he attended these
feasts. He also tells us that one year he was elected Steward of the
group. The friendship with Lilly continued and became increas-
ingly strong, so that in hislatter days Ashmole and his wife would
stay for months at a time with Lilly and his wife in their home
at Walton, after Lilly went there to practise as a physician. One
feels the undercurrent of sadness in the later entries of the Diary
as he records one after the other the deaths of his various friends,
"my father Backhousc," Sir Jonas Moore "my old friend," Mr.
Lilly, Sir George Wharton, and Mr. Saunders.
Ashmole's whole life was colored by Wharton's having taught
·him Alchemy. He beganto search for alchemical books and tracts
and bought one of Dr. Dee's. He edited and published this in
1650.
It was not until twenty years later that he obtained Dr. Dee's
library.8
However, by 1652he had collected, edited and published
no less than twenty-nine alchemical tracts under the title of
"Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum, containing several Poetical
Pieces of our famous Philosophers who have written the Hermetic
Mysteries in their own Ancient Language." Actually, the volume
contains twenty-nine Old English poems on Alchemy. It includes
the Ordeal of Alchimy,1
written by Thomas Norton of Bristol,
the Compound of Alchymie by Sir George Ripley, Canon of
Bridlington, Yorkshire, concerning the Twdve Gates, a treatise
that was dedicated to Edward IV:
Here beginneth the Compound of Alchymie,
Made by a Canon of Bridlington,
After his learning in Italy.•.•
showing that alchemy was still being taught and practised on the
Continent in Ripley's time. Ashmole's book also contained an
e s~e
Appendix X.
" No two authors ever spell "alchemy" the same way.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 29<)
English translation of the Secretum Secretorum made by John
L ydgate, Monk of St. Edmundsbury. In the Translation of the
Second Epistle of King Alexander to his Master Aristotle, we
read: "How Aristotle declared to the King Alexander of the
Stone":
I have asked Philosophic how I should
Have of her the thing I would,
She answered me, When I was able,
To make Water malleable,
Or dsc the way if I could find,
To measure out a yard of Wind,
Then shalt thou have thine own desire,
When thou can'st weigh an ounce of Fire.
Unless that thou can'st do these three,
Q}ntent thyself,thou gcttcst not me.
From the various tracts, it would appear that, whereas people
nowadays arc inclined to think that the old alchemists were
mcrdy very poor chemists trying to convert metals, this was not
always their final objective. Actually, the greater ones were not
only the scientistsof their day, but they were men striving to find
a practical philosophy. Whereas philosophers today try to make
philosophy a purely abstract thing, the old alchemists, being
aligned with the tradition of Greece, Egypt and Babylon, saw
that philosophy should be based on physical reality and on trans-
mutation of substance.The divorcing of the two studiesof Philoso-
phy and Chemistry is a matter much to be regretted, for changes
in consciousness,or the admixture of a new idea with an old one,
in a person, will often create a result that is just as remarkable
as combining, say, two gases like Oxygen and Hydrogen and
making a liquid which we call water. What the old alchemists
would have tried to do would have been to decide carefully what
type of mental consciousnesscould be compared with Oxygen and
what type could be compared with Hydrogen, and then to have
experimented until they found a stage of consciousnesswhich they
would have termed Water. Changes in ideas and in consciousness
300 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
may be far from being haphazard. We know that they have prcr
found effects on health (and disease), and health reacts on mind
and on ~disposition.Philosophy today may take some cognizance
of such matters but there is as yet no official pronouncement of
any definite nature. Ashmole tells us that the major thing the
greatest alchemists tried to do was to use their knowledge to heal
disease. He says: "Thus did 1.0. (one of the first four Fellows of
the Fratres R.C.), curing the young Earl of Norfolk of the
Leprosie, and Dr. B. in carrying off the virulency of small pox in
the time of Queen Elizabeth."
'
The alchemists worked with symbols, and as always with
symbols, there is an inner and an outer meaning, or as they put
it, "God is able to say many things in one." The drawback of using
symbols, however, is that many of their results arc so hidden in
symbol that people today are inclined to think they obtained no
results of consequence, in either the physical or the metaphysical
world. Astrology, which also usescomparable symbols, has much
the same difficulty in making its knowledge known to the world.
What is easily comprehensible in, say, two or three symbols,
to one who knows a little astrology, is more comprehensible to
one who knows more astrology,-"To know more, you must be
more," as the saying goes. For example, if some one asks me what
I think of the German-Russian war, I might reply "Mars opposi.
tion Neptune." Now, this is comprehensible as it stands, that one
planet is opposite to the other in longitude, but that is all. On the
other hand, if I make the same statement to a practised astrologer
he will immediately know what I think of the whole situation,
because the war started under this configuration which will there-
fore affect its whole progress. But, again, we are faced with the
fact that an explanation of this would require pages and pages
to make it clear even to the amateur. The practised astrologer, too,
carries in his mind enough knowledge of planetary positions at
various dates, to know the approximate period or periods when
two factors (planets) will affect one another and cause changes
in outlook, and in events. He can verify the exact date of these
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 301
positions later, but he cannot become a good astrologer unless
dowered with some innate awareness in his consciousness, of a _
_
,-,
potentiality which will be expressed by present conditions in rela-
tion to later conditions affecting the present. It is somewhat com-
parable to the innate feeling a musician has that the notes and
bars he is playing must eventuate in certain other notes and bars,
at certain stages of the composition. Hence, when I say the
German-Russian war is described by Mars opposite Neptune, a
practised astrologer understands that I am taking cognizance, not
only of the past condition of these two planets, but also of their
relative movement and motion as it will affect the future, for in
this relative movement, other factors must, in the eternal schell!-e
of
motion, affect them too-eclipses, lunations and so on. Thus my
statement in three words means, to any good astrologer, something
that affects past, present and future, and it is a statement that
might take a whole book to explain, though, as I have said, it is
still intelligent as a bare statement of a certain fact that happened
in the heavens in June, 1941, when the war began. It would also
take several pages of explanation to tell how I logically derive
which of the countries isunder Mars and which is under Neptune.
Evidently the old alchemists worked in some comparable
way, understandable only, in its fullest sense, by those who were
deep students, and sounding either trite or foolish to those who do
not understand the groundwork. Someone has said that if the
Philosopher's Stone had been a stone, it would never have been
called a stone. If it had been a tincture, it would never have been
called a tincture, and if it had been an elixir,it would never have
been called an elixir. I think its term, "the quintessence," if we
consider this as an attempt to understand not merely the fourth
dimension but the fifth, would come as near the mark as any I
. .
can conceive.
In his Diary for January 26, 1652, Ashmole says: "The first copy
of my Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum was sold to the Earl of
Pembroke. 6 p.m." Doubtless, he made a horoscope for this. Then,
under the date of February 11 of the same year, he says, "About
302 .ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
this time I began to learn Hebrew of Rabbi Solomon Frank.,_
Evidently, he found that many of his alchemical tracts were in this
language, also that some of his kabbalistic lore required this
language. Ashmole met most of the well-known personages of his
time, nobility, clergy, scientists and writers, including the diarists
Evelyn and Pepys. However, he preferred meeting people with
astrological or alchemical interests. He speaks of meeting, on
December 4, 1675,"Mr. Butler, Chaplain to the Duke of Ormund
and an able astrologer.'' On March 7, 1651he records that he met
Dr. Fludd for the first time. Then, in his Diary8
for April 3, 1651
he speaks of meeting "a venerable Rosicrucian" named Back-
housc, who asked him to call him "father." He appears to have
been in close touch with Backhouse until 1€>62,
when the old man
was taken sick. Ashmole says that on May 13 "about one of the
clockhe told me in syllables, the True Matter of the Philosopher's
Stone, which he bequeathed to me as a legacy." Then, on May
30, 1662,he records: "My Father Backhouse died this evening."
In 1ti6o,
Ashmolc had been appointed Windsor Herald by Charles
II, and while in this officehe made descriptions of the medals in
Windsor Castle, and wrote his very notable book, The History
of the Order of the Garter,prefacing this with a history of the
forty-six old crusading orders of religious-military knights, and
the forty-six definitely military orders of knights.
In 1(,6,J,
he says, "I bought Mr. John Booker's Study of Books
and gave forty pounds for them." On June 12, 1681, he says,"I
bought Mr. Lilly's Library of Books of his Widow for fifty
pounds." I believe both these sets of books arc now in the Bodlcian
Library.
Ashmole's influence seems to have been profoundly felt in his
own period and continues to be felt today, due to the fact that he
founded the Ashmolcan Museum and because he was so interested
in all antiquarian research and in natural history. There is no
doubt that it was due to his geniality and graciousness that the
• Ashmolc's Diary, Oxford University Press reprint.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 303
astrologers of the period put forth such fine work, and under-
took so much research. Ashmole was knighted in 1677and died
May 18,16g2. .
William Lilly (May 1, 16o2-June9, 1681),born in Leicester-
shire, was one of the best known of the astrological writers and
practitioners of the time. His textbook, Introduction to Astrology,
is still widely read. He seems to have been quite a genius in
horary astrology as well as in gencthliacal, for in this textbook he
gives a large number of horary charts, and charts of specificevents.
The ones that afiord general interest today are: first, the chart set
up for the time when Charles I erected his standard at Nottingham,
from which chart Lilly explains why he deduced that the Royalist
party could not win and how the chart predicts the death of the
king himself; second, the chart of the execution of Charles (wit-
nessed by Lilly), which he takesasthe birthchart of the Common-
wealth. From this latter wheel he explains why he foresaw that
the C:Ommonwealthwould be replaced by the accession of a suc-
cessor to Charles I within eleven and a quarter years. It began
January 30, 1649,and ended when Charles II was crowned, April
23, 1661.Lilly also wrote The True Historiesof /(jng fames I and
Charles I (1651).
He bought the astrological library of the Rev. A. Bedwell,
former chaplain to Sir Harry Wotton. Among these books, he
says, were "my choicest books of astrology." Then, in 1634,from
another astrologer named Hart he bought Argol's Primum
Mobile. In his entries for 1634he tells us that that year he really
had time to read his books and found that Valentine Naibod's
Commentary upon Alchabitiuswas one of the profoundest, and
that it set him seriously working upon the Jupiter-Saturn con-
junctions.
He seems to have started to teach others almost as soon as he
knew anything himself, for he notes that "In year 1634,I taught
Sir George Peckham, knight, astrology." Then we go on to a very
extraordinary story for that year:
304 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
In the-same year Davy Ramsay, his majesty's clockmaker,had been
informed that there was a great quantity of treasure buried in the
cloister of Westminster Abbey. He acquainted Dean Williams .••.
Davy Ramsay sought out John Scott who pretended to use mosaical
rods•••• I was desired to join with him••.• One winter's night •..
we entered the cloisters.••• [It seems that a wind suddenly rose, and
they were all petrified with fright, for Lilly goes on] I gave command
to dismiss the demons. • . • I could never since be induced to join in
any such endeavor.
Lilly also mentions the astrologer Geoffrey Neve (sometimes
called Geoffrey Le Neve). He says the latter called on him with
the idea of publishing forty charts from which true judgments had
been deduced. Lilly looked them over and found that thirty he
checked were cast wrongly, so he told Le Neve that he would
take no further interest in such·a book. Lilly's Catalogue of Astro-
logical Authors 9
is a most interesting record. It proves conclu-
sivelythat at the time he wrote, books on astrology from the most
ancient sources,from Ptolemy and the Arabs down through later
times, were being published in every country in Europe and
that there had been no lack of interest before Lilly's time. In this
Catalogue Lilly inserts three authors who wrote against astrology:
Dr. Chamber, Savonarola and Sextus Heminga. I am inclined to
think their insertion means that Lilly asked his secretary to write
out the names of books in his own library, when he made the
compilation. Lilly's Christian Astrology was published in 1~7.
Besides being a noteworthy textbook on astrology, written in
English and not in Latin as were most of the preceding textbooks,
it contained a Table of Houses for Latitude 50 degrees North, a
matter which was a great help to students at that time, when
equipment was not easy to procure. One commentator, or wasit
a historian, who had probably never read the book, wrote "Chris-
tian AstrologyI Bah11"I am afraid it was merely the title that
upset the critic, who instead of looking into the matter for himself
9
See Appendix XI.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
took the word of some interested person, that astrology is anti-
Christian. Lilly uses the term "Christian" to show that his book
was based more on Christian writers than on Arabic and ·Moorish
writers. Among the clericsof the period who attacked Lilly most
vehemently was the Rev. Thomas Gataker. In recounting this
episode to Ashmole, Lilly remarks comically,"I only wrote 'senes
bis pueri' [old men are twice children], and he wrote 42 pages
against myself and astrology."
Christian Astrology was written in three parts. The author
states that he wrote the first part, which deals with astrological
terms and the erection of charts, after comparing notes with the
books of Dariot, Bonatus, Ptolemy, Haly, Etzler, Dietericus,
Naibod, Hasfurtus, Zael, Tanstettor, Agrippa, Ferriers, Duret,
Maginus, Origanus and Argol. The second part, which deals with
Horary Astrology,he stateswas written after referring to Bonatus,
Haly, Dariot, Leupoldus, Pontanus, Abcnezra, Zaeland Alkindi.
The third part, which is on the art of reading and directing, was
compiled after referring to Leovitius (who, Lilly claims,standard-
ized the art of nativities), Junctinus, Pezelius, Naibod, Cardan,
Garceus, Schonerus, Albubatcr, Montulmo, Abraham Judaeus
(Abenczra), Ptolemy and Lindholt.
This would seem to be a very imposing number of authorities,
still available in Stuart times, but in his Catalogue of Authors 10
Lilly gives nearly two hundred authors still extant in his time.
All Lilly's friends hailed with delight the publication of Christian
Astrology. Booker wrote a poem for it, and ~ also did another
friend, Will Roe,-probably an anonymous writer, who said:
Behold Uranis with a Lilly deckt,
Presents herself to England's Gracious View,
Let Envy's square, or opposite aspect
Not dare at her a frowning look to shew,
Lest it be said, £or such ungrateful scornes,
A Lilly late has sprung among the thornes.
10
See AppendixXI.
3o6 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
Elias Ashmole was sick in bed when the first copy was sent to
him. He read it right through, from beginning to end, and
inspired by Booker's verses,wrote his own on the fly-leaf:
I have read your Boo1tc.. • •
. • . teaching me how to rcadc
The mind of Heaven in English, and not dread
It to be Conjuring; So that by your paines
No roomc for that black scandall rcmaincs.
You arc our English Atlas; you support
Astrologie's fair Credit.
Lilly also supplied the popular demand for calendars and al-
manacs. These might have been more profitable but James I
gave legal monopoly rights for printing all almanacs to the Sta-
tioners' Company and to the two Universities of Oxford and
Cambridge. (It was not until 1715that this monopoly was abol-
ished.) Lilly's almanac, MerlinusAnglicus Junior,appeared from
1644until 1681.This was the almanac through which he became
acquainted with Booker. Also, in 1644he started two others, the
Sta"'Y Messengerand the PropheticalMerlin. Lilly says of the
latter, "I had eight pounds for the copy. Before that time I was
more Cavalier than Roundhead; but after that, I engaged bodyand
soul in the cause of Parliament, but still with much affection for
his majesty's person."
In the year 1648the Council of State gave him a sum of fifty
pounds and a pension of one hundred pounds per year for various
services. This was the year that Cromwell turned out all the
moderate members of Parliament. The remnant was calledthe
Rump. In his calendar for 1650 Lilly stated that the Rump "stood
upon a tottering foundation." For this prediction Lilly was called
before Parliament. His pension was withdrawn, though as far as
I know, no reason was given in actual words. If Lilly had beena
less honest astrologer, he could easily have retained this pension.
With regard to his honesty as an astrologer, we know that he
read the chart of Richard Cromwell to his father Oliver, and gave
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
the latter little hope that the son could remain long in power after
the father's decease. Perhaps the best known of Lilly's prophecies
were those given out in 1651 predicting the Great Plague in
London in 1663 and the Great Fire in 1666.His cartoon on the
latter shows twins falling headlong into a great conflagration and
men struggling to put out the fire. The twins, or the sign Gemini,
is the ascending sign of the city of London. About 1&,o
Lilly was
licensed by the Archbishop of Canterbury to practise medicine.
Elias Ashmole tells us in his Diary that he (Ashmole) obtained
the license for Lilly, on October 8, 1670.Lilly then left London
and went to live at Walton on Thames, where rich and poor
flocked to him for healing. He decided on this because his astro-
logical fame was bringing him too many idle curiosity seekers.
I have a small book, called A Book of Knowledge. It contains
about 150 pages, on various occult arts, together with a farmer's
calendar. The title page states that it was written by "Erra Pater,
a Jewish doctor in Astronomy and Physic, born in Bethany, near
Mount Olivet, Made English by W. Lilly, Student in Physic and
Astrology." It is dated 1766.It ismy impression that in spite of its
claim, it was totally unknown to Lilly. Neither Lilly nor any
author of his time refers to it.
In every age astrology has been the object of hatred, vindictive-
ness and satire, and it was not otherwise in Stuart times. Samuel
Butler (February 12, 161~eptember 25, 168o) included astrology
in his satire entitled Hudibras,but he rapped almost everything
elsc,-religion, philosophy, medicine, law and physics,-or rather
what he personally conceived to be the insincere exponents of
these subjects. William Lilly, as the foremost astrologer of the
period(called Sidrophel in the poem) received the full fury of
Butler's blast against the astrologers. Modern newspapers and
magazines often treat their readers to attacks against astrologers.
I have seen most of those in recent years, and still think the ·
·
authors might be advised to turn back three hundred years to
Samuel Butler, for ammunition. Modern attacks seem positively
empty. They roar as "gently as any sucking dove,"-to use the
3o8 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
words of Bottom the Weaver,-when compared to Butler's heavy
cannonading. To Butler, astrologers were thieves, liars, rogues
and vagabonds, disorderly persons, ignoramuses, and dreadful
necromancers in league with the devil. Whatever modem op.
ponents have said, was said more effectively in Stuart days, and
said with real satirical humor,-and Astrology still goesforward!
Charles II so enjoyed Butler's satire against the Puritans that he is
said always to have carried a copy of Hudibrasin his pocket ready
to pull out whenever he recollected a phrase in it that fitted
some person or event of the day. Butler takes as his hero Sir
Hudibras, a thick-headed aggressive Puritan, patterned on a
certain Hudibras, a character in Spenser's FaerieQueene:
More huge in strength than wise in work he was.
Butler 11
starts by telling us how:
When civil fury first grew high
And men fell out they knew not why;
When hard words, jealousies,and fears
Set £
olks together by the ears,
And made them fight like mad, or drunk • • •
Then did Sir Knight abandon dwelling,
And out he rode a-coloncl-ing.
Like every knight, on his adventures he must find a "Ladyc
faire,"-but she must have moneyl So, when he lands himselfin
prison, a wealthy widow comes and bails him out. He woos her
with poetic art, but the lady knows her value, and remarks:
You will find it a hard chapter
To catch me with poetic rapture.
Sir Knight isbaffled. Alone in his house, he cries out:
11
Hudib,as, by Samuel Butler.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
Ohl that I could enuclcate,12
And solve the problems of my fate;
Or find, by necromantic art,
How far the destinies take my part
His Squire Ralph then tells him about Sidrophel:
Quoth Ralph, ''Not far from here doth dwell
A cunning man hight Sidrophel,
That deals in Destiny's dark counsels,
And sage opinions of the Moon sdls."
Sir Hudibras would like to be convinced that it is not against
his religion to go;
Quoth Hudibras, "This Sidrophcl
I've heard of, and should like it well,
If thou can'st prove the saints have freedom
To go to sorcerers when they need 'em."
when Ralph assures him:
The godly may allege
For any thing their privilege,
And to the devil himself may go,
If they have motives thereunto:
For, as there is war between
The devil and them, it is no sin
If they, by subtle stratagem,
Make use of him, as he does them.
Has not this present Parliament
A ledger to the devil sent,
Fully empowered to treat about
Finding revolted witches out?
And has not he, within a year,
Hanged three score of 'em in one shire?
Some only for not being drowned,
And some for sitting above ground. • . •
12
Enucleate, to take out of its shell.
310 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
Did not our great reformers use
This Sidrophcl to forebode news;
To write of victories next year,
And castles taken, yet i' the air?
Of battles fought at sea, and ships
Sunk, two years hence? the last eclipse?
A total overthrow given to the king
In Cornwall, horse and foot next spring? • • •
Made Mars and Saturn for the cause,
The Moon for fundamental laws?
The Ram, the Bull and Goat, declare
Against the Book of Common Prayer?
And Scorpion take the protestation,
And Bear engage for reformation?
Make all the royal stars recant,
Compound, and take the covenant?
This argument convinces Hudibras:
Quoth Hudibras, "The case is clear
The saints may employ a conjurer,
As thou hast proved it by their practice;
No argument like matter of fact is."
Next we turn to a description of Sidrophcl:
He had been long t'ward mathematics,
Optics, philosophy and statics,
Magic,horoscopy, astrology,
And was old dog at physiology ••.
Yet none a deeper knowledge boasted,
Since old Hodge Bacon and BobGrosted 11
Because astrologers are so often correct in their findings, Butler
imagined, as some people do today, that astrologers hire detectives
to find out all about a client beforc he or she arrives, so Sidrophcl
has a servant named Whachum, who is probably supposed to bea
type of Coley, the adopted son of Lilly:
18
R.ogerBaconand Robert
Grossctcstc.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
Whose business was to pump and wheedle,
And men wi~ their own keysunriddle;
311
Whachum's work was also to make calendars and supplysuitable
rhymes for these. When the knight and squire arc seen from a
distance, Whachum goes out to greet them, and he finds out from
Ralph that Hudibras is coming to consult Sidrophel about his
romance with the widow. The three then enter Sidrophel's study
and Whachum gives Sidrophel clues to the problem. The clues
are that Venus is in opposition to Mars, that is, the love planet
Venus is not kindly. Sidrophel wishes to know if the lady is
single, married or widow, hence he asks Whachum if Venus is in
Virgo, to which the servant answers no. Then, the clue that she is
a widow is given when the planet Saturn is mentioned. In this
way Sidrophel can begin his reading by telling Hudibras that he
is in love with a widow. This amazes the knight but starts him on
a tirade that such could not betold by the horoscope.He rampages
about all the tricks that former astrologers and conjurers have
used, even brings in Agrippa's faithful dog, which was as much
suspected during its life as certain witches' black·cats have been:
To this,quoth Sidrophel, "Sir,
Agrippa was no conjurer,
Nor Paraselsus, no, nor Behmen:
Nor was the dog a caco-demon,
But a true dog, that would show tricks
For the emperor, and leap over sticks ..•
As for the Rosy-crossphilosophers,
Whom you will have to be but sorcerers,
What they pretend to is no more
Than Trismegistus did before,
Pythagoras, old Zoroaster,
And Apollonius their master,
To whom they do confessthey owe
All that theydo, and all they know.
Hudibras is too thickhcadcd, however, to be in any way ap-
peasedby this reply. He goes on with various stock arguments,
312 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
namely that the Egyptians say that the polar axishas beenchanged
twice, also that the signs and the constellations now no longer
coincide, so how can the effects still be the same? Also some
people set up horoscopes for cities and some for puppies, and some
for monkeys, running-nags and fighting-cocks,-and all thismust
be rubbish. The argument goes on until it becomes violent. Sidro-
phel tells Hudibras his horoscope reveals that he was robbed of
his watch and chain at the last fair, whereupon Hudibras says if
he knows that, it is proof the astrologer himself must have been
the thief. He thenbeats up Sidrophel and Whachum and proceeds
to search Sidrophel's pockets. He does not findhisown watch but
he findsanother one and also:
A copper-plate, with almanacks
Engrav'd upon it, with other knacks
Of Booker's, Lilly's, Sarah Jimmers',
And blank-schemes to discover nimmers;
A Moon-dial, with Napier's bones,
And several constellation stones,
Engraved in planetary hours,
That over mortals had strange powers
To make 'cm thrive in law or trade,
And stab or poison to evade;
In wit or wisdom to improve,
And be victorious in love.
Let us turn to the other side of the picture as presented by an
astrologer. Our nineteenth century astrologer Zadkiel, or Com-
mander Morrison, in his Preface to the new edition of William
Lilly's Introductionto Astrology,
14
gives a briefoutline of Lilly's
life. He tells us that:
Lilly in his sixty-sixth year undertook to write a history of his own
life for his worthy friend, Elias Ashmolc Esquire, afterwards Sir FJias
Ashmolc,the founder of the celebratedmuseum whichbearshis name.
14
Reprinted in Bolm's Lihra,y (G. Bell and Sons, 1927).
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
Mr. Ashmole made marginal ~otcs therein, which testify his high
opinion; and fortunatdy for the cause of astrology, this gentleman
verifiedthe correctness of the Figures of Heaven (Horoscopes) which
are given in subsequent pages. {It seems that Ashmole initialledall his
remarks.)
The following is a resume of the remainder of Zadkiel's Preface:
Lilly arrived in London, April 3, 1620,where he became footboy
in a family. When the mistress died she left him a legacy of five
pounds in gold. His master married again and gave him twenty
pounds. During this period Lilly started to become an astrologer,
and studied from twelve to eighteen hours a day. At the outbreak
of the Civil War he was consulted by both General Fairfax and
King Charles. Lilly once remarked of this latter visit:
"I told him to go east, and he went west." In 1651he published
Monarchy or No Monarchy, and in this were the hieroglyphs of
the Great Plague and of the Fire of London. In 1666the fire
occurred, and Lilly was called upon again, by a Parliamentary
committee, to inquire if he didn't start the fire to make his predic-
tion come true. They do not seem to have asked him if he started
the plague. However, he was acquitted. He testified that he did
not foresee the exact year or date of the Fire. He died June 9,
1681,outliving his satirist Butler by one year. His friend Elias
Ashmole officiated at the funeral and also erected a monument
"in loving memory," in Walton Church, on the left side of the
communion table.
Lilly's Epistle to students desiring to learn astrology is very
indicative of his high motives. Zadkiel quotes:
As thou daily conversest with the heavens, so instruct and form thy
mind according to the image of Divinity; learn all the ornaments of
virtue, be sufficiently instructed therein ••• let no worldly wealth
procure an erroneous judgment from thee, or such as may dishonor
the art. Be sparing in delivering judgment against the common-wealth
thou livest in ••• be faithful, tenacious. Betray no one's secrets. Be
not dismayed if ill spoken of. . . .
314 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
In the light of Butler's attack, this last sentence is particularly
poignant It seems that Lilly was apparently a very sweet and
loving personality. He was alsoa good scholar, and was interested
in all the developments of astrology, both in England and on the
Continent.
Henry Coley (October 18, 1633) was the adopted son of Wil-
liam Lilly and from the year 16'r; until the death of Lilly, his
assistant. Coley was said to have been a better technician than
Lilly but he had not Lilly's "art," so here we see exemplified just
what Lilly meant,-that one may know all the methods, but if
one has not "art," one can never be a great astrologer. In 1f>&J
Coley published his textbook, ClfltlisAstrologiae Elimata, or the
Key of Astrology Polished Up. In 1671he started to publish his
Ephemerides which were gladly bought, for planetary positions
were not easy to obtain at the time. He also continued with Lilly's
Almanac after the death of Lilly.
Lilly's friend, John Booker (March 23, 16o3-April 8, 1667),
came from Manchester, where the fame of Dr. John Dee must
have been still in remembrance when he was a child. From early
years Booker seems to have been a good mathematician and
always interested in almanacs. He was in London in 1631,for in
that year he brought out an almanac called Telescopium Ura-
nium. He was clerk to various aldermen and then obtained a
governmental position as "Licencer of Mathematical Books,"a
position which seems to have meant, or at least included, the work
of censoring astrological publications. It was in this capacity that
he met Lilly in 1644,and although the meeting started with an
argument, it led to a lifelong friendship. Lilly, in August, 16+1,
wished to bring out his Merlinus Anglicus Junior and showed the
copy to Sir Bulstrode Whitlocke, who liked it so much that he
in turn showed it to many of his friends in the House of
Commons, and they all wanted copies. Lilly then had to applyto
Booker to license it, and Booker, as Lilly remarks, "made many
impertinent obliterations." Then the printer, "who was an arch-
Presbytcrian," suspected Lilly's religious foundation and the al-
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 315
manacist had to be examined in the faith by no less than five
ministers. Lilly was very angry, not so much at the religious
examination, which he apparently passed without trouble, but at
the red ink obliterations, and he complained to several of the
members of Parliament. They took his part and ordered that
thenceforth Booker should not censor Lilly's work and that Lilly
should be free to print whatever he liked. In spite of all this,
Booker asked Lilly to teach him astrology, and later Lilly speaks
of Booker's fine mathematical skill and of his charts as being
"exactly directed." The two collaborated on various works and
apparently Booker wrote some sections of the various almanacs,
for Lilly defended Booker against Wharton's attacks. Booker
made some predictions on a solar eclipse, stating that he expected
two European rulers would die at about the same time. As two
did die, the matter brought him considerable notice.
Among the astronomical friends of Lilly and Ashmolc was
Vincent Wing (April 9, 1619-1688)of Welsh origin. Lest we
might think that the astronomers of the time did not fight and
quarrel as did the astrologers, we have only to read the title of one
of his books, namely, The Annihilation of Mr./. ShaJcerly.A book
written against him by Thomas Streete was called Castigationof
the Envy and Ignorance of Vincent Wing. It was in reply to one
of Wing's, in which he called attention to Streete's errors. Vincent
Wing published Ephemerides for the last sixteen years of his life.
Flamsteed considered these the best on the market. Wing was an
astrologer too. He, however, studied the Copernican system, and
had many conferences with John Booker concerning this. John
Bookerwrote the story of Vincent Wing's life.
Lilly, in his Autobiography, praises the mathematical and astro-
nomical skill of Doctor Richard Napier and of his nephew Sir
Richard Napier. Bothof these were distantly related to the famous
laird who invented logarithms. Doctor Richard Napier (1559-
1634) had been ordained £or the ministry but preferred beinga
medical astrologer. He became a student of the very curious
character, Doctor Simon Forman, who was a medical astrologer
316 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
and an alchemist, who later bequeathed to him his library. Doctor
Napier spent his whole life doing good to people and in research-
ing into astrological methods. Lilly became acquainted with him
through Forman and stayed at his home in 1632and in 1633,
which later period is the time when Lilly started to take up
astrology in real earnest as a profession. Doctor Napier left all his
books to his nephew Richard (16o7-1676),who was interested in
all his uncle's studies and who during vacation time from Oxford
was instructed by him, so that he too became a very fine medical
astrologer. He took his degree at Oxford in 1642and was knighted
in 1647.He was one of the really fine scientists of the day, and
most helpful in the formation of the Royal Society.
The Simon Forman (1552-1611)who taught Doctor Richard
Napier, was born, so he tells us in his Autobiography, on "Decem-
ber 30,at 85 minutes after nine o'clock 15
at night ... in a village
called Quidhampton in the county of Wiltshire." Simon tells us
that his father loved him the best of all his family. In early life
he continually dreamed of great mountains about to fall on him
and of great waters raging against him, but somehow he always
came out on top of the mountains and he always came safely
through the seas. These dreams, he says, evidently presaged the
terrible troubles he was to undergo later in life. He first was
apprenticed to a hosier and then to a merchant of cloth. Later, he
became a teacher and finally tramped to Oxford, and by dint of a
scholarship managed to exist, his father having died meanwhile.
Apparently he did not take his degree at Oxford but, later, at
Cambridge. In 1581he tells us he was curing the sick and the
lame. In 1588"this year I began to practise necromancy and to call
aungells and spirits." In 1590he wrote a book on alchemy, and in
1594he practised what he .calls The Philosopher's Stone, that is,
alchemy.
Lilly knew Doctor Forman quite well, for Forman had on one
occasion healed Lilly's old employer of an obsession. However,
15
10:25 P.M.
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES
Lilly's real friendships were directed more towards the mathe-
maticians than towards the psychics. Among the former was
Nicholas Fiske, whom he never ceasesto praise:
My ancient learned friend Mr. Nicholas Fiske bath freely lent me
either his manuscripts or any books in his library, nor am I more he•
holden to the father than to the son, Mr. Mathew Fiske, who at all
times gave me the exact places of the planets, and calculated for me
several of the schemes of the conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn for
16o3, 1645and 1663.
18
Evidently the Fiskeshad copiesof the Rudolphine Tables, which
had been made by Kepler, for when writing of these conjunctions
Lilly mentions that they were calculated from the Rudolphine
Tables. Lilly sayshe met Nicholas Fiske in 1633and that "he was
exquisitely skilful in the art of directions upon nativities. By fre-
quent conversation with him, I came to know which were the
best authors, and much to enlarge my judgment, especiallyin the
art of directions."
John Gadbury (December 31,1627-1704)was born at Wheatley
near Oxford. He started to study astrology in 1652and brought
out Ephemerides in 1659.His almanacs ran from 1657to 1666.
He is best known for his Doctrine of Nativities (1659). He
included a Table of Houses for latitude 40 degrees North. In
the same year Gadbury also published a horoscope of the ill-fated
Charles I. Cromwell had died the preceding year and discussion
was rife as to whether or not the royal family should be recalled.
Gadbury was on the Royalist side. He was therefore more than
pleased when Charles II was recalled, and in the year of the
latter's accession,he brought out his calendar under the title of
Britain's RoyalStar, the "Star" being Charles II. In 1662he pub-
lished Collectio Geniturarum, that is, a collection of various nota-
bilities past and present. In 1683he made a very valuable contribu-
tion to astrology by collecting the works of Wharton, whom he
calls "that most excellent Philosopher and Astronomer." In this
18
Propl,eticalMerlin, (1644).
318 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
book Wharton's knowledge of the festivals and feasts of Chris-
tianity is preserved, also his observations on the nativity of the
world, the annual revolution charts or ingress charts, the muta-
tions of Saturn and Jupiter, and on passages from Morinus. The
following year Gadbury published Cardenes Coeli, in reply to an
anonymous critic, who quoted Gassendi's Contra Astrologiam. He
also wrote in 166gThe Life and Death of Vincent 'Wing, the
astronomer-astrologer. Altogether, Gadbury appears to have been
a very hard-working student and researcher, and if some astrol-
ogers of recent yearshave questioned the accuracyof various charts
in his book, at least he left us data which might otherwise have
been lost. I think the fact that he was buried in St. Margarcf s
Church, Westminster, speaks for his religious views and general
respectability.It seemsthat William Lilly disliked the sign Scorpio,
for Gadbury spends a great deal of time justifying that sign against
Lilly's attacks. Gadbury had the Sun in Capricorn but he had
Scorpio rising. It was in this argument against Lilly's views that
Gadbury and his student Partridge fell out and Partridge wrote
a pamphlet in 1675which he described as: "A just reward for un-
reasonable service: or an answer to J.Gadbury's late Hectorisme
for Scorpio; wherein his malicious invectivesagainst Mr. Lilly arc
fairly wiped off." He then went on to write, The Black Life of
John Gadbury, but later he repented and the two became friends
again. Yet even in 1677Gadbury was so full of the idea that he
must justify the sign Scorpio, that he wrote The Just and Pure
Scorpionist. A more difficult matter to straighten out was an
accusation of plotting against King William III, but fortunately
he was acquitted of the charge.
Another of Ashmole's very dear friends was Richard Saunders.
In his Diary for 1651,under date of April 3, Ashmole records:
The Astrologers' Feast at Painters' Hall, London. This night about
one o'clock I fell sick of a surfeit by drinking water after venison. I was
greatly oppressed in my stomach; and next day Mr. Saunders, the
astrologian, sent me a piece of bryony root to hold in my hand, and
within quarter of an hour,.my stomach was freed of that great opprcs-
ASTROLOGY IN STUART TIMES 319
sion, which nothing I took from Doctor Wharton [Ashmolc's per-
sonal physician]could do before.
Ashmole continued the friendship with Saunders, for we have
reference to Saunders' death on December 23, 1675 between 10
and 11 A.M. Saunders wrote a book on Medical Astrology and
William Lilly wrote an Introduction for it. Dr. Len Broughton,
astrologer-physician of the nineteenth century, considered it to be
the best book that had ever been written on medical astrology.
Nicholas Culpepper (1616-1654),famous as the author of Cul-
pepper'sHerbal, used astrology in the treatment of his patients.
He set up an officein Red Lion Street, London, in the year 1640
where he practised both as a physician and as an astrologer. He
spent much time writing textbooks, both on herbs and on the
practice of medicine. In these books he shows familiarity with
the Arabian physicians and with the Spanish school of doctors
that included Abenezra and Avenzoar. In 1649 the full fury of
the medical profession of the day was vented against him, for
in this year he brought out an unauthorized translation of the
Pharmacopoeia,
and as this had been the monopoly of the medical
profession, we can imagine the excitement.
In 1642Sir Thomas Browne, who had travelled widely through
Europe, published his Religio Medici,or the Religion of a Physi-
cian.He speaks of himself as having Scorpio rising and Saturn too.
In 1649 Dr. William Salmon published his Horae Mathemti-
ticaewhich has for its sub-title The Soul of Astrology.
In 1652Ramesey published AstrologiaRestaurata,in which he
reminds his readers that Hippocrates and Galen had said that
a physician cannot safely give physic unless he knows the positions
of the moon and planets. Ramesey was also a great exponent of
Mundane astrology.
John Whalley (April 29, 1653-January 17,1724) has oftentimes
been referred to as an ignorant Irish cobbler who made money at
odd times, both in Ireland and in England, by publishing alman-
acs such as Vox Urani, which was later· called Advice from the
320 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
" Stars,and England's Mercury.However, though he was a shoe-
maker by trade, he was at least sufficientlyinterested in astrology
to learn Latin so that he could translate Ptolemy's Tetrtzbiblos
into English-a task from which most of his critics would shrink.
Some of his critics either forgot to mention this matter or were
too ignorant to know what he did. This translation may not
have been of the best, and it needed much emendation, but it
provided something that all English astrologerswere most grate-
ful for until newer translations were made.
~eorge Parker (1651-1743),renowned among astrologers for
his Ephemerides, was a cutler by trade, born in Worcestershire.
He and the astrologer John Partridge were the greatest enemies
and they lived within a stone's throw of each other. Partridge
attacked Parker in his Abnanac, in an essaycalled "Character of
a Broken Cutler." Later, we shall deal with Dean Swift's attack on
Partridge. One might think that Parker would have beenpleased
with the Dean's attack, but quite the contrary was the case.Appar-
ently, astrologerswill always rush to the help of other astrologers
when someone from the outside makes an attack. Parker's
Almanac was called MercuriusAnglicanus.It started in 16goand
was continued even after his death. Parker also collaborated with
John Gadbury in editing the latter's Ephemerides.
Chapter 21
ASTROLOGY IN THE LATER SEVENTEENTH
AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES
We will add one thing more, that we are certain the celestial
bodies hfltle other inpuences ben·des light and heat. Let this
astrology be used with greater confidence in prediction, hue
more cautiously in election, and, in bothcases, with due mod-
eration.
FRANCIS BACON
J
OHN DRYDEN the poet (1631-1700)was a firm believer in
astrology. Samuel Johnson, who believed in witchcraft,1 did
not believe in astrology, hence in his Lives of the Poets,he
makes this comment on Dryden:
One of his opinions will do him little honor in the present age.
He put great faith in the prognostications of judicial astrology. In the
appendix to the Life of Congreve 2
is a narrative of some of his predic-
tions wonderfully fulfilled •.. in his Preface to his Fables, Dryden
has endeavored obliquely to justify his superstition, by attributing the
same to some of the ancients. The letter, added to his narrative, leaves
no doubt of his notions, or practice.
The letter which Johnson appended is one which Dryden
wrote to hissons,who were then in Italy on vacation. In it Dryden
writes:
Towards the latter end of this month, September, Charles willbegin
to recover his perfect health, according to his nativity, which casting
it myself, I am sure is true, all things hitherto have happened according
to the very time I predicted them.
1
Life of Samuel Jol,nson,by JamesBoswell(Vol. 4, Chap. 2).
2
Wilson's Life of Congre11e.
321
322 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
The son, Charles, of whom Dryden wrote, had fallen from a
ruined tower of the Vatican grounds. Charles seems to have had
more than one accident which brought him close to death. The
narrative concerning Dryden and his son Charles' horoscope is
paraphrased by Broughton 8
as follows:
When Mrs. Dryden• commenced in labor of her son Charles, Dryden
left his watch in charge of one of her ladies in attendance, with a strict
injunction to notice the exact moment of the child's birth. In about a
week after her confinement Mr. Dryden took the occasion to tell his
wife that he had calculated the child's horoscope and had observed
with grief that the child was born in an evil hour. That Jupiter, Venus
and the Sun were all under the earth, and the lord of the Ascendant
was afflicted with a baleful square of Saturn and Mars. He went on
to tell her that if he lives to his eighth birthday he will come near a
violent death, but if he escapes that, and I sec small hopes that he will,
in his twenty-third year he will again be under the same evil direction,
and if he escapes that also, the thirty-third and thirty~fourth years will,
I fear • . . There he was interrupted by the grief of Mrs. Dryden, who
could not longer hear one calamity after another prophesied for her
new-born son.
When young Dryden arrived near his eighth year, it was arranged
that Mrs. Dryden should spend the summer vacation with her Uncle
Mourdant, and Mr. Dryden was invited to the country seat of the Earl
of Berkshire, his brother-in-law .••. Dryden insisted on taking Charles
and they parted in anger.
On the child's eighth birthday it was arranged by the Earl of Berk-
shire that his guests should go hunting, and Dryden, to keep the child
out of mischief, set him a double lesson in Latin, with a strict injunc-
tion that he should not go out of the house. Charles was performing
his duty in obedience to his father, but as ill fate would have it, the
stag made towards the house, and the noise alarming the servants, they
hastened out to sec the sport. One of the servants took young Dryden
by the hand, and led him to sec it also; just when they came to the
gate, the stag being at bay with the dogs, made a bold push and leaped
over the court wall, which was low and old, and the dogs following,
3
Elements of .Astrology,by Broughton (1926). • Lady ElizabethHoward
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 323
threw down a part of the wall ten yards in length, under which Charles
lay buried. He was immediatdy dug out, and after six weeks languishing
in a dangerous way, he recovered. In the twenty-third year of his age,
Charles fell from the top of an old tower belonging to the Vatican at
Rome, occasioned by a dizziness with which he was seized, the heat
of the day being excessive.He again recovered, but was ever after in
a languishing sickly state. In the thirty-third year of his life, being
returned to England, he was unhappily drowned at Windsor. He had,
with another gentleman, swum across the Thames twice, but returning
a third time, it was supposed he was taken with a cramp, because he
called out for help, though too late. The father's calculation proved but
too prophetical.
The statement of Dr. Johnson that Dryden justified his belief
in astrology in his Preface to the Fables is no doubt based on the
following passage in the Preface:
With Ovid ended the golden age of the Roman tongue; from Chaucer
the purity of the English tongue began. The manners of the poets were
not unlike; both of them were well bred, well mannered, well matured,
amorous and libertine, at least in their writings, it may be also in their
lives. Their studies were the same, philosophy and philology. Both of
them were known in astronomy, of which Ovid's books of the Roman
£casts, and Chaucer' s Treatisc of the Astrolabe, arc sufficient witnesses.
But Chaucer was likewise an astrologer, as were Virgil, Horace, Pcrsius
and Manilius.
Evidently, Johnson read the classicsfor style but Dryden read
them for subject matter. Dryden occasionally brings astrological
concepts into his own poetry. In his Annus Mirabilis, the Year
of Wonders (1666)Dryden celebrates various sea battles against
the Dutch, who were allied with the French at that time. He
mentions the King's interest in the newly formed Royal Society,
of which Dryden was a member, a scientific group which had
started during the Civil War with a few men visiting and con-
ferring with one another. He then goes on to describe the Fire
of London which broke out in October and which lasted for four
324 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFWENCE
days and £our nights. According to Dryden, the end was quite
a miracle (Stanza 281.):
An hollow crystalpyramid He takes,
In firmamental waters dipt above;
Of it a broad extinguisher He makes,
And hoodsthe flamesthat to their quarry strove.
Later he says:
The utmost malice of the stars is past,
And two dire comets which have scourged the town,
In their own plague and fire have breathed their last,
Or dimly in their sinking sockets frown.
Now frequent trines the happier lights among,
And high-raised Jove,from his dark prison freed,
Those weights took off that on his planet hung,
Will gloriously the new-laidwork succeed.
Methinks already,from this chymicflame,
I seca city of more precious mould. • • .
There was a comet coincident with the Plague the year before,
as well as one that coincided with the time of the Fire.
Dryden also wrote a play called An E11ening's
Love, or the
Mock Astrologer, which Morley describesas "a careless versionof
the French comedy Le Feint Astrologue,by Corneille's younger
brother, Thomas."
John Partridge (January 18, 1644-June 24, 1715) was, like
Whalley, originally a shoemaker. However, he learned Latin,
Greek and Hebrew in order that he might fit himself to bea
good astrologer. He was taught by Gadbury, and at the ageof
eighteen he started to study Lilly's books on astrology. He fell
out with his teacher John Gadbury because the latter wrote
. against Lilly, but later a reconciliation took place. Then, about the
same time, he had a violent quarrel with George Parker. Partridge
was most interested in medical astrology and went to the Nether-
THE SEVENTEENTH A.ND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 325
lands to study medicine, taking his degree of M.D. at Leyden
University. Some say he was physician to Charles II and some
say to James II. There seems to be considerable doubt on the
matter. In 1678he published his Astrological Vade Mecum, in
I68g Merlinus Liberatus, and his greatest book, Defectio Genitu-
rarium, in 16cJ7.
Partridge was in many ways the most progressive
of the astrologers of the Stuart times, for during his studies on
the Continent he read the Primum Mobile of Placidus de Titus,
a bookwhich, though not translating Ptolemy, was a textbook
founded on the methods of Ptolemy rather than on Arabian con-
cepts of Ptolemy's methods. Partridge realized the value· of this
book immediately and used these methods in his own textbooks.
ZacJkiel (Commander Richard J.Morrison, R.N.) in the Intro-
duction to his Grammar of Astrology 4
( 1853)speaks with very
high praise of Placidus, and of Partridge's acceptance of the latter's
views. However, he felt it necessary to do this at the expense of
Lilly and of the early seventeenth century astrologers, rather for-
getting that if it had not been for these earlier astrologers, Part-
ridge might never have learned astrology at all. I quote from
Zadkiel:
The principles of Ptolemy's doctrine do not appear to have been
very clearly understood, or acted upon, free from the superstitious
trash of the Arab writers, before the years 1647and 1657,
when Placidus
de Titus, a Spanish G monk, first published the true system of astrology,
founded upon Ptolcmy's mathematical calculations. His principal work
was printed in Latin, and called the Primum Mobile, or First Mover.
It is remarkable that the only subsequent works of any value on that
part which is of most importance, nativities, were written by an
Englishman, Mr. Partridge, whose Almanack is still in existence. His
works the Opus Reformatum and the Defectio Geniturarium1 are
evidently made up from Placidus, but they arc full of the soundest
doctrine, and contain numerous examples.
'Grammar of Astrology (1853). Now published, with Lilly's Introduction to Astrol-
ogy, in Bohn's Library.
• Sec Ashmand 's statement on page 326 of this chapter.
326 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
No good translation of Placidus appeared in English until that made
by Mr. John Cooper in 1816;nor did any correct copy of Ptolemy's
book, from which all that we know of astrology is originally derived,
until 1822,when Mr. Ashmand's excdlent work appeared. The old
translations of Ptolemy and Placidus, especially those of Dr. Sibley, are
detestable, and have made numerous erring astrologers, and done the
science infinite injury. All the host of English astrologers, such as
Lilly, Coley, Sibley, Gadbury, White, etc. (Partridge excepted) were
embraced in error when they treated of nativities; for they embraced
the follies of the Arabian astrologers, which consisted of mixing up
the system of divination, called horary questions, with the genethliacal
art, or science of nativities; and those who· open their books only lose
their time.
This is extreme language. That Zadkiel did not mean what he
says is apparent when he brought out almost immediately after
this a new and revised edition of Lilly's Introduction to Astrology
and wrote a glowing tribute to Lilly in the Preface which you
have read in part in our previous chapter. Lilly was an adept
in Horary Astrology and when we read his books we find he
gives us very many illuminating examples of his answers to ques-
tions. Zadkiel was simply of opinion that Lilly should have ob-
tained these answers from the birth charts. Lilly, however, was a
practising astrologer, who knew what he was doing, and it would
appear to me that when a man was as unerring as Lilly in Horary
work, he had the right to use in his practice whatever system he
preferred.
Concerning Placidus, Ashmand states 6
:
It would appear by the printed works of this author, that he was
Didacus Placidus de Titus. He was a native of Bologna, by profession
a monk, and was styled Mathematician to the Archduke Leopold
William of Austria. He wrote in the earlier part of the seventeenth
century, and his work now cited, is considered to contain the most sue•
ccssful application of Ptolemy's astrological rules of practice.
0
J. M. Ashmand, Ptolemy's Tetrahihlos (Foulsham Co.)
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 327
Since Partridge, then, was one of the most painstaking of our
astrologers and one of the most reliable of the new Placidean-
Ptolemaic exponents of astrology, one can only feel that Dean
Swift berated and injured an astrologer who really deserved better
treatment. Dean Jonathan Swift, under the pseudonym of Isaac
Bickerstaff, brought out an almanac in which he pretended he
was Partridge's astrological rival, and in this he predicted
Partridge's death as due to occur on March 29.Later, he published
another one in which he gave a full and detailed account of his
fulfilled prediction of "the death of Mr. Partridge, the almanack
maker on March 29." He inserted an elegy on the matter:
Weep all you customers that use
His pills, his almanacks, or shoes.
One has a feeling that the venerable dean was suffering from an
upset stomach on the day when he conceived all this.
I have previously mentioned that the Stationers' Company had
a monopoly on Almanacs. They believed that Partridge was
really dead and struck his name from their rolls, so that the
following year Partridge was unable to publish his almanac, and
for several years afterwards he was put to the trouble of proving
that he was legally alive. A number of people have described this
attack as "the death blow to astrology," but astrology is made of
sturdier stuff. Astrology is not dead yet, though its obituary has
been written in every century by someone or another. Dean
Swift, or astrologically speaking merely Isaac Bickerstaff, is often
praised for this famous "joke" upon astrology in general and
upon Partridge in particular, a man of infinitely superior mental
equipment and who at least did not have to obtain his degree "by
special grace," a term which at that time meant "special disgrace."
Let us analyze the Dean's claims to tilt at astrology, apart from his
general ability to write upon anything, a matter which caused
"Stella," the young lady whom he treated so ungenerously, to
remark upon one occasion with considerable bitterness, "The
Dean can write finely even upon a broomstick." Swift received his
.328 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
degree at Dublin "by special grace." His mathematical and scien•
tific equipment was practically nil. He hated so many things that
his hatred of astrology was just another incident in his life. He
hated Presbyterians and he hated Papists. He hated Dryden, to
1
whom he was distantly related, not so much because of the latter's
astrological studies, but because Dryden had remarked, "Cousin
Swift, you will never be a poet." Evidently then, the Dean was one
of those people who hate everyone who can do something better
than they can. He hated and attacked Robert Boyle,who is so well
remembered today for his formulation of Boyle'sLaw after work- 1
ing for years on air-pumps. Apart from being a scientist, Boyle I
was something of an alchemist and also interested in religious 1
studies. He wrote a short treatise on Seraphic Love, which must j
have been very irritating to Swift with his hopeless romances.
1
Then he wrote some moralizing reflections which he entitled
"Occasional Reflections." Swift seized on these and tore them to
pieces in a pamphlet he called "Reflections upon a Broomstick."
The Dean fell out with the English language itself and put his
thoughts on this matter also into a pamphlet. Dr. Johnson makes
some pertinent remarks on his qualifications to do this. He says,
"It was written without much knowledge of the general nature
of the language, and without any very accurate history of other
tongues." I should say the same of his attack on astrology. It
was written without much knowledge of astrology, and apart
from being a record of a mean practical joke, the Bickerstaffian
diatribe isnow consigned to the "also wrote" list of his pamphlets.
Swift died insane. His greatest satire, which is upon the whole
human race,-Gulliver's Travels,-is now read by children, who
do not know it is a satire. Time has taken its revenge upon the
Dean rather than upon astrology.
Partridge's Almanac was continued after his death. The Sta-
tioners' Company bought the rights from his widow. Dr. Len
Broughton, in his Elements of Astrology, speaks with great praise
of the fine work done by Partridge in this Almanac, and then
goes on to say "I have not been able to find out the year when that
T RE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 329
pious company bought the right to publish the alroanack but it
was probably near 1792or 1793,as I see the predictions in those
years did not require an astrologer to write them, and they grad-
ually grew worse from year to year." Broughton speaks of the
Stationers' Company as being a "pious" company, because among
other things they "were engaged in sending missionariesabroad."
Since John Flamsteed (1646-1719)was a protege and friend of
Sir Jonas Moore, Surveyor of the Ordnance at the Tower of Lon-
don, and Moore was Ashmole's lifelong friend, we realize that
Flamsteed probably knew all Ashmole's and Lilly's astrological
friends, and no doubt discussed astrology very freely with them.
At one time Sir Jonas was thinking of building a private observa-
tory for Flamsteed at Chelsea College, but before the matter was
s settled, Charles II had determined to build the Greenwich
Observatory. Francis Baily7
in his Account of the Reverend John
Flamsteed, gives us the story of how the Observatory came to be
built. A certain French lady who had some favor at court, was
desirous of helping a French Sieur who had some very limited
astronomical knowledge. The Sieur wished to receive a commis-
sion and salary to compute the exactlongitude of London. Charles,
always tactful, said that he could not promise until he had called
a Commission of astronomical experts. On the Commission which
Charles appointed was Sir Jonas Moore. He took Flamsteed along
with him to the first meeting. Flamsteed immediately discovered
that the Frenchman 4ad neither the knowledge nor the necessary
tables with which to do the work. The Commission conferred as
to what statement they should make to the king. They did not
wish to offend the French lady, so it was decided that they should
try to be co-operative.Flamsteed offered his own lunar tables to
the Sieur, but the latter, suspecting that-Flamsteed was his enemy,
declared that the "tables were feigned." Flamsteed was so indig-
nant that he wrote him a letter telling him all he thought of his
astronomical knowledge. In this he pays a great compliment to
., Francis Baily, A«o1'nt of tAeRe"ermtlTol,nFlllmsteetl,
published by the Royal
Observatory of Greenwich.
330 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Morinus, the French astrologer, who was also an astronomer. He
said, "You might have learnt better methods than you propose
from your countryman Morinus." Evidently the Sicur showed the
latter to the French lady and she show~ it to the king, for Charles
called for a conference with Moore and Flamsteed and the rest
of the Commission. In the course of discussion they told him that
Tycho Brahe's catalogue of stars sometimes gave an error of ten
minutes or more of longitude, whereat the king said that if the
star catalogues were wrong, ''He must have them anew observed,
examined and corrected, for the use of his seamen."
So Flamsteed writes that on March 4, 1674-5 Jonas M~
"Brought me a warrant that designated me the King's Astrono-
mer, with the allowance of only one hundred pounds per annum,
payable at the Office of the Ordnance."
The foundation of the Observatory was laid on August 10,
1675at 3:45 P.M. according to the election chart 8
which Flamstccd
set up. For some reason modern astronomers royal arc always
peeved when astrologers mention this chart. They say that Flam-
steed laughed at astrology. If he did, to some of the "new" astron-
omers who were trying to divorce astronomy from astrology, he
did not laugh at it to Sir Isaac Newton. Even Halley, who was a
very bitter opponent of astrology, found his match in New-
ton, for when Halley did, on one occasion, sneer openly at
Newton's belief in this, Newton replied with quiet dignity, "I
have studied the subject, Mr. Halley. You have not." It seemsthat
Flamsteed was very hampered in his work at the Observatory, for
though the government built it, they did not equip it. Sir Jonas
Moore gave him the sextant and the two big clocks,but the quad-
rants, telescopes and other instruments had to be paid for by
Flamsteed himself. For this reason he earned extra money by
entering Holy Orders and by reading horoscopes. Sir Isaac New-
ton (December 25,1642--March20, 1727)was intensely interested
in astrology. He thought that some of the ancient dates in history
8
s~~ Index.
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 331
might berectified by means of astrology. He wrote a book entitled
Chronology, in which he tries to do this. Some of his work here
is extremely fine, but the fault of the book is that Newton did not
differentiate sufficiently between history and myth.
That astrology flourished in the eighteenth century, we must
appreciate when we know that in the year 1786no less than nine
yearly almanacs were being published in London. Francis Moore,
a physician who had been taught astrology (including medical
astrology) by Dr. Partridge, published Old Moore's Almanack.,
which even today is probably a "best seller" in England. Its title
sounds solid and substantial. The almanac first came out under
the name of Vox Stellarum, or the Voice of the Stars, with the sub-
title The Royal Almanack, but its real success came when it
was re-named Old Moore's.
St. Germain made a big name for himself in the eighteenth
century. Whether he was a great rogue or whether he was a sin-
cere and genuine student of the occult, is a matter historians have
never yet decided. Some people ascribe almost superhuman gifts
to him. His real name may have been Joseph Balsamo, though
this has been denied. He appeared in Versailles in 1743and died
toward the end of the century. Some people say he appears on
earth from time to time, having discovered the elixir of life. If
he was an astrologer no charts or books by him are recorded,
though there are books by modern authors using the pseudonym
of St. Germain. Dumas' novels give vivid pictures of his influence
during the French Revolution.
Queen Anne, who reigned from 1702-1714,
was the last English
sovereign for whom Parliament made a grant to maintain a
Court lntelligencer. The Court Intelligencer she chose was Von
Galgebroh, a Dutchman who was remarkable for accuracy. He
spent much of his time making chartsfor her numerous confine-
ments and children. She had seventeen children, sixteen of whom
died in infancy, and the survivor, Philip, died at the age of eleven.
Von Galgebroh was asked by the queen about three years before
she died if he would give her the date of her decease. He is said
3.32 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
to have stated that August 1, 1714would be a very difficult date
for her to pass. On that day the queen died.
• I
George I, who succeeded her, reigned from 1714-1727.
He was
estranged from his wife and practically imprisoned her in a castle.
Her astrologer, Pard Zepl, became her only friend and confidant.
He did not, however, give her any hope of ever regainingher
freedom. He foretold to the day when George would die, and
said that she would die one year and one day later, which came
to pass.
The name of Alexander Pope (1688-1744)is inseparablycon--
nected with the days of Queen Anne, possiblyfrom the lines:
Here thou, great Annal whom three realms obey,
Dost sometimes counsel takc,-and sometimes tea.9
which occur in his mock-heroic poem, The Rape of the Lock,
written with a background of Rosicrucian concepts, which were
evidently quite common at the time. In his Introductory letterto
Mrs. Arabella Fermor, a lock of whose hair had beencut ofl bya
noble gallant of the time, he says:
The Rosicrucians are a people I must bring you acquainted with.
The best account I know of them is in a French book called Le Comte
de Gahalis1 which both in its title and size is so like a novel, that many
of the Fair Sex have read it for one by mistake. According to these
gentlemen the Four Elements are inhabited by Spirits, which theycall
Sylphs, Gnomes, Nymphs and Salamanders.•••
In the Rape of the Lock,
Pope compares the four groups tothe
souls of departed coquettes, assigning them correctly to theele-
ments of Earth,Air, Fire and Water:
But when the Fair in all their pride expire,
To their first Elements their Souls retire:
The Sprites of fieryTermagants in Flame
Mount up, and take a Salamander's name.
9
Pronounced then by everybody"tay...
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 333
Soft yieldingminds to Water glide away,
And sip, with Nymphs, their elemental Tea.
The graver Prude sinks downward to a Gnome,
In s~ch of mischief still on Eanh to roam,
The light Coquettes as Sylphs aloft repair,
And sport and flutter in the fieldsof Air.
In 1786Sibley and Browne collaborated and made a revision
of Whalley's English translation of the Quadripartite, but even
so, the result was not of the best. Ebenezer Sibley (1751-18oo)was
born in Edinburgh, Scotland. Apparently quite early in his astro-
logical studies, he, like Partridge, delved into the Primum Mobile
of Placidus de Titus, and was so delighted that all his succeeding
textbooks reflect the Placidean methods. He felt that all astrolo-
gers ought to know of this book, and he and his brother Manoah
( who was an excellent student of many languages) brought out
in 1789A Collection of Thirty Notable Nativities by Placidus de
Titus, Translated and Carefully Revised by M. Sibley. This book
was a very important contribution to English astrology. The prin-
ciples it contained were developed in the· nineteenth century
when John Cooper in 1816made a complete translation of the
Primum Mobile. Through the Sibley brothers and through John
Cooper the Placidean method of house division became estab-
lishedin England and in America. Sibley was also a great student
of medical astrology, and took his M.D. when he was about forty
years of age, in order that he might practise. After that, he edited
Culpeppcr's English Physician and Complete Herbal. He wrote his
Medical Mi"or, alsothe Keys to Physic and the Occult Sciences.
Others of his well-known booksare A New and Complete Illus-
tration of the Celestial Science, and Uranoscope or the Pure Lan-
guage of the Stars. Sibley is said to have been a wonderful astrol-
oger in his daily practice. He read, among others, the chart of
the young poet Chatterton and correctly predicted all the major
issues. He also taught him astrology free of charge and tried
to help him out of his morbid habits, but to no avail. Chatterton
was a precocious boywho had tried on many occasions to hoax
334 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
all kinds of literary experts with manuscripts which he forged
and, having been found out on each occasion, he was sure that th•
world was against him. Sibley encouraged him to write poctr1
instead of making forgeries. As he learned astrology he put it intc
poetical form, to please himself:
Mark where the Sun, our year completing, shines.
First the bright Ram his languid ray improves;
Next glaring wat'ry through the Bull he moves;
The am'rous Twins admit his genialray;
Now burning through the Crab he takes his way;
The Lion flaming, bears the solar power;
The Virgin faints beneath the sultry shower.
Now the just Balanceweighs with equal force;
The slimySerpent swelters in his course;
The sable Archer clouds his languid face;
The Goat with tempest urges on his race;
And in the Water his faint beams appear,
And the cold Fishes end the circling year.
Reading this over, one can find no very illuminating idea or
image. It is hardly good astrology. Comparing it with Edmund
Spenser's verses on the signs, we cannot help noting how exactly
correct Spenser's little vignettes arc, revealing a poet who knew
what he wanted to say and who had the ability to say it in poetical
language. Chatterton was evidently more interested in writing a
little poetry for his own amusement than in conveying real in-
formation in what he wrote. Of course he was only eighteen years
of age when he committed suicide, but when people say he was
a great genius, I think they exaggerate. His is typically the poetry
of immaturity.
The eighteenth century brings us a number of notable authors
who were interested in astrology,-Byron, Scott and Goethe.
Among the painters there was Varley.
John Varley (August 17, 1778-Novembcr 17, 1&p) made his
name in art and was one of the founders of the Royal Society
ol
Painters in Water Color, but his greatest hobby was astrology, and
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 335
~c have had few greater enthusiasts on the subject, or few men
w-ho could make as accurate predictions, or give as true an account
of the innate characteristics of people. Uranus was discovered dur-
ing his lifetime and Varley spent much time inserting Uranus in
his own and other people's charts, watching carefully to see what
kinds of events it provoked when it came into conjunction or
aspect with other planets,-also when affected radically by other
planets. He had evidently come to the conclusion that if Uranus
was excited by Mars, there would besudden or unexpected erup-
tions. One particular morning he announced to his family that
he would stay at home, as something very serious was going to
happen and he must bepresent when it occurred. At noon, part
of the house caught on fire. Not one bucket of water did Varley
carry, but he sat down to write notes on the effects of Uranus.
Let me quote his son Albert, who tells the story: 10
He was so delighted at having discovered what the astrological sig-
nificance of Uranus was, that he sat down while his house was burning,
knowing though he did, that he was not insured for a penny, to write
an account of his discovery. He had timed the catastrophe to a few
minutes. . . . Although he lost everything in the fire, he regarded that
as a small matter compared with his discovery of the new planet's
potentiality.
In 1819Varley was introduced by his friend Linnell to Wil-
liam Blake. As he always did when he met anyone for the first
time, Varley asked Blake for the data for his horoscope. Blake at
the time was anxious to know whether his talents were better
suited to mural paintings or to engravings. After due considera-
tion Varley told him that he would attain great fame through
engravings. A great friendship grew up between the two men and
Varley was immensely interested in all Blake's visions, asking if
he could sit with him and ask questions. Varley would ask Blake 11
if he could see, for example, the man who made the Pyramid, or
10
Life of folm Varley, by Alfred T. Story (Richard Bentley, 1894).
11
Life of Wiliam Blake, by Gilchrist (John Lane).
336 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Cleopatra, and soon Blake would be drawing what he saw. Blake
maintained that he did not see these visions objectively in space.
He always pointed his finger to his head and said, "I sec them
in here." In all, Blake made no less than fifty of these pictures for
Varley. On one occasion Varley asked if Blake could obtain a
vision of "the ghost of a flea." Blake drew a picture which looks
like a flea-man, that is, the head and neck are human, but the
lines on the face are such as a caricaturist might draw if he wished
to caricature a man whom he considered to be somewhat flcalikc.
Varley was particularly pleased with this, because at the time he
was compiling a book which he called, A Treatise on Zodiacal
Physiognomy; illustrated by Engravings of Heads and Features;
and accompanied by Tables of the •
Risingsand Settings of the
Twelve Signs of the Zodiac; and containing also new and astro-
logical explanations of some Remarkable Portions of Ancient
Mythological History.
Varley planned to publish this book in four separate parts, but
unfortunately, only the first section ever appeared. This deals
with the first three signs, Aries, Taurus and Gemini. He usedthe
"Fleaman,, as one of his illustrations for Gemini, prevailing on
Linnell to make the engraving. He probably offended all the
Gemini people he knew, by inserting this. Varley states very defi-
nitely that physical appearance depends more on the sign ascend-
ing at birth than it does on the Sun sign, and for this reason he
inserted tables of rising signs for those readers who knew the hour
of their birth. On the whole, I think Varley was right, though
I do find that some people look more like the sign in which the
ruler of the Ascendant is placed, and there are various other fac-
tors which modify appearance. Varley speaks of the four main
temperaments, and uses the types of Galen: phlegmatic, choleric,
melancholic and sanguine, in other words, the types of the four
elements. There is no record that Varley ever taught Blake any
astrology. Probably Blake with his psychic tendencies would
hardly be interested in the technique, but Varley did teach the
great explorer Sir Richard Burton, who was the first Christian to
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 337
enter the Holy City of Mecca, and he alsotaught Lord Lytton,
who wrote the occult novel, Zanoni.
Byron (1788-1824)
was quite a good astrologer. He set up his
o'Wn son's chart and quite accurately predicted the main events of
the latter's life. He wrote, in Chi/de Harold's Pilgrimage (Canto
3, LXXXVIII):
Yc stars that are the poetry of heaven,
If in your bright leaves we would read the fate
Of men and cmpires-'tis to be forgiven,
That in our aspirations to be great,
Our destinies o'erlcap their mortal state,
And claim a kindred with you; for ye arc
A beauty and a mystery, and create
In us such love, and reverence from afar,
That fonunc, fame, power, life,have named themselvesa star.
Wc must not forget that Byron wrote a play entitled Sardan-
apalus, in which he bases the plot on the betrayal of the king by
the astrologer Belescs(Belysys). In Act 2, Scene 1, he makes
Bclcscssay:
The sun goes down: methinks he sets more slowly,
Taking his last look of Assyria's empire.
How red he glares among those deepening clouds,
Like the blood he predicts! If not in vain,
Thou sun that sinkest, and ye stars which rise,
I have outwatchcd ye, reading ray by ray
The edicts of your orbs, which make Time tremble
For what he brings the nations, 'tis the furthest
Hour of Assyria's years ••• while I speak he sinks-
ls gone-and leaveshis beauty, not his knowledge,
To the ddighted West, which revds in
Its hues of dying glory. Yet what is
Death, so it be but glorious? 'Tis a sunset;
And mortals may be happy to resemble
The gods but in decay.
338 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Although Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832)wrote one of the most
fascinating novels about an astrologer, it would not appear
that he had more than an antiquarian interest in astrology. It
seems that when he wrote Guy Mannering he originally intended
to write a romance in which the star positions should bear out
the lives of his characters, but he found the idea too difficult. In
the Introduction to the novel, he remarks: "It occurred to me that
to do justice to such a subject would have required, not only more
talent than the author would be consciousof possessing,but also,
involved doctrines and discussionsof a nature too serious for his
purpose and for the character of the narrative." It would appear
to me that such a novel as Scott first thought he might write could
only be made a reality by depicting historical persons and making
actual horoscopes,and then, as he says,in order to make the astro-
logical action intelligible to the reader, one would have to appeal
either to a limited astrological public, or take too much time from
the plot to explain matters.
Goethe (1749-1832)was always interested in the old folklore,
myths and legends of early days, and in many other phases of
research, including both astrology and alchemy. These studies
were due to the early influence of his mother: 12
Together they read Paracclsus, investigated the Kabbalah, studied
alchemy and astrology, and every fascinating subject which can hdp
to render clearer the strange problem of our existence in the visible
world and our connection with the invisible. The physician and the
surgeon who attended the ddicate boy were absorbed in the same
researches, and mingled in the counsels of Frau Goethe. . • . The
physician had not studied Paracelsus in vain. It was currently whis-
pered in th~ outer circles, and frankly acknowledged in the sacred one
to which the privileged fcw belonged, that nature held the secret of a
universal medicine, which the physician had discovered. He did not
dare to make use of it, for such things were forbidden in the practice
of the day; but it was hinted that on rare occasions and in great emer-
gencies he had ventured to apply his occult knowledge with the most
12
Goetl,e's Faust, by Mary Hanford Ford (Chicago, 1897).
THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES 339
marvellous results. Goethe relates an incident of how this treasured
science was demonstrated, on one occasion,for his own benefit. He was
suffering from an acute attack of indigestion, which refused to yield
to the ordinary remedies, and threatened to result fatally. His mother
and the physician were at his bedside, and the mother, distracted over
the danger to her beloved son, insisted that the physician should, in this
case, bring forth his hidden resources and make use of the forbidden
medicine. In the dead of night, therefore, the mysterious remedy was
prepared and administered, and gave immediate relief, so that the
patient fell into a gentle slumber and wakened restored to health.
Shelley was not an astrologer in any technical sense, but he
was an excellent Greek scholar and evidently had come to the
conclusion that there .was some inner meaning in the plays of
Aeschylus. Brooding over Prometheus Bound, Shelley conceived
the interesting idea that Prometheus was a symbol of a com-
ing precessional cycle in the heavens, and personified a hero
who would displace the mighty Jupiter, ruler of the sign Sagit-
tarius. In thinking this out Shelley decided to write a play to be
called Prometheus Unbound. The Greek stories of the deaths of
Uranus and Saturn are really studies of previous precessional
ages. Uranus is now the ruler of Aquarius. He was called the
"guardian" of Aquarius by the Greeks. He was slain by Saturn,
ruler of the next precessional cycle of Capricorn. Finally, Jupiter
slew his father, Saturn.
Shelley's story, therefore, symbolizes the overthrow of Jupiter
by the Lord of Scorpio. In order to understand the astrological
significance of Prometheus Unbound, we must consider the hero
to be Lord of this sign. If I am correct in my surmises on this
matter of precessional ages, then the knowledge concerning pre-
cession, must be thousands of years older than we have suspected,
for the change of sign can only occur after 2,16oyears. Prome-
theus, in his desire to help mankind, is fabled to have originally
stolen the sacred fire from heaven, which he hid in a fennel stalk
and brought to earth. For this theft he was chained by Jupiter
to a pillar on a lofty mountain and eternally Jupiter's eagle came
340 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
and tore at his liver. Shelley opens his play at the time when
Promethcus has lost all desire for revenge on Jupiter. He even
repents of the terrible curse he had hurled against the latter.
Jove'smessengerMcrcw-yenters with a peace offer,but Promc-
theus refusesthis, not becausehe does not believein peace, but
becausehe realizesthat the rule of Jupiter is effeteand worthless,
and he (Prometheus) cannot compromisewith what is worthle9.
He must becomethe leader of the new and changing world. In
the third act, while Jupiter is boasting of his never-endingrule,
Dcmorgorgon comes and cuts his thread of destiny, and he u
dethroned.Dcmogorgondeclares:
Promcthus shall arise
Henceforth, the Sun of this rejoicing world.
At first,the world isdisappointedthat the changedocsnot give
instantaneoushappinessto mankind, but then, as the Spirit of the
Air looks into the future, she seesthat a new order is at hand,
and the Spirit of the Earth chants her great prophecyof the con-
quest of the elementsby man, while Dcmogorgongivesthe clues
to the secret whereby man shall "Rcassumean empire o'er the
disentangleddoom." He must learn:
..
To suffer woes which Hope thinks infinite;
To forgive wrongs darker than death or night;
To defy Power, which seems omnipotent;
To love and bear; to hope till Hope creates
From its own wreckthe thing it contemplates
.
Chapter 22
ASTROLOGERS
OF THE NINETEENTH AND
TWENTIETH CENTURIES
Fate is II name for facu, not yet passed under the fire of
thought; for causes whkh are unpenetrated. But every jet of
chaos which thrNtens to erterminate us is convertibleby intel-
lect inlo wholesome force. Fate is unpenetrt1tedcauses.
EMERSON, "Essay on Fate."
P
EOPLE often 3$kme whether the discoveries of Uranus, Nep-
tune and Pluto did not upset the integration of the horo-
scope so vitally that we must either admit all ancient astrol-
ogers to have been wrong, or that modern astrology is wrong in
using these new planets. I would reply that these new planets do
not "upset" astrology any more than the change from a one-
cylinder-cngine to an eight-cylinder-engine "upset" the automobile
industry,-or to use another simile,-any more than the finding
upon the earth of new metals previous}y indicated in the spectrum
"upsets" the science of metallurgy. If the spectrum changed, it
would "upset" matters, but the finding of new metals merely leads
metallurgists to readjust their current stock of knowledge.
As a matter of fact, astrologers have always expected that new
planets would hP £:->und.
To give ·a concrete instance,-Pluto was
discovered in rne year 1930.In the Belgian magazine Demain1
for April 1938,we read:
We extract from the Manualof SphericalAstrology byFormalhaut,
published by Vigot Brothers at Paris in 1897,the following line from
page 316:
"A planet exists beyondNeptune.
It will be called Pluto."
1
Dnnlli11,
editedby GustaveL Brahy,Brussels.
342 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
And Formalhaut g<;>es
on to state that after Pluto, two more new
planets will have to be discoveredI
Giving the correct name to a planet undiscovered till thirty-
three years later, was evidently psychic, but not so the fact that
new planets will have to be discovered. This indeed has been
known for ages, that in order to complete our twelve planetary
rulerships, we still need two more planets, counting the Sun and
Moon as planets for our own purposes. Contrary to popular belief,
the planetary scheme is not haphazard or invertebrate in its
assignment of rulership of signs, nor in its assignment of exalta-
tions, and it is from a schematic consideration not only of sign
rulers, but of planets in exaltation too, as they are placed in the
natural chart, that astrologers have realized that two more planets
would need to be discovered in order to complete a certain spe-
cific unity. It is this latter geometrical scheme which I would
compare with the unvarying spectrum. The matter looks simplc,-
just twelve signs and twelve planets, say our critics. Actually,the
matter issomewhat too involved and too technical to explain here.
I suppose that what I have just said will make some critics
argue that if we need twelve rulers our present astrology is faulty.
I would reply that it is not faulty so much as incomplete, in the
same sense that metallurgy is incomplete. The metallurgist knows
that he has to find more metals. As he does discover new
ones, he learns their use, and sometimes in the light of this, he has
to modify his previous concepts of the relative value of the older
known ones. Nevertheless, certain facts and factors are always
fundamental. Now, there are certain fundamentals in astrology,
also, which cannot change, but the present or past number of the
planets is not one of them. The definite application and assign-
ment of characteristics and substances to these new planets has
only been worked out during long years of continuous observa-
tion on the part of astrologers. (We have already seen how Varley
worked on Uranus.) The steady research on Uranus and Neptune
occupied the attention of astrologers all through the nineteenth
century, and their findings have enabled us to give more comprc-
ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 343
hensive and adequate readings, just as a modern orchestra gives
finer renditions than a fife and dtum band. There is another fac-
tor. The nineteenth century brought in a whole new series of
inventions that are definitely Uranian and Neptunian, but pre-
vious ages would not feel so much the lack of these two planets
in their readings. Research on Pluto still goes on. My own finding
on this is that it rules "change/' a change that marks the end of an
old conditipn and the beginning of a new. The changes brought
about by Pluto, however, are not the sudden dynamic changes
such as are brought about by Uranus. In fact, they are often unap-
prcciable for a long period, but they are nevertheless definite
ones.
The nineteenth century gave us a long line of "Raphaels" and
"Zadkiels." Among the "Raphaels" were Robert C. Smith born
March 3, 1795,John Palmer born May 28, 18o2,Mr. Wakeley born
May 10,1814,and R. W. Cross born May 15,1850.The most illus-
trious of the "Zadkiels" were Commander Richard James Morri-
son born June 15,1793,and Alfred J. Pearce born November 10,
1840,son of Doctor C. T. Pearce born August 11,1815,also a fine
astrologer.
If the seraphic titles of the nineteenth century astrologers irri-
tate some people, these men had at least the same right to take
upon themselves pseudonymns or any name they chose, as have
actors and writers to use whatever name they please, or as some
of the mediaeval scholars had to use such titles as Angelic Doctor,
Seraphic Doctor or Subtle Doctor, or as Philippus Aureolus Theo-
phrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim had to call himself merely
Paracelsus.
The first Zadkiel, Commander R. J.Morrison, was very suc-
cessful in predicting earthquakes from his knowledge of astrology.
In the Zadk._iel
Almanack for 1853(which was published, as most
almanacs are, in the summer or fall previous to the year which
bears the date) he made mention of the total eclipse of June 6,
1853,and among the predictions of probabilities which he deduced
from the position of that eclipse, we find:
344 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
As Mars and Saturn arc in Taurus in the precedent angle of the
eclipse at Panama, I have no doubt there will be a fearful amount of
earthquakes there and also about the isthmus of Darien, the shocks
extending to Carthagena, along the northern coast of South America,
to Honduras and California, Florida, etc., and the West Indies. These
events may be looked for in July, 1853,about the 16thday.
This was quite a bold and definite prediction. On the sixteenth
day of July 1853,there was a terrific earthquake at Curoana on
the Spanish Main.
Commander Morrison was the Zadkiclwho publisheda new
edition of Lilly's Introduction to Astrology, as we have noted pre-
viously. In his own Grammar of Astrology he incorporated vari-
ous tables for calculating nativities, and instructions in Primary
directions. He alsowrote a Handbook of Astrology, in two vol-
umes. Before he published Zadkiel's Almanack he brought out a
periodical named Horoscope, which, however, was soon discon-
tinued.
Alfred J. Pearce (born Nov. 10,1840)was editor of Zadlcid's
A/manacle, of Starlore and of The Future. His textbook on astrol-
ogy isstill a standard textbook for all advanced students. Possibly
Pcarce's book and Simmonite's Complete Arcana arc the out-
standing advanced textbooks on the subject John Story, in his
Introduction to a reprint of the Arcana, wrote as follows:
Dr. Simmonite was the master of astrology in his day•••• The
book will ever stand in the first rank with all students of astrological
lore. Generations shall pass away, and the centuries roll on, but this
work shall endure and remain; remain as a preacher of laws, as a
teacher of truth, and as an evidence of the power of times and seasons.
The first Raphael, Robert C. Smith (1795-1832),
edited TAt
Straggling Astrologer, an annual which had a large sale. He
influenced one of the first women astrologers to go into print,-
Olive, Princess of Cumberland. She wrote on the effectsof the
Jupiter-Satwn conjunctions in previous eras of world history.
Raphael's best known venture, Raphael'sAlmanack and Pro-
ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 345
phetic Messenger,made its first appearance in 1820,and it con-
tinues to the present day. His Manualof Astrology has been
reprinted frequently ever since it was first published in 1828.By
thetime Raphael VI was the editor, astrology was well developed
in America under Dr. L. D. Broughton and W. H. Chaney, and
we come to the stormy fights between Chaney and "Jim" Cross,
which we shall speakof later.
Then there was Zuriel (John Wheeler), who wrote Lectures on
the Science of CelestialPhilosophy in 1835.Among other things
he deals at great length with the Jupiter-Saturn conjunction
which would establish itselfin the earth trigon in 1842.This was
the conjunction that reveals to astrologers the major conditions
of the world for the following 240 years, that is, until 208oA.D.
Zwicl spoke of vast changes that would be brought about in war-
fare during this period, due to the fact that Uranus, planet of
invention, was conjunct Mars the planet of war. He said that new
weapons would be invented which would be entirely different
from any known in his day. He also said that the government of
India was due for radical changes all through this 240-ycarperiod.
On both these matters, Zuricl, thus far, has been entirely right.
He alsogave illustrations of how these conjunctions work out
in the history of buildings that have stood for centuries. Again he
refers to the Jupiter-Saturn conjunction of 18o2as having made a
conjunction with Mars, in Napoleon's chart, thereby proving to
the astrologers of 1802that Napoleon's power would not last
through the twenty-year cycle inaugurated in 18o2.I think this
is an important matter, showing that if an individual's chart does
not harmonize with world cycles,his power isbroken in the cycle,
though not necessarily at the inception of the cycle. The actual
time would more readily be derived from the individual's own
horoscope.
Raphael VI, R. W. Cross, was born May 15,1850.He says in
one of his books that he started to learn astrology when he was
twelve years of age, and that when he was eighteen he met the
astrologer Merlinus, who was the editor of an almanac called
346 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY .A.NDINFLUENCE
The Astrologer of the Nineteenth Century. They were good
friends for two years, till Merlinus died. Cross became editor of
Raphael's on his twenty-fifth birthday.
Neptune, or R.H. Penny, was one who viewed with alarm the
possibility of terrific wars during the twentieth century. In a let-
ter which he wrote to Modern Astrology in 1901,he states that
the fault of the nations is that they did not endorse the Great Uni-
versal Peace Plan proposed by the Czar of Russia, and openly said
it would not be many years before the world would live to regret
this non-endorsement. How right he has beenI
In the middle of the century two American astrologers came
to the front, Doctor L. D. Broughton and W. H. Chaney, the latter
a student of the former. Len D. Broughton (April 28, 1828-
September 22, 1899)was a descendant of a long line of doctors
who were also astrologers. His Manual of Astrology (18g8)is also
the story of his life and provides an interesting commentary on
the bigotry that existed in New York in his time. He tells how
mobs of violent people stormed his house merely because ·he
thought that human destiny was shown by the stars. He gives
some very valuable information on preceding astrologers, and a
list of the astroJogical books in his library. He speaks of Wors-
dale's prediction, made eleven years before the Battle of Waterloo,
to the effect that if ever Napoleon and Wellington met on the
field of battle, Napoleon would be defeated. Broughton also gives
an account of American astrology and astrological publications.
He says:
When I published Broughton's Monthly Planet Reader and Astro-
logicalJournal forty years ago, it was the only monthly periodical of
its kind in the world, or at least in the English language . . . and prob-
ably at that period there were not twenty persons that knew enough of
astrology to be .able to erect a horoscope, and they were all either
French, English or German.... At the present time there are many
thousand American people who are studying astrology.... The Prog-
nostic Star Gazer, published in Boston, Massachusetts, also the
Dreamer, published in the Western States, are both inclined towards
ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 347
astrology. The New York Sunday Mercury has devoted a column
every week, for years, to astrology. The New York Waverly devotes
two columns every week, and the Elmira Tidings also devotes a col-
umn a week. . . • My brothers, Matthew and Mark, were expert
mathematicians and skilled astrologists; they came to America a few
years before I did, and both practised astrology in Philadelphia. My
brother Mark published a monthly periodical for years, called The
Horoscope; also an astrological ephemeris.2
Broughton also refers to the fact that Joseph G. Dalton had
started to publish ephemerides in America, and that he had some-
time previously brought out the best Table of Houses. "Mr. Dal-
ton," he says, "is one of the most learned mathematicians in the
United States."
Among Broughton's pupils WasW. H. Chancy, a fine mathe-
matician, who had been a governmental surveyor, editor of vari-
ow newspapers, a lawyer and district attorney in Iowa and also
in Maine. When he became proficient in astrology he wrote his
Primer, and other books,laying great stresson Primary Directions.
Like Broughton, his books arc filled with episodes from his own
life. It appears that when he was in New York, he was arrested
on what he, as a lawyer, termed an unjust charge, and spent six
months in prison, bail being refused. Chan~y in one of his books
makes some very acid remarks on the BossTweed administration
of the time. However, he decided to leave New York for good
when he was free. He spent the last years of his life revising and
correcting Holdsworth's Ephemeridesof 18oo-1850,
and then con-
tinuing with planetary positionsup to 1877.Broughton givessome
idea of the labor which Chaney expended on this, and also of
what Holdsworth originally went through. He says,"No one who
does not understand astrology and mathematical astronomy, can
have any idea of the amount of labor it took to calculate back for
fiftyor a hundred years,the longitude, latitude and declination of
the Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn and the planet
a Len D. Broughton, Manual of Astrology (1898).
348 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
Uranus, to the degree and minute for each day in the year; also
the longitude, declination and right ascension of the Sun, in
degrees and minutes for each day for that length of time. Mr.
Holdsworth in some of his calculations had Mr.W. J.Sim.monitc,
who had an academy in Sheffield,England, to assisthim. Mr.Sim-
monitc was the most learned and gentlemanly astrologer that
England ever knew. He wrote, spoke and taught eight different
languages; besides being a thorough scholar and mathematician."
As I understand the matter, Holdsworth's Ephemerideswere
based on White's Ephemerides,which ran from 18oo-1856.
These,
together with Raphael's, and some of Parker's, were the main
sources for planetary positions in the first half of the nineteenth
century. Orion's Almanac also carried ephemerides, as did ud-
kiel's, but these two almanacs are now incorporated in Raphael's.
Chaney had a great respect for Zadkiel (Commander Morri-
son), but none for any of the Raphaels, nor for Olney Richmond,
nor for Frederick White. Most of the astrologers I have known,
however, speak in terms of very great respect of Frederick White,
who died in 1940.Other pet aversions of Chaney were people
who wrote on Solar Biology and people who used Heliocentric
positions of the planets.
Among Dr. Broughton's students in New York City was Cath-
erine V. Thompson (born April 10,1858),who later became the
foremost astrologer of Boston, able to command a whole page of
a Boston newspaper whenever she felt she had some important
astrological message on the affairs of the world. Her most valuable
contribution to astrology was a magazine entitled The Sphinr. It
was from Catherine Thompson in Boston that Evangeline Adams
(1865-1932)took many lessons in astrology, though Dr. J.Heber
Smith was also one of her tutors and a great inspiration in her
work. Dr. Smith used astrology in his prison work. A man with
broad basic sympathies for his fellow-man in unfortunate circum-
stances, he astrologized each inmate he treated, striving to find
out the basic emotional problem at the root of the crime he had
committed. Astrology lends itself readily to thiswork, for thepat-
.ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 349
tern of a man's emotional complexes is revealed without the
endless questioning that the modern psychiatrist, psycho-analyst
and psychologist has to make, unless he, like Jung, is also an
astrologer. Evangeline Adams was not only an exponent of
astrology but of palmistry, and in giving her readings she would
often, at the close, look for a moment at her client's hands.
After all, are we not part of a great unity in which each separate
part is valuable in estimating the whole? I have met, at various
times, many hundreds of Evangelinc's clients, and find that more
than ninety per cent of them still speak of her with gratitude and
admiration. Apparently she solved some problem that was trou-
bling them very deeply. That she did not please all is some-
thing that everyone who has ever lived has had to face. Some
even criticized her for charging for her services,but Evangeline
Adams left no fortune and always lived economically.If, with her
splendid mentality and business capacity, she had worked in
almost any other business or profession, she would have made
much more money.
Not so·well known by the general public, but an astrologer of
commanding proportions in America, was John Hazelrigg, who
died at an advanced age in 1941.One might call him the Astrolo-
gers' Astrologer. He discovered many interesting factors con-
cerning the Jupiter-Saturn Conjunctions, and other planetary
cycles, especially as they have affected, and will affect, the
United States in particular. In the early days of the twentieth cen-
tury he wrote foretelling that the passage of Uranus through the
sign Gemini (1940-1949),would coincide with a major war and
with great economic upheavals. Broughton also foretold this.
Alan Leo (186o-1917)was brought up in a Scottish Calvinistic
family. Later, he studied both astrology and theosophy. His text-
books on astrology reflect his theosophical interests, a matter
which apparently irritates certain astrologers who do not believe
in theosophy. As one reads his booksone isreminded of the Neo-
Platonic theories on "Emanations." However, Alan Leo was a
very profound astrologer and mathematician, who travelled all
350 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
over the world, to India and to China, to confer with astrologers
of various systems. His "six big" booksarc still standard authori-
ties on all matters pertaining to astrological mathematics and to
the technique of interpretation. The "six big" books include
Astrology for All, Casting the Horoscope, The ProgressedHoro-
scope, The Key to Your Own Nativity, How to Judge a Nativity,
and The Art of Synthesis. Besidesthese, he wrote Esoteric Astrol-
ogy, and also about twenty smaller manuals, all of which are val-
uable. Alan Leo was a very lovable personality who had thegift
of drawing all kinds of people around him, and among these
many of very high intellectual calibre, who were prepared to study
astrology, which meant that they took up all phases of higher
mathematics, spherical geometry and astronomy, in order that they
might understand thoroughly what they were actually doing
when they made horoscopes. Through Alan Leo's work, and that
of his friends and followers, a very definite revival of interest took
place, with ever-widening circles of devotees, among them some
of the best brains in the country. His wife, BessieLeo, was asso-
ciated with him in his work. His sub-editor, Aphorel, was largely
responsible for all the labor entailed in tabulating and editing the
Thousand and One Notable Nativities. Alan Leo died broken-
hearted over a law-suit that was brought against him.
Sepharial, Walter Gornold (1864-1930),
was definitely opposed
to the mixing of theosophical and astrological doctrines, and
always stated that he was a Christian, and that he saw no reason
for astrology not being associated with Christian concepts. He was
a most prolific writer, alld an astronomer as well as an astrologer.
At one time he was a member of the Royal Astronomical Society,
having been introduced to that body by H. M. Christie, then the
astronomer-royal, but later Sepharial was asked to resign for wing
the letters F.R.A.S. in his astrological advertising. He resigned but
reminded the members of what the societyowed to its early astro-
logical members. Camille Flammarion then sponsored his mem-
bership in the Societe Astronomique de France. Sepharial was
also a member of the Astronomical Society of Great Britain, con-
ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 351
tinuing in this membership until his death. Some of Sepharial's
predictions are very well known. When the date of the coronation
of Edward VII was announced, Sepharial drew a horoscope and
announced that the coronation would have to be postponed. It
was postponed because of the illness of Edward. He also prophe-
sied the last war and he further prophesied various labor strikes. I
might also mention that Raphael's Almanac, too, predicted the
last war. Now, Raphael's Almanac is on sale in the August pre-
ceding the year for which predictions are made, and these predic-
tions are usually compiled during the early months of a year. Thus
the 1914Almanac, which carries the predictions of war, was made
in early 1914. The 1915Almanac was on sale before the British
declared· war in early August 1914,and yet the Almanac carried
predictions of war.
I have sometimes seen it stated that Flammarion was an astrol-
oger. This, I think, is an overstatement. Flammarion was intensely
interested in psychicphenomena, writing many books on this sub-
ject, and he was interested in all phases of prediction. i-le had
several astrologicalfriends, but he was not an astrologer. He wrote
a Preface to Ely Star's Les Mysteres de /'Horoscope (1887) in
which he says astronomers do not any longer believe in judicial
or in kabbalistic astrology. Astrology was original}y based on a
concept that man was the supreme object of creation, and created
in the iiµage of God,-a matter which he personally believes,-
but sinceastronomers have found out that our earth and our whole
planetary system is.just a speck in the midst of millions of plane-
tary systems,it is increasingly difficultfor·astronomers to continue
believing in planetary influence on human beings. The qualities
necessary for astrologers, he observes, would have to be increas-
ingly great, to allow for the vastnessof the universe. On the other
hand, he says,although man has always had a very high opinion
of himself and of his intellectual powers, the fact remains that
out of a million people, nine hundred and ninety thousand spend
their time on beefsteaks, wine or beer, fighting, gambling, poli-
tics, etc., and few indeed of the remaining thousand spend their
352 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
time thinking of the vast problems of human destiny, therefore
anyone who can draw men away from their low interests to mecfi..
tate on the immense problems of life, is rendering a great service
to mankind, and for this reason he wishes the greatest successto
Ely Star's book, and ends by saying that if he were an astrologer,
he would want to predict successfor it.
A. G. Trent was the pseudonym of Dr. Richard Garnett (born
1835),who was on the staff of the British Museum. Being inter-
ested in astrology, he delved considerably into the tremendous
stores of astrological books at the Museum and gave out a great
number of old charts.He contributed in 1884to the University
Magazine, and in 1894some of his material was collected into a
book called The Soul and the Stars. In this book Dr. Garnett
stated that the people still need to be taught to regard astrology
as a definitely empirical science,because the public has been told
for so many years to regard the astrologer as a kind of wizard. He
thought the best way to offset this wrong opinion that there was
something "occult" about astrology, was to compile statistical
data, and he himself proceeded to show how he had compiled
some of this material on the planet Mercury and its relationship
both to mental ability and to mental instability. In spite of his
very sound advice, no statistical group of any consequence was
formed in England during his lifetime, and in fact none was
formed in France until Paul Choisnard, a French engineer (born
Feb. 13,1857),led the way. To Choisnard, more than to anyone
else, the present French and European statistical groups owe their
being. He found that there was a definite idea that St. Thomas
Aquinas was opposed to astrology, hence one of his first tasks
was to find out what St. Thomas actually did say. He found that
St. Thomas opposed fatalism, but not an astrology that allowed
free will. Choisnard agreed with St. Thomas, saying that he
(Choisnard), as an engineer, knew that nothing in this world is
one hundred per cent certain, but that by using statisticsastrologers
could find percentages of cases wherein matters would work out
as the old astrologers had demonstrated. Hence, he said we shQuld
ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 353
find out what these percentages are. One of hisfirst researcheswas
on heredity. Astrologers say that the birthchart of a child has
resemblances to that of a parent, so Choisnard collected several
thousand parents' and children's charts and tabulated the resem-
blances under different headings,-planets in the same sign, plan-
ets in the same houses, aspects between planets, etc. From the
result he deduced his law that a child is born on the day in the year
when the heavens are most similar to the heavens at the birth of
the father. Choisnard then went on to state what astrologers could
do almost with certainty (if they really were astrologers and not
pretenders to the art), and what they could not do. He said that
an astrologer might find some difficultyin estimating how famous
a person would become, but that if seven chartswere given to an
astrologer, with the statement that all seven were members of a
particular profession, and six were of mediocre standing while
the seventh was famous, the astrologer would have little or no
difficulty in picking out the chart of the famous one. Altogether
Choisnard wrote about twenty books to prove his contentions.
Probably the most popular is L'lnfluence Astrale et les Probabili-
tes. Choisnard attracted to himself a very large number of other
engineers and also of doctors, so that even after his death the
work of compiling statisticsstill went on. Many American astrol-
ogers, too, have worked in this statistical way, and the results have
done much to determine whether the ancient astrological rules
are right or not. In most casesthe percentages have been in favor
of the old rules, and while there have been some cases in which
statistics have contradicted old rules, it does not prove that the
whole scienceis wrong, but only that a few rules were made with-
out sufficientevidence.In any case,a clarification of rules has been
inaugurated which can only lead to greater confidence.
In his researches Choisnard "discovered" that nearly all the old
masters read the future in the light of the character of the indi-
vidual. In fact the phrase "Character is destiny" is an astrological
phrase. He reminded his followers that the old astrologers always
regarded aspectsfrom two points of view:
354 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE ,
(1) Celestial aspects-that is, aspects conceived as existing between
planets in one heavenly sign of the zodiac and planets in another heav-
enly sign.
(2) Terrestial aspects-that is, those conceived as existing between
planets in one particular house of the horoscope and planets in another
house of the horoscope.
The celestial aspects are those which relate to character (among
other things). For example, let us take Mercury in the sign Aries
trine Mars in the sign Sagittarius. With regard to character this
would make for a very outspoken, dynamic person with mechan-
ical ingenuity and some love of travel. But whether the person
will become an engineer or not will depend on the terrcstial
estate of the aspect. In fact, he might not be an engineer at all. He
could be a surgeon or a fighting parson. The same mental aggres-
siveness would be used in all these three professions. The astrol-
oger would have to look at the "terrcstial estate" of the aspect,
and note in what houses it occurs in order to make his decision.
The specific profession then is conditioned by the time factor
of birth. In any case, when deciding upon a profession the astrolo-
ger has to read the whole chart. He has to find out if the parents
will co-operate in helping the child, whether they have the money
for a university training, whether the child hjmself will be able to
make money at the work he likes, or whether he might not do
this work as a hobby, and earn his money in some other way. No
one can say definitely from just one aspect in a chart what the
profession is. Astrology is a very complex subject when properly
studied. It is as complex as life itself.
At the European Convention of Astrologers (Paris, 1937), one
doctor presented copious statistics on mental disorders, but in mak-
ing his comments on the horoscopes of these cases,he said that no
one could take the horoscope of a new-born child, and seeing the
aspects, say definitely that the child would go insane. But he
added, if insanity had set in, then he could diagnose from the horo-
scope the particular form in which that insanity would express
ASTROLOGERS OF MODERN TIMES 355
itself. I think all these clear-cut statements of what a horoscope
can show and what it cannot show, are most important.
I gathered that the European statistical groups were not partiru-
larl y interested in making predictions. Not that they did not think
prediction feasible, but that they felt their own particular work
lay along statistical lines, such as would enable them to formulate
laws and statements which in time would make the predictive
art a more certain one.
Of course, many of the matters they are working on have been
known to astrologers from time immemorial. However, when the
followers of Choisnard tabulate thousands of cases and compile
their data, then astrology becomes "scientific." If one asks me
what of the future of astrology, I would say that, with all this
research, there is no reason why astrology in time should not be
recognized as a very fine empirical science. I note some of our
critics still laugh at the idea of astrology being scientific,-but is
there any more scientific way of investigating astrology than that
conceived by Choisnard? Astrologers do all their research with-
out money grants, and always in their spare time, and under most
severe criticism. Our critics when they start "investigating" have
not enough foundation for such work. I know merely enough
about electricity to press a button when I want to "investigate"
if a new toaster is rightly constructed. I know merely enough
about a telephone to lift the receiver if I want to "investigate"
whether my telephone is working correctly. But I should be
laughed at if I asked for an assignment to investigate the equip-
ment. "Investigators" of astrology have usually as much knowl-
edge about astrology as I have about the construction of a tele-
phone. Their usual grandiose statement is,"You tell me • • ., and
I'll know if astrology is a fake or not." It is tragic but true. The
only way to find out if astrology is true or not is to take a few
years of your life and study it. What is the use of arguing that
some dear old somebody in the past,-Dcan Swift,-or anybody
clse,-wrote against astrology? What did he know about it?
Personal opinions have to stand the test of scientific facts. Chois-
356 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
nard paved the way for astrology to be presented in the same
scientific manner used for any other empirical science. Needless
to say, the amount of work ·still to be tackled is truly enormous,
but in time, as births are recorded more accurately, the numberless
students who arc delving into astrology and working sincerely,
will present the world with more and more definite proofs, that
among the thousands of charts they have studied, there is justifica.-
tion for saying that astrology is, and ever was, a real science.
To my mind, most people who call themselves scientists are
rather tabulators, accountants and bookkeepers of their subjcct,-
custodians and librarians of what greater minds have discovered.
It is, and ever will be so, in astrology too. But let us never forget
that astrology is an art, and the work of art is to inspire and to
create vision. Just as a great artist-architect looks at a plot of
ground and envisions a noble structure there, and then proceeds
to construct plans as to how to make it real,-or as a gardener
looks at a plot of ground and sees how a garden fit for the gods
can be made there, so should an astrologer look at a chart, and
awaken vision in his client of what is there, and what can be
made of the qualities, potentialities and powers that are innate
in the mind and soul of the client. Only when vision and imagina--
tion come into play can life and circumstances be adjusted and
grow into something that is beautiful and radiant.
..
"''l,•
~ "
-. ••
)'
••
-
POSITIVE
ELECTRIC!
1111111-
CAUSE
MARS
PLAN ET
FORCE
-----~
----- . ,
--- ~ ----
-- ---
--~,~:~.,..
....
ATOMIC
FORCE
---•---
---- ----
--- ---
EFFECT
NEGATIVE
ELECTRICITY
--
CAUSE
EXPLORING TIME WITH ASTROLOGY
Astrology is, so to speak, a first knocking at the
Door of the Inscrutable.
SEPHARIAL
T
HE REASON why I am an astrologer is because I believe
in the Pragmatic Doctrine of, "Try it, for it works!" My
own concept of Astrology is that it is the exploration of
Time, or the effort to obtain the content of any given moment,-
for one moment in time has not the same potentiality as another.
I plan in this chapter to demonstrate that Astrology does work,
and that it reveals what is apparently locked within Time. After
due consideration I have decided to present my proofs through
the medium of Mundane Astrology rather than through the
medium of Personal Astrology, because for some reason, which
I will allow my readers to fathom for themselves, countries act
357
358 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
with less free will than individuals, so that the influence of the
stars on nations,-or the coincidence of difficult planetary posi-
tions with the aflairs of nations,-is more obvious and more
irrefutable. A man may deny he fought with his wife, but a
nation cannot deny that a war has taken place. Practically every--
thing in this chapter was predicted in advance of its happening.
Practically everything has been a subject of discussion in my
astrological classes,months and years even ahead of its unfolding
in time. There is no necessity for any of my readers to believe
this. I merely ask you to note the coincidence of events with
astronomical factors related to geographical longitudes and areas,
as interpreted by an astrologer.
Since the action of Mars is always very apparent, I think it
wise to present first all the Mar~Satum Conjunctions since 1934-
Thcse two planets conjunct, or move into the same degree of
longitude, about every two years. If there is going to be a war,
charts set up for these conjunctions reveal where the war will
happen. But,-and this is most important,-it is peoples and
rulers, not planets, who make wars. There£ore when I, as an
astrologer, look ahead and note where the destructive force of
these conjunctions will hover, I do not predict a war unless the
chart of a ruler of a country, or the chart of some country itself
also predicates war.
The fact that every Mars-Saturn Conjunction does not bring
war somewhere is due to wisdom on the part of rulers,--even
if wisdom sometimes sinks so low as to become little more than
selfish diplomacy.
Everyone knows Mars isthe war planet, but not everyone knows
that Saturn is the planet of government. So, since wars arc
necessarily fights organized by governments, we have to take
particular cognizance of these two planets when predicting wars.
We first note the sign in which they make their longitudinal
alignment. Ptolemy and others plotted out the astrological signs
for the nations known at that time, and so far I see no reason
.tosay they were wrong in their assignments. Russia and Ethiopia
EXPLORING TIME WITH ASTROLOGY 359
·
were assigned to Aquarius. Consequently, when Mars and Saturn
conjuncted in Aquarius on January 17, 1934,it seemed logical to
think of these two countries. But who was interested in Ethiopia
then? Who cared if it did have a war? What had that to do
with us? Our indifference led to a war of conquest there, with
terrific repercussionssince.Wars do not as a rule break out imme-
diatdy the conjunction takes place. It will depend on the rest of
the chart Certain planets have to take their established time to
move into danger zones, before any first shot is fired. The war
against Ethiopia broke out October 3, 1935.On the latter date
Mars, the war lord, had moved into 12 degrees Sagittarius, into
the danger zone of an exact square of 12 degrees Virgo,-the
position of Neptune in the 1934Mars-Saturn Conjunction horo-
scope. Any astrological textbook will tell you that a square, con-
junction, or opposition of planets, will bring matters to a head.
They are aspectsof action.
But, you ask, why didn't Russia have a war between 1934and
1936? You will note in the two charts that we set up in our
Appendix I, that the placement of planets is different in differ-
ent parts of the world. Russia had plenty of internal trouble
but no war. However, an anti-Comintern Pact was signed against
her by Italy, Germany and Japan. That this pact could not last
was most apparent as soon as a horoscope was drawn up for its
date and time. The Third House rules signatures, and there was
posited a retrograding Saturn in oppositionto the tricky Neptune.
Somebody would slide out! The pact weakened when an eclipse
hit the fourth cusp,-the cusp of the house of endings. It collapsed
when Mars came to the square.
The next Mars-Saturn Conjunction was on January 25, 1936.
Both planets lay in opposition to Neptune, a very dangerous posi-
tion, for Neptune's wiliness always involves more people and
conditions than are immediately apparent. In setting up charts to
see where this opposition would lie, I found that Mars-Saturn lay
at the Nadir of a chart drawn for about 28degreeswest longitude,
that is, in the Atlantic Ocean, but Neptune hovered over about 20
300 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
degrees west,-near the Canary Islands. I had always thought of
the Canary Islands as constituting a charming winter resort
for elderly invalids, so unfortunately, paid little attention to this
chart. I set up another chart for Madrid, as being the nearest
possible storm ccnter. In this, Jupiter was rising in the square of
Neptune. Surely there was grave danger here. In a lecture given
January 6, 1936,I stated that one could expect extraordinary hap-
penings in Spain that year,that revolution was due and that the
Fascist element was stronger than one might suppose in a Repub-
licannation. As a matter of fact, I was so distressed over this 19_36
Conjunction that I went so far as to say that all Europe would be
involved, and that nations which had managed tp maintain their
neutrality in the last war would not be able to maintain it in the
coming war. Since the Mars-Saturn Conjunction was overhead in
the Pacific, from this and other charts I stated that Japan was
about to fight in the East.
Some people have said I was wrong in my statements. Others
have said I was not so wrong, after all. The war for a while was
"localized" in Spain.
When Franco arrived on the sc~e in Spain, I read in the news-
papers that he had taken an aeroplane from the Canary Islands,
where he had beenmore or less in exile or disgrace for some time,
to Morocco, where the revolt broke out, before he stormed Spain I
So the chart was right, after all. It was in the Canary Islands that
some of the subversive activities against the Republic were being
hatched.
The Sino-Japanese War broke out sporadicallyin 1936and in
real earnest in 1937.
I want you to realize that the wars of these two Mars-Saturn
Conjunctions, were wars in which Neptune played a part, as well
as Mars. And haven't we all been involved ever since? Fighting
Neptune is like fighting the dreaded Lernean hydra of old, with
its nine heads. When one head is lopped off, two other heads grow
in its place!
The Mars-Saturn Conjunction of February 1, 1938 stayed in
EXPLORING TIME WITH ASTROLOGY 361
force until February 11, 1940. It £di exactly over Warsaw. In
astrology we allow orbs, or spheres of influence, on each side of
the longitude where the conjunction is located. I have discovered
in the course of research that one can allow over 10 degrees at
least, on each side of the conjunction. This ison the principle that
if your next-door ncighbor's house rocks, your own is likely to
rock too. Warsaw is 21 degrees east longitude, hence this 1938
Conjunction was due to affect Germany, Italy, Czechoslovakia,
Austria, Hungary, Albania, Jugoslavia, Poland, Bulgaria, Greece,
Latvia, Finland, and Roumania, Benghazi in Libya and Cape
Town, all with capitals lying between 12 and 26 degrees cast
longitude. Here is the record of this Conjunction (see Diagram
14):
Mars disturbing Uranus, March 12-13,Austria £di.
Lunation opposite the Conjunction, Munich Conference.
Mars transitting Neptune, October 12, 1938,Sudetenland
fdl.
Mars opposing Satwn, Nov~bcr 13,1938,religious perse-
cution in Germany.
Mars transitting the square of Neptune, March 15, 1939,
Czechoslovakia fell.
Jupiter transitting the opposition of Neptune, April 6,
1939,Albania fell.
Furthermore, if this 1938Conjunction isset for Berlin,we find
24 degrees Capricorn on the Descendant. Hitler started the war on
Poland when Mars was exactly 24degrees Capricorn.
How was it possible to foresee that Norway would get into the
war? As a matter of fact, this was veryeasyto prognosticate after
looking at•the February 11, 1940 Conjunction of Mars and Saturn.
The ruler of the Midheaven was Neptune, fallen helpless down on
the Nadir,-revcaling the fall of the king and government, with
possible exile, also danger from overseas and strangers lodged in
the homeland. I computed this particular chart in August 1939as
soon as Raphael's Ephemeris was available. I did this because I
MARCH 12
MARI CONJUNCT
URANUS
SEPT 211938
LUNATION
0° LIBRA
OPPOSITE
'MARSA.NDSATURN
APRIL 6 1919
JUPITER
OPPOIITION
NIPTUNI.
ALAANIA
11&1.L
MAACHISIOl9
MARS S~UARI
NEPTUNE
-
CZECHOSLOVAKIA
FELL
&UDETINLANO
FELL
MARS 24•
CAPRI CORM
-
8RITAIN FRAHCI
DECLARE
WAR
SEPT18S8
SEf'T 191•
PftOSReMIO NOON
REACHESTHI
CONJUNCTION
-
GUU4A.,V
•NTERS
POi.AND
DIAGRAM 14. Highlights of the Mars-Saturn C:Onjunction of Feb-
ruary 1, 1938.
EXPLORING TIME WITH ASTROLOGY 363
had previously been looking at the horoscope of the King of
Norway and had found it to be in such a difficult state that I
wanted some outside confirmation of what I saw. The Conjunc-
tion chart confirmed my suspicion that he was due to lose his
throne. Incidentally, my prediction on this helped to convert an
astronomer into an astrologerI
When I say that a conjunction of Mars and Saturn is in force
for two years, I mean as a motivating force. I do not mean that
the effects cease after two years. A person might be due for an
accident within a period of two years, but if the accident is seri-
ous he may feel the effect of that accident all the rest of his life.
So it is with countries,-the danger is lurking or manifesting
during two years,but to saythat after the event the people are out
of danger and everybody happy would be foolish.
The 1940 Mars-Saturn Conjunction of February 11 fell over 40
degrees east longitude, affecting Russia, the Caucasus, Syria, and
Aden at the entrance to the Red Sea, together with the Somali-
lands and Madagascar. The Russian War broke out June 22, 1941
when Mars reached the opposition of Neptune, an aspect herald-
ing the fact that the world was getting more and more involved.
It is the influence.of Neptune in this chart that distorts all facts
and figures connected with this war; that keeps us all guessing;
that has caused all the military experts to make the statements
that they have made, from the inception of the Russian War; that
led various people to say Leningrad and Moscow could not
hold out, when the astrological assurancewas that however much
appearances might be against these two cities, reality was all
against appearance. When the Russians look most defeated, then
under this Mars-opposition-Neptuneaspect,are they most danger-
ous. Mars (Germany), starting the war in the sign Pisces, was
making a beginning in a sign of endingsIA fire planet in a water
sign shows their ardor will be dampened,-and opposite N~ptune,
eventual ruin. It shows that the Russianswill use tacticsunknown
before. When one expects them here, they will be there. On the
other hand, it isimpossibleto predict a clean-cut victory for either
364 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY A.ND INFLUENCE
side. It is a war of exhaustion, in which neither side can gain any-
thing materially, not even if the Germans break through the
southern front in 1942, into Palestine and Syria. Until this Russian
war, Hitler had started every campaign under good aspects. This
was the first time that, astrologically speaking, he made a fatal
mistake. Every single astrological rule for success was violated.
The Moon was decreasing in light. Mercury was retrograding, and
Mars was opposite Neptune. The war will involve the whole
world but, started at such a time, it cannot be won by Hitler.
In the English chart set for this 1940 Mars-Saturn Conjunction,
Mars and Saturn lay in the eleventh house, foreshadowing storms
in Parliament and a new Prime Minister. Malefics in the eleventh
house also foretold disasters, losses and deaths among friends and
allies. You know the facts. Uranus there, however, revealed a new
ally. Uranus rules Aquarius, the sign of Russia. It also rules
Ethiopia, hence logically, both countries might become allies.
When I mentioned Ethiopia back on the side of Britain no one
seemed to get excited, but when I said Russia might become an
ally, I was immediately accused of ''wishful thinking," and told
that such a thing was stupid even to dream of in all these predic-
tions on the war. One matter must not be forgotten. In the chart
set for the Declaration of War. by Great Britain, the planet Uranus
was in the seventh house of allies and open enemies, showing that
there would becontinual shifts both of allies and foes,-unexpectcd
or drastic divorces, and unexpected new alliances and agreements.
Coming to this same Conj~ction set for Washington, we find
Venus rising almost exactly in Pisces,-some of the people dream-
ing a chimeric dream of a peace which is all illusion,---crying
"Peace, peace, when there is no peace." It is opposed by the wily
Neptune, increasing the Utopian nature of the dream. If this were
the chart of a client, I should say, "Lady, lady, do be careful. He
does not mean what he says." Fortunately, Mars and Saturn rise
after Venus, showing the other side of the picture, and what
another part of the nation 1s doing,-preparing and arming with
all the force, energy and might of Mars in its most courageous
URANUS,RUL&IIOP TIii
9TN HOUSE OF POft&l&N
AFFAJRS DISTURB&D &Y
PULL MOON OF DIC J
AND BY TME OPPOSITION
OF
MERCIJIIIY
DEC 6- 97
1941
PRO&RESSID
SUN IS 2+ SAGITTARIUS
TRANSITTIN& NIPTUNE
II BACK A&AIN IN ITS• OWN
SIGN CALI.IN& OUT TMI
ORIGINAL SQUARI ff>
MARS IN
GEMINI
:TURN, HE
NOTIN&COLONI
HAS MARI
OPPOSfNS.
WIN8AH ATTA
,ROMTMI
•Housa
MIDHEAVIN
AND MOON
M& SQUAltlD
av
URANUS AND SATUIUI,
SMOWIN& UN-EXPICTEOILOW
DIAGRAM 15. Highlights of the Chart of the United States on De-
cember 7, 1941. The war is approximatelyof four yearsduration (see
page -P,).
366 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
sign Aries, combined with all the power of Saturn, and with all
the manifold and widesprcading dlorts of Jupiter in Aries; and
as Jupitcr rules the tenth house of the chart, we realize that this
planet, representing the President, shows that he is the one who
has taken account of the danger and has set dcfensc and attack
preparations in motion. The swiftness of the program is due to
Aries, the fastest sign of the zodiac. As I look over this last
chapter, for final corrections, it is December 7, 1941. A friend has
just telephoned to tell me the dire news, so let me add this
paragraph. I note in my Ephemeris that Neptune has reached the
seventh cusp of this Washington Mars-Saturn chart of 1940.The
treachery has come into the open. The awakening has arrived.
One thing I might say of the Jupiter-Mars-Saturn planets rising
in Aries, is that Aries is a sign of attack, and as we reach the
period when we shall attack, then shall we do it with a will
I looked into the horoscope of the United Statcs.1
This very
morning, as the Japanese declared war against us, Mars opposed
the Saturn of out chart With Saturn involved, it means that the
war will not be a short one, nevertheless it shows that we are
the eventual victors. (SecDiagram 15,p. 365.)
The war is approximately of four years' duration. There arc
several phases in this war:
1. A period of from sixteen to twenty months which can be
compared to innumerable high-powered tug-boats, pushing and
pulling a giant liner from its dock. During December 1942, peace
offers may be presented, but I judge they will not be acceptable.
2. August 1943-April1944,the liner sailing under itsown steam,
encountering terrific storms, but maintaining its course.
3. Victory for the allies comes in sight after January 1945.
4. There are three distinct periods when yictory is due:
a. October, 1945.
/,. January, 1946
c. March, 1946
1
SeeInda.
EXPLORING TIME WITH ASTROLOGY 367
The Allies have to defeat the enemy in three widely separated
areas: the Atlantic, the Pacificand the Near East
For yearsI have said the war would spread eastwardsand ever
eastwards until it worked around to us. Five daysago when I was
asked to speak at the closeof another astrologer'slecture, I main-
tained my convictionon this. As a matter of fact, I had expected
the war betweenourselvesand Japan to break out in the summer
of the year. 1941. The United States Ingress Chart, which is
set for the moment when the Sun enters Aries on March 21,
revealed Mars in the fourth house, showing the destructiveprin-
ciple at work on American territory. War might have started any
time after this date. Looking into the Japanesechart, the tenth-
twelfth degreesof Aries arc very apparent sore spots.With Mars
transitting these degrees of Aries during the third week of July,
this seemedthe obviousperiodwhen war might happen. It did not
do so, and since Mars retrograded and would come back to these
degrees, and practically stay in them every day in November, I
supposedNovembermight start war, but again it did not A peace·
conference was held November 17,with Sun opposition Saturn,
which looked as though war might be delayed,but with the Sun
coming to an opposition of Uranus on November 20, sudden
pressure evidentlywas exerted. Commentators now verify this as
coming from Germany,who in late November,insistedthat Japan
enter the war. Since the Japanesecharts contain many planets in
mutable signs,with Virgo and Piscesemphasized,both the month
of March 1941, when we had eclipsesaffectingthesesigns,and the
month of September,when we again had eclipsesaffectingVirgo
and Pisces,calling out the deceptiveprinciple of Neptune, were
months when secretoperationson a vast scalemust have been in
progress.In any case,I have saidrepeatedlythat it wasverydoubt-
ful if war could be delayed beyond February 1942, for reasons
which I state later.
You ask,why did I predict,evenin late 1939,that the war would
spread eastward to Russia,to Persia and to Japan? When I men-
tioned Russiaand Persiato one astrologer,he said I was running
368 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
grave risks of making astrology look ridiculous. If one believes
one's principles are right, one docs not fear a judgmcnt based
upon them,rather docs one fear making astrology look ridiculous
by withholding what is evident. I have already explained why
Russiahad to be involved, but why Persia or rather Iran? W c do
not make all our predictions from one particular type of conjunc-
tion. We use them all,-and this will include lunations and
eclipses (the latter in spite of the fact that a noted astronomer
took the trouble to write a newspaper article to the cficct that
eclipses arc not in the province of astrology). Dear astronomer,
they have been in the province of astrology since the time of
Sargon the Agade, and probably before. In setting up the chart
of the Mars-Neptune Q)njunction of September 28, 1940 for
Teheran, I noted Neptune was situated near the Nadir of that
capital,-and as Neptune ruled the tenth house, the Shah had no
more chance of maintaining his throne than had the King of ·
Norway. I immediately looked up the chart of the Shah and from
this, too, it was most obvious that his royal days were soon to be
at an end.
This same Mars-Neptune Q)njunction lay over the meridian
of San Francisco, denoting in the sign Virgo, labor troubles so
grave along the Pacific Q)ast that the army (Mars) of the govern-
ment (Saturn) might take control. In the light of the present war
crisis, the utmost vigilance along the West Coast is necessaryto
forestall enemy action.
With regard to the 1942Q)njunction of Saturn and Uranus,
which occurs May 3, it falls about one degree west longitude
through Western France and Eastern Spain, including parts of
Morocco and Algiers. It heralds terrific upheavals in these parts
and through Western Europe, together with Gibraltar, the West•
ern end of the Mediterranean and the Northwestern countries
of Africa. Nothing will be stable for many years to come, for the
cyclic period of a Saturn-Uranus conjunction lasts for many years.
The same Q)njunction lies at the Nadir of about 18o degrees
(east or west), hence there are still grave problems affecting Alaska
EXPLORING TIME WITH ASTROLOGY 369
and Hawaii, and dforts being made to take them out of our
possession.One should allow at least 1o-degreeorbs on the longi-
tudes mentioned, in order to obtain the geographicalareas cov-
ered by this Conjunction.
Then, too,in MundaneastrologytheJupiter-SaturnConjunctions
have all to be studied,as they have to do with changesin govern- .
ment and rulership.We havehad three of them recently.The first
one, August 8, 1940, lay over India, foreshadowinga twenty-year
period in which far-reachingchangeswill be evident in the gov-
ernment of India. The secondone, October20, 1940, fell over 6g
degrees westlongitude.Note thisposition,for we shall comeclose
to it later.With a to-degreeorb we includePanama (Col6n is79°
23'West). It heralded Lend-Leaseactivitiesin the Atlantic,prob-
lems over Martinique, the revolution in Panama, the raising of
the U. S. Bag over Dutch Guiana. ThCFewill be many more
changes to come in these areas.The last Jupiter-SaturnConjunc-
tion took place February 15, 1941in longitude 158°east. Using
orbs on thislongitude,we find that far-reachingpoliticalchanges
are due during the next twenty years,in Kamchatka, the man-
dated islandsof Japan, and Australasia.Speakingof Kamchatka,
at a lecture at the World's Fair in the summer of 1940,some of
my audiencethought I was going veryfar out of my way to con-
sider sucharemoteplace,until I explainedit facedAlaska.Already
news commentatorsarc sayingit is to be hoped that Russiawill
allow thisterritory to be used by us in pursuit of the war against
Japan.
Finally we ask,-Where are the next danger zones?
The Mars-SaturnConjunction of February 22, 1942says:
(1) 68degreeswestlongitude.
(2) 112 degreeseast longitude.
The former takesin a line of longitudesfrom Halifax in Nova
Scotia to Caracasin Venezuela,including the West Indies. The
latter takes in the Dutch East Indies,Hong Kong, etc.
Allowing for an areaof at least10 geographicaldegreeson each
side of the two longitudes specified,mark these areas on a map
370 ASTROLOGY: ITS HISTORY AND INFLUENCE
of the world. The former skirts Panama and the latter the
Philippines. Keep a record of what happens in them on particular
dates, between February 10, 1942 and March 7, 1944 when the
next Mars-Saturn Conjunction takes place, for the record will help
to establish how much orb we have to allow for these conjunc-
tions. If you have an Ephemeris of this period,take note of when
Mars conjuncts, squares or opposes any planets in the Conjunc-
tion chart, also note new moons and eclipses. If you do this you
will soon realize that astrology is not a psychic gift.I say this, not
because I have not the greatest respect for my psychic friends. But
theirs is another gift. No astrologer has the right to give out any
predictive statement and call it astrology, unless it is based upon,
or deduced from, some specific configuration of the heavens.
Every exponent of astrology should be able to say how and why
he made his prediction. "Blind shots" may hit the mark, but they
are not astrology. If a client asks for an astrological reading,
astrology should be used and not some other art.
I have tried to give you the simplest series of factors that
demonstrate Mundane Astrology. To understand more, it isneces-
sary to know more of the groundwork of astrology.
Astrology isnot a pseudo-science.It isan empirical sciencebased
upon the premise and belief that man and the universe are not
unrelated. Astrology today is as worthy of study by the best brains
in the world as it ever was in the past I have written my bookin
order that you should know the ancient and honorable history of
the astrologers of all ages. Their strivings and their labor are our
heritage. They found the way by means of which we can unlock
the door of Time. Astrologers were the first explorers of the
mysteries by means of which Time holds his secrets. And while
there is Time, there will always be astrologers.
Astrology is the investigation of Time, and of what Time holds,
has held, and will hold until Time itself is swallowed up in
eternity,
Time pressing on with starry crest
To filialsleep upon the breast
Of dread eternity.
APPENDICES
I. How to Erect II Horoscope
II. The Heliocentric System of Babylon and the Soss Periods
III. The Planetary Hours
IV. Major Translations and Editions of Ptolemy's Bool(.,s
V. The "Sephir Yetzirel," and the Heart's Motion
VI. Tl,e Triads of Wales
VII. Horoscopes in "A Thousand and One Notable Nativities"
VIII. Tl,e Trivium and Quadrivium
IX. The Celts
X. Library of Dr. Jol,n Dee
XI. Catalogue of Autl,ors Extant in ully's Period
XII. Precessionof the Equinozes
XIII. The Sun's Rays tit Different Hours
XIV. Virgil's "Fourtl, Eclogue"
APPENDIX I
How TO Eucr A Hoaoscon
Let us take the Mars-Saturn conjunction of February 22, 1942as an
example. We will set it up (approximately correct):
1. For London
2. For New York City
wing the RaphaelEphemeris • for 1942.
On page 5 (Raphael's Ephemeris) we arc given, in lower left-hand
column under date of February 22, the Sidereal (or Star) Time, which
we note down: 22 hours, 07 minutes, 02 seconds.
Then turn to page 31, which gives us the time when this aspect
takes place. It is at 9=47A.M in London. (Raphael's Ephemeris is cal-
culated for noon at Greenwich. Greenwich is the suburb of London
where the observatory is situated.)
In order to obtain house cusps for our horoscope, the rule is:
a. If the time is after noon, add the time of the birth or occurrence
to the Sidereal Time of the day.
b. If the time is before noon, find the interval between this time
and noon, and subtract it from the Sidereal Time of the day.
As the time of the aspect is 9=47A.M., the interval to noon is 2
hours, 13 minutes. This must be subtracted from the Sidereal
Time of February 22, 1942.
1. February 22, 1942Sidereal Time is.. 22 hrs. 07mins. 02 sees.
2. Interval to be subtracted. . . . . . . .. . 2 hrs. 13mins. oosees.
3. Result is the Sidereal Time of the
Midhcaven at London . . . . . . . . . . . . 19hrs. 54mins. 02 sees.
(Non: To subtract 13 mins. from 7 mins. you have to borrow
one hour, or 6omins.)
4. Turn to page 43, which is the Table of Houses for London, and
find, under Sidereal Time, where result No. 3 is listed. Look on
• Rllplu,el'1Bpllnneru(David McKayC'A>.).
Note, the last few pages are not num•
bcredin this. I suggest younumber
themyounelf, if youwishto followtbclcaamplca.
373
374 .APPENDICES
lower right-hand column. W c arc given two sets of figures, which
come close to what we require:
a. 19hrs. 52mins. oosees.
b. 19hrs. 56mins. 12sees.
In this casewe use the latter figures, which will allow for a very
small correction, always needed in exact work.
Next note that at the tops of the various columns on page 43, there
arc six columns designated :
10, 11, 12, Ascen., 2, 3
These arc the cusps of six of the houses, Midhcaven or 10th cusp,
11th cusp, 12th cusp, Ascendant, 2nd house cusp, 3rd house cusp.
On your wheel insert the figures paralld with your Sidereal Tnnc
of the Midheavcn, taking care that you use the right zodiacalsign,
which may change as you come down the columns. You then have
your house cusps, as on the left side of Diagram 16.
5. The next step is to insert opposite zodiacal signs on the opposite
six cusps.
6. When you have done this, turn back to page 4 and insert your
planets. In ordinary work you would make corrections from the
travel of the planets. Any good textbook on astrology will show
you how to do this. When inserting planets use the columns in
Raphael's Ephemeris designated "Long" that is, longitude, and,
since the aspect of Mars-Saturn occurs nearer noon than midnight,
use the longitude of the Moon at noon, and not the midnight longi-
tude. Since no correction is made £or the planets, do not insert the
position as refined to minutes (for these minutes will be wrong at
the time for which you arc setting the chart). You then have Chan
16 (I have made slight corrections for you).
The next example is to set the same Mars-Saturn conjunction up
for New York City on February 22, 1942.
For this chart we need to know what time it is in New York when
it is 9 hours 47 minutes A.M. in London. W c all know it is about 5
hours later in London than in New York, but to get the real time
we have to know the longitude of New York. This is 74 degrees West.
The Sun takes about 4 minutes to travel one degree of longitude, hence
there arc 74 X 4, or 2g6minutes difference. Divide by 6oto reduce to
DIAGRAM
16: Left. Mars-Saturn Conjunction of Feb. 22, 1942,set for
London at 9:47A.M.
DIAGRAM
17: Right. Mars-Saturn Conjunction of Feb. 22, 1942,set
for Washington at 4:39A.M.
DIAGRAM
18: Left. Diagram showing what the houses mean to
persons.
DIAGRAM
19: Right. Diagram showing what the houses mean in
Mundane Astrology.
375
APPENDICES
hours, and we have 4 hours s6minutes. Hence, in New York the
Mars-Saturn conjunction will occur this much earlier:
Time of aspect in London. ••• 9hrs. 47A.M.
I..css•••••••••••••••. .•••••••• 4hrs. s6A.M.
Tune of aspectin New York.. 4hrs. 51A.M.
Then we proceed in the same way as in example No. 1. We find
the interval to noon, which will be 7 hours 09 minutes, and this we
subtract from the Sidereal Time of the day:
1. February 22, 1942 Sidereal Tune... 22 hrs. 07mins. 02 sees.
2. Subtract the interval. . . . ••••••••••. 7hrs. 09mins. oo sea.
3. SiderealTime of Midhcaven at
New York . . . . ••••. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 14hrs. 58mins. 02 sees.
4. Turn to page 47 (last page but one in book) and you will find the
Table of Houses for New York. Result No. 3 will be found in top
centcr column. Note here that on the 12th cusp Capricorn is listed
without any degrees, hence insert o degrees Capricon on the 12th
cusp and o degrees Cancer on the6th cusp.
5. Turn back to page 4, insert planets, and you have a chart erected for
New York City. The Conjunction occurs over Washington, D. C.
twelve minutes earlier than over New York City, becauseWashing-
ton is 71degrees west longitude. This will give you a Midheavcn
of 14 degrees Scorpio, instead of 17 degrees Scorpio at New York.
Diagram 17gives you the Washington house cusps as obtained from
a Table of Houses for latitude 39 degrees north. Diagram 19tells
you what 'the houses mean in Mundane Astrology. These meanings
are specific applications of the thoughts contained in Diagram 18.
You now note that, whereas the planets in all charts are the same,
they are in entirely different positions in the chart. Thus the Mars-
Saturn conjunction has an entirely different effect in London from
what it has in New York and in Washington.•
• In these approximate charts, it is usual to make an approximate correction
for the Moon, which is the fastest moving of the planets. It is done in this way. The
Moon moves about 12 degrees per day, hence in one hour it will move half a dcgrcc.
The correction is always made (when using Raphael's Epl,nnms) by adding to. or
subtracting &om, Greenwich Mean Time. Our interval to noon is a little over 2 houn,
hence we can subtract one degree from the Moon'sposition, making it 25 dcgrca
Taurus instead of 26 degrees Taurus.
APPENDICES 377
In order to understand our final chapter, we have to find in what
part of the world the Mars-Saturn conjunction will fall on the Mid-
hcaven, or 10th cusp. Looking at the chart for London, which is
situated at the o degree longitude, we note Mars and Saturn lie in the
12th house, which is in the eastern part of our horoscope. In an
ordinary geographical map the East is placed on our right, since map-
makers face North when taking positions, but the astrologer faces
South, hence the East will be on the left. Thus the Mars-Saturn con- .
junction takes place East of London. The next step is to find approxi-
mately how far East. We note the midhcaven is 27degrees Capricorn,
an earth sign. The next earth sign is Taurus, hence any planet at 27
degrees Taurus would be trine (or 120 degrees) from the Midheaven,
but our conjunction is 22 Taurus and not 27,that is it is 5 degrees less
than 120 degrees, that is, 115degrees East longitude approximately.
Because of various factors this is very approximate indeed, but it will
give you an idea of how the astrologer works in trying to locate con-
junctions on the earth's surface. Working by other methods our real
answer is that the conjunction will be overhead at no½ degrees East
Longitude, therefore we consult an ordinary geographical map to sec
what capitals and countries lie on this meridian.
APPENDIX II
THEHBLIOC£NTJUC SYSTEM OP BABYLON AND THB SossPmuODS
Diagram 2 is noteworthy in that if we place the least common de-
nominator of 120 in the center, we have an elementary concept of a
hdioccntric system. Multiply 120 by 3, and we see that we have 300,
which is the number of the Sun. Although the ancients knew this was
not the real number of days in the year, nevertheless, they called 36o
days the "sacred year number," and they used this very considerably
in all ancient prophecy, for it provided a more convenient number
when working with a precessional cycle of 72 years to one degree.
Diagram 4 shows that the makers of the zodiac knew much about
planetary order. Moon, Mercury and Venus were inferior planets, and
Mars, Saturn and Jupiter were superior planets. From Diagram 2 we
may also derive the reason why the number 6 was so important among
the Babylonians. Multiplied by 10 it gave a soss1
or period of 6oyears.
APPENDICES
Multiplied by 10, again it gave a ner, or period of 6oo years. Then 6
multiplied by itself is 36, an important figure, as, after 36eclipse cycles,
eclipses occur in practically the same order, that is, in a period of 6.t9
years. The ancients here again used a more convenient period of 648
years. (Sec Appendix 12.) 36 multiplied by 100 is 3,6oo, or a period
of one ner. 3,6oo multiplied by 100 gives 300,000,
or a period of one
.
nan.
APPENDIX III
THEPLANETARY HoURS
The Planetary "hours" are not hours of 6o minutes in length. Our
ordinary "clock" hours are found by taking one full day and dividing
it into 24 parts. The planetary hours are found by taking:
1. The time from sunrise to sunset and dividing this into 12 parts; e.g.,
in New York June 21, we have a period of 15 hrs. 7 mins. be-
tween sunrise and sunset. This is divided by 12, so that one plane-
tary hour would be I hr. 15mins. 35sees. in duration. If Monday,
start rotating the hours with the Moon. If Friday, start rotating
the hours with Venus.
2. The time from sunset to sunrise, and dividing this into 12 parts;
e.g., June 21 we have a night of 8 hrs. 53 mins. This gives each
planetary hour of the night.44 mins. 5 sees.
Planetary hours vary with latitude and the time of year. Almost
every daily newspaper gives the time of sunrise and sunset.
APPENDIX IV
MA701. TRANSLATIONS AND E»1n0Ns oP PToLEMY's BooKS
1. Paraphraseof the T~trabiblos, in Greek, made by Proclus (410-
485).
2. Abu hen Batrik translates the Tetbrabiblos for Al Mamoun, and
Sabal Ibn Tahir translates the Almagest for Ali Bey Hazen Yous-
seph.
3. The Centiloquy translated from Arabic into Latin, by John His-
palensis.
4. The Tetbrabiblos translated by Hiyya (before 1136).
APPENDICES 379
5. Gerard of Cremona translates the Almagest from Arabic into
Latin.
6. Anatolia translates the Almagest from Arabic into both Hebrew
and Latin, for Frederick II.
7. A translation of the Tetrabiblos from Arabic into Latin, by Bona-
tus, in 1493.
8. An epitome translation of the Almagest into Latin (made from
Greek texts) by Purback and Regiomontanus. These were the
first printed copies. Previous ones had been written by hand.
9. First complete translation of the Almagest into Latin, made by
Peter Lichtenstein in 1515.
10. A translation of the Almagest published in 1528 under the name
of Trapczuntius, but actually translated and edited by Lucas
Gauricus.
11. An edition of the Tetrabiblos, bound with Manilius and Firmicus,
published in 1533.
12. John Camerarius in 1535edited an edition of the Greek Paraphrase
of Proclus, with a Latin translation.
13. Philip Mdanchthon in 1535 published a Greek-Latin edition of
Proclus' Paraphrase.
14. In 1537a new edition of the Almagest published, containing the
7thand 8th books only, with 48 drawings by Albrecht Diirer.
15. The first Greek text of the Almagest, Tetrabihlos and the Cen-
tiloquy published by Simon Grynoeus at Basic, 1538.
16. In 1541,Trapezuntius published an edition of the Almagest and
of the Tetrabiblos.
17. Gogova, at Louvain, published a Latin text of both books.
18. 1581,Junctinus brings out an edition of both books, with commen-
taries.
19. Edition of Proclus' Paraphrase,
in Latin, by Leo Allatius.
20. Placidus de Titus published his Primum Mobile. This was not
a translation of Ptolemy but a modernized textbook of astrology,
based on his principles.
21. 1636,an edition published by the Elzevir Brothers at Leyden, with
Greek Paraphraseof Proclus on one page and the Latin transla-
tion of Allatius on the other.
22. Whalley translated the Tetrabiblos into English.
23. Brown and Sibley revised Whalley's edition, 1781.
APPENDICES
24- Ashmand made a new and complete translation of the Tdrtllnh-
los1in 1822.
25. Many and various translations into French, German and Jr.a]ian,
during the 18th and 19th centuries.
APPENDIX V
Tm "SEPHill YEtzlllEH" AND THE HEA.aT's
ManoN
In the S/t..dchof the Talmud1 edited by Dr. Isidor Kalisch (L. H.
Frank, New York, 1877), there is a note on Chapter 6, Section 2,
explaining the following passage: "There arc three faithful witncaes:
the world, yearand man, the twdvc, the Equipoise, the heptadc, which
God regulates like the Dragon {Tall), sphere and the heart" Kalisd1
states that "Dr. Steinschncider ••• and Dr. Casselmaintain that the
ancient Jewish astronomers signified by the word Tall, not the con-
stellation Draco, but the line which joins together the two points in
which the orbit of the Moon intercepts the ecliptic (Dragon's Head
and Tail). Dr. Cassel is of the opinion that our author [of the Seplur
Yet.ire/,] meant here, probably the invisible, celestial and univcnal
axis that carries the whole Universe." In any case, it was apparently
from this disputed passage that comparison grew up between the
heart of the body and either the axis or the Primum Mobile (according
to whether one believedthat the Earth moved or that the Sun moved).
APPENDIX VI
THETllIAm OP wALU
In the Triadsof Wales there is much concentrated thought. Here
arc three of such thoughts:
There arc three perfections of God:
One Infinite Life
One Infinite Knowledge
One Infinite Plenitude of Power
There arc three causesof Humanity:
Divine Love
Divine Wisdom
Divine Power
APPENDICES
There arc three powers of the soul:
Affection
Understanding
Will
APPENDIX VII
HoamcoPES IN "A TeousAND ANDONENoTABLE NATIVITIES"
A Thousand and One No111ble
Nativities, a small book in the
Alan LeoAstrologicalManual,(No. II), alsoMore Notable Nativities
and F"""ous Ntzlivities,the latter two compiled by Maurice Wemyss,
arc now bound in one volume and distributed by the Aries Press of
Chicago. These books arc invaluable in preserving data of famous
people: they also give planetary positions and house cusps. In our
Inda, names mentioned in the text that arc included in the above
three books arc marked with an asterisk (•).
APPENDIX VIII
THETlUVIUM
ANDQuADRIVIUM
Dante, in hisConvitoII, liststhe subjects of the Trivium and Quad-
rivium as taught in his day. He goes further by assigning the seven
planets to some specific study, giving his reasons. in very considerable
detail. Modern astrologers assign Uranus to the subject of astrology,
but Dante and others, not knowing of Uranus, assigned Saturn to the
subject, because of its "nobility and certainty."
The Trivium comprised:
1. Grammar, assigned to the Moon
2. Rhetoric, assigned to Venus
3. Logic, assigned to Mercury
The Quadrivium comprised:
4. Arithmetic, assigned to the Sun
5. Music, assigned to Mars
6. Geometry, assigned to Jupiter
7. Astrology, assigned to Saturn
APPENDICES
These were the seven liberal arts or sciences. In his Divine Comedy,
Dante compares them to seven portals of the Castle of Learning:
We came unto a noble castle's foot,
Seven times encompassed with loity walls,
Defended by a fair rivulet;
This we passed over even as firmground;
Through portals seven I entered with these sages,
-ln/erno,4,1o6-110
If the student wished to continue with his studies he could take up:
8. Natural Science or Physics
9. Metaphysics or Moral Science
10. Theology
With all ten subjects, we have the perfect ten-fold scheme of the
Kabbalistic Number 10.
APPENDIX IX
THECELTS
Geoffrey of Monmouth says that the Britons were descended from
Trojan lEneas, and that they came from the place where Constanti-
nople now stands. Some say they are the "KtµµEQLOL"
of Homer, and
the Kymri (Cimbri) of Germany, and that they came to Cumber-
land (Cymri-land). The passage of the Celts, some through North
Africa and some through Western Europe, is marked by Druidical
stones.
APPENDIX X
LIBRARY OP Da. JoHN DEE
The following manuscripts are a very small portion of the library
of Dr. John Dec. I have selected them because all are interesting evi-
dence of what manuscripts were available in the Elizabethan Age.
The list apparently covers all the "high lights" in astrology, from
Ptolemy and the Arabic authors down to his own day.
The list is compiled from a book entitled The PrivateDiaryof
Dr. /ohn Dee and the Catalogue of his MSS from the Original MSS
APPENDICES
in the Aslzmolean Museum at Oxford and the library of Trinity Col-
lege, Cambridge, edited by J. 0. Halliwell Phillipps, F.R.S. (1842),
published by The Chetham Tract Society.
I have kept the original numbering of the MSS and the spelling
as given by Halliwdl Phillipps. Dr. Dee's library is said to have cost
him three thousand pounds sterling, which was a fabulous sum of
money in those days when, according to price records, one could buy
a goose for two pence. It is no wonder that he died poor. This was
the second library he built up. The previous one had been destroyed
by thieves or vandals when he went to Europe.
No. 4·
" 5.
" 13.
" 14.
" 16.
" 23.
,~
24·
" 28.
" 28.
" 28.
" 28.
" 28.
" 28.
" 30.
" 33·
" 36.
" 36.
" 37•
" 37•
" 37·
" 37.
" 38.
" 58.
" 6o.
MANUSCRIPTS IN DR. JOHN DEE'S LIBRARY
Aviccnna
John Duns Scotus
Ptolomaci
John de Sacrobosco
Ramundi Lullii
Rogcrii Bachonis
Avicenna
Alpctragii
Albumazar
Jacobi Alkindi
John de Sacrobosco
William de Aragonia
John de Sicilia
Bartholomci Anglici
Rogcrii Bachonis
Albumazar
Zaelis
Thebit
Jacobus Alkindus
Jacobus Alkindus
Thomae Bravardini
Aristotle
Rogerii Bachonis
Beda
De Anima Mundi
Questiones in Porpli,yrii
Planispliaerium
Algoritlimus and Tractatus de Sphaera
Liber de Quinta Essentia
Speculum Alcliimiae
Physiognomia
De Verificatione Motuum Coelestium
Liber Florum
Liber de Aspectihus
Super Tractatum de Spliaera
ln Ptolomaei Centiloquium
In Canones Arzaclielis de Tahu/is Tole-
tanis
Breviarum, seu de Proprietatibus Rerum
De Diversis Tincturis
lntroductorium
Electiones
De Motu Octavae Splierae
De Radiis
De lmbris et Causis de Diversitatum
Aspectum
Tractatus Proportionum
Liber de Secretis Secretorum
Annotationes super Aristotelis Tractatum
de Secretis Secretorum
De Gestis Anglorum
APPENDICES
Volumina duo magna, Hebreaice, de A.strologicis Judiciis
[apparently anonymous]
Isaac Judaci Logica
Alhazcn Perspectit1a
Arnaldi de Villa Nova Liber de Alcl,imul
Albumazar De /udiciis Astrologici
Tabulae Alfonsi regis Castellae
Ptolemy Almagesti Liber Sezt,u
Arzachclis Tractatus Zaphei
Rogerii Bachonis Tractatus tie Virtutatiln,s et Actionts
Stellarum
" 99. Haly De JutliciisAstrorum
" 104. Arzachclis
" 106. Aristotle
Tabulae Astronomicae
Commentum in A.strologiam
" 108.
" 108.
" 108.
" 117.
" 120.
" 120.
" 137•
" 155•
" 155•
" 155·
" 155·
" 155·
" 158.
" 159·
" 165.
" 165.
" 178.
" 192.
Haly
Mcssahala
Guido Bonatus
Petrus Hispansus
Alfraganus
Alcabicii
Petri de Sancto Ando-
maro et John de
Lineris
[fragmentary]
De Judiciis Astrorum,-Libn Not1em
Jutlicum in Astrologia
De Nalivitatibus
De Astrologia
De Marte et Vita et Causis Longitudinis
et Bretlitatis Vitae
De Annis
Astrologia
Obsen,tltiones quaedam Planetarum tl
Fizarum
Jacobus Alkindus De Jutliciis Astrologicis
Albumazar De Rnolutionibus Annort4m Mundi
Albumazar Liber Florum
Albohali De Nati11itatibus
Mathematica Alezantlri Summi A.strologi
Rogerii Bachonis Calendarium
Bcda DeCalculatione
Avcndauth De Quinque Universalibus
Alfarabius De lntellectu et lntellecto
Gehri Summa Alcl,emiae
Jacob Alkindi De Plullis, lmbribus, Ventis, et de Mu-
tationes Aeris
'' 195. Abraham Judaci
" 200. Ramundi Lulii
Liber de JudiciisNativitatum
Ars Generatis, de Mediana et An,o.
nomia
APPENDIX XI
CATALOGUE op AumoRSEXTANT IN LILLY's Pmuo»
ACatalogue
ofmoftAs
Tllo Loo rc AL
Au THo~ s now extant, wherePrhat-
cd,andinwhatycer.
Albuma1Jr,
Alb11ma1ar,
Albumall1',
Albnb.ater,
Alkindu1,
Alcabidus,
Pctra1
deAbano,
Thoma•
Allen,
CorneJidlAgrippa,
Con8antinus Albiniu1,
Michael
Aldingerus,
Albohall,
LeoAUadus-,
A
Flom, 'I""'''AUguOz
1481.
lntrtd1«11ri111
lihtr in Ao,.,,,,;.,,
9
'l"•rto,Augufiz 1489.
Dt ,,,,:,.nil
C1111j11nliionibat
~ qu•no,
Auguttz 1489.
Compilatio
A/lro•mir•, 'l""''''
Fer-
rariz 1493.
l)e NAtivitatib111,
q,u,to, Norrim•
btgz 1s40.
Dt Puc?Jiit
t!1-
Aerilmut111iont,
q••rr,,
Venetiis 1~07. prinrtJ
ji11Ce
infoli,.
J11Jicior•m
AarorMm
lj11goge
,,,,,,Com•
mmt•rio JohanniaSaxonil, q1111r•
,,, ParHis1521.
Dt m11t•tion,
.Atril, qurtoJ :Vcncdla
14a~.
C,mmtnt•rium
in2. & ~-lihr.Ptolo-
mei, 11ever
printed.·
De Occu/111
Pbil,Jopbi•,
ollao, Lug•
duni 0000.
'Dtlt1•,:.i•
Anr,logi,,,
.o,v,,Parliiis
161 I•
Pmtap/111·
Rtg1or11m
14,mdi,q11•rto,
Ancwerpiz1579.
1)eN•tivi1•11b111,
q11arti
1 Norimber-
gz 1546.
l•r ..
1brafnin4 libroJ
Ptolomei,ol1••
t10, LugduAI
Batavorum1635,
D, SJJtrM■ rf,liioni/J••
N,. 11• • .&J.Aftllut.
•
APPENDICES
L,J.,p of/Jlrologicd Au tllor,,
~ 1.b,fiutrw
Cb11a,ltgi1,,Bn, 1 .,-IAAI•
. N.-ffnoram 1637.
PcmlldeAlllaco, Deconcordi•
Allronomi1
aon71,nl,il., 4•
Auguftz1490.
Jolaannr•Ange1111, DeN•1ivit116w,q11•rto,
Venedllr494-
Alcxandcr
deAngclit~ Lil,ri,q11mq11t
i• Alln!,go1,
fllMIO,,
.Lag-
dunl 161~.
AJbertus,
Aratul,
Alldndut,
Juhannes
Afr11ena,,
Albategniut,
Andrras
Argolus,
SptClll11m
Allron,•ia,111,24°,Lugdllftl,
161~
Pr,g•llitd, olJn,, 1~89,
D, Illllitiit,A ~[trip,, folio,,,.,.,.,;4
1272. perRo. Anglicum.
l•rr1m111bt111•tit11,
ol111t10,Roftochi
162f
Dt ,-Cinuii Sttll•r11111,
q11•r1,,
Norbn•
bergz 1537• Merbtd• Maibe,,,.,iu
a,rndor11111
,,,,,ho,11111
ptrAlroll)"""",
40,Fronkford 1613.
PrimumM,6;1t·de
D1rtt1iai6111,
9""'''»
Romz 1610. l•ttlJnt1'p,i•tetl. Hil
Epbtffltrid11,
q1111r10,
i• 3.7',•s,Pa-
tavii 1638.Dt dit6• c,;,;,;,,
flUlrf'9
Patavil 16J9. P•111lofi,a
Spbniaa11,
qtdrr,, Pauvii•
16+1-
Abraham
Avmaris, lrincip,I• f"1im1i1•, 'l""'t Vmctlll
B •~07•
Oa(perBirtholinus, Dt s,,1i.n. ..,.,., 11•, Wiueberga,
1609.
f\.cdemptusB.aranzanus,
VrMllfeo,i., 911,,1,,
1617.
t"edcricusBonaveoturJ,lJt dftttioni/J•11r.,,,
.. , 'l..,,., Urbi-
ThomasBrkot~
Laurentlu1
Banon•~
Thomas
Bodcnus,
Hamphrq Baker~
ni, •~93•
DeC~lo
& ltll#III..
c,,,,,
,.,,,.,b;.,
•fllMto,
·Londinlis;-1.
l)t ,.,;,,,, l>itr.., cririco,..,,tJIIMl•~-
rifiit, •SSS•
I11tr,J,,c1;,,,
to ji,4ici4 AJl,,1,git
1 _,.._.
London.
Pt Dijfipl;.i, MA1bn1Mtit•,4•~H~
gl 1621. Bcda,
APPENDICES
Aetd,'4,g111
cf Aftrological
Authors.
lledat 1), ""'"'" "'""' & tnnporMm,
folio,BaG-
liz •s29.
Lucia•Bcllantius, De Allrol,gic• verit•tt, folio, Bafil_iz
1 SS4·
LaarEdusBonincontnaa'De,,b111
c~ltffih111,
folio,Bafiliz 157s.
GuidoBon~, DeAjfrono,,,ta
''"''"'"' 10.folio, B.ifiliz
John 8\loker,
C
Jo1iannes
Carion,
15~0.
Of 1bt Conjunc1io,z
ofSaturn a,rd
Mars,4o
LQndon·1646. 6tfidts man)txctUe111
jlldg•tllllin bisdlllliuO
Progno/i°JCtdio,r.
De
tftctihw Dirtttio1111111,
16°, Frank•
ford 161 l.
Hkronomu1Cardanus,Dt j11dicii,
Gtni111r•r1tm,
q11ar1,,
Norim•
bergz1547. ln Qudrif11,1i11nn
Pto-
Jomci
folio, Baliliz 1578. Ali otber
Editions•re d.f etive ; in 1bitJtJu
find·
•' rbeendConrad Dafipodiua 11poa
Ptolomey.
Thomu Campanella, Medicinali11•
epw,tturto,Lugduni 163~
Idnn, Af1rologuor111n
lihri 7• q,carto~
Frankford 1630.
CcnCorinu,, Dtdit N1atAli,
oct•t10,
Lugduni Bat.avo-
rum 1642.
Baptifla
Codronchdl, Dtonnit ClimaCJtricit,
octa110,
Coloniz
1613.
CI.1udius
Cceleflinus, D, injl"enti11
C«lorMm,911arto,
Paris,
1542.
lludolphusCamerarius, Cen1uri1e
du~Genitur•r1tm,q11arto,
Am•
Cz(ar Claudinas,
JohnChamber,,
Joachimus Curtius,
D
Claudius Dariot>
Johiones Dei-,
Mducus
Dictcrkur,
fter\ldanii 1633•
Di'ditb111
criiicit, octtWo,Bafiliz 1620.
Ag•injfjudiciallAJfrologie,~
0 ,Lond.1601
Dt c~r1it11tllnt
Matbtfeos,
4°,Hamburgi
1616.
Illtlg•mtoftll_t
St•rs, 4°,London 1598.
120. Apborifmi,q••rfo,Londini 1~~8•
EJ.ogi,.,,,Pl411etar,on.1°,Argcntoreti
1617
Nn11nn 2 Nata~~
APPENDICES
~ c-.,f Aftrologial Anthon.
NataliaDuret, Nw.e
lpa,,tri41,,
fMrt,,Pamia
•'+'•
E
LaarcnduaEichblal, E,a,.,,.,.,,..,,.1636..I •H1-t-,•
,,: Stednl imp,tl11634,1636 •.6 ...
Thom• Eraftat,
Aug111UII
Eralfflllt
Johanna Uadcllll.
r
OgerFerrier,
• 1650
•.f 1665.Amttuod~mi 1644-
J)e Allrtl,gi• Dit1ilMlr~, q,wrto,
1~ 6f.
Pb]fi~flM&ic,
•aic11,tll•w, Argcnd.
... 1631.
s.... -~,1,J.,.i~
laiti.U,,f,li,, Vcae-
tlb •489. ;f, ■if,r.MJ p,i111al;
bt••
s,a.,ofMenon-Colledge;,, Oz·
ford.
,..,.,., •fN41it1itt1,
'l"""'~
Loncloa
1642.
AugerlusFerrerlus, Dt ditl>•4«,,,,,;;,,24°,Lagduni•~♦,
R1cbardu1
Forftcral, Epbnntri4ts
Me1eo;,g,qbi'4
o0•11taLon•
don •~7S•
r,, M,rco
.
ri#,oOno,Norimbcrgz,1s63.
I4t111
C.r•log•Prodit,1or1m,
Marcus
Frytachiul•
LibcrtuaFrommidu•, DrComtta1618.oa~Antwe~ 1619
IdmiMttto,,lo1_icor,,,.
li/Jri
ft~,,o.,,,_
Oxoniz 1639.
Nicodemus
Frlrdillnut, Mronomic6•rril ongr11tnti•
nnnD.n,;•
.. c~ltai,0-Mlll!.li PbJlo,opbi.,.o.-
Orontius Finau,,
Finninu,,
Marfiliua
Fieinm,
JohnFagt,
JuliusFirmicus,
llobcrt Fllldd,
110Frankfurt 1~ 86,
De 12. C~lido■iciliil, ,,,.,,,, Lutcciz,
•SS3•
Rqn_1tri,nn
tit ,..,.,;,., .,,;,, foli,,
Pa-
rifis, I ~40.
l)t 11it•
Czli1w, q,urt,, Vcnetiis, 1~84e
Sptc11t,,,,,
~grot,111•,
t0 , London 163I.
.Allrontm1ic,n,
lib. 8.f~lio,83filiz, 1~j r.
MtdicilNC111bolic11,
/•Ii•,Francofurti,
162,.ad inft'lltr•Dotbatitets of bi,
,r.,~,
IJ•tb"'''' "'"'b•fAllrtugit,
bt■•J j11IIZ,
6t «cetmrtd
rbt111irroar
•f
.,,, timts,ad ,frbtWelchN•tion.
EfMlnidt,,
9"""' Loaidlnl,1,
1s.
Claudb
APPENDICES
A~~AftrelogialAuQort.
G
ClaudlmG.U-.
_lohanars
Oanlwmt,
Pnn,1 Gafrendu,,
Rodol phusGuclmlus,
Rodolphns Gocfcriiu1,
llod0Jpbu1 Godcnlu1,
Lucas
Gauria1s,
'Dl4itl111_,,,,,Ut, la/xlffllt Lagcla-
nl 15j3.
bit•MeJittr,,,,,, 1&o,Frankfun-
161+
C.ltlltl 06ftrt1•tion,1,
8°, Paris 1630.
Gt11trMMrologi•,4°,Marpt1fRl,16,f
v,.,,.ft,pi",
16° 1 Frankfur 1608.
s,,,,pfis
Aflrol•1i1,oll,111,Fr-Curt,
1620.
.Tr«r•r• Allr,lot..i•,
q1111,10,
Norimb tt-
gz I~ 40. 1/,., *Gtnir11r
it Civit••
,,,.ea11i,,,,,,,,
;u.n,;,,,,,,4°,
Vencdia
•s12.DedithlllCriticit, 4e, R.omz
t 546. f11ptr
T•611lil
Dirtcri,n11•
Jo-
annl1 Rcgiomontanl, 4°, Roma
J J6o, Dt 101•~/f
rologi•
Jttdictiv• f!r
.Ji•, i• 2. To■• folio,BafilI S7j•
8ernardusGordoalus, Lili11•Mtdiciu, 8°, Fr•nkford, 1617
Gaph•r, Denr11t•rion,
,mrpo,;,,
'I""''''
Vmcdil
•~07.
llodolphus Goclenlus, ArrortkMlio,c
Aarologia,,n,
f/MArto,
Mar•
purgl1618.
MatthciGuarimbcrtus, 1k r.diil PIMn,,,,,,,'I"'''''
Norimbcr•
· gz r~3~.
Rodulphaa Goclcnius~ Fro~flro••nri~ 4ife11f
•, q11•rto,
·Mar-
purgi 161 J. •
AntoniusGiufFas DeEclip{,b111,
q1111rt1,
Ntapoh 1621.
JohanntsOarcz:, Allrologi~Alt1bod111,
folio,B~fili~J586.
J>aganinua
Gau~dUI Dt pr,Jigior11111
figniflc•riont,9••110~
FJo-
, i-tnti& 1638.
H
_Tohn
Harvey,
3theodoricusHaghm,
Johannes Hasfunu•,
Hermcti1,
Johamacs
Hifpalcnfi,,
Pro!lml111iJl
Di(c,11rft,4
(),Londont s88
Prognoflititlll
fltU,rt,4°, Ultr~jeai I Sf3
Dt ,ntdrllllw
morhilt~ co,po,,,,n
ct,ltflhta
pofirione,
lib. 3. 4°, Vcnetiia J 18~-
Cn,111,n.Apbor;i■i ,,,,,.Con1tnt•1ati011i6•
rhaddzi Haggecii,4°,Pragz I ~6+
Ep,tomt
roriw
Ajtrtl0f.i6,+
0 , Norimber-
APPENDICES
At.,•£,g• ofAftrological
Aathon.
SestmHeaalnga, Mroi,,ii~ref.t•tio,4°,~ntwerplz14181
ArtharHopton, Collttrd•11t1
•fJttrs,1°,London 161f.
litCIKiltopberHeyclonD:{t11t·
•fA/fr,logi,,4°,C1mbridg1603
• ■1fl lt•mtJ IPOr~, i•. tDttnglifbfOllgW.
Da,1J·Herlid111~ Pro,noftic,n
Afl1ol,git11111,
'I"''''Stetini
1619•.
GeorgeHartgill,
Ro!>ertus
Hewes,
Hyginus.,
Hypocrates,
Hermes,
I
FrancifcusJ~n&inus,
AbrihMD
Judeus,
F~ancifcus
Jun&inus,
K
f.-
Camilli Leonarde,
Lud0vicut
Lavat~, -
Levinus
Len1niu,,
.Andtcas
Lauriotiqs,_
Ajlronomi,JJ
TJ,ks, foUo,~'lndon
1~94
• rno
J!«•r4tt pitct, for /,ytbt 7'.J,lt •f
HtM{tJ
in b. bool(.
tbtfi~td$1111,,1
•re-
diftovertd
•Pontbta,foftVtrJ bou[t.
1J,jlllliciilA/frora,,,,
folio,BafdizI S7i. ..
1111
,rberEdi1ion1
"" dtfectivt.
Dt Globil~.26•,
Frankfort 1627.
Potlito"A/lro110mic,.,.
ldt111,
opw11Mre11111,
, .. ,,,.,J>
arifis 1412.
'Dr111tdicor•111
Ajfrologi11;
qurto,Vcnetlil
•+$5.
Dr Bnol•tio1ih111
N•tivit•'""'' folio,Ba•
fillz 1559.
SptCIUll,n
Aftrologi1,
4•,~duni 1~73•
l)e N11tivitatib111,
4°,Coloniz •~37.
·Spte,u11m
.Aflrolagi~,
in t1"t·Tomts,
folio;
lttcomt1ttnts
11pon
tbetbirdad fttlrtbof
Ptolomey,and11Pon
SacroBarco,••
,,i•ttdLqgduai 1583.
EtittlllHAffyonomi1,
oc-ttJvo,
Frankford
162 1. Id• Epl,t■tridts nov~J,..,.
1,,,
..d •d36. 91tarto,
Lin"Cii
Au.
ftriz 0000.
S~tiJ111n
l4id11111;
·t!J-
lim,,tbi•Mttall,.
n,,n ddPl.,,tt«, s--,
Parifis 1610.
1JeSpectrit,octlltlo;
Genevz 1580.
1't 4frologid,twelvei,
Frankford 16o8'
•
Dt.
,rifl.6111,
111,11,,
Lug~ni 1605.
Lcupoldu1,
APPENDICES 391
A Nt11lolJII
ofAftrological
Authors.
K.apoldm. Dt-A/f
ror1• Scimtio, 4',Vtncaiis1 ~~
Hen~ Uaclhout~ Spet•l.,,A#rologi~,4
•,Francofurti, do8
Cyprianua
Lco,ldat,
z,e••gis canj•nc1io,lit11s,
4•,Lau~lnga
1~ 6+ idemjl•h11I~
Dirtcrionllffl,4•,No-
rimbergz 1s52. De Eclipjif.111,
folio~·
Auguftz Vlndclkorum r ~ s6:Epbe-
•rridts, folio,AucaftzVindrlicorum
1
557•
Fortt1nlu1Licetus, DeCometis,4•,
Venctiis, 1623.
ScverinusLongomon· Aflronomi•
Daic", q11,,10,
Amneroda-
tanUI~ mi 1621.
Johanne• La1amantius,
Dedit~IUdecrttoriis,
4•,J..
ugduni 156~.
Wi-lliam
Lilly,
M
AM1b,r
of1bitWork..,b11tb
wrote
Anglic111
1644• .A11glicMI
164~. Ang/1c111
1646.
1647. of tb, conjllllction
of ~aturne "1Zll
Mars 1644. oftbe,onjunction
of Saturn
•ndJupiter 164;, London, 4°, 1644.
tbtSt,rrJ Meffenger,
4°,Lf?ndon1645
Worlds
Cat•ftropbt,
4°, London 1646.
Antonius Manglnos, Nov11
dirigtndiAr1, s•,Bononiz 1616.
WolfgangusMurer, Mettorologic11,
q11arto,
Lipfiz 1588.
Hieronimus Mamfredus,DeMedicis
& i1tfir,nis,
12•, ·1s30.
JohnMaplet, Di.UofDejliny,,ctavo,London1582.
MarcusManilius, A"ronomic,11
rq,,rg4t,,,,I"
Jo. Scaligero
'l"'"to,
Lugduno Batavz1600.
Gaudcntius
Merola, M,morUili11,oct4vo,
Lugdani
1556.
DeRevolutiont
"""''""' ■,indi, dtNdli•
Meflabala, 11it•11lnu,
&t. tputrto,Norimbcr,?z
1 -;49. idem,d, Orhi/,,u
cwkjlib111,
tt,•,
Norimbergz 1$49•
Ep.btintridum
•eris p,rptt1t•11111
, 16°,
•- Id Amberga1604. i4m,,Co•ttogr.pbu,
nutoniua Mizi ar, 4•,Parilli1, 1,;49. iddl, l'Unttol,g;,,
4•Lugduni 1551.
Antoniaa
APPENDICES
AC..61ogd-,
Aftrologica1
Aatlaan.
AatonlatdeMonculmo.
Dr/:/'"'
H.ti11i,.,_, fU.
., .....
. 1• 1r1-o.
Aaconl111
MlaaJdas.
,u,,.,,;.
Mitrtc1{•°"'~{-, 4•
L11gclunl
IS50.Et"'-"' 1S51...,._
Lutctia.
~Tohannea
Pt11chael
9 A■.,.tV,,,,,,,,,., 4°,Venetill 1~02.
l1ercuria1Morfhcmlal,D,_jlMlitiit
Ajfr,t,-,;,;,,9•,Bafilla,111,.
EliasMollerias, Dt Etlirfihw,4°,1607.
NicolausMullcrlut, l•ftitilrion,,m
A/fn•lliit~ lil,J4-, S-,
Groaingz i 616.
PhillipMull:r,
Pa,dusMina-Ya,
Johannes
Magin~
lhCom,t•, 8°, Llp&z,161g.
fr6[,igit11r•
,,.,.,,,,,,f,lio
Neapoll1620
1011l1Nw1, 4°, Bononhe1619. ~
Pirtc,;,,,;1,,,,,
iJtm, Dr di,6• airicil,
~o,
Ven«iis 16o7. Er,,_e,ide1,4•1
Franc~>ltird
161 o. P,;,,,,,.
M,l,il,, f--
lio,Vcnetli•_I·
6o,J.
ZpntriJu per-7'
..~ Lansbergtana
d 16+S·.i·166o. 4°, Bononiz 161-,
tudoYICUI
Modronm,
J)i Dirttti011ih111
re,
••
.,,
..1.W. ....
Montcbmnat,
J0Ceph111
MC')letfm,
N
Valcntlnua
Nalbod,
Auga&lnm
Nip~
Q
D•vid Orig111111,
Jo&ancm
OJFufiu,,
HlppolltasObid■eJ
EUa10la111,
Omar,
p
ParacclGat,
,.,., 40, Bonr111lz
164h
-bt•~ri.lt1,4-',VCIICCill
14164-
DtC11lo
et-Tt,,•,Ii&. 3• r, Venedll
1~73. ide•, Ena,.,;, iraAlcahidum,
4~,Coloni~ rs,o.
DriitlNII
Crititit, +o, Marpmgl161+
Ep6mttri4tt,40, Frankford1609- ia
3.1omt1
•
.Dedit,irw
"''''""' fMaltM•tt~40, Pari-
fib, 1570.
l•tr•ftronomitoa,
40,.Vicendz,16·11.
l>i•riu.,,Ajt,,logiu,,,,,
401 Uraniburga
J J"'·
Dt l\•1.i1lt•ti6111,foli,,
Bafiliz1~5I•
J),Jll,tn,i,,8°,Bafiliz.D, {..,.;, ..,.,.
,nijteriil,8°,Bafiliz. }.»-
APPENDICES 393
~CtlJo/1,,
efAftrological
Anthon.
Jolwmca
Paduanl111, Der,6,u AJro111■i/i1,t•,VCDCcliS
Is ~r
SimeonPardic:iula D, htJ•tii,, 16•, 1613.
CarperPucer, Dt ~jfrologi•,
octoo,W1dbergz, ~72.
Conncllu•Plclenu, M:Jftu1critia,1Ajlrologic111,
16•, No-
rm1bcrgz
1627.
Alcxinder Pl:olhoml• D.:Spbm,lit,.4- 'I""''
,1 B.ifili~1s68.
neus,
Pcuus Pitatut, Ep!JtmtriJ,1,
fllMto.
JovLmusPoncanus,
8aptlfta
Porca,
Vr,nia, 1ttd'IJ1, Bafiliz·•~~ 6. iJem,c..: .
rth111twk(fi6111,.q~rto,
B.,filiz 1530.
hi cm111•
ftulumd .Apbori/mos
,,,,,_
fflt1Jldlio, q,uirto,
B·afiliz1531e
lb_.,fi•~no111MtiA
C«leOis
,oct•vo,
Argento-
Nd 1606.
E1ycu1
Puteanl1s, 'DtCometa161S.t;.0
, Coloncz1619.
Chrillophcrus~t1el1u1, DeGeuetbliAcis,
'1""'''•
Sencdi&is
Percrius, D, m11pJ•
t!J-
Ajfrologic,
div,nal-iont,
oct.-
110, Coloniz ·1598.
Carolusp;m; PbJftc11m
Co•et.eSpttM, ott•v1_,Ponte
ad Montiontm 1619.
Claudius
Ptulomeus, fl•.J• iparri:u'II,folio,B16liz ISs1.
Procla1, Iz Q.Jt
.•
J,;ri.ii:n,n Pcolom:i,folio,Bafi•
Jiz 1~59•
.
p,,rpbirius,
I\
Thomas
lladinus,
l 1 Pcol"aneu'n,
foUo,
Bafiliz15S9•
SJ.l?r.lis
46ifu1,,,,,.1,10,
Lutetiis 1514~
Tr«tAtu, .ll.1,·,l:i&!..ic111,
0,1,v,,
1t·rank(or•
ffcnricua
Ran1ovi111, · ti Io1~ • fJ_-,n
Opu;,111um
AJf
ro,nic""1,
1Iur10, \Vi,-ib~rg~.Catilo,g11s
Im;1-
,.,o,11•qui••.:r11,1
A/f
rologiam,
oc,,t.
.,,,, Antwerpiz Is80.
Johanna Regiomonta•7'..hall
Dirteli11;wn,
q~rto,.Wwbcrp:
DIii, 16o6.
Abrahamusl\ockcnbacla
-urc,_,;,,
ottav., Wldbergz1&r
9.
JQUDRCl
l\Qrmauui,
16111i:o/,Ji'1
S_t110pfi•
_.,Frankford
rl1f
o,••• Johaanci
394 APPENDICES
.f CMJoa,,,
efAftrologieal
Aatlaon.
JGIIDNI llotbmlPDUI, C,nc,r4111tid
Glllt~u.. CIIII elfti•s&a
,,,.,,,, ErpborcllaI J9S~
Ladoriculdel\egH•, Apb,rif
•i A#,.,,,.iti,
9ur,.,Norlanh.-
p 1~35·
Baptitt. I\.ICQ~ Cro Geog,.,bit.,f,li,,BoaoDla
1143.
Joban.RegiolllOJICIDIII,
Ktll,"4•ri,m,,
f'M'I'•
Hcllfcus
MOia, ll)r,1bt{,141Mlol4o,
911a1,,
FrlDCOml'-
d 1587.
HatyROUlt.
OualterR1ff;
s
Wolfgangus
Saderius,
CorneliusSchyl•clff,
Mich1clStanliuit.i'9
Hleroaom111
Savao.o-
rola,
GodfriduaSmoH~
JDbScboll,
JohannnSt0tftera'>
Jolwma Stadia,,
Samuel
Siderocrator,
Johanna Schoncra•~
Hugo
Scmplliu,
o,..,,,.,;.,.
ine,.l,;,a,;,.., Ptolc,.
.. , 6- ,,,,,.,. Afbtrif
...,, ,.,,.,v...
tll1 1493.·-witb
r,J,itb
isprint,d ,,,, 100
Apl,,riJ■,1 •fBethal, Almanfo_,
Hermes
;• tdf,,
ZaeldtJurrr,g•dtat-
hs ; ad of McffahaJah,
• ,..,.. ,,...
t1ol,,1ioai/,,u.
Dr dirhstriiicis,j1etmis.
Diati• A,nl.g,itA,«IOI,.-
Moatlsbel-
Rardi,
160s.
l,l,JicilM ~Jlr,ltgk•,
Antweapiz
1~77;
DeMtt1ori1,,tta,, Witibergz·1sla.
A,h,f,(,,,,1;.;,,.1,i""8 AJl,...Ullll
1
fftti.
w, Florencia1581.
lbilt{,,bicl f!J-
•'4it• t'Jllti/u, 'JM"',
Lub«z1609.
C11nonts
Ajlrol'1-it1
.d Mttli,..,,,, ~
toArgrntorati 1537•
Epbnntridts,
'1'"''''
Parifis1533.
Epbtmnidts
,q11.m,,ColonizAgrip~
1570. 7'.b11l~
Btrg,11[,1,
Coloniz A•
grippinz 1560.
Dt di/f1111tii1
locor11111J
f""''''
Tublnpa
IS63.
O,er•,.,.tbm,attt.-,
f,H,,Norlmberp,
I,~1.
.,,",
BHl(_,-611,
;,,,.,w;~
Dr ,,.,,,,.,,itil)folit 1Annrerpl&
•'JS
JOMIIMI
APPENDICES ~ 395
A uu1oz,,,
,f Aftrolo,j.cal
Authon.
T
Jolaanaee
Talmm. Allrr•"&i•
lf.rg~.,8•~Colonle •1~,
llolJerc
:raaacr, Oftk tn,j1111t1i.,,
•f~rnc dNJupiccr
1s83. on•i,o,
London 1583.
Co1Hmlti111
Taalettcr,
Cao1111,
Aflr•n•iti, ,ao,, kg~
rad 1531.
Tharnbelaul, IC•lnul•ri1""6-Etbn,,nis,
'JIMTto,
Berli-
ni ~582.
Andreas
Tmt1eJiur, ltltditi,,.Di•1•tit•, 16•, Jehnz1619.
Tla~hraftua, I'r Ytnris, tJIMrto,
Urbinl IS93•
NathanielTorporlelu1, Y.Jv~ AJfronomit~,
4•,London 1602.
GeorgiuaTrapaundus, I• mitt&"!
Ptelomd Apb,ri(mos,oc••~•~
Colon1z 1544-
Leonardlll
namcl&, Yi,111tts
pltmtdrlnll
injl11t11ti.lt1,
foli,,Btr-
rm, lini 1578.
Poatu1T7ardau, Epbmttridt.1
a•Spber•,Lugduni1562.
V
Georgiu•Valla,
Johannes
Vernerm,
w
c,,,,_,,,,,;ont1
inPtolom,um,folio,V
e-
netii11502. A••/fpi11i{MII
Cotntnt•'}•
1't ■ld•tione .,,,~,+•,Norimbcrgz I 546
EberhardaqWcJperus, Comptndi""'
Aflro110111i.1,
octav,,
Argen•
tori 163-1-.
AbJia1
Wicknenu,
z
7'•11 A,ct11fro111m1,
+•,Tnbingz
1561.
JohannesZinckiut, 1Jttrijihll1,fiJttttn1, Francofurt1609.
Alphonfu1Zobolur, ;1't Direc1ioni6111,folio,
Vincentiz1620.
'Tftere may happily be m1RJ more Authors eixsantwho
havewritten of Anrologit,but no morehave as yet comeunto
mj hands; thde I mention are all myowA,8cc.miny of thefe
perhapshavebeenfinceprinted at other places: l11d«dProlollltJ
bath &een
printed in folio, in qu•rto,In octavo,in fix11eru,and
hath beentranOatedfeveralltimesout of Grte6"-into
Larin:that
lately printed at Ltilen I conceiveto be.themol\ ex.1&-,
it w1s
performed by AU,rius,
&c.Jqa word, fome mayblamemethat
) writ~in the EngliP,tongue; yet I truft I have offendedno
man, fith I write in myowneLanguage; andto fuchasfpc~k
MI(peak
; nor doeI know that it is forbidunto man to write
ill bit owncl.anguige, or is any ruin bow1dto rud or heare
APPENDICES
"at
caatenteth
himnot: If this Book
doe__... p~ r
.. IIaecoanthi.a po4 ancl
think bim wortliyto Owe
I bat If
llecllfpleafe,
J-thenbehne thememoryof it Owl Coon
PfflO-.
andmyfc)fcOiallcoaatit ill: If notWitbftandi■R this, mine
Accufers
willnot befatilfiecl
wkh dailcommon judgmcnr, let
them content tbemfclva with the jqmeot of the time, whicla
at lenath difCOYereth
the priyY fadt1 of eTery thing : whida
becaui'c
it ii the fatherofc111th,
it givesjudgmcntwithout pa&
ion, aodaccuftometbncr111ore
to pronouncetrue fcntcnccof
dlellfcordcathot
Wridags. Fini11Deoglo,,
•• 0c,,6. •• 16+7•
LILL r.
With the exception of a 13th century manuscript of .Al Kindi, this
Catalogueof the books owned bf William lilly, mentions books pri,,td
between 1412and 1647. We, therefore, realize that astrological books
must have been 11mongthe prst off the pressesof Europe. It is generally
conceded bf reference books that printing bf movable type was intro-
duced into Europe about 1440,and that the earliest record we hlltleof
wood-block printing in Europe is dated 1423. Yet /,ere we h111Je
1111
edition of Hyginus published in Paris in 1412,and no less tl,11neigl,t
astrological books printed before 1500.If we glance or,er Cl,apter 18
again, we shall find many others.
APPENDICES 397
APPENDIX XII
PRECESSION OP THE EQUINOXES
Precession is the westward motion of the Equinoxes on the Eclip-
tic, as if they advanced to meet the Sun on its annual return. One
cflcct of precession is that the signs of the zodiac do not now coincide
with the constellations.
The ancient peoples seem to have used the figure 50" per year as
the rate of precession, for the following figures arc found in their
calculations:
It takesapproximately 72,years to fall back one degree.
It takes approximately 2,16o years to fall back one sign.
It takes approximately 25,920 years to fall back 12 signs.
"Edward Barnard discovered from ancient monuments that the
Egyptian priests calculated, much as we do, the movement of preces-
sion at 50 seconds and 9¾sixtieths of a second, in a year, that is;50
seconds and about a sixth of a second; consequently, that they knew it
with as much precision as we do at this day."•
Taking 648
as an average complete eclipse cycle (sec Appendix II),
we note: 648
X 40 gives 25,920years.
Also36-ycar cycles,taken in "planetary order" sequence, give 36 X 7
or 252 years.
Multiply 252 by 10 and we have 2520,which is the same as Daniel's
"seven times," i.e., 36o X 7.
Halve this amount and we have 1200,or Daniel's period of "time,
times and a half," or one precessional sign. Taking our Jupiter-Saturn
cycle of 240 years and dividing it into 25,920,we have 240 X 18,which
gives 25,920.
All these division and figures arc found in ancient prophecy. They
arc inexplicable without some knowledge of cyclic law.
• GodfreyHiggins. An«ol,t,su, Book 5, Ch. ii, p. 179 (1833).
APPENDICES
APPENDIX XIII
Tm SuN's RAYS AT DIPPERBNT
HoURS
Some number of years ago Dr. John J.Pool, Principal of the Inter-
national College of Chromatics of London, sent me an invitation to
a lecture given before one of the learned societies of Great Britain
by a retired British army officer who had lived for a number of years
in South Africa. I regret that I have not been able to remember his
name. I should not think that he knew anything about astrology,
nor that he was aware that anything he might say could be used in
support of astrology. He produced flowers and plants, which he had
preserved in books and between glass, alsophotographs. He arnazt.d
the learned group by demonstrating several things:
1. That by screening Rowers with blue gauze at various periodsdur-
ing the day, of from a few minutes to one hour, he had beenable
to change the color of plants.
2. That by screening he had alsobeen able to change the shapeof
various parts of Bowers.
3. That by screening for one hour in the morning, when the Sun was
at a particular angle (I think he said about 42 to 45 degrees) in bis
garden in South Africa, he was able to kill his plants.
I have always regretted I did not take notes of this lecture, for it
was the clearest and most effective demonstration I have ever known
of the fact that the Sun's rays are not the same during different~
of the day. I mention the matter because I noted a statement by a scien-
tist, not so long ago, that it was the height of foolishncss for an astrologer
to say that the Sun had any different influence upon a new-bornchild,
or upon an adult, at one particular hour rather than at any other, for
the S~n had exactlythe same effect at all hours of the day.
APPENDICES
APPENDIX XIV
Vmcn.'s "FoUllTHEcLooUB"
Translatedby /o/,n Dryden
The last great age, foretold by sacred rhymes,
Renews its finished course: Saturnian times
Roll round again; and mighty years, begun
From their first orb, in radiant circles run.
The base degen'ratc iron offspring ends.
A golden progeny from heaven descends:
0 chaste Lucina, speed the mother's pains:
And haste the glorious birth: thine own Apollo reigns!
The lovdy boy with his auspicious facel •..
Thy son, shall lead the life of Gods,and be
By Godsand heroes seen, and Godsand heroes sec.
Another Typhis shall new seas explore,
Another Argo land the chiefs upon the Iberian shore:
Another Helen other wars create,
And great Achilles urge the Trojan fate.
0 of cdcstial secdl O foster-son of Jovel ...
See,lab'ring nature calls thee to sustain
The nodding frame of heaven, and earth, and main:
Sec to their base restored, earth, seas, and air.
399
In Book 6 of the Aeneid,Virgil reveals that he undoubtedly believed
,Augustus to be the coming representative of the new age of gold:
This-this is he-the chiefso long foretold
To bless the land where Saturn ruled of old,
And give the Lerncan realms a second age of gold!
The promised prince, Augustus the divine,
Of Cacsar's line, and Jove's imperial line.
Index
Names marked with an asterisk denote the fact that horoscope data can be found
in One Thmutmd, and One Notable Nativities, in MO'TeNotable Nativities, or in
Fammu Nativities.
Abelard, 190
Abenezra (Abraham Judaeus), 83, 168,
197, 245, 246, 305, 319, J84, J86,
390
Abenragel, 198
Abravanal, !saac, 249
Abulcasis, 208
Accadian Months, 24
Achilles Tatius, 124
Achinapolus, s8
Adams, Evangeline, 348,349
Adams, Marsham, 93, 123, 124
Adelard of Bath, 76, 153, 173, 191, 192,
243
Aeschylus, 53, 339
Aesculapius, 58
Afendopolo, Caleb, 249
Agapius, 141
Agricola, Emperor, 170
• Agrippa, Cornelius, 260, 262, 263,
305, JII, 396
Ailly, see D'Ailly
AJciba,Joseph hen, 82, 2o6
Alanis ab Insulis, 194
Albategnius (Al Ba~), 154. J86
Albertus Magnus, xi, 152,153, 157, 215,
J86
Al Biruni, 162
Albohali, 151, J84,J86
Albohazen, Haly, 390
Albumazar, 154, 159, 16o, 191, 196,
201,
215, 231, 246, 257, 383,384, 385
Alcandrius, 187
Alchabitius, 196, 284, 303, 384
Alcuin, 172, 181, 182, 185, 187, 190
Alexander of Aegae, 131
• Alexander the Great, 49, SS, '/2
• Alexander VI. Pope, 253
Alexander Scverus, Emperor, 120,
170
Alexandria, School of, So, 6g, '/2-17
Alfarabius, 384
Alfazari, 153
Alfraganus, 152, 16o, 201, 384
Alfred, King, 179, 185, 187
Alfred the Englishman,
83, 194
Algazel, 194
Al Hakim (Gjamasp), 40
Alhazen, 209, 384
Ali Hazen BeyVousseph, Caliph, 16o
Al Kindi, Jacob (Alkindus), 87, 154,
155, 157, 195, 201, 245, 246,305, 383,
J84,385
Al Khwarasmi, 153, 161, 192
Allatius, Leo, 26'/,379 .
Almagest (Great Construction), 71,
159, 16o, 201-203, 208, 253, 255
Al Mansur, Caliph, 149, 150, 152
Al Mamoun, Caliph, 143, 149, 159, 378
Alonzine Tables (Alphonsine), 193,
217, 270, 384
• Alphonso X of Aragon, 217
Alpetragius, 193, 383
Al Raschid, Caliph, 149
1 182
Ammonius of Alexandria, 53, 131
Ammonius Saccas, 133
Anatolia, 202, 203, 319
Anaxagoras, 53, 66
Anaximander, 53, 54, 64, 65
Anaximenes, 64, 65
Andronicus, Emperor, 146
Anglo-Sason Chronicle, 1'17,1;,8, 179,
185
Anna Comnena,145
Anne, of England, 331, 332
Anne of Denmark (Wife of James I),
271
Aonius Flavius, 91 92
Annus Magnus, 98,
1o8-110
Antipater of Cos, s8
Antipater of Tarsus, the Stoic, 6o
Antoninus Pius, Emperor, II'/, 118
Anu (god), 25, 28, 29
Apollonius of Laodicea, 116
Apollonius of Myndos, SS, I 16
Apollonius of Tyana, I 15, 31I
Appius Claudius, 91, 92
Aquarian Age, 224, 226
Aquinas, Thomas, see St. Thomas
Aquinas
INDEX
Aramaic Calendar, see Calendar,
Aramaic
Aratus, 56, 57, 6o, 73, 93, g6, III, 114,
I.24, 131, 136, J86
Arbaces, 41
Archimedes, i'I, 74, 136, 142
Arellius Fuscus, 113
Argol, 303, 305, J86
Arin Theory, 153,161,192,243
Aristarchus, 131
Aristotle, 16, 27, 28, 54, 55, 66, 68, 74,
'17, 107, 131, 142, 155-158, 162, 201,
203, 219, 248,250, 383, J84
Amauld of Villeneuve, 208, J84
Artaxerxes, 41
Arzachel of Cordova, 193, 201, 384
Ashmole, Sir Elias, 170, 20'/, 277, 280,
281, 288, 289--299,
300-302, 3o6, 30'/,
312, 3q, 318, _329
Assurbanipal (Sardanapalus), 21, 22,
337
Assyrian Calendar, See Calendar, As-
syrian
Astrolabe, 152, 153, 166, 167, 182, 192,
193, 235, 236, 245, 246, 249, 28o
Astrological processions, 48
Athelstan, King, 186
• Augustine, See St. Augustine
Augurs,~. 97, g8
• Augustus Caesar (Octavian), 54, 93,
99, 103, IOS,I II, 112, 113, 178, 245
Aurelian, Emperor, 134
Aurelius, Emperor, 132
Avendeath (Ibn Daud), 68, 196, 384
Avenzoar, 319
Averrhoes, 163, 168,2o8, 214, 250
Aviccbron (lbn Gabirol), 88, 189, 190,
219
Avicenna (Ibn Sina), 88, 162,201, 203,
2~0, 383
Axts of Earth, See Heliocentric Sys-
tem
• Bacon, Francis, 210, 274
Bacon, Roger, 145, 153, 173, 189, 2o8,
209, 210, 243, 310. 383, J84
Bagdad, 151
Bailey, E. H., 59, 134
*Balzac, Honore de, 259, 263
Bazile, 26o
Barbillus, 114
Bardas, 145
Bartholomew the Englishman, 210,
J83
Bashyazi, £1ijah, 249
Basil, Emperor, 145
Bede,the Venerable,172, 173, 117, 119.
18o, 383, J84
Bel, god, 28,29, 90
Bellantius, Lucius,250. 387
Belysis, 41, 33'1
Bergson, Henri, 65
Berosus, 43, .SS,
59
Bessarion, Cardinal, 248
Bianco, Cardinal, 253
*Blake, William, 335, 336
• Blackwell, James, 288
Boehme, Jacob ( Behmcn), 69, 10, m-
279, 311
Boethius, 76,141, 142, 143, 183, 191,
235
Bologna, University of, 198, 214
• Booker, John, 288, 292, 297, 302, 305,
3o6, 312, 314, 315, 387
Bonatus, Guido, 152, 163, 232. 290,305,
379, J84, ~7
Bonincontrius, Cardinal, 107, 242, J87
Botarel, Moses, 83
Boyle, Robert, 328
Bradwardine, Thomas, 218, 383
• Brahe, Tycho, 137, 1s8, 216, 247,
267-271, 27S, ~' J86
• Broughton, Dr. Len., 111, 252, 253-
319, 328,346-.349
Brown, Robert, 24, 25, 26, 28, 56.57
Browne, Sir Thomas, 319
Budge, Wallis, 46
• Burton, Sir Richard, 336
Burton, Robert, 149, 284
Burton, Samuel, 307-312, 314
• Byron (Lord), 334, 331
Cairo, School of, 76, 147
Calendar, Aramaic, 25
Calendar, Assyrian, 25
Calendar, Julian, 93, 94
Calendar, Gregorian, 283, 286, 287
Calendar, Mayan, 94
Calendars, 91, 92, 140, 209
Caligula, Emperor, I 14
Camerarius, 2,s8, 379, J87
Campanus, 134, 248
• Cardan, Jerome, S1, 245, 200., 279.
305, 387
Capella. Martinus, 141
Caracalla, Emperor, 48, 119, 120
Carneades, 139
Carseno, Jacob, 219
• Catherine de Medici (See Medici)
Ceccod'Ascoli, 214
Cellini, Benvenuto, 256
Censorius (Censoninus), 54, 133, 387
INDEX
Cnlliloqt,y of Ptolemy, 78,79, 250
Chamber, John, 289,290, 304, 387
Champolion, JeanFran~ois, 44
• Chaney, W. H., 346, 347, 348
• Charlemagne, 181, 182, 183
• Charles I of England, 291, 395, 303,
313, 317, 329
• Charles II of England, 293, 317
Charles IV, Emperor, 220
Charles V, Emperor, 262
Charles V of France, 220
Charles the Bald, 183, 185
Charles IX of France, 258
• Chatterton, Thomas, 333, 334
Chaucer, Geoffrey, 151, 167, 193, 199,
200, 235-240, 24S, 323
• Choisnard, Paul, 216, 352, 3S3, 354,
35S
Chrysippus, the Stoic, 6o
• Cicero, 6o, 93, g6, 97, 98,99, 100, 1o8,
112, 113, 136, 140, 141
Clancy, Paul G., 275
Claudius, Emperor, 114, 171
Oeanthes, 6o
• Clement VII, Pope, 253
Oement Alexandrinus, 48
Oeopatra, 76, I 13
Oeostratus, S4, SS
Oovis, King, 141
• Coley, Henry, 232, 288, 310, 314
Coliseum, 179
• Collins, Mabel, 140
Columbus, Christopher, 141, 153, 220,
243, 248, 254
Comnena, Anna (See Anna)
Congreve's Life of Dryden, 321-323
Conjunctions, 40, 150, 1g6, 21S, 224,
265, 269, 285, 290, 34S, 358-370, 373-
316 . E
Constantine, mperor, 135
Constantinople, 249
Cooper, John, 326
• micus ix 17, 95, 246, 254
rrucan ys em (See Heliocentric
ystem)
Cordova, 165-168
Cormack, George, 26
Corvino, 260
Co~ School of, 43, s8,59
• Cosimo de Medici (See Medici)
• Coue, Emile, 65
Creech, Thomas, 104, 105, 1o6, 107,243
Cremer, Abbot, 213
Cracow, University of, 246
Critical Days, S7, 58, 131, 132, 197
• Cromwelt, Oliver, 258, 294, 295
• Cromwell, Richard, 3()6
• Cross, R. W. (Raphael), 343. 34S,
346
Ctesias, 41
• Culpepper, Nicholas, 162, 166, 198,
288, 319, 333
Culdees, 181
Cyril, Bishop, 76
D'Ailly, Cardinal Peter, 153, 192, 216,
243, 261
Dalton, Joseph G., 347
Daniel, 40, 223
• Dante, 36,53, 86, 8g, 190, 211, 217,
227-235
• Dee, Dr. John, x, 149, 162, 193, 198,
209, 279-283
Democritus, 66, 67
Denderah, Zodiac of, 84, 122-129
Dering, Sir Edward, 288
• Digby, Sir Kenelm, 288, 295
Diocletian, Emperor, 49, III
Diodorus, 30, 31, 41, 91
Diogenes, 6o
Dion Cassius, 119
Dionysius Exiguus, Abbot, 33, 177
Dionysius the Areopagite ( St. Denis),
177, 183, 184
• Domitian, Emperor, I 15, I 16
Donato, S. ( See Shabbethai Donato)
Druids, 169-177
Dryden, John, 105, 321-324, 328
• Dumas, Alexandre (pere), 331
• Diirer, Albrecht, 255, 379
Ea, god, 27(28,29
Ealdhelm Aldheim), 18o
Eddy, Mary Baker, 66
• Edward III of England, 213, 218
• Edward VI of England, 261,279,282
Edward the Confessor, 179
Edwin, King, 173
El Hakim (Gjamasp), 40
Egyptian Days, 43, 91, 173
Elizabeth of England, 209, 279-281
Emanations, Doctrine of ( See Kab-
bala)
Empedocles, 65
End of the world, 223-266
Erasmus, 257
• Erasmus Rheinholdus, 26g
Erigena ( See John Scotus)
Este, Zodiac of, 110, 121, 122-1_29,168
Euclid, 16, 73, 76, 142, 185, 186, 191,
28o
Eudemos of Rhodes, SS
4o4 INDEX
Eudocia, Empress,45
Eudoxus, s6, 57
Euripides, 93
Eusebius, 99
Eutychius, 173
Evans, Rh71 (Arise), - 293,294
Ezekiel, 48, 68,254
Fabricius, Cardinal,145
Farratius, 189
Farrukhan, Omaral, 150
Ficino, Marsilio, So, 244, 245, 249, 250,
J88
Firmicus, Julius Maternus, 105, 135,
194, J88
Fiske, Matthew, 317
Fiske, Nicholas, 267,274, 317
• Flammarion, Camille, 351, 352
• Flamsteed, John, 288, 315, 329, 330
,Flavius (See Annius Flavius)
Fludd, Dr. Robert, 271,302, J88
Formalhaut, 341, 342
Forman, Dr. Simon, 315, 316
• Francis I of France, 262
Gibbon, Edward, 130, 142, 144,
146,179, 183
Gilgames (Solar hero), J8, 39
Gjamasp (Sec Al Hakim)
Gloucester, Duke of, 197
Gloucester, Duke of (1440), 246
• Goethe, 334, 338,339
Grambald, Abbot, 18g
Great Ycar ( See Annus Macnus)
• Gregory XIII, Pope, 93, 95
• Greenwich Observatory, 329, 3JO
Grossetestc, Robert, 208, 210, 310
Guido Reni, 255
Guillaume de Loury, 220
• Gustavus Adolphus, 269,270
Guy de Cauliac, 138
Hadrian, Emperor, 117, 118
Haephaestion of Thebes, 137
Halevi, A. hen Dior, 82
Halley, Edmund, 330
Halliwell Poem, 186
Haly Rodoam of Cairo, 163, 294, 384,
394
Francis II of France, 258,26o
Frederick II of Denmark, 270,
272
Harlequinade, 222
271, Haroun Al Raschid (See Al Rascbid)
,. Hasday, Ben, 208
Heliocentric System, 17, 34, 35, <>o,
Frederick II, Emperor, 201, 202
Gadbury, John,261, 288, 293, 31;, 318,
320, 324
Gaio, Maestro Rieto, 252
Galen, 16, Si, 75, 79, 131, 132, 201, 216,
2~1, 319
Galileo, 107, 275, 276,2'/7
Ganivelus, John, 290, 389
Gans, Solomon, 268
Gassendi, Pierre, 318
Garnett, Dr. l_uchard (A. J. Trent),
352
Gataker, Thomas, 305
Gauricas, Lucas, 248,253, 379,389
Gautier of Metz, 214
Geber, 161, 201, 384
~ 115,
96,103, 104, 141, 153, 154, 162,
192, 193, 219, 268, 275, wn,282.m
Heminga, Sextus, 3~ .390
Henry I (Beauclerk), 196,
IV/, 199
Henry II of England, 196, IV/, 199
Henry II of France, 258
• Henry IV (Navarre), 26o
Henry V of England, 245
Heraclitus, 65
Hercules (Twelve Labors), 38, s8
Herman of Dalmatia, 195
Hermes, Books of, 48,49, so,311
Hermes, Trutine of, s8,59
Herodotus, 54
Hesiod, 53, 64, 65
• Heydon, Sir Christopher, 274, 289,
Gcminus of Rhodes, 6o
Gemistos, Giorgios ( Plcthon), 244, • ~don, John, 288, 290
248
Geoffrey of Monmouth, 174, 197
George I of England, 332
Gerard, Archbishop of York, 194
Gerard of Cremona, 153, 158, 162, 193,
Hilprecht, Professor, 20
Hipparchus, 53, 56, 74, 77
Hippocrates, 53, 57, 75, 131, 162, 201,
251, 319
Hisperic Literature, 174-175
Hiyya, Hanasi ( Savaradora) , 168, 19'),
201' 203, 243, 379
Gerbertus ( Pope Sylvester II), 103, 378
Holdsworth's Ephemerides, 347, 348
Homer, 51, 52, 62, 63, 136
105, 142, 166, 16;, 207
Germanicus, I 14
Gersonides, 193, 218, 219 Honain hen Ishak, 132
INDEX
• Horace, JOO, IOI, 323
Horus, Four sons of, 46, 4'1
House Division, 134, 241
HfMlilwas,307-312
Hunayn, 201
Hyginus, 245,390,396
Hystaspis, 40
lbn Daud (See Avendeath)
Ibn Gabirol ( See Avicebron)
Ibn Shaprut, 166
lbn Verga, 249
lngulphus, Abbot of Croyland, 186,
187
Isaac Judaeus, 69, 148, 149, 155, 190,
194,201,384
Jacob hen Tarik, 154
James I of England, 274, 290, Jo6
Jean de Builhons, 246
Jeremias, Alfred, 26
John the Englishman (Johannes An-
geli), I S9, 386
John Hispalensis, 151, 168, 195, 196,
199, 290, 378, 389
John of Hollywood ( Sacrobosco), 200,
210, 235, 243, 383
John of Salisbury, 190
John Scotus (Erigcna), 183, 184, 185,
187, 190, 250
John of Sicilia, 193
John II of France, 220
Johnson, Samuel, 321-323, 328
Judaeus, Abraham (See Abenezra)
Judaeus, Isaac (See Isaac Judaeus)
Julia, Wife of Severus, 113, 119
Julianus, the Chaldean, 118
Julius Caesar, '/6, 93, 93, 94, 96,124,
IJl, 1J6
• Julius 11, Pope, 253
• Junctinus, 264,305, _379,390
Jupiter-Saturn (See Conjunctions)
• Justinian, Emperor, 143
Juvenal, l0I
Juvencus, 173
Kabbala, S9, 76, 82-go, 187, 195, 24~
244, 250, 258, 28o
Kairwan, 6g, 148
Kamateros, John, 146
• Kelly, Sir Edward, 281
• Kepler, 95, 216, 267,268-273, 317,
390
Kimbi, Joseph ben Isaac, 199
• Kingsford, Anna, 49
Kolonymos, 218
Lactantius, So
Lali, 40, 159, 214
Latini, Bruno, 231, 233, 234
Laurenti us, John, 99, 140
Le Neve, Geoffrey, 288, 303
Lenormant, Fran~ois (elder), 20
Lenonnant, Fran~s (younger), 31,
36,90, 135
•Leo X, Pope (Giovanni de Medici),
245,253
• Leo, Alan, 81, 349, 350
• Leo, Bessie, 350
Leo the Philosopher, Emperor, 145
Leo of Thessalonica, 143, 144
Leonardo da Vinci, 245, 264
Leontcs II, Emperor, 136
Leovitius, C., 265, 391
Leucippus, 66
Lewis, Sir Geo. C., 61, 62, 95, 96
• Lilly, William, I5!.rt_199, 233, 261,
265,266,273,288,209,292,297, 302-
317, 319, 324, 326,329, JSs-396
Lindhout, H. A., 285, 305, 391
Liutprand, King, 142
Livia, 113
Livy, 92
Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, 16o,
161, 231
Longinus, 133, 134
Loew,Der Hohe Rabbi, 267
• Lorenzo the Magnificent (See Me-
dici)
• Louis XIII of France, 285
Lucan, 99
Lucretius, 105
Lully, Raymond, 213, 214, J83, 384
• Luther, Martin, 257
Lydgate, John, 196, 240, 241, 299
• Lytton, Bulwer, 337
Macer, 105
Macrinus, Emperor, 119, 120
Macrobius, 92, 93, 1o8, 135, 140
Maimonides, Moses, 69,168, 199
• Mallet 1 John, 288
Mandeville, Sir John, 210
Manetho, SS
Manilius, 51, 54, 91, 98,103-109, 113,
212, 242, 323, 379, 391
Manlca, 153
Manuel Comminus, Emperor, 146
Marc de Games, 220
Marduk, god, 28
Marinus, 140
Marbodus, 195
Mark Antony, 113
INDEX
Maspero, G., 19, 20, 42
Maternu,., Julius Firmicus (See Fir-
micus)
Maximinus, Emperor, 120
Medici, Catherine de, 259, 260, 274
Medici, Cosimo de, 220, 244
Medici, Lorenzo de, 245
• Melanchthon, 2,58,379
Menard, Louis, So
Menes, King, 49
Merlac, Daniel, 199
Messahala, 151, 1g6, 199, 235, 245, 290,
384, J9I
Metochita, Theodorus, 146
Michael de JalODJUes,220
Michelangelo, 256, 257
Milley Way, 107, 1o8
• Mirandola (See Pico delta M.)
Mithraics, 175-176
Moore, Sir Jonas,297, 329, 330
• Morinus (Morin de Villefranche),
284.~
• Morn~, R. ]. (Zadkiel), 312, 313,
32S, 326,343, 344
Nachmanides, 83
N aibod, Valentine, 283, 303, 305, ~92
Napier, John, Laird of Merchiston,
16, 266, 315, 316
Napier, Dr. Richard, 267,315, 316
• Napier, Sir Richard, 288, 315
• Napoleon, 129, 345, 346
Necepso, 136
Neckham, Alexander, 194
Nennius, 171
Neo-Platonism, 16, 28, 76,87, 88, 133,
134, 139, 140, 154, 155, 183, 184, 195,
244, 245, 249, 349
Neo-Druidism, 175, 176
• Neptune (R. H. Penny), 346
Nergal, god, 28
• Nero, Emperor, I 14, 11 S, 116, 120,
131
• Newton, Sir Isaac, 95, 288, 330
Nicholas of Cusa, 243
Nigidius, Publius N. Figulus, 98, 99,
112, 141
Nine Muses, 73
Nine Orders of Angels, 177,184,212
Nine Spheres, g8
• Nostradamus, 258, 259, 26o
Nostrandum, Michael, 2.;8
Nuncius Scaevola, en
Numerology, 101, 187, 282
Octavian (See Augustus Caesar)·
Oinopedes, SS
Old Moore's AJmanack,
330
Omar, Caliph, 76
Omar Tyberiadis, 393
Origanus, David, 294, 305, Jg,
Origen, 1:y,134
Orontius Fmaeus (Orooce F'me), 264,
265, 389
Osiris, 129
Otho, Emperor, 114, 142
Ovid, 100, 323
Padua, University of, 206, 214
Pagola, Maestro (Paolo Toscanclli),
220
Palmer, John (Raphael), 343
Pambedita Academy, 165
Pappus, 136
Papsukul, god, 25
Paracelsus, 251, 258, 2T/, JII, J.U.
302
Pard Zepl, 332
• Parker, George, 288, 320, 324
• Partridge, Jolm, 320, 324, 325, 326,
327,328,329,331,333
Paul, Saint (See SL Paul)
• Paul III, Pope, 253
Paulus of Alexandria, 136
• Pearce, Dr. A. J. (Zadkiel), 343, 344
Perscus, 100
Pelletus, 174
Peter of Blois, 193, 194
...,,
• Petrarch, 217, 218
Petrus Alphonsi, 168, 192, 193, 384
Pherecydes of Syros, 59, 8a
Philo, 6g
Philostratus, 53
Phoenicians, 171
Photius, 145
• Pico della Mirandola,86, 245, 249.
250, 258
Piccolomini, Pope (Pius II), 252
Pierre de Valo1s, 220
Pietro di Abano, 214
Placidus de Titus, 134, 325, 326,JJJ.
379
Planetary Hours, 37, 43, 378
Plato, 16, 27, 28, 49, 50, SS, 68, 69.119.
134, 136, 142, 158,159, 16a, 2,50
Plato de Tivoli, 199
Playing Cards, ~222
Plethon ( See Gemistos)
Pliny, 53, SS, s8, 92, 93, IOJ. 105, to8,
170
Plotinus, 133, 134
Plunkett, E., 22, 129
{ .------ ---
'-----
INDEX
Plutarch, S3, 93, 100, 1o8, 110, 131,
155
Pluto, 341, 343
Poggio Bracciolini, Cardinal, 103, 104,
107,242,243,248
Polemon, 133
Pomponazzi, Pietro, 257
Pon~no, Jovianus, 250, 30S, 393
*Pope, Alexander, 332, 333
Porphyry, 87, 1o8, 133, 134, 135, 142,
154, 393
Poseidoniusz 77, 9"1,g8
Prague, Umversity of, no
Precession of the Equinoxes, 47, 8o,
339, 397
Pre-Natal Astrology, s8,1g8
Primum Mobile, 6'/,77, 200, 210
Primum Mobile (book), 32S,333
• Proclus, 6o, 73, 139, 14'0, 142, 378,
379, 393
Procter, R. A., 56
Propertius, 100
Prutenic Tables, 269,270
Ptolemaeus, 114
Ptolemy, ~dius, 54, 73, 74, 76-81,
.....+J~, lot) , 134, 142, 152, 154, 1,58,
163, 166,"196, I9C), 201, 209, 248, 268,
289, 305.,320, 32S,326,378, 3i9, 38<>,
393
Ptolemy, Lagus, SS
Ptolemy I (Soter), ;2, i3
Ptolemy II (Philadelphius), 74
Ptolemy III (Euergetes), 74
Purbacb, Geo. Von, 247,379
Quadripartite (See Tetrabiblos)
Quadrivium, 148, 190, 193, 208, 231,
,381-~2
Ouintihan, 105
Rabelais, 258
Rameses II, 44, 4S
Rameses V, 44, 45, &I
Ramus,275,276
Ramesay, William, 319
Ranzovius, Henry, 285, 393
Raphael, painter, 254
Raphael (See Smith, R. C. ; Palmer,
John; Cross, R. W.)
Rawlinson, Sir Henry C., 32, 93
Recorde, Robert, 282
• Regiomontanus (Joho Mitller), 242,
246,265,379,389,393
Reuchlin, 258
Rhazes, 162, 2o8
• Ricciolus, 137
Richard I of England, 194, 195, 196,.
191, 199, 200
Richelieu, Cardinal, 285
Robert of Chester ( See Robert of
Retines)
Robert of Retines, 1s8, 19.5
Robert the Englishman ( See Robert of
Retines)
Roger the Englishman ( See Robert
the Englishman)
Royal Society, 295, 323
• Rudolf II of Germany, 268, 271, 281
Rttdolfine Tables, 317
Ruggieri, Cosmo, 259, 26o
Saadia, Gaon, 82
Sabal Ibn Tahir, 16o
Sabianism, 1SS, 156
• Sabye, John, 288
Sacrobosco (See John of Hollywood)
St Augustine, 100,137,138, 18o
St Denis (See Dionysius the Areopa-
gite)
St Michael 172, 255
St. Paul, 56,75, 184
St Paul's Cathedral, 172, 259
Saladin, 200
Sallier Papyrus, 42, 43
Salmon, Dr. Wm., 319
Sardanapalus (See Assurbanipal)
Sargon the Agade, 19, 20, 23
Saunders, Dr. Richard, 288, 318, 3·19
• Savonarola, 304, 394 ··
Sayce, A. H., 18, 19, 20, 23, 27, 43, 226 ·
School of Alexandria ( See Alexan-
dria)
Schopenhauer,66
Scot, or Scotus, Joho (Erigena) (See
John Scotus)
Scot, Sir Michael, x, 202-208, 253
Scott, Sir Walter, 204, 334, 3J8
Seleucus, 114
Seneca, ss,114, 120, 131
• Sepharial (W. Gornold), S9, 350, 35I
Sephir Yet:nreh, 46,68,82-89, 200, 38o
Serapion, 120
Sesostris (See Rameses II)
Seti I, Pharaoh, 46, 47, 48
Scverus, Emperor, 48,49, 119
Sextus Empiricus, 138, 139
Shabbethai Donota, 82
• Shakespeare, 93
Shamash,god,29,30
• Shelley, Percy Bysshe, 64, 339, 340
• Sibley, Dr. Ebenezer, 333, 379
• Sidney, Sir Philip, 283
INDEX
Sidrophel ( See under Hwlibra,)
Simeon hen Yohai, 28
• Simmonite, Dr. W. ]., 344, 348
Sin, god, 28
Sind ben Ali, 152
Sixtus IV, Pope, 253
Smith, Gco!'ge, 14
Smith, Dr. Heber, 348
• Smith, R. C. (Raphael), 343, 344,
345
Socrates, 6o
Sophocles, 53
Sosigenes, 93, 94, 131
• Spinoza, 70
Spurinna, Vestritius, 93, g6
Stcphanus, 115
St. Germain, 331
Stoics, 6o, 103, 105, 106
• Story, John, 344
Stuart, Samuel, 108-110
Suctonius, 93
Suidas, SS, 136
Sulla, Cornelius Felix, 114
Sura, Academy of, 82, 165
• Swift, Jonathon (Isaac Bickerstaff),
327, 3281:
_355
Sylvester I, Pope (See Gerbertus)
Tacitus, I 14, 172, 216
Taliesin, 176, I"
Tarrutius, Lucius T. Firmianus, 98,
99, 100
Tetrabiblos (Quadripartite), 77-81,
291, 2o8, 211,258,320
Thabit (Thebit), 383
Thales, 54, 64, 65
Theobald, Archbishop of Canterbury,
193
Theodore, Archbishopof Canterbury,
18o
Tbcodoric, Emperor, 141
Theodosius, 76
Theodorus, astrologer, 201
Tbeogegius, 112
Theon, 361
Theophilus, Patriarch, 76
Theophilus, Emperor, 144
Thomas of Pisa, 220
• Thompson, Catherine Victoria, 144.
348
Thompson, R. C., 21, 31
Thrasyllus the Elder, 113, 114
Thrasyllus the Younger, 114
Three Wise Men, 33
• Tiberius Caesar, 113, 114, 123
Titus Caesar, I 15, u6
Toledo, 167,217
Toscanelli, Paolo, 220
• Trapezuntius, 248, 253, 255, 379t 39S
Tree of Life, 85, 86
Trent, A. G. .(See Garnett,Dr. R.)
Triads, J8o
Trithemius, 258
Tyberiadis, Omar, 264,392
Tyndale, William, 20'/
Urania, 73, 74, 305
Usher, James, Archbishop, •
• United States, Horoscope of, y»
Varley, Jolm, 334-336
Varro, M. Terrentius, 99, 100, 101, Im
Vascoda Gama,249
Verus, L., Em_peror, 132, 137
• Vespasian, Emperor, 103, 114, 115,
116
Vestritius Spurinna ( See Spurinna)
• Virgil, 101, 137, 221, 323,339
Vitelli us, Emperor, 114
Von Galgebrob, 331
Vulcan, 52
Walcher, Prior, 192
• Wallenstein, Albert von, 272, 273
Watennan, L., 21
Wedel, Otto, ~ 236, 231
Weigel, Valentine, 205
Weston, L. H., 38
Whalley, John, 319, 320, 3W
Wharton, Sir George, 288, ~I, ~.
293, 2(0, 315, 317, 318
White's Ephemerides, 348
William the Conqueror, 179, 188
William of Conchcs, 194
William of Malmesbury, I'¥/
Winckler, Hugo, 25, 26
• Wing, Vincent, ~. 315, 318
Wolf, Hieronymus, 27S
Worsdale, ,346
Zacuto, Samuel, 248
• Zadkiel (See Morrison, R. ].;
Pearce, A. J.)
Zael (Zaelis), 151, 152, 199, 235, JOS.
383
Zenno of Genoa, 272
Zeno (the Stoic), 6o
Zenobia, 134
Zenophanes, 65
Zohar, 82
Zoroastrianism, 155, 156, 311
Zuriel (J. Wheeler), 345
