{"name":"Report On Animal Magnetism","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1785__franklin_et_alia___report_on_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Report On Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
I t E P O R T
O F
Dr. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
;ANO .OTHER. -
C 0 M M I S S I O N E K. S,
C H A R G E D B Y T H E
K I N G O F F R A N C E ,
WITH THE EXAMINATION OF THE
A N I M A L M A G N E T I S M ,
AS NOW PRACTISED AT PARIS.
T R A N S L A T E D PROM THF.FRENCH.
WITH AM
HISTORICAL INTRODUCTION.
L O N D O N :
HUNTED FOR J . JOHNSON, ( NO. 72 ) ST. PATFLV
CHURCH YARD. I785.
I N T R O D U C T I O N .
?
|
^HE fubjedt of the following
| pamphlet has excited the ex-
tremeft attention in France, has for
years filled their Journals and Mer-
cures, and has employed fome of their
beft pens and their brighteft wits.
By fome it has been applaud­
ed as the greateft of philofo-
phical difcoveries, and by others de­
cried as the juggle of an unprinci->
pled impoftor. The Englifli nation
has too much curiofity for every
thing that occupies the neighbour
kingdom, from whom we have long
iince been ufed to receive the laws of
politenefs and etiquette,and who have
lately feemed to take the lead of us in
philofophical difcovery, for the pre-
fent tranflation not to prove an ac­
ceptable prefent to alarge and refpec-
A % table
[ > ]
table clafs of our countrymen. It has
been thought proper, in order that the
moft uninformed reader may find in
this little compilation, every fpecies of
information upon the fubje£t? to pre­
fix to it a brief account of the pro-*
grefs of this fyftem.
M. Mefmer, the inventor of the.
animal magnetifm, is a German phy-*
iician. The firft thing by which
he diftinguifhed himfelf, appears tp
have been the publication of a Dif~
fertation upon the Influence of the
Stars on the Human Body, printed at
Vienna 1766;, and publicly defended
by him as a thefis in that univerfity.
In 1774 father Hehl, a Gerqian phi-
lofopher, ftrongly recommended the
ufe of the loadftone in the art of me­
dicine. M. Mefmer became very
early a convert to the principles of
this writer, and actually carried them
into practice with diftinguifhed fuc-
cefs. In the midft however of his
attention to the utility of the load-
ftqne?
jftone, he was led to the adoption of
a new fet of principles, which he con­
ceived to be much more general in
their application and importance. In
conformity to thefe principles he laid
alide the ufe of the loadftone, and
proceededwithhis cures in themethod
which he afterwards publiihed to the
world. This apoftacy involved him
in a quarrel with father Hehl and the
celebrated Ingenhouz, by whom he
had formerly been patronized; and
as their credit in Viennawasextremely
J
high, and their exertions againft him
indefatigable, his fyftem almoft im­
mediately funk into general difrepute.
To parry their oppofition he appeal1-
ed in 1776 to the academy of fciences
at Berlin. Here however his prin­
ciples were rejected as " deftitute of
foundation and unworthy the fmalleft
attention." Undifmayed by thefe
important mifcarriages, he made a
progrefs through feveral. towns of
Germany, ftill pradtifing the methods
A 3 of
f VI 1
of the animal magnetifm, and from
time to time publifhing an account of
the cures he effe£ted^ which did not
fail to be followed by a detectionfrom
his enemies. In the mean time, re-
fclved, as it fhould feem, if poflible
not to deprive his country of the be­
nefits of lb valuable a difcovery, he
returned a fecond time to Vienna, and
made another effay with no greater
fuccefs than the former.
Decided in his conduct by thefe
uninterrupted defeats,heleftGermany
and arrived at Paris in the beginning;
of the year 1778. Here one of the
firll connexions he formed was with
M. A. J. S. D., author of the Di£ti-
onnaire des Merveilles de la Nature,,
from which work many of the fol­
lowing particulars are extracted. It
is obferved by this writer, that " in
fpite of the apparent cautioufnefs an$
referve of M. Mefmer, and even in
fpite of the little fuccefs of his firft
experiments, he could not refufe him
credit
[ vii 1
credit for fincerity in his conduct, and
folidity in his reafonings; and he was
convinced, that the failure did not
originate in the fault of his agent>
but the indilpoiitiori of the fubjedls
\ipon which it was employed." In
April 1778, M. Mefmer Retired to
Greteil with the patients he had col­
lected, and ill a few months almoftall
of therri returned to Paris perfectly
reftored. One of them in particular
Was a paralytic^ deprived of the ufe
of her limbs, and who now walked
with all the eafe arid firmnefs in the
World. Irl November M. A. J. S. D.
introduced M. Mefmer to the houfe
of a family of diftindtiori, and who
Were actuated with the extremeft
curidfity refpefling all difcoveries
Which had the benefit of humanity
for their obje£t. Here he made an
experiment fo remarkable that it is
neceflary to extra<5t it fomewhat at
length.
A 4 " There-
[ viii 1
<c There being a pretty numerous
Company in the faloon, M. Mefmer
touched fucceffively feveral perfons,
fome of'whom had nerves extremely
irritable, without producing any ef­
fect fufficiently conflderable todeferve
to be afcribed to the animal magne-*
tifm. The operation was, repeated;
the fuccefs was the fame.
" The governor of the children
of the family, a man of a very robuft
and mufcular conftitution, little in­
clined to credulity, and fortified iii
his fcepticifm by what he ha,d juft
feen, had complained for fome time
of a pain in his ihoulders. As he
was beyond difpute the leaft fufcep-
tibie pei;fori in the company, he pro-
pofed himfelf by way of gafconade
•for the fubjedl of a laffc experiment.
" M. Mefmer refufed to touch
this gentleman, but confented to di­
rect upon him the magnetifm from
a fmall difiance. In compliance with
the doctor's inclinations, the governor
turned
t - ix. ]
turned his back, and M. Mefmer,
feven or eight feet from his fubjedt,
prefented his finger. This continued
for two minutes, the governor reply­
ing to the repeated queftions of the
do&or with much humour and irony.
M. Mefmer then nodded his head fig-
nificantly to the company, and in the
mean time guided his finger upwards*
downwards, and a little circularly.
The patient faid that he felt a kind
of fhuddering in the fuperior part of
the back; he however afcribed it to
the adtion of the fire near which he
flood, and accordingly removed ta
another part of the room. The ex­
periment was refumed, the fenfation
augmented, and the patient faid he
could compare it to nothing better,
than a ftream of boiling water, cir­
culating in the veins of his back an<^
fhoulders. The impreffion became
lo ftrong that he refufed to fubmit to
the experiment any longer. He was
perfuaded however; the mailer of the
houfe
t X ]
houfe held one of his arms, arid My*
felf the other. In the procefs of the
experiment the heat became fo in-
fupportable, that he violently broke
away from our grafp* It was fuc-
ceeded by a profufe perfpiration in
the part affedted.
" M. Mefmer then placed the fore­
finger of each hand upon the cheft
of the patient. The fame ieniation,
but lefs violent, was produced in this
part; itafcended gradually to the face*
and was fucceeded by a perfpiration
of the forehead. The patient then
prefented his forefingers and thumbs,
the reft of his hand being clenched;
M. Mefmer did the fame very Hear to
the patient, but without touching
him. He complained lucCeflively of
a fhuddering, itching and ftiffnefs id.
the palms of his hands; thefe Were
again fucceeded by a local perfpira­
tion."
To this remarkable experiment we
will beg leave to add the following
from
C xx" 1
from the Journal de Paris, No. 449
1 7 8 4 .
" M. Mefmer being one day with
meffieurs Camp and d'E -—-
near the great canal at Meudon, pro-
pofed to them to go alternately to the
other iide of the canal, while he re­
mained where he was. He then di­
rected them to tliruft their cane into
the water, in the mean time doing
the fame himfelf. At this diftance
M. Camp was feized with a fit
of the afthma, and M. d'E — with
a pain in the liver to which he was
fubje<5t. Many perfons have been
unable to fubmit to this experiment
without fainting away.''
" One evening M. Mefmer walked
with lix perfons in the gardens of the
prince de Soubife. He performed the
magnetical operation upon a tree, and
a little time after three ladies of the
company fainted away. The duchefs
de C , the only remaining lady,
fupported herfelf upon the tree, with­
out
t xii ]
out being able to quit it. The count
tie Monf —-—, unable to ftand, was
obliged to throwhimfelf upon abench.
The effe&supon M. Ang —, a gen­
tleman of a very mufcular frame,
were more terrible. M. Mefmer's
fervant, who was fummoned to re­
move the bodies, and who was inured
to thefe fcenes, found himfelf un­
able to move. The whole company
were obliged to remain in this iitua-
tion for a confiderable time." Thefe
inftances are cited by ,M. Thouret,
Recherches 8c Doutes, p. 65.
M. Mefmer was from the firft de-
flrous of fubmitting his fyftem to the
examination of the faculty of medi­
cine; but he would not fubmit to a
regular and authentic committee ap­
pointed for that purpofe, apprehen-:
live as he faid of the baleful ef­
fects of the fpirit of fociety. This
exception occafioned a mifunder-
ftanding between him and the faculty)
and the examination was never made.
In
In France the fuccefs of M.Mefmer
was the reverfe of what it had been
in Germany. His patients increafed
rapidly. His cures were numerous
and of the moft aftonilhing nature.
He was obliged to form a number of
pupils under his infpe&ion to ad-
minifter his procefs. In 1779 he
publifhed a Memoir refpeiting the
Difcovery of the Animal Magnetifm,
and promifed a complete fyftem upon
the fubje£t, which fhould make as
great a revolution in philofophy, as it
had already done in medicine. Struck
with the clearnefs and accuracy of his
reafonings, the magnificence of his
preteniions, and the extraordinary and
unqtieftionable cures he performed,
fome of the greateft phyiicians and
moft enlightened philofophers of
France became his converts. Among
thefe M. Court de Gebelin particu­
larly diftinguifhed himfelf, a writer,
who had attained the higheft
reputation by his refearches into an­
tiquity,
C xiv ]
txquity, and who was, if poflible,
ftill more diftinguifhed for the ele­
gance of his tafte, the beauty of his
conceptions' and the richnefs of his
fancy. The houfe of M. Mefmer at
Creteil was crowded with patients,
A numerous company was daily afr
fembled at his houfe at Paris, where
the operationwas publicly performed;
and M. Deflon, one of his pupils, is
faid to have cleared £100,000. He
was patronifed by people of the firfl
rank, and, as M. Thouret obferves,
the 1 animal magnetifm became a
mode, an affair of bon ton, an
intereit, extremely precious and
warmly efpoufed by the fafliionable
world.
In the mean time the new fyftem
was by no means deftitute of enemies.
Some of the firft pens in France were
drawn to oppofe it, and among others
that of M. Thouret, regent-phyficiai)
pf the faculty. The faculty indeed
had all along beheld its progrefs with
the
the extremeft jealoufy. At length
jt was thought to deferve the atten-r
tion of government, and a committee,
partly phyficians, and partly members
of the royal academyof fciences, with
dodtor Benjamin Franklin at their
head, were appointed to examine it,
M. Mefmer refufed to have any com­
munication with thefe gentlemen;
frut M. Deflon, the moft confiderable
of his pupils, confented to difclofe to
them his principles, and aflift them
in their enquiries. Their Report forms
the principal piece in the enfuing
pamphlet. M. Mefmer however has
appealed from their decifion to the
parliament of Paris.
In the mean time it can no longer
be concealed that the fyftem of the
animal magnetifm is to be regarded
as an impofture, an4 it may therefore
be afked, why it fluoqld be thought
neceffary to give to the public a
tranflation of papers, which may be
thought interefting only to perfons
who
[ xvi 3
who have been witneffes of the im-
pofture. To this enquiry feveral
good anfwers may be given.
One at which we have already
hinted is the univerfal attention it has
excited at Paris, where it feems to
have divided the public fpeculations
with the celebrated and incomparable
difcovery of the aeroftatic globe.
There are furely few people of a
literary turn among lis, who will con-
fefs themfelves void of curiolity re"
fpe&ing what engages all the faculties
of our neighbours, or who will not
confefs that their literary purfuits
are commonly at leaft as interefting
and inftrudtive a fubjedt of enquiry,
as their politics.
Secondly, the Report of the com-
miffioners and the enquiries refpeft-
ing the animal magnetifm in general
may be confidered as relating not
merely to a temporary and unfoundecj
hypothecs, but to the general ancj
moft important queftion refpedting
the influence of the imagination upon
the animal frame, a queftion peculi­
arly interefting to the metaphylician,
arid of the laft confequence in medi­
cine. Upon this fubjedt the Report
feems to throw new light, and to
have a tendency to add precifion and
accuracy to our notions in regard
to it.
But the argument upon which we
would place the principal ftrefs is the
effential importance of this fadl in the
hiftory of the human mind. Per­
haps the hiftory of the errors of
mankind, all things confidered, is
more valuable and interefting than
that of their difcoveries. Truth is.,
uniform and narrow; it conftantly
exifts, and does not feem to require
fo much an adtive energy, as a paffive
aptitude of foul in order to encounter
it. But error is endlefsly diverlified;
it has no reality, but is the pure and
fimple creation of the mind that in­
vents it. In this field the foul has
a room
room enough to expand herfelf* to
difplay all her boundlefs faculties, and
all her beautiful and interelling ex­
travagancies and abfurdities. It is
obferved of civil hiftory, that it is
properly the record of human calami­
ties; the fame thing may be obferved
of cccleliaftical hiftory, it is the record
of our errors. For this reafon a
well written. ecclefiaftical hiftory, a
fpecies of composition that we fufpedl
does not yet exift, would perhaps-
be the raoft inftrudtive ftudy in the
world.
But there is an additional reafon,
which gives the error of the animal
magnetifm a particular claim to our
attention. Thefame error was ftarted,
if M. Thouret be in the right, two
centuries ago. It is therefore worth
our curiofity to enquire, what diffe­
rent inftruments were neceffary to.
deceive mankind in an ignorant and
an enlightened age, in the commence­
ment of the feventeenth and the clofe
of
t)f the eighteenth century; in a Word
to run a parallel between theborrowed
fyftem of Mefmer, and the original
one of Paracelfus, Maxwel arid fir
Kenelm Digby. And as every pub­
lication ought to be as complete as
poflible withinitfelf, we havedeftined
to allift the reader in this enquiry*
the enfuing paper of the fociety of
medicine refpedting Mi Thouret's per­
formance.
S. 'The following extractof a letter1
from the beft authority from
Paris, has been received while
thefe papers are in the prefs.
It relates to the particulars of &
fa6t alluded to at the bottortl
of page xiv.
" Mefmer has complained to the
parliament of the report of the royal
commiflioners, and requefted that
they would appoint a new commif-
fion, to examine — not his theory
and pra&ice, but5—aplan, which fliall
ex-
exhibit the only poffible means of
infallibly demonftrating the exiflence
and utility of his difcovery. The
petition was printed : many thought
the parliament would do nothing in.
it. But they have laid hold of it to
clinch Mefmer, and oblige him to ex-
pofe all dire&ly; fo that it muft foon
be feen whether there is any diffe­
rence between his method and Def-
lon's.—I give you their
" Arret, of the 6'Sept. 17.84.
" The parliament ordains that
Mefmer Jhall be obliged to expofe, be­
fore four doctors of the faculty of
medicine, two furgeons and two
matters in pharmacy, the dodtrine,
which he profeffes to have difcovered,
and the methods which he pretends
muft be adopted for the application,
of his principles: they likewife or­
dain that a report of his communi­
cations fliall then be delivered to the
attorney general, to be laid before
parliament for their fentence."
REPORT
R E P O R T
Of a Committee of ihe Royal Society of
Medicine, appointed toexaminea Work,
entitled, ENQUIRIES AND E)OUBTS
RESPECTING THE ANIMAL MAGNE-
TISM, BY M. TH6URET, Regent Phy-
Jitiati of ihe Faculty of Paris, and Mem~
ber of the Society. To which are fub-
joined, by the Tranftator, Notes, chiefly
extracted froiri M. Thouret's Per­
formance;
THE Underwritten werecharged by the
royal fociety of medicine, with the
examination of a work of M. Thouret,
member of the fociety, entitled. Enqui­
ries and Doubts refpedting the Animal
Magnetifm.
In the attentive perufal of this work, it
is obvious to remark^ that it has two very
diftinft objedts; bne of thern^ which is in
a manner hiftorical, is to explain the coin­
cidences of the animal magnetifm, as it was
known to the ancients, with that which is
admitted by the moderns: the other con­
tains critical refledtions and doubts in re­
gard to the evidences upon which the
dodtrine is founded, the uncertainty of
B which
[ * ]
which M. Thouret undertakes to difplay.
We will endeavour to lay before the fociety
an idea of his performance.
The animal magnetifm held a principal,
rank among the fyftems, which were' em­
braced in that period of literary hiftory,
when fuppofitions were admitted to hold
the place of fadts; and this hypothefis
vanifhed, together with many others, when
experimental philofophy began to diffipate
the impoftures of the imagination, and to
afford "an accurate meafure of the value of
arts and fciences.
The objeft of this fyftem was afluid ex­
tremely fubtle, upon which were bellowed
the magnificent titles of foul of the world,
fpirit of the univerfe, and univerfal mag­
netic fluid j and which was pretended to be
diffufed through the whole fpace occupied
by the material creation, to animate the
fyftem ofnature, to penetrate all fubftances,
and to be the vehicle to animated bodies in
-general, and their feveral regions in parti­
cular, of certain forces of attraftion and
repulfion, by means of which "they ex-»
plained the phenomena of nature.
Nor were they contented to admit, or
rather to imagine, the fluid we have de­
scribed; they flattered themfelves that
they were able, in certain methods, to
render themfelves tnafters of this fluid, and
to direct; its operations. Even this did
not
t 3 J
hot terminate their chimerical preterifiorisi
they affirmed that this fluid, in which,
they admitted a fpecies of flux and reflux*
exerted an.important degree of adtion upoii
the nerves* and had a grand analogy with
the vital principle; that its effedts, undef
the guidance of flcill and illumination, ex­
tended to very great diftances, without the
intervention of any foreign fubftancesj
that it was poffible to impregnate with it*
either certain powders* in the manner of
fir Kenelm Digby, who affer'ted that he
had done this, or fluids, or different parts
of the bodies of animals j that this agent
was like light refledied by mirrors, and
that found and mufic augmented its in-
tenfity.
The partifans of the animal magnetifm^
who wrote in the feventeenth century, did
not yet confine their hopes within thefe
limits: the art of directing thefluid, which
they had brought down from heaven, and
which, according to them, adted in fo
* diftinguifhed a manner upon the human
body, might be expe&ed to have a confi-
derable fhare in the medical fcience, or
rather to fuperfede that fcience, as it had
hitherto exiftedj they did not fail toaffert,
that in caufing it to circulate in a proper
manner, the reftoration of difeafed organs
was infallible, as well the prefervation of
B z the
C 4 1
the health of thofe who were yet unat-
tacked with any difeafe (i).
Such was the origin of an external and
univerfal medicine, of a fpecies entirely
new, and which boafted of having the ad­
vantage of curing difeafes, without obliging
any drugs to be fwallowed by the difeafed.
Soon after poles were difcovered in the
(i) " Itmuftbe confefled however, that the man-
tier of directing the pretended magnetifm, isdifferent.in
thefe fyftems. The ancients, as well as M. Mefmer,
regarded this fluid as univerfally diffufed,as pervading
the bodies of animals, and as capable of being rendered
the vehicle of the moft falutary influences^ But, in
order to call it into a&ion, they did not, like M.
Mefmer, defire to touch, or fo much as to approach the
patient. Their method confifted in a differentorder of
proceeding. To give a fuitable direftion to the uni­
verfal fpirit, they were obliged to employ real parts,
either extra&ed or evacuated, of the individual upon
whom they propofed to dire£ the magnetifm. The
different humours of the human body, whether natural,
as the blood, the urine, the excrements, or contrary to
nature, as the pus bred in wounds; in fine^ the folid
parts of the frame, as the flefh, the nails, the hair, in a
ftate of feparation from the body,afforded, according to
the ancient do£trine, the fuitable and neceffary meansi
of employing the magnetifm. Thefe different parts, fo
long as they remained in a ftate of integrity, were fup-
pofed to be united in the link of a common vital princi­
ple with the individual who had furnifhed them. The
union was operated by the intervention of the univerfal
fpirit, and in a&ing upon them, the phyfician was faid
to a£t alfo uponthe perfon to whom they had belonged j
an action,which, as it was independent of conta£, and
was not fuperfeded by diftance^ was regarded as mag­
netic." Tbouret*
human
human body, thatis, points,towards which
it appeared that the adtion of this imagi­
nary, fluid ought to be directed, cures and
evacuations were operated without the af-
fiftance of pharmacy, fenfations of various
kinds were excited in the patients j and
notwithftanding the diftinguifhed efFedts
afcribed to this agent, it was aflerted, that
perfons the mod feeble and delicate might
fubmit to its procefs without danger. The
procefs had yet another ufe, that of difco*
vering the feat of -the diftemper; a thing
frequently fo difficult to be afcertained,
but which was pointed out by the fluid by
a fort of inftindtive intelligence, and with
abfolute demonftration. It perfected the
concodtion of the humours; nervous dif-
tempers in particular, rarely refitted its in­
fluence j it was favourable to tranlpiration.
In fine, and this laft remark isof particular
importance, it had a powerful a&ion upon
the moral principles of our frame. A
propenfity, that could fcarcely be refifled,
was the bafis of the attachment and gra­
titude, which were vowed by the patients
to'thole who had employed upon them
this method of cure. Several, and in this
number was Maxwel, even gave us to un-
derftand, that it,was poffible, in certain
circumftances of human life, to make an
£3 m*
Improper ufe of this vehicle of influ­
ence ( 2 ) .
This picture of the animal magnetifm?.
as it was invented and applauded by the
ancients, is faithfully extracted from the
performance of M. Thouret. The prin?
cipal aijthors, to which he has recoorfe in
the progrefs of his enquiry, are Paracelfus,
Van Helmont, Qocleniys, Burgravius,
Libavius, Wirdig, Maxwel, Santanelli,
Tentzel, Kirc-her and Borel (3). The entire
Pa!^r
(2) c f Far be it from me," fays Maxwel, "to lead
you to improper a£lions. If from the perufal of my
works, you become acquainted with the means of fuch
aftions, you will <Jo me thejuftice not to divulge them.
r-1 have feen?" adds he, the moft incredible effefls,
and the greateft 'advantages from a right ufe of this
method. I have alfo feen infinite evils occasioned by
the abufeof it.—-I ndeed, it is fcarcely prudent to treat of
thefe fubje£ts,pn account of the dangers that may refult
from it. If we were to exprefs ourfelves in a manner
univerfally intelligible, fathers could never be fure of
their daughters, nor hufbantls of their wives; women
would He deprived of their felf-government in fpite of
the' moft judicious and obftinate refiftance." Maxwels
de mediciria mapietica, cipitd Thouret.
(3) Paracelfus Arecolus' Philippus Theophraftus
Bombafcus de Hohenheim is to be regarded as the in­
ventor of the magnetical fyftem." , He was born at a
village near Zurich in Switzerland in 1493, ant*
in 1541• profeffion was that of a phyhcian,and he
obtained great reputation by the ufe of mercury ancl
opium, medicines that were unknown, or not employed
by the phyficians of thofe times. But befide this, he
Was a proficient in alchymy, aftrology,and magic. He
jyas acquainted with the philofopher's ftone, and the
' " ' ' • \ uni-
paflages are extrafled, and M. Thouret has
difplayed in this performance, as he had
already done in fo many others, an erudi­
tion, the moft various, the mofl precife,
and the moft extenfive.
univerfal medicine. And he invented an elixir, in the
ufe of which a man could not fail to live to theage of
a thoufand years. 7
Van Helmont was theimmediate fucceffor of Para-
celfus in the purfuit ofthe magneticalfcience, and wrote
an exprefs treatife DeMagnetiea Vulnerum Curatione.
All the other perfons enumerated, lived in thefeven-
teenth century.
" To Maxwel, we are particularly indebted for the
mofl: complete and copious treatife upon the fubje£t, in
which he has endeavoured to fupport its declining credit
by calling in theaffiftance of that theory of the univerfal
fpirit, which he derived from the earlieft philofophers of
antiquity, and in which we are prefented with theexaft
counterpart of the fyftem of M. Mefmer.
" Another inhabitant of this ifland, the learned and
illuftrious fir Kenelm Digby, is well known for his
invention of the fympathetic powder; which it was <?nly
neceffary to apply to the linnen which had imbibed the
blood or pus of a wound, or to the arm orfword of him
who inflifted it,provided they were ftill ftained with the
blood of the wounded perfon. It was neceffary how­
ever, that the wound (hould bekept perfectly clean, and
prote£led from the air..
" There was a fympathetic fweating powder, in­
vented fo lately as the year 1745. The means of ap­
plying it was, by mixingit with the urine of the perfon
difeafed, and keeping it boiling over a fire, as long as
you wifhed the perfpiration to continue. During the
operation, the patient was to keep his bed, to be co­
vered up warm, and to drink feveral large bafons of.tea.
This medicine was never known to fail of its effeft."
Thouret•
£4 It
[ 8 J
It is eafy to fee, how analogous is the fyf-
tern we have defcribed to that of M.
Mefmer. To demonftrate this analogy,
M. Thouret has confidered feparately each
of the propofitions published and avowed
by the latter. They amount to twenty-
feven, and the irefujt of this examination
is, that they areall pofitively announced in;
fome of the authors whofe names have
been recited.
Every part of Mefrner's fyflem, even
down to the experiments of the ring and
the fword, have been found by M.Thouret
in the works of thefe writers (4). It is
therefore certain, that theaffertions of M.
Mefmer, which are reprefe'nted by him as
principles of his ownj clo riot belong to
«im$ and that this theory, in the room of
being an attradiive novelty,- is an ancient
fyftem, abandoned by the learned near a
century ago.
In afcending indeed to the original fyf-
tems which were formed upon thefubjed,
(4) The experiments <pf the ring and fword, are to
be found in Kircher's Magncs, fivfe de arte magnetica.'
They are both well known."That ofthe fword confiits
in the balancing it upon the point of one of the fingers,
the confequence of which will be a very rapid rotatory
motion, provided the perfon he properly magnetifed, That
of the ring is performed by a perfon initiated in theani-
ipal magnqtiftn, holding it fufpendedby a thread in the
infide of a wine glafs, when it will invariably itrike the
Jiour of the day." 'Thouret.
... 1 . . ... we
I 9 ]
we aire unable to difcover any thing but
fuppofitions deftitute of proof, and for that
reafon devoted to oblivion. The parts of
this hypothefiswere not conneitedtogether
by any other tie, than that of the imagi­
nation. The fteps that were propofed in
order to its eftablifhment, were, the very-
fame tha't had been employed in favour of
the art of cure, now by enchantments, and
now by exorcifms. It has been always by
fenfations that they have pretended to prove
the exiftence of thefe different agents j and
if this kind of proof were fufficient, there
is not one of them which would not have
been demonftrated. Sound philofophy has
therefore refufed credit, as well to this
fpecies of proof, as to the magnetifm,fuch
as it was propofed by Maxwel, Goclenius
and Santanelli, andfuch as wehave defcrib-*
ed it in the openingof this report.
Has the animal magnetifm of M. Mef-,
mer any better claim to our confidence?
M. Thouret, without replying to this
queftion in a pofitive manner, has permit­
ted to himfelf, in the fecond part of his
work, certain refledtions refpedting it,
which he has propofed fimply as doubts,
and which relate entirely to what M.
Mefmer has publiflied, or authentically
advanced. It may be objected tohim, fays •
M. Thouret,
I. Tha{
1. That the touch frequently employed
in his method for a confiderable time, and
on regions extremely fenfible, fuch as thofe
of the llomach, is of itfelf capable of pro­
ducing effeflrs, by communicating a vivid
impulfeto the nerves of the plexufes which
are there fituated, and which have an inti­
mate connection with the whole'nervous
fyitem •, that authentic records prefent us
with a great number of fadts of this kind,
and that in confequence, the fenfations,
which originate in the application of the
touch, do not prove the exiftenceof a fepa-
rate fluid or agent.
2. That the heat produced by the hand,
and the motion communicated to the air,
may occafion very lirong impreffions upon
ft perfon extremely fenfible, and whofe
fibres are in a ftate of cohvulfion, without
thefe impreffions being calculated to prove
a new agent.
3. That in fubduing the imagination
by folemn preparations, by extraordinary
proceedings, by the confidence and enthu-
fiafm infpired by magnificent promifes, it
is poflible to exalt the.tone of fenfible and
nervous fibres, and afterwards to diredt, by
the application of the hands, their impulfe
towards certain organs, and to excite in
them evacuations or excretions, without
there refulting any addition to.thefciences,
pither of philofophy or medicine.
' That
4* That the partifans of the animal
tnagnetifm do not produce what they call
.crifes, that is, a ftate of convulfions, but
in fubjedts extremely irritable, extremely
nervous, and above all, in women, whofe
fenfibiljty has been already excited by the
means we have defcribed.
5. That among thefe difpofing caufes,
particular ftrefs is to be laid upon the pre-r
fence of a perfon already in a ftate of conr
vulfion, or ready to fall into that ftate;
that juft as an organ attacked with fpaf-
modic affedtions, eafily propagates thefe
afFedtions to the other organs, in likeman-?
per are they tranfmitted from one man to
another; that we have therefore no reafon
to be furprifed, if in the haljs, where the
pretended magnetical operations are per­
formed, fpafrris, and even convulfions are
diffufed with extreme alacrity; and that
hiftory furnifhes a great pumber of fadts.,
of convulfions propagated through whole
villages or towns, in a manner ftill more
aftonifhing than that of which the animal
magnetifm prefents us with an example.
6. That hiftory has alfo tranfmitted tq
us a great number of cures operated by
fear, by joy, or the commotion of any vio?
lent paffion; which proves beyond con-
troverfy, the power of nervous influences
oyer difeafes.
7. That
r » J
7. That in different ages, two famous
empirics, Valentine Greatrakesof the king-*
dom of Ireland, and GaiTner of Ratifbon,
produced upon different perfons eiledts
which appeared furprifing, and have had
their admirers j that they employed only
the inftrumentality of the touch, either
•upon the «ape of the neck, or the limb
affedted; and that it has been univerfally
acknowledged, that they adted only upon
the imagination (5).
8. That.
(5} u Valentine Greatrakes, efq; was a native of
Afane, in the kingdom of Ireland. We are told, that
one day he was confcious to a wonderful interna] revo­
lution^ and at the fame time heard a voice like that of
a genius, which cried inceflantly for a long time: " I
** endow you with thefaculty of curing difeafes." Im­
portuned by this falutation, from which hexould in no
way diftradt his attention,. he determined to make an
experiment of the truth of the intelligence. The voice
bad firft announced to him the gift of curing the king's
cyik Hemade an experiment upon this diftemper,and
jfucceeded* -He afterwards touched perfons; attacked
with an epidemical fevec, that raged in, his neighbour­
hood; the voice had announced to him the gift of curing
this difeafe. In fine, he wars enabled to cure every fpe-
cies of difeafe j ^nd he fucceeded in all cafes* except
v^here, as he obferved? the maladywas toodeeply rooted,
or the patient laboured under a particular indifpofition
to this method of cure. The exterior of this man was
extremely fimple. His cures were accompanied with
no degree of pompand ceremony, unlefs we (hould call
fuch, his afcribing his fuccefsto God, publicly expreffing
his gratitude, and inviting the patient to join with him
in the a£t of thankfgiving. But he mad© a yeryexten-
itfe of theopejatioji of touch. The diftemper fled
t 13 3
8* That in many inftances, the partifans
pf the magnetifm feem to beftow a greater
attention
before him, and he was able, we are told, to diflodge it
From its feat, and remove it to parts the leaft ufeful.
If its progrefs appeared to be fufpended in any part, he
redoubled his friftions upon that part, to remove the
obftade. In this operation nature, excited by the
ftroking, feemed frequently to operate crifes,and it pro­
duced ftools, vomitings and perfpirations." ThoureU
" Greatrakes cured not only internal difeafes, but
alfc external ones, fuch as wounds and ulcers. The
iecond Villiers, duke of Buckingham, was one of his
patients. His atteftations were figned by Boyle, Wil-
kins, Whichcot, Cudworth and Patrick. He was
born in 1628, received the gift of healing 1662, and
removed to London 1666." Des Maizeaux, Vie dc
St. Evremend*
44 The cures of Gaflner are of a much later date,
-and are not above ten or twelve years old. This
German, having in his youth been afflided with an ill
(late of health, which refilled the efforts of all the phy-
ficians, fufpe&ed that his diftemper might have a fupcr-
natural caufe,and derive from the influenceof the devil*
His conjecture was verified by his fuccefs in expelling
the devil, having adjured him in the name of Jefus
Chrift. From that moment he enjoyed the moft perfedl
health for fixteen years. Encouraged by this event, he
laid afide the ftudy of medicine, to which his diftemper
had prompted him, and procured all the authors who
had treated of exorcifm. He began with healing his
parifhioners in an obfeure town upon the borders of
Switzerland and the Tirol, and his reputation increafed
fo much, that, in the twolaft years of his refidence there,
he had between four and five hundred patients who ap­
plied to him. He then made a progrefsthrough feveral
of the Swtfs cantons, and fettled at Ratifbon in 1774-
' He diftinguifhed difeafes into two clafles, the natural
and the demoniac, the laft of which were much the
ihoft numerous. Over the former he pretended to no
power.
[ h i
attention to excite furprife in the fpecf-
tators, than falutary effedts in their pa^
power. His cures were performed with much pomp
and folemnity; and it was obferved, that he conftantly
rubbed his hands upon his girdle and handkerchief
previoufly to his touching the patient. He performed
his cures in the name of Chrift, and by the faithof the
difeafed in his holy name ; if their faith failed, the cure
did not take place. He gave the fick, when he difmifled
them, balm and oil, which he confidered as fpiritual
medicaments,together with certain waters and powders,
and a little ring, inferred with the name of Jefus, to
prevent a relapfe." Thouret.
Thouret confiders the fyftem of Gaflher as
having had an influence on that of M. Mefmer,
Aftrology and pofleflions were extremely current in
Germany; and as Gaflher had taken pofleflion of, and
ruined the latter pretenfion, Mefmer had recourfe to the
former* It fhould however be remembered, that Mef­
mer had wrjtten and publifhed his thefis upon aftrology
before the pretenlions of Gaflher were heard of*
Thefe inftances are produced by Thouret,as diftin-
'guiflied proofs of the efficacy both of the touch and the
imagination. In proof of the contagion of convulfive
affeflions, he cites the convulfions of Saint Medard,and
the pofleflionsof Loudun. " The former of thefe took
place in 1732,9 an^ made their appearance as foon as
a*iy of the religious were approached tothe tomb of their
patron faint. They were expofed in the moft triumph­
ant manner, and covered with ridicule by Hecquet, in
his Natural Hiftory of Convulfions, The pretended
pofleflions of Loudun (1740) originated in an infamous
fcheme of avarice and revenge againft the unfortunate
Urbain Grandier, re&or of Loudun, who became the
victim of the machinations of his enemies. The phy-
ficians of Montpelier, charged with the examination of
the affair, difcovered the whole fecret of the pofleflions
confift in factitious and pretended convulfiorts*"
Thouret•
tients;
[ iS ]
tients; the fpafms and convulfions which
they produce being the fource of un­
doubted evil, were it only by the habitude
of that ftate which they are calculated to
induce, while the advantages of this me­
thod are not equally demonftrated.
g. That certain local difeafes not being
of the number of thofe upon which the
animal magnetifm adts, and certain perfons,
by the confeffion of M. Mefmer, not
being fufceptible of its action, it may be
fufpecled, that the partifans of this fyftem
have contrivedfor themfelves this refource,
in order to account for their failure of
fuccefs in certain cafes.
io- That to pretend to the difcovery of
a means which (hall extend to every kind
of difeafe, that is, to an univerfal medi­
cine, is an illufion which cannot be ex-
cufed in an enlightened age.
11. That the known effedts of fenfi-
bility are fufficient to explain, without
any new agent, the phenomena which
M. Mefmer produces by a method which
he.has not yet imparted to the public.'
12. That M. Mefmer, in luppofing a
particular agent, has adopted a rout con­
trary to the interefts of his difcovery, in
following the example of thofe who have
exerted their efforts to give credit to a
fyftem, worthy upon every account of the
oblivion into which it has fallen.
' The
[ i6 ]
The fociety may judge of the per«
jformance from this extract: it is proper'
here to call to mind, that the royal fo-4
ciety, acquainted with the zeal of M.
Thouret, and his indefatigable enquiries
into every thing that concerned the mag*
netifm, charged him in their feffion of the
twelfth of March 1784, with the col-
ledtion from the authors, as well ancient
as modern, of all that had been written re-
lpedting the animal magnetifm. This
collection, which is fufficiently complete
to fatisfy every reafonable defire, and of
which M. Thouret communicated the plan
to the fociety, compofes the firfl: part of
his work,' and is to be confidered as his
report to the fociety upon that fubjedl.
We are of opinion, that the fociety is ex­
tremely indebted to him in that reipe£l,
The fecond part contains judicious reflec­
tions and fagacious doubts. We think
both of them worthy of being printed
with the approbation and privilege of the
fociety.
The fociety, charged by the king with
the examination of all new inventions and
fecret methods of healing difeafes, has not
beheld without inquietude, the fpecies of
vogue acquired by the animal magnetifm >
whofe procedures, whatever be . their
merit, have been and are adminiftred to
the difeafed, and paid for by the public,
without
[ «7 1
without having previoufly, in obedience
to the exprefs provifions of the laws of
the kingdom, undergone the examination
of the phylieal profefljon; an abufe, againft
which the fociety, as in duty bound, has
exclaimed ever fince its introduction. They
have a right to take much pride to them-
felves, that one of their members is pub-
Iifhi$g fo learned enquiries upon a fubjedr,
which has not been hitherto treated but
in anonymous compofitions, which are,for
the greater part, deftined more for the
amufement than the inflrudtion of their
readers. The work of M. Thouret, full
of depth and fagacity, will enlighten thofe
who are impartial in their enquiries,, and
will greatly tend to the folution of a
queftion, upon which the public interefl:
requires that fentence fliould be pro-?
pounced as foon as poffible.
louvre, July the 9th, 1784.
(Signed) GEOFFROY,
DESPERRIERES,
JEANROI,
DEFOURCROY,
CHAMBON,
VICQ^ P'A?YR,
G R E P O R T
R E P O R T
O F T H E
C O M M I S S I O N E R S , & c .
HE king named, on the twelfth of
March 1784, four phyficians of the
faculty of Paris, meffieurs Borie, Sallin,
d'Arcet, Guillotin, to enter into the ex­
amination, and to lay before him an ac­
count of the animal magnetifm pra&ifed
by M. Deffon : and upon the petition of
thefe phyficians, his majefty joined with
them, for the purpofe of this inquifition,
five .members of the royal academy of
fciences, meffieurs Franklin, leRoy, Bailly,
de Borie, Lavoifier. M. Borie having died
in the commencement of the bufinefs, his
majefty appointed M. Majault, dodtor of
the faculty, to replace him.
M. Mefmer has defcribed the agent he
profefles to have discovered, and to which
Jie has given the appellation of animal
magnetifm, in thefollowing manner. " It
C z '< is
f f js a fluid univerfally difFufedj the vehi-
ff cl.e of a mutual influence between the
ff celeftial bodies, -the earth and the
'' bodies of animated beings; it is fQ
•' continued as to admit of no vacuum $
" its fubtlety does not admit of illuftra4
?' tjon ; it is capable of receiving, propaT
" gating and communicating at! the im?
" preffions that are incident to motion y
** it is fufceptible of flux and reflux. The
" animal body is fubjedt to the effects of
f this agent j and thefe effedts are. im7
" mediately produced by the agent infinu-
" ating itfelf into the fqbftance of the
" nerves. We particularly discover in the
" human bofly qualities analogous to thofe
" of the loadftone; we diftinguifh in it
" poles different and oppofite. The adtion
" and the virtue of the animal magnetifm
" are capableof being communicated from
" qne body to another, animated or in-
" animate j they exert themfelves to con-
" fiderable diftances, and without the leafi
" afliftance from any intermediate bodies:
•*'. this adtion is increafed and reflected by
" mirror?; it is communicated, propa-
" gated and augmented by found j and the
" virtue itfelf is capable of being-accu-
" mulated, concentrated and transferred.
" Though'the fluid be univerfal, all ani-
V mal bodies are not equally fiifceptible
" of
I 21 ]
of it) there even are fomej though very*
few, of fo oppofite a nature, as by their
" mere prefence to fuperfede its effedts
" upon any other contiguous bodies;
" The animal magnetifm is; capable of
*' curing.immediately difeafesofthenefves,
i( and mediately other diftempers; it im-
" proves the aftion of medicines } it
".forwards and directs the falutary crifes
" fo as to fubjedt them totally to the
t( government of the judgment; by means
" of it the phyfician becomes acquainted
" with the ftate of health of each indi<-
*' vidual, and decides with certainty upon
" the caufes, the nature aftd the progrefs
" of the moft complicated diftempers -t
'* it prevents their increafe, and effedts
" their extirpation, without at any time
" expoling the patient, whatever be his
" age, fex or conftitution, to alarming in*-
" cidents, or unpleafing cbnfequences*."
i{ In the influence of themagnetifm, nature
" holds out to us a fovfcreign inftrumerit
" for fecuring the health and, lengthening
" the exiftenceof mankind-f-."
Such is the agent, with the examination
of which the commifiioners have been
* Memoir by M. Mefmer, upon the Difcovery b'f
Hie Animal A'lagnctifm, 1779, pages 74. and following;
f Ibid; Advertifement, page vi.
G 3 charged,
t 22 J
charged, and whofe properties are avowed
by M. Deffon, who admits all the princi­
ples of M. Mefmer. This theory forms
the bafis of a memoir, which was read at
the houfe of M. Deffon, on the ninth day
of May, in the prefence of M. the lieu­
tenant general of the police, and the com-
miflioners, . It is afferted in this memoir,
that there is but one nature, one diftemper
and one remedy j and this remedy is the
animal magnetifm. This phyfician, at the
fame time that he acquainted the com-
miffioners with the doftrine and procefs
of the magnetifm, inftrudted them in its
pradice by difcovering to them the poles,
and fhewing them the manner of touching
the difeafed, and directing in regard to them
the magnetic fluid.
M.Deffon undertook to the commiffion-
ers, in the firfl place,to evince theexiftence
of the animal magnetifm; fecondly, to
communicate to them his knowledge re-
fpedting this difcovery j and thirdly, to
prove the utility of this difcovery and
of the animal magnetifm in the cure of
difeafes.
After having thus made themfelves ac­
quainted with the theory and pradtice of
the animal magnetifm, it was neceffary to
obferve its effects. For this purpofe the
commiffioners adjourned themfelves,; and
r 23 ]
cach of them repeatedly vyitneftcd the
public method of M. Deffon. They faw
in the centre of a large apartment a cir­
cular box, made of oak, and abbut a foot
or a foot and an half deep, which is called
the bucket 5 the lid of this box is pierced
with a number of holes, in which, are
inferted branches of iron, elbowed and
moveable. The patients are arranged iri
ranks about this bucket, and each has his
branch of iron, which by n^eans of the
elbow may be applied immediately to the
part affedled; a cord paffed round their
bodies connedts them one with the other:
fometimes a fecond means of communica­
tion is introduced, by the infertion of the
thumb of each patient between the fore­
finger and thumb of the patient next him j
the thumb thus inferted is prefled by the
jperfon holding it; the impreffion received
by the left hand of the patient, communis
cates through his right> and thus pafles
through the whole circle:
A piano forte is placed iri one corner of
the apartment* and different airs are played
with various degrees of rapidity j vocal
mufic is fometimes added to the inftru-
hifintal-.
The perfonS whti fupeririteqd the pro-
cefsj, have each of them an iron rod in his
handi from ten to twelve inches in length.
* C 4 ' " • • M-
[ 2 4 J
M. Deflon made to the commiflioners
the following declarations, ift. That this
rod is a condudtor of the magnetifm, has
the power of concentring it at 'its point,
and of rendering its emanations more con-
iiderable. 2dly. That found, conform­
ably to the theory of M. Mefmer, is alfo
a conductor of the magnetifm, and that
to communicate the fluid to the piano
forte, nothing more is neceffary than to
approach to it the iron rod; that the
perfon who plays upon the inftrument
furnifhes alfo a portion of the fluid, and
that the magnetifm is tranfmitted by the
founds to the furrounding patients. 3dly.
That the cord which is paffed round the
bodies of the patients is deftined, as well
as the union of their fingers, to augment
the efFedts by communication. 4thly.That
the interior part of the bucket is fo con-
"ftrudted as to concentre the magnetifm,
and is a' grand refervoir, from which the
fluid is difFuled through the branches of
iron that are inferted in its lid.
The commiflioners in the progrefs of
their examination difcovered, by means
of an eleftrometer and a needle of iron
not touched with the loadftone, that
the bucket contained no fubftance either
eledtric orv magnetical j and from the
detail that M. Deflon has made to them
refpedting the interior conftrudtion of the
4 bucket,
bucket, they cannot infer any phyfical
agent, capable of contributing to the im­
puted effedls of the magnetifm.
The patients then, arranged in con-
fiderablexnumber and in fuccefiive ranks
round the bucket, derive the magnetic
virtue at once from all thefe conveyances:
from the branches of iron, which tranfm'it
to them that of the bucket j from the cord
which is paffed round their bodies, and
the union of their fingers, which com­
municate to them that of their neighbours;
and from the found of the piano forte, or
of a mufical voice,which diffufes it through
the air. The patients are befide magne-
tifed diredtly, by means of a finger or a bar
of iron, guided before the face, above or
behind theiiead, and over thefurfaeeof the
parts affedted, the diftindtion of the poles
ftill obferved j they are alfo adted upon by
a look, and by having their attention ex­
cited. But especially they are magnetifed
by the application of the hands, and by
the preffure of the fingers upon the hypo-
chonders and the regions of the lower
belly j an application frequently continued
for a long time, fometimes for feveral
hours.
In this fituation the patients offer a
fpedtacle extremely varied in proportion
to their different habits of body. Some
of them are calm, tranquil and un-
confeious
r 26 i
confcious to any fenfation ; others cough,
fpit, are affeited with a flight degree of
pain, a partial or an univerfal burning,
and perfpirations j a third clafs are agi­
tated and tormented with convulfions.
Thefe convulfions are rendered extraordi­
nary by their frequency, their violence
and their duration. As foon as one perfon.
is convulfed, others prefently are affe&ed
by that fymptom. The commiffioners
faw acceffes of this kind, which lafted
upwards of three hours; they were ac­
companied with expectorations of a thick
and vifcous water, brought away by the
Violence of the efforts. Sometimes thefe
expectorationswereaccompanied with fmall
quantities of blood y'and there is among
others a lad, a patient, who has fre­
quently brought up blood in confide-
rable abundance. Thefe convulfions are
charafjterifed by precipitate and involuntary
motions of all the limbs or of the whole
body, by a contra&ion of the throat, by
fudden affedtions of the hypochonders and
the epigaftrium, by adiftradtion and wild-
ftefs in the eyes, by ftirieks, tears, hiccups
pings, and immoderate laughter. They are
either pireceded or followed by a ftate of
languor and reverie, by a fpecies of de­
jection and even drowfinefs. The leaft
unforefeeii noife occafions ftarting j and it
has been obferved, that the changing of
the key and the time, in the airs played
upon the piano forte, had an effedt upon
the patients; fo that a quicker motion
agitates them more, and renews the vi­
vacity of their convulfions.
Thereisanapartmentlined withquilting,
which was originally deftined for the pa­
tients in whom the magnetifm produced
convulfions, and is denominated the apart­
ment of crifes; but M. DefTon has not
judged proper to make any ufe of it; and
all the patients, whatever be the accidents'
of their fituation, are placed together in
the apartment of public proceeding.
Nothing can be more aftonifhing than
the fight of thefe convulfions; he that has
not had it, can have no idea of it: and in
beholding it, a man is not lefs ftruck with
the profound repofe of one clafs of pati­
ents, than with the violence which agitates'
another; he obfe'rves with admiration
the various accidents that are repeated,
and the fympathies that are developed. He
fees fome patients feek each other .with
eagernefs; and in approaching fmile,
eonverfe with all the demonftrations of at­
tachment, and foothe their mutual crifes.-
They are entirely under the government of
the perfon who diftributes the magnetic
virtue: in vain they may appear to be in
a ftate of the extremell drowfinefs, his
voicer a look, a fign from him roufes them.-
It
[ 28 5
It is impoffible not to recoghife in thefe
regular effects an extraordinary influence,
adting upon the patients, making itfelf*
matter of them, and of which he who fa*
perintends the procefs, appears to be the
depofitory.
Thefe convulfive affections are impro­
perly fliled crifes in the theory of the ani­
mal magnetifm : according to this doc­
trine indeed they are regardedas a falutary
crifis, of the lame kind as thofe which
1 nature produces, or which a fkilful phyfi-
cian has the art to excite to facilitate thei
cure of difeafes. The commiffioners will
-adopt this expreffion in the following re*
port; and, wherever they employ the word
crifis, they will always underftand the
convulfive, drowfy or lethargic affections,
produced by the means of the animal
magnetifm.
The commiffioners obferved,. that in
the number of patients in the ftate of crifis,
there were always, many women and few
men : that it was one or two hours before
thefe crifes took place j and that, when
one had taken place, all the others com-,
menced fucceffively, and without any con-
fiderable interval. But after having made
thefe general remarks, the commiffioners
were fpeedily of opinion, that the public
procefs could not be made the fcene of
their experiments. The multiplicity of
[ 29 1
the effedts is oneobftacle; too many things
are feen at once for any one of them to be
feen well. Befide, the patients of rank,
who repair hither upon account of their
health, might be difpleafed with the en­
quiries of the commiflioners; the very adt
of watching them might appear a nui-
fance j and the recollection of this might
be burdenfome, and impede the commif­
lioners in their turn. They therefore
refolved, that as their frequent attendance
at the public procefs was unneceffary, it
would be fufficient for a few of them to
go from time to time, to confirm.the for­
mer general obfervations, to make new ones
in cafe an opportunity fhould occur for
that purpofe, and to report them to the
commiffion affembled.
After having obferved thefe effe£ts at
the public procefs, it behoved them, in the
next place, to endeavour to difcover their
caufes, and enquire into the proofs of the
exiftence and utility of the magnetilm.
The queftiop of its exiftence is firft in
order j' that of its utility it were idle to
examine, till the other fhall have been fully
/refolved. The animal magnetifm may
indeed exift without being ufeful, but it
cannot be ufeful if it do not exift.
Of confequence the fir ft objedt of at­
tention with the commiflioners, and the
diredt tendency of their firft experiments,
?ught
ought to be the afcertaining this exigence.
Again, this was itfelf an objedt of confide-
rable comprehenfion, and had need of
being Amplified. The animal magnetifrn
embraces the whole compafs of nature;
it is the vehicle, we are told, of the influ­
ence exerted upon us bythe celeftial bodies j
the commiffioners were of opinion, that
they ought, in the firft place, to leave this
moreextenfiveinfluenceoutof the queftion,
and to confider only that part of the fluid
which is diflfufed over the earth, without
troubling themfelveswith whence itcomes;
in a word, to evince the aftion it exercifes
upon us, around us, and within the fphere
of our infpe&ion, before they undertook
to examine its relation to the univerfe.
The raoft certain method of determining
the exiflence of the animal magnetic fluid,
woulcLhave been, to have rendered its pre-
fence capable of being perceived by. the
ienefsj but much time was not neceffary to
convince the commifiioners that this fluid is
too fubtle to be fubje£ted to their obfer-
vation. It is not, like the eledlrical fluid,
luminous and vilible; itsa&ionis not, like
the attraction of the loadftone, the objeft
of our fight; it has neither tafte nor fmell;
its procefs is filent, and it furrounds you
or penetrates your frame, without your
being informed of its prefence by the fenfe
of touch. If therefore it exifl in us
and
[ 31 1
and around us, it is after a manner per­
fectly i'nfenfible. Thereare perfons among
thofe who profefs the magnetifm, who pre- •
tend that it may fometimes be feen paffing
from the extremity of the fingers, which
ferve it for conductors, or who believe that
they feel its paffage when you guide your
finger before their face, or along their
hand. In the firfi: of thefe cafes, the'ema­
nation perceived is merely that of trans­
piration, which becomes completely vifible
when viewed through a folar microfcope;
in the fecond, the impreffion of cold or
frefhnefs which is felt, an impreffion by
fo much the more perceptible the warmer
one is, refults from the motion of the air
which follows the finger, and the degree-
of whofe temperature is always below that
of animal heat. When, on theother hand,
the finger is approached to the furface of
the face, which is colder than the finger,
and it is held at reft, the confequence is a
fenfation of heat, which is no other than
the communication of the animal heat. .
It is alfo pretended that this fluid has a
fmell, and that it is perceived when either
the finger or an iron conductor is brought
into contiguity with the noftrilsj it is even
faid, that the fenfation is different, accord­
ing as the finger or the rod of iron is di­
rected parallel with, or oppofite to the
poles. M. DelTon efiayed the experiment
upon
r • 3 * . ] •
ttpon feveral of the cdmmiffionersj the
cpmmiffioners themfe^ves have repeated
it upon different fubjedts; not one has ex­
perienced this difference of fenfation: and
jf, by giving a clofe attention, any fcent
has been perceived, it has been that of the
iron, when the rod has been prefented
rubbed and heated j or that of the ema­
nation of the tranfpiration, when ihe finger
has been prefented, a fcent frequently
combined with that of the iron with which
the finger itfelf has been impreffed. Thefe
effedts have been erroneoufly attributed to
the magnetifm, but they may be traced in
reality to natural and definite caufes.
Indeed M. Deflon has never infixed
upon thefe tranfient impreflions, he did
not think they-were to be offered in evi­
dence j on the contrary he exprefsly af-
fured the commiflioners, that he could not
demonftrate to them the exiftence of the
magnetifm, otherwife than by the adtion
of this fluid, producing certain changes in
animated bodies. This exiftence is fo
much the more difficult to be demonftrated
by effedts, which fhall be incontrovertible,
and whofe caufes ihall be unequivocal; by
authentic fadts, in cafes where moral cir-
cumftances cannot exert their influence: in
a word, by proofs calculated to convince
and compel the -underftanding, the only
ones which can yield any folid fatisfa&ion
' tQ
[ 33 1
to perfons really proficient in the ftudy of
nature,
The adtion of the. magnetifm upon Ani­
mated bodies may be obferved in two dif-
rent waysj either as it confifts in that
adtion continued for a long tin>e, and in
its falutary effedts in the treatment of dif-
eafes, or in its momentary effedts upon the
animal oeconomy and the perceptible
changes there produced. M. Deflon in-
iifted that the former of thefe methods
ihould be employed principally, and nearly
exclufively y the commiffioners have been
of a different opinion, and their reafons are
as follow.
The majority of difeafes have their feat
in the interior part of our frame. The
collective experience of a great number of
centuries has made us acquainted with the
fymptoms,which indicate and difcriminate
them j the fame experience has taught the
method in which they are to be treated.
What is the objedt of the efforts of the
phyfician in this method? It is not to op-
pofe and to fubdue nature, it is to affift her
in her operations. Nature, fays the father
of the medical fcience, cures the difeafed j
but fometimes lhe encounters obftacles,
which conftrain her in her courfe, and
ufelefsly confume her ftrength. The
phyfician is the minifter of nature; an at­
tentive obferver, he ftudies the method in
D which
C 34 J
which fhe proceeds. If that method be
firm, ftrong, regular and well directed, the
phyfician looks oa in filence, and bewares
of difturbing it by remedies which would
at leaft be ufelefs; if the method be em-
barrafled, he facilitates it; if it be too flow
or too rapid, he accelerates or retards it.
Sometimes, to accomplifh his objedt, he
confines himfelf to the regulation of the
diet: fometimes he employs medicines.
The aftion of a medicine, introduced
into the human body, is a newforce, com--
bined with the principal force by which
our life is maintained: if the remedy follow'
the fame route, which this force has al­
ready opened for the expulfion of difeafes,
it is ufeful, it is falutary; if it tend to open
different routes, and to turn afide this in­
terior adlion, it is pernicious. In the'
mean time it muft be confefled that this
ialutary or pernicious influence, real' as it
is, may frequently efcape common obfer-
vation. The natural hiftory of man pre-
fents us in this refpedt with very lingular
phenomena. It may be there feen that re-^
gimens the moft oppofite, have not pre--
vented the attainment of an advanced old'
age. We may there fee men, attacked
according to all appearance with the fame
difeafe, recovering in the purfuit of op­
pofite regimens, and in theufe of remedies
totally different frbm each other; nature is
6 in
[ 35 3
in thefe inftances fufficiently powerful to
maintain the vital principle in fpite of the
improper regimen, and to triumph at once
over the diftemper and the remedy. If it
have this power of refifting the adtion of
medicine, by a ftill ftronger reafon it mull
have the power of operating without me­
dicine. The experience of the efficacy of
remedies is always therefore attended with
fome uncertainty j in the cafe of the mag­
netifm the uncertainty has this addition^
the uncertainty of its exiflence. How
then can we decide upon the adtion of aii
agent, whofe exiftence is contefted, from
the treatment of difeafesj when the efFedt
of medicines is doubtful, whofe exiftence
is not at all problematical ?
The cure which is principally cited iii
favour of the magnetifm is that of M. le
baron de — ; all clalTes are acquainted
with its hiftory. We fhall not here entei-
into a difcuffion of the fa6ts j we {hall not
enquire whether the remedies precedingly
employed might have contributed to this
cure. On the one hand the very critical
fituation of the patient is admitted, and ori
the other the inefficacy of all the ordinary
means of medical fcience^ the magnetifm.
has been employed and M. le baron de
——— has completely recovered. But
might not a natural crifis have fingly ope­
rated this recovery ? A woman of low
D 2 rank
[ 36 3
rank and extremely poor, who lived at the
Gros-cailloU, was attacked in 1779 with a
malignant fever in all its fymptoms j ihe
refolutely refufed every affiftance, {he only
defired that ,a veflel which fhe had near her
fliould be kept conflantly replenifhed
with water: (he remained quiet upon the
flraw which ferved her for a bed, drinking
water continually and doing nothingmore.
.The difeafe developed itfelf, paffed fuc-
ceflively through its different ft ages, and
terminated in a complete cure*. . Made-
moifelle G who lived at the leffer
royal mews, had two indurations formed
in her right breaft, which gave her great
pain; a furgeon recommended to her
the ufe of the Eau du Peintre as an ex­
cellent diflolvent j at the fame time in­
forming her, that if this remedy did not
fucceed in a month, it would be neceffkry
to extirpate them byincifion. Theyoung
lady, terrified at this fentence, confulted
M. Sallin, who gave it as his opinion that
the indurations were fufceptible of refo-
lution; M. Bonvart, who was alfo con­
fulted, confirmed theopinion of M. Sallin.
JBeforeentering upon anycourfe of remedy,
* The obfervation of this fact was laid in detail be­
fore the faculty of medicine at Paris, in an aflembly de
prima menfis, by M. Bourdois de la Mothe, phyfician
of the charity of Saint-Sulpice, who vifited the.iick
perfon regularly every day.
$ey
[ 37 1
they prefcribed diffipation j fifteen days
after fhe was feized at the opera with a
violent cough, and fo profufe an expedto-
ration, that fhe was obliged to be carried
Jiome i {he fpit in the fpace of four hours
about three pints of a vifcid lymph j one
hour after .this M. Sallin examined the
breaft, he difcovered no trace of indura­
tion. M. Bouvart, called in the next
day, proved on his part the happy effect
of this natural crifis. If mademoifelle
G • had taken Eau du Peintre, the ho­
nour of her cure would have been attri­
buted to this,medicine.
The uninterrupted observation of ages
proves,and the profeflorsof phyficacknow-
ledge, that nature alone and without our
interference, cures a great number of per-
fons. If the magnetifm were abfolutely
inadtive, the patients, who undergo this
method of cure, might be confidered as
abandoned to nature. It would be absurd
to chufe a method of deciding upon the
exillence of this agent, which, by attri­
buting to it all the cures performed by na­
ture, would tend to prove that it had
an adtion ufeful and curative, when in rea­
lity it might have no adtion atall.
Upon this head the commiffioners are
of the opinion of M. Mefmer. He re­
jected the cure of difeafes, when this me­
thod of proving the magnetifm was pro-
D 3 pofed
; [ s8 ]i
pofed to him by a member of the academy:
of fciences: " It is a miftake," replied he,
"•to imagine that this kind of proof is
" unanfwerable j it cannot be demonftrat-
ed that either the phyfician or the me-
dicine caufes the recovery of the pa-.
" tient*."
The treatment of difeafes can therefore
furnilh nothing but a refult, always un­
certain, often deceitful y nor can this un­
certainty be diffipated, and all the caufes of
illufion compenfated,.but by an infinity of
cures, perhaps by theexperience of fuccef-,
live centuries. The objedt and import-,
ance of the commiffion demand means of
a., fpeedier defcription. It was the duty
of the commiffioners to confine themfelves
to arguments purely phyfical, that is, to
the momentaneous effects of the fluid upon,
the animal frame, excluding from thefe;
effedls all the illufions which might mix
with them, and alluring themfelves that
they could proceed from no other caufe
than the animal magnetifm.
They propofed to make experiments
upon fingle fubjedts, who might be willing
to fubmit to the various experiments
which they fhould invent; and who, fome
«f them by their fimplicity, and others by
their intelligence, fhould be capable of
* M. Mefmerj Hiftorical Abridgement pages 35,37.
giving
f 39 3
giving an cxaft and faithful account ac­
count of their fenfations. Thefe experi­
ments we fliall not confine ourfelves to
relate in the order of time, but fhallfollow
the order of the fadts they were intended
to elucidate.
The commiffioners in the firfl place
refolved to make their fir ft experiments
upon themfelves, and perfonally to expe­
rience the adlion of the magnetifm. They
were extremely curious to become ac­
quainted by their own fenfations with the
effedts afcribed to this agent. They there­
fore fubmitted themfelves to thefe effedts,
and in fuch a difpofition, that they would
not have been forry to have undergone
fome accidents and a partial derangement
of health, which being evidently produced
by the operation of the magnetifm, fhould
have enabled them to decide this import­
ant queftion upon the fpot, and with their
own teftimony. But in fubmitting them­
felves to themagnetifm in this manner, the
commiffioners have employed one necef-
fary precaution. There is not an indivi­
dual, in a ftate of the fulleft health, who,
if he paid a clofe attention to the point,
would not be fenfible to an infinity
of interior motions and variationsj ei­
ther of a pain infinitely flight, or of
heat in different parts of his body5
thefe variations which exifl: at all times
are independent of the magnetifm. To
D 4 turn'
t 4° 1
turn and fix in this manner ones attention
upon onefelf, is riot perhaps itfelf entirely
without its effects. . There is fo intimate
a connection, whatever be the vehicle, of
that connection, between the volitions of
the foul and the motions of the body, that
it is not eafy to prefcribe limits to the in­
fluence of attention, which appears to be
nothing more than a train of volitions,
direfted, conftantly and without interrup­
tion, to the fame objedt. When we re­
coiled: that the arm is moved by the will
as it pleafes, how can we be certain, that
the attention being fixed upon fome inte­
rior part of our frame, may not excitefome
flight emotion in it, direCt the heat to­
wards it, and fo modify its aCtual litua-
tion as to produce in it new fenfations ?
The firft thing therefore, to which the
comrniflioners were bound to attend, was
not to obferve too minutely what pafTed
within them. If the magnetifm were a
real and operative caufe, there was no need
that itfhould be made an objeCt of thought,
in order to its aCtion and manifefting it­
felf: it ought, fo to exprefs ourfelves, to
compel ana arreft the attention, and to
render itfelf perceptible to a mind that
fhould even be diftraCted from it by defign.
But in determining to make experi­
ments upon themfelves, the commiffioners
unanimoufly refolved to make thofe ex­
periments private, without admitting any
ftranger,
ftranger, except M. Deflon, by whom the
operation was to be performed, or fuch
perfons as they (hould chufe j in like
manner they engaged not to fubmit to the
magnetifm at the public procefs, in order
that they might difcufs freely their obfer-
vations, and be . in all events the fole, OP
at leaft the firft: judges of the fymptoms
obferved.
In purfuance of thefe determinations, a
particular apartment and a feparate bucket
were deftined for their ufe in the houfe of
M. Deflon, and the commifiioners repaired
thither once in the courfe of every week.
The operation was continued in each ex­
periment for two hours and a half, the
branch of iron being in contact with the
left hypochonder, furrounded with a cord
of communication, and forming from time
to time the chain of fingers and thumbs.
They were magnetifed eitherby M.Deflon,
or, in his abfence, by one of his pupils;
ibme of them for a longer time and more
frequently than others, and thofe with
whom this was the cafe were the com-
miffioners who appeared from conftitution
and habit the moft fufceptible. The ope­
ration was performed fometimes with the
finger and the rod of iron prefented and
guided along the different parts of the
body, fometimes by the application of the
hands and the preffure of the fingers, either
upon
upon the hypochonders, or upon the pit
of the ftomach.
Not one of the commiflloners felt any
fenfation, or at leaft none which ought to
be afcribed to the action of the magnetifm.
Some of the commiflloners are of a robuft
conftitution; others have more delicate
habits, and are fubjed to interruptions of'
their health: one of thefe laft, wasfenfible
of a flight pain at the pit of the ftomach,
in confequence of a confiderable preflfure
that was employed upon that part. This
pain continued all that and the next day,
and was accompanied with a fenfation of
fatigue and dejedion. Another felt, in the
afternoon of one of the days in which the
experiments were performed, a flight irri­
tation of the nerves, to which he is very
fubjedt. A third, endowed with a ftill
greater fenfibility, and efpecially with an
extreme reftleffnefs of the nerves, was
fubje£t to a higher degree of pain and
a more perceptible irritation; but thefe
lefler accidents are the refult of perpetual
a.nd ordinary variations in the ftate of their
health, and are of confequence foreign to
the operation they had undergone, or pro­
ceed only from the preffure employed upon
the region of the ftomach. The com-
miffioners do not fpeak of thefe flight
details, but from a fcrupulous fidelity; they
relate them, becaufe they have impofed it
as
as. a.law upon themfelves conftantly and
in every particular to "fay the truth.
The commiffioners could not avoid being
ftruck with the difference of the private
experiment made upon themfelves from
the public procefs. All was calm and
filence in the one, all reftleffnefs and agi­
tation in the othei^ j there multiplied
fymptoms, violent crifes, the ordinary ftate
both of body and mind interrupted' and
overthrown, and nature wrought tip to the
higheft pitch; here the body free from
pain, ana the mind from anxiety,, nature,
preferving her ordinary courfe and her
equilibrium, in a word the abfolute pri­
vation of every kind of effeft: the llu-
pendous influence, which creates fuch an
aftonifhment in the public procefs, appears
no longer; the magnetifm ftripped of its
energy feems perfectly fupine and inadtive.
The commiffioners, having at firfl fub-
mitted to the experiment only once a vveek,r
were defirous to afcertain whether a conti­
nuity of experiment would produce any
effed: j they fubmitted to it three days
fucceffively, but their infenfibility was the
fame, and the magnetifm appeared with
refpedt to them perfectly impotent. This
experiment* made at once upon eight dif­
ferent fubje&s, feveral of whom were,
fubjedt to habitual derangements of health,
authorifes the, conclufion that the mag­
netifm
r 44 i
netifm has little or no adtion in a ftate of
health, or even in a ftate of lefier infirmity.
We then refolved to make experiments
upon perfons really difeafed, and we chofe
them out of the lower clafs.
Seven of thefe were aflembled at Pally,
at the houfe of Dr. Franklin; the opera­
tion was performed upon them by M.
Deflon in the prefence of all the com-
miffioners.
The widow Saint-Amand, afthmatic,"
having the belly, legs and thighs fwelled;
and dame Anfeaume, who had a fwelling
upon her thigh, felt no fenfation j the
little Claude Renard, a child of fix years
of age, fcrophulous, almoft consumptive,
having the knees fwelled, the legs bent
inward, and the articulation nearly de­
prived of motion, a very interefting child,
and pofle fling a greater degree of under-
ftanding than is ufual at his age, was%like-
wile confeious to no fenfation j any more
than Genevieve Leroux, nine years of age,
fubje<5t to convulfions, and to a diforder
greatly refembling that which is called
St. Vitus's Dance. Francis Grenet ex­
perienced fome effects 5 he had adiftemper
in his eyes, particularly in the right, in
which he had fcarcely any fight, and in
which there was a confiderable tumour.
When the operation was directed towards
the left eye, by approaching and moving
backward
t 45 ]
backward and forward the thumb very
near and for a confiderable time, he was
fenfible of a pain in the ball of the eye*
and the eye watered. When the operation
was directed to the right eye, which, was
the moil difordered, he felt no fenfation
in it; he felt the fame pain in the left
eye, and nothing in any other part of the
body.
Dame Charpentier,whohad been thrown
•down againft a log of wood by a.cow two
years before, had experienced the moft un­
fortunate confequences from this accident;
fhe loft her fight, recovered it afterwards
in part, but remained in a ftate of habitual
infirmities; fhe declared that fhe had two
ruptures, and the belly of fo great fenfi-
bility, that fhe could not bear the preffure
of the firings of her petticoats : this jfenfi-1
bility belongs to the cafe of nervous irrita­
tion; the flighteft preffure upon the region
of the belly is capable of determining this
irritation, and producing, through the
correfpondence of the nerves, effedts in
every part of the body.
The operation was performed upon this
woman as upon the reft by the applica­
tion and the preffure of the fingers.; the
preffure was extremely painful to. her :
afterwards, in directing the finger towards
the rupture, fhe complained of a pain in
her head; the finger being placed before
[ 46 3
her Face, (he faid fhe could not draw her
breath. Upon the repeated motion of the
finger upwards and downwards, Ihe had
fudden ftarts of the .head and fhoulders,
like thofe which are commonly occafioned
by furprife mixed with terror, for inftance
that of a perfon who has fome drops of
cold water fuddenly thrown in his face.
She appeared to have the fame jftartings
when her eyes were clofed. The fingers
being held under her nofe, while her eyes,
were fliut, fhe complained of a fenfation
of faintnefs fo long as they were continued
there. The feventh fubjedt, Jofeph En-
nuye, experienced fenfations of a fimilar
nature, but much lefs confiderable.
Of thefe feven patients four felt no
fenfation at all; three experienced fome
effects from the operation; Thefe effedts
deferved to engage the attention of the
commiffioners, and demanded an accurate
^examination.
The commiffioners, to obtain further
light, and to define their ideas upon this
part of the fubjedt, refolved to make the
experiment upon patients, placed in other
circumftances, and feledted from the polite
world j fuch as could not be fufpedted of
finifter views, and whofe underftanding
made them capable of enquiring into and
giving a faithful account of their fenfa­
tions. Mefdames de B- and de V ,
meffieurs
E 47 I
meffieurs M—— and R were ad­
mitted to the private bucket together with
the commiffioners; they were intreated to
remark their fenfations, without fixing
upon them too regular an attention. M.
M—;— and madame de V were the
only perfons who experienced any fenfa-
tion. M. M had an indolent tumour
over the whole articulation of the knee,
and a conftant pain in the patella. He
declared, during the operation, that he felt
nothing in any part of his body, except iri
the moment that the finger was guided
before the difeafed knee; he then thought
that he felt a flight degree of heat in the
place, in which he has habitually the fen-
fation of pain. Madame de V , at­
tacked with a nervous diforder, was feveral
times upon the point of falling afleep
during the operation. The experiment
having continued for an hour and nineteen
minutes without interruption, and for the
greater part by the application of the hands,'
fhe was fenfible to nothing but a fen-,
fation of irritation and dejedtion. Thefe
two fubjedts underwent the experiment
only once. M. R , whofe diftemper
was the remainder of an obflrudtion in the,
liver, the confequence of a very violent
diforder of that kind ill cured, underwent
the operation three times and felt nothing.
Madame de B—•—, feverely attacked with
' obftrudtions,
obftrudtions, underwent the experiment
• conftantly at the fame time with the com-
miffioners, and felt nothing j it is neceflary
to obferve, that fhe fubmitted to the
magnetifm with an extreme tranquility,
•which originated in the higheft degree of
incredulity.
Experiments were made at other times
upon different fubjedts, but without the
afliftance of the bucket. One of the com-
miflioners, in a violent head-ach, had the
operation performed upon him by M.Def-
Ion for half an hour; one of the fymptoms
of his diforder was an extreme cold in his
feet. 'M. Deflon brought his .foot near
that of the patient, the foot was never the
warmer, and the head-ach lafted its ordi­
nary term. The patient, having placed
himfelf near a fire, obtained from it the
falutary effects which'heat has conftantly
procured him, without experiencing,either
during that day or the night following,
any efFedt from the magnetifm.
Dr. Franklin, though the weaknefs of
liis health hindered him from coming to
Paris, and affifting at the experiments
which were there made, was magnetifed
by M. Deflon at his own houfe at Pafly.
The affembly was numerous; every perfon
who was prefent underwent the operation.
Some lick perfons, who had come with
M. Deflon, were fubjett to the effe&s of
C 49 3
the magnetifm in the fame manner as at
the public procefs; but madamede B ,
Dr. Franklin, his two relations, his fecre-
tary, and an American officer, felt no fen*
fation, though one of Dr. Franklin's re­
lations was convalefcent, and theAmerican
officer had at that time a regular fever.
Theexperiments wehave related,furnifh
a number of fadts, calculated to illuftrate,
and fit to be compared with each other,
and from which the commiflioners were
at liberty to deducecertain inferences. Of
fourteen fick perfons five only appeared to
feel any efFedt from the operation, nine
felt no efFed at all. The commiffioner,
who had the head-ach and coldnefs in the
feet, derived no benefit from the mag­
netifm, nor did his feet recover their
natural heat. This agent has not therefore
the property which has been attributed to it
of communicating heat to the feet. The
magnetifm has alfo been faid to have the
property of difcovering the fpecies, and
particularly the feat of difeafes, by the
pain, which the adtion of this fluid infal­
libly occalions in that part.. Such an ad­
vantage would be of great confequence;
the fluid which was the inftrument of it
would be a valuable means in the hands of
the phyfician, often deceived by equivocal
fymptoms : but Franfois Grenet felt no
fenfation, no pain, but in the eye leafl
E affected.
[ 50 J
affefted. If the rednefs and tumour of thtf
other eye had not furniftied external fymp-
toms, in judging from the effe<5t of the
magnetifm we fliould have been led to
conclude that it was undiftempered. M.
R and madame de B , both at­
tacked with obftru&ions, and madame de
B with great feverity, as they were.
confcious to no fenfation, would have re-
ceived no intelligence, either refpe£ting the
fpecies, or the feat of their difeafe. And
,yet obftruflions are among the diforders,
which are faid to be particularly fubjeft to
the aflion of the magnetifm j fince ac­
cording to the new theory the,free and
rapid circulation of this fluid through the
nerves, is a means of opening thechannels
and deftroying the obftacles, that is, the
obftru6tions, which it encounters in its
palfage. It is at the fame time faid that
the magnetifm is the touchftone of health :
if therefore M. R and madame-de
B—— had not experienced the derange­
ments and the Sufferings infeparable from
obftruttions, they would have had a right
to believe that they enjoyed the belt health
in the world. The fame thing may be
faid of the American officer : the mag­
netifm therefore announced as the dis­
coverer of difeafes completely failed of
its effeft.
The
[ J. ]
The heat that M. M——• felt in the
patella, is an effe& too flight and fugitive
to authorife any conclufions. It may be
fufpe£ted that it proceeded from the caufe
already defcanted on, a too great attention
to obferve what pafles within us: the fame
attention would difcover fimilar fenfations
at any other time, when the magnetifm
was not employed. The drowfinefs ex­
perienced by madame de V muft un­
doubtedly be afcribed to the regularity and.
fatigue of preferving the fame fituation
if flie was fenfible to any vaporous emo­
tion, it muft be remembered that it is a.
known property of nervous afFedtions, to
have,much dependency, upon the attention,
that is paid them j to-renew them it, is.
only neceflfary to.hear them fpoken of, or
to think of them. It is* eafy to judge
what ought to be expedted from a woman,
whofe nerves are extremely irritable, and
who, being magnetifed for an hour and
nineteen minutes, had during that time
no other fubjedt of reflection than, that of
the diforders which are habitual to her.
She might have had a nervous crifis more
confiderable than that we have defcribed,
without our having a right to be furprifed
at it-
There remains then only the effedts
produced upon dame Charpentier, Fran-
£ois Grenet and Jofeph Ennuye, which
E 2 can
E s * _ J
can be fuppofed to derive from the opera-*
tiori of the magnetifm. In comparing
thefe three particular fadts to the reft, the
commiffioners were aftonifhed that three
fubjedts of the lower clafs fhould be the
only ones who felt any thing from the
operation, while thofe of a more elevated
rank, of more enlightened understandings,
and better qualified to defcribe their fenfa-
tions, have felt nothing. Without doubt
Franfois Grenet experiencied a pain and a
watering in the eye when the thumb was
approached very near to it; dame Char-
pentier complained, that in touching her
ftomach the prefTure correfponded to her
rupture j and the preffure might have been
in part the caufe of what {he felt; but the
commiffioners fufpedted that thefe fenfa-
tions were augmented by moral caufes.
Let us reprefent to ourfelves the fitua-
tion of a perfon of the lower clafs, and of
confequence ignorant, attacked with a
diftemper and defirousof acure, introduced
with fome degree of ceremony to a large
company, partly compofed of phyficians,
where an operation is performed upon
him totally new, and from which he per-
fuades himfelf before hand that he is about
to experience prodigious effects. Let us-
add to this that he is paid for his compli­
ance, that he thinks he fhall contribute
more to our fatisfa&iori by profeffing to
experience
f 53 3
experience fenfations of fome kind; and
we fhall have definite caufes to which to
attribute thefe effeits j we (hall at leaft
have juft reafon to doubt whether their
true caufe be the magnetifm.
Befide this it may be enquired, why the
magnetifm produced thefe effedts upon
perfons, who knew what was doneto them,
and might imagine they had an interest in
faying what they faid, while it took no fort
of hold upon the little Claude Renard,
upon an organifation endowed with all the
delicacy of infancy, fo irritable, fo fufcep-
tible? The found underftanding and inge­
nuous temper of this child evince the vera-
•city of his relation. Why too has this
agent produced no effedt upon Genevieve
Leroux, who was in a perpetual ftate of
convulfion ? Her nerves were certainly
fufficiently irritable, how comes it that the
magnetifm did not difplay its power,
either in augmenting, or diminifhing her
convulfions ? Her indifference and impaf-
fibility induced the belief, that the reafon
of her having felt nothing, was the idiot-
ifm which did not permit her to judge
that (he ought to have felt any thing.
From thefe fa6ts the commiffioners are
at liberty to obferve, that the magnetifm
has feemed to have no exiftence for thofe
fubje6ts, who have fubmitted to it with
any degree of incredulity; that the com-
E 3 miflioners,
miflloners, even thofe who have their
nerves moft irritable, having exprefsly
turned their attention to other obje&s, and
having armed themfelves with that philb-
fgphic doubt which ought always to ac­
company enquiry, have felt none of thofe
fenfations, which were experienced by the
three patients of the lawer clafs j and they
have a right to fufpedt that thefe fenfa­
tions, fuppofing their reality, were the
fruits of anticipated perfuafion, and might
be operated by the mere force of imagina­
tion. Of this fufpicion another clafs of
experiments has been the refult. Their
fubfequent refearches were directed towards
a new objed j it was neceflary to deftroy
or confirm the fufpicion they had formed,
to determine to what degree the power of
the imagination can influence our fenfa­
tions, and to demonftrate whether it can
be the caufe, in whole or in part, of the
efFedts attributed to the magnetifm.
At this time the commiflioners heard of
the experiments, which were made at the
houfe of M. the dean of the faculty by M,
Jumelin, do£tor of phyfic; they were de-
firous of feeing thefe experiments, and
they met M. Jumelin in a body at the
houfe of M. Majault, one of the commif-
fioners. M. Jumelin declared to them
that he was a difciple neither of M. Mef-
jner, nor of M, Def|on; he had learned
nothing
t 55 3
nothing refpe£ting the animal magnetifm
from them, but had formed his principles
and digefted his procefs from what he
had heard upon the fubje£t in converfa-
tion. His principles confift in regarding
the animal magnetic fluid, as a fluid which
circulates in the human body, and which
flows from it, but which is effentially the
fame with the principle of animal heat j
like all other fluids he conceived that it
tended to an equilibrium, and that it
therefore pafles from the body in which
the greateft quantity of it refides, into that
which has the leaft. His method does
not differ from that of meffieurs Mefiper
and Deflon lefs than his principles; like
them he performs the operation with the
finger and the rod of iron as conductors,
and by the application of the hands, but
without any diilindtion of poles.
Eight men and two women fubmitted
to the operation in the firft experiment,
and felt nothing; at length a woman, who
waits in the hall of M. Alphonfe le Roy,
dodtor of phyfic, having been magnetifed
in the forehead, b-ut without touching.her,
faid that fhe felt the fenfation of heat.
M. Jumelin guiding his hand, and pre-
fenting the five extremities of his fingers
over the whole of her face, fhe faid that
{he felt as it were a flame, that pafTed from
place to.place3 magnetifed in the ftomach
E 4 fhe
I 56 ]
fhe faid that fhe felt heat; magnetifed upon
the back Hie made the fame declaration:
fhe alfo faid that flie felt hot in every part
..of her body, and that her head ached.
The commiffioners, obferving that, of
eleven perfons. that underwent the expert
ment, one only had been fenfible to the
magnetifm of M. Jumelin, were of
opinion that this perfon had experienced
certain fenfations, only becaufe fhe had
probably an imagination more eafily ex-^
cited than the reft : the opportunity was
favourable for clearing up the point. The
fenfibility of this woman being perfectly
eftablifhed, the bufinefs was only to pro­
tect her from the illusions of the imagi-,
nation, or at leaft to leave her imagination
without any thing to diredtits operations,
The commiffioners propofed to blindfold
her, in order to obferve what her fenfa-r
tions would be, when fhe could no longer
know any thing refpedtjng the condutt of
the experiment. She. was accprdingly
blindfolded and magnetifed; the pheno­
mena no longer anfwered to the places
towards which the magnetifm was diredt*
ed. Magnetifed fucceffively upon the
flomach and in the back, fhe felt only a
heat in her head, a pain in both eyes and in
the left ear,
The bandage was removed from her
eyes, and M. JupieJin having applied his
hands
hands upon the hypochonders, fhe faid
that fhe felt heat; after a few minutes fhe
faid that fhe was ready to faint, and fhe
fainted in effedt. When fhe was tolerably
recovered, the experiment was refumed,
fhewas blindfolded,M.Jumelinwas remov­
ed,filence recommended,andthewomanwas
induced to believe that the operation was
performing. The effedtswere the fame,
though no operation, either near or diftant
was performed; fhe felt the fame heat, the
fame pain in her eyes and in her ears; be-
fides which fhe felt a heat in her back and
Joins.
After a quarter of an hour, a fign was
made to M, Jumelin to magnetife her in
the ftomach, fhe felt no fenfation ; in the
back, it was the fame thing. The-fenfa-
tions diminifhed inftead of augmenting.
The pains in her head continued, the heat
in her back and loins ceafed.
We fee in this inftance certain effedts
produced, and thefe fimilar to thofe which
were experienced by the three fubjedls, re-
fpedting whom the experiment has already
been detailed. But the former and the
latter were obtained in different methods j
it follows that this differenceis of no con-
fequence. The procefs of meffieurs Mef-
mer and Deflon, and an oppofite procefs
have produced the fame phenomena. The
fliftindtion of poles is therefore chimerical.
It
I J8 ]
It may be obferved that while the
woman was permitted to fee the operation,
fhe placed her fenfations precifely in the
part towards which it was directed; that
on the other hand when fhe did not fee
the operation, fhe placed them at hazard,
and in parts very diftant from thofe which
were the objedt of the magnetifm. It was
natural to conclude that thefe fenfations,
real or pretended, were determined by the
imagination. Of this we were convinced
when we faw. that being entirely at reft,
the precedingfenfations having ceafed, and
the bondage being fixed over her eyes, this
woman experienced all the fame effedts,
though no operation was performed •> but
the demonftration was complete, when
after a remiffion of a quarter of an hour,
her imagination being undoubtedly cooled
and worn down, the effects, in the room
of augmenting, diminifhed at the moment
in which the operation was adtually re­
newed, . '
If {he was feized with a faintnefs,
women are fometimes liable to this ac­
cident from their.garments. being tight
or otherwife burdenfome. The applica­
tion of the hands upon the hypochonders
was capable of producing the fame effect
upon a woman extremely fufceptible; but
there is no need of having recourfe to this
caufe to explain the appearance. The
weather
[ 59 1
weather was extremely hot, the woman
had unqueftionably felt fome emotion in
the beginning of the experiment, flie had
made an effort upon herfelf to fubmit to
a new and unknown operation, and it is
by no means extraordinary that an effort,
continued for a longer time than the
conftitution will bear, fhould occafion a
propenfity to faint.
This fwoon had therefore a natural
known caufe, but the fenfations, which
Ihe experienced when no operation was
performed upon her, could be only the
refult of imagination. In fimilar experi­
ments, which M. Jumelin made in the
fame place the next day, the commiffioners
being prefent, upon a man who was
blindfolded, and upon a woman who was
not blindfolded, the refult was precifely
the fame; it was evident their anfwers
were determined by the queftions that
were put to them, that is, the queftion
pointed out where the fenfation was ex­
pected to be j in the room of directing the
magnetifm upon them, all that was done
was the exalting and dire6ling their imagi­
nation. A child of five years of age being
afterwards magnetifed, felt nothing but
the heat which he had jufl before con­
tracted at play.
Thefe experiments appeared fufficiently
jmportant to the commiffioners, for them
to
to defire a repetition of them, in order to
obtain further light into the fubjedt, and
M. Jumelin had the complaifance to com­
ply with their requeft. It would be to
no purpofe to objeft, that the method of
M. Jumelin was a bad onej for at the
prefent moment it was not propofed to
bring the magnetifm, but the imagination
to the proof.
The commiffioners agreed to blindfpld
jfubjefts who had already undergone the
magnetical operation, for the moft part
not to magnetife them at all, but to put
to them interrogations, fo framed as to
point out to them their anfwers. This
mode of proceeding was not calculated to
deceive them, it only mifled their imagi­
nation. In reality, when no operation was
performed upon them, their fole anfwer
ought to have been, that they felt no fen-
fation ; and when the operation was per­
formed, the impreffion they felt, not the
manner in which they were interrogated,
ought to have dictated their replies.
Thecommiffioners adjourned themfelves
to the houfe of M. Jumelin ; they began
with an experiment upon his fervant. They
fixed a bandage over his eyes, prepared for
the purpofe, and which they employed in
all the 1'ucceeding experiments. The ban­
dage was made of two calottes of elaftic
gum, whofe concavity was filled with
edredon $
cdredon; the whole inclofed and fown up
in two pieces of ftuff of a circular form.
Thefe pieces of ftuff were then fattened
to each other, arid to twa firings which
were tied in a knot at the back part of the
head. Placed ove^the'eyes, they left in
their interval rqdth for the nofe, and the
entire liberty of refpiration, without the
perfon blindfolded being permitted to re­
ceive even the fmalleft particle of light,
either through, or above, or below the
bandage. Thefe precautions having been
contrived, with an equal view to the con­
venience of the fubjedt, and the certainty
of the refult, the lervant of M. Jumelin
was perfuaded that the operation was per­
forming upon him. Upon this he felt an
almoft univerfal fenfation of heat, and
certain emotions in the region of the belly,
together with an extreme heavinefs j by
degrees he grew drowfy and appeared upon
the point of falling afleep. This experi­
ment proves what we have already faid*
that the fymptom of drowfinefs is the
effed: of fituation and wearinefs, not of;
the magnetifm.
The fame perfon being afterwards mag­
netifed with his eyes uncovered, and a rod
of iron being prefented to his forehead,,
he experienced fenfations of pricking : the
bandage being then replaced and the cir-
cumftance repeated, he was confcious to
no
no fenfation. The rod of iron was then
removed, and the patient being interro­
gated if he felt nothing in his forehead,
he declared that he felt fomething move
backward and forward from one fide of it
to the other.
M. B , a man of learning, and
particularly acquainted with the fcience of
medicine, was then blindfolded, and pre-
fented us with the fame fpedtacle, feeling
certain fenfations when he was not a<5ted
upon, and often feeling nothing when the.
operation was performed. Thefe fenfa­
tions went to fuch a length, that, previ-
oufiy to the being magnetifed in any man­
ner, but believing that the operation had
been performing for ten minutes, he felt
a heat in his loins which he compared to
that of a ftove. It is evident that M.
B- had a very ftrong fenfation, fince,
in order to convey an idea of it, he thought
it neceffary to have recourfe to fuch a
comparifon j this fenfation however he
owed folely to imagination, which was the
only agent concerned in the affair.
The commiffioners, particularly thofe of
the faculty of medicine, made an infinite
number ofexperiments upon different fub-
je&s, whom they either magnetifed them-
felves, or perfuaded that they underwent
the operation. They performed the ope­
ration indifferently, either oppolite to, or
6 in
t 63 i
in the diredrion of the poles or at right
angles with them, and in each cafe obtained
the fame effedls; experiencing in all thefe
experiments no other difference, than that
of an imagination more orlefs fufceptible.%
They
* M. Sigault, doctor of the faculty of Paris, well
known for hisinvention of the operationof thefymphyfis
of the ofTa pubis, made a number of experiments, tend­
ing to prove that the magnetifm is merely an imagi­
nary power. The following is the detail which he made
in a letter, dated July the 30th, 1784, and addreiled-to; -
one of the commiffioners.
" Having given the perfons who inhabited a large
" houfe in the Marais, to underftand that J was a pupil
" of M. Mefmer, I produced various effedls upon the
' " woman of the houfe. The magifterial tone and the
" ferious air I affe&ed, together with certain geftures*
<c made a very great impreffion upon her, which .flie
<c at firft was defirous to conceal from me; but having
" guided my hand upon the region of the heart, I felt
" that it palpitated* The ftate of oppreflion in which
cc £he appeared likewife indicated a contraction of the
" cheft. Other fymptoms were connected with thefe;
her face became convulfed, her eyes wandered, fhe
" at length fell into a fwoon, then threw up her dinner,
" had feveral ftools, and was reduced to a ftate of.
" weaknefs and finking, perfectly incredible, I re-
" peated the fame trick upon feveral perfons, and fuc-
" ceeded more or lefs, according to their different
" degrees of fenfibility and credulity.
<c A celebrated artift, mafter of defign to the chil-
<c dren of one of our princes, complained for feveral
" days of an extreme head-ach j he acquainted me
" with it upon the Pont-royal; having perfuaded him
iC that I was initiated in the myfteries of M. Mefmer,
" I expelled hjs head-ach almoft inftantaneoufly by the
" means of a few geftures, to his great aftoniftiment.
[ H ]
They were therefore convinced that the
imagination alone is capable of producing
" I produced the fame effefts upon the apprentice of
" a hatter in the fame diftemper. The lad felt nothing
in confequence of my firft geftures - I then laid my
*c hand upon his falfe ribs, bidding him at the fame time
look in my face. He immediately felt a contraflion
(C of the cheft, palpitations of the heart, yawnings, and
c< an extreme dejection. He doubted no longer of the
power I pofTefled over him. I then guided my finger
" over the part affe&ed, and afked him what he felt.
44 He replied that his paindiflodged itfelf and defcended.
44 I allured him that I would guide it towards his, arm,
44 and make it come out at his thumb, at the fame time
44 fqueezing it with confiderable force. He took me!
44 at my word, and was perfe&ly well for two hours.
44 At that period he ftopped me in the fireet to tell me
44 that his pain was returned. This effefl: feems to be
44 the fame with that produced by certain dentifts upon
44 the mental faculties of thofe, who gotothem tohave a
44 tooth drawn. v
44 Further laftly, being in the parlour of a convent,
44 rue du Colombier, fauxbourg Saint Germains, a
44 young lady faid to me: I underftand, fir, that you are
44 a pupil of M. Mefmer. I am fo, replied I; and
44 I can perform the magnetical operation upon you,
44 notwithftanding the intervention of the grate. At
44 the fame time I prefented my finger; flie was terri-
44 fied, trembled extremely, and befought me for God's
44 fake to proceed no farther. Her emotion was fuch,
*4 that, if I had perfevered in my experiment, ftie would
44 infallibly have fallen into convulsions."
M. Sigault relates that he had himfelf felt the power
of imagination. One day, the operator having under­
taken to perform upon him the magnetical operation
to convince him of its reality, at the moment he had
determined to touch him, he felt a contraction of the
cheft, and a palpitation of the heart. But having im­
mediatelycompofed himfelf, thegeftures and the procefs
of the magnetifm were employed in vain, and made no
imprefllon upon him,
various
various fenfations, and caufing the patient
toexperience both pain and heat, and even
a very confiderable degree of heat, in all
parts of the body, and they concluded that
it of courfe entered for a confiderable fhare
into the effects attributed to the animal
magnetifin. It muft at the fame time be
admitted, that the procefs of the magnetifm
produces in the animated body changes
more diftinguifhed, and derangements more
confiderable, than thofe we have juft re­
ported. None of , thofe fubjeits, whom
we have hitherto defcribed as the imaginary
objedls of the magnetical operation, were
fo far imprefled as to produce convulfions;
it was therefore a new fubjedt for the ex­
periments of the commiffioners, to enquire,
whether by the mere energies of the ima­
gination it were poffible to produce crifes,
iimilar to thofe which we have ftated in the
public procefs.
Many experiments were thought of for
the decifion of this queftion. When a
tree has been touched according to the
principles and method of the magnetifm,
every perfon who flops under it, ought to
experience in a greater or lefs degree the
effects of this agent there have even been
fome in this fituation who have fwooned,
or experienced convulfions. We commu­
nicated our ideas upon this fubjedt to M.
Deflon, who replied, that the experiment
F ought
©tight to fucceed, provided the fubjedt
were extremely fufceptible j and it was
agreed that it fhould be made at Pafly in
the prefence of Dr. Franklin. The necef-
fity that the fubjedt lhould be fufceptible,
led the commiffioners to conceive, that to
render the experiment decifive and unan-
fwerable, it was necefiary that it fhould be
made upon a perfon of M. Deflon's choice^
and of whofe fufceptibility to the opera­
tions of the magnetifm he was already con­
vinced. M. Deflon therefore brought
with him a boy of about twelve years of
agean apricot tree was fixed upon in the
orchard of Dr. Franklin's garden, confi-
derably diftant from any other tree, and
calculated for the prefervation of the mag-
netical power which might be impreffed
upon it. M. Deflon was led thither alone
to perform the operation, the boy in the
mean time remaining in the houfe, and
another perfon along with him.. We
could have wifhed that M. Deflon had not
been prefent at the fubfequent part of the
experiment, but he declared that he could
not anlwer for its fuccefs, if he did not
dire£l his cane and his countenance to­
wards the tree, in order to augment the
adtion of the magnetifm. It was therefore
refolved, that M. Deflon fliould be placed
at the greatefi: poffible diftance, and that
fome of thecommiflioners fhould ftand be-
^ tween
tvveen him and the boy, in order to afcer-
tain the impradticability of any fignals
being made by M. Deflon, or any intelli­
gence being maintained between them.
Thefe precautions in an experiment the
effence of which muft be authenticity, are
indifpenfible, without giving the perfon
with refpeft to whom they are employeda
right to think himfelf offended.
The boy was then brought into the
•orchard his eyes covered with the bandage,
prefented fucceffively to four trees upon
which the operation had not been per­
formed, and caufed to embrace each of
them for the fpace of two minutes, the
mode of communication which had been
prefcribed by M. Deflon himfelf.
M. Deflon, prefent, and at a confider-
able diftance, direded his cane towards the
tree which had been the objeft of his
operations.
At the firft tree the boy being interro­
gated at the end of a minute, declared that
he perfpired in large drops j he coughed,
fpit, and complained of a flight pain in his
head j the diftance of the tree which had
been magnetifed was about twenty feven
feet.
At the fecond tree he felt the fenfations
of ftupefadtion and pain in his head; the
diftance was thirty fix feet.
F 2 At
At the third tree the ftupefadtion and
head^ach increafed confiderably.j he faid
that he believed he wasapproaching to the
tree which had been magnetifed the dis­
tance was then about thirty eight feet.
In fine at the fourth tree which had not
been rendered the objedt of the operation,
and at the diftance of about twenty four
feet from the tree which Had, the boy
fell into a crifis; he fainted away, his
limbs ftiffened, and he was carried to a
neighbouring grafs-plot, where M. Deflon
haftened to his affiftance and recpvered
him.
The refultof this experiment is entirely
contrary to the theory of the animal mag­
netifm. M. Deflon accounted for it by
obferving, that" all the trees by their very
nature, participated of the magnetifm, and
that their magnetifm was belide reinforced
by his prefence. But in that cafeaperfon
fenfible to the power of the magnetifm,
could not hazard a walk in a garden with­
out therifkofconvulfions;an aflertioncon­
futed by the experience of every day. The
prefence of M. Deflon had no greater in­
fluence here, than in the coach, in which
the boy came along with him, was placed
oppolite to him, and felt nothing. If he
had experienced no fenfation even under
the tree \vhich. was magnetifed, it might
have been faid that at leaft upon that day
he had not been fufficiently fufceptible':
but the boy fell into a crifis under a tree
which was not magnetifed; the crifis was
therefore the effect of no phyfical or ex­
terior caufe, but is to be afcribed folely to
the influence of imagination. The expe­
riment is therefore entirely conclufive: the
boy knew that he was about to be led to a
tree upon which the magnetical operation
had been performed, his imagination was
ftruck, it was exalted by the fucceffive
fteps of the experiment, and at the fourth
tree it was raifed to the height neceffary
to produce the crifis.
Other experiments were made calculat­
ed to fupport this, and the refult was the
fame. One day when the commiflioners
were all together at Pafly at the houfe of
Dr. Franklin, and M. Deflon with them,
they previoufly intreated the latter to bring
fome of his patients with him, feledting
thofe of the lower clafs, who were moll
fufceptible to the magnetifm, M. Deflon
brought two women; and while he was
employed in performing the operation
upon Dr. Franklin and feveral perfons in
another apartment, the two women were
feparated, and placed in different rooms.
One of them, dame P——, had films
over her eyes; but as fhe could always fee
a little, the bandage already defcribed was
employed. She was perfuaded that M,.
F 3 Deflon
t 7° ]
Deflori had been brought into the room to
perform the magnetical operation ; filence
was recommended; three commiffioners
were prefent, one to interrogate, another
to make minutes of the tranfa&ion, and
the third to perfonate M. Deflon. The
cOnverfation was pretended to be addreffed
to M. Deflon; he was defired to begin the
operation j the three commiffioners in the
mean time remained perfectly quiet and
folely occupied in obferving her fymptoms.
At the end of three minutes the: patient
began to feel a nervous ihuddering; fhe
had then fucceffively a pain in the back of
her head, in her arms, a creeping in her
hands, that was her expreffion, flie grew
ftiff, ftruck her hands violently together,
rofe from her feat, ftamped with her feet:
the crifis had all the regular fymptoms.
Two other commiffioners, who were in
the adjoining roorn with the door fhut,"
heard the ftamping of the feet and the
clapping of the hands, and without feeing
any thing were wjtnefles to this noify ex­
periment.
The two commiffioners we have men­
tioned were with the other patient, made-
moifelle B who was fubjeit to ner­
vous diitempers, No bandage was em­
ployed upon her, but her eyes were at li­
berty y £he was feated with her face to^
wards » door which was fhut, and; per-
fuaded
f 7l I
fuadedthat M. Deflon was on the other
fide, employed in performing upon her the
magnetical operation. This had fcarcely
tsaken place a minute, before fhe began to
feel thefymptom of fhuddering; in another
minute fhe had a chattering of the teeth
and an univerfal heat j in fine in the third
minute (he fell into a regular crifis. Her
refpiration was quick, fhe ftretched out
both her arms, behind her back, twifting
them extremely,; and bending her body
forward : her whole body trembled; the
chattering of her teeth became fo loud that
it might be heard in the open air j fhe bit
her hand, and that with fo much force,
that the marks of the teeth remained per­
fectly vifible.
It is proper to obferve that neither of
thefe fubje&s were touched in any .man­
ner; their pulfe was not even felt, that it
might not be poffible to fay that the mag­
netic fluid was communicated ; the crifes
however were complete. The commif-
fioners, who had been defirous to know
the efJedfc of the influence of the imagina­
tion, and to appreciate the {hare it might
have in the magnetical crifes, had now
obtained all that they defired. It is im-
poffible to fee this influence difplayed in a
clearer or. more incontrovertible manner
than in -thefe two experiments. If the
fubjeftshave declared that their crifes were
F 4 flronger
Wronger in the public treatment, it muft
be afcribed to the power of communica­
tion pofTeffed by the numerous emotions,
and that in general everyindividual fymp-
tom has been increafed by the contem­
plation of fimilar fymptoms.
We had occafion to try a fecond expe­
riment upon dame P , and to expe­
rience how much ilie was under the do­
minion of her imagination. The expe­
riment of the magnetic bafon was propof-
ed : this experiment confifts in difcovering
among a number of bafons one that has
been magnetifed. They are fucceffively
prefented to a patient fufceptible to the
magnetifmj he ought to fall into a crifis,
or at leaft to experience fenfible effects,;
when the magnetic bafon is prefented to
Tiim, he ought to be perfectly indifferent
to all the reft. AM that was neceflary
according to the recommendation of M.
Deflon, was to preferit them to him in the
direction of the poles, in order that he who
prefents the bafon may not himfelf mag-
netife the patient, and that there may be
no other effedt than t'hat of the magnetifm
of the bafon itfelf.
Dame P-^— was fent for to the arfenal
to the houfe of M. Lavoifier, where M.
Deflon was • fhe began with falling into a.
crifis in the anti-chamber, before fli? hadr
feen either thecommiffioners orM, Deflon, „
and
t 73 1
and merely from the knowledge fhe had
that fhe was about to fee him; a diftin-
guifhed effedt of the influence of imagi­
nation.. '
When fhe had been tolerably recovered,
fhe.was led into the room deftined for the
experiment. Several china bafons were
prefented to -her which had not been mag-
netifed; at the fecond bafon fhe began to
feel the ufual fymptoms, andat the fourth
fell into a complete crifis. It may be ob­
jected that her actual flate was a ftate of
crifis, that it had begun in the anti-cham­
ber, and was renewed by its own fingle
energy; but a circumftance which is deci-
five, is that having afked for fomething to
drink, the bafon which had been magne-
tifed by M. Deflon himfelf was prefented
to her; fhe drank with perfedl calmnefs
and faid that fhe felt herfelf much better.
The bafon and the magnetifm had there­
fore failed of their effedt, fince the crifis
was tranquilized in the room of being
augmented.
Some time after, while M. Majault exa­
mined the films (he had over her eyes,, the
magnetic bafon was prefented to the back
of her head, and continued,there for twelve
minutes; fhe was unconfcious of the ope-,
ration and felt no effedl from it; fhe had
even at no time been more tranquil, be-
caufe her imagination was diverted, and
fixed
t 74 i
fixed upon the examination that was mak­
ing into the diforder of her eyes.
- The commiffioners were informed that
while this woman had been left alone in
the anti-chamber, different perfons unac­
quainted with the animal magnetifm had
approached her, and the convullive emo­
tions had recommenced. She was defired
to obferve that the magnetical operation
was not performed upon her; but her
imagination was ftruck to fuch a degree
that Ihe replied: If you did nothing to
me, I fhould not be in the condition in
which I am. She knew that flie had been
fent for in order to be made the fubjeft of
the experiments; and the approach of any
perfon towards her, or the flighted: noile
attracted her attention, excited the idea of
the magnetifm and renewed her con-
vulfions.
The imagination, in order to its ailing
with confiderable ftrength, has often need
that you fliould touch feveral cords at a
time. It has a correfpondence with each
of the fenfes ; and its reaction may be ex­
pected to be in proportion, both to the
number of fenfes applied to, and of fen-
iations received : the commiffioners were
led to this obfervation by the following
experiment. M. Jumelin had fpoken to
them of a young lady, twenty-years of age,
Whom he •had deprived of the-faculty of
[ 75 3
fpeech by the influence of the magrietifm;
the commiffioners repeated the experiment
at his houfe, the young lady consented to
fubmit to it, and to fuffer herfelf to be
blindfolded.
The firfl objedt of the experiment was
to endeavour to obtain the fame effed:
without performing the operation j but,
though in this fituation fhe felt or believed
fhe felt the effedts of the magnetifm, we
were not able to ftrike her imagination,
with the force, that was neceflary for the
fuccefs of the experiment. The operation
was then really performed, the bandage
not being removed j and the fuccefs was the
fame. The bandage was then taken away;
her imagination was now attacked at once
through the different channels of fight and
hearing, and the effedts were more con-
fiderable j but though fhe complained of a
heavinefs in her head, an obftrudtion in
the fuperior part of the noftrils, and a
number of the fymptoms which fhe had
felt under the operation of M. Jumelin,
Hie did not lofe the faculty of fpeech. She
obferved herfelf, that the hand by which
fhe was jnagnetifed in the forehead, ought
to defcend to.the level of the nofe, recol-
Jedting that that was its fituation at the
time in which fhe had felt the lofs of her
voice. What fhe demanded was accord­
ingly performed, and ii^ three quarters of
2 a mi-
a minute fhe was dumb; nothing wasnow"
to be heard from her but low and inarti­
culate founds, though the exertion of the
mufcles of the throat for the formation
of found, and that of the tongue and the
lips in order to articulation were vifible.
This flate lafted only a minute: it is ob­
vious to obferve that, finding herfelf pre-
cifely in the fame circumftances, the fe-
dudtion of the underftanding and the ef­
fect of that feduftion upon the organs of
fpeech were the fame. But it was not
enough that fhe fhould be exprefsly in­
formed that fhe was magnetifed, it was
alfo neceffary that the fenfe of feeingfhould
yield her a teftimony, ftronger, and capa­
ble of greater effedts j it was neceffary that
a gefture with which fhe was already ac­
quainted fhould re-excite her former
ideas. It fhould feem that this experi­
ment is admirably calculated to difplay the
manner in which the imagination ads, the
degrees by which it is exalted, and the
different exterior fuccours it requires in
order to its difplaying itfelf in its greateft
energy.
The power, which the fenfe of fight
exercifes over the imagination, explains
the* effects attributed by the do&rine of
the magnetifm to the eyes. The eyes
poffefs in an eminent degree the power of
niagnetifing; figns and geftures, as the -
com-
[ 77 1
comtniffioners were, informed, have com­
monly no effedt, except upon a fubje<£t
who has been previoufly- mattered by the
employment of the eyes. The reafon of
this is very limple; it is the eyes that con­
vey the moll energetic expreffions of paf-
iion, it is in them that is developed all that-
the human charadter has of the command­
ing or the attractive. It is natural there­
fore that the eyes fhould be the fource of
a very high degree of power; but this
power confifts merely in the aptitude they
pofiefs of moving the imagination,.and
that in a degree moreor lefs flrong in pro­
portion to the activity of the imagination.
It is for this reafon, that the whole
procefs of the magnetifm commences
from the eyes of the operator; and their
influence is fo powerful and leaves traces
fo ftrong and lively, that a woman, newly
arrived at the houfe of M. Deflon, having
encountered a look of one of his pupils,
who had performed the operation upon
her, juft as fhe was recovering from a
crifis, had her eyes fet in her head for three
quarters of an hour. For a long time fhe
was haunted with the remembrance of this
look ; flie always faw before her this very
eye fixed to regard her j and fhe bore it
uninterruptedly in her imagination fleep-
ing as well as waking for three days. .We
fee from this inftancewhat an imagination
• is
E 78 1
is capable of doing, that can preferve one
impreflion for fo long a time, that is, can
renew, of itfelf, and by its lingle power,
the fame fenfation regularly and without
interruption, for three days.
The experiments, which we have al­
ready reported, are uniform in their na­
ture, and contribute alike to the fame
decifion; they authorife us to conclude
that the imagination is the true caufe of
the effedts attributed to the magnetifm.
But the partifans of this new agent will
perhaps reply, that the identity of effedts
does not always provean identity of caufes.
They will grant that the imagination is
capable of exciting thefe imprefiions
without the magnetifm:- but they will
maintain that the magnetifm is alfo capa­
ble of exciting them without the imagi­
nation. The commiffioners might eafily
deftroy, this affertion by applying the
principles of all reafoning, and the laws of
natural philofophy: of which the firft, is
to admit no new caufes without an abfo-
lute neceffity. When theeffefts obferved
are capable of having been produced by
a known caufe, and a caufe whofe exifl>
ence other phenomena have already efta-
blifhed, found philofophy teaches that the
effedts ought to be afcribed to that-caufe;
and when on the other hand we are ac­
quainted with the difcovery of a caufe
hitherto
C 79 ]
hitherto unknown, found philofophy re­
quires that its exiftence be made out by
effedts, which do not belong to a
known caufe, and which cannot be
explained but by the new caufe. It
therefore properly belongs to the partifans
of the magnetifm, to bring forward other
proofs, and to difcover effe&s which fliall
be entirely ftripped of the illufions of the
imagination. But as fads are moredemon-
ftrative than reafonings, and as their evi­
dence is more univerfally ftriking, the
commiffioners have been defirous of efta-
blifhing by experiment, what the mag-,
netifm could do in cafes where the ima­
gination had no concern.
For this experiment they made choice
of two rooms, contiguous to each otherf
and united by a door of communication.
The door was taken away, and a frame of
wood fubftituted in its place, with tranf-
verfe bars, and covered with a double
texture of paper. In one of thefe rooms-
was a commiflioner, who undertook to
make minutes of the tranfadtion, and a
lady, who was giyen out to be juft arrived
from the country, and to have a fuit of
linen, which fhe wanted to have made up.
Mademoifelle B , a fempflrefs by pro-'
feffion, who had been already employed
in the experiments at Paffy, and whofe
fenAbility to the magnetifm . was well
known,
[ 8o ]
known, was fent for. Every thing was
arranged againft her arrival in fuch a man­
ner, that there was but one feat upon.which
fhe could place herfelf, and that feat flood
within the frame of the door of commu­
nication.
The commiffioners were in the other
apartment, and one of them, a phyfician,
who had upon former occafions performed
the magnetical operation with fuccefs, had
undertaken to magnetife mademoifelle
B through the paper partition. It is
a principle in the theory of the magne­
tifm that this agent paffes through doors,
walls, &c. A partition of paper could
therefore be no pbftacle; befide M.Deflon
had pofitively declared that the magnetifm
paffes through paper. '
Mademoifelle B * was accordingly
magnetifed during half an hour, at the
diftance of a foot and an half, and in a di­
rection oppofite to that of the poles, in
conformity to the rules taught by M.
Deflon, and which the commiffioners had
feen pradtifed at his houfe. During the
operation fhe converfed with much gaiety,
and, in anfwer to an enquiry concerning
her health, fhe readily replied, that fhe
was perfe&ly well: at PafTy fhe had fallen
into a crifis in thecourfeof three minutes;
in the prefent inftance fhe Underwent the
operation of the magnetifm without any
effedt
[ 8i }
effedt for thirty minutes.- The only rea-
ion of this difference muft be that here fhe
was'ignorant of the operation, and that at
PalTy (he thought it had been performed..
The inevitable conclufion is, that the
imagination fingly produces all the effedts
attributed to the magnetifm, and that,
where the imagination ceafes to be called
forth, it has nolonger the fmalleflefficacy;
Only one objection can be fuggefted to
this experiment j it is that mademoifelle •
B might not be prepared to receive
the magnetic fluid, and might be lefs fuf-
ceptible to its operation than ufual. The
commiffioners forefaw this objection, and
for that reafon made the following experi­
ment. As foon as they had ceafed1 to
magnetife the patient through the paper
partition, the fame commiffioner palled
into- the other apartment; he found no
difficulty in engaging mademoifelle B——-
to fubmit to the magnetical operation. It
was accordingly repeated in precifely the
fame manner as in the former inflance, at
the diftance of a foot and an half, and by
the intervention of gestures only, together
with the employment of the right finger
and the rod of iron. If he had applied
the hands, and touched the hypochonders,
it might have been objected that anydiffe­
rence of effeft, was to be afcribed to the
application having been moreimmediate in
G the
r. 82 ]
the latter inftance. . But the only diffe­
rence between the two experiments was,
that in the former mademoifelle B——
was magnetifed in a diredtion oppofite to
that of the poles, and conformable to the
rules of the magnetical theory j and in the
fecond fhe was magnetifed in the diredtion
of the poles, or in the tranfverfe line. On
this account according to the principles of
the magnetifm no effedt ought to have
been produced;
In three minutes however (he felt a
fenfation of deje<5tion- and fuffocation ; to
thefe fucceeded an interrupted hiccup, a
chattering of the teeth, a contradtion of
the throat, and an extreme pain in, her
head; fhe was reftlefs in her chair; fhe
complained of a pain in the loins; now and
ihen /he ftruck her foot with extreme
-quicknefs on the floor; afterwards (he
ftretched her arms, behind her, twifting
them extremely as at Paffy; in a word the
convulfive crifis was complete and accom­
panied with all the regular fymptoms.
•All thefe accidents appeared in confequence
of a procefs of twelve minutes, though
the: fame procefs employed for thirty mi­
nutes a little before had been ineffectual.
The. only ground of difference that re­
mains, is the play that \fcas afforded in the
latter inftance to the imagination; to this
there-
r ]
therefore the difference of the effedts is to
be a/cribed.
If the crifis originated in the influence
of the imagination, it was the imagination
alfo that put a flop to it. The commif-
fioner who magnetifed her, obferved that
it was time to have done j at the fame time
prefenting to her his two forefingers in
the form of a crofs and it is propel to
obferve that in fo doing he magnetifed her
in the.direction of the poles, in the fame
manner as he had done through the whole
experiment; no adtual alteration had there­
fore been made, and the procefs being con­
tinued, the impreffions ought alfo to have
continued. Butthe declaredintention of the
operator was fufficient to diffipate the cri­
fis ; her heat and the pain in her head Were
immediately alleviated. The diforder of
her frame was in this manner followed
from place to place, announcing at the
fame time that it was going to difappear.
In this manner in obedience to the voice
to which the imagination was fubjedted,
the contraction of the throat ceafed, then
the accidents of the bread, laftly thofe of
the ftomach and the arms. The whole
required only three minutes j after which
mademoifelle B — declared that fhe* no
longer felt any fenfation, but was perfectly
reftored to her habitual ftate.
G 2 Thefe
t 84 ]
Thefe laft experiments, as well as fev'e-
ral of thofe that were made at the houfe df
M. Jufnelin, have the double advantage of
demonftrating at once the efficacy of the
imagination, and the impotence of the
magnetifm, in regard of the fymptoms
which were operated.
If the fymptoms are more confiderable
and the crifes more violent at the public
procefs, it is becaufe various caul'es are
combined with the imagination, to ope­
rate, to multiply and to enlarge its effedts.
They begin with fubduing the minds of
the patients by the employment of the
eyes* this is followed by the touch, the
application of the hands; it is proper to
develop in this place the phyfical effe&s of
this method of procedure.
The fymptoms are more or lefs confider­
able: thelefs are hiccuphings,qualms of the
itomach and purgings; the greater are the
convulfions to which they have given the
denomination of crifes. The parts upon
which the touch is employed, are the hy-
pochonders, the pit of the ftomach, and
iometimes the ovaria, when the patient is a
woman. The hands and the fingers are
prelled with a greater or lefs ftrefs upon
thefe different regions.
The colon, one of the larger inteftines,
runs through both the ' regions of the
hypochonders, and the region of the epi-
.gaftrium
gaftrium which feparates them..It is placed
immediately under the integuments. . It is
therefore upon this inteftine that the pref-
fure falls, an inteftine full of fenfibility
and irritability. A repeated voluntary
effort, without affiftance from any other
caufe, excites the mufcular adtion of this
inteftine, and fometimes procures evacua­
tions. Nature, as it were by inftinit, indi­
cates this manoeuvre to perfons hypochon-
driacally affetted. The procefs of the
magnetifm is nothing more than this very
manoeuvre ; and the evacuations it is cal­
culated to produce are furtherfacilitated in
the magnetical procefs, by the frequent
and almoft habitual ufe of a real laxative,
the cream of tartar in their drink.
But while themotion which is produced,
excites principally the irritability of the
colon, this inteftine offers other pheno­
mena. It fwells in a greater or lefsdegree,
and fometimes diftends itfelf to a con-
fiderable volume. At fuch times it com­
municates to the diaphragm fuch an irri­
tation, that this organ becomes more or
Jefs convulfed. It is this convulfion to
which they have given the appellation of
crifis in the animal magnetifm. One of
the commiffioners had occafion to fee a
woman, fubjefk to, a kind of fpafmodic
vomitings,with which ftie wasfeized feveral
times in the courfe of .every day. Hej-
G 3 efforts.
efforts produced nothing but a turbid and
vifcous water, fimilar to that which is
brought up by the patients in the crifis of
the magnetical operation. The convulfion
had its feat in the diaphragm, and the
region of the colon was fo fenfible, that
the ilighteft touch upon that part, a ftrong
commotion of the air, the furprife caufed
by a fudden noife fufficed to excite the
convulfion. This woman had therefore
regular crifes without the affiftance of the
magnetifm, by the fingle irritability of the
colon and diaphragm; and the "women
who are magnetifed, obtain their crifes
from the fame caufe and through the fame
irritability.
The application of the hands upon the
ftomach has phyfical effects not lefs re­
markable. The application is made di-
redtly upon that organ. Sometimes a
ftrong continuous compreflion is operated,
fometimes a number of flight and fuc-
cefl^ve compreilions, fometimes a difcom-
pofure of the ftomach by a rotatory motion
of the rod of iron in contail with the part,
or by the fucceffive and rapid pafTage of
the thumbs over it one after the other.
Thefe methods convey almoft immediately
to the ftomach an irritation, more or lefs
ftrong and durable, in proportion as the
fubjedt is more or lefs fufceptible. The
part is alfo previoufly difpofed for the re­
ception
[ 87 J
ception of this irritation by being firft
compreffed. This compreffion prepares it
to adt upon the diaphragm and to com­
municate to it the impreffions it receives.
It is irritated, the diaphragm is alfo irri­
tated, and from thence refult, in the famd
manner as by the adtion of the colon, the
nervous accidents which had been already
Hated. In women whoare peculiarly fuf-
ceptible, the mere compreffion of the two
hypochonders, without their being adted
upon in any other manner, occafions a
contradtion of the ftomach and fits of
fwooning. This happened in the cafe of
the .womcin magnetifed by M. Jumelin,
and it often happens from no other caufe
than an improper degree of .tightnefs in
their drefs. Thefe cafes are not followed
by the crifis, becaufe the ftomach is com­
preffed, without being irritated, and the
diaphragm remains in its natural Hate.
The fame methods employed upon the
ovaria in the female fex, befide their par­
ticular effedts, produce with great force
the above accidents. The empire and.ex-
tenfive influence of the uterus over the
animal (Economy is well known.
The intimate connection of the colon,
the ftomach and the uterus with the dia­
phragm is one of the caufes of the effedts
afcribed to the magnetifm. The regions
of the lower belly, which are the fubjedt
Q 4 of
c 8 8 ]
of thefe.operations, anfwer to the different
plexufes which conftitute a regular nervous
centre in this part, by means of which,
leaving every particular fyftem out of the
queftion, there moft certainly exifts a
fympathy, communication or correfpon-
dence between all the parts of the body,
fuch an adtion and reaftion, that the lenfa-
tions excited in this centre affedt the other
parts of the body, and reciprocally a fen-
fation experienced in any part affedts arid
calls into play the nervous centre, which
often transmits the impreffion back again
to all the parts of the body.
The truth thus ftated not only explains
the effedts of. the magnetic touch, but
alfo the phyfical effects of the imagination.
,It has been conftantly remarked, that the
affedtions of the foul make their firft cor­
poreal impreffion upon the nervous centre,
which commonly leads their fubjedt to
defcribe himfelf as having a weight upon
his ftomach, or a fenfation. of fuffocation.
The diaphragm enters into this bufinefs,
from whence originate the fighs, the tears
and the expreffions of mirth. The vifcera
of the lower belly then experience a re­
action ; and it is by this automatous pro-
cefs that we are enabled to account for the
phyfical diforders produced by the imagi-?
nation. Surprife occafions the colic, terror
caufes adiarrhoea, melancholy is the origin
[ V3
of i<5terical diftempers. The hiftory of
medicine prefents to us an infinity of ex­
amples of the power of imagination and
the mental affedtions. The terror occa­
sioned by a fire, a violent degree of defire,
a ftrorig and undoubting hope, a fit of
"choler have reftored the ufe of his limbs
to one who has been crippled with the
gout or to a paralytic perfon; a ftrong and
unlooked for degree of joy has diffipated
a quartan ague of two months ftanding;
clofe attention isa remedy for the hiccup;
and perfons, who by fome accident have
been deprived of the faculty 'of fpeech,
have recovered it in confequence of fome
of the vehement emotions of the foul.
This lafl: aflertion is fupported by the
teftimony of hiftory, and the commiffioners
have themfelves witnefled a fufpenfion of
this faculty, occafioned fingly by the ima­
gination. The a£tion and rea&ion of the
phyfical upon the moral fyftem, and of the
moral upon the phyfical, have been ac­
knowledged ever fince the phenomena of
the medical fcience have been remarked,
that is, ever fince the origin of the fcience.
Tears, laughter, coughs, hiccups, and
in general all the efFedts which are obferved
in what have been ftiled crifes in the
animal magnetifm, do therefore originate
either in the interruption of the functions
of the diaphragm by a phyfical vehicle,
fuch
I 90 ]
fuch as the touch and the preflure, or from
the power with which the imagination is
pndowed of adting upon this organ and
interrupting its functions.
If it be objected that the touch is not
always neceffary to thefe effects, it may be
replied, that the imagination may be fuf-
ficiently fertile in refources to produce
them all by its fole instrumentality; efpe-
cially the imagination exerted in a public
procefs, called into play at once by the
methods in which it is itfelf addreffed,
and by the effedts obferved in thofe who
furround it. It has been already feen what
wereits effedts in the experiments made by
the cornmiffioners upon ifolated fubjedts;
it may eafily be conceived in what degree
thofe effedts muft be multiplied in the cafe
of a number of patients collected together
in a public procefs. Thefe patients are
affembled in a narrow fpace, if the fpace
be compared with the number of patients;
the air of the apartment is heated, although
care be employed to renew it; and it is
always more or lefs impregnated with
mephitic gas, which has the property of
adting immediately upon the head and
the nervous fyftem. When the introduce
tion of mufic is added, it affords another
means of adting upqn an4 exciting the
nerves.
In
[ 91 3
Jnthe public procefs feveral women are
magnetifed at the fame time, and they ex­
perience at fir ft no effedts but fuch as are
limilar to thofe, obtained by the com-
miffioners in various experiments. It is
even acknowledged that for the moil part
the crifes do not commence in lefs than
the fpace of two hours. By little and little
the impreffions are communicated from,
one to another, and reinforced, in the fame
manner as the impreffions which are made
by theatrical reprefentation, where the im­
preffions are greater in proportion to the
number of the fpedtators, and the liberty
1they enjoy of expreffing their fenfations.
The applaufe, by which the emotions of
individuals are announced, occafions a ge­
neral emotion, which every one partakes
jn the degree in which he is fufceptible.
The fanas obfervation has been made in
armies upon a day of battle, where the
enthuliafm of courage, a§ well as the im­
preffions.of terror, are propagated with fo
amazing rapidity. The drum, the found
pf the military mufical inftruments, the
poife of the cannon, the mufquetry, the
Ihouts of the army, and the general diforder
imprefs the organs, have a uniform effedt
upon the underftanding, and exalt the
imagination in the fame degree. In this
equilibriym of inebriation, the external
manifeftatjon of a finale fenfation imrne-
diately becomes univerfal j it hurries the
foldiery to the charge, or it determines
them to fly. The fame caufe is deeply
concerned in rebellions} the multitude
are governed by theimaginationj the indi­
viduals in a numerous affembly are more
fubjedted to their jfenfes, and lefs capable
of fubmitting to the dictates of reafon j
and where fanaticifm is the prefiding qua­
lity, its fruit is the tremblers of the
Cevennes*. It has been ufual to forbid
numerous
* Marflial Villars, who was employed in appeafing
the troubles of the Cevennes, fays: u I{aw things in
this kind, which I fhould not have believed, if they
<c had not pafTed before my eyes ; I faw a considerable
16 town, of which the, whole female part without ex-
cc ception appeared to be pofiefled by the devil. They
" trembled and prophefied publicly in the flreets. One
<c had the rafhnefs to tremble and prophefy for an hour
together in my prefence. But of all thefe abfurdities
" the moft furprifing was that, which was related to me
" by the bifliop of Alais, and which I wrote to M. de
" Chamillard in the following terms.
" c A M. de Mandagors, lord of the manor of that
<l name, mayor of Alais, poflelTjng the firft appoint-
" ments in the town and county, and having even been
u for fome time fubdelegate to M. de Baville, was the
" fubjedt of this relation. He was fixty years of age,
« temperate in his manners, ppflefTed of a fine under-
u Handing, and had written and publiflied n>any per-
iC formances. Some of them I have read, and, before
u I knew what I have juft learned refpe£ting him, I
u con fide red* them as diftinguifiied by a very vigorous
imagination,
" c A prophetefs, aged twenty feven or twenty eight
/t years, was takeii up about eighteen months ago and
"** " carried
[ 93 1
numerous affemblies in feditious, towns*
as a means of flopping a contagion fo
eafily
cc carried before the bifhop of Alais. He interrogated
" her before feveral ecclefiaftics. The creature, after
" having heard what he faid, replied with a modeft air,
" exhorted him no longer to torment the true children
" of God, and then addrefled him for an entire hour
" in an uncouth language of which he could not under-
u ftand a word: juft as wehave formerlyfeen the duke
" de la Ferte, when he had drank a few glafles, talk
" Englifh before the inhabitants of that country* I
u have heard them fay, I underftand very well that he
fpeaks Englifli, but I cannot comprehend a word
" that he fays. It would have been fomewhat difficult
" that,they fhould have done fo, for he never knew a
" word of Englifli in his life. This girl talked Greek
w and Hebrew in the ftyle of the duke de la Ferte,
" 'You will take it for granted that M. d'Alais
" fent the girl to prifon. After feveral months, the
" girl appearing to be entirely ridded of her abfurdities
" by the attention and advice of the fieur de Mandagors,
" who frequently vifited her in her confinement, fhe
" wasfet at liberty, and the confequence of that liberty,
u and of the liberties that the fieur Mandagors had
" taken with her, was an immediate pregnancy,
" 4 But the fa£l which I was about to relate is the
" refignation made by the. fieur Mandagors of all
" his employments in favour of his fon, at the fame
^ time faying to feveral individuals, and among others
u to the bifhop, that it was by exprefscommiffion from
" God that he had had carnal knowledge of the pro-
" phetefs, and that the child which lhould be born
" would be the true faviour of the world. The con-
<c fequence of all this in anyother country than France,
" would have been merely the fending M. the mayor
" and his fair patronefs to bedlam. The bifliop
u fuggefted to me to have him. arretted. I propofed
" previoufly to confer with M. de Baville, intendant of
" the province,'ordering in the mean time that he and
" the
t 94 3
eafily communicated. Every where ex­
ample adts upon the moral part of our
frame, mechanical imitation upon the phy­
sical part: the minds of individuals are
calmed by difperfing them j the fame
method puts a flop to their fpafmodic
affedtions, always contagious in their na­
ture : we have had a recent example of
this in the young ladies of Saint Roch,
who were in this manner cured of the
" the prophetefs (hould be clofely watched,fo that they
«c might not be able to efcapc. My opinion was, that,
a in the midft of a country of madmen, what relates to
u a madman of fuch importance ought to make aslittle
« hoifc as poffible ; and that it was therefore neceflary
cc to endeavour to get him out of the country by gentle
" means, and then to take him into Cuftody. Your
tc lordfhip will eafily conceive that to declare publicly
" for a prophet a mayor of Alais, the lord of anexten-
<c five manor, an ancient fubdelegate of the intendant,
« an author, and a man hithertoefteemed for his pene-
cc tration and fagacity, in the midft of a country ac-
" cuftomed to venerate and refpe£t him, was a meafure
better calculated to revolt the minds of the inhabi-
tants than to correft them. It would the rather
u have had this tendency, that, except the follyof be- .
" lieving that God had commanded him tohave carnal
" knowledge of this young woman, his converfation is
as full of reafon and good fenfe, as was that of Don
" Quixote upon all other fubje&s but that of knight-
" errantry. M. de Baville was of my opinion. The
children of M. Mandagors condudted him without
" noife to one of his chateaux, where he was con-
" fined, and the prophetefs taken from him and ferit
" to prifon.' " Vie du MarechalDuedeVillars, tome
I. pages 325 and following.
convulfions
convulfions with which they were affedtcd
when together*.
The magnetifm then, or rather the
operations of the imagination, are equally
difcoverable at the theatre, in the cariipj
and in all numerous aflemblies, as ait
the bucket, adtirig indeed by different
means, but producing fimilar effedts. The
bucket is furrounded with a crowd of
patients; the fenfations are continually
communicated and recomriiunicated it
* On the day of the ceremony of the firft com­
munion, celebrated in the parifh church of Saint Roch
a few years ago (1780), after the evening fervice they
made according to cuftom the proceffion through the
ftreets. Scarcely were the children returned to the
church, and had refumed their feats, before a young girl
fell ill and had convulfions. This affection propagated
itfelf with fo much rapidity, that in the fpace of half an
hour fifty or fixfy girls from twelve to nineteen years,
of age were feized with the fame convulfions; that is,
with a contra&ioh of the throat, an inflation of the
ftomach, fuffocation, hiccups and fpafms more or lefs
confiderable. Thefe accidents reappeared in fome in-
ftances in the courfe of the week $ but the following
Sunday, being afiembled with the dames of Sainte Anne,
whofe bufinefs itis. to teach the young ladies, twelve of
them were feized with the fame convulfions, and more
would have followed, if they had not had the precaution
to fend away each child upon the fpot to her relations.
The whole were obliged to be divided into feveral
fchools. By thus feparating the children, and not
keeping them together but 111 fmall numbers, three
weeks fufHced to diflipate entirely this epidemical con-^
vulfive affe&ion. See for other inftarices of the fame
kind the NaturalHiftory of Convulfions byM. Hecquet,
ought
r 96 3
ought to beexpe&ed that thenerves flioufd
be at length worn out with this exercife,
they are accordingly irritated, and the
woman of moft fenfibility in the company
gives the fignal. Immediately the cords,
every where ftretched to the fame degree
and in perfect unifon,' refpond to each
other j the crifes" are multiplied ; they
mutually reinforce each other, and are
rendered violent. In the mean time the
men, who are witnefles of thefe emotions,
partake of them in proportion to their
nervous fenfibility; and thofe with whom
this fenfibility is greateft and moft eafily
cxcited become themfelves the fubjedts of
a crifis.
This propenfity to irritation, partly na^
tural and partly acquired, becomes in each
fex habitual. The fenfations having been
felt once or oftener,-nothingis now necef-
fary, but to recal the memory of them, and
toexalt the imagination to the lame degree,
in order to operate the fame efFedts. This
will never be difficult when the fubjedt is
placed in the fame circumftances. The
public procefs is no longer neceffary, you
have only to touch the hypochonders and
to condudt the finger and the rod of iron
before the countenance; the figns are well
known. Even thefe are not neceflary, it
is fiifficient that the patients be blind­
folded, made to believe that thefe figns are
repeated
t 97 3
repeated upon them, and that they are
magnetifed; the ideas are reexcited, the
fenfations are reproduced, the imagination,
employing its accuftomed inftruments and
refuming its former routes, gives birth to
the fame phenomena. Thefe cafes happen
exactly to the patients of M. Deflon, who
fall into a crifis without the bucket, and
without being excited with the fpedtacle
of the public procefs.
Compreffion, imagination, imitation are
therefore the true caufes of the effects at­
tributed to this new agent, known by the
appellation of animal magnetifm, this fluid,
which is faid to circulate through the
human body, and to be communicated from
Individual to individual. Such is the refult
of the experiments of the commiffioners,
and the obfervations they made upon the
means employed and the effedts produced.
This agent, this fluid has no exiftence.
Chimerical however as it is, the idea is
by no means novel. Some authors, par­
ticularly phyficians of the laft age, have
exprefsly treated of it in various perform­
ances, The curious and interesting en­
quiries of M. Thouret have convinced the
public, that the theory, the operations and
the eflfe&s of the animal magnetifm, pro-,
pofed in the laft age, were nearly the fame
with thofe revived in the prefent. The
jnagnetifm then is no njore than an old
H falfhood.
I 98 ]
falfhooa. The theory indeed 15. now.pre-*
fented, p was neceflary in a more en­
lightened age, with a greater degree of
pomp but it is not lefs erroneous. Hu­
man nature is formed to feise, to quit*
and to refume the miftake which is flatter­
ing to its wifhes. There are errors which
will be eternally dear tothe fubluiiary ftate.
How pfteri has the pretended fcience of
aflrology vanifhed and reappeared ! The
magnetifm is calculated to lead us back to
jt. Its profeffors have been defirous of
connecting it with the celeftial influences,,
that it might have the ftronger fedu£tion,
and attraft mankind by the two hopes that
are neareft their heart, that of looking into
futurity, and that of prolonging their
exiilence.
There is room to believe that the imagi­
nation is the principal of the three caufes
which we have affigped to the magnetifm^
It appears by the experiments we have re­
lated that it fuffices alone to produce the
crifes. The preflure and the toCich feem
to ferve it as preparatives y it is by the
touch that the nerves begin to be excited,
imitation communicates and extends the
impreflions. But the imagination is that
adtive and terrible power, by which are
operated the aftonifhing effects, that have
excited fo .much attention to the public
procefs. The effe&s, ftrike all the world,
" " " ' the
[ 99 3
the caufe is enveloped in the fhades of
"obfcurity. When we confider that thefe
effe£ts feduced in former ages menj vene^
!*able for their merit, their illumination
.and even their genius, Paracelfus, Van
Helmont and Kircher^ we ceafe to be
aftonifhed, that perforts of the prefent day^
learned and well informed, that even a great
number of phyfieians have been the dupes
of this fyftem. Had the commiflioners
been admitted only to the public procefs*
where there is neither time nor oppor­
tunity of making decilive experiments,
they might themfelves have been led into
error. It was neceflary to have liberty to
infulate the effedts, in order to diftinguifli
the caufes; it was neceflary to fee as they
•have done the imagination aft, if we may
be allowed the expreffion, partially., and
produce its effe6ls one by on6 and in
.detail, to have an idea to what the accumu­
lation of thofe effects might amount j to
conceive the extent of its powers and to
account for all its prodigies. Such an ex­
amination demanded a facrifice of time,
and a number of fyftematical refearches,
which we have not always the leifure to
Undertake for our private inftru£tion or
private curiofity, nor even the power pro­
perly to purfue without being like the
commiflioners charged with the mandates
Hz • of
of the fovereign, and honoured with the
confidence of the public.
M. Deflon'is not much averfe to the
. admiffion of thefe principles. He declared
in our feffion held at the houfe of Dr.
Pranklin the 19thof June, that he thought
he might lay it down as a fa£l, that the
imagination had the greateft fhare in the
effedts of the animal magnetifmj he faid
that this new agent might be no other
than the imagination itfelf, whofe power
is as extenfive as it is little known : he
affirmed that he always acknowledged the
concern of this faculty in the treatment of
his patients, and he affirmed with equal
confidence that many perfons* have been
either entirely cured or infinitely amended
in the Hate of their health under his di­
rection- He remarked to the commiffioners
that the imagination thus directed to the
relief of fuffering; humanity, would be a.
moll valuable means in the-hands of the
medical profeffion* and perfuaded of the
* M. Deflon had already faid in 1780. "Granting
for a moment that M. Mefmer poflefles no other
fecret than that of employing the imagination in the
tc extenfive produ&ion of the moft falutary effefts, will
it not ftill be true, that his invention is an extremely
valuable one? For.in reality, if the phyfic of the
" imagination be more falutary than the other kinds
of medicine, what good reafon can be alledged, why
44 the phyfic of the imagination fliould not be brought
" into general ufe ?" Obfervations on the Animal
Magnetifm, pages 46 and 47I
reality
[ idi ]
reality of the power of the imagination^
he invited the commiffioners to embrace'
the opportunity which his pradtite af­
forded to ftudy its procedure and its efFedts.
If therefore M. Deflon be ftill attached to
his fir ft idea, that thefe'effedts are to be
-afcribed to the agency of a fluid, which is
communicated from individual to indi­
vidual by the touch or under the guidance
of a condudlor, he cannot however avoid
conceding to the commiffioners that only
one caufe is requifite to one efFedt, and
that fince the imagination is a fufficient
caufe, the fuppofition of the magnetic fluid
is ufelefs. It cannot be denied that we
are furrounded with a fluid which peculi­
arly belongs to us ; the infenfible perfpi-
ration forms around us an atmofphere of
infeniible vapours: but this fluid has no
agency but fuch as is common to other
atmofpheres j cannot be communicated
by the touch but in infinitely fmall quan­
tities ; is not capable of being directed
either by condudtors, or by the eyes, or
by the will; is neither propagated by
found, nor refledted by mirrors j and is in
no cafe fufceptible of the efFedts afcribed
to it.
It remains for us to enquire, whether
the crifes or convulfions, excited by the
methods of the pretended magnetifm in
the affemblies round the bucket, be capable.
of
of any Utility, or be calculated to cure of
relieve the patients. The imagihation of
fick perfons has unqueftionably a very
frequent and confiderable fliare in the cure
of their difeafes. With the efFedt of it
we are unacquainted otherwife than by
general experience j but, though it has
not been traced in pofitive experiments*
it fhould feem not to admit of a reafonable
doubt. It is a known adage, that in phyfic
as well as religion, men are faved by faith j
this faith is the produce of the imagina­
tion : in thefe cafes the imagination adts
by gentle means; it is by diffufing tran­
quility over the fenfes, by reftoring the
harmon^ of the functions, by recalling
into play every principle of the frame
under the genial influence of hope* Hope
is an elTential conftituent of human life %
the ,man that yields us one contributes to
reftore to us the other* But when the
imagination produces convulfions> the
means it employs are violent; and fuch
means arealmofl always deftrufiive. There
are indeed a few rare cafes in which they
may be ufeful; there are defperate dif­
eafes, in which it is neceflary to overturn
every thingfor the introduction of an order
totally new. Thefe critical (hocks are to
•be employed in the medical art in the
fame manner as poifons. It is requifite
that neceffity fhould demand,and ceconomy
employ
I i°3 3
employ them. The need of them Is mo­
mentary ; the fhock ought to be fingle,.
Very far from repeating it, the intelligent
phyfician exerts himfelf toinvent the means
of repairing the indifpenfible evil which
has thus been produced j but in the public
procefs of the magnetifm the crifes are
repeated every day, they are long and vio­
lent. Now fince the ftate introduced by
thefe crifes is pernicious, the habit cannot
be other than fatal. How indeed can it
be conceived, that a woman, attacked for
inftance with a pulmonary diftemper, can
yndergo with impunity a crifis, fome of
whofe fymptoms are a convuliive cough and
compulfory expe&orations; or can fafely
fatigue, perhaps fhatter the lungs by violent
and repeated efforts, when fo great pains are
neceffary to convey to the wounded frame
the fanative and the balfamic ? How can
we imagine that a man, be his diforder
\vhat it will, can need in order to his re­
covery the intervention of crifes, in which
the fight appears to be loft, the members
ftiffen, he firikes his breafh with precipi­
tate and involuntary motions; crifes in a
word, that are terminated by an abundant
fpittingof vifcous humours and evenblood ?
The blood thus difcharged is neither
vitiated nor corrupted, it flows from vef- .
fels from which it is torn by the violence
of effort and contrary to the intention of
nature;
[ io4 ]
nature; thefe efFedts are therefore to be
regarded as a real not a falutary evil, an
fevil additional to the diftemper be it what
it will.
Nor is this the only danger with which
they are attended. Man is inceffantly
enflaved by cuftomj nature is modified by
habit only in a progreflive manner, yet {he
is often fo completely modified, as to fuffer
an entire metamorphofis, and to be fcarcely
capable of being known for the fame.
Who will allure us that this ftate of crifes,
at firft voluntarily induced, fhall not be­
come habitual ? And fhould the habit thus
contradted frequently reproduce the fame
fymptoms, in fpite of the will, and almoft
without the affiftance of the imagination,
how dreadful the fate of an individual,
fubjedted to fo violent effedts, tormented,
as well morally as phyfically, with their
unfortunate imprefiion, whofe days (hould
bedivided between apprehenfionand agony,
and whofe life fhould be an uninterrupted
ftate of fufFering! Nervous diftempers of
this defcription, even when natural, are
the opprobrium of the medical fcience j
how little ought it to be the objedt of art
to produce them! The art, which thus
interferes with all the functions of the ani­
mal ceconomy, urges nature out of her
proper courfe, and multiplies the vidtims
of irregularity, is to be regarded as perni-.
• ' cious,,
[[ to5 ]
clous.- Its effedls are.the more to be ap­
prehended,-fince it not only aggravatessthe
diforder of; the nerves by renewing their
fymptoms, 'and caufing them to degene­
rate into habit; but if a diftemper of this
kind be contagious, as it may be fufpe&ed
to be; the method of provoking nervous
convulfions and of exciting them in pub­
lic affemblies is a means to diffufe them in
great towns, and even to affliit.with them
generations to come, fince thedifeafes and
the; habits of parents iare tranfmitted to
their pofterity. • : - ;
The commiffioners having convinced
themfelves, that the animal magnetic fluid
is capable of being perceived by none of
our fenfes, and had no adtion either upon
themfelves or upon the fubje£ts of their
feveral experiments; being allured, that the
touches.and compreffions employed in its
application rarely occafioned favourable
changes in the animal ceconomy, and that
the impreffions thus made are always hurt­
ful to the imagination j in fine having de-
monftrated by decifive experiments, that
the imagination without the magnctifm
produces convulfions, and that the mag-
netifm without the imagination produces
nothing; they have concluded with an
unanimous voice refpefting the exiftence
and the utility of the magnetifm, that the
exiftence of the fluid is abfolutely deftitute
I of
of proof, that the fluid having no exiftence
can confequently have no ufe, that the
violent fymptoms obferved in the public
procefs are to be afcribed to the compref-
fion, to the imagination called into adlion,
and to that propenfity to mechanical imi­
tation, which leads us in fpite of ourfelves
to the repetition of what ftrikes our fenfes.
And at the fame time they think them-
felves obliged to add as an important ob-
fervation, that the comprefiions and the re­
peated action of the imagination employed
in producing the crifes may be hurtful,
that the fight of thefe crifes is not lefs
dangerous on account of that imitation
which nature feems to have impofed upon
us as a law, and that of confequence every
public procefs, in which the means of the
animal magnetifm ftiall be employed, can­
not fail in the end of producing the mof|
pernicious effedts*.
Paris,
* If it be obje£ed to the commiflioners that this de-
cifion concludes refpe&ing, the magnetifm in general,
inftead of relating fingly to the magnetifm pradtifed by
M. Deflon, the commiflioners reply that the inten­
tion of the king was to have their opinion upon the
animal magnetifm, and that in confequence they have
not exceeded the bounds of their commiffion. Agaiij
they reply that M. Dellon has appeared to them ac^
quainted with what are called the principles of the mag-,
netifm, and thathe certainly poffefles the means of pro-,
ducing the effects and exciting the crifes which are
afcribed to it.
[ io7 1
Paris, the nth day of Auguft, 1784,
(Signed) B. FRANKLIN,
MAJAULT,
LE Roy,
SALLIN,
BAILLY,
D'ARCET,
PE BORY,
GUILLOTIN,
LAVOISIER.
The principles of M, Deflon are the very fame with
thofe included in the twenty feven propofitions difle-
minated from the prefs by M. Mefmer in 1779. If M,
Mefmer now announces a more extenfive theory, it was
not necefiary for the commiflioners to be acquainted
with the theory to decide upon the exiftenceand utility
of the magnetifm, it was fufficient to eftimate the ef­
fects. It is by the effe&s that the exiftence of a caufe
is eftablifhed, it is by the effe£ts alfo that its utility muft
be demonftrated. The phenomena are learned from
obfervation long before we can arrive at the theory
which connects and explains them. The theory of the
loadftone does not yet exift, and its phenomena are
afcertained by the experience of fucceffive ages. The
theory of M. Mefmer is in this cafe indifferent and fu-
perfluousj the methods employed, the effects produced,
this is what it was neceflary to examine. Now it is
eafy to prove that the eflential practice of the magnetifm
is known to M, Deflon.
JVL Deflon was for many years the pupil of M. Mef^
mer. Conftantly during that time he faw the procefs
of the animal magnetifm, and the means employed in
exciting and directing it. M. Deflon himfelf admi-
niftered the magnetifm in the prefence of M. Mefmer;
feparated from him he operated the fame effe&s. Being
afterwards reconciled they-united their patients; the
one
[ ;io8 Y
one' and the other without diftin&ion undertook the
management of them, and of confequence the methods
were the fame, i The method which is followed at this
day byrMvipeflon can be no other thah the method of
M. J^lefmer. ;
The effefts are riot lefs correfpondent. There are
crifes equally frequent, and accompanied by fimilar
iymptoms^at the houfe of M, Defion and at the houfe
of M.M^fmerj theeffe£ts do not therefore belong to the
method of an individual, butto the practice of the mag-
netifm in general. The experiments of the commif-
fioners- demonftrate that the effects obtained by M*.
Deflon are due to cpmpreffion, to imaginatipn and toy
imitation. Thefe are therefore the caufes of the mag­
netifm in general. The obfervations of the commif-
iioners have convinced them that thefe;conyulfiv-e crifes
and thefe violent means cannot be ufeful in medicine
any otherwife'than as poifans, and they have judged
independent of all theory that wherever itihall,be; the
object to excite convulfions they ma.y become habitual
and pernicious, they may be epidemically ^iffufed, and
even extend to future generations. n ;; H ,
1 f The commiffioners were of confequence obliged to
Conclude that not only the meafures i.n a particular
mode <?f proceeding, but the meafures of the magnetifm^
in general, might in the end produce, th$ moil perj^i-s
cious effects. •*' < - - :\':v : ; • ,
:--v: vvA
;1 ;;T
; ' " • ' •' : • ; ! , • ' • •• I , ' •,. •• •• ,
-'.'V ! i»I''• • :
''' ^ I VS,
, ... *• •• I , : •'
. ; • " • : T ! : • • • • > • • • • ' •• •
i ; . , •; ..i ' i:
! : ' , • ' I V, \
' , •_ -i -'; • ii '';.; i
' • • • ' 1 -• ;; ; ; i
- '* •• • • •>"' * . /
