{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__gamache___master_book_of_candle_burning.pdf","mytitle":"Master Book Of Candle Burning","mylang":"de"}
%
OR
t How to
i BURN CANDIES
- [•
(
it For Everq Piirpos^
r ~
The MASTER BOOK
of
CANDLE BURNING
o r
HOW TO BURN CANDLES
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
By
Henri Gamache
Published By
DORENE PUBLISHING CO., INC.
NEW YORK, N. Y.
Printed in U.S^. Copyright, Sheldon Publications, N. Y,, 1942
J
B I B L I O G R A P H Y
The author is indebted to the following workn *nd au*
Ihorn for the legends, enstoms, traditions and liihtorical
diilji upon which this present volume is honed. Kspecial
ihanks is due to the many individuals who jo kindly co­
operated in assembling the material particuhtrly as it
pertains to exercises as they are practiseil hy followers
of ihe Philosophy of Fire.
Folklore, London 1916, 8° V. 27; Winifred S. HLucknian
Anthropological Soc. of Bombay Journal, 1930 8* V. 14
R. K. Dadachanji
Royal Soc. of Antiquaries of Ireland, Dublin, 1915.
E. C. R. Armstrong
The Philosophy of Fire; R. S. Clymer
'Fhe Secret Fire, E. J. L. Garstin
'I'he Golden Bough, J. G. Frazer
John Pinkerton Collection of Trav'-ts, 1808-14 BLenry Lord
Morioi llnddon’s Report on the Cambridge Anthropological
l‘.n|irilitioii to Torres Straits.
< oio|i<n Hiivr Religion and the Religion of the Future,
W. Mtirlin
i’MtIv R rlig h o i ol l«iael, J.inirH Robertson, D.D.
M nm and III* Mollvea, t^roige Moore, M .D.
I'ittl tioiiliy id Riiiiid, I IV (•nitarap, A.M.
r o | o i i i *^0|iMNlillout M i n i Ainiurioenla o l die Ilighliindcra of
fiiHtliMiil. W t.iHOl Hirw nil
M« i ll.«oiid. Ill lot del (x'lio u n ei Olid i.ori Such bar statuiue,
U M a io d im d l
in do ‘d itiliiu id die Iluiib, A. I'aRioi
lit* O ld rfiiil IMrw I'ettiinients
P R E F A C E
In order to understand the full siginficance of Candle
Burning one must go feack to the very beginnings of man*
kind, but to attempt a complete history of Fire Worship
would require a lifetime of research and would fill many
volumes.
Such a history would require an historical outline of
seven great religions extant today (Hinduism, Buddhism,
Zoroastrianism, Confucianism, Judaism, Christianity and
Mohamedanism as well as many religious sects and
cults of lesser importance in the world scene.
A book of this kind would have little popular value
because those who are interested in the Philosophy of
Fire and who wish to know more about the Art of Candle
Burning and its application to their daily lives ask only
one question: “ How can 1 burn candles in a manner
which will bring me the most satisfaction and consola*
tion?”
In order to answer that question it is necessary to
eliminate all technical, dry and often times torturous
historical background. It is necessary to sift and sort
every fact, scrutinize every detail, search for the kernel.
It is to be hoped that this volume answers that ques*
tion in a manner which is satisfactory to the reader. It
has been necessary, of course, to include some historical
data and other anthropological data in order’ to better il­
lustrate the symbolism involved in modern candle burn­
ing as practised by so many people today.
This data has been accumulated from many sources;
it has been culled from literally hundreds of books and
M
arlisles. The modern rituals outlined here are based
upon practices which have been described by mediums,
spiritual advisors, evangelists, religious interpreters, ne-
ologists and others who should be in a position to know.
It has been the author’s desire to interpret and ex­
plain the basic symbolism involved in a few typical ex­
ercises so that the reader may recognize this symbolism
and proceed to develop his own symbolism in accordance
with the great beauty and highest ethics of the Art.
l^eiv York, /Y. Y. 1942 Henri Gamache
C H A P T E R I
The PHI[,OSOPHY OF FIRF
It makes little difference what your religion may be —
candle burning brings consolation and solace. Candle
Burning perhaps better illustrates the UNIVERSALITY
of MAN than any other thing.
It has been said of religion that everything new in it
is old and everything old in it is new and I say that
this is true for there has been no NEW RELIGION SINCE
THE BEGINNING OF THE WORLD!
Within all men and women there is an intuitive sense
of God. In each of us is a sense of human weakness and
‘lepcndence, a distinction between Good and Evil, the
hope of a better life, the belief in an Omnipotent Guid­
ing Will in the world and universe.
These basic elements and truths have been with us
as far back as we can trace the history of mankind.
Even St. Augustine said that what we call the Chris­
tian religion only began to be called “ Christian” after
the coming of Jesus Christ — that the religion itself ex­
isted even among the ancients long before Christ.
When we understand that simple thought — we can
understand WHY the Philosophy of Fire, or Fire Wor­
ship, has been a part of every great religion since man
emerged from caves and came into God’s light of day!
The foundation of Fire Worship is in God and no
man can say it is a heathen practice who has given it any
consideration. Its symbolism is Purity itself!
That we may better understand Fire Worship
or the Philosophy of Fire let us go back to the beginning
and ask “ How did Fire Worship originate?” When we
find this answer we find the key to the symbolism of
modern Candle Burning.
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
CtUARDlAhf-TYPE Candle Keprcscxtmif
(indent priest in flowing rohes. About
High.
C H A P T E R I I
ORIGIN of FIRE WORSHIP
No one knows who invented fire . . . . or rather its
first practical application to the needs of man. Perhaps
the first fire was taken from a volcano; or from a rag­
ing forest fire which had been started by lightning. Hi
any case, j^rimative man learned that fire kept him warm
and dry and made his food more satisfying to his taste.
Because life was hard, his appreciation for fire was far
greater than is ours. He guarded it carefully, lest the
winds, the rains and the elements put it out! It kept the
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
wild beasts of the forests from his door. No wonder it
was a mighty influence in his life. "^No wonder it was a
portent of disaster when it went out! No wonder he
saw in this fire a resemblance to the Sun which was so
welcome to him since he then could face his natural
eoemies unafraid!
What was more natural, then, than that he should
give praise to the sun, and he should worship it as his
Savior? And was it not logical that in the same way h«:
should consider the fire in his hearth no less divine?
Thus, from this humble beginning, man began ho
worship of Fire. The custom was not confined to any
one particular group, nor did it spring up and thrive on
any One continent. All races, in many climes, of all
complexions adopted the custom and changed it only in
small ways to meet their particular needs.
According to W. S. Blackman, “ Fire is sometimes
looked upon as a benign agent, sometimes as a purifying
agent, sometimes as a destroying demon. It purifies and
warms and heals. It protects the new born child and
lights up the road for the departing spirit. It drives off
evil influences, destroys disease, makes the sun shine,
stops rain from falling. It plays a large and important
part both in the religious and social life of all races of
mankind from the cradle to the grave!”
We* have read how primative man kept his fire
lighted at the mouth of his cave to ward off wUd beasts.
It can be readily understood then, that as late as '1000
years later, fire was still looked upon as the symbol of
protection.
W. Grant Stewart relates that Scotch Highlanders used
fires to ward off witches so that their herds might not
become infected and ill.
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
W. Mannhardt is tlie authority for many German
folk tales and traditions wherein he describes the use of
fire for similar purposes in Central Europe.
Gradually, this symbolism of “ warding off evil” took
on a rather different aspect. Fire became a purifying
agent. Direct contact with it was thought to drive out
any devils within the person and to cleanse or purify them.
For example, among the Parisees at one time, when
a man died his widow was said to he contaminated with
tlie same evils which had taken her husband’s spirit
away. Thus she was led to a low platform under which
a fire was built. Here the unfortunate woman had to
remain for an hour each day for thirty days at the end
of which time it was thought that the evil spirits had
left her body and she was again pure.
In a like manner among the Parisees, when a child
was born a candle was kept burning somtimes for ten
«lays, sometimes for forty full days or the confinement
period.
In Britain, in Scandinavia and in Germany, several
i^andles were lighted around a new born infant to keep
it fronj falling into the power of evil spirits, according
to Blackman.
Many of these customs are still followed today even
though in some cases, centuries have passed since they
were originated.
Perhaps the greatest exponents of Fire Worship have
been the Parisees or Zoroastrians who worshipped not in
temples but in the open air. They abominated images
and idols and worshipped the Sun and Fire as Represen-
tativr of the Omnipresent Dietyl Their only church or
temple was a round tower in which a sacred fire was
kept burning at all times. Usually these fire temples
8
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
were located on a hill top and the faithful worshipped
in the open air.
The story is told of an unbeliever who approached a
Parisee Fire Temple and beheld the sacred fire which
was never allowed to die out. “ What!” he exclaimed to
the priest in charge, “ do you worship the fire?” “ Not
the fire” , the priest replied, “ it is to us the emblem of
the sun and his genial warmth”
This custom seems to have been general from earli­
est antiquity and such fires were maintained constantly
because the God’s presence, was thought to lie therein.
C H A P T E R I I I
A FEW BIBLICAL REFERENCES SUBSTANTIATING
THE PHILOSOPHY OF FIRE
The idea of a Fire God was not a belief of the Zoroas­
trians alone for Moses told his people that their God was
“ a consuming fire ”
Does not the Bible say that God appeared in the
Cherubim over the gates of Eden as a Flaming Sword —
and to Abraham as Flame of Fire and to Moses as a Fire
in the bush at Horeb?
If we refer to 1 Kings, Chapt. 18, we read:
36 And it came to pass at the time of the offer­
ing of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the Prophet
came near, and said, LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac
and of Israel, let it be known this day that thon art
God of Israel, and that I am thy seivant, and that I
have done all these things at Thy Word.
The MASTER BOuK of CANDLE BURNING
37 Hear me, OH LORD, hear me; that this peo­
ple may know that Thou art the Lord God, and that
thou hast turned their heart back again.
38 Then the fire of the LORD fell, and con­
sumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the
stones and the dust and licked up the water that
was in the trench.
39 And when all the people saw it they feU on
their laces: and they said, the LORD, he is the God;
the LORD, he is the God.
Again in the Second Book of Chronicals, Chapt. 7,
we read:
1. Now when Solomon had made an end of
praying, the fire came down from heaven, and con­
sumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and the
glory of the LORD filled the house,
2. And the priests could not enter the house of
the LORD because the Glory of the LORD had
filled the LORD’S house.
In the Biblical passage last quoted we find a modern
counterpart for there are many people who keep a vigil
light burning constantly in their homes that it may be
filled with a beneficence which will keep out all nega­
tive or evil influences.
With such authority as the Bible behind it, it is not
to be wondered at that Candle Burning has become such
an important part in the lives of many people today.
Again the reader is referred to the Bible. This time
to HABAKKUK, Chapt. 3:3-5 verse. Here is a prayer
which will elevate anyone who reads it;
3 God came from Teman, and the Holy One
From Mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the
heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.
10
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
4. And his brightness was as the light; and he
had horns coming out of his hand and there was -the
hiding of his power.
.*
i. Before him went the pestilence and burning
coals went forth at his feet.
There are many who interpret this prayer as one to
overcome ill health and who read the prayer over and
over each day, the meanwhile burning candles of a col­
or to harmonize with the condition to be overcome.
(This subject is discussed in Chapter 5 of this book).
For those who wish to follow the Philosophy of Fire,
the author refers the reader to LEVITICUS 23, 1-13 and
LEVITICUS 24, 1-7.
In these passages it is related that the Lord spoke un­
to Moses and admonished him to make an offering of
fire FOR SEVEN DAYS. There are many who follow
this custom by burning a SEVEN DAY CANDLE and
reading the two above mentioned chapters each day for
seven days.
Study the Gospel according to ST. JOHN, Chapt. 1,
1-10 verse:
1. In the beginning was the word, and the word
was with God, and the word was God.
2. The same was in the beginning with God.
3. All things were made by him: and without
him was not anything made that was made.
4. In him was life; and the life was the LIGHT
OF MEN.
5. And the Light shineth in darkness and the
darkness comprehended it not.
6. There was a man sent from God, whose name
was John.
7. The same came for a witness, to bear wit­
ness of the Light; that all men through him i! tght
believe. — etc.
n
L
This passage has been interpreted by many as say­
ing that there axe good things all about us; there is a
plentitiide of gifts, of f<.od. of health and happiness, of
goodness and peace of mind. All these things are un­
der our very noses but we perceive them not — or seeing
them, understand them not.
Those who interpret the passage in this manner, burn
candles that the “ light of understanding” may enter in­
to their hearts and minds, that they mav better perceive
the WAY of LIGHT and GAIN THE BLESSINGS
WHICH THE LORD MEANT FOR EACH OF US TO
HAVE AND ENJOY.
One who has followed the Philosophy of Fire,recom­
mends burning candles in the shape of a cross. The
colors are based upon PLANETARY tables, each col­
or being assigned to the days of the week as follows:
Sunday— burnayellow, candle in the shape of across
Monday— burnawhite candle in the shape of across
Tuesday— burn a red candle in the shape of a cross
Wednesday— burn apurple candle in the shape of a cross
Thursday— burna blue candle in the shape of across
Friday— burna green candle in the shape of across
Saturday— burnablack candle in the shape of a cross
Read: Gospel According to JOHN: Chapters 1 and 5
each day.
The MASTER BOOK of CANDLE BURNING
C H A P T E R I V
STRANGE CUSTOMS OF FIRE WORSHIP
WITH MODERN COUNTERPARTS
A. Talbot in his famous writing “ In the Shadow of
the Bush” , relates strange customs which have prevailed
in many parts of Africa from time immemorial. One of
12
these is of particular interest to those who follow the
Philosophy of Fire because it has its counterpart right
in our midst.
He observed that among the Ekoi tribes of West Africa,
a peculiar form of “ divorce” is practiced. If a woman
desires to free herself of her husband she does not dis­
cuss the matter with him for fear of reprisal on his part-
While her husband is away working, she rakes out the
fire and drenches it with water.
She then cuts off her hair after which she paints
herself all over with white paint. Upon completion of
this ritual she becomes a free woman. It is said that a
peculiar and inexplicable psycological reaction occurs in
that even if she changes her mind she can nevei return
to her husband regardless of her husband’s threats and
protestations.
This custom has a parallel in America — a custom
which prevails in many cities and towns. The belief is
often expressed by some people that they are in a
“ crossed condition” , tliat is that they are held back by
some seemingly impossible obstacle which may he real
or fancied. Sometimes the condition may be attributed
to another individual who I- lliought to have <Iesigns
against one.
HOW to BURN CANDLES for EVERY PURPOSE
In any case a symbolism not unlike that of the Ekoi
maid is followed to overcome the condition. Four candles
are used; one black candle and three white candles. All
are lighted but care is exercised to light the black< one
last. See Fig. I
13
The MASTER BOOK of GAMBLE BURNING
position 1-1 — While Crucifix Altar Candles dressed
with Hi-Aliar Brand Oil
position 2 — Black Candle or Weed of Misfortune
Brand' Candle dressed with Confusion
Brand Oil
position 3 — White Power Brcmd Candle dressed
with Domination Brand Oil
Then the affected one prepares a bath into which a
Bathing oil is placed. The candles are allowed to burn
only during the time of bathing and then are extinguished.
The following is read each day:
JOB, Chapter 21:17-18 verse:
17. How oft is the candle of the wicked put out?
And how oft cometh their destruction upon them.
God distributeth sorrows in his anger.
18. They are as stubble before the wind and as
chaff that the storm carrieth away.
This process is repeated for seven days, a different
oil being used in the bath each day. At the end of this
period it is said that the “ crossed condition” has been
removed.
14
