{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1942__cummins___when_nero_was_dictator.pdf","mytitle":"When Nero Was Dictator","mylang":"de"}
WHEN NERO WAS
DICTATOR
by
GERALDINE CUMMINS
Introduction by
THE REV. A. H. E. LEE, M.A.
VOLUME I
li!IIMI\II De-,-~ · "- ,.. , - - ··y
1!1 n.,!r~..,. i· 1 ~;;,_, ,s :\.1 ...v\J .;.1 .
Special Edition for
PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C. 1
v. I c. I
FffiST PUBLISHED BY FREDERICK MULLER LTD.
IN 1939
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
SHERRATT AND HUGHES AT
THE SAINT ANN'S J?RESS
MANCHESTER
Second Edition 1942
I ,
INTRODUCTION
THERE has always been considerable speculation as to how St.
Paul spent the last years of his life. We can trace his move-
ments up to-approximately-A.D. 62 or.63: after which a gap
occurs which has never been filled in until his death which (it ia
generally agreed) took place in A.D. 68~ Why the author of ' Acts '
ends so abruptly is another question not yet finally settled: one
view is that St. Luke wished to preserve a friendly attitude to the
Roman authorities and forbore to dwell on the severity of the
second imprisonment of the Apostle and his martyrdom. Over the
infamies of Nero it was perhaps better to draw a veil. However,
we have the testimony of Clement of Rome, the Muratorian
Canon, St. Chrysostom and St. Jerome that the Apostle did visit
Spain, as we know he intended to do. Nor does any external
evidence oppose this apparently unanimous belief of the primitive
Church. Yet no details of such a visit have come down to us.
All this adds immensely to the interest likely to be aroused by the
script which follows. Here is a narrative which, as it were, takes
up the tale where 'Acts' leaves it, and carries us on to the closing
scene of the great Apostle's career. St. Luke may, or may not,
show a ' tendency 'in his writing by emphasizing some points and
omitting others. But the script candidly tells us of the nervous
attitude of many of his comrades towards Paul, ' the old sick
lion ', and their urging him to ' honourable retirement • : and also
his resistance to any such course of action.· This sounds far more
likely than the old critical theory of a Petrine and Pauline faction
opposing each other. Then we have a description of the journey
to Spain : the hostility arising there, as in so many other places: an
amazing cosmic drama unveiled by an Initiate of the Mystery of
the ' Green Dragon '-and one which is curiously reminiscent in
certain chapters of the Book of Revelations. That pathetic per-
sonality Pomponia Grrecina, of whom Tacitus tells us a little,
appears in the narrative: and in stormy contrast a picture of
Popprea and the fanatical Jewish-Christian party whose denuncia-
tions of Imperial Rome afforded Nero and his creatures an easy
method of evading responsibility for the Great Fire. Few scenes
13
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
could be more dramatic than the script account of the nocturnal
meeting of Nero and St. Paul: and few more human touches than
the yearning of the aged Apostle for the young and rather timid
Timothy: or the suggestion·of a certain temperamental divergence
between the Apostle and the faithful St. Luke: their common
faith united them but could not quite bridge the old gulf between
Hebrew and Hellene.
In some ways this is perhaps the most fascinating and remarkable
of all the books associated with Miss Geraldine Cummins. It
should be studied as not only being of deep interest to all admirers
of the great Apostle of the Gentiles, but as a notable addition to
our knowledge of the ancient Roman Empire when it had passed
its peak and was beginning the decline which lasted for so many
centuries.
St. Martin's Vicarage,
College Ro(ld, N.W.Io
NOTE
A. H. E. LEE
The volume here published will appear to the average reader to
be of the nature of an historical romance. But it is only fair to
readers to say that the work has been produced under conditions
which, while they are of great interest to some, may be less attrac-
tive to others. It has, in fact, been written in trarrce. The sources
of the narrative state themselves to be minds of an olden period
having access, in ways that we cannot understand, to manuscripts
and memories of the past.
We neither commit ourselves, nor wish to commit any readers to
this or any theory of their origin and we trust that, as a simple
narrative, the book may be appreciated and enjoyed. In so far as
can be discovered, nothing is contained in the book which conflicts
with such results of scholarship and research as are available to us.
THE EDITORS
CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE OF ST. PAUL'S LIFE
A.D.
36 (about). Conversion of St. Paul.
38. Flight from Damascus.
39-43. Preaches in Syria and Celicia.
45· Visits Jerusalem and Barnabas.
48. First Missionary Journey.
51. Second Missionary Journey.
54· Third Missionary Journey.
ss-s6. At Ephesus.
57-58. At Corinth. (Epistle to Romans.)
59·
6o.
61-63.
63?
64-65?
66?
67.
68.
At Cresarea under arrest.
Shipwrecked at Malta.
At Rome : first trial.
After acquittal visits Macedonia and Asia Minor.
Visits Spain.
Visits Asia Minor.
Visits Macedonia, Ephesus and Nicopolis.
In prison at Rome: executed(? June).
(Conybeare and Howson)
15
CHRONOLOGY OF CONTEMPORARY EVENTS
A.D.
4'2. Accession of Claudius as Emperor.
42-43. Invasion of Britain by Aulus Plautius.
50. Caractacas (Caradoc), King of Welsh Britons,
captured and brought to Rome.
52. Claudius expels Jews from Rome.
54· Death of Claudius. Accession of Nero.
59· Murder of Agrippina. 1
6I . Insurrection under Boadicea in Britain.
62. Nero marries Popprea.
63. Nero's daughter, Claudia, born.
64 (July). Great fire of Rome.
65. Murder of Popprea. Death of Seneca. Con- ·
spiracy of Piso.
66. Jewish War begins.
68 (June II). Death of Nero.
CONTENTS: VOLUME I
PROLOGUE
PAGE
St. Paul's arrival in Rome: his encounter with Philemon's
slave-The first trial: Paul's acquittal 19
BOOK I
ST. PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN
CHAPTER PAGE
I. James, the head of the Churc.h, bids Paul seek
" honourable retirem.ent " on his release from
imprisonment go
II. The fateful hour for the Western world 35
III. At Puteoli Paul embarks for Spain g8
IV. Paul cures a Galltecian who worships Endovellicus,
the god of healing 40
V. Paul lands at Cadiz 44
VI. Paul's old enemies find him in Cadiz 46
VII. Symp.horus, the priest of the Ancient Mystery, calls
Paul" a servant of evil" 49
VIII. Paul refuses to pay homage to the Pillars of Her-
cules 51
IX. Paul takes refuge in the mountains of Btetica with.
Symphorus 55
X. The Mystery of the Red Dragon 58
XI. Paul is compelled to witness the Ancient Mystery 64
XII. Symphorus, the Initiate, interprets the Ancient
Mystery 67
XIII. Paul disputes with Symphorus on what they have
uen 74
XIV. Paul is shown the last part of the Ancient Mystery 79
XV. Paul tells Crescens of "The Mystery of Iniquity"
w.hich he has witnessed 84
17
I8 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
CHAPTER PAGE
XVI. At Senectls birthplace Paul confounds<< the wise
young men " 87
XVII. Paul converts Torquatus, who is later appointed
the first Bishop of Spain 92
BOOK II
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME
XVIII. The Roman World. Nero, Seneca, Poppcea,
Tigellinus I oI
XIX. Pomponia Grcecina, a Princess of Britain, said to
be S. Lucinia. Her life in Rome I04
XX. At Lyons Pomponia meets Paul 109
XXI. Paulfails to heal Pomponia's brother. Pomponia
begs Paul to go to Britannia. He promises to
send Aristarchus I I2
XXII. The Empress Poppcea sees Paul secretly I I 8
XXIII. Peter meets Paul in Rome and tells him how
James, the Apostle, died 12 I
XXIV. The Empress Poppcea cormman:ds Narcissus to act
as a spy on the Christians. Tabeel's vision of
the Great Fire of Rome 128
XXV. Peter and Paul converse together on the Alban
~ IM
PROLOGUE
"And Paul dwelt two w!zole years in his own hired house, and
received all that came in unto him."-AcTS xxviii. 30.
I T was at the end of winter that Paul and the little company
of the brethren entered Rome by the Porta Capena. The
saint walked between two soldiers, and his wrists were bound to
theirs by chains.
The sun shone and it seemed that spring already knocked
upon the door of the hours. Along the Sacred Way the people
of many nations passed, and Paul, who saw more things than
the ordinary man, was uplifted when he perceived the number
of the races and overheard strange tongues and reckoned that,
in that time, the Sacred Way contained a little image of the
whole world, or rather, an assembly of all kinds of men, of rich
and poor, of slaves of divers nations and of every colour.
Here were white-robed Arabs and there wandered Gauls with
blond heads and garbed in strange coats and breeches. Jews
walked softly by, wearing the white tunic without ornament that
set them apart from the Gentiles ; and in and out among the
strollers went Greeks intermingling with Spaniards and slaves
from Africa whose faceg, dark as pitch, stood out against the
scarlet and gold garments which had been put upon them for
the glory of their masters. And these masters-Roman nobles,
wealt.fiy freedmen-travelled in richly adorned litters; some con-
versing with painted harlots while the sun rays fell upon the
gilded armour of the Prretorian guards as they marched by.
Amid all this show of wealth and ease there was a display
of pitiful poverty. Blind men led by dogs sought to approach
the guarded litters and beg from their occupants some small
offering. Crippled children, going on sticks and in rags, prayed
the passers-by for money or some token to buy them food. Priests
of Isis also sought alms from rich patrons for their goddess.
And as the babel of many tongues rose upon the air Paul
said to Luke: "It hath been well appointed that I should come
unto this city, for it is as the axle round which the whole world
of man doth turn. ·Here, verily, we shall win for Christ men
19
10 WHEN NERO WA~ DICTATOR
of every nation, and they shall journey back to their own
countries, bearing their people the seed of the Word."
But when the saint had been given up by the centurion to the
rulers he was constrained to abide in one house and might only,
for a short while in the day, walk abroad in fetters in a chosen
place. So it was needful that the people should come to him,
and first he would speak with the men of his own race. Where-
fore a saint named Justus sought out the chief Rabbi in Rome,
and on one windy evening he visited Paul.
Yet before these two had come to an end of their conversation
with one another the saint's mind and heart were as stirred in
tumult as the gusty tempest that blew and raged without. For
the Rabbi was cold of temper; he had the glassy spider's eye
and would not declare his thoughts, seeking rather to lead the
saint on to betray himself in some manner in his speech. This
pillar of Israel disclosed naught concerning his intention whether
ill or.good towards the brethren and their belief in the Messiah.
But in the next week he appeared in the early day, and with hiin
were elders and men of account among the Jews. These sat about
the saint in a circle, or at times they would rise up and, in twos and
threes, draw away from him, muttering and shaking their heads.
They were like a flock of birds that peck at one small ailing
sparrow. Hour by hour they tormentediPaul with crafty sayings
concerning rites and observances, and it was clearly their pur-
pose to ensnare him in a skein of quibbling words. But the saint
knew that the Rabbi lied when he said that no ill tidings had been
borne to him concerning Paul of Tarsus, and that it was his
purpose, by such speech, to lead Paul t<;> reveal his defence. Then
his accusers might be armed with knowledge when he appeared
at Ccesar's judgment seat.
Howbeit, the press of affairs at court did not permit in that
season of the trial of an unknown Jew, who was of little or no
account to the Romans in high places. So, as the days passed,
the elders visited Paul only that they might bait him and prove
him to be a puffed-up fool without learning, a busybody to be
humbled and proved a liar.
The si:r;nple, noble sayings of this great Master of Tarsus
passed them by like the Euroclydon. These learned elders could
not open their hearts to the truth, for they were set in their ways
of thought and ·in the hard and fast observances of the Law.
So Paul persuaded few Jews of authority in that first year
of his imprisonment, and he was sore spent through many hours
passed in a waste of argument. Wherefore he determined that
PROLOGUE 21
he would speak no more with the Jews of repute in Rome and
he bade Timothy and Luke seek out the Gentiles and the slaves,
for these would hearken to his tidings.
And it was so. Day by day the afflicted, the outcasts and
the poor came and sat at his feet and were converted by his
oratory into believers in the truth. Among these were a number
of poor and ignorant Jews-hawkers and pedlars of wares-
and these accepted the sayings of the Master of Tarsus, believing
in his words.
Now day and night Paul was bound by a chain to a soldier,
and many of these soldiers believed also, some even being
baptized. Then, when they were on guard at the palace they
conversed with the slaves of Cresar's household, telling them of
the Seer who had come out of the east, who bore tidings of
a great and mighty God who had triumphed over all the lesser
gods, putting them under his feet.
In such simple manner did they tell of Paul and his gospel;
and the slaves of Augustus became curious, and they, too, went
in to hearken to the saint. So, despite his weariness, he was of good
heart, for these Gentiles hungered and thirsted for the truth, and
it seemed that it might in time, through them, be heard by the
patricians and by the young Cresar, the ruler of the world.
"I b~such th~~ for my son Onesimus ... For perhaps he, ther~­
for~, departed for a season,·that thou shouldst receive him far ~ver."
-THE EPISTLE OF PAUL TO PHILEMON.
One evening after their labours in the Porta Capena Timothy
and Luke hastened to Paul's hired house. It was a night without
stars and Timothy, in that blind dark, stumbled upon a heap
that lay across his road. Luke carried a lantern beneath his
cloak, not showing it ; for in certain streets there was danger
from wild men and robbers once night fell. · He cast the ni.y
of the lantern upon the wasted shape of a man. There was
no flesh upon his bones, and he lay there as one dead.
"Almost this fellow hath perished from hunger," said the
physician, seeking with his hand the pulse of life in his breast. And
as life still flickereP, within him they carried him to Paul's house, it
being near. And after a while when his spirit returned from the
shadows, he gazed at them in terror, trembling like a beaten dog.
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Only with difficulty did they learn that he was named Onesimus
and that he was a slave.
In the days that followed his silence remain_ed unbroken. He
lay in Paul's room indifferent to all that went on around him,
paying no heed to those people who came and went in the day-
time. Only in the night did he toss to and fro and cry out as
if in torment. Paul did not speak to hirp. but sought to give of
that peace which is best rendered in silence and with the gentle
touch of the hand.
Always this slave was most afraid of the guard chained to
Paul. But once in the midmost part of the night the saint roused
up ; and perceiving that the soldier was sleeping and the eyes
of Onesimus were upon him, he spoke saying:
"Brother, there is some sore trouble that weighs heavily upon
thy mind. Share this burden with me ; for I but live to share
the burdens of the sorrowful and the afflicted in heart."
And Onesimus made eager answer, " Master, I-would I could
share my secret with thee. For I perceive that thou art not as
others. But I dare not trust any man because of the punishment."
"And what is this punishment?"
" I shall be taken up; my hands bound to beams of wood.
Then they will scourge me until I faint away. And after that
they will wait until the flesh has healed, and then they will
once more scourge me until my flesh is one flame of agony.
Master, it is so hard to die, and I am afraid. For when they
have thus tormented me for ,many days they will, if I still live,
send me to the quarries. And thou knowest that there every
indignity, every insult is heaped upon the prisoner. They do
not let us die swiftly, they make us labour night and day. Every
torment, every filthiness is practised upon us. And when at last
we are released by death we are no longer men but crazed beasts."
Here Paul held up his hand saying, "Be not afraid. Tell
me thine offence, and it may well be that I can offer salvation."
" Dare I trust any man? " inquired the slave.
And Paul answered: " Through ignorance, stupidity, or folly
.,all men betray at one time or other in their lives, but I will never
betray thee." He hung his head in shame and whispered, "For
once I betrayed the Son of God."
For a space there was an awesome silence in that room. Only
the breathing of the sleeping soldier fluttered the dark.
Onesimus laid his hand upon Paul's hand, saying softly,
"Master, that was the last bitterness."
And Paul wept, for he was weak in body, having been so long
PROLOGUE
in bonds. Then the slave knew that he might share his burden
with this aged man. He spoke eagerly :
" I am ·a Phrygian. The merchants took me into the market
and because of my debts sold me as a slave. Men came and
handled my body as if I were some beast. With whips they
drove me round and round. They opened my mouth, they smote
me here and there, valuing me. And because I am mean of stature
they passed me by With insult and mockery. At last a man named
Philemon gave for me the price demanded. But I swore that I,
who am a Phrygian of good family, would not submit to the
indignity of serving another. Thou art a nobleman, thou
knowest not the miserable plight of the slaves. We may not
marry, we may only, with the permission of our master, take
a concubine. We have no money, no freedom. And I have
known a slave, who was in another household, crucified because
he shattered a precious vase valued by his master. So in my
rage and fear I stole money from Philemon and fled from his
house and Colossre. Since then I have wandered from one place
of hiding to another, and I am always, night and day, afraid.
There is no place in the known world where I may rest in safety.
For everywhere I go I am under Roman authority. And if even
this guard who sleeps beside thee knew I was an escaped slave,
he would hale me before authority, and I would suffer all those
torments I have related to thee in this past hour."
Then Paul assured Onesimus that he was safe in his charge.
They spoke together until the dawn lightened the dark, Paul
reasoning with this man concerning Christ, saying: -
" He made Himself of no reputation and took upon Himself
the form of a servant." And Onesimus was comforted by these
words and he fell asleep. But this time his slumber was not
harried by his dreams. It was peaceful as that of a little child.
Now Philemon had lately become a Christian. He was a good
man and Paul knew that he was steadfast in the truth and
wrestled with the Libertine heresy that like some strong weed
had sprung up in the Church at Colossre and almost had choked
the life from it. Trusting this man, Paul determined that One-
simus should return to his master. The saint spoke of this project
to the stricken slave, who for a long while remained stubborn,
refusing to become once more the servant of another.
But one day, calling Timothy to him, the saint indited a letter
to Philemon commending as a well-beloved brother Onesimus,
the erstwhile slave.
This letter was shown to Onesimus and he learned that Paul
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
offered payment and the restitution of the stolen money. Per-
ceiving in it also the fine exhortations to mercy that were ever
upon the lips of the Seer of Tarsus, the Phrygian at last agreed
to return to Colossa: and surrender up himself to Philemon.
But he was faint of heart and fearful when, on the di!.y of
his departure, he asked for the blessing of Paul. And again
the· saint exhorted him, ·as a believer in Christ, to be of good
cheer. For Philemon would be a brother and not a master to
the slave who had wronged him in the past. And this was so.
Trust met with trust.
Philemon appointed Oneshnus steward of his house and placed
him in charge of his possessions. From that day till his death
the forgiven slave never·failed his master and became the first
in the congregation of the brethren at Colossa:.
It was during the second year of Paul's imprisonment in his
house in Rome that Aristarchus discovered that there was little
money left in the treasury. The saint was generous of heart
and overlavish in his gifts to the poor. Many people came daily
to hearken to his sayings, but he would not ask gifts of them
lest they should doubt the good news of the Gospel. Wherefore
the brethren were troubled. For if their master was without
means he would be cast into the common prison and must speedily
perish there from hardship.
Now the saint was loath to ask for gifts from any man and
for a while remained stubborn, declaring that he was prepared
to go into the common prison. But Luke and Aristarchus called
to his mind that the Philippians had ministered to his necessities
when he was in Macedonia and had given without murmuring
or questioning. So, in time, the saint consented to their setting
out for Philippi bearing a letter to them. But he was cast down
in spirit, fearing lest he had been importunate in his demand.
However, Epaphroditus came in all haste from Philippi, bearing
a good sum with him and the greetings of the saints in that city
to their well-loved master.
So Paul continued to live in his own house in Rome, and
Epaphroditus was as a physician and a zealous soil to the saint
until of a sudden he became sick of a fever and was like to
die. Indeed tidings of his state and that he would die were .
borne to Philippi, and his kindred grieved for him until news
came that he had mended once more.
\
PROLOGUE
Many were the cares that besieged the prisoner in that year. He
searched his mind diligently for right doctrine to give to his scribe
when he learned of heresies in Asia and of the Church being
menaced with division in Colossre. But all such matters were set
aside when it was known that Paul of Tarsus was shortly to appear
before the Prefect of the Prretorian Guard, who would minister
justice for Cresar in the case of this Roman citizen.
There was a first hearing when testimonies were taken and two
Romans of repute declared Paul to be a man df honour and good
reputation, a loyal subject of Cresar.
Now in Rome and in the Imperial Palace there was much talk
because Paul was held in boniiage without trial for two years. Such
indignity and shame, it was said, should not have been put upon a
Roman citizen because certain Pharisees made accusations against
him. Yet now, when brought before his judge, Paul, fearing they
might suffer hurt for doing so, refused to allow any of his disciples
to speak in his defence.
A crafty Roman advocate summoned witnesses who all spoke
against the prisoner, uttering falsehoods that might easily have
been refuted, but many Gentiles came forward and bore favour-
able witness to his character and to his conduct during his sojourn
in Rome. Nevertheless Paul knew that he alone could give the
sure testimony that might win the judge by its truth. So putting
his faith in God he faced his accusers.
It was a lonely hour. He stood there steadfast, hearkening to
the quibbling words with which the Pharisees strove to weave a net
about him. When they had finished he spoke out bravely and
strongly, but the advocate brought forward fresh evidence of the
riots and tumults Paul had caused in Ephesus and in Corinth.
" In whatever town this seditious fellow enters," declared his
accusers, " the peace of the community is menaced. And no
city will keep him for any long time, for he is cast out. And if
now he be given his liberty he will set a'fl--.men by the ears and
cause strife and rebellion in Rome."
Here the Prefect held up his hand, and signed that he would
deliver judgment. He spoke few words ; but these were well chosen.
First he said, " The prisoner is a Roman citizen. Let us bear in
mind its significance in a town like Jerusalem where there are many
Jews opposed to Roman rule. Will not such people seek to perse-
cute and harry any Roman citizen who is of honourable estate and
exposes himself to their wrath? I ask this question, and ye all
know the answer to it. Secondly, I have here the testimony to
Paul's honour and integrity, not only from men of repute in Rome,
VOL. I. B
WHEN: NERO WAS DICTATOR
but also from the highest in another land. Agrippa, the king, has
spoken well of him, and his words show that there is naught against
the prisoner, nay, rather that the offence lies with his accusers who
· have shamefully treated this Roman citizen and learned man of
Tarsus."
With that the Prefect commanded that Paul should be set free
and declared that he was blameless, having in no way offended
against Cresar or the Roman Law.
So at the close of the year there came an end to Paul's two years
of imprisonment, his testimony having been written on parchment
and read to the Prefect. Yet what counted with this judge was the
word of Agrippa and his own feeling of bitterness against highly
placed Jews in Jerusalem. He would not accept the tales told by
witnesses of brawls and tumults stirred up by the prisoner in
Corinth, Ephesus, and other cities of the Empire.
BOOK I
ST. PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN
\
'
\
THE WARRIOR-SAINT
PAUL was as the eagle of the hills yearning to take flight.
He would span the whole known world with his wings before
he might rest. Yet for more than two years he had been deprived
of liberty, for more than two years lying in bonds at Rome.
When he walked abroad with his guard one ankle was fastened
by a loose chain to the other, and his hands were bound. In
the chamber of his house a great chain, fastened to a ring in
the wall, was wound about his middle, so that he could but
traverse three or four cubits and no more. Thus was he straitly
confined, and his spirit chafed within him; for he desired greatly
to ~e gone to Spain, yea and to Gaul and, peradventure, to cross
the cold northern sea, seeking out the barbarians who dwelt in
Britannia and Hibernia, those strange isles of mist that rest in
the path of the setting sun.
Howbeit, Paul's imprisonment in Rome was a time of much
gain for the Church. Peter declared that in truth the Saint of
Tarsus was a mightier adversary of Satan when he lay in bondi
than when he journeyed from city to city, from nation to nation.
But then Peter somewhat feared the gall that his brother caused
to rise in the hearts of the people, and he feared the tumults
and battles that ever and always raged if Paul came forth, as
was his wont, and spoke in the market-place. Truly this saint
stirred up more choler within the Empire than any other known
subject of the Cresars. But his fire cleansed as well as burned.
It destroyed old follies and superstitions, all the vanities and
abominable delights of the heathen.
CHAPTER I
A CENTURION bore the tidings to the little house, where
gathered the brethren, that c~ar desired that Paul should
go free, that no stain or soil tarnished his character.
When the chains were loosed and fell away two faithful women,
Phoebe and Claudia, bore a basin of water and certain precious
ointment within the chamber. They bathed the sores on their
master's wrists, feet and body. For the chains had eaten almost to
the bone. Truly Paul had withered with the passing of the seasons
of captivity. He was dull of eye, wasted in all his members, and
he had suffered pain daily and nightly, so that the brethren, who
had lain at the beginning of winter in the chamber beneath, slept
not because of the moans that came from above them and wrung
their hearts. In the daytime Paul never cried out, for the brethren
then kept him company. Only in the dark hours did he thus, at
times, cry his bodily anguish.
A new white tunic and robe were set upon Paul, and Phoebe and
Claudia laid meat before him and before the other saints. They ate
and were filled, and they made merry, rejoicing in their master's
freedom.
Having spoken courteously to each one of them, Paul beckoned
to the elders in the company, and they withdrew with him. These
numbered eight or nine; among them were Mark, Linus, who is
known as Ansus, Trophimus, Crescens, Andronicus, Junias, Luke,
and Aristarchus. During the time of his imprisonment the saint
had busied himself mightily with the shaping and designing of ·
the Church, so that it should make o;ne whole. Wherefore,
Timothy, Titus, Aquila, and many another beloved of him were
in Asia, Crete, and Hellas, guiding the communities in those
lands. Twice in the year the chief of each cluster of churches
sent his messenger or came himself to Rome, bearing tidings of
this work and receiving further counsel from Paul concerning it.
So, in these two years of bondage, he had achieved the desire of
his soul and the Church was ready to face any storm.
Though Paul had fretted much because he could not spread
the truth abroad to people in distant lands, he was of good heart
as he believed that he might shortly depart into Spain. Yet
. 30
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 31
he was ma measure bound to consider the wishes of this council
of brethren who gathered about him. For all were zealous workers
who had sacrificed much in the service of the Church. Here
stood Linus, selected by Peter, one who had given up all for
Christ; there was Aristarchus of Macedonia, who had chosen to
be Paul's slave and fellow prisoner, though he had been a rich
man, hon~ured by his own people. And there rested Luke, tender
and compassionate, the healer of many hurts, the trusted brother ;
and Mark's grey hairs testified to his sufferings and to his labours.
Crescens, young and fiery of temper, was another chosen weapon,
who, because of his knowledge .of the barbarians, served Paul
well in counsel; lastly Trophimus, a zealous preacher, messenger
and scribe.
Gazing upon them all, the aged saint shed tears of joy and
pressed each one to his bosom. Then, when all were seated,
they communed together concerning the affairs of the Church ;
and Paul held back from speaking of the yearning of his
soul, so greatly did he fear the judgment of his council in the
matter.
Linus presented him with letters from Peter which commended
his discretion and his zeal. " We name Ansus, whc is called
Linus, Overseer of the Church at Rome." Such was the pith of
these epistles, and they further prayed that Paul would look with
favour on his choice.
The Saint of Tarsus declared his unfeigned gladness, welcom-
ing this brother as the other brethren. " I am but a wayfarer,"
said he ; " and will speedily depart from Rome. Wherefore I
am rejoiced that my place is now filled, and I am free to go."
Then the councillors looked at one another, but said I:tO word,
though there was uneasiness in the hearts of certain among the~.
Mark and Linus were well acquainted with the fears of the
Apostles in Jerusalem concerning a freed Paul. They held him
to be in the semblance of a lion, a noble beast, kingly in his ways,
but one who was too ready to give battle, too bold in his manners,
thus giving offence to both Jews and Romans. So there had been
much debate among the elders in the Church at Jerusalem when
rumour was borne to them that Paul would soon gain his freedom.
" Of a surety if he goeth again to Asia and to Hellas he will
raise up enmity among our countrymen," they declared ; '.' these
will lodge their plaints against him and against us also at Jeru-
salem and we shall.be undone." Wherefore, having learned that
in the last year of imprisonment Paul had been near to death
through a sore fever, they perceived a means whereby they might
32 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
dissuade this sick and wasted " lion of Tarsus " from setting
forth once again upon his journeys.
And now Linus rose up in the midst of the council and asked
of Paul if he might read to all present a letter written by the
chief of the Apostles in Jerusalem. And the saint bade him
declare it, though his countenance betrayed discomfiture at such
a letter being thus openly spoken of in the midst of the brethren
in that season.
Linus declared only the first sentences, knowing that they alone
were of account in the matter :
" James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus in the
name of the Apostles to our beloved brother, Paul, greetings.
" We are mindful of thy many afflictions, and sorrow be-
cause of the great sickness which we learn hath fallen upon
thee and wasted all thy strength.
"Howbeit, we rejoice, inasmuch as we have learned that
thou wilt speedily be granted thy freedom. We have weB
considered all thy labours for Christ, all thy sufferings, and
we hold thy life precious and desire that thy days shall be
long in the land. Wherefore, we pray thee to withdraw from
this present world into an honourable retirement. Our brother
Luke; we know, will tend and care for thee in such well-earned
repose. And we are persuaded that thou wilt perform a great
work, render a noble service to our Lord Jesus if thou dost
abide thus in the one place which will be favourable to thy
health, and dost there, in prayer and in writing, bear testimony
to the truth and to the life of our Master Christ."
Here Linus halted in his speech, and, on being prayed to
continue by Mark, he read but the last words of the letter wherein
James declared that it was the will of the Apostles that Paul
should thus enter upon quiet days in a serviceable retirement.
" Truly, brother, thy warfare is accomplished, and thou wilt best
labour for Christ in the manner which we have herein declared
unto·you."
Now, for an instant, Paul shook as with a palsy, so grieved
was he by this command of the Apostles. It seemed to make
light of his labours as a preacher and traveller for the faith.
It was as if, like a worn-out garment, he was being cast
aside; and the brethren watched in silence, fearing to say any
word.
Then, of ·a sudden, the trembling ceased and Paul called to
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 33
Aristarchus, saying, "Thou canst give us tidings of Spain.
Declare them to us now."
" In my youth," said Aristarchus, " when I knew nought of
Christ I journeyed into Spain, and I was amazed by the number
of its people, by the riches of this land. I traversed the Hither
and the Further Provinces and encountered learned Romans,
merchantmen of Israel, and the old race which abode in that
country before the coming of C<esar's eagles. Verily, Spain har-
boureth a strong people who, having mastered the subtle teachings
of the philosophers, still hold fast to many and vain superstitions.
Nevertheless, these people are of great account before God~ and
because their influence in the world is great, we must win them
for Christ."
"Yea, I am of the one mind with thee in this matter," said
Paul.
" But thou mayest not go thyself to Spain," cried Luke. " Let
the younger brethren serve in this matter."
"Yea, I am well acquainted with certain Jews and Gentiles
who are of this country," declared Andronicus. " So Aristarchus
and I, if it please thee, will journey into Spain, bearing with us
the words of Paul."
And, speaking as his physician, Luke pleaded that Paul should
rest awhile by the sea nigh Puteoli. " After two seasons have
passed thou mayest again take up the staff and scrip of the
traveller and face the road."
"What of the brethren in Asia and Macedonia who yearn to
see my face again? "
Trophimus made answer, "Master, abide by the counsel of
the physician. I will bear letters from thee to the brethren in
those lands."
Then Mark and Linus called to Paul's mind the counsel of
the Apostles, and they steadfastly fastened their gaze upon him,
declaring with their eyes what they dared not utter with their
tongues: that the commands of the Twelve Apostles might not
be put aside by any one member of the Church.
Now Aristarchus was silent all this while, so Paul turned to
him, saying, "What is thy counsel concerning my life which
seemeth of great import to all the brethren ? "
Aristarchus made swift answer, "Better lack bread than lack
life, better the torment of bodily infirmities than the torment
of the spirit."
"Thou hast well said," Paul smiled sorrowfully. "Brethren,
I cannot rest."
34 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
And Mark made answer, " Thou art precious in our sight.
Verily, thou wilt perish if thou goest once more on thy journeys.
The physician has spoken. Heed him."
"Master, thou art broken. Seek thy earned repose," exhorted
Linus.
"Aristarchus and I will bear thy messages to Spain," declared
Andronicus.
"Nay, nay," cried Aristarchus; " I will not go to the Hither
or the Further Provinces in the company of Andronicus. There
is but one man in all the world who can light the lamp of faith
in Spain, yea in Gaul, and that is Paul of Tarsus, Paul, chief
of all the saints, my one and only master among men."
And Paul gently chid him for thus raising up an unworthy
brother to such a proud place. But his voice fell aw~y into silence
as once more Linus spoke the will of the Apostles and demanded
obedience to their commands.
And now it seemed as if Paul must yield, as if at least he
should, for a season, withdraw into retirement. What saint might
gainsay those disciples who had walked with Jesus, the Christ,
and not greatly err in such defiance when thus their will was
plainly declared?
Paul closed his eyes, praying silently' for a brief space, seeking
light and counsel. Then he opened them once more, saying,
"Come, let us fast, brethren, and pray. To-morrow we shall
partake of the Cup of Remembrance; and after that we shall
keep the Hour of the Watch and seek the counsel of God as
given by the Holy Spirit. I promise thee that if I am bidden to
seek retirement and quiet days on to-morrow's eve I will obey.
For no man among us may disobey theWord of God given through
His Holy Spirit to us weak sinners."
I
CHAPTER II
MARK, Linus, Trophimus, Aristarchus, Crescens, Lucas,
Andronicus and Junia, all gathered together after fasting
and prayer in the upper chamber of Paul's hired house.
The darkness gathered, swiftly covering up Rome with its
wings. The sound of street brawling and the songs of the people
passed and ceased, a great wind blew and rain fell heavily upon
the earth. ·
Paul tarried. No man dared summon him. They did but
kindle two rushlights, setting them in rings that were welded
into the walls.
At last he entered the chamber, and with humility asked Linus
to bless all who were present, for he said, " I am least among
ye all, brethren, a worn tool, whose blade is blunted ; wherefore
I am of no more service to anyone of ye who are in the bloom
of your years, strong in faith and in understanding."
No man dared answer this saying; but they were filled with
shame. At times the saint had an edge upon his speech which did
wound and all these men knew well that their labours, their sacri-
fices, were as naught beside those of Paul of Tarsus.
Again he spoke, asking Linus to commence with prayer.
Humbly this brother hastened to obey, th6trgh he greatly desired
that the Apostle should thus take the leadership. But he feared
rebuke, feared the sternness that glimmered in the eyes of the
Master of Tarsus.
And when prayer had been offered and the Great Words of
Life spoken all partook of the Cup of Remembrance. There then
stole within that chamber the peace that quells bitterness, the
peace that consumes meanness of spirit and pride, the noble peace
that passes man's understanding. It reigned within the hearts of
all, so that they were gathered within Christ in that hour, their
hearts and minds lifted up to the lofty places beyond the ken of
men.
And behold, the noise of the rain and the wind passed from
their hearing as they seemed to dwell, in this Hour of the Watch,
in another world, remote from the Babylon which surrounded their
fleshly bodies in that time.
35
g6 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Now there is a fine shape which is called the Image of the
man. It is of a substance akin to the flesh, yet is invisible; and
there is also that companion of man, the Body of Light,1
in
which his spirit abides, and through it he may send messages to
the man's soul, the Image Body2
and the body of the flesh. In
the Hour of the Watch, if the Body of Light be pure and with-
out soil, the soul of the man may withdraw from it and the great
spirits, or even the Holy Spirit, may enter therein and speak the
Word of the Highest.
So it came to pass that, in this Holy Hour, Paul's spirit with-
drew from his Shape of Light. Slowly the Mystery was accom-
plished, though, to the eyes of the men present, it seemed only
that the saint had fallen into a deep sleep or swoon.
A soft chill air blew through the chamber and the rushlights
danced and winked. Then a pale mist enveloped them and their
light was dimmed. Now were the minds of the brethren drawn
back from that other world of being, and they gazed eagerly upon
Paul, who lay. there bent and shrunken, his countenance still as :1
stone. And all grew afraid as time passed and he made no stir,
and the vapour thickened about them. They yearned to pray, to
cry out their strange fear, but dumbness locked their tongues.
So they bowed themselves forward, thus making obeisance to
the Mighty Presence that filled the lone chamber, holding all
fast.
Soon, as little stars dance upon the hill-tops, so did little
lights flit to and fro, and the dimness passed. A radiance came
out from the person of Paul, and slowly it was shaped into the
likeness of an angel. Then the brethren bowed to the ground
before it, and they were awake and in no dream; for all heard the
same speech, words that were spoken to Linus, known as Ansus,
now chief elder in that gathering.
" Behold, I bear to thee the Will of the Most High, and it
may not be gainsaid by any man. Thou art Overseer of the
Church in Rome, and thou shalt declare it to the brethren.
" Let Paul, our servant, gird up his loins in this 11eason, gather
to him trusty companions and seek a ship which will carry him
to Spain. He is bidden make haste, for his years are numbered,
and he may not tarry in one place any long time. The salt
wind, the sea wind will cleanse his body and the Spirit will
nourish his strength. Wherefo;e, we conjure thee, LiiJ.us, known
1 :·The Body of Light", sometimes called the Guardian Angel or Higher
Gemus.
ll "The Image Body" is probably the Etheric Body.
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SPAIN 37
as Ansus, to make smooth the road of Paul: that he may depart
as speedily as his course can be shaped. He shall journey through
Spain into Gaul, where the word of the Holy Spirit will again
be declared to him." ·
Linus strove to speak, but he could not make any sound.
The breezes blew through that chamber, t!Je little stars came
again, were whirled and tossed about, and other voices were heard.
Then slowly did the radiance and the glory fade; the Shape of
Light passed from the sight of the brethren, and they were
aware only that with a loud noise of thunder the Mighty
Presence swept from that chamber, and the quiet of earth
gathered within it once again.
In all that time Paul lay as a sleeper who has passed beyond
the borders of dream, so tosses not to and fro, but lies still. His
lips framed no speech, his limbs made no sign. He was held
fast within that Holy One who possessed him, who entered his
Body of Light, and declared the Will of God.
CHAPTER III
I N the early day Linus the Overseer came to Paul while still he
rested on his couch. And he spoke humbly, saying, " Master,
thou hast been chosen by the Lord. Strange and marvellous were .
the signs shown us on that other eve. Verily, the Holiest of Holies
cap1e and dwelled within thee and about our company in that
season." Then Linus spoke the command given him concerning
the journey into Spain.
And Paul made answer, "This message be of God. Of a
surety, therefore, the will of the Apostles must be set aside. They
are but mortal men, and, I understand, did not, on the matter
of my honourable retirement, seek the Word of the Holy
Spirit.'11
Linus declared that this was so, and agreed that Paul should
rise up instantly and make ready to sail from Puteoli into Spain.
However, he lay in a great weakness though his spirit burned as
a fire. So the brethren bore him to a litter, and his journey to
Puteoli was set within a number of days.
The saint fretted and wept as he waked to each dawn, fear-
ing lest delay would lead to further hindrances being placed in
his path. But the first vision of the sea and the ships calmed
his mind, giving him faith once more. Then when he lay down
to rest in a house in Puteoli ague seized him, and a great sweat
broke out upon his body. And again the brethren prayed that
he should tarry until the summer in that town.
It was the season of early spring, a time when all life stirred,
and the stirring also chafed the mighty spirit of the Master of
I "At that time the Apostles in Jerusalem were James, Peter, John, Matthew
and another James; also Thaddaeus and Andrew. The others who had walked
with the Master were either dead or upon a journey. But their places were
filled by certain who are numbered among the Seventy Disciples. The Com-
pany of Twelve remained in Jerusalem thus until the days of the Afflictions.
If one was away upon a journey another sat in his place and gave counsel.
Truly Paul was, to them, a sorry burden for they were troubled inasmuch as
he would not abide by any counsel of the Brethren. Always he chose to be
master, while, as James declared, he kept crying his weakness and deriding
his many faults. But still he would claim the right to walk as he pleased,
though he declared it was not as he pleased, but according to the Will of the
Holy Spirit."
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 39
Tarsus, and he would not heed the counsel and prayers of
those who loved him. '
A vessel, which had borne com to Italy from (}ades/ was to
depart on the second day following the Sabbath, and there was
room for travellers in it. Wherefore the saint declared that even
if he lay nigh to death, he should be carried aboard this ship
on the eve before she set sail.
The brethren durst not gainsay him, and so was his com-
mand fulfilled. The ague had now passed, but Paul could not
walk because of the feebleness of his limbs. Howbeit, the ship-
master wa.S old and cunning in -the craft of the sea, and he
promised a fair journey. So were the sorrowful company of
the Roman saints a little eased in mind, though, to the last,
they entreated Paul to give way and suffer them to bear him to the
shore. But by reason of his weariness he could only whisper his
will, he bade them leave him in peace, for he would not be turned
from his purpose by any mortal man.
Thus did the old sick lion of Tarsus gain his way,,and there-
with, he made the sign of blessing, for he could not speak any
more. Then the weeping brethren bowed themselves down bid-
ding him farewell.
~ Cadiz.
CHAPTER IV
WHEN Paul, Luke, Aristarchus, Andronicus and Crescens set
forth upon the new enterprise, God's candles made a
festival of the dark. Gladly Paul bade farewell to the coasts of
Italy, turning his face towards the west. No cloud shadowed
the world and the moon cut a silver path through the waves,
beckoning the ship forward. It was a comfortable vessel, robed
in full-bellied sails within which whispered the breezes of the
night. ·
The word of the Spirit was fulfilled. Paul rose up and walked
upon the deck; pain departed; his freed limbs failed not. To
and fro he went, joying in the glimmering dark, speaking merry
sentences to Luke and Aristarchus upon whose arms he leant.
His was as the heart of a wild sea-bird, he ever drew strength
from the murmuring waves, health and gladness from the winds
that chase above the wide waters. His mind became as a
glass in such a time and could perceive the clear image of the
Spirit's will. When;fore Luke perceived that his own wis-
dom as a physician was as naught when the High Wisdom
spoke; inasmuch as this gentle sea bore with it healing and
peace. _
The shipmaster judged aright. No foul weather met his
barque. In the days that followed it ~ailed smoothly across
quiet waters. And Paul delighted in the life about him, speaking
with sailors and Gentiles, seeking to learn the minds of all those
who journeyed in that boat. For he eagerly sought among these
wayfarers and mariners some gracious spirit who might be ready
to receive the word of truth or could provide him with know-
ledge concerning tlie land to which he was bound.
A soldier, a Gallrecian,1
held much speech with the saint and
told the tale of his life--of the wars with the barbarians and of
the honour awarded him after battle. And soon Paul perceived
that this stranger gave thought to the things of the spirit though
he was wholly ignorant and worshipped many gods.
Having declared his joy in thus returning to Gades, the town
of his birth, he became curious and questioned Paul, saying:
"Is it not true that thou art a Jew as well as a Roman citizen? "-
1 Gallrecia, part of North-Western Spain.
40
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SPAIN 41
"Yea, thou hast named my state."
" The Hebrews are verily a curious people," continued the
Gallrecian, " and I am told that they are, in some respects, akin
to my people in their beliefs. We Gallrecians hold the boar to
be sacred, and his image is set upon my standard. The Jews
also worship the swine, holding his flesh to be sacred. Neither
they nor we of Hispania will partake of it as do the Romans,
who are a gross people."
And Paul made swift answer, "Nay, we Jews do not worship
the swine. Our God calleth him unclean, and therefore we may
not eat of his flesh."
Then this simple soldier cried out in astonishment, and Paul
perceived that it would be hard to overcome his superstition in
such a matter. So he spoke to him in plain sentences, as if he
were reasoning with a little child.
" It is folly to worship bird, beast or fish. Art thou not greater
in understanding than the boar of the forest? He desireth only
to eat and be filled and to beget his kind. Thou goest on two
legs and he on four. Thou canst journey to the stars upon 'the
wings of thine understanding, whilst he noseth among the roots
of the ground for his nourishment." And many other words
Paul spoke, declaring at last that Name above every name and
striving to show that there was but one King of Kings, one
Lord of Lords.
And the Gallrecian eagerly hearkened as he rested at. the feet
of Paul. ·He suffered from the pain of an old wound in his
hinderparts, and he lay thus so that he might obtain. ease from
its sore pricking.
Now his countenance lighted up and he said, "I would gladly
worship this powerful God. Tell me ore concerning Him. My
life, friend, is full.of peril and hardship. Wherefore, I believe
that it is wise to pay homage and to make offerings to several
gods. Then, in the hour of battle, if one fail me another may
aid and succour me. Behold, in Gades there are two great
temples, one is known by the title of Melcarth-Hercules,1
the
other by the name Baal-Saturn. Peradventure thou hast heard
of these and their wonders, for thou art a man of learning.
Now within Melcarth-Hercules are the Pillars of Hercules ;2
these
I worship for strength, while I worship Isis the mother because
1 Melcarth from Malech =King. Cp. Malachi.
2 "The first author who mentions them is Pindar, who places them at Gades
(Cadiz), and his opinion had many followers in later times. .. ."-Chamben'
Encyclopadia.
VOL. I. C
42 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
she giveth life and preserveth life, Mithras who is the god of
the soldier and wardeth off the blows of the adversary, and
Endovellicus the best of all, for he giveth health and thereby
life and joy." ·
" Endovellicus hath not healed thy wound," murmured Paul.
" Yea, he hath failed me," sighed the soldier; " the pain
affiicteth me night and day. I fear I have offended this power-
ful god." ·
"Nay, he cannot heal, because he is without power, being but
the empty dream of man. Howbeit, my God can heal thee and
free thee from the woe of this wound of thine."
" This pain," said the Gallrecian, " pierceth my loins as a
sword. I sleep not in the night hours.. I twist and turn and know
that I am condemned by Endovellicus thus to suffer for a term
of years. In my youth I made him no offering, mocking at him
as a god of Lusitania. So now he will not hearken to my prayer,
and I shall continue to be afflicted."
Then for answer Paul bade the soldier uncover that part of
his body that did so prick and torment him. And the saint softly
prayed. Naming Jesus the Christ three times he drew his hands
over the loins and the back of this man. For a space his fingers
strayed along the great bone which cometh from the neck and
traverseth the back to the hinderparts. And the Holy Power
that is of the Spirit worked out through the hands of Paul, so
that swiftly was the Gallrecian eased ; and the suffering, that
sealed up·his brows, now loosed them as all pain fled and glad-
ness overspread his countenance. . Until this hour he had walked
as a cripple, leaning upon a staff. Now he rose up, cast jt from
him, and walking, leaping, he crossed the deck as lightly as any
Grecian youth who is champion in the games. The sailors mar-
velled when they perceived the change in this man and learned
of the miracle wrought through the hands of Paul. They
gathered about him, asking questions concerning the healing,
and he spoke, saying: " This man was not healed through the
touch of my hands,- but through the power of the one God and
His Son, Jesus Christ. I am but the vessel through which He
poured the grace of His healing."
And the saint then told in simple words tidings of Jesus the
Christ. A great hush. fell over those who hearkened and when,
after an hour or more, Paul sought to make an end they prayed
him to continue his discourse on the morrow.
However, the Gallrecian, alone among the passengers, ~ked
that he might be baptized and become a servant of the " Lord
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 43
of Healing," as he called Christ. The other Gentiles, who.
journeyed to Gades, were noble Romans acquainted with the
philosophies, and these twitted Paul until the saint had itching
ears, and losing patience, cried out upon the darkness of their
understanding. So Luke drew his master apart and away from
these men who even cast doubt upon the healing of the soldier.
And the physician bade Paul rest for a while. It was a sign that
the saint was not yet whole when he could thus be roused to anger
by the foolish mockery of wordmongers. But the Gall~cian fol-
lowed Paul as a dog follows his master; and the two communed
together while the ship sped over the shining seas and each hour
drew them nearer their new enterprise. '
"I will pay allegiance only to thy God in the coming days,"
said the soldier; " for truly he hath given me back my life and
my joy. But I have little understanding of thy worship.
Wherefore, when we are come to Gades I would present thee .
to a kinsman of mine who is veritably the wisest philosopher in
all the world. He hath plumbed the depths and scaled the
heights with his wisdom; and I would hear ye reason together,
so that, as a skein of wool, the tidings of thy Lord may be un-
ravelled for me."
And Paul inquired as to the name and state of this kinsman.
Then the countenance of the soldier changed somewhat ·as he
said, " It is needful that thou shouldst walk warily in commun-
ing with my kinsman. I wot not whether I should tell thee more
concerning him, for he is powerful and is a man of many
secrets who walketh apart. His name is Symphorus/ but he is
one of a brotherhood and calleth himself to his chosen disciples,
' The Initiate of the Green Dragon.' "
Hearing this title Paul pressed the soldier with questions con-
cerning his kinsman, for the saint knew that the Initiates of the
Green Dragon were men who served within the Ancient
Mystery, and they were in many ways evil and possessed great
and secret power.
It was rumoured that these philosophers sought to set chains
.about the understanding of the young c~sar, and through him,
govern the Empire. This rumour might have been some idle
fable, but it was borne to the ears 'of Paul by Aristobulus, a
noble, when the saint lay in bonds at Rome. ·And now, though
he was ignorant of the practices and lore locked within the
ancient baleful mystery, he believed that he faced in it and in the
master Symphorus the old adversary Satan. '
1 A Greek word meaning " expedient " .
CHAPTER V
NOW the Gallrecian would not impart to Paul any further
tidings concerning the Initiates of the Green Dragon. He
only told the saint how, in his youth, Symphorus desired him to
be one of these elect persons. For a time he was in a strait
betwixt two, desiring to possess the powers of these masters, and
yet greatly fearing them. For all swore the oath of obedience to
the Ancient Mystery. And fear overcoming desire, the Gallrecian
fled from Cades and sought service at Rome in the legions of
Gresar.
Howbeit, in these days upon the sea, Paul put great heart
into him, and his dread of and reverence for the master Sym-
phorus-the wizard of wi~ards-forsook him. Waxing strong in
his faith in the Lord Jesus, this simple soldier designed with Paul
the journeys he should make through Spain.
" Firstly thou shalt abide a space in Cades, then shalt thou
journey to Astigi, Corduba and Emerita, and afterwards thou
shalt go unto Malaca and Cartagena,1
thus wilt thou span the
province of Bretica, and canst then, in Cartagena, strike at the
very heart of Tarraconensis2
and so will the seed of thy noble
words enrich the greater part of my country. Corduba of the
temples is the source of its wisdom and Cartagena is known a&
the great mart for trade in flax and corn, in all manner of
precious stones that delight the eye, in fish and the hunters'
meat, and in all that delighteth the belly. And behold, the people
of Bretica call Cades 'The Watchtower of the Sea'. For the
seafarers of many nations journey to it, and the people of the
port build great ships that ride the storm and sail to Britannia,
to Gaul, and also to the far south. And the merchants of Cades
trade with the ports in the east, in Adria, and also with the
ports of Italy. Wherefore, if thou canst persuade certain of the
sailors and the merchantmen of the truth of thy God, they will,
peradventure, bear tidings of Him to every corner of the known
earth. Veritably, friend Paul, thou wilt rejoice and be glad in
1 Ecija, Cordova, Merida, Malaga, Cartagena.
2 Roughly speak_ing, in those days Lusitania corresponded with Portugal,
B<etica with southern Spain and Tarraconensis with the rest of Spain.
44
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SPAIN 45
the province of B~tica. It hath been called ' The Garden of
the Gods ', and thou shalt change it into the Garden of
Jesus Christ. This land is famed for its olives, dark fruit
of the dawn, for its oranges, gold fruit of the sunset, for its
fleeces which are sheared from the white flocks that wander
over its hills. Many precious metals lie within the bowels of its
earth. The Silver Mountains pour forth their treasure, the fields
yield wheat and the springs give out healing. All the herbs of
the fields flourish. Wherefore riches are heaped up in Gades;
and if thou canst gain the ear of the Romans, who have great
estates nigh to the port, thou wilt win for the service of Jesus
gold in abundance, and mayest thus pay much honour to His
Name." ·
" I seek not gold for Jesus," cried Paul, and he admonished
the Gall~cian for this saying.
This simple soldier was somewhat perplexed, but took the
rebuke in good part, saying, "Truly, thy God hath a strange-
ness I cannot fathom. For I have ever believed that a mighty
one delighteth in splendour and in rich offerings. Howsoever,
because thy God hath rendered me the greatest gift of all-my
health and my joy-I am prepared only to serve and worship
Him."
And here these two ceased from speech, for the coast of His-
pania appeared upon the rim of the sea. It seemed to Paul, as
he gazed eagerly towards the quarter where lay Gades, that he
was journeying as the children of Israel once journeyed to a
Promised Land. So the Lord would deliver this great country
into His servant's hand. And the saint believed that here, among
the Gentiles, he would at last find freedom from the persecution
of Pharisees and Sadducees. It was veritably the Garden of
God; inasmuch as he would not meet with base envy, lying
fables, and plots against his life in that land. Wherefore, he
bowed himself down, giving thanks for the peaceful days of
labour that he trusted would be his in B~tica, which is the
crown of Hispania.
CHAPTER VI
THE Saint of Tarsus gave no thought to that dark sentence,
" Be sure thine enemy will find thee out," when he set foot
upon the earth of Gades. He reckoned not that the hunter
was upon his heels, that the hawk had sighted its prey from the
far skies.
Certain youths in Jerusalem1
had vowed, when Paul was last
in that city, that they would neither eat nor drink until they had
slain him, but a guard of Roman soldiers delivered him out of
their hands. So these zealous youths, not being minded to die of
hunger, were compelled to break their oath. Like most Zealots
they never forgot an offence. They watched for the time when
Paul would either perish in prison or be loosed from his bonds.
And for this purpose certain young men in Rome watched the
comings and goings of the brethren.
But so speedily did the saint depart to Puteoli he -escaped their
vigilance, and his ship had set ·sail when certain among them -
came to that town seeking him. Now amongst these youths was
a son of Alexander, a Jew of Ephesus, who had plagued Paul
much in past times. This son bore the name of his father, so
he shall be called by the title the saints set upon him in a later
season, namely, "Bildad, son of Contention." Being crafty
and upright in his observances of the Law of Moses, he was
held in esteem by the High Priest in Jerusalem, who bade him
keep .a watch on Paul and, if he were loosed, deal with him as
he would with an outcast from Israel.
In company with other servants of the High Priest, Bildad
sailed in a ship that followed swiftly in the wake of the barque
that bore the little company of the saints to the province of
Bretica. But winds buffeted their ship, and Paul was three weeks
established in Gades before his bitter enemy disembarked there.
Now Paul had no friends in Gades, so he first abode at the Inn
of the Hebrews, which was called by the Gentiles, " The House
of the Unripe Figs", because the Jews were held by them to be
a bitter and proud people, holding off from all other nations.
Wherefore the natives of the town were astonished by the
1 Acts xxiii. u .
46
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 47
sweetness of Paul's speech, by his compassion for the sick and
ailing, and they hearkened to his words.
He bore letters to certain wealthy Romans who lived in
palaces upon the coast, and he visited them, for it was ever his
design in a strange town to seek all manner of people, moulding
his sentences according to their understanding. These Romans
were the spoiled ones of the earth. They hearkened courteously
to the saint when he declared his purpose in Gades. But they
lightly mocked at his gospel, and blinded by their power and
wealth they could not garner the rich harvest of truth which
Paul, Aristarchus and Luke offered to them.
Perceiving their stubbornness, the saint did not waste further
speech or prayer upon them, but went among the simple and
ignorant folk. He preached to the fishermen and to the slaves
who sought for nuggets and seeds of gold in the springs and
streams among the sands of Bretica. And these hearkened with
joy to the promise of a God who set the first last and the last
first. And Paul went to the yards where the men built the
famed ships of Gades, and also among these builders he found a
following. Speedily the brethren shaped a church, and they re-
joiced because their work prospered, and in scarce any city had
they so speedily won the hearts of the poor and simple folk.
Luke healed many with his herbs and his counsel, and thus
cut a way to their understanding; then Paul's fervent discourses
caused them to promise allegiance to Christ. Wherefore there
came an hour when Andronicus cried to the saint, "Master,
thou wilt wipe the province of Bretica as a man wipeth a dish,
wiping it and turning it upside down. Thou wilt cleanse this
people and set them .apart for God." And letters were sent to
Rome, telling the brethren the glad tidings and demanding that
others sh,ould journey to Gades to take up the work in the time
Paul must needs depart to visit the inland cities. These letters
were scarcely dispatched when Bildad landed in Gades and went
into the House of the Unripe Figs, where he spoke with the
innkeeper and declared such scandal to him he straightway
sought out Paul and bade the saint depart and seek other
lodgment.
Now Bildad would not slay Paul, for this would be the sin of
blood, so he determined to overthrow the saint by setting the
Gentiles against him.
This son of contention went busily to and fro, whispering
baleful sentences in the ears of the citizens. He told of Paul's
imprisonment in Rome and showed merchants and the servers
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
and priests in the temple a parchment called the " Declaration
of Demetrius ".1
This writing was signed by the elders of the
Craftsmen's Guild in Ephesus. It claimed that Paul was a ser-
vant of the ·evil powers, and that he sought to overthrow the
worship of the gods, having in Ephesus striven to ruin the
honest artificers, robbing them of their commerce in the little
images of Diana.
The name of Paul was passed from one to another in Gades,
and when traders and·other heathens cast dark looks at the saint
the people he taught began to fall away from him. But Bildad
worked so secretly the brethren }lad no understanding of this
change, and wot not that once more their master was in peril
of imprisonment, stoning or death.
1 Acts xix. 24.
CHAPTER VII
I N this season the Gall<ecian presented Paul to Symphorus,
and the saint soon perceived that the soldier had not boasted
in declaring the wisdom of this master of knowledge. He
showed it in abundance, reasoning as a dialectician, speaking of
the doctrine of the Stoics and the Epicureans, and disclosing the
weaknesses of each philosophy. But he did not impart any of
his own beliefs to the saint, choosing rather to cause him to
declare his own faith and wisdom.
Paul was well pleased. This man did not mock as did so
many learned Romans when the Resurrection of Christ was re-
counted. He said, "Yea, master, I can well believe that Jesus
could wake His body from the sleep of death and walk forth
among men. Nay, more, I am not ignqrant of the strange life
and miracles performed by this Son of Man. In the East I heark-
ened to thee, and at Ephesus to the sayings of thy brethren. Verily,
I believe in the story of thy Christ ; I believe in thy vision on the
road to Damascus, and I know that this vision will change king-
doms and shape the destiny of future generations."
And the saint's heart leaped for joy, believing that he had
converted this learned heathen. Yet there was still uneasiness in
his soul ; a voice whispered, " Be wary, Paul; hold back thy
speech." So he did not continue his discourse, but questioned
Symphorus, asking him to declare his own inner faith.
There came a swift answer, " I am not as the Epicureans or
the Stoics. I am a believer, not a shatterer of belie£ I serve
an older faith than thine ; I render homage to the principle of
a God-Creator. But tl~e one I worship thou canst not revere or
understand. Paul, great master though thou art, there is a gulf
fixed between us which may not be bridged. I love the temper,
the swiftness of thy understanding, but I hold not with many of
thy teachings. In this respect we are adversaries. For thou servest
but a half truth, while I serve the whole. The darkness of the
other side of the moon dimmeth and confuseth thine imagination.
We are spiritual enemies, and will abide in enmity unless I can
persuade thee, in mine own time and season, of thy many errors."
49
50 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Now the saint had spoken with much eloquence, the salt of
wisdom being contained in his pleadings with this man. Where-
fore he was silenced for a space, while he sought to examine his
companion's meaning. Soon his inner sight pierced this man's
mind; and he spoke courteously, saying, " I am no man's enemy.
I seek to obey the command of my Master, Jesus, to love those
who call themselves my adversaries. I perceive that thou mockest
at such a strange sentence ; but I declare what is true. Howsoever,
because thou art like unto the knowledge-mongers of Athens I will
not waste my life by passing even one more hour in thy company.
Others have sore need of me. I pray that we may not meet again."
Symphorus bowed graciously, saying, "Nay, it is written in
the scroll of the stars that we are to have a notable encounter.
I shall watch patiently for that time."
CHAPTER VIII
NOW, one of the rulers of the city of Gades was named
. Syntrophus, and he had begotten many sons. The youngest,
Sabinus, was well-favoured in stature and in strength. The people
hailed him as a champion; for he excelled in spear-throwing
and in all the games that delighted the Romans. He worshipped
in the Temple of Melcarth-Hercules and believed that he owed
his strength to the power given out by the two bronze pillars that
are set up within it. Wherefore, as it was known that he was very
jealous for the honour of his god, :5ildad persuaded an elder-
priest, who served at the great altar, to show Sabinus the "De-
claration of Demetrius ".
Sabinus became very wroth on learning that the Jew named in
this writing had come to Gades with intent to overthrow the Pillars
of Hercules, and he sought the saint throughout the city, meaning
to cast him forth or to demand of him worship and offerings for
his god as a sign of peace and goodwill.
For a space Paul and Sabinus did not encounter one another
as the saint lived in the mean quarters of the town, going among
the builders of ships, holding speech with them. The believers
increased in numbers and the little church prospered. But
Andronicus learned from the innkeeper who kept the House of
the Hebrews that certain of those who had been baptized had
not cast off their old beliefs; inasmuch as they still went in unto
the temple of Melcarth-Hercules to worship. He told Paul of
this backsliding, and that, on the morrow, the Festival of Spring
would be celebrated, and the men of Gades would assemble
therein.
Now all these sayings had been put in the mouth of An-
dronicus by the guileful innkeeper, who served Bildad. And the
saint, being weary from his many labours, was not watchful. He
fell into the snares set by this emissary of the Pharisees and
sought out a place of vantage no great distance from the temple
doors.
And behold, the white-robed worshippers came forth in
numbers, singing the hymn of rebirth, playing upon the flute
51
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
and the viol, crying out their praise of idols, leaping and dancing
in the sunlight.
Perceiving certain of the newly won brethren among them,
Paul stood up on a -high stone and raised his hand, calling to
them. Speedily the people gathered about him, for the citizens_
of Bretica are of a curious mind ; and for a short wbile the
babble of tongues was hushed as they hearkened to the speech
of the stranger. ·
Clad in white linen and crowned with a laurel, Sabinus passed
by that way in company with his fellows who acclaimed him,
crying out, " Make way, make way for the Pride of Hercules;
make way for the mighty spear-thrower." And the multitude
fell back, murmuring words of praise and honour. But Paul
paid no heed, remaining upon the stone that stood in the path,
of the wrestler.
Seeing him, Sabinus halted, saying, " Who is this babbler? Who
is this ill-formed hunchback? Why is he suffered to speak at the
door of the temple? " .
One answered him, saying, " It is Paul, the stranger who bids
us worship only hi!? God, who is greedy for the honour of one
named Jesus."
"Behold the man I seek," said Sabinus; "give way, I would
speak with him."
And the people pressed behind. But a little space was rounded
off, so that the giant and the " small, crooked ancient " stood
·alone. By this title was the saint known among the heathen in
Gades.
As these two faced each other murmurings ceased, all watched
silently, deeming that the champion would bait and make a sport
of this Hebrew.
Sabinus spoke, saying, " I am told that thou art the enemy of
my gods. Thou declarest the rule of thy God, and that He will
destroy the temple and all I worship."
Paul was not in any manner daunted by the fierce mien of
this Gallrecian Goliath and made answer, "Friend, those sayings
of thine are not mine. I seek not destruction in the name of
my God. I seek but to spread tidings of Him, for He is the
truth and the life. He hath raised thee up in the pride of thy
strength, and He can, if it pleaseth Him, cast thee down into
the dust again."
And Sabinus laughed at these words, saying, "It is plain
thou art an ignorant fellow; but thou shalt not escape through
any sleight of tongue. Come with me now, and in the presence
SAINT PAUL ' S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 53
of the people make an offering in the temple, pay obeisance and
homage to .the Pillars of Hercules. Then shall we know that
thou art a true man and no treason-monger."
" Nay, I will not go with thee into the Temple of Melcarth-
Hercules, nor into any temple in this town."
At these words the crowd made a hiss like geese, and would
have cried out upon Paul if Sabinus had not stayed them with
a movement of his hand. " Then thou art a blasphemer," de-
clared the wrestler ; " and by the red oaks of Emerita we will
cast thee into the 'sea for this offence." And he would have
spoken further, but the saint thrust in upon his speech with swift
words that rang like the clash of spears, sounding plainly in the
hearing of all that assembly.
" I am a Roman citizen and pay due allegiance to Cresar.
Thou darest not lay a hand upon me else is the law offended
and Rome dishonoured by the Breticans. Howsoever, men of
Gades, I am come with goodwill to your land, to bear you
tidings of the truth. Now, it is my faith and my belief that
God dwelleth not in gold, silver, or bronze, or in any image
shaped by art or man's device." .
Great was the uproar at these words, and Sabinus cried to
the people, " Behold, he testifieth against himself, he hath spoken
blasphemy, polluted our noble temple while standing at its very
doors. Come, let us stone him."
In this hour, death, the- deliverer, seemed near to Paul. But
even as Sabinus advanced upon him Symphorus and his servants
came between, thrusting back the giant. And he said, " Be
wary, most noble champion. I know this Paul of Tarsus to be
a Roman citizen who carrieth weight in the court of Rome. So
it is needful that thou shouldst give him a hearing and declare
thine own acct1sation before the justice in our city."
" I will declare it now before the people," ~ried the young
man, and he drew from his tunic the parchment which con-
tained the Declaration of Demetrius. This he gave forth to
the people, ending it with the saying, " Citizens of Gades, ye
see l10w this brawler sought to overthrow great Diana of the
Ephesians. And from his own speech it is plain that he is here
in our town to work the same mischief. If .it were possible he
would destroy the Temple of Melcarth-Hercules and of Baal-
Saturn. This fellow is an emissary of the demons who are hid
in the hills. He beareth only evil, desiring to rouse the wrath
of the gods against us by openly blaspheming, by seeking to
pollute and befoul their magnificence." ·
54 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
And the people again cried out upon Paul. But Symphorus
silenced them, for the Breticans respected him because he was
of an ancient family, one that had raised up altars to poetry,
music, poverty and love of country in the Temple of Melcarth-
Hercules. Thus it came to pass that through the courteous de-
fence of this declared adversary Paul was suffered to speak once
more to the people.
" Citizens of Gades," he cried. " Ye are all acquainted with
the name of Gallio, who was born in the n9ble city of Corduba,
and ii by reason of his wisdom and his works the glory of
Hispania. Behold, when I was in Corinth I appeared before this
deputy of Cresar's and set forth my case. He silenced my
accusers, giving me full leave to serve God, to preach His
wisdom and gather together His people. For this purpose alone
am I come to Gades. Those whom ye worship are not my
affair. No man in this town can prove that I have, in any way,
profaned your temple or, in any manner, dishonoured your city
or your gods." .
And now the saint's further speech was lost as Sabinus, in a
voice like the bellowing of a bull, called to the mind of the
people Paul's saying that God did not dwell in gold, silver or
bronze. Wherefore they shouted and made turmoil, some fling-
ing stones. Perceiving the multitude were with him, the
champion .
called on certain youths to aid him in breaking·
through the fence the servants of Symphorus had made about
Paul. But these drew knives from beneath their tunics, and the
Breticans fell back fearfully. So Sabinus set upon them alone,
and he was cast to the earth. Then, shaping themselves into a
wedge, these guards broke through the crowd, several citizens
being wounded or crushed by the feet of the frenzied people.
It might have gone ill with the saint and this little company
if the tidings had not been borne to the mob that the city'-'
guards were coming that way, and that they were strengthened
by the soldiers of Cresar. So, swift as the breath of Euroclydon
was the dispersal of that wrathful gathering of the people. Only
certain youths, followers of Sabinus, remained and made an
assault. But these were thrust back as a chariot halted near
Symphorus, and he caused a bleeding and wearied Paul to be
laid in it. Then seizing the reins, he drove through the streets,
with voice and whip conjuring the swift Asturian horses to
hasten on their road.
CHAPTER IX
MANY fables concerning the uproar were recounted in Gades.
The B~ticans delighted in building on another's words; for
they were a people easily moved by any happening. It was
declared that Paul, a great and evil magician, had come ·out
of the east with intent to blast the people of Gades and turn
the gods against them. But Sabinus, the son of the ruler, was
not fearful, nor would he yield to his spells. So the two gave
battle, and the stones ran with the blood of the people. As ever,
the champion was victorious, and the powerful wizard had fled
from the town.
The Roman deputy did not hold with this fable. For being
an Epicurean he believed not in wizards or magicians. But he
made enquiry about Paul, and learned that he abode for two
years in prison at Rome. Wherefore, it was well that Symphorus
had served as a good friend and bore Paul northward in his
swift chariot through the pleasant land of Bretica.
Once assured that they were not pursued, Symphorus caused
· his chariot to halt. Leaping from it, he commanded his slave to
draw water from a spring; and with his own hands this Bretican
noble bathed and bound Paul's hurts. Then they drove softly
forward, resting in a village when the fiery breath of the sun
scorched ·the earth at noon. In that time Paul slept and rose
refreshed, a new man. And he questioned his saviour, sayin~,
"Why, sir, when thou hast declared thine enmity to me, dost
thou so courteously use me? What strange charity of heart
hath caused thee to deliver me out of the hands of my tormen-
tors and preserve my life? "
"Because, master, I would en~er upon another warfare with
thee, because I would engage in combat that dexterous under-
standing of thine-swift as the throw of a Gallrecian spear,
sharp as a Lusitanian arrow."
" I am not as the philosophers who play with words, casting
them at each other as children fling pebbles in sport," said Paul;
" but I am verily beholden to thee, for thou art filled with the
charity of a noble mind and seekest not to return burning for
.l\5
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
burning, stripe for stripe-though I do vow that I am prepared
to meet thee as a friend and brother."
"Nay, Paul, that may not be; for I serve a more ancient
master than your master. I serve a faith born out of chaos,
shaped before the beginning of time. And because I have the
power of foreknowledge I have perceived that thy vision will,
for an age, prevail with this world of ours. So I would acquaint
thee of my own finer, rarer vision, my golden dream, which
alone can bear to earth that Kingdom of Heaven thou dost
name so oft when communing with the people of B.:etica."
" And what now is thy purpose concerning me? " enquired
the saint.
"I seek to keep thee out of the prison that awaiteth thee in
Gades," Symphorus made answer. " We journey to a sure and
safe hold among the mountains; and there thou shalt abide until
such time as ·the wrath of my countrymen hath abated, and
thou canst labour again for thy God in Gades."
"My time is short," cried Paul. " I am much beholden to
thee, but I may not tarry in idleness among the hills."
"Nay, thou wilt not be idle. For there, in the loneliness,
I will discover to thine understanding some fragment of the
Ancient Mystery-not all; for thou art but a babe in .know-
ledge and thy body is not framed to endure the hardships which
are borne by the initiates of the Green Dragon."
"I will not take part in any Mystery," declared Paul. "I
have come upon several of them in Asia and in Greece. I know
them to be either folly or a vain search after truth. For the
seekers' feet are set upon a crooked road."
" I would not have thee pollute the rites of the Ancient
Mystery by sharing in them," said Symphorus. "I would only
manifest my povver, declare my doctrine, causing thee to look
upon the tapestry of time and perceive the signs of the years,
the endless change, the rise and fall of the tides of life and
death. And when I have made an end of my showing I will sit
at thy feet and hearken to thy words."
Thanking this master, Pau~ fell into silence. All about them
lay a sunlit region, green and gold. It was in the early spring,
and the world rejoiced. Many coloured blossoms hid the earth,
and the ceaseless song of birds rose from the heart of wooded
ways traversed by the chariot. They passed but one night upon
the road, and towards noon on the morrow drew near to their
journey's end.
Behind the travellers stretched a wide yellow plain. Before
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 57
them rose dark, dead mountains, upon whose higher slopes no trees
or plants grew, no life flourished : a stillness reigned over ~hose
barren ways. Verily, this land resembled some lost earth con-
quered by an invisible evil which drove from its face the husband-
man with his plough and his sickle, with his olive groves and his
vines. Paul was very weary, when, having passed through a
stony valley, they came at last to the dwe~ling of Symphorus,
which stood in a niche in the hills, a small dwelling grey as the
rock.about it, set in a desolation.
No comely sheep wandered over those hills. No wild beru~t
roved, no bird cried. All about the travellers reigned a silence
unearthly, fearful as the loneliness in the deeps of Hell.
Now Paul's mind was at rest because he learned that the
servants of Symphorus had borne tidings of him to Luke, and
also he had dispatched a letter to him by a sure hand. But in
this desert place disquiet filled the saint once more, and at dawn
he prayed earnestly that strength should be given him for his
encounter with the baleful priest of the Ancient Mystery. On
that day they would enter within its gates; and the saint was
aware of a strange power wielded by Symphorus which could
cloud for a space his understanding ; then would he bewilder his
guest with subtleties of words.
The silence had passed with the sunrise. A great wind strode
the mountains and hunted through the deep, narrow valleys,
snarling and whining like some beast of prey. ·
" The hour is propitious," said Symphorus, as he greeted Pa!Jl.
" Come with me now into the cave of the initiates, and thou
shalt learn of my dream."
VOL. I. D
CHAPTER X
PAUL and Symphorus traversed the caves that bent this way
and· that, were dim and confined. So, for an instant, the
saint was blinded when he entered a vast hall illumined by many
torches wherein minstrels played soft music. These, at the
command of their master, withdrew into the depths of that lofty
chamber which was veritably a temple within the heart of the
mountain. But the murmuring of their instruments continued as
the saint hearkened to the words of the initiate.
'' Thou hast declared to me, Paul, the three excellent gifts
which are the signs of thy belief and the virtues of all who
would veritably serve thy God."
" Yea, faith, hope and charity," said Paul; "these are the
stones of our foundation."
"They are but sandstone then," declare!f Symphorus; " and
will melt away with the passage of the years. Know, most learned
master, that life and time move in cycles. Each cycle contains
three ages. First is there the pure and lovely blossom of spring,
and after it the opened flower, rich in the pride and glory of its
summer. Lastly comes the drooping and withering, corruption
and decay. Within all the beliefs of man there are ever these
seeds of death. And though thine is a lovely vision, Paul, it will
but live for a cycle of time, starting in the beauty of the blossom,
bearing nobility and the good with its perfumed flower, then
changing into what is but an ugly evil in that last season. It
must perish because faith, hope and charity are not enough.
All these virtues will fail if wisdom be not added to them. My
worship containeth faith, joy, delight in power, and lastly, in-
finite wisdom. Wherefore, only through it shall all men finally
be saved."
Now Paul began in eager, vehement speech to reason with his
host. But he prayed him to be silent. " Permit me first to show
to thee the tapestry of time. It will appear in strange images,
and thou wilt have small understanding of them. But afterwards
I will interpret all the figures and shapes that are made manifest
in this Chronicle of the Years ; and I will also open the book
58
. SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 59
of my wisdom, so that thou wilt know Alpha and, peradventure,
Omega."
Paul declared that he was prepared to follow Symphorus
through the Chronicle of the Years, and promised to be without
fear. For the initiate told him that he would look upon baleful
images that might cause him to turn back, fleeing from the night
into which they must enter, and wherein they would dwell for
a time and time again. Then this strange man took Paul's two
hands within his and held them, while one by one the torches
were quenched by the slaves, while the melancholy murmuring
of the distant music fell softer and softer upon the hearing, and
was gathered into a hush and a night that blotted out the
rich adornments of that temple, and all the company that were
in it.
And then it seemed to Paul that he stood in a void, that his
body did not rest upon the earth. He was sensible only of the
touch of the other's hands. In a little while there came a break
in that overwhelming darkness. A light like the first greyness
of dawn enabled the Saint of Tarsus to perceive that he
stood upon a rock on a high mountain. And slowly, far beneath
him, came from out the greyness the shapes of mighty cities,
wide pastures, forests, turbulent seas. And Paul knew them and
knew them not as familiar places. For all had a strangeness
which he could not comprehend. His soul was swept within the
embrace of a desolate loneliness; and almost he felt glad be-
cause he perceived still beside him the figure of the seer in his
ropes.
Then the darkness lifted and a radiance, a glory spread
over all those lands, lighting up for Paul the faces of uncount-
able multitudes of men. He was near to them, and yet far from
them, perceiving the earth, and at the same time, perceiving each
of these myriad shapes, and their labours, their busy comings
and goings. _
Howbeit, his eye was caught again by the wonder of that
radiance in the heavens; and soon he perceived a woman who
seemed to be the giver of it. She stood upon the winds and
' hung above the earth, and her golden robe lit up with its rays
the arched skies, the land and the spreading waters. Gazing more
closely, the watcher perceived that she did not, as he had at first
believed, rest upon the air. A star bore her upwards and on-
wards. And all the men who, like little insects, crawled to and
fro upon the earth lifted up their faces in worship and gave
thanks to this sky-woman for her golden rays.
6o WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Time passed; the moulding words of birth1
were uttered;
and Symphorus murmured, " Paul, look again."
There came from the underworld a dragon, red in colour,
mighty in girth. He rose up above the earth, hastening towards
the wonder-woman. And Paul perceived that upon her brows
was set a crown within which were twelve precious stones that
shone as the stars. And their lights were dimmed by the breath
of the red dragon ; and as he journeyed up the sky he was fright-
ful to look upon, for he had seven crowned heads and ten horns.
And again Symphorus whispered, ''Count them, Paul. Verily,
these are the evils which beset the soul of man, giving him no
peace."
The woman was with child, and cried her woe, praying for
deliverance.
And the dragon came upon her, and sought to devour the
child she brought forth. But swiftly the face of the heavens
changed. .The sky became as a silver net and it enveloped the child
and angels gathered about him and bore him away from the sight
of men. The dragon pursued them and there was war in the
heavens, and Paul saw that the angels fought not with the weapons
of men, but with the flail of the tempest and with thunder and
lightning, and they confused and bewildered the dragon, casting
him down to the earth. Even as he fell he clove in pieces certain
of the shining balls of light that dwell in the firmament, and others
were dragged by the tail of the mighty beast from their high
place and were scattered. But the son of the wonder-woman
was preserved.
Once more the dragon pursued her, and she fled to and fro
upon the earth. Then, from the mouth of this beast there poured
a sea as wide and deep as Adria. But the ground swallowed up
these turbulent waters, and the great angel descended from the
heavens and gave to the woman the wings of a bird wherewith she
might fly from her persecutor. ·
And now it seemed to the Saint of Tarsus that he was lifted
up and borne with Symphorus across the earth. They floated over
mountains, lakes and islands, over vast plains. At last they came
upon a wilderness which is beyond the confines of the world.
And the woman abode in that place in safety. For the dragon
was bound to the earth. Wherefore he persecuted the wise and
1 " The words spoken when there was chaos. They caused all that is visible
to appear. Those words drew the earth out of the void and created all living
things th~ move upon the face of the grouna and the face of the waters.
Those words unlocked the gates of life and signify continual creation."
r
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 61
the good who came and went upon it. Then he summoned
another beast out of the sea, one who had horns also and the
seven heads of evil. Upon each one of these was graven the
word "Blasphemy." And the dragon gave this beast authority
over men. It was in the likeness of a leopard, but its feet were
the feet of abear, and its mouth that of a devouring lion.
Now the'good and the true strove valiantly with the old dragon
and dealt its seventh head a deadly wound. So he sought shelter
within the mountain, and, finding none, descended into the deeps
of the sea.
And all this while Symphorus and Paul followed him, and
were at ease in each element. They journeyed among the rocks
and caves that are hidden in the watery ways. They set their
feet upon many-coloured shells and gazed on the myriad fishes
that drift above the floor of the seas.
The red dragon lay there moaning and crying because of his
deadly wound. But the beast he had summoned now crushed the
good and the true with his bear's feet and devoured the brave
and the noble with his lien's mouth. Wherefore, all that lived
were conquered and paid homage to this creature who bore the
name of " Blasphemy " upon his crowned heads.
And the dragon came once more from his shelter and bade
men serve this monster brought forth by him. And anguish,
cruelty and bitterness were the portion of the nations. In a
little while yet another beast rose out of the bowels of the earth;
and he had the two horns of a goat, but he spoke as the.dragon.
Graven upon his horns were the words "Knowledge of Evil."
And behold, through this knowledge, he healed the dragon's
wounded head and loosened those chains that held him to the
earth.
Many were the wonders wrought by this fearful monster. He
made fire his slave and the slave of men, so that they worked
all manner of marvels with it ; and they were filled with the
wickedness of the power bestowed upon them, and sought but to
hurt and wound all that lived and breathed upon the face of the
ground. Yet not all men were with them. A remnant remained
faithful and would not recognize the authority of this beast or
of his ancient father the dragon. So these were pursued and
tormented by those who worked miracles with fire, who bore
the mark of the beast upon their foreheads.
And Symphorus whispered, " Paul, this is the third desolation
in the Chronicle of the Years. Count their woes and bear them
in remembrance."
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Then, for a space, the mists gathered about the places men
inhabit, and about the mighty images of the dragon which they
had set up·in each city at the bidding of the horned beast. Once
more the watchers rested in airy ways with neither the ground
at their feet nor the waters about them, with neither sun nor moon
nor stars to lighten the gloom. And behold, dread and weariness
overcame the saint, and he cried, " Enough, Symphorus, I pray
thee draw me out of this broth of abominable wickedness, out of
this Hell, else shall I fail and perish."
"Nay, there is more to come," murmured the seer. "Brother,
look again."
And now these two watchers were as the eagles and had the
power of their wings, flying above mountains, seas and plains,
traversing worlds, coming at last to the great desert.
Again Paul perceived the wonder-woman and rejoiced in
the rays cast forth by her golden robe. But soon peace passed
from that wilderness, radiance was dulled and soiled by a mighty
presence of evil. For a time it was invisible. There came a
perfume like the incense in the temples ; it filled all that desert
with its pleasant odours. And it was in the semblance of red
clouds that gathered swiftly about the sky-woman, enveloping her.
Once more Paul perceived the red dragon ~nd knew that these
clouds were belched from his hissing mouth. The face of this
monster had changed and was in the semblance of a serpent as he
came guilefully upon the woman, coiling about her, and all the
time giving forth this red incense which darkened her robes,
changing them into a purple hue. .
And the dragon summoned the horned beast and set his captive
upon it. Then again were the two watchers borne back to earth.
Now the sky-woman reigned no more in glory in the heavens,
giving joy and delight to men. .She was throned upon the red
dragon, and her purple robe poured out scarlet rays of wrath
that stirred up anger, jealousy and fear in all the seed of Adam.
So they made war upon one another, and worshipped this changed
woman who bestowed on ~em cruelty, power and lust. Upon
her brows were graven "Mystery. The Mother of Harlots."
She was adorned with precious stones that were not like the pure
diadem of twelve stars which had been cast away. These stones
were in many baleful and fierce colours and gave out the malice
and venom of the serpent, filling men's hearts with the wrath
of destruction. And they tormented one another as never before.
All manner of pollutions were practised and goodness or truth
were not found in any city.
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 63
But a remnant of the good and the true bore witness against
this frightfulness. They were fugitives who had been betrayed,
and they sought the caves in the desolate places, hiding them-
selves away from the great evil. Though all joy had perished
for them they still possessed hope and clung to it, waiting and
believing in the salvation that was surely coming.
"Now thou knowest the last woe," murmured Symphorus.
" Almost is the Chronicle of the Years ended. Watch for that
end."
Soon the mighty arch of heaven broke in two halves and
there came from between them the son of the wonder-woman.
He rode in triumph upon a winged w4ite horse bearing in his
quiver the arrows of light, in his hand the spear of wisdom,
and girt to his golden thigh the sword of justice. The heavens
closed behind him ; for an instant, stillness reigned. " Truth "
was writ upon his brows in letters of pure flame. And Paul hid
his face because He could not bear the terrible light of their
fire. He wept, but there was no bitterness in his tears, nor was
there aught but awe, joy and love in his heart.
This shape of splendour descended from the dark blue skies,
seeking for the beast and the dragon which ruled the earth. And
he smote with his arrows the word " Blasphemy" that was written
upon the seven heads of the monster and he clove in two the
beast with his sword. The earth shook at his presence, men ·
fleeing to and fro in dread. For from the perishing beast there
came a plague of locusts that sought to devour all those who bore
the brand of the dragon. These had the hair of women and the
teeth of lions, and they slew a third part of the sons of men.
The winged white horse trampled upon these venomous sting-
ing creatures, destroying them. Then did the son of the woman
pursue, even into the bottomless pit, the monster who had tor-
mented his mother; and there he chained up the adversary,
binding him to the rock of damnation.
Great was that overthrowing. The struggle and the roaring
of the beast caused the land to be cracked iri divers places, stones
were flung upwards towards the skies; and the mountains were
riven or moved to another place. ·
Paul and Symphorus were shaken and wholly spent by this rend-
ing and tearing of all creation. They were gathered into them-
selves, their tongues locked, hearing and sight sealed, remembrance
blotted out, their understanding holden. ·
CHAPTER XI
WHEN Paul came from out the swaddling bands of a deep
sleep the earth lay smothered in dusk, the fate of men
hidden from his sight. But there rose from it a wailing like the
desolate cries of birds, and he knew that pain was not yet
ended.
The seer murmured, " Paul, I snatched thee away and caused
remembrance to wither within thee, for thou couldst not bear-
any more. Verily, I have shown thee only certain of the signs
that mark the Chronicle of the Years. Thou didst not perceive
the beings of the great dark. who bore, at the coming of the
king, the seven vials of the wrath of life. They poured them
out upon the men who worshipped the beast, forasmuch as the
rnajesty of life was offended by the service they rendered to
evil. And the first vial caused sores to break out upon the bodies
of the multitude; the second burned, scorching up many. The
third bore drought and the curse of the barren ; and the fourth
poured out blood that changed the sea into a place of death
wherein life no more abode. But I will not tell thee more,
inasmuch as the woes of the race of men in this vision are now
ending; and they will triumph even over these seven evils of
the soul."
" But this crying from earth breaketh my heart," said Paul;
"Oh, master of evil, bear me hence. It is enough."
And the seer made answer, "Through conflict man is being
reborn in a new and lovelier body. This woeful lamentation
cometh out of the agony of rebirth. Watch, Paul, behold the
end; and after that the beginning. For all things meet, and
the end is fulfilment." -
Now, for a time, the two abode in silent thought, Paul waiting
in awe, fear and pain. Swiftly all was changed; the dusk passed
as light came, and a still green sky hung above the earth.
Out of this vasty deep there crept and coiled a gr.een dragon,
splendid in raiment, glorious in the sight of men. He swam
to and fro among the leaping stars; he spanned the whole arch
of the heavens, swept back and forth in exultation; and 'his
64
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 05
cleansing breath wiped away the soil and hurt from the world,
healing the race of man which had been smitten unto death.
' The seer whispered," Come wjth me, come home to earth."
Then Paul drew near to the multitude who dwelled within
its borders; and he perceived a new Adam, one clad in beauty,
robed in the power of a marvellous body. In shape it was the
same as that in which he had been first fashioned. But now
it no longer tormented, no longer burned up his soul. On his
brow was written the word " Peace " ; from his eyes shone the
glimmer of dawning wisdom, and joy reigned in aU the four
quarters of the world. People laboured as of old, sought pleasure
as in the elder-days; but anger, greed and jealousy had fled ; so
was the world a paradise.
Now from out the underworld sprang the king of heaven;
and with the spear of wisdom he pricked the woman who wore
the purple robes. And these fell away, and she was changed as
men were changed.
Then the Beings of Light shouted for joy ; and the king led
the wonder-woman to her throne in the high heavens. Her golden
robes gave forth glory that refreshed •all creation, and her son's
silver spear guarded its deep peace. These two, the mother and
the son, reigned, and no beast disputed their kingdom. Before
them all men bowed down in worship.
" And thus shall the Chronicle of the Years be ended," mur-
mured Symphorus; " behold the kingdom of heaven is graven
upon the face of the earth."
"Nay," cried Paul; "this chronicle is a lie; these things may
not be. Thou hast cast about my understanding a trance of
falsehood, a pagan deceit. Thou seekest to bind my soul to thee
through the power of an evil dream."
"Be silent," cried the seer, " and look for an instant upon
Alpha before I interpret the signs woven into this tapestry of
time."
Then it seemed to the Saint of Tarsus that he was falling
from a great height, yet he was without fear. For a great while
he descended, passing through many strange places which he
might not perceive by reason of the swiftness of that flight.
And he gazed upon the earth once more and perceived men
in the elder state of being. They were content, but as children
playing in a garden. They were lovely as the first buds of spring,
but in their faces there was neither the knowledge of pain,
wonder, nor great joy. Only innocence and this pure content
abode within their hearts.
66 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
The sky-woman watched over them, nourishing them with the
light from her golden robe. And these men and women of the
beginning of days danced, sang, and made merry.
" But wisdom is not. There abideth only the emptiness of
innocence," murmured the seer as he cast the hood of dream
about his companion, drawing him away from the vision of that
first paradise.
CHAPTER XII
PAUL discovered himself in the mountain cavern, and he
perceived vapours like curtains parting and then vanishing.
Once more there came to his hearing the murmuring of stringed
instruments; and Syrnphorus drew near to him, and beckoning,
said, " Come with me, Paul."
They went into a small chamber hewn out of the grey rock.
There they rested while Symphorus spoke of the visions and in-
terpreted their many journeyings.
" I shall now call thee brother, Paul; for thou hast dwelled
with me in the shadow and the light of the greater day. Thou
hast joined in one of the practices of the Ancient Mystery.
Wherefore, all shall be made clear as in a glass to thine under-
standing."
And the saint cried out upon him, saying, "Thou hast sought
to shame me and to betray my God. Thou art a servant of the
Prince of the Air."
"Nay," said the seer sadly. "No power in heaven or earth
can compel thee to betray thy God. He hath thee in a sure hold.
Now hearken to my gospel; and after I have spoken thou mayest
declare thine own, and, peradventure, thou wilt ensnare me in
thy net." .
And with this answer Paul was well content.
" First I will interpret the little image, that last vision on
which thou didst gaze. In the beginning of time the earth was a
pleasant place in which to abide. It knew neither death nor
birth as men know them now. In that age the wonder-woman
nourished all living things with her rays. They suffered neither
from hunger nor thirst. The radiance given out by this sun-
goddess preserved and maintained life; so, when the hour of
death sounded for man, beast, or bird, their bodies were in no
way corrupted or decayed. They but passed into a kindly sleep,
and pain was not theirs in that passing. And behold, the green
dragon, that coileth and uncoileth among the stars, did drink
up their bodies so that they seemed but to vanish into the air. And
when a man was born the woman was not in travail or torn by
67
68 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
any anguish. She bore the child with joy, and the people sang the
hymn of birth, exulting in the new life given to them.
"Now the earth was called the Garden of Innocents, inas-
much as wisdom was not found in it. Men and women were con-
tent, for they were not acquainted with sorrow, pain or fierce
desire ; to them ecstasy and great joy were strangers also. They
knew naught of the wonder of change, the wonder of fear.' Verily,
they were innocents, for whom time was not, as time is known and
marked and numbered by pain and lofty joy, by woe and ecstasy,
by the fierce spring of the green or the red dragon within each
man. So this golden age might not continue to everlasting. It was
condemned by reason of its own emptiness, and it was swept
away.
" Wherefore, Paul, think of Alpha as the Garden of Inno-
cents in which abode neither wisdom nor knowledge, neither
destruction nor true creation.
" I may not now speak of the blotting out of that beginning.
There followed ages in which the face of the earth was changed,
and the texture of man's body became gross. It was a world
wherein he wandered without wit or understanding, in which life
devoured life, wherein was torment, and also joy after pain. I
will speak of the age in which the. Ancient Mystery was first
conceived. In that forgotten .time many tribes held the sweet
pastures of the earth and divided between them mountains,
forests, rivers and lakes. And they worshipped the sky-woman,
hailing her as the sun-goddess and the queen of heaven. They
worshipped also her son. Verily this ancient people held in
highest honour son and mother, for they were promise and ful-
filment, the son being known by the name of the mother, for
she was the life-bearer; and her image was graven upon him.
The father was life-bringer, and he guarded these twain. In
that time we worshipped not one God, but a king and queen
of heaven. Wherefore, motherhood being greatly honoured,
only certain women were set apart by the tribe for the bearing
of children. They were chosen for their manifold gifts. Only
these women, who might be the mothers of heroes .~nd wise
men, were suffered to bring forth life. Nor were they held in
subjection as thou wouldst hold them in subjection, Paul. For
the slave-mother will bear a slavish son. _
Curse the woman and
thou cursest man in the coming generation.
"Now, in that golden age, as certain women were chosen
for motherhood, so were certain among the wisest of the people
chosen to administer the affairs of the tribe. In our day neither
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SPAIN 6g
women, slaves, nor poor freedmen may sit in the high places
however noble the god that stirreth within them. So ·our loss is
great. In our time the worship of the wonder-woman no
more prevaileth among the nations; wherefore we breed men
with little souls, and the race of the heroes has vanished from
the earth. Until that day comes again when we respect our
race and show reverence for parenthood by our worship of the
sun-goddess and her child, we shall torment one another and ·
greed, jealousy, defilement and woe will prevail.
" The life and joy of that golden age were bound up in the
fierce wild life of the sun ; so was it noble and fine; and with
its perishing, man fell ; and now he is governed by the red dragon
and by the beast to hhom he has given authority. In that golden
age the nation was shaped according to the ordering of a com-
munity of bees. There were many workers and ·only a few
chosen queens, bearers of life. But men were not as the drones
of the hive. They were mighty in wisdom or in strength, noble
artificers, wondrous poets, marvellous shapers of the daily life
of the tribe. So peace reigned over the earth ; for all were
artificers of this golden dream. The red dragon slumbered,
wherefore war was not known, neither was oppression the rule
of all government. Every man ate and was filled, every man
had his share.
" But there came a time when the red dragon waked from his
long sleep and sought to devour the son of the wonder-woman.
A new age changed the ways of the tribe. But before I continue
my Chronicle of the Years, I would name the red dragon and
the green dragon and interpret these signs. Know that within
and without man there dwelleth a god and a demon. These
twain may slumber and make no stir for a, great while, but
suddenly will one or the other spring forth, and the soul of man
is overcome.
"Now the red dragon beareth only evil with him. He is the
one who causeth a man to slay his father, to torment and perse-
cute, to practise all manner of filthiness. He is the woe-bearer
and woe-bringer, and he is ruler in this age of corruption and
decay. But the green dragon is the god who maketh an instru-
ment of man and worketh miracles through him. With the
great life-power he causeth the feeble to becom~ mighty, raiseth
up the babe to confound the learned. The green dragon was
the god within thy prophet Joseph who whispered to him the
interpretation of Pharaoh's dream, who gave this humble slave
that wis<fom :which led him to be raised up ru; the ruler of the
70 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
whole land of Egypt and as chief among his own brethren.
Thou hast spoken of thy Master Jesus, and thou hast told me
how He healed the sick and waked a dead man from the sleep
of death. Verily, this miracle was wrought through the power
of the god within Him. Thou didst greatly move me with the
chronicle of the Resurrection of this mighty Master's own body.
For this miracle also came through the potency of the green
dragon, who, veritably, uncoiled himself within this Jesus of
Nazareth, filling His body with power beyond human knowledge
and human wisdom."
"Thou knowest naught concerning the mystery of Christ,"
cried Paul. "Defile not His Name by coupling it with these foul
pagan images."
" I crave thy pardon, Paul. Thou didst lead me astray by
calling Jesus Son of Man as well as Son of God. Wherefore, ·
I spoke of Him as a man." Here the seer, with a wave of his
hand, sought to stem the vehement, eager words that Paul would
utter. "I pray thee bear with my folly for a while longer.
Then I shall be prepared to hearken to thy doctrine from sunrise
even to sunset."
Paul bowed his head in assent; for he desired to know the
whole of this foolish Mystery, this vain superstition that had
led men in past ages to worship the sun-goddess, and those they
named the king and queen of heaven.
" There are, therefore, two manifestations of the dragon in each
man," continued Symphorus. " And either he cometh upon him
as a radiant glory when he is power, light, joy and wisdom, or he
envelopeth him, like a dark red cloud, when he beareth fierce
tyranny, cruelty, gloom, anguish and subtle craft. And behold, as
it is for the man so it is for all creation. There are underworld
powers .and heavenly ·powers. The sun, the wandering stars,
the earth and all living things can also be possessed by either
the noble dragon or the demon-dragon. And that time when
this red beast sought to devour the child of the sun-goddess was
the age of the flooding of the worJd when earth was carved into
new shapes and nations, like chaff, were swept away.
" In the new cycle there remained, among the remnant of
men who were preserved, the faded memory of the worship of
the sun-goddess by the people of the tribes. And certain small
nations strove to preserve the worship of the Great.Mother and
the practices of these many tribes who, in that vanished golden
age, had been bound together by a council of wise men who
guarded the doors of the underworld and did not suffer.the evil
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 71
dragon with the face of a serpent to break forth. Howsoever,
those small nations perished in this new time of blood and
destruction. In that season only the warriors and those bar-
barians practised in war, practised in the arts of the red dragon,
held authority and rule. Whe~efore the mother and the son
were flung from their lofty place in the hearts and minds of
men. And, as the sky-woman was driven into the wilderness
so was this, the only true worship, driven from the lives of the
people. But, with a few, the memory of it remained, and the
son and the woman of the golden robes were not, and never
will be, devoured.
" From time to time, in the age that followed in the chronicle
of the earth, prophets and seers would rise up and strive, in
some shape, to bear a vision of truth to men; and one of these
dealt the dragon a deadly wound. Know, Paul, that in certain
seasons, the green dragon uncoileth himself in me through my
practices within the Ancient Mystery, and then he bestoweth on
me infinite wisdom, the treasure of divine discernment. Before
I encountered thee I saw, as in a vision, that thy Christ dealt
this fearful wound to the red dragon. Wherefore, being in part
overcome, this baleful one summoned the beast with ·seven
heads and ten horns out of the sea. Dost thou remember the
word graven upon those heads? "
" Yea, Blasphemy writ in letters of scarlet."
" And canst thou interpret this sign? " ·
"Nay, I have no understanding of it."
"Subtle and crafty is that seven-headed beast. In the ages
to come he will seek authority over all nations and people in the
name of the Great Prophet. We initiates call the dealer of the
deadly wound by that title. But I alone know that He is Jesus
the Christ. In a future time a fearful blasphemy will be com-
mitted. Men will change the lovely vision of Jesus and shape it
according to their own evil imagination. They will murder and
torment the people, declaring that it is in the service of the Great
Prophet. They will hold the places of authority in His Narne
and make men their slaves by instilling the fear of Christ in
their hearts, and will rule in part through that fear, and in part
through the evil dragon which will .be roused up in every
nation.
"And when the power of this noble but defiled Name
waneth the ancient monster will summon a second beast which
hath the two horns of the goat and is veritably the child of the
infernal gods ; and upon his horns are written ' Knowledge of
72 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Evil.' Through this knowledge he will work vile miracles. He
will not make it serve any good purpose, it will only destroy
and bear distress and weariness, and at the last, despair to men.
" Thou mayest ask how it is that the lovdy vision of the
Great Prophet can be corrupted. As I declared to thee in a
previous hour, however marvellous its beauty it contains the
seeds of death, for the signs of this worship are but faith, hope
and charity. Desire for wisdom and the power of its light are
not contained in this lovely dream. Wherefore, it must fail in
the third age of the cycle, be oven:ome by ' Knowledge of
Evil' which can command men as faith, hope and love can
never command. Wisdom alone governeth the power of life.
And where will it be found in that hour of the might of the
third beast? Knowledge of fire and of its malevolence will be
a weapon that overcometh the good for a time.
"I have here spoken of thy Master, Paul, as the Wise One,
who, in the first of the three ages, wounds and almost overcomes
the beast. But know that I speak of only one cycle. Other mighty
seers have arisen in other cycles, and in the first age have wounded
the beast. But always because the seeds of death lie hid in their
teaching is the good they would serve overcome, and their vision
of truth is changed into a foul lie. And with this lie, in the name
of the Great Prophet, the beasts of wickedness rule. Wherefore,
the Chronicle of the Years is dark with pain.
"Always there reigneth blasphemy. And behold, the yellow
leopard skin is the power of gold, and the feet of the bear the
power of man's sword, and the mouth of the lion greed and
jealousy which cause the rulers to snatch all for themselves, to
pay no heed to the hungry people.
" Paul, I have known of many past beliefs, I have studied
the ancient times. But among the seers there has been none like
unto Jesus. Truly God dwelleth in Him, so I revere His Name.
Thou art His high priest but thou art not this Great Prophet in
the very texture of thy spiritual being. I have called thee mine
enemy, though no man of understanding will call Jesus aught
save friend and beloved."
"Thou hast no knowledge of the Master I serve. My words
alone have borne to thee tidings of Him," cried Paul.
"Nay, Paul, I guarded that secret. But I will no longer with-
hold it. I have seen Jesus, yea and in Nazareth, and I hearkened
to His words."
Then was the saint troubled and confused in soul, for he per-
ceived that he had encountered no mean adversary.
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS I N SPAIN 73
" Thou art mine enemy, Paul," continued the seer, "because
thy dark vision of a half truth will draw men away from the
search for the whole truth which is only to be discovered in this
Ancient Mystery, in the worship of the wonder-woman and
her child, wisdom. Only in the fierce, joyful life of the sun, only
in the radiance of the green dragon, in the deep peace of the
deliverer's wisdom can salvation be found for the men of earth.
And, despite the nobility of thine understanding, thou despisest
the joy of the sun's wild life, hatest my reverence for that wisdom
which would see in all who bear the coming generation the .
Great Mother, the guardian of the precious treasure of the seed
of men, its nourisher. Behold, the red dragon warreth with the
green dragon for th..y soul, Paul. Thou wouldst rule and have
authority, yet true wisdom is not thy portion. And lo, the hour
will come when all that vision of thine will turn to corruption
and decay; and until that hour, only a few good men or true
will seek the one worship which can bear back to earth the golden
age, that kingdom of heaven, that echo of the paradise that
dwelleth out yonder."
The seer flung forth his hand, pointing towards the stars. " So,
Paul, though we are brothers in understanding our so.uls are
adversaries. Between us there can be no peace until the salvation
I declare is won for men. Thou mayest ask why I do not follow
thine ensample and bear tidings of it to the nations. But the
hour is not yet come. Men are still as children in understanding.
Also I know that thy strange belief would overcome my wisdom.
Thou dost offer men terror of life, terror of death. For after
death they may be tormented according to thy teathing. Thou
seest naught but foulness in the love and worship of men and
women for one another. And I see how, when wielded in.
innocence and goodness, it is the pith and marrow of what I
call life, and will then rouse but the green dragon of beauty
within the man and the woman.
"Howsoever, all the Chronicle of the Years must be played
out beneath the shining firmament before men will come to the
knowledge of the golden age, before their bodies are changed, and
they find rebirth, joy and truth, in the worship of the Great
Mother, in the wisdom of her Son."
VOL. I. E
CHAPTER XIII
THE stillness of the green dawn hung above the bare
mountains when Paul and Symphorus again faced one
another. The saint had passed much of the night in prayer for
the deliverance of the seer from the nets of his false belief.<> ;
and the pleader with God declared that in this wise man was a
nobility of understanding that might make of him a serviceable
weapon in the warfare for Christ.
In the brightness of that early day the seer's face appeared
rugged and wrinkled as an ancient oak. He was of a great age.
but time had not dimmed the light in his eye, nor in any way
trammelled the swiftness of his mind. Now he greeted Paul
with courteou~ words, and when they had partaken of wine and
bread invited the saint to interpret the mystery of creation for
him.
The two masters gazed out upon the sunrise as Paul took up
the challenge, declaring his vision.
" First I would speak of the spell thou didst set upon me
so that the dream thou didst show me was as plain to my
sight as was that tumult in the streets of Gades. Most courteous
host, it seemed scarce fitting to ensnare me thus with thy dark
magic. I am but a simple servant of my Lord Jesus, and I
would have none of these things. Howsoever, I am guarded,
and despite mine own weakness no arrow of the adversary can
prevail because my Master's angels watch over me, and He is
with me even in these forsaken places.
"Now I will first speak of the Garden of Innocents which
thou hast, to my mind, wrongly interpreted. Nor dost thou know
the whole count of it. This Garden of Innocents is a false tale
that had its roots in a true happening in that first abode of
man which we Jews call the Garden of Eden. I have already
declared the beginning of creation to thee; I would but have
thee remember how Adam fell into a deep sleep, and God then
shaped Eve out of a rib of his body. I would call to thy mind
how Eve disobeyed God and obeyed the command of the
Serpent, eating of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge, and
tempting the man with it. Now, by this first disobedience sin
74
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 75
and death came into the world. And lo, it was through the fault
of the woman. Wherefore it is written, and it is God's will, that
she should be in subjection to man. In this wild unhallowed
adoration Glf a Sun-Goddess thou wouldst set up in the high
place the woman who is mother, and thou wouldst choose equally
amongst men and women those who shall teach and have
authority."
"Nay, not equally, Paul. I would choose only from among
the wise. If there be more wise men than wise women then shall
the former have rule in greater number. And if the wife possesS
the gift of wisdom, then of a surety she should, in her house-
hold, have authority."
" Verily, thou art woefully in error," cried Paul. " Know
that man is the image and glory of God, whereas woman is
the glory of man. So, as man should obey God woman
should obey man. This is but right and fitting, and we know
it is God's express will. For Adam was first formed, then Eve,
and Adam was not deceived. But Eve, beiNg deceived, was 'in
the transgression, wherefore we have the holy ordinance of mar-
riage, and the woman is saved through childbearing.
" It is written, that by reason of her first transgression, she shall
be obedient, silent, sober and devout. Only thus will she give no
occasion for sin. If she would serve God she must serve man
who is in God's image, and she must not usurp authority. Thou
dost speak of the flowing life that suddenly leaps up within man,
overcoming him. Thou dost set it in words, naming it the green
or red dragon. But thine interpretation showeth a strange
ignorance of the nature of this manifestation. The red dragon
is the old Adam in man, and when miracles are wrought by good
men then it is through the power of the Holy Spirit, through the
grace of the one God. That grace worked within Moses, within
David, within all our prophets.
" And now I would show thee the vanity of thy worship. The
sun is but a golden orb set in the heavens by the living God, so
that its rays may give light to the earth. It is as great a folly to
worship sun, moon or stars as to worship bird, beast or fish
which is the custom of many ignorant heathen. For there is
neither understanding nor knowledge in the beast nor in the sun,
moon nor stars.
" Now having gone utterly astray through the transgression of
Eve, all men sin, and they cannot through any power of theirs
escape from that sinning. God was very wrathful with the beings
He had created. Howsoever, we Christians are reconciled to God
;
WHEN N E RO WAS DICTATOR
through His Son. We are saved from this wrath by the life of
Christ. Truly, God is merciful, inasmuch as He sent His only
begotten Son Jesus to earth so that in His life and in Jiis death
He should atone for the sins of men. We who believe in Christ
and in the one God are washed clean of sin, and by our repent-
ance wholly redeemed from it. We are reborn in our Lord Jesus,
and for us salvation cometh. Christ by His death took the burden
of our sins upon Himsel£"
And here Symphorus spoke swiftly, " Then all that is demanded
of man is repentance. He may sin and sin again, yet if he
declare his repentance he will pay no penalty, for thy Christ hath
made atonement for him. Veritably, Paul, this is foolishness.
Each man must pay the debt he owes to destiny. However filthy
his acts he can, according to thy teaching, escape the torments of
the underworld if he declares his repentance and belief in thy
God."
"Nay, but he must show through his goodness and his -holi-
ness, through the purity of his deeds and thoughts the proof of
his belief in Christ, else is his repentance vain," answered Paul.
" Thou callest the love between man and woman sin," said
the sage. " I call it the flowing beautiful life that cometh from
the breath of the green dragon, that is nourished by the fire from
the sky-woman's robes. Thou seest naught but evil in_the flesh.
I perceive goodness and truth in its union with the soul. But that
can only come through the harmony bestowed on it by wisdom
which is the gift of the spirit."
"Nay, the body is evil because it nourishes carnal desires,"
cried Paul. " But carnal desires can be transfigured by celestial
grace. Know that there is a sin of which all men are guilty.
For every child of Adam is doomed through the transgression of
Eve. Through Eve all men die; through Christ shall all be made
alive."
" And what is thy authority for this saying? "
"My vision of Jesus on the road to Damascus, my,communion
with the Holy Spirit. Verily, I am weak and sinful, but the Holy
Spirit speaketh through m~, and hath set these sayings in my
mouth. Also I have held speech with the disciples of the Master,
and they testify to the truth revealed to me in the mystery of
Christ."
Symphorus rose up, walking to and fro in that small chamber
of stone, halting and gazing at the spreading light without. The
eastern skies were all green and gold, and the seer raised his
hands in greeting to it. " Behold the outward si~ of my
I
SAINT P AU L 's TRAVE LS I N SP AIN 77
worship," he cried; ·'Behold the robe of that glorious flowing
life to which thou art blind, brother Paul. I too have hearkened
to Jesus of Nazareth. His words and parables were pure and
fresh and lovely as this dawn. The poorest shepherds of the
hills had understanding of them. But thou declarest a doctrine
which darkens and bewilders the mind as clouds will dull the glory
of this wondrous dawn."
Again the seer thrust forth his hand, pointing to clouds frown-
ing and red, which were marching up from the southern skies,
and soon would put out the radiance of that first light.
" Thy words are not Christ's words," continued the aged sage.
" But thy words prevail with men in a future time even as these
clouds will prevail. I would, therefore, show thee the fruits of
thy labours. I will take thee once more into the region wherein
is graven the dream of the future ages, the dream of the infinite.
Howsoever, I would first ask thee if this tale of the Garden of
Eden is fable or truth. Dost thou believe that life began in that
fashion?"
" Yea, yea," cried the saint; " I tell thee of a true happening."
"Then, verily, the acts of thy God bewilder and confuse my
understanding. I would call the God who cursed all Eve's
daughters the evil demon I name the red dragon. For only will
the principle of evil take vengeance on the innocent, cause suffer-
ing for unnumbered years to be the lot of all women-cause
tormented man to labour among thistles and thorns, with sweating
brow to drag bread from the ground."
At this saying Paul rebuked Symphorus for his blasphemy.
But the sternness departed from his countenance and his voice
when he thought of the vanity and ignorance in which thiii
Mystery-Worshipper had been nurtured. And he said, " I sorrow
for thee, Symphorus, and pity thee in thy darkness. I was as weak
and foolish a sinner in the days of my youth. Know that when
Eve loosed evil upon the earth she gave herself over to Satan.
Wherefore she and all her seed were condemned by her own
error, but God, in His mercy, perceived that she could,
through suffering and through subjection, be saved from it. Nay,
more,. in His great love, He sent His only Son into the world so
that, through the sacrifice and resurrection of that Son, mankind
should be reconciled to the good. Thou speakest of wisdom as
the highest virtue. But the thoughts of the wise in this world are
vain. Earthly knowledge puffs up ; love edifies. The only true
wisdom is the love of Christ realized, so that the man is love as
Christ is love."
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
"I desire to show thee the triumph of belief in Jesus as inter-
preted by Paul, his priest," said the seer. "It is one of the images
in the Chronicle of the Years which hath been declared unto
me. I can but gaze, as through a window, on eternity. Wherefore,
only as far as the glance of the inner eye travelleth may my sight
journey. And by holding thy hand, laying mine upon thy brow,
I can draw thee to this window and discover to thine eyes the
same vision."
As the seer spoke these last words Paul rose up and strove
with him. But swiftly was he overcome by the elder who thrust
him once more upon the couch. And once more there came a
murmuring of strings, a soft music that seemed to draw all the
saint's strength from him, so that he lay there watching and
hearkening as the light faded and the dawn was swallowed up in
cloud.
CHAPTER XIV
T HERE was a rustle of leaves, a noise of shaken boughs and
the whispering of the flying insects of the earth. Light rose
and fell about Paul like waves of the sea, and from it after a little
while there broke forth seven flames which dispersed the darkness
that lay over a valley, and looking down as from a great height
Paul saw the secrets of the future revealed as in a mirror.
A city of white temples and marble palaces, of small houses
and mean crooked streets lay in that valley. From it rose the mur·
mur of the swarming people below. They came and went and
busied themselves with feasting, games and barter. And as he
looked downwards Paul saw the persecution of the saints ln
Cresar's garden. They were the sport of the populace, cast to the
lions in the arena, defenceless, forsaken, their limbs and tender
flesh broken and torn into little pieces by the wild beasts, for they
had refused to deny Christ.
Suddenly the scene was blotted out. And now Paul saw a man
whose back was bent with age, who could scarcely walk, and whose
whole body was bowed down. The soldiers who marched beside
him showed a certain respect for this small, twisted ancient. A hush
fell. None of the lewd cries of the arena-mob pierced that stillness.
No light jest or coarse mockery destroyed the solemnity of the
hour. .
And lo, the executioner raised his weapon; the captain of the
guard spoke the sentence of death. Then Symphorus plucked at
Paul crying, commanding, " Look upon his face, brother. Hearken
to the good confession he maketh for his Master Christ. Honour
the boldness of his testimony. Reverence the undying spirit of the
man who has witnessed what seemed to be the overthrow of the
great enterprise of his life, of the Temple he builded in hope,
despite many adversities, dedicating to it the best years of his life."
Paul would not look as Symphorus bade him for he dreaded lest
he should learn the aged prisoner's name. And while he resisted
the vision faded, but his fear remained and he trembled, and his
speech was holden and in deep anguish of spirit he was like one ln
a swoon.
79
8o WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Then, slowly, to his mind returned the memory of those many
persecutions of the saints which he had witnessed. And as he num-
bered them and reckoned up the few denials and the many bold
testimonies borne by his martyred brethren he rejoiced and exulted
and declared their triumph to Symphorus.
But the dark face of the seer drew close to Paul as he laughed,
saying, "Yea, brother, all these souls knew Christ through thee;
and noble were they in their deaths, mighty their testimony.
Thou shouldst be proud and uplifted, brother, that thou art the
shaper and creator of this wondrous heroism, this lofty spirit of
sacrifice. But look again and g~ze upon thy handiwork once
more."
And Paul now perceived Judrea and all the countries round
about that land. The shock of battle, the cries of perishing
arm.ies rose upon the wind, and he learned that in the Name of
Christ fierce warriors from the north made war upon the heathen
in these southern regions. And he perceived how they harried and
slew, giving themselves up to deeds of cruelty and lust, and he
was greatly confounded and abashed.1
" Blot out this image, blot it out," entreated Paul; " I cannot
look any more upon these dark unspeakable things."
So this piece of time was plucked away, and a brooding dark-
ness like the darkness before creation gathered about the
watchers.
Howbeit, the end was not yet come. In a little while the
face of the years peered and peeped once more through that
enveloping night. And Paul hearkened to the counsel taken by
iron-faced, greedy men who sat in the high places, who offered
lip-service to God, raising up to Him mighty temples, gathering
within their walls all the treasures of the earth.
Then, for a space the saint was stirred by the honour paid to
Jesus and by the sight of the multitude which thronged those
temples, worshipping the Great Name, hearkening to the words
of the preacher, which were, veritably, certain of the sayings of
Paul.
And now, he was glad as never before. He cried that his
dream of a church that spanned the whole wide earth was ful-
filled. But even as he gave thanks for the praise of God and Jesus
spoken in many strange tongues, he saw that the rulers who out-
wardly honoured God, building noble temples, did so but to give
countenance to their own sin. They wielded the Narne of Jesus and
t These visions evidently refer to Paul's death and the Crusades.
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SP AIN 81
the name of Paul as weapons, with them tormenting and destroy-
ing the poor and the humble. They made a spoil, they made a prey
of the husbandmen, the craftsmen, of all who were not warriors,
in the name of Christ.
He perceived that they burned men and women even as Cresar
had caused the saints to be burned. They justified themselves
and their cruel deeds of torment with the words of Paul and
in the Name of Christ. And lo, evil was heaped on evil, woe on
woe through the teachings of the Church the saint had founded.
And in his anguish, he cried out upon them; he sought to stay
the sentences pronounced by the rulers. . He commanded, pro-
tested, declared that they had twisted his sayings into a foul and
abominable lie. But the princes of the Church hearkened to him
no more than if he were a shadow, they continued to commit
abominations in the Name of the one living God, and to uphold
them with the words they said were those of Paul, the great saint
of Tarsus.
And lo, age by age, image by image, the chronicle passed. War
followed war, strife followed strife; and all nations hated one
another in the name of the Church, in the Name of the God of
charity and faith raised up by Paul.
So he strove to escape from seeing, strove to free himself from
the burden of the lamentations that filled his hearing. And, for
a space, the imaged life of time was withheld from his sight ;
quiet reigned; and in that quiet his fainting spirit was refreshed
so that his tormentor urged him, if he were not afraid, once more
to face the mystery that was seemingly conjured up from the
very bowels of the earth.
And now Paul perceived that the world had changed in all
that was outward, but what was inward and of the soul had not
changed.
Many strange creatures passed to and fro upon the earth. The
saint had not looked upon their like before. They were in the
semblance of serpents and locusts, bearing men, women and
children within their bellies ; but they did not devour them ; they
spewed them forth ; and at times such creatures travelled with the
speed of a shooting star.
The face of the heavens was also changed. Flocks of great
birds journeyed across the skies, and these too bore within their
bodies the shapes of men and women.
Then the saint was astonished and trembled because of the
sights and scenes of earth. For these also were strange to him.
But he perceived that many churches were empty of worshippers;
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
· the names of Christ and Paul forgotten by the multitude and
remembered only by a few saints who dwelled, far from the
turmoil of the vast cities, in quiet ways. And men multiplied
exceedingly and their sorrows multiplied, for they were aware of
the spirit, yet turned their backs upon goodness and truth,
whoring after these new creatures, these strange gods.
They fought and tormented one another for the possession of
these beasts and birds, and their minds were filled with the desire for
gold so that they might have power over these creatures. Hideous
indeed were the follies of the mass of men, and they found
neither health nor true joy in their lives. Gr~ater than ever was
the darkness of their ignorance.
"Verily, I gaze into the Pit. This is not the earth," were the
words of Paul. And because his soul was torn by the evil and
the despair of the nations, he strove again to blot out the image
presented in that foul mystery.
"Patience, brother," said the seer. "The day is coming, the
chronicle of the years of damnation is nigh to its end."
Gazing into the western mists, Paul saw a pale light, and
there appeared within that light a stranger who, though he was
in the semblance of man, was not like him in any other
manner, for his soul shone forth as a radiance that lit up his
countenance.
An inscription was set above his head. " I come not to bring
peace but a sword." Such was the reading of this writing.
But, in a little while, it faded, and there was shaped in its
stead the words, " I come with the sword of wisdom, bearing
peace."
" Behold the deliverer," said the seer.
And fainting and hard pressed in spirit Paul beheld the One
he had encountered on the road to Damascus.
"The long travail is ended," murmured Symphorus; "the
deliverer has come to earth; and the multitude of every race,
faith and clime will see their master and their prophet in that
face. Verily, nations and people find rebirth, joy and truth in the
worship of the Great Mother, in the worship and wisdom of her
Son." ·
Then the saint was beside himself as he cried out on this blas-
phemy of the Great Mother. And he yearned to look once more
upon the face of the Beloved. But it seemed as if a live serpent
coiled itself about him. He wrestled with these bonds, striving
with all his might against them. Of a sudden they broke like
wythes of straw, and he stood in a void. "Master, Master," was
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 83
his cry to that wide loneliness. But there came no answer ; no
shaft of light pierced the rolling mists.
·And once again as in his youth he knew that he was blind.
Then his understanding was smitten, ·and it seemed that his
very body was being riven asunder. But, after that anguish,
there gathered about him the cold, smothering vapour of death.
He strove again and yet again with it, yet might not force a way
through to the light and the vision that lay beyond. All strength
went from him, his spirit yielding, and he sank slowly, surely, into
unfathomable night.
CHAPTER XV
LUKE, Crescens and Andronicus were greatly troubled when
they learned that Symphorus had carried Paul into the
country in his ch~riot. They feared him as an enemy, but in the
late evening they learned that he was a friend ; for his slave bore
them tidings of the safety of their master.
He delivered to them a parchment on which was written the
oath of the Mystery-Worshipper. "In the Name of the
Ancient Wisdom I promise to guard and preserye the body of
Paul of Tarsus till such time as the danger for him in Gades is
passed." Thus ran the w<;>rds of this letter; and the saints re-
joiced for the name of Paul and the sign of the Cross were set
beside the name of Symphorus.
They held counsel together, and in the days that followed,
went quietly to and fro among the humble folk of the town-
persuading many of these to believe in Christ. Then, when
there came a second messenger from Symphorus they deter-
mined to depart from Gades, appointing Andronicus as Overseer
of the Church in that city.
The messenger travelled in a chariot and bade Crescens enter
it, saying that his master had need of him. So Luke declared that
he would journey to Corduba which is the famed city of learning
in Hispania, not far from Gades, being in the province of Bretica.
Wherefore he took leave of Andronicus, promising to abide in
Corduba until such time as Paul joined him in this city of the
red temples that was the key to the door of understanding in
Hispania.
Now Symphorus was a crafty seer. He knew that Luke was a
man of words and weight, so he would not bid him to his abode
in the mountains. This Greek might declare publicly the evil
and the arts of Mystery that were practised there ; and for the
sage this place was like the nest of a bird-he would keep it as a
secret from the people of that land. Crescens was youthful and of
a softer temper, wherefore Symphorus would keep the oath of the
Ancient Wisdom, delivering up to him the living body of Paul.
The saint was in a low fever, and Symphorus believed that
it sprang from a mind that had been wounded in those hours
84
I
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 85
when he sought to make an assault upon the soul of the Master
of Tarsus. He himself was sore sp~nt because of the roused
evil of those pa~t hours. Only Crescens might bear Paul healing.
So this brother traversed the yellow plain in the chariot drawn by
horses almost as swift as swallows. And he gazed upon the moun-
tains of B<etica and travelled up their rocky ways.
For him there were no fears of the spirit when he entered into
the caves and came at last into the presence of his master. Glad
were their greetings, and from that hour, Paul mended ; the fever
passed. In the quiet one evening, as he rested on a rocky perch
above the plain he opened his mind to Crescen~, telling him of
those evil scenes that had passed before his sight.
"Truly t_
hey were monstrous imaginings conjured up and
.painted on the air," said the saint, " by this Master of the
Mysteries, Symphorus. Verily, he showed me profane fables,
shaping them in the forms of dreams, and he declared the doc-
trine of devils, prophesying for the end the rule of the heathen
goddess, the Great Mother Isis, over the masses of men. And
even as he spoke this lie it was answered. For lo, I perceived
the face· of my Lord as it appeared unto me on the road to
Damascus. ln this hour when it seemed that I was passing
hence, that vision bore to me the truth and the life. It told of
the destruction of the heathen beliefs, the promise of the
Saviour that He shall come once more to earth and deliver the
elect at the ending of the Chronicle of the Years. So before I
fainted away and was not, my !oul was uplifted and faith re-
newed."
For a space the sick man held his peace, and it was Crescens
who broke the silence, asking why Symp!torus had preserved
the life of the saint in the time of the turmoil in Gades.
"Assuredly, the oath was given to thee, my brother, that no
·hurt should befall my body. For the enemy sought asubtler
way, sought to wound unto death my soul with these lies, these
false abominations. Better indeed for me to be slain by the men
of Gades than for my spirit to perish through the arts and prac-
tices of this seer. He led me into the underworld, into those
dark habitatiol}~ of Satan that may not be named.
" Truly, Crescen~, I have encountered the Tempter in the
shape of man. But I have not been overcome. Be wary, my
son, while thou art in these mountains, for here dwelleth the
Mystery of Iniquity, the Son of Perdition."
And now Paul fell back spent and weary from having declared
the temptation, the ~eat evil he had beheld. Crescena spoke
86 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
comfortable words, and remaining wakeful, sat beside his master
all that night. Towards morning the stillness was broken by the
playing of soft music, by strange sounds and melodies that
stirred and moved the heart of the watcher.
He perceived that the sleeper was not roused, only muttering,
uneasily, tossing to and fro.
In the hour when the first light of the sun struck through the
opening in the rock Symphorus entered the chamber bearing
a vial;, and from it rose a vapour that filled the air with sweet
fragrance. And the seer stood in the midst of that .chamber,
speaking strange words in an unknown tongue, then he turned
and made signs upon the air above the head of the sleeper.
But as Crescens was about to lay violent hands upon him he
smiled, withdrawing to the opening in the rock, and bowing to
the eastern light.
" I have failed, as in my heart I knew I should fail, to win
this· man's understanding," said the Master of Mysteries. "So,
behold, it is sealed from henceforth; and he will know naught
of the happenings in those past hours of revelation.' Speak not
of it to him, or to any of thy people, for verily, what is hidden
shall remain hidden till it is imaged and shaped in the flow of
the countless years."
Having uttered these words, Symphorus passed from the
presence of Paul and Crescens.
In the days that followed the young disciple learned, piece by
piece, by little signs and by sayings that these unspeakable things
were blotted out from the remembrance of his master. Only
· there remained the knowledge that he had met Satan face to
face in the copper mountains of Bretica, that he had wrestled
in the spirit with this mystery of Iniquity and had triumphed
at the last.
/
CHAPTER XVI
I T was with the young men who studied the philosophies in
Corduba that Luke conversed, for he knew that, wisely in-
structed, they might become leaders and teachers of the next
generation, influencing it for good even as Seneca influenced the
youthful Cresar in Rome..
In the past the Romans had been men of deeds rather than
men of thought. They valued knowledge if it gave them power,
but they had little wisdom, and therefore, despite their greatness,
were a people of narrow vision. They peered through a small
window upon life, whereas certain seers of Hispania stood as on
a mountain top, gazing upon eternity. And the noblest of them
all was Seneca, now first citizen of Rome. He guided the youth
Nero, directing all that was of moment in the administration.
So the people of divers nations rejoiced in a freedom and pros-
perity they had never known before. From Syria to Hispania,
from Egypt to Britannia rule and order reigned, thanks to the
Seer of Corduba. And every citizen of the Empire might de-
mand and obtain justice however unenlightened the people of his
nation, because of that one man of Hispania who lived as
simply as a poor shepherd in his splendid palace in the city of
the Cresars.
But Luke would find a Christian Cresar in Corduba. It was
the secret wish of his heart to come upon a young man he
could shape and fashion in the likeness of Seneca, but one who
possessed the knowledge of the Master, the sure faith and belief
in Christ. Afterwards when he spoke of this dream to Paul the
saint called it a folly, an error of the understanding.
Howbeit, Luke gathered together a score of young students
in Corduba who came and hearkened to his teachings each even-
ing, and in time, preparing to be baptized, to go forth among
their own people into the north of Hispania and to the farthest
borders of Lusitania, declaring the new truths and salvation in
which all men might share.
Now the lea~er of the flower of the youth in Corduba was a
rich man named Torquatus. He had journeyed to Rome and
had known the splendour of the life in that city. Once a
87
J
88 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
virtuous stoic he had fallen away, being somewhat corrupted by
the pleasures of the Romans. He was twenty-five or twenty-six
years of age when he returned to his own city, and therefore might
well lead the younger men in the things of the mind and the world
in that town.
And soon he perceived that he held his companions no more.
When evening came they made excuses, departing from his
house and his gardens. They were afraid to tell him of the new
vision that had been shown them, for they feared his light speech
and his mockery. But the secret might not be guarded for any
long time. Torquatus followed the young men and came to an
open space near to a small olive grove and house on the borders
of Corduba. There he beheld a company of youths who were
gathered about a stranger, and he quietly joined them, hearken-
ing to the words of Luke for the space of an hour or more.
When the speaker ceased from utterance he lifted up his voice,
saying: "Friends, brothers, I would answer this Greek and show
him that there are two faces to every piece of money, two sides
to every matter of philosophy and belief."
Torquatus was angered because he perceived that his com-
panions had been, carried away from him by this stranger,
and he believed that they were caught in one of the many
superstitions that came from the east ; so he spoke with vehem-
ence:
" I have been in Rome, friends, and I have sat at the feet of
Seneca who came from this city and is, peradventure, the wisest
man in the known world. He spake not of this new God, Christ;
he holdeth not with the belief in many gods. Reason and virtue
were the foundations upon which he held that man should build
his life, and mould the design of the years~ We have many temples
raised,to gods in Hispania. Janus reigneth over our city, Endo-
vellicus guardeth the fortunes of Lusitania, Mercury-Melcarth
watcheth over Gades, and Isis and many another are worshipped
in the Hither and Further Provinces. It is folly to add to the num-
ber of the gods by setting up this Christ, it is far better for us, who
are of the younger generation, to add to the world's wisdom
through the power of reason. Though I am not wholly in agree-
ment with the sage, Seneca," boasted Torquatus. "He teaches
that men of all ages should practise virtue and self-denial, and
expend themselves for a time in labour for the common weal
while yet maintaining that the highest life is the life of con-
templation. ' Those who do nothing do more than others ' was his
contention. And I have no doubt that he purposes in a later
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SPAIN 8g
season to fulfil this, the true destiny of the sage. But I hold that
we, who are young men, should seek every pleasure, every joy-
delight in women, in wine and in the sunshine of the flowin~
hours. Swiftly this spring passes, swiftly will our spring pass.
Let us make what we can of the scanty measure of vigorous
days allotted to each of us; and then, as true philosophers, in
our middle age, we will practise the virtuous life of contemplation
enjoined by Seneca, and declared by him in many wise sayings."
Now Luke sought to stay the flowing course of ·this young
man's words. But he was silenced by the sudden sharp manner
in which the speaker turned upon him, saying, "Thou wouldst
have us lead a virtuous life, loving all men, denying ourselves all
things so that in a future time we shall be rewarded with joy
and peace in Paradise. But know that when we go down into
the grave we go into everlasting silence. Verily, men waste the
present as if it were of no account, looking always to a future
which may never come. Wherefore, young inen of Corduba, I
bid you follow me. I bid you, as the bee, tas'.e the honey of every
flower, seeking enjoyment in women and in all the pleasures that we
can gather from the years. If you are caught in this man's net
you will lose the present for the sake of a future which ends in
the everlasting stillness of the tomb."
Perceiving that Torquatus paused, Luke took up the word,
saying, "The tomb is not the end. We pass through it to another
life, of suffering for sin, or of deliverance from all pain. If you
young men of Corduba will take to your heart the sayings of
Christ as I have imparted them to you this deliverance will be
yours. And if you walk in His way you will find the peace and joy
that cometh only out of the one Truth, which so far has been
hidden and is now revealed." ·
The youths were ill-mannered, and losing patience, bawled
at Luke, crying out, " We will hearken no more to this ignorant
Greek. We follow Torquatus. Speak out, Torquatus. Thy
words are true words that show this stranger's saying to be a
vain superstition."
In other sentences the young noble of Ba::tica repeated all that
he had already said, 1
and the young men applauded, promising
their adherence to this way of the flesh, which, they babbled, wa~
the road of the wise. Whereas Luke would have them demean
themselves, putting on the garments of beggars, the meekness of
hirelings and slaves.
All this while there rested two travellers on the edge of the
slope within the shade of the olives. None of the group of
VQL. I. 11'
-
go WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
youths observed them, but now they came forward ; and one was a
man straight as a forest tree, the other a bent ancient whose robe
was so travel-stained that he seemed, to these ignorant Breticans,
a vagabond of ignoble mien.
Through the gathering dusk he advanced upon Torquatus.
And when he was near this windy orator a ray from the depart-
ing sun made a circle of light about him and also about that
cluster of men who held the promise of Bretica's future.
The ancient was Paul and when, straightening his bowed body,
he faced Torquatus there came a change, a rustle and a stir among
those who hearkened, as he whom they decided to be a vagabond
now by reason of his look and speech declared himself to be a man
of authority.
Torquatus was silent, for he was suddenly rendered uneasy and
held by the power of that piercing eye that fastened upon his
countenance.
"Brother," said Paul; "thou speakest the words of betrayal.
Boast no more."
Torquatus tried to answer boldly but could only mutter,
" Stranger, what is thy business? Where is thy authority? "
. " Verily, brother," answered Paul; " my authority is not of
this world. It is of another. And in the Great Name I conjure
thee to be silent. For in this philosophy of thine thou declarest
thy doom. Before this spring of Bcetica has passed away the
snares of death will encompass thee about and thou shalt know
the greatest of all fears that are held by foolish men ; thou shalt
know the fear of eternal darkness, of a night of which thou
hast no knowledge."
Torquatus did not utter any word. He was as one star-
stricken, gaping and making a foolish mouth. He did not be-
lieve these words of Paul and had no understandjng of their
import. It was the strong, deep voice of this seemingly feeble
ancient, the power of the Spirit flowing from him, that mas··
tered, overthrew and confounded this man who was in the pride
of his youth, in the bloom of his years.
His followers murmured, saying, " Speak, Torquatus. What
is amiss? Prove to this stranger that his words are foolishness."
But their leader remained silent, for the spiritual power of the
Seer of Tarsus held him as with a spell.
" Remember my words, son; and in thine hour of need sum-
mon me and I will come to thee." Thus saying, Paul turned
himself about, and slowly, wearily, toiled upwards to the door
of the house, entering therein. ·
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 91
Then it was as if chains were loosed and the limbs of Tor-
quatus freed. But speech had been reft from him. He turned.
Thrusting aside his followers, he went his way disappearing into
. the gathering night.
Luke and Crescens followed after Paul; for they always feared
the weakness that followed the fatigue of a journey or after the
hour of his illumination. Truly, he had been as some great light
that is set in the heavens, dazzling Torquatus with his radiance.
And the young men hung about for a little while. Then forgetting
the long speeches of Torquatus, whispering one to another con-
cerning this mysterious stranger, they went in two's and three's
down the slope of the olives, seeking in that dusk the comfort of
the lights of Corduba, the assurance of the crowded streets of
that town.
CHAPTER XVII
ON the morrow a messenger bore letters from Gades, written
by the Roman brethren. They contained tidings that rejoiced
the heart, for they declared that there had been much talk of the
good confession made by Paul at his trial before the Pra:torium.
He had then claimed and won for the disciples the right to preach
the doctrine of Christ throughout the Empire; and it seemed that
the fine earnestness of Paul, his wisdom, his brave mien had
caused certain noblemen and freedmen to inquire into the Gospel
taught by this man of Tarsus. Amongst them were Stoics of the
ancient families of Rome, and two or three of the servants of
Ca:sar's household had conversed with Linus; for they desired
privily to obtain knowledge ; and a freedman called Annaeus of
Seneca's household had come in the name of his master, asking
for the Roman citizen Paul. He would not speak with any other
member of the church and said that when the Master of Tarsus
came again to Rome he would be received in audience in the
household of Seneca.
This invitation was the highest honour that might be offered
in the Eqtpire to one who had knowledge and understanding.
Paul was well pleased but sorry that he might not be at Rome
and in Corduba in the same hour. So he changed his design,
which was to pass a year or more in Hispania, journeying into
the wilds of Lusitania and Tarraconensis. He would be in Rome
in the coming winter, for now Linus knew that only Paul, given
opportunity, might convert the Stoics and those noblemen of dis-
cernment who abode in Ca:sar's city. Linus possessed no learning;
he was a simple brother, filled with zeal, and in truth, had failed in
his first encounter with the Stoics. The Saint of Tarsus had re-
ceived from the Apostles the courteous command that he !!hould
seek an honourable retirement for a time; their command springing
from their old fear of the turbulence and wrath ever stirred up by
Paul. But lo, all was now changed by reason of the praise of Paul's
noble testimony to Christ-rendered before the Prefect of the Im-
perial Court. Now the brethren at Rome entreated him to come
9 ~
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 93
speedily among them again and thus hasten the work of spreading
the knowledge of the Master.
But the saint would abide for one more season in Hispania.
He liked not to turn back from this rich field before he had sown
the grain of truth. So he held counsel with Luke and Crescens ;
and they determined to dispatch two of the brethren to Astigi,
one to Malaca and one to Acci.1
Only Luke was to remain in
Corduba in the company of Paul. Thus wisely were the nets C<l$t
over .Hispania, and each great town was noted in that land and
set down in order by the saint for the visit of one of his disciples.
In this manner had Paul shaped the churches of Asia and of
Hellas; for it was ever his design to have the Word declared in
every city of each nation within the Empire.
And when the brethren had gone their several ways he sought
out, the poor of Corduba; for he was not of the same mind as
Luke. " If the young men of learning and good parts will not
come to me I shall not seek them out," he said. "Verily, I am
weary of those who for long hours debate on quibbles of philo-
sophies, who make a play with words, not perceiving that it is the
letter that is of little account. The spirit of the word alone will
build and create the noble life. Those who, like these youths, are
not prepared to receive the spirit, will but waste our precious store
of hours, for we may not abide any long time in this town."
Luke answered nothing, but he was sorrowful because the
youths he had instructed were now wholly turned from him.
From time to time he learned of their rioting and feasting, of
the many follies into which they fell through putting into practice
the advice of Torquatus.
On an evening of darkness and thunder there came a mes-
senger to the House of the Olives. He was a young man with
a troubled mien, and he said: "My friend, Torquatus, is lying
wounded unto death, and he desires thy presence before he passes
hence." Wherefore Luke hastily girded up his robes, saying, "I
will go to him on the instant.''
"Nay, nay," cried the young man. "Thou canst not in any
way mend his state. He would speak only with the great master.
He alone will serve."
And though Paul was weary he rose up and accompanied the
messenger through the streets of Corduba and past the red
1 Gaudix (near Granada).
94 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Temple of Janus. As they walked the young man told of the
evil that had befallen his friend.
Following the principles he had laid down, he had cheated a
merchant of the city of a great sum in gold. He had also taken
from him the woman he loved ; and as the merchant could not
through the law gain redress, he had broken into the house of
Torquatus, slain this woman, and later in a brawl, wounded his
enemy with his sword.
" Torquatus crieth for thee all the day," said the messenger,
" and declares that he dare not die until he has held speech with
thee. Master, I know not if thou hast power over the under-
world; for verily, Torquatus seems to be in great fear of thy might
and of what thou mayest do unto him if he passes beyond the
borders of this present life of ours."
" I know what lies beyond those .borders," said Paul. And the
young man trembled, for in his trouble wisdom deserted him and
he believed the saint to be a wizard who might conjure up evil
visions for the departing soul.
So the two walked in silence until they came to the dwelling of
the young Bretican nobleman; and in a hall of ivory and cedar
near a fountain lay the sick man, and he was crying out because
of his pain and the heat of his fever.
Then Paul took his hands, and, saying no word, stroked his
brow. In a little while the sickness abated somewhat, and Tor-
quatus had once more command of his understanding.
He whispered his need, for he had no strength because of the
blood that he had lost. "Master, I know that I am perishing, and
soon the stillness of the grave or the phantoms of the underworld
will gather about me, and I am greatly afraid. My vision was
false and thine was true. But haply thou art come, and perad-
venture thou wilt, out of thy wisdom, tell me some way whereby
I can bravely face this death." ·
"Nay, thou wilt not die," said Paul. "This wound was given
thee in order that thou mightest live. For truly, in these thy days
of pleasure thou wast but groping in the darkness of the flesh.
But in a little while, if thou wilt bear with me, thou wilt find the
life and the truth."
And Paul washed and bound the young man's hurts, giving
him ease. So, in time, a measure of strength was his, and he
overcame the adversary death.
Then, one evening, when the saint was again in his company
he prayed for his counsel, declaring that he was like a man who
had travelled a road that led to a cliff's edge. "Master, show me
SAINT PAUL's TRAVELS IN SPAIN 95
some other way," was his prayer. "Through thee I have escaped
death. And now I suffer the pains of the mind and not of the
body. I see no road before me. I would be guided by thy sayings.
But I cannot follow the counsel of the Greek. Lo, pleasure and
riches are my need, and I cannot see how any man, who seeks the
life of poverty, gains aught. For riches are as an armour that
protects and guards a man against the rude buffetings of the
world. How can any man be virtuous when he is poor? " .
Calling to mind the vain words spoken in pride by Torquatus
on the slope of the olives, Paul said to him, " Men of thy kind
desire but to possess the things of this world and fail to perceive
that this desire is vanity and a cause of unceasing care. Whether
it is fulfilled or no, its fruits are sorrow and bitterness. I have
suffered the loss of all such things and I have gained immeasur-
ably. Turn to the true way. Walk in the light of Christ. Forgive
thy neighbour his trespass. Be merciful, long-suffering, and for-
bearing, and thus wilt thou wear an armour no sword can pierce."
And Paul stroked the sick man's brow saying, softly, " Son,
image in thy. mind whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things
are honest, whatsoever things are lovely and the peace that passeth
understanding may yet be thine."
"I am caught as in a net," cried Torquatus: "I cannot
escape." Then he spoke of the temptation that beset him in
various times and seasons. " The beauty of women is to me as
the fragrance of the vine-blossom. It casts a spell upon my mind,
filling it with dreams."
" Such dreams are visions of the dark," answered Paul. " Let
thy mind be filled with light, then there will be no place in it for
evil imaginations." .
" In past times when this madness came upon me," groaned
Torquatus, " I have strewn the rubies and the white sapphires of
Lusitania at their feet. Yea, I cheated a merchant of a fine sum
in gold for this end."
Then Paul told the sick man that if his whole being were filled
with the one purpose and worked for that purpose it would blot
out such disordered fevers and desires, delivering him from the
desire of women. "For some men it is better that they should
marry than that they should burn. But thou art riot of that kind.
Freedom for thee can come only through faith and warfare for
faith. Sin will wholly enslave thy mind." And Paul related the
story of his life, telling of the long years of conflict, of how
his father cursed and disowned him, of his defiance of his
own race. He spoke of afflictions, floggings, shipwrecks, stonings
g6 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
and always of his joy as a loyal soldier of his M aster in these
sufferings. Thus he lit up the bold spirit of Torquatus, causing
him to cry out that he, too, ~ould go upon this fine adventure.
"Thy words cut through my bonds," was his saying. " Thou
hast spoken truly. The world is a battlefield and I will follow
thee and fight under thy banner."
With this thought in his mind Torquatus swiftly mended in
health; and when he was whole he gathered together the youths
of Corduba, compelled them to come and sit at the feet of the
Seer of Tarsus, and also led them to be enlisted as soldiers in"the
army, as he called it, of Paul and Christ. So eager was this young
nobleman he placed all his monies in the one purse that was kept
for the saints. And he obtained leave of Paul to depart to Acci,
his birthplace. There he would aid Crescens and cause the people
in that town to follow him in this brave enterprise-the conquest
of the spirit of man throughout the known world.
Howbeit, haste and zeal were not guided by prudence and
wisdom. He destroyed the work of Crescens in that town. The
greybeards laughed at the young man they had known as a boy ;
and their mockery so angered this soldier of Christ he forgot
himself and insulted them and the gods of Acci, calling the gods
demons and the water nymphs, in which the mob believed, evil
spirits of the underworld, servants of the dread J.Eternium who
was said by the people to rule those dark places.
They turned upon Crescens and Torquatus, and casting stones,
drove them from Acci. Wherefore, though bleeding and broken,
Torquatus faced his persecutors when a mile from that town,
crying: " 0 citizens of Acci, I will return again ; and when I
come once more my God will show H~s power through me.
Humbled by the signs of His might you will then cast yourselves
down and worship Him only, Him, the pure, the ineffable One."
They would have torn this proud youth into many pieces if
Crescens had not said unto the mob, " We are under the pro-
tection of Rome and of Cresar. Ill befalls any man who mal-
treats us or lays violent hands upon our person."
It was well said, for only thus could these two have been
delivered in that hour of strange anger when the rabble were :u;
men possessed by devils. ·
After that time Paul forbade Torquatus to speak to the people
in public. He made of him a server of the brethren, setting him
ignoble tasks; and because of his respect and worship for the
saint he obeyed him in all things, and travelled in his train
through Gaul to Rome.
SAINT PAUL'S TRAVELS IN SPAIN 97
There this fiery man abode for a year or more. When he had
been disciplined and learned to command himself, he returned to
Hispania. And it is related that his mind was then filled with the
one purpose, imaging whatsoever things are true, whatsoever
things are honest, whatsoever things are lovely.
So it came to pass that, having spoken to many of the people
who were celebrating a festival to a heathen god outside the town
of Acci, he declared that the sign promised by him would shortly
be shown to them. Again they mocked and laughed at hin'l.
Laying hands upon his body but in no way quelling his fearless
spirit, they bore him rudely enough towards the town.
It was a day of thunder and heavy rain. When a score of the
rabble stood upon the great bridge of Acci there came a small
quaking of the earth and the bridge fell, many were wounded
or killed in that hour of terror. For the heavens opened and
were filled with lightning. After that darkness spread over the
skies and only lamentation and wailing were heard, and those
who remained whole entreated Torquatus to stay the wrath of
his powerful God.
So he conquered. And when again the sun shone and days of
stillness, bearing good harvests, followed, the people hearkened
eagerly to one they called "the High Priest of Christ." Where-
fore Torquatus was named by the Apostles as the first bishop of
Acci and was indeed the first in Hispania. Through this Bretican
the greater part of that country was won for Christ.
Having established a church in Corduba Paul went to Cartage,1
a strong city that stands upon a hill near the sea. There he abode
in the season of summer and autumn, and with the aid of
certain of the youths of Corduba who interpreted for him,
he conversed much with the poor and the fishermen in that
town. Thes~ fishermen formed a college and were men of some
knowledge. So they gladly received Paul. Indeed, in that time,
he spoke with men of every kind, stirring even the soul of
Publius, the governor in his palace ; winning also certain of the
merchants with his tidings. But it was the fishermen of Cartage
who never forgot Paul, remaining faithful, abiding by his words.
That was a gracious season for the ageing Apostle ; and for him
the years dropped away, strength being renewed before he
1 (Carthage Nova) Cartagena.
g8 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
journeyed to Tarraco ;1
and afterwards passed along the coasts of
Gaul. He went north a little way and stayed for a short while at
Lugdunum,2
so it was not until the spring of the following year
that he saw the Seven Hills of Rome again.
1 Tarragona. 2 Lyons.
BOOK II
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME
CHAPTER XVIII
I T was an age notable beyond all others for wealth, vice, lust
and cruelty, for ascetic virtue and sublime sacrifice. It was
an age when saints, demons, devils and heroes walked the earth.
To win gold and power a man would betray his dearest friend,
giving him up to torment and death. The father of Nero
plucked out the eyes of a Roman knight and trampled a child
to death with his horse's hooves in the Appian Way. The slave
girls of Octavia, the Empress, suffered the torture of the rack,
but even in their last agonies they would not bear false testimony
against their virtuous mistress, or call her an adulteress, as her
persecutors demanded. ·
The licence that comes with great wealth prevailed in Italy.
On the lakes, on the banks of the Arno, in Campania and in
the Alban hills stood the huge palaces of the nobles. These were
adorned with the marbles of Phrygia and Numidia. They con-
tained many tables of citrus that rested on pillars of ivory,
gilded ceilings, ornamented with gems that were borne from the
four quarters of the earth.
The palaces of the Emperor and his favourites were store-
houses of the plunder of empire. Rome contained rich treasures.
But despite its fine buildings the common people dwelled in
narrow, twisted streets; numbers existed in hovels riot fit for
swine. Many of the poor lived in idleness, fed by the bread
the State provided, and kept in contentment by the barbarous
sports and games in which men and beasts contended. Rome
was indeed the home of idleness and pleasure, a gossip-house
to which were carried all the stories and scandals of the known
world.
Into such a world Nero came feet first; and this manner of
arrival was said to be an evil omen. In a later time the rueful
prophet whispered that he was the last of the Julian House, the
last of the Cresars.
Through the murder of Claudius, her husband, Agrippina
raised Nero to the throne. So on the first day of his rule he
gave to the palace guard the watc;:hword "Best of Mothers."
Yet it was written in the Book of the Years that first the " best
}01
102 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
of mothers " would be shipwrecked, then done to death through
the orders of her son, and these were given at the bidding of
Popprea, the harlot.
Hts counsellors, Seneca and Burrhus, hailed the young
Emperor as god upon earth, telling him that he was the arbiter
of life, death and fortune to people, nations and cities that no
man might number.
But despite the hateful deed of Agrippina and the poisoning
of Britannicus, Claudius's son, at an imperial banquet, all pro-
mised well for the ship of the State with the wise Seneca as
pilot and Burrhus as second man at the helm.
During the first ten years of Nero's reign no death sentence
was placed on record, and only two men were banished for the
offence of treason and for defaming the Emperor's name. His
two ministers insisted upon purity of administration in all the
twenty-five provinces. If the authorities suspected any governor
of corrupt practices enquiry was swiftly made. So such men
sought to walk·circumspectly and strove to keep the example
of Seneca's integrity ever before their eyes. Call, therefore,
the first ten years of Nero's reign the years of mercy and
justice. Never indeed had the Empire been so wisely ruled.
When Paul could not obtain a fair hearing from his own nation,
persecuted and maligned he appealed to Rome and secured the
charter of freedom for himself, his brethren and the Church from
the Prefect of the Imperial Court.
Nero had seen but seventeen summers when he came to the
throne, and while still a youth he showed himself to be sound
and far-seeing in his judgments. He even devised a plan whereby
the taxes on trading should be removed, giving free commerce
between the different provinces of the Empire, but he discovered
that he had not the power to enforce this dream which, assuredly,
would have knit them all together.
Nevertheless, in judging Nero, it is well to remember that
within him were two beings-a wise-minded man and a demon;
the one or the other ruled according to the company that was
about him.1
When a youth he hearkened to Seneca, and at
times regarded him as a well-beloved father. Then was his mind
filled with wisdom; but the monster of cruelty that lay coiled_
up within his nature would on occasions strike low those whom
he feared of the Royal House, or those who offended his vanity.
Two people, Tigellinus and Popprea, appealed unceasingly to
1 Note the symbolic reference to the " Dragons " in the Mystery-visions
of Symphorus.
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 103
the evil within him, and at last the darkness of his soul overcame
the light. Evil triumphed and years of terror followed years of
murders, slayings and executions, the great fire·and the season of
frightful torture for the saints in Rome.
Burrhus had died two years or more before the fire. And per-
ceiving that he could no longer guide the Emperor, Seneca, des-
pite his master's entreaties, sought a close retirement in his house
at Rome. He told his friends that he was weary of the world
and, desiring to pass his days in study and contemplation, he could
no longer undertake the burden of the cares of State.
But it was another reason that led the sage to surrender up
his lofty place as second citizen of Rome. He had listened to
Nero, heard him boast of his new philosophy which declared
that the life of self-indulgence was the life of virtue, that the
wise man should seek only his own pleasure, and sin and evil
living should from henceforth be his rule of conduct.
Seneca perceived that Tigellinus had sown this belief in the
heart of the Emperor, and knowing that naught would uproot
it, he departed from the council chamber rejecting his master'3
request that he should remain. For he would not in any way
be answerable for the deeds of darkness that must be committed
by an emperor who listened only to the advice of a profligate.
It was Tigellinus and not Popprea who changed the soul of Nero ·
and thus led him to ruin and a miserable end.
When, therefore, Paul was journeying to Rome, Seneca was
no longer in authority. Tigellinus ruled Cresar through devising
for him all manner of licentious pleasures and through flatter-
ing his vanity by hailing him as a god of poetry, a veritable
Apollo with his lyre.
CHAPTER XIX
NOW as Popprea was the woman of evil, Pomponla
Grrecina1
was the woman of sorrow. Her father, a prince
of Britannia, had in past times offended the Romans, so his
young daughter was captured and taken to Rome. Later the
Emperor pardoned the prince ; for false accusations had been
made against him. He had been tortured by the Romans and
did not live long after his lands had been restored to him.
While her father still_lay in bonds Pomponia was sheltered by an
ancient Roman family ; and the eldest son of the house, Plautius,
looked upon her and loved her. He was a just man and desired to
take her to wife. Wherefore his kin were incensed against him, but
he would not yield. They did not consider it fitting that a Roman
general should marry a woman from Britannia. But when the
Emperor made restitution to her father he married this.girl who was
strangely unlike the Roman women. For she was fair as the yellow
cornfields in the season of harvest, and her cheeks held in them the
soft bloom of the flowers. So Plautius rejoiced in his love and had
his wife instructed by men of learning. He would make her a com-
panion to him in the things of the mind. And in that first
season after marriage theirs was a perfect love.
He served the Emperor in the provinces and at his court. In
their youth the young couple were without care, joining in the
revelry and pleasures of the nobles. But they were not cor-
rupted ; they committed no evil. Plautius went not after strange
women and Pomponia lived only for her husband. Hers was a
1 Tacitus (Annals xiii. 5.2) referring to the year ~57 says: " Pomponia
Gra:cina, a distinguished lady, wife of the Plautius who returned trom
Britain with an ovation, was accused of some foreign superstition and handed
over to her husband's judicial decision. Following ancient precedent, he
heard his wife's cause in the presence of kinsfolk, inviting, as it did, her legal
status and character, and he reported that she was innocent. This Pomponia
lived a long life of unbroken melancholy. After the murder of Julia, Drusus'
daughter, by Messalina's treachery, for forty years she wore only the attire of
a mourner with her heart ever sorrowful. For this, during Claudius' reign,
she escaped unpunished, and it was afterwards counted a glory to her."
This is the only notice of her in ancient literature. De Rom (Rome Satta·
anea, ii. 360-64) would identify her with S. Lucina, she having adopted that
name at her baptism. See also W. R. Brownlow and J. S. Nortfi<;Qt.!(~ .Rqme
Sotteranea (186g), pp. 40, ll!4, etc. ·
104
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROM E I05
deep and tender soul. She loved her children and her kin, but
made no friends among the Romans. For they disliked her cold-
ness and purity.
There came a time when she knew the bitterness of death and
parting. Her three children perished in their early years-the
last dying of the pestilence that oft-times visited Rome. Then
their mother was distraught with grief, for Plautius desired above
all else that his name should be continued through the genera-
tions. ·
He became silent, cold and stern, withdrawing into himself.
And his wife suffered much because of this change in him and
because she knew that she would bear no more children. In
her trouble she sought the consolations that might be offered
by the worship of the gods. But soon the practices connected
with such worship sickened her, inasmuch as the priests of Isis
and Serapis sought to live with those women who came often
to the rites celebrated in their temples. And one among them
declared that such licence was demanded by the god or goddess
he served. Pomponia was lovely in his sight, and so he lusted after
her and maintained that she would not be unfaithful to her hus-
band if she secretly yielded to the god by yielding to his desire.
Then Pomponia turned her face away from these gods. Being
pure of heart she could not hold with such abominable and secret
practices. But her husband still gave her no comfort; he remained
gathered into himself.
For her it was a time of despair when Rome seemed only
to contain cruelty, lust and loneliness. It is true that the Stoics
were men of virtue, but they bade their listeners depend only on
themselves, leading the noble life, not hoping for reward or for
anything but eternity of silence and sleep in the world beyond
the grave. But their doctrine, though it was in part fine
and lofty, could not win or in any way comfort Pomponia.
Neglected by her husband and thrown in on herself she yearned
for her small son and could not bear to imagine that he was
blotted out, that there would be no meeting with him in some
future time after release from the body.
When Priscilla and Aquila returned to Rome from Ephe11us
they encountered this noble matron, for being of good family
Priscilla1
could seek out the patrician women who were of a serious
mind and cared not for follies and pleasures of the world. And
Pomponia hearkened ea~erly when 10he spoke of Christ, setting
1 Acts xviii. .2; Romam xvi. i); II Ger. xvi. 19; II Tim. iv. 19.
VOL. I. G
106 WHEN: NERO WAS DICTATOR
forth His teachings and relating how He had conquered death,
r~ing on the third day and appearing to His disciples. She gave
assurance to the sorrowing mother that her son still lived, and
would meet her again after the darkness and bewilderment of this
world had passed away.
Now life was wholly changed. Pomponia went happily all the
day. Soon Plautius became aware of this change. Because of her
gladness and through it the renewal of her youth and beauty, he
came out of his silence, his sternness melting, he looked upon his
wife and loved her once more.
In time he became curious and asked how it was that her
mood of deep melancholy had become one of joy and content-
ment. Foolishly, then, she spoke of a new god and declared
that those worshipped by the Romans were evil.
Then Plautius was troubled, fearing lest his wife might give
offence if she spoke of this belief of hers to others. She had
even declared that Christ .was greater than Augustus, and that
this Christ, who had died the death of a malefactor, was God,
whereas the Emperor was a mortal man. Veritably Pomponia
spoke unwarily. She had not yet learned how to be circumspect
when speaking of the new truths which made all things lovely in
her sight once more.
Now Flavia, the sister of Plautius, despised and hated her
brother's wife, calling her " the proud barbarian." Flavia ill-
treated her slave girls, causing one to be flogged for having,
through an evil chance, broken her necklet of pearls. Pomponia
had reproached her sister-in-law for this cruelty, saying that
the slave girl was also a woman and, therefore, her mistress should
do to her only what she would have done to herself.
So there was division between these two women. In other
matters also, Flavia knew that " the proud barbarian," though
silent, disliked and condemned her way of life-the many hun-
dreds of gold pieces she spent on jewellery, perfumes and various
follies. So she sought maliciously to do her hurt, and for this pur-
pose had won the trust and confidence of her brother.
He went straight from Pomponia to Flavia's house and told
her of the blasphemy that had been uttered by his wife against
Augustus and the gods. It is true that Flavia beguiled his under-
standing, and he had come to her in the heat of anger and fear.
Afterwards it seemed to him that he had erred. But in that hour,
led by Flavia, he went to his father, and the two declared this tale
to the ancient patrician.
To the old man who had been reared in the worship of Rome
s ·T. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 107
and of Augustus, it seemed that Pomponia had committed a
grievous sin that could not be forgiven unless she made confession,
offered sacrifices to the Emperor-God and put from her this foreign
superstition. So he commanded that she should be brought before
the tribunal of the family-true Romans all, stern in virtue, un-
swerving in their worship of Augustus and the State.
They spoke harshly to Pomponia, accusing her of having
shamed her husband, and she was sentenced to imprisonment for
the rest of her life in a lonely place in the hills. And Pomponia
wept, for she knew that she would lose Plautius whom she so dearly
loved and would soon perish miserably.
Wherefore she denied Christ and was compelled to declare Him
to be one of the lesser gods and to recognize Rome and Augustus
as the only objects of her worship. Then the family forgave her,
but the old patrician declared that she must retire for a season to
her husband's house in the Alban hills.
Howbeit, Flavia rested not. Desiring to sever husband and
wife from one another, she visited Pomponia when she was in
retirement and told her that it was Plautius who had betrayed
her, giving her up to the family tribunal. When Pomponia taxed
him with this charge he could not deny it. But being ashamed of
having.in his anger betrayed her, he spoke hard words, striving to
justify himself and silence the uneasy reproaches of his soul.
Thus Flavia succeeded in severing these two who had so
greatly loved one another, and the happenings of the time aided
her in this work of malice. For a mighty rage swept across
Britannia when Bouddica,1
their princess, was insulted and
scourged by the Romans. In thousands the Britons gathered
together, making assault upon the towns and the homes of the
strangers who dwelled in their lands. Many score of Romans
perished at the stake, on the gibbet and on the cross ; for they
were taken unawares by the barbarians. In time, however, they
had their revenge; the legions conquered the Britons, quelling
their revolt.
The kin of Pomponia had served Bouddica, and many were
slain by their conquerors. Their rebellion and death for treason
came as a second shame, hardening the heart of Plautius and
breaking his wife's heart.
Theh indeed she dwelled alone, beset by terrors, fearing her
husband because of his fierce, dumb mien, fearing lest her brother,
who was in hiding in Gaul, would be taken and tortured by the
Romans, fearing more than all else the fruits of her dishonour. She
1 Boadicea.
108 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
deemed that she had destroyed her soul by denying Christ before
the family tribunal.
And so for Pomponia there was no peace day or night. She
was guarded by two women and a servant of the patrician
family. Though on her return to Rome she might come and gci
freely she was always watched, and her husband forbade her to
have intercourse with Priscilla or any of the other saints.
In her hour of desolation that one comfort and consolation
was withheld from her. Wherefore she withdrew wholly, seeing
no one save Plautius and his slaves.
Always now he treated her as if she had brought dishonour
on his name. And he, who had betrayed her, made it seem that
she, who had only been unwary in her speech, was the betrayer,.
the robber of his happiness and his pleasure in life.
She might, indeed, have made an end by taking poison if it
had not been for a slave girl who came to serve her as a tire-woman
in that season. This Hebrew was named Mary and was a Chris-
tian, who in time discovered her faith to her mistress.
/
CHAPTER XX
PLAUTIUS possessed a villa that stood on the borders of a
lake in northern Italy. He went there with his wife when Paul
was journeying from Spain to Gaul. Hard by the house was the
Temple of the River-god and a seat of ancient augury. And the
stern Roman compelled Pomponia to pay homage to the god,
who, in her belief, was but the froward spirit of the lake. A
stream flowed down from the hills. Upon it travelled slow-moving
barges beneath groves of ash and poplar trees. Little boats and
white swans floated upon the lake. All things seemed peaceful.
No man hurried in that rich land of mellow sunshine. .
It was the season of autumn when the country folk danced the
dance of the vintage. They made music, playing upon flutes;
they drank the new wine and were glad.
But Pomponia was not glad. Here in harvest time she had
come with Plautius in the first days after their marriage. The
woods, the blue waters, recalled to her remembrance those lovely
hours that now had passed and perished as the withered leaves,
and they could return no more. For they belonged to her youth
when she knew not the sorrow of death, the fear of eternity,
or the grief when a soul changes, becoming hard as the rocks of
the hills. And in her husband she had perceived that change, so
that though he remained at her side he was as a stranger, as some
other man who had entered with force and violence into her life.
Yet remembrance of their early life would not have in such
great measure caused her to suffer this if she had not been guilty
of what in her heart she knew was a betrayal of Christ. So she
feared the future, believing that, because of her sin, she would be
separated for ever from her son in the world beyond the tomb.
In a little while Mary the tire-woman, through speaking of
her delight in her own faith, learned of the sorrow that tormented
her mistress, and she declared her mind concerning it, saying:
"There is only one man who can unravel thy perplexity, and
that man is Paul of Tarsus. He offended grievously against Christ
yet was pardoned and saw the Master and conversed with Him.
And because of this he, Paul, the Seer, will be able to tell thee
109
110 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
whether thou canst make reparation, and obtain pardon, as he did,
for thine offence."
Pomponia was a little comforted by the words of her tire-
woman who communicated privily with the brethren in Rome,
asking tidings concerning Paul of Tarsus. And soon she learned
that he was in Tarraconensis, was departing from Spain and
coming by way of Gaul to Rome. But when in that city Pom-
ponia was straitly watched and guarded, and therefore might
not, on peril of her life and loss of Plautius, meet and converse
with the saints.
But soon came tidings that swept all these perplexiti,es from her
mind. She learned that her brother Lucius lay sick unto death at
Lugdunum.1
He was in hiding and had taken a Roman name
inasmuch as it was still remembered that he had, in Britannia,
rebelled against Cresar and fought against his legions in the
service of Bouddica.
Yearning to see this brother, Pomponia spoke to Plautius; for
the first time for many seasons opening her heart to him. "I have
submitted myself to thee and ·to thy family," she said proudly;
"and thus I humbled myself for the sake of our dead son, for
the sake of the love that gave him to us, the love that has since
died between us. Wherefore in the name of those early days
when we lived upon the borders of the lake I entreat thee to per-
mit me to journey into Gaul so that I may look once more upon
my brother before he passes hence into the shadows."
Being at the villa and removed from the influence of his family,
Plautius softened. He remembered those happy days when his
young wife's companionship gave him greater joy than any that
came from victories he had won for Claudius in Britannia. So he
yielded to her, saying sadly, "Thou hast been a good wife to me
and I have mayhap erred against thee. For the increase of the
years hardens the mind. Thou shalt journey into Gaul as is thy
desire, and I will seek out Cresar and petition him to pardon thy
brother."
Now this was a brave saying, for Plautius might well draw upon
him the displeasure of Nero in asking this favour in a time when
the Emperor had grown fearful of treason and of those who had
plotted rebellion against his authority. Wherefore Pomponia
thanked him, and for a brief hour the old happiness returned ;
these two as they gazed out upon the peaceful lake were almost as
one in heart.
On the morrow they parted-Plautius journeying southwards
~Lyons.
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME I I I
and his wife and her maid travelling west into Gaul, and then
north to Lugdunum.
She found her brother lying in a mean hovel in that town.
Sickness and hunger had so ravaged his face it was like yellow
marble. She had him taken to her own place where she believed
that, through her care, he might be saved from the menacing
shadows. But in no way did he mend; and there came a day
when she learned from his physicians that he was dying.
Now Mary had gone into the town, and she perceived three
travellers, two strong and upstanding, one lame and crooked of
body. Looking upon them her heart rejoiced, for she perceived
Paul of Tarsus. She went quickly to him, declaring herself to be
of ·his children in Rome. Swiftly was her story told, and though
weary after his journey the saint could not refuse her entreaty
that he should come on the instant to the bedside of the sick
man. "For verily, master," she cried; "thou wilt heal him.
Working through thee the Holy Spirit has never failed."
It was a strange meeting when the patrician woman of
Britannia encountered the white-haired Seer of Judrea. She knelt
before him asking his blessing ; hardly could she utter the words,
such eagerness possessed her soul.
And perceiving her grief the saint spoke tenderly to her,
promising to surrender his whole being to the work of saving her
brother, Lucius.
In a dim chamber sheltered from the sun's rays he lay tossing
to and fro. Soon he was quieted by the presence of the saint.
There came a smile upon his face as he saw the fair mist that
gathered about the old man while he prayed.
Watching them Pomponia became filled with hope, be-
lieving that this master, who had cured many, would assuredly
heal her brother. But Paul was spent after his long journey. He
strove vainly against the gathering darkness. He cried to his
Master entreating Him to send the Holy Spirit, but his body
failed him. In his weakness he could not draw the power that
never fails.
The sick man struggled for breath and life. Then his face
twisted up and blood flowed from his mouth. Soon he lay still,
unstirring as a bird in its nest.
CHAPTER XXI
THE Apostle and the stricken woman looked at each other
across the body of the dead man. Awful was the silence
between them. Her eyes were cold and hard as blue gems ; there
was no faith or hope in them.
For the first time in all his long years Paul could not give
gaze for gaze. His eyes fell, and bowing his head he prayed
with all his might for the strength and power that had been
withheld. And suddenly she reproached him, saying:
" Could not Paul, who hath healed many, have caused even
that my brother should not have died? "
The saint sought to answer her ; but no words came. He
bowed his head and prayed again.
" Where hath he gone?" she cried. "Into what shadows, into
what night? "
"Even for such," said Paul, "there is mercy. For he hath
not denied Christ-not having known Him."
Pomponia walked to and fro wringing her hands, her eyes
hard and bitter, shedding no tears.
In the mind of Paul Pomponia was as Rachel mourning for
her childr.en and would not be comforted. But his saying that
Lucius had not denied Christ was as the stroke of a spear, smit-
ing at the very life of her soul.
The evening gathered ; darkness thickened. Mary knocked
upon the door, and coming within: set three torches in the mid-
most part of that chamber of the dead, then silently withdrew. I
With the coming of these three flames light also came to the
saint. He bade Pomponia sit at his feet and hearken to him; I
and when he spoke in the voice of authority few could disobey
his command. Despite the reproach uttered, despite her despair
she came to him and sat in the lowly place as she had been
bidden.
Then he said tenderly that it was well that Lucius had not
lived, for now he was at peace. The world from henceforth
could have offered him no peace. He would only have been
hunted and harried, and at last taken by the Romans, perishing
in torment.
lU
\
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME I 13
"No tidings were ever borne to him of Christ," continued
Paul; " and for him there will, therefore, be no darkness in: the
life to come. Be not afeared, sister. He sleeps soundly and he
sleeps well; and I know from what I have learned of his life of
integrity that, despite his ignorance, he will not be among the
lost in the great last Day of Judgment."
And Paul spoke other tender words, his compassion overflow-
ing. So her grief abated, and in a little while she was no longer
as one distraught. Suffering Mary in all quietness to lead her
from that chamber, she looked no more upon the dead.
After the burial of Lucius Paul came again and yet again to
the house where dwelled Pomponia Gnecina. For a long time
he could not penetrate the defences of her mind. But at last he
learned of that secret fear that lay hidden within her as a kernel
within a nut. And she said unto him, " Mary hath declared that
it is .thy command that wives should obey their husbands.
Wherefore, in denying Christ, I fulfilled to the letter thine ordi-
nance concerning women."
Then Paul was somewhat perplexed. After a silence he made
answer : " Yea, such were my words. But the husband should
obey God. Wherefore I would counsel thee to be in subjection
to thy husband, and in all humbleness win him by thy conver-
sation to a belief in the risen Master. If in this matter thou
dost succeed then indeed is thy salvation assured."
"And if I fail," she asked, '' what then? Must I continue
to obey him and keep apart from the believers in Rome? I
would worship in their company. I would be consoled by their
sayings and their knowledge of this Mystery of the God Jesus."
" Yea, abide by the command of thy husband," said Paul.
" Seek not out the brethren. Thou art as a lone sentinel at his
post, far from his comrades. Yet thou wilt render true service,
remaining faithful. And be silent in the presence of thy hus-
band's family concerning Christ. So long as thou dost not deny
Him in thy heart, so long as thou dost seek to live according
to His light, thou wilt be among those who are saved and of the
elect."
Pomponia was comforted by these words. She had dwelled
in the region of terrors and then in the region of death, and
therein she found peace. The Apostle's failure to heal her
brother had led her to discover ?is deep tenderness, his com-
114 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
passion which was the veritable flowering of his soul. The Paul
who spoke to the multituge would not have moved heior strength-
ened her faith. The Paul of authority and the one who, from fear
of women, held back from them, would have caused her also to
fail and doubt. But his noble pity, and his forgetfulness, through
that pity, of this other, sterner Paul, won her wholly; so that she
opened her heart to him in all things, and one day spoke of a new
dream that had been conjured up in her imagination through his
presence in her life.
"I pray thee, master, seek out my own people in Britannia.
Abide no more among these froward and corrupt Romans.
Truly they are for the most part hard as the stones, yea, even
harder. For I am told the very stones cried out when they tor-
tured my kin in the time they were captured near Londinium.
I pray thee change thy design. Go not southward. Journey
north through Gaul. Take ship then and cross the small piece
of water tha~ lies between Gaul and the coasts of my own
country.
"Verily the Britons are an honest and simple people. It is
true that in war-like all nations-they practise cruelties, but
they live not corruptly like the Romans. They are true of heart,
their word their bond, they are steadfast in their loyalty to their
chief. Let Christ be raised as Chief among them and the whole
nation will render Him homage and fealty. Yea, they will con-
quer the whole world for Him. Not by force of arms but
through their steadfastness and faith which hath already been
shown in the manner in which they followed and served the
royal princess Bouddica.
" There is no steadfastness in the Romans. They only covet
gold and power, betraying one another in order to win riches
and the pleasures wealth can bestow on them. But the Britons
are simple, country folk who place Chief and the honour of their
Chief first and their own good last.
" The shepherds will fold their flocks and follow thee. The
husbandman will cast aside his spade and hearken to thy words.
Yea, all the people, gentle and simple, must delight in thy say-
ings.. For they possess the lore of the hills and valleys and have
none of the evil knowledge of townsmen ; and also they are an
oppressed people, their spirit broken since their revolt against
the Romans."
Of a sudden Pomponia ceased speaking, gazing at Paul and
Aristarchus, but she could not read their minds so she continued,
saying: "The Britons are like unto thy people, the Jews. They
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME I IS
are of a more ancient race, of a finer spirit and temper of soul
than their conquerors. But my countrymen dwell·in the dark-
ness of a barbarian ignorance."
And lo, a.S she uttered these words Paul's imagination was
kindled and swiftly he answered her plea. " Yea, thine is a fine
vision. It may well be that at some future time the Britons and
the Jews will make an alliance together, bearing to all men
the Light that is everlasting. For being simple and unlearned
thy people will, peradventure, become the wisest in their genera-
tion if they are chosen. And verily they shall be chosen. Aris-
tarchus, I go not south to Rome. Our design for the coming
year is changed. I shall journey north to Britannia. This
people of the island of mist and cold is my people ; and I shall
not rest until I have traversed the whole country, speaking and
giving tidings-until, indeed, I have penetrated into its farthest
corners."
Then Pomponia was glad, promising to give him letters, and
to present him with a purse of money for his journeys. And
they communed together concerning Verulamium, Londinium,
Wroxcester1
and other places in Britannia and the various tribes
that abode in that land; and so many were they, they were like
the tribes of Israel.
When all had been put in order in Paul's mind concerning
the manner of his conquest of Britannia, Aristarchus said,
"Master, there is one thing thou hast forgotten. Thou hast no
knowledge of the tongue of the Britons. Surely few will have
understanding of the Latin speech. And even if some among
them can follow thy sayings thou wilt not win their hearts unless
thou canst speak to them in their own language."
Then the old man became troubled, but he made answer,
" I can study their speech, and in two or three seasons become
acquainted with it."
And gazing upon the bowed body of the aged Apostle and
counting the many wrinkles on his brow, Aristarchus shook his
head sadly, saying, "Nay, it is a strarige and twisted speech and
not like unto Latin, Greek or Hebrew. It will be a long time
before thou canst converse smoothly in it. But I have already
knowledge of it. For in these last years when we were in Rome
I came and went, as thou knowest, in the household of the
prince, Aristobulus ;2
and his slaves were for the most part of
Britannia. They became members of our Church because I
rested not until I had learned how to speak with them in their
1 " North and west of Londinium," see appendix. !l Romans xvi. 10.
II6 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
own tongue. For that is the way to the heart of a simple people
who are far from their own land, living in lonely exile. Where-
fore, I prithee suffer me to journey to Britannia. My mind
already contains the image of this country-of its forests, of
its flowing hills and valleys, its mountains on the west and north.
In truth I am acquainted with this people, and I yearn to go
hence and dwell among them."
Sorrowfully Paul consented that Aristarchus should journey
in his stead to Britannia. For the saint liked not to relinquish
his purpose which was to travel to the farthest borders of the
known world where, it was said, the earth ends, the sky meet-
ing and mingling with it.
Howbeit, it was not until a later season that Aristarchus
set out northwards. He journeyed back to Rome in the com-
pany of Paul; for he would speak first with Aristobulus who
was of the Herodian house. He was a member of the Church
and desired to go on some fine adventure. Being a prince he
was powerful and could obtain letters that would aid the tra-
vellers on their journey.
So it came to pass that some years later Aristobulus and
Aristarchus went north, and they were on the coasts of Gaul
seeking a ship to carry them to the island of the Britons in the
time of Paul's second imprisonment ip. Rome.
Now Plautius came suddenly to Lugdunum and he told Pom-
ponia that Nero had refused to grant the favour of her brother's
life and liberty. Indeed orders were despatched for his taking;
and he was to be carried to Rome and tried there for treason,
his end being assuredly ignominious death by torture.
"Mercifully he hath escaped," said Pomponia; "and he is
gone to a place that is beyond Roman justice."
Then Plautius wrung his hands, crying out, " We are undone.
Thy pestilent people will ruin us. We shall be accused of having
conspired to bring about thy brother's escape and we are, there-
fore, open to a charge of plotting with Cresar's enemies."
And Pomponia made cold answer, " Be not afraid of mv
pestilent people. My brother, Lucius, is dead. My God de-
livered him thus out of the hands of the Roman judges. He is
beyond their malice and their cruel torment.".
Then Plautius became silent, being angered by the manner of
her speech, though glad that he could not be accused of treason.
But his heart closed against his wife once more, and he refused
her entreaty that she should speak with Paul of Tarsus.
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME II7
Fearing more trouble for himself, he caused her instantly to
depart from Gaul and compelled her for a long while to dwell
in the villa by the lake, only suffering her to return to Rome a
year later in the time the first anger against the Britons had been
spent.
So, though her husband was with her at certain seasons, com-
ing and going to his house on the lake, Pomponia was much
alone and often cast down. But she was comforted when she
remembered that Paul likened her to a sentinel at an outpost and
when she learned privily that Aristobulus and Aristarchus were
planning the conversion of her own people-for which she so
ardently longed.
CHAPTER XXII
I T was in the early spring yet still it seemed to be winter, when
Paul came again to Rome, and he was glad of heart to be
amongst the Roman brethren once more. Peter had been before
him, had counted and blessed the members of the Church of
which Linus was Overseer. Howbeit, Peter was away in the
country to the north when Paul once more set foot in the city of
the Cresars.
Now Linus eagerly spoke of the text of the letters dispatched
to Spain that told him that the word of Christ had been heard
even within the court of the Emperor. Certain slaves of his body-
guard and one freedman came secretly to worship and were bap-
tized. It seemed indeed as if not only the poor and the slaves
but the nobles might in time learn of Christ. And Linus presenter!
Narcissus1
to the saint one summer evening saying, "He beareth
tidings of import for us and all the saints."
Now this young man spoke in haste declaring first his steadfast
belief in the doctrine taught by Paul and then saying that he
desired to serve Christ to the uttermost. Wherefore he had spoken
of these things to a woman who was in high favour with Nero and
she had hearkened to him. "I may not declare the name of this
lady, but she is weary of the world and greatly yearns to have
tidings of another and of the Lighted House of the Father. So I
promised to lead thee to her."
And when Paul showed no great wish to speak with this woman,
Narcissus became the more urgent, crying, "She hath the ear of
Cresar. She will persuade him to believe in Christ if thou dost
convince her of the truth. Verily, a mighty work may be wrought
in this hour. So I pray thee, master, scorn her not but come with
me on the instant, and thou shalt perceive that I am no vain
babbler."
So Paul followed Narcissus through the dusky streets of Rome
and presently he found himself within a house that was guarded
and stood apart from others, and he was swiftly led into the cham-
ber wherein Nero's favourite awaited him.
l Romans xvi. 11.
118
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME II9
She was alone and rested on a couch. Looking upon her Paul
perceived fine raiment, jewels and the painted cheeks of the
harlot, but her eyes held ancient knowledge. So Paul conducted
.himself warily, striving to lead her to declare her mind.
She spoke comfortable words and soon distrust went from him,
and he opened his heart to her, speaking of his desire to make the
Church of the Master the Church of the Empire, with branches
in each of the provinces, of which there were twenty-five.
Now this blonde woman of the East led Paul to believe that he
had convinced her of the truth of what he said. So when at last he
ended his discourse and prayed her to come to worship and to be
prepared for baptism, she raised herself upon the couch, her
manner swiftly changing and her speech striking through his soul
like some withering blast.
" Master," she said softly, " I know thy works and I have long
desired to see thee in the flesh. Thou hast been brave and honest
in thy speech, so will I be honest and declare myself to thee. I am
Poppcea, in part one of thine own race,1
and I have been told that
thou wert like unto a dog that goeth about the world making much
noise, or like a snake that lieth in the grass. Now I know that thou
hast neither the littleness nor venom of the beast or the snake.
I esteem and admire in thee a greatness which also I fear. For,
Paul, thou art the very spirit of evil. Thou art, in truth, the
eternal enemy of our race. I speak out of foreknowledge, that
strange gift bestowed upon me at my birth. Because I perceive the
design of the years and know tha.t thy teachings will work much
evil upon Israel and will bear suffering to all my kin and tribe, so I
shall strive against thee, and will, if thou dost continue in thy
' course, see that thy people and brethren are harried and de- .
strayed.
" Howsoever, if thou wilt leave Rome I may, peradventure, not
seek thy hurt for I fear only when thou art in this city. Now, we
two who are enemies may, here and now, because we are great
spirits, make peace with one another. Wherefore, on the morrow
thou mayest through Narcissus send me an answer. Let him bear
tidings to me of thy departure from Rome for the east and for
Judrea and I will not seek to work any evil but will hold my peace.
Know that all that passes between us is secret and may not be de-
clared. If it is spoken, then will thou and thy brethren instantly
perish."
For a space there was silence, Paul being gathered into himself.
1 "She was proud to call herself one of God's people so she forgot that half
that was Gentile when speaking with a Hebrew."
120 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
And as he paced to and fro with bent head, he n;ad her mind and
perceived the snare that was laid in his path. She served the
High Priest and the Pharisees at Jerusalem. They greatly desired
his presence in Juda::a. For, once there, he might easily and
secretly be slain by the Sicarii who had, in these latter days, greatly
increased in numbers and in might. So the saint made careful
answer.
"Lady, I will send word unto thee on the morrow. Be assured
that I come not to my race or to thee as an enemy, for I am the
servant of Christ, wherefore I bear only the message of His love
for all men."
" So thou sayest," she made answer. "But I have learned that
there is torment and cruelty in the heart of the bearer of love.
Verily, love persecuteth, love may indeed bear all manner of evil
to men. No, master, seek not to win me. We are enemies. Only
I would have thee know the truth and offer to thee, because of
thine age and fine spirit, a way of escape."
Then Paul went from her presence. On that evening he was
troubled in his soul by the sayings of this woman of the East.
Wherefore, he slept not but prayed, and in a little while the wind
of the Holy Spirit folded him in its wings and he knew peace
and surety and that, on the morrow, the right way would be
shown to him.
And it was so. For when morning came Linus bore tidings of
the presence of Peter in Rome and that he would shortly come
and hold counsel with the saint.
\
CHAPTER XXIII
AWIND blew out of the north on that morning when the
two Apostles encountered one another in Cresar's city.
The sky was overcast, and Paul sat beside a brazier, sensible
of his infirmities and his age in that .bleak hour. But when Peter
came into the room that was high up above the noisy street, all
things changed for him. Forgetting his infirmities he rose, and
taking the Apostle's hands, saluted his kinsman in Christ with a.
holy kiss. These two were moved past speech as they gazed at one
another; and softly, silently, Luke, Stachys, Amplias, and Urbane1
withdrew, leaving them alone together.
Now Peter was stout and full-bodied and like a burly oak while
.Paul was lean and bowed as a wind-twisted birch. Yet despite his
-meagre stature he might well have been named the warrior-saint,
whereas Peter, who had the strong build of the soldier, should
ever be known as the saint of peace.
In past years his desire to keep the peace, whatever the price of
it, had led him into troubled ways, had caused him in a far time
at Antioch2
to seem to fail Paul, to desert the brother of Tarsus
though only for a brief while. He, Peter, had then called himself
"The Apostle of the Jews," meaning thereby that he would only
speak and preach among his own people ; for if he. went freely
among the Gentiles he knew it would be needful that he should
break the Law of Moses, or at least not compel the Gentile saints
to observe the Law.
For a brief while there was division between him and Paul
who would not in any way bind the Gentiles according to Hebrew
ordinances. For he knew that then they would not be won for
Christ.
Howbeit, the rift between these two Apostles was closed. But
since that time Peter had been in a measure circumspect, visiting
only the Jews in Babylonia; and when he was in Pontus he
remained straitly with the people of his own race, fearing to give
offence, to rouse the wrath of the Jews and to be a cause of
turbulence and disorder. So seeking, he went carefully, softly,
VOL. I. H
1 Romans xvi. 8, g.
2 Galatians ii. 11 .
121
122 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
whereas Paul was a cause of tumult and riot in almost every
city that he visited.
So it came to pass that Paul built up a great church and
founded many communities through much warfare, and Peter
as he now declared had, through ever observing peace and not
offending in word or deed, persuaded only a few to believe in
Christ, and these among the Jews outside Jud~a.
At length he came to hold with Paul's larger vision ; and the
last time he was at Jerusalem he had told James that he would
follow the example of Paul of Tarsus and make the Greeks
and Romans as much his people as the Jews. Then James bade
him no more return to Jud~a else he would rouse up strife and
mayhap cause the Sicarii to slay the saints at Jerusalem. So
sorrowfully at C~sarea Peter bade farewell to his own land,
knowing that for him there would be no return. Then he
journeyed to Corinth and much good work was wrought by him
in that city. By reason of his gentleness of speech he caused
enemies to become friends ; he removed jealousies, hatreds and
the spirit of division.
But now these two ageing men did not speak of their own
histories when they faced one another after the separation of
years. A grave sorrow lay between them, and their speech was
slow and broken by their grief:
"Thou wast not at Jerusalem?" asked Paul.
"Nay, I abode in Pontus."
" And his last words to thee? "
"Were sorrowful. For I would not follow his road. I chose
to follow thine-the road to the Gentiles. But if I had
known ... "
" If thou hadst known? "
"I would liefer have perished by his side."
"Nay, thy work is here in Rome."
And Peter cried out his bitterness. "I deserted James in the
hour of his need even as I deserted my Master. But this time it
was because I believed that thine was the greater work, the finer
vision."
" Verily, then, thou didst obey the call of the Spirit; so thou
hast not denied our brother who is asleep in Christ. Thou art
now the head of the Church. Without thee to guide it the Church
will founder in the quicksands and treacherous currents of these
times. Thou art the captain 9f the ship ; I am but its pilot."
Then Paul spoke further comforting words. And in a little
while when Peter had mastered his grief, he told of the last
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROM E 123
days of James, the Just, the chief of the Apostles, the keeper of
Israel's faith.
"As thou knowest, Festus, the Roman governor, died in the
year that is past. His dea:h came with great suddenness, and for
a season there was no procurator to administer Roman jus~ice in
Juda:a. Agrippa had appointed Annas as high priest, and truly
this was an evil choice. For Annas has always and ever hated
James because of his righteousness, his high integrity. Also even
those of our countrymen who do not believe .that Jesus is the
Messiah, loved and reverenced James. His long prayers in the
Temple, his holy life, were held by 1,1pright Pharisees and Sad-
ducees, yea and even by the Scribes, to be an example to our
race, and as a beacon that ever gave glory by its light to the
Temple of Zion. Now Annas's narrow, twisted soul could not
abide that light. So he devised charges against James and showed
them privily to the Sanhedrin. These declared that the Just One·
was a base schemer who plotted to stir up the Romans so that
they would make war upon the faith of our fathers, seizing and
plundering the Temple at Jerusalem. For his proof, Paul, Annas
presented to these elders the history of thy life. He maintained
that thy father had cursed and disowned thee for being a renegade
from Israel; that thou wert the chief conspirator and James's
emissary at Rome. He knew in his heart that this was a false
saying; but verily he believed that thou wert plotting the over-
throw of Israel. A Pharisee, whose name I may not declare, told
me these things, so I have them on good authority.
"All these charges were not made at the trial of James. They
were set down on a roll that·was, before the taking of James,
passed from one elder to another of the Sanhedrin. So blame
them not if they were roused to wrath, if they in their fury
gave no fair trial, but in the space of an hour passed sentence of
death upon the one who was ever pure and undefiled.
" In vain James spoke of the testimony of his life, of his
works for Israel, of his daily witness in the Temple, of his strict
observance of the law of Moses. These elders shouted and
bawled at him, they would not hearken to his pleading and
defence. Festus being dead no procurator abode in Jerusalem in
that season. There was no Roman who had authority enough to
stay their hand. They hurried James forth from Jerusalem, and
then, as is well known, they stoned him until he was dead. Merci-
ful was that death ; for the rage of the mob led to his swift end.1
Until evening his body lay there upon the stones, and when dark-
1 A.D. 6,3..
124 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
ness fell and our brethren came to remove it for burial, dogs were
devouring that holy flesh." Here Peter was silent for a space, his
grief again overmastering him.
And Paul whispered, "I knew not the true happening. For
these things may not be set down in letters. It was when I came
to Lugdunum in Gaul that I learned that James, who ever kept
the letter and the spirit of the Law of Moses, was put to death
by those who revered that Law."
" T_b.ey were afraid," answered Peter ; " they believed in their
heart the tale told them by Annas. And fearing, therefore, a base
betrayal of the Temple they sinned veritably in ignorance."
" Yea," said Paul ; " in ignorance. So we may not judge. God
alone will judge them for this offence."
" Already Annas has suffered ; for great was the evil wrought
by him. In the days after the passing of James the Sicarii slew
many of the saints, falling upon them secretly at night. Nay more,
Annas caused others, who were not of our community, to be
slain. Thus it came to pass that certain of the elders of the
Sanhedrin turned against Annas and entreated Agrippa to remove
him from the place of the High Priest; and this was accomplished
before Albinus, the procurator appointed by Cresar, entered
Jerusalem and assumed authority."
Having ended his chronicle, Peter said to Paul: "But now,
brother, I would follow thee, hail thee as my master and be
guided by thy sayings. For I like well thy design of a Church
that will bear salvation to all people, nations and tribes. It is a
dream that may, peradventure, be fulfilled, if not through our
labours then through the labours of others. Let me, therefore,
be the servant and look upon thee as master and as head of the
Church."
Paul was moved by the humility of the one whom he ever
regarded as the foremost among the Apostles. "Nay," he made
answer; " thou art first, and in thy presence I am verily last.
Thou art the leader in this city and I am thy follower."
And when Peter would dispute this saying Paul told him of
his meeting with Popprea, the Empress. "I went unto her, know-
ing no more than that she was some woman Cresar favoured. I
was not in any way prepared for this encounter. So I am troubled
lest I failed my Master in that hour."
Having considered all that the saint had told him concerning
the menaces of this harlot, Peter made answer, "Thou hast not
failed. Thou couldst not change this woman's heart. Verily I
fear her with a great fear-not for myself, but for thee. To-day
/
ST. PI;:TER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 125
as yesterday it is commonly declared in Jerusalem that thou art
the tool of the Romans, the curse that comes at night, that bears
ruin to our ow~ people by subtle devices. Popprea is but the
mouthpiece of the high priest who followed Annas. They find
in her one who will serve their purpose and betray thee into their
hands. If thou dost remain in Rome she will cause thee to be
slain. Wherefore seem to obey her command. Cause it to be
known that thou art shortly journeying to Judrea. But as it is in
the first season of the year thou wilt go overland, sailing from
Italy to the coast of Hellas, resting at Nicopolis and going from
thence to Philippi and afterwards to Asia. There, in Ephesus,
thou wilt abide and become, as is my wish, Overseer of the
churches of Asia, Macedonia and Corinth. Once:: thou hast
departed in this wise from Italy Popprea will hold thee no more in
remembrance."
" I fear for our Roman brethren," said Paul ; " the Empress
may persuade Nero to persecute them, or she will devise some
plan that will cause them to be crushed and oppressed. I like not
to desert my people in this hour. When the wolves range the hills
the shepherd does not flee to the fold for refuge."
And Peter made answer, "I will be the shepherd of the flock.
No harm will come to our people, Paul, if thou art gone from
Rome. I promise thee, brother, to walk warily; for I know the
temper of the!le perilous times. Also the people in Asia have need
of thy counsel. They fall apart; they are entrapped in the wor-
ship of Diana and of the Mysteries. Verily thou wilt be a deserter
of thy flock if thou dost not speedily return to Pergamos and
Ephesus."
Paul had no more doubts as he gave his mind to the brethren
he loved in Asia and to Lydia, the one woman he reverenced.
Thus the way was clear before him and he rejoiced that the
desire of his heart was not in conflict with his conscience. He
declared to Peter his intention to depart from Rome within thirty
days, the time allotted to him by Popprea. Then the two Apostles
communed together concerning the ordering of the Church.
Peter agreed that he would cause his name as one of the Twelve
Apostles to be hidden from all save the brethren for some time
to come. He would go quietly among the Roman people until the
Empress had forgotten, in her search for pleasure, the instructions
of the High Priest, and thus would malice and danger be dis-
pelled.
Paul told how Seneca had desired to give him audience, the
invitation coming .when he was in Hispania. " But I will not
126 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
seek him out," said the sai.nt. " For he will oppose me with his
science which is his name for truth and truth seeking, and it is
falsely so called. The science of Seneca is the perversion of the
truth. It is not what a man studies but his own integrity of soul
which makes for truth, creates and builds up truth in the hearts of
men."
Now Peter was astonished at this saying of Paul, and he made
answer: " Seneca is a wise man and sways the minds of many in
authority. Surely he will hearken to thy tidings, and being a
just man, will perceive their truth."
" Money is the root of all ·evil,m said the Saint of Tarsus.
" Seneca declares that he scorns riches, yet he has amassed a
great fortune and lives in a palace containing the spoils of many
provinces. A man cannot live a lie and remain whole in mind.
" Yea, Seneca will hearken to my sayings. But because his life
hath been false to the faith of his soul he will not accept Jesus,
the Christ. It is but waste and weariness for me to speak with
this sage. He gathered riches in order to retain power. Doubtless
it is his belief that, through that power, he hath worked for the
good, and it is true that through him justice reigns in the Empire.
But. his love of wealth and power is evil ; and the Romans
commit all manner of sin in only desiring and seeking such
things. How could such a man as Seneca, who would seem by the
manner of his life to believe that good is wrought through these
two, riches and power, believe in Christ who scorned riches and
died upon the cross?
"The way of Jesus is not the way of Seneca. This sage will
tell me that he believes only in the society of gods and men, wide
as the courses of the sun ; that the earth and all living things
flowed out of the fire of Heraclitus and will return once more to
that fire. I have studied the sayings of Seneca and some are pure
and lovely. But the life of this man hath defiled them. He is as
virtuous and abstemious as any hermit. But believing in fire
which is his symbol for power, his mind is of such a mould he
cannot accept the sayings of one who renounced power and the
Spirit.
".Nay, I have assuredly learned certain things from Seneca.
He hath said, ' the world is my country ' ; and that is a good say-
ing. But if I encounter this sage he will be like unto iron, un-
yielding because of the mould of his soul and his conceit of
wisdom."
1 I Timothy vi. 10. Lit.: "The root of all the evil," i.e. "Of all kinds
of evil."
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 127
Peter did not dispute further on this issue ; and Paul then told
him that in Hispania he had encountered a so-called sage. " And
verily he was Satan," declared the saint. " In the mountains of
Bretica I wrestled with this monster of perdition, this master of
iniquity. All that time is now blotted out of my remembrance.
But I was hard pressed and only overcame the enemy at the
last."
After this Peter and Paul became silent and for a while
were gathered into themselves. The cries of the sellers of wares,
the songs of beggars and the brawling of idle men sounded up
from the street below. And all the hours of light that noise arose
in these quarters. Truly there seemed to be little peace; only
sound and tumult prevailing in this, the first city of the
earth.
And Paul spoke softly, again telling of the cruelties, the har-
lotry, the licence, the corrupt search after gold that filled the
lives of these Romans. His speech caused Peter to perceive the
greatness of the burden of work set him; but he was only
troubled by the short measure of the days in which such labour
might be accomplished. " The end of the world is at hand," he
said. " In a little while we shall perceive Christ coming in the
clouds."
" The end of the old world," answered Paul; " the spirit of
heathen worship dying in the presence of the Christ." He halted
in his speech considering the argument, and then continued. " I
speak of the unfolding of the Master's spirit that, like the unfold-
ing of the pinions of a bird, will in due time cover and shelter all
men, nations and living creatures. The earth will not break up
and dissolve as was at one time my belie£ It will continue, the
spirit of the Master binding men together in one brotherhood, so
that the world becomes one country ; all good people living in the
unity of the one Church of Christ in every land."
But Peter would not agree with Paul's version of a future time.
He held to his belief in the destruction of the world when Christ
came again.
Howbeit, the presence of Narcissus was announced, so they
spoke no more together, and granted him audience.
CHAPTER XXIV
NOW Narcissus came at the bidding of Popp~a to receive
the answer of Paul of Tarsus. This freedman of C~sar's
household had a simple heart and no knowledge of the harlot's
guile. He was confounded and abashed when he heard what she
said to Paul. His limbs trembled; he quaked in the presence of the
two Apostles.
~ver quick in the understanding of his fellow men, Peter laid
his hand upon the brow of this troubled brother, saying:
" Peace! God trieth the hearts of the just with fears and doubts,
and thus they may become worthy of His trust in them."
"But these are perilous times, master," cried Narcissus. "Few
men .in places of authority live to be old. I have roused up this
snake among women and secretly, in her own time, she will strike
at me and all mine. For those at court who offend Popp~a there is
only the choice of death by their own hand or agonizing death
through torture and execution. And I am also shamed beca11sc
in all innocence I have been the means whereby Paul has spoken
with the Empress. He will perish swiftly, surely, and I shall be
accountable for.his end."
Motioning the saint to be silent, Peter spoke comforting
words, telling Narcissws that he might bear the message to Pop-
prea that within thirty days Paul, obeying her command, would /
depart from Rome, travelling overland by way of Nicopolis and
Asia. And here Peter stayed his speech ; he would not utter a
lie and say that the Seer of Tarsus would journey from Asia to
Jerusalem. But the text of his message was well shaped. For
learning of it at a later time from Narcissus, Popp~a believed
that the snare she had set for the man she feared and hated had
verily entrapped him, and that in a little time she would be re-
warded by the blessing of the High-priest in Jerusalem. Being a
devout believer in the Law of Moses, she counted much on this
blessing. In her belief it would preserve her from the retribution
that might fall on her because of a life of whoredom-and open
sin.
Having conversed with this woman concer~ing Paul, Nar-
us
ST. PE TE R AN n S T. l>AUL t:N ROME 129
cissus was no longer f~arful; for he walked warily, measuring his
speech. And she engaged him to be a spy and keep watch upon
the brethren.
Howbeit, after an hour or so doubt, like some creeping insect,
stole stealthily into the mind of this simple man. Again ·he visited
the Apostles and laid his perplexity before them.
" Peradventure by surrendering the narries and trades of the
brethren to the Empress I shall betray them wholly into her hands.
Masters, I am in an evil case, and it would seem that only in
flight can I save my soul and honour. But in flight there is no
surety ; for Popprea is all-powerful, and she will look on me then
as an enemy, causing me to be charged with treason of one kind
or another against the Emperor."
And Paul made answer. "Our brothers are assembling to-
gether in the upper chamber. We will commune with God ap.d
seek His guidance on this matter."
So these three ascended a stair and came to the place of the
gathering. The deacons, Urbane, Stachys, TabeeV Cornutus,
Amplias and Hermes2
were all greeted by Peter, and they ren-
dered to him an account of their charge.
Each had his part in the ordering of that community. Urbane
instructed the women and children. Stachys succoured the poor
among the Christians, Amplias aiding him in this disbursement.
Cornutus kept the purse, but was not like Judas Iscariot, being
true of heart. Tabeel was a strange man with long yellow hair
and the eyes of a dreamer. He it was who possessed the gift of
discerning spirits and speaking in various tongues. In the little
churches that sprang up here and there throughout the Empire
there was customarily a brother who could pass into the invisible
world and, communing with the departed saints, give tidings of
them to their living 'kinsmen who abode within the Church's fold
on earth. Hermes was the scribe of Linus, the Overseer, and
prepared the times and places for worship. Amplias had also
charge of certain rolls on which were written the chronicles of
the Church. These he buried beneath the floor of a room. For
despite their charter of freedom the saints feared certain hostile
Jews who dwelled in the Grove of the Muses, and also Gentiles
who might at any time, out of malice, strike at the community.
These saints were not liked by their fellow men. Daily they
were a reproach to them by reason of their grave mien, their
sober conversation and their, at times, unwary denunciation of
the barbarous games and the lewd living of the Roman people.
1 " Known also as Rufus." 2 Romans xvi. 14.
130 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Now when all the faithful were assembled beneath the one
roof Peter uttered the exhortation, and praise and thanksgiving
were rendered to the Most High. Then he told the tale of his
labours in other lands, and lastly declared the need and purpose
of this gathering. "These are perilous times," were his warn-
ing words-words imaged during the past uneasy night on his
mind and on the mind of Paul.
Darkness thick and deep had descended upon the restless city
of the Cresars. Tumult, shouting, noise and brawling had
swiftly passed into a silence caused by the blackness enveloping
the streets and by rain falling heavily, sweetly, giving out low
and murmurous sounds.
So there was peace within that chamber which was lit up by
the wavering flames of three torches set in the altar that faced
the east, from whence came the hope of men.
Like a green place in a parched land was the quiet that
reigned about the brethren, they being gathered together in
prayer; Peter and Paul seeking in the stillness of their souls that
wisdom that comes only from the Spirit.
It was the hour of preparation, the time that precedes com-
munion with that other celestial life that lies beyond death and
change.
In a little while Tabeel began to toss and groan and mutter.
Looking on him the saints perceived that he lay in a trance;
and presently he rose up, his face changed, another spirit seem-
ing to look through the windows of his body upon the world.
And where there had been one Tabeel there were now two--
another, a stranger. This is a great mystery, hard for the mind
of man to read.
Tabeel interpreted for this stranger, saying: "He who dwells
within me now is one who passed through passionate death into
a holy life. He shows me the image of that death. There, he
who was stoned lies upon the ground, bloody sweat upon his
brow, his spirit passing, rising, lifting out of that tortured clay;
while the young men cast their clokes at the feet of his perse-
cutor, departing with fear and shame in their hearts from his
presence."
" His name," cried Paul, " his name?"
"Nay, he gives me no name."
Then Paul cried out again, "It is Stephen, Stephen whom I
caused to be slain in the days of my ignorance and backsliding."
And the aged saint bowed his head, weeping bitterly.
Men stirred uneasily, looking at one another, fearful because
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 131
the master, strong as an eagle, was thus broken, becoming like
other feeble creatures of the earth.
Then Tabeel softly sighed, continuing, " Stephen is now in
the fair semblance of an angel and rejoices in that tortured
death. ' Weep no more, brother,' is his saying. ' Be glad with
me for I am risen in a body incorruptible. And behold I come
bearing tidings of the end.' " .
At this Linus and Peter stirred and pulled at their beards. Peter
muttered, " Speak and tell us, I pray thee, of the time and season
of that end.''
"The mists hide all things from me," said Tabeel. "Pray
that light comes."
And the whisper of that assembly aBd the voices , of the
rain made one voice. But the sound ceased as Tabeel spoke
again.
" Stephen takes me by the hand and shows me two dark
angels. They have wings like unto the wings of a stork. The
.wind is in their wings and bears them upwards and over the city
of Rome. And there is heaviness and heat in the valley and a
great silence.''
Of a sudden Tabeel halted, and his eyes became hollow and
empty and like the eyes of a dead man. But after a space the spirit
looked through them once more, and now the words uttered were
strong and full in their sounding.
" Lo, the first dark angel stretches up his hand and plucks a
star out of .the sky. He casts this flaming brand into the heart
of Babylon. Yea, there it falls in places ye all know close beside
the Circus, kindling and lighting up a twisted street. Yea, the
Porta Capena is now like unto a golden locust; and the fires
rise, grow and spread as a peacock's tail. Behold, the people
run hither and thither, they waken out of their silence in
every quarter . of the town. Howsoever, swiftly spreads the
flame of that fallen star, and the two angels blow upon it after
the manner of women when they strive to kindle the warm ashes
in a brazier.
"Now men, women and children perish. Some are burned,
some smitten by falling beams of wood, some crushed by the
crowd in their flight from the fire-stricken buildings.
" There is crying and lamentation and the Angel of Destruc-
tion declares the beginning of the end, saying, 'Woe, woe,
Babylon is passing, perishing. Desolation is. in her fields, her
might and her pride are overthrown.' "
Here Tabeel halted, wiping the sweat from his brow. And
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
when he spoke again the brethren trembled as they hearkened
to the tally of destruction and of ruin.
"Behold Luna's Temple, Vesta's Shrine, Numidia's Palace,
yea, and the mighty Temple of Jupiter the Stayer of Flight, are
all fallen. The valley that lies beneath and between the hills has
changed into a nest of golden vipers. They leap and cast up
their heads; they bite and strike, devouring the multitudes. They
climb the hills ; yea, it would seem that they seek to strike at the
Palace of the CC£sars. Verily, verily, there is no end. This fire
sweeps north, south, east and west, and the whole world is but one
yellowing harvest of fire. It is the end, the Judgment, the time
when the dead, small and great, rise and stand before God. And
then are the books opened ; and out of the things written therein
the people are judger:. But first Ghrist comes riding the clouds and
with a great quake, the earth breaks up and disappears. He sum-
mons the elect, the faithful and true of heart."
" The time, the hour of this end? " asked Linus.
Again the eyes of the discerner of spirits became lost and
empty. " Darkness is about me," he whispered. " I cannot see;
I am blind."
Then the brethren prayed; and at last Tabeel, whose body
had been pitched and tossed about, was still ; and he declared
that Stephen, having gone in the hour he had perceived the fire,
now was returned. And behold, the voice of Tabeel changed,
speaking no more in Latin but in the tongue of the Jews, and
Tabeel was a Roman with little knowledge of their speech, yet
the words came smoothly, and it was as if a Jew spoke through
his mouth.
"Another summer will not have passed away before this city is
ravaged and destroyed by fire. Nay, more, it is but one sign
of the coming of Christ. There shall be tribulation and many
signs and wonders before all that is passing perishes. But woe
to Rome, woe to the city of the Cresars."
And as these words sounded through that chamber the
brethren groaned and cried out, beating their breasts. Then the
lips of Tabeel made no more movement; he fell back upon the
ground and lay there as some hewn tree. And no man stirred
or ran to his side ; all were gathered away within the vision
painted by those strange words uttered in that past hour.
It was Peter who first arose and broke the silence, saying,
" Brethren, bear these things in your hearts and impart them to
no man. For they declare that time is near to an end; they
declare that fire is the forerunner of the end. Watch, therefore,
ST. PETER AND ST. PA UL IN ROME 133
and be prepared...." And suddenly, because the saint was
overcome by the thought of what he had witnessed, he changed
his speech, swiftly spoke the blessing and bade the brethren
depart in peace.
Marvelling and muttering to one another, they went in twos
and threes from that chamber, passing out into the darkness and
the rain.
CHAPTER XXV
AKINSMAN of Amplias named Demas1
lived in a small
house on a slope of the Alban hills. At his bidding Pe er anrl
Paul came to rest and to commune together in this place of quiet.
Mark had returned to Rome from Corinth and was of their com-
pany in that week when they would consult together so that all
things might be in order before Paul set out once more on his
journeys.
The Saint of Tarsus had been somewhat shaken by the
presence and words of Stephen's angel. But he held that appear-
ing as a good sign, showing that his travels to the east were blessed.
So these three and a fourth, Luke, the Master of Herbs, delighted
in the last hour of sunlight when they approached the vine-
wreathed house on the hill. And being weary, despite their glad-
ness they sought slumber before the end of day.
It was between the seasons when spring and summer meet.
Their spirits quickening, Peter and Paul rose on the morrow when
the light stroked the dark. Now one bird then another sang. They
might listen to the spring's heart beating in that dawn.
But the hours were precious in their sight. Three of the saints
might not hearken, for separately they sought, through prayer,
communion with the Spirit. Only the Master of Herbs went out
into the early day and, listening to one song then another, plucked
the first flowers and their leaves. For Luke loved all natural
things, the sea, the grasses, the gracious lilies of the fields. And
though his mind would dwell and dream among them, yet in that
way he would find his peace and his God.
Now after they had broken their fast these four saints gathered
together without the porch, and resting in the sun and gazing
towards distant Rome, they began to speak of grave matter~ per-
taining to the Church.
Peter took up the word, saying, "We have hearkened to the
warning tidings given to us through Tabeel, and now we are
assured that the beginning of the end cometh before the summer
has passed away. Paul, it is, therefore, thy part to prepare the
brethren in Hellas and in Asia for the last days of this world, for
l Philem 24, Col. iv. I~h I~ ':fi.D-l· ~v, w,
134
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 135
the appearing of Christ in the heavens ; and I will here in Rome
also prepare our brothers, uttering the words of soberness and
truth."
Then Peter spoke no more, for he was swift of discernment and
perceived that Paul liked not his sayings. And presently this
saint arose and thrusting out his hand towards the city in the far
valley he declared the argument in hit> mind.
"It is my belief that fire will fall from the skies as Tabeel hath
prophesied and that it will shortly devour Rome. But signs are
hard to read, and I would say that out of the ashes of the city of
the C::esars we may well build the city of God. Verily, it is my
deepest desire that the end shall not come until Rome is the pos-
session of Christ."
" Nay," said Peter, " that may not be with the end at hand.
But, even if it were not so, the Romans in authority are stubborn
and froward and like unto mules; and so thy vision of the city
of the C::esars as the city of God will never be fulfilled. But tell
me, Paul, how is it thou dost not accept this prophecy of the
End?"
"I have sought to count up the tally of the believers in Christ,"
answered Paul ; " and though I know not the true count I am
assured that there cannot be more than five or six thousand in all
the known world. Wherefore, if the beginning of the End be set
in the summer of this year then the multitudes of the heathen
are lost, having indeed no tidings of salvation. On the edge of
the northern earth there lies a land named Britannia ; no little
people dwells in that country beyond the sea. They will not have
heard, neither will all Hispania and those tribes in other Roman
provinces have learned of the Gospel before the beginning of this
end. Bear with me, Peter, for I have on tlus matter been truly
perplexed, doubting and questioning. Wherefore I entered into
the Spirit in the dawn.''
" And was counsel given thee in that hour? " asked Mark.
" Yea, the Holy Spirit came unto me, and now I am assured
that I possess a knowledge of what is yet to come."
Peter was somewhat troubled by this saying, for he reckoned
that if Paul was not of his mind on this matter it would not be
easy for them to be in agreement as to the government of the
Church.
And presently Paul, who had been wrapped in meditation,
came out of that stillness, saying: " I am ready now to be offered;
but the time of my departure is not yet at hand. That I know,
and it being so the time for the earth's destruction, the time of the
136 WHE N NE RO WAS DICTATOR
End may not fall in this present year, nay or even in the year that
followeth it. The Holy Spirit was with me in the first hour of this
day; so my sayings do not spring out of my own feeble under-
standing. The Spirit hath spoken. Let us heed only the Spirit."
Now Peter was not in his heart in agreement with Paul; but
he dared not declare his doubt. So he spoke of other affairs, of
the disbursement of monies for the poor in Christ, and then of
Narcissus who served Popprea. And the saints were of one mind
concerning this freedman. He should remain at his post; and
when the Empress demanded the names of the brethren and their
trades he was to tell her who were deacons and who was head of
the Church in Rome.
" Let us be fearless in aU things," said Peter. " If persecution
comes these brethren will remain faithful to the end. There is
naught that we would hide; there is nothing of which we are
ashamed. Narcissus may report all our doings, giving an account
of every Christian, and not in any way offend." For now that
Peter believed in the prophecy of the great fire that would
speedily burn up Rome and the earth, no fear of Cresar or his
wife troubled his mind. He was tranquil, wholly at peace, know-
ing that soon, peradventure through pain and agony, he and all
these loved brethren would rise into celestial life.
Only once he muttered in the silence of that eve, " Mani.natha,
the Lord is at hand."
Despite his age Paul was quick of hearing and caught the
sound of that secret word that bound all the saints to one another.
" Maranatha," he said, " yea, maranatha ; but not in this year;
nay, nor in the year that follows it. When my work is accom-
plished, when all the nations of the Gentiles have heard and
hearkened then will my Lord come."
Peter made no answer, for Paul's presence cast a spell over his
mind, so that in those last days passed in the company of the
Gentile Apostle, he did not believe that the end of the world would
come in the season of summer. But later when he dwelt in Rome
and Paul was away in Asia he uttered the saying " Maranatha"
and it was held and believed by all the brethren and they spoke .it
unwisely ; thereby they hastened their owi::t end.
END OF VoLUME I
WHEN NERO WAS
DICTATOR
by
GERALDINE CUMMINS
Introduction by
THE REV. A. H. E. LEE, M.A.
VOLUME II
Special Edition for
PSYCHIC BOOK CLUB
144 HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C. 1
V /I- c.;)_
FIRST P UBLISHED BY FREDERICK MULLER LTD.
IN 1939
PRINTED 1N GREAT BRITAIN BY
SHERRATT AND HUGHES A.T
THE SAINT ANN'S PRESS .
MANCHESTER
Second Edition 1942
CONTENTS: VOLUME II
BOOK II (continued)
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME
£ HAPTER PAGE
XXVI. Paul names Peter .head of the Church, an'd then
overrules him in their plans for the future of
theChurch I37
XXVII. The end of NaTcissus I 42
XXVIII. Paul meets the disguised Nero on the banks of
the Tiber I44
XXIX. Paul visits the Churches in Asia. He witnesses
the death of Lydia at Philippi I 54
XXX. .Paul goes o~n a journey in his celestial body I 59
XXXI. Hillel, a fanatic, denounces Ccesar and imperils
the safety of members of the Roman Church r62
XXXII. Fearing Tigellinus and his influence over Nero,
Poppcea appeals to her astrologer, the Mage
Joah · I65
XXXIII. The Mage persuades Poppcea to give him
autJwrity to cause Rome to be burned I 7I
BOOK III
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE OF ROME
XXXIV. Peter returns to Rome. His work undermine'd.
The commencement of the Great Fire I 77
XXXV. Peters and Mark's work for the brethren during
the fire r8o
XXXVI. Nero risks his life in the fire. The doom of the
Palace of the Ccesars 184
XXXVII. Nero sings as he watc.hes Rome burning I88
XXXVIII. The fire is extinguished. The Mage has it re-
kindled by his agents 193
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
CHAPTER PAGE
XXXIX. Seneca consults with Nero. The Church of
Rome is divided I g6
XL. An inquiry is made into the cause of the fire 200
XLI. ·The first trial of t.he_Christians before Nero 203
XLII. Nero's earlylove for Acte. Simon Peter believed
to be the author of the fire 208
XLIII. The crucifixion of the Christians 212
XLIV. The martyrdom o(.Peter and the alleged death
of Paul u6
XLV. The rebuilding of Rome. At Seneca's request
Nero ceases to persecute the Christians . 219
BOOK IV
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END
XLVI. Paul is rejected by theChurchesin Asia '127
XLVII. In response to an invitation from Linus, Paul
travels from Philippi to Rome 230
XLVIII. Paul is brought before Helios and committed
to prison, to await trial 237
XLIX. The conflict in Paul's soul. His desire to see
Timothy and his fear that the Church in Ephesus
will suffer 240
L. Haunted by a vision, Nero renounces pleasure and
attends to affairs of State 245
LI. .Paulrefuses to dictate his Gospel to Luke; he decziles
to wait until Timothy comes with the parchments 248
LII. Helios consults with Nero about Paul. Luke's last
visit to Paul 250
LIII. Paul's trial before Nero 254
UV. Paul's last days in the Tullianum prison 260
LV. The execution of Paul 263
LVI. Linus makes a prophecy. On the day of Paul's
death the Roman historian has nothing to record 266
LVII. Paul is laid to rest in the presence of Luke,
Mark, Timothy, and Onesiphorus. Nero gives
a banquet 268
APPENDIX 2 7I
CHAPTER XXVI
BEFORE the saints communed further together they .were
greeted by two travellers who had climbed the slope that rises
out of the plain ; and these were Pudens1
and Aristarchus. They
bore letters from Rome ; and after they had broken their fast they
came from the house, and like Mark and Luke were content to
hold their peace and hearken to the sayings of the two elders-
those two veritable kings of the future of the earth.
When the murmur of talk and the exchange of tidings no longer
sounded there was quiet for a space. The golden day flowed into
their souls ; the promise of that season lay before their'eyes. But
the two elders did not heed that smiling hour; their minds were
away and working among grave matters on which they would
give judgment. Of a truth they were faltering, not liking to
hasten speech. For oft-times disputation arose between them,
though no quarrels or bitterness ever sprang from such argument.
Eager and set on the one fine enterprise, these two Apostles might
disagree in almost every matter of import, but they were at one
in heart and presented unity to the world.
Now of a sudden Paul signed to the brethren to follow his
example, and he kneeled before Peter, crying out, "Verily,
master, thou art the leader, we thy followers. Thou art in place
of James and the head of the whole Church of Christ. For of
the Twelve Disciples of the Lord only two others remain with us,
and they are wanderers and in hiding. So art thou, Peter, the
chosen one; and we pray thee to give ~s thy blessing in this hour."
Then Peter was glad, and he rose and stood upon his feet.
Being great in girth and height he seemed to the kneeling saints to
1 II Tim. iv. 21. It has been thought that Pudens served under Aulus Plau-
tius in Britain in A.D. 43· There is a stone at Chichester dedicating a temple to
Neptune and Minerva containing the name of a son of Pudentinus, apparently
a Pudens, as the giver of the site. A marriage between a Pudens and a Claudia
is described by the poet Martial. This Claudia was British and she is portrayed
in glowing terms by Martial (Lib. iv.). The identity of Pudens in each case is,
of course, a matter of conjecture. Cardinal Baronius says: "It is delivered to
us by the firm tradition of our forefathers that the house of Pudens was the first
that entertained St. Peter at Rome . . . and that, of all our churches, the oldest
is that which is called after the name of Pudens."
137
138 WHEN" N"ERO WAS DICTATOR
be like Moses as this patriarch descended the slope of Sinai after
his communion with Jehovah.
All shapes and appearances change though the spirit remains
steadfast, unchanging. Peter was now an ancient owning to nigh
on threescore years and ten. His white beard reached down to
the middle of his body, and the hair upon his head was thick
and long and the colour of fallen snow. Raising his hands he
spoke the words of exhortation that may only be uttered by the
Father of the Church, and last of all he sighed and stretched them
out towards Rome as if he would encircle that mighty city with
his love.
Jn,this fashion Paul appointed Peter as chief of them all; al}d
because of his many labours and the good confession he had made
before Ccesar's court this would seem a gracious act, showing true
humility of soul.
Howbeit, though the assembled saints hailed Christ's disciple
as their ruler, it was but an empty title, for it was not this gentle
soul but Paul who ruled in all their counsels in the days that
followed.
They had speedily to choose an overseer fgr the Churc.b. in
Antioch. Now in that city the Jewish saints were set against
Gentile Christians. They would have no intercourse with them.
Fearing, therefore, these Hebrews who so straitly kept their Law,
not mingling with other people, Peter named a Jew as overseer
who was of their kind. But Paul declared that such a man would
not work among the Gentiles, and these would in time be lost to the
fold. So he named another overseer ; and as he would not yield in
this matter Peter was compelled to yield. It was determined to
appoint two overseers, one for the Gentiles and one for the Jews in
Antioch.
Then, having gained his end, Paul spoke to Peter of the city
which should be Christ's city-the capital of the Christian world,
to which all churches should turn for guidance.
Peter held that only Jerusalem might be this City of God. "It
is," he declared, " the City of Zion, and there our Master died
upon the Cross, there we, His disciples, received the Holy Spirit
in the time of Pentecost, there we lived and worked. Thou canst
not deny, Paul, that Jerusalem hath ever been and must ever be
the place of worship of the one true God."
And Paul made answer. "Thou hast told me that when
Jesus walked the earth He spake of the desolation that would
encompass and overcome Jerusalem, of a time when the people
would flee to the mountains. And verily there are signs that such
ST. PETER AND ST. P.AUL IN ROME 139
a time is at hand. For we have privily learned that our country-
men will in due season make an uprisal against the Romans, and
if rumour be true this will be no small revolt, but the end of it is
sure. No nation can overcome the might of Caesar's legions.
Wherefore it is not wise in these perilous days to name Jerusalem
as the home of the Church. Thou art banished from it, while
here in Rome thou art welcomed by Jew and Gentile and may
live in peace."
Howbeit, Peter declared that such a rebellion would not come
to pass and that even though he might never return, Jerusalem
should become the city of·God.
For one whole day the two saints debated on this issue;
and again Paul prevailed. Peter in part accepted his ruling and
was prepared to shape his course as if, in the coming season, Rome
were verily to be the City of God. But in his heart he held that
only to Jerusalem where was the Temple raised up by his cojllltry-
men, might all the saints journey in spirit, knowing it to be Zion's
.city, and therefore the one gathering-place either in the spirit or
in the flesh for all the faithful who dwelled upon the earth.
In smaller matters that concerned the dispatching of brethren
like Timothy, Titus, Tychicus, and others to the various communi-
ties in Asia and Greece, Peter yielded to Paul's will; and in those
things that were of the administration of such communities, the
head of the Church also surrendered to the authority of the
Apostle of the Gentiles.
Now it may be said that Peter was unstable as water, weak of
will, in thus permitting Paul to lead him in counsel. But he
showed spiritual strength in submitting to Paul's will in these
matters. For this man, who was in his youth a simple fisherman,
had true humbleness of spirit, and knew well that the Saint of
Tarsus was also the Seer of Tarsus. Paul had studied in the famed
schools of that city. Respecting his learning and perceiving that
by reason of his race he was accustomed to authority, Peter wisely
suffered him to direct and pronounce judgments where a superior
wisdom was needful. But in one matter the appointed leader would
not brook authority or guidance.
When Paul was for two years imprisoned in his own house
at Rome he had spoken hardly to certain zealous Jews who were
Christians. He had wrestled in spirit with them. But this Roman
community was not founded by him so his authority was flouted
and derided.
Of these men Paul spoke in those days he communed with
Peter on the Alban hills. "In past times they held with Juda,
140 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
the Gaulonite.1
They bade the people not pay taxes, yea, they
resisted authority and made assault against the guard. As thou,
knowest punishment followed; and verily, their acts did not be-
come followers of our Master. For a time after the retribution
peace prevailed on the banks of the Tiber ; but now again
one Pollio and these same men seek to stir up the spirit of revolt;
and they are our brethren. Wherefore I would counsel thee to-
admonish them and declare that unless they go soberly thou wilt
cast them forth from the Church of Christ."
But Peter liked not such harsh measures and he made answer~
" I will go softly among them and will seek to win them through
persuasion."
"Nay, they mock at persuasion. I said unto them, 'Let every
man be subject to the higher powers. Rulers are not a terror to
good works but to evil.' I bade them recognize the authority of
Cresar. But they went their ways, they paid no heed to my words;
and now they go about the town speaking openly of Nero's rule
as ' the reign of Satan ', of his provinces as ' the Empire of the
devil'. Verily, they are not of us, brother. It is needful if the
community is to prosper and live in peace that thou shouldst
..separate from them else persecution will come, yea, and swiftly,
as the hawk droppeth down out of the skies."
" These brethren are men of good works, and they are poor~
suffering many hardships," answered Peter. " Jesus said, ' Come
unto Me all ye who are sorrowful and heavy laden ' ; and I shall
abide by His words. I will not menace these Gaulonites ; I shall
not speak hard words to them and cast them from the fold. They
can be won by soft speech but in no other manner."
And Paul was sore of heart at this saying. He spoke at length,
but Peter remained steadfast, and for a while the two Apostles with-
drew from one another's company, walking the hills with Luke,
Mark, Pudens, Aristarchus and Amplias. Howsoever, they were
but grieved and did not quarrel ; their noble natures forbade anger, ·
and their creed would not suffer them to remain thus, for any
tong time.
As with James in another season, Paul gave to Peter the right
hand of fellowship, and it was upon one still evening when all the
world about them breathed peace that peace came dropping
slowly, surely, into their hearts.
Then looking once more towards Rome, Peter uttered grave
words, " Seneca hath surrendered up his authority ; the reign of
justice and mercy is ended."
1 Acts v. 37·
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 141
And Paul made answer, " Peradventure, I have spoken in
bitterness of this sage. But it is truly my belief that Seneca i..;;
not so far from the Kingdom of God. Only one who is great in
soul could have uttered that saying, ' the world is my country ' ;
yea, and other sayings that declare the way of Christ."
" But he.is lost to Christ," said Peter; " if thou dost not go in
unto him as thou wast bidden in a past season, if thou dost not
seek to reason with him and persuade him of the truth."
"Seneca is set in his ways," was Paul's answer, "even as were
the men of wisdom in Athens-they scoffed at my tidings. Verily,
verily, I have no part nor lot with philosophers who would beguile
me with enticing words, who would oppose me with their so-called
science which can be as vain as the worship of false gods.
Unto the Jews I came as a Jew that I might gain the Jews, and
unto the Gentiles as a Gentile that I might gain them also. For
such people were simple of heart and would open their under- .
standing to my sayings. But Seneca and other men of his kind
will ever cloSe the door of their understanding. It is as a locked
treasury of which they will not allow theiDSelves to be deprived
even for the one pure truth, the truth that Christ died for us, and
alone through Him is salvation."
So Peter spoke no more of Seneca. And thus it was that Paul
did not in his earthly life at any time encounter this sage, though
he studied the rolls on which his wisdom had been inscribed.1
1 Fourteen Apocryphal Letters supposed to have passed between Paul and
Seneca may be seen in. M. R. James' The Apocryphal New Testament
~P· 480), probably dating from the fourth century. Jerome inserted Seneca
mto his catalogue of Christian authors. " The letters of Seneca to St. Paul-
which were known to Jerome and Augustine-are universally admitted to be a
forgery.''- Encycloptedia Britannica.
CHAPTER XXVII
AT times life gathers about you in folds like a dream or flows
like a sleep-inducing river to the sea carrying faces seen and
snatched away, and voices which fade into echoes."
The speech of the old philosopher flowed on smoothly. Now
and then he pulled at his white beard. Looking at this ancient
who had begotten him, Narcissus pondered and the weariness of
spirit that had been his for many hours, as a mist on the hills
lifted and passed away. He saw in all clearness the deed he
would perform and the road he must follow.
" Flows like a sleep-inducing river to the sea." His soul
retained these words and the further sayings of the ancient were
no more to him than the unbroken hum that flowed into his
hearing from that Roman town. " Yea," he said to himself,
" the time comes sooner or later for all. I will make an end."
So he rose up, bade farewell to his father, and set out on his
last journey.
Certain Romans of ancient lineage still held to the virtues of
their race, setting honour above nation, creed, or belief. After ·
sorrowful days of meditation Narcissus knew that he could not
betray even to the Empress Popp~a the names of those men of
pure integrity whom he respected. And though the new
doctrines of the Christians forbade the taking of life, for this
Roman there was no other choice. Halting near the sea shore
he set his horse free, softly bidding it farewell. Then following
along a stony way he came out upon the sands tha,t are not far
from the mouth of the Tiber.
It was a day when the sun enriched all living things with its
gold, when the sea, blue and still, appeared to this weary ol!ltcast
as a mother waiting for her son-offering peace, the peace
of forgetfulness of labour of mind, and of all the fretful and un-
quiet days.
Even now, when life and the great city called, her murmur
drew this traveller forward step by step, wooing him like some
enchantress, whispering of honour satisfied, of escape from re-
membrance of sorrow or despair.
" Faces seen and snatched away, voices which fade into echoes."
14l1
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 143
Uttering these words and thus declaring his farewell to earth
Narcissus leaped from a high rock into the flowing tide.
For a while it was hard for this strong swimmer to yield to
that gentle enclosing embrace. But, as the sun sank and the shadow
of the end. of day fell over the waters, Narcissus loosed his hold
on life, sinking softly, sweetly into the enveloping waves, into his
dream of eternity.
CHAPTER XXVIII
RETURNING from the hills Paul and Peter journeyed to
the south, visiting brethren who dwelled without the city.
These two old men were refreshea in mind by those days of
rest when they communed with one another. But they were
silent and sad at heart as they entered Rome by the Porta
Capena. For they were assured in mind that they would not
again come together in the quiet of the hills. It had been a rare
and golden time, and they had, it seemed, been spendthrift of
the hours.
Many things that are of the spirit and draw two of the
one purpose together had been left unsaid because of urgent
counsel to be taken concerning the Church, and now these things
would not be uttered this side of the grave. For the warfare of
the days lay before these two upon whose aged shoulders rested
the burden of the faith, upon whom alone depended the destiny
of the.frail barque of the Church in the coming time.
The day opened, sunlight peering through pale clouds as Paul
.and Peter walked slowly and wearily along the Sacred Way.
And suddenly there came a press of men and women running
hither and thither, and in an instant the road was hidden as with
bees in swarm. The air was filled by bawling and by shouts of
"Ca::sar cometh. Make way for Ca::sar, make way."
Then Peter and Paul were thrust back upon the steps of a high
building and the multitude, swaying before the thrusts of the
guards, fell away below them in the hour that Augustus passed.
So these two perceived, before men and women closed about them,
Nero riding high upon his triumphal car. He was robed in white, a
laurel wreath crowning his head, in his hands a lyre. In that time
his face turned for an instant towards that high building ; and these
three gazed upon one another. The two ancients in worn, travel-
soiled garments, the young ruler of Empire in glittering white, his
fair hair turned almost to gold in the radiance of noon when the
sun beats starkly, fiercely, upon the streets of Rome.
" Behold the very Spirit of evil," muttered Peter.
"Nay, there are evil and good in conflict within his soul,"
1 44
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 145
answered Paul; " I know not which will gain the advantage."
But as the multitude pressed closely and Cresar vanished from
his sight, the Saint of Tarsus spoke again. "I have prayed and
will pray once more that I may be suffered to commune with
Augustus-not when he is in his courts surrounded by his slaves,
but alone, as an·elder who gives counsel to a youth, as man to
man."
And then Paul held his peace, for this prayer and compassion-
ate judgment of his concerning the young Cresar had been
wakened within him by remembrance of Timothy, his beloved,
he who was as a son to him and one not hard as the granite that
may not be shaped by the chisel. He was soft and of a sweet
temper that is easily swayed by people and circumstances, and
\because of him the saint's judgment was less stern than that of
Peter concerning Augustus.
The hour grew near when these two Apostles must part
from one another. They held speech, therefore, with the elders
-of the Church, and there came argument and then contention
inasmuch as Pollio, also known as Hillel, was spokesman for
these elders, and he had been among the Gaulonites who had
counselled members of · the community to pay no tribute to
.Cresar.
Now Hillel was an honest man. But as Aristarchus had said,
he had the face of a goat and the ways of a goat ; he did not
possess his share of mother-wit. It was not until the end of day
that Paul succeeded in his persuasion of this unruly Jew who de-
lighted in wrestling wordily with his fellows on matters concerning
the Law and also on the sins of Cresar and his evil life.
At last he promised to walk warily, and to safeguard the
Church he would not talk openly in the market-place, or with
traders and vendors steeped in the iniquities of the times. Paul
was indeed spent when he at last bent Hillel to his will and the
.assembly scattered, its members going their different ways.
Night had fallen and the stars had been lighted in the heavens
while a wind from the south shouted down the emptying streets.
Paul and his companions walked along a shadowed, twisty way
between the dark walls of houses as they made for that quarter
on the other bank of the Tiber where he lived in the house of
Pudens and Claudia, and where he was well tended; for these
two were ever careful of the disciple of Tarsus.
Few were abroad on that evening. The moon had not yet risen,
and here was hazard for wayfarers in traversing certain of the8e
winding, narrow alleys near the riverside. ·
146 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Cornutus was old and lame and walked slowly, leaning upon
a stick and the arm of Amplias. As these two and Paul passed
beneath the arch the quiet was broken by a band of masked
patricians that swept past them hard upon the heels of two men
upon whom they laid violent hands. Cries of fear and wrath
rent the air as these thieves, having stripped the two hunted
citizens, beat them with clubs and then left them stretched and
broken upon the stones.
It was an ill chance that being crippled Cornutus moved
slowly, so he and his companions halted, hiding within the
shelter of the arch. But the wild men returned that way, and
one of them, perceiving Amplias, laid violent hands upon him
while another struck at the stick on which Comutus leaned, thus
casting him to the earth. But when he would have set upon this
brother, beating him, Paul came between.
And now the moon had risen, and the aged saint faced a
young bully, armed and insolent. Looking upon his mask in
that bright light, he cried out, saying, "Thou art verily coward
as well as breaker of the law. Strike not a cripple and one who
is old." And as he spoke this man drew his knife and advanced
upon the saint with intent to slay.
Now this fellow was Tigellinus, and he accompanied Nero,
thus seeking diversion for him through going to and fro in his
company in the back streets of the city. They set upon honest
citizens, robbed and ill-treated them for sport. But this was the
first occasion on which one had thus boldly rebuked him, and
the insult burned in the favourite's soul.
For a while he withheld his blade so as to torment his victim,
saying,· " Thou shalt perish for this, old man, if thou dost not
on the instant k;neel before me, entreating my pardon."
"I kneel only to God," came back the saint's hasty answer.
" If thou slayest me now Cresar's justice will find thee out.
Cresar will hold thee accountable for this act. Verily, he is the
ever watchful father of his people-the mirror of justice and
mercy."
In past times the dread name of Augustus had served Paul
well. So now when menaced by death he cried that potent word,
flinging it athis adversary.
Then Tigellinus became more incensed and thrust at the
saint, seeking to pierce him through the heart, so that he might
on the instant perish. But another man in a dark cloak cried,
"Hold back," and stayed the hand of the smiter. "Enough, ·
I would speak with this fellow," was his saying; and obeying in-
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 147
stantly, Tigellinus and his troop withdrew into the shadows of the
arch.
For now the moon had hidden its face in a fleece of cloud,
and the aged Seer of Tarsus could not, therefore, with his
dimmed eyes see the face of the young man who, pulling at his
cloak, led him to walk apart beside the river Tiber.
As Paul had often said to his disciples he was " all things to all
men ", so he strove ever to attune himself to the rhythm and beat
of each stranger's soul. Thus in the hour of peril he had cried out
the one signal virtue of Augustus, his fairness in judging accused
people who were brought before him.
And walking beside him that night, Nero was uplifted by the
challenge made by Paul to the favourite Tigellitms and his
vanity had, therefore, caused him to preserve Paul's life. He said:
" Tell me, 0 greybeard, those words of thine concerning
Cresar-~re they true words, coming from the heart? "
" Yea, they come from my heart," Paul answered, " for it hath
been my good fortune to know the justice of Augustus." And
thereupon he told of the injustice and hatred of his own country-
men and of how he had been preserved by that just ruler of
Empire, Augustus. " A young man," said the saint, " but old in
wisdom and merciful, for in the first t_
en years or more of his
government no man was condemned to death by him. Wherefore,
Cresar is a merciful father to his people."
Then the young man was the more uplifted. He laid an arm
upon the old man's shoulder and there was delight and joy in
his voice as he told the saint that Cresar had many cares, that the
burden of the whole known world rested upon his shoulders. Their
little minds could not appreciate the loftiness of one who was in
truth born of the fire of the gods-poet, singer, artist, and the
mighty all-merciful governor of his people.
Then he forgot himself and became curious, questioning this
bent and aged man who, though dressed in a plain, worn cloak, by
his speech and bearing betrayed the breeding of the patrician.
" Art thou of a noble race? " he inquired.
"Yea, that is so/' came back the careful answer.
" What is thy business? Art thou a Stoic, one of the
philosophers? "
"Nay, nay."
" That is well. The philosopher throws stones at sparrows all
day long."
" Truly said."
Then because of these short answers, Nero became more curious
VOL. 0. B
148 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
and taxed the saint with questions concerning his life and his
pursuits. And Paul loosened the armour of his defence, cast from
him the spirit of prudence. Moved by this man's youth and his
artful and devised innocence, he told of his work on earth. He
spoke, saying:
" Christ is the first-born of all creation. Through Him thrones,
principalities, lordships and powers seen and unseen, the whole
wide earth took on visible semblance and sprang into being."
Here Paul halted an instant, and then in few spare words re-
lated the chronicle of Jesus, saying at the last, " When still ,the
world was not, God imaged this design, and it hath been kept
hidden these many ages, but now in the fullness of time it hath
been revealed to certain chosen people on the earth. Verily,
Christ is mightier than the angels and demons, the dark powers
of magic, than all the starry powers. After His death He de-
scended into the lowest underworld. But God raised Him in
power to sit upon His right hand, and He hath led the angels
and demons captive in His train."
Now it was not Nero's wont to hearken to any long speech
delivered by another. Ever he liked to cut short the measure of
men's words. He had listened more patiently than was his custom,
but at the saying, " led captive in his train," he thought of his own
triumphs, and broke in, crying:
" It is the tale of a poet, old greybeard. But thou hast neither
the wit, nor the artifice of a poet; thou art not limber with thy
words. But I, who have been hailed as Apollo, might, if it
pleased me, shape this tale of thine into a great poem, and a
great spectacle. For it contains mystery and it contains terror.
But there are profane and foolish matters within this chronicle
of thine that should like dross be cast away. The name of
Cresar is impugned in thy fable. Wherefore, I would change
this chronicle and set it in Ethiopia, the land of mystery. Cer-
tain Romans who adventured into that country, bore back
wonder-tales concerning this hidden land. They spoke of rhino-
ceroses, elephants, peacocks, leopards and lions, dog-headed
men of the desert, and of a king and his palace-a palace mar-
vellous and set in starry gems. This fable of thine shall be laid
in Ethiopia, and its rulers shall take part in the spectacle, and
therein shall also figure thy two gods-the one unseen, who begat
the son thou hast named Christ. And I will devise terror and
awfulneSs that will set all Rome in a frenzy when this son who
is god and is slain passes triumphantly with shield and sword
through its murky depths. Lastly, in lovely words I shall tell of
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 149
how he rose in power, and in spectacle will show him with angels
and demons led captive in his train."
Now the saint perceived that as Cresar had drunk much wine,
his somewhat fuddled mind passed easily into dreams of folly and
vain deceits.
But, astonished by his foolish words, Paul strove to give him
understanding, declaring that he, Paul, spoke the truth, and
that he was no fablemonger. So these two had no real understand-
ing of each other, and it was only after a space, when Cresar's
heated blood had cooled, that he could perceive that he spoke with
a seer who was wholly concerned with righteousness and the faith
in which men lived. Enjoying argument and still liking this stranger
who knew him not-this nourisher of his vanity-he lifted up his
voice, shrill as a peacock's cry, piercing the quiet of that deserted
street.
"It has been well said that thoughts of life and death, of
righteousness, of growth and decay are but troublous ghosts
that haunt the couch of the uneasy sleeper. Let him sleep the
deep, untroubled sleep of carelessness. It is foolish to vex the
mind with riddles of good and evil, for· man cannot alter the
stature of his mind; but he may nourish and fertilize his
imagination. In truth he can no more escape from his own
measure than the tailor can escape from his tape measure. All
men are ill or well tailored, and must abide by that form or ap-
pearance they present to others." Here Nero smiled at his jest,
adding thereunto : " High laughter, loveliness and labour at the
poet's craft, these are the employment and the pleasure of great
souls, and such is my industry, 0 stranger. I lose myself in the
beauties of art, and thus I may forget the ugliness of man, the
brute nature of my fellows. Thus I may soar into the Empyrean
and enter the enchanted circle of the gods, reigning as king
among them.
" Though it may well be true that the gods are not, and
their histories like most chronicles are perhaps fables, yet they
serve the poet for the building up of poetry and story. Thou
hast said that this fable of thine is a true chronicle. Nay, it is
too near to matter for verse to be a true chronicle. Thine is a
good understanding. Waste it not in belief in the superstition
of the gods. Hold them only as images with which fancy may play,
and fashion out of them mystery, awfulness and immortal song."
Pleased with what he held to be a shapely speech Nero
ceased and waited a while in stillness for his companion'e
answer.
150 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
But Paul remained silent, sensible of the gulf fixed between
himself and this man, and troubled also by the dawning know-
ledge that mayhap his prayer had been answered, and that he
stood in the presence of Augustus ; and they were as man to
man. Yet how might he profit by this strange circumstance, this
signal hour when he was oppressed in spirit ~s by some wizard's
mantle of darkness, as by some web of evil that seemed woven
about this, to him, forsaken youth? It so repelled him he con-
tinued to hold his peace.
And Cresar's mind was also searching, he, too, being stirred by
the nobleness which was Paul's, and which even now awakened
his imagination. He called to mind the sage of Corduba, the wise
tutor of his youth, the minister abandoned in these last folly-
ridden months. And it seemed to him that this master, Seneca,
was in the likeness of his companion, and he spoke of him, saying:
" An old counsellor once advised me to journey into Spain,
the land of the moon-goddess, where I might find much that
would enrich my mind. But this pedagogue was like thee, con-
cerned only with the nature of man and of the world. I am
not concerned with either save in .so far as they are warp and
woof for my song."
The night deepened. Paul sighed, for he desired to break away
from the company of this man, yet was filled with pity for him
now that he perceived that the web of evil that had been woven
about him was spun by Tigellinus, whom all in Rome knew to be
infamou~ in his mind and deeds. But he was more, for the saint
in this time discerned that he had called up the dark powers of
magic, and through them, trapped this youth as in a fowler's
snare.
"Stranger," said the Seer of Tarsus, breaking silence; " I am
concerned for thee as a father for his son. Verily, I know-for
the Spirit telleth me-that thou art possessed by two beings ;
thou art as the moon that hath a dark and a bright side. And
behold, in these last years, the gloom gathers, the night in which
there are no stars creeps over thee. It is because one strong in
witchcraft, armed with the Powers of Darkness, casts a hood
over thine understanding. Let him not continue to prevail else
he will destroy thee. Truly I perceive a rare radiance about thee
that will be put out for ever, quenched like the flame of a
candle dip, if thou dost not return to thine old counsellor and
friend, if thou dost not set him up in place of his son of
perdition."
This speech pierced Nero's soul. He stood still as a statue
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME ISI
upon the road, whispering fearfully, "These are strange words.
Dost thou know my name and race? "
" I read only the temper of thy mind. I can discern and
penetrate into the hidden places."
" A diviner then? " Cc:esar asked ; · and he became very
thoughtful, speaking at last plaintively .like a little child. " The
old counsellor will not come to me. I prayed him to come."
" Then go unto him. Fall upon thy knees, implore him to
abide with thee and preserve thee from this evil usurper of
power who rules thy life, who hath enveloped thee in the dark
obscurity of that unlit half of thy soul."
Then Nero became incensed against this stranger and cried,
"Never have I kneeled to any man. Never will I entreat or beg
a favour of one who hath refused to come to me." ·
"And why hath he refused thee?" asked the saint. " It may
be that thou hast been froward in rejecting his counsel, in
taking only the counsel of the man who holds thee in thrall."
It was as if Paul's words stabbed at an old sore. In his heart
Nero knew them to be true, but his pride rejected them. In
another season he would not have permitted such speech to be
uttered in his presence ; he would on the instant have given the
fellow over to torment. But such was the power of the saint it
now seemed to his companion as if he walked in a dream and
conversed with his daemon. In that shrouded night Paul was
not, to his mind, a live man. Crooked of shape and of low
stature he was the spectre that all men encounter at some time
in their long journey between the cradle and the grave. And so
Nero made no fiery answer ; he spoke sullenly, and yet as one
who confesses a secret trouble to his familiar spirit.
" I am not a slave to any man. I am the poet of poets; and
this old counsellor would clip my wings. He likes not that mine
should be ever a life of joy and delight. Verily he is no father
to me yet he would play the father and so constrain me. Where-
fore I have turned to this man of my generation who marvels
at my song and quickens my imagination."
"Yea, quickens it through the powers of darkness."
"Art thou of this belief?" asked Nero, and he trembled as
he spoke. " Dost thou discern peril for me? Is he a weaver of
magic?" .
" I can but tell thee what I perceive written upon the very
air about thee. This man will prove thine undoing, will lead
thee into a place where the poet's song is never heard, where the
lyre is not sounded. But there is yet time. Go on the morrow
152 WHEN: NERO WAS DICTATOR
to the old counsellor and let him be reinstated once more not as
master but as the friend of good counsel." Here the saint
halted to take breath, and he continued then to tell of the truth
and the life, and Of how he, the poet, might declare this long-
hidden truth to all nations and people ; and thus he would be
saved, would remain as a glory within the memory of men till the
end of time.
Nero was stirred by this saying and inquired as to the nature
of this truth. But when the saint spoke again of Christ he had
no understanding of his words. It was as if they held no mean-
ing for him. His addled headpiece ached and he returned
again to his own trouble, to his fear lest he might be shipwrecked
if the old counsellor walked no more by his side. And when
Paul again assured him that this would come to pass the young
man fell into a heavy silence.
It seemed that the saint had won, had prevailed with Cresar,
who looked on him as no mortal man while they paced to and
fro in that loneliness apart from others, enclosed within them-
selves.
The night lifted; the moon shone upon the river Tiber. Nero
started. The strands of the dream that held him fast were
breaking. In that radiance he looked upon a yellow face and
into eyes unfathomable. A little wind breathed over their fore-
heads. Paul spoke :
" The Spirit quickeneth, the Spirit giveth life. That old
counsellor serves the Spirit. Turn now from the evil of the
flesh, from that demon-ridden friend of thine."
Then deceived, peradventure, by the brightness of the moon
a cock crowed-once, twice, and thrice. 1
It sounded, as in another time, a fateful hour for men. For.
that shrill call scattered the last fragments of the dream, waking
Nero to the common things of life, causing him to sink swiftly
into the deceits of his own world and to remember again that
he was Cresar and a master of song.
His laughter answered the cock's crowing, and his whole
manner changed as he spoke, saying :
" Old greybeard, thou pratest like a whole school of philoso-
phers. Thou knowest naught of high adventure, of the creator of
beauty, of the kingdom of the immortals. Go hence quickly else
I will prick thee with my sword. For thou dost ensnare with thy
wizard's speech."
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 153
" I seek only thine own good." As Paul spoke his eyes held
the young man's eyes, and he quailed, drawing away, muttering:
"I would have none of it; and I pray the gods thou dost not
again cross my road at any season or time. Thou art baleful ;
and whether thou art of earth or of the powers of the dark and
no mortal, I bid thee begone-begone on this instant." And in
that command Nero declared his own craven fear.
So the saint, now spent from this encounter, lingered no
more, but withdrew, shadows swiftly enveloping him.
And when the companions of Cresar drew near, making lively
conversation, he silenced them. Moving away, even from Tigel- ·
linus, he walked beside the glimmering waters, his mind casting
forward and casting back, his soul so sorely troubled he had no
more heart for speech or sorig.
CHAPTER XXIX
DAWN like an enchantress suddenly brok~ up the <Iight with
its coloured shafts, penetrating with arrowy light every hovel,
palace, temple and building on the Seven Hills. Only in -the
valleys of the city dusk lingered and the shadows were deep.
A little way beyond the gates of Rome Paul and Peter stood
in the dawn preparing sadly to take leave of one another.
" The end of the world is at hand," said Peter ; " I know that,
in this life, we shall not meet again."
"Thou wilt go before me to the Father," answered Paul. And
laying his hand upon Peter's shoulder, his eyes searching the other's
eyes, he continued: "Let thy spirit call my spirit when thine hour
of agony is at hand ; and then, though leagues of sea divide us,
mountains and hills stand betwixt thee and me, I shall hear thy
summons and come and stand by thy side."
And Peter strove to find words to answer Paul, but by reason of
his trouble, speech failed him in this hour of parting, and bowing
his head, he assented; and then having embraced one another,
these two uttered the blessing and went their several ways.
Slowly, and with halting step, Peter returned to Rome. And
all that day he abode alone in one room praying that, in the hour
of death, Paul of Tarsus should be suffered to stand beside him.
That aged saint swiftly put trouble and heaviness from him.
His mind filled with joy as he thought of Timothy, his beloved,
who awaited him at the end of his journey. Favourable winds
bore his ship eastwards, so that it seemed no ~ong time to Paul
before he gazed once more upon the Temple of Diana that stood
up above the other buildings in Ephesus.
He remembered how he had secretly fled from that city in the
time Demetrius, the craftsman, had made a great tumult,
and he was glad now that a church, which had many members,
awaited his return. But greater still was the joy of meeting and
greeting the youth Timothy in the house of Onesiphorus and of
sharing with him all the happenings that had befallen them in
these past two years.
There was much to tell; and again and again, Paul said
154
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 155
tenderly, "My son, my son," as if he found joy in the very utter-
ance of that word that signified fatherhood for him.
Now Timothy was thirty years of age; but to Paul he seemed
ever the youth who could not grow old. Slender as a sapling he
had that frailty of bearing that made him still seem a young man
who had not, so far, acquired the girth of those in manhood's
prime. And frail also was the nature of Timothy. He could not
stand up firmly to the buffeting of the world. That very gentle-
ness of his which led him to yield in all things to the fiery spirit
of Paul, betrayed him when he had, as head of the Ephesian
Church, to have dealings with all manner of men, since to knit
together the people of various nations who were Christians, it was
needful that he should be bold and stern as Titus.
The very things in Timothy's soul that were dear to Paul-his
yielding temper, his kindness, his obedience-led him to fail as an
elder and leader. Soon Paul learntthat the Church of Ephesus had
been rent by dissension through malice of tongues, through the
licence of some, through the hard bitterness of others who were
ascetics, and the spreading abroad of fables about Christ and His
resurrection.
Howbeit, Paul was not cast down on hearing these tidings.
He considered the matter and then sent for the leaders of four
parties that were sharply resentful of one another. He listened in
silence to their long speeches, and thus was compelled to perceive
the shortcomings of his son Timothy.
Now to certain of the Ephesian Christians the sound of their
own voice was lovelier than any music in the world. In the
assembly of the Church they desired through long discourses to
display their learning, adding doctrine to doctrine until the new
brethren knew not what to believe. And Timothy had not the
power to compel these men to remain silent.
Certain among them declared that the earth and all things in
it were built and shaped by angels, that God lived in light far
from men. He was not a loving Father, concerned with their
welfare, who watched over each of his children. Awful in
majesty He dwelled apart and alone. Such was the teaching of
Hymenreus/ and he spoke of an army of angels and said that
Jesus was chief among them, and only when He was baptized in
Jordan was He promoted to be the Christ.
Now there was no malice in Hymenreus. Though learned, he
was a fool who had fasted overmuch, so his understanding was
1I Timothy i. llo. II Timothy ii. 17.
156 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
weakened, his mind a granary of fables and of invented geneal-
ogies of angels and unseen powers.
The son of Alexander the coppersmith had joined the Church,
leading Timothy to believe that he was opposed to his father
in this matter of his being a Christian. But he lied. Paul's old
enemy had bidden him enter the Ephesian community, for, being
a contentious, wordy fellow, he would in time sow dissension
among the brethren and thus destroy the Church. Yet such was
the power of his persuasion he had won Timothy's heart so that
the two were good friends, being of the one mind concerning the
virtue of drinking no wine and abstaining from the eating of
meat.
So the young Alexander was appointed deacon of the Church.
And when its head was away preaching in the smaller towns of
Asia he suffered Hymenreus to make long discourses and to speak
even before white-headed elders who were upright and of sound
doctrine.
These prayed Paul that the two young men should be removed
from their place of authority in the Church; while other Christian
Jews prayed the saint to banish certain Gentiles who were wine-
bibbers and had on one occasion assaulted Hymenreus, striking
him to the ground when he uttered false doctrine. They had
also cast out from the chamber of worship the revered brother,
Aquila, who had rebuked them because of their violent
manners.
Then certain strict Jews complained that the wives of the
Gentile brethren braided their hair, wore costly raiment and
precious stones, and thereby sinned against God and were a caus~
of trouble to the eyes of the younger brethren. And many more
were the tales told by the members of the Church, some but trifling
complaints, others of grave import. Then Paul perceived that
Timothy, through listening to all parties and condemning none,
had permitted the assemblies to become a place for tumult of
divers kinds.
So on the Sabbath, when all had come together, he spoke out
sternly, condemning the leaders of each of the four parties; and
then carefully, wisely, he showed in a few words how Hymenreus
had led many of them astray. He spoke to the women, rebuking
them, and afterwards to the elders and deacons, declaring their
error in gentler words. Finally he promised them that he wouid
have set down on a roll those things they should believe, and so
they would know what was true and what was false doctrine in
the coming times.
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 157
Such was the effect of Paul's presence all the brethren agreed
to submit to his ruling, and while he abode in Ephesus peace
reigned in the Church. But when spring came he journeyed to
the little churches, twelve in number, which were scattered
throughout Asia ; and he was of good heart in the time he greeted
Epaphras in Colossre. For here the people were simple of mind
and lived in accord and desired only to hear the sayings of the
saint and to obey his commands concerning their lives.
But it seemed to him that his time was short; and so he would
not rest for long in any town. Soon he was on the road again,
journeying to Troas ; and from this port he sailed to Macedonia.
There was joy in his heart when he cast his eyes over Philippi, and
yet this joy was tempered by pain on his encountering Lydia1
and
seeing that she was now bowed with age ; and on her face were
the signs of weariness and sickness, showing that her course was
nearly run, her hour at hand.
" Thrice, Paul, the Angel of death called me in the past season
of winter," she said to him; "but I strove against that summons,
I would not yield to its importunity; I would not go until I had
gazed once more upon thee, and hearkened agam to thy voice."
Paul was moved in spirit by this woman's love in that she had
tarried, turning back from the Place of Rest so that she might
once more greet him when he came again to Philippi.
" I promised that I would wait for thy blessing, Paul," she
whispered. " So I am here. As of old my house is prepared for
thee and for thy disciples."
The saint lived there for three months, meeting the believers;
and all that time so near was Lydia to the grave she seemed only
to live in Paul's presence.
But in the hour the saint came to bid her farewell she roused up,
saying:
" Paul, in those times of tribulation that will shortly come upon
thee, if thou art heavy of spirit cast thy mind back to Philippi
and to those old days when we together laboured to build up a
church in this town; when Luke and thou planned and dreamed
of thy conquest of the earth for the Master. Think of those days
of our prime and forget these last hours."
With a sign of his head Paul assented. Then having found
voice for speech he spoke the blessing; and kneeling down beside
her bed, prayed that her soul should be speedily freed and at rest.
Luke, Demas and the Philippian brethren were all assembled
in that room while the high noon of summer faded into evening
' I Acts xvi. 14.
158 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
and at last her spirit passed. The voice of Paul of Tarsus ceased,
and in that silence he bowed his head, weeping bitterly.
For an hour they left Lydia alone with her Lord, and when
they came again to that room the hand of death had touched her
gently, surely, here and there so that her cheeks and brow were
smooth as the soft countenance of youth and she looked beautiful
as she lay at rest.
It was not in sorrow but in gladness that Paul departed from
Lydia. He · journeyed to Thessalonica, and in the weeks that
followed a great calm enwrapped him round. As he said to Luke,
"I see image by image the story of her brave life-Lydia in her
youth, my first convert at Philippi, Lydia the seller of purple,
ever kind, ever bountiful, the lady of perpetual succour, the con-
soler of many; Lydia who never failed man or woman in her
prime or in the enfolding years of age; Lydia, the Mother of
Peace. Verily, she was no woman·but a spirit, enclosed for a brief
while in the garment of the flesh. Would that other women were
like her; but that ma,y not be."
Then when Paul once more sailed for Asia the peace of that
gracious spirit went with him, so that morning, noon or night he
was glad with a strange gladness that was not of this world but
was a foretaste of the Kingdom of Heaven. Even in the hour he
contended with the obstinate people of Ephesus, Luke perceived
that he did not lose that joy, and while the light of Lydia's spirit
was thus about him he was so strong he quelled the contending
parties in the Church and exacted a promise from the young
Alexander and from Hymenreus that they would remain silent
and would accept the instruction of Timothy and his, Paul's,
epistles, in the coming time.
One day tidings came to Ephesus of a great fire that had
destroyed, the messengers declared, a quarter or more of Rome.
Some said they hid the truth, that greater had been the destruction
and that many had perished in the flames. But even then Lydia's
gracious peace sheltered Paul. So though others of the brethren
were filled with fear lest friends or kin had died in that time, he
would not suffer himself to become troubled or afraid.
"It is God's will," was his word. "But the end is not yet." And
his radiant peace bore peace to those who were about him and
who hearkened to his sayings.
CHAPTER XXX
I T was in the height of summer when day and night swiftly
meet. Luke slept in the same room with the aged saint, and
at moonset, in the darkness before dawn, he was roused- by a
voice crying," Yea, yea, I come."
Thrice were these words spoken : and then he perceived that
Paul stood, fully robed, near the glimmer of a candle.
" Master, what is the summons? Wherefore art thou risen
when day still tarries? "
. Then the saint told his physician to go forth with him while
still all the people slept. Not daring to question Paul because
his manner was stern and strange, Luke obeyed him, and to·
gether they went through the still streets. Passing out of .the
town in the early light they climbed a steep way until they came
to a grove of olives ; and there they rested and .looked out
towards the sea.
Now this grove was owned by Onesiphorus/ Paul's host at
Ephesus. And near to the olives on the brow of a little hill was
a shelter to which came ailing brethren- who needed rest. At
that time Artemas2
and Demas lived in this hut, and in a little
while Paul said to Luke, " I shall tarry here for three days or
more. Let no man speak to me in that time, and let Demas and
Artemas in their turn watch by me. For now I go on a journey
across mountains and seas ; and even if I tarry a long while
rouse me not, for I shall enter and return through a state beyond
time, space and memory."
Paul knelt and prayed, and thrice cried out, " I come " ;
and afterwards he fell back upon a slope of earth, breathing
heavily, sorrowfully. Then at times it was as if he were a
runner, fleeing from death, so fearful were the sounds of his
moaning breath. Almost, at one moment, it seemed as if his
body was riven in pieces; then the writhing of his limbs
lessened, and at last ceased ; as gently as the fall of a leaf he
sighed, and lay still.
Through all the hours of the day Luke watched beside the
saint; and when he required rest Artemas came, abiding there in
1 I Timothy i. 16. 2 Titus iii. u.
159
160 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
that warm night until the setting of the moon ; and with the
flooding of the eastern sky with light Demas released him, re-
maining in his stead.
Through the morning hours this young man watched beside
the unquiet body, hearkening to its sighs, doubting and wonder-
ing. He was one of the chosen brethren loved by Paul, and yet
he lived in fear of the sharp integrity of this great Seer of
Tarsus, and no-v when alone with him was more than ever
afraid; for it seemed to him that rays of light illumined the
dark robed shape and were thrust forth from it, making a
radiance in that dull day.
Towards evening the dullness became blackness and the sky
was robed in night and clamorous with thunder that, like a wilrl
beast, went roaring to and fro, making earth and the heavens
hideous. And Demas was afraid and cried out for help. Then
Luke came running swiftly and commanded the young man to
go hence and not to retur again. For Luke held that Paul was
away in his celestial body and feared lest the cries of Demas
would swiftly recall his spirit from its wanderings.
But still the saint remained in that swoon ; and hours passed
and the thunder, groaning and muttering, passed also down the
sky, dropping into the gulfs of night.
Then, in the hush before morning, Paul's body was shaken
and twisted as if he were in torment; and it also seemed to Luke
that" a radiance, blue and strange, like lights upon the sea,
danced about it ; but in time these faded out one by one. Slowly,
Paul opened his eyes to that dim, colourless hour.
Luke went to him and freed his robe, and in a little while he
spoke softly, as from a great distance. "I am weary, for I have
wrestled with the shadow of a night older than the sun. I have
known all sorrow, known the piercing sharpness of every
torment, and yet I rose and was borne above these states of being,
and I then knew the joy ineffable of witnessing the resurrection
of the elect."
When Luke further questioned the saint concerning this
strange time he would answer him nothing ; and on their return
to Ephesus he conjured the physician, Demas and Artemas to
speak to no man of those hours passed in the olive grove. They
severally held their peace, not even speaking of it among them-
selves when tidings came from Rome of the burning and crucifixion
of Roman brethren,. But the messenger could not declar~ the
names of those who had perished. He did not know if Peter still
lived. He could only say that Linus had led certain brethre~
•
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 161
into a sure hiding-place, and there they would abide until the fury
of the Roman rulers had somewhat abated against them.
From that hour Paul found no rest for his feet upon the
earth. He journeyed hither and thither in Asia; he sailed for Crete,
the island where lived a debased people who had no acquaintance
with truth or honour.
There in that country of tawny hills and grey rocks, of little
smiling valleys, Paul worked and talked for a season, then sailed
for Corinth-a worn and weary man, but glad at heart because
all had been well established by him in Crete ; and Titus, resolute
and stern, remained to hold that church fast for him.
CHAPTER XXXI
SOME days after the departure of Paul from Rome little
Claudia, the daughter of Nerc, died; and all the people
mourned for the stricken Emperor and Empress. But Hillel, the
Gaulonite, went to and fro, and in the evening gathered together
the slaves and outcasts in the poor quarters of the town. He
spoke freely to them, at times lashing himself into a fury, de-
claring that God's vengeance had fallen upon the Emperor, that the
Lord had slain his infant daughter because of the abominations
of his life. It was a sign of the coming of the End. That very
summer, Christ, the God of the slaves, would cast down fire from
heaven and burn up Rome-throwing down the palaces of the
mighty, burning up people of authority, in the flames. But
He would deliver the slaves and outcasts and cause them
to be borne up to heaven by His angels, where they would live
in Paradise for everlasting. In truth Christ would come as
avenger of the poor and as the conqueror of Nero, the beast,
who would be overthrown by the might and glory of the
Lord.
The slaves cried out their joy, making great talk and clamour.
Then when their frenzy had passed Hillel bade them disperse
quietly and pray that the End would shortly come and the
Empire of the Devil be overthrown.
After one of these gatherings Stachys,1
who served in the im-
perial household, carne to Peter and said :
" Master, I must render up my stewardship to thee. I cannot
be a deacon when this fellow, Hillel, speaks night after night
against Cresar and declares that Christ will come and overthrow
the Emperor. These sayings are treasonable, and thou knowest
that we shall all be in peril of our lives if such discourses con-
tinue to be made."
Then Peter rebuked Hillel, commanding him in future to
remain silent. But the man was sullen and only promised that
he would talk warily. And now, though he did not speak to
the gathering of the people in open spaces, he still continued
to seek out the slaves in small groups, talking to them of the
1 Romans xvi. g.
16.11
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 163
Emperor's abominable life and of the vengeance of the Christ
that would swiftly fall upon him..
So Stachys came again to Peter and gave him certain keys he
held as deacon, saying, "I believe in the Christ preached by
thee and Paul, but I must withdraw from a community of which
Hillel is a member."
Now it was in this hour that Peter's gentleness of heart be-
trayed him. If he had been Paul he would have perceived the
peril of the time and excommunicated Hillel. But he only
reasoned with this wild man of Judrea, and then told Stachys
that all would be well, for Hillel was muzzled as the ox, and
would not speak but would only work for the Church in the
coming days.
"Nothing will silence this spouter of hatred and wrath,"
answered Stachys. " He will flow on as everlastingly as the river
Tiber. Wherefore I sever myself from the household of the
Church, and I go in sorrow, fearing for my brethren."
With that this wise man departed in haste, not answering the
call of Peter, who believed he might yet reconcile this Gentile
with Hillel and Hillel's followers. For there were many men
who believed in the sayings of this fiery preacher; and if Peter
had banished him from the Church he knew that he would lose
half the community. So, fearing the break-up of the Roman
Church and remembering how the Antiochian Church had been
riven and almost destroyed, Peter let Stachys go and suffered Hillel
to continue his harangues to the slaves and the outcasts.
Indeed, in a little while, Peter was so moved by the prophecy
of Tabeel that fire would fall from Heaven that summer and
devour Rome, he, too, became once more assured that 'the end
of the world was at hand, and speaking of it here and there,
he placed himself beside the Gaulonite and seemed to the ig-
norant, and the people of ·little understanding, to be at one with
his teaching. But Peter taught Christ's doctrine of charity
towards all men, and he bade the slaves obey their masters and
love even those who smote tlrem and ~eaped bitter wrongs upon
them, treating their wives and children like dogs.
Thus Peter and Hillel preached love and hatred, treason and
obedience, in the one community. But they were seldom in the
~arne place toge+her: for believing that the last days were at
hand, they worked ceaselessly, teaching in different quarters of
the town.
Summer passed away and autumn bore with it no signs of
fire, nor of the destruction of Rome by earthquake or tempest.
VOL. U. C
164 WHEN NERO WAS DICT ATOR
The court no longer mourned for Claudia Augusta, and the old
d'splay of wealth, the games, the festivals made the city once
more a centre of abominable evils in the eyes of Zealots-like
Hillel, Tabeel, Junias, Philologus, Hamul, Hermes1
and Linus.
For Linus also upheld Hillel and persuaded Peter against his
better judgment to permit him freedom in his speech. And when
the new believers complained that fire had not fallen from
Heaven and Christ, as promised, had not come, then Tabeel sought
the word of truth again, passing into trance in the assembly.
In due course he declared that the number of the elect had
not yet been gathered. Only when the slaves of Rome had almost
all been enlisted in the service of the Master would Christ
come. In another year when summer was once more with them
the number of the elect would be made. Then they might be
prepared for the great fire and those last days of triumph and
glory when the slaves would be first and the rulers and nobles
~. - I
So through winter and spring Peter, despite his age, laboured
morning, noon and evening for the faith, until at last he fell
sick from weariness and was compelled to rest in the Alban hills
until strength came again.
With his departure from Rome there came a loosening of
authority, and now Hillel and his disciples were free to preach
hatred and vengeance and to prophesy the speedy overthrow of
Babylon and of the harlot Empress and Cresar, the beast.
1 Romans xvi. 14, 15.
CHAPTER XXXII
WHEN Claudia died Popprea was grief stricken, fearing,
indeed, that she might lose her power over Cresar now that
his line was no longer assured through her child. Nero had said
that they would follow the practice of the Pharaohs, that a
woman, his child, would reign after him ; for it was the custom
for the daughter in ancient Egypt to inherit the throne in company
with her husband.
The death of Claudia destroyed Popprea's hope of governing
Nero and the Empire through little Claudia Augusta. Now again
she must contend for the first place against the other favourites
of Nero, and against Tigellinus whom she feared most of all. For
he could always divert Nero by appealing to the dark side of his
nature, by leading him into vile pleasures and making a drunkard
of him, thus giving back to her a quarrelsome and soured hus-
band, wearied and exhausted by debauchery.
It is true that, for a while after the loss of Claudia, Nero was
kind and gentle to Popprea ; and having enrolled their daughter
among the gods, he made poems and sang sad songs to the harp,
and remained by his wife's side.
It was, perhaps, grief at the loss of Claudia that led Popprea
to forget Paul and the sect of the Christians. For she sent no
further emissaries to make inquiry concerning them; and Nar-
cissus, who was of the court and by his presence might have re-
called Paul to her mind, had taken his own life,·and so was also
speedily forgotten.
On the day the infant died Nero spoke to Tigellinus of the
strange man with whom he had walked and talked beside the
river Tiber, and he said, " Surely this fellow was a wizard-one
of those easterns who practise necromancy and, peradventure, he
hath slain my child; or was he one of the dark beings who spring
from Pluto's kingdom, an avenging spirit sent by my mother to
destroy the light of my life and joy? "
But Tigellinus made mock of this fancy, saying that he was but
an old dotard, one of these strangers who seek to gain a livelihood
by setting themselves up as philosophers when they are veritably as
asses who bray all the day long in the public places.
!65
166 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Then Cresar was comforted and put his fear from him, not
remembering Paul until that day when the saint came before
him for judgment.
In the spring of the year Nero sought to win the homage of
his people by singing in the theatre at Naples; and at that festival
he became glad again, for his audience and his courtiers made a
great noise, applauding his music. So hour after hour he sang to
them ; and they wearied long before he wearied, inasmuch·as he
had the voice of a bull and the neck of a bull and, as one said,
would sing everlastingly if the heavens or tne gods did not silence
him. For his conceit was great in that time.
But one sultry noon, when a multitude strove in the theatre
against slumber, earth herself rebuked him. Their seats were
suddenly shaken, the walls seemed to rise up from the ground, and
then, though they did not fall upon the people, they quivered
again and yet again.
There was shouting and cries of terror, women falling in
swoons, men turning this way and that, but held back from
panic, flight, and perhaps death, by the sight of the white-robed
Emperor who continued to pull at his harp strings and to sing
his song.
Such bravery delighted the people, driving away fear, and
they remained in their places until, at last, Cresar ended his
singing and, bowing his head to them smiling, waited for their
praise.
And great was the thunder of their clamour. In that hour
Nero was their beloved, their father, their god. For he had
played a brave part, preserving, by staying the panic, the lives
of many.
But when they had all departed from the theatre another earth-
quake shock put an end to it as a place of s~ng, by causing the
walls to come crashing down in ruin.
Nero wrote a poem of thanksgiving, and, on the instant, deter-
mined that he would journey to Greece; and there as poet and
singer would win the hearts of all the Greeks. But tidings of a
conspiracy compelled him to return to Rome and to cause Tor-
quatus and others who had planned to dethrone him to be seized
and brought to justice.
Now again Cresar lost his gladness of heart, and once more
Tigellinus, the fisherman and horsebreeder, tempted him with
low pleasures and incited him to quarrel with Popprea.
One evening in the presence of his courtiers, he taunted her
for not having borne him a son and asked if he were married to
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 167
a woman who had become barren. Then she became -
angry, for
'3he was afraid, and gave him back taunt for taunt, saying when
they were alone together, " It were better thou didst attend to
the government of thine .Empire and didst no more play the
mountebank, making thyself a sport for the base and common
people."
In speaking thus the Empress sorely wounded his vanity, and
he struck her and called her a whore. Yet he loved h~r for her
beauty, and she divined that it was only because Tigellinus had
set him against her and had made him drunk with wine that his
fury overcame him and changed him into a white-faced tyrant.
She had seen the look that was now upon his face when he had
consented to'his mother, Agrippina's, death. So she rose·up, and
silently swept from the chamber.
That night when Nero desired to speak with her she would not
see him, knowing that it were better to take the high hand with
this spoiled Cresar : and he did not command, or force himself
upon her. Then she became the more afraid, and one of her
spies told her that Tigellinus had said, " Popprea is basely born,
but it is easy to find another Empress of nobler birth."
Fear became terror, and, robed in a dark cloak, she hurried
by a secret way to an underground place where lived her coun-
sellor, the mage, Joah.1
Now this man had been much spoken of in Rome in the reign
of the late Emperor, Claudius. For he had then performed in
public what seemed miracles to the ignorant citizens. But when
Nero· came to the throne he withdrew, seeking no more to win
favour with the rich, but watching for a rising star, to which,
h..is divining told him, he should bind himself and rise also.
After a time he encountered Popprea, and he promised her
that through his magic he would cause her, if she obeyed him,
to become ruler of the world. And in due course all that he
promised came to pass. Then being proud and imperious, Popprea
sought his counsel no more, deeming that, as long as her beauty
remained, her will would be Cresar's will.
Nero had been careful with his money, living, indeed, . as
sparely as the ancient Romans. But she caused him to change
the order of his life, to spend his treasure lavishly. He became
a new being; and all might have been well for Popprea, if slowly,
surely, Tigellinus had not also gained power over Nero, so that
now, at last, he seemed the controller of the Emperor's will.
. 1 A Hebrew name meaning "Jah [God] is brother. ··
I x68 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Popprea stood in a shadowy chamber hung with tapestries, in
the presence of the mage.
He was tall and lean, a white beard hiding his neck and throat,
his eyes bright and hard in the gleam of the torches that lit
up the dusk. And though he bowed before her she trembled, for
she knew that she had erred in not having sought his counsel,
or seen him in the year that had passed.
She dismissed her slave woman; and when the two were alone
the mage changed in his manner. She was no more the Empress,
he was the master. Yet he spoke softly :
" Daughter, .I knew thou wouldst come. I have seen thy
peril ~md thy discomfiture, this long while, in the pool of dreams.
Thou must yield to me in all things that concern affairs of this
life else thou wilt fail and perish. I promise to be gentle, I shall
not pull at rein or curb, I only desire thy well-being and our
triumph."
And Popprea answered, " I am prepared from henceforth to be
guided by thy wisdom alone. I trust thy learning and thy magic
-speak on." ·
The master fixed his eyes upon her, saying, "Before I give
counsel I must first earnestly entreat thee to have no child. The
stars are against such a happening. I have read the scroll of
the heavens again and again."
"But this is folly. I have passed thirty years. Only through
a son shall I continue to rule Cresar and the world."
" Birth and death are bed-fellows," muttered the mage.
Not heeding his words, Popprea groaned and cried. "I c~n
still hold Cresar with my beauty ; but soon it fades, then I shall
be cast out like a withering flower. In this matter of a child I
dare not obey thee, master."
Joah laughed, and as suddenly, he turned upon her snarling
like a wolf. " I see there is no trust between us. Go ! Leave me
to my meditations. Go! "
The greater fear banished the lesser fear. Popprea cast herself
at his feet, imploring him to have pity, promising to be his slave,
to be guided by his counsel in all affairs if he would but remain
her father, her dremon, the helmsman of her ship.
For some time the master paid no heed to her lament, stand-
ing there straight and stern. But, at last, he bent down and raised
her up from the earth, exacting as he did so the promise that
she would not permit Nero to make her fruitful once more. In that
time this eastern was kind and affectionate as a father, m1:1rmuring
words of comfort that drove her fears away and gave back to her
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 169
imperial pride, hope, and courage. She told him that an hour ago
Cresar had declared in the presence of one of her spies that he was
weary of his spoiled Empress, that he would leave the bitch in
Rome and sail to Egypt in a galley in the company of Tigellinus.
The singers of Alexandria had delighted his hearing; and they
had promised him a welcome from the artists, .the poets and men
of learning in their country that would prove to him that the
Romans were indeed rude barbarians. For the subtle Egyptians
alone could value and understand the true worth of his genius as
a poet and master of song.
" Thou wilt lose him if he goes," s~id the mage. " I perceive
behind Cresar's desire the will of Tigellinus. This journey must
not be taken. Thou art in grave peril, daughter. I will, there-
fore, draw the powers of air, fire, earth and water to me. I will
confront the magic of Cresar's favourite with my own magic and
overcome him."
At her master's bidding, Popprea laid herself down, hiding
her face. And strange sounds came out of the earth, shrieks and
cries clamoured about her; then, of a sudden, quiet came again.
She uncovered her eyes and saw that the room was filled with
a vapour of incense and strange spices. The floor was carpeted
with glimmering spiders' webs and the mage moved to and fro
between their strands, halting at last before the altar. There he
stood, a great dark figure, and he murmured unknown words,
addressing'shapes that were not human, gathered together below
him, filling that chamber. Popprea scarcely dared breathe, but
she was no longer afraid, not even when flames suddenly leaped
about the master. Taller, greater than ever before, he seemed
like a giant of an elder world come out of the mists of time.
Slowly, noiselessly, he stepped down from the altar and circled
about Popprea, drawing around her a white circle of light and,
with a rod, making a cross, the yellow sign in his ritual, which
signified the balance of the universe, the measure of every
judgment.
And still Popprea remained unafraid. But she covered her eyes
with her hands ; for they could not bear the radiant fierceness
of that white circle of light. There followed strange. noises and
trumpetings, the sound of the mage's voice speaking swiftly,
sternly, the sentences that commanded the spirits of air, earth,
water and fire to return to their own elements.
A long time seemed to pass before a voice said, "It is well,
daughter. Open thine eyes."
And when Popprea looked that dungeon was as before-a
170 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
shadowy room hung with tapestries, lit by torches and paved
with stones.
" Ccesar will not go to Alexandria."
" But he is as stubborn as all the mules of Italy when Tigel-
linus has his ear," answered Poppcea.
" When he has visited Yesta's temple tell him that the omens
are against his journey to Alexandria and he will heed thee,"
said the mage. "Be not fl)!arful. I have made all fast. Tigellinus
cannot strike at thee in this present hour ; but I cannot yet speak
surely for the future. For in the coming days my magic art con-
tends with his magic, and I have not seen whether he or I gain
the advantage."
Humbling herself once more before the master-magician,
Popp.cea promised to obey his commands and softly withdrew.
CHAPTER XXXIII
FOR several days Nero feasted and rioted with Tigellinus.
He would not visit his Empress and seemed bound as with
a chain to his favourite, heaping upon him gifts of priceless
gems and other treasures. And those few who were intimate
shook their heads, whispering:
" Poppa:a's star is declining. She is a proud and.rash woman.
In her wrath she will seek to have Tigellinus slain, and he will
discover this plot to Nero and declare that it is a plot against
Cresar's life. Death is Popprea's portion. For now that Nero
does not see her she cannot win him again through her love-
liness."
But these sayings were only murmured among a few and did
not reach the ears of the courtiers, the gossips and the scribes.
Howbeit, when Nero was resting on a stone bench in Vesta's
Temple, the cold of the seat and the fumes of his past days of
debauchery clouded his mind, so that when he tried to rise he stag-
gered and was held to the stone by the fold of his cloak. If he had
been clear in his wits it would have been easy for him to jerk him-
self free ; but as it was he believed that he was gripped fast, and
his strength could not avail against it.
Petronius, who was near by, freed him; and leaning upon
this man's arm, Nero bade him lead him quickly to a carriage.
There was fear still in his eyes as he entered the pavilion in which
he knew he would find Popprea. And, as in an earlier time, like a
boy going to his mother, he stumbled towards his Empress,
throwing himself down beside her, laying his head in her lap,
telling her of this strange mischance.
" Thou alone hast the old Egyptian knowledge of magic,
Popprea," he cried. " What does this portend? Am I to die?
Have magic arts been used against me? Is this a sign of m:y
end?"
"Nay, nay, Cresar," she said gently. "If thou dost heed me
thou wilt not die. These are signs given thee by the dremon,
which declare that thou wilt perish only if thou goest on this
foolish jourriey to Alexandria. Rome has need of thee; thy
171
172 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
people have need of thee, and," she whispered softly, " thou
art my need."
To the sick and weary Nero, Popprea had never looked more
beautiful. " Like Mother Isis and like Helen-my sheltering
protector, lovely beyond all other loveliness," he cried; and for-
got his quarrel with her, forgot Tigellinus, and was once more
the lover of his Empress.
She caused him to issue an edict that declared that Ca~sar so
loved his Roman children he could not find it in his heart to
depart from Italy and journey to Egypt. Then the people were
glad, partly because they feared that Nero's agents would with-
hold the food supplies if he were no longer there, and also because
of the gaiety, the games and festivals he offered them. To them
Cresar had, by his conduct, proved himself a true father of his
great Roman family.
Because of their joy Nero was content for a time. He studied
his people, going freely to and fro among them; and then he
spoke of what he had perceived to Popprea.
"Many of the Romans think money, talk money, and would
eat money if they could not keep it in their possession in any
other way. They put wealth first and beauty last. The gods of
the Capitol are no longer offered statues and other treasures of
Greek art. They only receive gifts of gold. A man will sell his
father for a few pieces of denarii. And Rome itself! It stinks in
my nostrils-a town of narrow, wisted streets, filled with un-
savoury odours, a barbarian city, a dung heap in midsummer.
Would that Rome were levelled to the ground by an earthquake,
then I might show my people that beauty and art alone have
worth, alone are glorious. I would give the whole of my fortune
to build a new city that might outstrip all Greek cities in its
loveliness. I would show these Roman usurers that Cresar does
not care for paltry wealth, and that he is an artist before he is
an emperor."
Nero confided many things to the Empress in that time.
Then, at last, sure of her power, she spoke against Tigellinus,
asking that the favourite should be banished from the court.
Spies soon carried the tale of her words to the Sicilian, and he
swiftly countered this tale with subtle sayings in which Popprea
was not named; and .the substance of them was that women
were only for enjoyment; but such enjoyment would become a
peril to a lover who allowed her to taste the sweets of imperial
power. It was not true that Agrippina had poisoned her husband
so that.her son should reign in his stead. He was her pawn. From
ST. PETER AND ST. PAUL IN ROME 173
lhe hour of Claudius's death she had held herself to be
Cresar, divinely appointed to rule, and Nero was only a slave
who carried out her commands. When these were not obeyed
she had become a creature of hatred and wrath. If she
had not been dispatched she would have sent her son before her
down the shadowy way. For this reason even Seneca had advised
her death.
" Well, what of it? " asked Nero, his face dark and sour.
" When beauty fades history sometimes repeats itself."
"If thou speakest of the Empress," cried Nero, "it is a false
and foul scandal."
"Nay, not so." Tigellinus· spoke swiftly, for Cresar's hand
was almost at his throat. " Thought of the Empress was indeed ·
far from my mind. But now thou hast named her I would beg
thee to believe me, Cresar, when I say that I would give my life
for thine." .
"Of that I am assured," answered Nero, who was easily won
by this favourite's peculiar power of persuasion. " I have often
called thee my faithful watch dog."
" Then, is it not strange," inquired Tigellinus, " that the
Empress should ask for the banishment of a most devoted
servant and friend, of one who watches at Ca:sar's door night
and day?"
There came no answer to this question; and Cresar was sullen
and silent when some hours later Popprea tried to please him
with her beauty and her talk. And her mind filled with its
purpose, she spoke at last of Tigellinus and again of banish-
ment.
Then Nero became angry and quarrelled with her on this
issue, and so he sought 9ut Tigellinus and kept his own counsel,
only neglecting Popprea. In the company of the Sicilian his nights
were darkened by drunkenness and ugly pleasures, Cresar making
neither music nor poetry. Then the Empress sent a message to the
mage, demanding that he should come swiftly to Antium, for she
was again afraid.·
They encountered each other one warm night of summer in
a small garden lit only by starlight; and soon the mage learned
of all that had passed since Popprea had come to Antium, and
he answered her reproaches, saying:
"The magic known to Tigellinus wholly protects him against
any assault made by my familiar spirits. I cannot break him by
my magic art; but I may well confound him through superior
strategy. Of late I have at night-time visited the trans-Tiberinc
174 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
quarter, and there I listened to a hairy eastern, a madman who
prophesied that Rome would shortly be destroyed by fire. He
was not a rebel who would set it ablaze, only a crazy fool be-
longing to what is known as the sect of the Galileans. I cannot,
therefore, use him and his disciples and strike through them.
But his words have shown me the path we may in safety follow.
If thine agents set fire to Rome in the height of summer the
pestilential quarter of the city may be wholly destroyed, and
we then could divert Ca:sar's mind with the building of his
Greek city. He is ever a man who loses himself in his WOJk, if
it is of great moment in his eyes. Thou wilt not be troubled by
the plotting of Tigellinus when Ca:sar is wholly occupied in the
"' planning of broad streets and _
fountains, and of another palace
of the Ca:sars."
" I am afraid," muttered Poppa:a.
" Be fearless and guided by me, and I shall make thee ruler
of the world. Only give me a good sum of money and I shaH
find certain men of other races who hate Roman rule, and I will
pay them well for the task of_setting fire to Rome."
"But what if inquiry reveals the author of this destru{;tion?"
"That crazy fool, the Jewish prophet, and his sect can then
be accused. There are many witne~es of his prophecy concerning
the fire that his god will send to devour Rome. I have made
inquiries concerning him and his followers. They belong to a
community who own as their leader one named Paul of Tarsus,
a seditious fellow, who hath been the cause of rioting and tumult
in Asia and in Greece."
Then Poppa:a remembered the accusations made secretly to
her by the High Priest, and she recalled her encounter with
Paul and her fear, that was not of this earth, of his hostile
power.
"It is well, master," she said. "Hasten back to Rome and
see that this work of destruction is speedily accomplished."
So the mage received from the Empress a good sum of gold ;
and he set out before dawn for the ancient city of the C<CSars.
And when in the light of the new day he surveyed its towers he
was glad because of their coming destruction, and because cer-
tain of the people must perish in the flames.
BOOK III
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE OF ROME
,
CHAPTER XXXIV
FOR many weeks no rain had fallen in Rome. The air
about the Seven Hills was as hard and dry and clear as that
of an Arabian desert; but in the streets and in the valleys it was
close and fetid.
Returning from the Alban heights, Simon Peter scarce could
breathe in those pestilential ways. Three deaconesses, Eustachia,
Paula and Melanie, welcomed the aged Apostle at the House of
the Vine,1
which was now the centre. for the Church in Rome.
Members from the communities of Asia, Judrea, Egypt, Pontus,
Greece, and from Spain all came there and were fed and, if
without means, aided by charitable brethren. It was from here
Peter dictated his epistles to Paul and to those churches in the east
which he had founded.
Now the three deaconesses washed his feet, cooled his brow,
and set food before him. Soon he was refreshed in body and mind.
Then Mark came in and kneeled before him, asking his blessing.
Mark had been away from Rome, travelling in Bithnyia and
Pontus for many months. He .was as dear to Peter as Timothy
was to Paul.
These two, the grey-headed John Mark and the white-haired
Apostle, embraced one another, and afterwards talked long
and earnestly of the spreading knowledge of the Christ, of the
great unfoldment of His doctrine. " If we are wise it will,
in a few years' time, overcome the abominable evil that stalks
abroad naked and unashamed." Thus Mark spoke, and then,
sighing, continued. "But, master, I am afraid for our com-
munity here lest in this present time it is betrayed and all its
good work brought to naught by the Gaulonite, Hillel. In thine
absence he hath been preaching in the open spaces neat the
river to the slaves and outcasts-speaking against rulers and
kings, denouncing authority, and saying that the humble and
the poor will rise in triumph while their masters are overthrown,
the end of the world being at hand."
"Yea, it comes speedily," answered Peter. "But I am troubled
1 " It was called by this name because Christ once said, • I am the true Vine
and My Father is the husbandman.' "
177
J78_ WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
by thy words, for I commanded Hillel to preach no more in public
but to go privily among the people, speaking to them in twos and
threes."
" He hath changed the hearts of the deacons also," said
Mark, and though, as Peter's scribe, he revered the Apostle, yet
he continued his protest. "They, too, speak of the overthrow
of authority. Verily, we shall be undone if this doctrine of
revolt continues to spread in the Name of Christ." And so
earnest and so provoked was John Mark, that after a while
Peter promised to rebuke the deacons and brethren who were
now assembling. But the aged Apostle dreaded contention. He
would have the Christian community as one peaceful, orderly
family yet he perceived that his gentle words only roused up fierce-
ness and violence in the heart of Hillel, who declared that he would ·
not and dare not remain silent.
"For fire will fall from heaven and burn up Rome this very
summer. The Lord speedily cometh, and there are many still
in darkness whom I would win for Christ and number among
the elect, before that dread hour of the world's destruction."
" There is no certainty that it is.all but upon us," cried Mark.
"It is more likely that many innocent brethren will be sent to
the galleys, scourged or tortured because of thy seditious
speech. It ill becomes a servant of the Master to speak against
authority, against rulers and kings. I am assured that Christ
will come in glory within the lifetime of those who are present
here and now. But I cannot hold with thy belief that we shall
witness the End and the judgment this present summer."
Then, in further scathing words Mark denounced the wild
sayings, the wrath and vengeance preached by this Gaulonite;
and so vehement .was he in manner and speech, the brethren
hearkened to him and would not permit Hillel to utter a word.
Peter followed after him, saying that he was of the same mind
as Mark, and he bade the community accept his teachings, for
he had walked with Christ and known the Master in the flesh.
But in that very hour when it would seem that Hillel'~
authority had been overthrown, his right to preach and teach
taken from him, there came a sudden change, clamour from the
street, shrieks and shouts, the sound of hurrying feet and the
entry of Nereus,1
crying, "The fire-it burns, it burns. Our
Lo.rd cometh ! Hasten, prepare ! Behold the great light over
the Palatine hill, behold the first signs of the End."
Hillel shook off those two who held him down ~ and with
1 Romans xvi. 15,
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 179
shining eyes he bade the brethren follow him and obey his com-
mands. Then, turning away from Peter and Mark, he led them
all into the street, and they stood about him, a little group,
hailing him as their master.
They gazed with wonder, awe and thankfulness at the fire
that slowly, surely, devoured the blackness of the northern sky
and offered them the promise of resurrection and of paradise.
VOL. Il. D
CHAPTER XXXV
THE heavy heat oppressed the people and few walked the
streets of Rome. Many citizens were in their beds, and
even the soldiers drowsed at their posts. Cresar was at Antium,
his court having followed him there. So no roystering bands
broke the quiet of the streets, and the poor and the merchants,
who alone remained in the city, would soon be asleep.
But near the Circus Maximus, among the shops and wooden
hovels, dark figures went to and fro, halting here and there,
then hurrying on again, leaving behind them glowworm trails
that spread and broadened, that at la.St became huge flowers of
flame.
Then the people roused up, running from their houses, hasten-
ing towards the Circus, only in time to see fire bursting from it,
suddenly and awfully, forming a high mountain of glowing light.
This corner of Rome had been well chosen by the agents of
Popprea. Stores of oil and the ancient woodwork of _
the hovels
nourished the conflagration let loose upon the heavy heat-laden
night.
The people were confounded and panic-stricken by fierce men
who guarded the circles of fire, menacing them with death when
they tried to stay its course. "We have authority from the
highest in the land to burn these ant-heaps, to destroy the whole
burrow," they cried, flourishing knives, dancing and singing with
mad merriment. Protected by armed bullies, youths flung flar-
ing torches into the little shops and houses, careless of the lives
of those who might still remain within them.
The old and sick perished from suffocation or were roasted
alive as in an oven. Scores were trampled to death on the stones
in the narrow alleys, or enveloped in streamers of flame that
twisted and swooped across the streets, barring their way. Soon
the fire leaped and vaulted down the broad valley between the
Aventine and Palatine hills; multitudes shrieking, shouting and
lamenting, ran before it.
In those early hours authority had deserted the city. Those
soldiers who pretended to help the wealthy when their mansions
180 '
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE ·I8I
burned came but to rob and plunder on· that first night and
morning, making n0 brave effort to check the flames.
These, like scarlet battalions, raced up the slopes of the hills,
even attacking the ancient palace of the Cresars, encircling it,
sweeping it from their path. Flame-haloed night, smoke-clouded
day; pain, fear, chaos, horror. Hillel and his companions alone
rejoiced as the temples of the old gods fell into ruins as though
smitten by the hammer of their Lord.
. On that first fateful evening, when Mark and Peter remained
alone in the House of the Vine, they had prayed for a short
while; then, rising from their knees, went out into the street.
There they beheld the frenzied group gathered about Hillel, and
Peter gave swift orders, forbidding them to behave in this unseemly
fashion and calling on them to come to the chamber of assembly,
where they might hold the Hour of the Watch and learn the Will
of the Holy Spirit.
" But Christ cometh," cried Hillel; " at any moment, the
heavens opening, He will appear in glory. We shall not see Him
if we are closeted in the dimness of the house. We shall not
witness His glory as His angels herald His approach."
Again Peter spoke to this man, striving to reason with him;
but he might as well have spoken to the wind. Hillel swept past
him, calling on the deacons and others to follow and to sing
psalms of greeting and of thanksgiving to the Lord.
And all the younger men were moved to exaltation by his
gestures and his sayings. So, in ordered march, they went down
the street, chanting the psalms of David-their faces radiant,
their eyes ablaze with hope, delight, ecstasy, believing as they
did that the Last Judgment was come and that they would
speedily be carried up like Elijah into those still, sombre heavens.
Then sadly and yet with serenity, Peter and Mark re-entered
the House of the Vine. There, in the company of Eustachia,
Paula and Melanie, they sought the counsel of the Spirit and
were bidden to seek out the members of the community who
lived in Rome. They were to succour the stricken and to pro-
vide a home for the homeless, to provision the house, and ·also
to watch and pray.
Scarcely sleeping for two days and nights, John Mark and the
Apostle went to and fro, helping the aged, those maimed by the
fire, and the homeless, praying with them, watching by them.
Then in the hours before dawn they rested, sinking into the
deep slumber of exhaustion.
It was on the third day of the fire when Mark and Peter;
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
refreshed and invigorated by this rest, went out in search of lost
comrades. They came once more upon Hillel and those deacons
and Christians who followed him.
They stood watching a burning mansion, and their faces were
so joyful that one Roman cried to them :
" Ye are glad then of this destruction ? "
" Yea," answered Hillel; " for it is a sign of the End. My
God has cast down flame upon this abominable city, and I am
indeed of good heart, because He will not rest until all is de-
stroyed and not one stone remains upon another."
" Robber, plunderer," cried the Roman. " Thou art one of
those who have fired the town," and he struck Hillel to the
earth. Then certain of his friends who were about him beat
and buffeted the Christians and might have slain them if cries
that fire was encircling them had not led these men hastily to
leave off and to flee from that winding way.
The Christians only rejoiced at the hurts and buffetings the)'
had received ; and Hillel began to preach to them, but he ceased
on perceiving Peter and Mark standing by. For in his heart he
was ashamed because he had disobeyed the command of the
head of the Church.
But before Peter could speak to him a patrician, wearing the
badge of his rank, came staggering from a villa that was now
suddenly alight and devoured by flame. Half blinded and dis-
traught, he called to Hillel, asking him and his companions t'J
help him to save his daughter, who had fallen and was being
smothered in the hall of the house.
"Nay, master," said Hillel; "we will raise no hand to aid
thee or thine. For this is a purging flame sent by God, and all
save the elect will be consumed in it."
" Thou art mad with the madriess of the fire," cried the
patrician, and he turned to others, entreating them, saying that
his wife and elder children had already perished, and this, his
youngest daughter, was the last living of his family. But only
Peter and Mark hastened forward, for their hearts were moved
by this man's grie£ And, casting off his cloak, Peter was the
first to stumble into the smoke that now hung in a suffocating
cloud about that dwelling.
Fighting their way forward, these three came at last upon the
shrivelling body of a woman, and they dragged it forth even as
tongues of flame leaped at them. Then, when out in the open
and freed from that darkness of coiling smoke, Peter fell to the
earth overcome and as one who is lifeless.
ST. P E T E R AND THE GREAT FIRE 183
Exaltation faded, and Hillel and his followers at last gave
their aid. Raising up the body of the old Apostle, they carried
him to an open place where the air was clear of the fumes.
They left behind them the patrician lamenting over his dead
daughter. Then suddenly, wildly laughing and shouting, he
rose from beside her, and, running towards the furnace that had
once been his home, he leaped into the devouring flames.
The brethren obtained a litter from Pomponia Grrecina, and
placing Peter· within it bore him back to the House of the
Vine. But now even this dwelling, or par~ of a dwelling, was
menaced by the advancing tide of fire, and Linus, who had
only on this day r.eturned from northern Italy to Rome, con-
sulted with Mark.
They determined to bear Peter and other stricken brethren to
the Tombs, where, it was said, if there were room, the living
might be saved by keeping company with the dead.
But when Hillel was told of this plan and asked to help them
carry the sick he answered :
" What availeth such labour? At any hour Christ will
appear in the clouds and the last Trump will sound. Then shall
we be encircled by hosts· of angels and carried up into the
heavens. It is not for us to raise a hand, but to wait here and
watch and pray for that time, which in one short hour may
come upon us; and if we be busy with other things, then we
shall be caught as a robber in the night. We shall not, as is
needful, be awaiting our Lord, singing psalms of praise."
Without another word Mark and Linus turned away from
this man ; and gathering together those who were not swayed
by his talk, they made ready for departure.
In a little while a small band of people, bowed beneath heavy
burdens, went from the House of the Vine, whispering prayers,
making therr way to the Tombs.
CHAPTER XXXVI
AS they entered the city it seemed to Nero and his companions
as if the very wind had become visible, taking on monstrous
shapes that like giant red horsemen rode over the valleys and
the hills of Rome. Stirred beyond measure, Cresar halted his
escort and, drawing a tablet from his tunic, he wrote down three
or four lines of verse. But he did not tarry long, and, setting
out again, soon came upon the fringe of the shadow of blood,
the edge of the terror. Then, when they drew near the Palatine,
Tigellinus wavered, his cheeks became blanched, and he declared
that it was folly to go forward as the heat would shrivel them
up, or the mob in a frenzy would trample upon Oresar and pass
over him like a wave.
"I am the father of my people," answered Nero; "their
peril is my peril. My place is with them in this hour."
& he spoke he was indeed the Emperor, true scion of Julian's
house, noble in his brave manhood. And the guard, forgetting
his perfumed hair, the actor and the mountebank of another
time, looked upon him and loved him, murmuring, "It is not
strange that Cresar is the idol of the common.people, their wonder
and their god."
But later there came a change. Messengers bade Nero hasten,
for the home of authority was in grave peril. So swiftly the little
company climbed the Palatine and soon perceived the doom of
the Palace of the Cresars.
It was a crown of golden snakes, the glimmering diadem of
Rome.
Gazing upon that molten jewel, Cresar tore his hair, danced
with rage, and then wept like a little child. He was no longer
the august Cresar, the all sheltering, all protecting father of his
people.
" Who hath wrought this hideous evil? " he cried. " What
enemy hath stabbed me in my very soul? I will have the slaves
flogged. I shall find, seize and crucify the miscreants. Here
perish priceless treasures of painting, sculpture, the ancient books
of Egypt, the rolls of Babylon ; here already lie in ashes my poetry
and immortal verse...." And thus might Nero have continued
184
I
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 185
to lament if the captain of the guard had not said that some
of those things he valued might yet be saved. He had daring
and resolute men at his orders, who would venture into the flames
for love of Cresar, risking life and limb.
Then Nero was comforted, and he quickly issued his com-
mands. Heading twelve men, he sought an entrance in the rear
part of the building, walking over red hot pavements and
plunging into a pall of smoke. They wrestled with that blinding
darkness, choking, gasping, while great beams crashed about
them. Some gained an entry and bore back small treasures.
paintings, and little figures. · But others, amongst them Nero,
were dr;iven back baffled, helpless, before the belching black
vapour; and in a little while every part of that vast building
was alight, flames roaring up, so that it seemed as if these
coloured streamers would touch the sky.
Nero had almost fainted; but now the need of the people
was uppermost in his mind. Not heeding the counsel of caution
given him by his favourites, he hastened down into the ancient
city; and when they wavered, showing signs of fear, he said
with dignity, " Cowards, risk not your lives with me. Cresar goes
alone, to die if need be, but to be among his people."
In silence the courtiers received the insult, gladly retreating,
falling away, leaving their Emperor to go on foot by himself
into that crawling ant-heap of stricken creatures, into the very
heart of that twining ring of golden light.
And on that afternoon and evening the young man saw much
that stirred him to wrath and sorrow-his own soldiers pillaging,
men and women raving, driven mad by grief : disorder, con-
fusion, those he had trusted with the city's welfare, traitors in this
hour of terror.
Fearless he risked his life again and yet again in those narrow,
crooked streets, his face blackened, his hair singed, his tunic
shrivelled to the texture of paper by the heat of that roaring
furnace. He dragged a woman who was pinned beneath a door
from out of a burning house thus saving her from a sure death.
And when her husband, a wealthy freedman, promised him gold
in plenty as his reward, Nero laughed, saying, " I am Cresar, who
is the guardian of his people and only desires their love as his
reward."
With this saying he fled down an ash-clouded alley, leaving the
freedman confounded and utterly abashed.
It was time to assert and regulate authority. The hungry mob
had plundered shops for bread while honest citizens starved.
186 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Numbers of people with frightful wounds lay unsuccoured on
·the stones, lost to their kin, left to die slowly and alone, in great
agony.
Ca:sar gathered together officers, rulers and certain senators.
To each man he gave orders, allotting to him his particular task,
menacing with death any one of them who failed Rome in this
hour. Stores must be brought from Ostia; shelters erected·for
the homeless in the Campus Martins and in his own gardens;
the Pantheon and Baths of Agrippa opened to the people.
So before Nero had ventured into the streets he had laid the first
foundations of order and rule. But after he had wandered through
the doomed city he was like a man possessed by seven furies of
energy, directing all the threads of government, working day and
night, sleeping only in snatches or in the heat of noon.
Early on the fourth or fifth morning Tigellinus and Popprea
encountered each other at the door of Cresar's room. For once
these two enemies were united, allied with each other in a common
purpose.
There came sounds that told them that Cresar was stirring
within, and Popprea softly entered and then, beckoning to Tigel- ~
linus, bade the slaves withdraw.
When they were closeted alone with Nero, Popprea spoke in
heat and haste. " I have a favour to ask of my lord. Go not
into the town to-day. Stay with me here. I need thee and thy
music and the assurance of thy love."
" Nay, not now," said Nero. " This is no time for love or
music. I must visit each quarter of the town to-day."
"It may well mean death or the overthrow of thine authority,"
Tigellinus cried suddenly, " if thou dost adventure across the
river while the fire still bums, while a crazed people run to and
fro and are incited by thine enemies to do thee hurt. Cresar, I
am the bearer of grave tidings. Spies tell me that men who
should know better ·are saying that the Emperor gave orderS
that Rome should burn, that the prophecy that the last of
£neas's line should be the author of the city's ruin is now being
fulfilled."
"It is a false and foul lie," cried Nero.
" Yea ; but will they accept thy denial in this hour of
calamity? " enquired Tigellinus.
" Conspirators will set upon thee and thine escort and slay
thee," lamented Popprea. " Only death awaits Cresar in that
accursed town!'
For a short while Nero doubted and hesitated; and being
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT fiRE 187
uncertain and afraid he turned to a window that gave out upon
a wide open space.
The flush of the fire deepened the crimson rose of sunrise ;
and looking upon it, Ca:sar perceived the brightest dawn that
had ever lit the Seven Hills that stood like sentinels about that
ancient city which now was crumbling, dissolving, passing away.
In the silence, slowly, surely, the dark being-called by Paul
"the unlit half of Cresar's soul "-shtunk away like a whipped
and cringing slave. That other half .assumed authority as he
flung out his hand, pointing across the river to the blazing town.
" I go into the city to be among my people, without armed
escort, and alone. I go to die with them."
And when Popprea with tears, and Tigellinus with many
earnest words, tried to turn him from this course, he became
enraged and told them instantly to be silent ; and yielding before
a certain majesty of manner rare in this young emperor, they
obeyed his will.
But in the hours that followed his departure for the town
Tigellinus made secret preparations for flight. He would not be
trapped here, in this pavilion, if, on the morrow, another, a
usurping Cresar, ruled.
Popprea summoned the mage to her. And in a little while
she was comforted by his assurance that the Imperial House
had never been so firmly established, so free from peril-the
stars being all in their favour in this week of ruin and disaster.
" Patience and courage, daughter," he. said. " The fire will
shortly be stayed and a good portion of Rome preserved. Then
indeed, thy stars prosper, and a great and marvellous city will
spring from these ashes. Only trust me and thou wilt rise to a
splendour and obtain a power not, so far, known upon this
earth."
CHAPTER XXXVII
NERO did not falter or go back upon the words spoken in
the dawn. Hour after hour he walked through the streets,
exercising authority, giving orders in the Campus Martius, or
planning measures for the safety of the Capitol and Forum;
and, at other times, he continued tq go on foot and without escort
among the people. '
Some muttered and looked at him askance. No man greeted
him with acclamation, sought to pay court with flattery, or
showed concern for his danger. Many of the people were too
distracted in mind to recognize their Emperor, or if they did,
hardly cared whether he were there or no. A common terror
placed all men on the one level, and the common preoccupation
of grief or hunger led Cresar in many streets to pass through
crowds unheeded, unobserved.
In an open space .among the ruins of a temple that the fire
had gutted, three men came suddenly upon Nero, one, a merchant,
accosting him.
" Art thou Cresar? " he boldly inquired.
" Yea," answered Nero, scarcely raising his head, which was
bent in thought.
" Then thou art a murderer, for it is through thine orders
that Rome burns and many have perished in torment."
" Liar-slave-thou shalt be crucified for this saying," cried
the Emperor.
"Nay," said the merchant; "we are here alone, as man to
man. Thou canst not now escape thy deserts. I have seen my
wife and children die in agony in the fire before my eyes, so
shalt thou die." And drawing a dagger from its sheath, he ad-
vanced upon Nero warily, watching for a feint, dart, or gesture of
defence on the part of his victim.
Then again that day imperial pride disclosed a dignity absent
at other times. Cresar loosened his tunic and bared his breast,
saying: . ·
"The guilty man defends himself or flees from his adversary.
I am innocent so am not afraid to die. Strike-do thy work
well and swiftly,"
188
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 189
The man drew near, his .arm uplifted. But searching Nero'~
eyes, he perceived truth in them; and suddenly resolution failed.
He faltered and fell back, casting the dagger away, flinging him-
self at Cresar's feet, weeping bitterly and crying:
" Pardon-most gracious Cresar, pardon. I was mad with
hunger and sorrow."
And the other two men joined their broken comrade, begging
also for mercy.
For a while Nero made no answer, but at last he raised up the
man who was grovelling on the earth at his feet, speaking wearily
yet without anger.
" Come, follow me and I will procure ye food and money.
Your sorrow is my sorrow, your loss my loss. But promise that
ye speak of our encounter to no man. It shall remain a secret
between us four."
And these three men gave their promise. And when Cresar ·
commanded an officer in the Campus Martius to give them all
that they needed and to find them shelter they marvelled at
his clemency and fearless heart. From that hour.they worshipped
their young Emperor, giving him that love which he won from
the people when, through such rare acts, he showed that fine-
ness of spirit which, in another hour, had led Paul to believe
that an angel as well as a demon ruled Cresar. But this meeting and
this menace to his life had made him feel ashamed because he
had in the past so often desired that Rome should be levelled
to the earth, its unsightliness displeasing him. And now he was
stricken by the spectacle of so much misery and pain, by the
madness that possessed so many of those he had half in jest
called his children in a happier time.
Cresar returned at sunset to his pavilion, and when he had
bathed and eaten and was refreshed Popprea, who had passed
hours in preparation for this moment, came to him, saying, " Am
I not lovely in thine eyes ? "
"No mortal-a goddess," he whispered, gazing at her awe-
struck; "thou art lovelier than ever before."
"Then stay with me and forget thy cares."
And because Nero would pay homage to her beauty ]le stayed,
yet half reluctantly. She made him talk, and he told her of
190 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
all that had befallen him that day and of how he had braved
death and shown mercy to his assailants. But she should keep
it as a cherished secret, for the great man tells no one but his
beloved of his brave deeds. And like a red-combed cock he
strutted before her, rehearsing the scene, and, casting back his
ruddy poll again and yet again, with folded arms he faced the
executioner.
She applauded, paying him the tribute of flattery he desired.
Then, when he would go back to the burning town she tempted
him, saying:
" Make a poem of the death of Rome. Place in this lament
the hero, Gresar, and relate the wonders he performed." ·
Nero remained silent, and he looked out ·over his gardens
and perceived the shelters he had had erected for the outcasts
and, beyond them, across the river, that pillar of fire.
"I have shared all with my people," he said; "sorrow, danger,
even death. But I will not sing of Gresar, I will sing of the
last days of ancient Rome. That is a good thought of thine,
Popprea. Already words burn within me. I will make a poem
that shall be sung till the end of time."
" Immortal words-deathless song," cried Popprea ; " and in
the ages yet to come the soldiers will recite thy poem by their
camp fires. I see the common people chanting this great lament
year after year, age after age ; so that though the name of the
Emperor, Nero, will be forgotten, the name of the poet, Nero,
will be remembered as long as song endures."
Fired by her sayings, Cresar called to his slave; "My harp-
my harp ! " And again he strutted like a cock and tossed back
his red comb, so that to Tigellinus, who passed in to the banquet-
ing hall before the slave, Nero seemed a subject for laughter,
a foolish spectacle. But this favourite contained himself, and he
said, "Good tidings, Gresar. My spies report that the common
people do not curse the Emperor. They declare that his corrupt
officers, desiring plunder, fired the city while he was away in
Antium."
"I care not what they say," cried Nero ; "give way,
man, give way. Great poetry is in the making. I must go
out and seek that tinder which will light the lamp of my imagi-
nation."
And with that he seized the harp from the slave and hastened
through the rooms until he came to a flight of steps. .Running
up them, he leaped out upon the roof ; and pausing breath-
lessly-for he had eaten full well-he surveyed the wide stretch
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE .191
of the world below him and the starry heavens above. At
another time it would have been a clear night ; but the tapers
in the skies burned feebly, their lights dimmed by the nearer,
greater glow beside the river, by those masses of smoke tha~,
because of the falling wind, hung like a sombre canopy above
the town.
For a while Nero frowned and paced to and .fro. Then, as
he perceived Popprea and Tigellinus watching, he took up the
harp and, standing, as he believed, in the posture of an ancient
statue of Apollo, he began to play and murmur words, and from
this murmur there came song.
Suddenly, like a trumpet, his powerful voice pealed out across
those gardens and his new and deathless poem sounded in the
hearing of the homeless people, who lay in their misery in the
shelters scattered about his grottoes and gardens.
They did not gath~r the words of the poem, but they knew
the sound of the voice. They had often listened to it in the
theatre. It could not be mistaken, and they whispered one to
another, "Cresar declaims his poem, 'Troy'. Cresar hath
caused Rome to be burned so that he might sing his own verses
to the flames. He is actor and mountebank first and Emperor
last." ·
And certain of these people left their shelters and by various
ways crossed the river, seeking any of those who might be abroad,
telling them of the heartlessness of their Emperor who could see
only in the ruin of Rome scenery for his acting, a background
for his song.
1
The story went from mouth to mouth and was twisted into
many shapes: some said that Cresar, in the habit of the actor,
was performing in his theatre, heedless of the fate of his people.
Others declared that he stood upon Mrecenas's Tower, singing
the song of Ilium's capture. And the mob murmured and
muttered, and despair, dark and brooding, settled in the hearts
of the multitude.
But, inspired by the ardour of creation, Nero sang on easily,
tirelessly, while the night advanced and the sea of fire advanced
also, reaching almost to the banks of the river Tiber.
It was, indeed, the hour of deepest despair. All hope failed,
and the people believed that the whole of Rome would perish,
and that before them there lay only ruin and inevitable
death.
But the poet was well content. Never had he created such
beauty of song. His lament was, he believed, certain of immor-
192 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
tality, of that ageless fame which, in his contention, set the artist
above and beyond all other men. That night Nero believed
Popprea's saying that he was, indeed, Apollo reigning upon the
earth. ·
CHAPTER XXXVIII
I N those hours of strange bewilderment when the Christians
. were wholly concerned with the Coming of Christ and the Last
Judgment, Mark, a man of single purpose, gave his thoughts to
the present time and to his master Peter. For it seemed as if the
·Apostle's spirit might steal away while he lay in "The House
of Eternity", the name given by the Jews to the tombs. But,
after a while, he showed signs of life and prayed to be carried
into the upper airs. This wish was granted, for already the fire
was abating. Away from those crowded, airless caves, the aged
man mended. Then, through his stubborn resolution and the
power of the Spirit, he was able for a time each day to descend
with Mark into the tombs to comfort the sick and shrive the
dying. Unlike Hillel, these two did not spare themselves but were
selfless, not seeking their own salvation through prayer and the
continuous watch for the Last Coming. ·
· After a time the hopes of the Romans revived. Bold measures
were taken; gangs of slaves, directed by overseers, demolishing
the houses at the foot of the Esquiline. Nero went freely among
them, not deserting his post until evening came and the good
work was accomplished, the fires stemmed, slowly flickering out.
Soon. there · only remained from the scourge warm embers,
blackened walls where it had passed, and grey ashes which a
little wind blew softly, gently, to and fro. .
Some people began to count their losses and their dead, but
the greater number rejoiced, some even making merry, gaiety
and life returned because the terror had passed.
Hillel and his followers were downcast and went about with
long faces and the appearance of woe. For Rome, unlike Baby-
lon, had not been destroyed.
The mage watched them from a distance, and presently set
two or three men to spy upon them. Then he gave his mind to
other matters. He was unsatisfied, and the imperious word of
Popprea still sounded in his hearing. "It is not enough. The
palace of Tigellinus remains standing with all its priceless
treasure. I am not yet avenged."
193
194 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
" It is not enough," muttered the mage ; " for six day5 it raged ;
and there shall be rest on the seventh day. But the eighth ... ? "
Then he recalled the day11 of his childhood. A little village
in the hills, the massacre of the people, his father, mother, brothers
and sisters, slain by Roman soldiers mad with the fury of battle.
They had slain cruelly, torturing his parents; and the old ·
magician remembered the trembling boy who, from his hiding-
place, had watched his mother's agony. So out of this deed
of butchery there had come forty years later a great deed of
slaughter, the revenge of fire.
"I am not yet wholly avenged," muttered the mage. "For
every hour of my mother's pain there shall be a day of woe for the
people of Rome, a day of awfulness and of increasing terror."
So he searched for his picked men and spoke of the plunder
that might be stolen from the house of Tigellinus; but they
must go craftily, wisely, about their work.
Obeying his directions, they first set their glowworm trails
among the clustered houses at the north end of the Forum. Then,
when these were well' alight and the guards and people all occu-
pied with this new outbreak, they hurried to the house of
Tigellinus. Those guards, who were at this time sentinels there,
received orders to hasten to the Forum, to join their comrades,
and to keep order so that another panic should not arise. For
panic meant death, the mob running in a frenzy here and there,
trampling on each other; even in their madness flinging them-
selves into the flames..
And two people in Rome knew the ecstasy of vengeance satis-
fied and the joy of triumph when a great beacon flared up,
illuminating the starless night that shrouded the city of Rome.
"The villa of Tigellinus burns," cried C<esar. "This is the
work of my enemies, striking at me through him. No torture is
slow enough, cruel enough for such infamous slaves. Treasures
of sculpture, painting, priceless gifts of mine all perish. Nothing,
indeed, cari now be saved. But I shall not rest until these incen-
diaries are discovered; I shall not rest until I am avenged."
And Popprea spoke with equal vehemence, loudly lamenting
the loss suffered by Tigellinus, while to herself she whispered,
"It is enough. At last I may rest. Vengeance is satisfied."
In a crowded room in the Porta Capena, Hillel and his
followers slept deeply and soundly, exhausted by fasting and by
their long hours of watching and praying in the past six days.
It was not until early morning that they were roused by the
clamour of the people in the streets and they learned from Tabeel
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 195
that, in the darkness, Christ had cast down flaming brands from
Heaven which even now were consuming Babylon street by street,
temple after temple. The Capitol and the Forum were menaced;
the Temple of Hercules would soon be no more. Other places
of heathen worship were perishing, and in a little while not one
would remain.
So Hillel, followed by Tabeel, Hermes, Philologus, Junias,
Hamul, Nereus, and others, went out into that fiery dawn, and
again walking in procession, they sang psalms of praise. And
when the mage's spies spoke to them, saying, "You are glad
because Rome burns? " they answered, " Yea, indeed we are
glad ; for it is the sign of the end of the world and the resur-
rection of the faithful. It is the sign that our Lord comes, and
the evil of Rome and the earth itself shall pass away."
The spies reported these sayings to the mage, and he told
them to hold their peace and to return and watch these men.
" When this last fire has been put out rewards will be offered
to those who can name the incendiaries," said Joah. "Speak
then of what ye know, and ye shall receive a good sum of money
and the thanks of Cresar and all the people of Rome."
VOL, I!. E
CHAPTER XXXIX
THE last flame had been put out.by yellow Tiber water. Of
the fourteen regions of Rome, three were levelled 'to the
earth and seven damaged and desolated by fire. A world of
ashes and a world-weary people who had no heart for laughter
or for song; a dark and dour people who spoke openly against
C<esar, some accusing him of many deaths, of many sorrows, of
being the cause of the city's ruin. And as for C<esar, he was
listening to Popp<ea, who, greater enchantress than ever, was
busily embroidering fancy, talking of the new and lovely town
that would rise from these ruins. She put into Nero's mind the
thought that he should demand of Seneca a portion of his
wealth for this purpose. The Emperor was pleased with her
counsel that he should pick the golden egg from the old
philosopher's nest. But it was hard to speak of it when he and
Seneca were together. The words would not come, for Nero re-
spected Seneca as a father and was half afraid of this sage whose
advice he had spurned in these last years, when he had satisfied
secret lusts, seeking pleasure in tlie companionship of Tigellinus.
So, for a time, the two, the Emperor and his old tutor, talked only
of the design for the rebuilding of Rome.
" A multitude of books," said Seneca, " burdens and instructs
not him that learns. Twenty thousand books were burned at
Alexandria. They were not a worthy monument to kingly riches
but a studious excess amassed for the sake of royal pride and
vainglory. Let there be no excess of books or works of art
gathered for the new city. Collect nothing for ostentation's sake."
"Excess either in books or works of art is," said Nero, sud-
denly becoming bold, " a lesser offence than excessive wealth.
Old miser, thou hast in thy time amassed the largest fortune in
the Empire."
Seneca could not deny this accusation, for it was true. But
he showed no sign of shame, answering smoothly, " I have
come to present my fortune to C<esar for the rebuilding of
Rome."
" Bravely said," cried Nero; " and I will add my wealth to
Ig6
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 197
thine. We will not rest until the last denarius has gone from our
coffers."
"Ca:sar's will is my will," said the sage, bowing low.
" We must also give ourselves," continued Nero, pleased at the
old man's offer. " I shall again follow thy advice. I shall be
neither a night owl nor a light shunner. From henceforth I rise
.with the dawn and, working all the day, I shall design the love-
liest city that has ever risen upon this earth. Tigellinus may
pass his nights in wine and perfumes. I shall not be of his
company." ·
· "He who relinquishes the common day I rank among the
dead," answered Seneca; " indeed, how little is he distant from
his funeral-existing as he does only by torch and wax light."
And the sage continued to utter wise maxims concerning early
rising and other noble virtues. But Cresar had reached an age
when he wearied of the long speeches uttered by the old
philosopher, whose sayings were soon addressed to empty air.
Then, perceiving himself without a pupil, he went heavily,
slowly into the antechamber and spoke to his body slave. .
"The man who lays down precepts for the governing of life
and the moderating of passion obliges human nature not only in
the present but in all succeeding _
generations."
The servant, grey-headed and grey-faced as his master, gazed
at him steadily and muttered with a smile, " I am not sure that
human nature cares to be obliged."
Many Romans would have had a slave flogged for such an
impertinence. But Seneca liked a bold answer, and, sighing,
said, " Thine is only a half truth. Those men who are
brutes are deaf to wisdom. But I will give thee an instance
which proves thine answer to be in part a lie. I am told that a
man named Paul of Tarsus peddles my words in the market
place. He is a natural orator, and through his fiery vehemence
and the utterance of my precepts and those of Epicurus, hath
caused the common sort-that is to say, men of title as well as
the clouted shoe-to turn from drunkenness and careless living
and practice virtue in their stead. But to our philosophy he has
added a foolish superstition concerning a Jew w.bo was crucified
in Jerusalem. This Jew, Paul declares, is a god and returned
from the dead, appearing to his pupils on several occasions. The
dead may return· as phantoms, but we do not hail them as gods.
To be brief, the wise maxims taught by this man,. Paul, will be
forgotten after his death because he has add.ed to them a tale so
superstitious no wise man will credit it in any future time_.. Men's
198 WHEN NERO W A S DICTATOR
minds can only be purified and purged by reason and maxims.
Philosophy must not be founded on fable, else it will fail and in
no way command the e<;U" or the acts of future generations of
mm. .
" So let us study to preserve ourselves from sadness, fear and
\ secret lusts, ordering our lives by the light of reason and seek-
ing in meditation the good the world and man cannot offer
us."
The slave was secretly a follower of Christ. But he made no
answer in words, bowing his head as if in assent to these last
sayings of Seneca, who was held by the Romans to be the wisest
seer in the known world.
After the nine days of fire and ruin Peter and Mark sum-
moned Hillel to their presence. They reasoned with this Gaul-
onite, but found they could not bridge the gulf between their
doctrine and his beliefs. For they might not change this man'~
fixed nature. He cared not for the moderating of passion and
still talked of vengeance and of the wrath of God.
So Peter sent out messengers who summoned all the faithful
to a lonely place in the country outside Rome.
That evening, an hour before sunset, a multitude gathered
there, and when all were counted and listed the Apostle prayed
for guidance. Then, after they had sung a thanksgiving, Peter
lifted up his voice, saying:
" Brethren, we are come together not only for worship and
thanksgiving, but to determine the future of the Church in
Rome. Mark, Linus and I are of accord, and Hillel, who ye
all know well, stands apart from us and will not be of us. It is
for ye to choose whether Hillel or Linus shall be Overseer of the
Roman Church in the coming time. I go shortly to other lands
to preach the Word to the people in darkness. But now before I
go I name Linus once again Overseer and entreat ye all to obey
him and hold him ·in honour as head of the Roman Church.
Hillel has forfeited our trust as a saint and a brother. For in
these past days, when fire ravaged Rome, he, and those who
followed him, went to and fro, speaking again~t Cresar and of
the ':Vrath and vengeance of God.
" I would not have ye believe that I lightly judge this man. I
have wrestled with him in spirit, I have given up many hours to
prayer and meditation .con_
ceming his acts and words. But I
ST. PETER AND T H E GREAT FIRE 199
am now assured in my mind that he is no follower of Christ.
For when the fire raged and Gentiles entreated him to aid them,
he refused and would not raise a hand to save a woman who
was perishing in the flames, rejecting even the prayers of her
sorrowing husband. Our Master bade us love our neighbour
and bless our enemies. I ask you, does Hillel's conduct show
brotherly love, show even brotherly compassion? This man
refused to aid Mark and the brethren when they needed bearers
to carry the sick of our community to the shelter of the tombs.
He thought only of his own salvation. And again I ask you, is
such conduct worthy of a follower of Christ? "
Here the voice of Peter became only a murmur, for he was
old and weakness easily overcame him. So Mark, fearing he might
lose his hold over the people, now came forward and repeated the
last whispered words of the Apostle.
"Our Master commanded us to love one another. But Hillel
would have us hate our neighbour, and in his acts has shown
that there is neither mercy, compassion, nor love in his heart."
And when Mark would speak further Hillel thrust himself
forward, demanding that he should be given a hearing and
permitted to answer this accusation. He did not wait for a sign
from the Apostle ; but spoke swiftly and was, indeed, as a foun-
tain spouting venom. He told the people·of the sufferings of
the Jews, of how they had been massacred by the Romans. He
showed his hatred of this imperial race in words that won the
slaves and the Jews who were among his listeners. He spoke of
the signs of the end of the world and declared that the fire was
the first sign. Others would shortly follow in its wake. Rulers
and tyrants ·would then perish through earthquakes, floods and
pestilence. He talked strangely and madly, and yet carried one
half of that multitude with him; so that when he called on
them to follow him and be his disciples-for he alone would
know through the Spirit the hour of the Messiah's coming-
many declared themselves for him. And there came shouts of
" I am for Hillel, the Gaulonite," or " I am for Simon Peter
of Galilee."
There was much uproar and confusion, the gathering break-
ing up in turmoil; and it was only later, as night fell, that Mark
learned that now there was more than division ·in the Church of
Rome. It had been severed in twain. Two churches grew out
of one, and their members were known as " the Galilreans " and
"the Gaulonites" from that day of division that followed the fire.
CHAPTER XL
AFTER fleeing from the old philosopher, Nero talked to
builders and artists, living in a happy dream as his words
shaped the images of the future.
" I shall raise up a wondrous town unequalled in past times by
any in Babylonia, Egypt, Chaldea, or Greece-broad streets,
noble colonnades, shaded walks, open squares, white fountains, and
each house separated from its neighbours by a passage way; suc_
h
is the general design. And in the heart of Rome I shall build a
golden palace set in a great park, .which will be divided into
meadows, woods and gardens and shall contain lakes and streams.
Greece must yield up treasures of art; the mines shall disgorge
precious stones. Painters, sculptors, and the finest artists in the
known world are at my command to make of this palace a thing
of beauty for worship by the coming generations."
"It is the vision of a poet," one said.
" And the poet's vision is the best of all," added another.
"When that poet is our immortal Cresar," swiftly·countered
a third flatterer.
But even as he spoke Nero was summoned by a secret sign
made by Tigellinus, who had come hastily into that hall. Now
this sign indicated urgent matters of state. So, though provoked
at his happiness being shadowed, Nero passed through the
crowd about him and went with his favourite into a small ante-
chamber.
" Bad news, Cresar," muttered Tigellinus, not waiting for his
word. " All the people are murmuring against thee. They repeat
the accusation that the Emperor caused the city to be laid in
ashes so that he might build a new and splendid Rome."
"Liars, infamous fools," cried Nero.
" It is not a time for words," answered Tigellinus. "Thou
shouldst on the instant have the officers of law summoned and
counsel taken for the holding of an inquiry into the matter.
Verily, Cresar, I fear for thy throne if thou dost not act with
speed and make it known that thou art innocent and a zealous
seeker for the enemies who set the town in a blaze."
Now Nero could act swiftly once he was roused out of either
liOO
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 201
his verse-making or his dreams concerning music and art.
Messengers were sent to and fro. In the heat of noon lawyers
and guards assembled to debate and inquire into the mystery of
the fire.
At that time, with Cresar occupied, Popprea was free to seek
out the guilty author of the city's ruin. She was glad with a
fierce gladness as she entered the dungeon in which the mage
wove his spells. She came, indeed, to offer him her praise and
thanks and said, while he greeted her, taking both her hands,
"Master, I am happy because Nero has been given back to me.
Now he is wholly mine. I can ask all favours in reason save
one and they will be granted to me. And I am glad, yea, and
more than glad. For presently, will not this evil man, Paul of
Tarsus; and his followers be arrested and given up to justice? "
"This evening my spies lay their reports before the officers of
the guards."
" But Cresar holds inquiry now."
The mage smiled. " Daughter, 1t IS ever an error in such
matters to strike too soon. I have planned that these spies shall
come with their news like common men, and not in a body, so
that it will not seem to be planned. But be assured that this
night Paul of Tarsus and his friends will be denounced."
" I fear and hate this man," muttered Popprea; " and my
pleasure is great at the thought of his taking. A year or .more
ago the High Priest promised me his blessing if I would cause
Paul to be taken up, judged and executed. He told me that I
was the instrument of God, and that such an act would lead
to forgiveness of all my sins. And when I count and look over
the days of my past life I am often afraid. But now I shall be
justified ; now I shall win the blessing of the High Priest and of
God. So I offer these thanks from my heart."
. Then the mage bade Popprea be seated, and this proud
Empress chose to place herself at his feet and to gaze reverently
up at him as he spoke to her in grave sentences.
" Daughter, thou hast opened thy mind to me, so I will also
speak freely." And he told her of his early life and the story of
the slaying of his brothers, sisters and father, and of his
mother's torture, the torment of her end.
" Since that time," said Joah, " I have never known peace.
My mother's shade cannot rest or give me rest. Ceaselessly she
walks the earth, crying for vengeance. My nights were haunted
by her spirit until I satisfied it with the vow that for every hour
of her pain I would exact a day of agony from the citizens of
!202 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Rome. I prepared myself for the fulfilment of this task by
studying magic. I gave myself to it, and my life was passed
in fasting, study of the awful mysteries, and in the practice of
the ancient rites, so that I might win the immortal powers to
my side, Through them I raised thee up to the throne; through
them thy beauty has been preserved, the loveliness that be-
witched Cresar and gives thee rule over him." .
" And will it continue, master? " she whispered. -
" If our trust is maintained," he answered, and then con-
tinued, " Through these immortal powers I have exacted those
days of agony from the Roman oppressors; through them the
debt is at last paid : and believe me or not, as you will, on the
ninth day of the fire my mother's shade ceased from haunting
me, ceased from wandering to and fro, and has gone into the
silence and the peace of the grave. So, daughter, vengeance
is satisfied ; and as thou hast won gladness of heart and a freed
mind, I, too, have won a treasure beyond all other treasures-
inviolable peace."
" Inviolable peace/' she murmured. " A strange desire? "
"Not for one who is a seer," he answered. "For this in-
violable peace will give me strength, grant me wings which
will take me into the farthest corners of the firmament. Thus
fortified, I am greater than Ccesar and Seneca. But I shall not
only live for the delights of that invisible world in which I can
now roam at will. I shall also live to aid thee in ruling Cresar,
and so govern the world. · '
"In the Ides of October year, thou mayest bear a son to
Cresar. For the danger to thee written in the scroll of the stars
will by then have passed away. But obey me and there is no
danger. Lastly, I would have thee consider well the nature of
the power that has been granted us. Through it we can avert
calamity from our people in Judrea. Through it we shall cause
them to live free from oppression,' and so living, they will be
prosperous and at peace."
CHAPTER XLI
ASTRANGE motley gathering of prisoners stood in the
dread presence of c~sar in the imperial court. Many of
them were slaves, and the greater number were ill-clad, dark
men of the East with lean, scarred bodies, who had known only
poverty and the humiliations of poverty in their lives, with
here and there a smooth-faced better dressed Roman and a fair
barbarian from the north. All, whatever their race, were some-
what bewildered and troubled, not knowing with what offence
they were to be charged. Four white-robed women, gracious and
dignified, Eustachia, Mary the tire-woman of Pomponia,
Claudia1
and Melanie, stood a little apart from the huddled
herd of prisoners whose leaders and spokesmen were Patrobas,•
Hillel and Junia.3
Last of all, Tabeel, who had the gift of
prophecy, came in between the guards; and there were red
weals on his flesh where the guards had beaten him. As he
passed by the women he whispered: "Be of good cheer, sisters;
we are all swiftly journeying to the country of the dead, and
beyond it lies our home in paradise."
When C~sar had taken his seat upon the rostrum and silence
had been enjoined, a lawyer opened the proceedings, asking for
witness and declaring the nature of the charge.
Then, one by one, the spies of Joah came and testified against
the prisoners. They lied in saying that these men and women
had twice-once near the Circus Maximus and later beside the
Forum-set fire to the town. It was. strange, indeed, but only
Joah knew that the incendiaries themselves were now accusing
these innocent prisoners of their own crime. But in other
matters these crafty fellows told in part the truth, saying that
the prisoners had refused to aid the citizens in putting out
the flames; and again they uttered no lie when they swore that
these people had rejoiced at the sight of the flames and had
raised no hand to save those who were perishing in them-at
least this was true of Hillel and his wild followers.
Now Patrobas, a gentle soul who loved Peter, was first called
1 Not wife of Pudens. 2 Romans xvi. 14.
liO!j
s Romans xvi. 7.
!204 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
because he had the air of a man of parts and of authority.
There was in his voice a quality of breeding that held the
court and favoured his cause.
" It is true," he said, " that we all belong to one community
and that we worship God, and Jesus of Galilee who was Son of
God, and who came to earth to redeem men from their sins."
" Then are ye all Galilreans? " inquired a judge.
" Call us Galilreans if you will," said Patrobas, looking at
Hillel. " One name is as good as another."
So, in this time of persecution, all the saints came to be
known to the Romans as Galilreans ; and they gloried in the title
because of their Master being of Galilee.
And Patrobas resumed, "But we are innocent of the charge
made against us by these common men who are without name
or standing in Rome. We did not set fire to the city, and we can
prove that this accusation be false. For if any among you have ever
listened to our teachers you will know that it is contrary to our faith
in Jesus, the Christ, to perform deeds of violence. Christ com-
manded us to be obedient to our rulers, to lead sober and chaste
lives and to love our neighbour, respecting him and not coveting
his possessions. Surely then, observing such teaching, we cannot be
guilty of seeking plunder and striving to despoil our neighbours
by firing their homes." .
Other wise and helpful things were said by Patrobas, and the
judges were beginning to doubt the testimony of Joah's spies
when Hillel was summoned and questioned. Once this hairy,
ragged man, with his crazed eyes and fierce manner, began to
speak, there came a change over that court. Even Cresar, who
had had a listless air, sat up straightly-all eagerness and anger
as he listened to the increasing flood of ill-spoken words that
flowed from the lips of the Gaulonite.
" We did not set the town on fire," he declared ; " it was
.Jesus, the Son of God, who caused His angels to cast down
flaming brands from the ,heavens, to draw fire from the stars
to burn and destroy Rome. 0 ye Romans, filthy and abomin-
able are your works. Wherefore our Lord determined that your
city should be consumed."
"It is true then," questioned a judge, "that you Galilreans
fired the city?"
"As I have said our Lord avenged the sufferings of the poor
and the oppressed by burning up the temples of your false gods,
by destroying the palaces which are the dwellings of harlots,
by demolishing the amphitheatres in which men die for your
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 205
sport and laughter. Our God is the friend of the poor and the
slaves and presently will raise them up and cast down the mighty
from their seat. The end of the world is at hand, and some who
are believers in Christ rejoice at the burning of Rome, for it is
the first sign of the end. We would not aid those who were
perishing as these men have testified ; because it was well that
the Romans should die and no longer continue committing
abominable sin, filthy in the sight of Jesus, the Son of God.
Verily, the fire of Rome was sweet as the smoke of sacrifice to
our God. Cresar, thou dost now sit in majesty and art hailed as
ruler of the world. But presently thou wilt be in the dust, lower
than the beggar, and because of the evil of thy life thou wilt be
cast into outer darkness, remaining there in torment for all
eternity."
At this point one guard smote Hillel and another clapped his
hand upon his mouth, and he was dragged away into a corner.
Only because Nero had made signs had he been permitted to
speak for so long. There had been much murmuring against
him among the officers and people who thronged the court.
Now, white with wrath, Cresar rose from his seat. At first he
spoke with such heat few could catch the sense of his violent
words. But after a while he gained command of himself and
his meaning became clearer as his fury became tempered by a
desire to show the fairness of Roman justice and to overwhelm
the court with a sense of ~e iniquity of the prisoners' crime.
"It is plain," he said, "that all who confess they are Gali-
lreans confess that they are members of a society which is revo-
lutionary and has as its purpose not only plunder, but the
destruction of the Empire. These outcasts speak of the End of
the World which they believe is near and think that by striking
at Rome, they will bring about the end of her world dominion.
Here then is plot and foul conspiracy against all men and
nations who enjoy peace and prosperity because we Romans
govern the world. I will not now speak of my private losses, or
of the loss of my dear friend Tigellinus in the destruction of his
palace. But I perceive that by striking at Tigellinus these Gali-
lreans hoped to strike at Cresar. Then, by levelling to the earth
the homes of our people, it was their intention to cause such
confusion that anarchy must ensue. For such infamy, for such
hatred of Rome and of our gods, whom they blaspheme, there
is no torment slow enough, no torture agonizing enough as will
punish them sufficiently for the evil, the misery and the ruin of
which they are the cause~"
206 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Here Cresar paused from very weariness, for the heat was
heavy at that hour. An officer whispered in his ear, calling to
. his mind the procedure in Roman justice which ordains that
every man, however lowly, who is accused, shall be permitted
to say a few words in his defence. Then, one by one, the pri-
soners1 were led before the judges, and none failed their Master,
all confessing that they were the servants of Jesus of Galilee
and believed in His Godhead. Not even the women faltered;
making a good confession, each in turn uttering the words
spoken by Patrobas.
"I worship the one true God and Jesus of Galilee who was
Son of God, and who came to earth to redeem men from their
sins."
Only three or four of these Galilreans showed signs of terror
and despair at the sight of the awful countenance of Cresar,
at the wrath and muttered menaces of the people of the court.
Yet,- though some might stumble over their words, they bravely
declared that they were the children of Christ and were inn9-
cent of the offence with which they were charged. And when
the last had spoken there came a babel of voices, appealing for
the torture and death of the accused.
Such noisy behaviour was unknown in Cresar's court. But
soon silence was compelled, the people sinking back into their
seats. Then Nero rose to pronoul).ce sentence, and he was weary,
his head ached, and he was afraid. For the dark faces of these
men of the east conjured up visions o(a people who had studied
magic and sought through its baleful power to attack and over-
throw the Empire. So, speaking hoarsely, his hands quivering
from his secret fear, Cresar addressed the court.
" These prisoners are guilty of a crime unequalled in the past
troubled history of Rome. It remains, therefore, for us only to
determine the nature of their punishment. Death is too good
for them. But such spawn of the demons may not, because of
their danger to the commonweal, remain alive upon this earth.
They have destroyed two amphitheatres; but we shall find a
place where they will offer us sport, yea and the laughter of
which one of them has spoken, where they will be torn limb
from limb by wild beasts. Others may be reserved for the cross.
Even crucifixion is too soft and easy an e111d for them~ So my
councillors will devise some torment that will increase their
suffering a thousandfold and increase our enjoyment. I have
ever sought to practise justice; and to-day Rome rules the world
1 " Among them Olympus, Philologus, Tertius, Marcus, Trebellius."
ST. PETER AND THE GRE AT FIRE 207
because all nations and peoples know that they can obtain jus-
tice from us. In thus condemning these men and women to
frightful torture I am voicing the fair spirit of Roman Law,
avenging the sufferings of our people, and making these offen-
.ders an example for all time. So fearful shall be this example
no one will dare to become a member of this abominable society
of magicians at any future time. So they will perish off the
face of the earth and the peace of Rome be preserved from
their foul conspiracy in the coming years."
With one voice the people in that court acclaimed Cresar's
speech. Even those among them of integrity and virtue, had no
doubts and held that this was a just sentence and the prisoners
were only receiving their deserts.
CHAPTER XLII
NOW when Nero was seventeen he loved Acte, a Greek slave,
with a boy's love; that is, with all his heart. He gave her
her freedom and caused a genealogy to be devised which stated
that she was a descendant of Attala king of Pergamum. Then
he roused the fury of his mother, Agrippina, by declaring that
he would marry Acte and raise her to the Imperial throne. And
he said to Seneca, " The joy of all the world shines through her
eyes, and there is only beauty in her soul." But the wise Spaniard
smiled and shook his head, answering, " The pretty saying of a
poet ... I would recall to Cresar's memory the decree of the
immortal Augustus. No emperor may marry a woman who is not
freeborn. For the nations under his rule would then have con-
tempt for him and the safety of throne and empire must be
imperilled."
But Nero would have none of this. So Seneca bided his time,
causing Acte to be placed in the charge of his friend, Annreus
Serenus, and given a great house in Rome. Nero visited her each
day, living with her until love died. When he had reached the
age of twenty no trace of his pa.sSion remained for the little
Greek slave girl; and this broke her heart. Yet, of all the women
in the Emperor's life only Acte loved him for himself and not as
did others for his wide possessions and his imperial power. She
never gave herself or her love to any other man, remaining faith-
ful to Nero until death. She caused a shrine to be raised to Ceres,
mother earth, hoping that she might through the favour of the
goddess win back her lost love. And when she perceived that
this device had failed she sorrowed secretly, but never at any time
reproached Nero for his rejection of the one innocent and lovely
thing offered him in his reign. Later she came to know Stachys,
and he told her of Paul and Christ. His words bore healing to
her and the peace that is better than love.
Acte and Popprea were called Nero's good and evil angels.
Popprea feared Acte, and this fear took the form of jealousy, so
that at one time she caused this simple and humble woman to be
banished from the court to Velitrae. But after a while Cresar
commanded her return, overriding Popprea's objections and
2o8
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 209
allaying her fears by assuring her that he no longer felt any love
for Acte, whose lack of b1
eauty made him value his wife's beauty
the more.
Now these words were not true of Acte; though, indeed, her
prettiness was as the light of a candle dip to a star when com-
pared with the splendid looks of .Popprea. But this saying
appeased the Empress.
It was hard to make war upon Acte. For she was a Christian
before she had ever heard of Christ. There are some people,
pure and peerless, wholly innocent of mind from their birth.
Acte was of this kind ; she was incapable of speaking evil of
any man or woman and always praised Popprea's beauty when
Cresar talked to her. In the matter of Popprea's vices she re-
mained silent.
So, as time went by and Tigellinus became more and more a
cause for fear, Popprea ceased · from thinking of this other
woman, and gave her mind to perfecting the plot which would
bestow on her supreme power.
Stachys was a member of Cresar's household, and daily he
visited Acte, speaking to her of Christ. She was not baptized,
but she was delighted in hearing of the truths taught by Paul of
Tarsus, and she kept all these in her heart. For she loved Cresar
and knew that it was dangerous to speak of what was wholly
opposed to his manner of life. Always he came first with her,
and she desired nothing from him save the pleasure of those rare
times when he might pass an hour in her company.
Now Popprea roused and stirred Nero, but Acte could soothe
and calm him when he was fretful and provoked. In the hour
when he was resting after his bath on the evening following the
first trial of the saints, he caused her to be summoned. She came
and stroked his brow, and there was healing for his spirit in her
fingers. After a while he lay back sighing, grateful for the kind-
ness of her tol).ch and her gentle voice, and he said, " The aches
of my mind and body are gone. Terror of sleepless destiny is
no longer mine. It is thy doing, Acte."
"It is my pleasure, Cresar," she answered, " as thou knowest
to share thy fears with thee." ·
"Mother Acte," he said softly, "I was greatly troubled all this
day, for we have discovered another nest of conspirators, and
their intention has been to overthrow me and the Empire. These
conspirators are named Galilreans. They serve a demon whom
they call Christ, ·and, according to the testimony of one of them
this Christ, through some mystery of magic, flung flaming brands
210 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
out of the skies that lit the houses in the valleys of Rome, starting
this monstrous fire."
"Nay, Cresar," answered Acte; " I cannot believe in such
magic. ·The i:nan who told thee this tale was mad and could not
have known the meaning of his wild words."
"That may be so," said Nero; "but it was shown at the
trial of these Galilreans that they had fired Rome-of that there
was certain proo£ All my life I have lived in danger from con-
spiracy, and the conspirators increase in IJ.umber and in craft in
these last years. So I am to be pitied ; for in spite of my great-
ness I am lonely on my throne. And what can still the terror
in my heart on such a day as to-day when I meet again
with these enemies who hate me and seek to destroy me and
mine?"
Then Acte spoke comforting words and again she stroked
Cresar's brow. And after a time he was at peace-refreshed,
comforted by the radiance of her spirit.
" Thou hast cured my aching head," he !'laid ; " and driven
away fear with thy serenity. Ask of me a favour and I shall
be pleased to grant it-any jewel thou desirest shall be thine."
"Jewels give me no pleasure," she answered; "but if Cre:5ar
is gracious he will grant an audience to the freedman, Stachys,
who wait!'~ in the court, and is the bearer of tidings of grave
import to Roman justice."
"I had liefer-give thee a jewel than see this fellow. But bid
him enter."
Then Stachys was summoned. And having saluted Cre:5ar, he
spoke in haste and in low tones, telling him that he had dis-
covered the true author of the mischief wrought in Rome. " A
mage named Joah," he said, "hired certain men to set the
city in a blaze. Two who were honest and upright fled from
Rome. Now they have returned and are prepared to bear wit-
ness against Joah who is from Syria, and, hating Cresar, brought
thi!'l calamity upon us to satisfy his horrible malice."
The weary Nero was displeased at thoughts of the day's doings
being roused up again. And he protested : " But one of these
Galilreans uttered treason and defied me, Gresar, his judge."
" He was mad," murmured Acte. " These Galilreans are inno-
cent. I implore thee at least to look into their case and not permit
them to be crucified until the whole matter has been sifted."
Then Nero caused a councillor to be summoned who was
one of Popprea's spies, and he made Stachys repeat his accusa-
tion agaimt the wizard Joah.
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 21 I
The councillor considered it for a while in silence, and then
said slowly, " Stachys has been misled and is not acquainted with
the evidence given at the trial to-day. Several of the prisoners on
examination admitted that a Jew named Simon Peter was their
leader. Now it is well known that the Jews have secret knowledge
of the arts of magic. Our honest friend here has only been mis-.
taken in the name. It is this mage Simon and not Joah who is
the head of the conspiracy. May I call to Cresar's mind that
Joah holds the place of astrologer to the Empress? He receives
many favours from her and Cresar. Why, then, should he plot
against imperial power, for in overthrowing it he would over-
throw himself ? "
The lawyer's argument satisfied Nero. He dismissed Stachys
and would not listen to the pleadings of Acte, sulkily saying when
she lingered that it might be well for her health if she sought the
sea air and journeyed to Velitrae.
So Stachys failed, and his bold petition only increased Nero's
fury against the saints, causing him to passthe evening in devising
exquisite tortures and a spectacle for the people unequalled in the
annals of Rome. ·
Acte retired to her house to pass the night in prayer. The freed-
man wandered through the ruins of Rome scarcely heeding
where his footsteps strayed, so hard was his grief for the prisoners,
so filled with apprehension was his soul for the morrow.
Near the river's edge three men in dark cloaks leaped out upon
him from behind a broken wall. Their daggers quickly ended his
noble life, and with curses and laughter, they flung his body into
the Tiber.
But in the days that followed the story of the mage who had
fired Rome went from mouth to mouth, taking many different
shapes. It was said amongst the Christians that a man named
Simon, the mage, had lit the fire in 0rder to bring persecution
upon them and to destroy the Church. In later times numbers of
'tales were written relating the conflict between the mage Simon
and Peter ; and none knew that these wereidle imaginations, that
their source lay in the name of Simon Peter and in a lawyer's
crafty, quibbling words. ·
VOL. U. F
CHAPTER X LIII
T HE shadows of their dreams drive the people of power
mad, and so it was with those strange beings, Nero, Poppa:a
and Joah. For too long they had lived outside the world, not
mixing with common men and women. Never had they mingled
with the crowd on an equality of speech and thought. At no
time were they of them, knowing that touch of nature which
would have preserved them from ghastly deeds and their own
monstrous fantasy.
The suspicion of Cresar in the people's mind was removed
when they learned of the trial and conviction of the Galilreans.
One grey-eyed morning Nero was applauded by thousands as he
passed through Rome. Rarely had such cheering fallen to his
lot, and he was triumphant, saying to Tigellinus, "I am like a
.conqueror returning to my people. Nay, more than a con-
queror, for through observing,the fair spirit of justice I have
won all the people's hearts." > ,
That day the Galila;ans were sown into the coats of animals
and driven before a great multitude of Romans who howled and
hissed at them shouting: " Robbers, assassins, magicians, traitors
to the Empire and the gods." Some of these-poor and ignorant
slaves-were filled with fear and, stumbling, fell. Others held on
bravely. Patrobas, of a fine height and noble bearing, led the
band.
At last the bawling ceased-the people silent and trembling
with pleasure in the moment before dogs and other beasts were
loosed. Then Patrobas lifted up his face, and looking towards
Cresar's high seat, cried out a prayer for Cresar's soul. Few words
were heard~ fbr the enraged mob, believing them to be :1
magician's spell, bellowed and shouted again. And the shouting
changed to laughter when a pack of wild dogs chased and
attacked the Galilreans, worrying and tearing at their limbs,
pulling out their entrails, slowly and horribly devouring them.
But Melanie, as Dirce, her naked body lashed to the horns of
an angry bull, gave the greatest pleasure of all. She perished
very slowly, as the beast tossing his head and charging round the
.~~~ ~
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 213
arena caused the crowd to applaud again and again, delighting
as they did in the bruising and the torment of that white flesh.
Afterwards, when the ground was a mess of blood, bones and
dust, the crier invited the people to Ca:sar's gardens at nightfall.
It was a still, beautiful evening. Never before had the stars ·
looked .down on such a spectacle. The Galila:ans, in tunics of
pain-a garment smeared with oil and wax-were· fastened to
crosses. Men ran to and fro, setting them alight. So when the
people flowed in crowds into the gardens they perceived avenues
of human torches, smouldering, flickering, blazing up according
to the nature of the oiled and waxed garments. An~ along these
illuminated ways Nero drove his chariot, displaying his skill with
the horses and crying out delighted greetings to his subjects. But
the crowd remained silent, hanging their heads as Ca:sar, in the
charioteer's habit, careered and played the mountebank before
this spectacle of incredible agony. Some men and women
vomited and turned away; and a great number were troubled by
a cruelty that distressed even hardened bullies. Only a few
acclaimed Ca:sar; and discontented at the absence of fervour in
their applause, he dismount~d from his chariot and in the com-
pany of Tigellinus he wandered here and there among the
crosses, mocking and gibing at his victims. One who could still
speak, answered him:
"We perish, but we triumph, Ca:sar. Our tunic of torment is
the robe of victory."
And in that time a demon possessed Nero, causing him to add
to the pain of the martyrs by various subtle devices that led their
bodies to burn more slowly, tneir torture to be lengthened for an
hour or more. Even so, Ca:sar was not satisfied. Remembering
ravaged Rome he gave orders that a diligent search should be
made for the Galila:ans, and any people who confessed to a belief
in Jesus were to be instantly condemned by a magistrate. Ca:sar
hungered for more victims, longed for the pleasure he received
from witnessing their sufferings. So the prisons were soon filled
with the poor and the slaves-believers in Christ who would not
deny Him when questioned, prepared and glad indeed to die in
lingering torments. For they knew then that, delivered from
this body of clay, they would be with Christ which was far
\
better. . ·
Neither Peter nor Mark had been taken up by the officers of
the law. For some days Peter lay sick in the house provided by
Pomponia Gra:cina; and from,his bed he dictated to the scribe,
Silvanus, letters to be dispatched to Paul and to the heads of the
.21'4 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
churches in Asia and in Greece. These, in guarded words, told
of the persecution and were exhortations to the brethren to hold
fast to their faith if, as might well be, the persecution spread
throughout the Roman world.
In that hour Peter assumed the ·leadership of the whole Church,
accepting thus the place once held by James and offered to him
by Paul of Tarsus. When he could rise and walk again the
remnant of the Galilreans were summoned to a larger room and
Peter greeted them with words of gladness and of consolation.
And in that hour of despair.and terror the aged Apostle opened
the proceedings with a prayer called "The Great Thanksgiving,"
adding to it sentences of his own.
" Lord of sun, moon and stars, we render thanks to Thee.
Lord of the first three elements, heaven, earth and air, we
utter our praise. Lord of birth, life and death, we render Thee
homage, praising Thy Name, the One and only God. God the
Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, Three in One.
Creator of everything that lives and moves, we worship Thee
and .give thanks that Thou hast.brought us to this day, guard-
ing us from the perils that surround us, preserving our lives J.S
we journey along the dark ways of earth. We, Thy children
in Christ, bless Thee for having bestowed on us the knowledge
of our Saviour, of His :floly Life, His Sacrifice, upon the
Tree, so that we should be saved and redeemed from the sin of
Adam, from the transgression of Eve. ·
"We Jews· and Gentiles, bond and free, abide within the
fold of the Great Shepherd, and though of divers nations, of
divers states of life we are one in the thanksgiving we offer
Thee, one in love, one in faith and charity. Wherefore all the
days of our earthly journeyings we serve and do render honour
to Thy Name.
" And we vow that neither the torment of fire, of the cross,
nor the menace of wild beasts, shall turn us .from the worship
of the One true God. Neither the Prince of the Air, nor
principalities and powers shall prevail and win from us denial
of the Name above every name. Glory to It. Amen."
Twice all those present spoke these last sentences after Simon
Peter, and not one among them faltered. Uplifted by the sayings
and the faith of their father in Christ, they were prepared to face
the perils of their dark destiny and were fearless, receiving, as
they ate of the bread and drank of the wine, the spirit of a peace
which could not be disturbed or taken from them.
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 215
Afterwards Pomponia, who was known as Lucinia among the
Galilreans, told Peter of her plan that he should be secretly con-
veyed to a lonely place among the northern lakes where he might
hide in safety from the officers of the law. " This persecution
cannot continue for long," she said. " The citizens of Rome
will, in time, be revolted by it. So it is needful that thy life
should be preserved for the day when thou canst once more
gather together the remnant and again build up a Church in
Rome."
And those elders who were present, including Mark, prayed
Peter to agree to this plan for his safe keeping. He said he would
Iiefer die with th.e brethren. But they told him that in this matter
he must put himself last and the good of the Church first.
So, being gentle and easily persuaded that others were wiser
than he, the Apostle consented to go secretly from Rome on the
following evening and to remain in northern Italy until such
time as he might return openly to the capital to continue his
work.
CHAPTER XLIV
LUCINIA'S servants brought news 'that the guards were
searching through the town for Simon Peter. So it was deter-
. mined that in disguise at nightfall he should set out·on foot and
alone, meeting a carriage a little distance from Rome which
would convey him northwards to a sure hiding-place.
The Apostle was very sorrowful, for all his desire was to die
and be with Christ. But the brethren were glad, and Lucinia
could not rest so long as this life beyond price was in danger
of death. · ·
An hour before his departure Peter told Mark, scene by scene,
of the time when Jesus was taken and he followed Him to the
palace of the High Priest. He waited there through the long
night, the hours passed slowly, heavily, and he was sick with
fear. In turn two women questioned him, and twice he denied
all knowledge of Christ. And shame was added to shame; for
when he was questioned a third ·time he began to curse and to
swear, saying, "I know nothing of this Galilrean ye call Jesus."
The memory of that denial had followed him through the
years, was with him now, reproachful as ever in the lonely hour.
Thrice he had denied. Was this the fourth occasion of denial?
Mark talked of the needs of the saints, the living came before
the dying and the dead; he spoke comforting words. But they
seemed to pass by his silent listener unheeded.
Later a solitary old man leaning upon a staff, with slow and
uncertain tread, walked along the Appian Way. But in the gate·
Christ met him and made to pass into the city. "Lord; whither
goest thou? " he asked. And Christ answered, " I come' to be
crucified a second time." Wherefore Peter knew that Christ
must be crucified a second time in His little ;;ervant.
Doubt and sorrow vanished even as the Master seemed to
vanish like a dream. Peter turned back upon the road and came'
again to Lucinia's house. The Apostle, in spite of his seventy
years, had the innocence of a little child. His face was radiant
as he greeted the brethren, and he was astonished that they still
mourned when he had told them of what he had seen and that
Christ must be crucified a second time in His little servant. That
:n6
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT 1 FIRE 217'
very evening he gave himself up to the guards, and on the
morrow was taken before a magistrate ; not permitted to speak
after his c:onfession, and summarily condemned.
Two days later Simon Peter hung upon a cross iri Nero's
garden. Mark, Linus and a veiled, weeping woman stood afar
off. And, because Lucinia could not endure to witness close at
hand the sufferings of this aged man, Mark and Linus left her
in the charge of two of the Galilreans and drew near to Peter.
Now the crosses were not all full that night. As acenturion
had said to the magistrate, " We have gathered only a poor bag
of Galilrean foxes on these last days, for they have taken to
holes in the hills." And this was true, the few remaining Chris-
tians having fled from the town. For they would liefer die of
starvation among the mountains or of fever in ·the marshy
plains than face the anger of guards and citizens, the torment
of the fiery cro~. ·
No man had been bound to a tree which faced the tree on
which Peter hung. ' Both Mark and Linus perceived that it was
empty as they drew so close to the Apostle's shrivelling body
they might hear his whispered words. .
" Paul of Tarsus has come ; he has been with me all the
day-is with me now. We shall be together...." Here the
voice faltered. But at the last it seemed to whisper again," We
shall be together this very night in Paradise."
Then the flames leaped up brightly; and Mark and Linus
drew back from their terrible glow. In so doing they perceived
that, upon the empty cross, there hung a shape of light. Little
reeking that it was the celestial body of Paul of Tarsus which
had traversed mountains'and seas to be with Simon, his brother,
they believed that the saint had come secretly to Rome, was ar-
rested, and now burned, a pure white flame strange indeed be-
side the horrid, crawling, yellow and blue fires ,that wound like
serpents round the perishing men and women.
The hearts of these two Galilreans were broken by the
thought that they had lost all in thus losing the two Apostles who
had guided the ship of the Church through the years.
During the night they told four or five of the faithful, who
gathered together to pray, that Paul of Tarsus had passed to
his rest on the same day as Simon PeteL They were sure of it,
for they had seen them burning slowly, cruelly, and yet, while
the shrivelled body of one saint remained after the fire had died
out, the body of the other had vanished-not even a heap of
ashes marking the place where he had perished.
218 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Then Silvanus wrote down a record of the end of Peter and
Paul. And in the dawn he carried this roll with other rolls to
the tombs outside Rome. He hid these writings beneath a heavy
stone in one of these caves,,.placing a sign over it. And after
that he, as others, fled to the hills.
But Mark and Linus remained in the city. No fear of the
cross could move men with broken hearts.
)
CHAPTER XLV
"THE body is irrational and may be galled, tortured and
burnt ; but the rational part is fearless, invincible and un-
shaken." Such were .Seneca's words when he witnessed the
sufferings of the Christians. But as the months went by, ·and
the persecution continued, the sage, in spite of his habit of
serenity, was greatly troubled by the cruelties practised, and he
tried to console himself by saying: " Death is the wish of some,
the relief of many and the end of all. It sets the slaves at
liberty, carries the banished man home and places all mortals
on the same level. Life itself were punishment without it."
And he added, sighing, " When I see tyrants, violence, tortures,
the prospect of death is a consolation to me and the only remedy
against the injuries of life."
Now Pomponia was only secretly a follower of Christ. But
that morning, greatly daring, she had confided in Seneca's wife
and pleaded with her to use her influence to have mercy shown
to the Galilreans. So this good woman answered her husband's
maxims with a quick challenge. ·
~ ' By saying nothing thou art consenting to tyranny and vio-
lence." ·
" Thqu speakest in riddles," said the sage.
" My 'meaning is plain. Go now to Cresar and tell him that
this persecution of the Galilrean .sect must cease. It is thy duty
not to plead but to demand mercy for these men and women
who are, I am told, poor and ignorant slaves."
"In these last years Nero ha.S always set aside my counsel.
The will of Tigellinus is his will. Desiring peace and quiet for
my meditations I vowed I would give up the vain task of advis-
ing Cresar."
" There can be no peace and quiet when men suffer and die
as these suffer and die."
Seneca did not answer her. But that evening he sought
audience with Nero and found him vexed and discontented.
" Cresar," said the old tutor; " I have come to ask a return
for my fortune."
.2lg
220 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
" Men weary me with requests. I am pestered by them all
th~ day," answered Nero; "well, what of it?"
" I require mercy of thee. Thou art a poet and vowed to
the service of beauty: So long as this hideous persecution con-
tinues all beauty is soiled ; and thou dost dishonour thy name
as a poet. These Galilreans have been sufficiently punished.
Leave them in peace. Command that· the officers of the law
cease from hunting them out and giving them up t9 the tor-
turers." ,
" But these Galilreans are a society of m~gicians. . So long
as they conti,nue they will seek to put spells and curses on me
and mine."
"No wise man believes in spells and curses," answered Seneca;
" he believes only in good will. These slaves and outcasts will
come in time to bless thee, if now thou art merciful. Persecution
never destroys, and in this case will only strengthen the hands
of thine enemies."
Suddenly Nero changed in his manner, softening and saying,
"Thy request is granted. To-morrow I shall give orders that no
more Galilreans are to be arrested. Only if they come and give
themselves up as some have done shall they be judged and con-
demned."
" My thanks, Cresar," answered Seneca; " I am content."
"Now thou must pay me in kind for this favour," said Nero;
"·I require the remainder of thy fortune which thou hast so
far withheld. Also I require that thou dost reason with certain
of my stubborn subjects. Some of those fools make a loud noise
and declare that they want the old crowded Rome with its
smells and twisted, narrow ·streets. They cm:nplain that their
health will suffer if the avenues are broad, if there .are wide
squares and houses built apart from each other. Reason with
these citizens, old friend, and cure them of their obstinate be-
liefs. Then I shall be free to continue my work as architect of
a greater Athens. For I am determined to raise ~p a town in
the Greek style; but fairer than any Greek city." ·
Seneca complied with Cresar's request; and Cresar honoured
the bargain by causing the open persecution of the Galilreans
to cease not only in Rome, but in other parts of the Empire. H~
was not naturally a cruel man; and now that he was happy
designing his Golden House and directing the builders he cared,
no longer for punishment and the pleasure of vengeance. Also
he saw little of Tigellinus, his days being devoted to work and
his nights to Popprea. She came more and more to rule him
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 221
in the affairs of State and the world-the . mage directing
her decisions so 'craftily all enemies seemed to be put under her
feet.
But there were many enemies of Cresar. The citizens con-
demned the emptying of the coffers of the State for the build-
ing of the Golden House and a vast and magnificent Rome.
They perceived that t):lls would lead to gr~ve discontent in the
Empire through high taxes and gross exactions. The patricians
hated Ciesar because, they declared, he played the mounte-
bank and thus brought the last shame upon Rome. Comment-
ing on these public exhibitions, Natalis said to Seneca :
"An Emperor may not play the mummer. Whatever his
offences in his private life he may not ii:t•public offend against
the dignity of his office. He should be the symbol of nobility
and integrity, for he is the symbol of the State. The State is
degraded if his office is subordinated to his own private con-
cerns arid pleasures."
" On the stage of the world," said Piso, " all men are ;mum-
mers. But the ruler of many provinces may play but one role,
that of the single-minded, single-hearted father of his people.
If he fail, as Nero has failed in this his first duty, it is ex-
pedient that he should aie."
"Then, in your opinion 'twere better," said Seneca, "that an
ignorant fool should reign in the place of Cresar so long as he
has dignity and wears the mask of sovereignty as well as the
crown."
"'Twere better."
" A sorry confession," answered the old man sighing, and then
continued, "I know well the evil of .Nero's life. But he has
shown mercy and kept the peace in his reign." '
" His reign is near its end," said Piso. " I shall slay him,
as I have told· thee, when he comes, to stay at my villa at
Baire."
" He purposes to play the mountebank in Egypt arid m
Greece," Natalis added craftily.
"There are inany of good birth in the conspiracy," con-
tinued Piso, " more than twenty senators and more than forty
of Nero's friends. They would name Seneca•as Cresar if such
be his will. For he is the wisest man in all the world."
" He has failed," answered the sage. " He was the tutor to
the boy, Nero; and behold the man. Nay more, he has failed
because he has not changed men's hearts. Monstrous cruelties
are practised. The greater number of men lust after gold,
222 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
women and filthy pleasures. Society decays. There is no trust
or faith anywhere."
" The new Cresar will have power to cleanse the gutters of
Rome. By rule and example he should bring back virtue and
integrity and create again the old noble race of the Romans."
Not answering this man Seneca went into another room and
told his wife Paullina of all these things, and she said, " I would
not have thee accept the throne,of Cresar, for thou art not able
to change human nature and cast out the base passions of the
Romans through wise laws and severe punishments."
Then Seneca determined that he would accept the offer of
Natalis and Piso. Contrariwise he went against his wife's coun-
sel and said, " It is my belief that I can advance the good,
defeat the evil, and perhaps save the world through wise laws
if I am spared to reign as Cresar for even a few years." ·
Thereupon he went into the other room and accepted the
throne on the one condition that Piso should first be offered
as Emperor to the Romans; but if they rejected him then
Seneca would accept the crown. Also he bade them remember
the laws of hospitality. It was against all right thinking that a
host should slay his .guest. He would not suffer Nero to perish
meanly in the villa at Baire. " Let the 'Emperor be openly dis-
patched, nobly dying even as Julius Cresar died in Rome-an ·
offering or sacrifice to the right principles on which the Empire
was founded."
The conspirators agreed to this. So Nero lived and_laughed
in the sun when he stayed at Piso's villa. But when he returned
to Rome Milichus came and told him of the ·conspiracy against
his life. Swift action was taken and a number of high-born
Romans were arrested. Some were executed, others died by their
own hand. But even in this time when Nero had been menaced
by a cruel death, he showed mercy to certain of these con-
spirators. For some were banished, and certain of his friends,
whose names had not been published, were permitted to g9 free,
and in another year they displayed their gratitude to Cresar by
plotting against him once more.
When the conspiracy was discovered Seneca determined to
take his own life ; and Paullina had declared that she would
die in the same hour as her husband. " Be it so ; thou wilt
share in the renown of my end-an end as great as that of
Socrates," was his vainglorious answer.
Later, when the old Stoic had said farewell, a vein was cut
in his wife's wrists and friends led her into another room. Then
ST. PETER AND THE GREAT FIRE 223
a messenger was dispatched to C~sar to tell him that Seneca
and Paullina were at the point of death. With that touch of
nobility that was in Nero, he bade the messenger travel back
like.the wind, and do his best to save the life of'his mistress.
On his arrival Seneca was moribund, but Paullina still lived.
Swift measures were taken, a physician bound up her hurts and
she recovered. But ever after her face was as grey as ashes be-
cause of the great loss of blood.
Seneca faced death with a serenity that was the admiration
of those about him who witnessed his end. He died declaring
his belief, but to his wife alone, that if he had lived to reign
he might have brought salvation to men through the wisdom of
his laws, the example of a virtuous life.
He reckoned not with the little man of Tarsus who would pre-
sently perish, also believing that he brought salvation to the
world through the knowledge of the crucifixion of the Son of
G~. .
But when Paullina gazed upon her dead husband she again
said, "Human nature cannot be changed. Base passions may
not be uprooted and cast out in this genenition or in any
generation."
Paullina was a Cynic as well as a Stoic.1
During that autumn, winter and spring Popprea reigned
supreme, not even Tigellinus· daring to question her authority.
So she became careless, and neglecting Joah's counsel she let
Nero make her conceive once more.
When the mage learned from her that a child lived in her
womb he showed no anger; he only said:
" From this time forward our paths separate. Thou hast dis-
obeyed me and surrendered to the destiny written for thee in
the stars. Some few of a great and invincible spirit can over-
come fate. Thou hast yielded to it. Fare-thee-well, daughter; ·
for alas, I perceive that the kingdom of this world, because of
1 " To understand the story of those days it is necessary to perceive side
by side the death of Seneca, the 'saint of the pagans, and the death of Paul,
the saint and leader of the Christians. One believed that through winning
world dominion over the bodies of men he would bring them salvation; the
other believed that through capturing world dominion over the spirits of
men he would dower them with salvation; and Paullina held not with either
of them, regarding the nature of man as unchanging and immutable. "
224 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
thy weakness, is not for me, and a dark road and another world
. is for thee." -
With these words he left her, and she did not seek him out
again. For now she was sure of herself and so puffed up with
pride ·she believed that she could, through the power of the
coming child, control the will of Nero and thus reign as Cresar.
But without the wisdom of the mage she was no match for
Tigellinus. When Nero began to weary of his work as an archi-
tect he looked for pleasure, and again his favourite tempted him
with feasting, wine and licence ; and more and more he came to
desert Popprea, who, now that she was great with child, could
no longer hold him through her beauty.
One evening when he returned to her after a long absence,
she reproached him, raging against him for the .filthy pleasures
he enjoyed with Tigellinus. The sayings of this favourite were
still in his ears, the crafty advice that he should not permit him-
self to be governed by any woman, for it displayed a weakness
in Gresar that would be mocked at by the court. So, enraged
because of wounded vanity and being beside himself, he struck
his wife again and yet again. And she with a great cry fell
swooning to the ground.
. Then Cresar was filled with remorse and grief. But his sorrow
could not in any way relieve Popprea, whose bodily agony could
not be alleviated. In terror and despair she faced the dark ways
of death, dying violently. and horribly in the presence of the
man who was her husband and her ·murderer.
BOOK I V ·
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END
CHAPTER XLVI
PAUL had three years to live after his encounter with Cresar
and his departure from Rome. For a time he lived in Ephesus
where Timothy was overseer of the Church. Afterwards he
visited the churches of Tralles, · Thyatira, Magnesia, Colossre,
Smyrna, Philadelphia and Pergamos. From Pergamos he travelled
to Troas and took ship for Thessalonica. For a season he lived in
Philippi and witnessed the passing of Lydia justly named the
Mother of Peace. Later, at the summons of Titus he visited
Crete, and then journeyed to Nicopolis where he determined to
winter.
While the saint was in that city grave tidings were borne to
him of dissension in the churches of Asia. There were two sects
within the fold, the Libertines and the Jews who were ascetics
and in the tradition of the Essenes. These ascetics held not with
marriage, with drinking wine, or even the eating of meat. Many
of the Libertines were lovers of the things of this world, and
also they spoke heresies concerning the Master. So these two
kinds of men, the world-forsakers and those who would live in
the world, were at variance. The Libertines were powerful in
the smaller churches and a matter of grave perplexity to Paul
because numbers of them lived after the flesh, offending against
right principle and the inmost truths he taught.
But his mind cast from it the ravelled skein of care when Titus,
Luke and Tychicus came across the sea from Crete. Though
they, too, spoke of troubles and difficulties and the gross lives of
the Cretans yet they cheered Paul by their clearness of vision
and their steadfast loyalty. So Titus returned to Crete, and in a
little while he sailed for Ephesus taking with him Luke and
Tychicus, also Crescens and Trophimus. They abode in the
house of Aquila in that city; and all the heads of the churches
were summoned for the purpose of determining the future of
the faith of Asia.
Now Paul believed that he could through argument, and, if
that failed, through command, win back these men of Asia,
and thus once more weld the Church into one whole. And it was
true that at first they hearkened in silence to him. But no sooner
VOL.& G 0 7
228 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
had he ceased speaking than Hymena:us and Philetus1
rose up
and contended with one another concerning the two ways of
living-the way of the Essene and the way of the Libertine. They
were men of eloquence, and their words divided the churches,
setting the one against the other. Day after day then these
brethren warred upon one another, and each would add or take
away something from the sound doctrine laid down by Paul. It
seemed indeed that no progress was made, for the saint would
not yield to any of them, claiming that, as father and founder
of the Church in Asia, as one who had seen Christ, it was for him
to direct the life, conduct and beliefs of the congregations.
Wherefore, Hermogenes and Phygellus2
liking not such discip-
line demanded of the assembly that they should agree that each
church should follow its own road and determine its practices
and beliefs.
Now Paul perceived that if these men accomplished their
purpose there would be many sects at variance in Asia, that
through such lack of unity they would in time perish and fall
away. All manner of false doctrine would creep into the
Church, idolatry even, if at Tralle, Pergamos, Colossa:, Philadel-
phia, Smyrna, Ephesus and other places each overseer were per-
mitted to add his own ignorant beliefs to the simple truths which
had been embodied in a parchment which set forth the Gospel
of Everlasting Life, and in counsel with Peter at Rome he re-
moved all save the simplest sayings. For these two saints aimed
at a clear gospel that might be understood by all men and that
would command purity of life, chastity and sober conduct. But
it was not enough for these men of .Asia who were, some of
them, still heathen at heart.
So in the end Phygellus, Hermogenes, Philetus and Hymenreus
became of accord in the one purpose and worked for it secretly.
Only on the last day when the members of the assembly came
together was it known. Then all save Philemon and another elder
renounced their allegiance to Paul. They would not have him
any longer as father and head of the Church in Asia. It was
determined that each community should have its own head and
be governed by its council of elders who would be answerable to
no other authority in this world. And when lots were counted it
was found that Paul was rejected ; these little men had for the
time won their way.
But the Philippian brethren withdrew in protest from the meet-
ing place. They declared their loyalty to the saint, and before
1 II Timothy ii. 17. 2 II Timothy i. 15.
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY ' S END 229
they departed for Thessalonica entreated him to come and live
amongst them and be their head in all things.
It seemed, indeed, that after this rejection it were better for
the saint to depart from Asia, and he was heavy of heart when
he considered the many years of labour he had devoted to these
churches. But Mark, Philemon, AqJ.lila and John, known later as
the Elder, promised they would, after his departure, labour to
bring about unity. And they assured the grieving saint that in
time he would be accepted as father of the Church in Asia once
again.
In the early summer a small company journeyed to Troas.
Trophimus fell sick of a fever and stayed at Miletus.1
Luke,
Erastus and Tychicus were the disciples who went with Paul on
this occasion and stayed at the House of Carpus/ a man of
repute in Troas.
There the saint worked daily with a scribe, shaping the Gospel
that should be the guide of the Church for all future time.
But one day he said to Luke, "My heart misgives me. I fear
lest with these divisions all the labour of my life will go for naught
and the fables told concerning Christ will corrupt-eating as a
canker into truth so that at last no truth remains."
Howbeit, on another day prayer and quiet and a return of
the Holy Spirit redeemed Paul from these many fears, and once
more he became peaceful and serene in mind and soul.
So when he sailed for Thessalonica he was confident, believing
that there was work still for him to do and that he had not
failed.
1 II Timothy iv. 20. 2 II Timothy iv. 13.
CHAPTER XLVII
I T was when Paul knelt by Lydia's grave that Demas came to
him with a letter from Linus. As in life Lydia had given new
courage and hope to the saint in the times of weariness and defeat,
so it was fitting that these should be renewed and his spirit re-
freshed as he stood near where she lay in her last sleep.
The letter also contained greetings from Pudens, Eubulus and
Claudia and told of their longing to see the face of their master.
Linus wrote of the affairs of the Church, first saying that now
they looked on Paul as being in the place of Peter as father of all
the brethren. Despite the menace of the authorities the members
of the Roman community had multiplied ; but now the converts
were made only among the poor and the slaves who gloried in the
hope of everlasting life. These greatly desired to sit at the feet
of their revered master and hearken to the words of the man
who had seen Christ.
He told of how Andronicus1
had lately come from Spain.
He had travelled through Gaul and was eager that Paul should
visit this country. For it was a land stretching northwards, great
in size, in which lived a simple people who might be easily won
for Christ if the father of the Church went among those that
had understanding of Latin and dwelled in the southern region
near the sea.
The Church prospered in Spain. In coming to Rome Andro-
nicus would seek the counsel of Paul in many matters that re-
lated to the brethren there. Only the saint could tell him how he
might combat the ignorance of this people in their worship of the
Moon-goddess and many other gods. Although they accepted
Christ, it was only as one of the many other gods whom
they also worshipped. Nor would they abandon these as
Andronicus bade them and acknowledge only the God of the
Christians.
Verily this letter contained much of import, affairs that stirred
and quickened the mind of the saint. And Luke perceived that
he was as joyful as a young man in the springtime of life, eager
1 Romans xvi. 7·
:130
I
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END 231
for departure, eager to be working among these brethren who
called him Father.
When the little company of the saints embarked in a ship that
sailed for Corinth they were light of heart. For Paul shed the
old radiance of his spirit upon them and in that time gave no
more thought to what had seemed the failure in Asia, the failure
of many years of labour, of his greatest work.
Erastus1
took leave of the travellers at the port of Corinth.
For it was determined that he should abide in that city and hold
its church for Paul and Christ.
Once more the ship faced the open sea, and it was kind. Day
after day a little breeze fluttered the sails and birds circled about
them in that golden calm. Euroclydon slept, and Paul told
Demas, the youthful disciple, of that first voyage to Rome when
Euroclydon raged and for many days their ship was tossed by
tempest and at last delivered up on the sands of Melita as by the
hand of God.
" Then it would seem," said Demas, " that this prosperous
voyage of ours is a promise, master, of the prosperity of your
future days in Rome."
But even as these words were uttered a white b4:d that drifted
above their heads fell down upon the deck at the feet of Paul.
He took it up in his hand$ and perceived that it was dead.
The shipmaster cried out, " This is an evil portent, inasmuch as
we sailors know that whenever a bird perishes thus on a voyage
it means a great trouble and peradventure death to the man to
whom it comes. Yea, verily, this is a warning from the gods that
may not be denied."
" And what is there ill in death? " Paul softly inquired. " To
me death is life. Look at my worn body and my white hairs.
What are these to me that I should cherish them? Know that
beyond the grave there is no more weariness, no more pain; there
is a joy incredible in being with Christ. To be with Him is far
better than aught that this life can offer me."
The shipmaster hearkened for a while and was so moved in
spirit that he besought this man-the only one he had en-
countered who was not afraid of death-to make him also a
sharer in that glory of which he had such good tidings.
After this conversation the saint communed daily with hin1
and certain of his crew. It was not hard for them to believe, and
they were baptized while yet the ship was a good way from port.
The captain declared that never before had the sea been so kind,
1 II Timothy iv. 20.
232 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
the winds so favourable in his voyages. He believed that their
course had been blest by this stranger's god. And even near the
coasts of Italy a fair wind blew, and there was peace oh the
waters, peace in the skies and a peat e ineffable about Paul and
his disciples.
On that last night before they came to Puteoli the wind
dropped for two hours, the ship stayed still and was like a dark
bird at rest on the silver waters.
And in that calm an angel of the Lord appeared to Paul and
said, "Be of good cheer. Fear not, for in all that comes to pass
in these last days thou wilt be upheld, and out of torment and
suffering thou shalt speedily be dilevered and win the high prize
of thy calling."
Slowly the angel faded into the rising mist. Paul was alone
with the night, and before that night passed away he had seen
God.
It was in a deep tranquillity of spirit that the saint journeyed
two days later from Puteoli towards Rome. Pudens, Eubulus and
Linus encountered the little company near the Three Taverns.1
The same joy was shown by these brethren as had been shown by
others-who had gone home-to Paul of Tarsus in this place at
an earlier time.
After they had rested and exchanged tidings concerning the
family of Christ in Rome and in Greece they set out for the city
of the Cresars, hastening forward, for Paul knew in his heart that
his days were numbered, and that there was little time ·for the
work that awaited him there.
This was of many kinds and ·demanded much consideration.
For several days Paul gave audience to the elders in the house
of Linus. He attended then to the affairs of the world-com-
munity of the Galilreans, a name by which the brethren were
known at that time in Rome. Andronicus gladly received the
counsel and commands of the saint. He was to return to Spain
and was given charge of the Church in that rich and peaceful
land. At the bidding of the Apostle, Crescens set out for Gaul.
Aristarchus and other chosen comrades went with him. Aris-
tarchus had determined to travel the length of that country. He
would not rest until he had crossed the sea to Britannia, a country
scornfully called " The Island of Barbarians " by the proud
1 Acts xxviii. 15
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 233
patricians. But Aristarchus was fearless, saying that he would
liefer preach to the barbarians than to corrupt Romans. The
Britons could only torture his flesh, the Romans would toonent
his spirit with trickery of words and derisive mockery. So, ever
bold and venturesome, he departed for a rude and savage land,
knowing that there was only hardship before him and that he
would not return. .
Paul gave much thought to a letter, which, in due course,
was sent by Tychicus to Ephesus.1
Then when all the affairs
of the Church had been determined he addressed the whole
assembly of the brethren. They were for the most part
strangers, for many of those known to him had perished in the
persecution.
That was a memorable gathering. The poor and the slaves
were greatly moved by the eloquence of the Apostle. Some shed
tears of joy, others lifted up countenances that showed a gladness
deep and sure that would be with them in the following days. No
man who was present ever forgot that hour. Paul was in turn
master and father to these hungry people. They were derided
by their fellow men for their sober and chaste lives and
because they were Galilreans. Always near them was the mena~e
of fresh persecution, yet they doubted not and were upheld and
confirmed for all time in their faith through the witness of this
bent, aged Apostle.
Afterwards he blessed each one of them in turn ; and night had
fallen when the last of them, a veiled woman in dark robes knelt
before him. It was Pomponia known as Lucinia. Suspected by
her Roman kin she had to go warily when in association with the
Galilreans, and this was the first time she had come to the general
assembly of the brethren. After receiving the blessing she thanked
Paul for sending a messenger to her own country, Britannia. Then
he drew her apart, bidding her keep secret the mission of Aris-
tarchus; for it was not long ago the Britons had rebelled against
Roman authority. So, if it were known that a Galilrean had set
out to work in Britannia he might be taken up on the charge that
he was going there to advocate treason and rebellion against
Cresar. Lucinia promised that she would tell no man, and then
softly withdrew from the Apostle's presence.
Now as a consequence of the evening's gathering, the news
was noised abroad that Paul of Tarsus had come again to Rome.
His old enemy, Alexander the coppersmith, lived in the Porta
Capena. There he traded and sought to increase his prosperity by
1 II Timothy iv. JQ ,
234- WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
seeking favour with authority. He petitioned for an audience with
Hellos, the freedman.
This audience was refused, so Alexander laid his charge before
a centurion, and in due course it was passed on to Helios.
Now Lucinia had one highly placed friend who sent word
to her of the danger that menaced Paul. So again risking her
own security, at daybreak she came in person to the dwelling of
Linus. For she would not trust another with these tidings.
When in the presence of the saint she said, "Master, this
Alexander seeks thy life because of his old hatred of thee and
because he would be rewarded by authority. There have been in
the past years many plots against the life of Ca::sar. It will,
therefore, be easy for this man to bring home his charge against
a Galila::an. So I entreat thee to go from Rome within an hour.
Journey northwards and join Crescens in Gaul. I will have a
carriage waiting for thee beyond the gates of the town. Give no
thought to thy needs on the journey, all these will be furnished
by Jlle."
" Nay," said Paul, " I cannot desert the brethren."
" But thou wilt be charged and condemned, and the sentence
is death by the sword or by crucifixion."
" I am prepared to die."
"But thy trial may lead to a new persecution of all who are
known as Galila::ans."
Paul pondered, and after a little while he cast a sorrowful
glance at this woman from Britannia, and he said :
" But I would have thee know that the Angel of the Lord ap-
peared to me on my journey and commanded me to testify
openly to the truth in Rome. Even if persecution of the
brethren comes from this testimony we must welcome it knowing
that such is the will of God."
Lucinia perceived that she had failed and that no pleading
would change the course chosen by the saint. So she asked for his
blessing, and then took her leave of him.
Linus soon learned of the danger that menaced the father of
the Church. So he hastily summoned those few Roman citizens
of good standing and some influence who belonged to the com-
munity of the saints.
They went to Paul. And having spoken with him concerning
the certainty that he would be brought before the magistrate,
they one and all excused themselves, saying that because of
their wives and children they could not come forward and .testify
to his reputation for integrity and (jbedience to the State. Then,
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 235 .
not even bidding him farewell, they went quickly from his
presence. Only at the door of the house they stayed a while to
advise Linus to beware of Paul.
Bearing their warning in mind, Linus, the Overseer of the
Roman Church, spoke to the saint of the necessities of his charge
and of the safety of the brethren.
"Master," he said, "night and day we shall offer prayers for
thy acquittal if thou art cast into prison and called to stand trial
before C;:esar. But it would only bring persecution on all the
brethren if we named thee as one of us and admitted that thou
art the head of us all. Wherefore, in the coming time, I may not
visit thee in prison, and I shall for all our sakes command the
members of the Church to keep to themselves, and if challenged,
say that thou art not established in our community. Verily, only
in this way may we escape from the destruction of the Church
through another persecution."
And Paul bravely answered, " I am prepared to stand alone,
but I demand that any man, 'Who is without fear, shall be free
to seekme out in prison if it is his desire."
To this Linus consented. Then, at the bidding of the saint, he
summoned Demas, the Thessalonian, and acquainted him with
the danger that now menaced his master. Paul had two sons in
the spirit, namely Timothy and Demas. Timothy came first with
him in all things. But in his absence he cherished Demas and
depended upon him for those small daily services that were,
because of his infirmities, the aged Apostle's need.
Demas was tall and slender as a reed and known as the
"golden-headed youth"; and he was lovely as Absalom in the
sight of the people.
In this bitter hour Paul turned to him with eager greetings,
counting on his loyalty, sure in his faith of this young man's
integrity.
Now the seer of Tarsus, like many seers, was at times so
absorbed he did not notice outward signs. And, when at the
appearance of Demas he took both his hands in his, he did not
observe his white face or that he could scarcely control the
trembling of his limbs. ·
"Son, I can count on thee to come to me when I am in prison,"
said the saint confidently ; " thou wilt bring parchment and thou
wilt ease the hours of confinement by acting as is our custom as
my scribe. Also thou mayest ease my stiffened fingers and the
pains in my bones with that ointment which has made them
supple heretofore through the stroking of thy hands. I shall
236 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
eagerly watch for thy coming, beloved son ; and I shall not weary
in the long hours when I am alone and bound in chains because
of the certain comfort of thy presence in the times my guard
suffer thee to be with me.~'
At these words the golden-headed youth covered his face with·
his hands and wept and muttered," I am afraid."
" God has not given us the spirit of fear," said Paul, much
astonished, " but of power and of love and of a sound mind."
" I must be gone to Thessalonica," cried Demas; " I cannot
face the torment of wild beasts or of being nailed upon a tree."
And with that, wailing and crying, the young man fled from
the presence of the Apostle, from the house of Linus, and on the
next day was gone from Rome.1
-
So Paul was forsaken by the brethren and by his beloved son,
Demas. But though he grieved at that sudden parting he was
courteous and dignified, without question surrendering himself
to the guard when at noon they came to the deserted house. After
reading the warrant they compelled·him to go with them to prison
and to bid farewell to those last summer days.
1 II Timothy iv. 10.
CHAPTER XLVIII
PAUL was led before Hellos, the freedman. He stood alone
in that court. No friend or Galilrean was among the people
present. The command given by Linus had been obeyed.1
In the lower part of the court stood Alexander, dark and
fierce like a wol£ Beside him was another old enemy, Menehas
known as the fox of Corinth ; for in his frequent attacks on Paul
he had always been crafty, choosing the time and his argument
with the skill of an old lawyer.
Alexander made two charges. The first that Paul was one of
the incendiaries who had fired Rome, the second that as the
leader of the Galilrean sect he conspired against Cresar and was
a menace to the State, imperilling authority.
Menehas came forward as a witness, saying, " I first encoun-
tered Paul and learnt of his conflict with authority at Corinth.
In that city he was brought before Gallio's judgment seat be-
cause he sought to persuade men to worship God contrary to the
law. Again. in Ephesus he was a Cfl.use of tumult and uproar,
for he menaced the Temple of Diana with destruction. I could
name other smaller cities where there has been riot .and tumult
because of this seditious fellow. But it is enough for me to speak
of the time when he was in Jerusalem."2
Here Menehas halted
and read from a scroll the happenings of those days, the demand
of the people that Paul should die and the charges made against
him by the High Priest.
When Menehas ceased Alexander spoke of Paul's trial before
the Prefect in the Imperial Court, of the misfortune of his
acquittal, some years previous to the Great Fire. "He remained
then in Rome for a kmg while," said the coppersmith, "workin~
secretly, speaking for the most part to slaves and vagabonds,
gathering them together in the name of and under the banner
of a rebel and· malefactor called Jesus who was crucified at
Jerusalem in · the time Pontius Pilate was governor of that
city."
Here moved by his wrath and hatred Alexander cried out,
" Paul was the first to cast the flaming brand into the wooden
1 II Timothy iv. 16. .
!!37
2 Acts xxi. 27·40.
238 WHEN: NERO WAS DICTATOR
huts near the Circus, and so he is ufldoubtedly the author of the
greatest fire the world has ever known."
At this saying there was an outcry from the people in the
court. But Paul raised his hand and fastened his eyes upon
them. There was power in those eyes, and slowly these stilled
the clamour, soon only one or two murmured "He is a wizard,
he can mayhap strike a man dead -with the beam of his
eye."
Then Helios made a sign, and Paul lifted up his voice saying,
"Now that licence is granted me to speak I would have thee
know that I am a Roman citizen and have honoured my citizen-
ship by speaking only of what is true and by not bearing false
witness. This is of no small account when a judge examines
testimony. Alexander has lied in his first charge. Here is a
letter written to me by the Chief of Asia speaking of my so-
journ in Ephes~as when Rome was burned. There are many
Ephesians who can bear witness to my having lived in that city
in the year of this grievous calamity. Nay more, I departed
from Italy in the year before the fire, and there are scores of
people who have seen me and heard me speak in towns in Asia
in that time and since the fire until this summer when I jour-
neyed again to Rome.
"Now, as thou wilt see from this letter that Alexander _
has
committed perjury, thou wilt assuredly recognize that a man
who lies on one count will lie upon another count. The second
charge is also false inasmuch as I have never conspired against
Cresar. Nay, as a loyal citizen of the Empire, I have even
exhorted men to be obedient to the Emperor and the State.
In all things I have urged sobriety and peaceful living upon these
men who are known as Galilreans. Alexander seeks to have me
cast into prison because I have advocated what he calls heresy
and have preached the resurrection of the dead."
Here, through weakness, Paul halted in his speech. But in a
little while the Spirit so refreshed him he spoke boldly and
eloquently of Christ. The strangeness of his words to a Roman
like Helios compelled silence, but not for long; inasmuch as this
judge declared that it was not on matters of religion that the
prisoner was charged.
Then Paul cried out, " Sir, if I am to make an end suffer
me to say that I have ljved in all good conscience until this day.
My hand has not offended against the State, the people or their
possessions. I am guiltless of the blood of any men. But I am
ready to die for the Name of the Lord Jesus."
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 239
Like a trumpet-sound was that voice, and all, even the
crabbed lawyers, were moved by it.
For a brief while there was silence. Then at last the people
sighed as if they had been under a spell. And even for Helios
only slowly there came release from the power of those last
words, from the curious nobility of this bowed ancient, from
the radiance that so changed his face as he spoke of Jesus.
But the habit of the Law returned, and speaking out of cus-
tom and observance the judge said, " Paul, thou art acquitted
on the first charge. I accept the testimony of this letter written
by the scribe of the Chief of Asia. I admit the question of
doubt in what concerns the sayings of a witness who has been
found guilty of perjury." Here the judge cast a baleful glance
at Alexander who cowered like a beaten dog. " But when speak-
ing of thy God, Jesus, thou hast confessed that thou art one of
these Galilreans. Wherefore, I am compelled by reason of the
past crimes of this society of treasonable people to give order
for thy committal to prison. There thou shalt await the sum-
mons of the Imperial Court to appear before Cresar's judg-
ment seat.
"There are indeed," continued the judge, addressing the
advocate, " Glany matters concer:ning the prisoner and the
society of Galilreans which must be inquired into before this
man's trial."
Then the case was dismissed to give room for another ; and
Paul was led back to the prison near the Forum where he lived
in a small dungeon and was rigorously confined.
CHAPTER XLIX
T HE Galilreans assembled together secretly for worship at
appointed hours in the country outside Rome. Fearing the
emissaries of the law, they kept themselves to themselves, .for all
were afraid.
Linus had lodged with Pudens ; and the guard came searching
for him. But he had hidden himself away in those caves be-
neath the earth beyond Rome. In that hive of the dead he
was safe from the guard for a while. Then spies went to and
fro making private inquiry ·into the lives and doings of the
Galilreans. Everywhere licentious people spoke against them,
for they hated the virtue, sobriety and earnest manners of the
brethren. M~my slanders were uttered, and there was only truth
in the accusation that the Galilreans frequently declared that
the end of the world was at hand, and that their great Lord
would come riding in 'the clouds on the Last Day. To lawyers
these words were the pith of what might be their argument
against the prisoner. For it seemed to show that these followers
of Paul were a sect that desired and looked for the downfall of
the Roman Empire.
But these lawyers were like caterpillars, moving carefully,
slowly over the ground. They determined that no others of the
· Galilreans should be taken up until the trial of their leader
declared whether as a body they offended against the common-
weal.
Meanwhile a watch was kept on those men known to be Gali-
lreans. Each day a spy followed Luke when he went to the
prison. Only on certain days was the physician admitted to
the presence of Paul. But his visits were no great consolation
to the saint in that season, for he had lost the fiery vigour of the
middle years of life and now was old and tired. Deep was his
devotion to the Master of Tarsus. They had been daily com-
panions for many years, yet between them there was no com-
fortable comradeship, no understanding communion in these last
days. Paul was no longer of the same temper and heart as Luke.
The frailty of his body rendered him too quick and eager for
the slow speech and cautious counsel of the Greek who could
240
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 241
record lovely sayings, but because of a certain heaviness of
mind failed to utter them. He also failed through his very devo-
tion to the saint which .made him a little fearful, and therefore
it was as if his tongue were in bonds when he would speak com-
forting words. So to the last much was left unsaid by him, and
Paul did not know of the greatness of his love and reverence.
At the Apostle's bidding Luke employed the time when he was
not working for his bread in writing a chronicle of the journeys
of Paul. For this might be of good service in the coming trial.
So when the two were together their discussion concerned this
matter and affairs alone.
In the daytime at the end of summer no friend visited the
prison. Luke might only come at sunset when freed from his
work.
Now in these last years Paul had been accustomed to a life
passed in the company of all kinds of men, and custom had be-
come habit. Wherefore he was vexed in spirit during those long
hours of the day; and he was lonely and chafed in soul be-
cause he might no longer teach and preach, because he lived
in a cell almost as narrow as the grave, and in which there was
little change of light. He could bravely bear the hardships of
this life ·and his own infirmities; but it was the knowledge of
these fleeting, wasted hours, of the Church failing in Asia, failing
everywhere as it seemed, that so provoked the old man. In that
loneliness he feared lest all his labour had been of no account
and that the Church would shortly break up and perish from off
the face of the earth.
This was the darkest time in Paul's life. But with the cool-
ing autumn days there came to Rome one who had kinship of
spirit with the Saint.
Onesiphorus1
presented himself at the prison. And because
he was a man of birth and account he was immediately per-
mitted to see the prisoner in his dungeon. These two embraced
and Paul wept for joy. Here, in this Gentile, was a ·man after .
his heart, one who was kindly, affectionate, and could speak
words of hope and eloquence. Again and again he came and he
'was a refreshment to Paul's spirit, banishing fear and vexation and
causing the days to flower through their intercourse. So ill
health, pain, hardship and weariness were forgotten by the
aged saint.
Howsoever, it was needful that Onesiphorus should go on a
mission to Puteoli, and when he came no more the hours dragged
l II Timothy i. 16, 17.
242 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
heavily, each one stretching as a year of time before Paul. The
cold deepened, the waters entered into the dungeon ;·there were
mornings when he could hardly move hand or foot ; and of all
this Luke wrote to Onesiphorus. But he might not return be-
cause of sickness.
So Luke brought parchment to the prison and asked Paul to
dictate a letter to him that might summon Timothy to Rome.
The saint refused, saying, " The Church is best served if
Timothy remains at Ephesus."
No more was said that day. Luke was sorely troubled when
he went from the prison, for he always failed to offer consolation,
and he knew that Timothy was the Apostle's need. But on the
next day at sunrise there came to him the illumination of the
Holy Spirit; and at sunset after his work, he returned to the
prison and said to Paul, " Linus is faint-hearted and fearful.
Only on rare occasions does he summon the brethren together to
worship secretly in the fields. So the Church is breaking up
through the spirit of fear which is in Linus, and the brethren
are falling away. If this faint-heartedness continues, in a little
while there will be no Church, and Christ and the faith will
perish away in Rome. Wherefore, summon Mark from Ephesus,
for he is the one man who can persuade Linus boldly to face the
danger of these days and openly minister to the brethren;
inasmuch as Mark, the friend of our beloved Simon Peter, can
speak eloquently of him, and thus give courage to the Overseer
of the Roman Church, healing him of this distemper of mind."
Paul answered, " I will not su.
mmon Mark because he is
Timothy's strength, his right hand; Timothy, being gentle of
soul, cannbt stand alone. They are the Church's need in Asia."
" The need of the Church in Rome is greater still," cried
Luke. "Summon Mark and Timothy."
Paul shook his head and would speak no further on the
matter. But when Luke took his leave he was not permitted to
take parchment or pen with him. So he knew that Paul would
write.
Outside there was a brilliant glow at sunrise and within there
was a pale light. So Paul took up the pen and slowly and pain-
fully, because of his stiffened fingers, he wrote the first lines of
a letter to Timothy.
"Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God accord-
ing to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus.
"To Timothy, my beloved son; grace, mercy and peace from
God the Father and our Lord Christ Jesus.
I
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURN EY 'S E ND 243
" Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears... ."
Here the pen fell upon the stones. Paul hid his face and wept.
He wrote no more that day, for there was desolation in his soul.
Two wills warred within him, the will of the saint who believed
that God was best served if Timothy and Mark remained in
Asia, the will of the man that held that he must see his son be-
cause of the frailty of his human love. Hour by hour, as he
afterwards told Timothy, he wrestled with what seemed to him
then a temptation-that of the Devil-a temptation to sur-
render to his own sore need.
But on the next day Paul blotted out certain letters in the
epistle and, after the salutation, wrote : ·
" Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that
I may be filled with joy."
And again he was ashamed and put the parchment from him.
And when Luke came that evening he would make no answer to
his conversation concerning the brethren at Ephesus.
Now Luke had an eye as keen as that of a wild bird. He per-
ceived half hidden in an old tunic the parchment and those first
lines of writing. So he did not speak of Mark or Timothy,
fearing to bring rebuke upon him. But he went away rejoicing.
Then day after day Paul toiled at the writing of that letter,
speaking not of his own needs, but giving good counsel to
Timothy and exhorting him to remain firm in his faith. By
reason of that stiffness the fingers could only shape a few sen-
tences each day. Luke might have written the whole of that
letter, if dictated by the Apostle, in little more than two hours.
But between them there was silence on this matter, and, no de-
mand was made for a scribe.
A wind blew from the north over Rome, and while still it was
autumn the dungeons were gripped for some days by winter''!
bitter breath. Trembling with cold Paul refused to accept Luke's
cloak, for it was the only one possessed by the physician. But
eagerly now he returned to his parchment, telling of the de-
parture of Crescens and Tychicus.1
Then suddenly, strongly, his
fingers fastened on the pen, and nearing the end of the letter he
bade Timothy come speedily to Rome and bring Mark with hin1.
Also he added the names of books and parchments he had left
at the house of Carpus, and lastly asked for a cloak, lightly dis-
carded in the heat of summer, which now was his great need.2
So when Luke came at sunrise and again entreated Paul to
1 II Timothy iv. 12 . 2 II Timothy iv. 13.
VOL. II. H
244 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
accept his cloak the saint proudly told him that in a short while
Mark and Timothy would bring him all his needs from Troas,
and he would liefer wear his own cloak than any other.
Thus saying he handed Luke the letter written with such pain
and toil, and he bade him send it by certain brethren who might
shortly be journeying from Rome to Ephesus.
From that hour hope returned. Paul was once :more master
of himself, geritle in his speech to Luke, able to pray however
great his bodily suffering, and though sometimes downcast, no
longer living in that desolation of despair when his soul cried
out, " My God, hast thou forsaken me? "
That same evening Luke sought out Linus and showed him
Paul's epistle to Timothy. Before it was closed Linus added to
it the greetings of all the brethren.1
Then they gave it into a
sure hand, and on the next day its bearer departed for Asia.
1 II Timothy iv. 21.
CHAPTER L
SINCE Popprea's death Nero was not happy, and the moment's
pleasure had become a stranger to his i:nind. In these latter
years many plots had been directed against his life, and fear was
often his companion. Neither poetry Iior women could divert his
fancy. He was a prey to a darkness of soul, would not attend to
the affairs of State or sit on Cresar's judgment seat.
His sleep was fitful and he would wake at strange hours and
storm and rage at his watching slaves, accusing them of having
disturbed his rest. They received the punishment of flogging and
Tigellinus advised him to sleep alone.
Then for two nights his slumbers were sweet and deep. But
on the third night he was roused by the noise of marching feet.
They were not far off and in the orderly beat of good verse.
Thinking thus Nero opened his eyes to loneliness, and he was
afraid. ·
A thin mist clouded the air; the flickering lights burned blue.
Nearer, louder, came the sound of marching feet. And of a
sudden where ther~ had been emptiness there were many shapes.
The mists swirled about them, then, broke and parted. All who
had been slain by Cresar's orders or who had died because of the
reproach of his evil life, were revealed in a white ghastliness.
Britannicus, Octavia, Agrippina, Popprea, Seneca, Senecio, grim-
faced Stoics, crucified saints thronged that chamber. They stood
there like shrouded fates, menacing, watchful, ominous with
doom.
Nero cried for help, for his slaves, for Tigellinus, but the words
perished on his lips. It was the hour of the dead and not the
hour of man. Cresar strove to rise and flee, but he was as a
prisoner bound.
"It is a dream, 'imagination's terror," was his muttered saying,
and he covered his eyes with his hands. But not to see was a
state fraught also with unearthly fear.
Nero looked again. They were no night vision, they still stood
there. But now in orderly march those forty friends and senators,
who had perished in the great conspiracy, passed in procession by
his couch murmuring :
ll45
246 WHEN NERO WAS .DICTATOR
"Prepare for death. Prepare for thy long home."
Last of them all came his loved companion, Senecio, who
halted and fastened his gaze upon his master. Then words came.
Nero whispered:
"Why, trusted friend, didst thou seek to slay me?"
" Because I would prevent thy disgrace, save thee from the
shame of a sullied page in the history of the years."
And at this saying Nero sank back afraid.
Then came another and yet another, each pronouncing doom.
Only those Galilreans who had lit torches in Cresar's garden
passed him by without making any sign. After them came the
young Empress Octavia. She halted, and her words came clearly
to his hearing.
"I gave thee scorn for scorn, Cresar. But I was virtuous and
faithful to thee even in my hate. Shortly thou wilt journey to a
land where Cresar is not known, where there is neither poetry nor
song. So hatred hath perished, and there remains in my heart for
thee only compassion." .
Thus saying she passed, and Nero wept. But sharp again was
the agony of his fear when his mother, Agrippina, stood fateful
and menacing beside him. Evil and foul was her glance as she
cried:
" I set my son upon the throne. I plotted against his life and
I perished at his command. Evil for evil. He will die as I died-
alone, deserted, and will join me in that outer darkness from
which there is no return. Death awaits Cresar within the com-
pass of three years." And this saying was taken up in chorus,
" Death awaits Cresar, our doom is his doom." Almost it be-
came a clamour, rising like a wave, and then falling into
silence.
Last of all came Seneca; and it was a crazed Nero who gazed
up at this ancient, whispering, " Mercy, my tutor, my father."
Slowly, carefully, in. the old tedious manner sounded the speech
of the sage in the gathering quiet.
"Still friend and tutor. Cresar Will be saved from this early
death if he turns to good will, if he puts from him folly, and,
taking up the burden of Empire, serves the State once more.
There is yet time ; but there is no more time beyond the
grave."
Sighing, as was his wont in life., this phantom passed swiftly,
softly from that room ; and once more Cresar was alone.
But these last words defeated the madness which had been
stealing into and possessing Nero's mind. For a long while he lay
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 247
there trembling, stricken, but still a man and no crazed creature
of the night.
At dawn he rose and called a slave, bidding him summon Tigel-
linus with all speed. And when the favourite came he told him
that he had been transported to the court of the dead in which
he, Cresar, the law-giver, had been the accused instead of the
judge.
· "Awful was my terror, and still fear from that graveyard of
night pursues me, troubling all.my mind. For I know not if there
is truth in their judgment, their prophecy of death."
And Tigellinus answered, " Nay, Cresar, there was no truth in
it. They were but the dream of a disordered body and mind.
We will drown such dreams in chariot racing, wrestling and other
games. Wearied in the body then Cresar will sleep sound, no
visions of the night disturbing his rest."
But Nero was of a different mind from that of his favourite.
He summoned his counsellor~, and remembering the last words
of Seneca's warning, attended with industry to the affairs of
State.
CHAPTER LI
WEEKS went by. Winter came, but Timothy did not come.
Yet still Paul cherished the little flower of hope, and
though now always suffering from his infirmities he was light of
heart, his spirit grandly transcending pain. In those days he
talked eloquently to Luke of many things. The barrier between
them was overcome in that sure and serene communion. But
there came an hour when it was raised once more. It happened
in this way. Luke spoke to Paul of his two years' imprisonment
in Rome before the first trial.
" So there will be a year or more further imprisonment," he
said; " and I would gladly be thy scribe and write down all thy
sayings. Have I not already with my own hand prepared the
yearly chronicle of thy journeys for the lawyers? Now it is
expedient that the doctrine and the government of the Church
should be determined by thee for all future time, master. F'or
thou art now the head of the whole Church and not only of the
west, which was thine own creation."
Paul smiled. "Nay, I am its servant," he said, " and in his
life Peter was first, for I was least among the Apostles."
" It is the measure of a man's work and talents," answered
the Greek, " that makes him leader and master in the things of
the mind and spirit." And then, changing the manner of his
speech, he entreated Paul to husband the precious days before
him, devoting himself to the task of recording the teaching of
Paul, in which should be included all right thinking, right doing,
as well as the numbers of elders and overseers, and the govern-
ment of each community.
" Thou speakest out of the mind of a Greek," said Paul. " I
would not build up a church as if it were the government of a
state ; for I fear to mould it into the shape of any institution
that is of the world. Nay, rather I would have it free from all
temptation of riches. Shape it like a little Greek polity and
assuredly it will grow into a body of men whose ways are
governed by gold. I perceive that on such foundations may be
raised great and gorgeous temples in the manner of the Temple
of Diana at Ephesus, and the work of Christ will be lost within
248
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURN EY 's END 249
such gaudy array. The hills, or any mean rooms in the cities, are
places wherein God may be sought in all purity of heart. And
where there are no riches there will be no diversion for the eye,
or peril of covetousness. I speak of .what might come to pass.
There is no danger of it in the present time. But if I write of
a future time I would lay down as the first law of the Church
that its elders, teachers, and overseers should be called the ser-
vants of poverty and renounce all wealth when they take up
such a life for themselves and the Church. If rich gifts are
made let them be bestowed on the poor, beirig distributed with
wisdom among those in need.
"Nay, nay," Paul cried, perceiving that Luke took up the
pen. "Do not set down what I have said in writing. I would
first shape the text in my mind, then consult those parchments ·
which Timothy brings with him from Troas before ever the first
word of the Gospel of Christ recorded by his servant Paul is
graven upon any page."
"But, master, time passes," Luke entreated.
" It is not my will to commence this work before Timothy's
coming," was the Apostle's answer.
He spoke with such sternness Luke dared not say any more to
him that evening. But again and again at the hour of sunset,
which they shared together, he prayed Paul to suffer him to be
his scribe. His request was always refused ; and at last the saint
commanded the Greek to speak no more to him of this matter
for · his mind was made up. Only when in the company of
Timothy would he be so inspired that he could produce the
gospel which would be a living guide for all the generations of J
men. Then Luke was stricken ; and though jealousy might not
enter and dwell in his kindly soul he suffered much and in
silence because Timothy came first, and he, Luke, the elder and
wiser man, might not be the scribe of PauL
CHAPTER LII
NOW when Nero again came to acquaint himself with the
affairs of State, the list of prisoners and cases of suspected
treason was laid before him. To one only Helios called his
attention, saying, " Cresar, this prisoner, Paul of Tarsus, is a
strange man, and I am in doubt on the matter whereof he is
charged. He is named as the chief of the Galilreans-those
treasonable persons who set fire to Rome. And if it be true that
he is of that conspiracy and likely, therefore, to conspire again
against Cresar, then he should be put to death."
" Surely, surely," answered Nero.
"But when Paul came before me," continued Helios, "I was
troubled by the nobility of his manner and the eloquence of his
speech. It seemed to me, as I listened to him, that he was the
very mirror of truth and integrity, made of the stuff of the
ancient patricians who would die in torment rather than betray
Rome. I may err on this count; but of such appeared to me to
be the temper of this Roman citizen, Paul. Wherefore, it seems
that only Cresar's wisdom can determine the issue and give right
judgment in this case." Here Helios sought to flatter Nero, and
Nero's vanity was delighted by this tribute. So he said:
" Thou canst take upon thyself the judgment of the other
prisoners; but I will have this man Paul brought before me in
the court. From this day, Helios, I am determined to work with
industry and zeal for my subjects, then they will all love me and
call me the father of the people."
" Yea," answered Helios, looking with compassion upon his
pleasure-seeking Emperor. For he reckoned that this determina-
tion was but a brief fancy that would pass within a few days.
But when he went from his master's presence he bade a centurion
intimate to the prisoner, Paul, that in three days' time he would
stand trial before Cresar in the Imperial Court. Thus Nero's
night-vision led to the Saint of Tarsus appearing before the ruler
of the world at the year's end.
Now Onesiphorus was acquainted with Helios and with the
centurion. On the eve of this disciple's return to Rome the cen-
turion told him of the trial, and in haste he summoned Luke
ll50
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END 251
and bade him prepare the points of argument that might serve
the prisoner. All night, then, Luke shaped and reshaped the count
of the great happenings in Paul's life. Then in the morning he
did not go to the ·workshop, but made his way to the prison.
Howbeit, it was not until noon that he was suffered to enter
Paul's cell. It was a day of sun and brightness, and it was easy
to perceive the face of the Apostle, for the customary gloom of
that narrow place was shredded through with light.
His countenance was grey from illness and the long confine-
ment. Wherefore, woeful and distraught, Luke cried out,
"Master, master, thine hour is at hand, and the work is not
accomplished. We have not yet the witnesses; we are unpre•
pared."
" Peace is mine," said Paul, and, raising his hand he traced a
cross upon the air, then gravely continued, " I have fought a
good fight; I am at the end cif my journey; I have kept the
faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteous-
ness. Yea, and for thee also, Luke, and for all who have loved
the appearing of Jesus, the Christ."
But these words did not allay Luke's grief for his master.
With anguish he remembered that they had still no tidings of
Timothy. He cried:
"The Gospel of Jesus as recorded by His servant Paul has
not been written. And now all those sayings and doings of thine
are lost to the world. Remembrance perishes. In a few years
who will know of the glory? "
"Write out thy heart, Luke, and all that God would have
known to men will thus be recorded." ·
" But Timothy has not come," groaned the physician, daring
at last to speak of what must mean desolation to one who loved
his son so well.
For an instant the face of the old man lost its calm, suffering
passing across it-arrow-like, piercing; but swiftly it vanished,
and Paul made serene answer :
" The joy of the Holy Spirit is with me . . . and thou also,
Luke, ever my faithful companion on the road, thou wilt be
\vith me in the hour of my last trial-good comrade till the end,
till we meet at the Cross." ·
And Luke, the staid elder, whose eyes had ever been dry,
wept bitterly. But Paul spoke brave words of comfort. Slowly
and with sureness this great man imparted his own peace, the
Spirit's peace to the stricken physician.
Then, for a time, they worked together studying the text of
252 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
the argument written by Luke. But suddenly Paul dropped the
parchment, stood up, and his face was illumined as he cried :
"On that day I shall trust only my God. Making no pre-
paration I shall utter those words the Holy Spirit puts into my
mouth. Wherefore, let us not waste what may be the .last hour
we pass together studying the devices of Alexander and the
quibbles of the lawyers."
Then these two communed together of .th~ things of the
Spirit, also of the many perils they had shared by sea and land,
and of golden hours of peace passed in each other's company.
So before the leave-taking they were at one in heart and soul,
at one for all eternity.
During the months of Paul's imprisonment Luke owed his
liberty and perhaps his life to the sorrowful Lucinia, the woman
who came from barbarian Britannia. She had one steadfast
friend in Julian, a man of virtue and high integrity, whose
character was cast in the mould of the old Romans. At her
bidding he conveyed a large bribe to Helios and exacted :1
promise in return that Luke should not be arrested and should
be permitted to visit Paul each evening.
Now on the eve of the trial Julian sent for Luke and said to
him, " Our protection ends with the trial. We fear that thou
wilt be the first taken up if Paul is condemned. So I would have
thee journey to my villa on the sea coast where thou canst be
hidden away and live in all surety."
" But if persecution of my brethren follows the trial I may
not desert them," answered Luke.
" Thou should go for it is thy master's command. I visited him
an hour ago in the prison, and he sent this message to thee.
' Bid Luke set down a faithful record of our journeys; and also,
if he is permitted, that knowledge he has of Christ. Tell him
that the writing of our acts and of the Gospel is his first task ;
and I trust him to bear faithful witness.' " Here Julian paused,
and then asked, " Wilt thou obey Paul's command? I am not
of thy belief, preferring the old gods of Rome. But my villa is
at thy disposal for the fulfilment of this task."
Then Luke thanked Julian and accepted his invitation, but
refused to leave Rome until the end of Paul's trial.
On the last day, save for Julian's visit, the saint was alone.
He passed his time in prayer and in that rapt contemplation
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END 253
w~ich drew to him, surely and profoundly, that illumination
which was his strength.
Towards evening the guards came and led him to the baths.
There he cast off his filthy rags and washed and refreshed him-
self. Then he was given a white tunic and cloak so that he
should have a seemly appearance that would not distress Cresar
when he came before him on the morrow. Afterwards, in the
darkness of his cell, Paul listened for a while to the murmur
that arose from the streets of Rome. Then, having prepared
himself for the night, he slept easily and sweetly like a little
child.
CHAPTER LIII
WHEN Paul entered the Imperial court he perceived a great
assembly;o-all the leading and privileged people of the city
filling that hall, eager to see a man who was said to be different
from all other men. These Gentiles came as to a theatre, for
diversion; and laughed and talked until Cresar was announced
and took his place upon the judgment seat.
At first to the prisoner the court was a blinding scene. The
brilliant robes of the knights, patricians and freedmen, the
glittering armour c:>f the Imperial Guard were strange even to
Luke, for whom Julian had obtained a place in that chosen
assembly.
Now Cresar smiled and waved to the .people, and they
applauded him with a clapping of hands. Always in a _public
place he liked to play the actor's part. Then the proceedings
were opened. Witnesses were called, and again Menehas and
Alexander spoke of the tumults and riots caused by Paul
in every city which he entered in Asia, Syria, and Greece.
Others also testified against the character and life of the
Galilreans. Then, having paid homage to Nero, the advocate
summed up the charges made, saying:
" Paul of Tarsus teaches men everywhere to set themselves
against Cresar and the law. He is the head of a conspiracy
which is spreading like a spider's web throughout the Empire.
The Galilrean sect of which he is chief and founder renounces
family and country. Its members call themselves followers of
a crucified rebel named Christ. They do not believe in any
gods, not even in the divine majesty of Rome incarnate in the
august form of Cresar. At the time of the great fire their
impiety was such they sang songs of joy when the Temple of
Hercules and the Temple of the Moon crashed to the earth in
flames. They are haters of all mankind and delight in prophecies
of the destruction of Empire."
During this speech, with an air of disquiet, Nero had glanced
now and then at Paul, and of a sudden he whispered to Tigel-
linus, " I have seen the prisoner before. That yellow face is
not easily forgotten."
254
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 255
His whisper caused the advocate to pause and look towards
the judgment seat. Then, remembering their encounter and
Paul's wise counsel, Nero said, "It is hard to believe that the
prisoner could be a party to such a catalogue of infamies."
And Paul could forbear no longer, crying out, "Most noble
Cresar, I deny them all; they are lies."
After this saying a .hush fell upon the court; for these two
men, the lord of temporal power and the lord of spiritual power,
gazed at each other, and in their eyes were question and answer.
And it seemed to Luke, who alone knew what lay between them, '
that Cresar's answer was an acknowledgment of his failure in
not having heeded Paul's counsel given when they had walked
together beside the river Tiber. For Ca:sar sorrowfully hung his
head.
A murmur passed through the court as, after a little while,
he turned to the lawyer with a look of displeasure, saying,
"Finish the accusation, but be brie£ For I would hear the
prisoner's answer, and thou art a tedious fellow."
And now to all present it seemed that Paul would be ac-
quitted; but the lawyer spoke craftily:
" The ,prisoner is a wizard- the director of a peculiar society
of assassins and magicians. They meet in secrecy and practise
dread mysteries. Alexander of Ephesus can testify that a new-
born babe is at times presented as a symbol to the knife of the
proselyte at such gatherings. Then, when the innocent has been
slain, these Galilreans tear asunder its members and drink its
blood. Later, in darkness, they practise incest and other filthy
things too awful to be named. I speak of what I know when I
say that the8e Galilreans, or followers of Christus, are rebellious
slaves and practise the old abominable magic by means of which
they seek to destroy the Empire."
Then Paul could contain himself no longer and spoke
vehemently:
" If it can be shown that such abominations have been
practised they are worthy of the severest punishment. We
Galilreans have ever preached love and_charity, making them our
rule of life. We have ever taught obedience to our rulers. Is it
possible then, or likely, that we should commit the cruel and
infamous acts recounted by this hired lawyer? They are the
denial of the doctrine we preach, of the truth to which we
testify. Take heed, that he has made these statements but
has summoned no witnesses to testify to them, for there are
none. He speaks but idle gossip which is always a vain deceit.
256 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
Then this man has called Christ, my Master, a malefactor. But
Christ was the peerless One, the Son of the one true God. He
walked the earth in the guise of man, recommending obedience
to Cresar, bringing good tidings of salvation to a hungry people
who wandered in a wilderness of ignorance and doubt. Yea and
more ; to Cresar and to men He came, discovering for all the
secret truth hidden till now-the truth of everlasting life.
I speak in all earnestness when I say that by the appearing of
our Saviour Jesus Christ the sting of death has been taken
away and life and immortality brought to light through His
Gospel."
Here Paul halted in his speech, his breath and strength failing
him. He had broken the law of the court in not suffering
Alexander's advocate to finish the accuser's argument. But no
one had heeded the laWyer's protesting words. All were caught
by the fire of great oratory. So, eagerly fastening his gaze upon
the might of the world incarnate in this court, Paul continued,
speaking of salvation and of heaven and hell, declaring the King-
dom and the glory of the righteous, their forgiveness through
the sacrifice of the blood of Christ. Then, having spoken of
the Lighted House of the Father, he told of that outer darkness
which was the destiny of the unrepentant, the fornicators, the
people of pleasure, adulterers, and slayers of men.
On hearing these words Cresar rose. The comt rose also,
the people, still under Paul's spell, di,spersing in silence. It
was the hour to break fast. Nero withdrew. But he .could
neither eat Iior rest, groaning and muttering, " The dead came
to me yester eve and I hoped that they were an evil dream.
But now this Jew says that the dead live on." And being in
an agony, Cresar cried out, " Why has this mage returned to
taunt me with the terror of .a life beyond the grave, a life in
which all those who have died by my orders await me-gibber-
.ing shades who, when I go there, will mock at me and tear my
soul asunder in torment? ''
Perceiving the sweat of fear on Nero's brow and not knowing
of his earlier encounter with Paul, a Stoic made swift answer,
"Thou art one of the good and the great, Cresar. In the after-
life the good and the great rule the stars, and, framed in their
golden orbs, enjoy the eternal felicity of watching the move-
ments in the firmament."
Here Tigellinus laughed and took hold of Cresar's arm
saying, " There is nothing to be afraid of save the body's ills in
the whole wide world. No one believes in heaven and hell nowa-
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 257
days or pays homage to Jupiter. The gods are old, lazy, and
gouty. The dead sleep (or ever." ·
Nero lifted heavy eyes to his favourite, muttering, " I am
plagued by this fellow who, coming as he does after that visita-
tion of yester eve, gives me grave disquiet lest some evil thing
overtake me." ·
"He is a necromancer, the head and founder of a society
of magicians."
"Yea, a necromancer," ~nswered Nero.
" The chief of a conspiracy. Sentence him to death, Cresar;
and then put from thee all the affairs of State. For thine is a
sickness of the mind." · ·
"Truly said. Since Popprea's death it has been so," said Nero,
drawing Tigellinus aside and walking apart from his courtiers.
" There is a certain cure for it. Give thyself to poetry and
to chariot racing. Prepare for the conquest of Greece. Work
at thy lyre and at the singer's craft. Then in the summer we will
journey to Athens and Corinth, where thy progress will be a
triumph."
Thus speaking Tigellinus beguiled Nero out of his dark mood.
He forgot himself for a short while as he planned ·with his
favourite the conquest of Greece, not with arms but 'with his
poetry and song. So fear only returned when a councillor came
to him and asked if it was his pleasure to give judgment in the
case of Paul of Tarsus.
"I believe that this necromancer," said Cresar to Tigellinus,
"cursed me on that night two years before the fire ·when I
walked with him beside the Tiber. And yet at first he led me
to believe that he was a poet and told strange fables I would have
turned into verse. But now remembrance of them has gone
from me." Here he paused, sighing, and then said, "I would
I knew what should be my judgment and whether this Paw is
a half-crazed poet or one given to the practice of magic? In
truth, Tigellinus, he speaks well and is a fine orator. He com-
·mands the attention of the people even as I do when I hold
them with iny art in 'the theatre."
But his favourite mocked at this saying, declaring that the
artist in Cresar betrayed the discerning judge. "In adiniring
this man's eloquence thou hast lost sight of the charges made.
He is a conspirator; Cresar, and he must die."
And on this saying Nero returned to the court and the trial
was resumed.
Paul took up the word and, for the last time to a great
258 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
audience, told of the appearance of Christ on the road to
Damascus. He was the Son of God who in the guise of man
had died upon the Cross and again had shown Himself in Light,
thus declaring the abolition of death and the promise of immor-
tality. It was not to one only }?ut to as many as five hundred
He had appeared in a previous time.
Paul spoke then of his encounter with the Master, of what it
had meant to him and of what it might mean to the Gentiles.
Some listened eagerly, some murmured that it was the tale of ~
witless wanderer, others scru:cely heeded the words, so held were
they by the voice and by the change in this old, bent man. For
now his withered face was as the face of an angel. And slowly,
surely, in the presence of this illumination there fell a hush upon
all the court.
Nero's head was sunk upon his breast, his brow clouded. But
suddenly he rose up and asked, as if in jest, though his voice
trembled, "0 Seer of the Unseen, shall Cresar reign over the
empire of the dead? "
It was a challenge. Paul answered boldly, uttering his own
sentence of death.
"There is justice and mercy in the heart of Cresar. Where-
fore he should understand me when I say that Cresar will not
reign over an empire beyond the tomb. For there the first shall
be last, the last first."
It was a noble appeal to the young Emperor who in these
latter years had been lost in the shadows of his darkening life.
But there came fierce cries of " Shanie, shame," from the
body of the court. All was noise and confusion as Tigellinus
bent forward and whispered in Nero's ear, " This fellow is the
head of a band of conspirators. Sentence him quickly to cruci-
fixion and be done with him."
Then Cresar stood up, made a sign, and the wrathful mur-
muring of the people faded into a silence that was still and
deep.
"It is time to give judgment," he said. "On the first count
I find the prisoner guilty. As chief of the Galilreans he is dan-
gerous to authority in our twenty-five provinces. It has been
clearly shown by witnesses that he has passed his life in stirring
up rebellion and in plotting against the State. Ye all know that
the penalty for such treason is death. As a Roman citizen the
prisoner may have the privilege of execution. He shall die by
the sword."
Here Nero hesitated and faltered in his speech. Paul fastened
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 259
his eyes upon him, saying gently, sorrowfully, " I pray that this
sin will not be laid to thy charge, Cresar." And these two eyed
each other, and again they were as man to man. But Nero could
not bear those eyes for any long time. Muttering, " Magician,
sorcerer," he fell back into the judgment seat and covered his
face with his cloak.
Never for the Romans had there been such a strange spec-
tacle. Cresar confounded; greatness, majesty, overturned. But
speedily the ushers cleared the court, and Paul was led away
by the guard and lodged in the Tullianum, the prison beneath
the earth.
Nero remained alone save for his favourite and dark familiar,
and he was desolate of heart. For a long time the persuasive
words of Tigellinus went past his hearing unheeded. But at last
he stirred and sighed, saying, " I have sentenced a man greater .
than Seneca, for this Paul is a poet. But why did he conspire
against me? Why do all those I might have trusted seek my
life?"
" The common people love thee, Cresar," answered Tigellinus.
"Put your trust in them." Then speaking honeyed sayings about
Nero's skill in words and music the favourite diverted his master,
and they withdrew from that court.
An hour after Paul of Tarsus was condemned to death his
judge had forgotten him. For Nero was lost in dreams and plans
for his triumph over the Greeks.
" As a race of poets and artists," he said to Tigellinus, "they
alone have understanding of me, and it is only through under- .
standing there comes love. I shall set out as soon as affairs of
State permit and win the heart of this great people."
Thus the prisoner in the Tullianum was forgotten and did
not again return to the remembrance of his judge.
VOL. II. I
CHAPTER LIV
THE dungeon for condemned prisoners in the Tullianum was
known as " the sepulchre," for those who rested in it were
slowly eaten alive by rats. Some of the condemned, who had a
weapon to hand, slew themselves rather than face its horrors.
On the evening of the trial Paul bade farewell to the sunset.
A rope was tied round his middle and he was lowered by the
guard into the murky depths of this pit. It was like a descent
into hell, and it was only slowly the prisoner, after the first blind-
ness of that night, came to know that there were other creatures
in that place of the lost.
One man, a Phrygian as Paul learned later, moaned and cried
continually; another, a robber, told the saint that he had become
mad through fear of the rats that, when the prisoners slept,
came out of the dark and, suddenly attacking them, devoured
hands, face, and feet.
" One of us keeps watch while the others sleep," said the
robber ; " and thus we strive to guard ourselves from these filthy
vermin. But the Phrygian was alone in this cursed charnel pit for
a number of days, and thus his mind perished, for he could not
always keep awake, he needs must sleep."
And then a third, a murderer, came and spoke to Paul and
told him of his life. How he had drunk wine and lived with
harlots, wasting all his substance. There came a day when he,
for his debts, was sold as a slave; and he, who had lived softly,
must needs take commands from another and suffer the hard-
ships of a bondsman's life.
"In my rage," said this man, "I rose up and slew my master
when he had caused me to be flogged for having broken a
precious vase. And now I who have loved and laughed in the
sun am buried in this night, and shortly my body shall be 3.
portion for the worms. So I have cursed the gods and know only
the last bitterness of despair. For me there is no hope, and I
pray for a speedy death before I, too, become as the crazy
Phrygian and shame what remains to me of ma~hood."
Now Paul was one who could ever discover the secrets of
the sorrowful because of his forgetfulness of himself and his
ll6o
ST. P~UL AT THE JOURNEY's END 261
compassion for others. He was suffering, feeble and weary. Yet
an hour after his coming to this dungeon he was succouring the
lost, telling these two men of the promise of the Saviour, that
even now when on the threshold of death they would be saved.
And the murderer marvelled and confessed his other offences,
which were many, and declared that here in.this pit where there
had only been darkness there now was light. But the robber
would have none of it, and made sport of the sayings of Paul.
Then his fellow prisoner smote him in anger, and after that
these two became like raging gladiators in the arena, beating
each other and crying out filthiness. At last the thief was over-
come and fell back, lying as if he were dead.
But despite a fever that now caused Paul to quake in his
limbs he went to this man and prayed, stroking his brow, his
hands and feet; and through the power of the Spirit he brought
him back to remembrance. But he suffered from a wound on
his head, and all that night the saint remained beside him, per-
suading and comforting, striving to give him ease from his pain.
The other two prisoners slept fitfully, roused at times by the
rats that came upon them suddenly, and even Paul was attacked
as he watched, yet he was not troubled or afraid. Then, in the
new day that remained night in that place, there came a change,
a stilling of fear, a passing from despair for these two men who
were whole in mind. . ·
Before another sun had set in the outer world they were
reconciled by Paul to each other. And when at his bidding they
embraced, the saint, now almost at the borders of death by reason
of his weakness, laid himself down and slept soundly till cock-
crow came again. So a murderer and a robber, both infamous
in their lives, kept watch over him and loved him. From that
time he was friend of all but the man who seemed possessed
by many devils ; for he would for hours cry and lament and
throw himself about as if in an agony.
And the robber said to Paul, " Master, thou hast given me
hope and comfort; but if this witless creature continues his
crying I shall soon be as he is. Can nothing save us from the
terrors he rouses up with his clamour? "
Then the saint went to the madman, and though at first he
howled at him and even flung him into the filth of that noisome
place, at last by reason of the power that never deserted Paul
while in the dungeon, he became calmer and fell into a silence.
Thus was he slowly freed until the saint gave the command
for the seven devils to come out of him; and it was so. He be-
262 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
came as a lost youth who crept to Paul's side and prayed to
him for comfort like a little child.
The guard gave them bread and water at sunrise and sunset.
At other times they were left to themselves. But for all the
prisoners save Paul there were hours when the terrors overcame
them, and they wept. And Paul's limbs were swollen and pain-
ful, and when evening came he believed that his spirit was pass-
ing. But after a while his failing strength was renewed, and he
rested tranquilly during the last night in that dungeon.
At dawn h~ was prepared for the summons which he knew
would greet him in the morning. So he spoke the sayings of
good will and took leave of these prisoners whom he had won
for Christ.
There was a fourth man who never spoke in all that time.
He .was the youngest, and through fear had lost the power of
speech. But at the last his tongue was loosed. He begged Paul
to utter the word of grace; and in the saying of it the saint
for ever removed fear from him. Of these five prisoners this
youth Publius was the only one released. For his father had
come hastening from the east and had paid a big sum to Hellos.
Then this corrupt judge discovered that false witness had been
borne against the youth. He was not a treasonable person, and
so was given his freedom. In a later time he became a man of
learning and a Galilrean, and told them of what he had seen in
the prison of the Tullianum in those last memorable days.
CHAPTER LV
I T was early morning when Paul was drawn out of the
darkness into the light of the upper airs. He had the appear~
ance of an outcast, was clothed in soiled rags; earth and crawling
things shaming his worn body, which was now like a skeleton.
The curious passer~by might perceive the deep scars that had
been graven upon his uncovered back by the lash in past years.
There were wounds upon his face and limbs where the flesh
had been torn by the rats of the sepulchre, and his beard was
wild and raddled.
young men came near and called him traitor who would
soon be carrion. They put upon him filthy names; jests passed
from mouth to mouth. They wagged the finger of scorn. But
Paul did not heed them. His body was racked by pain; his mind
was above and beyond p~in. And later, as he told Timothy,
he knew in that time love, compassion, and union with Jews
and Gentiles, bond and free, even with those men of malice,
his accusers. The peace everlasting comes not so easily, for peace
which is union with others descends only from the calm that is
above .the frenzy of evil, hatred, and self-will. But in that hour
Paul by the Holy Spirit was joined in unity of peace with men
of good and evil heart; and he forgave these youths, also Nero,
Alexander, Menehas, and his several accusers. For he saw
behind lust, cruelty, and greed this unity of all men and that
evil came through ignorance and the separateness and division
0f their lives.
And as he stood there looking out upon Rome and reckoned
up the tumult of its days, its crowded ways, he remembered
what Peter had told him of Christ and the storm upon the lake.
He remembered His words and was caught in their deep
serenity:
" Peace, be still ! "
Now certain of the brethren drew near with Timothy at their
head, and they murmured, " Rome is a place of weeping. This
is a day of tears."
264· WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
And Paul cried out, "Nay, it is a day of joy, of festival,
for I shall soon be with the Father."
Then the guards gathered about him and the order to march
was given. But, being feeble and weighted by his chain, he
stumbled and fell. And after they had raised him up he again
stumbled, breathing heavily like some spent swimmer.
The centurion was a kindly man. He beckoned to Timothy
and spoke with him. Then Timothy passed between the guards ;
and these two, the saint and his disciple, embraced one another,
but they could not speak. For Paul this last grace bore the sharp
pain that comes with the nearness of parting and the radiant
ecstasy at the presence of the well-beloved, his staff and comfort
on this, the last journey.
The young men made a clamour, jeering and mocking at his
grey hairs. But the centurion silenced them, crying shame upon
their manhood. Here was a venerable seer, a man of noble
estate. So with heads hung down they crept away, disappearin~
into the streets of the city.
Then the procession of guards and the following brethren
moved slowly f9rward, marching down the Sacred Way, round
the Palatine and Aventine and out by the Ostian Gate.
The sun shone, casting its golden light over the -marble
palaces and white towers, There was a sound of hammering,
slaves labouring at the building of the new Rome, and they
sang at their work. For it was a day of joy, the sun's rays
making gladness in the skies ; the glory of the Creator spreading
over all the earth.
Slowly, painfully, -along the straight road without the gates,
the aged Apostle walked, but now in spirit so uplifted he could
conquer the infirmities of his dying body and whisper the words
of consolation, the words of his trust to Timothy-his own son
in the spirit.
It was a marvel. Here were two as David and Absalom, but
without the sorrow of these.two, without the vain regret and
, mourning of the king and desolated father. For in spirit Paul
and Timothy were not in any hour divided, and now they were
for ever one.
But the last piece of the road was hard for the aged Apostle,
and Timothy, strong in the prime of his manhood, lifted up
the light burden of his body, carrying it to the end of the road.
They came to a hollow between hills, a place of peace and
rest, of sun and stillness, on one of the first days of the early
year. And the centurion suffered Paul to withdraw a little way
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END 265
from his guards and pray. Then when the summon11 came the
saint blessed the sorrowing brethren and once more embraced
his son, saying, "My faith is in thee, Timothy; my peace, the
peace of Christ I leave with thee, well-beloved."
Turning to the centurion, he said, "I am ready, it is finished."
Two guards advanced and led their prisoner to the block.
They were speedy and merciful. Swiftly the head was severed
from the shoulders of Paul of Tarsus. Above and beyond the
dark shrunken body, the freely flowing blood, the kneeling saints
perceived a white light, a radiance as of the spirit rising from
the clay. They knew that it was the spirit of Paul, and they
were contained for a while in his everlasting peace.
CHAPTER LVI
AT the entrance to the place of execution they stood, two
dark figures against the sunset's red heart.
And Julian said to Linus, "I have read the acts of Paul a.S
recorded by Luke. This Jew of Tarsus was greater than any
Roman. His is a strange race. Its people can be angels or
lower than the beasts of the field."
"That may be said of other races," answered Linus. "But
Paul has roused up hatred and wrath in many cities. Men hate
us Jews for our vision of God, our dedication 'to God. In the
days to come they will suffer and be persecuted because Jesus
the Christ is of my race. The hosts of darkness will, ·through
the Gentiles, harry and crucify the Jews for having through
Christ offered salvation to all men."
"A prophecy, master," said Julian.
"A truth," 'answered Linus; " for the vision of God is wel-
come only to the pure in heart. These will be found in every
nation, but they are few when coimted in the generations of
men."
" Then faith in the God of Paul must die? "
"It will be preserved by those few I have called the pure
in heart till the coming of the Saviour. So I have seen it when
I was in a trance on the Lord's day."
Then these two became silent. They entered the hollow
between the hills. But it was empty; the body had been taken
away.
All that day Paul lay in the charnel pit where he had been
cast by the soldiers. In that festering cave of death there was
no precedence, no rank or authority. The bones of poor Greeks,
Africans, Spaniards, barbarians, and the bones of slaves rotted
the one above the other ; and the last comers might be discovered
nearest the mouth. Unwatched, the holy body of Paul of Tarsu'i
lay there as noon passed into evening, as the day died. ·
That day was as any other uneventful day in the march of
the years to the peoples of many races who lived in the Im-
perial city. They ate, slept, gossiped, bathed, laboured, traded,
went to and fro like ants on their heap and searched vainly
.266 .
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY'S END 267
for pleasure and for news of some scandal or murder. The rich
lamented that nothing ever happened nowadays. Some of the
young men mourned because there was peace throughout the
entire world. Others made votive offerings to the god of war
and prayed for battle that would give them new delight in life
or imperishable fame. Because the time was unmarked by any
happening the proud and the great fought with their wives and
concubines or bullied their slaves.
All Rome yawned.
On that day the keeper of histories sighed, for there was
nothing he might put down in his chronicle. The scribe of the
palace sighed. It was a dull day, a dog's day. There was no
happening to write on the parchment.
He turned over a blank page.
CHAPTER LVII
FROM noon onwards Lucinia walked to and fro in her garden.
Since hearing of the execution she had remained dry-eyed,
yet Paul was the man she revered above all others. But no slave
of •the household could prevail. on her to rest, to cease from
pacing to and fro. Only now and then she would pause and enter
the tomb prepared long years ago for herself at the end of
her garden. She suffered from a sorrow that time would not
cure. When the tribunal of the family had sat in judgment on
Pompop.ia Gra!cina they had demanded on the strength of her
marriage oath that she should swear another oath-namely, that
never would she shame her family by making a public declara-
tion of her faith in Christ.
In those hours of fear the young, ignorant matron from
Britannia took the oath and promised never openly to be a ~em­
ber of the sect of the Galilreans. Being an honourable woman
she had kept it faithfully, and even in the days of persecution
after the fire when she was sorely tempted. But always she wore
black robes as a sign of the deep grief this oath caused her, as
a sign of contrition and mourning.
Now in these hours after the execution she waited impatiently,
hoping, fearing, praying that the body of Paul of Tarsus might
be discovered and laid to rest in the tomb in which she had passed
many nights in other years as a mortification of her once fearful
spirit. Now all fear had been burned away, but the oath re-
mained and the grief that, because of it, she could not be recog-
nized as one of the children of the Elect, But, as guardian of
the body of Paul, she might find mercy, and at last, the peace
that gives healing even to vain remorse.
So she paced to and fro with troubled step, hoping, and then
fearing lest by denial of this gift she might lose all, remaining a
bond-woman to her oath.
Only as evening came did she speak at last to her maid
Eustachia and tell her of all these things.
On that day when Rome yawned Nero was busy preparing for
Jl68
ST. PAUL AT THE JOURNEY's END 269
the announcement of his marriage with Messalina, the widow of
Vestinus who had been slain for conspiracy. In other years
Messalina had at times offered the Emperor a day and a night
of pleasure, and now that he would put care and trouble from
him he was persuaded by Tigellinus to ask this woman to be his
wife. But on this day knowledge of it was confined to three
people. Already happiness was returning to Nero as he planned
with his favourite to depart in t he summer, seeking his triumph
in Greece.
And Tigellinus worked craftily on his master's mind, saying,
" Thbu mayest go in all safety and dream for a long while among
a people who have understanding of thee. The doors of the
Temple of Janus are closed. Thanks to Cresar for the second
time peace reigns throughout the Empire."
" I am prouder of it," answered Nero, " than even of my
immortal poetry. The gods know that I regard this world-peace
as my greatest achievement."
" But it angers the patricians," said Tigellinus.
" Nevertheless it shall be kept," answered Nero, " for it is the
desire and need of the commoh people who love their Cresar."
So for the Emperor there began a new life on the day of Paul's
death. And in the evening he gave a great banquet which was
notable for the gluttony of the guests .and for the drunkenness of
Tigellinus and the women who were present. But C:esar ate and
drank little. He would cherish the voice that was later to be heard
in the theatres of Greece, and for this cause practised ab-
stemiousness.
As night fell, four men with lanterns drew near to the charnel
pit. They went cautiously and gave a piece of money to the
watchman, declaring that they came in search of a kinsman.
Then they were permitted to enter that foul hole, and in a little
while, because freshly ~ast there, they discovered the saint's body
and drew it forth. ·
Tenderly these four-Luke, Mark, Timothy and Onesiphorus
-wound the old cloak brought from Troas about their master.
It had been woven by Lydia, the seller of purple, and bore
remembrance to Luke of those golden days passed at Philippi.
So his sorrow overwhelmed him and he wept bitterly as they
carried the burden between them down the long white road
towards home.
The moon had risen when they entered the garden and found
Lucinia waiting there. Silently she kneeled before the body, and
270 WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
then having bowed her head once to the earth, she and her
women brought spices, and together they tended Paul, preparing
him graciously, lovingly, for the tomb.
It was almost day when they laid him in the sepulchre and
said the last words of prayer and farewell. Then, wearied and
stricken, the four brethren turned away.
Lucinia remained alone at the open door of the tomb, and
as the dawn came, scattering its silver largess once more over
Rome, she remained dry-eyed, seated near the foot of the body ;
and her face was hard and white as the carven stone.
To the end of her day this woman from the barbarian isle
watched by the Apostle's resting-place ; no Gentile knew of her
secret treasure and few brethren were aware that Paul lay there.
For Lucinia there came no mercy of martyrdom, no freedom
through the torment of the fire or the cross. She remained the
woman of mystery, alone with ·her grief, th~ guardian of the
Apostle's tomb.
.
Three or four senators and generals murmured, " The clown
of the Empire has gone to Greece; we may plot ·in full free-
dom."
Nero gained much glory-as he believed-in the year and a
half he was among those islands, ~bject multitudes applauding
his chariot racing and singing. Grateful for this welcome he gave
freedom to the Greeks. On his journey back to Rome he was
like a peacock flaunting its tail. Under Seneca's tutelage he had
been humble in mind, but now, uplifted, he held that he was the
greatest man of his time, of perhaps all time.
But the winds of fortune changed. Soon afterwards he was
driven from his throne and compelled to take refuge at the villa
of his freedman, Phaon, beyond Rome. He was a prey to terror,
feared to take his own life and feared still more the tortures that
awaited him in the Imperial city. Clad in a ragged tunic and
cloak, he lay on a pallet upon the earth, moaning and crying.
Phaon could not comfort or give courage to his master in that
hour.
At last whimpering like a dog Nero exclaimed:
"Jupiter! what an artist is lost to the world-what an artist! "
Then he stabbed himself and perished miserably.
Thus died Nero the lord of temporal power and Paul the
lord of spiritual power-the one fearful in death, the other fear-
less-some thirty-five and thirty-three years after the crucifixion
of Christ.
APPENDIX
Note on Wroxeter
FAR away from the noise and traffic of the modern world,
in a quite remarkably lonely Shropshire pastureland, lie the
ruins of the fourth largest city of Roman Britain : " Viro-
conium" or "Uroconium ". These ruins do not, like so many
" Roman Remains ", consist of an odd tile here and there. They
are sufficiently complete in their outline for the visitor to realize
that here indeed has stood "No mean city" and even more is
hidden under the surrounding fields. Portions of the Baths and
Forum still rise high and can be seen from afar-imposing even /
now. The groundwork of shops and streets remains, and, were
the money forthcoming, a reconstruction might be possible such
as has been made at Pompeii. Few farmsteads or houses are to
be seen in the immediate vicinity, though the presence of a near-
by village of sorts is indicated by a little country shop at no
great distance from these vestige&- of a former glory. It bears the
title "Wroxeter Post Office ".
Did Pomponia Grrecina know Uroconium? By name, almost
certainly, for in the days of her husband's successor in the British
Command, Ostorius Scapula, the General who finally defeated
Caradoc, it served as base for two legions, XIV and XX, as is
definitely proved by soldiers' tombstones on the spot. Plautius
would have frequently mentioned the place, and Pomponia ma.Y
have known it personally.
But to link ie in thought with Londinium and Verulamium i<>
a little surprising, as, unlike them, it was not in her day more
than a garrison station. It may indeed have been a native
" Caer ", but these Caerau were, one suspects, pretty primitive
places, even if seats of a Druidic College.
Serious building on Roman lines is first known to have been
in progress in the years 8o and 81. The Forum was not com-
pleted till I 30. In I 6o the town was raided and sacked by the
implacable Ordovices of North Wales. It was rebuilt, and
flourished peacefully for nearly a century and a half. In 300
it was again sacked. . . .
The use of the name Wroxeter is a definite indication of a
ll71
WHEN NERO WAS DICTATOR
·Post-Roman origin of the Script. It was never so known to
Pomponia. To the root "Uroc "-or "Wroc "-is attached a
modified form of the Latin "Castra" (Camp) after the manner
of " Glou-cester," " Win-chester," " Isc-cester" (thence " Exe-
ter"). So here "Wroc-cester "-" Wroxcester "-" Wroxeter ".
But this occurs only where Saxon penetration has taken place
-that is to say, England.
Thus the fact that a town, or site, is named " . . . cester "
indicates two things-( I) that it was once a Roman settlement
of some kind, and (2) that it was afterwards occupied by
Saxons.
The interesting thing about the occurrence of the form
"Wroxcester" in the script is that it is not modernized into
"Wroxeter ". It would appear that the communicators had
somehow got access to Early English sources as well as earlier
" rolls ", and got them somewhat mixed up.
B. A. L.
/
