{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__smith___the_house_of_glory.pdf","mytitle":"The House Of Glory","mylang":"de"}
THE yfOUSE
of
9LORY
An interpretation and elucidation of
the radiant prophecies, and allied mes-
sages,of the Holy Bible and the Great
Pyramid of Gizeh
by
WORTH SMITH
Author of Miracleof the Ages)
New York
WISE & CO.
MCMXLI
/ C/'f,
COPYRIGHT, 1939, BY
WM. H. WISE & CO.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
L::::..
=
=
THE
DOUBLE
ARCH
ASPORTRAYED
BY
THE
CREAT
PYRAMID
1
FIGURE No. 1
I
'
.
I
I
I
I
I
I
..)\_,Alcyone
~ of Pleiades
I
..........
,r ...
·~..,·-
,t,1 ..,.
,.
.. ~'·
,.--'Alph~ ::--f
Dracon~~ t
Q i-,:tt
, J.
. ....,;.
•
~~ ..
_ :.p
·
1
~
TO A TREASURED PIONEER MOTHER
WILHELMINA FLORENCE MONTGOMERY SMITH
THIS VOLUME IS
LOVINGLY DEDICATED
BY HER FOURTH-BORN SON
THE "DREAMER"
INTRODUCTION
Further through the dm·kness have I gazed than most;
And only Endless Splendor do I see beyond!
In bringing forth this volume the author hopes to
cast a little more light upon certain paths that are
commonly dark but which are deemed worthy of il-
lumination because of the fair heights of wisdom to
which they lead, chief of which are the following:
(1) The mystery of the true place of origin of the
white race, particularly that portion of it known in cer-
tain quarters as "The Family of the Builders" or as it is
less frequently but more properly termed, "The Master
Builders";
(2) The exalted mission that the Family of the Build-
ers has long served in the design of the Elohim, the All-
Creator;
(3) The eventual destiny of the Master Builders as it
is written in prophecy, first in the Great Pyramid, the
"Miracle of the Ages," and later in the Bible.
By means of a thorough study of the above-named
two great standards of wisdom, a careful comparison
of their messages and their correlation into one text,
the two venerated objects in reality being but one
revelation which is recorded in two forms, much
authentic evidence may be adduced which will clearly
V
Vl INTRODUCTION
point out the trail that leads from the abysmal dark-
ness of "The Pit of Chaos" to Light at its meridian
radiance as revealed in "The Chamber of the Divine
Splendor."
The title of "The House of Glory" for this volume
has been chosen by the author because he believes it
to be most appropriate. If everin all the long history
of mankind a true conception of the nature and in-
finite power of the Grand Architect of the Universe,
and a sublime understanding of the glory of His cre-
ations, have been domiciled in their pristine purity
and perfection in the ·minds and hearts of mortals,
they must hav~ been paramountly so in the supernal
wisdom of that great race of peerless Builders of an-
tiquity who conceived, designed and erected that
most wonderful of all the edifices of men, past or
present, the Great Pyramid of Gizeh which truly is
"The House of Glory." In that vast structure, which
they dedicated as an enduring and hallowed Temple
to the Most High, they enshrined a harmony and a
majesty that dwarf all the other works of men; and
it was, as originally finished, a building of such in-
spiring beauty that one may justly say of it, by using
and paraphrasing a little the words of the great
Strabo; "Its lofty summit of dazzling white, like unto
glistening alabaster from paradise itself, towers high
into the matchless cerulean skies of Egypt. It ap-
pears indeed like a temple let down intact from on
INTRODUCTION vii
high, untouched and unprofaned by human hands."
The name of "The House of Glory" is applicable
also, and with equal fidelity, to that people of great-
est genius who erected the magnificent First Pyra-
mid, in one phase of their history, four thousand five
hundred years ago. Nor is the issue of that mighty
race extinct on earth to-day, as many profess to be-
lieve. The identical stock, actual lineal descendants
9f the original Master Builders, is among the popu-
lation of this sphere even now; and its number to-
day is both legion and myriad. There is, for example,
much cogent testimony to indicate positively that
the United States of America, as a people, is, in the
greater part, composed of that ancient strain, and
that our land is "The Great Nation" of Bible and
Pyramid prophecy for the "latter days," so-called.
The same is true of the British Empire, Britain with
all of her great Dominions and other possessions
which are inhabited by the British stock, that vast
Empire as a unit being in this time "The Great Com-
pany of Nations" of the Spirit's promise. A few
other nations, and parts of still more, are also in-
cluded in the same seed which forms the present-day
Family of the Master Builders, to which host as a
completed whole the name of "The House of Glory"
is now given, too. · It is of this great people, and of
their past works and future destiny, that this study
will principally treat.
Vlll INTRODUCTION
The very nature of this volume has necessitated
much research into the civilizations of earlier times.
The author has done this in the full realization that
so-called "history" is not in any strict sense an exact
science, primarily due to the fact that chroniclers of
mundane events rarely, if ever, deal impersonally and
impartially with the subject. The dissemination of
"propaganda," as it is called to-day, has been gener-
ously indulged in for centuries, perhaps more so in
ancient and medieval times than in modern days.
Consequently much of the "history" of the archaic
epoch, as well as that of subsequent periods down
through the Reformation, is of very dubious authen-
ticity. This is also true, in part, because of the fact
that during the "Dark Ages" many of the wonderful
libraries then existing, and which probably shed
much light on still older civilizations, were consigned
to the flames and otherwise plundered and destroyed
by bigoted zealots whose "delusions of grandeur"
prompted the acts. Thus posterity of all subsequent
ages sustained a most tragic and incalculable loss.
Yet there does exist a golden skein that runs through
the whole fabric of history, even to this day, which
one may follow to its end in Truth, especially when
it is compared with the startling and scientific dis-
coveries concerning the cultures of by-gone peoples
that are constantly coming to light through the
prodigious efforts of modern archeolo!lists,discoveries
INTRODUCTION ix
which confound and disprove many statements of
the "historians" and which confirm others quite fully.
Through resort to these, and other sources that are
scientific, one may get at the truth, albeit it needs be
arrived at laboriously, much as one might fit the
scattered pieces of a vast, complicated and worn jig-
saw puzzle together, notch to matching notch, until
the finished picture is rightly assembled. Another
fruitful and dependable source of light is that of a
study of words, especially of the nouns, which have
come down to us from times of old, unchanged in
part, and altered so slightly, or crudely, in other cases,
as to be quite readily decipherable as to their origins.
These are, fortunately, invaluable to the student in
tracing the beginnings, the relationships and the
cultures of peoples that are centuries and continents
removed from each other in their earthly sojourns.
But it is to the Great Two-in-One Beacon,the Bible
and Pyramid, that one must eventually turn in order
to bring forth the greater portion of that truth which
bridges the dark gulf of time, centuries in extent,
intervening between the days of ::mrremote ancestors
and our own time. The author is aware of the fact
that even the great manuscripts that compose the
modern Bible, both Old and New Testaments, have
themselves obviously been subject to tampering,
changing, deleting and expanding by unhallowed
hands. Likewise the magnificent Great Pyramid has
X INTRODUCTION
been woefully mutilated and desecrated, particularly
its exterior; and absurd fables concerning· its origin,
builders, purpose, etc., have been invented by the
same enemies of Truth who have partially mutilated
the Bible. It is true, however, that much of the his-
torical and prophetic contents of the Bible, and the
inner parts of the Pyramid, have not been injured to
the point of obscuring the light from the eyes of one
who delves deeply, and with an understanding heart,
into their sacrosanct lore. In the main these two
revered objects are still scientific sources of Truth, es-
pecially when the messages of the two are compared
carefully side by side and word by word. From them
we may still garner the golden sheavesof that mighty
wisdom of our ultra-distinguished forebears which
neither time nor enemies of light in one form or an-
other, nor other selfish forces of the darkness, have
ever been able to destroy, or successfullydisguise or
hide. Truth is a Light that will not be hidden, a
deathless Sun of Splendor that the ALL-Creator yet
cherishes, tends and causes to shine in the souls of
men as His own Immortal Flame. With this beacon
lighting our pathway let us consider whither the
long, winding trail leads us.
w.s.
TAH-WAH-WI
ROGUE RIVER, OREGON
THE HOUSE OF (jLORY
CH APTER ONE
CONCERNING THE IDENTITY OF THE
MASTER BUILDERS, BROTHERS
IN GENIUS
INASMUCH
AsIT is plainly manifest to informed stu-
dents that there is an exact correspondence between
the prophetic messages of the Bible and the Great
Pyramid, the former being the Word in script and
the latter the Word in stone, let us immediately turn
to the Bible in our search for the true builders of the
House of Glory * and carefully examine the precious
hoard of evidence written there, but which is stu-
diously obscured from the merely casual seeker. In
this manner much intelligence may be cast upon the
paramount topic of exactly who the sterling Builders
were. In doing this there are, however, certain state-
ments of which we must be ever mindful and upoL
which we must predicate our .findings, and which
.first must be accepted as facts, or at least as sound
* The Great Pyramid.
N
GENEALOGY OF ADAMIC MEN
BIRTH YEAR DEATH YEAR AGE AT DEATH AGE IN B.C. 2644
Adam .... . ......... B.C. 4000.. ... . .B.C. 3070....... 930 years ....... Deceased 426 years
Seth ... .. . ..... .. .. B.C. 3870....... B.C. 2958....... 912 years ....... Deceased 314 years
Enos ... . . .... ..... .B.C. 3765....... B.C. 2860....... 905 years . . ..... Deceased 216 years
Cainan . .... . ....... B.C. 3675...... .B.C. 2765....... 910 years ... .. .. Deceased 121 years
Mahalaleel. .... .. . .B.C. 3605... . ... B.C. 2710....... 895 years . . ..... Deceased 66 years
*JARED ....... . .. .B.C. 3540... .. . .B.C. 2578 ...... .972 years ... . .. .896 years of age
Enoch ............. B.C. 3378....... B.C. 3013.. . .... 365 years ....... Translat ed 369 years
*METHUSELAH .. .B.C. 3313.. . ... .B .C. 2344 ...... .969 years ...... .669 years of age
*LAMECH ....... .. B.C. 3136....... B.C. 2349 ....... 777years ...... .482yearsofage
*NOAH ........ . .. .B.C. 2944...... .B .C. 1994 . ..... .950 years ...... ,300 years of age
• Signifies one of the probable builders of Great Pyramid.
THE MASTER BUILDERS 3
premises, if the conclusions that are drawn there-
from are to prove accurate. These commonly ac-
cepted beliefs are:
(1) That the "Zero Year Point" of man, as relates
specificallyto the Family of the Builders and to the
Grand Cycle of Seven Thousand Years that began with
Adam, and in which we of to-day are still living, began
with the year of B.c. 4000;
(2) That the genealogy of Adamic man, as faithfully
recorded in the fifth chapter of Genesis, supposedly by
Moses, and which covers the period of ten generations
from Adam to Noah, inclusive,is accurate and authentic;
(3) That the actual erection of the Great Pyramid
was undoubtedly started in the year of B.c. 2644,as is
proved by the geometric science of the massive temple
itself.*
With the above premises in the foreground of the
consciousness, the fifth chapter of Genesis may be
analyzed to determine which of the ancient Bible
characters could have been, and very likely were,
present in the flesh at the actual building of the
House of Glory, and who, within the bounds of
probability, did participate actively and prominently
therein.
This fine chronology was written in a peculiar,
distinctive style; and no little calculating is required
*See "Miracle of the Ages," pp. 27.
4 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
to make it readily intelligible. It does not state the
year of birth of any of the ten men that it consecu-
tively lists. Neither does it name the year of death
for any of them. But it does set forth certain valu-
able vital statistics by means of which one may com-
pute all of the required missing factors. The es-
sential information thus gleaned, as .figured from
the text by the author, is shown on the preceding
page, in briefest tabular form for the convenience
of the reader.
It should be carefully observed here that the "year"
of these ancient men who were the sons of Elohim,
who were the .finest spiritual aristocracy of which
we have any written record, was that of the "Pyra-
mid Year," the "Bible Year," or better still our well
known solar year, each of the years being of the
length of 365.242 days. The standard year length
of that remote age, as is conclusively proved by the
radiant astronomy of the Great Pyramid itself, as
well as by Bible mathematics, without a doubt was
the same as we use to-day, i.e. the solar year. The
"years" used in the chronology noted positively were
not "moons," with twelve of them to each year, as
some critics are so wont to insist. These great men
lived to extreme ages, or at least they seem.extreme
to us of to-day who are content to pass on at a mere
three score and ten, because they were supernal in
THE MASTER BUILDERS 5
their wisdom, were simple in their mode of living
rather than plagued with the complexities of modern
civilization, and withal were in constant, conscious,
close communion with their Creator. They really
knew Him, knew His light, and walked uprightly
therein.
Returning now to the table shown above, and
adopting a process of elimination with respect to it,
it is discovered that the following men could not
have assisted in the actual building of the Great
Pyramid for the simple reason that none of them
were living on earth at the date of B.c. 2644: (1)
Adam, (2) Seth, (3) Enos, (4) Cainan, (5)
Mahalaleel, and (6) Enoch.
It follows then that of the group of ten characters
originally cited from the fifth chapter of Genesis
only four of them were living in the flesh at the time
of the erection of the House of Glory. These four
were:
(1) Jared, who at the date of B.c. 2644 was "full of
years" at the ripe old age of 896;
(2) Methuselah, grandson of Jared and son of Enoch.
Methuselah at the time of the building of the Great
Pyramid was little beyond "middle-aged" at 669 years;
(3) Lamech, who was then 482 years old and prob-
ably fully "in his prime";
(4) Noah, who at the date noted was hardly more
..
6 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
than a "mere stripling," a "freshman" as it were, with
due and profound apologies to father Noah , of a tender
300 years.
It is well to observe here that Lamech of the above
quartet is not the s,ame Lamech as the one named in
the fourth chapter of Genesis. That Lamech, who
was the father of Jabal, Jubal, and Tubal Cain, was a
descendant of Cain, the "fugitive and vagabond,"
and may be properly designated Lamech the Lesser.
The Lamech of the fifth chapter of Genesis was a
prominent "son of God," was a son of Methuselah,
and descended from Adam through Seth; and this
Lamech, the Pyramid Builder, may be fittingly
termed Lamech the Great.
With respect to Noah, who has been named as one
of the probable builders of the Pyramid and whom
we know to have been proficient as a craftsman, he
having constructed the ark also, at a later time, there
is in Genesis 5:29 a remark that is pointed in its al-
lusion and which provokes a fascinating train of
thought in support of the belief that Noah was
probably one of the chief erectors of the House of
Glory. It is written there that at the birth of Noah
his father, Lamech the Great, selected the name of
Noah for the infant son for a specific reason, namely:
"This same (Noah) shall comfort us concerning our
THE MASTER BUILDERS 7
work and toil of our hands because of the ground
which the Lord hath cursed." The construction of
the Pyramid requiring as it did the very arduous
"work and toil" of at least one hundred thousand
men, laboring continuously over a period of not less
than twenty years, and Egypt being well known as
"the ground which the Lord cursed" at various times
because of its many "abominations," is it not quite
reasonable to assume that the allusion was to the
subsequent building of the great temple on the Gizeh
plateau? It is the scribe's opinion that such is the
case, more properly so than as a reference to Adam's
expulsion from Eden and the consequent "cursing"
of the lands he and his seed should thereafter till
"in the sweat of their faces."
Further analysis of the facts stated in the fifth
chapter of Genesis, and of the calculations shown in
the Table found herein, reveal yet other things con-
cerning some men who could not have been associ-
ated with the true builders of the Pyramid despite
the fact L'1atsome of them frequently have been set
forth as candidates by some writers. It proves con-
clusively, to mention one thing, that Noah's three
sons, Shem, Ham and Japheth could not have par-
ticipated with their father in the building because
they were not born until, or after, Noah was 500
years old, as shown by Genesis 5:32. Additionally
8 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Genesis 11:10 reveals that Shem, the eldest son, was
only 98 years old at the time of the Deluge. Hence
Shem was not born until B.c. 2442 which was 202
years after erection of the House of Glory was be-
gun. The same Table delineates with finality also
that thos~ writers who, like Josephus, attribute the
Pyramid's erection to the days of Seth, or very close
thereto, are considerably anterior to the correct date
·of B.c. 2644, Seth having been born in B.c. 3870,hav-
ing lived 912 years, and having died in B.c. 2958,
which latter date is 314 years before the great build-
ing was begun.
In having eliminated Enoch as a possibility in the
actual raising of the House of Glory because of his
translation 369 years previous to the beginning of the
building the author did so merely from the stand-
point of Enoch's not having been present physically
upon the occasion. There is ample reason, and to
spare, for believing, however, ·that Enoch, prior to
his being "taken by Jehovah," had accomplished a
very great deal towards the designing of the Great
Pyramid, if indeed he was not its sole architect. We
may be sure that Enoch was a wizard in the science
of mathematics in all of its phases. He is renowned
even to-day in some quarters as having been the
"father of geometry"; and the geometry of the
House of Glory is truly magnificent, is almost an in-
THE MASTER BUILDERS 9
exhaustible resource. Moreover Enoch was the first
mortal to conceivethe MessianicProphecies in all of
their pristine radiance, insofar as man of to-day has
any records of this important finding; and these self-
same Messianic Prophecies form the whole basis of
all Pyramid and Bible augury! Knowing before,
hand , perhaps, that his translation was imminent,
and that he should not be present in the body to see
the marvelous structure raised aloft, or to personally
supervise its construction, Enoch may have imparted
his profound conceptions to Jared, his father, as well
as to his own son, Methuselah, and his grandson,
Lamech the Great, with the solemn charge that they
must carry out the great undertaking in his absence
from the scene of the immortal endeavor on Gizeh
plateau in B.c. 2644.
Be it observed here, too, that there were two
Enochs in the earliest days of Adamic men. There
is an Enoch mentioned in the fourth chapter of
Genesis; and that particular Enoch was the first-born
of Cain, the renegade and pariah. That Enoch may
be called Enoch the Lesser. But the Enoch of the
fifth chapter of Genesiswas properly Enoch the Great
who descended from Adam through Seth; and it is
Enoch the Great with whom we are dealing in the
paragraph above, and elsewhere in this volume un-
lessparticularly identified as being Enoch the Lesser.
j
10 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
In addition to the .fivenoble antediluvians,Jared,
Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech the Great, and Noah,
one may be quite certain that others of the Bible
characters of that remote age contributed substan-
tially towards lifting up the House of Glory, each
accordingto his best talents. VenerableTubal Cain,
for example,is a factor far too important in his able
potentialities to be overlooked in the quest for the
true Pyramid builders. Tubal Cain was contem-
porary with Lamech the Great and Noah, calculat-
ing the number of generationshe was removedfrom
his ancestors Cain. It is said of Tubal Cain in
Genesis 4:22 that he was "an instructor of every
artificer in brass and iron." This is a statement of
consequencewhen it is realized that tools of metal
were unquestionablyused to cut and dressthe many
huge stones that were used in the building of the
Pyramid, notwithstanding the widely current belief
in some quarters that metal tools were never fash-
ioned or employed by men prior to the year of B.c.
1500. Indeed one may go sofar as to assertthat had
it not have been for Tubal Cain, and his genius in
working metals in that distant age, not to mention
his great facility for teaching the arts of metal-
working to others, the House of Glory could never
have been built in its amazing masonic perfection.
It is just, therefore, that Tubal Cain is so highly
THE MASTER BUILDERS 11
honored down to this day in a certain flourishing
fraternity whose ritual dates back to, and probably
beyond, the age of the Pyramid's erection, an il-
luminating ritual based upon the builders' arts and
sciences and the profound spiritual concepts con-
tained therein.
Yet another of the ancient Bible characters who
was probably present at the actual erection of the
House of Glory, and concerning whom we have
more Bible evidence in substantiation of the belief
than for any other one person, is Job, the immortal
bard, and one of the verygreatest of all the venerable
patriarchs of old. Job was a favored son of the
Elohim and a most worthy member of the Master
Builders. On pages 51 and 52 in "Miracle of the
Ages" the author has brieflyset forth someof the evi-
dence which tends to prove that Job was among the
company of the builders of the Pyramid; and refer-
ence is made thereto since lack of spacewill not per-
mit of repetition of the information herein. In addi-
tion to the facts delineated there, let us carefully
examine some of the pregnant passagesin the Book
of Job, taking them one by one, and seefor ourselves
that theseconstitutewhit is tantamount to direct and
powerful allusions to the Great Pyramid, and to no
other building known to men. Here are the ref-
erencesin numerical outline:
12 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(1) "Which (Elohim) maketh Arcturus, Orion and
Pleiades, and the chambers of the south" ... Job 9:9.
Pleiades is the "seven-starred constellation" which is the
sun of our earthly sun, an important bit of astronomical
knowledge which was well known to the Master Build-
ers, as much so as it is to modern astronomers, or even
more so; and Pleiades is often directly referred to in
' Pyramid astronomy. Kindly note also the fecund re-
mark of "and the chambers of the south." All of the
chambers of the House of Glory are situated to the
south (from the entrance on the north face). Further-
more each of the three greater chambers of the Pyramid
have a major astronomical significance, as much so as
Pleiades, Orion or Arcturus. Witness the fact that,
astronomically, the Queen's chamber is the "Chamber
of the Moon." Additionally the Grand Gallery of the
Pyramid is, astronomically and mystically, the "Gate of
the Burning Crown," and its north end composes the
triumphant "Royal Arch ." Moreover the King's Cham-
ber in the House of Glory is, astronomically, "The
Chamber of the Grand Orient." "He that hath ears,
let him hear, and eyes, let him see!"
(2) "Oh that my words ... were graven with an
.iron pen and laid in the rock forever! ... " Job 19:23-24.
Within the Great Pyramid Job witnessed this deep de-
sire of his wonderfully fulfillecl. His "words" actually
were "graven with an iron pen" in the fact that metal
tools were used in cutting, dressing and fitting the many
stones into the building, and in the intricate geometrical
THE MASTER BUILDERS 13
designs which when deciphered comprise a message of
millions of most powerful "words," words of compelling
prophecy and radiant spiritual truth. In a comparative
sense, humanly speaking, these immortal "words" also
were "laid in the rock forever," in the rock of the House
of Glory which has stood in the Libyan Desert for 45
centuries, and which in all probability shall stand there
for as many more years, which is equivalent to "forever"
insofar as the present cycle of humanity is concerned.
(3) "Hast thou (Job) with Him s-{'readout the sky,
which is strong, and as a molten looking-glass? " ...
Job 37:18 "The sky" (i.e. the heavens) is "spread out"
perfectly and unfurled to our gaze in the complete and
magnificent astronomy of the House of Glory. Therein
is revealed clearly and indisputably that its builders pos-
sessed a true knowledge of the whole universe and the
astronomical relation of each major unit, or constellation,
to others, the locations and orbits of each, etc. And
when first completed, as well as for centuries there-
after, the Pyramid possessed its wonderful casing, or
arris, of snow white, highly polished limestone, which,
when the brilliant desert sun beamed down upon it,
caused the whole structure to glow with a dazzling bril-
liance almost as of the sun itself; and then it surely did
appear like an enormous "molten looking-glass," or
mirror. *
(4) "Where wast thou (Job) when I (Elohim) laid
the foundations of the earth? ... or who hath stretched
* "Miracle of the Ages," pp. 61, 62, 63.
14 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
the line upon it? ... or who hath laid the cornerstone
thereof?" ... Job 38:4-5-6. The "foundations of the
earth," in the only sense that they can be humanly con-
ceived, are distinctly laid in perfect geometry and as-
tronomy in the foundations of "The House of Glory."
Its three separate foundations give with utmost precision
the three different year-lengths of the earth, namely the
solar year, the stellar year and the orbital year. (See
"Miracle of the Ages," pages 33 and 34). These founda-
tions of the Pyramid were, in all probability, laid out
by means of "stretching the line" upon them, just as
foundations of buildings of today are laid out in the
same manner, by the use of measuring tapes; and the
origin of this custom of ours perhaps dates back to the
erection of the Pyramid, as is pointed out by Basil
Stewart in his good volume "The Mystery of the Great
Pyramid." Additionally the House of Glory had a
"cornerstone," one that was itself a perfect pyramid in
form, altho in miniature, the crowning jewel of the en-
tire structure. Without doubt these are direct allusions
to the Great Pyramid, authoritative ones due to the fact
that Job was there in person at the time of erection.
(5) "Hast thou (Job) perceived the breadth of the
earth?" ... Job 38:18. Strangely, and yet naturally,
"the breadth of the earth," which is the distance through
the earth from pole to pole, or the polar axis of rotation,
is also shown with exactness in the House of Glory,
even to the inch, the figure being 500 million pyramid
THE MASTER BUILDERS 15
inches. The circumference of the earth is indicated, too,
with the same fidelity.
(6) "Where is the way where light dwelleth? And as
for darkness, where is the place thereof?" ... Job 38:19.
The "Great House of Light" (the Pyramid) shows con-
clusivelythat "light dwelleth" east at its origin (dawn),
south at its meridian radiance (high twelve) and west
at its temporary leave-taking (sunset). It reveals also,
with absolute definiteness, that the north, which is the
· region of the Purple Arch and of the Pole Star, is the
"place of darkness." Does not this quotation likewise
compose real evidence greatly in favor of Job, our bene-
factor?
(7) "That thou (Job) shouldest take it to the bound
thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the
HOUSE thereof." Job 38:20. There is only one House
of Light and darkness; and it is the House of Glory.
Verily Job, and the,other builders thereof, did know the
"paths" that lead thereto, also its bourne, or "bound."
(8) "Knowest thou it, because thou (Job) wast then
born?" ... Job 38:21. Indeed Job "wast then born,"
i.e. at the time the Great Pyramid was lifted up in
beauteous splendor, as is brought out by the author in
"Miracle of the Ages," pages 51 and 52; and Job was
present, we may be quite sure, in some high, official
capacity at the building.
(9) "Knowest thou (Job) the ordinances of heaven?
Canst thou set the dominion ~hereofin the earth?" ...
~6 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Job 38:33. Truly, if ever they have been known to any
men, the "ordinances of heaven" were familiar to Job
and his great contemporaries who placed them and the
"dominion thereof" in the great building, in durable
stone, as they were subsequently placed in the Bible in
words, in all of their purity and profundity.
Surely the foregoing testimony constitutes suf-
ficient confirmation that Job properly belongs in the
list of actual Pyramid builders. Yet other passages
from the Bookof Job could be readily cited; but this
particular theme must not be too prolonged herein.
By way of summary there is listed below yet once
again the great among the ancient Master Builders
who in all probability raised to its towering mag-
nificence the House of Glory. Here they are, five
true and faithful sons of the Elohim:
Probable Actual Builders of Great Pyramid:
1. Jared
2. Methuselah
3. Lamech the Great
4. Noah
5. Job
Still others who contributed in a great measure
towards the building, exclusive of course of those
many score of minor importance who are not listed
by name in the Bible and who were probably pres-
THE MASTER BUILDERS 17
ent in the lesser capacities of "subcontractors," "fore-
men," etc., were the following two, who to all ap-
pearances were not present in the flesh at the actual
erection:
1. Enoch the Great
2. Tub al Cain
The grand total ·then, as listed above, is seven
known sons of the ancient Master Builders who
aided substantially in the construction of the Great
Pyramid; and to these seven great we of this late
day are indebted for the fact that spiritual light, as
they knew it, survives in any really appreciable de,
gree in our midst.
------ ---- ------ ----~ ------~
CHAPTER TWO
THE DELUGE
IN UNDERTAKING A rational discussionof the Del-
uge of antiquity one poses a question of monu-
mental import. A volume of considerable scope
would be required to grant this still vital topic a
complete and fair hearing. But herein the author
shall set forth some of the more valuable of the
evidence,both for and against commonly held be-
liefs regarding the subject, and let the statements
speak for themselves. The within information is
from the Bible,the Great Pyramid and other sources-
deemed good and quite reliable. In this endeavor
to draw out into the full light of day certain credible
deductions concerning the Flood, the Bible and
Pyramid shall be considered the chief authorities
whilst the materials of other origins shall be supple-
mental. Thus guided,let's delveinto the matter a_nd
determine to what conclusion in truth the
marshalled, but necessarily condensed, testimony
leads. ·
It is palpable that the first item of consequenceis
18
THE DELUGE 19
to answer the pointed question: Was there, or was
there not, a Deluge? In response thereto witness the
following:
(1) Certainly the seventh and eight chapters of Genesis
make reply with a thunderous "yea." Additionally that
portion of the Scriptures unfurls a lucid account of
particular characteristics of the cataclysmic visitation to
which reference shall be made presently.
(2) It is noteworthy, too, that the very first major
prophecy written into the structure of the House of
Glory by its master builders was that of the definite oc-
currence to mankind of a catastrophe of the first magni-
( tude in the year of B.c. 2344, and specifically on the
"seventeenth day of the second month" thereof. This
statement, please note, was prophecy; and it does not
prove that there was a flood. True prophecy, however,-
is history accurately conceived in pre-vision and recorded
in advance with absolute fidelity; and the auguries of
the Great Pyramid, during the course of the past sixty
years, have been proved amazingly correct over a period
of many centuries.
(3) At the time of the Deluge, which occurred ap-
proximately four thousand two hundred years ago, which
was three hundred years after erection of the Great
Pyramid was begun, and nearly that many after its
completion, the greater part of the earth, insofar as we
can reasonably determine at this time, appears to have
been uncultured, so much so that one may list the
20 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
civilized nations of that era on the fingers of one hand.
Yet in two of those lands an actual historical account
of the Flood was written; and these annals are still in
existence to-day. The two nations were Egypt and
China, both of which seem to have had a superb culture
in that remote age. The Egyptian manuscript, which
bears the date of B.c. 2144, was written two hundred
years after the tragic episode; and it states that the
Deluge came within the reign of the monarch Pepi II,
who probably was of the Sixth Dynasty. The Chinese
chronicle cited here is known as the Shu-King; and it is
very likely of much greater authenticity than the Egyp-
tian narrative. According to the Shu-King the great
Flood occurred during the reign of ancient King Yaou
who ruled over China from B.c. 2356 to 2254, a period,
please observe, of 98 years.
(4) Traditions of the Deluge have existed among the
peoples of numerous lands, both primitive and cultured,
and lands remotely isolated from each other in some
cases, from time immemorial. Mere traditions are not
official history, of course. Yet in certain matters, espe-
cially as pertains to those of great antiquity, oral and
written legends not infrequently are of more real value
to the seeker in arriving at truth concerning the dim and
misty past than is "history," so-called. When a tradition
is so widely prevalent, and so very tenacious in its sur-
vival down through the ages, as are these various ac-
counts of the Deluge ,there must have been some basis
in fact for the beliefs that were so long and so faithfully
THE DELUGE 21
held. "Where there is so much smoke obviously there
must be some fire," reads the old adage. Perhaps the
most prevalent and best known of the Deluge legends
are these:
(a) Under the name of "The Destruction of Man-
kind" the tradition of the Flood flourished in ancient
Mexico and Peru, as well as in Egypt. The anni-
versary of the lamentableevent was annually observed
in eachof these countries,in November, as determined
by the Pleiades factor, in Peru and Mexico as "The
Festival of the Dead" and' in Egypt as "The Festival
of Hathor."
(b) In Babylonia, Assyria and China the identical
legend lived; and in each land it was known as "The
Deluge."
(c) The aborigines of Australia also had the story;
and they, too, faithfully kept its supposed anniversary
each year, in November.
(d) In olden Persia the month of November was
known as "The Month of the Angel of Death," at-
testing to the prevalence of the same tradition there.
It is relevant that the time element of the Deluge
be brought out here. In doing this let's turn again
first to the Bible. Reference is made, therefore, to
that startling and illuminating statement in Genesis
7:6which reads: "And Noah was six hundred years
old when the flood of waters was upon the earth."
22 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Now kindly turn to the Table, the "Genealogy of
Adamic Men," found in Chapter One hereof. You
will perceive that there it was readily proved that
Noah was born in the year of B.c. 2944. Subtracting
six hundred years from that date the remainder is
the year of B.c. 2344,the year that Genesis thus gives
as being that of the Deluge. The Great Pyramid, it
is recalled, prophesied the Flood for the very same
year; and herein we have verification of that year of
B.c. 2344 as having been the Deluge-year, with the
present evidence from the Bible rather than from
the intricate maze of technical Pyramid mathe-
matics.
Further reference is made to Genesis 7:11. There
it is recorded that the horrifying beginning of the
Flood came "in the second month, the seventeenth
day of the month ." The author has heard people
interpret this passage as indicating that the Deluge
began on "February 17th" of B.c. 2344. But does the
wording mean that? No. The New Year's Day of
our ancient forefathers of early Old Testament times
began with the Autumnal Equinox which is always
in September. In the year of B.c. 2344this autumnal
equinox could have occurred during any one of three
days, the hour of the equinox being a variable factor
within certain limits, the three days being September
THE DELUGE 23
21, 22 or 23 (Gregorian), as is shown by Davidson
in his masterly volume, "The Great Pyramid, Its
Divine Message." These facts being well established,
now what date would have been "the seventeenth
day of the second month" of the year B.c. 2344]
Davidson gives this answer also and sets forth that
the date could only have been either October 30th,
October 31st or November 1st, all depending upon
which of the three Septemberdays of the 21st,22nd,
or 23rd brought the autumnal equinox of that year,
and with it the new year. Thus is accounted for the
fact that ancient peoples who religiously kept their
annual "Festival of the Dead" usually, or generally,
observedit either on October 31st (Hallowe'en Day),
November 1st (All Saints Day), or on November
2nd (All Souls Day). It is established then, in the
Pyramid by gifted prophecy and in the Bible as
history, that the Deluge dz'doccur in the year of B.c.
2344, and that it began on either October 30th,
October 31st, or November 1st of that year. Now
one may readily seewhy the world of to-day, much
of it, is beginning to manifest such a profound re-
spect for the prophecies of the House of Glory.
People are also witnessing abundant proofs of the
fact that the Bible and Pyramid messages are one,
each supporting and verifying the other, and show-
24 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
ing quite conclusivelythat we are on the right road
when we search the early portions of the Bible to
find the true builders of the "Great House."
Now that it has been establishedthat there was a
Deluge, and that it did occur at the exact time
prophesied three hundred years beforehand by the
Master Builders,other important details of the Flood
command rational explanation. For example, there
is the outstanding issue of whether the Deluge did,
or did not, cover,and destroy all life on, the earth at
that time, the whole globe except for that part of
living things saved by Noah. The Bible, as well as
any other written work, should be studied thought-
fully and in the full realization that it is fallible in
some respects,not absolutely sacrosanctin its every
"chapter, verse, word and syllable," as some claim.
In the first place not a single originalcopy of any
Bible manuscript is extant on earth. Every last one
of them is a "copy of a copy of the original," as
Tratner, among others, so ably sets forth in his
volume, "Unraveling· the Book of Books." Addi-
tionally the Bible manuscripts have been translated,
and into many languages,times almost innumerable.
The copyistsand translators of the Scriptureshaving
been human they were also humanly fallible, how-
ever learned and devout they may have been. To
this author it is utterly inconceivablethat the Deluge
THE DELUGE 25
could possibly have covered the whole terrestrial
globe. Casual, yes even fairly studious, examination
of the Flood-narrative proper in Genesis certainly
does make it appear that the Deluge was universal.
But it is a well-authenticated fact that there is a
most unfortunate mistake in the English translation
of one frequently-employed word in the Genesis-
chronicle of the great tragedy; and it is lamentable
that the one word so translated in error is perhaps
the most important single word in the whole com-
mentary. In his splendid exposition, "The Mystery
of the Great Pyramid," Basil Stewart refers to this
matter, and says: "While our A. V. of the Bible
gives the impression that this visitation was uni-
versal, it does not follow that this was the idea in-
tended by the writer of the original" (text). He
continues: "The idea of a universal Deluge is due
to an unfortunate translation of the word 'ERETZ'
as 'earth,' in a sense of the whole globe, whereas it
(eretz) can equally as well be translated, and is so
translated in other passages in the Bible where it
occurs by (the words of) 'country'; or 'district'; and
in this instance it refers solely to the district in which
'the generations of Noah' lived!"
Now if one will turn again to the report of the
Flood in the Genesis-account, and will substitute the
word "country," or "world" as it is in some transla-
26 THE HOUSE OF G°LORY
tions, one shall then have the truth about the amount
of the earth's surfacewhich was so sorelyravaged by
the calamitous scourge of waters. But lest one arise
and state that he can not be shown in the Bibleitself
that there were two "worlds," or two "earths," in the
days of Noah, let's turn to the Scriptures themselves
and show that th·eydo positively and plainly infer
and imply, and indirectly state as a fact, .that there
were two "worlds" in that far-off age. In Genesis
6:2 it is clearly stated that "... the sons of God
(Adamic man through Seth) saw the daughters of
men (of men of the non-Adamic earth, or Gentile
earth) and took them wives ... " of this spiritually
inferior but physically fair stock. Genesis 6:4-5 re-
peats the same information in slightly different
words, boldly implying that the "corruption of the
C!arth"(of the Adamic earth, home of the Master
Builders) which precipitated the Deluge resulted
from these unions of the "sons of God" with the
"daughters of men."
Genesis 10:5 also is a most potent witness of the
fact that the whole globe was not scourged by the
Flood. The verseis now quoted intact and verbatim,
for the convenience of the reader. "By these
(Noah's sons and their descendantswho escapedthe
Deluge) were the isles of the Gentiles (non-
.Noachian peoples) divided in .their lands, every one
THE DELUGE 27
after his tongue, after their families,in their nations."
The time with which this passage deals was very
shortly after the Deluge, only two short generations
removed from Shem, Ham and Japheth, sons of
Noah (See Gen. 10:2-3-4). If then the Flood did
destroy all human life on the whole globe, except
for the one family of Noah, as some so stoutly main-
tain, how doesit happen that within just one century
after the great tragedy, or approximately so, there
were still Gentiles on the earth? How does it hap-
pen that these Gentiles, who were not of the blood
of Noah and his issue,were not only living there on
"the plains of Shinar," but that they had "families"
also, and even "nations" ? Indeed these Gentiles
should have had to have been workers of miracles,to
say the very least, to have multiplied so remarkably
fast as to have fathered whole "nations" within so
few years.
It is well, too, in this connection to examine
Genesis 10:32 with care, especiallythe latter half of
it, which reads: ". . . by these (the families of the
sons of Noah) were the nations divided in the earth
after the fiood!" All of the factors that apply to the
discussion of Genesis 10:5 in the preceding para-
graph apply to this passage also. How any student
of the Deluge-narrative can also read verses in the
Bible such as the ones quoted above and still think
28 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
that the whole earth was destroyed by the great
visitation is one of the mysteries that must remain
inexplicable.
If it is true that ths:rewere two "worlds" on our
one globe from the time of Adam down to and be-
yond the days of Noah, and it has been shown that
such was the case, it is fitting that a quest be
launched to determine such relevant facts as the
location, size and general characteristicsof each of
the two "earths." After a thorough study of the
matter through many manuscripts, and through
several sciences in addition to Bible-science and
Pyramid-science,it appears quite obvious to a dis-
cerning mind that the Deluge plagued quite a small
portion of the earth's total surface. None of the
continent of Africa was the locale of the Flood; nor
was any of Europe, of Asia Minor, or of the two
Americas, or of Australia, materially injured by the
great catastrophe. Thus we are left with Asia Major
alone as the scene of the occ;:urrence,
and not all of
it by any means. Probably a mere five per cent, or
so, of the surface of the largest continent constitutes
the amount of territory actually affiictedby, or de-
stroyed by, the inexorable waters.
Perchance some will be reminded here that the
author has stated earlier in this chapter that tradi-
tions of the Flood were universally diffused among
THE DELUGE 29
ancient peoples, and will wonder how this came to
be when only five per cent, or less, of just one con-
tinent was involved in the destruction. The answer
to the seeming paradox is this: There is ample
evidence available to support the firm belief that
there was much and almost constant communication
between the peoples of all the continents in ancient
days, even as there is to-day. The science of the
Great Pyramid proves that its wonderful Master
Builders had a vast and intimate knowledge of such
facts as the exact size and shape of the earth, the
number and distribution of the continents and major
seas; it seems quite within the bounds of reason,
therefore, that they also knew the various peoples of
the earth, in whatever quarters they resided. Indeed
it seems quite probable that the homeland of Adamic
men of ancient days was a world-leader in science,
religion and general culture, and that from this
"world of the sons of God" they carried on an ex-
tensive commerce and planted varying degrees of
civilization among all the "world of men." In this
manner the story of the Deluge was perhaps uni-
versally diffused, even anciently, centuries before the
Bible was written or carried into all lands as is the
case to-day.
Authorities upon the subject agree that there is
but one region on this entire earth which meets
f
30 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
perfectly the known requirements of the ante-
diluvian homeland of the Master Builders, the same
in which Adam and Eve sought sanctuary after their
expulsion from Eden and in which they, and their
many descendants through Seth, dwelt for some
seventeen hundred years prior to the Deluge. Con-
cerning that land, its people and its culture the fol-
·lowing facts are accepted in scientificquarters:
(1) The country was quite sterile, of such a nature
that people could sustain themselves there solely by dint
of most arduous labor, a fact that is borne out by Genesis
3:17-18and 19. Yet unsuitable and "accursed" as were
that land's soil and climatic conditions for normal
human habitation the descendants of Seth and their
issue built up therein, over a period of several hundreds
of years, one of the grandest civilizations known to have
existed on this planet, in any age, within the period cov-
ered by history. From that nation of the Master Build-
ers its finest sons, probably in the number of thousands,
journeyed into Egypt, hundreds of miles away, in or
about the year of B.c.2644to raise their marvelous House
of Glory; and when they had completed the great struc-
ture they returned home again, in the main, secure in
the knowledge that in the Great House of Light they
had enshrined for posterity of a distant age (to-day)
their magnificent conceptions of astronomy, mathemat-
ics, masonic skill and spiritual truth. Undoubtedly
Adarriic men knew long before the Flood that the com-
THE DELUGE 31
plete destruction of their nation should occur in due time
because they wrote the prophecy of it into the Pyramid
mathematics and symbolism 300 years before the event
transpired. In his excellent work, "Antiquities," Jo-
sephus states that Adam himself predicted the "world
(homeland of the Master Builders) should be destroyed
by flood." Howard Vyse ascribes a similar tradition to
Enoch the Great, who "foreseeing the destruction of the
earth (properly country) inscribed the science of as-
tronomy on pillars," probably the Great Pyramid.
(2) The country inhabited by the Builders was iso-
lated from the rest of the earth, although not completely
or inaccessibly so. It was a land-locked, mountain-
encircled basin, or system of connected basins, of con-
siderable proportions and was located in the high plateau
of Central Asia, and more specificallyin what are now
eastern Turkestan and Tibet. The greater portion of
the ancient nation would perhaps be contained within
what to-day is south-western China, north of the mighty
Himalayas and east of southeastern Russia. Chaldean
tradition, incidentally, also describes this territory as
having been a major homeland of highly cultured men
before the Deluge.
(3) That whole region was completely destroyed by
the calamitous Deluge of B.c. 2344; but the balance of
the globe, except for a portion of China proper, was un-
scathed by the cataclysm. The earliest known Egyptian
record of the Flood, as has been noted previously, is
dated two hundred years after .the...
disaster occurred and
32 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
places the locale of the event "in a country remote from
Egypt." Furthermore there is no break, or lapse, in the
faithfully recorded history of Egypt for some time before,
or through, or after, the time of Deluge. Plato wrote,
too, that the ancient Egyptians had no distinct Flood-
legend of their own. So it is obvious that the great
tragedy did not touch Egypt at all. But with respect to
China proper, that portion of it situated outside of
Turkestan and Tibet, let's refer again to the Shu-King.
There it states that during the great flood which came
in the reign of King Yaou "the ocean over-flowed part
of the land" (i.e. of China proper). This "overflow"
probably resulted from a great tidal wave. The same
annals recite that the waters "submerged the country
(the part affected) and obliterated the course of the
Nine Rivers," of which the Hwang-Ho was the chiefest.
All of these rivers are to the north and east of Peking
and were united with the Hwang-Ho not far from the
coast. The early Chinese historian, Yu, also refers to
the "years of hard toil after the deluge," the labor in-
volved in draining and clearing up the debris in the
valleys and ravines in the mountains deep in the interior
of China.
(4) The actual causes of the Flood were two in num-
ber, as will be verified from Genesis itself a little further
on herein. The awful tragedy began with the sudden
occurrence of a terrific earthquake, perhaps the most
violent one, and the most destructive of human lives and
property, in all of written history. The same territory
THE DELUGE 33
is still subject to frequent temblors of major intensity oi
which fact David Davidson writes: "These (the great
system of basins, or valleys) comprise an earthquake
area that is still active, due principally to dessication,
on a large scale and at a rate practically unknown else-
where on earth. Geologists know that this whole region
was once inundated." Moreover the most recent archeo-
. .
logical discoveries in the region fully confirm the identi-
fication of eastern Turkestan and Tibet as having been
the true locale of the Deluge.
A penetrating analysis of the Genesis-account of
the Flood is very pertinent at this point. The first
statement of major magnitude in that version is
found in verse 11 of the 7th chapter. There it is
plainly written also that two factors contributed to
the occurrence of the devastating event. Please note
the arrangement of the two wherein it is said: "...
the same day were all the fountains of the great deep
broken up and (following that) the windows of
heaven were opened." Observe that "the fountains
of the great deep were broken up" first. Palpably
the "great deep" is a sea; and modern geologists
know positively that beneath the great system of
valleys with which we have been dealing herein
there used to be vast submerged lakes or seas. They
also know that an earthquake of extreme intensity
caused the earth's crust, which was the floor or sur-
34 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
face of the basins above the subterranean deep, to
collapseutterly and that forthwith the whole valley
fell into the large sea beneath it. Indeed were "all
the fountains of the great deep broken up," as
Genesisstates it; and those words are clearly an al-
lusion to the tremendous earthshock that occurred.
It is a known fact of seismicscience,too, that often
there is a very great disturbance of the elements ac-
companying, or immediately following, a violent
earthquake. Hence along with, or just after, the
horrific temblors and sinking of the basins "the
windows (or "floodgates" as is. rendered in the
margin) of heaven (the skies) were opened"; and
the torrential rains, probably of cloudburst propor-
tions, descended for "forty days and forty nights."
Genesis7:12. Earthquake and rain, therefore, both
of them of great intensity and duration, were the
actual instruments of the Deluge.
When pondering over Genesis 7:19and 20, it ap-
pears at first that there is something wrong, contra-
dictoryor unreasonableabout them. Verse 19reads:
". . . and all the higp.hills . . . were covered." But
verse 20 says: "Fifteen cubits (more) upward did
the watersprevail; and the mountains were covered."
In modern measures "fifteen cubits" is only 31 feet
and 3 inches. Obviously there is much more than
this slight difference in the respective altitudes of
THE DELUGE 35
"high hills" and "mountains." If the waters rose
a mere thirty-one feet within the time stated it would
appear that there is only one way to account for the
fact that the mountains could thus be covered, i.e.:
If the whole basin with its hills and lower mountains
sank very rapidly into the submerged seas below it
simultaneously with the fast rise of the waters, then
a matter of .fifteencubits advance in the crest of the
raging tide might cover such mountains as were
within the valleysproper, and not those much loftier
ones which encircled them.
There is yet another point that is worthy of con-
sideration herein. In the Armenia of to-day there
stands a lofty and noble peak that is named Ararat.
Most unfortunately many people believethe summit
of the mountain to be the spot upon which the ark
came to rest after the Deluge. Even modern dic-
tionaries, supposedly sources of truth, say of Mount
Ararat: "Traditional resting-place of Noah's ark."
But, worse still, the same dictionary gives the ref-
erence of Genesis 8:4 in support of the statement.
But the Bible the· author studies reads like this in
Genesis 8:4: "And the ark rested ... upon the
mountains of Ararat." The letter "s" on the word
"mountain" in this passage makes the word plural,
which is vitally different from the singular form
since the plural usage denotes a range of mountains
36 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
and not a solitary peak· of hoary grandeur. The
Ararat of Armenia is just that, is one mountain.
Thus Genesis 8:4 rather than confirming Mount
Ararat as the "traditional resting-place of Noah's
ark" actuallybeliesthat hasty and unsound assump-
tion. In view of this startling evidencethere arises
other important questions, such as these: Did the
Deluge not touch the land that is now Armenia at
all? If the ark did not come to anchor on Mount
Ararat, where did it rest? Was there, or is there,
a range of mountains which now are, or once were,.
named Ararat? Yes,there is such a chain of moun-
tains; and it is quite probable that it was upon it
that the ark settledafter the waters began to subside.
The range of Ararat lies on the east side of eastern
Turkestan and Tibet, which was the exact locale of
the Flood: and it separatesTurkestan from China
proper. To-day as for centuries past, the Chinese
call this chain which was anciently known as
"Ararat" the "mountains of Chin." The Chinese,
be it remembered,have an actual historicalnarrative
of the Deluge, written at the time it occurred and
just afterwards,and thereforeperhaps the most valid
one in all of history. In their annals and traditions
the Chinese likewise have a "Noah" whose name
was Fu-hi, a "rainbow covenant" etc., all of which
are almostidenticalwith the Genesisnarrative of the
THE DELUGE 37
same events. The word "Ararat," according to the
scholarly Ferrar Fenton, is a compound Hebrew
, · word which means, simply and literally, "the peaks
of the high hills," as is pointed out by Davidson in
"The Great Pyramid, Its Divine Message,"page 429.
/Such a titanic cataclysm as the Deluge undoubt-
edly did destroy all earth-life within the whole
valley, great though it was in scope,except for such
as were preserved by Noah. Just how many of the
people of the Master Builders there were in their
great country immediately preceding the disaster
there is no way of knowing; but it seemsreasonable
that there must have been many thousands of them.
The system of interlocking basins covered a large
area, as has been stated; and although the natural
fertility of the land was almost negligible yet the
"sons of God" had dwelt there for seventeen cen-
turies, or so, had multiplied rapidly in numbers, and
had built up there a mighty nation of supreme cul-
ture. The whole of this country was destroyed, so
abruptly and overwhelmingly that only the memory
of its wonders was left with Noah and his family.
Upon this intangible foundation of tender reminis-
cence Noah and his sons attempted to rebuild when
they went out into the "world of men" after the
great tragedy. It may have been that they named
present-day Mount Ararat as they passed near its
38 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
base in their migrations into "the plains of Shinar."
This very small Noachian remnant of the Master
Builders was the one that was chosen to be blest with
the precious spiritual ·heritage that their distin-
guished forebears knew; and it is through them that
the sacred Light of the Creator was passed down to
us of this late day.
CHAPTER THREE
THE GENEALOGY OF THE
MASTER BUILDERS
IT 1sEMINENTLY appropriate that the second of the
major prophecies of the Great Pyramid should be
that of the Call of Abraham, and the making of the
Covenant with him, by the spirit. This radiant and
momentous augury, which was written into the
structure of the House of Glory nearly six hundred
years before Abram was born, and some seven hun-
dred years before his actual calling, is found, sig-
nificantly, at the exact point where the "Plane of
Prophecies" of the Pyramid meets and bisects the
foundation of the noble edifice.* This being so, as
the chart illustrates with illuminating clarity, the call
of Abraham and the accompanying covenant make
the actual foundation, from the spiritual standpoint,
upon which the great house of modern Master
Builders is so firmly built.
It has already been shown herein how the "Glory
Line" of highly spiritual men began with Adam and
• See "Miracle of the Ages," Chart Numb er Five, in the front of the
volume.
39
40 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
from him passed down through ten generations to
Noah who preserved the Light from the fury of the
Deluge. Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham and
Japheth, all three of whom emerged safely from the
Flood with him. But of the three sons only Shem
was spiritually enlightened to a high degree. Ham
and Japheth in due time became the progenitors of
Gentile peoples; but Shem became the procreator of
the continued Master Builders. It is important that
this distinction be steadily borne in mind henceforth
herein.
In the 11th chapter of Genesis, verses 10 to 26 in-
clusive, the "generations of Shem" are given in de-
tail and with fidelity. This fact stressesthe signifi-
cance of the particular genealogy, as is the case with
that of the fifth chapter of Genesis,which was shown
in chapter one of this volume. In comparing the
two genealogies, Genesis five with Genesis eleven, it
is noteworthy that the number of generations in each
case is ten. This, too, is an item of consequence
since ten is the number of completion of a cycle, is
the sacred symbol of unity.
The line of successionfrom Shem to Abraham, in-
clusive, is this: (1) Shem; (2) Arphaxad; (3)
Salah; (4) Eber; (5) Peleg; (6) Reu; (7) Serug;
(8) Nahor; (9) Terah; (10) Abram. From the vital
statistics given in connection with the delineation
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 41
of this line it may be quite readily computed that
Abram was born 262 years after the Deluge, or in
the year of B.c. 2082. Therein it may be observed
that the ten generations from Shem to Abram em-
braced a period of only 262 years whereas in the ten
generations from Adam to Noah the intervening
period was 1,056 years. Thus is shown in an ap-
preciable manner how "the days of men were
shortened" after the time of the Flood.
Underlying and within the story of Abraham and
the two feminine consorts of his earlier years, Sarah
and Hagar, and of his issue by these two, i.e. Isaac
and Ishmael, there is a sublime allegory. But its
full interpretation is far too long an undertaking in
this present manuscript; and the author must be con-
tent with the prospect of devoting a later volume
exclusively to that subject and those closely allied
with it. In briefest form, however, we may look into
the meaning of these five proper nouns and see the
potentialities of a great truth. All five of the names
are undoubtedly purest Gaelic in their origins, as is
shown by Conor MacDari in "Irish Wisdom Pre-
served in Pyramid and Bible." Mystically Abraham
is the Personified Sun (Light, Spirit). In the same
way Sarah is Day while Hagar is Night . Hagar's son
by Abraham was Ishmael, which in the Gaelic means
the Young Sun, or the Bald Sun, the sun at very
42 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
early morning when it sheds an enfeebled light.
But Sarah's son, Isaac, was born of a fulness of
spiritual light, of the Day, who was Sarah, and of
the Sun, who was Abraham. Hence it is apparent
why Isaac, who is the High Sun, the Benign Sun,
the Genial Sun, alsothe Sun at its Power,was chosen
as being the better instrument through which to pass
down the true spiritual effulgence in the form of
more highly evolvedissue,or "seed." It is likewise
revealedwhy Isaac,although he was not the first-born
of his father, was the inheritor of the other chief
blessingspromised to Abraham and his descendants
by the All-Light.
The prophecies, or promises, made to Abraham,
and in lesser numbers to Sarah, Hagar, Ishmad,
Isaac and Rebekah, are numerous. They are found
at short intervals all through Genesisfrom chapters
12 to 27 inclusive. Each of the promises of the
Spirit was both unequivocal and everlasting; and
they were either true or false. If they were faithful,
as will be shown to have been the case later herein,
then ours is a most precious heritage. But before
setting out to prove the propheciesit is perhaps best
to itemize them so that they may be in plain view
for as profound a study as the reader may care to
give to them. In summary, and with little explana-
tion of them just at this point, they are:
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 43
(1) Genesis 12:2-3
(a) Abraham (through his seed) to be "a great
nation";
(b) His name, and that of promised nations of
his descendants, to be "Great";
(c) In him and his issue all families of the earth
to be blest.
(2) Genesis 13:15-16
(a) Abraham to have all the land he saw, and
his seed to have it forever after him:
(b) His issue to eventually be as "the dust of the
earth" in numbers.
(3) Genesis 15:5-13-14-18
(a) Abraham's seed to be as "stars of heaven"
in multitude;
(b) Prophecy of Egyptian captivity for later
Israel, and for a duration of 400 years;
(c) Covenant proper first mentioned by the
name of "covenant."
(4) Genesis 16:10-12. To Hagar personally is prom-
ised:
(a) Her seed · to be multiplied exceedingly
(through Ishmael) ;
(b) Her issue (through union with Abraham,
remember) not to be numbered for multi-
tude;
(c) Her son, Ishmael, to be a "wild man" whose
hand was to be against every man, and
every man's hand was to be ag~inst him.
44 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(5) Genesis 17:2-4-7-8-9-13-16-19-20-21
(a) Covenant with Abraham repeated; promise
to multiply his seed exceedingly repeated;
(b) He was to be "a father of many nations";
(c) He is to be exceedinglyfruitful;
(d) He shall have nations made of him;
(e) Kings are to come out of him and his seed;
(f) Covenant to be an everlasting one;
(g) Abraham's issue to have Canaan for an ever-
lasting possession;
(h) He and his seed shall keep the covenant
forever;
(i) To Sarah personally it is promised:
(1) That she shall bear a son (Isaac);
(2) That she shall be the "mother of
nations"
(3) That kings of people shall be of her
and her posterity.
(j) Everlasting covenant promised yet again;
(k) Again it is pledged that Ishmael shall be a
great nation;
(1) But the real covenant is to be perpetuated
through Isaac.
(6) Genesis 18:18
(a) Prophecy of great and mighty nation from
Abraham, and blessing of all nations
through him, again stated.
(7) Genesis 21:12-13-18
(a) In Isaac shall seed of Abraham be called;
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 45
(b) Again promised that Ishmael shall be a na-
,.
uon;
(c) Same pledge concerning Ishmael repeated.
(8) Genesis 22:17-18
(a) Yet again it is prophesied that Abraham and
his issue shall be blest:
(b) His progeny to be multiplied as stars of
heaven and as sand upon the seashore;
(c) His seedto possessthe gates of their enemies;
(d) Promised yet once more that all Nations to
be blest in the sons of Abraham.
(9) Genesis 24:60
(a) Rebekah, wife of Isaac, blest by the Creator
and told that she should be the mother of
thousands of millions, that her seed should
possessgates of those who hated them.
(10) Genesis 25:23
(a) Spirit makes known to Rebekah that two
nations, and two manner of people, should
come from her fruitful womb;
(b) One of nations that was to come from Re-
bC?kahwas to be stronger than the other;
(c) Elder son and his nation should serve the
younger.
(11) Genesis 26:4--23
(a) Isaac blest, pledged multiplicity of seed, gift
of countries, and the blessing of all nations
through him and his descendants;
(b) Multitude of progeny again promised Isaac.
46 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(12) Genesis27:28-29-39-40
(a) To Jacob, when blessing him, Isaac prom-
ised in the name of the Spirit, the follow-
ing:
(1) The fatness of the earth;
(2) Plenty of corn and wine;
(3) That people should serve him and his
seed;
(4) Nations should bow down to him and
his;
(5) That he should be lord over his
brethren;
(6) Blest should be all who blessed him,
cursed all who cursed him.
(b) To Esau, twin brother of Jacob, and the
elder by a brief period, it was pledged by
Isaac that:
(1) His dwelling should be the fatness of
the land;
(2) That he and his seed should live by
the sword;
(3) That he and his descendants should
serve his brother, Jacob and Israel;
(4) That when he. and his issue had do-
minion they should break Jacob's
yoke from off Esau's neck (for a
time only, as will be shown later
herein).
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 47
A thoughtful surveyof the abovepromises, which
because of the number of times some of them are
repeated are not as numerous as first believed,brings
to light a goodly quantity of things of major im-
portance in tracing the Master Builders' line down
through history for a period of three thousand eight
hundred years to our own times, from the great old
patriarch, Abraham, down to to-day. It is most sig-
nificant, for example, to constantly keep in the fore-
ground of the consciousnessthat Abraham, like Noah
before him, and even like Adam himself, was the
father of "Gentile" seed as well as of Jehovian prog-
eny, or the "Glory Line." Ishmael, Abraham's first-
born through union with Hagar, the concubine,hav-
ing a lesser spiritual light than Isaac, became the
progenitor of a Gentile people. Ishmael, through
his descendants,did alsobecome a "great nation," in
fulfillment of the- promise, a breed whose number
over a period •of nearly four thousand years are al-
most innumerable, as likewise pledged by the Spirit.
Ishmael fathered the Arabs, who to-day and back
through the .centuriesare Ishmaelites.
It is well, too, to not overlook the factor of Isaac
and Rebekah. Even Isaac,the chosen,like his father,
Abraham, begat Gentiles. Jacoband Esau were twin
sons of Isaac and Rebekah; and Esau was born first.
These two sons were the "two nations" and "two
48 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
manner of people" promised to Rebekah. Esau be-
came the progenitor of Gentiles. Esau was the
common ancestor of all the Turks, past and present,
and the Turks are a Gentile people. The proof of
this potent fact concerning Esau and his issue is
found in the Bible itself, especiallyin Genesis 36:1
where it is written: "Now these are the generations
of Esau, who is Edom!" Edom, or Idumea as it is
sometimesrendered, is the ancient Biblicalname of
the peoplewho are the Turks of to-day,all the Turks,
consequently, being Edomites, or "Esau-ites."
In facts such as are stated in the two paragraphs
immediately aboveit is seen that some of the prom-
ises have long since been faithfully fulfilled. But
the greatest of all the covenant-blessingsare those
which deal directly with those of us who are of the
Builders'line, who are modern Israel through Abra-
ham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, then through
Jaco~. Perhaps a chart will show forth simply and
briefly the golden path of the "House of Glory"
(i.e. the Master Builders), from Adam to Jacob in-
clusive, more so than will any other form; hence
the one given on the following page.
The Builders' blood is shown here by the left-
hand column of the chart. Note particularly how
the Gentile-stocksbranch off the trunk of the great
family tree through the seed of Cain, Ham, Japheth,
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 49
Ishmael and Esau. The chart indicates specifically,
too, that Abraham was Semitic, as history states,the
word "Semitic" being derived from Shem or Shem-
itic. But Abraham positivelywas not a "Jew." Nor
was he an Israelite. In this study the time of the
first Jews and the first Israelites has not come as yet.
There were no Jews before Judah, son of Jacob; and
Jacob himself was the very first Israelite.
A------,D-----A.-----M
Seth ICain
Noah (10th from Adam) Gentiles
Shem Ham Japheth
Aim:ham (10th from Shem) Gentiles Gentiles
Isaac IIshmael
Jacob IEsau Gentiles
Gentiles
Let it be noted that in the days of Noah, Shem,
Abraham and Isaac the House of Glory was very
few in the number of its members. But with Jacob,
· the fruitful, the increase began earnestly; and from
his time forward the "multiplicity of seed" promised
in the covenant was rapidly manifested. Jacob,who
later became Israel, the illumined and anointed, had
two wives and two concubines. The wives were
sisters, Leah and Rachel, the daughters of Laban.
One of the concubineswas Zilpah, the handmaid of
Leah; the other was Bilhah, Rachel's maid. Of
these four women were born the twelve sons of
50 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Jacob who were soon to become the "twelve princes
of Israel,"and who are enumerated in Genesis35:23-
26 inclusive. They are herewith listed in summary,
with a figure placed in front of each name by the
author to show the order of their birth:
J A C B
LEAH BILHAH ZILPAH RACHEL
1. Reuben 5. Dan 7. Gad 11. Joseph
2. Simeon 6. Naphtali 8. Asher 12. Benjamin
3. Levi
4. Judah
9. Issachar
.10. Zebulun
These twelve sons were all born in Canaan; and
in that fair land did Jacob,his wives and eleven of
the sons reside for years. The other child, Joseph,
had been sold into slavery at a tender age by his
brothers; and without the fact being known to his
kinsmen at home he had been elevated to a position
of great power in Egypt, second only to that of
Pharaoh himself. When the seven-years' famine
descended upon Canaan Jacob's sons, except Ben-
jamin alone, were sent to Egypt by their father to
purchase food and provender. In the land of the
Nile the brothers dealt directly with Joseph whom
they did not recognize and who kept his identity
secret from them, temporarily. Later, at Joseph's
urgent request, Jacob and his entire family came to
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 51
Egypt to reside,bringing their possessionswith them;
and by this time the House of Glory had grown to
seventy souls, as given in Genesis 46:27
In the foregoing chronicles is witnessed the ful-
fillment in his life of the two vivid dreams of Joseph,
viz: his vision of the sheavesof grain (Genesis 37:7)
and the dream in which the sun, moon, and eleven
stars also made obeisance to him (Genesis 37:9).
The "sun" of this latter vision was Joseph's father,
Israel; the "moon" was Joseph's mother, Rachel;
and the "eleven stars" were his eleven brethren, an
interpretation given by Jacob himself in his rebuke
of Joseph (Genesis 37:10). In Egypt during the
grievous famine in Canaan did all of the House of
Jacob bow themselves low before Joseph; and except
for the long-lost "Dreamer" who then took them in
charge the Family of Israel should have perished.
Upon the arrival of the House of Glory in Egypt
they were received with much kindness by both
Joseph and Pharaoh. The monarch gave them out-
right a large parcel of the most fertile land in all of
the Nile basin, a territory in Goshen in the territory
of Rameses (Genesis47:27). In this place Jacobdied
at the age of 147 years. Upon his deathbed Israel
summoned to him and blessed Ephraim and Ma-
nasseh, the sons of Joseph by his Egyptian spouse,
Asenath, daughter of the prince and priest of On
52 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(Heliopolis). At that time Israel adopted the two
sons of Joseph in fact, as his very own, even as
Reuben and Simeon were his own (Genesis 48:5).
Henceforth the twain were to bear Israel's name;
and thus were Ephraim and Manasseh to later be-
come heads of two of the Tribes of Israel, while no
Tribe was to afterwards bear the name of Joseph.
Following the formal adoption of Joseph's boys
by Jacob they were blessed by him; and tlie chief
elements of the benediction they received (which
were promises also) were these:
(1) Manasseh should become a people, was to be great,
a great nation in fact. This prophecy is fulfilled to-day,
wonderfully so, in the existence of the United States of
America. America is the seed of Manasseh, in the main.
Further information on this matter is forthcoming later
in this study.
(2) Ephraim, although he was the younger of the two
sons, was to become greater than Manasseh. Ephraim
was pledged to grow into a multitude of nations. This
augury has likewise long since come to pass, the vast
British Empire being the seed of Ephraim that has
grown into many nations.
After conferring his blessing upon the two sons
of Joseph, Jacob then gathered his own sons about
his deathbed and in prophetic vision recited to each
of them what should befall them and their issue in
THE
ROYAL
ARCH
FmuRENo. 3
JESUSANDHISTWELVE
APQSTLES
INTHE
ROYAL
ARCH
Luke 6! 14~\s-16
, • 'ftwlsub~ttt&Lted
bythe author•"'t,lace of J"u.da6
lsco.rtot
FIGURE No. 5
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 53
the "last days." Of the prognostications given there
the following only are .of vital importance in this
study:
(1) The sceptre, symbol of authority, of rulers, of
kings, should not depart from Judah, i.e. the Tribe of
Judah, until "Shiloh come." As yet "Shiloh" has not
come to earth; and the present line of British monarchs
are the direct descendants of Judah, through Judah's
twin sons, Pharez and Zarah, as will be shown also later
herein.
(2) But the birthright (which was Reuben's by natu-
ral inheritance as Jacob's first-born, and which was taken
froni him because of misconduct) was to be Joseph's, and
his seeds' through Ephraim and Manasseh, forever. The
great blessings that accompanied the birthright were to
be theirs, too.
In the fertile land of Goshen the House of Glory
lived in peace and prosperity until Jacob and all of
his issue, as well as all of their contemporaries, were
dead. Exodus 1:7paints a good picture of the man-
ner in which Israel flourishedin Egypt when it states;
"The children of Israel were fruitful, and increased
abundantly, and waxed exceedingly mighty, and the
land (of Goshen) was filled with them." With the
passage of the years·anew Pharaoh ruled over Egypt,
one who had never known Joseph, and who was as
antagonistic to the Israelites as his predecessor had
54 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
been kind to them. Fearing and hating Israel, and
their growth and power, this Pharaoh enslaved the
House of Glory in a cruel bondage that lasted for
400 years, as was prophesied. Throughout their
rigorous captivity, however, and under the most
adverse circumstances, Israel increased greatly in
numbers and strength until at the coming of Moses,
the great deliverer, they numbered many thousands
of souls, each of the Twelve Tribes (which were
Thirteen Tribes in reality, the house of Joseph
having divided into the two Tribes of Ephraim and
Manasseh) totalling thousands in its own right.
At Exodus Mosesled the host of Israel back into
Canaan, the fair land that "flowed with milk and
honey," 430years after Jacoband his brood had left
there (Exodus 12:40). At the time of this great
migration back into Palestine the House of Glory
numbered six hundred thousand men, not counting
the children (Exodus 12:37). Perhaps there were
from two millions to three millions of souls alto-
gether. Now was Israel really entering upon its
grand, triumphal march adown the ages; now had
they begun to come into their own great heritage;
now were the Spirit'smanifold promisesto Abraham
and Isaac,and others, beginning to be gloriouslyful-
filled. After crossingthe Red Sea,in leaving Egypt,
the Israelitieswandered in the wilderness for forty
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 55
years; then they entered into Canaan with rejoicing
and divided the lands thereof among themselvesac-
cording to the Tribes, except for the Tribe of Levi.
The Levites, who numbered twenty-three thousand
at the time (Numbers 26:62) were not counted
among the children of Israel because no temporal
inheritance was given to them. Levi was the Tribe
of which the spiritual leaders of the House of Glory
came; theirs was a spiritual inheritance, therefore,
rather than one of mundane wealth.
This latter fact brings to the attention a matter
of much mystical importance with which, in brief
form, this chapter shall be concluded. The number
thirteen in Bible and Pyramid mysticism is one of
tremendous import. In the Great House of Light, be
it recalled, the doorway on the north face opens out
towards the north, the abode of darkness and the
region of the Purple Arch; and the entrance itself
isfrequently called: "The Gate of the Double Arch."
This Double Arch, as the name shows so plainly, is
composed of two arches (See Fig. 1). One of them
is the Purple Arch whilst the other is nothing less
than the magnificent Royal Arch, which is of
rainbow hues, symbolizing the "Rainbow Covenant"
so beneficently made with Noah by the Elohim
(Genesis 9:13-14). The Purple Arch typifies dark-
ness,a lack of spiritual light in men; and it extends
56 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
from the giant, but baleful, star, Alpha Draconis,
downward deep into the nether regions, thus de-
termining the way of evil. The Royal Arch, or
Rainbow Arc, however, when agleam athwart the
clouded skies is bright and fair and pregnant with
potent promise, signifying light, or spiritual under-
standing, and the graces born of it, resident among
men. This holy arch extends upward, rather than
downward as does the Purple Arch, and has its
terminus high in the empyrean heights, deep within
the "Gate of the Burning Crown." The Bible being
the Pyramid in words, it should set forth these same
quantities; and it does, in a very illuminating man-
ner, in several places.
There are always thirteen "stones" in the Arches
of Bible and Pyramid, whether they be Royal or
Purple arches, whether they show forth light or
darkness. Thus guided, a brief search of the Bible
narratives should reveal something of value. The
sublime allegorical symbolis .firstviewed in Genesis
17:20 where twelve sons were promised to Ishmael,
child of Abraham by Hagar. Ishmael was spiritually
enfeebled, as has been shown; and when he begat
twelve sons,as he did in fulfillment of the prophecy,
they typified "The Twelve Princes of Darkness."
These twelve, who are "low twelve" incidentally,
with their father, Ishmael, as the keystone,or central
GENEALOGY OF BUILDERS 57
stone, of the arch, mystically compose the famous,
rather the infamous, Purple Arch. In Genesis25:13-
16the twelve sons of Ishmael are listed. So they are
now arranged, along with their father, immediate!y
below in the form of an arch with the name of each
one of the thirteen men being one stone of the arch.
Here it is (See Fig. 2):
The upper or higher end of the Double Arch, the
half of it which tends upward in dazzling brilliance
towards its eventual goal in spiritual perfection, is
.the Royal Arch, or Rainbow Arch, of which there
should be one or more in the Scriptures to offset
the Purple Arch. It happens that Jacob, or Israel,
had twelve sons,as did Ishmael; and the twelve sons
of Israel, who are "high twelve/' are "The Twelve
Princes of Splendor." These noble twelve, six sons,
or stones, on each end of the radiant bow, with
Jacobin the central, or keystone,position,composea
wonderful Royal Arch, which is presented in a chart
herewith (See Fig. 3):
Still another Royal Arch is readily fashioned of
the Thirteen Tribes of Israel as they existedupon the
demise of Jacob. In this Rainbow Arc the Tribe
of Levi is elevated t~ the honored keystone station
becauseit was of that Tribe that the spiritual leaders
of Israel came; and it is through the head of the
arch, or the keystone, that the spirit ascends, an in-
58 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
terpretation that is teeming with sweet savorsfor the
initiate. Here then is the third arch, which is the
second of the Royal ones depicted (See Fig. 4):
In the New Testament there is another and yet a
fairer Royal Arch, one that is fraught with the
ultimate in beatitudes. The reference is to Jesus and
the twelve chosen, who when arranged in the arch
with the Nazarene as the headstone, as they are
below, gleam forth as a grand galaxy of immortals
who are clothed in a radiance as of the Shekinah
glory itself (See Fig. 5):
CHAPTER FOUR
THE DIVISION OF THE HOUSE OF GLORY
INTO TWO HOUSES, ISRAEL AND JUDAH,
AND PART OF THE SEPARATE DESTINY
OF THE TWAIN, FOR "SEVEN TIMES"
INASMUCH AS THIS volume coversthe works and des-
tiny of the House of Glory over a span of four
thousand five hundred years, and one may thus be
confused regarding the exact time a certain im-
portant event occurred, it is perhaps expedient to
record here the five major steps coveredto this point
herein and the date of each. Here they are, to facili-
tate reference:
(1) Erection of Great Pyramid (beginning) .. B.c. 2644
(2) The Deluge ............................. B.c. 2344
(3) The Call of Abraham.. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. B.c. 1921
(4) Jacob's Entry into Egypt................ B.c. 1706
(5) The Exodus .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. B.c. 1491
Resuming now at the point of the conclusion of
the preceding chapter hereof, it is found that after
the division of the "Promised Land" among the
Twelve Tribes of Israel, (the Tribe of Levi, be it
59
60 . THE HOUSE OF GLORY
recalled, having had no earthly inherjtance at the
division), which event transpired in, or about, the
year of B.c. 1450,the House of Glory resided there
as an undivided nation for 513 years, or down to
B.c. 937, immediately subsequent to the death of
colorful and wise King Solomon. During these five
centuries, considered as a whole, Israel flourished as
the proverbial green bay tree although there were
occasional brief periods of great trial and stress for
them, especiallyat such times as they were enticed
away from the true worship, or when there was
grievous drought over a span of time, or when their
territory was invaded by neighboring powers. Per-
chance ancient Israel attained the zenith of its glory
in the daysof Kings David and Solomon,particularly
during the long and tranquil reign of the latter.
It was during the rule of Solomon,for example, that
the world-famed Temple, a truly magnificent work,
was erected on Mount Moriah in Jerusalem. In the
building of that splendid structure the arts and sci-
ences were enshrined anew in great splendor; and
the House of Glory was again the wonderful race
of Master Builders, as their worthy fore-fathers had
been sixteen centuries before at the raising up of
the First Pyramid, except, of course, the knowledge
and craftsmanship displayed in the building of the
Temple, superb though they were, did not equal
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 61
those exhibited in the Great House of Light. The
erection of the Temple began in either B.c.1012,or
B.c.1007,there being a difference of opinion, by the
amount of five years, among acknowledged authori-
tiesregarding the matter. Yes, Solomon's sway over
Israel, as a united people, was undoubtedly the
"Golden Age" of our ancient forebears of that era.
Shortly after the passing of Solomon revolt and
civil war came to pass in Israel, between the ad-
herents of Jeroboam and Rehoboam, who was a
son of Solomon. A moiety of the House of Glory
remained loyal to Rehoboam; but the greater part of
Israel transferred its allegiance and support to Jero-
boam, the usurper. The division of the Tribes .of
Israel at the time noted here is a most important
factor in this study, since henceforth the House of
Glory was to bear two names, i.e. Israel AND Judah.
In the Bible expositions, after the date of this es-
trangement and separation (B.c. 937), either of the
two Houses of Jacob is sometimestermed Israel, for
both of them were still Israel, even after the division;,
yet from this time forward there was a very clear
distinction between the two Houses. All blooded
Hebrews, or Jews, positively are Israelites; but not
more than one out of fifty, if that many, Israelites
of to-day are fews! There are many points of great
difference between the two Houses of Jacob to-day,
62 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
for they are still divided; and millions of people who
are of the stock of Israel have not the slightest
knowledge of the fact, thinking that when the word
Israeliteis used it refers only to the Hebrews.
In order that the line of distinct demarcation be-
tween Israel and Judah, after the division, may be
all the more pronounced for the student the chief
particulars of the separation into the two houses are
succinctlyitemized here:
1. (a) The Tribes who sided with Rehoboam were two
in number, namely Judah and Benjamin; andl
in addition thereto a part of the Tribe of Levi
allied itself with the new House, which was to
be known henceforth as the House of Judah;
(b) The Tribes which revolted and rallied around the
standards of Jeroboam were ten in number, and
were as follows: Reuben, Simeon, Issachar,
Zebulun, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Ephraim
and Manasseh, also the remainder of the Tribe
of Levi, such of them as had not sided with the
House of Judah. Henceforth this group was
to be known as the House of Israel.
2. (a) The House of Judah continued to occupy Jeru-
salem as their seat of government and possessed
by Tribe the same lands that had been theirs
previously. The Kingdom of Judah was com-
monly known as the South Kingdom.
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 63
(b) On the other hand the House of Israel chose
Samaria as their new capital and was called
the North Kingdom.
3. (a) The members of the House of fudah were called
Hebrews, or Jews; and the world over they still
retain those names to-day.
(b) The members of the House of Israel, however,
were not called Hebrews, or Jews, and though
still in existence to-day long ago ceased to be
termed by their true name of Israel.
4. (a) The House of fudah was taken captive by Nebu-
chadnezzar II of Babylon, of the nation of
Chaldea, in the year of B.c.586;
(b) But the House of Israel was taken captive 135
years prior to the enslavement of Judah by
Babylon; and Israel was captured by the Assyri-
ans under King Shalmaneser IV following his
defeat of the armies of Israel under Hoshea,
the last monarch of Israel in Palestine, the year
having been that of B.c.721.
5. (a) The House of fudah returned to Palestine after
70 years of bondage in Chaldea (B.c.516), and
continued to reside there, with Jerusalem as
their capital, for nearly six centuries more, un-
til A,D, 70 in fact when they were woefully
smitten, conquered, slaughtered, and the rem-
nant dispersed over the earth, as prophesied, by
bestial Titus, the Roman general.
(b) The House of Israel, on the contrary, never did
64 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
return to their homeland in Palestine after
breaking the yoke of Assyrian captivity~
6. (a) The House of fudah remained scattered and dis-
persed among all nations, without any disti~ct
nationality or government of their own any-
where on earth, for nearly 1900yearsafter their
rout at the hands of the legions of Titus. It
was Judah's long-lost brother, Israel, none less,
who recoveredPalestine for him during the re-
cent World War, in 1917; and Israel it was
who invited modern Judah to return there
where they once more compose a nation, have
a government, etc., such of the Jews as have
gone there, all under the guiding hand and
protection of their big and powerful brother,·
the Tribe of Ephraim of to-day, who is Eng-
land. It is worthy of note just here, too, that
Ephraim-England wrested what was once an-
cient Canaan from the Turks who are modern
Esau, a Gentile nation. The House. of Judah
now possessesmuch of its olden territory and
again has its beloved Jerusalem as the seat of
its government. But to date Israel, the separate
House of Israel, has not returned to Palestine
to re-occupyin force its ancient homeland. Nor
shall all of Israel of to-day ever go back there
to reside as of yore. The numbers of Israel of
to-day and tomorrow are many millions; and
the lands of their fathers in Canaan could never
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 65
possibly accommodate more than a small par-
cel of them. It is written in the prophecies,
however, that one day in the not distant future
Israel and Judah shall be reunited, and in full-
est mutual recognition, in Palestine for all time,
in spirit, in common seat of government and
in allied ways. If all the chronicles listed here
in these six subheadings were definitely prophe-
sied long before their actual occurrence, and
they were, in both Pyramid and Bible, then one
should look forward with profoundest respect
and implicit confidence towards the faithful
fulfillment of the few prophecies that remain
yet future.
If the House of Israel never has returned to Pal-
estine from the Assyrian captivity, and it hasn't, it
is most pertinent to enquire: What became of them?
Did the mighty House of Israel altogether cease to
be, as the agnostics claim? If they did not really
completely disappear as a people, then where did
they go? The skeptic, unfortunately, is not well
informed in th~ lore of Bible and Pyramid prophe-
cies; and he submits a few of them only, and those
few he detaches from their supporting parts, as a
basis for his reasoning. There are, however, many
other prophecies concerning the House of Israel.
Here there is now listed, in support of the claim just
66 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
made, 21 prophecies and facts which apply to Israel
only, and not to Judah. Alongside them are 15
others which are applicable to Judah only, and not
to the House of Israel.* Each item noted is of
especial interest. They are, to wit:
ISRAEL
1. To bear Jacob's name, i.e.
Israel. I Kings 11:28-30-
31-37
2. To be "lost." Jere. 50:6
3. To be divorced from
Mosaic Law. Isa. 50:1
4. To lose their name, i.e.
Israel. Isa. 65:15
5. To lose their language, i.e.
Hebrew . Isa. 28:11
6. To possess isles of sea,
coast of earth, waste and
desolate places; to inherit
portion of Gentiles, seed,
land and cities. Isa. 54:
1-3; 24:15; 41:1; 58:12
7. To be great and success-
ful colonizers. Deut. 33:
17
8. Before them other peoples
to die out. Deut. 33:29
Jere. 30:11
[UD AH
I. Fourth son of Jacob.
2. Not to be "lost" (in iden-
tity) .
3. To retain Mosaic service
until return in full to own
country (yet future).
4. Not to lose their name.
5. Not to lose their language.
6. Not to be owners of landed
properties (in the sense of
governmental unit).
7. To be a scattered people.
8. To be few in numbers.
* The author is gratefu l towards his good friend, Captain Willis S.
Bryant, United States Army, and his excellent volume, "And It Shall
Come to Pass!," for the specific inform ation , and the arrangement of
it, given in this condensed outline.
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 67
ISRAEL (Cont'd)
9. To be head nation. Isa.
41:8-9 ; Jere. 31:7
10. To be a company of na-
tions. Isa. 49:17- 22
11. To be great in war on land
and sea. Isa. 41:12; 54:17
12. To possessthe gates of their
enemies. Gen. 22:17
13. To be lenders of money.
Deut. 15:6
14. To have a monarch . Jere.
33:17
15. To have David's throne
and seed ruling over them.
Jere. 33:17
16. To accept Jesus as Christ.
Isa. 2:3; 41:4-5
17. To repossess Palestine and
invite brother Judah to re-
turn there. Obad. 17:18
18. Though given bill of di-
vorcement, yet to be more
fruitful than married sister
(Judah). Isa. 54:1
19. To be called in Isaac's
name, i.e. Isaac's name to
be an integral part of their
identification . Gen. 21:12
20. House of Israel (10 Tribes)
I Kings 11:31, Isa. 48:1-2
21. Nothing shown as regards
facial features. ·
fUDAH (Cont'd)
9. To be a specially perse-
cuted people.
10. To be repeatedly robbed.
11.To be without a national-
ity of their own.
12. To reject Jesus as Christ.
13. To be a proverb.
14. HouseofJudah (3?Tribes).
I Kings 12:17-21
15. To retain special type of
facial £eatures. Isa. 3:9
All of these items shall be discussed later herein,
each in its proper place. But the attention is di-
rected just now, opportunely so, to the Book of
68 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Jeremiah and its many wonderful prophecies. By
the way of pr.eludeto an examination of these lumi-
nous auguries, it is noteworthy that the House of
Israel had already been taken captive to Assyria when
Jeremiah wrote the Book. Some of the prophecies
were to cover a period immediately ahead of the
time, such as that one foretelling soaccurately Judah's
impending captivity in Babylon for 70years. Others,
however, applied to times centuries beyond Jere-
miah's own days. Yet in sixteen places in the Book,
by actual count, the great prophet refers plainly to
both the House of Israel and the House of Judah,
in words that in some cases are even now being
perfectly fulfilled, 2,520years after the phrases were
first uttered. Now if the House of Israel long ago
ceased to exist, as the agnostic argues, how could it
participate so very prominently in the fulfillment
of age-old prophecies in these modern times? And
just why should Jeremiah include the House of
Israel so abundantly in his words if Israel were not?
Jeremiah's own words, when studied carefully, con-
stitute the strongest of sufficientproof that the House
of Israel still is. In order that the reader may verify
the fact for himself here are the sixteen references
first mentioned immediately above, all of them from
the Book of Jeremiah:
ISRAEL AND JUDAH
3:18
5:11
11:10,17
12:14
13:11
30:3,4, 10
32:30,32
33:7, 14
36:2
50:4,33
69
It should be particularly observed that in each of
these sixteen references Jeremiah specifically ad-
dresses the prophetic utterances to both the House of
Judah AND the House of Israel.
Inasmuch as the Bible ceases to actually trace the
peregrinations and the history of the House of Israel
after it was taken captive by the Assyrians in B.c. 721,
except for such parts of its later destinies as are
written in prophecy, it becomes necessary to dili-
gently search other writings and other testimony in
order that Israel may be definitely and positively
traced down to to-day in an unbrok en line. In this
connection it is most fortunate that some of the wor-
thiest of the ancient historians do quite often men-
tion the House of Israel, apart from the House of
Judah, long after Israel had broken her bonds in
Assyria. This is especially true of such eminent ones
as Herodotus, Josephus, Strabo, Pliny. In concise
summary the actual history of the separateHouse of
Israel after the date of B.c. 721, and for a period of
some twelve hundred years, is this:
70 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(1) The House of Israel was kept captive in Assyria
less than one hundred years. During that period they
continued to multiply very fast and to as rapidly increase
in strength and independence as a unit, so much so that
they proved themselves a grave liability to their captors
rather than an asset. The time soon came when the
Assyrians could no longer dominate or control Israel;
nor were they able to assimilate them into their own
people. It is an item of interest here to know that Ger-
many of to-day is, for the most part, of the blood of the
Assyria of old, that Germany is modern Assyria except
for the fact that its land is now in Europe rather than in
western Asia as it was anciently.
(2) Without hindrance or serious attempt at restraint
by the Assyrians, the House of Israel folded its tents and
migrated in its entirety from the land of its bondage
about the year of B.c. 661. Instead of returning west-
ward and southwestward to their former homeland in
Palestine, the House of Glory (Israel), motivated by
some strange and burning urge, headed due northward
towards southeastern Europe. It is a known truth that
in the year of B.c. 660 Israel, to the number of many,
many thousands, crossed over the river Araxes, out of
Asia into the continent of Europe.* This came to pass,
be it pointed out, while the House of Judah was still
resident down in Canaan, before their Babylonian cap-
tivity.
" It is suggested that the reader consult the maps that are usually
found in most Bibles, if one wishes to trace the wanderings of Israel,
as recorded here.
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 71
(3) At the time of Jud ah's return to Palestine from
their bondage in Chaldea (B.c. 516), the great House of
Israel was at, and adjacent to, Ar-Sar eth in southeastern
Europe, at least a thous and miles removed from Jeru•
salem, and nearly as far from their own former capital
of Samaria.
(4) Upon migrating into Europe, and for a few cen-
turies thereafter, the House of Israel called themselves
the "Sons of Isaac," or "Isaac-sons." Among other proofs
of this fact are the inscriptions, in Hebrew, still to be
found on the many gravestones in the ancient ceme-
teries of Israel in the Crimean area of Russia, some of
which stones, with their inscriptions still decipherable,
are to be witnessed to-day in museums in Moscow and
London, and perhaps in a few other European cities.
There is directly quoted here one of such inscrip•; cms:
"This is the grave of Buki, son of Isaac; may his rest be
in Eden in the time of the deliverance of his people
(Israel). He died in the year 702 of our captivity."
Buki passed on, therefore, in the year of B.c. 19.
(5) Whereas the House of Glory spoke of itself as the
sons of Isaac the other peoples of that day gave different
names to Israel, some of which are as follows:
(a) The Assyrians called the House of Israel by the
name of Khumri, or Kumri;
(b) To the Chaldeans, or Babylonians, Israel was
was Ghimri, or Gimiri;
(c) The Persians knew Israel by the name of Sakae;
(d) In the days of Herodotus the Greeks spoke of
72 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
the House of Israel as Scythians, i.e. the Wanderers, a
very appropriate name indeed.
(e) The Romans commonly spoke of the various
Tribes of Israel of these particular times with which
we are now dealing as "The Barbarians of the North ."
This name, however, is malicious slander, pure and
simple; for Israel of that time was in no sense as rude
and uncouth as it has been painted by its enemies
whom they so frequently defeated in war.
(6) In southeastern Europe the House of Glory still
multiplied very prolifically until in the era of Herodotus,
which was about B.c.450, they occupied an area 500 miles
square, or of 2500 square miles, and filled the territory
between the Black and Caspian Seas and from the river
Volga to the Carpathian mount iJ.llls
. Herodotus compli-
mented them, graciously spoke or them as being a "hand -
some people" and as "wonderful warriors who are in-
vincible in battle." ·
(7) For several centuries Israel bore its various names,
but probably was most commonly called by the Persian
name of Sakae, which means "Sons of Isaac," the same
that Israel termed themselves. The word Sakae is de-
rived from Saac, or I-saac (i.e. Isaac). Other forms of
the same word were I-Saac-sons and Saac-sons, Saac
being pronounced Sak (sock), whence come the later
types of Sak-ae, or Sak-sons and eventually that well-
known and most illuminating one of Saxons.
(8) The rapid increase in the numbers of the House
of Israel as the years sped on caused them to divide, and
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 73
subdivide, into still more tribes, each bearing a new
tribal name. For instance, the Tribe of Manasseh, or
part of it as it expanded, was known at one stage as
Angae while a portion of the Tribe of Ephraim was
called Aeglae, these names obviously being Grecian. The
Ang ae (Manasseh) and the Aeglae (Ephraim) later
blended their respective names into Englae, or Anglae,
or Angli, or that well-known one of Angles. Later
history called them Anglo-Saxons. Certainly Israel of
those times had fulfilled the prophecy that it was to
"lose its name," its original name of Israel. It was like-
wise fast "losing its identity," in the sense of it being
known to themselves and their brethren of Judah. The
great tragedy, however, is that so many millions of to-
day in both the House of Israel and the House of Judah
have not the slightest conception of the fact of exactly
who and what they are, and of their very close kinship as
of to-day.
(9) Still other divided Tribes of Israel, or Isaacsons,
became known by names which are familiar to any
student of ancient history, such as Goths, Ostrogoths,
Visigoths, D acians, Danes (the tribe of Dan), Jutes,
Vikings, Northmen or Normans, etc. These Tribes and
others of Israel were the destroyers of the ancient Roman
Empire, as is commonly known, and all of this over-
running , conquering and destroying was in faithful ful-
fillment of prophecies to that effect, with even the dates
of the important events falling in exact accordance with
those given in the olden auguries.
74 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(10) The great migrations of the Tribes westward
and northward across Europe resulted from the pressure
exerted upon them by advancing hordes of Gentiles
(non-Israel) from the Steppes of Asia. Eventually
Israel's numerous Tribes occupied the Germanic forests,
Scandinavia, the British Isles, and other lands wherein
their direct blood descendants are found by the millions
to-day. The Tribe that "blazed the trails" for these
devious wanderings of Israel was that of Dan, the way-
shower. In Genesis 49:17it is written that Jacob, when
blessing each of his sons from his deathbed, said of Dan
and his seed that they should be a "serpent by the way."
This indicates that Dan's Tribe should in later years
wind its way into new and previously-forbidden lands
by serpentine trails, (i.e. crooked, meandering), and that
Dan should be a hardy, adventurous, divinely-restless,
pioneering blooq. These things are exactly what the
Tribe of Dan did all through the centuries of the grand
and saga-like migrations; and the actual marks of Dan
are found to this very day in many of the proper names
in Europe. In Hebrew there are no vowels, as we know
them in English, and Dan is D'N. The English lan-
guage retains this identical word, except that vowels
are inserted between the two letters "d" and "n." Hence
our quest must be for words containing the syllables
clan, den, din, don, and dun, or just dn. Here are a
few of the many marks of Dan that are, most signifi-
cantly, thus found:
ISRAEL AND JUDAH
Dar-dan-elles
Dan-ube
Dan-zig
Dan-mark (Denmark in English)
Dan-ish (literally Dan's people)
Dan-es (Danes)
E-din-burgh
Lon-don
Dun-kirk
Dun-dee
Dneiper
Dneister
75
The above are but few of the many; but no more are
required for a reasonable mind.
(11) In their destruction of the Roman Empire the
House of Glory overwhelmed all of Europe, northward
to the Arctic, westward to the Atlantic, southward to
the Mediterranean, and even across into northern Africa.
When doing so, and when occupying former Roman
lands for centuries afterward, Israel intermarried with
the Latin and other Gentile bloods of the people resident
there before, during and after the invasions. As a conse-
quence of this there' is to this day a percentage of
Israel's blood, albeit more or less small, in the citizens
of Italy, France, Spain, the Balkans and other lands
which are normally considered Gentile, and who are,
as a whole people, really non-Israel. The Israel strain
76 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
still often crops out in the blonde tendency, and the
"red-head," found in some of the Italians, French, Span-
ish, etc., whose people are normally swarthy and with
dark hair and eyes.
(12) After their great migrations into the Roman
Empire most of Israel proper, the purer part of the
stock that is, settled in Scandinavia, Saxony, Brittany
and the British Isles altho remnants of it are found in
numerous other places as is the case with the Basques
of Spain, to cite but one example. To the Isles (Great
Britain) came, for instance, the Angles, Saxons, Jutes,
Danes and eventually the Normans. But upon their ar-
rival in the Isles these hardy Tribes found their own
blood kinsmen already there, in great numbers, in Ire-
land, Scotland, England, and Wales! The members of
the House of Glory who were already in the Isles, and
whose strain had been there from time immemorial, in
the belief of the author, called themselves Cymry, which
is pronounced Kumri ·
, the identical name that the As-
syrians gave to Israel! The Cymry were Celts, or Kelts,
and Picts and Scots etc.; and all of them, whatever their
smaller tribal names may have been, were the incom-
parable Gaels. {The scribe feels certain within his own
mind that the true land of origin of all the ancient Bible
characters, clear back to Abraham ·
and Shem and Noah,
and even back to Adam, was that of the Isles of Ireland
and Britain. At least every single one of them has a
name that ·is obviously purest Gaelic, and the whole
tenor of the Bible themes is just as palpably Gaelic to
ISRAEL AND JUDAH 77
an enquiring and unbiased mind. Some will claim that
the Gaelic language, and prototype of the Gael's religion,
and their culture, all as they were anciently, were Semi-
tic, or Hebrew, in their origins and that they were trans-
planted to the Isles by the Hebrews of early eras. But
the exact reverse of the premise is the case. "Hebrew,"
so-called, is nothing more than a priestly dialect of the
Gaelic which goes directly and unbrokenly ,back to ante-
diluvian times. To this day a Gael who can speak only
purest Gaelic and a Jew who can speak only purest
Hebrew can fluently converse with each other, each in
his own tongue, and with perfect understanding. Some
of the Gaels or some brother in Judah, or both, may ob-
ject to this strong implication that a modern Sephardim
Jew, if his lineage is carried back sufficiently far, is but a
"glorified Irishman"; but there are ample grounds for
the assertion. This however, is a subject which while
most fascinating as a pursuit is beyond the scope of this
present volume; and concerning it the author, hopes to
bring out a treatise in due season.
CHAPTER FIVE
THE DIVINELY-APPOINTED PLACE FOR
ISRAEL, AND THE WITNESS OF )
THE ISLES
THE BIBLE AND Pyramid prophecies clearly reveal
that the lands to which the House of Israel should
migrate, and in which they should eventually settle,
should be theirs all through "The Times of the
Gentiles," which is a period of 2,520 solar years, or
"seven times." It is also written that in those places
Israel should develop ever-increasingpower down the
centuries until in "The Time of the End" (the pres-
ent time and a little later) they should compose the
chief powers of the world, and that then they should
surely come into their greatest and most precious
inheritance, that of world-leadership and world-
control by the time the Millennium dawns (not be-
fore the year of A.D. 1993).
The Scriptures are very definite also, if one is
able to correctly interpret the signs given, in their
promise of a divinely-appointed place for the chief
homeland of late-day Israel, and in signifying to
78
WITNESS OF THE ISLES 79
which lands the House of Glory should finally mi-
grate and hold as their own for all time. Witness
the testimony of the following quotations regarding
a place divine! y-selected for Israel:
(1) "Moreover I (the Spirit) will appoint a place for
my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may
dwell in a place of their own, and move no more;
neither shall the children of wickedness (the Gentiles)
afflict them any more, as beforetime." II Samuel 7:10
(2) "Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel,
and will plant them and they shall dwell in their place,
and shall be moved no more; neither shall the children
of wickedness waste them any more, as at the begin-
ning." I Chron. 17:9
With respect to these two promises of the Spirit to
His people Israel, it is expedient that the following
factors be carefully noted:
(1) The promises are definite, positive, unqualified,
are without reservation or equivocation of any kind
whatsoever;
(2) The place appointed, or ordained, for Israel was
one in which they could later be planted (by successful
migration and colonization) ;
(3) This land was to be their own as an everlasting
possession;
(4) Israel should nevermore be removed from these
lands (as from Egypt and Palestine) ; and in them they
80 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
should find sanctuary so complete that nevermore should
they be affiicted or wasted by their enemies, as in their
earlier history.
It is advisable, too, to observe yet two more quanti-
ties that are applicable to the passages quoted above,
and which are, to wit:
(1) The place divinely-ordained for the House of
Glory, as a permanent possession, was not Palestine;
(2) The two precious promises directly quoted were
penned before the captivity of Israel in Assyria; hence
they refer to an age future from the captivity.
As a consequence of the scribe's study of the Bible
prophecies it has long been ~is ardent contention
that the first poet-laureate of Great Britain was, or at
least should have been, none less than the mag-
nificen~ Gael and holy prophet, Isaiah, immortal
bard of Israel. All through the Book of Isaiah are
found certain auguries which specifically apply to
the House of Israel and to none other; and especially
not to the House of Judah; and, most significantly,
time after time in these prophecies, which date down
to to-day and beyond, Isaiah directly addresses "the
isles," calls unto Israel as occupants of "the isles,"
etc. Not all of these references can be quoted, of
course, in a narrative of the scope of this one; but ten
of them are given herewith, and now that the cue
WITNESS OF THE ISLES 81
is provided the student may find numerous others
for himself with just a little patient search. The ten
are:
(1) "Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle. ... " Isa. 23:2
(2) "Keep silence before me, 0 islands ... " 41:1
(3) "... and the isles shall wait for His 'law." 42:4
(4) "Sing unto the Lord a new song ... the isles
and the inhabitants thereof." 42:10
(5) "Let them give glory ... and declare His praise
in the islands." 42:12
(6) "... the isles shall wait upon me, and on mine
arm shall they trust." 51:5
(7) "Listen, 0 isles, unto me ... " 49:1
(8) "... to the islands will He repay recompense."
59:18
(9) "Surely the isles shall wait for me ... " 59:18
(10) "And I will set a sign upon them ... to the
isles afar off.... " 66:19
The pertinent question arises here: What isles
does Isaiah address so often, with such stress and
with so much depth of feeling? There are only two
island empires on earth. One is Japan, the other
Great Britain. But it is obvious from the beginning
that Japan does not meet the known nequirements
of the great homeland of 'modern Israel, altho it is
startling to behold that the ruling caste of Japan, who
are called Samurai, which is different from Samaria
82 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
by just one letter, do have some of the ancient blood
of Israel in them. For more light on this matter
reference is made to Bryant's "And It Shall Come to
Pass," mentioned elsewhere herein. The Japanese
Empire is not as yet a "company of nations"; its
state religion is that of emperor-deification and not
Jehovian or Christian; its people are not of the white
race. These and yet other important elements that
might be cited directly contradict the well-delineated
attributes of the House of Glory. But Great Britain
does meet the known qualifications of modern Israel
fully, as the great "company of nations," whose name
according to prophecy had to bear the word "Great"
within it. These facts have already been shown to
some extent herein and more attention will be given
to them before this study concludes. It is a truth
self-evident, therefore, when placed in conjunction
with so many other potent proofs, that the isles to
whose inhabitants Isaiah sang so much and so elo-
quently were and are the British Isles.
Moreover it is both enthralling and enlightening
to check with thoroughness upon the place to which
certain other important Bible characters journeyed
from Judea after the House of Israel had been re-
moved from there. Consider, by way of illustrious
example, another great prophet and masterly poet,
Jeremiah, the illumined and benign. What became
WITNESS OF THE ISLES 83
of him following the defeat of King Zedekiah, last
king of the House of Judah in Canaan, and the fall
and sacking of Jerusalem at the time of the siege
and capture of the hapless city by the Babylonians?
Jeremiah was not carried captive to Babylon with the
balance of Judah, or the greater part of it, such as
survived the war and siege. The mystery is then:
Just where did ·Jeremiah go? The Scriptures state
that Jeremiah, together with the two princess daugh-
ters of Zedekiah, and Baruch, his secretary and scribe,
and "a small remnant of the people" of Judah
started to Egypt; but they did not enter or remain
there because a vision came to Jeremiah and its
portent caused them to "turn aside" from Egypt.
Beyond those words the Bible speaks not any more
concerning the last years and end of Jererniah. But
is all trace of the consecrated prophet lost at that
point? By no means, if one searches diligently in
the right quarters. Other trustworthy writings pick
up the golden thread of Jeremiah and bis beloved
little band in Egypt and carry it unbrokenly through
to an astonishing conclusion which is as follows, in
outline:
(1) About B.c. 585, which was just two years after
the House of Judah was taken captive to Babylon, the
great Jeremiah and a small party landed in Ireland after
84 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
a long passage by sea from the Holy Land and Egypt.
So reads the Irish chronicles.
(2) Jeremiah appeared in the flesh in the Plantation
of Ulster, at Lothair Croffin, capital-city of North Ire-
land; and with him, according to the luminous annals,
were the following persons of note, and sacred objects,
which latter he had reverently carried with him during
all of his travels after having departed from smitten
Jerusalem:
(a) The comely princess, Teah Tamar Teph .
i,
(meaning "Tender Twig," or "Palm Beautiful"),
daughter of King Zedekiah, and the faithful Baruch,
devoted friend and trusted scribe of Jeremiah;
(b)"Two stone tablets which Jeremiah called TARA
("The Law") and which were the stone tablets upon
which Moses indited the Ten Commandments;
(c) A strange, battered but most highly treasured
rock with two iron rings in it, called the LIA FAIL
("The Stone of Destiny"). This rock was Jacob's
own Bethel Stone, which was also "the rock" of Moses
in the 40 years of wandering in the wilderness on the
journey from Egypt to Canaan at Exodus. This self-
same stone, sometimes called "Jacob's Pillow," is still
an infinitely precious heritage in Israel; for it is to-
day beneath the seat of the coronation-chair in West-
minster Abbey; and every English monarch is crowned
and invested while seated upon it!
(d) The Ark of the Covenant;
(e) King David's own golden harp. In connection
WITNESS OF THE ISLES 85
with David's harp it is relevant to note that the harp
is yet another of the many objects whose history proves
a direct connection between Canaan and "The Isles,"
and particularly the one "Isle of the Harpers ," Ire-
land. The sweet-toiied harps of the Psalmist, and
of other bards of Judah and Israel, were not a Hebrew
invention which was later carried to "The Isle of the
Blest." Rather the harp, and the mastery of its me-
chanics, originated with the musicians and poets of
Ireland and was later adopted by their close kinsmen
in Judea.
(3) Shortly after disembarking in Ulster with Jere-
miah the young princess, T eah Tamar T ephi, married
King Herremon of Ireland; and in this well-authenti-
cated fact was another startling p'rophecy radiantly ful-
filled. Both Teah T amar T ephi and Herremon were
direct descendants of the twin sons of Judah, fourthborn
of Jacob, which twins were known as "The Princes of
the Scarl(tt Thread" and who were by name Zarah and
Ph arez. Teah T amar T ephi's lineage came unbrokenly
down from Pharez; and Herremon descended directly
from the line of Zarah. In this hallowed union of the
Hebrew princess and the Irish king were the two royal
houses of Judah reunited into one after a lapse of cen-
turies. But most enlightening of all is this: These two,
Herremon and Tephi, are the noble ancestors of the
present British monarch, George VI, thus proving down
to to-day Jacob's prophetic utterance that "the sceptre
shall never depart from Judah until Shiloh come!"
86 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(4) Jeremiah dwelt among his kinsmen in northern
Ireland for the rest of his days, he having been the much-
honored Ollumfallah, or "Divine Man" of Irish history
of the period. He persuaded King Herremon , or Eao-
chaidh Herremon as he is often called, to change the
name of the capital from Lothair Croffin to Tara. There
at Tara the grand Ollumfallah, Jeremiah, built a col-
lege, the Mur Ollum, for the education of priests. He
erected also at Tara a high, round hill which is still
there and which is the "Holy Hill of Tar a," or the
"Sacred Hill of the Ollumfallah." In that hill Jeremiah
tenderly, safely buried the Ark of the Covenant, the
Commandment Stones and King David 's golden harp.
Insofar as is known the sacred objects are still deep
within the holy mound. Incidentally, the harp is an
important symbol in the Isles to-day. The flag of the
Irish nation shows a golden harp in a field of emerald
green; and in the Royal Standard of Britain is displayed
the image of David's harp plus the images of the Lion
of Judah and Judah's whelps. In due season Jeremiah
passed away in Ulster; and to this hour his tomb, hewn
out of solid rock, is seen on a small island named Daven-
ish in the lake of Lough Erin, or Loch Erne, four miles
below Euniskillen in County Ferm anagh, "Isle of the
Saints." *
In addition to the foregoing it is definitely known
that a noted company of the intimates of Jesus of
* Reference is made to the booklet, "The White Eagle," by J.
Francis Small, for added information concerning ,hese and kindred
topics.
WITNESS OF THE ISLES 87
-/
Nazareth went to Ireland just after the Crucifixion.
In the group were Lazarus, Mary Magdalene,
Martha, and her handmaid, Marcella, a disciple
named Maximin and Joseph of Arimathaea. This
party had greatly vexed the persons in power in
Jerusalem following the Crucifixion. They were all
seized, placed upon a raft which was equipped with
neither sails nor oars, towed out to the open sea be-
hind a ship, and there the raft was cut free from its
moorings. Evidently the authorities behind this plot
felt certain the group would drift helplessly and
perish; but, as has been noted, they did not. In due
time the tides bore the float across the Mediterranean
to what is now the "Port of Seven Seas," Marseilles;
and the entire company was saved. The heroic little
band tarried a while in the city that had proved their
haven, and then Joseph received a cordial invitation
., from certain Druids of high rank in The Isles to
come there with his entire party. This they did; C(
and in the year of A.D. 38, which was just eight years
after the Crucifixion, Joseph and his friends settled
at Yns, Avalon, or Glastonbury where they enjoyed J
the full protection of the British king, Arveragus.
Glastonbury, it will be recalled, was the seat of the
Supreme Druidic Car; and presently it was made
over to Joseph and his group as a gift from the
Crown (Arveragus). It is quite boldly obvious to
one without prejudice, and who will take the pains
j 88 THE HOUSE OF GLORY ·
to inform himself in the matter, that the first Chris-
tian Church was established by Joseph of Arimathaea
and his followers at Glastonbury, England, 20 miles
or so south of Bristol, in the Year of Our Lord 38.
There at Glastonbury the founders of the Church
were soon afterwards joined by the Apostle, Simon
Zelotes, who became their second missionary. A
little later still a third teacher came, a dignitary
named Aristobulus, father-in-law of St. Peter,
brother of Barnabus and a member of the Council
( of Seventy. Anon Aristobulus was ordained the
J first Bishop of the Isles, by no less a personage than
Saint Paul.
It is to "The Isles" then, in conclusion of this
chapter, that the attention of tl1e earnest student is
pointed in his quest of the divinely-appointed place
of sanctuary for Israel, of the place where the Church
was first founded, and as the land that was ordained
as the new and everlasting homeland of the chief, or .
head, nation of the House of Glory. In the Isles
were the powerful young whelps of the Lion of
Judah generated; and to-day we find them grown to
vigorous maturity, great prominence and world-
leadership, outside of and in conjunction with the
Isles themselves, in the mighty nations of America,
Canada, Australia, The Union of South Africa and
others of the blood and genius of the House of Glory.
CHAPTER SIX
CERTAIN SIGNS OF THE PRESENT
HOUSE OF GLORY
wITHIN CHAPTER NUMBER four hereof there was
briefly listed, with little or no comment thereon,
twenty-one signs or marks of Israel as they have been
down through the ages and as they are to-day.
Through an examination of these characteristics, or
distinguishing ·marks, as found reflected in modern
peoples, mighty Israel of to-day may be exactly
identified beyond successful challenge, by both race
and nations. For the sake of convenience, and as an
introduction to the comment on each, the same
points are again displayed here, item by item:
1. Israel wa~ to bear Jacob's name, i.e. Israel. It has
already been conclusively established herein that the
House of Glory bore the proud name of Israel for cen-
turies, from the time of Jacob down to, or a little be-
yond, the days when they were taken captive by As-
syna.
2. Israel was to be "lost." This also has been shown
to have been the case. Israel was scattered "through -
89
90 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
out the north country," as written in Jeremiah 50:6.
Most regrettably, the consciousnessof their exact iden-
tity, and of their exalted destiny in times yet future, is
still "lost" to most of the teeming millions who are
present Israel's members the world over. Here in
America, by way of example, there are 130 millions of
souls. Of this host some 3 millions are Jews. These
Jews, and the other people of the land as well, in most
cases, look upon all who are not Jews as being "Gen-
tiles." This is a most tragic error which, happily, is
being slowly dispelled by the dissemination of the truth
about the vital matter. Perhaps not lessthan 85 millions
of Americans who are of the white race are Israelites
but not Jews even in part. Why then do we persist in
calling these good lsraelitish Americans of to-day "Gen-
tiles"? All of us Americans who are descended from
the following bloods are of Israel, ru1;d,
as is apparent,
the number is legion: (1) Irish, (2) Scotch, (3) English,
(4) Welsh, (5) Swedish, (6) Norwegian, (7) Danish,
(8) Saxon German, (9) Breton French, and (10)
Basque. In addition to these ten bloods which are the
purer strains of modern Israel, but which are undeniably
mixed with some Gentile blood in a more or lessdegree,
there is some of the Israel stock, though in much lesser
quantity, in the Swiss, Italian, Dutch, French and Ger-
man strains which circulate in the veins of a very ap-
preciable number of modern Americans. The truth is,
then, that about the only Americans who are over-
whelmingly Gentile in their origins are the Negroes, In-
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 91
dians and such of the Asiatics as we have here. Largely
Gentile, too, of course, are the Mexicans, the dominantly-
Latin portion of the Italians and French, the dominantly-
Assyrian part of the Germans, etc. Yes, Israel is "lost"
to itself in its great identity, for the most part; but the ·
day is almost at hand when every last member of the
House of Glory will see and know just who he or she
really is.
3. Israel was to be "divorced" from the Mosaic Law.
It is obvious that the House of Israel has long since
fulfilled this prophecy, and that it does not apply to the
House of Judah even to this day. Since the advent of
Christianity the Israel nations have been the leading
promulg ators of the teachings of Jesus and have been
noted as staunchest defenders of the faith.
4. Israel was to lose its name. It has been shown
that this was the case in the statements that Israel was
Israel by name only down to its captivity in Assyria, that
after that they called themselves Isaac-sons for a season,
and that as they grew into a host they assumed other
tribal and sub-tribal names for themselves. To-day the
name of Israel as an appellation which is eminently
fitting for them is lost to them even more completely
than is the consciousness of their identity.
5. Israel was to lose her language. It is boldly palpable
that this is true. Hebrew is not the tongue of modern
Israel, nor has it been their language for centuries. Eng-
lish is the tongue of the greater percent age of the House
of Glory of to-day; and in two respects at least it meets
92 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
the requirements prophesied for it in Isaiah 28:11, it be-
ing by far the broadest in its scope of all the languages
as well as the most difficult to properly master, especially
·for those to whom it is foreign by the fact of their birth
in non-English-speaking lands.
6. Israel of the latter days was to possess·isles of the
sea, coasts of the earth, waste and desolate places, was
to inherit portion of the Gentiles, their seed, lands, cities.
Additionally Israel, in its chief nation, who was to be a
company of nations, was to have its headquarters in "the
isles." "The Isles" designated in the prophecies have
been indicated as the British Isles which are, as it was
specifically augured that they must be, in "the north
country," or "the north quarters'." It is the proud boast
of Brittania that the "sun never sets on the Union Jack";
and it is unquestionably true. She owns many thousands
of isles scattered throughout the seven seas; she and her
fair daughter, Columbia (U. S. A.), together have still
more isles; and they overwhelmingly dominate all other
peoples in their possession of the coasts of the earth and
the waste and desolate places. In North America alone,
for example, it is almost staggering to note the total
miles of the coast-line of the United States, Canada and
Alaska, all of which are Israel's. The area of the waste
and desolate places in western America , Canada, India
and Australia, among others owned by Israel, is, as most
any schoolboy knows, of great immensity. As regards
Israel inheriting the seed, lands and cities of the Gen-
tiles, it is also self-evident that such is true. Witness
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 93
just the one land of India, for instance. The whole of
that vast and fertile region is Israel's, its lands and cities;
and in it millions of Gentiles are possessed and governed
by a comparative handful of Israel in the person of the
British .
7. Israel was to be great and successful colonizers.
What nations lead the world, and have for centuries, in
successful colonizing, in conquering the wildernesses of
the earth and in causing them to bloom as a garden and
to be peopled by many millions? As a single example
of the many one may dwell with profit for a few minutes
upon the magnificent saga of our own American pio-
neers and their great accomplishments in the face of
bitterest adversity.
8. Before incoming and growing Israel other peoples
were to die out. This is likewise self-evident to any
informed mind. To cite an example from distant lands
of Israel in this instance, what has been the fate of the
Tasmanian and Maori natives of Australia and New
Zealand since Israel colonized those two countries of
the "Land Down Under"? A dozen more of the aborigi-
nal peoples of as many lands could be added to the
testimony here were they required in rebuttal.
9. Items nine and ten are placed together here since
they are so closely allied. Israel was to be a head nation;
and Israel was to be a great company of nations. Is not
England a head nation, obviously so? Is not America
another? And with respect to the company of nations
we have a most compelling proof in the undraping of
94 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
them that Britain-America are Israel, testimony which
applies to only one company which is a cohesive unit
in language, customs, culture, commerce, etc. What a
significant array of nations are the following nineteen!
1. England and her "whelps of the Lion of Judah"
Ireland,
Scotland,
Wales,
Canada,
Australia,
New Zealand,
Union of South Africa,
Egypt,
India,
Arabia,
Afghanistan,
Borneo (in part)
and countless isles of the sea.
2. America and her possessionsof
Alaska,
The Philippines,
Hawaii,
Cuba,
Porto Rico
and other insular lands.
Alongside this imposing family of Israel, which is the
greater part of it, the student may list for himself the pos-
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 95
sessions of any other world-power, or group of powers,
and see for himself how little they will compare with
the above in resources and wealth. Britain and America
together, as a unit in Israel, have one-fourth of all the
earth's area and one-fifth of all of its people! ~
11. Israel to be great in war on land and sea. H~re \
is yet another potent and indisputable proof of the
identity of modern Israel. In all of their history since
the Assyrian captivity, which is a span of two thousand
five hundred years, Israel has never lost a war to any
alien people! Single battles, and series of battles, have
they lost, but never a war. And please note carefully
the word "alien" in the assertion above. "Alien" as
used there means non-Israel. Yes, William the Con-
queror subdued the Isles in 1066; but he was a Norm an
and the Normans were a sub-tribe of Israel. Hence
they were not an alien people. Twice America has de-
feated Britain in war; but America is of the same blood,
is Manasseh of Israel. The statement stands as first
rendered above; for there are no exceptions to it. What
heroic men stopped with their long bows, their clay-
mores and their matchless ability as soldiers such mighty
conquerors as the Magyars, the Huns, the Mohamme-
dans, the hordes of the Mongols under Ghenghis Khan
and numerous other invaders alien to Israel? Always
these raiders, however invincible they may have been
before, were eventually defeated when they entered
Israel's confines and clashed with Israel in war. It
would be a display of wisdom for those powers abroad
96 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
to-day who are planning to soon lash out viciously in
battle towards the Israel nations to consider and to heed
the Prophecies of the Bible and Pyramid first, and to
check the eloquent manner in which they have always
been fulfilled, and from these studies draw the correct
conclusion that it would be best for them not to disturb
or arouse modern Israel if they hope to win in their
forays. But, unfortunately, the war-mongers among the
Gentile nations appear to be unlearned in the subject of
the Prophecies, or else they disbelieve them.
12. Israel was to possess gates of their enemies. A
"gate," as used in the prophecies, obviously means a pas-
sage through a barrier, through some strategic point
such as a strait, a peninsula, islands, mountain passes and
things of that nature which often are spoken of to-day
as "gates" or "gateways." By means of placing a map
of the world in front of the eyes, and checking and re-
checking, one may soon determine who owns nearly all
the gates which dominate every sea and continent from
vantage bases, many of these guardians of the ways be-
ing impregnably fortified. It will be discovered readily
that Britain and America stand guard at the greater
part of them. A few of the many noted in the manner
specified are these: Gibraltar, Malta, Suez, Egypt, the
Isles themselves, which are the gates to the North and
Baltic Seas, Panama, the islands surrounding the Carib-
bean on all sides, the Falklands which are the keys to
Magellan and "The Horn," Singapore, Hongkong,
Australia, India, South Africa, Alaska and its far-flung
Aleutians, Hawaii, the Philippines, etc.
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 97
13. Israel was to be a lender of money. Yes, it is
quite justifiable, and hence fully pardonable, for the
"dear taxpayer" to wince and exclaim "Ouch!" when the
sight contacts this one; for it certainly does strike in a
sensitive spot. We of America are still acutely aware
of the billions in cash we sent abroad during the recent
World War, and just following it, for all of which
generosity we have received in return the odious appella-
tion of "Uncle Shylock" and very little money. In all
probability we never shall see the present balance of
these debts paid, except in the case of honorable Finland.
Next to America Great Britain loaned and lost the most
in funds, including much of what she borrowed over
here . Need any more be said to set forth most convinc-
ingly how well the Israel nations of to-day meet this
requirement of their identity?
14. Israel was to always have a monarch. Of the few
monarchies whose royal rulers have not been deposed
during the past thirty years, or so, England is the most
prominent and powerful. Her throne is still intact; and
it is written that it is the "everlasting one," the only one
which shall never be abolished.
15. Israel to have David's throne and seed ruling over
them. This does not necessarily mean all of Israel but
rather the chiefest parts of it. The present line of British
royalty, it has been stated, is descended in part from
King David the Psalmist. The family also comes down
in its lineage, in the same course of ancestry, from an-
cient King Herremon and his princess bride, Teah
Tamar Tephi. Unimpeachable documentary testimony
98 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
of this blood relationship is found in the carefully pre-
served genealogy of the British Royal Family. Accord-
ing to this officialrecord there have been 123generations
from David to George VI, present occupant of the an-
cient throne of Judah. He~e is the list which establishes
the fact beyond all doubt:
1. David the Psalmist
2. Solomon
3. Rehoboam
4. Abijah
5. Asa
6. Jehoshaphat
7. Jehoram
8. Ahaziah
9. Joash
10. Amaziah
11. Uzziah
12. Jotham
13. Ahaz
14. Hezekiah
15. Manasseh
16. Amon
17. Josiah
18. Zedekiah
19. Tamar Tephi (Queen of
Ireland)
20. !rial Faidh (King of Ire-
land)
21. Eithriall
22. Prince Follain
23. Tighernmas
24. Prince Eanbothal
25. :PrinceSrniorguil
26. Fiachadh Labhruine
27. Aongus Oilbhuagach
28. Prince Maoin
29. Rotheachta
30. Prince Dein
31. Sioma Saoghalach
32. Prince Oliolla Olchaoin
33. Giallchadh
34. Nuadha Fionn Fail
35. Simon Breac
36. Muriadhach Bolgrach
37. Fiachadh Tolgrach
38. Duach Laighrach
39. Prince Eochaidh Buillaig
40. Ugaine More
41. Cobhthach Caolbreag
42. Prince Meilage
43. Jaran Gleofathacn
44. Conla Cruiach Cealgach
45. Oiliolla Caisfhiachlach
46. Eochaid Foltleathan
47. Angus Tuirimheach
48. Eanda Aighnach
49. Prince Labhra Luire
50. Prince Blathachta
51. Prince Easamhuin Eamhna
52. Prince Roighneaim
53. Prince Finlogha
54. Prince Finn
55. Eochaidh Feidhlioch
56. Prince Bias Fineamhnas
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 99
57. Lughaidh Riebdearg 91. Kenneth II
58. Criomhthan Niadhnar 92. Malcolm II
59. Fioraidhach Fionfachtnach 93. Princess Beatrix
60. Fiachadh Fionohudh 94. Duncan I
61. Tuathal Teachtman 95. Malcolm III (Caenmore)
62. Feidhlimhidh Reachtmar 96. David I
63. Conn Ceadchadhach 97. Prince Henry
64. Art Aonfir 98. David, Earl of Hunting-
65. Cormac Ulfhada don
66. Cairbre Liffeachaire 99. Isobel Huntingdon
67. Fiachadh Streabhthuine 100.Lord Robert Bruce
68. Muirread hach Tireach 101.Lord Robert Bruce II
69. Eochaidh Moihme~dhain 102.Robert the Bruce I
70. Niall 103.Princess Marjory Bruce
71. Prince Eogan 104.Robert II
72. Prince Muireadhach 105. Robert III
73. Mortough 106.James I
,.-.74.Fergus More (King of 107. James II
Argyll, Scotland) 108. James III
75. Dongard 109.James IV
76.Conran 110. James V
77. Aidan 111.Mary, Queen of Scots
78. Eugene III 112. James I (King of Great
79. Donald Britain)
80. Prince Dongard 113.Princess Elizabeth
81. Eugene IV 114.Princess Sophia
82. Prince Findan 115. George I
83. Eugene V 116. George II
84. Ethafind 117.Prince Frederick of Wales
85. Achaias 118. George III
86. Alpin 119. Edward, Duke of Kent
...-87. Kenneth I 120.Victoria
88. Constantin 121.Edward VII
89. Donald II 122.George V
90. Malcolm I 123. George VI (present king)
16. Israel was to accept Jesus as the Christ. No dis-
cussion of this mark of Israel over and above that al-
100 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
ready written herein is required, the fact of it being fully
evident.
17. Israel was to repossess Palestine and invite brother
Judah to return. Israel in the form of Great Britain ac-
complished this repossession of Palestine from the Gen-
tile (Turkey) during the World War and did invite
Judah to return there. Part of Judah is there to-day,
under the mandate and protection of England. The
fulfillment of these prophesied events is one of the most
dramatic and enthralling narratives in modern history;
but its substance is sufficientlygreat to almost comprise a
volume in itself. For detailed and accurate information
on the subject the author can recommend no finer book
than that of Bryant, "And It Shall Come To Pass."
18. Though given "bill of divorcement" yet Israel was
to be more fruitful than her "married sister," Judah,
Jehovah being the "Husband" implied here. The num-
bers of all of the House of Judah the world over, as of
to-day, do not exceed ten millions of souls. Compared
to this the House of Israel as a unit will conservatively
enumerate not less than five hundred millions, a ma-
jority of fifty to one at least in favor of fruitful Israel,
the "divorced sister."
19, 20, 21. These points have already been elucidated
herein to the extent of requiring no more comment.
Supplemental to the signs of modern Israel listed
above there are yet numerous others which are less
commonly known but which are equally as con-
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 101
elusivein truly identifying the Great House of Glory.
In fact there are as many as 82 of these marks, all
of which apply perfectly to Israel as it is to-day. The
factor of the marks, or signs, of Israel, as it now is, is
the ultimate test of identity, hence the great im-
portance of this phase of things. Some of the ad-
ditional signs are now presented, with at least one
reference given in each case for Scriptural verifica-
tion. A few of them are so self-evident that no
comment shall be made on them. Witness the fol-
lowing:
(1) Israel was to be spread abroad over the earth, to
east, west, north, and south . (Genesis 28:14; Isaiah
43:5-6)
(2) Israel to dwell apart from other nations (Numbers
23:9; Deut . 33:28)
(3) Israel to continue as a nation forever. (II Sam.
7:16-24-29; I Chron. 17:22-27;Jere. 31:35
-37)
(4) Israel to have a new home subsequent to the cap-
tivity. (II Sam. 7:10; I Chron. 17:9)
(5) Israel nations to be wealthy from commerce.
(Deut. 8:9; Isa. 60:5-11 and 61:6)
(6) Israel's new, chief homeland to be northwest of
Palestine. (Isa. 49:12; Jere. 3:18)
(7) Israel's post-captivity domains never to be suc-
cessfully invaded, i.e. by any alien, or non-Israel people.
(II Sam. 7:10; Isa. 41:11-14). This promise still holds
102 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
good, and shall in days to come. N. B., ye totalitarian
powers of the non-Israel blood!
(8) Israel to reign over other peoples but herself to
be subjects of none. (Deut. 15:6)
(9) Israel to be keepers of the Sabbath forever. (Isa.
58:13-14; Ex. 31:14-16-17)
(10) Israel was to carry and spread the Gospel all
over the earth. (Micah 5:7; Isa. 43:21; Gen. 28:14)
(11) Israel to be like a lion (symbol of Britain) (Num.
23:24and 24:9)
(12) Israel nations to have supreme dominion over
the ocean. (Isa. 60:5; Psalms 89:25; Deut. 23:19; Num.
24:7) Is this not reminiscent of "Columbia, the Gem
of the Ocean" and of "Brittania Rules the Waves"?
(13) Israel's were to be the lands of greatest mineral
wealth. (Deut. 33:15-19). One needs but to check this
matter through any good geography to note how amaz-
ingly true this is of modern Israel, particularly of
America and Britain who have the "precious things of
the hills" in great abundance, oil, coal, copper, silver,
gold, iron, etc.
(14) Israel's also were to be the lands of greatest agri-
cultural wealth. (Deut. 33:13-14-28) This is a truth
equally as obvious as is the item immediately above and
may be proved in the same manner as being overwhelm-
ingly true of Britain and America in grains, fruits, cot-
ton, linen, etc., in all of "the good things of the earth."
(15) Israel lands to be envied and feared by other
nations. (Micah 7:16-17;Jere. 33:9; Isa. 43:4and 60:10-
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 103
12; Deut. 2:25,4:8 and 28:10). As an example of this
witness the volume, "Mein Kampf," by Herr Adolph
Hitler. In that "Aryan-deifying"narrative "der Fuhrer"
delineates his great ambitions for his Fatherland with
consummate frankness; and in it he boldly penned be-
forehand some of the very things he has fulfilled within
this year of 1938,notably his annexation of Austria and
of the Sudetenland. There is set forth therein, too, other
grandiose dreams that he hopes to accomplish in days
yet future. But the outstanding feature of the whole
book, insofar as it is aptly concerned with this study, is
this: Herr Hitler expresses the fervent hope that all
through the period of his planned conquests ·he may
know the good fortune of keeping England neutral.
Certainly that is a bit of sagacious observation on the
part of the modern "Little Corporal," who like his pred-
ecessor of the same title (Napoleon) may be afflicted
with delusions of grandeur. It is apparent from his
writings, altho by inference rather than by direct ad-
missions,that Hitler fears the might of Britain although
at the recent Munich Conferencehe "twisted the Lion',
tail" with immunity from peril. At that historic session,
however, Herr Hitler was cognizant of the fact that he
dictated to a Britain who was acutelyaware of her tragic
unpreparedness for a major conflict; but a short time
hence when the great Israel Empire is really prepared
she will no longer "toady" to anyone. Assyria of old
took Israel of that day captive after a crushing defeat;
but Assyriaof to-day (which is Germany) despite all of
104 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
her vaunted might, never will be able to overwhelm
modern Israel in war. It is so written in a Book in-
.finitely greater than "Mein Kampf."
(16) Israel's chief homeland was to lose one of her
children (colonial possessions) and then because of con-
tinued rapid growth was to seek still more room for
expansion. (Isaiah 49:20). This bit of prophecy being
so brilliant, the verse is quoted here: "The children
which thou (Britain-Israel) shalt have, after thou hast
lost the other, shall say again in thine ears : The place is
too strait for me; give place to me that I may dwell."
Most pertinent queries arise now. What "other" does
Isaiah mean? What "child" was the chief mother of
Israel of later days to lose? It is the same one which
Pyramid prophecy also stated would revolt against her
and become an independent nation of its own, a par,
ticularly mighty one, America, firstborn colonial pos-
session of Britain. But she lost it. Following that time,
however, her colonizing ventures were many and most
successful, as prophesied also.
(17) Israel was to lose all trace of her distinguished
lineage for centuries. (Hosea 1:9-10 and 2:6-17; Isaiah
42:16). It has been revealed that this is a tragic fact.
But from this generation forward the true awareness of
her identity will penetrate more and more into the con-
sciousness of Israel's peoples until in due season all of
them shall know it.
(18) Israel was to have a "heathen" (non -Israel) Em-
pire also. Chief of the nations composing her non-Israel
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 105
empire are England's India and Egypt. She has others,
too, but the two given here are sufficient verification.
(Psalms 111:5-6 and 149:2-8).
(19) Two great nations were to spring from the loins
of Israel, both of them from Joseph, the "fruitful bough
by the well," first in intense rivalry, but later they were
to be brothers forever in a common cause and a common
bond. These two are, of course, Ephraim and Manasseh
who have grown into modern Britain and America.
(Gen . 48:13-20).
(20) Israel was not to be found in circumcision
whereas Judah was to continue to so be. (Heb. 8:6-9;
9:17; Acts 15:19; Gal. 3:13) . Circumcision being an
integral rite of the Mosaic Service it has been scrupu-
lously observed by Judah to this day; but Israel, having
been divorced from "The Law" and having embraced
the faith of Christ, long ago gave up the practice of
. . .
c1rcumc1s10n.
(21) Israel to be a haven for the oppressed of the earth
and a liberator of the enslaved. (Isa . 49:8-9, 58:6-7) .
Apropos of these the finest ancestry of modern Ameri-
cans first sought these fair shores as a haven from oppres -
sion. And bringing the matter down to this very day of
November 16, 1938, the daily newspapers give abundant
confirmation that Israel still is the friend of the oppressed
and the foe of the predators. Such headlines as these
almost leap at one from the "front page": "F.D .R. Calls
Envoy to Germany Home"; "Mass Exodus of Jews from
Naziland Proposed "; "Kennedy Gives Britain Plan for
106 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Evacuation of Jews to America, British Possessions";
"German Press Blazes with Attacks Against U.S.A.";
"Roosevelt Sternly Rebukes Germany for Oppression of
Jews and Catholics." It is not at all strange that America
and Britain are deeply compassionate towards the Jews,
nor that they are doing so much to alleviate their foul
persecutions. First of all America and Britain are the
long-lost and beloved big brother, Israel, to modern
Judah; and when Judah cries out in despair beneath the
heel of the oppressor Israel shall help him. Secondly, it
is written that Israel of the latter days would be a fair
haven for, and a champion of, the oppressed and the
liberators of the enslaved.
(22) Israel's lands to be filled with the treasures of
the Gentiles, non-Israel. (Isa. 55:5-16,61:6).
(23) Israel's teachers, pastors, shepherds, and, as a
consequence of them as guardians of the flocks, Israel's
masses to be blind. (Ezek. 34:1-16;Isa. 42:16-20,43:8).
Uncomplimentary, grave, in fact appalling as is this
plain indictment, yet it is obviously true; and since it is a
garment which fits modern Israel equally as well as the
others cited herein it must be worn until such time as,
through purification, we are worthy of the white raiment
that will eventually be ours, just as soon as we have
grown worthy of it in the sight of the Spirit.
(24) Israel to encompass the world. (Psalm 75:2;
Isa. 60:12;Jere. 10:16,51:19;Deut. 32:8-9). ·
(25) Israel's seed to be honored among the Gentiles
(Isa. 61:4-6-9). As yet this is not the case in any ap-
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 107
preciable degree compared to what it shall be in the near
future.
(26) Israel to be merciful and compassionate in victory.
(I Kings 20:31).
(27) Israel to be chief opponent of Anti-Christ at
Armageddon. This prophecy, lamentably, is still future
in its fulfillment, as of 1938;but it is now quite imminent.
All authorities are in accord about this matter and state
that Britain and America, together with their other Israel
allies, shall be the plumed knights who shall champion
Democracy, Liberty, Fraternity, Equality, Christ at
Armageddon. Opposing them will be the spawn of
Draconis, of Communism, Totalitarianism, Tyranny,
Anarchy and Anti-Christ. But Israel shall win, albeit
at a dear price. (Ezek. chapters 38, 39).
(28) Israel to lift up all nations. (Isa. 49:8-9, 61:6).
Israel of to-day leads in all forms of science, invention,
learning, progress, blessings which they are liberally pass-
ing to more backward nations for their enlightenment
and benefit. Witness the tremendous strides of science in
finding cures for, and the causes of, various diseases that
have plagued humanity for generations and which until
recently have been thought "acts of God," incurable and
non-preventible. Then ,there are such things as the
telephone, radio, automobile, airplane, all conquerors
of distance and time and priceless boons to civilization.
Yet when compared to what Israel shall do along these
lines within the next fifty years the above things are al-
most negligible.
108 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(29) Israel to remain in ignorance of her kinship and
extreme proximity to the Creator un til the latter days,
unti l the great revelation is vouchsafed to her again.
(Ezek . 39:7-22-28). This radiant day is even now dawn-
ing, albeit slowly so; and the fair sun of it shall not climb
to its meridian height, bringing with it the beauty and
transcendent glory thereof, for yet a short season.
Now if all these unerring signs from the Great
Light , taken both singly and en masse, are found
to be perfectly applicable to the Gaelic-Celtic-Anglo-
Saxon-Norse blood of to-day, as is the case, do they
not attest most eloquently the fact that the House of
Glory has been correctly identified?
But prolonged as this chapter has become the
charge of the court to the great jury of the informed
public, as it were, is not concluded yet. Still more
startling evidence must be presented now. Witness,
therefore, the following:
(1) The very word "British" is the purest of Hebrew,
d beyond that Gaelic, in its origin. The word is de-
nved directly, and with very little change, from two
I Hebrew words, viz: "Berith," or "B'rith," and "Ish."
The syllable of "Brit" in Brit-ish is merely "Berith" con-
tracted, with its meaning unchanged; and the "ish"
syllable is retained in its original composition. Now it is
not strange, but it is compelling, that the word "Berith,"
or "B'rith," or "Brit" means "Covenant" in English and
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 109
the "ish" means "man," "men" or "son" or "sons." This
being true then British properly and literally means
"Covenant Men," or "Covenant Sons," while Britain, by
the same token, signifies "Covenant Land," or "Covenant
Country." The Covenant referred to in the name is
nothing less than the Covenant, that of Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, Sarah, Rebekah, etc., made with them by the
Spirit. ~-----
(2) Decidedly enlightening as is this derivation and
meaning of the word "British," it is not any more so
than is our beloved word of "America ." Israel of to-day
is indebt ed to Professor Miskovsky, eminent scientist in
etymology of Oberlin University, for the following as-
tonishing facts concerning the true meaning of the name
"America ." America, as we all know, was named for
the geograp her, Amerigo Vespucci . In the Latin form ,
"Amerigo" is "Americus," of which "America" is the
feminine form. The old Gothic (which was Israel) form
of the word "America" was "Amel Ric," which still
I
appears in the German language, slightly corrupted from
the Gothic style, as "Emerich ." "Amel," be it carefully
observed, means "Heaven" while "Ric" means "King -
dom." The modern German word is "Himmelreich," or
"Kingdom of Heaven," or "Land of Harmony," or
"Blessed Land of Peace"!
According to the magazine, "Youth Message," which
is published in London, the following facts are also
apropos. In the Hebrew language the word for "ki ng-
dom" is "Melukh," or "Amelukah." In every language, /
110 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
according to the late, renowned Professor Odlum, the
letter "l" is interchangeable with the letter "r" in certain
circumstances. Hence the ancient word of "Amelukah"
is identical with "Amerukah," which is "America" in its
Latin form. Once again then, and in a different lan-
guage, America means the "Land of Harmony," "King-
~ m of Heaven" and "Blessed Land of Peace."
Perhaps the pessimist shall arise to say the above is a
conception which is "grossly exaggerated," to say the
least. Perhaps it is, viewed from the standpoint of to-
day; yet to many people who dwell in benighted lands,
and there are millions of these unfortunates, it would
seem almost heavenly in contrast to enjoy the blessings
and comforts of just the average American for a brief
season. And more so than in any other land on this
. globe· the actual potentialities of the "kingdom" itself
rapidly are being made manifest in our midst. Let the
"prophet of doom" who thinks otherwise journey abroad
into other countries, as some of us have, and which from
the· distance may seem more roseate in their promised
splendor than ours. Let him tarry there but briefly,
living the life that those really hapless ones lead. Just as
quickly as it is possible unto him, more than likely, he
shall wend his way back to America with a paean of
appreciation and thanksgiving singing in his heart. Here
are just a few very illuminating statistics, for example,
which are taken from an official United States Govern-
ment publication that is on the desk of the author at this
time. These are not "propaganda"; for we do not need
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 111
to propagandize. They are authentic . In substance here
are the exact figures:
l. Fewer than 7 out of 100 people in the world live
in the U. S. A. The figure is almost exactly I-15th of
the earth's people, one in America to every 14 outside
of it;
2. Yet we of America have
35% of all the world's railroads,
45% of all the world's radios,
50% of all the world's telephones,
70% of all the world 's automobiles;
3. And we of America use
56% of all the world's silk,
59% of all the world's petroleum,
50% of all the world's rubber,
21% of such a common commodity
as sugar :
4. The total buying power of labor alone, at the
present standards of wages, of the working men of
America ij__
greater than that of all the men in Europe
combined, and larger than that of the more than one
billion Asiatics I
5. London is not the banking-center of the world·~
we of the U. S. A. actually possess two-thirds of the
civilized banking resources of the whole world!
These facts are not in any sense shown with a
spirit of idle boast. Rather they are given that still
112 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
more Americans may know the truth about the
greatness of their land and their fellow-citizens,and
that knowing the facts they may be more grateful to
their Loving Maker for the blessings He has show-
ered on His dear Manasseh of to-day. Refute the
above,ifyou can, "Mr. Soap-BoxCalamity-Howler!"
Reverting now to the strict text of this study, here
isyet another bit of testimony for consideration. Our
worthy Pilgrim fathers spoke of themselvesas "The
Seed of Abraham, God's Servant, and the Children
of Jacob (Israel), His Chosen." Moreover they
called themselves "A vine out of Egypt into this
wilderness." Thus it would appear certain that the
Pilgrims knew their exact identity as a branch of
Israel through Joseph, thence back to Jacob and
Abraham. Additionally the devout Pilgrims always
used the old Israelite word "led" in speaking of their
wanderings in search of "freedom to worship God"
according to their own lights. Never did they use
the word "driven"; thus they denied that either Eng-
land or Holland had driven them out, as really was
the case. Rather they choseto say and feel that they
were "led" and "planted" by the.Most High; and in
this manner did they selectthe very words the Scrip-
tures themselves employ to indicate how He was to
guide, direct and "tend the fold of Israel as a shep-
herd doth his flock."
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 113
In the face of this infinitely precious hoard of
evidence we may rest assured that the Israel bloods
and nations have been identified rightly. Repeat-
ing yet again in summary, purely for sake of em-
phasis, the purer stock of Israel, as pure as it can
possiblyexist to-day after centuries of blending, and
diluting to some degree, with the Gentile races, is
witnessedin the following:
1. The Gaels, mainly the Irish, Welsh, Scotch, much of
which stock is also deeply infused into the modern
English through centuries of absorption through inter-
marriage.
2. The Anglo-Saxon which settled in the Isles about
1500years ago and mingled with the other Israel strain
already there, notably the Gaels and Celts who are
basicallyone and not two distinct bloods;
3. The Scandinavians, primarily the Swedish, Nor-
wegians and Danes;
4. The Bretons who are mostly found along the coast
of Brittany in France;
5. The Basques of Spain, and in a lesser proportion the
noble-caste Castilians of the same land. By far the
greater part of the Spanish of to-day, however, are
Gentile, of Latin and Moorish descent:
6. The Saxons of Germany, and the Saxons alone of
the present domain of "Assyria";
7. The fews are still a part of the major House of
Glory, altho of the separate House of Judah also. Be it
114 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
(
arefully and distinctly noted here, however, that there
are two kinds of Jews in the world to-day. One of them
s the Sephardim Jew who is of the ancient and eminent
tock of old; the other is the Ashkenazim* Jew who is
Jewish by religion only but who has very little, if indeed
any at all, of the blood or talents of ancient Judah. It is
(
(
this Ashkenazim Jew, and he alone, who has spawned
Communism and the other deplorable features of the
Anti-Christ and who has foisted them on an undiscern-
ing world to its great detriment,. The Ashkenazim is
vastly inferior to the Sephardim Jew, to whom he is no
blood relation in most cases, inferior in stock, mentality,
spirituality and works. If it is the Ashkenazim "Jew,"
who is not a Jew at all in reality, who does so many of
the evil things, and he it is who is guilty in most cases,
then why heap the blame for his foul acts so unjustly
upon the aching backs and good name of the lordly
Sephardim who really is of the ancient royal line of
Judah, and of which noble strain mostly came none less
than Jesus of Nazareth? Some of the very greatest
scientists of this world of to-day, as in all centuries past,
are Sephardim Jews. As one who has no Jewish blood
at all, as one who is dominantly Gaelic in his lineage and,
therefore, an Israelite and not a "Gentile," the scribe is
honored to lay proper kinship, albeit somewhat distant,
to the modern Sephardim Jew for whom he has nothing
but brotherly love and the profoundest respect.
\
* Conundrum: Can you find the word "Nazi" within the word
"Ashkenazim"? Where then is the noble "Aryan"? He is a myth.
PRESENT HOUSE OF GLORY 115
8. All of the Gentiles who profess belief on and follow
the teachings of the Creator, the All-Light. This state-
ment may be very surprising to some; but it should not
be so to anyone who reads the Scriptures aright. Let us
make an end of bigotry. Let us not indulge in any more
"jingoism"; heaven knows there has been no dearth of
this unholy, poisonous substance among men for a long
time; and of the jingoism, of racial false pride, and the
allied evils that spring from them, are born the wars and
cruel afflictions of this planet. The Bible itself plainly
teaches that the Spirit "is no respecter of persons," that
He loves all equally because all are His, that even the
fool is as precious in His sight as the man of saintly
genius. The Bible states plainly in scores of places tha~
all who believe on Him are Israel, the Blessed House of
the Illumined. There is a countless host, therefore, who
are Gentile by accident of birth who positively are Israel
by adoption through their acceptance of spiritual truth;
and the Law is that a child by actual, factual adoption is
an heir and joint-heir also, is one who shares equally with
the one who is born of Israel in all of the precious
heritage of the Promises. This being so, and it is obvious
that it is, then Israel has millions in its midst who are of
the Gentile strain, including fully as justly many who are
black, yellow, brown, and red by race. These we must
welcome also into the bosom of Israel; and we do, if we
really believe what is written. If the Maker is "no
respecter of persons," regardless of color or of any other
attribute, why should any of us who are·merely human
116 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
as yet set ourselves up as judge and jury over any of our
brethren? Of course it is a fact that some people are
born with, or later acquire and develop quite fully,
talents which far outweigh in values those of other peo-
ples. If this were not so, then there should not be any
leadership of nations, nor of individuals, each along the
line of his greatest genius; and palpably this i'sthe case.
But those who have been greatly blest with gifts more
precious than have some of their brothers and neighbors
should remember that the talents were not vouchsafed to
them as implements wherewith to belabor, oppress, ex-
ploit, enslave,or even criticiseor "lord it over" their own
brothers and sisters in the Spirit. Humanity is one, not
many; it is a unit not a group of entities each of which is
separate and apart from the others. One cell, or indi-
vidual, of the holy unit can not ever hope to injure in
the slightest degree another of the component cells, or
individuals, without doing an even graver injury to him-
self,and consequently injuring all the other parts as well.
This is expressed so eloquently and powerfully in the
well-known but all too-infrequently observed "Golden
Rule." In wisdom it behooves those who are the more
blest to faithfully use their talents in helping, lifting up
and edifying towards the eventual goal of spiritual per-
fection the ones who are lessfortunate. Such is the Great
Teaching. Such is the True Light.
CHAPTER SEVEN
LOOKING FORWARD
IN THIS, THE concluding chapter of this study, let
us gaze with all possiblepenetration into the future
destiny of the House of Glory, just as we have noted
herein its past and present estates.
Due to the fact that the radiant auguries are quite
abstruseand technical in some of their mathematical
phases and time-elementsit is possiblefor one to err
in the date that some major event of the future shall
transpire; but it would seem that the events them-
selvesare indicated with clarity. For this reason one
may be quite certain of just what things shall come
to pass on earth in the future, at least down to, if
indeed not through, the roseate dawn of the Mil-
lennium of Splendor.
Whilst these words are being penned it is noted
that eleven months of the year of Grace 1938have
slipped away; and it is readily apparent that still
there are "two worlds" on earth, as in the days of
the Deluge. One of them is the same in its charac-
teristics that it has ever been; but it is now greater
117
118 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
in its scope than formerly since it has driven its
vicious tentacles into every land and deeply into the
midst of all peoples. It is the "Gentile world" just
as it was of old; it is, quite properly, the "under-
world"; its denizens are of the evil tribes of the
"Twelve Princes of the Darkness," whose abode,
mystically, is the fell region of "The Purple Arch."
Consequently its devotees,at the present low st~geof
their spiritual development, are those of Draconis.
It is they who have spawned, and are now spawning,
the things of the darkness, of ignorance, of super-
stition, of vindictiveness and spiritual degeneracy,
from all of which arise the howling chaos of "wars
and rumors of wars," all sorts of crime, grievous
economic uncertainty and lack and myriad other
tribulations. Happily, there is opposed to this "Gen-
tile world" another and a much fairer world which
shall dissipat5 it utterly in due season just as the
bright sunlight of morning dissolves the cold mists
of night. This latter is the "Israel world," the great
"overworld" of the illumined, the just, the innocent;
it is the world of those who know Him and who do
His works, whose "reward is now with them and
their work ever before them," as James has it. La-
mentably, and yet again as it was in the days of
Noe, the latter are in the great minority to-day.
Because of the almost overwhelming numerical su-
LOOKING FORWARD 119
periority of the forces of the darkness the nations
and the peoples of the earth of to-day and the im-
mediate tomorrows are in the greater part affiicted
with the evil fruits so noticeable on every hand. In
their orbit about the Parent Sun the "underworld"
and its votaries have swung far out to a most dismal
aphelion from which they shall not soon return.
Their signs are clearly shown in the Prophecies; and
their inheritance is a hapless one until there dawns
for them, too, in the more or less distant future, a
brighter and a fairer day. But as for "my people
Israel," as the Most High speaks of them, the pros-
pects are very bright; for them the halcyon days are
very near; in their orbit they are fast approaching
the warmth and splendor of a most beneficent
perihelion from which they shall wander nevermore.
Unhappily, the auguries for the ·period immedi-
ately ahead of 1938are unpleasant to contemplate if
they are viewed in the hazy light of the superficial
hum an sensesonly. Moreover, and regrettably, there
are many who .still seem to believe that it is possible
for the darkness to engulf them permanently and
to overwhelm them in the ends of "death and ob-
livion," to quote their own words, this in the bright
face of an inexhaustible resource of true testimony to
the contrary. For the consideration and comfort of
these it is thought expedient to first submit some of
120 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
the more precious of the evidence that it may serve
as "a lamp unto the feet and a light upon the path."
If one has first beheld the glory which mantles the
heights as with an aureole, even from the depths of
the darkness, and carries the burning inspiration
thus acquired with him while walking in the valley,
he shall not stumble or faint. Neither shall he be
sorely beset by weariness. Rather he shall find his
strength ever renewed in a measure fully commen-
surate with his needs. If one has any gloomy fore-
bodings about every last soul in Israel being rescued
in the end, let him but feast his eyes and his under-
standing upon these cherished Promises:
1. ", .. ye shall be gathered one by one, 0 yechildren
of Israel." Isa. 27:12
2. "... with great merciesshall I gather thee," (those
who have the light of Israel). Isa.54:7
3. "... it is the day of Jacob's (Israel's) trouble; but
he shall be savedout of it." Jere.30:7
4. "... I will break his yoke from off thy neck
(Israel), and will burst thy bonds." Jere. 30:8
5. "Therefore, fear thou not ... neither be dismayed,
0 Israel; for, lo, I will save thee from afar, and thy
seed ... and Jacob shall return, and shall be in rest,
and be quiet, and none shall make him afraid." Jere.
30:10.
6. "For I am with thee, saith the Lord, to save thee
LOOKING FORWARD 121
... I will not make a full end of thee.... " Jere. 30:11
7. "... and all thine adversaries (evils), every one of
them, shall go into captivity ... " Jere. 30:16
8. "For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal
thee of thy wounds, saith the Lord .... " Jere. 30:17
9. "... He that scattered Israel will gather him,
and keep him, as a shepherd doth his flock." Jere.
31:10
10. "... I will sift ... Israel among all nations, like
as corn is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least grain
fall upon the earth." Amos 9:9
11. "Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither
shalt thy land any more be termed Desolate. But thou
shalt be called Hephzibah and thy land Beulah: for the
Lord delighteth in thee; and thy land shall be married"
(fruitful). Isa. 62:4
12. "He shall cause them that come of Jacob (Israel)
to take root: Israel shall blossom and bud, and fill the
face of the world with fruit." Isa. 27:6
13. The promise that Israel's last foe shall be humbled,)
that Israel shall be fully restored, multiplied and glori-
fied, is repeated five times in the one Book of Jeremiah.
See the following: 23:8,30:3, 46:27-28,50:4-5-6, 50:17-
18-19-20.
The Promises, of which the above are but samples
picked at random, are sonumerous they alone would
fill a volume of considerable scope. No more of
them can be directly quoted here. But some more of
122 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
the references are given now; and the reader is urged
to study them for himself:
Job 22:21 to 30, incl.
Job 5:19 to 27, incl.
Isa. 10:20-21-22
Isa. 11: 1 to 9, 11 to 16
Isa. 27:12
Isa. 51: 3-11-16-22
Isa. All of chapters 41, 42, 43,
44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 54.
Deut. all of chapter 28
Deut. all of chapter 33
Psalms as follow: 23, 50, 72,
91, 107, 112
, 114, 121, 125
,
133, 135, 139, 146.
How anyone may dwell upon in thought and
absorb all of the Promises listed·here, and the thou-
sands of others which run all through the Books of
Prophecy, and yet doubt, or question, or be fearful
of our future destiny, is an enigma which quite
transcends understanding. It would seem that one
could not avoid being greatly comforted by these
Promises, and impregnably fortified against the fu-
ture, come what may. With the immortal words of
the Prophets singing in our hearts along with the
lingering resonance of the harps which of old ac-
companied their utterance, and thinking with the
mind rather than with uncontrolled emotions, let
us now look with serenity upon the prophecies for
the near future, knowing that to be forewarned is to
be forearmed. Here they are, in briefest possible
form, except for the one which deals with the Mil-
lennium:
LOOKING FORWARD 123
1. Fifteen years of the "War Cycle" of forty year~
duration yet re~ain, as of the year of 193$. This means \
that there shall be "wars and rumors of wars" continu-
ously in some sector of the globe .down to the termina-
tion of the ride of "The First Horseman" not later than
August 20, 1953~ Between now and the end of this
particular tragic epoch fifteen years hence there shall
transpire, among other scattered conflicts such as are
(
now bemg waged in Spain and China, a Seven Years
War in which the Israel nations shall participate as a
unit It is in this war, which is mentioned elsewhere)
herein, that the battle of ~mageddon will come as the
consummation of the carnage. Certainly all indications
of this day, as gleaned from the various avenues of com-
munication, are ·pointing in the direction of the mani-
festation of this prophecy in our midst in the near future.
But let it be especiallynoted with gratitude and rejoic- J
ing that after 1953 men shall war no morel It is s/
written.
2. Coinciding with the remainder of the "War Cycle,"
and especiallywith the latter part of it, and probably as
a direct result of the wars with their consequent whole-
sale squandering of the funds of nations, there shall be
an extreme economicchaosfor the whole earth, a terrific
"financial earthquake" which shall cause the utter col-
lapse of the present money-system. Are the signs of the
times not fast tending towards the fulfillment of this
prophecy, too? One needs but to scan the billions of the
armament totals of the nations of to-day to feel acutely
124 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
aware of the certain end to which the prodigality is
leading. But there is room for cheer here, too, if one
views the matter in its higher, ultimate light. It is this
very collapse of the present unstable and inequitable
economicsystem which shall prevent any more warring
among the nations after 1953;and dear as is this price
to pay the consequent era of peace shall be worth it, and
to spare, especiallyso when seen in the added light of
the early establishmentof a new and much better money-
systemfor the world's people,which happy occurrenceis
undeniably promised. Except "the old things pass away"
how can there be room for the new? This is the law
of progress.
.3. Immediatdy following 1953there will comeanother
"Forty-Year Cycle" in which the three others of "The
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse"shall ride over the
face of creation. So read the prophecies. The Revda-
tion names the "Four Horsemen"; so did Jesus, as His
words are recorded in verse 7 of the 24th chapter of St.
Matthew. The "Second Horseman" is Famine which
shall follow in the wake of the "First," War. Then
comesthe "Third Horseman" who is Pestilence;and the
"Fourth," and most thankfully the last one, is named
Earthquakes and Floods in Divers Places.
4. After these 55 years of heavy "tribulation" there
shall dawn an era of such magnificenceas the people of
this sphere have never witnessed, at least not in this
present "Grand Cycle of Seven Thousand Years," of
which the Millennium of Splendor will be the grand cul-
LOOKING FORWARD 125
mination; for it is the Millennial Age which shall come
in all of its radiance and glory in the near future, com-
paratively stated. The Golden Age can not come, it
seems clearly indicated, before the year of 1993and not
later than that of 2001. It is written that "no man
knoweth the day or the hour" of the era's coming; and
strangely, as if in fullest support of the foregoing quoted
phrase, there is a lee-way,or allowance,of seven years in
the matter in the Prophecies.
Apropos of the Millennium of Splendor, which
shall arise from the ashes of desolation in august
majesty like that immortal bird, the radiant Phenix,
much has been written in the Great Lights; and
from the abundance of the sacred lore one may
fashion an accurate, if composite,picture of the bril-
liant era. A brief resume of it, each item of which
is supported by ample testimony, is given below.
The author has given this theme the profoundest
contemplation of which he is capable; and although
there are some who call him "Dreamer" to him the
outline submitted seems neither rhapsodical nor
grandiloquent. It would be difficultto magnify the
glories of the Millennial Age even if one were so
disposed. In their consummate fairness they are
almost beyond the vision of us who are of to-day.
Neither do the features presented here violate any
of the "laws of Nature," as some "defeatists" may
126 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
allege. But they do extend to a very great range
beyondthe present scopeof most of us who are as
deficient in our powers of conception as we are
lacking in the effulgenceof the True Light. Here
then is not a "fool's vain dream" but a previewof
the earth as it shall be in the days of many now
living:
There shall be one thousand years of actual "peace on
earth good will towards men." To many this concept
may seem "ultra optimistic," to say the least; but the
assertion stands as rendered. People who are truly en•
lightened do not, can not, will not war!
An actual, factual, practical, demonstrable "Brother-
hood of Man" shall prevail on earth for one thousand
years. In that age of truest spiritual effulgence each
person shall know that, regardlessof color,blood,talents,
or other characteristicsthat one may possesswhich are
different from those of some other people, humanity is
One and not many, is not as many as there are individ-
ual members of it The only aristocracythere shall be
will be a highly-evolvedspiritual one with the value of
one's works aloneas the open sesameinto it. One's posi-
tion in the societyof that day shall not be a matter of
fortunate circumstancesof birth, nor shall it be a matter
of the degree of one's wealth. Sheer merit will be the
entree into the councils of the mightyI All things of
elemental values shall belong to all people as a unit.
Each individual shall know that all good things are
LOOKING FORWARD 127
the Creator's and shall ceaseusing such words as "mine"
and "thine." Rather all things will be called "His"
and "ours." Each shall strive diligently and in joy for
the good of all; none shall plan and labor to the ends of
self to the detriment of others. Yet in those happy days
each person who submerges his whole identity in work-
ing for the common good will be personally enriched
beyond belief. None shall have too little of any good
and needful thing; by the same token none shall have
overmuch while others are in want. There shall not be
both "prince and pauper"; all shall be princes!
There shall be no armies, no navies, no armed police,
no armed forces of any character. "Arms" such as we
know will not be required by those who are fortified
within and without by the full power of the Spirit.
There shall be no prisons, no insane asylums, no hospi-
tals, no orphanages, no paupers' homes. Neither shall
there be locks on doors, or crime, or poverty, or disease,
or even death, the "last enemy to be conquered." All
contagion shall have been banished from the earth and
along with it all pain. People shall not know such
things as tooth decay; there shall be no bald; neither
will any wear spectacles or other artificial aids towards
the better functioning of some physical organ. Success-
ful and complete bodily rejuvenation will be easily ~c-
complished if and when required. This will probably
be obviated, however, by the capacity of each person to
retain indefinitely the full beauty and vigor of blooming
youth.
128 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
It appears certain that there shall be no marital dis-
cord or divorce and that there will be no birth-control.
The women of that era, being spiritually illumined to
the fullest, knowing that no evil of any nature can
possibly harass their beloved children, and being aware
that neither in gestation nor birth can there be any ill-
ness, pain or danger, will happily and frequently fulfill
the holy destiny for which they were created. When
they bear a child they shall know that it will not be
looked upon by any as a "brat" but that it shall be seen
by all in its true light of an actual angel in the first
stage of its seraphic development. Which of the Master
Builders can fashion anything as great as, or greater
than, a potential angel? A fruitful woman can become
the mother of such; and a man can generate them.
Hence the two in connubial union are the most blest of
all created things. On the other hand it may be that
during the Millennium children shall be procreated by
the not-impossible process of ectogenous activity, this be-
ing easily conceivable for the age in which what we of
to-day would term "miracles" shall be commonplace.
Whatever the future process of begetting children may
be, it is certain that the earth shall be filled with them
during the Golden Age. Their happy babble and
bubbling laughter will be the sweetest of music to all
ears. Through them is human life perpetuated on this
plane and progress made from generation to generation
adown the years.
The chemistry, physics, music, art, literature and
LOOKING FORWARD 129
other sciences of that day shall be of such exalted genius
as to make the best of ours pale into comparative unim-
portance. People shall be able to circumnavigate the
globe between dawn and dusk of the same day, or
quicker still. No wires or instruments, nor even wire-
less or radio sets and equipment, will be required for
instant communication to any corner of the blessed
earth. Communication will be a matter of sheer mental,
or spiritual, powers alone, whatever the distance. There
shall be no slothful. Superman of that era shall be of
divine intensity in his activity because he will be divinely
inspired. He shall cause the whole world to "blossom
and bud"; there shall be no "waste and desolate places."
Even the last frontier of the polar regions will be con-
quered and made productive, as will the jungles of the
tropics. In fact there shall be neither polar nor tropical
areas. Man shall temper both of them and have abso-
lute dominion over the elements . There shall not be
too-high temperature in summer nor too-low in winter.
There shall be neither tornado, hurricane, blizzard, flood
or drought. This may come to pass as a consequence of
man's eventual harnessing of the prodigious power in
the tides and the rays of the sun and his making of them
his faithful servants. Again it may, or may not, result
from man's ability to release under perfect control the
immeasurable force, now dormant and unused, in atomic
energy.
Those of the glorious tomorrow shall not eat as we
eat. They shall not devour great quantities of foods
130 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
which in their "refining" have been robbed of most of
their values; nor more especially will they eat meat.
They will believe that had the Creator intended for
humans to subsist either wholly or in part on flesh He
would have equipped men with fangs and claws such
as have the predators. Superman shall subsist entirely
on foods compatible with his innate nature, ones rich
in concentrated vitamins taken in perfect balance. He
will not imbibe harmful liquids; nor will he habitually
use narcotics and stimulants.
Of all created things mankind, genus homo sapiens
of the present, lives the most un-naturally. This is the
root of many of his grievous afflictions. Nearly all other
forms of physical life, in the average, have a period of
vigorous maturity which ranges from eight to twenty,
or more, times the span of their infancy and adolescence,
as it were. Witness such common examples as the croco-
dile, the elephant, the parrot, a host of others. By this
same law of Nature alone, if observed by men, our years
should range from 160 as a minimum to a maximum in-
determinable, but certainly up to and beyond 500 years.
But man is blessed with a most precious gift which the
other created forms do not possess; his is the boon of
the Holy Spirit resident within him! Through acquaint-
ing himself with this he will walk in its Light; and thus
he will live .in truest harmony with his nature. As a
consequence of this man can and will live on this earth
indefinitely, yes over a vast span of days. Isaiah states
in verse 20 of the 65th chapter that the time will come
LOOKING FORWARD 131
when if one dies at 100 years he shall be but "an infant
in days." Moreover in verse 22 of the same chapter he
says: "... for as the days of a tree are the days of mine
people; and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their
hands." In this chapter Isaiah was writing of the "lat-
ter days," of the Millennial glory. It is because of pas-
sages such as these, which are but two of many of their
type found in the Scriptures, that we may be sure that
Methuselah and others of his close kinsmen did live in
the body for well over 900 years, and that this was but
their natural span. Yet during the Millennium men shall
live that long again, and even longer. Indeed as the
· oak and the sequoia shall be their years! Nor is this
yet the ultimate, great though it is; the infinitely precious .
boon of immortality, yes even in the flesh, is definitely
promised also.
Each mortal of the Radiant Age shall know that
man's nature is four-fold in one conception and three-
fold in yet another, the former aspect being that of body,
mind, soul and spirit and the latter one that of mind,
soul and spirit. They shall not develop body or mind,
or both, to a high degree of efficiency while soul and
spirit are neglected like a garden overgrown with rank
weeds, as do we. They shall exercise and develop soul
and spirit equally with their other attributes, or even
above them; yet all factors will be in perfect harmony,
each with the others. Thus each will establish within
himself or herself that beatific state of Perfection known
as equilibrium in union, union in reciprocity!
132 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
During the Millennium there shall be but one govern-
ment the whole world over. No doubt it shall be a
highly spiritualized and greatly glorified democracy.
Certainly it will be "of the people, by the people and
for the people" in fact as well as in ideal. Justice shall
not wear a hoodwink then; instead it shall be tempered
with the quality of divine mercy which will make of it
justice in the light, justice that is just.
There shall be but one basic religion in all of the
earth; and it shall be that of the True Light. Its sole
purpose will be to "feed the sheep," as Ezekiel so aptly
states it. It will be a religion which really will free all
people/ It will not overstress forms, rites and cere-
monies. That religion will allow each to worship ac-
cording to his own conception of it; and since all persons
of that time will be fully illumined spiritually real free-
dom in religion will be universal. The place of worship
will not be designated for the people; the place of it
will be any place and every place, wherever there is a
reverent human heart in which the Most High may es-
tablish and tend His Radiant Altar. The time of wor-
ship will not be a .certain day of the week, nor yet will
it be certain hours of any day. Rather the time of it
will be all of the time! That religion will not be a some-
thing to be put on and taken off like a mere cloak; it
will be manifested actually in every thought and deed
of men. The only thing of which it will be intolerant
will be intolerance. It will have nothing "temporal"
about it, not even its membership; for in that day each
LOOKING FORWARD 133
person will know that he or she is not "just human"
but really Divine. That religion, being utterly scientific
itself, will not be afraid of, nor have the slightest con-
flict with, pure science; instead it will work hand in
hand with science, proving all things and holding fast
to all of those which are true and good. It shall not
embrace nor propound any false concepts; in it will be
no bigotry, or restriction, or favoritism, or limitation.
Among its manifold blessings it shall have "healing in
its wings." People of that day and that religion will
believe that he or she who refrains from doing evil only
because of the fear of the punishment which the commis-
sion of wrong inevitably brings is a craven in whom
there is little virtue. They will know that to do good
solely because it is good is to be almost of the stature of
an angel. They will know that he who really does his
very best in all things, according to his degree of wis-
dom, shall be given endless opportunity to do better
still as his understanding expands. Truly the great re-
ligion of that day will be "the Light of the world"; and
in its benign and potent aura all will be lifted up in
ultimate Perfection unto eternal life!
All of these wonderful things, plus many more
which must be omitted from this present study, are
definitely prophesied for the magnificent age of the
immortals and the demi-gods. Perhaps some may
scoff at or protest these things, saying that they
simply can not be and particularly so in days which
134 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
shall dawn sosoon. But they will be, most assuredly!
Lofty vision such as the Prophets had must always
precede the accomplishment of great and noble acts;
and whatever man can conceive man can do, with
abiding belief in his bright ideal and perseverance
in his task. The Great Author sayeth that all of
these things shall surely come to pass through His
Light and Love and Power.
In the actual realization of the halcyon estate of
the Era of Splendor on earth those who are of the
Light of Israel, irrespective of blood, will take the
lead in drawing all soulswithin the effulgent bourne
of the Major House of Glory. As they themselves
perceive the Light more and ever more fully in its
rising degrees of luminosity, as they will do in a
rapidly-accelerating manner henceforth, even all
through the imminent chaos which shall scourge
the "world of darkness" but not the "world of the
Illumined," they shall spread the good tidings and
the fullest consciousness of them among all other
peoples of lesser fortune and thus help uplift and
exalt all who live towards the gleaming goal of
spiritual perfection at its zenith. In the doing of
this Israel shall employ radiant example only, not
idle precepts or vain and self-righteous mouthings.
Israel will not drive or goad; neither will he appeal
to or stimulate fears in the "sheep" with shouts of
LOOKING FORWARD 135
"wolf!" Instead the Enlightened of the House of
Glory will lead them in true humility, and in deepest
compassion and profoundest tenderness, even as the
Good Shepherd leadeth His flock into the bright
security of the Eternal Fold.
Still a little more is appended now, in conclusion,
since it is anticipated that some may ask: "But what
about those who are already dead? What about
those of us who will die before the Millennium of
Splendor comes?"
The Great Lights are like a vast panoramic picture
which all may view personally if they wish, and as
much as they may desire. But what each seesin, or
gleans from, the viewing is entirely up to the indi-
vidual. For one factor, does not much depend upon
the perspective from which the grand painting is
studied? Also does not the degree of reverence, or
the lack of it, which one manifests towards the im-
mortal canvas hinge upon the amount of under-
standing within the heart of the beholder? It is the
God-given and positively inalienable right of each
person to think upon and believe about "death," or
any other matter with which the Scriptures deal, as
he may best please, with complete freedom of
thought and conclusion. If haply he is wrong, that
is a matter which should be strictly between his
Maker and himself; and in due season he himself
136 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
will discover his error and have the opportunity to
turn unto the True Light. With this liberty of
understanding prevailing let's examine the matter of
the "last enemy" (death) carefully, calmly, and
withal in the light of the Testimony. In the con-
ceptions of some of us the following points are
definitely, positively taught by the Prophets, in
scores of places, from Genesis through the Revela-
tion:
(a) No person has ever "died," nor can any hum an
ever "die," in the sense of perm anent sleep or of annihila-
tion, as some profess to believe, for the simple and obvi-
ous reason that it is an utter impossibility for any human
to "perish." It is appare nt, of course, that at what we
call "death" we move out of the temple of clay which we
inhabit for a season on this plane. But does the vacated
and insensate body, which is left behind when mind,
soul and spirit soar, of itself constitute proof that he or
she who so recently resided in the frail shell is "dead"?
(b) Some of us know, £or ourselves only, that the
spirit which lives in the depth of men had its holy origin
in the Bosom of the Creator, that the innate spirit is
nothing less than a Divine spark from out of His Im-
mortal Flame, that it is an integral part of His Essence.
How then can it ever be "destroyed" or "die"?
(c) The Light assures some people that all things
whatsoever which are unlike the Most High are un -
LOOKING FORWARD 137
natural, that all evils are un-natural and that they result
in our lives because of man's resignation towards them
and his fatalistic acceptance of them as being inevitable,
that such things come to us only because of our lack of
wisdom concerning our true nature and of our failure to
recognize and believe unwaveringly in our most-intimate
and eternally-indissoluble relationship to the Elohim.
"God in the midst of thee is mighty!" It is His will
towards us who are "made in His image and likeness"
that we should forever manifest in our lives and circum-
stances that own likeness unto Him who is All-Light,
All-Good. Sometime, somewhere, here or hereafter, each
of us must and will show forth His Light in its Per-
fection!
(d) Viewed in this conception, some of us know that
it is Armanius, the "Old Adversary and father of lies"
who says to one bereft: "See? What did I tell you?
Thy beloved is dead!" But deep down within the soul
of each of us our doting Father has placed a holy Voice.
Its song we may hear any time, yes even ceaselessly, if
we will but harken unto it rather than to gloomy and
false counsel. Some call this inner Voice "conscience,"
some the "still small voice within, " some this, some that.
The author has his own personal names for it, however;
he calls it "The White Dove," and at other times "The
Harper." It is his most intimate, his most treasured, his
most trusted and his most devoted Friend. It is his tried
and true and wise Counsellor. It is that Silver Voice of
138 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
the Almighty which speaks first as well as last, and
hence with utter finality, on the subject of "death ." It is
It which will forever sing sweetly and tenderly within us,
if we will let it do so, counsel of this wise:
THE SoNGOF THEWHITE DoVE
1
To whom hast thou been harkening, life of Mine Life?
Why makest thou Mine belly bitter with thy lamenta-
tions?
Why obscurest thou Mine Light with mist from thy
tears?
Wist ye not that thou art of Mine own Body and Loins
and Womb ahd Mind and Soul and Spirit?
2
Lift up thine eyes to the heights, thou dweller in the
valley!
Am I the Grand Master among the Masters of the
Master Builders?
Or am I a destroyer? Can I be both? Thou knowest.
That which I buildeth I fashioneth well and forever!
3
Do I surrender Mine white dove to the adder as a prey?
How then will I give the Dragon dominion over thee?
How then can death, which I know not as darkness,
swallow Mine immortal bird who soareth?
LOOKING FORWARD
4
139
Which of Mine daughters, being wise, bringeth forth a
man child and casteth him to a she-wolf to suck?
How then will I, who treasureth thee infinitely more,
permit thee to feel the fangs of Draconis?
5
Which of ye, beholding the empty case of a chrysalis,
mourneth in the belief that the lowly pupa which
only yesterday lived within his silken house hath
ceased to be?
Doth not one know that he which wast a mere worm
hath but broken the bonds of his captivity, and that
he now soareth on gorgeous wings as Mine dainty
and beauteous butterfly?
Doth one doubt that surely he now flitteth among the
bright and fragrant flowers of Mine garden whereon
Mine sunlight dwelleth?
Art thou whom I madest in Mine own image and like-
ness less than a pupa?
6
Consider thou Mine cicada, even Mine humble locust.
Seventeen years spendeth he in the dark ground.
But is he dead? Thou knowest.
Whilst he is buried he developeth Mine power to resur-
rect himself!
Verily, he cometh forth at last into the light and bursteth
his shell that he may fly and sing.
140 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Art thou lessin Mine sight than a cicada?
How then can ye question that Mine own for whom
thou grievest surely shall rise again?
Have not Mine Prophets told ye that man is immortal?
Have they not said that there is resurrection?
Then why weepest thou?
7
Who save the owl and the coyote,seeingMine beneficent
sun sink in peace and rosy grandeur at even, setteth
up a dolorous serenade unto Mine peeping stars?
At serenest gloaming do I not flood the soul of Mine
beloved with tranquillity and ineffable benediction?
Doth not the fair majesty of Mine golden moon bear
eloquent witness that just an hour to the westward
Mine lord of day still shineth?
Dost thou weep for him, and fear, lest anon he will fail
to climb Mine eastern hill in transcendent glory to
bring and bless another day?
Thine holy departed for whom thou mournest is not
dead! He is with Me! I see him! He beameth
brighter than Mine sun!
8
As for Mine gleaming star which gloweth yonder in
the sky like a gorgeous solitaireon a cushion of black
velvet, what of it?
Thou knowest its name and its distance.
LOOKING FORWARD 141
The radiance which thou hailest left that star ten times
one thousand light-years ago.
What a mighty gulf is that!
Yet didst the darkness devour Mine rays in their long,
long journey?
By whose power didst they traverse that vast abyss in
safety?
If I careth for them so tenderly, why believestthou that
I shall forsake thee whom I lovest most of all?
Light calleth, answereth Light!
9
What of gold, Mine noblest metal, which I hideth deep
in the bowels of Mine mountains that thou mightest
delve for it and in the digging thereof grow strong
and wise?
Doth Mine gold dread the processesof its refining?
It rejoiceth alike in all of them, whether water, cyanide
or fire.
It knoweth that it is Mine gold, that after the muck and
dross are removed from it it shall shine in the light!
10
Why croweth chanticleer while it is still night?
He knoweth that dawn approacheth; but his eyestelleth
it not to him.
Why singeth Mine nightingale in the darkness? Thou
knowest.
Why doeth likewise Mine mockingbird?
142 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
The hours o.
f Mine day are not enough for him to sing
his fluent praises unto Me!
11
And as concerns Mine skylark, what of him?
When is it that he trilleth so triumphantly?
Is it when he plummeteth towards Mine earth or while
couchant in Mine grass?
Or is it when he soareth out of thy sight into Mine azure:
depths?
Who prompteth him to rise and sing so joyfully?
Whose voice employeth he?
Verily, I say unto you: Thou, too, shalt rise and sing!
12
What then is the direction of that dream at the prospect
of which thou quailest?
Answer thou Me, for thou knowest !
It tendeth not downward into the valley of the shadows.
Surely it leadeth upward , ever upward, even unto Mine
Secret Heights!
Thou whom I lovest forevermore descendest not into
an abyss.
Rather ye climb a sunlit hill to the soothing strains of
Mine Harpers!
After thou crawlest thou walkest; after thou walkest
thou soarest!
Verily, thou soarest seven times upward; and Mine Light
is with thee all of the way!
LOOKING FORWARD
13
143
Through the Keystone of Mine Rainbow Arch thou shalt
ascend!
Surely thou shalt journey through Fair Aahlu, Mine
Luminous Fields of Light wherein dwelleth angels
as the stars.
. Truly thou shalt stand in peace before Mine Throne of
Splendor high in Pleiades!
Thy light shalt be bright, yea very bright, even as bright
as Mine Shekinah!
He who waiteth there for thee shalt say to thee:
I sawest thee even as thou soardest in Mine Luminous
Ways.
Thou hast not gone a-dying, Mine innocent White
Dove; thou hast come living unto Mel
Fold thy wings, Mine Immortal Bird; fold thy wings
and wander from Mine Bosom nevermore!
hou hast attained Mine Empyrean Summit on Alcyone!
Enter thou, Mine Immortal Bird, into rapturous union
with Light, Great Creator!
Blend thou, Mine White Dove, with Me into Mine
Greater House of Glory!
Postlude
Thus singeth the White Dove whose spirit is Trans-
cendent Beauty.
Thus singeth the White Dove whose Soul is Infinite
Serenity.
144 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Thus singeth the White Dove who is Alpha and Omega,
the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End
of Everything, Everywhere, Forever!
Singeth the White Dove: "Yea and Amen!"
HERE ENDETH THE GOLDEN SCROLL EVEN
WHERE IT BEGINNETH, DEEP WITHIN
THE RADIANT HEART OF PEACE.
LOOKING FORWARD
13
143
Through the Keystone of Mine Rainbow Arch thou shalt
ascend!
Surely thou shalt journey throu gh Fair Aahl u, Mine
Luminous Fields of Light wherein dwelleth angels
as the stars.
. Truly thou shalt stand in peace before Mine Throne of
Splendor high in Pleiades!
Thy light shalt be bright, yea very bright, even as bright
as Mine Shekinah!
He who waiteth there for thee shalt say to thee:
I sawest thee even as thou soardest in Mine Luminous
Ways.
Thou hast not gone a-dying, Mine innocent White
Dove; thou hast come living unto Mel
Fold thy wings, Mine Immortal Bird; fold thy wings
and wander from Mine Bosom nevermore!
Thou hast attained Mine Empyrean Summit on Alcyone!
Enter thou, Mine Immortal Bird, into rapturous union
with Light, Great Creator!
Blend thou, Mine White Dove, with Me into Mine
Greater House of Glory!
Postlude
Thus singeth the White Dove whose spirit is Trans-
cendent Beauty.
Thus singeth the White Dove whose Soul is Infinite
Serenity.
144 THE HOUSE OF GLORY
Thus singeth the White Dove who is Alpha and Omega,
the First and the Last, the Beginning and the End
of Everything, Everywhere, Forever!
Singeth the White Dove: "Yea and Amen!"
HERE ENDETH THE GOLDEN SCROLL EVEN
WHERE IT BEGINNETH, DEEP WITHIN
THE RADIANT HEART OF PEACE.
