{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 6629 1259 1784","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v4_5_july_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V4 July 5 1886","mylang":"de"}
1886.] The Possibilitie8 of Mal-Observation. 75
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Monday, July 5, 1886.
The twenty-first General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on
Monday, July 5, 1886.
PRoFB880R BALJ'OUR STBWART, F.R.S., PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR
The following paper was read:-
IV.
THE POSSIBILITIES OF MAL-OBSERVATlON IN RELATION
TO EVIDENCE FOR THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM.
By C. C. MAssEY.
In his opening address at the first general meeting of this Society,
the President, Professor Sidgwick, while expressly evading "the diffi-
culties of detennining in the abstract what constitutes adequate
evidence" of the phenomena called Spiritualistic (as well as of thought-
reading and clairvoyance) nevertheless concluded with the following
general statement of the sort of proof at which we .ought to aim.
"We must drive the objector," he said, "into the position of being
forced either to admit the phenomena as inexplicable, at least to him,
or to accuse the investigators either of lying or cheating, or of a blind-
ness or forgetfulness incompatible with any intellectual condition except
absolute idiocy." 1
As I am about to maintain that much of the existing evidence for
the phenomena in question already places objectors in the dilemma
thus succinctly indicated by Professor Sidgwick, I must ask leave to
point out, with some approach to particularity, how, and under what
circumstances, I conceive the dilemma to arise. This is the more
necessary, because it will have at once occurred to all of us that the
dileIDIna does not arise in the case of conjuring tricks, to which the
1 Proceeding6. (Vol. i., p. 16.) izedbyGoogle
76 The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation. [July 5.
phenomena we are considering are usually referred by the incredulous.
No one thinks the worse of his own or another's intelligence for not
discovering a conjurer's trick; but most of us would feel ashamed of
mistaking a conjurer's trick for a genuine manifestation of an unknown
force. Nor is there, so far as I am aware, any mediumistic phenomenon
on record which absolutely defies simulation under all circumstances
and all conditions of observation. The whole evidence is a question of
these circumstances and conditions. and to demonstrate that a conjurer
can bafBe observation under inferior conditions of these phenomena is
quite beside the mark. We have to judge the evidence, as to answer
an .argument, at its best. The success of the conjurer with even the
most intelligent spectators. depends on their overlooking the true. con-
ditions of the performance, and this again depends on their attention
not being directed to the particular operation which decides, or is the
condition of, the result. Any spectator who knew ea:actly what to
observe would have already discovered the trick, and a very little
practice in observation would enable him to detect the actual tour tU
force by which it was accomplished. This remark, of course, does not
apply to the secrets of machinery, or elaborate scientific apparatus, and
it is perhaps true that pseudo mediums and thaumaturgists have availed
themselves of such mechanical means. But none of the phenomena
relied upon by Spiritualists and the maintainers of a psychic, or nerve.
force are at all explicable by contrivances which could bafBe the well-
informed observation of even an adept. If the medium is a conjurer,
he may, of course, have some simple preparations, but to bring them
into play he must succeed, as other conjurers do, by the ignorance of the
witnesses of the particular thing to be done, on which all depends. By
this particular thing I mean, as will appear when we come to consider
the opportunities of a conjurer at a mediumistic sc!ance, one definite act
or operation which, under the circumstances of the experiment, haa
become the indispensable condition of the conjurer's success. In an
ordinary conjurer's performance this never is known, and observation,
therefore, wavers and is distracted by this uncertainty. The moat
important thing is, perhaps, just what never would occur to the mind
as important at all. I shall endeavour to show (1) that at mediumistio
sittings. under the best conditions. this uncertainty does not and cannot
exist; and (2) that even inferior powers of observation, equipped with
knowledge of the exact thing to be observed, and associsted with
average intelligence, are competent to bafBe any conjurer in the world,
provided only that the conditions of observation are physically easy.
There must be sufficient intelligence to know that a conjurer's sole
chance in that case lies in the possibility of withdrawing your attention
from the single perception required of you. Very little will is required
to be secure against this, because a domina~itizid~~hf for a
1886.] The P088ibilities of Jfal-Ob8ervatWn. 7'1
moment in abeyance, is immediately re-excited by any foreign action,
possibly designed to lay it completely asleep. This especially applies,
as I know by my own experience in the slate-writing sittings, to offers
of converaation, changes of hand induced by fatigue, and so forth j
jealous vigilance is aroused by the smallest modification in the
conditions.
In the June number of our Journal, only issued a few days ago,
Mrs. Sidgwick takes up a position apparently opposed to the reception
of general testimony of these phenomena, so far as they occur in the
presence of professional mediums, and must be established by obser-
vation of any degree of continuity. This is a plain issue, and one on
which it behoves us to have a clear opinion.
Now there is one broad distinction between the medium and the
conjurer which ma.kes it possible to get evidence with the one which
the performances of the other can never afford. On the hypothesis of
mediumship we should expect to be able to reverse one essential
relation of conjurer to spectator, so that the latter shall be no longer a
mere observer or looker-on, but shall be himself the principal actor in
all the preparations, while the physical activity of the medium is
reduced to the minimum. The conjurer can only mask his essential
performance by his incidental and apparent performance. By this
activity he obtains two indispena&ble advantages. For, first, he
imposes on the spectator a multitude and succession of observations in
uncertainty of the precise essential point to which attention should be
directed to prevent or detect trickery. And, secondly, he is enabled
to distract attention, or to impose inferior or impossible conditions of
observation with regard to the particular operations which have to be
concealed. We may, therefore, be quite sure that in order to baffle a
conjurer it is only necesB&ry to undertake all preliminary manipula-
tions ourselves, and so to make our arrangements that mere observation
has only to be directed to a single fact of sense perception, or at most
to two or three such facts well within an average capacity of
simultaneous or successive attention j and, further, that the conditions
of this observation should be the easiest possible. If, moreover, we
can reinforce the confidence which everyone must feel in his own senses
up to a certain point by adequate contrivances to dispense with actual
observation of any important particulars, we shall reduce the problem
to the most extreme simplicity that human experience admits of. For
testimony to phenomena obtained under such conditions to be of the
highest evidential value, it is only neceBB&ry that the witness should in
some way assure us that the observation, thus simplified and directly
designated by the preparations, was in fact made, or that when this
assurance is not explicitly given, it is only because failure of the
observation, under the circumstances, would have been !D.consis~nt
Digitized by ~oo81e
78 The Po88ibilities of Mal-Observation. [July 5,
with a sane and waking condition. If there is any possibility left for
observation to guard against, we m11St be satisfied that it was either
such as could not have escaped attention, or one to which attention WIJ8
actually directed. In that case, he only can question whether observa-
tion has really performed its office who doubts the capacity of the
human mind and senses to take in the most elementary facts of
perception.
Now I submit that testimony of this highest value exists, and exists
even in abundance. But it will be perfectly idle to adduce cases in
i1111Stration of this proposition, if every case in which the evidence is
apparently free from. defect is assumed to be incorrectly described.
That is the assumption which Mrs. Sidgwick is prepared to make,
because in her view observation is defective, not only in what it
omits, but in what it seems to assert.l I shall presently endeavour
to show that this can only be true of general statements which
fail to discriminate the elements of an observation, and which
under the name of observation give us only a mental result instead
of testifying to individual and indivisible acts of perception. And
as to important elements which are assumed to be lost for
observation, we shall have to see of what nature they must be,
of what character and dimensions--in order that they may affect the
result. And then the appeal must be to universal experience of the
degree to which the senses can and cannot be stimulated by external
occurrences without arousing attention suffi.cient for lively perception
with notice by a waking man. It is true that mental preoccupation is
pro tanto sleep in regard to everything upon which the mind is not
actually engaged, and this preoccupation it is which the conjurer is
supposed to induce. But it is always the nature of the particular
act in each case to be performed by the conjurer unobserved,
which must determine the degree of preoccupatiou in the witness
necessary for the accomplishment of the former's purpose. Now,
as regards this, if the l'ontive observations of the witness respecting
the physical conditions are generally trustworthy, we get thereby a
measure of the conjurer's indispensable physical interference, and thus
of the degree of stimulation to the witness's senses by such interference.
1 .. The juggler's art consists largely in making things appear as they are
not. Can we suppose that it has caused facts which did not occur to be
ima,¢.ned, and facts which did occur to be overlooked, to the extent required to
make the cases before us explicable by ordinary human agency!" (J01,rttal
p. 332.) As Mrs. Sidgwick has .. no hesitation in attributing the performances"
(those with which she was dealing) .. to clever conjuring," though she says that
.. certainly some of the phenomena (U ducribed seemed to be inexplicable by the
known laws of nature," this p08itive conclusion evidently requires the poBitive
&88umption of mis·description.
Digitized by Coogle
1886.] The P088ibiUtieB of Mal-Observation. 79
In proportion to that stimulation must be the degree of preoccupation
for observation to fail. 80 that it will not do to urge the abstract truth
or experience of the liability of the mind to momentary preoccupation
during a prolonged observation: we must in each case compare the
degree of preoccupation supposable with the degree that is then and
there requisite for the conjurer's purpose. And here the appeal must
again be to common experience.
Having regard to the limits of our time, I am obviously unable to
do more on the present occasion than offer a few samples from the
bulk, and even as to some of these I must content myself with a brief
reference to the essential character of the evidence as illustrating the
points I have in view.
Now I will first take two or three of the experiments devised and
instituted by the late Professor Zollner with the medium Blade, select-
ing the briefest suitable accounts that I can find. The following will
be found at p. 39 of the translation entitled TramcendeneaZ Phyric,.
ZOllner says :-
I took a book-alate, bought by myself j that is, two alates connected
at one Bide by Cl"08II-hinges, like a book, for folding up. In the
absence of Slade, I lined both alates within, on the sides applied to one
another, with a half-aheet of my letter-paper, which immediately before the
sitting, W88 evenly spread with lamp-black lOOt. This slate I closed, and
Slade consented to my laying it (which I had never letoutof my handsafterI
had spread the soot) on my lap during the Bitting, so that I could continually
observe it to the middle. We might have sat at the table in the brightly-
lighted room for about five minutes, our hands linked with those of Slade
in the usual manner aboDe the table, when I suddenly felt on two occaaiona,
the one shortly after the other, the slate pressed down upon my lap, with-
out my having perceived anything in the leaat visible. Three raps on the
table announced that all W88 completed, and when I opened the alate there
W88 within it, on the one aide, the impreaaion of a right foot, on the other
aide that of a left foot.
And this was just what Zollner had himself desired with a view to
obviate possible objections to a similar phenomenon obtained pre-
viously under inferior conditioDL
Now I submit that this experiment reduces the supposition of maI-
observation to the extreme of absurdity. It would appear from the
account that the experiIr1ent was proposed to Blade only immediately
before it was tried, 80 that there was no time for the preparation by
Slade of a slate to be substituted for Zollner's. But as we are now on
the point of observation, I will suppose for the moment that possibility.
It will then be seen that Zollner's statement expressly excludes the possi-
bility of a substitution bifore he placed the slate on his lap, 80 that Blade
'Would have to effect it with his feet afterwards, and that though the slate
Digitized by Coogle
80 The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation. [July 5~
was all the time partly in Zollner's view, and when the least sensation
would have instantly drawn his eyes to the spot.
I pass to another case from the same source (p. 81).
The experiment, says Zollner, was as follows :-
I took two banda out out of 80ft leather, " oentimiltree long (about
15 inohes) and from five to 10 millimiltres broad (1 to f inoh), and fastened
the enda of each together, and aealed them with my own seal. The two
leather banda were laid separately on the card-table at whioh we Bat j the
seals were placed oppoeite to one another, and I held my band. over the
banda (ulhown in the plate). Slade Bat at my left side, and placed his
right band gently over mine, I being able to feel the leather undemeath all
the time. Presently, while Slade'. banda were not touching mine, but were
removed from them about two or three decimiltres (from eight to 12
inches), I felt a movement of the leather banda under my banda. Then
came three raps on the table, and on removing my hands the two leather
banda were knotted together. The twisting of the leather is distinctly seen
in the plate, copied from a photograph. The time that the banda were under
my banda wu at mOlt three minutes. The experiment was in a well-lighted
room.
Here the arrangements had reduced the office of observation to the
simple points (1) whether the banda lying before his eyes on the table
were in fact connected at the moment Zollner covered them with his
handa; (2) whether Slade could and did touch them when they were
thus covered; (3) whether Slade could or did either knot them at the
moment Zollner removed his hands, or then substitute others for them.
If anyone thinks that either of these things could have happened un-
observed, I can only say that I am sure he will not get any honest
conjurer in the world to agree with him.
The following fact, from my own experience with the same medium,
Slade, may be fitly adduced here.
It was in New York, on the evening of the 14th October, 1875,
and was publicly recorded by me shortly afterwards, from notes taken
immediately on my return to my hotel after the sitting. And my
recollection of it is still perfectly distinct. It was at Slade's own room,
brightly lighted with gas. The floor was carpeted. We sat at a table
in the centre of the room, three of us, Slade opposite to me, my friend
Colonel Olcott at the end on my left and on Slade's right. There was no
one else present. Slate-writing experiments were proceeding between
Olcott and Slade, when a chair on my righe-at the end of the table
opposite Olcott-was thrown down by some undetected force. I got
up, felt round the chair for any attachments, and then,producing a tape
measure I carried with me for the purpose of my investigation, I took
the shortest distance between the medium and the chair, as the latter
lay upon the floor. It was just five feet, and on resuming my seat I
Digitized by Coogle
1886]. The Possibilities of Mal-Observation. 81
could see a good clear space between the table and the prostrate chair.
Meanwhile, Slade had not moved from his seat, and I requested him
not to stir, and asked that the chair, which lay on my right, and which
I could watch as nothing intervened between me and it, might be picked
'Up and be placed by 1M. There was an interval of perhaps two minutes,
during which time the medium, still engaged with Colonel Olcott,
remained seated in the same position, as I know, because my range of
vision from where I sat took in the whole general situation, though,
as the prostrate chair and the free space of floor between it and the
table were the main things to be observed, I kept my eyes steadily in
that direction, and never lost sight of chair and floor for a moment.
Suddenly I saw the chair move along the ground a few inches towards
me, and in a direction slightly oblique to the table, and then, as I
watched it and the open space between it and the table, medium, and
everything else, it was jumped upon its legs and deposited at my right
side, just as if some one had picked it up in order to take a seat beside
me. No mediumistic phenomenon that I have witnessed has made
stronger or more lasting impression upon me than this one.
On another occasion I was sitting alone with Slade in bright daylight,
when his chair was drawn suddenly and considerably back, with him
upon it. I at once pushed back my own chair from the table so as to
command a full view of Slade's whole person. I then asked that my
chair, with me upon it, might be drawn back. This was done almost
immediately, to the extent of two or three inches. There could be no
question either of Slade's agency in this, or of any unconscious action
of my own, as I could, and did, see Slade from head to foot, and there
was no time for gradual tension of the muscles of my own legs and feet
against the floor in analogy with the process which no doubt often
occurs in table-turning or tilting with contact of hands. I could
multiply instances from my own experience in which observation has
been similarly simplified and facilitated. When this is the case-and
it will be found to be the case in a very large number of records-I
contend that it is perfectly indifferent whether we are experimenting
with a professional or with a private medium; and that the largflRt
margin we can rationally allow for unknown possibilities of conjuring
cannot prevent the issue being reduced, as is desired, to one simply of
the veracity of the witness.
I must, therefore, take exception to the statement of Mrs. Sidgwick,
in the paper read at our last meeting, that the evidence is "so seldom
experimental; that is, that the observer so seldom knows beforehand
what will be the precise phenomena and conditions."l The precise pheno-
1 Abstract of Mrs. Sidgwick's Paper in the May number of the Journal.
I had not before me the full text, now published in this volume. G I
izedby o~g e
82 The PoBBibilities of Mol-Ob8e1'1Jation. [July 5,
menon in the case of the slate-writing mediums, for instance, is always
known beforehand, unless we confuse the term .. phenomena" and
"conditions," i.e., conditions of observation. The only variation is in
the possibility of imposing tests supplementary to ocular observation,
and these usually originate with the observer himself. I may instance
a case recorded only the other day (Ltght, May 22nd), in which the
observer, Major Ie Taylor, went three times to Mr. Eglinton, each
time obtaining the writing under a new test premeditated by himself.
He did this on the very principle recommended by Mrs. Sidgwick, of
allowing a very large margin for conjuring and for defects of observa.-
tion. As to the conditions of observation, they are known beforehand
in all those cases and very numerous they are-in which the pheno-
menon is obtained under conditions of observation prescribed by the
observer himself. In Zollner's above cited cases (and others could be
adduced from his book) phenomenon, test, and conditions of observa-
tion, were all prescribed by himself. In both my cases of the chairs
(especially the first mentioned) the phenomenon was prescribed by
myself, and, equally in both, the conditions of observation were the
best conceivable, because the very simplest. Mr. Eglinton's mediumship
is especially remarkable for successes obtained under tests and conditions
imposed by observers. In addition to Major Ie Taylor's case, may be
mentioned, as illustrations, several others with this medium. Thus, on
January 5th, of last year, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., goes with his wife
and sister to Mr. Eglinton-these four being the only persons present.
Mr. Wilson suggests obtaining by psychography an extract from a
closed book.
Accordingly (he Ia)'ll) Mn. Kimber (hie aister) wrote on a alate the
number of a page; Mrs. WilBon the number of a line, and it remained for
me to choose the book from which Mn. WilBon'a line of Mn. Kimber'a page
was to be written by psychography on the alate. For this purpose, with
closed eyes,1 I took a book from the medium'a shelves, which held about
200 volumes. A crumb of pencil waa placed upon the alate, on which Mrs.
Kimber and Mn. WilBon had written the number of the page and line
respectively. A second alate of exactly the same aize and form was placed
over this one, and the book waa put by myself on the top of the two alates.
Mr. Eglinton and Mrs. Kimber rested their hands on the book.
It ahould be noted that :-
1. Precaution had been taken that no one besides Mrs. Kimber knew
what number she had written on the alate to expreB8 the page to be rec.ted,
the same being true of the number Mn. WilBon had written to expreBS the
line of that page.
1 The experiment waa partly devised to test the presence of an intelligence
outside the minds of all the sitters.
Digitized by Coogle
1886.] The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation. 83
2. The Blates and book were all on the top of the table immediately
before the eyes of all present. (The Bitting wu by daylight.)
3. The medium did not touch the book until the moment when he and
Mrs. Kimber rested their handa thereon. It had been handled by myself
alone.
After the lapse of a few aeconda the BOund of writing wu heard
within the Blates. Upon the uaual aignal of three raps (alao seemingly
within the slates) to indicate the end of the experiment, 1 examined the
ala.tea, and found the following sentence, written on the under one, with
the pencil resting on the full sOOp at the end. (I may mention that all the
writings throughout the entire ~ance were conacientioualy punctuated, and
that every t wu croaaed and every i dotted.)
"Page 199, line 14, is a table, the Jut word is '0'."
Mrs. Kimber had written 199, and Mrs. Wilaon had written 14.
1 then opened the book (GhoIe'. I",dia", Chief., RajaA., &c., Part II.)
and turned to p. 199, which commences thua; "Table A. Estates belong-
ing to the Hon. Maharaja Jotundra Mohun Tagore Behadur," &c.
The 14th line is u follows;-
" ShlkharbA.te, 24 Pargannaa, 210 0 O."
Now though the form of Mr. Wilson's statement that the book had
been handled by himself alone, before he put it on the slates as they
lay upon the table before the eyes of all present, does not expressly or
necessarily import that it had never been out of his hands from the
moment he removed it from the shelf, I do not think anyone can
seriously suggest that Mr. Eglinton had the several opportunities un-
observed:-
1. Of reading page and line on the slate, although we are told that
precaution (very easy to take) was taken against this Vf!ry thing.
2. Of getting possession of the book, opening it, and finding page
and line.
3. Of writing those 12 words and figures with their six t's and i's all
crossed and dotted on the slate.
Were that possible, my own conclusion would be that human obser- ,.
vation, under the simplest and easiest conditions, and with attention
directed to the self-devised tests to be guaranteed by the observation, is
absolutely worthless for any purpose and under any circumstances
whatever. And I would here refer to the sensible remarks of Mr. G.
A. Smith, upon a similar experience of his own with Mr. Eglinton,
which will be found at p. 301 of the Journal.
Other investigators with Mr. Eglinton have obtained tests similar
to the above, with variations devised by themselves, making the
operations to be performed unobserved by the medium still more com-
plicated. I will only here refer to the experiment recorded by Mr. J.
S. Farmer and Mr. J. G. Keulemans in Light of October 17th, 1885. It
is too long to quote, but should be referred to as showin~ wretlerRt~
DI Ized by G 20 <
84 The Possibilities of Mal-Ob8ervation. [July 5.
and ingenious arrangements observers can sometimes make for their
satisfaction with results entirely successful. Other cases will be found
in the June number of the Journal. The following instance, recorded
by Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace in the SpectaWr of October 7th, 1877, is
another illustration of the security an investigator can command by
taking all the arrangements into his own hands. The medium was
Dr. Monck. Mr. Wallace says:-
The sitting W88 at s private house at Richmond, on the 21st of laat
month. Two ladies and three gentlemen were present, beaidea m)'llelf and
Dr. Monck. A shaded candle was in the room, giving light sufficient to lee
every object on the table round which we sat. Four small and common
alatel were on the table. Of theae I chose two, and after carefully cleaning
and placing a amall fragment of pencil between them, I tied them together
with a Itrong cord, p&SBed around them both lengthways and croaawise, so &8
effectually to prevent the slatea from moving on each other. I then laid them
flat on the table, without losing sight of them for an instant. Dr. Monck
placed the fingers of both handa on them, while I and the lady aitting
opposite placed our handa on the comers of the slatea. Frmn, tAw
pnitwn our hatilU 'cere t~ f1Wt'6d till I untied tAe Blatu to aacertain tAe
ruult. Uter waiting a minute or two, Dr. Monck asked me to name any
short word I wished to be written on the slate. I named the word "God."
He then asked me to say how I wished it written. I replied" Lengthways of
the alate," and then if I wished it written with a large or small g. I chose
a capital G. In a very ahort time writing W&8 heard on the slate. The
medium's hands were convulsively withdrawn, and I then myself untied the
cord (which was a atrong silk watchguard, lent by one of the visitors), and
on opening the slatea found on the lower one the word I had &8ked for, written
in the manner I had requeated, the writing being somewhat faint and
laboured, but perfectly legible. The slate with the writing on it is now in
mypo88e88ion.
The e8l8ntial featurea of this experiment are that I myself cleaned
and tied up the slates, that I kept my handa on them all the time,
that they never went out of my aight for a moment, and that I
named the word to be written and the manner of writing it after they were
thus secured and held by me. I ask, how are these facta to be explained,
and what interpretation is to be placed upon them 1
ALFRED R. WALUCB.
1 W88 present on this occaaion, and certify that Mr. Wallace's account of
what happened is correct.
EDWARD T. BBNNBT'l'.
In other cases it is the character itself of an unexpected pheno-
menon which leaves no escape from the evidence other than suppositions
of mendacity or hallucination. The following instance of this from
Zollner is so remarkable that at the risk of again quoting what is
already known I must give it at length, which I am the rather
induced to do, because Mrs. Sidgwick has apparently-oot thQPght the
Digitized by ~oo8le
1886.] The P088ibiUties of Mal-Observation. 85
evidence of this distinguished man of science to be worthy of any
special mention.l The seance was at the house of Zollner's friend, Herr
von Hoffman mid-day on May 6th, by bright sun-light. Zollner says:-
I had, 88 usual, taken my place with Slade at the card table. Opposite
me stood, 88 W88 often the case in other experiments, a small round table
near the card-table, exactly in the position shown in the photograph
illustrating further experiments to be described below. The height of the
round table is 77 centimlltrea (about 2ft. 4in.), diameter of the surface 46
centimetres (about 16in.), the material birchen wood, and the weight of the
whole table 45 kilogrammes. About a minute might have pasaed after
Slade and I had sat down and laid our hands, joined together, on the table
when the round table W88 set in slow oscillations, which we could both clearly
perceive in the top of the round table riBing above the card table, while ita
lower part W88 concealed from view by the top of the card table. The
motions very BOOn became greater, and the whole table approaching the card·
1 This W88 true 80 far 88 my recollection went, from hearing the paper
read. But it will be seen from the text 88 now published, that MrI. Sidgwick
does advert, in lOme detail, to parts of ZiSllner's testimony. So far 88 her
objection to it merl to the absence of tests excluding the necessity of aU
"continuous observation," it would be obviously beyond the IOOpe of a paper
designed to vindicate the trustworthiness of observation to reply to it. But
with regard to the objection (see foot-note, ante p. 65) to the celebrated experi-
ment of the true knots in an endless cord, 1 think the value of the objection
will be beat appreciated by a reference to lOme conditions of the experiment, 88
the latter is not to be confounded with the one with the leather bands, of whicl:
I have given the account above. (I have italicised the word" immediately,II in
ZOllner's statement, for its obvious importance in relation to any suggeatioB of
substitution before the experiment actually began. The emph88ization of other
words is by Ullner.) After describing the cord,its dimensions, mode of knotting,
and sealing the ends, &c., ZiSllner says: "The above described sealing of two
such strings, with my own seal, W88 effected by myself in my apartments, on the
evening of December 16th, 1877, at nine o'clock, under the eyes of several
of my friends and colleagues, and not in the presence of Mr. Slade.
Two other strings of the same quality and dimensions were sealed by Wilhelm
Webber with his seal, and in his own rooms, on the morning of the
17th of December, at 10.30 a.m. With these four cords, 1 went (17th
December) to the neighbouring dwelling of one of my friends, who had
offered to Mr. Henry Slade the hospitalities of his house, 80 88 to place him
exclusively at my own and my friend's disposition, and for the time withdraw.
ing him from the public. The ~ce in question took place in my friend's
sitting-room immediately after my arrival. 1 myself selected one of the four
sealed cords, and, in order never to lose sight of it before we sat down at the
table, 1 hung it round my neck-the seal in front always within my sight."
The knots were obtained in a few minutes, the seal and Slade's hands having
never been out of sight. The suggestion being that Slade BllbatitUted a previously
prepared cord of his own, it is to be observed tllat such a -substitution W88 tAe
wrypombility which Zollner showed that he had in ,iew by his precaution of
banging the cord round his neck. As there W88 no delay, such 88, supposing
Ullner to have previously parted with the custody of ~i,oo~~le've
86 The PoBBibilities of Mal-Observation. [July 5,
table, laid itself under the latter, with its three feet turned towards me.
Neither I, nor, u it seemed, Mr. Slade, knew how the phenomenon would
further develop, since during the space of a minute which now elapsed
nothing further occurred. Slade wu about to take slate and pencil to ask
his " spirits" whether we had anything still to expect, when I wished to
take a. nearer view of the position of the round table lying, u I supposed,
under the card-table. To my and Slade's great utonishment we found the
space beneath the card-table completely empty. nor were we able to find in
all the rest of the room that table which only a minute before wu present
to our senses. In the expectation of its re-appearance we sat again at the
card-table, Slade close to me, at the same angle of the table opposite that
near which the round table had stood before. We might have sat about five
or six minutes in intense expectation of what should come, when suddenly
Slade UBerted that he saw lights in the air. Although I, u usual, could per-
ceive nothing whatever of the kind, I yet followed iIlvoluntarily with my
imposed on him the tuk of "continuous observation" of them, and have COt&-
ooivablyafforded a conjurer an opportunity, we cannot put the supposed substi-
tution bifO'l'e the experiment. But Mrs. Sidgwick's dUggestion that it may
have been afterwarda, i.e.," after the string wu taken off the neck again,
perhaps while it was being arranged on the table," is equally inadmissible, (I)
because we can say, with u near approach to certainty u poBBible, that the
presence or absence of the four knots must have been ucertained at the moment
of removal from the neck, or already before the removal, when the indication of
SUCCeBB would inducean instant examination; and (2) because there is no interval
a.ssignable for" continuous observation" in the ucertainment of so simple &
fact as the presence or absence of knots on a cord in a clear light, even if the
fact had not been already !P.IIC8rtained by sight or touch before Zollner actually
took the cord from his neck. I confeBB it would not have occurred to me to
anticipate such a suggestion u this. Nor can I see the least necessity for
ZOllner mentioning the fact of trials on previous days. He showed his own
apprecia.tion of that fact, and of the supposable poBBibilities consequent upon it,
by the very precautions taken. Indeed, I think the fact of former trials still
further evinces Zl:illner's extreme caution, since he would not trust to the strings
already used, but either sealed new ones,. or at least re-sealed the old, on the eve
of the successful experiment. This circumstance, the then careful and elabor&fe
sealing of the cords, even suggests that this particular precaution wu a new
one altogether, for which Slade would be unprepared, especially as ZOllner
emphuises the fact that the sealing was performed in the absence of Slade.
But the evidence stands in no need of this inference, for the reuons already
stated. Logically, there wu of course no obligation upon ZOllner to mention
a fact which it would be legitimate to suppose in criticising evidence of this
character, if the evidence did not expressly ezcl'llde it. The reader will judge
whether there is any opening for Mrs. Sidgwick's inference that the poBBible
importance of the fact had not occurred to Zl:illner, or whether her consequent
UBumption that he may "not only have omitted to mention, but failed to see,
the importance of even obvious precautions" is u violent and unwarranted 811
it seems to me to be. And I may here add the remark, that if "continuous ..
observation means prolongedobservation, none wu necessary in this, u in ma.ny
otherliucceBBful experiments; whereu if Mrs. Sidgwick's definition refers to any
interval, however short, it would apply to all observation whatever, and the
word "continuous" is misleading.
Digitized by Coogle
1886.] The POBBibilitw of Mal-Observation. 87
gaze the direction to which Slade turned his head, during all which time our
hands remained constantly linked together on the table; under the table my
left leg was almoat continually touching Slade's right in its whole extent,
which was quite without design, and owing to our proximity at the same
comer of the table. Looking up in the air, eagerly and astonished, in
different directions, Slade asked me if I did not perceive the great lights. I
answered decidedly in the negative; but as I turned my head, following
SIade's gaze up to the ceiling of the room behind my back, I suddenly
observed, at a height of about five feet, the hitherto invisible table, with its
legs turned upwards, very quickly floating in the air upon the top of the card-
table. Although we involuntarily drew back our heads sideways, Slade to
the left and I to the right, to avoid injury from the falling table, yet we were
both, before the round table had laid itself on the top of the card-table, so
violently struck on the aide of the head, that I felt the pain on the left of
mine fully four hours after this occurrence, which took place at half-past 11.
But I am not prepared to admit that it is neceaaary to have
recourse to exceptional manifestations, or even to manifestations under
exceptional conditions of observation, to establish these facts in
rational belief. With regard to psychography, for instance, I contend
that locked slates, tied up slates, folding slates, your own slates, slates
above the table when the writing is obtained, are all really dispensable
precautions. What we most require, in order to be secure that the
essential facts are within the compass of our observation, and that
observation itself has not been distracted or relaxed, is that the
phenomenon shall occur with simplicity and directness. If there is
delay with changes of conditions, you must regard every such change
as the beginning of a new sitting, and make a careful re-examination of
the slates. If you do this effectually, not merely taking a careless
glance to be able to say you have done it at all, the task of observation
is thoroughly simplified under usual conditions. The following case
from my own experience with Mr. Eglinton will show the extent of
the claim I make for average powers of observation as against the
possibilities of conjuring. The sitting was on April lOth, 1884. I
wrote the account of it in the evening of the same day, and it was
reported in Light of April 19th. The only other sitter besides myself
and the medium was one of our Vice-Presidents, the Hon. Roden Noel,
who fully corroborated my statement. We sat in broad daylight. We
used Mr. Eglinton's slates, of which there was a pile upon the table at
which we sat. I sat next to the medium, on his right, Mr. Noel was
on my right. Passing over some preliminary experiments, in which
writing in small quantities was obtained, I desire to challenge judg-
ment on the question of mal-observation in what follows, which I copy
from my own report in Light:-
Mr. Eglinton now laid one of two equal sized slates (lM inalms. Rv..1A.)
d,giti;!'ed by ClOves1e
88 The P088'ihilitiu of MaL-Ob8ervation. [July 5,
fiat upon the other, the usual scrap of pencil beiDg encloeed. BotA Blates
were then, Cl8 I carefuJ),y auured mystlj, perfectly clean on botA BUrfaces. He
then forlhwith, atul wiiJwut any previom dealing with. fAem, presented one
end of the two slates, held together by himself at the other end, for me to
hold with my left hand, on which he placed his own right. I clasped the
slates, my thumb on the frame of the one (i-inch), and three of my fingers,
reaching about four incheB, forcing up the lower slate against the upper one
We did not hold the slates underneath the table, but at the Bide a little
below the level. Mr. Noel was thUB able to observe the position. Mr.
Eglinton held the slates firmly together at his end, as I can assert, because
I partiCUlarly observed that there was no gap at his end. I alao noticed his
thumb on the top of the Blatea, and can 8&y that it reated quite quietly
throughout the writing, which toe heard alfOOllt immediately, and continuously,
except when Mr. Eglinton once raised his hand from mine, when the sound
ceased till contact was reBumed.
We heard the Bound of writing distinctly, yet it was not, I think, quite
BO loudly audible as I remember with Slade. When the three tapa came,
denoting that the" meaaage," was finished, Eqlinton ,imply remot-ed hi. hatid
from the aiatu, leati1111 th~ in my left hand, also quitting contact of his other
hand with my left, I took oft" the upper slate, and we 8&W that the inner
surface of one of them was covered with writing, 20 linea (118 WOrdB), from
end to end written from the medium, and oue line along the Bide by the
frame, and" good-bye" on the other Bide. The writing was in straight linea
acroSB the slate, all the linea slanting from left to right. It begins about an
inch from the top ; from the bottom it iB continued along one side (one line)
and then there are three lines in the inch-deep Bpace at the top, written in the
reverse direction to that of the body of the meaaage. The ability to produce
the writing in any direction is thus shown. The writing is fiowing, easy, and
with a distinct character, as of an educated penman. I took the alate away,
with me, and it is now in my po88e88ion.
I am glad that I took this latter precaution, for a reason to be men-
tioned. Everyone, I suppose, will agree that the production of all this
writing, as described, by the medium while we held the slates, was
absolutely and entirely impossible. The question is thus apparently
reduced to the single point to which I wish to reduce it, whether such
average poweMl of observation as mine and Mr. Noel's would be 80
deceived as to make our statement that Mr. Eglinton, after enclosing
the pencil within the slates which we tJl.6n "carefully assured" our-
selves were both quite clean on both surfaces, "forthwith" and "without
any previous dealing with them," presented those same slates to me to
hold-whether, I say, our observation could be so deceived as to make
that statement inconclusive on that important point. But as it is
imaginable that a thin sheet of slate, already inscribed on one side,
might be loosely fitted into the frame of one of the slates used, clean
surface uppermost, so as to fall into the frame of the other slate, written
side uppermost, when the first was placed upon the second, it is
fortunate that I was a.ble to exclude that sUlllleStion,m,...nw~on
<>tlIgitized by CjU~(5''-
1886.] The PoBBibilitie8 of Mal-Observation. 89
of the slate on which the writing appeared, which, by-the-bye, was
wrapped in paper, either by myself or by Mr. Eglinton-under my eyes,
at my request, and carried away by me, immediately after we had
examined the writing, the sitting being then closed.
The above case, therefore, aptly raises a question which I think has
been greatly confused by vague apprehensions of unknown possibilities
of conjuring, apprehensions, I may add, not at all sanctioned by the
pretensions of conjurers themselves. So far as the art of conjuring
relies on the fallibility of observation, the success of the conjurer
depends on his being able to impose the conditions of observation at the
critical stage in his proceedings. For very simple observations, such,
that is, as are resolvable into two or three elementary acts of perception,
are not fallible if these acts of perception are really performed. The
oonjurer has to prevent their being performed, while he deceives the
mind into the impression that they have been performed. Under cer-
tain conditions this is easy to him; whereas under conditions not
imposed by himself it is totally impossible. Now in studying evidence
adduced by others there is one sure test for determining whether the
conjurer's opportunity is or is not excluded by the evidence-I mean in
cases where the statements of the witness, if taken simply at their
1J6"bal worth, would sufficiently exclude all possibilities of conjuring. It
is only the best testimony-perfect lwnesty of statement being supposed
--of which the verbal or apparent worth is a true measure of its real
worth. And the reason of this is that very composite facts are often
not analysed by the ~itness, and that an observation comprising several
distinct acts of sense-perception is stated generally, as though it were a
single and indivisible perception. We have then imposed upon us as
evidence a conclusion of the witness's mind in place of an observation
of his senses. The proof is not then reduced, as we desire to reduce it,
to a question of veracity. For this purpose we must have particularity
of statement, evidence that the witness has himself analysed the observa-
tion into the acts of perception constituting it, and that at the time of
the observation. But however people may unconsciously misrepresent
or exaggerate--as undoubtedly happens-this innocent looseness or
inaccuracy belongs only to general statements of matters of fact, and as
soon as the demand is made upon the witness for greater definitude,
either at least a confessed lapse of memory exposes the worthlessness of
the evidence, or the latter degenerates into conscious mendacity. Much
of the value of cross-examination in judicial proceedings, for instance,
depends upon the presumption that precise and definite misstatements
cannot be bond fide. And the art of cross-examination-so far as this
has for its genuine aim the discovery of truth-largely consists in
reducing a general statement to the particular ones which it really
involves. Now a scientific statement of fact is such a statementras
Digitized by ~008 e
90 The PoBBibilities of Mal-Observation. [July 5,
leaves nothing to be elicited by this sort of cross-examination. And in
considering the evidentia.l value of the observations with which we a.re
now concerned, we have always to see if possibly essentia.l fa.cts in the
narration are ca.pa.ble of further analysis. The note of an un-
critical judgment, either in making or receiving statements which
should be scientifica.lly s.ccurate, is the unconscious presumption of the
component elements of the fa.ct stated, or to speak more a.ccurately, of
the severa.l facts of observation by which the resultant fa.ct is a.scerta.ined.
I submit that we have here the whole secret of the possible success
of a conjurer who is without confederates or artificial applia.nces. We
have at the sa.me time a sure test for determining the value of observa-
tionswith professional mediums,who must continue underthe suspicion of
being conjurers till these phenomena'are generally recognised, which will
perhaps not be until the laws of their occurrence are a little under-
stood. I therefore respectfully urge that the objection to rely upon
investigations with professional mediums is especia.lly unworthy of the
scientific spirit in which this Society professes to examine evidence. Our
standard should be the highest, our criticism the severest; but the best
testimony will leave no room for suggestions of mal-observation,and then
it will only remain to see if, supposing the a.llegations to be strictly
honest, the fa.cts are still explainable by any recognised agency. We
have heard of the necessity of a.llowing a wide margin for unknown
possibilities of conjuring, and that sounds plausible enough until we
come to ask what coniuring means, and must mean,. under the
conditions of these experiments. We then see that the margin
for possibilities of conjuring is really a margin for possibilities of
mal-observation. But when we get to the ultimate unit of observation
-the indivisible, elementary fa.ct of sense-perception-mal-observation
by the attentive mind is no longer possible, and testimony
which shows that there existed a mental direction to these particul&l'S
is testimony which excludes the margin for everyone who will not cheat
himself with words for the evasion of his critica.l responsibility. I am,
of course, aware that what I have here ca.lled "the indivisible,
elementary fa.ct of sense-perception" is further resolvable with regard
to the primary functions of mind and sense; but for all that, the
simplest nameable fa.ct remains the starting-point of all experience, and
illusion in experience begins with the mental combinations of which
that is the unit. For all mere illusion or misinterpretation in relation
to this simplest element of experience-a.s when a rope upon the path
is taken for a snake-- results from imperfect conditions of observation,
or (what is the sa.me thing from the subjective side) frompre-occupa.tion
of the mind by its own concepts. It follows that as long as the
attention is given to an indivisible fa.ct under proper conditions of
observation, the conjurer's opportunity has n~~it~~(;cMr first
1886.] The Pollsibilities of Mal-Observaticm. 91
with the opportunity of the observer's own mind for self-deception. And
if the witness is strictly veracious, it is logically certain that his
evidence will itself betray to the critical eye the point or points at
which the conjurer's operations were possible, if possible they in fact
were.
But as general remarks on such a subject as the present require to
be illustrated, let us consider what may be supposed to happen on a
particular occasion, and what, in that case, an honest witness will and
will not say. Suppose that at a conjuring performance for the simula-
tion of psychography, the conjurer has already succeeded in writing
unobserved upon one side of the slate, and wishes now to makeyoubelieve
that both sides are clean before depositing the slate, with the inscribed
side downwards, on the table, to be turned up when the phenomenon is
supposed to have come off in that position. Now, if at this critical
moment you do not prescribe your own mode of examination, either by
taking the slate in your own hand and turning it over, or by seeing that
the conjurer turns it slowly round before your eyes, he may be able, by
a little manipulation, aided by a little talking and delay, or with the
assistance of another slate for purpose of confusion, to present the same
side to you twice over and make you think that you have seen both
sides. (This, I should say, is the explanation recently suggested by the
famous German conjurer, Hermann, of Berlin,l of the mod'U8 opera'lldiin
such a case.) But if that were so, the witness could not innocently use
terms ~l'!l and definitely inconsistent with what really happened ;
he could not, for instance, honestly say, as I said in the report
I have read to you, that the medium did something "forthwith,"
" without any previous dealing with the slates," which the witness "then.
carefully assured himself" to be "both clean on both sides," whereas
it was in the very fact of delay, of previous dealing, and of neglect of
" careful" assurance that the supposed medium has found his fraudulent
opportunity. The honest witness could not so frame his statement,
because, though he might honestly forget, he could not honestly invent
Specific and positive acts of perception, for the appearance of which no
mental inference or interpretation could be responsible. But we have
an instance-an actual instance-ready to our hands of how he mighe
express himself in such a case.
Mrs. Sidgwick quotes accounts from a lady friend of hers of several
co~iuring experiments in slate-writing as illustrating the fallibility of
1 As this paper is going to press, I have received information that the
Hermann here referred to (author of the article in the German Sphi7Ul:, from
which the above and a subsequent statement is taken) is not the true Hermann
of conjuring renown, but only a manufacturer of conjuring apparatus. The
true Hermann is said to be now in London and about to experiment with
Mr. Eglinton. Gooole
Digitized by "
92 The Possibilit·ies of Mal-Observation. [July 5,
observation.! Now I think every careful reader of these accounts will
be struck by the abbreviated form of them, and by the frequent viola-
tion of the canon of evidence above mentioned, namely, that a
composite observation shall not be stated generally, as if it were a
single and indivisible perception. We should want to cross-examine
this lady upon nearly every line of her statemf!nt in order to appreciate
its evidential worth. But I will here confine myself to the single point
of due examination of the slates in the experiment in which the writing
was apparently on one of the same slates of which the lady says: " We
examined them when they were placed the second time on the table and
satisfied ourselves that they were clean." Continuous observation of
the slates after they were thus deposited the second time is not alkgecl
nor is any interval of time stated. But assuming that one of the
slates was then already inscribed,s everything depended on the observa-
tion of their condition at that critical moment. Now you can only
ascertain that a slate is " clean" by successive examination of both its
surfaces, the evidence of which must, in the reasonable intendment of
the witness's language, exclude all possibility of deceptive manipulation
by the conjurer while the surfaces seem to be displayed. Otherwise
there is nothing to show that the witness appreciated the prime
importance of this observation. And as it is perfectly possible for a
conjurer under certain conditions, or if he is allowed his own way, to
make it seem to a spectator that slates are clean when they are not, so
it is perfectly possible for an honest witness in such case to use this
form of expression: "We examined the slates and satisfied ourselves
that they were clean." But with every approach to definiteness and
particularity of statement, we approach the limit beyond which honest
mis-statement is no longer possible. How these particular tricks were
performed exactly, I do not profess to know.s But so far as we have
1 MI'II. Sidgwick's own observations on these OCC&Bions are not given in
detail in her paper. As the criticism of them I read at the meeting referred to
an account she had sent me, and which I erroneously supposed to be part of her
paper, that criticism is now omitted.
t As is very doubtful upon the evidence, even without having to suppose
such a failure of observation as would permit the writing to be performed after
the slates were dePosited. For there is no evidence that the slates then
deposited (the second time) were both the same slates afterwards ascertained to
be the lady's (" Miss Z.'s "). The" message " may have been written on one of
her slates at an earlier period of the sitting, when the slates were under the
table, and when, as I learn from the account sent me by Mrs. Sidgwick, one of
"Miss Z. 's" slates was for a time discarded, no observation. of it meanwhile
being alleged. In that case, the substitution of the inscribed slate ("Miss Z.'s")
for one of those upon the table is easily supposable in the absence of any aver·
ment of continuous observation of them. It is jUBt Buch defects of testimony on
tM face ofit, in the case of conjuring, which illustrate and confirm my argument.
a I had only the first case before me when my paper was written. As to the
second and third I will only point out that we are not tolohhat...tJlt slates were
Digitized by \JUU(S e-
1886.] The P088ibilities of Mal-Observation. 93
the evidence positively before us, it is rather useful as an illustration of
what evidence ought not to be than of what it commonly is, or as
affording any ground whatever for distrusting other evidence which on
the face of it is free from defect.
In the course of her paper, Mrs. Sidgwick urged that the medium
has an advantage over the avowed conjurer in being allowed to fail
should the conditions be inconvenient. Now if the medium-conjurer
could confidently foresee at the beginning of a sitting either that he
would or could not get all the conditions required for success in the
several successive operations he might have to perform, this privilege of
failure would no doubt be very advantageous. But in many cases,
especially in the slate-writing, the conjurer's conditions may break down
at any point, and should strict conditions of observation be insisted
upon at a late stage, no harmless failure, but exposure, must result.
If, for instance, we suppose that "Miss Z.'s" slate was already
continuously under the hands of the whole party, or even that they seemed to
be continuously observed at all. Before we are called upon to criticise evidence,
it must at least present a prima facie case for explanation. In the fourth case it
was "Mr. A." who" slipped" the sheet of paper, on which the writing was
found, into the locked slate, and this appears to have been done after "Mr. A."
was told the page and liue selected. I cannot agree with Mrs. Sidgwick that
this case "is, perhaps, more surprising." (It will be understood that I do not
attempt to exhaust the possible opportunities of the conjurer, with regard to
evidence which seems to me so entirely lacking requisite exactitude and detail.)
Passing to the account of the (other?) conjurer's performance in "Mr. X.'s" case,
the simultaneous use of two slates apart from one another offers us a rather easy
explanation without supposing lIuch a total abstraction of attention for
"two or three minntes" out of "some few minutes" (the duration of
the whole experiment) as is suggested. We are told nothing of the
position of the conjurer's hands (a point seldom omitted in the mediumistic
reports), and it is not difficult to suppose that by sUCC88l!ive feints he
could first excite "Mr. X.'s" suspicioDl! in relation to one slate, and then
in relation to the other, thus getting him to fix attention on one at a time while
the other was being written upon. The" whisking away" of the slate held
by c·Mr. X." was probably necessary on account of the writing having, under the
conditions, to be executed on the upper surface and having to be made to appear
on the reverse. A still easier supposition would be that the writing was indeed
thus performed- probably a very few wordll---On the held slate with a much
shorter diversion of attention to the other one, and that the latter-the locked
slate-was a trick slate with mCBl!age as described all prepared beforehand. A
quite inexperienced observer with two separate objects to watch may easily be
self·deceived as to continuous observation of both on one and the first occasion.
But a total abstraction of attention from a Bingle object, and that for two or
three minutes out of some few minutes, and with perfect ignorance of the fact,
the witnCBl! believing himself intent on observation all the time, could only
be abnormal. But that is what we should have to suppose in a large
proportion of the genuine slate-writing s~ances, nay, that the same thing
could happen repeatedly, with experienced observers, and even with two or
three such observers at the same time! Digitized by Googie
94 The POBBibilities of Mal-Observation. [July 5,
written upon when it was to be deposited on the table, where would
" Mr. A." have been, if "Miss Z." or Mrs. Sidgwicr had resolved to
examine the slates in her own way, and not as " Mr. A." chose that she
should seem to do BO' The conjurer in such a case baa really two tricks
to perform for. one success, and usually he will have parted with the
privilege of failure as soon as he has performed the first. So that
though now and then an ingenious profeBBional or amateur may succeed
in one way or in another, repeated observations, reflection, and public
discussion would soon lay bare all his resources, and there would be an
end of him. The professional conjurer has a large repertory of tricks,
and is constantly inventing new ones with all the aid which mechanical
appliances, confederates, and his own stage, can afford. He can drop
a trick as soon as it is in danger of discovery, and vary his entertain-
ments indefinitely. The public go for amusement, and do not study or
hear of the discoveries made by critical experts, by which the conjurer
is soon warned off dangerous ground. Nor are professional experts
interested in exposing each other's performances, but in repeating them
for their own benefit; whereas against the medium they are all, with
a few exceptions, banded. The medium, on the other hand, is especially
developed for a comparatively few phenomena, which recur with him
for many years as the main feature and attraction of his mediumship.
A certain proportion of his visitors are habitual students of the subject,
whose attention is open to every explanation that is put forward, and
who have the advantage of their own systematic observations with the
same and similar mediums. They are constantly obliged to defend
themselves from the charge of credulity and mal-observation; each time
they go to a seance they have the keenest inducement to obviate BOme
objection to their own or others' evidence, or to meet BOme more or less
possible suggestion as to the modus operandi. They improve their
methods of observation, they direct it to fresh points, they devise and
obtain new tests. Psychography alone has now been before the public
of this country for 10 years. Some of the most famous conjurers, and
many acute minds have engaged in criticism of the facts and of the
evidence, and yet it has survived the ordeal as no single trick, or varia-
tions of a single trick, of such a character and under such conditions as
this slate-writing could possibly survive it.
To deal at length with general objections to the genuineness of
these phenomena is not within the limits of my present subject. Yet
I may be allowed to advert to two or three which have been lately
brought before us by Mrs. Sidgwick. There is the detected trickery-
real and reputed-of mediums. As Eduard von Hartmann baa pointed
out, occasional trickery is antecedently to be expected from the
exigencies of professional mediumship, having regard to the
uncertainty with which the true force is ..develoned..oIAnd the
Digitized bY~O" ~
1886.] The Po88ibilities of Mal-Observation. 95
whole theory of mediumship points to influences and conditions
which must result sometimes in actual deception, and sometimes
in the mere appearance of it. It is a mistake to suppose that we
can make this branch of psychical research quite independent of
psychology. And there are features in this trickery which should make
us look a little deeper than the conjuring and fraud theory for its ex-
planation.. Slade, for instance, now often cheats with an almost
infantile audacity and na"ivete, while at the same or the next seance
with the same investigators phenomena occur which the most consum-
mate conjurer might well envy. Then it is made an objection that tests
designed to dispense altogether with observation in the presence of the
medium have not been obtained, although they could not be conceived
to present greater physical difficulties to a genuine occult agency than
things actually done. There is in this a quiet assumption that we have
not here to do with independent wills and intelligences, or with laws
other than physical, which is quite illegitimate at the outset of our
researches. But without having recourse to such suggestions, I need
only point out that if human observation under the easiest conditions is
at all to be relied upon, the evidence can become perfect without these
tests, and can only be illogically prejudiced by the absence of them.
A third objection which weighs with many is the failure of
mediums with some investigators who, of course, on that account
are credited, if they do not credit themselves, with too much
astuteness, and with too great powers of observation for the medium
to venture on his tricks with them. It is a remarkable illustration
of this theory that Mrs. Sidgwick, who tells us that personal
experience has made her form a very low estimate of her own as
well as of others' powers of continuous observation, and who failed
to detect the opportunities of an amateur expert in slate-writing,
although she knew that a trick was to be performed, is one of
those with whom that accomplished conjurer, Mr. Eglinton, has
been uniformly compelled to exercise his "privilege of failure."
It is another commentary on this view that I myself, and others
upon whom Mr. Eglinton has found it very easy to impose, have
had with him as many failures as successes, under precisely the same
apparent conditions in both cases. The causes of failure as of success are
at present too obscure for such arguments to be other than prejudicial
and opposed to the scientific character at which we aim. No doubt it
is a disappointment-and perhaps no one has felt that more severely
than myself-that some of the most distinguished members of this
Society have failed to obtain evidence through Mr. Eglinton. But we
must remember the idea with which we started, and which was so well
expressed by Professor Sidgwick in his first address to us. It was
never supposed that these phenomena had the scientific character of
Digi
96 The P088ibilities of Mal-Obaervati<m. [July 5.
being reproducible with certainty for any and every one who took the
trouble to sit for them a few times. We were to accumulate testimony,
to overcome opposition by the gradual accession of witnesses of good
intelligence and character. There was no necessity for that if we
could say to all the world-go to this or that medium and we guarantee
to you personal evidence. The physicist does not rely upon testimony
or ask others to rely upon it. But we pre-suppose that the phenomena
with which we deal are not accessible to all. If, then, they are not
accessible to some of ourselves, is our position in relation to them
altered, No; we are estopped from making that demand of personal
experience, and from making that objection of personal failures-we
are .. hoist with our own petard" I Seeing that innumerable observa-
tions, by new witnesses of undoubted character and intelligence, have
accumulated since Professor Sidgwick first addressed us four years ago,
it will be asked, it has been asked, whether there was indeed a mental
implication in his words, so that the new evidence which was to subdue
the world must be that of himself and a few especial friends. I suppose
that would be disclaimed, but is it disclaimed in favour of &
criticism which discovers all other evidence to be bad, By further
and further depreciating the powers of human observation, by more and
more magnifying the resources of conjurers, it is nearly always possible
to suggest a chink or cranny for escape in this case, and another and
different chink or cranny in that. case. But the very object of accumu-
lating evidence is to make such suppositions increasingly violent the
larger the area of experience which they have to cover, until the
hypothesis of ma.l-observation becomes the last resort of those who will
not or cannot credit testimony until their own senses have had
~ cognisance of the facts. I believe that distrust of human observation,
to the extent to which that distrust is now carried, is not justified by
experience, which would be almost impossible for the simplest acts of
attentive perception if it were justified. Surely there is a larger view.
a deeper insight into this already long chapter, swelling to a prodigious
volume, of human evidence, than is afforded by this miserable theory of
, co~juring, and cheating, and imbecility. Are we not shocked by ita
inadequacy, by its disproportion to the total effect 1 That effect is
dwarfed in popular imagination for a time, because the dominant culture
has refused to recognise it, and has encountered the facts with the very
narrowest conceptions in the armoury of its intelligence. But the effect
is already one of the appreciable influences on human life and thought.
Many a delusion has perhaps been that, but not delusions of observation
which depend for their vitality upon an ever springing supply of
recurrent fraud. Again and again has phenomenal Spiritualism been
.. exposed" and .. explained"; every such incident, every such attempt,
has been a new instruction to investigators. a newrflifficpJ-tlr to the
Digitized by ~-UOoIC::
1886.] The P088ibilitie8 of Mal-ObBervation. 97
supposed conjurer. Yat fresh observers, with full knowledge of all
that has happened and of all that is suggested, go to mediums and
come away with the certainty that the phenomena are genuine. Even
the first of living German conjurers, Hermann of Berlin, who had con-
sidered the subject of this slate-writing very carefully, went to Slade,
and after witnessing the phenomenon under very ordinary condi-
tions, professed his present inability to explain it.l He adds, I am
glad to say, that he is to have a series of sittings with Mr. Eglinton
in a few months, the results of which will be published. Dr.
Herschell, a well-known amateur, has recently written to Mr. Eglinton
in the following terms :-
For some time after my first sitting with you, I candidly confess that
I worked very hard, both by myself and in consultation with well-known
public perfonners. to find out a method of imitating psychography, and I
do not think that there is a way that I have not tried practically. I have
come to the conclusion that it is possible to produce a few words on a
alate if the minds of the audience can be diverted at the proper time
(a thing perfectly imposaible under the eyes of conjurers, who know every
possible way of producing the result 'by trickery, without instant detec-
tion). Beyond this, conjuring cannot imitate psychography. It can do
nothing with locked slates, and slates fastened together. It cannot write
answers to questions which have not been seen by the perfonner, as you
are constantly doing. At the best it only produces a mild parody of the
very simplest phenomena under an entire abllmCe oj aU the cooditiona 'I.mder
micA theBe habit'IUIUy occur at yotw ~•
.Allow me also to take the present opportunity of thanking you most
sincerely for the opportunities you have given me of satisfying myself
of the genuineneBB of psychography by discUBBing openly with me, as you
have done, the various possible ways of imitating tlle phenomena, and of
letting me convince myself, in detail, that you did not avail yourself of
them.
I hope that you have had a successful visit to RUBBia, and that your
health is now quite re-established.-With kind regards, yoU1'8 sincerely,
GEORGB HBB.scHBLL, M.D.
W. Eglinton, Esq.
Our English conjurer, John Nevil Maskelyne, has publicly testified from
his own experience, to the existence of an unrecognised force productive
of physical effects. J But with the acknowledgment of such a force in
the human organism must disappear the presumption against those more
developed manifestations which depend on its relations to intelligence
and will. The ascertainment of those relations are among the highest
1 See an article by Hennann in the June number of the Gennan magazine
Sphin:t:. (But see Dote, ante, p. 91.)
I See correspondence in Pall Mall Gazette, Mr. Maskelyne's letter, 23rd
April, 1885.
Digitized by Goqgle
98 The P08wihilities of Mal-Observaticm. [July 5,
functions of a society for psychical research, and I am not alone in
oelieving that we should have found our scientific reward in beginning
with a provisional faith in the material of our inquiries. In this
region the laws and conditions are still almost wholly obscure, but of
one thing in it we may be generally sure-that there can be no greater
mistake"than to investigate phenomena of psychical origin with a total
disregard of psychical conditions. We are false to our hypothesis if we
, assume that adequate precaution against fraud is the prime condition of
success, and that beyond this it is only necessary to bring an unpre-
judiced mind to the investigation. These are indeed indispensable con-
ditions, but there may well be other and more positive ones not less
indispensable. If we entertain the hypothesis of mediumship at all-
. and why else are we investigating7--it must mean for us something
more than that in the mere presence of certain persons certain pheno-
mena may occur. A medium is not like a bar magnet which can and
must exhibit its special charactersistics under certain exclusively
physical conditions. It is antecedently probable that something more
is required of the investigator than the attributes of a fair-minded
judge-a co-operation, namely. which will be best if it include some
contribution of that unknown force on which the phenomena primarily
depend, but which shall at any rate favour, and not repress, the
development of that force in the medium. This sort of co-operation is
a mental disposition perfectly consistent with the most scientific vigi-
lance, and which, in my own case, I have found even promotive of it,
because I was well resolved not to be conducive to my own deception.
It would be strange if in this Society we were to ignore the proba-
ble application of telepathy to the phenomena now in question. For
telepathy in its principle must be far more than a mere emotional or
ideal transfer upon special occasion. The inter-action of our psychical
natures must be more intimate and influential than superficialconscious-
ness betrays. I once heard it remarked, jestingly orseriously-I hardly
know which-that the composition of an ideal circle for the investiga-
tion of these phenomena would be a man of physical science, a pro-
fessional conjurer, a detective policeman, and an Old Bailey barrister.
That suggestion represents the spirit which brings failure, and must
bring failure, to every investigation of this character. And if you as
a society wish for useful original research by your own agents, you
must not choose your agents upon that principle. They must be
persons thoroughly impressed with the great importance of exact obser-
vation and exact statement, but who combine with these pre-requisites
some positive experience and some reasonable regard to the hypothesis
on which you are investigating at all.
But original research is not necessary in the first instance. Many,
of whom I am one, are of an opinion that the case fnrtb~benomena
Digitized by~UV'(5.e
1886.] The P088ibilities of MaJ,..Observation. 99
generally, and for "autography" in particular, is already complete.
And probably many of yourselves are of opinion that the time has
arrived for your Literary Committee to deal with this question as it
has already dealt with other heads of evidence. It might begin with
the evidence of this "writing at a distance." But unless it is to
arrive at a foregone negative conclusion, its judgment must not be
guided by those who think: that human observation, with the most
express direction of the mind, is not to be trusted to ascertain the
fact that a slate has been untouched for five minutes on a table before
the eyes; or who are prepared, when they have before them exact
statements of facts of observation, to assume that the facts have
been mal-observed and misdescribed. For that way lies interminable
doubt, and not progressive science.
NOTE ON MR. MASSEY'S PAPER.
In the paper that precedes this note Mr. Massey refers to certain
remarks made by me at the first meeting of our Society, in a manner
which suggests that he has misunderstood their drift. If Mr. Massey
has misunderstood me, it is likely that others also may have done so:
and since his comment on my present attitude is thrown in the form of
a reported question that challenges an answer, it seems convenient that
I should at once answer him by explaining the phrases that have been
misunderstood. Mr. Massey begins his paper by quoting a sentence in
which I described the sort of proof at which we ought to aim; he then
gives several specimens of what he seems to regard as unexceptionable
evidence for the genuineness of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism;
then, on pp. 95-96, he refers to me (correctly) as urging the Society to
accumulate testimony, to overcome opposition by the gradual accession
of witnesses of good intelligenceand character; and finally says, " Seeing
that innumerable observations, by new witnesses of undoubted
character and intelligence, have accumulated since Professor Sidgwick
first addressed us four years ago, it will be asked whether there was a
mental implication in his words, so that the new evidence which was to
subdue the world must be that of himself and a few especial friends."
My answer is there was no such "mental implication";
but that the evidence which Mr. Massey a.ffirms to have
been accumulated, and of which his paper contains examples, is not
the kind of evidence which I intended to urge the Society to accumu-
late. The evidence I had in view was evidence obtained in private
circles of relatives or friends, where no professional medium was
employed. That this was before my mind is apparent from several
pa.aaages of my address :--6.g., from the sentence precedins." the one
Digitized by l:.~le
100 The P08sibilities of Mal-Ob8ervation.
first quoted from me by Mr. Massey; in which I say that" it is due to
the private families or private circles of friends whom we hope to
persuade to allow us to take part in their experiments" that we should
bring our evidence to the highest possible pitch of cogency.
So far as I know, there has been no important accumulation, during
the last four years, of the kind of evidence which I had in view: the
testimony of which Mr. Massey has spoken is testimony to marvels
occurring in the presence of persons who exhibit them professionally for
money. Now when I addressed the Society at its first meeting I
intended to make it plain that we ought, in my opinion, to avoid paid
mediums" as much as possible" ; I did not indeed think that it would be
wise to preclude ourselves by a hard and fast rule from employing the
services of such persons: but I certainly hoped that we should be able
to confine our investigation to phenomena" where at any rate"--as I
said-" no pecuniary motives to fraud can come in." It is, in my
opinion, upon evidence of this latter kind that the prim4 f~
case for investigating the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
mainly depends. Certainly, if we had nothing but testimonies to
marvels occurring in the presence of persons who charge a guinea. a
seance for exhibiting them, I for one should never have thought it
worth while to consider seriously whether such reported marvels were
due to anything more than skilful trickery on the one side and
defective observation and memory on the other. The testimony that
excited my interest in the subject was mainly testimony to pheno-
mena occurring in private circles composed of persons who were very
unlikely to have plotted to deceive each other or the public, or very
nnlikely to possess a high degree of conjuring skill. There exists
already some noteworthy evidence of this kind-enough, in my opinion,
to justify further inquiry, though not enough to constitute an adequate
scientific basis for the momentous conclusion to which it points. I hoped
that the operations of our Society might be directed towards impro"ing
the quality and increasing the quantity of this kind of testimony; and
it was this hope that I intended to express in the address to which
Mr. Massey has referred.
But this is not all. The cases which Mr. Massey has brought
forward do not merely exemplify a kind of experiment different from
that to which I announced that our Society's attention would in the
'1n!,in be directed; they exemplify a kind of experiment which I hoped
that we should avoid altogether. The three persons through whose
mediumship Mr. Massey's marvels are supposed to have been produced
are not merely persons who make a trade of exhibiting phenomena: they
are persons to whom imposture has been brought home by irresistible
positive evidence. We learn from the SpiritualiHt (November 3rd,
1876) that when Monck was charged at Hudder<:hlc:l At\I'LR'j6 with
Ized b~U,-,() C""
@ao P...wiIUiu of Mal-O_~ 101
imposture under the Vagrancy Act, it appeared that conjuringapparatus
had been found in his room; and Mr. Henry Lodge and another well-
known resident in Huddersfield dtoposed on oath that Monck had
confessed to them that he practised deception on sitters. In the case
of Slade, Mr. Massey himself adnlits that he "now often cheats,"
though he pleads that this cheating-when discovered-shoWB an
"almost infantine audacity and nalvete" : for my own part, I cannot
doubt that Slade attempted to cheat me in 1876, in a manner which,
though "audacious" was not exactly "naive." As regards Eglinton
-if Mr. Massey has read the statements of Archdeacon Colley in the
Medium and Daylwealc (November 1st and November 15th, 1878), and
the reports in the Spiritualiat (February 14th and March 21st, 1879),
of statements by Mr. Owen Harries, he will scarcely doubt that Eglinton
was, BOme 10 years ago, engaged in the manufacture of spurious
" materialisationa" with the aid of a false beard and muslin: a.nd I
think it clear that in 1882 Eghnton co-operated with Madame Blavat.
sky in the production of a spurious Theosophic marvel.
If it had occurred to me, when I addressed the Society four years
ago, that we should be seriously urged to investigate the performances of
" mediums" whose trickery was proved and admitted, I should certainly
have repudiated the suggestion with all the emphasis that I could
command. But I then believed-and ventured to say-that Spiritual-
ists had been impressed by the "evidence accumulated in recent years
to show that at least a great part of the extraordinary phenomena
referred to spiritual agency by Spiritualists in England and America
are really due to trickery and fraud of some kind." I hoped, iherefore,
that educated Spiritualists would generally agree with me in condemn-
ing what I called "the obstinacy with which mediums against whom
fraud has been proved have been afterwards defended," and in re-
gretting that such persona should, as I said, "have been able to go on
with their trade after exposure no less than before." I never thought
that we should be called upon to give direct encouragement to
this trade by undertaking a formal investigation of the "phenomena'"
exhibited by such persona.
H. SIDGWICK.
FURTHER DISCUSSION BETWEEN MR. MASSEY AND
PROFESSOR SIDGWICK.
Since I have misunderstood Professor Sidgwick as to the ea:clt.l8iw
character of the evidence he proposed we should accumulate, I can only
urge, after careful r&-peruaal of his first address to the Society, that I
had BOme excuse. For, in the first place, the suggestion in that address
is not that we should "confine" our investigations to phenomena
occurring with private mediums, but that we sh~~~ed'~y~e~l~
102 The P088ibilities of MaJ,..Observation.
possible direct" investigation thereto. Secondly, Professor Sidgwick
had said in the same address :-" I do not presume to suppose that I
could produce evidence better in quality than much that has been laid
before the world by writers of indubitAble scientific repu~men like
Mr. Crooke&, Mr. Wallace and the late Professor de Morgan," and he
went on to urge that evidence of this superior quality should be accu-
mulated. Now it is notorious that the authorities named appealed
largely and chiefly to evidence they had obtained through mediums
who, at one time or another, were professionals, and against BOme of
whom, moreover, acts of imposture have been alleged on apparently
atrong grounds. Then, again, when Professor Sidgwick said :-" But
we can no longer be told off-hand that all the marvels recorded by Mr.
Crookes, Professor Zollner, and others, are easy conjuring tricks, because
we have the incontrovertible evidence of conjurers to the contrary," I
was surely entitled to infer that evidence thus referred to--Professor
Zollner's being exclusively with Slade-was part of the primd faAa
case of the Society. There is nothing in the address at all suggestive,
even, of the proposition that evidence with professional mediums can-
not be raised to a point at which suppositions of "skilful trickery on
the one side, and defective observation and memory on the other" would
bring the investigator's intellectual condition within the description of
.. absolute idiocy."
It is also allowable, I think, to refer to the facts that Professor
Sidgwick himself, and several other active members of the Society, have,
since the date of that address, made repeated attempts to obtain per-
sonal evidence of the phenomenon of ' .Psychography" with Mr.
Eglinton, and that several conjurers have been employed by or on be-
half of some of these gentlemen to investigate with the same medium.
I am quite unable to understand on what ground a conjurer could be
employed, if not the supposition that he might encounter conjuring.
It is also to be observed that .. conjuring" and "cheating" are not
convertible terms. It is rather a strange inference that because a man
•has been detected in trickery he is therefore a consummate conjurer.
And the known trickery of mediums is of such a character &8
to raise no presumption whatever that they are conjurers. The
trickery has been most frequent in so-called materialisations, when it
was facilitated by the worst conditions of observation, and by the
absence of precautions against the introduction of disguises, &C. And
with all respect for Professor Sidgwick, I should say that if he
detected Slade in attempts to cheat him in the slate-writing,
the conjuring could scarcely have been of a high order, or such
as (in his own words), .. conjurers cannot find out." The fact
probably is that conjuring, like other arUl, is rarely self-taught from
the first, but requires instruction by trainedD~g~~dt9~I~e early
The POBSibilities 0/ Mal-Observation. 103
antecedents of most of the better known mediums have been ascertained,
and not only is there no trace of any connection with conjurers, but
asuaIly their mediumship for the simpler-but not therefore easil1
simulated-phenomena has been observed in their childhood or very
early youth, before they could be credited with ability to carry out
habitual deceptions, and before the pecuniary motive could present
itself. I may add that though Professor Sidgwick now rests his objec-
tion to professional mediums chiefly on a presumption of their conjuring
capabilities, I find nothing of that in his first address, the preference
for private mediums being there put merely upon the absence of
ordinary~r at any rate pecuniary-motives to fraud. I have
always thought this a weak point in his position, if our aim is to obtain
exact proof. There would be, I think, more force in his present objection,
if (1) the presumption of conjuring ability were legitimate, which I
believe it is not, and (2) if, admitting that presumption, it can in no
case be repelled by observations, or by precautions combined with
observation. My paper was an attempt to deal with this second
question, and will no doubt be appreciated at whatever worth the
argument may possess, in connection with Professor Sidgwick's state-
ment of his own position.
C. C. MASSBY.
In pointing out Mr. Massey's misrepresentation of the drift
of my remarks, I said nothing to imply that it was an inexcusable
misrepresentation. I had no wish to raise this personal question; but,
as Mr. Massey has raised it, I may perhaps make my position-which
he still misunderstanda-clearer by answering it. I think, then, that
Mr. Massey was not justified in representing me as having tvrged the
f.lCCUmtdation of the kind of evidence with which his paper deals-the
records of the" phenomena" exhibited by paid mediums admitted to be
tricksters-in the face of my distinct statement of opinion that we ought
to work with private mediums" It.8 much as possible," and my expres-
sion of surprise at the encouragement given by Spiritualists to detected
impostors. But I quite admit that it was excusable in him to suppose
that evidence of this kind might have more weight with me than is in
fact the case: for in the addre8B which he quoted, while I tried to
trace clearly the lines of investigation which our Society ought-in my
opinion-to adopt, I intentionally left obscure my estimate of the value
of the evidence that had already been collected. 1\ly reason for this
reserve will be readily understood. I was speaking as president of ..
society newly formed by the combination of two heterogeneous elements
-persons convinced of the genuinene8B of the alleged effects of spiritual
or occult agency, and persons, like myself, who merelv tknnDh~thA
Dlgltlz~d by G~Oore-
104 The Possibilities of Mal,-Observatw",.
evidence for their genuineness strong enough to justify serious
inquiry. In this situation, I thought it my duty to lay stress on the
points on which-as I hoped-the audience I was addressing might
agree, leaving in the background the points on which I knew that we
differed. I hoped we might agree on the manner in which evidence
was to be collected in future; I knew that we differed on the value of
the evidence that had been collected in the past. Hence I expressly
disclaimed any intention of discussing the weight to be attached to this
evidence; in speaking of the past I merely said on behalf of my new
allies what might in my opinion be said with truth. They had been
stigmatised as dupes of coarse and bungling tricksters; it seemed to
me only fair to point out that some of the tricks had, at any rate,
baftled experts in conjuring. Taken alone, indeed, this fact would have
seemed to me of little importance. I have no great difficulty in sup-
posing that certain unscrupulous persons, skilful enough in certain
peculiar kinds of trickery to baffle the insight of conjurers, find the best
market for their skill in exhibiting their tricks, at a guinea a sMnce, to
Spiritualists and investigators: at any rate, this suggestion is not so
improbable as to render it necessary to resort to the hypothesis of
spiritual agency or occult forces in order to avoid it. But, taken in
connection with the testimonies to private mediumship, these inex-
plicable phenomena of professional mediums seemed to me worth
noting.
Mr. Massey further quotes a sentence in which I disclaim the pre-
sumption of supposing that I could produce evidence better in quality
than much of that produced by men like Mr. Crookes, Mr. Wallace,
and De Morgan; and infers that as these gentlemen largely
experimented with professional mediums, some of whom lie
under grave suspicions of imposture, therefore I must have in-
tended to encourage investigation with paid mediums and detected
impostors, in spite of my explicit statements to the contrary. This
inference seems to me strained and unreasonable. In uttering the
disclaimer in question I was not thinking at all of the character of the
mediums employed-that was a point I intended to discuss afterwards-
but merely of the scientific position of the investigators and the im-
pressiveness of their accounts. The phrase was, indeed, stronger than any
I should now use, after four years' additional experience. Still, if I
had now an opportunity of repeating, with a private medium of un-
blemished character, some of Mr. Crookes' "further experiments on
pyschic force" (see his Plumomena of Spiritualism, pp. 36, 37), or De
Morgan's most striking experiment with Mrs. Hayden (see p. xliii. of
the preface to From Matter to Spirit), I would spare no pains to avail
myself of it; and if I could obtain similar results with sufficient
repetition and nriation of conditions, I ~~y &~f.@em as
The P088ibUities of Mal-Observation. 105
evidentially important. But I should certainly not put them forward
&8 evidence if I knew the supposed medium to be a detected impostor.
Nor should I seek evidence from such tainted sources i-not because I
hold that evidence involving tricksters cannot be raised to a pitch that
would exclude explanation by trickery, except on the supposition of the
investigator's idiocy; but because an extended experience has led me to
regard the chance of its being so raised as too slight to counterbalance
the palpable evil of encouraging an immoral trade. Suppose tha.t such
descriptions as Mr. Massey and others have given of Eglinton's s1a~
writing had been given of the performances of an avowed conjurer:
surely no one would have suggested that we were forced to the su~
position of idiocy or mendacity or hallucination on the part of the
observers: and if not, the supposition cannot be any more necessary
in the case of Eglinton.
Mr. Massey holds that my preference of private mediums to admitted
impostors is a "weak: point in my position" if " our aim is to obtain
exact proof." It is clear from this that he mistakes my position. He
regards unblemished character and stringency of tests as alternatives: I
regard them as conditions which we should aim at combining. But, as
I have often said, I do not expect to obtain cogent proof of an unknown
law of nature by a single experiment: I do not hope to get it by any-
thing less than a large accumulation of experiments of the beat attain-
able quality.
Mr. Massey further suggests that I have changed my ground in
now resting my objection to paid mediums partly on a presumption of
their conjuring capacities. He will find, however, that I have drawn
attention to this characteristic, as belonging to professional but not to
private mediums, in an address which I delivered a year later. (See
Proceedings, Vol. I., p. 249.) The reason that I did not mention this,
&8 well as the pecuniary motive to fraud, in prescribing the lines of
investigation in my first address, was merely that it seemed less easy
to eliminate with certainty. We can be sure that we have not paid a
given person, but we cannot be sure that he has not long practised
trickery, though in some cases we can show it to be highly improbable
that he has practised it sufficiently to become an expert trickster.
By the way, I entirely agree with Mr. Massey that cheating-even
successful cheating-and professional conjuring are quite different
things. ~ do not suppose that Sillode and Eglinton could succeed as
rivals of Maskelyne or Verbeck. But I have no reason-nor has Mr.
Massey offered any-for regarding their powers of slate-writing as
altogether self-taught; nor do I think it marvellous that, even without
any training by avowed conjurers, they should have acquired a high
degree of skill in this special line during their many years of practice.
Mr. Massey seems to think it inexplicable, SUPpo~Kd~~~~~
106 The Possibilities of Mal-Ob8eroatwn.
mer6 trickster, that I should have seen through him on one occasion (in
1876), whereas some of his performances have baftled professional
conjurers. I cannot think that the art of finding out unknown tricks
is so entirely technical as this inference assumes; nor does it seem to
me improbable that Slade should be sometimes careless with persons
who appear easy to. take in, or sometimes clumsy in adapting himself
to the supposed tastes of his customers. In my case, as I conceive, he
hoped to impress an academic mind by presenting unasked a slate in-
scribed with five sentences in different modern languages, obviously taken
out of a conversation-book, and one phrase out of the Greek Testament.
I did not exactly see the trick done; but I saw when substi-
tution might have taken place; and, considering the performance in
the light of later exposures, I cannot doubt that it was a prepared trick.
Finally, Mr. Massey is surprised that, my views being what they
are, I should have attempted to obtain personal experience of Eglinton's
"phenomena.," with the assistance of experts in conjuring. I certainly
should not have done this, had I known what I now know of Eglinton's
antecedents; nor, I think, even without this knowledge, if it had not
been for the situation in which I was at the time placed, as President
of the Society. In accordance with my wishes----upressed in the
address above referred to-()ur "Physical Phenomena Committee"
avoided the employment of paid mediums; but their efforts to obtain
evidence elsewhere led to no satisfactory result, and murmurs began to
be heard from Spiritualists among us that we were neglecting an
unequalled opportunity of obtaining conclusive phenomena through the
mediumship of Eglinton. I was anxious that our committee should
adhere to their rule, so far as their official investigation went,
and that none of the Society's funds should go in paying guineas to
a professional slate-writer; but I thought it better to make some con-
cession to the murmurers, and I preferred to make it by arranging pri-
vately for a series of experiments with Eglinton. lIaving come to this
resolution, it seemed clearly desirable to seek the co-operation of a con-
jurer. The scientific object of any such investigation must be to exclude
possible known causes of the apparently inexplicable phenomena. In the
case ofslate-writing, the most obvious of such causes was trickery, at any
rate somewhat similar to a conjurer's: I therefore thought it impor-
tant to get the aid of an expert in conjuring as a means of bringing our
experiments up to the highest attainable pitch of conch.tsiveness,
whether the result was positive or negative. And I thought that we were
fortunate in obtaining the assistance of an accomplished amateur-Mr.
Angelo J. Lewis-who was prepared to enter on the investigation with
a perfectly open mind. That he obtained no satisfactory result does
not surprise me, knowing what I now know of Eglinton.
Digitized by@i~oJ[.
The Po88ibilitie8 of Mal-Ob8ervation. 107
I am sorry to be obliged to take up some further space in conse-
quence of Professor Sidgwick's latest remarks. Here is the passage, in
his first Address, which immediately follows the already quoted reference
to the evidence of Crookes, Wallace, and de Morgan, and on which I
chiefly base the representation considered by Professor Sidgwick to be
without justification (italics are mine) :-" But it is clear that from what
I have already defined as the aim of the Society, however good Borne of
1M evidencema!l be in quality, we require a great deal more ofit." If
the recommendation, that we should as much as possible direct our
investigation to ph~nomena with private mediums, is to be read as a
"distinct statement of opinion" that we ought to avoid paid mediums
as much as possible, I can only remark that that either is or is not
consistent with what Professor Sidgwick said elsewhere in the same
Address. In my view, it is consistent, because we may well prefer
investigation with private mediums, and may yet attach high im-
portance to the accumulation of the best evidence with professional
mediums-such evidence as that of Zollner, &c.-whether obtained
within or without the Society. It is to be observed that I was not
speaking of original research by the Society, and that I said nothing to
imply that Professor Sidgwick had encouraged this or that sort of direct
investigation by the Society. We get our fac~ur evidence-from
alien sources at least as much as from our own experience. Estimating
more highly than I do the difficulty of avoiding imposture with paid
mediums, Professor Sidgwick might well deprecate the regular employ-
ment of them, as bad economy of time and resources, and might neverthe-
less recognise the importance of accumulating testimony equal to that of
which he said we want "a great deal more of it." Professor Sidgwick
has therefore not quite correctly stated the inference I drew from his
words, and it is hardly necessary for me to insist on such passages a.a
.. it is highly desirable that the investigation of these matters should be
carried on by men who have tried to acquaint themselves with the
performances of conjurers," though I fail to see the high desirability of
this if investigation is to ·be restricted as Professor Sidgwick thinks it
should be. And further, as he even now admits that evidence with
those he calls tricksters may be raised to a pitch that would exclude
explanation by trickery, it is obvious that my worst mistake lay in
supposing that he would feel obliged to acknowledge that such evidence
had been accumulated since he addressed us in 1882, and not in the
supposition that he had recognised the poBBibility of this happening
with paid mediums who had been under suspicion. I thought we had
reached the pitch of evidence at which the question of the sort of
medium would be admittedly as indifferent to Professor Sidgwick as it
is to me. He thinks otherwise. But I am still unable to see my
" misrepresentation." Digi
108 The PoBSibilitie8 of Mal-Observation.
I need not now dwell on what seems to me the petitio principii
involved in the supposition of such descriptions as I and others have
given of Eglinton's slate-writing being given of the performances of an
avowed conjurer, because much of my paper was an attempt to show
that such a supposition is an impossible one. No mere conjurer baa
ever yet submitted, and none ever will submit, to BOme conditions
under which the slate-writing baa been repeatedly observed with
Eglinton, or will ever undertake to produce the appearance of such
conditions, so as to induce a witneBB to give such an account as I
consider really good evidence.
Professor Sidgwick seems to have misunderstood the bearing of my
observation with regard to his supposed detection of Slade (which it
seems was no detection at all). It is not in the least" inexplicable" to
me that a good conjurer should occasionally be careleBB, and should
thus be detected by one who is not an expert. But my argument was
that such trickery, so detected, certainly raises no presumption of
consummate conjuring capabilities. I do not say it u:cludu the hy-
pothesis of the latter, though I think it is decidedly unfavourable to it.
All I say is that you must have other grounds to go upon, and that even
if you think you have such other grounds, the detected cheating is
rather in your way than otherwise. It is a fact prima facie so far
at variance with great conjuring capabilities that it would have to
be exlained in BOme such way as that in which Professor Sidgwick
explains it.
And this brings me to Profeaaor's Sidgwick's references to my
admissions of trickery by mediums. Now, in the first place, I
believe that a very great deal of what seems to be trickery is only
apparently such. And I hold that the appearance of it is not only ex-
plainable, but is actually necessitated by the hypothesis of mediumship.
To make good this remark would require a distinct paper. But even
where the physical agency of the medium is undeniable, I cannot, upon
grounds well understood by Spiritualists, always, or even commonly.
infer that the agency is voluntary. That there is a residue of con-
scious, intentional fraud I am, of course, aware. But as regards Mr.
Eglinton in particular, I must in justice say that I have made no
admissions, and that I do not believe he has IlW1' tricked-consciously
or unconsciously-in the slate-writing, though I am quite prepared to
hear that with him, as with other mediums, deficient power baa had ita
usual &C'.companiment of "suspicious" results. But as my opinion of
his "mediumship" is quite independent of any estimate of his character,
I am exempt from the obligation to form a decided judgment on certain
of his alleged antecedents--a. judgment I should find more difficult
than Professor Sidgwick baa found it.
.-Q. c. jfAf!8BY.
Digitized by \.;OD61~
The POBBibilities of Mal-Observation. 109
Should any reader still feel an unexhausted interest in the question
whether Mr. Massey's misrepresentation of my advice was justifiable, I
must ask him to read the address it&elf-which he will find at the
beginning of the first volume of our Proceedinga-along with the
polemical reference to it in Mr. Massey's paper. He will, I think,
easily convince himself (1) that the" we" who were urged to "accumu-
late fact on fact" were precisely and palpably the same "we" who had
previously been advised to "direct investigation, as much as possible, to
phenomena where no pecuniary motives to fraud can come in;" (2) that
my aversion to encouraging the trade of detected impostors was
expressed quite unmistakably; and (3) that the complimentary phrase
in which I referred to the investigations of our predecessors could not
reasonably be understood to qualify my subsequent distinct recommen-
dations. But I can hardly imagine that any reader will take this
trouble; it is now very unimportant-even to myself-whether I
expressed my opinion as clearly as I intended four years ago. What I
chiefly desire is to prevent any further m'isapprehension of my views. I
have long held that the great scandal of modem Spiritualism is the
encouragement it has always given to the nefarious trade of professional
impostors. I feared that the formation of the Society for Psychical
Research would almost inevitably have some effect of this undesirable
kind; and I determined, at any rate, to do all I could to reduce the
extent of the evil. I did not propose a rigid rule of avoiding "paid"
mediums or "subjects"; partly thinking that some pecuniary compensa-
tion for loss of time might be found necessary, in the case of prolonged
investigation with any persons of limited leisure. But I certainly
hoped that we might avoid altogether the kind of evidence on which
Mr. Massey's paper entirely relies-the reports of the " phenomena" of
persons like Monck, Slade, and Eglinton. In the case of Monck,
Mr. Massey tacitly admits that imposture has been proved ; that Slade
"often cheats" he has expressly stated; as regards the evidence
against Eglinton he declares that he would have some difficulty in
forming a decided judgment. This point, then, I must leave for the
reader to decide, after studying the evidence to which I have directed
his attention;1 if he should still think it right to spend his guineas on
Eglinton, he will at any ra~I hope-not suggest that he is acting in
accordance with my recommendation.
For my own part,I have come to the conclusion-not by apriori
reasoning, but from much personal experience and examination of the
experience of others-that it is only under "ery exceptional circum-
stances that the serious student of Spiritualism should investigate the
1 Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research will Hnll
the evidence given in the Journal for June, 1886, pp. 282~28i. Gooole
Digitized by "
110 The PoBBibilities of Mal-Obseruatitm.
"phenomena" of a professional and paid medium. That anyone who
is induced by narratives of marvel to enter on this line of investigation
should first take all the pains in his power to acquaint himself with the
poaaibilities of producing by trickery the appearance of such marvels-
this proposition, I conceive, will be generally admitted. But
Mr. Masaey at least seems to think that no trouble of this sort need be
taken by the investigator who confines his attention to private mediums.
This is not my view. On the contrary, I hold that in the case
of private, no less than professional mediums, it is very important
that the investigator should be, if poaaible, competent to judge how far
the results that he deacribes--or rather his impreasions of them-could
be produced by trickery; at least, if his evidence is to afford any
effective corroboration of the medium's own asaertions. I am far from
aying that the study of conjuring will always enable him to judge
correctly on this point, nor do I even think that i1; would be in all cases
the best method of training his judgment, but I think that it is likely
to be useful in most caaea ; it; would at least tend to prevent his testi-
mony from being vitiated-aa much Spiritualistic evidence now is-by
expressions of confident reliance on the moat palpably inadequate
tests.
H. SIDGWICX.
Digitized by Coogle
M'U8cle-Beading wnd Thougkt-TraruJ!ere'M6. 111
EXPERIMENTS IN MUSCLE-READING AND THOUGHT-
TRANSFERENCE)
By MAX DB88oIB.
There appeared recently in Leipzig a work by the well-known Pro-
fesaor of Physiology, Dr. W. Preyer, entitled "The Explanation of
Thought-Reading." In this book the author gives a detailed explanation
of muscle-reading, aa exhibited in the late perfonnances of MeaBrII. Bishop
and Cumberland. but denies the pouibility of any other kind of thought-
transference. It may be not out of place, then, to describe lOme experiments
which I made in the summer of 1885.
I began my investigations by Beeking to determine the range of muscle-
reading, and I found that--apart from all other modes of contact-a gentle
touching of the shoulder sufficed for definite guidance. In what follows, the
person willing and thinking is spoken of aa the "agent," and the perlOn
searching, or receiving the "transference," ill spoken of aa the "per-
cipient."
1.-:BI'l'rING ON Jyn 15TH, 1885.
.dgmt:-Ewald Weiu, Stud. Mus., Berlin, S. W. Wilhelmstraue, 28.
Percipimt:-Max Deuoir.
Herr Weiu thought of thiII-that the percipient WB8 to go through
l18Veral rooma to a bronze figure, take it down from a cupboard, stroke it,
and then put it down. He WM then to go further, and Bit down on a parti-
cular chair. Complete IUCC8IIL
It ill clear how the result WB8 attained. The percipient baa hill eyes
bandaged, and hill attention concentrated upon himself. By unooDBCious
mWlCUlar guidance he ill led to the bronze figure.
The question now arises, how can there possibly be a guidance tIfHDCIrcU ,
AI regarda this point, I have had the following insmctive experiences :
Firet, if the percipient wants to move away from the spot, the agent
always guides him back, 10 that he notes: "There illlOmething more to be
done here." Secondly, the prelBure on hill shoulders diminishes, since the
handa of the agent involuntarily rille a little, in consequence of hill
thoughts being fixed on the higher position. The percipient concludes
with certainty from th818 signa that hill activity ill to be concentrated in an
upward direction. The stroking of the figure, which at first Bight Beema
remarkable, ill explained by the fact that every agent haa, aa it were, a
code of confirmatory muscular movements expreuive of satisfaction. When
I let my handa slip down along the figure-entirely by accident-I waa
clearly sensible of this approving preBIur8; this induced me to repeat the
movement until a ceuation of the PrelBure indicated to me that this
part of my taak WB8 accomplished. I WB8 then guided by the unwitting
The origiDal, of which the followiDg ill. tnzWaticm, WIllI _t to III .t the o1oIe
of 1885.
Digitized by Coogle
112 M'U8cle-hading and Tlwught-Tramference.
agent to the chair which had been chosen, and a strong downward preuUle
impelled me to the natural movement of Bitting down.
2.-SITTINO ON JUNE 25TH, 1885.
Agent:-Ewald Weiss.
Percipient :-Max DeSBOir.
The percipient WIIB to fetch a walking-Btick out of the corridor, carry. it
to the window, and lay it there in the window-groove (FenstIlfTinne).
Oomplete BUcceBB. NevertheleBB (my noteB continue), when the per-
cipient came to the window he wanted firBt to place the Btick in the comer,
then he hung it to the window-Bill (Fetl.8terbreU), and afterwards twioe moved
it about over the Bill. Then, finally, he laid it down oorrectly.
The first part of the experiment waa obviously succeaaful on the principlea
with which we are already familiar; but the heaitation in the BeCOnd part
deBerveB further conaideration. The ohief condition of course is that the
percipient shall above everything be aa far aa poBBible " without thought"
(gedatlkenZos), in order to Bubmit completely to the guidance; but if he is
compelled to take a line of his own, he will try whatever it is eaaieat and
moat natural to do under the circumstanceB. Acting on this canon of
experience, I first placed the Btick in the oomer; but aa I waa about to move
away, the preBBure on my should('rs prevented me, and I knew that I had
made a mistake. I then tried until I diacovered the right thing, and could
then deBOribe this trial alao aa BucoeBBful. After theBe indicationa, the one
additional experiment which I select for attention, out of many others,
is eaaily comprehenaible; it shOWB, however, an interesting variation. I
quote it from the notea.
3.--SITTINO ON JUNE 10'l'B.1885.
Aget~t :-Heinrioh Biltz, Student of Ohemistry, 14, SchellingBtraaae.
Percipient :-Max DeBBoir.
A match-box had to be found, a match Btruck, and a candle in another
room to be lit with it.
The percipient found the match-box, opened it, took a match from it,
and seized the rig'ht candleBtick. But then it ocourred to him-aa he imme-
diately aaid himself, before he knew what he ought to have done--that there
waa no candle in the candleatick, and that hence it waa uaeleBB to Btrike the
match. He therefore left it undone.
This caae shOWB clearly how detrimental it is for the percipient to depend
upon deliberate retlection (regelrechte Ueberlegwngm) inatead of following his
inBtinct. A Bingle trial would have Bufficed to show whether the match
ought to be kindled or not.
In the experiments whioh now follow, any unconaciouB muacular move-
ment, Buch aa I have deacribed in the preceding caaea, is altogether exoluded.
They were ao arranged that agent and percipient Bat at one table at a dis-
tance from each other of between half a metre and three metreB. There
waa either no oontact at all, or in II few casu the agent placed his handa
gently upon those of the percipient. Under these conditiona, experiment&
were made in gueBBing numbers. The percipient did not, of COIll'8e,
write the number down, but spoke it. When the pe;c:ipient I~ed to
Digitized by ~008 e
M'l.UJCk-hading and Tlwught-Tramfere'1/,(J6. 113
ap.,k, the contact IOmetimes made waa diIOontinued, lest the pftlllU1'8 of
the hand should atl'ord any clue.
'.-SlT'l'lNO ON JUNB 1sT, 1885.
Agent :-Heinrich Biltz.
Percipient :-Max Deuoir.
'rBOUOBT. O'01lll8llD.
2 •
2 7
10 63
20 75
~ ~,~
19 18
78 11
The percipient W'88 [previoualy] informed whether the number conaisted
of one digit or of more.
'rBOUOBT.
8
33 ..•
5.-BlT'l'INo ON JUlOI 25m, 1885•
.Agent :-Ewald Weill.
Perc'pimt :-Max Deuoir.
O'01lll8llD.
1, 8.
Percipient continually 18811 a "3" in all pouible shapel,
but cannot diIcover the IMlCOnd figure, which in
truth WM a1IO "3."
6 6.
10 Nothing.
11 ...
3 " I 188 a 7, but it OICillatea above." PaUle. Then-" 3."
IDligni6.cant aa th_ reault:. may be, I think that lOme conclUliona
may Itill be drawn from them. Wbereu at the tint Bitting of this IOn
the only IUCC8R waa a lingle half-correct result out of the whole leven triala;
M daya later, out of Iix trialI one waa right at the tint attempt, two at the
aecond attempt; another waa half right j and only two were failurea.
Even of th_ two, the cue 11--44. should not count aa an ablOlute
failure, owing to the great aimilarity in the appearance of tbe two numbera.
Thna there is no doubt u to an increue in the capacity of the percipient,
and I am convinced that nothing more than further practice waa nec8l-
-.ry in order to get Iplendid reault:..1 In this, u in other mattera,
practice makes perfect. In the courae of thia paper, we aha1l encounter
yet. further proof that the IUlceptibility to atl'ection from the thought:.
of othen can be developed by practice. The beat proof is, in the firat place,
that the result:. were alwaya the poorest at the begiuning of any lpecial clul
of experiment:., and, in the aecond place, that the clauea of experiment:.
only more recently practised had comparatively the fewest result:. to ahow.
Experiment:. in the discovery of objectl thought of, where there waa no
contact with the agent:., show no better result:. than the ordinary proba-
1 Thia opinioa _s far too coafideJ1t; and it ia "err doubtful whether Herr
De.oir'I theory AI to the eft'ect of practice heighteDiag the percipieJ1t's II1IIC8pti"
bill\y ia at aU geDer&lly home auto-ED.
Digitized by Coogle
bilities would warrant. But 88 I have conducted only 11 experimentAl of thia
kind, the question of practice and improvement doea not enter j and it bu,
moreover, to be remembered that the efl'ort to perceive ill apt to bring
the would-be percipient out of the completely paaaive atate in which he
ought to be. At any rate, I have aeldom aucceeded in perceiving mentally
an object (pencil, pen, &C.) thought of j and the number of trialI (8) hal
been too IIIl&ll for any aafe concluaion. Unfortunately, my time did
not enable me to go thoroughly then into every branch of the experi-
mentAl j and I thought it better to make myaelf familiar with lOme pomona,
inItead of going on with all of them and getting only IIIl&ll resultAl.
I proceed to give my few ohlervatioDl on the tranaference of tIIOrdI
thought of.
6.--Sl'1'TING ON Jun 16TH, 1885.
Agent :-Ewald Weill.
Percipi&nt :-Max D88IOir.
In the fint two cuea, the percipient W88 told that the words were names
of towna j in the othen only that they were noUDI.
THOUGHT.
Rome
Como
Antwort
Leaen
Ja ...
GUBIIIIBD.
Hamburg.
The tint ill round-towarda the left j the
I8COnd like an (I; then IOmething which I
can't diltinguiBh j then an (I or o.
A--.
.B'hn.
The word baa only two letten. Thetint ill a
K orJ, the I8COnd like a IIIl&ll d.
Here alIO, I think, Il progreaa is WlDliItakable,l although not one of the
08881 can be deacribed 88 entirely auCClellful.
Similarly in the following experimentAl, which I will not conaider in any
further detail, there can be no question of a I&tiafactory result j I it ja,
indeed, only the beginning of a aeries, which I W88 unable to continue.
The moduI opertJnt.U W88 88 followa :-The experimenten.t two metres
apart j the agent imagined the particular card plainly on the ground j the
percipient had, aa also '" 8'*'If ot1wr c-, hiI eyea bandaged with a thin
Iilk handkerchief.
7.--Sl'1'TING ON HAy 2HB, 1885, AND ON TBB POLLOWllfG D.l'l8.
THOUGHT.
Agent:-Heinrich Biltz.
Percipient:-Ma.x Deaaoir.
Gt1BB8BD.
1. Knave of Spadea 1. Queen of Spad811.
2. Ten of Spadea 2. Nine of Diamondll.
3. King of Hearts 3. King of Clubs.
1 The triala are too few to justify any IUcb conclusion. even had the lUooeM
been more appreoiable than it waa.-ED.
t It is Dot clear what is meant. The series aboWl an amount of IU_ beyond
what chance would be likely to produce. But it ia all too abort; and moreover the
carda were not (as they alwal! abould be) selected at random from a PIICk. but
were apparently fixed on at will by the agent, who almon confined himIelf to _
and court carda:-ED. G I
Digitized by oog e
mOUGBT. GUB88BD.
4. Kuave of Diamonds 4. Queen of Diamonda.
6. Eight of Diamonds 6. Eight of Spade&.
6. Queen of Diamonds 6. Kuave of SI*iea.
7. King of Spadee 7. King of Hearts.
8. Kuave of Diamonds 8. Ten of Clube.
9. Ten of Spadee 9. Ace of Diamoada.
10. Aoe of Hea.rta ... 10. Aoe of Hearta.
11. Queen of Hearts ... 11. Queen of Hearta.
12. King of Clube ... 12. King or Queen of ClubB.
13. Aoe of Spatia ..• 13. Aoe of Hearts,Aoeof Spadee.
Without wiahing to draw any conclusioDl from theae trials, I p8IIII on at
once to that branch of the inquiry to which I have given the moat attention,
the reproduction of diagram..
The modm opemndi W8II .. deacribed above. Herren Weiaa and Biltz
acted alternately .. agenta, except in No.7, where Herr'V'"ilhelm Sachse [of
10, Kirchbachatraue, Berlin, S.W.] w.. the agent. Twenty-one triala1 were
made in all, the following account of which I for the moat part quote from the
note&. I have copied the diagramsl as accurately .. poIIIible from originala
which I have preserved, and give them in the order of the experiments. I may
remark that the SUC08llll was a1rected by the mood of the agent and of the
percipient at the time. The sittings were held between June 4th and JUDe
20th, 1885 ; as the experiments, therefore, are spread over 1IM'!/ mcmr days,
it ia more diftlcult than in the previous obeervatioDl to eetimate any
development.
1 The 21 include all the CUM where Herr DeIIIIoir himlelf WIllI either agent or
perc!pient, but do not include three trial. in which Herr Bilts tried to act as
pttrcip!ent, and which were failures. These must be set against three BUClC8IBeII of
Herr Biltz (NOI. iii., vi., lind x.) in the aeries given. In that aeries, two attempta of
Herr DeIIIIolrU percipiellt-ilne of them (to the ere) IUUOIJIIU, and one a failure-are
omitted, owing to some uncertainty as to the conditionB.-ED.
I The ~ c:!y' 116-123 are not taken from Herr D8IBOir'. copies, but
from \he o~ th Villi, which Herr DeIIIIoir forwarded for the purpose at our
reqUeat.-ED. r I
Digitized by "j'<j0g e
116 Muscle-Readil1g and Thought-Transference.
ORIGINAL.
Agent: H. B.
OBIo.
Agent: H. B.
ORIG.
Agent's name omitted.
I.
REPBODUCTION.
II.
REP. 2.
REp. I.
In.
REP.
It appears here that the agent's image
included an impression of the left part
of the frame. M. Do,
[ ,;ze L)o Ie
LJ
Muscle-Reading (mel Tkought-T'I'OIMferttnee. 117
IV.
OIUG.
3 B.R.
ApDt: B.B.
v
OBIo.
ApDt: B.B.
RIIP. 1.
lUP.l.
OHIG.
Alent: W. S.
VI.
08111.
Agent: M. D.
RBP.2.
VII.
REP. 1. REP. 2.
J
While the aecond reproduction wall proceeding.
an interruption occurred which prevented it!<
completion.
Digi
VIII.
OmO.
Agent: H. B.
!UP. 1. RKP.2. RaP. 8.
++ c
IX.
OBIO.
REp. 1. RaP. 2.
The percipient aaid, "It looks like II window."
Agent: H. B.
X.
OmO. REP.S.
Agent: M. D.
x@~~
izedbyG
120 Muscle-Reading and Thought-TTa'lUlference.
XI.
0810.
REP.t.
A4rent: H. B.
RIP. 2.
REP.B.
Digi
~lf'U8Cle-Reading and Thought-Transfe-rence. 121
XII.
OBIo.
Agfmt : H. B.
REP. 1. REP. 2.
XIII.
OBIO. REP. 1. REP. 2.
The percipient said, .. It lookB like a window.»
Agent: E. W.
122 M'U8Cle-Bmdin,g aM Tlwught-Tramference.
XIV.
OBIG. REP.L Rap. 2. RBP.S.
it IT QTO CD
Agent: E. W.
XV.
OBlG.
REp. 2. REP.S.
~ LA
The fir" attempt at reproduction appears to
have been a failure.
Agent: E. W.
XVI.
OBIG.
RBP.1. REp. 2. RBP.3.
V L ~
Agent: E. W.
XVII.
ORIG. REP. l. RKP.2.
(jJ <0 @
Agent: E. W. Digi
MU8Cle-Beading and Thought-TratnBfe1'e'M6. 123
ORIo.
ff
Alent: E. W.
ORIG.
IV
Agent: E. W.
XVIIL
REP. 1. REP.s.
o. <I>
The percipient aid, "I see two bright triaagIaI, but I
cannot tell euct1y how the aecond is situated."
XIX.
REP. I. RBP.2. REP. S.
e- n t
In concluding this brief account, I will sUlIlJlllU"iae the results which I
would venture to draw from my experiments.
I have always, as baa been seen, taken part myself in the experiments,
and have never been a mere looker-on. This was for the purpose of guarding
against every form of deception to which I might otherwise have fallen a
victim, and of finding the key to the explanation of the phenomenon.
Although this last hope baa not been fulfilled, owing to the small amount of
time that I could devote to these observations, I have, nevertheleB8, noticed
some not unimportant points.
The preliminary conditions of a succeuful .itting appear to me to be :-
A very quiet locality, with plenty of fresh air and a moderate temperature.
Only persona ought to take part in the experiments whose presence is agree-
able to the percipient, and who htl knows will not be disturbed or annoyed
by occasional failure. The percipient must be in a calm and contented frame
of mind; the agent must be in sympathy with him, and must himself have
the knack of conducting the experiments easily and pleasantly. The
eyes of the percipient should then be bandaged with a light silk handker-
chief, in such a way that the bandage passes also over the ears.
The agent and percipient then proceed respectively in the manner
described above.
The agent should now form, as vividly as possible, a mental picture of
the object-beat imagined as a shining white on " b1a.ck background.
This picture he should hold fast with the greatest energy, and let no other
thoughts interfere with it. The percipient, on the contrary, must endeavour
above everything not to strain expectation in looking for the emergence
of the image, but simply to wait quietly. He should empty his brain, as it
were, of all disturbing imaginations, and gaze with clos~z~lb~~d'gf~P
124 Muscle-Reading and Tlwught-Transfere:nce.
darkness. There will then BOOn emerge in it imagea of objecta, diagrama,
&c., which seem to change into one another. He should be patient until one
of theBe remaina quietly before him, and seems definite to him. Then he
should take the bandage off, and draw what he baa seen.
Frequently, at the moment of drawing, the image disappears, and cannot
be correctly fixed on the paper. In this case another trial ought to be made.
When he baa drawn he should uk, "Is it right 1" And the a.nIwer
should be only No or Yea. If he now desires it, a second experiment may
be attempted; but more than two should not be made, &I this fatigues
both agent and percipient.
I have only one further remark to make-that deception, conacious or UD-
conscious, is altogether out of the queation &I regards the foregoing caaea.
The above-named gentlemen, &I well &I myself, pledge their word to that
effect.1 MAx DB880IB..
The following shorter record is taken from the monthly journal BpMM:
(Leipzig), for June, 1886, and we have not seen the original diagrama. The
experiments were made at the house of Baron Dr. von Ravenaburg, whose
wife was the percipient. Herr Max DelllOir drew the originala on the spur
of the moment, out of the Baroness von Ravenaburg's sight, and taking care
that his pencil should move noiaeleuly. He and the Baron then concen-
trated their attention on the figure, which the Baroness, sitting at another
table, endeavoured to reproduce, after a time varying from 20 to 45 seconds.
(The Baron did not take part in the fint experiment, which, it will be seen.
was a failure.)
I.
OBIG.
REP. I.
REP. 2.
1 Herr Weiae and Herr Biltz are known to UB, ~b COJ'2'eBIIOndence, iDde-
pendently of tb_ experiment.. Tbey and Herr Sachse have sent us certificatea of
the ~ of the r8conl of the experimenta in which theh Wen! I,1lBP8CIiively
concemed. ED. Digitized by ~oo8le
M'UBCle-Reading and Thooght-Tramfe?-ence. 125
II.
Omo.
III.
0810.
IV.
0810.
RKP.l.
REP. 2.
-- 8
REp.
The correction Willi made by the
percipient before the original was
.hOWD to her.
RKP.
126 Mu,scle-Reading and Thought-Transference.
v.
REP.
ORIO.
The percipient said, .. It is a circle outside, and there is something else inside
it ;" then, after a pause, .. A triangle." She then drew the reproduction, and added
that the circle was an imperfect one.
With respect to these experiments, the Baron and Baroness von
RaveDJIburg have Bent a note of corroboration, of which the following
is a translation :-
" 18, ZieteDJItraBBe, Berlin, W.
" July 9, 1886.
" We certify that the report of our sitting for a trial of thought-
tr&Dllference, which appeared in the sixth number of Sphinx, is throughout
in correspondence with the facts, and has been drawn up with complete
aocuracy.
"FRElHERR GoBLER VON RAVBNSBURG.
"ELIZABBTH, F'REIFRAU GOBLER VON RAVIIN8BURG."
izedbyGoogle
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 127
VI.
ON TELEPATHIC HYPNOTISM, AND ITS RELATION TO
OTHER FORMS OF HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION.
By FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
§ 1. The nucleus of the following paper consists of some personal
observations of a remarkable hypnotic subj~bSt!rvations which the
kindness of Dr. Gibert and Professor Pierre Janet enabled me to make
at Havre, April 20-24, 1886.
The most striking feature in this case was the sommeil adistance,
or, if I may so term it, eelepatM,c "''lJP'Mti8m i-the production, that is to
say, of sleep and other hypnotic phenomena by the will, or mental sugges-
tion, of a person at a distance from the subject.
This is not, of course, the first time that such a phenomenon has
been observed. In PhantasmIJ of ths Living (Vol. I., Chap. 3; Vol.
II. Supp~ement, Chap. 1; and Additional Chapter) will be found
a collection of the more trustworthy cases; and Mr. Gurney has
pointed out their analogy to the spontaneous cases of telepathy, of which
that book furnishes many examples. But from the side of AypnoeiBm
no attempt whatever, so far as I know, has been made to correlate this
hypnogenous 1 forceorsuggestionat a distancewith hypnogenous agencies
employed in the subject's actual presence,-hypnogenous suggestion
which actually reaches his ear. The mesmerists proper, talking of their
vital influence, have said, .. This influence can sometimes act over great
distances." And more recently the 8Uf/Uestionues, if I may so term them,
have sometimes spoken of this distant command as though it were
merely a form of suggestion-as if it fell under that heading with as
little difficulty as the mere deferred 8Uf/uestion, which works itself
out at a distant time, instead of working itself out at the same time,
but at a distant point of space.
The confusion involved in both these modes of expression is great.
The mesmerists have ignored the difficulty of supposing that an effiuence
which they hold actually to emanate from eyes and fingers can operate
through stone walls and across streets filled with the interfering
influence of other men and women. And the suggestionists seem to me
never to have analysed what is meant by 8Uf/uestion-a word of indis-
pensable convenience, but which, as I shall endeavour to show, has been
used to include methods of hypnogeny which differ widely from one
another.
I must adopt from the French the word Aypnogeny for the production of
hypnotic states: Ay,terogeny for the production of hysterical states; dynamo
ogenyfor the production of increased nervous activity; aJltAuiogen for a substance
whOll8 contact or proximity gives rise to unexplained nervous actionG I
Digitized by oog e
128 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
After narrating, therefore, my observations on Madame B.'s Bmnmeil
ti avlance, I felli unwilling to If-ave the case as a mere isolated marvel,
and unwilling also to connect it with more familiar forms of hypnotism
by what seem to me mere vague phrases about an extension of "the
range of mesmeric influence," or of .. the scope of suggestion." So I have
briedy reviewed some other recent ca.ses--Dr. H~ricourt's, Dr. Dusart's,
Drs. Bourru and Burot's-a.nd have then endeavoured, in a provisional
and very imperfect manner, to analyse the various forms of hypnotic
suggestion, and to correlate them, in an intelligible series, with the
numerous and disparate methods of experimentally inducing the
hypnotic trance which have been practised by competent observers. I
have been obliged to do this very briedy, and to omit any discussion
of the true definition and limit of "hypnotic phenomena" themselves.
This, too, needs doing on a more comprehensive plan than has been yet
attempted.
§ 2. Before giving my own notes on Madame B.'s case, it will
be necessary to furnish some &CCOunt of M. Pierre Janet's previous
observations, as recorded in his "Note sur quelques pMnomenes de
somnambulisme." (Bulletim rU la Societl rU P"!Icho~ Phyriologiqve,
Tome I., p. 24.) 1 Professor Janet was kind enough to allow me to
peruse his notes, taken mainly at the actual moment of observation;
and, although I am naturally not at liberty to print any matter as yet
unpublished, I can vouch for the scrupulous care with which he has
compiled his account of the ca.se.
I had al80 the advantage of conversation with Dr. Gibert and
his family, who are well acquainted with Madame B. Dr. Gibert
is the "Doyen du Syndioat M~ical de la France," and a leading
physician at Havre. He has long practised hypnotism, which he bas
directed mainly to therapeutic ends. Madame B., while at Havre,
is received into the house of a sister of Dr. Gibert's; and his
family, who have acceBB to the somnambule at all hours, confirm
Professor Janet's estimate of her simplicity and honesty of character.
Of the genuinen688 of the induced somnambulism in this case no
doubt has been felt, so far as I know, by any observer. The aruesthesia,
the contractures, the variations in redex action, &C. (as well as the
woman's previous history), supply sufficient evidence on this point. But
even after this fundamental fact has been proved (which in the present
state of our knowledge of hypnotism is not very difticult), there remains
a question, 1688 definite indeed, but highly important, as to the temper
of mind which the subject carries with her into the trance. Thus, for
instance, there is, of course, no doubt as to the reality of the trance of
"1& nommk Wi~"-whom, thanks to Dr. F~r~'s kindness, I ha\·e
I See also PAantMnu qf tAe L,'IJi"9, Vol. ii, ~6i9. I
Digitized by ~008 e
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 129
observed at the Salpetriere-the asylum, or rather the arena, of her
hystero-epileptic exploits. But" Wii-" is the very type and culmina-
tion of the hysterical diathesis, and her trickiness and love of notice
are so integral a part of her that while she runs through her phases of
catalepsy, lethargy, and so on, one still suspects (if I ma.y so say) a
cataleptic cunning and a lethargic vigilance as to the operator's will.
Madame R, the subject of these researches, is of a very
different type. She is a heavy, middle-aged, peasant woman, with a
patient, stolid expression, and a very limited intelligenoe and
vocabulary. She has, indeed, been more or less somnambulic from
childhood, and a Dr. Feron, since dead, and other persons, seem to have
experimented on her long ago. But she has never made hypnotism her
business; she was drawn to Havre by some medical kindness received
from Dr. Gibert; and care is taken that she shall not make money out
of her stay. Her trance-state is never mentioned to her in her normal
state; nor does she in any way seek notice as a .. sensitive" ; on the
contrary, she plainly dislikes heing sent to sleep from a distance, and
has repeatedly tried to prevent it.! I have seen her only in the trance-
state, and I share the general impression that what she says in that
state is naively and sincerely said, and probably gives a true account
of her own feelings and actions.
I will now briefly summarise M. Janet's principal results.
II. Induction of trance in presence or close proximity of subject.
Sleep usually induced by holding her hand. She is then only
responsive to the operator. He alone can make contra.ctures disap-
pear, &c. Gaze from operator's eye unnecessary. Slight pressure
of thlAmb suffices; but no pressure (except severe pn>.ssure on thumb)
is efficacious without mental concentration--operator's will to put
her to sleep. "This influence of the operator's thougltt, extraordi-
nary, as it may seem, is here quite preponderant; so much 80 that
it can take the place of all other influences." Will witlwut
touch induces sleep. Taking precautions to avoid suggestion, it is found
that (1) M. Janet, while sitting near her, sends her to sleep when, and
only when, he wills it; (2) M.. Gibert from adjoining room sends her to
sleep, M. Janet remaining near her, but not willing; there is evidence
that the sleep is of M. Giherl', induction, for she is in rapport with hinl
only; whereas had sleep come from suggestion of operator's proximity, the
suggestion would pl'obably have been derived from .1[. Janet', close
presence. Nevertheless, she did know that Dr. Gibert was in the house.
(The question as to degrees of proximity will be discussed later on.)
~. Induction of trance at a distance from subject.
1 M. Ja.net says (RB'I1. PhilOBOphique, August, 1886) that Madame B., when
awake, is not aware that she can be hypnotised from a distance. My remark
applies to her knowledge a.nd acts in the incipient or completed tran~ I
Digitized by ~O~ e
130 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
Oct. 3, 1885. M. Gibert tries to put her to sleep from distance of
half-a-mile j M. Janet finds her awake; puts her to sleep; she says, "I
know very well that M. Gibert tried to put me to sleep, but when I felt
him I looked for some water, and put my hands in cold water. I don't
,:ant people to put me to sleep in that way; it puts me out, and makes
me look silly." . She had, in fact, held her hands in water at the time
when M. Gibert willed her to sleep.
Oct. 9. M. Gibert succeeds in a similar attempt; she says in trance,
"Why does M. Gibert put me to sleep from bis house 1 I had not time
to put my hands in my basin." That the sleep was of M. Gibert's
induction was shown by M. Janet's inability to wake her. M. Gibert
had to be sent for.
It is observable, however, that MM. Janet and Gibert can now
(April, 1886) operate interchangeably on the subject; her familiarity
with both seems to enable either to wake her from a trance which the
other has induced.
Oct. 14. Dr. Gibert again succeeded in inducing the trance, from a
distance of two-thirds of a mile, at an hour suggested by a third
;person, and not known to M. Janet, who watched the patient.
l' Influence exercised from a distance during trance.
On Oct. 14 she had been put to sleep at 4.15, as aforesaid. At 5,
at 5.5, and at 5.10 she rose, exclaimed, "Enough, don't do that," then
laughed once, and added, "You can't; if you are the least distracted I
recover myself," and fell back into deep sleep. At those moments
M. Gibert had attempted to make her perform certain acts in her sleep.
Similar results followed from a mental command given in her proximity
during her sleep.l
~. Deferred mental suggestion.
On Oct. 8 M. Gibert pressed his forehead to hers, and gave a
mental order (I omit details, precautions, &c.) to offer a glass of
water at 11.30 a.m. next day to each person present. At the hour
assigned she showed great agitation, took a glass, came up from the
kitchen, and asked if she had been summoned, came and went often
between ,alon and kitchen; was put to sleep from a distance by
)1. Gibert; said, "I had to come; why will they make me carry
glasses 1 I had to say something when I came in." Two somewhat
aimilar experiments were made October 10th and 13th.1I
§ 3. Thus far M. Janet's account of the autumn experiments,
postponing any description of ·the stages through which the subject
1 Before our arrival in April, 1886, Dr. Jules Janet effected a curious traDa·
ference of sensation. He went into an adjoining room and burnt his right wriat
severely. Madame B. uttered piercing cries. and clMped her wrist in the same
pla.ce. See Rev. Phil. for August, 1886, p. 222, for details.
I Some further cases are given in 1ltIrJ. PAil. for August.
Digitized by Coogle
On Telepathic Hypnotism,. 131
passed. In February and in April, 1886, Madame B. was again brought
to Havre, and some succesSful experiments (tabulated below) were made
before my arrival on April 20th.
I give next my own notes of experiments, April 20-24th, taken
at the time in conjunction with Dr. A. T. Myers, and forming the
bulk of a paper presented to the Societe de Psychologie Physiologique
on May 24th.
"I have been asked to write an account of some instances of somnam-
bulic sleep induced at a distance, which I observed at Havre, through
the kindness of Dr. Gibert and Professor Pierre Janet, April 20-24th,
1886. This account is founded on notes taken by me at the time, and
revised on the same or following days by Dr. A. T. Myers, who was
present at the experiments throughout. Other observers were Dr.
Gibert, Professor Pa.ul J a.net, Professor Pierre Janet, Dr. Jules Janet,
Dr. Ochorowicz, and M. Marillier, some of whom have given, or are
about to give, independent accounts.
"I shall confine myself to the cases of production of sleep at a
distance by mental suggestion, with one case of deferred mental sugges-
tion of an act to be performed. In order that the phenomenon of
.ommeil adistance may be satisfactory, we have to guard against three
possible sources of error, namely, fraud, accidental coincidence, and
suggestion by word or gesture.
"The hypothesis ofjraw! on the part of operators or subject may
here be set aside. The operators were Dr. Gibert and Professor Pierre
Janet, and the detailed observations of Professor Pierre Janet, else-
where published, sufficiently prove the genuineness of Madame B.'s som-
nambulic sleep. And, in fact, to anyone accustomed to hypnotic pheno-
mena the genuine character of Madame B.'s trance is readily apparent.
"The hypothesis of apcidental coincidence would be tenable (though
not probable) did the events of April 20-24th constitute the whole
of the observed series. But the number of coincidences noticed
by Dr. Gibert, Professor Janet, and others has been so large that the
action of mere chance seems to be quite excluded. It is to be observed
that, as Professor Janet tells us, the subject has, during an observation
of several weeks (maintained by Mlle. Gibert when Professor Janet
is not present), only twice fallen spontanp-ously into this somnambulic
sleep (when no one willed her to do so); once before our arrival, on
looking a.t a picture of Dr. Gibert, and once on April 21st, as narrated
below.l On the other hand, the observed cases of sleep deliberately
1 Ofthe spontaneous sleep on April 21 {mentioned in e.g. Case i.l, M. Janet
writes (.&m. Phil., August): "Elle se rendormit spontanement deux heures
apres avoir etC reveillee, mail! elle etait dans une periude oil je l'endormais tollS
les jonrs plllsieurs fois, et elle avait simplement eM mal reveillee. D'ailleurs,
pendant ces deux heures d'inten'alle, elle n'avait pu ni parler ni manger: elle
etait donc restee rualheureuseruent dans un etat de deml·sommeil."
Digi K 2
132 On Telepathic Hypnotis'Tn.
induced from a distance amount, I believe, to at least a dozen.! I exclude,
of course, the very numerous occasions when sleep has been induced by
an operator present with the patient, by holding her thumbs, looking at
her, &c. This, however, brings us to the third source of doubt, whether
the sleep may not on all occasions have been induced by some sugg88tWn,
given perhaps unconsciously, by word or gesture. It was thus that I
was at first inclined to explain Cases I. and II. among those that follow,
but the other cases here given seem to negative the supposition.
"I still, however, would explain by mere suggestion all the experi-
ments which I saw made with the magnet. On one occasion, when I
had gone into an adjoining room with the magnet, and this was known
to all present, Madame B. followed me, as though a.ttracted.
She was taken back to her place, and shortly afterwards I came and
sat beside her with the magnet in my pocket, no one knowing that it
was there. No effect whatever was produced on the subject. I made
some other experiments with the magnet, with a similarly negative
result. I would strongly recommend that when magnetic experiments
are made with sensitives the following precautions should be used,
which our expel-ience in the Society for Psychical Research has shown
to be necessary for the exclusion of suggestion.
"1. Only electro-magnets should be employed, in order to effect
sudden and noiseless transitions from the presence to the absence of
magnetic force.
"2. The operator in charge of the commutator should be in a
different room from the subject.
"3. Care should be taken that no indication as to the state of the
magnet should be drawn from the 'magnetic click' which accompanies
the magnetisation of the electro-magnet. [The subject's ears may be
stopped, or the click repeated many times running, so that it is
impossible to tell whether there have been an even or uneven number
of clicks, and consequently whether the condition of the instrument is
or is not changed.]
" It is not necessary here to go into further detail. Suffice it to say
that it is not safe to trust to an apparently lethargic or anRlStbetic
state in the subject as a guarantee against her gathering suggestions
from the words or manner of persons present. If, moreover, she be
susceptible of mental suggestion, the effects of such suggestion may be •
mistaken for the effects of magnetic influence.
"I. I pass on to describe the first case of 'O'mmeil adistance, April
21st. At 5.50 p.m. <an hour which was selected by drawing lots among
various suggested hours), Dr. Gibert retired to his study and en-
deavoured to send Madame B. to sleep in the PavilIon, at a distance of
1 This number. as will be hereafter seen, hu since bee~
Digitized by '""'-''-'0'"
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 13~
about tw(>.thirds of a mile. She was to fall asleep in the ,alon;
'Whereas she habitually sits in the kitchen of the Pavillon (a house
occupied by Dr. Gibert's sister).
CI It was supposed that the command would take about 10 minutes to
operate, and at about six Professor Janet, Dr. Ochorowicz, M. Marillier,
my brother and myself entered the Pavillon, but found that Madame
B. was not in the ,alon bu~ in the kitchen. We immediately
went out again, supposing that the experiment had failed. A few
minutes later Professor Janet re-entered with M. Ochorowicz, and found
her asleep in the ,alon. In the somnambulic state she told us that she
had been in the ,aWn, and nearly asleep when our arrival startled her,
and had then rushed down to the kitchen to avoid us; had returned to
the Balon and fallen asleep as soon as we left the house. These move-
ments were attested by the bonne, but it of course seemed probable that
it was merely our arrival which had suggested to her that she was
expected to fall asleep.
" On this day she was ill and exhausted from too prolonged experi-
ments on the previous days. In the afternoon she fell asleep of her
own accord, and in the late eveDing (11.35 p.m.), when she had long
been in bed, M. Gibert willed that her natural sleep should be tra.na-
ferred into somnambulic, and that she should dress and go into the
garden of the Pavillon. Nothing followed on this attempt, unleaa an
unusually prolonged sleep and complaints of unwonted headache next
day were to be in any way connected herewith. On the whole, had I
left after these experiments only I should have referred the phenomena
to suggestion of the ordinary hypnotic kind.
"II. On the morning of the 22nd, however, we again selected by lot
an hour (11 a.m.) at which M. Gibert should will, from hia
dispensary, (which is close to his house,) that Madame B. should
go to sleep in the PavilIon. It was agreed that a rather longer
time should be allowed for the proceaa to take effect; as it had been
observed (see M. Janet's previous communication,) that she sometime.
atruggled against the influence, and averted the effect for a time by
putting her hands in cold water, &c. At 11.25 we entered the PavilIon
quietly, and almost at once she descended from her room to the ,alon,
profoundly asleep. Here, however, suggestion might again have been
at work. We did not, of course, mention M. Gibert's attempt of the
previous night. But she told us in her sleep that she had been very ill
in the night, and repeatedly exclaimed: 'Pourquoi M. Gibert m'ar-t-il
fait IOUffrirt Mais j'ai lav~ lea mains continuellement.' This is what
ahe does when she wishes to avoid being influenced.
II III. In the evening (22nd) we all dined at M. Gibert's, and in the
evening M. Gibert made another attempt to put her to sleep at a
diatance from his house in the Rue ~ry,-she .. ~ Jot JiIlJl
DI9Itlz~d-~uo6le
134 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
Pavilion, Rue de la Ferme,-and to bring her to his house by a.n
effort of wilI.l At 8.55 he retired to his study; and MM.
Ochorowicz, Marillier, Janet, and A. T. Myers went to the
PavilIon, and waited outside in the street, out of sight of the
house. At 9.22 Dr. Myers observed Madame B. coming baJfwa.y
out of the garden-gate, and again retreating. Those who saw her
more closely observed that she was plainly in the somnambulic state,
and was wandering about and muttering. At 9.25 she ca.me out (with
eyes persistently closed, so far as could be seen), walked quickly past
MM. Janet and Marillier, without noticing them, and made for
M. Gibert's house, though not by the usual or shortest route. (It
appeared afterwards that the bonne had seen her go into the saWn. a.t
8.45, and issue thence asleep at 9.15: had not looked in between those
times.2) She avoided lamp-posts, vehicles, &c., but crossed and re-
orossed the street repeatedly. No one went in front of her or spoke
to her. After eight or ten minutes she grew much more uncertain in
gait, and paused as though she would fall. Dr. Myers noted the
moment in the Rue Faure; it was 9.35. At about 9.40 she grew bolder,
and at 9.45 reached the street in front of M. Gibert's house. There
she met him, but did not notice him, and walked into his house,
where she rushed hurriedly from room to room on the ground-floor.
M. Gibert had to take her hand before she recognised him. She then
grew ca.lm.
"M. Gibert said that from 8.55 to 9.20 he thought intently abouther;
from 9.20 to 9.35 he thougbt more feebly; at 9.35 he gave the experi-
ment up, and began to play billiards; but in a few minutes began to
will her again. It appeared that his visit to the billiard-room bad
coincided with her hesitation and stumbling in the street. But this
coincidence may of course have been accidental.
"IV. Later in the evening M. Gibert made to her a mental suggetl-
tion, by pressing his forehead against hers without other gesture or
speech. The suggestion (proposed by me) was that at 11 a.m. on the
morrow she should look at a photographic album in the salon of the
Pavillon. She habitually sat in the kitchen or in her own bedroom and
sewed; so this was an unlikely occupation for a morning hour.
"On April 23rd, MM. Marillier and Ochorowicz went to the
Pavillon before 11 and ensconced themselves in a room opposite
the salon. At 11 Madame B. entered the salon and wandered
about with an anxious, preoccupied air. Professor Janet, Dr.
1 It will be seen from the synopsis of experiments given below that the after·
noon and not the evening, was the time of day usually chosen.
2 It was not unusual for her to sit in the salon in the evening, after the day's
occupatiouswere over. izedbyGoogle
On Telepathic H'!f.P'Mtism. 135
Myers, and I entered the Pavillon at 11.10 and found her obviously
entranced; eyes open, but fixed; anxious; wandering.
.. She continued thus till 11.25. We remained in a room where she
could not 1166 us, though, by looking through the partially-opened door,
we could see her. At 11.25 she began to handle some photographic
albums on the table of the salon; and at 11.30 was seated on the sofa
fixedly looking at one of these albums, open on her lap, and rapidly
sinking into lethargic sleep. As Boon as the talkative phase of her
slumber came round she said, 'M. Gibert m'a tourmentee, parce qu'll
m'a recommandee-ll m'a fait trembler.'
" I believe that this was a genuine instance of deferred mental
suggestion. But where a suggestion is known to so many persons as
was the case here, it is hard to feel sure that no word has been uttered
by anyone which could give a clue to its nature.
"V. On this same day, 23rd, M. Janet, who had woke her up and left
her awake, lunched in our company, and retired to his own house at
4.30 (a time chosen by lot) to try to put her to sleep from thence. At
5.5 we all entered the 8alon of the Pavillon, and found her asleep with
shut eyes, but sewing vigorously (being in that stage in which movements
once suggested are automatically continued). Passing into the talka.-
tive state, she said to M. Janet, 'C'est vous qui m'avez fait dormir
aquatre heures et demi.' The impression as to the hour may have been
a suggestion received from M. Janet's mind. We tried to make her
believe that it was M. Gibert who had sent her to sleep, but she
maintained that she had felt that it was M. Janet.1
"VI. On April 24th the whole party chanced to meet at M.
Janet's house at 3 p.m., and he then, at my suggestion, entered
his study to will that Madame B. should sleep. We waited
in his garden, and at 3.20 proceeded together to the Pavillon, which
I entered first at 3.30, and found Madame B. profoundly sleeping over
her sewing, having ceased to sew. Becoming talkative, she said to
M. Janet, 'C'est vous qui m'avez commandtie.' She said that she fell
asleep at 3.5 p.m.2
Professor Janet's paper in the R611U8 PMlosopM,que for August,
1886, enables me to give a conspectus of the experiments on 80mmeil a
distalnce made with Madame B. up to the end of May. M. Janet
makes his total 22 trials, 16 succeB86B, but he I166ms to have omitted
the experiments of October, 1885. The distance was in each case
between 1mile and 1 mile.
1 ?rI. Gibert was not with us; but M. Janet often CaDle to see her after M.
Gibert had hypnotised her.
IOn these two occasious (V. and VI.) no one actually saw her asleep
before we entered the PavilIon, since we desired MIle. Gibert not to watch her.
for fear that Ilhe might gueB8 that an experinlent was gOinltl~Mled by Googie
136 On Telepathic Hwnotism.
~~(I:
HOUR WHEN !Id~
Ol~ DATL OPER4TOR IlBJI.UUl8.
co.", OIVBN.
~O=
Z::1. .:::
I--
1885.
1 Oct. 3 Gibert IUIO a.m. She washes handa and wards
oiftrance. +
I
"
9 do. 11.40 a.m. Found entranced 11.45. 1
3
"
14 do. 4.15 p.m. Found entranced 4.30: had
beenasleepabout15minutes 1
1886.
" Feb. 22 Janet She washes handa and wards
off trance.
5
"
25 do. 5 p.m. Asleep at once. 1
6
"
26 do. Mere discomfort observed. 0
7 March 1 do. do. do. 0
8
"
2 do. 3 p.m. Found aslee" at 4: has slept
about an our. I
9
" " do. Will interrupted: trancecoin.
cident but incomplete. 1
10
"
5 do. 5.·5.10 p.m. Found asleep a few minutes
afterward8. I
11
"
6 Gibert 8 p.m. Found asleep 8.3. I
12 .. 10 do. Success-no details. 1
13
"
14 Janet 3 p.m. Success-no details. 1
14
"
16 Gibert 9 p.m. Brings her to his house: she
leaves her house a few
minutes after 9. 1
-
15 April 18 Janet I<'ound asleep in 10 minutes. 1
16 .. 19 Gibert 4 p.m. Found asleep 4.15. I
17 .. 20 do. 8 p.m. Made to come to his house. 1
18
"
21 do. 5.50 p.m. My case I. : trance too tardy. 0
19 .. 21 do. 11.35 p.m• Attempt at trance during
sleep: see my case I. 0
20 .. 22 do. 11 a.m. Asl:.f. 11.25: trance too
y: my case II. : count
as failure. 0
21
"
22 do. 9 p.m. Comes to his house: leaves
her house9.15: my caseIII. I
22 .. 23 Janet 4.30 p.m. Found asleep 5.5, says she has
sleptsince4.30: my caseIV. I
23 .. 24 do. 3 p.m. Foundasleep3.30, saysshehas
sleptsince3.5: my case V. 1
24 May 5 do. Success-no details. 1
25
"
6 do. Success-no details. 1
---
19
We have thus 19 COInCIdences a.nd 6 failuresI-the fadures all more
or less explicable by special circumstances. During Madame B.'s visits
to Havre, about 2 months in all, she once fell into ordinary sleep during
the day, a.nd twice (as already mentioned) became sponta.neously
entra.nced, one of these times being on April 21, a day of illness and
failure. She never left the house in the evening except on the three
I C_ 1 and " were practically BUCC8IIe8, but I have counted them .. ODe
BUClOOIlII and one failure. Digitized by Googie
On Telepathic Hypnotiam. 137
occasions on which she was willed to do so (experiments 14, 17, 21).
Trials of this kind had to be made after dark, for fear her aspect
should attract notice. The hours of the other experiments were
generally chosen at the moment, to suit the operators' convenience;
sometimes, as I have said above, they were chosen by lot.
§ 4. I pass on to a brief analysis of a similar case contributed by
Dr. Hericourt to the Societe de Psychologie Physiologique, November
30th, 1885 (Bulletins, Tome I., p. 35.)1
CIe. Induction of trance in presence or proximity of subject. M.
Hericourt obtained trance by holding Madame's D.'s hand, then by
touching her hand, then by willing alone. Passes or grasp of hand had
no effect unless accompanied by will. He induces trance without yisible
suggestion, from one end of the room to the other, by sudden effort of
will while she is talking, &c. ~ if he relaxes his will she recovers herself.
fJ. Induction of trance at a distance. One day he tries to send her
to sleep from his own house, at Perpignan (say 300 yards off), at 3 p.m. ;
then forgets her; then at 5 p.m. wills to wake her. She tells him
spontaneously that at 3 she fell asleep (quite unusual with her during
the day); servant came in ; could not wake her; shook her; made her
partly conscious, with violent headache, which suddenly disappeared at
5 p.m. Experiment tried from adjoining room in a way to avoid expec-
tant attention. Success.
1. Influence exercised from a distance.
M. Hericourt could impress no definite suggestion from a distance,
but when he thought fixedly of Madame D. she experienced severe pain
in the prrecordial region. This gradually increased, and led to cess·
ation of the experiments. [Compare cases where an abortive epileptic
attack is replaced by epileptiform migraine.]
§ 5. The next case which I shall notice is perhaps the most remark-
able of all. I quote it from a paper presented, December 28th, 1885,
to the Societe de Psychologie Physiologique, by Dr. Gley, the well-known
physiologist.I But the case is Dr. Dusan's, recorded by him in the
Tribune Medicale, May 16th and 30th, 1875. Dr. Gley knows Dr.
Dusart; and assures me that the account is compiled from careful notes
taken at the time.
III. Induction of trance in presence or proximity of subject.
Dr. Dusart induces trance on Mlle. J. by passes: observes that
they are ineffectual without his will: tries will alone: succeeds more
than 100 times: never fails.
{3. Induction of trance at a distance. M. Dusart forgot one day to
order Mlle. J. to sleep till a certain hour on the morrow, which
he usually did.
I See also Phanta,g,ns, &c., Vol. ii., p. 683.
'SeealsoPhantaams, &c., VoL ii, p. 685 izedbyGoogle
138 On Telepathic H'JIP'MtiBm.
At a distance of 700 metres from her house he remembel'B the
omission; gives order mentally to slet'p till 8 : finds her asleep next
morning. " How is it that you are asleep 1" CI I am obeying you."
" You mistake; I left you without giving any order." CI True; but
5 minutes afterwards I perfectly heard you tell me to sleep till
8 o'clock." To test this Dr. Dusart leaves hE'r asleep, telling her to
Rleep till he gives order: gives mental order two miles away, at 2 p.m. :
she wakes at 2 p.m. Experiment successfully repeated several times:
once he keeps her awa.ke by mental order, from a distance, while her
father tries to induce trance; she is aware that his influence is at work.
§ 6. These cases, and others like them, seem, then, to enforce on us
the conclusion that telepathic hypnotism is a fact-that certain of
the phenomena commonly described as hypnotic are occasionally
produced by the influence of an operator at a distance, under such
conditions that no previous suggestion could have been given.
We must return, in fact, to the conclusion arrived at by the
committee of the French Academy of Medicine which sat, as is well-
known, from 1826 to 1831, and reported through M. Husson. The
fifteenth section of that Report runs as follows :-
" Loraqu'on a fait tomber une fois une personne dans Ie sommeil
magn~tique, on n'a pas toujoura besoin de recourir au contact et aux pa8Be8
pour la magn~tiaer de nouveau. Le regard du magn~tiaeur, sa volonW seule,
ontsur elle la m~me influence. Dans ce cas, on peut non-seulement agir aur
Ie magn~tis~, mais encore Ie mettre complhtement en somnambulisme et l' en
f&ire aortir ason mau, hors de sa vue, aune certaine distance et au travera
des portes fenn~es. "
This, however, is a statement which, takenby itself,would notbelikely
to obtaineffectivelodgment inthe mind. That itmaybecome trulycredible.
it must be co-ordinated with cognate facts; it must be presented, not as
a mere isolated anomaly, but as an item in some wider group of php.no-
mena. It suggests two inquiries; first, whether other non-hypnotic cases
of telepathy exist; and secondly, whether the hypnotic agencies already
recognised can be so arranged as that this telepathic agency, this hypnoti-
sation from a distance, should be presented as the culminant phenomenon
in a continuous series. Now to the first of the-se questions, our whole
work on Phantasms qf tlUJ Living supplies the answer. There do in
fact exist (we maintain) so many cases and claases of telepathic influence
that this hypnotic clasafallsnaturallyinto its place as a species which we
should have felt bound to look for on merely analogical grounds. To the
second question (as I have already said) no answer, so far as I know, has
been yet attempted. I do not recall anyattemptto correla.te this telepathic
hypnotism with the other methods of hypnotisation on which different
experimentel'B have relied. The elder Englishachnnrnl ~18-
nlgltlzedb~Uv(51'-
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 139
believers, I mean, in a specific, vital eftluence or inlluence-(as opposed
to the Hypnotists proper, or believers in a mechanical agency alone in
the induction of trance),-the mesmerists, I repeat, have alto-
gether missed the distinction between the exercise of vital influence in
the presence of immediate proximity of the subject, and its exercise at a
distance, say, of half-a-mile. When they have had cases of this distant
kind to record they have mentioned them as mere extensions of the
specific vital power, without even attempting to show how it can be
that an eftluence emanating from one man's nervous system, and per-
vading another man's nervous system by some sort of actual diffusion,
can operate in precisely the same manner at distances across which no
physiological activity (with the one exception of the skunk's) has been
known to project itself.
And the difficulty which is thus ignored by Elliotson and Townshend
is consciously dismissed as insoluble by the more cautious observers
whom I have been quoting in this paper. For convenience' sake they
use the analogy of suggestion and speak of "suggestion at a distance" ;
but they make no attempt to connect this distant suggestion with that
suggestion in the subject's actual pr886nCe with the efficacy of which we
are now so abundantly familiar. .
And I need hardlysaythat in myown view, also, no complete solution
of the problem is possible. Weare entirely ignorant of the nature of
the force which may be supposed to be operative in the production of
telepathic phenomena,-to impel or facilitate the passage of thoughts
or sensations from one mind to another without the intervention of
the recognised organs of sense.
§ 7. Yet it seems to me that there is something which it is possible
to attempt; something which must needs be now attempted, in however
fragmentary and provisional a manner, if there is to be any unity, any
sense of msemble in hypnotic experimentation; if the results which
different observers obtain in such different ways are to throw upon each
other the light which they are capable of affording. Some attempt, I
repeat, must be made to show the possibility of a transition from the
merely mechanical hypnogeny which the majority of modem writers
admit, to the vital or mesmeric hypnogeny which Mr. Gurney and I
(in accordance with Cuvier, Esdaile, Elliotson, &c.) have defended
in these P'T'oc66ding8, and which now again (apart from our directer
arguments) is receiving a kind of rellected or inferential probability from
these well-accredited cases of "8ommeil adistance." And, furthermore,
such an attempt should show also what kind of connection is empirically
found between this vital hypnogeny and the telepatl'ic hypnogeny with
which this paper is mainly concerned-between the effect, that is to say,
of the operator on the subject in the subject's presence, and his effect at a
distance. And in order to get any clearness into ournotionC11ItN/tflAt
Digitized fjy~V'U'<3rc:-
140 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
attack at once the extremely difficult question: What do we mean by
IUfIgestion,/ When we say that a subject is hypnotized by IIUfIgestion,
what is the nature, what are the analogies of the force which we
suppose to be brought to bear upon him 11
First, then, we Dlust observe that the word suggestion, as a cause
of the hypnotic trance, may have at least four different meanings, viz.,
(1) verbal suggestion, (2) self-suggestion, (3) mental suggestion from a
person present, (4) mental suggestion from a person absent.
Ordinary verbal IIUfIgestion is, of course, a ptethod of inducing the
trance as to which all are agreed. Noone accustomed to these experi-
ments is surprised if when an operator says "Sleep!" to a su~ject
whom he has often previously hypnotized, that subject falls into the
trance. Very little attempt, however, has been made to C(H)rdinate
this method of hypnogeny with the other methods generally admitted
(viz., monotonous stimulation and similar mechanical processes), and
confusion is frequently introduced at this point by mixing up psychical
with neural terms-by talking in the same breath of "inhibition of
nerve-centres " and of " expectant attention." But when we come to
consider any of the wider problems-such as whether or not mechanical
stimulation is the sole originator of hypnotic phenomena-we find
ourselves obliged to reduce our terms to a common denominator, and
(however vaguely or hypothetically) to form some conception of the
newral side of each operation. •
Such an inquiry of course takes us on to very insecure ground. We
know next to nothing of the neural correlates of ideas or states of mind
80 complex as some of those which occur in the hypnotic state. We are
dealing with a problem which bristles with unknown qnantities,-
where the physiological correlate of "will," if I may so say, is z, and of
" consciousness" 1/, and of "attention" z. But the hopeful peculiarity
of hypnotic phenomena is that in them the unknown z 1/ z are mixed
up and interchanged in all kinds of ways with-I do not say known,-
but less completely unknown-elements, namely with sensory stimuli of
various kinds, familiar and unfamiliar, which form a sort of a b C,-
quantities indefinite indeed, but varying only within certain assignable
limits. And though no complete solution to our equations is possible,
we may so manipulate them as to get a rather better notion of what
z 1/ z are likely to be than if, (as the pure metaphysician seems some-
times to do), we merely arranged and rearranged the unknown symbols
1 The chapter on cc Sujets et Proc~d6a" in Dr. Cullerre'. MagnJtimu "
Hypooti8me (Paria, 1886) may serve as an example of the incoMrmctJ of our
present knowledge of hypnogenous procesaea. Dr. Cullerre has taken pains to
collect a good many recent experiments, but he arranges them in a confeaaedl,.
empirical-almoat haphazard-fashion. [See, however, Dr. Cha.m.banl'lBcheme
in my Addendum.] . .. Gooole
Digitized by "
On Telepathic Hypnot·i8m. 141
as fancy prompts. If, however, we try to use only terms of neural
action, we incur a new danger-the danger of using words, originally
definite, in such a way as to imply more knowledge than we really
possess. The use that has been made of the word II inhibition" has
often, I think, landed us in quite as much vagueness as the II expectant
attention" which is the common pB1Jchical attempt to give the mot d~
f lnigTM. For myself I hold that the enigma of hypnotism has no single
answer which solves it. I do not believe that the methods by which
hypnotic phenomena can be induced-a.ny more than those phenomena
themselves-form a distinct class, or can be altogether separated from
other modes of acting on the nervous system. And I shall therefore
prefer myself to use a quite general expression, and to speak through-
out of II stimulation of nervous tracts." For all these nervous changes
involve. at any rate to begin with, some sort of stimulation, and it is
presumable that few or none of them "ffect the whole brain, or the
whole nervous system, in an identical manner throughout. But after
making these explicit reservations I must ask the reader to bear them
in mind once for all,-since their repetition in every paragraph would
render this paper, already cumbrous, altogether unreadable.
Once more. In the remarks which follow I shall class as II hypnotic"
or as "quasi-hypnotic" certain phenomena which may seem to have
little connection with tae familiar phases of the hypnotic trance-to be
more plausibly referable to the all-embracing category of hysteria. In
& survey such as I am attempting, some such laxity of demarcation is,
I think, unavoidable I am not going to attempt a formal definition
either of hysteria or of hypnotism-an attempt from which those
writers have abstained moat carefully who have had the widest
acquaintance with both affections. The word hysteria, as has been
often remarked, designates a mere congeries of nervous symptoms. We
cannot deduce these symptoms the one from the other j we cannot
present them as radiating from a central lesion. And as regards
hypnotism we are scarcely more advanced. We have not reached-we
aball probably be long in reaching--a.ny physiological conception which
can co-ordinate ita Protean phenomena. From the view which would
clau the II nevrose hypnotique" as a mere branch of hysteria I dissent
strongly and altogether. I hold emphatically that hypnotic changes
are primarily physiological rather than Fathological j-Bupemormal, let
me say, rather than abnormal j that while on the one hand they may
gradate imperceptibly into hysterical and epileptic instabilities, yet on
the other hand they may resemble, or even surpass, the beneficent and
developmental changea which follow " judicious moral and physiCII.l
regimen.
But while thus repudiating a conception of hypnotism which seems
to me to nlIIult from a too exclusive practice amollgsub.ie.OaO)~.Y
Dlgltlzedby~i )8le
142 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
diseased, I admit, and even maintain, that the French hospital experi-
meats of the last few years have thrown much additional light on the
connection between hypnotism and various abnormal states. They
have shown us intermediate cases, interchangeable symptoms, un-
~uspected transitions of every kind. As the briefest way of illustrating
what I mean I will describe a single case of Dr. Pitres'-a case which
seems to stand just halfway between what is definitely hysterical and
what is definitely hypnotic.
Albertine M., one of Dr. Pitres' best hysterical subjects,l is liable,
beyond the ordinary hysterical accidents, to a rarer a.ffection of her
own. Every now and then she irresistibly falls asleep. Her sleep is
perfectly placid, her pulse and respiration normal. Closer inspection
reveals two singularities. Her eyelids constantly tremble. A limb
raised into the air remains in the attitude where it is placed. Both of
these are characteristically hypnotic symptoms. And yet more con-
clusive characteristics remain. Speak to her, and she will reply.
Suggest hallucinations, and she will adopt them. Blow on her eyes,
and she will awake.
This seems the description of a spontaneous hypnotic trance. And
when we learn further that Albertine can in fact be hypnotized by
ordinary means, and that in the induced hypnotic trance and in this
spontaneous trance she presents certain phenomena both of anlllSthesia
and of sensibility to metals which she presents in no other state, the
identity of the two trances may seem established.
Yet Albertine's history shows us that the "attaque de sommeil " is
in reality the survival or residue of hyster<Hlpileptic attacks of the
ordinary kind, which have disappeared under tl'f\&tment. When she
first came under Dr. Pitres' care she sutlered several times a day from
such attacks, preceded by a complex aura, and including a ph0.a6
epileptdide, a plKUJe de cO'1l/IJUlaions cloniques, and a phase dilirantB. In
the phase delirantB, (like many similar sufferers,) she maintained the
attitude imposed on her, and could reply to questions, and was
susceptible of provoked hallucination. And gradually the attacks have
dwindled down, so to say, into the phase delirante without the delirium,
-into ~he state of gentle sleep, which has never yet spontaneously
terminated, in which I first described her. The prodromic aura.
remains recognisable; but this too has suffered transformation; it has
assumed a more prolonged, a more psychical character; it is diluting
itself, if I may so say, into a J,Ilood of mind.
I have thought that this concrete example might best illustrate the
points of contact between hysterical and hypnotic states. In what
1 See his two tractates, Des slIggestion. hypnotigllu (18M); Des zonu
Ay.Urog~nes (ISS5).
Digitized by Coogle
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 143
follows I shall keep as far as possible to what must be deemed hypnotic,
avoiding, at any rate, the distinctly morbid causes, the distinctly
deg6'Mrative phenomena, to which the name hysterical is with least ques-
tion to be applied.
§ 8. Let us try, then, to arrange the various modes of hypnogeny
in the order of their simplicity.
As simplest of all I should place mere mauive stimulation.1 I
suppose that most animals and most men are capable of being" thunder-
struck "~ being thrown into a state which our ancestoro called
ridet-ation, and which we now call cataplexy. 2
It has been pointed out that it is probably in some state of this
kind that animals really are when they are supposed to be " shamming
dead," the shock of terror having exhausted for the time their nervous
energy, and rendered them incapable of motion.
This is the condition so often induced at the Salptltriere, where the
sudden sound of a gong, or a bright light suddenly introduced, will
throw many of the bystero-epileptics into a quasi-cataleptic state. The
Iccmographie de la SalpetrUre, and Dr. Paul Richer's treatise on La
G".ande Hy8tbie, contain striking pictures of this sudden conversion of
the excited woman into the senseless statue. A crash of a brass band,
the bark of a dog, will sometimes check the fierce volubility as if a
spring had snapped. As in Virgil's battle of the bees,
Hi motus animorum atque hrec certamina tanta
Pulverls exigui jacm conpressa quieseunt.
'JUs instantaneous inhibition may be made useful in various ways.
One of Dr. Paul Richer's plates represents a whole string of women
assembled to be photographed, and then immobilised in attitudes of
astonishment and terror by a sudden stroke of the gong. On one
occa&ion a thief was accidentally detected by this method. Her hand
was in a drawer when a gong sounded, and she was found some time
afterwards dumbly and fixedly grasping the pilfered goods.
Madame B., I may add, was herself susceptible to this form of
massive stimulation. On April 24th, while she was in the sleep-talking
state, a clap of thunder was heard, and immediately induced in her
1 In opposing m8.8llive to localised or to specialised stimulation, we shall
of course remember that all stimulation is more or lesslooal and more or less
'Special in character. Under m8.8llive stimulation I place the cases where the
quantity seems more operative than the quality of the stimulus applied. With
BOrne subjects shook of any strong kind seems equally effective; others will
respond to feeble 8timulations of special kinds, but are unaffected by the loud
noises, bright lights, &c., which are here ranked as m8.8llive stimuli.
, This word was coined, I believe, by Preyer, and applied to the condition
()f hens staring at a chalk line; but it is now more commonly used for lIudden
nervous shook which immobilisell the subject.
Digitized by Coogle
144, On Telepathic Hypnotism.
violent convulsions and marked opisthotonos of the usual hysterical
kind.
These experiments on the cataplectic effect of massive stimulation
have naturally been made for the most part either on animals or on
hysterical subjects, who can be thus impressed by shocks which (like the
gong's sound or the electric flash) are in themselves insignificant, and
leave no injurious results. To apply the requisite degree of shock to a.
healthy subject would be quite indefensible. But occasions of terror
and astonishment will sometimes spontaneously arise; and real life offers
many an intermediate stage between the minute of stunned bewilder-
ment and the stupO'l" attonitus of the asylums, where one over-
whelming moment seems to hll.ve paralyzed the mind for ever after.
Shocks of this generalised kind can admittedly initiate almost a.ny
amount of visceral, circulatory, va.so-motor disturbance. It is, therefore,
antecedently probable that other hypnogenous methods-being, as it
were, secondary or specialised forms of general shock-will be able to
exercise a powerful influence of this same kind. Remembering (say)
the effects of fright on a rabbit, we need not be surprised that in Dr.
Liebea.ult's prs,ctice on the impressionable poor of Nancy hypnotic
suggestion should be found a cheap and easy substitute for cathartics.
Remembering that a stn.rtling disgrace may set up diabetes, we need
not think it incredible that slight temporary bleeding or blistering
should follow the conlmand impressed on a previously-sensitised subject.
On purely analogical grounds it is, I think, probable that every con-
stitutional disturbance (and some such disturbances result in good, and
not in evil) which sudden shock can produce, will be capable of being
reproduced or adumbrated among the results of technically hypnotic
methods-of methods, that is to say, which by concentration and
specialisation economize the amount of shock necessary to affect the
system. And here it may be well to point out that I am classing the
effect of sudden shock as hypnotic, although such shock does not,
perhaps, directly produce the most interesting phase of hypnotism,-
namely, the sleep-waking. or somnambulic state. l It directly pro-
duces the two phast's known as catalepsy and lethargy,a and some-
1 Despine (Etude Scientijiqllc SliT Ie aomnamblliiame, p. 2(5) cites a case
where a fright induced first .. Mthargie lucide" then .. somnambulisme."
S See Richer, La Grande Hyst~rie, p. 524, sqq. I may say here that though on
some important points I cannot bring myself into accord '\\ith the school of the
Sal~tri~re, I recognise in the fullest manner that theirs is the leading collection
of instances; that Dr. Richer's book embodies a greater mass of skilled
observationof these abnormal states than is contained in any other single volunte.
Dr. F~re's numerous and important observations have issued from the same
school. [As this paper passeR through the press Dr. Bernheim's new and larger
book on Suggestion takes a foremost place among works dealing with the
tMrapeutic o.spect of hypnotism.]
Digitized by Coogle
On Telepathic Hyprwtism. 145
times a state of wandering dream. And this (with M. Richer) I
consider amply enough to rank sudden shock among hypnogenous
agencies. No one can feel more strongly than I the primary interest of
the somnambulic state. But it is not a CO'IUItant element in the
hypnotism produced hy any method whatever. There is, in fact, no
one symptom which by itself can be taken as essential to a hypnotic
case. As the results of sbock we have cataleptic retention of attitudes
impressed on the limbs, open and fixed eyes, anaesthesia, suggestion
from gesture, contractures, increased muscular irritability,-all these
in various combinations, suddenly checked by means which dissipate
hypnotic states, and leaving no trace in the memory.. This is enough,
I think, to justify us in treating the effect of .hock as a kind of rude
primary type of hypnotic change.
§ 9. Next in order to general shock, or the change or exhaustion
produced by maanve stimulll.tion, may be placed monotOf&l)U8 stimulation,
as from the tick of a watch, &c. This is usually alleged to be much the
same thing-the exhaustion being now effected by repeated small
stimuli, instead of by a single stimulus of excessive strength. 1
The process is an interesting one, though it has not often been
successfully applied. Itis noticeable that Dr. P. Richer dismisses it in
a few lines when he is discussing the various methods in use at the
Salpetriere.2 Yet monotonous stimulation is frequently spoken oflI.S if
it were the lI.Ccepted type of hypnotic procedure. What is the reason
of this 1 The reason, as I take it, is a curious and complicated one;
namely, that two common modes of procedure have been classed under
monotonous stimulation, whereas this phrase is an inadequate descrip-
tion of one of them and a misleading description of the other. The
two modes of procedure to which I refer are Braid's upward and inward
squint, and the " passes " of the ordinary mesmerist.
And first lI.S to Braid's method of the fixation of the gaze on a point
above and between the eyes. It is at once obvious to anyone who tries
the experiment that the sensation thus induced is totally different from
the sensation of hearing a watch tick. The ordinary person will not he
hypnotized by either the one or the other, but, while he will very soon
become unconscious of the watch's tick, he will feel a constantly
growing and very peculiar fatigue as he continues the upward conyer·
gent gaze. This fatigue is, of course, in pa.rt merely muscular, from the
strain put simultaneously on the twointernal recti muscles, but there is
1 I do not myself feel sure that the exhaustion usually alleged in snch cases
actually exists. I think that the ticking is very likely a mere form of suggestion.
Life is full of monotonous stimuli (the movement of the screw in a steamer, &c.)
which very many people have attended to for long periods, without any record
of trance thus induced.
I La (hatKle H!I~. p. 530.
Digitized by Coogle
146 0"" Telepathic Hypnotism.
also an ache which can be imitated by sharp pressure with thumb and
finger on each side of the root of the nose, and which partly results, &8
I conceive, from the actual pressure of the ball of the eye against the
nerves of the orbit--when the eye is, as it were, jamm.ed into the
position into which it normally sinks gently in sleep. And the
correctness of this interpretation is sustained by two fa.cts,-one well-
known, and the other a personal observation of my own, which I
doubt not that many other persons have made before me. The first
fact is that mere pressure on the hall of the eye (prusion del globes
oculaire8) is a. frequent method in France for inducing hypnotic trance,l
especia.lly in hysterical subjects. The secoild fact is that a pinch applied
to the root of the nose, or a strong pressure between the eyes, is often
simila.rly effective in the mesmerisation of healthy subjects,-more
effective than the" pa.sses," whose monotony is sometimes deemed so
essential.i
And passing on from these closely-analogous pressures, we come
next to Richer's pressure of the vertex (first advocated by Dr. Richer
in 1878), which he finds to produce hypnotic trance and contracture;
and the pressure on the heads of hens, which the practical henwife
employs before any operation of minor surgery on her restless brood.
The jealously-concea.led attOUCMments of Rarey,-perhaps even the
cruder practice of dropping leaden plugs down the ears of horses,3_
belong to the same category. And these lead us on to Pitres' and
Charcot's doctrine of "hypnogenous zones,"-specia1 points, that is to
say, which are found (symmetrically arranged or otherwise) on the
1 M. Las~gue is cited as the originator of this method.-Ricber, op. cit.,
p.524.
I The precise mechanism and effects of the upward and inward squint have
never been satisfactorily worked out. Professor Ma.calister has kindly promised
to make certain poat'11WT'tem experiments bearing on these points, and to com-
municate the results to the Society. Pending an exacter inquiry, he thinks it
possible that the forced upward gaze involves a strain on the capsule of Tenon,
and consequent drag on the sclerotic, with intra·ocular tension of the vitreous
chamber;-88 well as intra-orbital pressure on certain branches of the fifth
nerve. If this be 80, Braid's squint would C01/lbi1U~ the intra-ocular tension of
the French pressure of the eyeball, with the pressure on the fifth nerve which is
effected by squeezing the root of the nose. I find that this squeeze is used
empirically for checking hysterical a.ttacks, quite apart from any belief in
II zones hysMro-fr.!natrices.II It is a familiar fact that the same PreMure arrests
a sneeze.
• Of course the stupifying effect of sudden deafness is operative here; but
_ Dr. Taguet's C&Se (Ann. MMico·P,ych., Vol. xi., 1884, p. 328), where the
" occlusion du conduit a.uditif araide d'une boulette de colon," finds its place
as a hypnogenous agency along with .. 180 compression digitale (Ies opercules,"
and the" pression sur l'ovaire droite,"-this last a typical instance of ordinary
action on a hysterogenous or hypnogenous zone. .. G I
Digitized by oog e
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 147
surface of many patients, of such a nature that pressure on them
induces hypnotic trance.1 Braid's squint, therefore, is, I think, best
defined as a pressure on a rudimentary hypnogenous zone of wide
diffusion,-a region, that is to say, which is in many persons endowed
with that peculiar sensitiveness whi.:h sets up a sudden, a.nd suddenly-
removable, nervous disturbance of a pervasive kind. As we shall see
later on, this amounts to saying that Braid's squint is a form of localised,
rather than of mcnwtorwus, stimulation.
Secondly, as to the passes of the ordinary mesmerist. Here, as it
seems to me, there has been a curious antagonism of theories, extreme
on one or the other side, whicb has obscured the actual phenomena
encountered in practice. On the one side the ardent believers in a
CI vital efBuence" have often exaggerated the importance of "passes" j
have often spoken as though every detail of manipulation produced a
separate specific effect. And, on the other side, opponents of Mesmer's
theory have sometimes been anxious rather to explain away the effect
1 I cannot go into the elaborate experiments which Charcot, Richer, Pitres,
&c., have made on these ..zones hypnoglmes, hysterogenes," &c. But a few words
may indicate the connection thus established between hysterical and hypnotic
phenomena. There have been few observations of the kind in England, where
hystero.epilepsy is comparatively rare, and in the following sentences I shall
mainly follow Dr. Pitres. If a hYlltero·epileptic patient be carefully examined
it will almost always be found that there are one or more points or tracts
pressnre on which either provokes or arrests the hysterical attack. Among these
points are often the top of the head. the ball of the eye, the orbital region ; just
the points with pressure on which we are 80 familiar in hypnotic experiment.
That these points are not merely imagined by or suggested to the patient is
shown by such incidents &8 the fall of hair growing thereon, or by their acci·
dental discovery while the patient is unconscious. [See 11.180 eh. l<'ere in the
Progru Mtdical, 1882, p.42.] They disappear temporarily under the inflnence
ofelectricity, local anremia, &c., and have lIometimllll been permanently abolished
by 6Uggution in the hypnotic trance,-another indication of their kinship with
hypnotic changes. Patients pOlllltlBlling these zones are 11.180 frequently exposed
to attacks on hearing some word which recalls a particular set of memories,-
the specialised suggestion having the same effect &8 the localised prellllure. [See
Pitres, Des zone, hYBUrog~nu, p. 30.] Furthermore, on the same or other patients
points are frequently found, pressure on which will not produce a hysterical
attack, bnt will produce a. Kleep of the nature ordinarily cl&K8ed &8 hypnotic, or
will modify the phaKe8 oflIuch a sleep, or will awaken into ordinary life patients
previously hypnotized by other means. [These last points are styled
AypIW-jrtnatricu ; for they check, instead of generating, the hypnotic trance ;
but I shall avoid all terms not absolutely needful.] Sometimes a Blight prellllure
on a certain point in<luces a hypnotic trance (which can be conducted through its
characteristic ph&llell), while a VWlellt prellllure on tile same point induces
hysterical convulsions. Galvanism, local anremia, hypodermic injections,
&c., are found to abolish for a time the hysterogenous zones but to leave the
hypnogenous unaltered. On the whole, it would seem that the hypnotic effects
818 not indeed a mere branch or a mere commencement of the hysterical effects,
but are neverthel_ related thereto in a manner &8 yet unknown.
Digitized by G~le
148 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
of such passes than to explain it, rather to show that no vital efBuence
was proved thereby than to determine by experiments of their own how
much of truth alight lurk in those enthusiastic assertions. And since
these mesmeric passes were of the nature of slight stimuli to sight,
touch, or hearing, many times repeated, it seemed that monotonotu
,timulation was an obvious and sufficient cause for the effect produced.
Yet I venture to say that persons who have themselves practised
this form of hypnotization will be inclined to ascribe its effect to any
one of several causes rather than to the monotony of the procedure.
As commonly practised now, by Dr. Litfuea.ult, for instance, who has
mesmerised some thousands of persons during the last 20 years,
the passes and touches made are brief and variable, and although Dr.
Litfueault was till lately a strong opponent of Mesmer's theory, his
actual experience prevented him from crediting the results of his pro-
cedure to monotonous stimulation, and he ascribed them rather to
w.gge,tion, to the concentration of the subject's mind on the idea of
going to sleep.1
§ 10. And, in fact (as I have implied above in spEl&king of the
value of pressure between the eyes), there would often be much more
reason to attribute the effect of mesmeric manipulation not to mere
"passes" but to pressure on a hypnog6fl()tl,B zone, of which I have
already spoken, and which, under the heading of localised stimulation,
I would place next to the massive and the monotonous stimulation
which we have already considered. For here we have a pressure ap-
plied to certain points or tracts, empirically discovered and varying in
each case, which serve, as it were, as the trains of gunpowder to fire,
if a nervous explosion is to be induced. I speak of a nervous explosion,
because these specially~ndowed poilits are more often hysterogenouB
than hypnogenous,-thll.t is to say, it is oftener possible to induce Ii
hyste~pileptic attack by localised pressure than to induce a mere
hypnotic trance.
"I have shown," said Brown-Sequard,1 who was one of the first to
draw effective a.ttention to th6116 zones, "that certain points in the cere
bro-spinal centres are able to cause the disappearance of the properties
of other parts of the nervous system; and that the same or other points
are endowed with another property not yet studied, by virtue of which
irritative lesions of these points can augment the activities, or intensify
the properties, of more or less distant parts. The influence thus
manifested is d1lnamoqenic."
As an instance of well-defined inhibitory points, I will cite the
case of Louis V--. In him, as in most cases of hysterica.l
1 Du J07nmeil et du ttat, analoguu, p. 18, &c.
s Camptu RendU8 de l'AM&mie de8 Sriencu, March 29th, 1880. See alBo
e»mptu Rend," for 1879, pp. 667, 888.
Digitized by Coogle
On Telepathic Hypnoti81n. 149
hemiplegia, the inhibitory points vary symmetrically with the trans-
ference of the hemiplegia from the one to the other side. When he is
in his state of dextralhemianathesia and hemiplegia, a finger (query,
also a stick or other neutral substance 1) applied to his left forehead
produces "the immediate and complete arrest of the functions of the
life of relation" ;-of ·all perception on the patient's part of the world
outside him. So long as the finger remains pressed to the forehead he
is senseless and motionless,-" suspendu et inhibe" altogether.1
Here then, by a localised pressure of the simplest kind can be
induced at once the very maximum of inhibition. And here again. as
in the case of massive stimulation, I would point out that we may well
expect that a number of minor phenomena and earlier stages of sleep
may in other cases he produced by a method which, in one case at
least, is so profoundly effective.'
The subject of localised stimulations is one of wide importance in
these studies. I must refer the reader to the researches of Brown-
fWquard, Pitres, and Paul Richer, and will merely observe that we
have here a specialised hypercp.8tMM of a very significant kind. It
appears that the peripheral terminations of various nerves, without
inducing any modification of the surface which is obvious to ordina.ry
inspection, have acquired the power, when preasure is applied to them,
of setting on foot definite and varied processes of systemic change.
The effect produced by touching some of these inhibitory points can
only be compared to the effect of an electric shock.
§ II. And this brings me to the fourth head of my enumeration of
hypnogenous agencies.
We have diacuased the 11IlJ8nve stimulation of the whole nervous
system; monotO'1'UYlJ.B stimulation, tactile, auditory, or visual, and
localised stimulation of specially sensitive points, anyone of which
methods may induce in appropriate subjects the state of trance.
And now we come to a class of cases where the agencies-still testify-
ing by the suddenneas, vigour, and specificity of their effects to the
existence of certain internal tracts of supernormal sensibility-gradually
come to indicate something as yet unreached. They gradually cease to
be mere exaggerations of influences felt by ordinary persons,-they show
powers of affecting the organism poaseased by substances which we have
1 Dr. Brullard, of Nancy, has met with a case where the mere closure of
the subject's eyes,apparently by any person, induced BOmnambulism.-Brullard,
~ gtnerale8 BUr Neat hypnotique, p. 84, (Nancy, 1886).
I Madame B.'s two thumbs are hypnogenollR points. Pressure on them
(by whomsoever exerted) induces trance, BOmetimes accompanied by convulsions.
This was 80, at least, when Dr. Myers and I saw her, but one would desire
always to trace Buch C&Be8 from tile beginning, to make aure that auggution. baa
nowhere intervened. Digitized by Googie
150 0"" Telepathic H'!IJYMtism,.
been accustomed to regRord as inert, or as operating only in other ways.
Here, then, the interest centres rather on the specialisation withoW
the subject than on the specialisation within him j-we can more easily
hope (that is to say) to detect or classify the" resthesiogens" which
affect the organism thus supernormally than to detect or classify the
centres of internal susceptibility whose ready response disturbs the
subject's nervous equilibrium.
And here, too, recent experiments are to some extent bridging
over a gulf which at first appeared insurmountable. The effect
of medicamentous substances, in mere contact, is so extending our
conception of hyperresthesia that the effect of metals in contact is not
so absolutely isolated a conception as when it was first observed that
the touch of gold or iron induced or removed spasmodic rigidity.
I must confess that in this region I depend entirely on the experi-
ments of others. I have seen nothing myself of a nature to persuade me
that the external application of a substance habitually inert when th1l8
exhibited can have any effect upon the nervous system. Nor can I
here enter fully into the evidence which has nearly convinced me that
luch is the case.l It must suffice to say that the advocates of these
specific influences (almost all of them French medical men) seem to me
to be at present in possession of the field j and that the palmary case
.'.
1 The question as to the possibility of proving the in1luence ot metals, &0..
seems to stand somewhat as follows.
On the affinnative side it is necessary to show that,-
1. Definite resthesiogens have produced definite and constant effects, while
other substances have produced no effects.
2. The subject bas not been aware (either by pennission or by fraud) of
what the substance under trial was.
3. There has been no suggestion, by any word or gesture of the operator,
that any given result was expected. To this it is desirable to add a
fourth condition, namely,
4. That the operator himself has no expectancy of the result attained. This
last proviso is meant to guard against thought-transference. Unl-,
indeed, there is some independent evidence of thought.transference
between the operator and subject, this explanation can hardly be
pres8ed; but I suspect, nevertheless, that thought·transference has
vitiated many experiments.
On the negative side it has sometimes been shown :-
1. That on some subjects any substance indifferently produces the suppoeed
effect (e.g., mWltard, Dr. Adler, of Berlin, in .. A contribution to the
Study of the Bilateral Functions," &c., in British Medical Journal,
Vol. i. of 1879).
2. That many cases depend on suggestion only; e.g., Dr. Hughes Bennett,
British Medical Journal, Vol. ii. of 1878., p. 759 [only one case cited).
Dr. Carpenter, BritiM Medical Jou,.,ud, Vol. ii. of 1871, p. 867.
Dr. Reynolds, Lancet, Vol. i. of 1877, p. 728.
There have, no doubt, also been instances of fraud, though I cannot find any
cue cited in deta.il. [Mr. Wakley's so·called exposure of the-Ok~lstill cited.
• Digitized by ~oug e
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 151
of Louis V--, reported upon concordantly by at least four physicians,
Illust be taken into account in any future discussion of this subject.
Hypnotic or quasi-hypnotic phenomena can be induced in
Louis V-- by certain metals, by certain medicaments (other than
metals), by magnets, and by electricity.1
I must not enter into the details of the elaborate experiments
which have now been made on him and on other subjects by MM.
BoUITU, Burot, Mabille, Richet, &c.
There are two points only which I need notice here. One is the
confirmation which certain earlier experiments--English, French, and
German_y, for instance, those recorded in the Zoist--a.fford to these
more recent and exact observations. Mr. Gurney and I have else-
where pointed out (Proceedings, Vol. lIT.) the reservations with which
Dr. ElliotBon's evidence in the Zoist should be taken-his eagerness to
ascribe any improvements in his patient's health to mesmerism;
his impatient neglect of the precautions necessary to establish a real
connection of cause and effect. But though he had the faults of a
headstrong temperament, there was no doubt either as to his capacity
in 1877 by the Lancet in an editorial (Vol. ii. of 1877, p. 646) as valid, was
altogether inconclusive.]
It must be remembered that suggestion is undoubtedly a vera call~ of effects
of this kind. In some ca.ses the metals may be really inert, and the suggestion
may produce all the effects. In other cases the metals, &c., may be operative,
but suggestion may either exaggerate or counteract their operation. The ques-
tion is whether there are or are not cases where suggestion is excluded, and I
think that there is a sufficient residue of such cases to justify a provisional
belief. Without going exhaustively into the subject, it may be enough to give
the following references in support of this view. Report of Committee of
Societe de Biologie (Charoot, Luys, Dumontpallier) in Gazette Mtdicale, April
28th, 1877 ; Dumontpallier and Magnin, Comptes Rendus, SocitU de Biologic,
1881, p. 349; 1882, p. 147; Charcot's lectures, translated in Lancet, Vol. i. of
1878, pp. 81, 158, 302, 393; Wilks, British Medical JOIlrnal, Vol. ii. of 1878,
p. 102; McCall Anderson, Lancet, Vol. ii. 1879, p. 41, Vol. ii., 1880, p. 207;
Stone, St. Thomas' Hospital Reports, Vol. ii., 1880 (cited ProceedingsSocietyfor
Psychical Research, Vol. ii., p. 59) ; Landouzy and others cited by Chambard,
Dictionnaire Encycloptdiqllc;des Sciences Mtdicales, third series, Vol x.• p 367
(" Influence of Magnet "), and especially Bourru and Burot's case, above cited.
As regards the transference of hemi·anresthesia by magnets (the form of
resthesiogeny which has been most debated) the reader should especially consult
Fere's L'Hypnotismc chez les HysUriqueB (Revue Philosophique, Vol. xix.,
p. 1). See also Vigouroux," Mttalloseopic, mUallotMrapie, esthtaiogrnes"
(Archives de Neurologic, 1881), and for transference in healthy subjects, Rumpf,
.Archives de Neurologic, January, 1885.
1 Phosphorised water, for instance, produces sleep and hallucinations;
jaborandi produces catalepsy; and these and other states can be made to p8.8B
into a typical hypnotic somnambulism, in which, and in which alone, the
memory of the states induced by the resthesiogens is retained. (Berjon,
La Grandc HY8tme chez l'lwmme, Paris: Baillillre, 1886, p. ~:'d~~~oogIe
152 On Telepathic Hyprwt·ism.
or his good faith, and his scattered observations on the effect of the
contact of gold, iron, &c., on his patients-observations which are not
pressed into the support of his own therapeutic theories-still possess,
I think, a serious importance.!
My second reflection is obvious enough, though I do not remember
to have seen it in print. It is that if thE-se specific influences of a long
range of substnnces, some of them previously supposed to be inert (as
here applied) in reference to the human organism, be admitted, then it
hecomes far more readily conceivable that the human organism itself is
not inert in reference to another human organism ;-that there is some
specific vital influence such lIS the mesmerists have claimed.
In Dr. Berjon's tractate we find records of the influence on
Louis V--, and on a female pa.tient, of the following sllbstances or
forces. With contact: Copper, platinum, gold, hydrogen, sulphate of
copper, potassium bromide, potassium iodide, sulphur, antimony,
ammonium, chloride, carbonic acid, electricity (dynamic and static) ;
magnet: human hand. Without actual contact: Gold, mercury,
hydrogen, chloride of gold, acid nitrate of mercury, cyanide of
mercury, su)pha.te of iron, perchloride of iron, iodine, opium,
chloral, and other narcotics; tartar emetic, &c. ; scammony and
podophyllin; champagne, and other alcoholic drinks; valerian,
cantharides, camphor, jaborandi, piloca.rpin; magnet; or a human
hand held near the body.
I See, for instance, his paper on .. A Cure of Convulsive and Rigid Fits,"
ZOi1t, Vol. ix.
2 Amoog the actioos of medicaments a.t a distance which Dr. Berjon records
there is one which is all the more curious, inasmuch as the physicians concerned
do not appelLr to have been aware of its special oddity.
Among the medicaments which were held in stoppered (not !<ealed) bottle!<,at
about 3 inches from the back of the neck of Louis V-- and a fema.\e snbject
were laurel-water and nitro-benzol (" USC/ICC aemirbal/./J ")_ Now the!<e &revery
odorous substances, and we cannot exclude the supposition that the subject
smelt them, and was led by the mere suggestion to act in a certain definite
manner, when he or she smelt that special odour. But there is a difficulty here.
Nitro-benzol is to ordinary senses pretty nearly identical in smell with laurel-
water,-and is, in fact, habitually used in the cheap confectionery and other
trades as an inexpensive substitute for oil of bitter a.\monds, the scent of prussic
acid being precisely reproduced. But the!<e two subjects, the Jewess and
Louis V--, invariably distinguished nitro-benzol from laurel-water, and acted
consistently in each c&lle. There was a remarkable hyperresthesia of some kind,
and, considering the effects of the non-odorous substanCe!<, it is far from clear
that the ense of smell was even in this case primarily concerned.
Dilute nitro-benz I provoked conv ulsive shocks of the arms, and movements
as though of drawing with 0. pencil. Laurel-water with Louis V-- give!< rise to
convul ive movcment of the chest, hiccough, salivation,and tingling of the chest.
With the Jew it gives rise to a religiou8 ecstacy which takes about &
quarter of an hour to run its course_ Her eYe!< are upturned and fill with
tears ; ber arJU8 anu hands are raised heavenwards lliPe.lld~~ beatific
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 163
A further and fuller account of these experiments is still expected.
I may here give a few samples of the results obtained. The first experi-
ments were made with metals, which were applied to the skin, to see
whether transference of the hemiplegia could thus be produced. Lead,
zinc, and silver produced no effect. Copper produced a temporary
return of sensibility, and a temporary vaso-motor modification, so that
& prick on the skin which had not previously bled, bled while &
sheet of copper was superposed. Platinum produced an itching sen-
sation, but no transference. Steel produced transference. Gold
produced transference, but along with the transference it produced
severe pain. The objective character of this influence of gold was shown
by a curious incident. Dr. Mabille one day supported Louis V-during a
"crise," and the doctor's gold ring touched the patient's hand for several
minutes. When the epileptic recovered consciousness he complained of
pain in that spot, a "brftlure" appeared there, and the redness lasted
for several weeks. "Lea pMnomimes physiques persistants," says Dr.
viRion. She then pI'Olltrates henelf in adoration and weeps with her head on
the ground. Finally she throws herself backwards, with convulsive movementa
of chest and diaphragm and an expression of grief. This ends in sleep, and
she can be thrown into somnambulism and questioned on what she has seen.
She RaYS that she has seen the Blessed Virgin in a blue dress starred with gold;
that "malheureusement elle n'est pas de sa religion," (for she is not a converted
Jewess), and that the Virgin hRS reproached her with her misdoings (which
exist, in fact, independently of any form of creed), and has thrown her down on
the ground as a sinner. When awakened to ordinary consciousness, "elle se
moque des personnes qui lui parlent de la Vierge."
By varying the substance applied, the experimenters have discovered that
it is the essential oil of laurel which produces the ecstacy, while the hydrocyanic
acid produces the convulsions.
Now I need hardly remind my readers of the prominence of the lallrd in
the descriptions of the procedure of the Pythoness at Delphi. The a~"'I,
indeed, generally means the bay or laurlUl nobilia, but in such vague traditional
descriptions as we have in Plutarch (Pyth. Orac. 6) of the burning of laurel
leaves before vaticination, or in Lucian (BU. Acc/IBed. 1) of the Pythia's chewing
the laurel leaf, it is impossible to be sure what genus is meant. [For
"V&ticinatory dreams generated by laurel, see Botticher, Baumkultu8 der Rd·
lenen, p. 346.] Theprunu8 lauro·cerna/IB, or cherry laurel, may perhaps have
grown along with the bay, oyvdAOIJ lWo nap"'lo-o-ulo. And it becomes, surely, a
"Very possible supposition that some early Pythia was accidentally sus·
ceptible to something of the same specific influence as these hysterical
patientH at Rochefort; and tllat some part at least of the tremors and
ecstacies of later prophetesses consisted in a repetition by suggestion or tradition
of the excitement which in some "".,..6p.GII'f''' was genuine and uncontrollable.
We should thus have a hY8terical.llCCeasWn, such as that which (if we are to
trust the commenta of the rival school of Nancy) "la nomm~e Wit--" is likely
to found among many generations of patienta in the hystero·epileptic wards at
the SalpMrillre. [As this paper passes through the press, similar instances of the
etl'eet of magneta and medicamenta at a distance are given by Dr. Dufour;
~B'" MUJ••Payc/&., Sept., 1886.] Digitized by Google
1541 On Telepathic H'lJP'Mtism.
Berjon, (Op. cit., p. 19) "rendaient toute simulation inadmissible."
The next step was the discovery that gold would act at a distance.
"II suffit d'approcher un objet d'or, une montra, une piece de vingt
francs a 10 centimetres, pour que Ie sujet, qui n'a pas vu ce qu'on
lui presente, accuse une vive douleur." Mercury, acting through the
glass bulb of the thermometer, was similarly painful. Hydrogen, on
the other hand, produced a quite different effect. " Une eprouvette
contenant du gaz hydrogene est mise au contact de la main; Ie
malade manifeste une vive satisfaction et il rit; Ie rire est continu
et spasmodique :--a.ucun phenomene de transfert ne se produisit."
The medicaments were for the most part held in stoppered (not
sealed) bottles, wrapped in paper, a few inches from the back of the
subject's neck. The effects produced were curiously connected with
hypnotism by the fact that though they often constituted a crisis which
left no waking memory, and could not, at its height, be suspended by
hypnotization, yet when the effect of the drug was declining it was
possible to throw the subject into the somnambulic state, and then to
obtain from him lUl account of the sensations which the drug had pro-
duced. The effects of the several drugs were roughly analogous to
their known effects, but presented some new and constant features. It
is claimed that these characteristic effects were produced when the
experimenter was not aware what drug he was holding in his hand;
nay, even that when the experimenter was mistaken as to what drug he
held in his hand, the phenomena were still such as the drug &9tually
presented should induce.
These experiments are still under discussion; nor have I myself
seen any effects of this kind which might not have been due to sugges-
tion. Nevertheless, as already implied, the evidence for the specific
effect of contact with gold, for instance, on certain subjects seems to me
very strong; and I therefore recur to the point urged above; namely,
that it seems not unreasonable to suppose that if a human body is 80
abnormally sensitive as to enter into contracture at the touch of gold,
and to distinguish gold by contact alone, or by proximity alone, from
other metals, it may not be altogether insensitive to the touch of another
human body--a.nother centre, that is to say, of forces and perceptions
like its own.l
1 Between susceptibility to metals, &c., and susceptibility to the influence of
li'lJing bodies, susceptibility to the proximity of dead bodies would occupy an
intermediate place. Perhaps we may thus explain the following narrative
sent to us &8 a ..ghost story" of unusual type and good attestation. It comes
from Mrs. Wheeler, 106, High-street, Oxford, who is known to Mr. Podmore.
.. In the summer of 1874 we moved into the house we now occupy, 106, High
street, Oxford. We had the house on lease for some years, but had never lived
in it, having let the upper part of it.
We took &8 our bedroom the lower of two roolUJ)itbaUi>~£)Q~way at
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 155
Rather it seems probable that just as the hypnotic effect of mere
massive or mere monotonous stimulation may be connected by the
intervening link of localised stimulation, with the hypnotic and other
neural effects of the contact or even the proximity of specific inanimate
substances or specific non-vital forces. viz., magnetism and electricity,
even 80 may these specific effects be themselves connected with the
specific effects of vital contact, vital proximity.
the side of the house. On the first night that we slept there I woke up just at
12.45 (I heard a church clock striking the quarters), with a feeling that there
was something terrible up in the roof. I don't know what it was, but I lay
awake with this feeling for nearly an hour, and then I woke my husband
and told him of it, and he fetched me some brandy.
I found, however, that I could not shake oft' the feeling and go to sleep again.
I ClOuld not even stop in the room, but came out into the sitting·room, and sat
up there until 5 a.m., when I went back to bed. I did Dot have the horrid
feeling at all when I was out of the room.
The next night I woke again at 12.45 a.m., with the same dreadful feeling,
though not quite so bad as the first night. The same thing happened night after
night for some weeks, and I woke up at the same time with the same feeling of
something horrible up in the roof. I did not sleep any night, I believe, from the
time lawoke-12.45-tiU after 5 o'clock.
Once, I remember that I went up into the passage over our room, and tried
to get at the space under the roof, but found that I could not do so; and once, in
the day.time, I tried to get into the space under the rafters, through the bed·
room, where there had once been a means of communication, but I found that it
was built up, and that I could not get there.
At last my health would not stand it any longer, and I went away on a visit
to a brother at Cambridge. Whilst there, I heard that the roof over the two bed-
rooms had fallen in, and forced a. bedstead through the floor of the upper room
into our own bedroom. That I took as a sufficient explanation of my feeling of
horror.
It was not for some weeks afterwards that I learnt by accident (my husband
had purposely concealed the fact from me, fearing the eft'ect on me in my weak
state of health), that the dead body of a child had been found, hidden under the
rafters of the roof, over our bedroom. The body was dried up like a mummy,
and the head was twisted round. It WIIo8 evidently the body of a new·bom child
that had been murdered and placed there for concealment.
ELLEN M. WHEELER."
"Mr. Wheeler fully confirmed his wife's account of the incident, and assured
me that he recollected distinctly his wife's distreBfl of mind, and her saying that
she felt sure that there was something wrong up above their heads.
"F. PODMORE.
" May 24th, 1884."
The following corroboration is extracted from a local paper :-
"Ozford Times," Saturday, 26th September, 1874.
"A SKELETON IN THE RooF.-Yesterday week (i.e., the 18th) the decayed
rafters of a comer of the roof of premises in the occupation of Mrs. Wheeler,
bookseller, High.street, suddeuly fell in, when the skeleton ~ilt.,g~'Q)@sI€
156 On Telep(tthic Hypnotism.
§ 12. But here let us pause; for we have ILrriVed at a point where
we may hope to get some insight into the mechanism of 8U!Jgestimt;
that is to say, of the first of the four forms of suggestion which I dis-
tinguished earlier in this paper-the verbal suggestion of a person
present with the subject.
And first let us try to realize exactly what verbal suggestion will do.
covered, which appeared from its condition to have been secreted there for a
number of years."
Somewhat similar is another case, received from a lady well known to me,
who prefers not to give ber name.
.. June 11th, 1883•
.. In the summer of 1872, my father occupied a rectory house not far from
Blisworth, in Northamptonshire, for a few weeks, and I went down to spend
three days with him and my mother at Wltitsuntide ; my two children and their
nUlse being already there. The room given to me was over the dining-room;
next door to it was the night nursery, in which my nurse and children slept,
the rest of the inmates of the house being quite at the other end of a rather long
p&HS&ge. I hardly slept at all the first (Saturday) night, being po88IlII8ed with
the belief that ROme one was in my room whom I should shortly BIl". I heard
nothing, and I saw nothing. The next morning, Sunday, I did not go to
church, but betook myself to the dining-room with a book. It was, I remember,
a pelfectly lovely June morning. Before I had been a quarter-of-an-hour in the
room, and whilst wholly interested in the book, I was seized with a dread, of
what I did not know; but in spite of the sunshine and the servants moving
about the house, I found it more intolerable to sit there than it had been to
remain in the room above the night before, and RO, after a struggle, and feeling
not a little ashamed, I left the room and went to the garden. Sunday night was
a repetition of Saturday. I slept not at all, but remained m what I can only
describe as a state of expectation till dawn, and very thankfully I left on the
Monday afternoon. To my father and mother I said nothing of my two bad
nights. The nurse and children remained behind for another week. I noticed
that the nurse looked gloomy when I left her, and I put it down to her finding
the country dull, after London. When she returned she told me that she hoped
she would never have to go to stay in that house again, for she had not been
able to sleep there during the fortnight, being each night the prey of fears, for
which she could not account in any way. My father left this rectory at the end
of the summer; and some time afterwards he was talking of the place to me,
and mentioned laughingly that before he entered it the rector had • thought it
right to let him know that that end of the house in which I and JOy children
were put up was said to be haunted, my room especially, and that several of hill
visitors-bis sister in particular-had been much troubled by this room being
apparently entered, and steps and movements heard in the dead of night. I do
not like to let you come in,' he added, 'without telling you this, though my
own belief in it is small.' Within, I think, a year or 18 months at most of my
father's leaving, the house had to undergo considerable repair, and amongst
others, a new floor had to be laid,in the dining-room. On taking up the old
boards four or five (I forget which) skeletons were found close under the board-
ing in a row, and also close to the hearth-stone."
Some analogous cases are recorded by Stilling and other writers. This
physical explanation would apply only to a small pro~rtion of the narra-
tives sent to us as indicating the continued oP!!~~y ~~ persons.
On Telepathic H'!fP'1Wtism. 157
Here again we may most conveniently begin with its most advanced
or conspicuous effects,---cases where the mere utterance by a casual
bystander of one special but apparently harmless word, like "frogs" or
"telegram,"l throws the subject instantly into the convulsions, delirium,
and insensibility of a hystero-epileptic attack. At first sight this might
seem the strangest of all effects of verbal suggestion; yet it is soon seen
to be a mere iutensification of familiar phenomena,-an exaggeration of
the brain's reflex irritability quite in keeping with the other exaggerati0'f&8
which characterise the hysterical state.
Weare all fanliliar with the extraordinary sensitiveness which a
particular group of memories may acquire in healthy minds,--the
mother's sudden start, at her child's wail, from the slumber which her
husband's snoring has left undisturbed,-the access of blinding uncon-
sciousness to the surrounding scene which follows on the casual mention
of some secretly-loved or secretly-dreaded name. Here, then, the touch,
so to say, which falls on a definite region within the brain,-the region
occupied by that hypersensitive group of memories, - produces an
effect analogous to the effect produced by a touch on some hypersensitive
peripheral tract,-sa.y the drum of the ear or the scar of an old wound.
And just as this natural or traumatic sensitiveness of particular points
on the surface is (so to say) parodied and exaggerated by the morbid
and arbitrary sensitiveness of the hysterogenous zone, and the patient is
thrown into convulsions by a touch which would merely have tickled
the healthy subject, even so the instinctive or acquired sensitiveness
which certain groups of memories in most of us possess is parodied and
exaggerated by the morbid and arbitrary sensitiveness of the girl who
because her companions once put frogs in her bed cannot hear the word
" frogs" without a hystero-epileptic attack.
If then we can thus compare the hysterogenoUB suggestion to the
pressure on a hysterogenous zone, may we compare the h'!JP'TW!le'1WU8
suggestion, which more directly concerns us, to pressure on a h'!lprw-
g6'll()'U8 zone t To a great extent I think that we may. Note in the first
place that hypnogenous suggestion is not really so simple and easy a
thing as is sometimes represented. I doubt whether it is ever the case
that fl()'TI,-hysterical patients can be hypnotized for the first time by a
mere verbal command, without the gaze or touch or will of the
operator. I think that all that we can fairly My is that when a subject
has been previously hypnotized by other means, or has previously under-
gone hysterical attacks which involve, or at least predispose to hypnotic
changes, that subject can often be hypnotized again by the mere verbal
revivification of that group of organic memories which have been origin-
a.ted by the previous tra.nce. If this be so, the hypnogenous suggestion
1 Pitres, Des Z()1lU HysUrogtnes, p. 30 .. . Gooole
Digitized by "
,/
158 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
would be allied to the hysterogenous suggestions somewhat as the
pressure on the one class of zones was allied to the pressure on the
other,-the lesser IIJld more definite effect not being, indeed, a mere
branch or commencement of the larger and more confused effect, but
being related thereto,---say somewhat in the way in which the act of
pressing the foot on the pedal of a piano is related to the act of sitting
on its keyboard.
But the hypnotic suggestions with which we have to deal comprise
many other suggestions besides that of falling asleep. They comprise
the definite hallucinations. the definite commands, of which we have of
late had so many examples. But here again it would be a mistake to
assume that induced hallucinations, for instance, are a mere outcome or
incident of the hypnotic state. Rather we may say that even as
pl'8SSUre on the pedal modifies the loudness and continuity of the sounds
produced by striking each individual note, so (and in a much greater
degree) do the general nervous changes of the hypnotic trance increase
the definiteness, isolation, persistency, of the faint instinctive impulse
to belief which follows when we hear a statement confidently made.1
Hallucinations, though more easily induced in hypnotized ptlrsons, can
often be induced in persons in the waking state, who have previously
been hypnotized, and sometimes on persons who have never been
hypnotized at all. I have myself repeatedly made a certain subject
believe for a minute or two that she both saw and smelt a hole singed
in her dress by an imaginary coal, although I could not hypnotize her,
nor had she ever been hypnotized by anyone. The sight of children, or
the remembrance of one's own early childhood, is enough to explain this
state of mind. I can remember my own feelings at four years old, when
a respected elderly friend stated that he was a bear, and simulated to
some slight extent the movements of that quadruped. I knew all the
time that it was Mr. S. ; but the idea of bears, pre-existing in my mind,
was so strongly stimulated that I was paralyzed with terror. It was an
incomplete hallucination, induced not in a hypnotized but in an im-
mature brain by a definitely-localised stimulation-- by a touch on a
group of exciting mental pictures which experience had not yet
sufficiently partitioned off from the milder scenes involving only o!d
gentlemen and sofas.
The susceptibility to suggestion, then, which characterises the
hypnotic trance, involves in effect an exaggeration of the sensibility of
groups of images within the brain, which-in the absence of control
from inhibitory or co-ordinative centres-{fevelop with greater readiness
into hallucinatory perception, impulsive acts. Observe, however, that
with hardly any subject are all suggestions equally efficacious.
1 See Bernheim "De la suggestion cialUl l'ttat hypnotiql" et daM fMat de
veille," (Paris, 1884), on this topic.
Digitized by Coogle
On Telepathic Hypnoti8m. 159
Even when the operator seems to have obtained complete con-
trol-to be able to prompt a well-bred subject to theft and
murder-he may still be unable to prompt to rudeness or indecorum.
The explanation of this odd fact I take to be that the nexus of habit
which opposes the infraction of rules which we constantly obey, though
constantly in a position where we could break them, is stronger than
the nexus of habit which opposes an act which we theoretically
disapprove, but have never been within measurable distance of
committing.l
Somewhat similarly, we find that hypnogenous zones generally occur
in seldom-touched parts of the body, where the habitual link between
sensation and responsive action is not strongly established.
I venture, then, to suggest that were the whole plexus of brain-
operations unrolled before us, we should see the specific sensibility
gaining one ideational centre after another, as suggestion is repeated,
very much as one point after another on the periphery may become
modified into a hypnogenous zone. And the stimulus of appropriate
8uggestion,-still in the first place peripheral, as given by voice or
gesture,through ear or eye,-touches, as I conceive, a hypnogenous tract
within the brain, and though no longer ma.ssive like the gong, makes
up in precision for what it lacks in volume and intensity.
Thus far I am supposing that the subject will accept the suggestion
to sleep, or other suggestions, with equal readiness at anyone's command.
But this is not universally the C80se,-with healthy English subjects is
a.lmost never the case. Far more frequently there is a. further
specialisa.tion,-again a specialisation without the subject supm-added ~
the .pecialisation withi" him,-and we find that he can only be
entranced by certain definite persons,-possibly by one person alone
among very many who make the attempt.. On what does this difference
depend 1 What are the qualities in that complex entity, the hU,man
1 Different subjects vary greatly in this particular, affording sometimes, as
Professor Beaunis has observed, a singular insight into the relative vigour of
their inward motives. Some experiments of Mr. Langley's on animals,
interesting in this connection, are described in his paper "On the Physiological
Aspect of Mesmerism," read before the Royal Institution, March 14th, 1884.
" In man," he says, "the phenomena of mesmerism are of a very much more
striking cha.raeter than they are in the lower animals. Speaking generally, this
seems to be due to a greater interdependence of the various parts of the nervous
system in the lower animals. In these, when anyone centre is stirred up by
exciting impulses, an irradiation of exciting impulses is apt to take place to all
other centres, and the mesmeric state is in consequence apt to be broken. And,
on the other hand, when a centre is inhibited, an irradiation of inhibitory
impulses is apt to take place, and the whole nervous system is in consequence
apt to be inhibited. Hence the activity, or suppression of activity, of particular
parts of the central nervous system, which forms so conspicuous a feature of
mesmerism in man, can be only partially produced in the lower vertejltates." I
Digitized by GOog e
160 On Telepathic H'!J'P'notilrm.
operator, whose presence or absence involves these difFering degrees of
hypnogenous efficacy f
Heidenhain has suggested that differences in warmth or moisture
between the I~ of various operators are enough to account for these
variations in power. To say nothing of other objections to this view,
it is disproved by the fact that the touch or immediate proximity of the
operator's hands is by no means an essential part of the mesmeric
process. Again, this apparent electivity has been explained by sugges-
tion of the ordinary kind-a.s though when A can entrance a suhject
and B and C cannot, this were because the subject had an idea to begin
with that A alone could entrance him. But this view also has been, I
think, sufficiently disproved by experilDents on unconscious persons, on
sleepers, and on young children.
And if previous suggestion-preconceived idea cannot explain the
fact of entrancement by one special person rather than another, then
neither can it explain the incidents of the rappO'1't which continues to
exist during (or even after) the trance between the subject and the
operator thus elected. That rapport shows itself in various ways.
There may be a special sensitiveness to the operator's voice, so that his
mere whisper is heard and recognised amid a Babel of other sounds.
There may be, as in Dr. Taguet's case and in several of Elliotson's
cases, a special sensitiveness to the Bcent of the operator, recalling the
dog's power of discovering articles which his master has touched.
There may be a vaguer sensitiveness to his presence,~r even, as I
am inclined to hold, to his mere approach,-:till the perception verges
into what can no longer be called hyperleStbesia, but rather a clair-
voyance or clairaudience, which does not strictly follow the lines of
any special sense, but specialises itself in what seem arbitrary and
unexpected ways, and detects qualities which have never before proved
so directly discernible.
And, moreover, besides these sensory (or supersensory) elements in
the mesmeric rappO'1't, there is commonly what is called a psychical
connection as .well, an obedience of the suhject to the operator's
will, and his will only-a. concentration of the enthralled attention into
that single channel.
Various as are these phl'nomena., and impossible as it at present is
to co-ordinate them adequately, I may perhaps venture to give to all
of them alike the title of "selective hypel'll!Sthesia,"-implying that
the sensitised organism of the subject responds to one particular class
of stimuli with more than normal readiness, and in other than normal
ways. And I should compare the special sensitiveness to the operator's
scent or voice to Louis V--'s sensitiveness, say, to opium in mere
external contact j while the subject's sensitiveness to obscurer facts
concerning the operator (as his mere approach or his maladies) may be
Digitized by Coogle
On Telepathic HypnotiB'l1t. 161
paralleled with the sensitiveness of other subjects to the touch or
proximity of gold, or of other substances which, when thus exhibited,
are ordinarily inert.
§ 14. May not this notion of selective hyperRl8thesia, when carefully
dwelt upon, suggest to us that the" mesmeric rapport," the" vital
effluence" of which Elliotson, &c., were wont to speak as of a single
force or entity, may in reality be a varying complex of different
elements 1 and that among these elements may be something which
is neither "will-power" nor "character" in any psychical sense, but
simply the specific effect of the proximity of certain living organic com-
pounds 1 The subject feels Brown's" influence" and not Jones's, or feels
Brown's influence soothing and Jones's distressing. But Brown and
Jones, whatever else they may be, are at any rate aggregates of organic
compounds, and it is possible that to these hyper-sensitive per-
ceptions, Brown may differ as much from Jones as podophyllin from
jaborandi.1
And thus we gradua.lly find ourselves led up to the conception of
a vital influence or effluence by a method which does not present this
vital effluence as a unique, isolated, incomparable force, but rather 8.1
an advanced term in a series of influences, each one of which needs
to be discovered by direct experiment, while the discovery of anyone
of them corroborates the efficacy of the rest. It is in this way, perhaps,
by gradually fitting together a number of results obtained at
separate points of a far-reaching line, that modem science has the
best chance of confirming whatever may be sound in the interesting but
enigmatical experiments of Reichenba.ch,~xperiments which the
writers in these Proceedings have never consented to set aside as
illusory, though we have thus far found them almost impossible to
repeat.
Returning to the special inquiry on which we are now engaged,--aB
to the true modus operandi of hypnotic suggestions of various kinds, let
us note the results now reached. We have seen that suggestion in its
simplest form-the verbal suggestion of any person taken at random-
is analogous to the localised stimulation,-stimulation of a simple kind,
but applied to particular nervous tracts,-which in some patients
induces hypnotic or hysterical phenomena. And we have seen, again,
that suggestion somewhat more differentiated,-the verbal suggestion of
SODlC one person who is alone capable of reaching the subject's attention,
-is analogous to the specialised stimulation, as from metals or drugs
1 Dr. Despine maintains (Etltde Scientifiqlte Bltr Ie Somnambulilme, pp. 134,
sqq.) that .. convulsive epidemics" are propagated by actual infection,-withont
eight or other snggestion of an ordinary kind. His instances seem to me
inconclusive; but the point needs attention. (See Ann. MUl.·P8'J/M., 1879,
Vol. ii., p. 141.)
Digitized by G00.2le
162 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
exhibited in a manner which would ordinarily leave them inert, which
in certain patients is followed by results of such a singular kind.
§ 15. We come now to the third class of suggestion which we
mentioned at the outse~ namely aelf-mggution,. giving this name to
cases where the trance does no~ so far as we can tell, follow on any
hint supplied to the patient by another mind, or on any external
stimulus whatever,-where the subject does not suppose that anyone
orders him, or desires him, or expects him to fa.ll into the abnormal
condition, but falls into it, a. we say, "of himself."
This self-suggestion is one of the most difficult, and one of the
least explored, branches of our subject. It involves, in fact, the whole
connection between what we call ~ and what we call induced
nervous changes; and moreover, as is commonly the case when the word
tpontanllOU8 is introduced, the chief of all dilemmas-jree-will qr
necumy I-looms in the background of the inquiry.
First, let us oonsider what are the cases which we have to explain.
Under what circumstances do hypnotic or quasi-hypnotic nervous states
appear without manifest external stimulus 7 I am bound to add the
word" quasi.hypnotic," for I have insisted on the close connection
between hypnotism and certain hysterical stll.tes, such as Albertine's
..attaques de sommeil" ; so that I must face ~he difficulty of their
ori£inauon as well
We find, then, that there are a few cases where subjects can throw
l.heml8lves into trance by a mere effort of will. There are a few cases
where subjects can maintain themselves in the trance by a mere effort
of will; and there is a case where a subject in a state of complete
inhibition originates phenomena otherwise producible only hy the
Itrongeet hypnotic suggestion.
Again, we find that there are cases where there is no question of
deliberate choice on the subject's part; where the special nervous
co~dition is hereditary, as in a famous family where "the sons in their
nightly discursions ran against and awakened each other"; or where
the trance appears as an idiopathic symptom in an otherwise normal
person, as is so often the C&Be with ordinary somnambulism; or where a
tendency to trance and similar conditions follows upon some definite
injury.
Now I think that moat of these instances may be shown to be
analogous to the "deferred suggestion .. of recent hypnotic experiments,
-nay, I hold that the perception of that analogy is essential to our
comprehension of the experimental "deferred suggestion "itself. Thus
much, therefore, I am bound to try to show. But I suspect that this
i. not the only analogy involved. I suspect that in some of the cases
of self-suggestion where the element of will is markedly present, we have
an analogy to another mode of hypnogeny, namely. +n-+.I....... Hi6uction of
--Di~IitIZ~·DY~(51'-
0"" Telepathic Hypnotism. 163
trance by an actual "vital effluence" from operator to subject. At any
rate, whether this be so or no, I feel sure that we shall not get at the
root of the matter without trying to realise what would be meant by
such an hypothesis.
First, then, let us try to understand deferred suggesLion, and ita
connection with heredity. We start with the fact, which to us is at
presentultimate, that living matter has a tendency not only to respond
to a stimulus A, but to be so modified by that stimulus that it there-
after responds in a. rather different manner to A, when A recurs--and
sometimes also to other stimuli, B, C, D. This is rudimentary or
unconscious memory. As we get higher in the scale consciousness is
superadded, and the memory of A persists while B, C, and D are
occurring, even if it does not actually modify them. Suppose a physician
says to me at dinner, "You have heart disease; you must go upstairs
very slowly or you may die." This is a deferred suggestion to me to
move slowly when the time comes for me to go upstairs. I need not
think of it till that moment comes. But it impresses my mind so much
that I continue to think of it while I am merely sitting at dinner-the
consciousness of A persists through B, C, and D, though it will only
modify my action when the cognate moment recurs-the going upstairs,
which is a sort of A' if the physician's warning were A. Here we
have a deferred suggestion, consciously received, and consciously borne
in mind till the time to work it out in action arrived.
But neither of these intrusions of consciousness is necessary to the
efficacy of a deferred suggestion. In the first place, we know from
common experience that the brain receives many impressions which do
not at once rise into consciousness, but do so when a favourable oppor-
tunity offers itself. Only a small proportion of the impressions which
certain powerful stimuli (as incipient asphyxiation or certain forms of
fever) can summon into retrospective consciousness do actually rise into
consciousness at the moment when they are received. These are de-
ferred suggestions, not consciously received. Take the most trivial
and familiar case. I glance down a list of books to see if a book by
Helmlwltz is in it. It is not, and I remember absolutely nothing of the
list. Some time afterwards I see a book by Herzm advertised. I at
once feel that I knew that there was an author of that name. Hi.
name, in fact, was on that former list, and I unconsciously received the
deferred suggestion-only capable of revival by seeing the word
Henen again-that therEl was a scientific author of that name. Now
deferred suggestion in the hypnotic state offers an exaggeration of such
a case as this. I suggest to the hypnotized subject that when he
leaves my room (after an hour of waking life) he will perceive that his
hat is blue instead of black, or that he will send a telegram to tell me
that it is a fine day. (For my present argument there is no dift'erenqe.
Digitized by \.J~9.8le
164 On Telepathic Hwnotillm.
between the suggestion of a hallucinatory percept or of an unmotived
action.) When the fixed moment comes-the moment whose arrival is
Ilol A' to my suggestion A,-that suggestion recurs and works itself out,
though during B, 0, and D, the events of the intermediate hour, no
knowledge of A was present nor could be summoned into the con-
scious mind.
Yet between this absurd act and my forgetfulness of the name
Herzen there is only a difference of degree. In the hypnotic subject's
080Ie one loom (so to say) in the vast manufactory within him has been
disconnected from the general system of driving-gear, attached to
driving-gear of its own, and set to turn out a special pattern,
independently of the orders executed by the remaining looms in the
factory. And similarly in my case the little bobbin (so to say) with
the name Herun, inscribed on it, went on spinning by itself without
connection with my general scheme of memories. Only it was so small
an item that its disconnected action and its subsequent attach-
ment to the main system attracted no notice, or, at least, excited no
surprise. Deferred hypnotic suggestion, in fact, like the immediaU
hypnotic suggestion of which I have already spoken, is an advantage
taken of the increased di880Ciability of mental elements which results
from the inhibition of certain co-ordinative mental centres or activities
in the hypnotic trance.
There are other conditions also in which suggestion can take a
hold of the mind which the co-ordinative centres cannot check. I have
spoken already of the excessive sensitiveness of certain groups of
memories in childhood; for instance, the idea of bears. Well, this
aensitivene88, prior to the age of co-ordination, may be taken advantage
of to effect a deferred as well as an immediate suggestion. J uat aa my
friend who told me that he waa a bear, gave me for the moment some-
thing approaching to a hallucinatory percept of himself as a bear, so
do some nurses talk to children about ghosts in a way which implants
a deferred suggestion of horror in traversing churchyards, which no
adult reason can overcome.
.. Trunken mURen wir aIle sein ;
Jugend iat Trunkenheit ohne Wein,"
says the poet. And just aa youth, with its strong irredective impulses,
its organic exhilaration, resembles the state of incipient intoxication, so
does childhood, with its ready receptivity and want of co-ordinative
power, resemble the hypnotic or sleep-waking condition. By hypnotiz-
ing the adult we restore to him the trustfulness of childhood, much
aa by slightly intoxicating the elderly we restore to them (aa Plato
haa it) the vigour and enterprise of youth.
There is, however, a state in which we are even more susceptible to
suggestion, have even less of co-ordinating faculty, #If. MlliIlUWl power,
Dlgltlz<!(j oy GUU01~O
On Telepathic Hypnotum. 165
than either in childhood or in the hypnotic trance. I allude to
our condition before we are born-to the period at which
the various looms are actually being placed in our manufactory, in
rough accordance with the arrangement of similar looms in the factories
of ancestral minds. And we most of us know to our cost that
although we may improve the working of these looms in detail we have
little power to modify their general type, or the principal driving-
gear which connects them. And, to take the defect with which we are
now concerned, some original weakness in that driving-gear may
subject us to hystero-epileptic attacks, with their concomitant hypnotic
phenomena.
I have perhaps said enough to explain what I mean by extending
the analogy of deferred suggestion to this wide range of hereditary and
(so-called) spontaneous manifestations of hypnotic phenomena. The
impulse, as I hold, which ultimately induces those phenonlena, has been
already given to the organism,--either in that organism's first inception,
or during the course of life,-in much the same way as the hypnotizer
can communicate the impulse to sleep, or to perform some act, at a
future moment which he determines by his own choice.
It is probable that many of those who accept this analogy at all
may cousider that it covers the whole extent of. self-suggestive
phenomena. They Dlay think that spontane0U8 cases include voluntOll1l
cases, as a mere sub-division distinguished by the concomitance of a
purely subjective sensation of clwice. They may say that the pre-
existent conditions of the organism determine in every case-in the
so-called voluntary cases as fully as in the involuntary-the phenomena.
which that organism proceeds to manifest.
I do not here directly controvert this view; but I cannot help
suspecting that there ia a difference between hypnotic phenomena
which occur spontaneously and those which seem self-induced by a
direct effort of will ;-or at any rate that this second class, in the ap-
parent mode of their operation, afford an analogy with the influence
which the "silent will" of an operator can sometimes-as our experi-
ments have gone to show--exert on a sensitive subject.
I am not sure, however, that such words as will, 'l'Tlental effort, and
attention, are the right words to use in such a connection. I think
that we must not take for granted that this influence is necessarily
accompanied with ordinary consciousness on the agent's part. It ap-
pears, for example, that a person himself in the sleep-waking state
ean mesmerise another person,--exerting apparently the same kind of
influence, and the same kind of volition in directing it. as a normally-
waking man can exert. Yet, in the case to which I specially allude, when
the sleep-waker "came to himself" he was quite unconscious that he
bad mesmerised-and had for 110 long time refused to demes~O~e
Digitized by ~UUglt::
166 0'1'/, Telepathic Hypnotism.
other subject. It would seem then that in considering the genesis of
hypnotic phenomena which are apparently self-induced, yet not p~
cisely spontaneous, (as hereditary hysteria is spontaneous,)-we shall
do well to consider phenomena originated in various nervous conditions
besides that of normal wakefulness.
I shall cite three ca.aes. In the first the subject was in a state of
general "suspension and inhibition" profounder than any ordinary
phase of the hypnotic trance. In the second the subject was already
hypnotized. In the third the subject was in the normal state.
The first of these three ca.aes may seem from one point of view to
be eminently involuntary,-eminently a. ca.ae where the previous history
of the organism determined the recrudescence of an impressive scene.
But-as will be seen-it has some puzzling features. Oddly enough
we have here, and here alone, an actual suggestion made in so many
words by a man to himself ;--a.nd here, too, we have the remarkable
production, without external stimulus, of those va.so-motor dis-
turbances which form at present the extreme limit of the hypno-
tizer's power over the subject's physical organism. Who could
expect the somnambule to direct his spontaneous energy to the produc-
tion of hremorrhage or vesication' Yet the history of Louis V--, one
of the most important documents which Nature has ever submitted to
the psychologist, affords an example of self-suggestion pushed to this
almost incredible length.
In the first place it must be explained that, according to the
testimony of four physicians who have tried experiments with Louis
V-- at two separate asylums,l hremorrhage and bleedingstigmata can
be evoked in him by e:cte'1'nalsuggestion. The first recorded experiment
of the kind was as follows. The patient being in the somnambulic
state, one of the doctors said to him: "At four o'clock you will fa.ll
asleep, come into my study, sit on that chair with your arms crossed,
and bleed at the nose." The crossing of the arms was, of course, to
prevent his touching his nose. When four o'clock came he fell into
the hypnotic trance, went and sat in the chair with his arms crossed,
and after a few moments began to bleed at the nose.
Again, the doctor traced the subject's name on his two fore-arma
with a blunt instrument, and told him, in the somnambulic state,
" At four o'clock you will go to sleep and bleed on the lines which I
have traced on your arms.'>t Shortly before four o'clock he was
See Drs. Bourru and Burot, CO'Inptes Rendlt8 de le Socittt de biologie, 12
juillet, 1885, for experiments at Rochefort, and Dr. Mabille, Progrts Mtdical.
29 aodt, 1885, for experiments at La Rochelle. See also Berjon, 01'. cil.,
p. 36, &qq.
I The fact that the ann was to'lreAed, though with a blunt instrument, may
suggest that the subsequent redness and even bleedin2' warif tha Pii'lf8 effect of
Dlgltl~d by,""OD<3l~
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 167
examined, and his a.rms were then without marks. At four he fell
asleep, and on his left (non-paralysed) arm the tracings stood out in red
relief, and a. few small drops of blood oozed from them. On the right,
or paralysed, side, there was nothing apparent.
And this leads us to the phenomenon of self-suggestion on which I
wish to dwell I translate from Dr. Mabille's paper, read at the
Congres scientifique de Grenoble, 1885, and reprinted in the Progre.
M6iical, as already cited. "On August 5, 1885, at my visit, about
8.30 a.m., in presence of Dr. Ramadier, assistant physician of the asylum
of Lafond (La Rochelle), and of M. Chauvelot, house-physician, I
plunged V-- into somnambulism, and, anxious to check his sleep-
lessness, I said to him: 'This evening, at eight, you will say to the
attendant, Ernest: " Ernest, come and help me to bed, I want to sleep."
Then you will go to bed and you will sleep till five in the morning.
During your sleep you will hear nothing, see nothing, feel nothing.
You understand me, V--1' , Yes, sir.'
" At about 7.57 p.m.,V--,who was walking in the court.yard, stood
still with a fixed gaze, underwent some slight convulsions of the face, as
is usual with him when the moment fixed for a. suggestion draws nigh,
contact. We do not, in fact, know how far V&80-motor reflex excitability may
go in the production of phenomena analogous to the so-called .. tache ct!rebrale,"
or red mark produced by pressure on the skin in many morbid conditions. It
would have been more satisfactory had Dr. Mabille, &c., explicitly taken
account of this possibility. Nevertheless, it certainly appears:-
1. That Louis V-- was so frequently touched in various ways that any
tendency to tache cerebrale, or subcutaneou8 hremorrhage, must have
been observed; and if the marks lasted for m(mtM (as is recorded of
the marks on the arm, Berjon, p. 36), he must haye been covered with
8uch marks.
2. That precautious were taken (p. 36) to prevent his touching him8elf for
.. some minutes" before the bleeding appeared. The tache cirebrale,
so far as 1 know, appears within two or three minutes after the touch, if
at all.
3. Professor Beaunis' experiments (Recherches Expbimentales, &c., Paris,
Bailliere, 1886, p. 29) on the production of redness and cutaneous conges-
tion on Mlle. A. E. bY8uggestion, are confirmatory of Dr. Mabille'8. Here
also Professor Beaunis does not 8tate that he tried whether other points
touched without 8uggestion would become equally red, no doubt con·
8idering that it was obvious that Mlle. A. E., who leads an active life,
was not thus affected. Fortunately, on Sept. 3, 1885, I had myself an
opportunity of trying the experiment on this 8ame subject. I quote
from Mr. Gurney's note made on the same day:-
.. Mlle. A., hypnotized by M. Liebeault in about three seconds, and
immediately afterwards most severely pinched by E. G. on the arm,
without giving the slightest 8ign of sensation. Liebeault 8lightly
pricked the knuckle of the middle finger of the right hand, and told her
that a patch of rednC1!8 about the 8ize of a 5O·centime piece would form
there; and also that a similar patch would form on the corresponding
Digi
168 On Telepathic Hypnotisrn.
and fell into the sleep, or rather int.o that intermediate state which M.
Dumontpallier has described. His hyperresthesia of the left side dis-
appeared. He repeated to his attendants the words previously cited,
and at 8 p.m. precisely slept profoundly. From that moment onwards,
while I was unable to wake him, for he saw, hl'ard, felt nothing, and
the pressure of his hysterogenous zones had no effect, V-- spon-
taneously renewed this series of experiments to which he had been
previously submitted. Thus, he pressed with his fingers on the balls
of his eyes, as if to be thrown into lethargy, opened his eyelids to pass
into catalepsy, rubbed the top of his head to pass into somnambulism,
and entered on the following dialogue, putting the questions and
making the answers himself.
"Q. You hear me 1 A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Give me your arm. A. Yes, sir.
to Q. V--, a quarter of an hour after you wake there will be a V on
your arm at the place which I mark (here he marked a place on his
arm), and it will bleed. You understand, I wish it to bleed. A. Yes,
sir.
"Q. V--, count to ten and awake at Beven.
part of the other hand. The other hand was not pricked or touched in
any way. F. W. H. M. also gave her a scratch on the ann, in order to
see whether this would also become red after a short interval. She was
then woke, and in about 15 minutes the patches had formed as pre-
dicted ; that on the left hand being a little less red and distinct than
that on the right. Half an hour after this both marks had completely
disappeared. There was no redneBB where the scratch had been given.
Mlle. A.'s hands were not under the strictest scrotiny throughout, but
she was close to us, and talking during the whole time that elapsed
between her waking and observation of the patches, and anything like
continuous robbing must, we think, have been noticed. M. Liebeault
has complete confidence in her integrity, and all his experience of her
goes to show that she retains no memory on waking of what has paBBed
during her hypnotic sleep. "
The following roles, I think, should be observed in experiments of this
kind :-
1. Before aBSerting that a result is obtained by 8tlgglJ8tiOll alom, repeat the
experiment on the same subject with all the other circumstances, but
without the suggestion.
2. Before aBSerting that a result is due to a particular procus alom (as
shutting or opening the subject's eyes, robbing the top of the head, or
special points on the head, &c.), let that proceBB be repeated on a
subject who does not know what to expect by an operator who has no
theory on the subject whatever.
The rigid application of these rules might, I fear, reduce certain well-rounded
theories to a somewhat lean and scrappy condition.
Professor Delbmuf (Revue PhiloBophigtte, August, 1886) has amusinglyshoWD
how readily one subject will imitate while entranced the hypnotic 'phenomena
which he has observed in another. Digitized by Google
On Telepathic Hypnotiwln. 169
" V-- counts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, seems to wake from his sleep; then
(lontinues to count 8, 9, 10 and stops. Loud snores then indicate that
he is asleep. Then, about a quarter of an hour after this dialogue V--
was seized with the crisis which we usually observe in him when the
stigmata have been suggested to him. At the end of this crisis we
examined his arm and we saw a V, and the V was co\'ered with blood.
This hloody effusion WII.S produced at a place where a V had been sug-
gested by me on August 3, in the presence of Drs. Barth and Delarue,
of La Rochelle, according to the method of Drs. Bourru and Burot.
"The same phenomena were twice produced during the same night, in
the same place, and by the same procedure. V-- then awoke exactly
at 5 a.m., without knowing that he had been asleep, and with the convic-
tion that he had just been picking flowers in the garden of the asylum.
We have here, then, a hremorrhage produced during induced somnam-
bulism, without any external agency, in the place of the pre-existing
stigmata, by wha.t I think I may call auto-suggestion. And this auto-
suggestion (as well as all the other phenomena. which I observed during
the night of August 5-6 in the presence of Dr. Ramadier and M.
Chauvelot) was of cortical origin, since the initiation of peripheral im-
pressions was for the time suppressed. It was like the awakening and
exteriorisation of sensations already stored up in the organism."
Here at last, I may observe incidentally, is the true explanatory
parallel to the case of Louise Lateau. Here is a case where there is
no pretence of miracle and no possibility of fraud; a case where the very
mechanism of stigmatisation is laid bare from beginning to end, and
the asylum-patient retraces the doctor's visit with the same reality of
starting drops of blood with which the pious ecstatic renews the story
of the Crucifixion}
Passing from this exceptional state of profound entrancement to
the commoner phases of hypnotism, I will next cite a remarkable case
1 The difficulty of keeping abreast of modem experiment,-and the danger
of confident negations,-are illustrated by the following passage from a little
book of Dr. Maudsley's, entitled Natural Callsu emil Supernatural Seeming',
(London, 1886).
" There is not on record," he says (p. 261), .. a single well-authenticated
case, nor is there any sound argument to justify the preposterous opinion,
which has been broached by some quasi-scientific authors, that these stigmatic
bleedings might be produced naturally by the exceeding and specific intensity
of the imagination acting upon the particular areas affected. The supposition
that the zinc [in a well-known case of fraud] was perforated by the intensity of
the imagination, would be scarcely less preposterous." Whether an idea is
Ie preposterous" or not is a subjectivequestion, and depends on what goes before
and what behind it in the speaker's mind. But" quasi-scientific" is a more
objective term; and Dr. Maudaley's use of it here seems to prove that he has not
bad time to &Cq\!.aint himself with the experiments of Drs. Bourru and Burot,
nor with those of Professor &aunis, contained in the RechtrMu E:J:fItrimMiMp
Digitized byuUU~lt::
170 On Telepathic HY'fYMtism.
of Dr. Pitrea'l, where the subject, in the somna.mbulic state, was able to
suggest to herself that it was imposaible to awaken her.
Dr. Pitrea' subject, "Albertine," (already mentioned,) is liable to
acceaaea of hysterical aphasia, which she greatly dislikes. One day
Dr. Pitres suggested to her, in the hypllotic trance, that she would be
unable to speak when she awoke, and would continue aphasic for
24 hours. The duggestion succeeded; all that day she could not speak.
SoDle time afterwards Dr. Pitrea again hypnotized her, and made the
aame suggestion. But she rebelled, and aaid that if he persisted in
giving her this order she would not let herself be awakened. He did
not believe that she could prevent him from waking her, and blew on
her eyes and tried other accustomed means. Nothing would wake her,
and he was obliged at last to promise that she should only be aphasic
for five minutes. Then he woke her without difficulty. The experiment
'Was repeated many times.
Here, then, we have a well-marked case of self-suggestion in the
hypnotic trance itself. M. Pitres does not state whether Albertine
can hypnotize herself, by a. mere effort of will, in the waking state.
From the account given, it rather appears that the trance itself has
facilitated the self-suggestion,-that the aame' condition of super-
normal susceptibility which renders her subject to the commands of her
hypnotizer renders her subject also to a command of her own. And I
'Would point out that this accords with my hypothesis that in self_
suggestion the subject may be exercising on himself, from within, a
force or influence truly analogous to the force or influence which the
hypnotizer exercises on him from without.
Passing on, again, from the self-suggestion of the subject already
hypnotized to the self-suggestion which throws the waking subject into
trance, we find ourselves on a path of "yogism" and mysticism which
'Would lead us far from the present discussion. I shall cite one case
only, where the act of will is strongly marked,-the waking choice even
determining the hallucinations which are to adorntheself·induced trance.
Dr. Liebea.ult I was acquainted with a .. somnambule nail,"--a deaf-
mute of the name of Loue, who apparently, even before the scene
which I am about to relate, was able to entrance himself by an effort
of will. Dr. Liebeault told this man that the dead could appear to the
living, and that, if he concentrated his mind on his father, his deceased
already cited. Applied to Drs. Bourru and Burot, such an epithet would be
unwarrantably discourteous. Applied by Dr. Maudaley to Professor Bea.unis,
it would provoke a smile. But I repeat that it would be unjust to charge any
Buch intention on Dr. Maudsley,-who wrote, it is clear, in mere ignorance of
the recorded facts.
1 Pitres, Du auggutiom hllpTIotiquu, Bordeaux, 1884, p, 54.
I Dt, 80mmeil et de, ltats analoguu, pp. 259, 282. . .. Gooole
Digitized by "
On Telepathic Hyprwtiam. 171
father would probably appear, and that he (Loue) would remember
the interview. "I.e somnambule," says Dr. Liebeault, "se mit aussitOt a
baisser III. tete; sa respiration devint bruyante, sa figure prit une
expression serieuse, et au bout de quelques minutes il se leva, l'ceil fixe,
et se dirigea vers III. porte de l'appartement. Les temoins de son r~ve et
moi noUB Ie vimes tendre la main, dtlposer un baiser dans Ie vide,'-and,
in fact, he went through the scene of an interview with the phantom
of his evocation.1 From that date he frequently repeated the process,
firmly believing that it was veritably the dead who came. He profited
also by his new-found power to procure himself imaginary interviews
with living personages of a less sacred character. These interviews,
though they also seemed real at the time, he always knew to have been
mere hallucinations. But as regards the interviews with the dead, the
kindly doctor, kinder than those unwelcome friends of Horace's
kallucine,-allowed the poor man to rest in a btVief whose destruction
would have robbed him of his most valued joy.
•Pol me occidistis, amici,
Non servastis,' ait, •cui sic extorta voluptas
Et demptus per vim mentis gratissimus error.'
Cases like this,-where choice and effort seem so deeply engaged,
do certainly take us far away from the mere •attaques de sommeil,' for
instance, of the congenitally-unstable Albertine. They bring us
face to face with the question: Is this will or attention of
the subject's, which he uses to induce the trance, a new force introduced
amongst the forces of his organism from some source independent of or
pre-existent to that organism 1 This, of course, leads us at once to the
old problem as to the existence or non-existence of anything which
may be properly termed a Boul, independent of the known physical
organism.
But, nevertheless, without directly grappling with such a problem
as this, we can, I think, discern an instructive difference between this
direct self-suggestion and the mere accidental stirring or gradual matu-
ration of external excitations received in the past.
1 A parallel instance of self-suggestiou will be found in the .ArcAivio
Italiatw per Ie Malatie Nervoae for 1883, Part 4: thus II11JIlmarized in .Ann.
M~d.-Plf!lch., 1884, Vol. ii., p. 467. co Une fillet1ie de dix-sept lions, a demi
idiote, est, quelque< heu1"6lt avant 1& mort de Bon pere. prise d'un BOmmeil mag-
Detique; hallucinations celestes (?). On arrive pIns tard a 'Ihypnotiser; les
m~mes BC~nes se rl'produisent, mais on cease les experient'eB, III. malade ayant
tente a1& suite de l'une d'elles ase Buicider. Actuellement cette jeune fille lie
met elle-mame en etat d'hypnotiBme, et s'en tire par les methodes connues qu'elle
pratique spontanement, tant l'extaBe lui est devenue agreable. On tat oblige
de I'en deshabituer."
Dr. Charles Despioe'B patient, Estelle L-, could alBO induce and modify
trance at will.-OlMenlatiom '" MMeci1le Prati'l'lle, p. 62, &c~ ..(AnJ)8Ci....~I)L
Digitized by ~VV(S -e
172 On Telepathic HypJ'tot·i8'YI1,.
First, let us suppose that when Dr. Liebea.ult's deaf-mute Loue, for
instance, throws himself into a trance by an effort of will, without any
mechanical stimulus, that effort is really a new force, cognisable b.y us
only on the psychical side, and imported into the sum of forces pre-
viously manifest. In that case the new force will be a vital force
exercised by himself on himself; and its nearest apparent analogy will
be to the assumed vital force which Dr. Liebeault can exercise on him.
Next, let us suppose that he does not, by this act of will, import
any fresh force from an unknown plane of being. Nevertheless
he effects, by unknown means, some kind of change in a previously-
existing vital equilibrium. He transforms some kind of latent capacity
into a force which, after intermediate steps unknown to us, ends by
throwing him into that special condition into which the "vital
influence" of an external operator can also throw him. May we
not, then, here again conjecture, as the simplest way of correlating the
two phenomena., that the self-suggestion which sends the subject into
sudden trance, at the biddUtg of his mere caprice of the moment, may
involve some disengagement within him of the same force which, when
exercised upon him from without, is that very "vital influence" or
"eflluence," in whose real existence we have independent grounds for
believing 1
A few more words may make my meaning clearer. In moat cases
of successful hypnotism there is some amount of voluntary attention
on the subject's part. He co-operates with the operator by "fixing his
mind" on the process; and, in fact, some theorists have thought that
his'fixation of his mind was the sole cause of the effects which follow.
But what makes him fix his mind 1 He CMos68 to do so; that is a.ll
we can say. And it is this apparent act of choice, this voluntary
direction of the attention to a particular idea., which is the stronghold
of those who maintain that there are mental processes within us which
are not inevitably determined by physical antecedents. I am not
arguing either for or against this ~ew; I am only reminding the reader
that this voluntary attention of the subject's is something separate from
the mere reflex psychical response to the operator's suggestion, and that
it is an element which enters in varying degrees into all inductions of
hypnotic trance, except those effected by sudden shocks, or upon sleep-
ing, unconscious, infant, or insane persons or animals. And the question
is whether we can get a little deeper than this mere statement,
whether we can detect an analogy between this idiosyncratic impulse,
this "reaction per,o'f//nelle," and any hypnogenous agency which a man
can exert upon others than himself.
And to this question I tentatively reply that perhaps when I attend
to a thing, or will a thing, I am directing upon my own nervous system
actually that same force which, when I direct it ~ anot.her man's
Digitized by ~oo8le
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 173
nervous system, is the II vital influence" of mesmerists, or the "tele
pathic impact" of which Mr. Gurney and I have said so much. And
when I say "directing the force on my own nervous system," I am not
speaking of myself as a kind of angelWl rector without and above my
organism. How the force is generated is an open question in the case
of the suggestion which I exert within myself as in the case of that
which I exert without myself. But whether the essence of those acts of
will, or of attention, be an illation and infusion of forces which do not
pre-exist in my organism, or a concentration or conversion of forces
which do so pre-exist, I urge that that essential element may be the
same in the one case as in the other.
§ 17. Whatever, then, the precise explanation of this form of self-
suggestion may be, it forms a step between mere mechanical hypnogeny
and that "vital influence," which in its turn serves as the starting
point for so many fresh perplexities.
For no sooner do we fix our attention on what we have defined as
the third class of suggestions-suggestions made mentally by persons in
the presence or proximity of the subject-than we recognise that the
theory of vital influence, already assailed on one side by the advocates
of a merely mechanical hypnogeny, is assailable also, on the sidefwrther
from ordinary experience, by anyone who should choose to maintain
that the true agency which travels from man to man is a cause uncon-
nected with corporeal proximity-that is to say, that it is never the
" pa.ss," or the gaze of the eyes, or the touch of the fingers which sends
the subject into trance, but always an agency of that unknown
" psychical" kind which our evidence shows sometimes to accompany
the exercise of intense t!wught or will.
The cases which bring this question into prominence are especially
those where the influence of the mesmerist (as in Dr. Esdaile's mesmeri-
sation of a blind man) has been exercised from the distance of some
yards, by gazing steadily at the subject.
Are we to suppose that there was here a real dl'fUlTr.I"J throppoil-a
veritable efflux of nervous energy from Dr. Esdaile's eyes, which im-
pinged in some physical manner on the blind and unsuspecting subject 1
Or was the transfer of a purely telepathic kind 1 and was the direction
of Esdaile's eyes on the subject /I, mere aid to concentration of thought
or will ~
Mesmer would have said that a real efflux from the eyes was here
the efficient cause. The writers in the Zoise (including Esdaile himself),
so fa.r as they faced the problem distinctly, would have made the same
reply. And recently Dr. Barety (Force Newrique Rayonnante, 1882)
has attempted to show that actual "neuric rays" are emitted by eyes
and fingers, which are susceptible of reflection from mirrors, concentra-
tion by lenses, &c. II Nous croyons," he says (p. 37), "a~il n'y a aucune
174 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
temerite a conclure . . que la force neurique . n'est qu'un
mode particulier de mouvement . qu'elle agit par l'internlediaire de
cette m&tiere subtile . que les physiciens appellent ether."
I think that there is temerity in such a conclusion, and I do not like
to see the etl66r-the deus ex machina of a certain school of modern
theorists--dragged in, if I may so say, by the head and shoulders, to
explain anything, whether physical or psychical, which particularly
puzzles us. Yet I think that Dr. Barety's experiments should be
repeated, and I am quite sure that we can have no a priori certainty
that such rays as he alleges do not exist.
On the other hand Professor Janet's experiments with Madame B.
(and many older experiments,) seem to show that the action of thought
or wish may overbear the influence of proximity, even when operator
and subject are sitting side by side.
"Cette influence de la peusee de l'operateur," he says,1 "quelque
extraordinaire que cela paraisse, est ici tout afait preponderante, a un
tel point qu'elle peut remplacer toutes les autres. Si on presse Ill. main
de Madame B. sans songer al'endormir, on n'arrive pas aprovoquer Ie
Kommeil; au 'contraire, si l'on songe a l'endormir sans lui presser
la main, on y reussit parfaitement."
Professor Janet is, of course, alive to the danger of mere suggestion
in such a case; and (as already mentioned) he goes on to say that he
thinks that this supposition is met in several wa.ys, especially by the
fact that in sleep thus induced by will, Madame B. was under the
influence of the person who had really willed her from the next room-
not of the person who had been placed near her, and to whom, if
mere suggestion induced the sleep, that suggestion might naturally have
pointed.
Again, in the experiments in which we obtained localised aJl8lSthesia,
of 110 single finger only, and in a manner which seemed to exclude both
monotonous stimulation and expectant attention as operating causes,1
it nevertheless appeared that it was necessary for Mr. Smith to concen-
trate his attention on the subject's finger, as well as to point his own
fingers towards it. But the concentration of attention did not suffice
without the physical approach of the fingers as well.
The approach of Mr. Smith's fingers, it will be remembered, was
concealed from any ordina.ry cognizance of the subject's senses. But
before we can be sure of a specific vital influence we have to guard our-
selves against possible hypercesthesia of the ordinary senses ;-a.nd this
is difficult to do while the operator, however hidden, is himself present
with his subject. We must desire cases where his influence shall in
1 Bulletim de la Soci~t~ de Payc/wlogie Pnynologique, Vol. i., p. 27. (Paria,
Alean.) G I
I See Proceeding', S.P.R., Vola. i., ill., reJr. in ~by oog e
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 175
some way persist after his own removal, or become embodied in BODIe
aubstance otherwise inert.
§ 18. The moat direct way, therefore, of testing the reality of "vital
efBuence " would certainly seem to be the so-called "mesmerisation of
objects." Personally, I have witnessed very few experiments of this
kind which led to any positive result i1 but (as Mr. Gurney and I have
elsewhere insisted,) the testimony of Esdaile and others in the matter is
too strong to be set aside without diligent attempts to imitate their
proceedings. Yet even here new ambiguities present themselves as our
knowledge of deferred and of teiepat/lic suggestion increases.
Professor Beaunis, of Nancy,2 gave some counters to Mlle. A.
(already often mentioned) in her waking state, and said: "If you at
any time put one of these counters into a glass of eau rucree and drink
it, you will go to sleep." Mlle. A. forgot the liquid thus ordered. She
tried wine, water, wine and water, in vain i at last she tried putting the
counter into a glass of eau sucrle, drank it, and went to sleep at once.
The suggestion, that is to say, which had disappeared from conscious
memory was still operative below the threshold of consciousne88. But if
a case like this had occurred before the efficacy of deferred suggestions
was understood, it would probably have been thought by the mesmerists
of the day that the counter had been mesmerised by ProfeBSor Beaunis'
contact, and that the eau rucree, for some inscrutable reason, was a
liquid peculiarly qualified to draw that counter's mesDleric virtues out.
So much for the possible confusion between ckferred suggestion and
f1ital e.flluence. And if we introduce the hypothesis of mental or
telepathic suggestion, such' as Dr. Gibert's mental suggestion to
Madame B., that she should look at a certain book at a certain hour, a
fresh source of ambiguity is introduced. Suppose that Professor Beaunis
had mentaUy sugge8ted to Mlle. A. that when she put the counter into
MU ftlcree and drank it she would go to sleep i and that this suggested
result had actually occurred. It would then look precisely as though the
eau rucru had undergone some mysterious change i whereas the only
change would have been that telepathically impre88ed on Mlle. A.'s
mind by the mental suggestion previously made.
It would, of course, be easy so to arrange the experiment as to
avoid possibilities of this kind i but it is important that they should be
recognised i for experimenters who have been fortunate enough to
encounter the rarer phenomena of mesmerism, have often overlooked
the precautions which are needful if any conclusive proof of one or
~her hypnogenous agency is to be acquired.
§ 19. It is plain that we have here arrived at one of the hardest
1 See Procudingl, S.P.R., Vol. i., red in Index.
I &cAercAu Ezphimmtalu, ii, p. 89. (Paris, Baillil!l'ejgliSll6.~Goo8Ie ...
176 On Teu.pathic HYP'Mtism.
knots in the whole inquiry. It resolves itselfintotbis: Isthereoneand
only one form of influence which is not communicated by the ordinary
channels of sense 1 Or is there an influence which is felt by a
percipient only when the agent is very near him1 and another influence
which the percipient feels equally when the agent is at an indefinite
distance 1 Readers of Phanta.lm18 of the Livit&g will see that this .
problem-there dealt with on its psychical side alone-presents itself in
an urgent manner when we attempt to establish an analogy between our
experimental results in thought-transference and those spontaneously-
arising impressions or apparitions which sometimes coincide with the
death or crisis of a distant friend. Our parallel halts in so far that we
have not yet succeeded in experimentally obtaining (in the sense of the
direct communication of a thought, image, or sensation from one person
to another.) thought-transference otherwise than between persons in
close proximity. In P/ur,nta./ml8 of the Living this difficulty has been
pointed out, hut no complete solution has been attempted.1 Speaking
for myself only, I am inclined provisionally to accept the hypothesis
that more than one form of force, or at least more than one form of
receptivity, is concerned in the phenomena..
The action of medicaments at a distance-at a distance measured by
inches-on Louis V-- and others, has led MM. Bourru and Burot to
suggest, in a tentative manner, that there may be a zone, immediately
surrounding the person of a hyperaesthetic patient, to which his
hyperaesthesia extends; so that certain objects, when placed within
that zone, exercise a direct effect on his nervous system.
Hypotheses somewhat similar have been suggested by various other
experiments, and analogy seems to me to point (though not decisively)
in this direction. On the other hand one obvious objection to the view.
namely the complexity which it introduces into the conception of tele-
pathic action, does not seem to me to be important. We have given the
name telepathy to a mass of phenomena which have in common only the
fact that they invoh'e transmission of thoughts or feelings from one mind
to another, without the agency of the recognised organs of sense. But
it would be rash to go beyond this, and to assume that we have at.
once lit on a single, simply-acting force or energy. So long as we can
detect forces only by their influence on our8elveB, not on registering in-
struments, we are likely not only to ignore what may be the most
characteristic action of each force, but to confuse together disparate
forces which exert on U8 something of the same effect.
§ 20. But here, I repeat, we come to one of the most difficult points
in the whole inquiry. What is the relation between the supersensory
transmission of thoughts and feelings in close proximity, and a similar
1 See Vol. i., pp. 96·9;. Note the case of ,Mr. Sflf.....R..ole .
DI!J1tlzed byu\J(J"
On Telepathic Hypnotimn. 177
transmission between persons separated by the whole diameter of the
planet 1
In order to answer this question we ought to be able to compare
very many cases of telepathy at varying distances. PhantoImB of tAB
Living contains, I think, almost all the cases on which reliance can
be placed, and they are not yet enough to admit of an assured
comparison between the phenomena. which occur (1) between persons
in contact; (2) between persons in the same room; (3) between persons
in adjoining rooms; (4) between persons at a distance of less than a
mile; (5) between persons many miles distant from one another. We
do not know where the breaks, if any, occur in this chain; we do not
know what is the effect, on the one hand, of a material obstacle
such as a wall, or, on the other hand, of what I may call a psychical
rapprochement, as, for instance, a previous familiarity on the agent's
part with the scene where the percipient sits. But (speaking in a
guarded and provisional manner) we may note the following points:-
(1) Contact seems generally to facilitate transmission of thought
and feeling, and the induction of the hypnotic trance.1
(2) Presence in the same room seems to be essential to most of
our definite experiments in thought-transference, and to the
induction (in the first instance) of the hypnotic trance.
(3) Presence in an adjoining room has occa.siona.1ly sufficed for a
direct experiment in thought-transference; and occa.sionally
for the reproduction of the hypnotic trance when it has been
previously induced by the same operator.
(4) Perhaps hypnotisation at a distance is easier when the distance
is (say) of one mile rather than ten. Perhaps, too, there is a
certain difference in the quality of the subject's sensations
when the mesmeriser is at a distance. Thus Mme. B. (in this
resembling one at least of Mr. H. S. Thompson's subjects2)
always professed, not only to feel who it was that was thus
influencing her, but to have a vague senae as of that operator's
pruence in the room. This I heard her say repeatedly in the
hypnotic trance (in which she seems always to tell the truth
as to her own sensations), nor has she, as I understand, been
ever mistaken as to whether it was M. Gibert or M. Ja.net
who had sent her to sleep from a distance.
(5) Lastly, when the telepathic influence is exerted over long
distances we have very much less of direct experiment, but
1 I need hardly repeat here that cases in which contact is permitted are not
in theJDBelves a proof of anything beyond unconscious muscular pressure, if the
image or action be such as any form of pressure can suggest.
I Pkanta8ml o/'Ae Living. Vol i., page 99, and see note. G I
Digitized by OC}g e
178 On Telepathic HyprwtiSm.
very much more of spontaneous apparition. Our distant
cases include, as we have often pointed out, all varieties of
objectivation, from the mere sense of presence, or the "mind's-
eye" view, to the actual phantom in apparent bodily form. But
though these distant cases offer many phenomena not hitherto
observed in experimental or contiguous cases, they present
also many points of contact. Sometimes, for instance, it
seems to be the will of the distant agent which impresses his
phantasm on the percipient-sometimes the death of a distant
friend seems to produce a quasi-hypnotic effect on the per-
cipient, which, in one case, at least, seems to have amounood
to a sort of agitated trance.}
Now there is, of course, a temptation to simplify the problem by
assuming that in all these cases of supersensory transmission a force is
acting which in the first place is identical, cognate, or correlated with
known forces, and in the seOOnd place is the same for all supersensory
action whether in contiguity or at great distances. Such expressions
as "bra.in-waves" (Knowles), "mentiferous ether" (Maudsley), "force
neurique rayonnante" (Barety), "ondulationnisme" (Perronet}-to
which many others will doubtless ere long be added-testify to this
natural, though premature, desire to ticket or identify a force which
(in the opinion at least, as I think I may say, of those who have
expended most pains on tracing its effects) cannot at present be
correlated with nerve-force, or with magnetism, or with ethereal
vibrations of any kind, by any true physical demonstration.
And here, again, there is a temptation to the attainment of some-
thing of apparent simplicity by a just opposite road. We may say that
telepathy is a pll1Jchical agency, and that there is an impassable gulf
between all agencies which can be classed as physical on the one hand,
and on the other hand, a.ll agencies, whether apparently operating in
proximity or at a distance, which we can as yet cognise on the psychical
side alone.
But this view seems to me to involve a metaphysical, as those other
views involved a physical assumption. I do not like to assume that
any effect perceptible to human senses is without a physical cause of
some kind-a cause, that is to say, which intelligences of adequate
eleva.tion could cognise objectively and deal with mathematically, as
we deal with those forms of matter and force which our minds can at
present embrace. Such physical cause or basis may no doubt be 80
remote from our ordinary physical conceptions that the philosopher may
be justified in leaving it altogether out of the question, and in dealing
with the interrelations of thought and emotion exclusively on the
1 PhantcumB o/eM Living, Vol. ii.,p. 42. G I
Digitized by oog e
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 179
psychical side; but it seems to me that telepathy forces us into a
position where it is no longer safe to &8Bume any sharply-defined dis-
tinction of mind and matter,-where we must rid ourselves of every meta-
physical preconception and look to experiment and observation alone.
We must remember that it is only quite recently that we have
frankly accepted a physical basis or concomitant for all the operations
which go on within our own minds. It was in this century that Lord
Jeffrey maintained that "there is not the smallest reason for supposing
that the mind ever operates through the agency of any material organs,
except in its perception of material objects, or in the spontaneous move-
ments of the body which it inhabits." And even Mill, as is well
known, regarded the concomitance of a neural change with all mental
changes as an open question. Weare now pretty well agreed that such
concomitance does always and inevitably subsist within us; but we still
speak of the interaction of thought and emotion- of the "world of
mind"--as of a realm, or of operations, where no physical basis must be
&8Bumed. I think it possible that the facts of telepathy may compel
us to extend our conceptions of physico-psychical concomitance, and to
face the supposition that though forces may exist, and agencies operate,
which the ordinary materialistic view altogether denies, yet these also
may be correlated-though above the limit of our intelligence-with
the force and matter with which our mathematical science already deals.
It will, of course, be apparent from the line of argument here
adopted that I do not consider that the problem of the relation of near
to distant supersensory transference admits at present of even approxi-
mate solution. Our recorded instances must receive many in addition,
-nay, our notions of matter and of mind must pass through many a
phase as yet unimagined,-before we can tell in what degree the
mesmerist's gaze across the room resembles that strange and mighty
impulse which carries the dying father's image across seas and con-
tinents to his unexpectant child. All that I have suggested is that
there is a presumption in favour of BCI'I'1Ul connection, some continuity;
that the mingled similarity and dissimilarity of the phenomena at
differing distances is such as may lead us to conjecture the joint action
of cognate causes in varying proportion--of causes cognate bttt not
identical, implying no single capacity of percipience, no Bingle energy
of communication.
§ 21. I can but note these points, on which fuller knowledge may
come in time. For the present it must suffice to have endeavoured,
in the pst place, to supply additional evidence of the existence of
telepathic hypnotism, or hypnotic suggestion at a distance; and, in the
NCond place, to trace a kind of series or gradation--often inter-
rupted, indeed, and largely hypothetical-between the simplest and
commonest, and the rarest and strangest modes of hypnotic i~le
Digitized ~0~(5
N 2
180 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
Some of the hypotheses which I have thus advanced may be
~oneOUB, but they cannot justly be said to be gratuitous. For they
are advanced in order to correlate certain a.ctua.lly-observed phenomena,
which must bear Bom6 relation to each other, and whose relation can
only be properly discuBBed if some tolerably clear scheme is set forth
as a basis for such discUBBion. I have cast, therefore, the suggestions
of the preceding pages into a tabular form.
There are, indeed, several items in this scheme as to which die
evidence seems to me at present inadequate. But I include these
phenomena simply because the authority of competent physicians on
the whole supports them. And by competent physicians I mean not
men who, though competent in other lines, have made few or no
hypnotic experiments, but men who having shown medical or
physiological ability of a more general kind, have also taken real pains
to experiment for themselves in this special direction. I am sorry to
quote so small a proportion of English names ; but the fact is that during
the last ten years this inquiry has been very eagerly pursued by French
MJVCmts, with some success also by Germans and Italia.ns, but by
Englishmen hardly at all. I have no controversial aim; and I desire
. to see the experiments of the French schools repeated and analysed by
as many English men of science as poBBible.1 But until such experi-
ments are actually made, and reason shown for explaining the results
otherwise than as the school of the Salpetriere (for instance) explains
them, I feel bound to disregard the mere apriori negations of men
who have done little work of the kind themselves, and are not always
familiar with the work done elsewhere. The di1ference in this matter
between England and France is one which a few years will probably
do much to remove. In England '& practising physician is even now
half ashamed of knowing much about hypnotism; the savour of
charlatanism still hangs about the topic; and if he writes a book in
which he has to allude to it, he shows more anxiety to disclaim error
than to discover truth. Much the same was the case in France, till
Charcot, Richet, Beaunis, and a few other well-known men took
the subject up,-and in Germany, till Heidenhain took it up. The
fashion has now changed, and the danger in France is now rather of
over-eagerness to register new extensions of the fascinating inquiry.
Under such circumstances, it seems plainly the duty of an English
student to set forth the outlines of the subject as it stands at present,
not vouching hastily for results as yet unconfirmed, but illustrating them
whenever he can by some observation or redection of his own. Such is
the course which I have tried to follow; and the more pains which my
1 The schools of Naney, Bordeanx, the Salpatriere, and the Pitie are on man,.
points strongly opposed to each other. I considersuch opposition 88 a necesaary
and' advantageous characteristic of this stage of theJ!1t1l1MtrGoogle
On Telepathw Hypnotisr,.". 181
instructed readers may take to demolish my" provisional scheme," the
more light will there be thrown on a subject which grea.tly needs it.
§ 22. PBOV1810NAL ScBBJIB 01' MODES 01' INDUCTION 01' HYPNOTIO
PaBNOMBNA.
I. MClIIille tJ.erllOU8 ,timulation.
II. Moootonoua stimulation.
III. LocalUed stimulation; i.e.,
stimulation of ordinary
kinds, but applied to
abnormally sensitive
points.
IV. Verbal mggestwn; i.e.• local- {
ised stimulation of
special tracts of a brain
renderedpreviouslysen-
sitive as a whole, or
locally.
Sudden danger; cataplexy of insects;
fascination of birds, &C.
Sudden noise or light; esp. with
hystero-epileptics.
Sudden grief: "stupor attonitus."
Tactile ; fanning and perhaps manual
passes.
Auditory; tick of watch. &C.
Visual; proloJll{ed gaze on bright
object; or human gaze.
Mere touch on unaccustomed parts;
holding heads of hens, &c.
Braid's upward and inward squint (.
kind of strain, or intra-orbital
pressure.I)
Pressure on hypnogenous points or
zones, esp. ill hystero-epileptics.
Command of operator, in waking-life,
in trance, or in " veille somn&m-
bulique."
Deferred commands: (sugg8lltions ~
longue .scheance).
V. 8pecialiwl stimulation; i.e, { Medicamentous substances in contact.
from inanimate sub- Metals in contact.
stances, in oontact, but Magnets.
not normally active in Electricity: (unless the rare hypno-
this manner; and from genous effect of an electric shook
non-vital forces. falls under Class I.).
VI. &If-mggufion, i.e., doter- { Hereditaryhysteria,~,asitwerethe
mination by causes in- . defe~ suggestl(~n of ancestors.
h t · th . IdIOpathiC somnambuhsm.
eren m e organ18m. Self-induced or self-prolonged trance.
Vll. Bpccialiwl stimulation from { Experiments of MM. Bourru, Burot,
inanimate lUbatancu in Mabille, Richet. Medicaments
pru.t:imity. and metals without contact.
VIII. Vital (Yf' mesmeric stimtda.-
twn.
IX. Mental ,uggestion without
contact, QT telepatAy;
pe-rMp8 in mMe than om
form.
Touch, of all or certain persons, not
neceBBarilyonhypnogenouszones.I
Passes without contact, or mere prox-
imity or human gaze.s
Mesmerised objects.
Exercise of will without touch or gaze,
in the same or adjoining room, or
at longer distances. Tendency
to feel presence and to see
phantasm of distant operator;
link with 9uasi-percepts tele-
pathically onginated by death or
crisis of distant agent.
1 This must beprolonged, so comes also under Class II.
I Both these methods appear also in Class II.
Digitized by Coogle
182 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
I must once more remind the reader that the above scheme is
expreaaly intended to be criticised, not to be accepted as definitive.
Truth, as we know, emerges more readily from error than from
confusion, and it may be useful thus to substitute even the rudest
ground-plan for the unmapped wilderness of modem hypnotic experi-
ment. All the phenomena which I cite are phenomena which have
received strong attestation. If they do not exist, let them be dis-
proved in detail. If they do exist they must bear some relation to
each other ; they must be capable of some sort of logical arrangement.
I shall be grateful for any hints which may em..ble me to improve this
firstrough sketch. In the meantime I may at least hope that the"8ommeil
adVtancB," with which this paper primarily deals, no longer appeals to
the reader as an entirely isolated hypnotic marvel. It has been
connellted-by questionable and imperfect links, it may be-but still
connected with a great number of other scattered hypnotic experi-
ments, which were themselves, when taken alone, scarcely less strange
and incomprehensible.
§ 23. Before concluding this paper I must briefly describe certain
other phenomena which I witnessed in the case of Madame B. Besides
the fact of their occurrence in the same subject they have thus much of
connection with the topics on which I have so far dwelt, that they
tend to show how premature at present is any attempt to define the
limit of hypnotic phenomena. For the attempt to restrict the nervous
changes induced to catalepsy, lethargy, and somnambulism, is, as I hold,
equally misleading with the attempt to restrict the methods of
hypnogeny to monotonous stimulation and sudden shock.
Madame B. exhibits a phenomenon which is curious enough, even
if it be a mere reflection from the mesmeriser's expectation; while if (as
M. Janet holds) it is entirely spontaneous, the interest attaching to it
is very great indeed. When hypnotised she falls, like most subjects,
into a deep lethargic sleep, but, even if left undisturbed, she does not
remain long in that condition. She passes through a kind of circular
series of changes, sometimes more and sometimes less distinct, which
bring her back again into lethargy, only to renew the series once more.
M. Janet has since described these phenomena at length in the
RB'IJUB Scientijique, May, 1886,1 I will not attempt to reproduce
his article, but will give, in a slightly expanded form, the notes taken
at the time by Dr. Myers and myself, adopting M. Janet's schematism
as our basis. The remarks within square brackets show the degree of con-
firmation which each point received in our presence. Her first state is-
1. UtlWR'gie (vraie).
Sight, hearing, and sense of pain absent.
1 See also M. Richet in .Revue ScientVique, JuneJ2. I
Digitized by ~008 e
0", Telepathic HwnotUmt. 183
[This appeared to be so, but I did not think it needful to ask for
severe tests of.anmsthesia.]
Firm. pressure on different parts of arm induces contraction of
muscles of hand and arm, removed by friction. [Yes.]
H a magnet is applied (say) to contracted left arm, contraction is
transferred to right side; and this dextral contraction can then only be
removed by stroking the left arm, viz., the arm originally contracted.
[Yes, but this variety of the familiar experiments of Charcot, cltc., in
transference of hemianmsthesia, is of course liable to the usual suspicion
of being a mere result of IlUfIg6lltion.] In one experiment of this kind
in our presence the little finger of one contracted hand was not relaxed
by the magnet; and, correspondingly, the little finger of the hand to
which the contraction was transferred was not stiffened.
2. Lithaf'gU ca.taleptique. Persistence of attitudes impressed from
without, and slight contracture of muscle on deep pressure. [This
state resembles spontaneous idiopathic catalepsy more closely than do
the next two.]
3. Cataleprie lIthaf'gique. Persistence of movements externally
initiated. [Simple movements of arm persisted; not so a less familiar
movement of foot. I doubt whether this stage can be fitly classed
separately.]
4. Catalepaie, (waie, au catalepaie de Charcot.) Eyes fully open
and staring: suggestion of some familiar action (as folding of hands in
prayer, raising of finger in command) carried out automatically through
various stages, habitual behaviour in church, cltc. In this state she was
subject to the "prise du regard," i.e., if M. Janet looked at her steadily,
and then moved his head, she followed with her eyes. She did not
follow the eyes of other persons. But M. Janet believes that if he
touches a neutral person,-<>r if he touches A and A touches B, and
B touches C, and C gazes on the subject, then the subject's eyes follow
O.'s so long as M. Janet is touching A. [We tried this repeatedly, but
the result was doubtful-the subject could not be kept long enough in
the required state to eliminate chance.]
6. Catalepaie aomnambulique. Susceptibility to hallucinations,
(subject agitated when told that there are parrots before her), but no
power of speech. [Another state as to whose separable individuality
I feel much doubt.]
6. SomnamhuliBm6 cataleptique. Susceptibility to hallucination.
M. Janet holds her hand and tells her that there are birds; she calls
II Petit! petit!" Here again M. Janet believes that she only
sees the birds when he holds her hand, or forms one of a chain. [The
hallucinations provoked were so slight that I could not be sure of this.
The word "cataleptique" hardly seems in place here.]
7. SomnambuliBm6 (lucicle). In this stage her eyes are shm hu..Uler
Digitized by UOU(Slt::
184 On Telepathw Hypnotism.
demt'8.nour is alert and lively. She talks spontaneously, exhibiting a
childlike character and freedom from shyness not seen in her normal
state, and contraating oddly with the patient, stolid cast of her features.
8. Somt'lllmbuliBms litlurlrgique. In this state contracture is evoked
by superficial friction. Suggestions are still possible, but there is
apparent sleep instead of apparent waking.
9. LlthargiB IIOmnambulique. In this state she dreams aloud;
imagines that she visits distant places, &c.; and M. Janet loses control
OTer her. From this condition she relapses into the" true lethargy "
with which we began.
§ 24. The order in which I have given these states is that in which
we saw them follow each other. I perceive that M. Janet in his article
(Re1J'U6 Scientiforue) gives them in the opposite order; and says, .. the
pressure of the thumb ma.kes the subject pass through all the states,
proceeding from lethargy to catalepsy, while blowing on the eyes makes
her pass through them in the direction of catalepsy to lethargy."
Such a distinction as that, I am inclined to think, must be in great
measure accidental; some slight association, once set up, probably tends
to repeat itself more and more readily. And with regard to all these
variations, it certainly seemed to Dr. Myers and myself that they must
not be insisted on in detail; that the only fact of clear importance was
the subject's tendency to pass spontaneously through a cycle of nervous
changes, which was no sooner ended than it began again. A similar
tendency to recurrent states has been observed and systematised by
Charcot and P. Richer among the hystero-epileptica at the Sal~triere.l
§ 25. M. Janet concludes his description of Madame B.'s phases by
some reflections which I will here summarise. "Some observers accord
great importance to the phases of hypnotism, and consider them as
states entirely distinct; others see in them only insignificant pheno-
mena produced artificially by the operator. Madame B.'s case shows
us that the three primitive states (i.e., lethargy, catalepsy, somnam-
bulism) are not of fundamental importance, since other states CI\D be
induced, in number as yet undetermined, Vthich are equally definite
and durable. On the other hand, I cannot regard these phases as mere
accidents; they arise too naturally and recur too regularly for such 8.
supposition. I consider them as stages of sleep (degres de 8omfMil)
through which the subject passes in going to sleep and waking up,-
stages at which it is sometimes possible to arrest her. At each different
stage, perhaps, different parts of the brain are excited or paralyzed.
During lethargy the brain seems entirely paralyzed, and the con-
tractures of this period seem to be mere exaggerated spinal reflex
movements; then the different cerebral centres seem to awake gradually
1 La Gmnde Hy.Urie, Dr. Paul Richer, secondeditioJP, P~Il886. See
page 147, &0. DI9ItlzedbyuO"-'(5 e~-
On Telepathic Hypnoti8m. 185
during the succeeding phases; the muscular sense, touch, sight, hearing,
-then, during the somnambulism, the regions which preside over
intelligence and will Thus all the phases of hypnotism, or even of
[spontaneous] somnambulism which have yet been observed, may merely
represent different stages of this sleep at which different subject.
happen to be arrested."
I concur with the general drift of these remarks,-more philo-
sophical, as it seems to me, than any attempt to fit the constantly-vary-
ing phenomena of hypnotism into one Procrustean scheme. Still, in
my view, we need to go much further still. We need to free ourselvea
altogether from the notion that the stages which a hypnotized subject
paues through are necessarily de!J1'la de aommeil,-that his changes are
changes undergone en a'endormant et en Be rlveillant,-or even that
there is likely to be between stage and stage any familiar connection,
any discernible filiation at all.
But with this hint I must conclude. As I have here tried to ana-
lyse some of the methods of hypnogeny, so also Ilhould have liked
to try to analyse some of the hypno~ic phenomena thus induced.
But this paper is already full enough of disputable matter. My hope
must be that it may stimulate other observers to fresh experiment,-
'though they, like myself, may spell out but a few words of the
ciphered message in which hypnotism writes for us the secret of the
psychical mechanism of man.
ADDENDUM.
Since this paper was in print, I have come across a scheme of
hypnogenous agencies in Dr. Chambard's tractate, Du SomnmnhuliBml
.,. glnbal, Paris, 1881. Dr. Chambard has since been selected to
write the article on "Somnambulism" in the new Dictionnair6 de.
ScWn.cu Mldicalu, and even in his" these" of 1881 he speaks from
a good deal of experience in several h'ospitals. I translate his scheme
below. As compared with the scheme which has been suggested in ihis
paper both its concordances and its variations may afford us some instruc-
tive hints.
Chambanl's Scheme of hypnogenous processes.
A. Empirical or mixed processes, termed magnetic.
B. Analytical or simple processes.
1. Psychical action.
II. Affective. Faith. Expectant attention. (Carpenter.) Moral
emotions and expressions. Expressive gaze.
~. Intellectual. Mental inertia. Fatigue of ~'iz~}~8Ie
186 On Telepathic Hypnotism.
2. Sensorial action.
fIE. Suppression of aensorial excitations. Simple cloaure of
eyes. (Lasegue.)
~. Monotonous sensorial excitations, feeble and repeated.
a. Of sight. Fixed gaze on an object, brilliant or not.
b. Of hearing. Musical tone or noise. Watch (Weinholt,)
diapason, &c.
c. Of touch. Contact. Pressure. Temperature. Frictions.
Shocks. (Heidenhain.)
d. Cutaneous excitation determined by passes. (Heiden-
hain.)
•. Excitation of erogenous regions j ovarian pressure.
3. Mechanical action.
fIE. Modification of intrs.-ocular pressure.
a. By convergence of the optic axes.
b. By compression of the eyeball.
4. Physical actions. Action of magnet. (Landouzy.) Metallic
plates. Static electricity.
5. Toxic action.
fIE. Aruesthetics j Ether, chloroform, &c.
~. Inebriants j Alcohol, haschisch, &C.
Now on this scheme I have to remark as follows:-
A.-A number of empirical methods are avowedly left unexplained.
B. I.-I object, as already explained, to cl&ssing" psychical
action" separately,as if it were altogether disparate from other
effects produced on the nervous system. Such a word as
" Faith "tells us nothing, in this connection. Moreover, I
do not believe that" mental inertia" produces the hypnotic
state at all. And" fatigue of the attention" should surely
come under" monotonous excitations of hearing," if, as I
suppose, Dr. Chambard means the kind of fatigue which is
induced by prolonged listening to the ticks of a watch.
B. 2. 111.-" Simple closure of eyes" surely does not produce
the hypnotic trance on subjects who have never been pre-
viously hypnotized. I should rank it as one of the sugges-
tions which succeed only when recognised IlB B'UflUe&tiom, not
as in itself an efficient cause of trance.
B. 2. ~. a and b.-Massive stimulations are here confounded with
monotonous stimulations. The gaze at an electric light, or
the BOund of a gong, is not afeeble stimulus, and need Dot be
repeated.
B. 2. ~. c.-Pre&tJtIII'e, again, is not necessarily a "feeble" or
" repeated" form of excitation. Some of D~Chamba.rd'8 own
Digitized by ~oo8le
On Telepathic Hypnotism. 187
cases (Appendix to his tractate) strikingly illustrate the
effect of a single touch on abnormally sensitive regions in a
hysterical patient. I doubt the hypnogenous effect of changes
of temperature. A cold wind will often wake a subject,
(Esdaile, Elliotson,) but I do not know any cases where a
mere rise or fall of external temperature has induced trance.
B. 2. ~. d.-I have already maintained that on whatever cause the
efficacy of "passes" may depend it is certainly not on monotony
alone. The" passes" may often be varied and interrupted
without appreciable detriment. I believe their efficacy to
depend partly on the " vital influence" of the old mesmerists,
partly on luggestion,and partly on pressure upon hypnogenous
zones. Of course, monotonous movement, darkness, silence,
and the mere efBuxion of time, may contribute to sending
the subject to Bleep. But something more than monotony
will generally be needed to cause that sleep to merge into
hypnotic trance.
B. 2. ~. e.-This su1>-class is plainly referable not to monotonous
excitations but to pressure on specially-sensitive zones.
B. 3.-1 agree with Chambard that the fatigue induced by con-
vergence of axes resembles the pain felt on compression of the
eyeball. I should class both under the heading of hypno-
genous zones. Heidenhain's view that Braid's squint operates
by altering the cerebral circulation, (which I shall not here
presume to contest,) is not inconsistent with this classification.
It is perfectly possible that some or all of these localised
pressures act by means of a mechanical influence on the cir-
culatory system as well as by an influence of unknown
character on the nervous system.
B. 4.-Chambard's "actions physiques" are included in my class
of "specialised stimulations." I do not like his term; for his
" sensorial" and "mechanical" actions are physical too. A
fresh term is plainly needed to express such actions on the
human frame as that of magnets and those of metals in con·
tact (beyond mere effects of weight, temperature, &c.). Pend-
ing the suggestion of a more suitable term I should call such
actions BUpernormal, as being unusual, but indicative of a more
penetrating-not a diseased-sensitiveness on the subject's
part.
B. 5.-1 entirely agree that the effect of these toxic agencies is
omalogO'/UJ to the hypnotic tra.nce. But I do not think that
trance dependent on chemical changes (deficient aeration of
blood, diffusion of volatile ethers, &c.,) should be classed as
cWrdinate with the trance induced by the hypnogenou~nci611
Digitized by ~0081e
188 On Telepathic H'!JP'Ttotism.
already discussed. In all of those classes the nervous change
has been induced without the introduction of any material
substance into the body; and though it is very difficult to
define what agencies are to be called hypnotic, it seems plain
that here at least a line can be drawn, and that changes depen-
dent on wounds or poisoning-on mechanical rupture or toxic
alteration of the tissues or fluids of the body--a.nnot be
classed as hypnotic without making the word too vague to
be of any real service'!
Finally, it will be observed that Chambard, while decisively
admitting several non-telepathic agencies which I have noted as ques-
tionable, (magnet, electricity, &c.), has, of course, nothing to say as to
telepathic influences. His scheme, therefore, is in my view inadeqnate
to cover the cases adduced in this paper.
I must, therefore, consider Dr. Chambard's arrangement as IhaJloco
(in his want of coOrdination of psychical and physical agencies); as con-
lUlled (in his cross divisions, as I have indicated, of the agencies which
he does adduce;) and as incomplete (in his entire omission of hypnotizr...
tion at a distance). But I say this with all respect for what seems to
me to have been nevertheless a serviceable forward step:· If my own
classification is thought to be in any degree an improvement, this is due
to the rapid advance in hypnotic experiment which the last five years
have seen, and more especially to new light thrown, (as I venture to
claim,) on all these topics by the establishment of telepathy as an a.ctual
and efficient cause. If my proposed scheme should RO far subserve
precision of thought as to lead to its own speedy supersession by some
truer conspectus, its object will have been sufficiently attained.
1 I may perhaps protest here against an OCC&8ional use of the word
"hypnotic," both in French and English medical writings, &8 a mere equivalen$
for "aoporific" or "anre8thetic,I' in &peaking of drugs, &c. This is to obliterate
the whole distinctiveness of a word to which it should be our aim to give all the
precision possible.
Digitized by Coogle
The Oalculus of Probabilities. 189
VII.
THE CALCULUS OF PROBABILITIES APPLIED TO
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH. II.
By F. Y. EDGEWORTH.
In a former paper I stated the principal problems which this
subject presents, and I showed that they are reducible to, or at least
involve the following :-The total number of trials being N, the chance
of success at a single trial u, Nu = (as near as may be) m, the number
of successes m+n (m and n both integers); what is the probability of
at least that degree of SUCOO88 being obtained, supposing that chance is
the only agency, under a regime of pure chance. I stated that the
solution of this problem depends upon the summation of the last
N - (m+n)+ 1 terms of the binomial [u+(l- u) ]N. As the approxi.
mate value of that sum I put the expreBSion-
~ [1-}:;.(T e-Pdt] ,'Where T= .;;IU(I--U)N;
a formula of very general application in analogous inquiries. The
conditions on which its validity depends are for the most part fulfilled
in statistical investigations. They fail, however, in many of the
problems which the Editors of this journal have submitted to me. It
appears desirable, therefore, to take account of cases which lie outside
what may be called the normal case and are not amenable to the
received formula above written. Accordingly I propose 1 in this paper,
first (I.) to take a theoretic survey of the methods appropriate to
different conditions; and then (II.) to diagnose and prescribe for the
various cases which arise in practice.
I.
A distinction of great theoretical importance is between those
cases where (a) the binomial series which is to be summed (the
binomial locus the area under which is to be evaluated) may be
adequately represented by a probability-curve according to a well·
1 For an extension of the following theory, the reader is referred to the
writer's paper on .. The Law of Error," in the London Philosophical Magazim,
April, 1886. Digitized by Googie
190 The Oalculus of P1'obabilities.
known theory 1 of Laplace and Poisson, and (ii) those cases where such
an ancillary probability-eurve is not available.
o. In order to see how far a law extends, the proper course is to
ascend to the sources from which it is derived. In this investigation
let us take Poisson 2 for our guide. Let us remount to the rugged
heights from which he reasons down to the simple normal case and the
received formula. While following in his steps let us adopt his
notation; observing that his I' is our N, his p is our 1£, his q is
our (1 - 1£), his m is our m +n, his n is our N - (m +n). And we may
confine ourselves to the case in which (N+ 1)1£, or (1'+ l)p, is an
integer, both because no theoretical difficulty is presented by the
absence of this condition, and because whatever difficulty may arise
can, in the researches under consideration, be avoided by taking N
properly. This being conceded, we shall have Poisson's p very nearly
equal to our n, and his r equetable to our T.
It is shown by Poisson that the probability of obtaining at least m
successes, at most n failures, is represented by a fraction of which the
numerator and denominator are integrals; the subject of integration
being the same for both, but the limits different: the subject of
integration is of the form Het'JW+ 2h"t +3h"'t2 +&c.), where h' I," h"'• •.
are respectively of the order 1 ~ ~ .... ; if m n and I' be
J u U "2 /2 ~ 1)
regarded as of one and the same order. For instance I,' is J (m!l)3f1o
d h'" 2 (p.+1+n) H h ' ted fi d' .
an IS 3 (m+l)2 ere, ten, 1S presen a rst con 1tlOn upon
which the applicability of the Laplace-Poisson analysis depends:
namely, that m and n should be large enough to allow of their higher
inverse powers being neglected.
A second condition is imposed by the inferior limit of the numerator
integral. It is
+[ n m+l ]i.
- nlog'q (I'+I)+(m+l) log'p(I'+I) ,
a quantity which Poisson calls k. In the case before us, where n is
supposed less than q (1'+ 1) (the number of failures less than what
might have been expected), the sign 8 of k is positive. The superior
limit of the numerator integral is +00 • The limits of the denominator
integral are ±oo.
If we perform the work of integration for the numerator, so far as
is possible by the ordinary formulre of reduction, we shall find that the
result consists of two parts, one under, and the other outside, the
t The analysis to which I allude is well expounded by Mr. Todhunter at
p. 576 of his H18tory.
2 See Poisson, RecherChu sur la Probabilite, &c., Chap. iii.
a OJ. Poisson, No. 76.
Digi
The Oalcul'U8 oj Probabilities. 191
sign of integration. The former involves k only as its limit. The
latter is affected by k in this wise ;-
H#i[2h" +3h'''k+4h''(kI+l)+&C.
The denominator is independent of k, being of the form 1
J-;;H[h' +111.'"+&c.].
Hence the quotient will be of the form
j" ~[ l+l"+l'v+&:c. ] + ;"1)"+),"k+),"'kI. • . .,
where the l's and the ),'s descend with the same rapidity as the h's.
The convergency of the first part of this expression is unaffected by
the size of k. But the convergency of the portion outside the sign of
integration is destroyed if ),"k, ),2'"k2, &c., do not constitutea descending
series.
At this point a new division presents itself; between ({3) those
cases where the data allow us to attain the degree of precision usually
ascribed to the Laplace-Poisson method; such that fractions (of the
Bought probability) which are of the order .:, or more correctly
J~' are retained; and (fl) where the reg;lation degree of pre-
cision is not attainable.
a{3. To Sl\tisfy the condition imported by {3, it is necessary that the
series )", )'"k, )''''k2, should descend as rapidly as I.' k" kIN; therefore
that k should not exceed the order of unity. To satisfy this require-
ment, it is a necessary and sufficient condition that p (the excess of
successes over the number most probable on hypothesis of mere chance)
should not exceed the order Jp.2pq. That this is a sufficient condition
may thus be shown. i Put
kI = (q (1£+1)-p) log. [1-q(:+I)]+(P(1£+I)+p) log. [ 1 +P(1£~1)]
where p=m+l-N+l)=(I£+I)-n.
Expand k in ascending powers of p; and, putting 3 with Poisson
r= p , you have k='I" [1- (q-p) r+iy-pq+qlrl-&:c.
J2pq (1£+1) 3 J2pql£ 2pqp
1 See Poisson, op. cit., p. 193.
2 The proof here given presupposes that Jpql£ is considerable; as it is
except when p or g are very small. The proposition is, however, independent
of this condition. See my paper "On the Law of Error," Phil. Mag., 1886,
pp. 313, 320.
Op. cit.. No. 78.
Digitized by Coogle
192 The Oalctd'U8 of Probabilities.
Now, as p is of the order ..,I2pqp.. r (our T approximately) is of the order
unity. Hencethe terms of the above written expansion above the second
are of the order ..!..., and therefore may be rejected. And the value of i
pq",
thus presented is of the order unity. Again, while this limitation of
the size of p is sufficient, it is also necessary. For, differentiating It:"
with regard to p, we observe that the first differential is continua.lly
(from the zero of p and Ie upwards) positive. Hence Ie (taken
positively) continually increases with the increase of p. Hence, if i
is as large as is allowable when p is of the order ..,I2pq"" Ie will be too
large when p is above that order. Hence the stated limitation of the
size of p is not only sufficient, but necessary.
Here arises a new principle of division: aCcording as (oy) we do not
insist upon the full degree of precision which is attainable, but are
content with an approximation which does not take account of terms
of the order J.,;; or (Y) we seek the full degree of accuracy to which
we are entitled tan approximation true up to the order 1 ,rejecting
1 ,Jpqp.
only terms of the order - .
pq",
a{Jy. In the first case we may reject the second term of the above
written expansion of Ie. For it is evidently of the order 1 . We
..,IP9.11-
may reject also the unintegrated portion 1 of our result. For that
portion is an expreBBion of the form rx', where 'A' is of the order ~
III "'.
And it may be shown that .for the values of r with which we are
concerned, the ratio of r to J
'lrl ePde (the integrated portion of
our result) is small in comparison with the order ,Jp:. For, as to
values of r between 0 and I, the ratio in question ranges from 2'to V.
And for values of r above unity, the integral may be written (by an
approximation due to Laplace):-
J'Ir (; - ! + J:c. )-;-
Hence the ratio in question is of the order r, which by hypothesis is
small with regard to ..,1-';. Hence, in every case (under a{Jy) the
unintegrated portion of the result may be rejected. And we have
thus the formula given in the former paper; which, as the last degree
of accuracy is not required for the purpose in hand, the elimination of
chance, may be regarded, I think, as the best formula for the case
usually occurring in statistical inquiries, the normal case.
I Above, p. 191. Poi.eson, p. 196.
Digitized by Coogle
The Oa1ctdm of Probabilities. 193
To exhibit the character of the assumptions made, let us consider
the following example. Let p. be 999, p frs, q 1'0-, p (p.+1) 100, and m 126.
Then p=Zl. r=2~+I) "" i:=4'5 ,.=2'12... The value in the
tables for
~f";P
J-;; ,.
ill -0014. In order to make the approximation correct up to quantities
1
of the order -, we must first put for r r - 31 where
p.
....i.::L 8 4'5
3= 3 J2pqll- r "" I='=O'""x....,3,.;:x;..:.,..,13
....·"""'41""7:-
••-
•• ="089 nearly.
Expanding the integral thus modified, we see that in respect of the
term before rejected (the second term of the expansion of k), there is
'89 -4'5
to be added to our result J II- e . Also in respect of the unin.
tegrated expression there is to be added: t
2(p.+n) _1_~ 1873 _....!.. -oos
..r;; 3 J2(p.+l) (m+l)n. = ';-;3 J2x1000x lZl x 873 - J'Ir nearly.
1 -4'5
The total addendum then is J'Ir e {'089+'008 }. In ordinary
logarithmB :
1 _
log. J'Ir ... - '2486 ... 1 + "7514
-4'5 ... _ 1"95' _ i+ "M6
log. e
log. ("089 + '008) = log, '097 - 2'+ '98'1
log• .Addendum - i + '8
.'. the Addendum - '0006 nearly, a quantity which, though certainly
a considerable fraction of the result before obtained, viz., '0014, may
yet, I think, safely be neglected for the purpoae in hand: which is to
ucertain the probability of the given phenomenon (a certain degree of
auccesa) occurring by accident.
afJY. But, if greater accuracy is required, then we have only to
make the two corrections which have been just described.
~ We revert now to the caae where the data do not admit of our
lc
obtaining the regulation degree of accuracy. Here 5 must Btill be
auppoaed fractional, though no longer a fraction of the trder ];, In
thia cue the expanBion of k in ascending poweJ'B of p, the value of r,
! Of. PoiMon, p. goo, above. I lb., p. 196.
Digitized by G6log1e
194 The Oalc'Ul'U8 of ProbabilitUs.
no longer a.ft'ord us guidance. Ie may still be small with regard to
J-;;:, though p greatly exceed J2pq/l-' We may have still a result
thfr ' k .
accurate to e action ,J;;' VIZ. :
-kS
_1_[' i-1dt + 2 (/I-+n) Il ] •
,J:; J k 3J2(/I-+l) (m+l)n
There is apt to occur here the difficulty that the ordinary tables do not
suffice for the evaluation of the integral, when Ie is large. The ordinary
scales are unsuited to the enormous probabilities (in favour of a cause
other than chance) which occur in psychical research. To obviate this,
expand the integral in descending powers of t, and write for the
BOught probability :
1 -kS [1 1 2 (/I-+n) -1
J fI' Il 2k - 4k3 + ... + 3J2(p.+l)(m+l)nJ
To illustrate this case, let us take the following example: as before,
"'=999, and p =if; but now m =299, and n accordingly 700. Here k2,
evaluated byordinarylogarithms according to the formulaon p.I91 (where
the logarithms are Napierian), becomes 66'7352' . x log.,10 = 153'757.
$= 12'4. Meanwhile 1'= T = ~ = 15; BO that,.s will no longer
do duty for lei. And, if w~::;~rt to the expansion of Ie in terms of 1',
we shall have at best a tedious route; since it is not now by
hypothesis, nor in fact, safe to stop at the second term of the
expansion.
Substituting the values of $ /I- m n in the formula just written, I
u 8f 1
find for the BOught probability '0 10 x ['04 +'056] = '0 I, or i()i8;
II 11
where'O is used as a symbol for 66 ['0 for 67] ciphers intervening
between the decimal point and the significant figures of the decimal.
By another method, to be mentioned presently, I find that the BOught
61 n
probability is between'O 15 and '0 19. The present method, there-
fore, gives a sufficiently accurate value.
;. Having now exhausted all the branches of case a, we come to its
negative, ;;; which may be subdivided according as there does (a), or
does not (3), exist a simple approximative form for the sum of the series
under consideration.
iia. To this category belongs the case discussed by Poisson in his
No. 81; where N (to revert to our own notation) is large, u is very
small, and m +n is small, so that the fraction T is neglectible. If
we observe that Poisson's n in this section corresponds not now to the
number of failures in our problem, but to the nuJllher of IJUccesaes, ..
Digitized by ~008le
The Calculus of Probabilities. 195
little attention will show that a formula appropriate to our case (where
our m +n, though small, is still apt to be considerably a.bove Nu) is the
second formula given by Poisson (a.t the foot of p. 206). Only for our
purpose to ascertain the probability of the failures being a.t most
N - (m +n), it will be proper to put for the Poissonian n not our m +n,
but m +n - I ; and to take not the whole of the second formula referred
to, but the latter portion of it. In short, if we put 6) = Nu, then
according to this method the probability of obtaining at least m +n
successes is
n -6)
6)X6 ( 6 ) 6)11 )
----:nt 1 + n+1 + (,,+1) (n+2) + doc.
I have applied this method with success to the table of results given in
Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 25; where the condition that
; should be neglectible was peculiarly well fulfilled.
aa. There remain over the cases which do not possess any simple
ancillary form. As far as I know, these cases do not admit of a solution
comparable with the methods which have been described, in respect of
concinnity and elegance. There exists, however, a rougher procedure,
which has the advantage of being most efficacious exactly when the
conditions upon which the general method (0) depends are least
perfectly fulfilled.
The series which we have to sum is
N -(m+n) m+71
NI (1-1£) x U
[N-(m+71)]! [m+n]!
(N -(m+n+1) )
. N I (1-1£) 1£ m+n+1
+[N-(m+71+1)]! [m+1I+1]!
+ d:c.
(where, as usual, the note of admiration imports the continued product
of all the integer numbers up to and including that preceding the note).
This sum may be otherwise written:
N-(m+n) N! {1+N-(m+n) n + ". }
m+n x X - - nC.
(1-u) x 11 [N-(m+n)]! [m+n]! m+n+1 1-u
The second term within the bracket is a proper fraction. For, even
if n were zero, the term in question would be only just equal to unity;
and by the increase of n the numerator is continually diminished,
while the denominator is increased. Call this fraction 'V. It is easy
to see that the third term is less than 172, the fourth term less than vS,
and 80 on. Accordingly, the expression within the brackets forms a
convergent series; which we can either sum by evaluating as many
terms as we think fit, or by putting at once the expression without thp
. ' 0 (jO IL
196 The Oalctdtul of Probabilities.
brackets as an inferior limit, and the same multiplied by 11 as a
-v
superior limit, of the 80ught probability. It will be observed that the
series within the brackets is most convergent when 11 is smallest, and
that 11 is smaller ceuN. pM"ibtu according as " (the excess of success)
is larger, and " (the probability of success at a single trial) is smaller.
Now these are exactly the conditions upon which the increase of the
Poissonian Ie, and therefore the failure of the Laplace-Poisson approxi-
mation, turns; 80 that the present method may be regarded u
complementary to the Laplace-Poisson approximation.
As to the expression outside the brackets in the abov&-written
expression, for the evaluation of N I, (m+")/, [N - (m+n)] I, recourae
may be had to a table of the values of log. r (:I: +1) ; such as is given by
De Morgan at the end of his treatise on the Calculus of Probabilities.
In 80 far as such a table is only available for small numbers, in thia
respect again the present method is complementary to method CI; of
which large numbers form an 888ential condition.
Where tables of the Gamme.-Function are not available, we must, I
IUppose, fall back upon the formula z/=:+1 ;«./2w (1+~z + 4:c.;
which it is not very troublesome to evaluate by the aid of logarithms.
Let us take by way of illustration the example above (p. 193), aolved
by another method; where N ... 999, ,,-=frs, m =299, n -700, the
required probability is
700 1110
( 9) (1) 999! { 700 1 6991
10 10 700! 299! 1 + 300 9' + !Or 9 + cI:c.
700
log. (:0) ... 33·9698
100
log. (1~) = 299
log. 9991 .. 2564·6M8
log. 299 ! os 8121Xl868
log. 700 1.. 1889·3M18
2301'39288
2233·5'1(4
2233·57(4-(2301·39288) = iilH815
Hence for an inferior limit to the BOught probability we have ·O"U; ;
and for a superior limit the same quantity multiplied by H= -0"2.
I have applied this method with advantage to the problems pre-
sented in PIuJnta8mB oj eke Living, Vol. II., pp. 16-7.
If we distinguish within this category the case in which the
numbers are small enough to be manipulated by ordinary arithmetic,
we shall, I think, have exhausted all the branches of the subject.
They are presented in the following logical tree:- G I
. Digitized by oog e
~
c:I)
r-4
.!
~
~
~
~
~
~
Tau 01' THBOBY.
Where the Lap\ace-Pol8lOn
a 1UI&l)'llis Is applicable.
1
I·
Q Where the regulation degree
tJ of accuracy-Is attalaabJe.
Q Where the regulation degree
tJ of accurac:r Is not attainable.
" Where that aocarac:r
( I. not requind.
1
I
:; Where It Is
( required.
1
1
- Where the Laplace.Polseon
a 1UI&l)'llis Is not applicable.
1
a Where there Is a simple
formnla.
I
1
S Where DOt.
Where simple
~ arithmetic mftlcee. f Where not.
198 The Oalculus of P1'Obabilities.
II.
I propose now to sum up the practical conclusions of this and the
preceding paper in a form adapted to the requirements of the general
reader.
The problems which the subject presents are mainly three. It is
required to appreci&te by means of the calculus of probabilities the
evidence in favour of BOme extraordinary agency which is afforded by
experiences of the following types: (1) One person chooses a suit of
cards, or a letter of the alphabet. Another person makes a guess as to
what the choice has been. This experiment--a choice by one party. a
guess by another-is performed N times. The number of successful
guesses exceeds the number which is the most probable on the suppo-
sition of mere chance, viz., m, where m= Nu (in the above-mentioned
cases respectively IN and -hN), by a considerable number no where
,,=Nv. (2) There a.re given a second and a third similar series of
trials, in each of which the number of successes exceeds the number
most probable on the hypothesis of pure chance, viz., Nu' N"u", by
,,' n" respectively. Or (3) along with a number of such series there
occur BOme in which the number of successes falls below the most
probable number. What probability in favour of the existence of some
agency other than chance is afforded by (1) a single series, in which the
successes are in excess; (2) a set of series, in each of which the
successes are in excess; (3) a chequered set of series in some of which
the successes are in exceBB, in others in defect1
The answer to the first of these problems depends upon the answer
to the following question: What is the probability that under a ".EgimIJ
of pure chance-suppoaing that there were'no disturbing cause at work
-the observed excess of successes would occur! Call this probability p.
Then the measure of the sought probability-that some agency
other than chance has operated-is 1 - p. 1 The first problem is
thus made to depend upon a simple, or at least straightforward,
calculation. The second problem is made to depend upon the
first--or rather the question upon which the first depends-in the
following manner. For each of the given series find the proba,-
bility corresponding to the P which has been just defined. Call
the set of values thus found respectively PI' P-n &C. The evidence
in favour of a cause other than chance which is afforded by the whole
set of series, the complete concatenation of data, is 1 - PI XPs x eke.
Lastly, the third problem is thus resolvable into the second. &
arrange. without manipulation and cookery, but in a random fashion-
the given chequered set of series into a smaller set of larger series:
such that each of the new series may present excess. An example of
, See Note ',at the end of Part II, Gooole
c5l'Qitlzed DY "
The Oalculus of Probabilities. 199
this process is afforded. by the problem mentioned by Mr. Gurney.
There the data consisted of a set of ten series: each of them containing
a thousand trials, and one of them presenting defect of successes-
fewer successes than upon the hypothesis of pure chance would be
moat likely. If we lump this defective series with QIf//!J of the nine
remaining, there will result a composite series of 2,000 trials which
presents excess of success. Our data will then be eight series of 1,000
and one series of 2,000 trials; each series presenting excess. The
data thuB modified exemplify our second problem.
Everything then depends ultimately upon the calculation of pro-}
babilities such as the above-defined p. In the preceding paper I stated
the method of calculation which, as being required and proving
sufficient for most, or at least many, statistical investigations analogous
to those of PlI!Jchical ReseMCh, may perhaps be described as the general
or normal method. In this paper there is attempted a more complete
statement of the possible cases, and the treatment appropriate to each.
The cases constituted by the variety of our data may be divided
according to the presence or absence of each of the following
attributes :-
(a) The numbers of trials N small enough to admit of direct
arithmetical computation.l
(6) The quantity 2Nu(I-1£)II a small fraction.s
. n
(c) The quantity J2N1£(I-u> not greater than 2 [or 3].4
(d) N not exceeding 1200 (or the highest number for which the
value of log. r (N+1) is given in tables accessible to the operator).6
The presence of one of these attributes may be expressed by the
corresponding letter, e.g., 6; its absence by the same letter with
a negative sign superscribed, e.g., b. Thus the heading ahg refers to
the case in which N is "a large number, the quantity 2u (1~ u) N is
a small fraction, and the quantity J n )N does not exceed 2.
21£(1-1£
As to the presence or absence of the fourth attribute nothing is stated ;
N may be either above or below the linrit 1200. The variety of
species thus constituted are represented by the accompanying logical
wee.
1 See Note t. I For the meaning of these 8ymbola, Bee p. 198 above.
I See Note I. • See Note •• • See Note I'
G I
Digitized by oog e
G
I
N amaJl
I
TBBB 01' PaAO'1'IOL
/I
I
N large
b i b
I . I
n
2u(1- u) N a amaJl fraction ft_ ~11" .'\. ...T large
o
cg I c
c d
"'.
~
!1
CJ
o n
~ (1-u)N not exceeding 2
n
,./2u (1- u) N exceeding 2 N not exceeding 1200
-
~
il
N exceeding 1200
••TotaI D_ _ of Viall. u=CbaDoe of _ at. aliDcle trial. n=Ez_ 0 1 _ over Nu(beiDraa iDterer. or the iDtegeraeann klNu).
g
~
~
~
~
~
[
...
....
~.
The Oalctd'U8 oj Probabilities. 201
In examining these divisions I propose to give priority to the
branches on the left, and to exhaust all the ramifications of each
branch before proceeding to the branch next on the right. The order
exactly resembles the devolution of real property according to English
law. Our table corresponds with that given by Mr. Joshua Williams,
in his lucid chapter on the descent of an estate in fee simple; if
for the trunk of our tree we put Mr. Benjamin Brown, the purchaser,
for a his elder, and for Ii his younger son.
A complete logical tree which has four bifurcations ought to
present 16 ultimate divisions. But the task of examining so many
cases is abridged by the observation that some of the branches are
withered nonentities, and others, though existent, are unfruitful, and
will not repay cultivation. Of the first sort is ad; also libe, which will
be found to involve a contradiction in terms, except in the very rare
case where the quantity 2u (1 - u) N approaches unity, where, though
N is large, u is exceedingly small. That case falls into the second
category of rejectible branches. For the distinction of lib into iibc
and qjjc subserves no useful purpose, does not constitute a Natural
Kind. To the same category belong the (existent) sub-divisions of a.
I proceed now, without further preface, to prescribe for and
exemplify the particular cases.
This is the case of N small (say not exceeding 10).
Rule: Expand [u +(1 - U)]N by the binomial theorem; and add
together the last N - (m+n) terms of the expansion, those written in
the second of the two following lines ;-
N N-l
(I-u) +N(I-u) u + &c.
+ N (N-I) .... (N- (m+n) +1) + &:c.
1'2 ........ (m+n)
N-l N
+N(I-u)u +u
The sum of the terms in the second line is the required probability (of
the observed degree of divergence occurring by mere chance).
Example: In the experiment cited by Mr. Gurney at p. 251 of
Vol. II. of the Proceeding, 0/ the S.P.R., the "name thought of" was
DOREMOND, and the "letters produced" were EPJYEIOD. Here,
out of eight guesses, there are four successes; if success consist in
guessing either the very letter thought of, or either of its neareat
alphabetical neighbours, in short anyone of an assigned consecutive
triplet. The probability that a letter taken at random should fall
within any asaigned triplet is i. Accordingly (on the supposition that
chance is the only agency), the probabilities of obtaining in the course
of eight trials no successes, one success, two SUccesses,"d~lr
202 The Oalculus of Probabilities.
.he first, second, third, &c., terms respectively of the binomial (i+l)'1.
The probability of obtaining at least four successes is equal to the sum
of the fifth and remaining terms; that is
" 3 I S 8 7 8
70 (i) (j)+56 (~) (j)+28 (~) (!)+8·(~) (!)+(!),
or 0011.
The probability in favour of an agency other than chance is
about ·99. The odds against the observed event occurring by mere
chance are about a hundred to one.
abc.
This is the case of N large, the quantity 211(1 ~ u)N a small
fraction (say less than i), and the quantity n not
./2'IiJ..I-u)N
exceeding 2.
Rule: Put T= n ; and find the value of the integral
J2u(l-u)N
2 2' •
,;;;J: ~ by means of the 1 tables attached to many treatl.BeS on
the Calculus of Probabilities. Call that value P. Then 1 [1 - P] is
the required probability.
Erx:amples: (1) In the instance given by Mr. Gurney, at p. 241 of
Payckical R6B6OIT"ch, December, 1884, N is 2927, u is i, and n is 57.
Here 2u (1 - u) N = i 2927 = 1097·6. 2"(1~ u)N is less than n and
T = 1·7. The case therefore falls under the category iibc. Referring
to the table given with the article on Probabilities in the Encyclopoedia
BritaRilnica, 8th and 9th editions, I find for the value 1 ,T;pIU
./",.Jo
corresponding to T = 1·7 the entry ·9838. Hence for the sought
probability we have! [1- ·9838]=1 [·016]=·008.
The probability of agency other than chance = ·992. The odds
against the observed event being purely fortuitous are about a hundred
to one.
(2) In the next instance cited by Mr. Gurney in the same
passage, N=1833, u=i, and n is 52. Here 2u(l-u) N=i 1833.
2u(1~u)N is less than n; so that the case ~ongs to h. But the
attribute c is not perfectly fulfilled. For I ( ) N is just over 2,
'V2u 1-"
1 If the values given in the tables coD811lted are of the integral
1 ,"-II 1 ,"-fJ ..
..r;J 0 6 IU then put ./",. J T 6 de for the 8OughtprobabUlty.
Digitized by Coogle
The Calculus of Probabilities. 203
namely 2·1. However, de minimis non curat calculus. We may take
the value given in the tables for T=2- cum grano,. taking into
account that we shall be over-rating the probability of mere chance,
under-rating the evidence of a disturbing cause. For T= 2 we have P,
as defined in the Rule, ·99532. Hence p the sought probability
= (is less than) H·00266]=·0013.1
The probability of a cause other than chance = ·997. The odds
against the observed event being purely fortuitous are about five
hundred to one.
iibc.
In this case ii and b are fulfilled as in the former case, but the
condition that T should not exceed 2 is no longer fulfilled.
,,2
Rule: Evalua.te 'f'2= 2u(I-u)N. Put a=(1'2 x ·434 ... +·2485).
Th ·red al . 1[1 2 (2-u) ] . h·h
e requi v ue 18 -10 2T + 3 I ; an expression w IC
a -v2u(I-u)N
may be simplified by ordinary logarithms.
Examples: (1) N is 976, u is -1, n is 35.
. 7 n 1 n
Here 2u (l-u) N18 =2 1, (1 )N = -S n<:::::;::;=rr. = 2·14,
2" -u "j2u(I-1,)N
an excess over 2 so slight
to the former category.2
. 353
TI= 271 =4:5203.
that the case might safely be referred
Keeping to the rule, however, we have
a= 'f'2 x ·434 + ·2485 = 1·962 + ·248 = 2·21.
.Also~-. 2(2-1') =.08
2T - 23, 3 "j2u (I-u) N .
Hence for the BOught probability I~.'l1 x ·3. Which is reducible
by logarithms to ·002.
The probability of a cause other than chance = ·998. The odds
against the observed event being purely fortuitous are about five
hundred to one.
(2) The general result of ... Nis 17653, u is t, u=347.
Here 2u (1 -'71N =6620, and n divided by this quantity is a small
fraction. 'f'2=:2 =18·189.
a= 1'2 x ·434+ ·248 . . . = 8·14. Whence for the sought probability
1~.14 [S~4 +;>1 J, which with the aid of logarithms is reducible
to ·000,000,000,8.
1 See Note t. • See Note t. G I
izedby oog e
204 The Calculus of Probabilities.
The probability of a cause other than chance '999,999,999,2. The
odds against purely fortuitous origination are about ten thousand
million to one.
Qhd.
This is the case in which N is large, but not BO large as to exceed
the range of values covered by Table V. at the end of De Morgan's
essay on the Calculus of Probabilities (Encycl. Metrop.), or a similar
table acceBBible to the operator; while the quantity 2u (I ~ u) N
approaches or exceeds unity.l
Ruk: Write for the BOught probability
r(N+I) m+n N-(m+n)
r(m+n+l) r(N-(m+n)+I)" (I-u)
[ I + u N-(m+n) + "I (N-(m+n+I)(N-(m+n» +~.]
(I-u) m+n+1 (I-u)l m+n+2 m+n+1
Evaluate the expression outside the brackets by means of a table
for log. r (:r:+ 1) (such as De Morgan's Table V.) and an ordinary
logarithm table. Continue the series within the brackets as long aa
may seem requisite for accuracy. It will usually be sufficient to take
account of the second term. Call this term II, and the expression
outside the brackets J. Then J-and, still more accurately, J(I +P)-
is an inferior limit of the BOught probability; 1J is a superior limit.
-II
EllJQ,mpk: In one of the experiment. recorded . . . . . N = 505,
"=1, m+n- 261. Here 2N(1- ,,) ,,=189. And, consequently
n 146 • dan I la
2N(I-u)" ' 189,18 gerous y rge.
We resort, therefore, to the method appropriate to b, log. J-
log. r(505+ 1) -log.r(261 + 1) -log.r(2((+1)+244 log·(t) + 261 log. (l).
Evaluating these quantities by means of De Morgan'S Table V and
ordinary logarithms, I find for the logarithm of J. - 38+'823, and for
87 •
J '0 666. For a fairly accurate value of the BOught probability, we
87 [ 1 261] 87 88 88 ar
have '0 66 1 + 3 246 ='0 66 x 1'355='0 1, the symbols'O '0
being employed to denote respectively 36 or 37 nougk" following
the decimal poinV For a superior limit '08
66 1!'365 =-038
13 ....•
The true value lies between the two given, if my work is correct.
87
The probability of a cause other than chance ... ·9. The odds
against purely fortuitous origination are a trillion trillion to one,
~ See Note " O . . • 1
I r 18 It e881er to Ba"ysruv '
Digitized by ~~o8Ie
The Oalculus of Probabilit'ie~.
iibd.
205
This case is like the former, except that we have not the advantage
of the tables for log. r. We are therefore reduced to the laboriou.
process of evaluating log. r for ourselves.
Ruk: For the expression of the form log. r (:1:+ 1), which occurs in
the last case, put now the followingl-(:I:+i) log. :1:+·399, and other-
wise proceed as before.
Ereampk: ... N= 1403, u=n, m+n= 162, N - (m+n)= 1241.
H n 146·4 ha . f bo 't W h th
ere 2u(l-u)N = 30.8 ,t t 18 ar a ve UDl y. e love, ere-
fore, an aggravated case of h. Put for the quasitum
[ 1 1241] [ 1 ]
J 1 + 89 x 163 • or J 1 + 12 ;
where log. J=(1403·5) log.1403 - 162·5 log. 162 - ·399 -1241'5 log. 1241
+ 162 log. ia+ 1241 log. (U)=1403·5 log. 1403 -162 [log. 162+log. 90]
- 1241 [log.1241 + log.90 -log.89] - Ulog.1241 +log.162] - '399. Evalu-
ating this expression, I find for log. J - 107 + ·921. Whence
108
J =·0 8, (if as before we denote by .0" the sequence of :I: ciphers
108
after a decimal point). And for the answer·O 9.1
107
The probability of a cause other than chance =·9 .s The odds
againBt the observed event having a purely fortuitouB origin
are a 4 trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion (a nonillion
nonillion) to one--oddB to describe whose vastness" number fa.ils."
NOTBS TO PART II.
t On the nature of this inference BOO, in addition to the preceding
paper in this Journal (No.8), my paper on "ObservationBand StatistiCB"
in the Cambridge Philo'ophical TranaaceionB for 1885, p. 148, ee 881].
I It is, of course, impossible to fix where a ends and ii beginB.
The boundary, like others in thiB paper, is not a hard and fast line.
a The ground of the distinction between b and b is twofold. First
and foremost is the circumBtance that, when b as defined in the text is
realised, then it iB allowable to BubBtitute for the troublesome Ie of
1 See Note'. 2 Or about :010 ' • I See Note '.
, As I understand, a million milliou is a billioll, a million billion is a trillion,
& million trillion is a quadrillion, and 80 on up to a nonillion.. G I
Digitized by oog e
206 The Calcul'U8 of Probabilities.
Poisson (Recherches, Art. 76) the much more manageable". (Ibid.,
. . (m+n+l)-(N+l)p k . . .
Art. 78), In our notation J . For - IS expallSlble m
2pq(N+l) r
ascending powers of (J2pq (~+1»),the first term being 1. Accord-
ingly, if b is present, that is if (m2
;:;;:p) is a small fraction, the
first term only of the expansion need be retained. Further,
the Poissonian ". may be reduced to the still simpler expres-
sion which corresponds to the T of Mr. Todhunter (the
Poissonian u, Rechercl!.e8, Art. 79). It will be observed that
1
thelle simplifications take for granted that J- is a quantity of
2pqN
neglectible order. This has not been formally postulated; but it
follows from the condition that J n is small (deductible from b),
J2pqN
especially if, as universally the case in the problems of Psychical
Research, and indeed most problems of the sort, that n is considerably
greater than unity.
It follows, then, from condition b, that the integral portion of the
sought probability may be written in its simplest form, viz., that
employed by Mr. Todhunter in his formula for the central portion of
the binomial (Histury, p. 576); in our notation
l [1- l:;IT"iC:U] , tohere T= Jtl .
'Ii"" 0 2pqN
But, further, the same condition allows us to neglect the term outside
the sign of integration. This term, in its unreduced form, is in our
notation
J2(N+l+N-(m+n» _'.0
=-~~;:;:~~=£:::::;~<r::;=:::::;::=< x. ..-.
3J.".(N+l) (m+n-l) (N-(m+n)
Now, if condition b is fulfilled, it is allowable to expand the non-
exponential part of this expression in ascending powers of Nand
neglect terms after the first. Remembering that m=Np (approximately
at least, see above, p. ), we have for the first term of the expansion
,j2 (l+q) -ki -lCI ~oI.
-a J.".Npq x e. And e may, as above, be reduced to e
Now this quantity may be neglected in comparison with the integral
which is retained. For the latter may be written );.-;Tt (2~+~c.)
Whence the ratio of the unintegrated to the integrated portion is of
rd 2T n . Wh h ..
t.he 0 er --=-, or N: ,to uruty. ence t e propoBltion.
JNfKJ, pq
To avoid mIStakes, it may be added that if-as we approach the
Digitized by Coogle
The Oalcul'U8 of Probabilities. 207
case of ab-it seems worth while to take some account of the term
outside integration, then it must be remembered that its primitive
form is modified, not only by its own expansion, but also by the change
from r to T in the integral part. See Rule abc.
4 The ground of the distinction between c and cis the fact that
in many of the books the table of the integrated error-function does
not extend beyond the argument 2; in few or none beyond 3. The
circumstance that the tables have not been carried further is connected
with an important property attaching to cases where the observed ecart
exceeds two or three times the modulus, i.e., to class ~: namely, that
in these cases the evidence in favour of a cause other than chance has
been regarded by the authorities as amounting to practical certainty.
Where, as in the Encyclopadia Britannica, editions 8 and 9, the table
is continued as far as 3, then the latter limit should be taken for our
definition. In this case Example 2 of abc and 1 of abC (pp. 202-3)
faU unequivoca.lly under abc. Employing the tables in Encyclopredia
Britannica, edition 9, I find for the former example ·0015, and for
the latter (interpolating between the entries for 2·1 and 2·2) ·0012.
~ The second term need only be added when there is some suspicion
that the condition b is not perfectly fulfilled; the case considered at
the end of note 8.
o It will be gathered from the theoretica.l analysis that it ia
possible, with due caution, for one who knows the nature of the
ground, to advance a great way along the lines of the received method
of approximation. Thus many cases of ab are amenable to the
received general exponential formula; corrected not only by taking
some account of the term outside integration (as suggested in the rule
for abc) but also by taking account of the second term of the expansion
of Ie (Poisson, Art. 78). T!'or instance, in the example under abd
N=505, p=l, n=135); if we employ the uncorrected exponential
1 1"'-&1 43
formula -= e we shall get a value ·0 6, which exaggerates by
../fr P
about a million times the odds in favour of a cause other than chance.
1 -2" 1 43
To this value should be added: first -= e ~, about·O 14,
.;fr ../2pqJ.Y
which still gives a very inaccurate result. For a better approximation,
write
_l_f."';P + ../2 ~ ;r2
..r; rH 3 ../frNpq
where r has the value a.ssigned on p. 191, and a is the second
term of the expansion of Ie (Poisson, Art. 78). Here, then,
[ 1135.5] S· h· h h
r+a=9·84 1- '6 189.'. ubstltuting w lC, we ave still an
inaccurate result, but which has at least the advantBie oLerring, on
Digitized by ~oo8le
208 The Calculus of P1'Ooobilitiu.
the safe side. It might be possible, by proceeding to another term of
expansion, to bolster up the familiar formula. But I think that such
corrections could not safely be employed by those who might not see
the reason of them-the claaa to whom these rules are addressed. The
method recommended in the text has the advantage of being straight-
forward and uniform. And, doubtless, the feeling of those whom I
address is "rit quidvV, rimplex dumtaxat et unum." Nor, indeed, is
the method here recommended more laborious, while it is much safer,
than to correct the generally received formula (as Professor Lazarus
proposes, A'BUrance Jlagazine, Vol. XX.) in some such way as that
which I have just indicated.
r It need hardly be pointed out that the factor ;Z disappears by
division in the expression under treatment; and that '399 is log. .j2ii:
• By the Poiaaonian unreduced formula (Reclr.ercAu, Art. 77). I
108
have found for this example'O 13. It may be observed that the
formula here prescribed for ab is very similar to the unreduced
Poiaaollian formula, but in extreme cases at least-I venture to
think-ei.mpler. For the sake of simplicity and uniformity, I have
thought it beat to exclude the less familiar Poiaaonian solutions (see
PIIort I.) from a Praxis designed for the use of the lay reader.
Digitized by Coogle
